%
%

reir)
BE AH

; Bila ake
BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY ' 7 HS a3 carn rite

;
Paice alias
QIN AN A III) ‘ BSR RAR ee HH Ra pristat : ranatcueaa
11 | I 4 cet Be
| Wat Fe eG en

3 9

Be iteat
etn

Kiva ana at
flat aon 4
rt

i)

ren
eee ey
Cary

Dereanier

ren Irvin

Mr ae aehR eb ge ed
eta Eran

Saw ae.
ey oetad grad seb,

iaeediee endisied

LA Salis 2

bree : Z SES

Prete re
Shaan

LT

Many mene a tate nes

2 ry arate sete ray

aoe et " A ieickckem deh ih aeked nea tee we eee
ey ore rgt jet |

Pate min heh
Ota ten na aenee
chai

ear y aa yes reas rea Para
ttt Py
vy7

ort sepetatarna: fee
liane gt ; Para enatare’
eh Hi rims 2g roars) gran arg r erage
teed tative te ebtecese
Rater
ete ene

Cette

seat atits
LH EMA St

Paced
tp etsaasty! lary
7 ork aver hca ce

pani * a
vie vee es atest eset ae
+ ie Wrare Ay =a "
Ph a ts

ei seta tat

+H

apr, :

BS : Saietcs wincety = wipe perso eter

eee ge “f : Saeed tee
eet eer Surge" "v8 "9 “s°s ee

A

i»

Year 1988

SON Ian)

Smith

pom

BB er

4

ew

x P

.s

Dercs TORY

>

| & JUN 99 1989 G

ot PLO, em

(BOERNE bouuicits By ENT

| sursisTne Sat OF “Or DOCUMENTS |

Smithsonian Year 1988

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year Ended September 30, 1988

Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C., 1989
One of the two Komodo dragons that arrived as a
took up residence at the National Zoological Park
graph by Jessie Cohen)

i:

gift from Indonesia and
on July 13, 1988. (Photo-
Contents

Smithsonian Institution 7
Statement by the Secretary 9
Report of the Board of Regents 26
Benefactors 29
Financial Report 35

Research 63
International Center 64
Joseph Henry Papers 67
National Zoological Park 67
Office of American Studies 74
Office of Fellowships and Grants 74
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 77
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center 81
Smithsonian Institution Archives 84
Smithsonian Institution Libraries 86
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 89

Museums 97
Anacostia Museum 98
Archives of American Art 99
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 100
Conservation Analytical Laboratory 103
Cooper-Hewitt Museum 106
Freer Gallery of Art 108
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 110
National Air and Space Museum 112
National Museum of African Art 118
National Museum of American Art 121
National Museum of American History 124
National Museum of Natural History/ National Museum
of Man 130
National Portrait Gallery 137
“~ “ce of Exhibits Central 141
Uttice of Horticulture 142
Office of Museum Programs 144
Office of the Registrar 145
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 146

Public Service 149

National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies 150

National Science Resources Center 151
Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience 152
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 153
Office of Folklife Programs 154
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies 156

Office of Public Affairs 157

Office of Telecommunications 158
Smithsonian Institution Press 160
Smithsonian Internship Council 162
Smithsonian Magazine 163
Smithsonian Project Discovery 164
“Smithsonian World” 164

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center 165

External Affairs 167
James Smithson Society 168
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates 169
Office of Membership and Development 169
Office of Special Events 171
Smithsonian National Associate Program 171
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 175

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates 179

Administration 181
Administrative and Support Activities 182
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council 184

Under Separate Boards of Trustees 185
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 186
National Gallery of Art 191
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 195
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 198

Organization Chart 200
Smithsonian Year 1988 Supplement, containing the
Chronology and Appendixes 1-8 (including publications
of the Smithsonian staff), is published in a microfiche
edition. Please address requests for copies to

Alan Burchell, Production Coordinator,

Smithsonian Institution Press,

470 L’Enfant Plaza, Suite 7100,

Washington, D.C. 20560/202-287-3738.

6
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Con-
gress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of
James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his
property to the United States of America “to found at
Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and
accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution
in an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the executive departments, and vested responsi-
bility for administering the trust in the Smithsonian
Board of Regents.

The Establishment,
September 30, 1988

Ronald W. Reagan, President of the United States

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State

Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury

Frank C. Carlucci III, Secretary of Defense

Richard L. Thornburgh, Attorney General

Donald P. Hodel, Secretary of the Interior

Richard E. Lyng, Secretary of Agriculture

C. William Verity, Secretary of Commerce

Ann Dore McLaughlin, Secretary of Labor

Otis R. Bowen, Secretary of Health and Human Services

Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development

James H. Burnley, Secretary of Transportation

Lauro Cavazos, Secretary of Education

John S. Herrington, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and
Secretary
September 30, 1988

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio

George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States,
ex officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California (until September
13, 1988)

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Samuel C. Johnson, citizen of Wisconsin

Barnabas McHenry, citizen of New York

The Secretary
Robert McCormick Adams

Dean W. Anderson, Under Secretary

Alice Green Burnette, Deputy Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs/Coordinator for Institutional
Advancement

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums

Margaret C. Gaynor, Congressional Liaison

James H. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary

Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for Research

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for External
Affairs

Thomas McCance, Jr., Deputy Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs/Director of Membership and
Development

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

8
Statement by the Secretary

Robert McC. Adams

Alexis de Tocqueville’s 150-year-old description of the
American people and their institutions still has such pene-
trating and uncanny currency that it is sometimes tempt-
ing to project the cultural and intellectual history of this
country in terms of a biological metaphor of growth—the
slow unfolding of possibilities that all were present in the
original organism. Yet there is also reason to distrust that
metaphor. It gives no credit to what we have learned in
passing through jarring and edifying crises like the Civil
War; to the massive, continuous, and probably altogether
unique reshaping of our ethnic composition with the pas-
sage of time; to the transformation not only of the condi-
tions of life but of the perception of life itself through
advances in science and technology; to the reshaping of
our corporate framework as largely unprecedented insti-
tutions of education and governance were grafted onto it;
and, most recently, to our new horizons of involve-
ment—and corresponding vulnerability—as the emer-
gence of a world system of interaction has eroded our
once-unambiguous national boundaries.

Secretary Adams and Ambassador Leon M. Rajaobelina of
Madagascar (eft), in offices at the Smithsonian Institution, sign
a Memorandum of Understanding on scientific and cultural co-
Operation in May 1988. (Photograph by Hugh Tallman)

There are also other reasons for recoiling from a bio-
logical metaphor. Unacceptably implicit in it is a process
of inevitable decline and death as well as birth and
growth. Surely we are entitled to reject any deterministic
outcome, but especially such a relentlessly pessimistic
one, as we view the admittedly uncertain balance of this
nation’s yawning problems against the deep reservoir of
our remaining strengths. So the fulfillment of the possi-
bilities of the seed, while a directing and restraining influ-
ence, is only one in a shifting mix of determinants.
Forces for change alternately dominate and are held back
in an irregular and indeterminate succession. Each new
crisis or resolution permanently alters the existing state,
opening the way to new dangers but also to new possibil-
ities fanning out in many directions.

The Smithsonian figures in this general appraisal. If
one scans the congressional debates leading to its estab-
lishment, there is in some respects little the Institution
has done or become that was not at least dimly foreshad-
owed at its birth. We are not a national university, as
some proposed. Yet our links with a number of universi-
ties are increasingly close; our predoctoral and postdoc-
toral fellowships and some aspects of our research
organization and departmental structures are indistin-
guishable from those of universities; and our Resident
Associate program of continuing adult education could
also be succinctly described as something approaching an
open university. We are not a national observatory, as
still others in Congress suggested. Yet our Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, conducted jointly with Har-
vard University, is a major player in the field. We are not
a national library, having at one time seemingly rejected
this course decisively by making an important early con-
tribution to the Library of Congress. Yet our public re-
sponsibilities and research needs make the gradual but
continuing growth of our own specialized library re-
sources unavoidable.

What we are primarily, of course, is a great complex
of national museums. Our eclectic diversification in this
direction, the absence of any significant element of guid-
ing Cartesian logic in the sequential patterns of what we
have collected and exhibited, might well have been pre-
dicted by de Tocqueville. But the emphasis on museums
is itself an outcome of shifting historical circumstances
that would have been difficult to anticipate.

Contributing to an early drift in the museum direction
(which was opposed by Joseph Henry, the Institution’s
great first Secretary) was the need for a repository for
national icons and for the curiosities accumulated during
an era of Western exploration, skirmishing, and settle-
ment. Out of the cabinet of curiosities emerged in time
an enduring, worldwide involvement in systematic collec-
tions embracing natural history. The collection of icons,
tinctured for the first century or so by a Whiggian con-
cern for industry-driven Progress, was ultimately en-
shrined in what was first called the Museum of History
and Technology. Within that edifice, now renamed the
National Museum of American History, those icons and
symbolic functions currently are regarded with mixed rel-
ish and ambivalence. But in any case there has been a
reduction in the former salience of science and technol-
ogy and a turn instead toward society and culture—
drawing heavily on the diversity and disputatiousness
characterizing modern historiography as practiced in
American universities. Meanwhile Whiggianism, in its
identification with advanced technology and with a seem-
ingly endless march toward understanding of and domi-
nation over the natural world, is alive and well at the
National Air and Space Museum. None of these develop-
ments, if you reflect on them, can be thought of as inevi-
table outgrowths of James Smithson’s founding vision or
of the Smithsonian’s original charter.

Even at the unabashedly impressionistic level of these
observations, the list of elements that are new and unan-
ticipated, and that in important ways have been situa-
tionally determined, continues to lengthen. Washington,
characterized by President Kennedy as “a town of North-
ern charm and Southern efficiency,” may have been al-

Education Specialist Robert Hall (left) leads a children’s pro-
gram at the Anacostia Museum exhibition, “Climbing Jacob’s
Ladder: The Rise of Black Churches in Eastern Cities, 1740-

»”

1877.” (Photograph by Harold Dorwin)

Io

most always the seat of federal government. But for more
than the first century and a half it was barely recogniza-
ble as the national capital in other ways. The arrival of
air conditioning was one transformational force; until
then Washington was officially reckoned a hardship post
by parts of the diplomatic community. But another, not
insignificant element in the transformation of Washing-
ton into a true national capital has been the growth of
the great complex of free museums for which this city is
now noted. There is something awe-inspiring—if at times
also oppressive to be part of—about the enormous, alto-
gether unparalleled crowds of visitors from all over the
world that are to be found in a number of the museums
of this city.

Accompanying, but also contributing to, this growth in
national influence have been a number of innovative pro-
grams that the Institution has devised or co-opted: the
Smithsonian (and now also the Air & Space) magazine
and the organization of more than two million National
Associates on which it is based, the Smithsonian World
television series, our Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES)
and traveling program of lectures, and the network of
locally supported receiving centers maintained by the
Archives of American Art. All of these programs emanate
from Washington. If they are respected and effective as
forms of outreach, they also draw further attention to
their central stimulus in Washington.

How long and far should this process of centralization
continue? I do not suggest, in asking the question, that
the Smithsonian should cease to grow when “the last site
on the Mall” (immediately east of the Air and Space Mu-
seum) presently finds a new occupant. Discussions con-
cerning the possibility of several further museums are, in
fact, under way. But the character of those discussions is
becoming much more broadly participatory, and the
change anticipates new institutional forms that are not
only geographically more dispersed but more participa-
tory in the distribution of authority.

There are several apparent sources for this new devel-
opment. Loyalties to locality are declining as communi-
ties cease to be centers of permanent occupation for
growing numbers of their inhabitants and lose their social
cohesiveness. Interest groups and constituencies play a
correspondingly larger role, most immediately expressed
through the impact of PACs on Congress. But these |
trends, while general and powerful, impact on the Smith-
sonian only indirectly. Much closer at hand are forces
that have their origin precisely in the contribution of all
of Washington’s museums to enhancing its role as the
national capital. As the Mall becomes a symbolic cultural

¥ ; tg ‘
ll Tn
rd 2am

ot.

The National Air and Space Museum’s new restaurant, completely under glass, offers a dramatic view of the Capitol along with
food from either a cafeteria or a full-service dining room. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

center, equity of access and participation and sensitivity
of representation become increasingly vital issues.

The readjustments now under way may be illustrated
briefly by three examples. One involves ongoing discus-
sions over the prospect of bringing the Museum of the
American Indian from New York City to Washington. At
this writing the situation is still fluid and it would be rash
to predict the final outcome, but what matters almost
more are the terms in which the Smithsonian supports its
case. Only in Washington, it is argued, can the drawing
together of a truly unparalleled collection contribute in
full measure to an American Indian cultural renaissance.
What is foreseen is a growing network of museums and
cultural centers on Indian lands, in which circulating col-
lections of authentic materials of the highest quality can
be exhibited, studied, and drawn upon as historic roots
for new inspiration. Needed to make this possible are
hands-on programs greatly to enlarge the numbers of
rained conservators, archivists, ethnohistorians, art his-
Orians, curators, and museum administrators. But no
such developments would be either realistic or morally

defensible without the goodwill and leadership of na-
tional Indian organizations and the active involvement at
every stage of local organs of Indian governance as well.

Similar conclusions can be drawn from discussions
concerning African American culture and history. In
spring 1988 the Smithsonian was directed, by the House
subcommittee having jurisdiction over its appropriations,
to consider and provide a report on whether a new na-
tional museum with this focus should be created under its
auspices. That question, we soon realized, could not be
answered in isolation. There already exists an African
American Museum Association with around a hundred
members, and many churches and historically black col-
leges and universities also have important collections and
are involved to varying degrees in museum functions.
Not a few of these institutions lack adequately trained
staffs or are financially vulnerable. Means should be
found to enlarge and strengthen the academic resources
committed to the field, to support the preparation and
circulation of exhibits, and to develop a network of
shared information about existing collections.

IGE
Interactive video technology made it possible for Mary Tsuka-
moto, shown here with photographs documenting the intern-
ment of Japanese-Americans in the 1940s, to share her personal
experiences with visitors to “A More Perfect Union: Japanese
Americans and the U.S. Constitution,” an exhibition in the Mu-
seum of American History. (Photograph by Michael Yamashita)

It is to be hoped that the Smithsonian can assist in
these processes, and we are actively searching for ways in
which to do so. But the existing institutions are of funda-
mental importance, not only for what they have already
learned and collected but for their vital links of confi-
dence and shared commitment with members of their
own communities in whose basements and attics there
are yet to be identified major increments to a still largely
undiscovered past. Whatever moves the Smithsonian
makes in this area, it is once again clear that geographi-
cal dispersion, networking, shared control, and sensitiv-
ity to the accomplishments and needs of existing
institutions will furnish the indispensable keys to long-
term success.

Thirdly, consider the example of Hispanic culture.
Here I think it is fair to say that patterns of stereotyping
and neglect have long prevailed at the international level
as well as internally. In this country Latin America and
the Caribbean world are thought of, when they are con-
sidered seriously at all, largely in terms of debt crises,
military governments, drug cartels, corruption, and civil
violence. Overlooked are immensely rich and varied cul-
tural traditions, shining models of industrialization for

Iz

much of the rest of the Third World, the striking, recent
resurgence of democratic movements, and our own, not
insignificant, contributions over the years to some of the
region’s chronic problems. At least until recently, simi-
larly distorted stereotyping and neglect characterized the
Anglo-American view of our rapidly growing Hispanic
minority, centering not on its diversity, cultural richness,
and improving socioeconomic stature but on its resistance
to cultural and linguistic assimilation. |

The principal vehicle with which the Smithsonian pro-
poses to contribute to these issues is an imposing array of ©
television programs, exhibitions, and symposia—in fact,
an unprecedentedly broad institutional effort, involving a
majority of our museums—on the Quincentenary of Col-
umbus’s first voyage to the Caribbean. Without deprecat-
ing the boldness and decisiveness of his accomplishment,
it is not primarily the “discovery” of the New World that
we commemorate—that Eurocentric view overlooks the |
great civilizations already flourishing here long before his
arrival. Celebration of the Quincentenary instead is an
occasion to take account of five centuries of a hemisphere- |
wide encounter, and of the emergence of vigorous, new
civilizational traditions out of diverse Old and New
World roots. This alternate emphasis, the basis for the
growing importance with which the occasion is viewed
throughout Latin America as its time approaches, may
help to draw our peoples together by redirecting the at-
tention and sensitivity of many in this country as well.
But its success will depend, to an unprecedented degree,
on collaborative efforts involving institutions, scholars,
and creative artists not only in the United States but
throughout the hemisphere.

These three instances, roughly coinciding in time, point)
to a shift of emphasis within the Smithsonian that is un-
der way and likely to continue. Our pace of physical
growth in central Washington gives little evidence of
slackening, with the Sackler Gallery and the National
Museum of African Art having opened only a little more
than a year ago and plans for other facilities in varying
stages of preparation or discussion. But alongside of this
direct growth of our own facilities, here is growth and
outreach of another kind that depends upon entirely new
modes of cooperation and involvement with other institu-
tions and constituencies. What particularly differentiates
these modes of association from those of the past is a
concern to deepen and intensify the forms of dialogue,
not merely carrying on parallel activities but sharing in
the direction of common programs.

As this suggests, a concern for enhancing two-way dia-
logue is becoming the central means by which the Smith-

sonian can advance toward new and more ambitious
goals. This applies as much at the individual as at the

| sponsibilities for which we were appointed—whether to
advance the frontiers of knowledge, to maintain collec-
tions, or to contribute to the Smithsonian’s complex ag-
gregate of needs in other ways—we also can join in

| looking outward to the many constituencies with which
the Institution is increasingly engaged. In doing so we
learn, for example, that “popular” and “elitist” knowl-
edge are categories to be creatively adjoined, not forced
apart. The scholar, his or her informant, and the public
to which ensuing publications are addressed are partners
in a common enterprise.

I confine my further illustrations of the prevalence of
these patterns to a few at the institutional level, although
others can be found in virtually all our operations. There
are scientifically sampled surveys of some of our museum
audiences, the Contributing Members and the Resident
Associates, for example, that have begun to be carried
out by the newly organized Office of Institutional Studies
under the direction of Zahava Doering. Some have been
One-time studies of particular exhibitions or events, de-
signed to tell us something of visitor backgrounds and
reactions and so to improve them. Other surveys have
probed for the level of understanding of issues portrayed
in a topical exhibition like “Tropical Rainforests: A Dis-
appearing Treasure,” contrasting a sample of those who
have passed through the exhibition with another sample
of those who have not. The most ambitious of these
studies yet undertaken has sampled the huge visitorship
at the National Air and Space Museum for a six-month
period, helping us enormously as we seek to understand
the backgrounds, interests, and reactions of our audience
and to do a better job in promoting the Smithsonian’s
ission as an institution serving all members of society.
bout 5,000 interviews had been completed, with an 80
ercent response rate, by the end of the reporting period.

A similar objective will be attained in a somewhat dif-
ferent way in the permanent exhibition on the Informa-
ion Revolution that is in preparation at the National
useum of American History under the direction of Da-
id Allison. Highly interactive in design, this major in-
tallation encourages visitors to question or pursue
urther the aims of the exhibition itself through multiple
omputer entry points. Thus we will accumulate a record
f audience reactions, concerns, and level of interest and
ophistication, on the basis of which the exhibition can
€ progressively improved.

Interaction of an entirely different kind figures heavily

institutional level. Without diminishing the specialized re-

in another exhibition in which we take great pride, both
for its audience impact and as a distinguished scholarly
effort. “Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia and
Alaska” opened in the Evans Gallery of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History in September, culminating al-
most a decade of collaborative planning that brought our
scholars together with fellow anthropologists attached to
the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union. Carried
through under the indefatigable leadership of William Fitz-
hugh, this brings before the Soviet as well as the Ameri-
can and Canadian publics collections from both sides of
the Bering Strait that have never before been exhibited in
such profusion—let alone together. As a result of the
long years of collaborative planning, the exhibition and
its accompanying book rank as important contributions
to knowledge in their own right. Many viewers report an
almost emotional impact, not only from coming face to
face with astonishing cultural achievements in what we
think of as an exceedingly harsh and constraining envi-
ronment but from their sudden awareness of how much
was swept away and virtually forgotten by the incoming
Russians and Americans in the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries.

A readiness for sensitive and long-continuing interac-
tion, carried on at many levels, has been the key to other
successful Smithsonian activities that involved cooperat-
ing Soviet scholars and institutions. Exchanges of folklife
artists and scholars had a promising beginning during the
year, and promising cooperative arrangements were con-
cluded between the Folkways Record Company (now
Smithsonian owned) and Meloydia Records, a Soviet
counterpart. “Russian and Soviet Paintings, 1900-1930:
Selections from the State Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow,
and the State Russian Museum, Leningrad” appeared at
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in the
summer, the sequel to other exchange exhibitions that
have moved in both directions. Much of this material
was entirely new to the American public, and its public
exhibition has also been suppressed in the Soviet Union
since the time of Stalin. For many, including this ob-
server, the creative diversity that flourished through
much of the twenties was breathtaking, correspondingly
amplifying the tragic losses in the decades that followed.

So I find myself asking as the year draws to a close,
what truly distinguishes the Smithsonian? What should
we try harder to be and do? On the one hand, the Insti-
tution endlessly carries forward a set of ambitious probes
of the limits of human experience and the ways of look-
ing at it, challenging all our unreflective assumptions and
placid routines. In this spirit, its concern is not with the

13
sum of received wisdom but with its cutting edges and
arresting incongruities. With the especially long-enduring,
for example; or the moment or process of transforma-
tion; or the unique, small or unnoticed, perhaps even
consciously suppressed, and yet important in the scheme
of things; or the universal or fundamental; or, not least,
the endangered and deserving of conservation—like the
whole of our planet.

On the other hand the Institution also has the responsi-
bility to impart what has been learned to many audi-
ences, and we find we understand it differently and better
as a result of having done so. We view the nature of
knowledge itself relativistically and problematically, in
other words, in order to make it more useful as well as
more universal. In that sense the Institution’s dialogues
and constituencies are an absolutely vital part of every-
thing it is and does.

The Year in Review

As a unique museum complex, a major center for re-
search, and a thriving public educational institution, the
Smithsonian Institution operates in several spheres, serv-
ing a multitude of communities. In the public sphere, the
Smithsonian welcomes a diverse mix of visitors to its mu-
seums and participants in its programs. They include
tourists and Washington—area residents, schoolchildren
and teachers, people of all ages, interests, and cultural
origins. In the Smithsonian’s scholarly sphere, which is
largely unseen by most visitors, an extensive research ap-
paratus grounded in a tradition of scholarship as old as
the Institution itself stimulates and supports the explora-
tion of intellectual frontiers in the sciences, art, and the
humanities. Books, television, radio, the print media, and
now the latest in interactive computer technology extend
the Institution’s reach still further. The Institution’s im-
pact is felt not just in this country, but around the world,
through programs, exhibitions, and research efforts that
engage the Smithsonian as an active participant in our
global society.

The highlights of 1988 are ample confirmation that the
Smithsonian is a lively, multidimensional institution that,
year by year, expands its scope and intensifies its contri-
butions in many spheres. Whether through an exhibition
on a vital contemporary issue, research that helps protect
an endangered animal species, or a workshop that shows
teachers how to use museums as classroom resources, the
Institution enriches the human experience on many lev-
els—individual and collective, local, national, and inter-
national, for today and for the future.

14

As the year began, the Smithsonian’s new museum, re-
search, and education complex on the Mall had just
opened to the public with great fanfare and popular ac-
claim. The vast underground complex is topped by pavil-
ions through which visitors enter the National Museum
of African Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. A cop-
per-domed kiosk leads to the S. Dillon Ripley Center and
to offices for several Smithsonian programs. The “roof”
of the complex is the Enid A. Haupt Garden, with plant-
ings that reflect the changing seasons.

This new addition to the Mall’s museums had been in
the making for two decades, and its impact was felt in all
quarters of the Institution throughout 1988. The National
Museum of African Art recorded a record number of vis- —
its—640,000—to its new and larger location. The Sackler |
Gallery, the Smithsonian’s newest museum, presented ex- |
hibitions, programs, and symposia that introduced the |
public and scholars to its extensive collection of Asian
art. Next door to the Sackler, the Freer Gallery of Art
began a three-year renovation that will renew the venera- |
ble museum. The second exhibition to be installed in the
new International Gallery in the S. Dillon Ripley Center,
“Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure,” drew
large numbers of visitors during the year. And hundreds
of people attended educational programs, conferences,
and symposia held in Ripley Center facilities and spon-
sored by the Resident Associate Program, the Office of
Interdisciplinary Studies, the International Center, and
other Smithsonian bureaus and offices. The Quadrangle
complex meant an expanded role for supporting offices
such as the Office of Horticulture as arrangements for
special events, new indoor greenery in the Ripley Center,
and the plantings in the Enid A. Haupt Garden all re-
quired careful attention.

At year’s end, more than 1.6 million visits had been
recorded by the National Museum of African Art, by the
Sackler Gallery, and at the kiosk entrance to the S. Dil-
lon Ripley Center. Altogether, the Smithsonian’s twelve
museums (eleven in Washington, D.C., and one in New
York City), the Arts and Industries Building, and the
Smithsonian Institution Building counted 28.6 million vis-
its during the year, an increase of 3 million over 1987.
Among the milestones this year were the 1o millionth vis-
itor to the National Air and Space Museum’s IMAX®
film, To Fly; the busiest month ever for Smithsonian mu-
seum shops (July); and a record number of visits for a
single day at the National Air and Space Museum (Au-
gust Ir).

A large cadre of Smithsonian volunteers had helped to
make the opening of the Quadrangle complex run

smoothly, and with their continuing participation the in-
augural year was a resounding success. The Visitor Infor-
mation and Associates’ Reception Center (VIARC) added
to its volunteer force to serve the new museums; a pool

| of 534 volunteers now staffs sixteen information desks in
| eleven buildings throughout the Institution, filling sixty-
two daily assignments. Providing information to museum
visitors is just one of the more visible contributions vol-
junteers made to the Institution’s operation. Nearly 1,100
volunteers worked behind the scenes in bureaus and of-
fices. Another 437 worked on short-term special projects
this year, and 60 staffed the VIARC translation services
group. Altogether, 5,763 volunteers gave an impressive
485,084 hours of service to the Smithsonian during 1988.

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associ-
ates again provided a significant service to the Institution,
making forty-one grants to museums and offices for a
variety of projects that might not otherwise have been
possible. The committee’s sixty-three active members and
seventy resource members contributed more than 700
volunteer hours to the Institution this year.

Although the pace of 1988 may have seemed almost
leisurely in comparison with the milestone events of 1987,
anniversaries, expansions, and openings abounded. The
useum Support Center, the Institution’s innovative
torage and research facility, celebrated its fifth anniver-
ary this year. Open houses held in May gave the press,
members of Congress, Smithsonian staff, and others a
firsthand look at research, collections care, conservation
treatment, and training activities. The Suitland, Mary-
land, facility is the only collections storage center of its
kind in the United States, and it is considered a model for
he long-term storage and preservation of museum
bjects.

The National Air and Space Museum improved its col-
ections storage during 1988 with the completion of a new
puilding at Washington-Dulles International Airport. The
space shuttle Enterprise and other historically important
ircraft that had been stored outdoors are now housed
ndoors where they are protected from the elements.

Expanded research facilities strengthened the Institu-
ion’s prominent role as a leader in the advancement of
cientific knowledge. At the National Zoological Park, a
tate-ofthe-art veterinary hospital opened at Rock Creek
ark. A new laboratory wing was added to the main
uilding of the Smithsonian Environmental Research
enter in Edgewater, Maryland, and the building was
enamed for former Maryland Senator Charles McC.
athias, a dedicated supporter of environmental issues.

n Panama, work continued on the expansion of research

Lady Bird Johnson strolls in the Haupt Garden with its donor
Enid A. Haupt (left). A National Wildflower Research Center
exhibit and a reception were held in the Arts and Industries
Building as part of the jubilee celebration of Mrs. Johnson’s
seventy-fifth birthday. (Photograph by Richard Strauss)

facilities at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
At the National Air and Space Museum, visitors are
enjoying the two new glass-enclosed restaurants, which
opened on the Mall in September to excellent reviews by
food critics and architecture critics alike. On a smaller
scale, but still with the public’s comfort in mind, the
shady garden between the Arts and Industries Building
and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden has

been replanted and named the Mary Livingston Ripley
Garden.

Exhibitions

Exhibitions, public programs, research, and collections
are the four cornerstones of the Institution’s activities.
These are not separate functions, but overlapping, com-
plementary ones that together shape the quality of the
Smithsonian experience.

Museum exhibitions are one of the Institution’s most
visible links to its public. In every museum, exhibitions
are the visitor’s primary place of encounter with the ob-
jects that the museum collects and with the aggregate
meaning those objects embody. Exhibitions help visitors
appreciate the continuum of past, present, and future.
They stimulate personal recollections, introduce new
knowledge, clarify mysteries, and inspire contemplation.
They challenge assumptions, confirm beliefs, and invite

TS
PKE SE LF Le
page ‘i ek
4H 2 OA
é aa i7-4 \
Git Ae Ie %
BAe 5
a, a ee
ark eg eR OS Ss
% ? » J
s pt ; AQ r He &
A 3g 4 r a { 5
} ~ 1s ice Yes 4
- YS Oo Ls
ae

“Demon Presenting a Plum Bough to Zhongkui, The Demon
Queller,” by Chang Dai-chien (China, 1926, hanging scroll, ink
and color on paper), is one of five scrolls by this artist pur-
chased by the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in 1988. It will be
included in a major exhibition of the artist’s work in r99r.
(Photograph by John Tsantes)

16

debate. And they provide a learning experience in which
intellectual enrichment and the expansion of knowledge
are synonymous with pure enjoyment and fun. The exhi-
bitions organized this year by the Smithsonian’s museums
and its traveling exhibition service were as diverse in
scope, approach, and subject matter as the Institution it-
self.

Some addressed subjects that have broad social conse-
quence on regional, national, and global scales. Atthe
Anacostia Museum, 30,000 visitors saw “Climbing Ja- |
cob’s Ladder: The Rise of Black Churches in Eastern
American Cities, 1740-1877,” which vividly recounted the
role of the black church as a stimulus for self-determina-
tion and rejuvenation. To commemorate the bicentennial
of the U.S. Constitution, the National Museum of Amer-
ican History mounted “A More Perfect Union: Japanese
Americans and the United States Constitution,” a dra-
matic exhibition that explored the ramifications of racial
prejudice and fear by documenting the internment of Jap-
anese Americans during World War II. An exhibition
organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service with the World Wildlife Fund told the ur-
gent story of the ecology and destruction of one of the
most essential parts of our ecosystem. “Tropical Rain-
forests: A Disappearing Treasure” began its five-year na-
tional tour with a showing in the International Gallery of
the S. Dillon Ripley Center.

Other exhibitions presented the creative products of
artists from other countries and other cultures. Inaugural
exhibitions in the new museum complex presented slices
of African and Asian art and culture. The National Mu-
seum of African Art brought the public the finest in the
art and culture of sub-Saharan Africa in two exhibitions:
“Images from Bamum: German Colonial Photography at
the Court of King Njoya, Cameroon, West Africa, 1902-
1915” and “Shoowa Design: Raffia Textiles from Zaire.”
At the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, a scholarly retreat was
re-created in the galleries to embellish “The Chinese
Scholar’s Studio: Artistic Life in the Late Ming Period,”
an international loan exhibition of objects from the
Shanghai Museum in the People’s Republic of China.

A number of exhibitions reflected the diversity of the
American experience. “Special Delivery: Murals for the
New Deal Era,” organized by the National Museum of
American Art, recorded a picture of the nation’s values
during the Depression. The exhibition was drawn from
the museum’s collection of mural studies submitted in the
1930s to national competitions for commissions to deco-
rate post offices and other federal buildings. The mu-
seum’s permanent collection galleries were rehung

following the return of the exhibition, “Treasures from
the National Museum of American Art,” which had been
on tour since February 1986.

“American Colonial Portraits: 1700-1776” at the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery, the first in a series of exhibitions
at the gallery commemorating the bicentennial of the
U.S. Constitution, assembled an unparalleled selection of
portraits from public and private collections throughout
the country and abroad. At the Renwick Gallery, the 380
| works of art in “Lost and Found Traditions: Native
American Art 1965-1985” were stirring testimony to the
will for cultural survival among native peoples of North
America. Living American artists were the focus of the

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s new WORKS
| series, a program of temporary installations created espe-
cially for the museum’s building and grounds. Three
pieces were executed this year for the series, which is the
only continuing program of its kind in a major American
museum.

Through other exhibitions, visitors entered the realms
of science and technology. The complex, often controver-
sial topics of the rise of molecular biology and genetic
engineering were the subject of “The Search for Life: Ge-
netic Technology in the Twentieth Century” at the Na-
tional Museum of American History. Dick Rutan and
Deana Yeager’s Voyager aircraft is the centerpiece of the
National Air and Space Museum’s new exhibition, “Voy-
ager: Around the World without a Pit Stop.” The exhibi-
tion, which has become one of the most popular at the
museum, uses text panels, photographs, and a video
presentation to describe the first nonstop, nonrefueled
flight around the world.

New exhibitions at the National Zoological Park con-
tinued to establish the zoo as a biological park that re-
creates for visitors the interrelationships between plant
and animal life. In the Gibbon Ridge Exhibit, the endan-
gered forest apes are at home in spacious new naturalistic
surroundings. Ducks, geese, swans, herons, and egrets
inhabit the Waterfowl Wetlands Exhibit alongside lush
plantings typical of a wetlands environment.

A number of exhibitions reflected the growing sense
that we are members of a global community. Several of
hese were “firsts.” The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ure Garden organized “Russian and Soviet Paintings,
900-1930: Selections from the State Tretyakov Gallery,
oscow, and the State Russian Museum, Leningrad,”
he first American exhibition of Revolution-era Russian
nd Soviet art from Soviet museums.

“Then and Now: American Portraits from the Past
entury” is the first international traveling exhibition or-

ganized by the National Portrait Gallery. The survey of
roo years of American portraiture was shown in mu-
seums in Hong Kong and in Sapporo and Tokyo, Japan.

“Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia and
Alaska,” a panoramic history of the native peoples of
Siberia, Alaska, and the Aleutian Islands, is the first exhi-
bition to have been researched and organized by a joint
Soviet-American curatorial team. Developed by the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History and the Soviet Acad-
emy of Sciences, with the collaborative aid of the
International Research and Exchanges Board, “Cross-
roads” brings together archaeological and ethnographic
artifacts from Soviet, Canadian, and U.S. museums in an
exhibition that will travel to seven cities in the three
countries.

Many of the exhibitions at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
in New York City reflected the international scope of the
Smithsonian’s National Museum of Design. Among them
was “Versailles: The View from Sweden,” showing the
influence of Versailles on late seventeenth- and early
eighteenth-century Swedish architecture. The exhibition
was organized to commemorate the 3s5oth anniversary of
the first permanent Swedish settlement in North America.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice (SITES) brought the Smithsonian to life in museums,
art centers, and other cultural institutions throughout the
country. In 1988 SITES exhibitions were displayed in 333
locations in forty-four states for an estimated audience of
ten million people. One of the twenty-four new exhibi-
tions organized this year traveled to the Soviet Union.
“New Horizons: American Painting, 1840-1910,” the re-
ciprocal exhibition to last year’s “Russia, The Land, The
People,” was seen in four Soviet cities. Another highlight
of the year at SITES was “King Herod’s Dream: Caesarea
on the Sea,” which traced the colorful history of an an-
cient Mediterranean seaport.

Public Programs

In a unique process of communication that blends ob-
jects, ideas, and individual experience, people of all ages,
interests, and backgrounds expand their horizons with
the help of the Smithsonian. Through its exhibitions,
programs, and special events, the Smithsonian is an agent
of cultural, scientific, and visual literacy. It is a place for
learning, in the broadest sense of the word. Whether the
learning experience is conscious or casual, whether it oc-
curs during an organized program or in a moment of
solitary contemplation, it has a lasting impact on Smith-

17
sonian visitors. In keeping with the philosophy that
learning is a lifelong process of enrichment, the year’s
agenda was dotted with educational programs for chil-
dren and adults alike.

Through the Resident Associate Program (RAP), more
than 296,700 people of all ages enjoyed a rich variety of
nearly 2,000 lectures, seminars, courses, films, and study
tours. RAP attracted a record 16,000 new members dur-
ing 1988; adult course registration grew by more than 20
percent over 1987. To build on this success, RAP estab-
lished a Development Office that will work to attract
new audiences and new members from the Washington
area’s minority communities.

To serve the Institution’s national constituencies, the
Smithsonian National Associate Program presented lec-
tures and seminars throughout the country and offered a
tantalizing selection of tours to places around the globe.
A popular new offering this year was the Smithsonian
Research Expedition Program, through which Associate
members can participate in two-week field research trips
led by Smithsonian scientists and curators.

Efforts to extend the scope and benefits of the Institution
to every segment of the public intensified this year, as a
number of bureaus and offices carried out activities
aimed at building an audience that reflects our society’s
cultural pluralism. The Office of Public Affairs set the
tone for these outreach efforts with its theme for the
year: “The Smithsonian. It’s for everyone—and for you.”
A coordinated media campaign designed to reach black
families resulted in thousands of written requests for in-

formation. A Spanish-language version of the Institution’s

monthly calendar, a bilingual brochure, and a Spanish-
language television public service announcement invited
greater participation by Hispanic Americans. And the of-
fice designed a media program directed to the national
Native American community.

Other efforts included Institution-wide observances of
Black History Month, Hispanic Heritage Week, and
Asian-Pacific American Heritage Week. The Education
Department of the Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery
of Art established an advisory council to examine issues
of accessibility for disabled visitors to the museums. At
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, a sympo-
sium for docents focused on outreach.

Outreach efforts were not limited to programs for the
public, but included programs that encourage wider in-
volvement in the Institution through research and profes-
sional education. The Office of Fellowships and Grants,
in collaboration with Howard University, again offered a
program to promote minority interest in natural history.

18

Students and faculty joined in fieldwork at the Smithson-
ian Environmental Research Center and learned about
opportunities for research and study at the Smithsonian.
The Office of Museum Programs made awards to
twenty-four minority museum professionals in support of
their attendance at workshops and residencies organized
by the office.

Festivals, special events, and performances are an exten-
sion of the Institution’s role as an agent for education
and enjoyment. The twenty-second annual Festival of
American Folklife drew an estimated 1.5 million people to
the Mall for a celebration that extended beyond this na-
tion’s cultural richness to include the heritage of the So-
viet Union. This year the festival focused on the folklife
of Massachusetts; immigrant migration to Washington,
D.C.; Soviet musical traditions; and the history of the
American Folklore Society. Soviet performers participated
as part of a long-term cultural exchange agreement be-
tween the Office of Folklife Programs and the Soviet gov-
ernment.

Other Smithsonian events have become community

Grace Lewis (front) and Joy Wilson, staff members of the Mu-
seum of Natural History’s Department of Botany, mount and
label plant specimens on archival paper. The botany plant-
mounting unit, which is located in the Museum Support Center, |
Suitland, Maryland, celebrated its fifth anniversary in May
1988. (Photograph by Diane Nordeck)

traditions: the annual open house at the National Air and
Space Museum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restora-
tion, and Storage Facility; the “Trees of Christmas” exhi-
bition at the National Museum of American History; the
Kite Festival on the Washington Monument grounds; and
the spring Washington Craft Show sponsored by the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

Live performances at the Smithsonian this year re-
flected the spirit and purpose of the museums and their
exhibitions. A concert by Washington’s award-winning
Eastern High School Choir accompanied the black
churches exhibition at the Anacostia Museum. At the
National Portrait Gallery, a dramatic portrait of play-
wright August Strindberg enhanced an exhibition from
the Swedish National Portrait Collection. And musical
programs at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery featured mas-
ters of the sitar and the Chinese seven-stringed zither.
The Resident Associate Program presented its fifth season
of performing arts events, entertaining more than 32,000
people with programs ranging from the dance and music
of Mongolia to a concert by singer Eartha Kitt.

Thanks to television, radio, and magazines, the Smith-
sonian can be experienced from a comfortable armchair
as well as from a trip to the Mall. Four new “Smithson-
ian World” programs were produced during the year for
broadcast on public television stations. The audience for
each telecast of this Emmy-award-winning series numbers
more than fourteen million viewers. The short-feature se-
ries “Here at the Smithsonian” aired on more than 175
television stations nationwide. Building on the success of
“Radio Smithsonian,” planning began for an expanded
radio series designed to provide a broad picture of the
Institution. The pilot program produced this year was
roundly praised by public radio programmers. The Office
of Telecommunications, in cooperation with the Smith-
sonian Film, Television, and Radio Communications
Council, began production on a series of home videos
with topics based on the Institution’s collections and re-
search. For approximately seven million readers, the
monthly Smithsonian magazine was a window on the
many facets of the Institution’s activities. The bimonthly
Air & Space/Smithsonian reached a circulation of about
390,000.

To enable elementary and secondary school students to
enjoy the full benefits of the Institution as a center of
learning, Smithsonian offices and bureaus served as re-
sources for educators from throughout the country. The
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education is a point
f contact for teachers in the Washington, D.C., area

and nationwide; the office’s periodicals—Let’s Go to the
Smithsonian and Art to Zoo—brought the Smithsonian
to teachers by providing useful information about how to
use the Institution as an educational resource. The Na-
tional Air and Space Museum published Skyline, a quar-
terly newsletter for teachers.

The National Science Resources Center continued its
efforts to enhance science teaching in the nation’s elemen-
tary schools. This year the center formed a partnership
with a group of Washington, D.C., elementary schools to
test the hands-on science curriculum units being devel-
oped as part of the center’s Science and Technology for
Children Project.

More than 1,300 teachers visited the National Air and
Space Museum’s new Education Resource Center after its
opening in January. The center provides free and low-
cost educational materials about aviation and space,
including slide sets, computer programs, lesson plans,
curriculum packages, and audiovisual programs.

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, in collab-
oration with Harvard University, has developed curricu-
lum materials that will help secondary school teachers
use examples from astronomy to teach basic principles of
physics and mathematics. A group of high school teach-
ers attended a special summer institute this year to cri-
tique the curriculum materials and take them home for
field-testing.

Smithsonian programs for students often begin in the
classroom and continue in the museum. For more than
65,000 students, exhibitions at the National Museum of
Natural History came alive through classroom materials
and lesson tours. National Air and Space Museum educa-
tion staff visited Washington, D.C.—area schools to tell
the story of the contributions blacks have made to Ameri-
can aviation and to invite students to tour the museum.
A group of Hopi students in northeastern Arizona partic-
ipated in a special course taught by scientists from the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory, who used the meth-
ods and results of their research on Hopi pottery to illus-
trate principles of scientific research design. During the
summer, the students came to the laboratory for three
weeks of hands-on learning. For students in the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education’s high school intern
program, the entire Institution was a “classroom” in
which they explored opportunities for museum careers.

Research

Research activity conducted under the auspices of the In-
stitution is carried out in many corners of the world. It

19
involves museum staff, fellows, and interns. Researchers
work to advance knowledge in such diverse fields as ani-
mal medicine, the history of American art, and the bio-
logical diversity of the tropical ecosystem. They seek new
frontiers in domains as vast as the unexplored galaxies
outside our universe and as minuscule as the painted sur-
faces of artistic masterpieces. The fruits of their efforts
find their way into our lives in immediate ways—through
exhibitions, programs, or publications—and in far-reach-
ing contributions to the expansion and enrichment of
knowledge.

On the heels of last year’s discovery of the brightest
exploding star that had been seen in more than 400
years, scientists from the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-
servatory this year obtained the first convincing evidence
for the existence of a planet outside our solar system.
They detected minute variations in the motion of a faint
Sun-like star, HD 114762, some ninety light-years from
Earth. The variations appear to be caused by the gravita-
tional attraction of a large, planetlike companion body in
orbit about the star. The planet’s probable size, its dis-
tance from HD 114762, and the likelihood that it has
ovenlike temperatures make it an unsuitable habitat for
life. But the discovery reinforces speculation that planets
do exist outside our galaxy and that some of them might
even support the development of life and the evolution of
intelligence.

At the National Zoological Park, groundbreaking
work in gamete research and embryo technology contin-
ued this year. Zoo researchers applied the successful in
vitro fertilization procedures they have developed for the
domestic cat to collaborative research with the state of
Florida on the highly endangered Florida panther. Scien-
tists have been able to recover puma eggs and achieve a
45 percent fertilization rate and the production of ten
cleaved embryos. The zoo also made significant advances
in endocrinology during 1988, as researchers used urine
analysis techniques to study aspects of reproductive phys-
iology in zoo species.

Scientists from the National Zoo returned this year to
the Poco das Antas Reserve in Brazil for further field
research under the Golden-Lion Tamarin Conservation
Program. Between 1984 and 1987, U.S. zoos have gradu-
ally reintroduced groups of captive-born tamarins into
the reserve, and researchers regularly spend time there to
monitor the animals’ progress. Some of the studies during
1988 addressed the population dynamics, reproductive cy-
cles, and demography of this endangered species.

Researchers at the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center are measuring the impact of air pollution

20

on the vegetation and soil of the deciduous hardwood
forests in the Chesapeake Bay drainage basin. Using in-
struments set up in a tall tulip poplar forest, they are
studying the forest’s photosynthesis, respiration, and effi-
ciency at trapping polluting gases and fine particles.

In 1988 Environmental Research Center scientists con-
tinued to study the impact on natural plant communities
of the dramatic changes in atmospheric conditions pre-
dicted for early in the twenty-first century. They have
found that one of the plant species studied—Scirpus olne-—
yii—showed greater productivity when carbon dioxide
levels were elevated. This and other factors may limit the ©
impact of the “greenhouse effect” on the productivity of
wetlands areas.

At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Pan-
ama, the rapid disappearance of lush tropical habitats
lends urgency to the work of Smithsonian scientists as
they seek to advance understanding of tropical nature
and its relationship to the global ecosystem. Tropical in-
sects play an important role in the life of the forest, yet
they are poorly known and difficult to study. Studies at
the institute this year involving cassidine beetles, fig-polli-
nating wasps, riodinid caterpillars, social wasps, and
male earwigs all contributed to knowledge of the vast
diversity of insect habits, which may in turn shed light on
the fundamental principles governing the evolution of so-
cial behavior.

Scientists at the institute are also exploring the circum-
stances and mechanisms of sexual selection, the impact of
seasonal variations in the Panamanian climate on the
physical environment and animal populations, the history
of human settlement in Panama, and the domestication
of wild pacas. The consequences of the 1986 Caribbean
oil spill at Galeta continue to be monitored and analyzed, -
as do the effects of a massive die-off of long-spined sea
urchins (Diadema) in 1983. Both calamities appear to
have contributed to a decline in the growth rate of coral
species; an expanded study of older coral will further ex-
amine why coral growth may have slowed.

Research at the National Air and Space Museum
ranges from the history of aviation technology to rocket
and space technology. Scientists in the Center for Earth
and Planetary Studies continued to use satellite remote
sensing to study desert regions of Earth and structural
land forms on Mars. Enhanced satellite images of dune
formations in Egypt, Botswana, and Mali, along with
fieldwork and samples taken in 1988, have given re-
searchers greater insight into how climatic changes affect
sand formations and the movement of sand.

Research on the administration and management of

large-scale projects in the space program is now in its
second year at the museum. Staff of the Glennan-Webb-
Seamans Project for Research in Space History, a project
of the Department of Space Science and Exploration, are
involved in archives preservation activities and oral his-
tory interviews.

The National Museum of Natural History, the nation’s
largest research museum, continued its long-term effort
to document and study rare and endangered plant and
animal species in the biologically diverse Amazonian
regions of Bolivia and Peru. The museum’s biodiversity
research involves international collaboration with the Bo-
livian and Peruvian governments, host country scientists
and students, and international conservation organiza-
tions, all of which have a common goal: to protect spe-
cies that may yield new sources of food, medicine,
biological controls, and important germ plasm for agri-
cultural use. This year the museum held workshops for
biologists from Bolivia, Peru, and Puerto Rico as a first
step toward training hundreds of biologists and con-
servationists to conduct species inventories in tropical
ecosystems.

Natural History Museum scientists—with colleagues
from the Charleston Museum in South Carolina—this
year discovered and identified the mostly preserved skele-
ton of an extinct flying seabird that lived 30 million years
ago. A member of the pseudodontorn, or “bony-toothed
bird,” family, the remarkable creature’s wingspan meas-
ured as much as eighteen feet, and it may have weighed
nearly ninety pounds. It is the largest pseudodontorn ever
identified.

Conservators, scientists, and engineers at the Conser-
vation Analytical Laboratory conduct specialized research
that is essential to the care and preservation of museum
objects. One of the laboratory’s new initiatives in con-
servation research—a program to study the effects of
cleaning solutions that conservators use to remove old
varnish—will have important implications for the conser-
ation of paintings. Together, conservators and scientists
are examining the effects of these cleaning solutions on
he paint layer. A photographic scientist began research
uring 1988 on the deterioration of glass collodion nega-
ive plates, which are extremely common in the Smith-
onian collection and in photographic collections
orldwide. As part of its archaeometric research pro-
ram, the laboratory is collaborating with the Carnegie
nstitute to examine archaeological bone for traces of an-
ient disease and for evidence of prehistoric diets and to
evelop a methodology of preparing samples for use in
arbon-14 dating.

The Smithsonian is the home of several projects that
involve the organization, documentation, and publication
of the papers of noted Americans. This year the staff of
the Joseph Henry Papers continued work on volume 6 of
the correspondence and private papers of the Smithsoni-
an’s first secretary. At the National Portrait Gallery, the
Peale Family Papers project published volume 2 of the
selected letters and documents of the artist and naturalist
Charles Willson Peale and his artist sons, Raphaelle,
Rembrandt, and Rubens.

To visitors, the Smithsonian Institution is a treasure
house of objects and ideas. To the hundreds of scholars
and students who have the singular opportunity to delve
beneath the surface of what visitors see, the Institution is
an even richer resource. Where else can one explore top-
ics as diverse as form, style, and symbolic content in Arc-
tic fur clothing; the history of public health in nineteenth-
century Washington, D.C.; fiber art as a manifestation of
the post-World War II crafts revival in the United States;
and rates of molecular evolution in marine gastropods?

This year approximately 800 undergraduate and grad-
uate students and scholars visited the Smithsonian under
the academic research programs administered by the Of-
fice of Fellowships and Grants. During long- and short-
term residential appointments, they worked in collabora-
tion with Smithsonian curators and scientists, conducted
research using the collections, and investigated potential
topics for their dissertation research. The office also of-
fered a number of workshops and internships, and its
short-term visitor program continued to be especially
popular with scholars from developing nations.

Two fellowships were awarded this year under the
newly established James Renwick Fellowship Program in
American Crafts, which supports research in the history
of twentieth-century American craft. Another program
introduced this year, the Research Resources Program,
awarded seven grants for archival projects designed to
organize important collections and make them available
to scholars.

Smithsonian-sponsored conferences, seminars, and
symposia are fertile ground for the exchange of knowl-
edge and ideas among scholars, students, professionals,
and members of the public. The Archives of American
Art sponsored three symposia in 1988, along with eight
informal seminars at which art historians and American
studies scholars discussed work in progress. A highlight
of the programs sponsored this year by the Office of In-
terdisciplinary Studies was “Afro-Americans and the Evo-
lution of a Living Constitution,” a symposium organized

21
for the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution. Ancillary
activities included a workshop for teachers and a telecon-
ference carried on public radio and broadcast to thirty-
six colleges. The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies also
inaugurated “Ways of Knowing,” a forum to encourage
the flow of ideas among Smithsonian staff and fellows in
different disciplines and bureaus.

Smithsonian bureaus collaborated with educational in-
stitutions in degree-granting programs and presented pro-
fessional training courses of their own. The Conservation
Analytical Laboratory, for example, completed the first
year of its joint doctoral program with the Johns Hop-
kins University to train conservation scientists. The first
class in the laboratory’s three-year Furniture Conserva-
tion Training Program completed its second year. In
cooperation with the Parsons/New School, the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum continued to offer a master’s-level train-
ing program in the decorative arts.

Smithsonian staff, researchers from outside the Institu-
tion, and members of the public can gain access to Smith-
sonian resources with the assistance of various offices.
Staff in the fifteen branches of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries answered more than 75,000 reference in-
quiries in 1988 and circulated nearly 67,000 volumes to
borrowers. At the Smithsonian Institution Archives, there
were nearly 1,400 inquiries, and the staff provided almost
6,000 items and 25,000 copies to researchers. Visitor In-
formation and Associates’ Reception Center volunteers
handled some 55,000 pieces of mail requesting general
information and reference assistance. Thirty-five hundred
research visits were made to the six regional centers of
the Archives of American Art in 1988.

Collections

At the heart of every museum are its collections. Smith-
sonian museums are especially rich in objects of art, his-
tory, and science that together preserve and present the
complexity of our cultural and natural heritage. The In-
stitution’s collections are far from static. Each year,
through gifts, bequests, purchases, and transfers from
other government entities, thousands of objects are added
to the collections held in trust for the public.

The National Museum of American Art’s 1988 acquisi-
tions included an important 1932 painting by Marsden
Hartley, Yliaster (Paracelsus); Thomas Cole’s The Pil-
grim of the World at the End of His Journey, ca. 1846-
48; and John Trumbull’s The Misses Mary and Hannah
Murray, 1806. Among the significant acquisitions by the

22

National Portrait Gallery were a Gilbert Stuart portrait
of the American statesman Rufus King, Marguerite Zo-
rach’s portrait of Marianne Moore and her mother, and
Thomas Hicks’s portrait of Edward Hicks, painter of
The Peaceable Kingdom.

The permanent collection of the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden was enriched by seven major
works from the estate of Marion L. Ring, the most sig-
nificant such gift the museum has received from a donor
other than Joseph H. Hirshhorn. An important acquisi-
tion for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum was a group of
1,488 sheets representing more than 250 textile and wall-
covering patterns by more than fifty designers affiliated
with the Wiener Werkstatte during the early twentieth
century.

Among the twenty-two works added to the permanent
collection of the National Museum of African Art were a
rare Yoruba staff and a unique Hongwe reliquary guard-
ian figure. The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery enhanced its
collections with several significant acquisitions, including
an important pair of Japanese six-panel folding screens
by an anonymous artist of the early seventeenth century.
The Freer Gallery of Art acquired a pair of illustrated
narrative handscrolls by a seventeenth—century Japanese
painter, along with other works for the museum’s Japa-
nese, Near Eastern, and Chinese collections.

More than 6,000 musical documents and artifacts that
belonged to bandleader Duke Ellington were added to
the multifaceted collections of the National Museum of
American History. Among other objects, the museum
also acquired an antique Torah mantle dating to 1786,
300 seldom-seen photographs of inventor Thomas Edison
and his family, and a 1784 copper dollar, one of the first
coins in the nation’s monetary system.

The National Air and Space Museum added to its col-
lections a rare example of the Junkers-Ju 52/3m three-
engined transport aircraft from the 1930s, the first widely
used European commercial transport airplane. The mu-
seum also acquired a Lockheed Super Constellation, fre-
quently used in the 1950s by commercial airlines for
transatlantic flights.

A noteworthy addition to the collections of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History was an unmounted
5.03-carat round-cut red diamond. Now on display in the
Gem Hall, the diamond is the only one of its kind on
view in a museum anywhere in the world. From the fam-
ily of collector William Bledsoe, the museum also re-
ceived an unusually rich collection of 9,000 seashells,
which are valuable both for their beauty and for their
research significance.

Two Komodo dragon lizards, the only ones of their

significant milestone in ground-based gamma-ray astronomy was the detection by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

scientists and their collaborators, using this ro-meter-diameter gamma-ray detector, at the Whipple Observatory in Arizona, of
zamma rays from the Crab Nebula that establishes a standard “candle,” against which to search for and measure other, weaker

sources in the sky. (Photograph by James Cornell)

ind in a U.S. zoo, were a gift from the people of Indo-
esia to the National Zoological Park. A highlight of the
zoo’s new Invertebrate Exhibit, ten giant Japanese spider
tabs, were also acquired this year. Nearly 1,000 births
and hatchings during the year bolstered the zoo’s stocks
of threatened and endangered species. Among the new-
dorns were a giraffe, orangutan, sandhill crane, Guam
ail, smoky jungle frog, and Dumerils ground boa, as

well as octopus and several clouded leopards and Pere
David’s deer.

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries purchased one of
the rarest eighteenth-century books on the history of pap-
ermaking, Versuche und Muster ohne alle Lumpen oder
doch mit einem qeringen Zusatze derselben Papier zu
machen, by Jacob Christian Schaeffer. The library also
received the collection of Ladislas Segy, who operated

23
one of the first African art galleries in New York City.

The papers of herpetologist George W. Nace of the
University of Michigan formed one of the largest of the
nearly 200 groups of records accessioned by the Smith-
sonian Institution Archives this year. The 180 collections
added to the holdings of the Archives of American Art
included the papers of painter and writer Walter Pach,
which are a valuable source of information on early
twentieth-century modernism.

Implicit in the act of collecting is the organization and
care of the objects that have been collected. In a collabo-
rative effort by the Office of Information Resource Man-
agement, the Office of the Registrar, and bureau
representatives, work continued this year on the Institu-
tion-wide Collections Information System, which now
contains approximately one million records. Staff began
to transfer information on the collections of the National
Museum of American Art and continued to transfer data
on the vast collections of the National Museum of Natu-
ral History.

Working with bureau staff, the Office of the Registrar
reviewed and revised Office Memorandum 808: Collec-
tions Management, which discusses the issues of, author-
ity for, and responsibility for the care and use of the
nation’s collections. At the National Museum of Ameri-
can History, the Computer Services Center developed a
local collections management system that meets both cu-
ratorial and registrarial needs and began a museumwide
analysis of potential computer applications in the areas of
collections management, public programs, and research.

Helping the Institution function smoothly in its several
spheres is a complex network of administrative and sup-
port offices. These fifteen offices and their divisions serve
a range of functions, some highly visible to the public,
some less apparent, but all essential.

As the year ended, three major construction projects
were completed under the direction of the Office of
Design and Construction: the National Air and Space
Museum restaurants, the Mathias Laboratory at the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, and the
Smithsonian Child Care Center (which opened in fiscal
year 1989). Construction began on the Smithsonian Infor-
mation Center in the Castle, a dining and conference cen-
ter at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, and
the Freer Gallery of Art renovation.

Administrative offices served Smithsonian staff and
bureaus in a number of ways. The Office of Information
Resource Management opened a Help Desk for computer

24

users and developed an integrated telecommunications
system that joins more than 300 personal computers ina
network with the central computing facility. The Office

of Protection Services was involved in a record thirty-

four escorts for valuable objects in transit between the
Smithsonian and other museums and institutions in this
country and abroad. There was renewed emphasis on af-
firmative action by the Office of Equal Opportunity, and
the representation of minorities and women in profes-
sional and administrative positions continued to improve.

A complex institution like the Smithsonian must engage
in continuing self-assessment and careful thinking about
the future if it is to serve its public effectively while meet-
ing its obligations to preserve its collections and advance
knowledge. A forward-thinking attitude permeated a
number of Smithsonian bureaus this year.

The Freer Gallery of Art closed its doors in September
1988 to begin a major renovation and restoration project
that will revitalize the museum for the next century.
When work is completed, the Freer and the Sackler Gal-
lery will be linked underground and there will be im-
proved access for disabled visitors. Conservation and
technical research space will be triple its previous size,
and collections storage space will have grown by more
than 70 percent. The main-level galleries will have new
artificial lighting to enhance the existing artificial light,
and replacement glass ceilings will have been installed.
All of these interior and exterior repairs and improve-
ments will maintain the architectural integrity of the ele-
gant 1923 building, which is listed in the National
Register of Historic Places.

Looking to its future, the Anacostia Museum adopted
a collections management policy statement that focuses
the museum’s collecting activity on black history. The
statement, along with new acquisition, accession, and in-
ventory procedures, will ensure a sense of purpose and
organization as the museum’s collections grow.

The Smithsonian Institution Archives began a decade
of modernization this year with internal program re-
views, an assessment of automation alternatives, and a
conservation study.

Smithsonian Institution Press established a new divi-
sion that is exploring projects that use interactive educa-
tional technologies. The Press also began planning for an
electronic publishing venture that will make Smithsonian
resource data bases widely accessible to libraries, research
institutions, and individual scholars.

In another future-oriented effort, Smithsonian Project
Discovery continued planning for a new multimedia cur-

riculum on the history of ideas of the twentieth century.
The project will integrate television dramas and docu-
mentaries, books, learning guides, and interactive video-
discs.

Staff Changes

During the last year the Smithsonian lost several particu-
larly outstanding members of its top staff. After more
than eleven years of dedicated and meritorious service as
the Institution’s Director of Development, our good friend
James McKim Symington retired in November to pursue
other interests. We were equally surprised and disap-
pointed to receive the resignation of Charles C. Eldredge
who had served with distinction as the Director of the
National Museum of American Art. He has returned to
an endowed professorship at the University of Kansas,
whence he came just six years ago. Other job moves
among the top staff included the retirement of Elbridge
O. Hurlbut from the directorship of the Contracts Office
and the resignation of Richard Murray as Director of the
Archives of American Art to pursue scholarly enterprises
in the National Museum of American Art.
At the same time we have been successful in attracting

a distinguished cadre of energetic personnel to fill a vari-
ety of important positions. Thomas McCance, Jr., for-
merly Director of the Yale Alumni Fund, has come on
board as the Smithsonian’s Deputy Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs/ Director of Development, and Alice
Green Burnette, formerly Executive Assistant to the Presi-
dent of Howard University, has joined us as Deputy
Assistant Secretary for External Affairs/Coordinator for
Institutional Advancement. Other major appointments in-
cluded Anna Cohn as the Director of the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, Paul B. Johnson
as the Director of the Office of Telecommunications, and
Vincent J. Marcalus, formerly of the Veterans Adminis-
ration, as the new Director of the Office of Information
Resources Management. As the year drew to a close we
were able to confirm the appointments of Frank H.
‘ (Executive Director of the California Academy of
ciences) as the Director of the National Museum of Nat-
aral History and Dianne H. Pilgrim (Chairman of the
Department of Decorative Arts at the Brooklyn Museum)
is the Director of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, both of

hom will assume their new positions early in the next
iscal year. And, finally, we were pleased to welcome
ack into the Smithsonian family Charles Blitzer (at one
ime the Smithsonian’s Assistant Secretary for History

and Art, and more recently the Director of the National
Humanities Center) as the Director of the Woodrow Wil-
son International Center for Scholars.

This year, as in many previous ones, this host of un-
predictable transitions in leadership has served to remind
us, just as the new staffers take hold, that the work of
the Institution continues to depend in large measure on
the kind of dedication and insight for which Smithsonian
staff of every stripe have deservedly earned widespread
recognition.

25
Report of the Board of Regents

At the Regents’ meeting on February 1, 1988, the Execu-
tive Committee reported that in mid-October it acted on
behalf of the Board in naming the small pool within the
sculpture garden of the Hirshhorn Museum in honor of
Mrs. Charlotte Lehrman in recognition of a major dona-
tion from the Lehrman Foundation. In mid-November
the Executive Committee also approved, on behalf of the
Board, the establishment of three financial reserves to
facilitate the closing of the books for fiscal year 1987
funds and to provide necessary financial flexibility in the
face of several significant pending transactions. The Au-
dit and Review Committee reported on its review of the
procurement and installation of storage equipment at the
Museum Support Center, approaches and outlets for re-
search at the National Museum of American History,
and preliminary discussions of a proposed policy on the
periodic rotation of the Institution’s independent audi-
tors. The Personnel Committee reported that it had re-
viewed the financial interests statements of the executive
staff of the Institution and had found no conflict of inter-
est whatsoever. The Investment Policy Committee met
and reported that it had met with the managers of the
Smithsonian’s endowment portfolio and had monitored
their performance. In addition, the Committee met spe-
cially to discuss asset strategy in the wake of broad
changes in the stock market.

Mr. Adams indicated to the Board that he was consid-
ering the Cultural Education Committee’s recommenda-
tions to redress the dearth of minorities in the professional
and senior management areas of the Smithsonian, and he
noted that concentrated efforts recently made to bring
minority personnel into professional positions had
brought forward an encouraging number of candidates.
Emphasizing that the Smithsonian is dealing with more
than one facet of affirmative action, Mr. Adams noted
that the Smithsonian has been asked for and will lend
assistance in studying the feasibility of establishing an
Afro-American museum in Washington.

In other reports, Mr. Adams discussed the federal and
Trust Fund budgets in terms of results of fiscal year 1987,
provisions for fiscal year 1988, and requests for fiscal
year 1989; he brought forward a draft of the Five-Year
Prospectus, 1989-1993 for the Regents’ consideration; and
he outlined a policy on establishing priorities in the resto-
ration and renovation of buildings and in major construc-
tion projects. Following Mr. Adams’s presentations, Drs.
Robert S. Hoffmann and Thomas E. Lovejoy spoke to
the Regents about their perspectives on assuming their
new positions as Assistant Secretary for Research and As-
sistant Secretary for External Affairs, respectively.

26

After the Secretary described the new vision that he
and Dr. Martin O. Harwit, the new director of the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, had developed for the ex-
tension of that museum at a nearby airport, the Board of
Regents encouraged the Secretary to proceed with a plan-
ning study consistent with that program. The Regents
also reaffirmed their earlier presumptive support for the
use of a site at Washington-Dulles International Airport,
recognizing, however, that no final commitment regard-
ing a site could be made at least until all of the program,
financial, and site studies have been completed. In an
ensuing discussion, the Secretary briefed the Board on
developments with respect to the Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian and he received guidance from the Board that |
would be of importance in future deliberations with other
interested parties. Among other actions, the Regents
named the expanded laboratory at the Smithsonian Envi- |
ronmental Research Center in honor of former Senator
Charles McC. Mathias and appointed Wanda M. Corn,
Ronald Abramson, Barney Ebsworth, Patricia Frost, and
Melvin Lenkin, and reappointed Wendell Castle, Sharon
Percy Rockefeller, and Margaret Dodge Garrett to the
Commission of the National Museum of American Art.
The Regents also received status reports on a wide range
of significant Smithsonian activities.

On the preceding evening, Sunday, January 31, 1988,
the traditional Regents’ dinner was held in the National
Air and Space Museum in honor of Dr. David Challinor,
the outgoing Assistant Secretary for Research. After din-
ner the Secretary rose to welcome the guests and to speak
briefly about the new vision that Dr. Harwit has brought
to the Air and Space Museum. The Chancellor paid
honor to Dr. Challinor and presented him with the
Henry Medal, as approved by the Board of Regents, |
along with a citation that had been prepared in hand-
some calligraphy.

The Regents’ second meeting of the year was called to
order in the Regents’ Room on Monday, May 9. The
Executive Committee reported that, on April 14, its
chairman, Mr. Carlisle Humelsine, had issued a public
statement endorsing the position that the Secretary had
taken in the media with respect to amendments to S.
1722, legislation introduced to provide facilities for the
Museum of the American Indian in New York and Wash-
ington. The Executive Committee expressed concern that
the revised legislation would establish a museum on the
Mall without ensuring that it would have responsibility
for substantial permanent collections. Also concerned
that authorities proposed for the museum’s Board of
Trustees would violate the Smithsonian’s Charter and

cripple its management, the Executive Committee urged
the Senate Rules Committee to act cautiously and ensure
that the interests of both the Institution and the American
Indian people are well served.

Concluding its deliberations on the proposal to estab-
lish a policy of periodic rotation of the independent audi-
tors to introduce into the auditor relationship a degree of
competition and assurance of objectivity, the Audit and
Review Committee recommended, and the Regents
agreed, that the Smithsonian should issue a Request for
Proposals and select the most highly qualified firm to
conduct the annual audits for the next ten years, with the
understanding that the present independent auditors not
be excluded and that the contract with the successful re-
pondent be completed in time for work on the audit of
iscal year 1989 financial statements and records. The
Audit and Review Committee also reported that it had
eviewed research currently being conducted in the
ational Air and Space Museum, had received a “clean
pinion” from Coopers and Lybrand on its audit of the
mithsonian’s financial statements for fiscal year 1987,
ad received an annual report from the Smithsonian’s Of-
ice of Audits and Investigations, and had conducted a
reliminary discussion of certain financial and adminis-
rative practices. The Investment Policy Committee re-
ae that it had established minimum levels for fixed
ncome and equity holdings for the total endowment
dortfolio, and the Board of Regents approved the Com-
nittee’s recommended 3.5 percent increase in the total in-
some return for fiscal year 1989.

The Secretary and his staff briefed the Regents on cur-
ent year funding, and in that context the Regents ap-
roved the establishment of quasi endowments from the
equests of Joseph H. Hirshhorn and Charles H. Ettl.

r. Adams also informed the Board about the status of
ir & Space Magazine, the concept of enhancing Smith-
onian resources for activities abroad through “debt
swap, and the receipt of donations of blocked foreign
urrencies, various legislative actions and issues, and the
onsiderable efforts of the Smithsonian’s bureaus and of-
ices to comprehensively take into account Afro-Ameri-
an interests with regard to programming. The Secretary
Iso presented to the Regents his annual report, Smith-
onian Year 1987, which was accepted with enthusiasm.
dditional reports included those on National Air and
pace Museum extension planning, the status of the
ropical Research Institute in the Panamanian situation,
ffirmative action initiatives, and ten additional status re-
orts on a wide variety of topics.

The Secretary reported on developments with respect

to the Museum of the American Indian since the last
meeting of the Board. Following a lengthy discussion,
which Senator Daniel Inouye joined, the Regents author-
ized the Secretary to continue negotiations with the
Chairman of the Select Committee on Indian Affairs to-
ward further revision of $. 1722, and the Regents also
asked their Executive Committee to make recommenda-
tions to the Board in regard to the proposed legislation.

The Regents’ dinner was held on the previous evening
in the Arts and Industries Building. After welcoming the
Regents and their guests, including the members of the
Cultural Education Committee and the Committee for a
Wider Audience, and speaking briefly about the origins
and establishment of these committees and their impor-
tance to the Institution, he explained the concepts of
“representation” and “cultural equity” and expressed con-
fidence that the Smithsonian will move sensitively in
these areas. Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark, founding co-
chairman of the Cultural Education Committee, rose to
introduce Mr. Richard West, another founding member
of the Cultural Education Committee, who focused on
the recommendations of the Committee toward enhanc-
ing the Smithsonian’s affirmative action program and
spoke candidly about areas in which substantive improve-
ments are needed.

The Regents’ third formal meeting of the year was held
on September 19, 1988. In anticipation of his retirement
from the Congress, the Board designated Congressman
Edward P. Boland as a Regent Emeritus. The Regents
also accepted with regret the resignation of Dr. Murray
Gell-Mann as a member of the Board and gave prelimi-
nary consideration to a proposal to amend their Bylaws
to include a nominating committee as a standing commit-
tee. The Audit and Review Committee reported on its
review of Coopers and Lybrand’s plan for their consoli-
dated audit of fiscal year 1988 funds, its further discus-
sion of weaknesses in certain administrative and financial
practices, its tour of the new Veterinary Hospital at the
National Zoological Park, its review of a conceptual
study of an extension of the National Air and Space Mu-
seum, and its discussion of the competitive bidding pro-
cess for the Institution’s independent auditor. The
Investment Policy Committee noted that the endowment’s
asset allocation had been adjusted in accordance with the
Regents’ mandate. With the approval of the Board, the
Chancellor appointed Congressman Mineta as a member
of the Investment Policy Committee.

Mr. Adams reported on actions being taken to manage
properly the lands of the Environmental Research Center
in Edgewater, Maryland, in keeping with its research

27
mandate, and Mr. Lovejoy discussed the major new de-
velopment initiatives. The Secretary added his hope that
the Smithsonian would have an important role in the de-
velopment of a national center for biological diversity be-
cause of Institution’s significant research in the natural
sciences. The Regents were briefed on the status of the
Smithsonian’s contract for the sale of its former Museum
of African Art properties on Capitol Hill.

After receiving reports on the current year funds, the
Regents approved expenditures in keeping with budgets
for fiscal year 1989 and authorized the Institution’s re-
quest to the Office of Management and Budget for fiscal
year 1990 appropriations. The Regents also gave prelimi-
nary consideration to a draft of the Five-Year Prospectus
for Fiscal Years 1990-1994. Brief reports were prepared
for the Regents’ information and discussion on legislative
initiatives, major development projects, Afro-American
museum possibilities, and progress in affirmative action.

The Regents noted that recently revised legislation on
the National Museum of the American Indian represents
an enormous step forward in discussion and takes into
account Smithsonian concerns over governance and cus-
tody of the collections but needs still further revision to
address a few serious difficulties. Accordingly, the Re-
gents agreed that the Secretary should continue to work
with Senator Inouye toward an acceptable bili and in-
form the Executive Committee of any impending action.

Introducing the conceptual study of an extension of the
National Air and Space Museum, Mr. Adams com-
mented that it serves as an increasingly persuasive intel-
lectual justification for further studies toward its
realization. In discussion, the Board acknowledged, as
had the Audit and Review Committee at its September 14
meeting, that over the years the Regents had expressed
(and may continue to hold) a preference for the site at
Dulles airport, but it would be in the best interest of the
project to determine what material conditions might ac-
company offers from both Baltimore- Washington Inter-
national and Dulles International airports. The Board
authorized further studies to include the most appropriate
location for the extension, an element-by-element pro-
gram of detailed space requirements, forecasts of visita-
tion, an identification and evaluation of alternative
means of visitor transportation, and an analysis of finan-
cial feasibility.

Responding to recommendations from the respective
commissions, the Regents voted to reappoint Robert F.
Thompson and the Honorable Walter E. Washington
and to appoint Charles B. Benenson, the Honorable John
Conyers, Jr., Helen Kuhn, and James L. Hudson to the

28

Commission of the National Museum of African Art, and
they voted to appoint Jeannine S. Clark to the Commis-
sion of the National Portrait Gallery. After voting to
name the special exhibitions gallery of the National Mu- |
seum of American History in honor of that museum’s ,
founding director, Frank A. Taylor, the Board of Regents
received and discussed a dozen reports on the status of
various Smithsonian activities.

At the Regents’ Dinner held in the National Air and
Space Museum on the preceding evening, the Chancellor
hailed the opening of the museum’s new restaurant on the
previous day and the Regents and their guests were given ~
a short presentation on the recently installed exhibition
on the European Space Agency’s Giotto spacecraft. Dr.
Harwit explained that the Giotto had made unprece-
dented close observations of Halley’s comet in 1986 and
confirmed the hypotheses postulated in 1951 by former
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory director Fred L.
Whipple. Dr. Whipple in turn offered commentary on a
videotape that showed close-up views of the comet’s core —
as recorded by the Giotto mission. Upon the conclusion
of this brief program, the guests walked through buffet
lines and were seated for dinner in the “Flight Line”
cafeteria.

Benefactors

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the support of
the individuals, foundations, and corporations listed be-
low, whose gifts, bequests, and contributing member-
ships aided the work of the Institution during the past
fiscal year.

The Smithsonian owes its founding to the generosity of
one individual. During most of its history since 1846, the
nstitution has relied upon a combination of both federal
and trust funding to carry out the terms of James Smith-
on’s will. As a trust instrumentality of the United States,
he Smithsonian has received federal appropriations for
esearch, exhibition of the national collections, and main-
enance of the valuable objects of science, history, and
ulture entrusted to it.

The trust funds have been equally important, providing
he Smithsonian with the flexibility and independence es-
ential to its innovative growth. Such nonfederal funds
raditionally have made possible many of the research,
cquisition, and educational programs central to the In-
titution’s achievements.

onors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts of $1,000 or
ore to the Smithsonian trust funds.

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation
Xerox Corporation

300,000 Or more

olenia Trust

esge Foundation
assachusetts Council on the
Arts and Humanities

pace Biospheres Ventures
upper Foundation

$50,000 or more

American Society of
Anesthesiologists
American Association of

100,000 or more Equipment Lessors

AT&T
nnie L. Aitken Charitable Trust Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
rown Foundation, Inc. Foundation

Domino Farms Activities
Corporation

Federal Express Corporation

Ford Heavy Truck

General Foods Fund Inc.

Goodwill Games Organizing

omité Colbert

igital Equipment Corporation
lectronic Data Systems Corp.
awaii Visitor’s Bureau

arguerite Kellogg Annuity Trust
nid and Crosby Kemper

Foundation Committee
cob and Charlotte Lehrman Hitachi America, Ltd.
Foundation INTELSAT

he Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.
cDonald’s Corporation

ational Cosmetology
Association

orthern Telecom, Incorporated
N. Pew, Jr., Charitable Trust

Lannan Foundation

Les Dames de Champagne of Los
Angeles

Maryland Department of Natural
Resources

Mobil Oil Corporation

Newport News Shipbuilding
Company

Herman T. and Phenie R. Pott
Foundation

Recording Industry Association of
America

Rockefeller Foundation

Mrs. Else Sackler

Sears, Roebuck and Company

Swedish Tobacco Company
(Division of Procordia)

Unisys Corporation

United Technologies/Sikorsky
Aircraft

Waste Management, Inc.

World Wildlife Fund

$10,000 or more

Mrs. Christian H. Aall

Advanced Technology
Laboratories

AFL-CIO

American Australian Bicentennial
Fdn

American Legion Auxiliary

American Express International,
Inc.

American Express Company

Amoco Production Company

Apollo Fund

The Bailey Research Trust

Barra Foundation, Inc.

Bell Atlantic

Boeing Company

Bristol-Meyers Company

Burlington Northern Foundation

California Fish and Game

Edward Lee Cave, Inc./Grogan
& Co.

Communications Satellite Corp.

Consolidated Natural Gas
Foundation

Credit Suisse

DC Comics

Diasonics, Incorporated

Earthwatch

Electronic Industries Association

Exxon Corporation

Ford Foundation

Freed Foundation, Inc.

Friends of the Benaki Museum in
America, Inc.

Gannett Foundation

General Dynamics Corporation

General Electric Company

Grumman Corporation

Marshall and Helen Hatch

Hatch & Kirk Inc.

Hearst Foundation, Inc.

Gerald D. Hines

Hughes Aircraft Company

Hyundai Motor America

IBM

International Foundation

International Union for
Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources

Island Pacific Systems Corp.

J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.
Knight Foundation
Kreielsheimer Foundation
La Jolla Museum of
Contemporary Art
Laura Ashley, Inc.
Sydney and Francis Lewis
Foundation
William and Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation
MASCO Corporation
Miss Julienne Michel
Museum of Modern Art
National Geographic Society
NCR Foundation
New Sweden ’88 New York
Committee
Edward John Noble Foundation,
Inc.
Overbrook Foundation
PepsiCo, Inc.
Perkin-Elmer Corp.
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’
Association
Philip Morris Companies, Inc.
Potlatch Corporation (Northwest
Paper Division)
Prime Computer, Inc.
Professional Photographers of
America
James Renwick Collectors
Alliance Foundation
Rockwell International Corp.
Mr. and Mrs. Milton F.
Rosenthal
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Ross
Helena Rubinstein Foundation
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
Estate of Walter Scholz
Shell Oil Company Foundation
Society for the Advancement of
Material and Process
Engineering
Sotheby’s, Inc.
Staten Island Children’s Museum
at Snug Harbor
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.
J.P. Stevens & Co., Inc.
Stone & Webster Management
Consultants, Inc.
Sun-Diamond Growers of
California
Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation
Texas Instruments Foundation
Time Incorporated
Times Mirror Foundation
Trust for Mutual Understanding
28th International Geological
Congress
U. S. Patent Model Foundation
UNESCO
Warner Lambert Company
Washington Post
Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore
Wildlife Preservation Trust
International
John G. Wolbach
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bagley
Wright, Jr.

29
William Wrigley Jr. Co.
Foundation

Ss000 or more

Alcoa Foundation

Diana and Arthur Altschul Fund

American Motorcyclist
Association, Inc.

AMEV Holdings, Inc.

Arkansas Archeological Survey

Atlantic Bank of New York

Baltimore Gas & Electric Co.

BBC

Boeing Aerospace Company

Laura Boulton Foundation Inc.

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Eli Broad

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

Cambridge Management Corp.

William Waller Carson, Sr. Trust

Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Gerald N. Chamberlain
Foundation

Clark Endowment Fund

Cousteau Society, Inc.

Cowles Charitable Trust

Dallas Market Center Company

Devon Walker Travel Associates

Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner

Fairchild Space Company

Mr. and Mrs. Aiken W. Fisher

Miles and Shirley Fiterman
Charitable Foundation

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Ann and Gordon Getty
Foundation

Goethe-Stiftung Fur Kunst Und
Wissenschaft

Lenore and Bernard Greenberg
Fund

Albert M. Greenfield Foundation

The M.L. Griggs and M.G. Burke
Foundation

Jack Haas

Mrs. H.J. Heinz Il

Donald B. Hirsch

Home Box Office

ITT Gilfillan

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Clyde
Johnson

S.C. Johnson & Sons, Inc.

Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Kay Jewelers, Inc.

King Ranch Family Trust

Melvin and Thelma Lenkin

Mrs. Scott L. Libby, Jr.

Charles A. Lindberg Fund, Inc.

Lunettes LAMY

Marine Corps Aviation
Association

Matsushita Electric Corporation
of America

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Merck & Co., Inc.

Barbara and Clifford Michel
Foundation

30

Morgan, Lewis & Bockius

Enid and Lester S. Morse, Jr.

Motorcycle Industry Council

Nationale-Nederlanden US Corp.

Nederlandische
Middenstandbank, N.V. (NMB
Bank)

Nancy Brown Negley

Lacey T. Neuhaus

New York Telephone

New York State Council on the
Arts

Northrop Corporation

Opty] Eyewear Fashion
International Corporation

Pantone, Inc.

Phillips Petroleum Foundation,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin

Potlatch Foundation II

Pro Helvetia

Rabobank Nederland, N.V.

Marjorie Ramsden

John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Sampson Memorial Trust

David Schwartz Foundation, Inc.

Alan E. Schwartz Family
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro

John Sloan Memorial Foundation,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R.
Sonnenreich

Sony Corporation of America

Eloise A. Spaeth

Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.

The Alfred Taubman Company,
Inc.

Textron, Incorporated

United Technologies Corp.

Vinson & Elkins

Nina A. Werblow Charitable
Trust

Westinghouse Electric
Corporation

Leonard C. Yaseen Foundation,
Inc.

$1000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Abramson

Mrs. Gianni Agnelli

Allied Corporation

American Ecological Union, Inc.

American Federation of State,
County, and Municipal
Employees

American Folklore Society

Amos Press, Inc.

Sarah J. Andersen

Anschutz Foundation

Arabian American Oil Company

Miss Mary M. Ashmore

Association of Naval Aviation

Association of Trial Lawyers of
America

Association of Science-
Technology Centers

Atlantic Richfield

Avon Products Foundation, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. Craig Paxton Baker

W.N. Banks Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. C. Victor Beadles

Bell Communications Research

Benjamin Moore & Co.

Mr. Edwin A. Bergman

Ruth M. Berlin

Mr. and Mrs. Philip I. Berman

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Biggs

Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler

Leigh B. Block

Bloomingdale’s

Colonel Donald S. Bowman

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

BP America

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Braden

Broadcast Pioneers

Mario Buatta

Helen W. Buckner

Buffalo Evening News, Inc.

Mrs. R.M. Burgess

BWIA International Airways

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Carlson

Caterpillar

Chevron

CHF Industries, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Coach Dairy Goat Farm

Mrs. I.W. Coburn

Ralph T. Coe

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Comité Conjunto Hispano-
Norteamericano para la
Cooperacién Cultural y
Educativa

Conchologists of America, Inc.

Conde Nast Publications, Inc.

Consolidated Edison Company of
New York, Inc.

Sylvia Farin Cornish

Corporation of the Fine Arts
Museums-California Palace of
the Legion of Honor

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon

Margaret A. Coryell

D.C. Community Humanities
Council

Mr. and Mrs. F. Arnold Daum

Daval Foundation

Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Phyllis Dearborn-Massar

Deluxe Check Printers
Foundation

David Dibner

John T. Dorrance, Jr.

Driggs Corporation

Dutch Institutional Holding Co.

Eaton Corporation

Ferdinand Eberstadt Foundation

Equitable Investment Corporation

Ahmet M. Ertegun

T.M. Evans Foundation

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Faver

Harvey S. Firestone, Jr.,
Foundation

Mrs. Clifford Folger

George S. Franklin

Dr. Kurt Fredricksson

Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson Fund, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Julian Ganz, Jr.

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

Sumner Gerard Foundation

David Gershfeld

The Howard Gilman Foundation

T. Keith Glennan

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Goldenberg

Arvin Gottlieb

Mrs. Marion E. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene
(Ovelton Trust Fund)

Bruce Gregga

W. L. Hadley Griffin

Victor W. Gumper

Mrs. Florence L. Gussman

Robin Haas

Steven and Amy Haas

Miriam and Peter Haas Fund

Jerrier A. Haddad

The Honorable and Mrs. Najeeb
Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Halff, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Hanes

Alfred C. Harrison

Hechinger Foundation

Frederick and May Hill

Clarence and Jack Himmel
Foundation

Harry and Diane W. Hind

Nicole Hirsch

Carolyn H. Hume

Indiana State Society of
Washington

International Center for
Diffraction Data

Joseph J. Jacobs

Jacques Foundation, Inc.

Richard J. Janes

Helen I. Jessup

Johnson & Higgins

Johnson & Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mrs. Elizabeth A. Keck

Mrs. J.E. Kemper

Harris and Eliza Kempner Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Mrs. Virginia K. Kettering

The Hon. and Mrs. Randolph A.
Kidder

Kiehl Pharmacy, Incorporated

Dr. William M. King

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Kohler Company

Linda Mae Laine

Landsman & Katz Foundation,
Inc.

L.S.B. Leakey Foundation

Lee Jofa, Inc.

Edward J. Lenkin

John H. Leslie

Mr. and Mrs. J.W. Levan

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Mervin Lewis

Link Flight Simulation Corp.

Lister Butler, Inc.
Lockheed Corporation
Thomas J. Lupo Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes
James A. Macdonald Foundation
Macmillan Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Manoogian
Marking Device Association
Mrs. John F. Mars
Mars Foundation
Martin Marietta Corporation
George S. May International
Company
May Stores
Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Mayer
Susan and James McClatchy
Joseph McEwen
McGraw-Hill Foundation
J.S. MclIlhenny
Mrs. Henry S. McNeil
Medallic Art Company
Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers
Menil Foundation, Inc.
Joyce Mertz-Gilmore Foundation
Metropolitan Life Foundation
Dr. Ruben F. Mettler
Robert L. Metzenberg, Jr.
Michigan Mineralogical Society
Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Millhouse
Monsanto
David R. Montz
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of
_ New York
ichard and Carole Morrill
r. Josephine L. Murray
ational Space Club
ational Trust for Historic
Preservation
ational Cable Television
Association
rs. John Nef
state of Jane Negbaur
etherlands Foreign Investment
Agency
euberger & Berman
ew York Community Trust
r. and Mrs. Robert H. Nooter
alph E. Ogden Foundation, Inc.
s. R. Ohara
rs. Ernst Ohnell
hrstrom Foundation, Inc.
r. and Mrs. Ricard Riggs
Ohrstrom
he Pace Gallery of Art
rs. Lillian Nassau Palitz
mmy V. Papazian
ohn W. Payson
erald and Katie Peters
fizer, Inc.
r. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike
rin and Jack Pomerantz
‘ort Royal Foundation, Inc.
rimark Corporation
rudential Foundation
avid S. Purvis
loyd E. Raport
rs. Louise B. Reinhardt
ary Livingston Ripley
ames Robinson, Inc.

Senator and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller IV

Mr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers,
Jr:

Samuel G. Rose

Dorothy C. Rowley

Dorothy S. Ruderman

Salomon, Inc.

James F. and Betty H. Sams

Sanders Associates, Inc.

Keith M. Schappert

Mr. and Mrs. J. Vincent Schlegel

H. J. Schonblom

Dr. Robert C. Seamans, Jr.

Mrs. Carl L. Selden

J. Alan Sellars

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Shaw

Showtime

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Silver

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

William E. Slaughter, Jr.,
Foundation

C.G. Sloan & Company, Inc.

Mrs. Richard K. Smith

Maury L. Spanier

Ira Spanierman Gallery

Jerry I. Speyer

Dr. Frank Stanton

Stavropoulos Corporation

Marie Ruggles Steele

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

James W. Symington

T F H Publications, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian
Thompson

Dalmar A. Tifft III

The Traveler’s Companies
Foundation, Inc.

Treasury Historical Association

Mrs. Marietta Tree

Triple Crown Productions

TRW

University of Florida Foundation,
Inc.

UNOCAL

USAir

Hilda van Roijen

Adrian C.R. Verwey

Mr. and Mrs. L. von Hoffman

Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust

Dr. Lucy R. Waletzky

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Warner

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Warner

Patricia R. Warner

Mrs. Paul L. Wattis

Bobbie K. Weinstein

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Welt

West Publishing Company

Lawrence Wien

John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Dave H. and Reba W. Williams
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Foss
Wilson

Wallace $. Wilson and Isabel
Brown Wilson

Anne B. Windfohr

John W. Winn

Whirlpool Corporation

Woodland Park Zoological
Society

The Ian Woodner Family
Collection, Inc.

World Monuments Fund

T. Evans Wyckoff
Norman E. Wymbs
Barry Yampol
Zoecon Corporation

Certain donors have requested anonymity. If the name
of any other donor has been omitted, it is unintentional
and in no way lessens the Smithsonian’s appreciation.

Donors of In-Kind Support

In addition to the financial support of individuals, foun-
dations, and corporations listed above, the Smithsonian
Institution acknowledges in the following list our Fiscal
Year 1988 donors of in-kind gifts. Ranging from equip-
ment for office or program use to pro bono professional
consulting services, such in-kind gifts contribute greatly
to the success of research and educational programs as
well as to the efficient administration of the Institution.

Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smith-
sonian to accomplish a variety of programs and to offer
expanded services to the public. The names of our do-
cents and behind-the-scenes volunteers are listed annually
in “The Torch.” In Fiscal Year 1988, 5,763 volunteers
gave 485,084 hours of their time, which is conservatively
estimated at a value of more than $6.7 million. This in-
valuable corps of volunteers brings expertise, experience,
and enthusiasm to their work here, and we express to
them collectively our great appreciation for their dedica-
tion to the Smithsonian Institution.

Aerovironment Inc.

Ak-Chin Indian Community

American Airlines

American Philosophical Society

Anderson Trap Company

Angostura International, Ltd.

Apogee Productions Inc.

Apple Computer, Inc.

Architect of the Capitol, Art and
Reference Library

ARCS Foundation and B. J.
Gerber

Armand’s, Capitol Hill

Art in America (Brant
Publications)

AT&T Corporation

Balair

Ballet Makers, Inc.

Behnke Nurseries

Ben and Jerry’s Ice Cream

Brandywine Sand and Gravel

British Airways

Brunswick Yarns

Buckingham Wile Company

Bullseye Software

Campbell Sales Company

Cape Cod Company

Capitol Recreation Corporation

Carvajal International, Inc.

Chauselle, Inc.

Circuit Studios

Cliquot, Inc.

Columbia Records

Corning Glass Works

Digital Equipment Corporation

Dover Parkersburg

Durst Industries

The Earle Palmer Brown
Companies

Evans & Sutherland

Franklin Institute

Frazier’s Funeral Home

Garuda Indonesia

Good Food Company

Gould Inc., De Anza Imaging &
Graphics Division

GTE Products Corporation

Mickey Hart

Heublein, Inc.

Hoffman Funeral Home

Hohner Harmonicas

House of Seagram

31
IBM Corporation

Imperial Products Corporation

Intervisual Communications, Inc.

S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Johnson/ Jenkins Funeral Home,
Inc.

Johnson’s Flower Center

Katz & Cherry

KLM Royal Dutch Airlines

Lewis Funeral Home

Library Company of Philadelphia

Gayle Liman

A. Litteri Company

Little Tavern Shops

Loyola College of Baltimore

Makita U.S.A., Inc.

Jim Marvin Enterprises

Massachusetts Maple Producers
Association

McDonnell Douglas Corporation

Megatek Corporation

Microprose Inc.

Ministry of Culture of the
U.S.S.R.

G.C. Murphy Company

Music Performance Trust Funds

NASA Ames Research Center

National Academy of Sciences

National Constitution Center and
Great Eastern Printing
Company

National Historical Publications
and Records Commission

Navy Air Test Center

Ocean Life and Aquariums

Ocean Spray Cranberry World

Bequests

Oliver Industries

Organization of American States

Pan American World Airways

PEPCO

PET Inc.

Popeye’s Famous Fried Chicken

Progresso Products

Qantas Airways Ltd.

Miles Roberts

Saccone’s Toll House Bakery

The Sheraton Hotel, Sydney,
Australia

Sheraton-Washington Hotel

L.J. Skaggs and Mary C. Skaggs
Foundation

Southern States Cooperative

Spartus Corporation

Susan Bates Company

Tien Wah Press

United Air Lines, Inc.

United Nations Regional
Development Fund

University of Puerto Rico

U.S. Department of Education,
Office of Special
Education and Rehabilitation
Services

Van Wingerden of Culpeper, Inc.

Virginia Clay Products

Virginia Historical Society

Virginia Pork Producers

VL Service Lighting

Walt Disney World

Washington Visitors and
Convention Center

Williams Whittle Associates, Inc.

It is with special appreciation that we remember and ac-
knowledge those friends who made gifts by will and thus
continue the legacy of James Smithson, our founder.

Unrestricted gifts become part of the Bequest Endow-
ment Fund. The principal of this fund is maintained in
perpetuity, while the income supports acquisitions, exhi-
bitions, scholarly studies, educational outreach, and
other functions of the Smithsonian. Some gifts are desig-
nated for a special purpose by the donor.

Wilbur H. Claggett
Charles M. Clegg, Jr.
Charles H. Ettl
Homer C. Glebe
John K. Havemeyer
Joseph Hirshhorn

Josephine C. Howell
M. Elizabeth McBurney
Catherine E. McCaffrey
Selma Christine Mueller
Vassilios T. Pagonis
Dorothy Varian

Gifts by will, of all levels, are important to the Smithsonian.

Persons interested in learning about such gifts can talk with our

planned giving officer at (202) 357-2359.

32

Smithsonian Contributing Members

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National
Associates support the Institution’s work through gener-

ous annual contributions.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to
encourage and recognize major gifts to the Institution.
The Society, which is the highest order of Contributing
Membership, is comprised of Annual ($2,000) and Life
membership categories. Extraordinary contributions to
the Smithsonian are recognized through the Society’s
Founder Medal award and Life membership.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges here the gen- |
erous support of the James Smithson Society and the Pa- ©
tron Members ($1,200) of the Contributing Membership

Program.

James Smithson Society Life
Members

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S.
Anderson

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck

Hon. and Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Mrs. Gerald M. Best

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth D. Brunn

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Barnet Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H.
Caldwell

Mgen. and Mrs. Daniel Stone
Campbell

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G.
Cleveland

Mr. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton

Mrs. Howard F. Cook

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover

Mr. Edward R. Downe

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew
Funt

Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer

Mrs. Richard Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill

Mrs. E. W. Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L.
Henning

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn:

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Thrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus |

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk
Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler
Mrs. David Landau
Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land
Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz
Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger
Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon
Mrs. Sara L. Lepman
Mr. and Mrs. John Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn
Mrs. John A. Logan
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord
Mrs. Louis Lozowick
Mrs. Robert A. Magowan
Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Manoogian
Mr. John A. Masek
Mr. Vincent Melzac
Mr. Jack L. Messman
Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller
Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Moldermaker
Mrs. Edmund C. Monell
Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H.
Mosmann
Mr. Fredric Mueller
Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray
Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken
Dr. and Mrs. James Brooks
Newbill
Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow
Mrs. Rudolf Pabst
Judge and Mrs. G. Burton
Pearson
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M.
Pflueger
Mrs. John A. Pope
Mrs. Abraham Rattner
Mr. John P. Remensnyder
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M.
Roberts
Hon. Martin J. Roess
Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers
rs. Helen Goodwin Rose
r. Arthur Ross
ts. Howard J. Sachs
r. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs
rs. Arthur M. Sackler
Mr. Harry I. Saul
r. and Mrs. Janos Scholz
on. Hugh Scott
r. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
r. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
rs. Helen Farr Sloan
r. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
r. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith
rs. Raphael Soyer
rs. Otto Spaeth
r. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler
r. Stuart M. Speiser
rs. Benjamin Stack
r. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
r. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H.
Stavisky

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart

Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Doctors Yen Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor

Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S$. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J.
Williams

Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Withers

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

James Smithson Society Annual
Members

Mr. W. Mike Adams

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul

Col. John S. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William G.
Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Philip F. Anschutz

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Ms. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Lee M. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. Henry C. Beck

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Berkey

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham

Mr. John L. Black

Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Mr. and Mrs. Allen A. H.
Blessman

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Boeschenstein

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Bookout

Dr. Harold M. Boslow

Mrs. John Bowles

Col. Donald S. Bowman

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Mrs. Poe Burling

Mr. Dan Burns

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. Milton Cades

Mr. and Mrs. William D.
Campbell

Ms. Lily Marie Carter

Mrs. Winifred Carter

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins
Catherwood

Hon. and Mrs. Henry E. Catto

Dr. David Challinor

Hon. and Mrs. Robert Horne
Charles

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement

Mr. David L. Coffin

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin S. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey A. Cole

Mr. and Mrs. William T.
Coleman

Mr. Joseph E. Connor

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mr. John D. Crow

Dr. James H. Curl

Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry

Mr. and Mrs. George A.
Davidson

Mr. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Keith Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day

Mr. Lowell Deyoung

Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Dibona

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey

Mr. Norman L. Dobyns

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Donner

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Dorrance

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas

Mr. Robert W. Duemling

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Mr. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins

Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Evans

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. Charles E. Exley

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Field

Hon. and Mrs. William H.
Fitzgerald

Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mrs. Clifford Folger

Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell

Mr. and Mrs. Avram J. Goldberg

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Goldberg

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. and Mrs. Willard Gortner

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Dr. H. D. Green

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley
Griffin

Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas

Hon. and Mrs. Gilbert Hahn

Hon. and Mrs. Najeeb Halaby

Mrs. W. Averell Harriman

Mr. and Mrs. J. Warren Harris

Hon. and Mrs. Parker T. Hart

Dr. and Mrs. John T. Hayes

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

Hon. William A. Hewitt

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F.
Holladay

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hoover

Mrs. Lee Hunter

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. John Ippolito

Hon. and Mrs. John N. Irwin

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

Mr. F. Ross Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mr. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. E. Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. B. Franklin Kahn

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaplan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Mrs. Nancy Berry Keeran

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Keresey

Mr. and Mrs. Harry F. Kern

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

Hon. Randolph A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Mr. James M. Kline

Hon. and Mrs. Philip M.
Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox

Mr. Seymour H. Knox

Mr. David Hamilton Koch

Ms. Jane E. Kosa

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Hon. William Leonhart

Mr. Gayle W. Lichtenstein

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Radm. and Mr. Walter M. Locke

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch

Mr. H. L. Mahoney

Mr. Forrest E. Mars

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mrs. Virginia Mars

Hon. and Mrs. William M.
Martin

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Hon. and Mrs. Robert M.
McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K.
McLanahan

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Mr. Paul Mellon

Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize

Mr. David R. Montz

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S$. Morgan

Mr. John W. Morrison

Mr. Furman C. Moseley

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Murphy

33
Ms. Sharon Nelson

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. Robert C. Ochsner

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mr. and Mrs. Scott E. Pardee

Hon. Daniel Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Peterson

Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Philips

Mrs. Charles Emory Philips

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price

Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Hon. and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller

Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller

Dr. Milton L. Rock

Mr. Francis C. Rooney

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M.
Rosenthal

Mr. Arthur N. Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. William R.
Salomon

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W.
Schmidt

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. A. R. Jarvis Sinclair

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Sanford Slavin

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Slawecki

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T.
Stamper

Mr. Sydney Stein

Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Mr. Bruce G. Sundlun

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. Samuel D. Turner

Mrs. Gordon Tweedy

Mr. and Mrs. C.Woods Vest

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von
Hoffmann

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean

Mr. Leigh R. Weiner

Mrs. Keith S. Wellin

Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan

Hon. John C. Whitehead

34

Mr. John W. Winn

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Wolf
Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Wright
Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff
Mr. Norman E. Wymbs

Mr. Bernard J. Young

Patron Members

Mr. D. F. Attaway

Mr. John Baum

Mr. and Mrs. Steve Bay

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman
Mr. C. N. Blair

Mr. Keith S. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Townsend Burden
Mrs. R. M. Burgess

Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Burka
Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. S. Harold Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Cole

Ms. Mae E. Dahl

Mr. D. Daly

Mrs. Walter L. Day

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph B. Folladori
Mrs. J. Gardiner

Dr. William H. Gerber

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Gilbert
Ms. Marion E. Greene

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. Frederick H. Heierding
Mrs. Ruth Housek

Dr. Charles Joseph

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy
Mr. and Mrs. John Laguardia
Mr. John H. Leslie

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Levan

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey
Miss Doris J. Lothrop

Mrs. William P. Macones

Col. Billie G. Matheson

Mr. and Mrs. Terence McAuliffe
Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy

Ms. M. Miyamoto

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Monrose
Dr. W. Dickson Moss

Mr. and Mrs. James Mulshine
Ms. R. Ohara

Mr. Steve Ott

Mr. James Pastore

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Phillips
Mr. Zigmund J. Podell

Mrs. Helen G. Price

Dr. Don W. Printz

Mr. C. W. Scott

Mr. M. Silverman

Mr. William C. Sterling

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Tishman
Ms. Patricia F. Wheeler

Ms. Mary Wibel

Financial Report

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

For the fiscal year ending September 30, 1988, federal
appropriations provided $201,432,000 to fund ongoing
operations. This was a most welcome increase of
$12,459,000 or almost 7 percent over fiscal year 1987. A
meager $118,000, less than one-tenth of one percent of
the year’s appropriation, was returned to the Treasury at
year end, representing uncommitted salaries and ex-
penses.

The year, however, was somewhat more chaotic with
respect to nonappropriated funds. Black Monday her-
alded fiscal year 1988. By year end, the Institution’s en-
dowment had rebounded to within $13,292,000 of its
market value as of September 30, 1987. While the volatil-
ity of common stock prices within the endowment port-
folio had no immediate effect on spendable income, the
Institution was reminded of the fragility of this vital re-
source and heartened by donors’ confidence during this
period; $14,700,000 in new endowment monies were
added to the fund.

Of special interest and more immediate impact to our
visiting public was the opening of the new National Air
and Space Restaurant on September 17, 1988. This addi-
tion to the Smithsonian’s most popular museum offers a
cafeteria and a full service restaurant with combined seat-
ing for nearly a thousand patrons. Visitor response and
press reviews have praised both the architecture and the
food service at this much-needed facility.

Operations

The Institution’s mix of federal appropriations, govern-
ment grants and contracts, and trust funds continued to
provide a firm financial base for operations. Federal dol-
lars are the principal source of funding for the Institu-
tion’s research, exhibition, education, and collections
management programs, as well as related administrative
services. Thanks to the deeply appreciated support of
Congress, appropriated funds were sufficient to allow for
continuation and selective enhancement of these program
areas. New initiatives included staffing and equipping the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s new Tupper
Center in Panama, development of instrumentation for
submillimeter wave astronomy, planning for reinstalla-
tion of the National Museum of Natural History’s Ameri-
can Indian halls, and preparations for commemorating
the Columbus Quincentenary.

Government agencies and bureaus, utilizing project
grants and contracts issued to the Smithsonian, offered
n important additional source of research funding, par-

ticularly for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
and the National Museum of Natural History/ National
Museum of Man. Funded projects included development
work on stellar interferometers, an instrument used for
making measurements used in astronomy and of special
interest to the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration; a study of tropical ecosystems in Bolivia; and a
research effort to determine acidity levels in rivers and
the resulting effect on fish.

Gross Net Net

Source Revenues Income Income
of Funds ($1,000s) ($1,000s) (%)
Federal

Appropriation $201,432 $201,432 70
Government

Grants and

Contracts 17,438 17,438 6
All Trust Sources DDS NS 72 67,742 24

Total Available for

Operations $444,022 $286,612 100

Trust funds—that is nonappropriated income from
gifts, grants, endowments including the original Smithson
bequest of 1826, current investments, and revenue-
producing activities—provide the Institution supplemen-
tal base support as well as that extra margin for experi-
mentation and bold initiatives. Such support is a
relatively recent phenomenon at the Smithsonian that be-
gan in the 1970s. The Smithsonian is especially grateful
to its many friends—individuals, foundations, and corpo-
rations listed in the section “Benefactors of the Smithson-
ian Institution in 1988”—whose generosity contributed
so importantly to our work. During the fiscal year, the
Institution took significant steps to enhance its develop-
ment activities under the newly appointed Assistant Sec-
retary for External Affairs, Dr. Thomas J. Lovejoy. This
action is especially timely as the year saw a 13 percent
drop in restricted gifts and grants designated for operat-
ing purposes. It remains unclear at this writing whether
uncertainties over the stock market, changes in the tax
laws or the lack of appeal of certain projects for which
funds were solicited caused the decrease. Whatever the
reason, the availability of unrestricted monies generated
by the Institution’s revenue-producing activities proved
key to trust fund stability.

Available unrestricted trust funds were allocated to in-
stitution-wide priorities including $1,883,000 for acquisi-

35
tions, $3,160,000 for special exhibitions, $2,949,000 for
fellowships, $2,950,000 for scholarly research, and
$550,000 for educational outreach. Translated into spe-
cifics, trust funds purchased a painting for $600,000 enti-
tled Yliaster by Mardsen Hartley for the National
Museum of American Art, an 1839 portrait of Edward
Hicks by Thomas Hicks for $371,250 for the National
Portrait Gallery, and a painting for $360,000 by Phillip
Guston done in 1976, entitled Ancient Wall for the Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Funded exhibitions
include “Women in the Progressive Era” at the National
Museum of American History, “Beyond the Java Sea” at
the National Museum of Natural History, and “Photog-
raphy of Invention” at the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art. As well, 332 interns, graduate students,
postdoctoral fellows, and visiting scholars studied at the
Smithsonian with Institutional support.

In addition, an amount of $3,000,000 in trust revenue
was transferred to endowment in keeping with the prac-
tice of recent years aimed at strengthening this important
asset. Trust fund income was sufficient to increase the
unrestricted trust fund balance by $3,860,000 to a total
of $9,036,000. The Institution is attempting to raise the
fund balance to a level of 5 percent of gross revenues over
time. This goal is in recognition of ever-increasing finan-

OES

National Air and Space Museum Restaurant.

36

cial uncertainties within the financial markets and tax
changes under discussion in Congress, which could im-
pact the Institution’s revenue-generating activities.

These activities include the Associates membership pro-
grams, Museum Shops, Mail Order, and the Smithsonian
Press. All are publicly appealing outreach activities tied
very closely to the Institution’s mission “the increase and
diffusion of knowledge.” Sales desks in fact were estab-
lished at the Smithsonian as far back as the 1860s. Mu-
seum Shops carry guides to the collections, related books
and educational materials, and adaptations of museum
objects for the visitor to enjoy and carry home. Smithson-
ian Magazine and Air and Space Magazine along with
the Mail Order catalogue bring the museum experience
into the homes of members across the country and in
foreign countries who cannot visit the Mall.

Business Management Office

Four revenue-producing activities report directly to the
Treasurer—Museum Shops, Mail Order, Product Devel-
opment and Licensing, and Concessions. Clearly, the |
highlight of the year was the opening of the new restau-
rant at the National Air and Space Museum. Food service
there is provided by Guest Sevices, Incorporated, under a
contract with the Smithsonian. Early indications portend
a highly successful operation.

This success results from the hard work and dedication
of Smithsonian staff and the cooperation of numerous
contractors. The Smithsonian Office of Design and Con-
struction, in conjunction with the Office of Procurement
and Property Management, worked long and hard to
bring the project in on time and under budget. Special
thanks are due to Robert Perkins, procurement officer,
and Thomas Myers, project manager. The Riggs Na-
tional Bank provided eleven million dollars in unsecured
construction financing for the project supplemented by
Institutional working capital. Total construction costs
were $14.4 million. The loan will be repaid from conces-
sions revenue. Thus, no federal funds were required or
will be requested to provide the public with greatly ex-
panded and improved food service. The restaurant was
designed by Hellmuth, Obata, and Kassabaum; Charles
H. Tompkins was the general contractor.

The cooperation of the National Air and Space Mu-
'seum staff was critical to the project. Claudia Oakes,
‘Chairman, Department of Aeronautics, was a devoted
and key member of the project team from its inception.
Although the Treasurer and the Business Manager, James
J. Chmelik, initiated the restaurant project, credit goes to
Roland Banscher, Concessions Manager, for his unstint-
ing effort and full commitment to making the seemingly
impossible possible.

Clearly, the new National Air and Space Restaurant
dominated business management activities during 1988.
However, such singlemindedness of purpose was only
possible given the strong leadeship of Samuel J. Green-
= Director of the Museum Shops; John Giesecke, the
ew Director, Mail Order, and Lisa Stevenson, Director
of Product Development and Licensing. These capable
managers and their staffs exceeded performance objec-
tives. John Giesecke joined the Smithsonian in November
1987, following many years with Neiman-Marcus; we
welcome his new insights to our operations.

|

Construction and Plant Funds

Each year in addition to an appropriation for salaries and
other operating expenses, the Institution receives appro-
oriations in support of the restoration and renovation of
ts facilities. In fiscal 1988, $19,254,000 was appropriated
‘or these purposes. Projects funded included work on fire
detection and suppression systems, utilities, facade resto-
‘ation and replacement, and routine repairs.

}

Appropriations for new construction provided
$1,315,000 for design, roadwork, and site preparation for
the Whipple Observatory base camp in Arizona. A sepa-
rate federal appropriation of $8,150,000 was specifically
for renovation of an existing building at the National
Zoological Park into a modern research facility and hos-
pital. The Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Cen-
ter at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, jointly
funded by Congress and a generous gift from the Tupper
family, nears completion.

Endowment

The Smithsonian endowment fund was valued at
$220,829,000 on September 30, 1988. This represents a
decline of 8.8 percent from the same date last year. The
recovery from October 19, 1987 (“Black Monday”), has
been an arduous one, but the Smithsonian endowment
has in fact outperformed the market indices for the fiscal
year (Standard and Poors, —12.4 percent; Dow Jones In-
dustrial Average, —15.5 pecent; South Africa Free —12.2
percent).

The Investment Policy Committee of the Board of Re-
gents, chaired by Regent Barnabas McHenry, with mem-
bers Regent Carlisle H. Humelsine, Donald Moriarty,
Charles H. Mott, William R. Salomon, Thomas J. Wat-
son, and Jane Mack Gould focused on asset allocation in
order to maintain an appropriate level of diversification
within the portfolio and to protect it against futher sud-
den fluctuations in equity values. Cambridge Associates
was asked to assist the committee in developing new
portfolio guidelines for the Institution’s investment
advisors.

At its April 1988 meeting, the Investment Policy Com-
mittee voted unanimously to mandate a minimum of 25
percent in fixed-income investments and 45 percent in eq-
uities as opposed to the Institution’s historical equity ori-
entation. The Institution’s balanced managers, Fiduciary
Trust Company of New York, and Miller, Anderson and
Sherrerd, have complied with this guidance from the
Committee. The Smithsonian’s equity managers, Battery-
march Financial Management and Nova Advisors were
not affected by the policy change.

The Committee was notified at its Fall 1988 meeting
that Nova Advisors was withdrawing as one of the Insti-
tution’s outside managers. Assets under Nova manage-
ment were redeployed to the other advisors. The
Smithsonian portfolio had the following asset mix as of
September 30, 1988: 61 percent equities, 25 percent fixed

37
income, and 14 percent cash or cash equivalents. The
portfolio is “South Africa-free.”

Just over $14.7 million in new monies were added to
the endowment this fiscal year. This sum includes trans-
fers of $4.3 million from unrestricted funds, a gift of $2.8
million from the estate of Joseph H. Hirshhorn, a gift of
$5.0 million from the Holenia Trust, a gift from the es-
tate of Charles Ettl of $.8 million, and $1.3 million from
the sale of works of art deaccessioned by the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden following covenants of its
Board of Trustees.

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to
investment management of its consolidated endowment
funds. Income available for current expenditures is based
upon the calculation of the five-year average of the mar-
ket value of each fund. As to the use of principal, 40
percent of the funds is restricted; 60 percent is unres-
tricted. Of the resulting income 54 percent is restricted as
to purpose; 46 percent is unrestricted.

Financial Management Activities

The focus for the year was improving financial systems
within the Treasurer’s Office. In addition to systems 1m-
plemented, the groundwork was laid for significant
changes to the Smithsonian’s accounting system. The pro-
gress to date results from the coordination and coopera-
tion of the Office of Accounting and Financial Services,
the Office of Financial Management and Planning, and
the Office of Risk Management. These offices, which re-
port to the Treasurer, are jointly responsible for the con-
trol, security, and disposition of the funds detailed in the
accompanying reports.

Nearly a year’s preparatory work culminated in the im-
plementation of a new personnel/payroll system utilizing
the services of the Department of Agriculture’s National
Finance Center. Following conversion in November 1987,
work continued to resolve minor problems and to build
support and control systems to ensure efficient operation
of the new system.

Major effort was devoted to updating and improving
the Institution’s dated accounting system. The emphasis
was twofold: (1) identifying and testing potential soft-
ware, and (2) analyzing the capacity of existing hardware
to meet the needs of a new system. Price Waterhouse
assisted in this work. Simultaneously, staff worked to
simplify, clarify, correct, and document elements of the
current system so that an eventual implementation would
be facilitated.

38

Programming was completed on a new investment
management information system, which became opera-
tional with the start of the 1989 fiscal year. The project
to develop disaster preparedness plans for the Institution —
was facilitated by the development of unique personal
computer software conceptualized by Phillip H. Babcock,
Director, Office of Risk Management.

A management study completed during the year recom-
mended a restructuring of the Contracts Office. As a re-
sult, a new office called the Office of Sponsored Projects ;
was created to carry out negotiation and administration
of government grants and contracts. This new office be-
came part of the Treasurer’s Office effective October 1,
1988. Other functions of the Contracts Office have been
assigned to the Office of Procurement and Property Man-
agement.

SE

Audit Activities

|
The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated, are }
audited annually by the independent public accounting
firm of Coopers & Lybrand. In conjunction with the
1988 audit, Coopers & Lybrand reviewed the new per-
sonnel/payroll system to ensure all necessary controls _
were in place. Coopers & Lybrand’s unqualified report
for fiscal year 1988 is reprinted on the following pages.
The letter of transmittal and the statements have been
modified as required to conform with the most current
generally accepted accounting and audit standards. The
Institution has also chosen to simplify the accompanying
tables prepared by the Treasurer’s Office.

The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff regularly reviews
the Institution’s financial activities and fiscal systems, as- ©
sists the outside auditors, and does special projects as
required. In addition, the Defense Contract Audit Agency
audits grants and contracts received from federal agencies
and monitors allocated administrative costs. The Smith-
sonian conducted its Institution-wide triennial internal
control review in 1988. This process helps identify inter-
nal control weaknesses and identifies responsible offices
for remedial action under the oversight of the Under Sec-
retary.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Re-
gents, chaired by Regent David C. Acheson, met three
times during the fiscal year pursuant to its fiduciary re-
sponsibilities under legislation pertinent to the Institu-
tion, and the bylaws of the Board of Regents. In addition
to reviewing the 1987 audit performed by Coopers &
Lybrand, and the 1988 audit plan, the committee receives

reports from the Office of Audits and Investigations and
a wide variety of institutional programs and activities.

Related Organizations

The National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center
for Performing Arts and the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars were established by Congress
within the Institution. Each organization is administered
by its own board of trustees and reports independently
on its financial status. The Smithsonian provides the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars fis-
cal, administrative, and other support services in addition
to office space on a reimbursement basis. Administrative
services are provided by the Institution on a contract ba-
sis for Reading is Fundamental. Office space continued to
be provided for Visions Foundation, Inc., a nonprofit or-
ganization that publishes American Visions magazine. An
independent nonprofit operation, the Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo, operates under contract for the benefit of the
National Zoological Park.

39
Smithsonian Institution Operating Funds
1988

FISCAL YEARS 1985, 1986, 1987,

(In $1,000,000’)

450

350

300

250

200

150

100

50

450

400

350

300

250

150

100

50

FUNDS PROVIDED

1985

1987

FUNDS APPLIED

1988

 _ =a.

Auxiliary
and
Bureau
Activities
Expenses

1985

40

To Plant and Endowment

Special Programs

Museums

Public Service

Research

1986

1987

1988

t— Trust Funds

Nonappropriated

(Gross Revenues)

Government Grants
and Contracts

Federal
Appropriations

Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

Administration and Facilities Services

International
Activities

External Affairs
Table 1. Financial Summary (in $1,000s)

FY 1987 FY 1988
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:
eee! BAppropriations—salaries/ CoE xpemSeSiei 0: oajat. eicsere clei «eis Sis nial eye evepaisreta sts 22 Oe $ 188,974 $ 201,432
BEEEAMTIOL GLANCE Gcl CONLLACTS | ous Malcuat Novereusacr citer onal clisvelaite, 6 evevel tie favours ouodaratelotehemsdtcorowerelte bys: « 15,873 17,438
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
RRM ENEGETIGLE CUD IT OSES EP ie fick -Wonew=peks CMT a Ke wW- ous Uicy cuasousie sSuadenSuonsuovertusf seexeuxousicvieucisancuteele racine 16,519 26,332
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
uEtanvecabureau Activities Revenues— GLOSS eee cece seas a oc decsdeedcisae nace cee 166,737 186,565
MPESSHNE ALC EXPENSES ste tenets mete rsTeEN TSI TSTO IS SETS ave Serine «w/e. 4 blaslaye sonore © auqeynerenn eeu (137,841) (157,410)
MenaahyA Oa bUreallvuActivities Net REVENUE a 4 scrricieve ees cities loci) icicle cle icicle sietaroieineirs == 28,896 2915S
mateestinenta| Gilt.oc! OtnemlmCOme! Prt eedee capers eet o) setucse Cle Mee els oe MOE Sic cae a alee 12,601 12,255
SeraaiNet| Unrestrictediscspecialihurpose Revenuew-rioes 2 es eee oe oie ee eee ee 41,497 41,410
BeacieNonappropriatedinustinunds—Gross: yo sistas sale» eve os 2 c.s choles oie «creel es es neponts 195,857 22 Say?!
IN Gb yaisraiten seseenner ieee oie: ores ica sre eueusite cia et crahiua eis eisusie a Melee 58,016 67,742
MEAO Her atingde und s!Provided—=GrOss irs sarcyeis.slene aves SS fie cieis. buseieiele o s16:S0a)alSydia aie ers sie sjeues ene 400,704 444,022
Sd NSE i OCR Gr TGP ET CLRORC CacERER RRR. OC CROAT fm cen CRE RT RES 262,863 286,612
FUNDS APPLIED:
2S EELIREL 5 6 0 05'S) Sidley ee SecA CL ONCE IPO oC GO scent oR eae 56,452 60,960
(2d SAO CRIGHNGAGL INGeONTeIn Ae sere eetare Coe OG Ree Oe CIOS OILS CREE Its ens as os ore (2,545) (2,731)
TEES 0 0.9 SSG Gre ARG Ce UC ERIN Cy CRORE EI CSI ces Ce ae ogra a 95,632 104,285
2 PURE SORES 0 5 6.6 6 OE OS CHAE OO ENS tr FEN Ran i Rye ag ee eM ae a 5,301 6,196
2 BELIEVING » Seo lsd Gro © eR NOREEN SS Gg Decne es One OEE ernest ora E en ene ern a 897 1,534
METERAHOIIA UA CUVILIES Marne tS Sree SRT he eT ie Se Oe eo bo SEE Mo kone nemeneoes 1,427 1E2A7.
\. | call FROVERENTDS | (9h 6 Seotek6: 6-8 ClO NORRIS OS ORS OIC ol OREM ICTR OR Ren ore eee 11,642 11,635
BeaseeiacstccaDlisiness! i anagementyemn icine omic ak rie ce eichrerme roi i cic saswoureclseieetne 361 117
SRE SGUaL ON= = CCEA lamer an eye RS yee AV oni seme Fe se eco Me ld os DiS: 16,258
Biaianpropiiated wast Runa sini sexe reve toys cus mciat torso iat cou tenn ae eter aie es DI tes Sr omE eee 9,889 12,361
PeNuLHSOnianl Overheads Recovery cnt teieeioneieeic ciel nies Octet ere eee (8,558) (9,695)
2: SEES SERTEES da sereicp pen cet aT GOPENO ORT: SR, mM an re 9 57,271 60,651
Meee ocrarincdsundsvAppliedsscy-s-yccuactevareerse chest ee Sees cP ios wee ois Rise o noes ee vice COMES 242,881 262,788
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Spares bl CLEC UT Sd) Cpl) ctr tee aaa cy epee ae eee evs es SIG Oe cts She Wot Biglncsseeis (255) 178
=A OMS TIA OWATLET ts ses cois sh akon See ewe eee ale ome cae case eda EOE 3,307 6,311
Seesenictedshunds=—OjPNGOwIMent, cya ois dears ese Neityciee hah cess ioe Sie GEL «ie Shiseido Fra wiaee os 571 10,033
Be perating FundsyApplied ¢ iransferred| Out .a-se5 15 ooo oss eee ase eee tnane ee 246,504 279,310
CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUND BALANCES:
Restricted Purpose (Including Government Grants & Contracts) ........0000000 cece cece cece 4,113 2,807
Memrsintcted Generali Purpose eye aeceenctn cree Fiore cise ptoe ha. teaat Pate iar ois oerdeteivis Soe es 3,132 3,860
SS OPECialPULDOSE a-tar-Prsttaleusicier eer Ae SEE ete et tavae el Mee eA estat sl aenuenava A eae 9,114 635
“Ll. = 5.0.0 0:00 0 EROS CER GD eCE BERNE: ORRIN eG CLINI Sae SS! ao i 2 0 SE Bete CT $ 16,359 Sie 5802

EAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
“SA RBICEAWORS So Gi chain 'c. 4 aeRO ee BS OOM a d POI OG D Cee Dc Oe MINREEICT O18 or Renin nee nent ane $ 13,769 $ 16,576

Beestricted —GeneraliPurpose Mrssic.s ejcercil<lrke = error RS oe OE FS ek hs evceer lees 5,176 9,036
Sasa ell Hig OK tos ope ce aapIOode Diack ean o'r eet ER race Glee Cem = pene 33/9) 34,394

LL 50.0 0.0 GSI Oa AeRSEnE IG cB CERES IO ey RE CE apts ERR ae ro i $ 52,704 $ 60,006

THER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS **

Been Zone Biological Areavhund) e.4 sane erry sone ese eee Asisk gnc ere ose ic ERTS oe $ 141 $ 143

SHUGHON "sGaiee dep 05 0 Cec eEr acm pat oO ctoo Eero eee Pee ira-ereri renee earner eae etn ae 21,570 28,719

Maleederall/Aippropriation (Including. S 8 E.above))........0...+..e+eese++.seersce esters $ 210,685 $ 230,294

“Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1987—$343 thousand; FY 1988—$118 thousand.

“Excludes $1,600 thousand received in FY 1987 and $1,500 thousand received in FY 1988 from the Department of State for research
projects in India.

41
Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1988
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds and Endowments) (in $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government
Non- Grants
Federal federal Auxiliary — Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General — Contracts
FUND BALANCES—Beginning of Year ....... $ $7 525704 Hoeonli76e — $33,759 $13,769 $ —
FUNDS PROVIDED:
RederaleAppropriations soyers mic =) Meleheier oterens =i 201,432 — _ = — — —
Investimentalncomemeriery- icici aciicheneecnerens — 13,893 6,203 275 1,330 6,085 —
Government Grants and Contracts ........... -- 17,438 — — — — 17,438
(Gite ce es oars, Ore teres aaa) os) werent 6 — 22,136 64 5,119 973 15,980 _—
Sales and Membership Revenue .........-.... — 181,171 — A 2E232: 8,939 = =
(OY SVs ee Peet oc Ooseko oc CRE RCEReRACIO a Cer Oa — 75952. 2,021 — 1,664 4,267 —
TotaliProvidedguercwtesntser-1ie) socio Ls 201,432 242,590 8,288 177,626 12,906 26,332 17,438
TotalbAvailablewerenitectss.s.c0s <1 Melero te ener 201,432 295,294 13,464 177,626 46,665 40,101 17,438
FUNDS APPLIED:
Research:
IASSistantaSecretanyaeie mre riaietstercr-ral-l<PWciiey oher= 1,179 612 PAS) — 64 45 288
Astrophysicalt@bservatorys occ) istesersesteneae 10,931 18,843 2,761 — eps) 113 13,444
Wessi@verheadiRecovery -.)...- =.) eine. — (237381) (2,731) = — —— —_
iio picallResearchilnstitute ay: : jal «cso ik: 5,395 1,674 202 _ 608 208 656
Environmental Research Center ............. 1,491 673 85 — 103 23 462
INationaleZoologicall Parke a) a1120 eis) -relcrsie -oe's 13,660 1,004 131 — 500 227), 146
SmuthsonranlArchivesiyarreciacicrtacneicrene yelled 573 INIA IZA — 1 5 _—
Smithsonianieibratiesis aceon 5,343 461 360 — 101 — —
TotallResearchy: ecsccryc. orcs cuss cncvar bebe etch emeeereuters __ 38,572 __ 20,713 ea g rsies p20 ZOE 14,996
Museums:
Assistant; SeGretahyameisciel er) 1-1 eel sts eretned rel = 562 207 192 — 11 4 _
Museum bro pram spertrreienytor 2k aaron ke 461 292 17 — 46 229 —
National Museum of Natural History/ Museum
OLIM ATS hae tae RN RNC oS aksGss PIC 24,375 5,734 221 _ 1,923 2,320 1,270
National Air & Space Museum ............. 9,308 52239 194 - 3,836 901 308
National Museum of American History ....... 14,044 4,010 200 — 1,502 2228 85
National Museum of American Art .......... e229 2,094 77 — 1,768 249 —
INatronallPortrait!Gallenyger...« . 1. -venet-) err = 4,159 822 58 — 627 112 DS
lirshhomnlMinseumbrras areca. celeichniony 3,443 1,750 16 — 875 859 —
GententomAsiantArteee ears sacar ener caets 4,001 2,985 75 — 397 Pppyils} =
Archivesiof AmenicanvArt- a). 2.45 srr cite 1,099 1,066 98 aa 100 868 —
Cooper-iewittiMuseumien =). 1-1-1 ereierorerien 1,142 B R229) 848 — 1,860 508 13
National Museum of African Art ............ 3,456 593 112 _ 261 220 =
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum ........... 919 22 18 _ a 4 —
INationaliMuseumpActme jer. ci + er oer eter — — — — _— _— _—
Conservation Analytical Laboratory .......... 2933 152 — _— MY 44 11
OfficcoPExhibits|Centrallasa. aac cee: 1,880 (102) — — (102) — =
Traveling Exhibition Service ...............- 660 4,338 300 — 3,064 950 24
otaluMiseumswarreracracrver etn rareereraereere TA DTA. 32,431 2,426 — 16,265 12,004 1,736

42

Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1988
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds and Endowments) (in $1,000s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government
Non- Grants
Federal federal Auxiliary — Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
Public Service:
PASSISCANMOECECLALY) «otras s ademas eee Res 242 1,013 889 _— 92: 32 _—
MelecomimuniGations:.,) 55.0.0. 062 654000505 Dailg/ 1,079 526 — 114 388 51
NECEDILOUNGEN TEL ea) sic ieraei sate tse 24 Ses 174 876 869 a 5 2 _
I ificeroisbubDliGAttairs) yokes. ss bcc e ss see 628 598 536 _ 62 _ —
Bra CHSOMLAINELESS Ea eesecie gre. cree. sie sislerece ens ic 1,234 15,481 135 15,262 54 79) 8
HotalBUblG SERVICE. 6,21. 2.+ sce oysraoreveravane <0 2,495 19,047 2,955 15,262 327 444 59
External Affairs:
BASSISTARTESECLELAL Ye cua, eusiticieic sic cicis.cies ou 41s ¢ — 352 352 — — —_ _
Deudlopmeni Olites sa daueouaurouoceoseens — 1,016 926 — 75 15 _
BeOfticeohSpecial Byents . 2. 2.56.00 22e nonce: — 166 166 _ _ — —
WoraliextermalAffairs ma. ale see sce. - — 1,534 1,444 _— 75 15 —
ButennationalvActivities) .. 26. 0-cesecu0swseee 637 580 630 — 132 (234) 52
Special Programs:
American Studies & Folklife Program ........ 790 1,927 883 — 381 68 595
International Environmental Science Program .. 785 -- — _ a _
Academic & Educational Program ........... 1,039 2,740 530 — 2,084 126 —
Miuscunioupport. Center cr-- 3.122 = 3/6 «soles 4,426 0 = — -- — —
Hotaspecialibroprams erie: asc. ele na 7,040 4,667 1,413 — 2,465 194 595
ASSOCIA CEIPLOPLAING Measles se 3 sorta ss — 88,426 (13) 88,326 68 45 —
Business Management) jasc oes ss ne so — 45,964 — 45,935 — 29 —
PNGITIMIStEAU OUR Neots recto ais soe co meats cin 16,140 13,381 10,213 _ 3,046 122 _
Messi@verhead Recovery +o 25....-.ss0s00+0 — (9,695) (9,695) _— — — —
BRAG ITIESISELVICES fh on RAs cone saomnaeee 59,159 1,718 1,138 _— 580 — —
Transfers Out/(In):
BET CAG Toy paeee ear xees ody ass (5) sn oRekerevesone 10sireaerhs ocery 3°00 118 — — _— — =
RCO CLANS mE WL Tora oxen ain si) orev Suaieilokew Ake _— os 8,043 — (8,043) — —
NemAuxiliary Activities, 5. cc.e<c.00 0-00 — — (26,535) 26,535 — _ —
Other Designated Purposes ................. — 0 6,085 1,568 (7,905) 252 =
IBIS 3 vel Oto GEORGI ERATR oo 2 eRe ee re — 178 — — 178 — —
BNGOW MeN beer rene 5 Ses ose ieee — 16,344 5,130 — 1,181 10,033 —
oralmizanstersmersy sci acho tec 118* 16,522 (7,277) 28,103 (14,589) 10,285 —
loralinundssAppliedunaeres ac isn tas ee 201,432 235,288 4,428 117,626 1 2R2 A 23525) 17,438
FUND BALANCES—End of Year ........... $ — $ 60,006 $ 9,036 §$ — $ 34,394 $16,576 $ —

*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
**Includes Collection Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.
Table 3. Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (in $1,000s)
Fiscal Years 1987 and 1988

Government Agencies Rave 9 877
Agencytomlntematonalibevelopmentiear trae siereieion iii eimai eeiieiicie ie eee $ 426
WDepantmentsof @ommMerce rata specie cyaueeeelan ke stds edhe iene) eueacye che co Mice eeeere ua eri Sleid esate ere 1S
Departmentioubefensemer ret ios aos oie oor OE ee eC ee eee 1,437
Departamento LE ren oy aeekeys esses ch storey ay/5575) co 0)75 Se uss Sis ourecen eye sts /Sushion ou yauc (els foneycvoneleauenensre Gueenslen serene ars 731
DepartmentiotlealthyangiblumanlSenvicesr mcrae cite etieettoe eine 274
Departimentio tal nterions egy terface tree as ie seeev eye. a see ere voh eee Neetiedc tape ns tesee ty Meio ACRetro Ton Toe 616
INationalfAeronauties;and!space Administration” 12. aac ere roca cnn icici 10,951
NationaltSciencelBound ations: \-r.srscercarciete ont Hoes eect cae OTOP ele acs SR eee eel eve OIG 666
(there eyepretay ay Megas to eis yet bares oy intvay ohana) ar ah ames Sesyaia citar Gis tev voters aeneNO VS ete tur de eligy sven etectieter evens Tah

GM tall rare corres eral cstcvteec voles ss)isiee re louousas 51S 7ay.e Greve stS oes, S TSNE iss Star SU fcdeMe: Store ete Sele ME TO $15,873

FY 1988

$17,438

*Includes $274 thousand (FY 1987) and $629 thousand (FY 1988) in subcontracts from other organizations receiving prime contract

funding from NASA.

**Includes $159 thousand (FY 1987) and $106 thousand (FY 1988) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

Table 4. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1987 and 1988 (in $1,000s)

Sales
and Less Net
membership cost of Gross revenue*
Activity revenue Gifts sales revenue Expenses (loss)
ESV AOS Sifakewere sAPaeeR ewoneseieinesicnssc one's Gus Gimisne eistitatere © oleueratars $153,057 $4,477 $87,820 $69,714 $42,928 $26,786
FY 1988:
I NSSOYAE RSG. OR MOREL Cosco CHIE DES o HC orca eee $100,455 $5,119 $65,856 $39,718 $22,470 $17,248
Business Management: *
Museum Shops/Maili@rder ~.2 .2eee eee eee ole cele as 51,987 — 25,561 26,426 18,420 8,006
== UONCESSIONSayrraneses hoe ene seus A Gus WR ehake Ga aoe CRMs 3,736 — _ 3,736 1,190 2,546
= Other d teriy cece aie ee Aad On eerie CAE Binboneroos 634 — — 634 764 (130)
SmithsoniamiPresse: pis eer useics ake ae oe ore eaieraie hake ee 15,695 _ 4,240 11,455 11,022 433
STO CAEN O SB fae rarcnensnossnetigntegs eieacera ous orcas ehetetetetouelistays $172,507 $5,119 $95,657 $81,969 $53,866 $28,103

*Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $1,413 thousand (FY 1987) and $1,568 thousand (FY 1988).

44

Table 5. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1988 (in $1,000s)

Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
PeashesriGae qitivalentsy pia eels -cfas ic SASH ates oo Rohe Sie ol Sic 0) ob oS eae cathe & Sele Ae oe eae $ 27,126 $ 27,126
mateniunaenecerva ble (Duelkrom! Gurrent/eunds)) . 4 ance ee ssc ne esse c canes scenes cnens 1,463 1,463
ESM Cavtzand Govt Obligations) Syaya sa eave iso cici-ver sie oiees e000 F1 6) 3s Sue aug ebay sheila O)S.0/61 sve eee as 22,346 22,873
OES 5s 0 90.0 220g RO CEE eNERETE em ee ae ee 24,967 24,779
 OaMvenilel @ ROTCLS « oQamhits ate ere en carer OS Gea See Ee Ee TG itech eeres ee 6,998 7,426
SEDENSS, 5 9 6 2a 0 Aue BeOS CHOSEN EMO CR ree ra Pere ee 129,538 134,475
“Tesyicell. ray kava 1a KS gt BGG Ua ey SRE Fea yee aE RO Porn Pe Oe Se ea 212,438 218,142
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
PocnltomesmlncasunyiniPerpetuity ate stteisyt eo tockolensnte sissies oncia easionan cee sid sass oaniekera tose biele 1,099 IETS)
NIGEES RESET VES ooscocucien eR Cah NOR OREC HORI RCAC Ciara areca Tae CECE eee EO ER ea eee 948 948
BUC UNGROIS OF U0 OOMEXPENSES) Varn cleat ace oto calave Si cuoacewiale dé skeas sauleeineeee Sosa eee 610 610
Saves tmentsir @haritab lew Tusts)<s-cycseetosscor eons kew seem ore crore ouch eee ene. Goiegeme opie e ae ere Lee 514 526
HotallNonpooledtbundsipyrrrrcratpecie cio erases cotriscic Ae semn ae cairatr een mantener 3,171 S219)
TEU NESSES og 5'5 BG Ov OTR Dee cite oy STOEL OE Poe ae RCo Re, ape ee $215,609 $221,361
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:
LIABILITIES:
Betemedthevenue—Chanitablewrustsi-ei eerie o oraee oe las aero eee seein $ 514 5 526
BCCIMEC RV ONICHELS Lay Aablemene vata ickctere tartar stot ncre tee Try oe Seed icone torso nie tee ee is susie eich 5 5
Mocal leva bilities eee tn ee Tevcnsee: octet chao S EPR shor anh athoranlegatenc: Ghd cra Motor cevaa. ee ooleare 519 531
FUND BALANCES:
Borestrictedinucpose wince ndowment. ere crete erie ce cesta oe ann ee 6,248 7,057
OiasnEndowimen tia gar -ieycwsyencvensieseuepericioes isso = aie scot etee niskereie ee 94,809 94,376
oraltWinrestrictedtPurposemecmncet tiie. reisietoctoreie iiss Geen or A eee, Set OR wee alee cree 101,057 101,433
PPeSTRIGtCONRULpOSe-wILUG EHOOWINetamerencie ome ee aie ace ore ne foeeoee 77,161 81,713
@uasitEndowmien tert yer ctr weer erro OTN ous oV tebe neha Peron ee care 36,872 37,684
Notaliestricted hucposememers ne ce Ce ener Tie rato cae ate RATE 114,033 119,397
‘Torall Tiree el era's Og Bin a caine Sin ES Ee ES Ee se ee, = et ei 215,090 220,830
itll balothines ancl imal PAIRS soongodouosucsagsgoceccoUndosooboDoasuUUboosunabOE $215,609 $221,361

45
Table 5A. Endowment and Similar Funds—Fund Balances at Market (in $1,000s)

Fund 9/30/84 9/30/85 9/30/86 9/30/87

9/30/88
Wines trictedmecwnrammtr een eto rereis comers sronercctovaieramerens $ 57,744 $ 66,543 $ 83,209 $108,925 $101,433
ESTE Game ieweao ke oii ok or ote GR tel wcileniciisike- a ahauats eve cdontersieus Sle) 34,066 39,570 50,380 44,228
@thenestricteditac cicero one ers 43,547 47,979 $8,382 74,816 75,169
Mota Metis pote ei cee, Fea aoe oe ae tee rote erarc vane vaene $132,416 $148,588 $181,161 $234,121 $220,830
Table 6. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds for Fiscal Year 1988 (in $1,000s)
Restricted
Unrestricted Freer Other Total
MarketaValue—-bBeginningiotvear enteric cis siete olny eres er $107,697 $50,380 $74,674 $232,751
Changes
(Sinise Hak Salo ie Sele DR ae RS CeO EERO ROT REL TETe: ENGI OIE DEH in cairns 0) 0) 383 383
Transfers of Excess Yield (net of below)
InterestanGiDividendSaina eer Enc cheeeEieer oeoe 4,078 1,850 DEON 8,841
IncomiedPardl@ utara eve chetst cities ater tosareberenanavenn tials tenes elaudionsl ee ouavetee (651175) (1,447) (2,251) (6,873)
iiranstersionOthemincomesneneeee eee ero eritor 5,369 (0) 7,688 13,057
MarketaValuelDepreciation(=. 41-14 aceiicle el mach nel aeircere too eer (13,802) (6,555) (9,660) (30,017)
Marketavalue—Endiofeveane crc. craccceuct secre cuaie oreretern ear naval aici evo oremererenoats $100,167 $44,228 $73,747 $218,142

*Income earned, less managers’ fees of $883 thousand.

46

Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1988

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

JNOGIRG LECETIYG SB oon ongO ORME Lats Oe Cao Rat ee
Fane beem larry: WeInOLIal| s) < qa’ acho hens o4-« ol sie hoteles «: s0e.e sis as
PROC PRIS EITC se Yo vateiceus say stetiMlsyancvat st aaa revere: Suara ohete Pe tues versie. wuss
IMOERONIy DNGEE e )E eta reaitetinc teeta ofc ee cite OOO icka oc eee
IMiueoimac; AVigech oa naoe olen Lab on OREO © oie Eric ioe tO caer
Winstead BulclentAUEs onic oecic. « Sotatotks coe = ae ae aoe hlemaiszeie
Pooremleucyalland| George Wat cycles + ois cue siete clei s sie os ses
Porters enny Kirke Memorial ice -cu ce cess eererseieie ne veers lieve
Saralorel, Gare ls LAs mle caters chcetrb oOo che eee IDO cot coc aoe ona oe
SUAS ODIGM ALTE Sats foie rey ssroicsne  Getcusuevelo's Geusveis cuenske rate mien ©icic\earnttche
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,

Researchi(estgnated)) 5.00 sieur dete ici aan csr alee os

Swlbueiiall 3s oc oo he See C CGD 5 oR CRRA ete) aera hee ee

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

lEal, Claaclies Blo living) ig6 jomtoseteb 0 COCoRER OO DOE on Onna ee
HOLLES TARRY ODENELCG Me eis yor oie rs fal oes RRM is, Sos. oeaeste nate Eeliewe relate.
{GerleraleE NGO WITIEN GS sts cia. vorets opckeree stones «si hakeereicie suscs ere os
‘Goaleleral, RG aie 15 lb adie eer ee ein Gan ieeaene bp Ric ceo ene aes
in Blovell. [Dye, QetAnee ira weet spa Pa oe vee renee
arte Gusta vUlSsEegarsteeaec ao av (ons tasoWeyoravceete tel sue ee eke csieraviens is oe oan abaes
In kang, Camollin® Sy 9 cgi ott Oc one cia ea Dee ac Mince cece
lenny] osephandiblarriet:A wrcoperaisys ere ln Siyere te + eesiere See
Hl evcrm VI AUG eG earrarctcratee,s feyaiie syoperesereueae 1c Sureeereei ase vers carae
inhi: (Carre SGA a 55.o Oe One ROAM OO be Oo oboe Gees
Meeavrs DEM ea Ulan Gree ere Ha eo cHeNS oye eave on at ORI lr otobe le kawaes
Migabines, GRez lla olse oot a ee on een ce ciate On erae ee
Ribeesem liar g)] OMeSra per esie cxcatcessrsterstckeveac ane SPI vanes o ers
SA EOnG eG lara clROUISC My Aeron cca averse eee ec a SoC 8 oon ee area
SmMichsonianyBequestaeund:: ccna sie aic eases e rere ee =<.
Map PAT Ce GANSOM Gs. fay s/5, 2/18 SSE caeeave e nie: wise lehaeMewepeve ers acer Sse
Abbot liamplen(Desionated)) erases aes ciniciecio ee.
BatstownantedeniG D4 Desienated)) 1-14-42 aac a cele aie
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) .............
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) ............
imindberehs|CharlessAq (Designated) pcre sea ie eis cece = +
EyOuVarcusiwards)r (Designated) aycacce ore ceeels see 6 -
Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) .................-.
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) ...........
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Eudowmentibund(((Desipnated)) aac ee reine eo cirios ose
Webb, James E., Fellowship (Designated) ..................:

ST total mete rena ter Sc ee ee Ws IY PM en es

Principal Income

Book Market Net Unexpended

Value Value Income Balance
211,475 241,707 $ 85839) 73S 0
76,214 83,713 D393 0
319,062 331,614 18,562 0
377,855 436,787 14,290 0
116,098 127,735 4,179 0
32925 4,459 146 0
837,558 967,090 33,413 0
1,396,620 1,612,895 52,769 0
5,803 6,493 2,992 0
720,607 730,334 57,182 0
2,182,629 29133739 82,243 58,983
6,247,846 7,056,566 277,354 58,983
801,076 788,211 8,604 0
5,072,331 4,860,603 159,025 0
75,454,796 75,290,969 2,429,660 0
40,150 38,493 1,259 0
665 674 55) 0
2,689 2,881 94 0
6,648 7,104 232 0
266,959 284,159 OP, 0
488,565 472,963 15,474 0
134,352 138,357 4,527 0
243,274 253,834 8,305 0
4,844 4,708 154 0
3,370 3,991 155 0
224,563 220,916 7,228 0
1,538,694 1,475,980 40,385 0
2,352 2,692 88 0
625,865 667,927 21,853 83,462
5237. 5,582 183 7,130
3,520,269 3,444,020 108,364 77,691
2,338,378 2,313,326 75,686 113,462
38,341 37,245 1,218 10,729
20,207 19,903 651 5,479
30,752 28,681 922 0
1,522,234 1,621,088 35,358 36,332
1,329,418 1,415,750 30,880 31,730
1,092,864 975,807 31,926 94,344
94,808,893 94,375,424 2,991,583 460,359
101,056,739 101,431,990 3,268,937 $19,342

47
Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1988 (continued)

Principal Income

Book Market Net Unexpended

Value Value Income Balance
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Aiken, Annie Laurie, Endowment Fund.................+206+ 253,276 Pai S37/ 6,653 6,857
(Arthura) ames reeerutee stare saat epeuetow ovens tencts ST mM ote eer eneensre 188,117 218,773 7,158 16,558
Dyiil, Sosmeseltuillanon gaadaccaoormbeoogodundacdceabannber 169,655 195,560 6,398 6,390
Barneys Alice bikesp\ lem Onialler pierce) sick sicker tasencierererectelateneits 134,841 156,774 5,129 39,684
Batchelorwe minal Warccocren cette rca eatess ohezara. create eed coronene termed 160,534 162,165 5,306 107,591
Beaurerard.@atherine, Memorial) ayererensyeo) peieerei cite ous enellele) 1 er 205,435 219,077 7,168 72,090
Bergen Ghar otteavetercryctcielrertexce state totes i ouersesrayayer Steteronsbs) okey ot Steks 17,096 16,191 530 2,501
Brown Roland WW si tence os cee th tanec oar teicchin = ctren sis neue 151,362 162,543 5,152 6,665
@antieldMRrederickyAniey ssa crontetitenncts. asc) occ sce matedere lero shone 197,728 241,038 7,886 119
GaseyssRhomas Lincoln). 22..i2 frie rio = «1a =) sore sake Ses onsyous 65,821 70,236 2,298 3,967
GhamberlainsErancesiMealerrioe ore sie ror ersialelenen om tere renclicisasiciaue 132,395 153,932 5,036 295212
CoopemRundifomPaleobiologyseya-iva-u-t-1t- er cleteustometer sole sone voret= 147,539 142,276 4,572 7S
DivisionofMammalsiGurators bund 2 osoe scoot ee ce ee er eisiers 9,564 9,919 323 5,260
Wrakehound atone wr creeiste reer cusyshesens erased eee cious ont 861,980 882,505 28,743 165,015
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund .............. 274,638 261,419 8,553 43,132
Dykes Charles Bequest tsjeis,-cotete cis) servo = 21s) stenei clever sists) etlers/ lores 253,764 266,168 8,708 32,687
FickemeyertblorenceiBrevOOLrt mr. syeje kettle elie e\ «reson toveial«l sicis ©) elfen 51,091 59,394 1,943 11,471
Ferd eS, leohvarwel Walle) soancoocccoooddoou dob oeNocuGGDDGNS 512,108 469,086 15,347 44,967
Rreerk@harlesiliumanins scree Ace icrienstei cies = © loucioiie Scstaueue eis avers 41,513,839 44,227,511 1,447,000 1,674,580
Gaim, SaT7ARINI, « coc same ge ound os oooUDEebooVolGODooO oN 144,396 138,568 4,534 34,386
Giroroyn, bigatele Whu.gameneic old oo Gt Aare arpa Oe aol io moe aioe 147,451 139,487 4,564 20,069
GuegenheimmDanieliand! Florence! cyeiereteteletereenso ol ereleioie ers okeleee 570,513 565,897 18,515 75,886
Flamiltoneaamesmatr cities ere eerie veiere = oiewsra tees shey sue leyoiere) ve 5,312 5,738 354 2,868
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ..................-.-- 114,356 Sei 3,199 2,761
Flewittweleanon Gah epainkumd terry .iey-neneiereney ae ecco eteterereterers 34,762 85,079 1,164 506
Hewittysarah' Cooperman oer eerie orn ren: 205,430 210,008 6,871 5,019
lavilticrs \Witral loos pan ommend Goroold Oo etaid Ockiecn re Orr.o coceear 34,516 36,832 1,205 17,019
Fuitchcocks Al bertsS: cnc ave ers exeyeusienee icvereersiey sepenes sues sir isia'se Suet 7,496 8,764 287 419
FlodgkinsjRundecrer-rpattave tr cacti hones cieher cre Norse icper ree toliave reins 133,003 134,810 11,059 16,200
indlickasAlesiandiManicminn aac ariic ie iceiieieieincietererererer: DS 2av/2: 272,363 8,911 14,131
Flag heswDrucemeresiormi sonic aris clerical ieleksrnicie macaier icra: 90,060 104,753 3,427 13,989
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ..............- 17,205,701 18,394,876 601,829 308,513
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial................ 220,065 219,474 4,001 9,497
Laman aie, INEGI a cere a eiaa ola cin ere cc extern o lord tic ciclo oGn.a mete 13,694 14,319 468 5,504
IMaxcweelllNlaryak oper ceecttencas east cicteta ae chaiersueue areteeaskowsleeushoneuens 92,279 107,328 3,512 47,688
Milliken} HiOothout; Memorialle= sucess ole cence se tees 1,024 1,046 34 149
IMinerallendowmentacmene ace omnes 468,358 483,031 15,790 2,034
Mitchell WwiilliambAtcryaevacvaco.treretscoi onic arereraveretet ewer eioneectsxoroconne 63,753 65,939 PSH 178
Nelms, Henning, Endowment Fund’............0.-.-+---0+-- PAA 182,835 5,770 6,492
INelsonsEdwardawillliammacteiice reactor ke ieiieicrsrreiate 107,104 121,540 3,976 2,803
Retrocellin) osephyMemoriallecerina acy tieece lt orrasterner teint ts 34,958 40,711 1,332 19,229
Reid WAddisonbilintit rset sree cts ciceoeciatoi valor o) oie hevede enchoke naar: 107,993 114,435 4,475 5,819
RipleysonDillonvand’Mary ivinestonie 1-11) yeeiraierereicloie) > 146,435 145,465 4,639 0
Geb ling ye umd sesaesenereeseccanc ce sotere te ners cen ercicrexniercnens ter Ce nen SRCISTORSS 565,803 656,555 21,481 1,093
Rollins Mintamiandawilliamy saepieeae aoe elaccrGereaniee 1,136,839 16233. b0 392977. 17,128
Simss'Georpe Ws c seneiries seers See ne SIS otto 106,872 100,375 3,284 3,836
Spraguerk uncle h arses ascii ok ashe valet at sacl Moe eben: atk 7,220,812 Te STD AGZ 239,030 130,031
Springeryhrank: vier). cys crsiale or cece s acres a) ei ciene ners kev onsn oneiohevorets 84,558 97-973 3,205 32/2
Sternshlaroldib-aiMemorialunia. eect eee 900,191 913,743 29,630 169,581
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library ...............-.---- 25,176 26,767 876 35337,
StuantayManysFlorner) nea seiaierieioieretcieterois ch narecicietere tar etek: 371,276 340,086 127; 496

48

Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1988 (continued)
Principal
Book Market
Value Value

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ................ 737,808 788,470
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ................ 273,517 331,379
Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research .................. 20,509 20,189
PrecbeowbrancesiOrinckles ntsc +12 cvatisice ase cis a ccs ce eee ee ee 4,443 Splz

SEIOLEN 9. 3-dicti Ole Beoicks 8 pice Reena een RA ican a ce ar ea 77,160,629 81,713,255
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
ENELES ELON PAE GWVININ | AINSI ape sfiorchayel« /eveltal syeweyel a ey s)areon crete eho viel nei 17,637 17,745
Permbeiiiiera ble liriiev terciyaveva orcvs io: sivie co erotousiece w eeee as 1S beers wuseaioieisss 94,386 90,655
BACOMBVALPINIAIPULCY) ions a:cueys iors cle icrbis, siolnuelecroe eis ae alee 446,127 455,004
BECK CIM GEOLL CIE MT foe en etcetera rac ercusiene, simnsucsehe outta nooner elaveiometes 769,832 787,526
ESE IEGGIS. IPARLIES a Gio ta aidie GROG EI CPOT Oe eae REE ere ae 54,824 58,530
PAV CIN GOL OMS er HC enaey vs el sien sions taliepe atten ees eeelae ee eibte Susi 6,117 6,404
isachenberes|Georpe Pand|Garoline .......2<.-2-s0+%eee sone 21,950 23,938
Franson, Martin Gustav andiGarolineR. .........0.5..-.e0e04 46,666 49,787
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ..................--- 3,776,090 3,446,350
Blrshhorms|osephii., Bequest Fund 2. .ca22-2ce cscs eee cc we wes 2,769,492 2,745,505
Barey Olena lrusti umd lease 5 crs <3 ouciciers ations oie cieie: eireleus (eae ce ever 5,028,176 SOS. 9 Si
Eiintercontbndowmenteserie. os eset es fet ee nae none oee 15,498,024 16,359,505
| CUD TANGO ATRVENTS. Glove 6.0 Grol OGIO OTe Geen ea 965,710 940,915
BOBEXConsenvatiomiEnGOwment.. =. 2. s'+ s-iaveis1e e's sec ees a1epeis e 208,697 201,350
BEAN USOMME RON ENIMOLES siete s 6)/cie.sheis lee Giales.ocielcuekew eis sorde eeu 37,528 36,863
[LSID IMIGYTSIS: 6.0 Gn, Gigi tocbrt ee SNM eee ee oe 461,162 493,778
MonewAnnette and Edith Gy oo o.0 see os cis oleravners eis aces eles areiers 2,599 3,050
“ver, Caunarmne WEG Gite ag eee Goldy aoadncn Dneinec ae 106,068 113,167
BATES MEL ATI KAD Serre sesh orc are. oar) b tulstiorecacereo Ed 6 CUR eveID OS 5525 5,704
RSV CSMEAUIIN CMRI SOS MUP EACIe ne centeneee cOtcre eran aa ater PO eS oe 44,458 42,718
mae) Morne liavbivingeStOniwene ts «6.4 4 an a bo tao ee eee tees 39,081 41,778
mamsey,Adm:. and Mrs: Dewitt Clinton* .............-..0.-«- 898,868 967 ,334
Jadailpum, Rigen IMGn@nells oaameuonsdocenuoneaoueoucbeed 56,021 59,860
oe linesSolarsvesearchir. isis. cciciers suchas oor aok oe 124,067 128,701
EEE TRYSTTANEL INTL A 58 etre calle EPP Rr ae 146,296 143,655
Bist zap REO NAL GOP Navarre Ren Bens c ever sssescssc, Merete ate ee sw eles 58,956 60,270
Berle PA CHELL OME gone ene eae eo. 3,049,554 Shollalilesiy/s}
Baricosonianva gency, ACCOUNETa. - sae acmiecincciinee co ae anime « 1,409,297 1,408,128
ROWS) |UNEND)S Sista darclorcrd uate eae nee 6 Coin ce a ete 52,648 56,249
Mvitherspoon, Thomas A-, Memorial ....2.002....2..00000-- 676,788 721,750

SUDtO Calm ers sa See. 5 Re ane es eB A Te 36,872,370 37,683,543

slotalpResmicted|RULpOSemee nana nia.- cies veces: 114,032,999 119,396,798
TORUNE NI DO MAM ISIN PIROINIDS| Baa eeoaaccsessoneagnuoceer $215,089,738 $220,828,788

*Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

Income

Net Unexpended

Income Balance
25,504 21,346
10,842 13,866
631 4,187
169 6,827
267732 3,284,429
570 0
2,966 1,889
14,886 66,661
25,766 23,538
1,902 491
209 4,628
783 5,025
1,629 1192.9)
89,027 72,325
15,997 16,246
69,605 70,826
535,237 277,583
30,497 33,952
6,546 10,631
1,206 6,900
16,155 64,445
100 740
5,000 23,886
187 3,994
1,398 3,165
1,367 7,884
S19 77, 105,037
1,958 22,432
11,021 5,586
4,700 0
1h972 39,901
101,795 428,328
47,344 (2,791)
1,840 7,032
23,614 110,574
1,047,254 1,422,837
3,718,986 4,707,266

$6,987 ,923** $5,226,608

**Total Return Income Payout; does not include $326,840 of interest income which is included in unexpended balances.
a ee oe me

Table 8. Construction and Plant Funds
Fiscal Years 1987 and 1988 (in $1,000s)

FY 1987 FY 1988

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations:

INationallZoologicaliP ares: jie cjleve wteciscrs, 61 516 = 0e:aisep snore eleravs) ary iacace toes, cai o..cl ce eraue tele -acteborsvorspopeusnenenehe $ 2,500 $ 8,150

Restorationjand Renovationlof Buildingsenmmoceoericecocl tei aoe cence ities 12,975 19,254

@ radian gle garage eases earns toy sys ive sey ov ee yin atc wie) ott SirevaPrarrawar etcretev avairces ars) « lope el eveleroveasy siedeivoveuatetonaete 3,315 —

dropicallResearch\Institute—ilupper Research Facilities) <5 5 vets « «:«cle «+ 1c «2 alels yore) oe) e1s i tieiierereie 2,780

Astrophysicall@bservatory—Whipple/Base\Camp) siete 125 «© <.e oisies = wie)e ele) sree ore\iav «1 «) «peelelsr ciel _ 1,315
otal RederalkAppropriations) (3 <iajer« 6.<, «7s siete «ote o) simisie) Jape) s/o cle s oss aoe yoleieustsl vias ose sene 21,570 28,719

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:

Income-Gift and Other
EnvironmentaliResearch\Genter—EandvAcquisitions) Sei. 16 re oiacie ic vi oleae + stele aoreretets 4 240
iropical’ResearchiInstitute— Tupper ResearchiFacilities) 0.00026. oe ree me = seis ee 2,725 763
Cooper Elewit ty NiUseummmer taetone tenet ey ov cary] sho1atM Rotel skaylenek Vet way </an'esieeloheclenatetene okcuorexe olatesmenees 410 286
@uadranglerandiRelated ye cpsyss <rvesecheusnsl a: Shertsnarssdathetond obs repieitaya is sus! sus donate: tenes iatelenoasiioyiena aaavauler seers 643 322
WisitomintormationiandiReceptiom Genter yoo.t-treicions ye) i voicke cies vice aetenetel ste) ores ake eons 155517; 692
INationaltAinandiSpaceiMuseum—D ulles|Shelter server tele el -veleloiet-re) «= er eretedstctiorey--u-reictetonner 16 69
ODEs rrches omer easier ai eae care at casted evraucaocs'vlien cckouattaU ah sh or Moone iaain isa: avansasicgcabehrotenerte elas ca Sia es euetbe ete 12 100
“Woy Fatevoyr 1c neta esc Otc cre OR RT Ol Oak Uc oO CIRCE B eC ROTC OTT A ROR AER Ret ic eee cto eidoro.0.6 5,367 2,472

Transfers from Other Funds:

Environmental Research'Genter—Land'Acquisitions .......0.0.<.080+sscds nee semerceenees -- 178

MisitoninformationiandyReception(@enten) s)-oeiateric eels ycicios le cicieieieiee recs cele sierienere (255)e —

INationalvAirand!S pace Museum—D ullesiShelters-reieioc ier oe ieee ciel omeioe eeels corer erie 415 —-
potalbilinansfersy cystic cuese-s snore Sa eia tee sue) sss, tue Oo teaes ay stovisra, a euclinyee versie uses aaenuehe Ore. O ae wrarerareintonetes 160 178
otalikundstProvidedie-c secs ore eee oxen tere I ere eee eas eee $27,097 $31,369

Shelter at Dulles International Airport for the Space Shuttle
National Zoological Park Veterinary Hospital. Enterprise.

5o
Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accounts

Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial
condition of the Smithsonian Institution as of September
30, 1988, and the related statement of financial activity
for the year then ended. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the Institution’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit. We previously audited
and reported upon the financial statements of the Smith-
sonian Institution for the year ended September 30, 1987,
totals of which are included in the accompanying finan-
cial statements for comparative purposes only.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and generally accepted gov-
ernmental auditing standards. Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and dis-
closures in the financial statements. An audit also in-
cludes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Smithsonian Institution as of September
30, 1988, and the results of its operations and changes in
its fund balances for the year then ended, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

Coopers & Lybrand
Washington, D.C.
December 16, 1988

51

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition, September 30, 1988
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1987) (thousands of dollars)

Trust
funds
ASSETS:
Fund balances with U.S. Treasury and cash on hand ...............2-000- Speles2
Investments (INotesieandrs) une ssi eiinationichaciciers cree acielel nic ieieclieiclewonsvens 282,010
RECEIVADIESHINOLE MS) metietarar. cetera harer Treks Oi eee Toke ieee 36,479
NAVAN cepaviments|(INOCELO) irri sicisfersanisercioicvele sie ietetenois cela 220 Semasictsus et 335
Merchandiseinventory.(Note’l))) i. cia. eters ciels ie ekeesiaie aio encle ieuicna soe 12,037
Matertalsfandisupplies inventory,(INote |) eerie. ele «oo eines 1c ieirisic i> ene _—
Prepaid,ideferred expense’andother (Notel) ......-5-.-...--2--++--+0-- 16,105
Propextyzand equipment (Notes l andy) erie cieiererereierekerleieporo) elon iereleucivole 72,499
BT OtalFASSEES cceewe terete Gos es saree eats cere Foc avicme Norte is novia ial seuseice PeMMONONEE 6: oie $420,986
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses, including interfund payable of
SARC) SRO OO perenne teehee rene se: citer ate eve rece Ne use cual chisToNtuteane hehe ayo Slee ciensienerevens $ 31,992
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) .........-...--.- 4,371
Accruediannualiieavie (Note! ))iiceecsiersrcreserere citer creicle seer aleleaenebele el sielereusterere 2,315
Weferredirevenue INOtesl era er wceae cicero cv etey diese iatare eieer sue ie shoreneteeeos 35,713
Mong-cermidebty (INOLES) lesietsratcyeversns tac \ctarohct uslers cued enereVaVeielevausesic els\areleneyeiers 12,062
Motallliabilities: epeactterserenetenteutorr nck te a cece doicusie eerie «are 86,453
Wndeliverediorders\(INoterl!)) <4 nce otersniole nie cer ro aitereisl Diol ida eievene.s —
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Trust Funds:
Current:
Wnrestrictedipeneralipurposeye aq aces eervererreneieneieelcnekerel vel el etaloraietenel> 9,036
Special purpose: v-csrsesue suas ni cee tetas ts cusne, sicieters heres ater a. « essere enor 34,394
PRES CEICECC Gree teers are cane «carta cNc Re eRe Sete Ca rove Lee ae ae oie Site ae we AeweTeN 16,576
Endowmentiand similar funds-(Note4)) 5.4.0.5. .5.0.006..0.00+000-25- 215,090
lantstund si(INOter/))) crests cia yore ny orci orcete renee eta tek retelin@oyarrenstetyave aus e sue devsVe 59,437
Motalitrust fund! balances e-mmeiotre cect eterno oiceetelsickot testers 334,533
Federal Funds:
Operating funds—restricted (Note9)) aacmesinesic eaecisecels siecies se ee --
Wonstructions funds) epee no: 2 cs ac acousdemPerpeNocers ore: 2 ie eed bes oie aus Gioyay scion acs —
Capitalifundsmarrtscere a. oa ee eee ee ann we eee _
otalitederalttundibalancesyacesesirenveteruenoneeraclereioierereeerenerousiersnene _
flotalifundbalances:.s-<..s1o/cvore ror terotoreRonsnene orer ome ererePS cr aio clove towe versions 334,533
Total liabilities, undelivered orders and fund balances............. $420,986

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Federal
funds

$ 97,343

8,681
21,267

1,405

225,612
$354,308

335
21,681

227,017
249,033
249,033
$354,308

16,105

298,111
$775,294

$ 52,520
4,376
10,859
35,713

12,062
115,530

76,198

9,036
34,394
16,576

215,090

59,437
334,533

335
21,681

227,017
249,033
583,566
$775,294

Totals,
1987

$ 86,572
278,201
43,599
18,701
12,001
1,412
13,911
277,823

$732,220

$ 50,005
4,436
10,381
33,625
13,812

112,259
67,277

5,176
33,759
13,769

201,111

58,892
312,707

388
16,547

223,042
239977.
552,684

$732,220

53
54

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1988

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1987) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds

Totals, Endowment
trust Current and similar
funds funds funds

REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
APPLOpriations aayalareeys ils seein $ _ $ — $ _
Auxiliary activities revenue......... 181,171 181,171 —_—
Government grants and contracts .... 17,438 17,438 _—
InvestmentinCOme! yaya. ieueloiens eel. ser 15,049 13,893 —
Net gain (loss) on sale of securities . . . (2,539) (4) (2,748)
Gifts, bequests and foundation
PLATES etal states na <P eP SSIS 6 ose ePer lars 23,622 22,136 383
‘Additionsito;plant: jet -ibie)- -)te al. 4,048 _ _
Rentals, fees, commissions
‘an dlotheriier: css orcke averse Selo vereneks 7,956 7,956 —
Total revenue and other
additionsmenienenieicice 246,745 242,590 (2,365)
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research, educational, and collection
acquisition (Note 10) ........... 51,191 51,191 —
dministrativies ~ « a cterete) seseuenaeees> 15,636 15,636 —
acilitiesisenvices ascii eas secs. 1,713 17S —
Auxiliary fACtiVitlesim racic series oe 150,226 150,226 _—
Acquisition\of plant ii4.6 43 6 4,185 — _
Property use and retirements
(Note 7) FoOonAHoOODCoDoOOOOOoCO GAS 1,968 SS Se Se
Total expenditures and
other deductions ...... _ 224,919 _ 218,766 ee
Excess of revenue and
other additions over
(under) expenditures
and other deductions .. 21,826 23,824 (2,365)
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) (Note 11)
— (16,522) 16,344
Net increase for the year . . 21,826 7,302 13,979
Returned to U.S. Treasury ......... _ —_— _—
Fund balances at beginning of year ... 312,707 52,704 201,111
Fund balances at end of year (Note 9) . $334,533 $ 60,006 $215,090

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

367

iz

545
58,892
$59,437

Totals,
federal
funds

$230,151

276299

1792

259,242

127,847
16,153
59,159
23,585

23,324

250,068

9,174

9,174
(118)
239,977

$249,033

Federal funds

Operating Construction

funds

$201,432

1,792

203,224

127,847
16,153
59,159

203,159

65

funds

$28,719

28,719

23,585

5,134

3,975

33975

223,042
$227,017

Totals,
all
funds

$230,151
181,171
17,438
15,049
(2,539)

23,622
31,347

9,748

505,987

179,038
31,789
60,872

150,226
27,770

255292

474,987

31,000

31,000

(118)
552,684

$583,566

Totals,
1987

$210,544
161,740
15,873
12,491
355305

19,330
35,925

9,728

500,946

166,777
28,667
57,500

131,093
27,531

20,069

431,637

69,309

69,309
(343)
483,718

$552,684
Smithsonian Institution Notes to Financial Statements
1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation

These financial statements do not include the accounts of
the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts or the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars, which were established by
Congress within the Smithsonian Institution (the Institu-
tion) but are administered under separate boards of
trustees.

The financial statements of the Institution with respect
to Federal Appropriations have been prepared on the ob-
ligation basis of accounting, which is in accordance with
accounting principles prescribed by the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States as set forth in the Policy and
Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies.
The obligation basis of accounting differs in some re-
spects from generally accepted accounting principles.
Under this method of accounting, approximately
$54,484,000 of commitments of the operating fund, such
as purchase orders and contracts, have been recognized
as expenditures, and the related obligations have been
reported on the Statement of Financial Condition at Sep-
tember 30, 1988 even though the goods and services have
not been received. Approximately $11,988,000 of these
commitments are for grants under the foreign currency
program. Approximately $17,558,000 of these commit-
ments are for internal storage facilities and equipment at
the Museum Support Center. In addition, construction
fund commitments for other projects amounted to ap-
proximately $21,714,000 at September 30, 1988.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of
funds obtained from private sources, federal grants and
contracts, investment income, and certain business activi-
ties related to the operations of the Institution.

Fund Accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions
placed on the use of resources available to the Institution,
accounts are maintained in accordance with the principles
of fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources
for control, accounting and reporting purposes into dis-
tinct funds established according to their appropriation,
nature and purposes. Funds that have similar characteris-
tics have been combined into fund groups in the accom-
panying financial statements. Accordingly, all financial
transactions have been recorded and reported by fund

group.

56

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institu-
tion are self-balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of ex-
pendable funds available for support of Institution opera-
tions.

Federal construction funds represent that portion of ex-
pendable funds available for building and facility con-
struction, restoration, renovation and repair. Separate
subfund groups are maintained for each appropriation—
Construction and Improvements, National Zoological
Park, Restoration and Renovation of Buildings, Museum
Support Center, and the Center for African, Near East-
ern, and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the value of those assets
of the Institution acquired with federal funds and nonex-
pendable property transfers from government agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and re-
stricted resources, represent the portion of expendable
funds that is available for support of Institution opera-
tions. Amounts restricted by the donor for specific pur-
poses are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that
are subject to restrictions of gift instruments requiring in
perpetuity that the principal be invested and the income
only be used. Also classified as endowment and similar
funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal
but only under certain specified conditions. Quasi-en-
dowment funds are funds established by the governing
board for the same purposes as endowment funds; how-
ever, any portion of such funds may be expended. Re- |
stricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for
restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of
time, but the governing board has elected to invest the
principal and expend only the income for the purpose
stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for fu-
ture plant acquisitions and funds expended for plant.

Investments

All investment income, except that of endowment and
similar funds, and gains and losses arising from the sale
of investments and property, are accounted for in the
fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income of
endowment and similar funds is accounted for in the
fund to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, as reve-
nue in unrestricted current funds. Gains and losses on the
sale of investments are recognized on the trade date basis
using the average cost method.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method or retail cost method (for those inventories held
for resale).

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian Magazine
and Air and Space Magazine is recorded as income over
the period of the related subscription, which is generally
one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to
Smithsonian Magazine and Air and Space Magazine
are charged against income over the period of the
subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges ex-
penses of other auxiliary activities during the period in
which the activity is conducted.

Works of Art, Living or Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include
works of art, library books, photographic archives, ob-
jects and specimens, through purchase by federal or pri-
vate funds or by donation. In accordance with policies
generally followed by museums, no value is assigned to
the collections on the statement of financial condition.
Purchases for the collections are expensed currently.

Property and Equipment—Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for
use by nonincome-producing activities are recorded at
cost, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of
certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie
Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal values.
Property and equipment are treated as a deduction of the
current fund and as a capitalized cost of the plant fund.

Property and equipment for use by nonincome-produc-
ing activities is depreciated on the straight-line basis over
their useful lives as follows:

Building 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 10 years

Depreciation is recorded in the plant fund as a deduc-
tion to the investment in plant (see Note 7).

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with
trust funds and utilized in income-producing activities are
capitalized at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives of 3 to 10 years.

Property and Equipment—Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds
are recorded in the capital funds at cost and depreciated
on a straight-line basis over their useful lives as follows:

Building 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings
were appropriated and reserved by Congress for the
Smithsonian and are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equip-
ment acquired through transfer from government agen-
cies are capitalized at the transfer price or at estimated
amounts, taking into consideration usefulness, condition
and market value.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts
with the U.S. Government, which primarily provide for
cost reimbursement to the Institution. Grant and contract
revenue is recognized within trust funds as expenditures
are incurred.

Pledges and Donations

The Institution records significant pledges that are sup-
ported by letters signed by donors. Pledges are recorded
at net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred
revenue on the statement of financial condition. Revenue
from pledges is recognized in the year the pledge funds
are collected.

Donations are recognized as revenue in the year the
cash is received.

57

Contributed Services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance
of the Institution’s programs. The value of this contrib-
uted time is not reflected in these statements in accor-
dance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave
in accordance with federal law and regulations. How-
ever, only the cost of leave taken as salaries is funded and
recorded as an expense. The cost of unused annual leave
at year-end is reflected in the accompanying financial
statements as an asset and accrued liability in the federal
funds.

Annual leave is recorded for trust employees in the
trust fund as earned.

2. Related Activities

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services
to several separately incorporated organizations in which
certain officials of the Institution serve on the governing
boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these or-
ganizations for the aforementioned services, together
with rent for Institution facilities occupied, totaled
$380,000 ($305,000 for the trust funds and $75,000 for
the federal funds) for the year ended September 30, 1988.
Deposits held in custody for these organizations are
$4,371,000 as of September 30, 1988.

The following summarizes the unaudited expenditures
of these organizations for the fiscal year ended September
30, 1988 as reflected in their individual financial state-
ments, which are not included in the accompanying fi-
nancial statements of the Institution:

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. $7,971,000
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars:
Trust funds $5,321,000
Federal appropriations $4,028,000

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a trade date basis, if
purchased, or estimated fair market value at date of ac-

quisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1988, in-
vestments were composed of the following:

58

Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)

Current funds:
Short-term investments
Endowment and similar funds:

$ 69,270 $ 68,898

Short-term cash equivalents 27,126 “27,126
Deposit with U.S Treasury 1,099 IES
U.S. Government and quasi-
government obligations 22,346 22,873
Corporate bonds and other
obligations 31,965 32,206
Common and preferred stock 129,538 134,474
Charitable trusts 514 526
212,588 218,340
Plant funds:
U.S. Government and quasi-
government obligations 27 Di.
Common stock 125 125
152 152

Total investments $282,010 $287,390

Since October 1, 1982, the deposit with the U.S. Treas-
ury has been invested in U.S. Government securities at a
variable yield based on market rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and
similar funds are pooled on a market value basis (consoli-
dated fund) with each individual fund subscribing to or
disposing of units on the basis of the per unit market
value at the beginning of the month within which the
transaction takes place. As of September 30, 1988,
303,177 units were owned by endowment funds, and
449,669 units were owned by quasi-endowment funds.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in rela-
tionships between cost and market values of the pooled
investments:

($000s)
Market Cost Net change
End of year $2181.42) $212°439) $5,708
Beginning of year $232,751 $199,778 32,973
Decrease in unreal-
ized net gain for
the year (27,270)
Realized net loss
for the year (2,748)
Net Change $(30,018)
4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to in-
vestment management of endowment funds and quasi-
endowment funds. Under this approach, an amount
equal to the difference between actual interest and divi-
dends earned during the year and the amount computed
under the total return formula is transferred to or from
the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy
to provide, as being available for current expenditures,
an amount taking into consideration such factors as, but
not limited to: (1) 4"/2% of the five-year average of the
market value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and trans-
fers during this period), (2) current dividend and interest
yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scientists, and (4)
inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price
Index. However, where the market value of the assets of
any endowment fund is less than 110% of the historic
dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation), the
amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends
received.

The total return factor for 1988 was 5% to all partici-
pating funds. Actual dividends and interest earned ex-
ceeded the total return for the year, and the amount was
transferred from the current funds to the endowment
funds (see Note 11).

5. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1988 included the following:

_($000s)
Federal funds
Amount to be provided for accrued annual
leave $ 8,544
Service fees and charges 1137,
8,681
Trust funds
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities, net 14,945

Interfund receivables due from current funds:
Endowment and similar funds 1,456

Plant funds 12,593
Interest and dividends receivable 2,997
Billed and unbilled costs and fees from

grants and contracts 3,440
Other 1,048

36,479
Total, all funds $45,160

6. Advance payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to gov-
ernment agencies, educational institutions, firms and in-
dividuals for services to be rendered, or property or
materials to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1988, the Institution had advances
outstanding to the General Services Administration of ap-
proximately $17,800,000, principally for construction
services including the Museum Support Center and other
projects to be completed in future fiscal years. The Insti-
tution at that date also had advances oustanding to edu-
cational institutions amounting to approximately
$3,019,000, principally under the Special Foreign Cur-
rency Program.

7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1988, property and equipment were
comprised of the following:

($000s) ($000s)
Federal
Capital funds
Property $346,753
Equipment 41,815
Less accumulated depreciation (162,956)
Total, federal funds $225,612
Trust Query
Current funds
Capital improvements 23,386
Equipment 8,899
Leasehold improvements 1g522
Less accumulated depreciation
and amortization (95172)
24,635
Endowment and similar funds
Land 616
Plant funds
Land and buildings 52,700
Equipment 5,378
Less accumulated depreciation (10,830)
47,248)
Total, trust funds $1 72499
Total, all funds $298,111

Included in the accumulated depreciation of the federal
capital funds is $18,380,000 of depreciation expense for
1988.

Depreciation and amortization expense in the trust
funds for fiscal year 1988 for income-producing assets

59
amounted to $2,039,000 which is included in auxiliary ac-
tivities expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation of
nonincome-producing equipment and buildings for 1988
amounted to $1,967,000 and is included in the plant
fund.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1988
included $12,190,000 of unexpended funds for future
plant acquisitions.

8. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1988 consists of the
following:

($000s)

9% note payable to Riggs National Bank,
interest only payable quarterly commenc-
ing December 31, 1986, interest and princi-
pal payable quarterly commencing
September 30, 1991 and ending on June
30, 1998 $11,000

Noninterest-bearing note payable for the
purchase of art, due in four annual install-
ments commencing January 9, 1986 and
ending January 10, 1989, collaterialized by
purchased art 500

Noninterest-bearing note payable for pur-
chase of food service equipment, due
monthly commencing September 18, 1987
through July 21, 1990 262

9% note payable for purchase of Folkways
Records and Service Corporation, due in
four annual installments commencing
December 31, 1987 300

$12,062

The aggregate amount of maturities for all borrowings
for the years ending September 30, are as follows:
$750,000 in 1989; $212,000 in 1990; $386,000 in 1991;
$1,211,000 in 1992; $1,324,000 in 1993; and $8,179,000
in years thereafter.

The proceeds of the note with Riggs National Bank
were used to fund construction of a restaurant addition
to the National Air and Space Museum. Interest on the
note was approximately $990,000 for fiscal year 1988 of
which $165,000 was recorded as interest expense of the
Auxiliary Activities funds and $825,000 was capitalized
as a cost of the restaurant.

60

9. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for
salaries and expenses which are expended in the year re-
ceived. Also included are amounts received with the pro-
vision that such amounts can be expended over a period
greater than one year.

The federal operating funds for the year ended Septem-
ber 30, 1988 included the following:

($000s)
Additions Fund
Balance
at
Appro- Sept. 30,
priations Other 1988
Salaries and expenses $201,432 $ — $ —

Special Foreign Currency

Program ~ — 143
U.S. India Fund (trans-

fers from Department

of State) — 1,651 101
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute — 141 91

$201,432 $1,792 $335

to. Collection Acquisitions

In keeping with generally accepted accounting principles,
the Institution records the acquisition of collections as an
expense in the year of purchase. For fiscal year 1988,
$4,893,000 was expensed to trust funds and $1,384,000
to federal funds for the acquisition of collections.
mr. Transfers among Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) respective
fund balances for the year ended September 30, 1988:

($000s)
Current funds Endow-
ment
and
similar Plant
Unrestricted Restricted funds funds
Portion of in-
vestment yield
appropriated $ (942) $(1,070) $2,012 $ —
Income
added to
endowment
principal (1) (201) 202
For plant acqui-
sitions (178) 178
For special pur-
poses DSL, (252) — —
Endowment re-
leased 3 132 (135) —
Appropriated as
quasi-endow-
ment (5,371) (8,894) 14,265 —
Total transfers
among funds $(6,237) $(10,285) $16,344 $178

12. Retirement Plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by
either the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the
Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The fea-
tures of both of these systems are defined in published
government documents. Under both systems, the Institu-
tion withholds from the salary of each federal employee
the percentage of salary specified by each program, and
the Institution contributes specified percentages. The cost
of the programs for the year ended September 30, 1988
was $8,267,000.

The Institution has a separate retirement plan for trust
employees. Under the plan, both the Institution and the
employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary
which are used to purchase individual annuities, the
rights to which are immediately vested with the employ-
ees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September
30, 1988 was $4,480,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to fund the accrued
costs of the plans currently. There are no unfunded prior
service costs under the plans.

13. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the
provisions of Section so1(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Organizations described in that section are taxable
only on their unrelated business income. No provision
for income taxes is required for the year ended September
30, 1988 since the Institution had a net loss from unre-
lated business activity.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt
from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States
as defined in Section 5o01(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations
described in that section are exempt from all income tax-
ation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such
dual status.

61

RESEARCH

Robert Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for Research

63
International Center

Since the creation of the Smithsonian’s first international
office twenty years ago, international affairs affecting the
conduct of the Institution’s work abroad have become
ever more complex, and the scope of Smithsonian inter-
national activities has continued to expand. The estab-
lishment of the Smithsonian’s International Center in 1983
and the opening of the Smithsonian’s new museum and
education complex in 1987 provided a new focus for the
global interests of Smithsonian scholars and their collabo-
rators around the world.

Through its constituent divisions, the International
Center fosters the international dimension of basic re-
search, museum programs, and exchanges in scientific
and cultural fields. Major emphasis is placed on efforts to
broaden the American public’s understanding of the his-
tory, culture, and natural environment of regions
throughout the world. In the International Center’s first
year of operation in its new facilities, it introduced the
public and the scholarly community to the types of pro-
grams that will be mounted there. In the future, center
staff will provide support for the increasing number of
program initiatives from other Smithsonian bureaus and
from outside organizations.

The International Center grew out of the Directorate
of International Activities, which was established in 1984
to administer and outline prototype programs for the
center and assist in establishing contacts for research col-
laboration and cooperative institutional relationships.
Under the directorate’s purview were the International
Gallery, the Office of Service and Protocol, the Smithson-
ian Foreign Currency Program, the Office of Publications
Exchange, and the Office of Quincentenary Programs.
The directorate also provided a base for the Smithson-
ian—Man and the Biosphere Program, the affiliated
organizations of the Council of American Overseas Re-
search Centers (CAORC), and, more recently, the Inter-
national Union for the Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources (IUCN).

In early 1988 a newly established International Activi-
ties Council (IAC) assumed responsibility for administra-
tion of the International Center. The council is composed
of the Smithsonian assistant secretaries for research, mu-
seums, public service, and external affairs, each of whom
has responsibility for a portion of the International Cen-
ter’s activities. The council as a whole provides consoli-
dated oversight for the Institution’s international policies.
A coordinator and an administrative officer maintain
budgetary oversight for the units of the center, while the
directors of the component offices manage their programs
with reference to the appropriate assistant secretary. The

64

assistant secretary for research has responsibility for the
Office of Quincentenary Programs, the Man and the Bio- |
sphere Program, Smithsonian research exchange pro-
grams, and coordination with CAORC and IUCN. The
International Gallery is under the purview of the assistant
secretary for museums. The assistant secretary for public
service is responsible for a new Office of Conference
Services that serves the burgeoning needs of Smithsonian
bureaus for logistical assistance in planning scholarly
gatherings. The assistant secretary for external affairs
oversees the Office of International Relations, made up
of what were the Office of Service and Protocol and the
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program. The Office of
Publications Exchange was transferred to the Smithson-
ian Institution Libraries.

Office of International Relations

The Office of International Relations (OIR) provides sup-
port for Smithsonian research and programs abroad and
serves as the liaison between the Smithsonian and foreign
institutions, individuals abroad, international organiza-
tions, and government agencies. The office also assists
with the logistical details of international exchanges of
collections or personnel and serves as a point of contact —
for scholars, museum professionals, and foreign officials
seeking to establish cooperative relationships with the
Smithsonian.

Professional counsel and services in a variety of travel
documentation and immigration-related matters are avail-
able from the OIR. During 1988, for example, the office
provided documentation for 112 researchers and museum
professionals traveling to the Smithsonian and eleven
U.S. museums and zoos under the sponsorship of the
Smithsonian’s government-authorized Exchange Visitor
Program. For foreign travel by Smithsonian staff mem-
bers and grant recipients, the office obtained nearly a
hundred passports and more than a thousand foreign vi-
sas during 1988.

This year the OIR completed the Handbook on Inter-
national Research and Exchanges, which provides de-
tailed information and advice for Smithsonian staff who
wish to undertake work abroad or collaborate with for-
eign colleagues. Planning also began in 1988 for the de-
velopment of a computer data base on all Smithsonian
foreign research and exchange activities, information pre-
viously published in the periodic Profile of Smithsonian
International Activities.

The office was involved in a number of new coopera-

tive initiatives launched by the Smithsonian during 1988.
The office assisted, for example, in the preparation and
negotiation of a formal protocol of cooperation con-
cluded with Madagascar’s Ministry of Scientific Research
and Technological Development. The Smithsonian also
significantly expanded its collaboration with organiza-
tions in the Soviet Union. Exchanges of exhibitions,
scholars, and programs were planned with Soviet coun-
terparts and staff from the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, National Museum of Natural History,
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution Trav-
eling Exhibition Service, “Smithsonian World,” and Of-
fice of Folklife Programs. As part of its support for these
activities, the Office of International Relations arranged
visits to the Smithsonian by Soviet Minister of Culture
Vasiliy Zakharov, Soviet Academy of Sciences Deputy
Secretary General Andrei Kapitsa, Pushkin Museum Di-
rector Irina Antonova, and several other Soviet officials.
Groundwork was also laid this year for future Smithson-
ian collaboration with Japanese museums and research
institutes. Secretary Robert McC. Adams and National
Museum of American History staff visited Japan, and
two delegations of Japanese museum officials visited the
Smithsonian under the auspices of the Bunkacho, the Jap-
anese cultural agency. Early in the year, Japanese Crown
Prince Akihito and Princess Michiko called on Secretary
Adams and visited the National Museum of American
History. The OIR coordinated or planned all of these
visits and arranged for consultations at the Smithsonian
with the president of Iceland, the director-general of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Or-
ganization (UNESCO), and cultural or scientific affairs
ministers from Brazil, Bahrain, Korea, Thailand, and
Tunisia. In all, the OIR made arrangements for the visits
to the Smithsonian of more than 130 foreign officials and
distinguished scholars.

The Office of International Relations administers three
funding programs designed to encourage international
cooperation in scholarly activities. During 1988 the Smith-
sonian’s International Exchange Program supported work-
shops, training courses, and other short-term activities
involving scholars from seven countries working with five
Smithsonian bureaus. Now in its third year, the Suzanne
Liebers Erickson Memorial Fund supports exchange visits
between Smithsonian staff members and Danish scholars,
museum professionals, and students. Since its establish-
ment in 1965, the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program
has served to enhance the quality of American scholarly
work abroad by providing over $65 million in funding for
scholars from more than 250 institutions throughout the

United States. In 1988 awards from the program sup-
ported research in Burma, Pakistan, Yugoslavia, and In-
dia. The program supports the research of American
institutions—including the Smithsonian—in those coun-
tries where the United States held blocked currencies
derived largely from past sales of surplus agricultural
commodities under Public Law 480. Local currencies
have also been made available through the Foreign Cur-
rency Program for work in countries where post-Public
Law 480 funds have been established for that purpose.

In October 1987 the Office of International Relations
cooperated with the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies in
the planning and coordination of a colloquium on global
food issues. The proceedings were published in Septem-
ber 1988.

International Gallery

The International Gallery’s second major exhibition,
“Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure,” opened
in May 1988. This cross-disciplinary exhibition focused
attention on the Earth’s most biologically diverse habitat
and its ongoing destruction, which is one of the most
serious ecological threats today. Organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service in co-
operation with the World Wildlife Fund, “Tropical
Rainforests” closed in January 1989 and traveled under
the auspices of SITES. In conjunction with the exhibi-
tion, the Smithsonian organized a number of public and
scholarly programs, including film series, seminars for
policymakers, a rainforest folklife festival, and a lecture
series sponsored by the Resident Associate Program. Edu-
cational materials, teacher training workshops, and a
film resource guide were developed for use in schools and
in museums on the tour.

Office of Conference Services

Based in the International Center, the Office of Confer-
ence Services guides scholars and professionals through-
out the Institution in the planning and production of
symposia, conferences, and meetings. The office logged
almost two dozen requests for assistance in its first
months of existence. Initial undertakings included work-
shops entitled “Mesopotamian Paleoenvironment and
Pottery,” cosponsored by the Secretary’s office and the
University of Chicago in July 1988; a “Peace Corps in
Arab Countries” conference, cosponsored by the Office

65
of International Relations and the Peace Corps in Sep-
tember 1988; and the “Crossroads of Continents: Cul-
tures of Siberia and Alaska” symposium, cosponsored by
the National Museum of Natural History’s Department
of Anthropology and the International Research and Ex-
changes Board, also in September 1988.

Office of Quincentenary Programs

The sooth anniversary of Columbus’s first voyage to the
New World will be observed in 1992 at the Smithsonian
by the activities of at least sixteen bureaus, whose efforts
are being coordinated by the International Center’s Office
of Quincentenary Programs. Exhibitions and programs
are being planned in collaboration with scholars and in-
stitutions from throughout the United States and abroad
to highlight the cultural, historical, and scientific conse-
quences of the encounter between Europeans and the in-
digenous peoples of the Americas.

A broad array of activities ranging from scholarly and
public symposia to exhibitions, publications, and a televi-
sion series will present the complex relationships between
these cultures. The National Museum of Natural History
is organizing “Seeds of Change,” a major temporary exhi-
bition that will examine the process of plant, animal, and
disease exchanges between the Old and New Worlds. At
the National Museum of American History, a permanent
exhibition and a series of public programs will explore
the social and economic ties between Europe and the
Americas from the seventeenth century to the present.
The Office of Folklife Programs will look at the contribu-
tion of certain crops and plants to the establishment of
New World societies and at their role as symbols of iden-
tity and sources of artistic inspiration. The Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute is organizing the Fourth
World Congress on National Parks, to be held in Panama
in 1992. The institute is also planning an international
symposium, “Non-Imperial Politics in the Lands Visited
by Christopher Columbus.” “The Buried Mirror” is the
title of a bilingual series of five one-hour television pro-
grams, written and narrated by Mexican author Carlos
Fuentes, which is being developed by the Office of Quin-
centenary Programs and the Office of Telecommunica-
tions. A traveling exhibition on the iconography of
Christopher Columbus is being organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. The Na-
tional Air and Space Museum plans to publish a world
atlas based on satellite photographs. The Cooper-Hewitt
Museum will illustrate the influence of Native American

66

design on European and American decorative arts
through an exhibition of ceramics, textiles, metalwork,
and architectural motifs.

Man and the Biosphere Program

In 1986 the International Center, in cooperation with

the National Museum of Natural History and the Man
and the Biosphere-UNESCO Program, launched a new
international program on biological diversity inventory
procedures. The program was designed to develop a high-
resolution data base management system that will eventu-
ally provide nearly complete biological inventories of se-
lected species-rich sites, such as national parks, nature
reserves, and biosphere reserves (areas set aside for pro-
tection and study that are representative of the world’s
major ecosystems). With such a methodology, compara-
tive work can proceed more efficiently and accelerate the
process of understanding biological diversity around the
world. One of the most important aspects of this new
program is that biologists and other related professionals
from developing countries are being trained to conduct
their own biological inventories and to assist in catalogu-
ing bioresources within their respective countries. With
support from the U.S. Agency for International Develop-

ment, the World Heritage Program of UNESCO, and the |

Man and the Biosphere-UNESCO Program, training
workshops on the methodology of conducting biological
inventories were held during 1988 in Bolivia, Peru, and
Puerto Rico. Participants also received training at the
National Museum of Natural History in collections man-
agement and computer techniques. The program comple-
ments the Biological Diversity in Latin America Program,
a research initiative of the Museum of Natural History.

Other Programs

Timed to coincide with the annual meeting of the board
of directors of the Council of American Overseas Re-
search Centers, an exhibition entitled “Sojourners and
Settlers: Yemeni Workers at Home and Abroad” was the
first show to be mounted in the International Center
Conference Suite. Drawn from a display of photographs
taken by scholars gathered together by the University of
California, Los Angeles, the exhibition was reorganized
and jointly coordinated by the council and the Interna-
tional Center.

Joseph Henry Papers

Staff of the Joseph Henry Papers continued to research
and write the sixth volume (1844-46) of the projected
fifteen-volume selective letterpress edition of the corre-
spondence and private papers of Joseph Henry (1797-
1878), one of America’s foremost nineteenth-century sci-
entists and the first Secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Work was begun on volume 7 (1847-49), which will
document Henry’s efforts to organize the Smithsonian as
a center for original research.

During the past year, installation of the project’s local
area network and initiation of the development of a re-
vised computer-based document index were part of the
effort to have the project’s editorial work fully automated
by 1989. After almost two years of design, planning, and
packing, the project moved into its new quarters on the
balcony of the Arts and Industries Building in March
1988. The new space, which includes a separate, secure
room for the Bell—Henry Library, is more efficient and
compact than the space occupied in the Castle.

Despite its small size, the staff has been active in edu-
cation programs and exhibitions. Two interns conducted
supervised research on topics relating to the history of the
Smithsonian. Dr. Paul Theerman, one of the project’s as-
sistant editors, taught the history of science at West Vir-
ginia University during the fall 1987 semester. He also
served as curator of the exhibition, “Isaac Newton and
the Principia: 300 Years,” which traveled to the IBM Gal-
lery of Science and Art in New York City after it closed
at the National Museum of American History.

The Joseph Henry Papers continued its commitment to
scholarship and service to the history profession. Dr. Marc
Rothenberg, editor of the Henry Papers, presented papers
or served as organizer or chair at the annual meeting of
the History of Science Society, at a joint meeting of the
British Society for the History of Science and the Ameri-
can History of Science Society, Anglo-American meeting,
and at an international symposium held in Melbourne,
Australia, in honor of the Australian bicentennial. In ad-
dition, the Joseph Henry Papers now publishes History of
Science in America: News and Views, the newsletter of
the Forum for the History of Science in America.

National Zoological Park

As the survival of the world’s living resources becomes
more and more threatened, zoos have a critical role to
play in directly preserving those resources, as well as in
expanding the public’s knowledge through exhibitions
and programs and in conducting research. The National
Zoological Park (NZP) furthers these aims at its Rock
Creek Park facility, a popular place for tourists and local
residents alike, and at its 3,000-acre Conservation and
Research Center (CRC) in Front Royal, Virginia. During
1988 the zoo carried out significant research to advance
understanding in the biological and veterinary sciences,
while continuing its transition to a biological park that
introduces visitors to the ecological and evolutionary re-
lationships among plants and animals.

Animal Exhibits

Animal exhibits are the zoo’s primary means of educating
the general public about animal welfare and behavior,
biological principles and relationships, and the role of
humans in the natural world. The exhibits at the zoo
appeal to both serious-minded zoogoers and to visitors
on recreational outings.

The popular Invertebrate Exhibit, which opened in
1987, was a major step toward transforming the National
Zoo into a biological park where plants and animals are
exhibited together without the unnatural separation that
traditionally has characterized zoos. Two new exhibits
that opened in 1988 continue this approach. The Gibbon
Ridge Exhibit, located on a wooded ridge, provides a
naturalistic setting for the endangered forest apes, which
captivate visitors with their spectacular movements and
territorial calls. The Waterfowl Wetlands Exhibit, situ-
ated in front of the Bird House, displays a wide variety of
aquatic birds in a lush environment enhanced by swamp
grasses, sedges, cattails, and other wetlands plants. In the
spring, ducks, geese, swans, herons, and egrets perform
their elaborate courtship rituals in full view of visitors.
Both of these new exhibits include innovative interactive
graphics that inform and teach visitors.

Design work on the Amazonia Aquatic Exhibit, which
furthers the biological park concept, progressed in 1988.
The Smithsonian’s unrivaled expertise in tropical biology
is informing and guiding the concept and design. Like the
other new exhibits, the Amazonia Exhibit will integrate
animals and plants in the same environment.

In 1988 zoo visitors could view more than 3,000 mam-
mals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians and more than
1,500 invertebrates. The successful breeding of many of

67
Keepers at the National Zoological Park observe as African elephant “Nancy,” left, is allowed in the enclosure with Asian elephant
“Shanthi” (right) for the first time, August 25, 1988. Nancy has the large ears and tusks.

the animals is evidence of the quality of care given to the
animals at the zoo and at the Conservation and Research
Center. The nearly 1,000 births and hatchings in 1988
delighted visitors and bolstered the NZP’s stocks of
threatened and endangered species. Among the newborns
were a giraffe, orangutan, sandhill crane, Guam rail,
smoky jungle frog, and Dumeril’s ground boa, as well as
octopus and several clouded leopards and Pére David's

68

deer. More than 850 of the young animals born at the
zoo were traded or sold to other zoos for their exhibits
and breeding programs.

A popular and fascinating addition to the NZP’s collec-
tions were two Komodo dragons, a generous gift from
the people of Indonesia. Komodos, the world’s largest
lizards, are rarely exhibited in zoos. The pair at the NZP
are the only ones in the United States, and it is hoped

that they will become part of a breeding program that
will result in a self-sustaining population of Komodos in
this country.

Conservation

Saving threatened and endangered species, a critical func-
tion of most zoos today, is the focus of the NZP’s Conser-
vation and Research Center. Housed at the center is the
Department of Conservation, which had 390 mammals
and 219 birds in its collection as of September 30, 1988.
Significant births during the year included a Goeldi’s mon-
key, golden-lion tamarins, clouded leopards, Przewalski
horses, Eld’s deer, and Arabian oryx. Among the rare
birds hatched were Guam rails, Micronesian kingfishers,
Bali mynahs, red-crowned cranes, and a sunbittern.

The Department of Conservation began its participa-
tion in the Arabian Oryx Species Survival Plan with the
acquisition of a pair of these animals in November 1988.
Twelve Bali mynahs from the department were included
in a group of thirty-nine mynahs transferred to the Sura-
baya Zoo in Indonesia by U.S. zoos as part of an ongo-
ing cooperative propagation-reintroduction program.

The Conservation and Research Center hosted the fifth
summer Wildlife Conservation and Management Train-
ing Course, which attracted twenty-four participants
from seventeen countries. Dr. Rasanayagam Rudran gave
additional courses during the year in the People’s Repub-
lic of China, Venezuela, and Malaysia. Dr. Christen
Wemmer, Dr. J. Andrew Teare, and Charles Pickett pre-
sented a new Zoo Biology and Management Training
Course in Thailand and Malaysia. Dr. Rudran and Dr.
Wemmer received a generous grant from the J. N. Pew,
Jr., Charitable Trust to support the Wildlife Conserva-
tion and Management Training program.

Dr. Wemmer was appointed to the board of directors
of the American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums and was named chairman of the association’s
Species Survival Plan Subcommittee. Dr. Scott Derrickson
transferred Guam rails to and from the breeding facility
on Guam in May 1988. During his visit he worked with
Guamanian and Commonwealth biologists in surveying
potential introduction sites on the island of Rota, Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

External Affairs

The Office of the Assistant Director for External Affairs
and Outreach was created during 1988 to coordinate the

expanding activities of the Offices of Public Affairs, Edu-
cation, Development, and Design and Exhibit Planning.
Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth was appointed to head the of-
fice, which also coordinates plans for the zoo’s centennial
celebration in 1989-90.

Through creative programs, exhibits, and educational
materials, the zoo informs and educates its large and di-
verse audiences. Area teachers learn about the zoo and its
educational programs through the National Zoo News, a
newspaper published by the Office of Education. New
activity-based programs, which enable students to ob-
serve animals at close range, include “Dinosaurs and
Reptiles” (a two-visit program conducted with the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History) and “Invertebrates.”
Teacher-training workshops and outreach kits for teach-
ers in the Washington area continued as key components
of the zoo’s school programs.

To augment the zoo’s programs in conservation educa-
tion, “ZooArk,” an exhibit on zoos and worldwide con-
servation issues, traveled to zoos throughout the United
States under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service. An innovative new museum
program for junior high school students, “Bison, Butter-
flies, and Conservation,” was begun in cooperation with
the National Portrait Gallery and the National Museum
of Natural History. It combines behind-the-scenes mu-
seum and zoo visits, historical role-playing, and discus-
sion of contemporary issues.

In conjunction with the Friends of the National Zoo,
the zoo continued its classes for adults in conservation,
animal behavior, and principles of exotic animal medi-
cine. To date, several hundred people have received cer-
tificates for a course of wildlife studies, and many more
have enrolled in classes.

Through the combined efforts of several zoo offices,
educational exhibits were developed this year to accom-
pany major new animal displays, including Gibbon
Ridge, Waterfowl Wetlands, Japanese Spider Crabs, and
Komodo Dragons. The Office of Design and Exhibit
Planning continued its program of preparing information
and identification labels about animals, plants, and the
zoo. A photographic exhibition for the zoo’s centennial,
“The Zoo: Then, Now, and Future,” was developed.

Work began on a revision of the master graphics plan,
which encompasses all forms of visitor orientation. The
new system will reflect major physical changes, such as
the anticipated 1989 completion of the Olmsted Walk
renovation, as well as the major themes of the zoo’s cen-
tennial observation.

Also in 1988, people across the United States and

69
abroad shared in the zoo’s achievements through the

print and broadcast media. An important emphasis of the

information provided by the Office of Public Affairs was
the zoo’s role in conserving animal species through study
and breeding. The office also conducted a special promo-
tional campaign to increase the number of visitors in
winter and early spring, with the generous pro bono as-
sistance of the firm of Williams and Whittle, Associates.
Sunset Serenades, the summer folk, jazz, and blues con-
cert series, attracted new audiences to the zoo during the
more sparsely visited early evening hours.

Public lectures throughout the year on wildlife and en-
vironmental topics presented new information on North
American mammoths, dinosaur biology and behavior,
and the evolution of siamangs and gibbons. The zoo’s
Symposium Series continued to bring serious biological
topics to public attention through lectures and discus-
sions. The eighth symposium focused on human cultures
as key elements in national and global conservation strat-
egies. Symposia proceedings are published by the Smith-
sonian Institution Press.

During 1988 an Advisory Council was created to advise
and assist the zoo in fund-raising in support of major zoo
programs. Led by Dr. David Challinor, science adviser to
Secretary Adams and former assistant secretary for re-
search, the council is concentrating first on the Amazonia
exhibit and the Australia Pavilion.

Animal Health

The Department of Animal Health (DAH) provides veter-
inary care for the zoo’s animal collections at the Rock
Creek Park facility and at the Conservation and Research
Center in Front Royal. Research is concentrated in two
areas: clinical medicine and reproductive physiology.
These research programs involve collaboration with other
zoos in the United States and international field trips to
Kenya, Tanzania, India, Australia, Burma, Guam, and
other locations. The clinical studies now under way in-
clude improving anesthetic techniques and utilizing and
modifying newer tools, such as ultrasound, endoscopy,
and nuclear magnetic resonance, to aid in diagnosing the
problems of zoological patients.

In 1988 the zoo opened its new veterinary hospital, a
low-profile, two-story building nestled inconspicuously in
a wooded hillside overlooking Rock Creek. The building
is graceful, appropriate to its setting, and functional.
With the new hospital, the zoo now has a state-of-the-art
facility for the medical and surgical care of its collection,

7O

One of the many volunteers takes her turn in the panda house
kitchen during the Zoo’s 1988 Pregnancy Watch. (Photograph
by Jessie Cohen)

along with much-needed laboratory space to continue
and expand studies. The hospital’s facilities for diagnostic
support—the clinical pathology, histopathology, and mi-
crobiology laboratories—all have the latest biosafety
equipment, including laminar-flow cabinets for handling
parasites and other microorganisms, which zoo technolo-
gists are constantly screening. A new special research lab-
oratory and infectious disease isolation unit will enable
the pathology staff to investigate infectious agents in or-
der to control them. The new facilities also include staff
offices, a department library-slide review room, a slide
accession room, and teaching cubicles. A classroom/con-
ference room also serves as an audio-video center; it is
linked to the nearby pathology building so that important
necropsies conducted there can be documented or re-
viewed by students and zoo staff in an uncontaminated
environment.

At the Conservation and Research Center hospital in
Front Royal, animals are quarantined and major surgical
procedures are performed in the surgery suite. The associ-
ated laboratories are used for urinary hormone analysis,
semen freezing, antibiotic assays, and clinical pathological
studies. Analysis of urinary hormones allows the zoo to
monitor pregnancies in zoo animals in a noninvasive way.

The zoo made major advances in the field of reproduc-
tive physiology and endocrinology during 1988. The En-
docrinology Research Laboratory in the veterinary hospital
at CRC continues research into monitoring hormonal me-
tabolites in voided urine, a noninvasive approach to stud-
ying the endocrinology of zoo species. This technique has
been used to determine the reproductive cycle, diagnose
pregnancy, and predict parturition in Eld’s deer and the
Przewalski horse; studies are in progress involving Pere
David’s deer, muntjac, and golden-lion tamarins. The
laboratory also monitors the pregnancy of the zoo’s giant
panda, Ling Ling, and the results are used to plan man-
agement and medical decisions.

Research continued into the study of the domestic fer-
ret as a model for the highly endangered black-footed
ferret. During the past year, methods for inseminating
ferrets by laparoscopy (a fiber-optic system whereby
sperm are deposited directly into the uterus through the
abdominal wall) resulted in a 70 percent conception rate
and the births of more than 140 domestic ferret offspring.
Successful procedures were developed to freeze-store fer-
ret spermatozoa. Thirty-one ferret kits were produced
using sperm frozen for as long as one year.

Further advances also were made in gamete research
and embryo technology. Collaborative research with the
Dallas Zoological Park resulted in the birth of a suni
antelope after embryo transfer. The zoo’s distinction as
the first research laboratory to produce carnivore off-
spring (domestic cat kittens) from in vitro fertilized em-
bryos was advanced further by improving laboratory
procedures for producing embryos. About 80 percent of
all cat eggs collected fertilize in vitro and result in the
formation of embryos. This technology has recently been
used in collaborative research with Florida state officials,
who are managing the highly endangered Florida pan-
ther. In vitro fertilization procedures developed for the
domestic cat were used to recover puma eggs and achieve
a 45 percent fertilization rate and the production of ten
cleaved embryos.

NZP proposes to establish a Genetic Resource Bank,
which will rely heavily on the rapidly developing field of
cryobiology. Despite the frequent speculation that gamete
(sperm and ovum) and embryo cryopreservation will be
important for the conservation and management of mam-
mals, no organized effort exists in the United States or
elsewhere to sample, evaluate, cryopreserve, maintain,
and use germ plasm from animals other than common,
domestic species. The proposed Genetic Resource Bank
will facilitate international efforts to preserve rare and
threatened sources of biodiversity.

Pathology

The Department of Pathology (DOP) provides necropsy
and laboratory diagnostic support and engages in re-
search relating to disease of zoo animals. The DOP has
continued collaborative studies with the Uniformed Ser-
vices University of the Health Sciences and the San Diego
Zoo on a new viral hepatitis of marmosets and tamarins
that particularly affects golden-lion tamarins.

The department also completed a pathologic study of
eight giant panda cubs from three zoos (Mexico City,
Madrid, and Washington). The study showed that most
panda cub deaths were caused by opportunistic bacterial
infections associated with the cubs’ inability to attain suf-
ficient antibody protection from the mothers’ colostrum
right after birth. This study was presented at the Second
International Symposium for the Giant Panda in Tokyo
in November, along with a proposal to adapt technology
employing the preparation of concentrated immunoglob-
ulins from parent serums, which would be administered
to the cubs at birth.

In a program supported by the Friends of the National
Zoo (FONZ), a study carried out by veterinary patholo-
gist Dr. Richard Montali and illustrated by Ellen Seefelt,
FONZ junior project assistant, developed a protocol for
the post-mortem examination of the diaphragm to detect
hernias in golden-lion tamarins. This document was dis-
tributed to all breeders of golden-lion tamarins through
studbook keeper Jon Ballou.

One of the new research projects is a study by Dr.
Carol Partington, a FONZ senior research assistant, of
an iron storage disease (hemochromatosis) in the zoo’s
Bali mynahs. In addition, DOP staff, with the Depart-
ment of Animal Health and the Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, are developing a vaccine against a
bacterial dysentery caused by shigella. They are also
studying the hematology of lizards using members of the
Iguanidae family as a model. Dr. Don Nichols completed
a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellowship on immunologic
studies of P. tenuis (meningial worm).

Nonmedical Research

The Department of Zoological Research (DZR) provides
scientific support and develops innovative programs to
further the zoo’s missions of conservation, research, exhi-
bition, and education. DZR staff and associates collabo-
rate within and outside the zoo on a broad range of
research problems, ranging from long-term multidisciplin-

71
ary field studies involving numerous scientists in Brazil,
Venezuela, and Sri Lanka, to one-on-one collaborations
testing a single hypothesis or solving a specific manage-
ment problem. The department currently collaborates,
both within and outside NZP, on more than seventy-five
projects.

In June 1988 work began on the $3 million renovation
of the Research Building. Upon completion of the project
in the summer of 1989, DZR’s functions will be housed in
the same location for the first time in over a decade. The
new facility has been tailored to the laboratory, adminis-
trative, and animal housing needs of the department.

Several staff research efforts continued in the Poco das
Antas Reserve in Brazil. Dr. Devra Kleiman, the zoo’s
assistant director for research, supervised the reserve’s
Golden-Lion Tamarin Conservation Program, traveling
to Brazil to continue basic field research with NZP re-
search associate Dr. James Dietz on the population dy-
namics, reproductive cycles, and demography of this
endangered species and to monitor the progress of cap-
tive-born tamarins reintroduced to the reserve between
1984 and 1987. Dr. Kleiman also began a long-term study
of small mammal ecology in the reserve in collaboration
with Dr. Jody Stallings of the University of Florida.

Dr. Dietz collaborated with research associate Dr. Lisa
Forman in using DNA “fingerprinting” to determine kin-
ship in wild and captive golden-lion tamarins. Dr. Dietz
and research associate Dr. Steven Thompson conducted
studies measuring the relative energetic costs of huddling
behavior in tamarins, both in captivity and at the Poco
das Antas Reserve. Research associate Lou Ann Dietz ran
the golden-lion tamarin education programs in and
around the reserve.

Dr. Thompson was among department staff who con-
ducted studies of terrestrial mammals during 1988. He
completed basic research on the comparative energetics of
small marsupials and eutherian mammals, concentrating
on sugar gliders, potoroos, North American porcupines,
tree kangaroos, and ring-tailed possums. The San Joa-
quin kit fox in California is the subject of a field study
that research zoologist Dr. Katherine Ralls initiated for
the Nature Conservancy. With population manager Dr.
Jon Ballou and others, Dr. Ralls continued collaborative
research on estimating minimum viable population sizes
for wild and captive populations. Dr. Olav Oftedal, NZP
nutritionist, began a diet study of the folivorous red
howler monkey in Venezuela in collaboration with re-
search zoologist Dr. Rasanayagam Rudran and Dr. Sue
Crissey of the Brookfield Zoo. Miles Roberts, coordina-
tor of the Red Panda Species Survival Plan, continued

72

A new tank and exhibit were built to house the giant Japanese
spider crabs in the Invertebrate Exhibit at the Zoo. A donation
from All Nippon Airways funded construction of the 3,000-
gallon tank. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

research on the behavioral ecology of the eastern chip-
munk at the zoo and completed life history studies of a
variety of small mammals. In Sri Lanka, research associ-
ate Dr. Wolfgang Dittus completed the eighteenth year of
his sociodemographic studies of the toque macaque, fo-
cusing on the evolution of social behavior, mechanisms
of population regulation, and the genetic structure of pop-
ulations. Dr. Ted Grand finished a senior Smithsonian
postdoctoral fellowship study of comparative mammalian
anatomy and movement patterns with emphasis on ungu-
lates, callitrichid primates, and caviomorph rodents in
collaboration with the Department of Pathology.

Marine mammals were the subject of a number of re-
search efforts during 1988. Dr. Ralls collaborated with
Dr. Donald Siniff of the University of Minnesota to study
movement patterns of sea otters off the California coast.
Dr. Oftedal studied comparative analyses of pinniped
milk in collaboration with graduate student Sara Iverson
and NZP research zoologist Dr. Daryl Boness, and lacta-
tion strategies of harbor seals on Sable Island, Nova Sco-
tia, in collaboration with Dr. Boness and the Canadian
Department of Fisheries and Oceans. Dr. Boness pursued
studies of California sea lion maternal investment on San
Nicholas Island and of the endangered Hawaiian monk
seal. He initiated studies of the behavior of the Juan Fer-
nandez fur seal and South American sea lion in Chile and

——

Argentina, both in collaboration with Smithsonian post-
doctoral fellow Dr. John Francis.

Research related to birds included DZR staff member
Dr. Eugene Morton’s continued work on Animal Vocal
Signals and Communication, a title in the Behavioral Bi-
ology Series of Cambridge University Press. Dr. Morton
also initiated studies in migrant bird demography and
comparative evolution of the martins and continued long-
term studies of a long-distance migrant bird, the Ken-
tucky warbler, at the zoo’s Conservation and Research
Center. Research associate Dr. Kim Derrickson began
studies of individual song and repertoire preference in
mockingbirds and continued studies of seasonal changes
in nest location and construction patterns in wild mock-
ingbirds. Research associate Russell Greenberg continued
research on neophobia (the fear of new surroundings and
new stimuli) in song and swamp sparrows and collabo-
rated with zoologists Dr. James Lynch of the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center and Dr. Samuel Droege
of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to analyze bird cen-
sus data for possible trends related to tropical forest
deforestation. Susan Haig began a Smithsonian postdoc-
toral fellowship to study the genetics of the endangered
Guam rail and Micronesian kingfisher, two species for
which collaborative captive breeding programs provide
the only safeguard from extinction.

In other staff activity, Dr. Oftedal completed several
studies on green iguanas with Dr. Dagmar Werner and
the Iguana Management Project, Panama, and research
associates David Baer and Mary Allen of the NZP. Dr.
Lisa Forman evaluated genetic differences between the
three forms of Leontopithecus (lion tamarins). She also
established a working genetics laboratory at the Hospi-
tal/Research Building with facilities for DNA “finger-
print” analysis, cloning, and tissue culturing.

Construction and Support Services

Nineteen eighty-eight was a busy year for the construc-
tion of exhibits and facilities. The Office of Facilities
Management completed work on the Invertebrate Ex-
hibit, the renovation of the Panda House, the second
phase of the Olmsted Walk renovation, Gibbon Ridge,
the new veterinary hospital, the Komodo Dragon Ex-
hibit, the Waterfowl Wetlands Exhibit, the Mississippi
Fish Exhibit, the FONZ bookstore, Beaver Pool, and the
renovation of the Propagation Building. Work began on
a number of major projects: the renovation of the Ele-
phant House, the third phase of Olmsted Walk, the re-
placement of NZP’s high-voltage electrical system, and
the major renovation of the older Hospital/ Research
Building. The emphasis on the zoo as a biological park
has resulted in the installation of new planting beds and
the upgrading of existing ones.

The Office of Planning was created during 1988 to co-
ordinate major construction projects as outlined in NZP’s
revised master plan and to provide coordination among
capital construction, renovation and restoration, and in-
house repair. Esthetic overview, environmental assess-
ment, historic preservation, land-use planning, landscape
design, visitor impact, feasibility, and appropriate federal
commission reviews are part of the coordination process.

During 1988 the Office of Police and Safety was able to
solve the majority of the zoo’s radio communications
problems. The office administrative and technical staff
have been consolidated in one suite of offices, thus im-
proving the delivery of safety, security, and enforcement
services to the NZP. The Police Unit continues to keep
the park a safe place to visit and work.
Office of American Studies

Now in its twenty-first year, the program in graduate
education sponsored by the Office of American Studies
was designed to encourage research in the field of mate-
rial culture, using the collections and personnel of the
Smithsonian Institution’s many museums. Another origi-
nal purpose of the program was to overcome the separa-
tion then existing between university and museum
scholars. Through formal courses conducted at the Insti-
tution, graduate students from cooperating universities
are encouraged to take advantage of the opportunities
that the national museums offer. Courses have dealt with
art, technology, and social, cultural, and political his-
tory. The research interests of participating students have
ranged from art to anthropology.

The 1987 fall semester seminar, “Material Aspects of
American Civilization,” focused on political culture and
the Constitution. The seminar was taught by Dr. Wil-
comb E. Washburn, director of the program, and Dr.
Bernard Mergen of George Washington University. Ten
students participated—six from George Washington Uni-
versity and four from the University of Maryland.

Other seminars during the past year included “The
Decorative Arts in America,” taught by Barbara G. Car-
son of George Washington University, and “Art in His-
tory,” taught by Dr. Lillian B. Miller of the Smithsonian’s
National Portrait Gallery. Thirty-six students partici-
pated in these seminars.

Two graduate students are pursuing specialized re-
search under the supervision of the office’s director. Dr.
Washburn continued his research in early exploration
and discovery, museum history, and anthropology.

74

Office of Fellowships and

Grants

At the Smithsonian, historical and anthropological ob-
jects, original works of art, natural history specimens,
living plants and animals, entire ecosystems, and even the
universe are available for study. The Institution and its
curators offer unparalleled resources, unavailable any-
where else and essential to many research projects.

Each year hundreds of scholars and students of art,
history, and science from the United States and abroad
come to the Smithsonian to use these unique resources.
The Office of Fellowships and Grants (OFG) develops
and administers the numerous programs designed to as-
sist researchers working at Smithsonian facilities in con-
junction with the Institution’s professional staff. These
academic programs, which include long- and short-term
residential appointments, are an important complement
to those offered by universities. Approximately 800 un-
dergraduate and graduate students and scholars received
awards administered by the OFG in 1988.

Programs for Visiting Students and Scholars

The office awarded eighty-eight predoctoral, postdoc-
toral, and senior postdoctoral Smithsonian Research Fel-
lowships in 1988, including nineteen foreign students from
sixteen countries. Participants in the twenty-three-year-
old fellowship program conduct independent studies un-
der the guidance of staff. Research is carried out in the
Institution’s bureaus or at field sites, usually over a pe-
riod of six to twelve months. Topics of study in 1988
spanned a range of scholarly interests, from the content
and function of audience talk in art and history museums
to the morphological analysis of asteroid larvae. Other
topics included sea otter genetics; black Christianity and
black society; Charles L. Freer and Japanese art; paleo-
ecology and site formation of Kanjera, Kenya; and rates
of molecular evolution in marine gastropods.

Twenty-three U.S. and six foreign students in the early
stages of their graduate training received ten-week fellow-
ships in 1988. These awards enabled the students to ex-
plore areas that they are considering as the subjects for
their dissertation research. They studied such topics as
American public ritual in the 1850s; form, style, and sym-
bolic content in Arctic fur clothing; material culture in
twentieth-century American life; and the physiological
ecology of competition between temperate forest vine and
tree species.

Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellows in residence in
1988 included David Kingery of the the Massachusetts

rn

|
Institute of Technology, who worked at the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory and the National Museum of
American History to study the role and development of
materials technologies. At the National Museum of
American Art, Albert Boime of the University of Califor-
nia, Los Angeles, continued his research on nineteenth-
and twentieth-century American art.

George A. Michell received a fellowship in 1988 to con-
duct research on the arts in South Asia. The fellowship is
funded by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation Pro-
gram in the Humanities to support postdoctoral research
related to the programs of the National Museum of Afri-
can Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer
Gallery of Art.

The Faculty Fellowship Program encourages minority
faculty members to conduct research at the Smithsonian.
In 1988 seven awards were made for two- to four-month
periods. Some of the subjects Faculty Fellows studied
were Baltimore’s antebellum free black community; the
history of public health in nineteenth-century Washing-
ton, D.C.; the singing life of the Reverend Dr. Joseph
Johnson; and the costumes of nineteenth-century Afro-
Americans.

In addition to the Institution-wide programs funded
through the OFG, the office administers fellowships and
other awards supported with funds from bureau sources.
In all, there were ninety-two such awards in 1988 for
visitors who came to the Institution for varying periods.

At the National Air and Space Museum, this year’s
awards included appointments to the Daniel and Florence
Guggenheim, A. Verville, and International fellowships.
The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory offered four
postdoctoral and five predoctoral fellowships. Also this
year, the National Museum of American Art, in conjunc-
tion with the James Renwick Alliance, developed the
James Renwick Fellowship Program in American Crafts.
One senior and one graduate fellowship were awarded
under this new program, which encourages research in
the history of twentieth-century American art, crafts, or
design.

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory made seven
postgraduate internship awards for research and training
in areas ranging from art conservation to objects conser-
vation. These interns were appointed to a variety of SI
bureaus, including the Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the National Museum
of African Art, the National Museum of American Art,
and the National Museum of American History.

The popularity of the OFG’s short-term visitor pro-
gram continues to grow, especially with participants from

developing regions of the world. In 1988 the program
assisted 138 scholars, including 74 international visitors
from 31 nations, who came to the Institution to conduct
research, examine collections, present seminars, and
coauthor publications with Smithsonian staff.

Under the OFG’s successful workshop program, scho-
lars in research, education, and museological fields gath-
ered to discuss issues of mutual or complementary
interest. Last year Smithsonian staff members organized
nineteen workshops. One of these, “Collections and Cul-
ture: Museums and the Development of American Life
and Thought,” was a joint venture of the Woodrow Wil-
son International Center for Scholars and the National
Museum of American History. Some of the other topics
included women in the progressive era, the coming of
modernism to Chicago, 1920-40, and the systematics of
sea cucumbers.

Internships and Other Programs

Internships continue to provide valuable experiences for
students and are becoming an integral part of many un-
dergraduate and graduate programs. The Office adminis-
ters all internship appointments supported with stipends.
In 1988 these included fifteen at the National Air and
Space Museum, four at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden, and three at the National Museum of Amer-
ican Art. Twelve students participated in the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center’s work-and-learn pro-
gram in environmental studies. At the National Museum
of Natural History, the Botany and Vertebrate Zoology
Departments offered new programs of stipend support
for twenty-four students. Fifty-six interns received sti-
pends from other bureaus.

Twelve students participated in the Smith College
Smithsonian Program in American Studies. The program
features a seminar course and research projects conducted
under the supervision of staff members.

High school students also took advantage of the Insti-
tution’s internship opportunities through the successful
programs offered by the Office of Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education (OESE). In 1988, forty-one students
participated in a five-week session designed to broaden
an existing academic or vocational interest. The OFG
also administered five appointments to the Teacher Intern
Program for the OESE.

The OFG supplemented these programs with efforts
aimed at increasing the participation of minority students
in Smithsonian research activities. Forty-six minority un-

75
dergraduate and graduate students from all over the
country were awarded internships to work in bureaus
and offices throughout the Institution.

In collaboration with the bureaus, the office continued
a program for Native American students and community
scholars, with sixteen short-term awards in 1988. The
scholars’ research projects included the Smithsonian’s
Seminole artifacts and materials, and prehistoric and his-
toric Pueblo textiles.

With the support of a grant from the Smithsonian Edu-
cational Outreach Program, the Office and Howard Uni-
versity offered the second session of a program to
promote minority interest in natural history. Students
from Howard, accompanied by two Howard faculty
members, spent a week at the Smithsonian Environmen-
tal Research Center participating in field exercises and
learning about staff research. Three other faculty mem-
bers from historically black colleges observed the course.
Faculty members then visited the Mall to learn more
about the Institution and opportunities for research and
study. The Office expects to expand this pilot program to
include other schools and fields of study.

The Office continued to administer cooperative educa-
tion appointments aimed at minority graduate students
whose research interests coincide with those of the Insti-
tution. In 1988 three students were in cooperative educa-
tion positions, working in professional research-related
jobs at the Smithsonian while continuing their university
education. The appointments hold the potential for per-
manent employment at the Smithsonian.

The Education Fellowship Program, which offers sup-
port for graduate study and research training, also con-
tinues to encourage the participation of minority students
in the Institution’s fields of interest. One fellow, a gradu-
ate student in anthropology, is continuing his studies at
the University of Massachusetts and spending the sum-
mer months conducting fieldwork in the Caribbean.

The Webb Fellowship Program, named in honor of Re-
gent Emeritus James E. Webb, is intended to promote
excellence in the management of cultural and scientific
nonprofit organizations. This year six professional staff
members from the Smithsonian were awarded fellowships
to enhance their administrative abilities. The recipients
came from the staffs of the National Portrait Gallery,
Conservation Analytical Laboratory, National Museum
of American Art, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den, Office of Folklife Programs, and Office of Interna-
tional Relations.

The Scholarly Studies Program is a competitive grant
program that funds research by Smithsonian staff and

76

outside collaborators that falls outside the purview of tra-
ditional sources of support. As a result of two meetings
of a review committee composed of scholars from outside
the Institution, thirty-five one- and two-year grants were
awarded in 1988.

The Research Resources Program supports archival
projects that arrange, describe, preserve, and make avail-
able to scholars collections of major importance to re-
search in the arts, the sciences, and history. During the
first year of this pilot program, which was developed to
complement the Scholarly Studies Program, a review
committee of archivists from outside the Institution rec-
ommended that seven grants be awarded.

—EEEE—EE—————————————EE———
Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Is Earth unique? Or are there other planets orbiting stars
elsewhere in the Milky Way? Although most people be-
lieve that other stars may have planetary systems like the
one around our star, the Sun, the observational evidence
in support of this view has been very weak.

This year, scientists from the Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory (SAO) obtained the first convincing evi-
dence for a planet circling a star other than our own.

They used a painstaking technique designed to detect
minute variations in a star’s motion caused by the gravi-
tational attraction of a companion body. The faint star
HD 114762, one very much like our Sun, at a distance of
some 90 light-years from Earth, was found to have a
slight periodic wobble due to a large planet in orbit about
it. Because the viewing angle of the orbit is still unknown,
the size of the planet cannot be calculated with any cer-
tainty, but it is most likely a giant body some ten to
twenty times more massive than Jupiter. The planet’s dis-
tance from HD 114762 is about the same as that of Mer-
cury from the Sun. Since HD 114762 is about as luminous
as the Sun, the planet would have ovenlike temperatures,
making it an unsuitable habitat for life. This discovery,
however, supports the speculation that other stars in our
galaxy have planetary companions—and that some of
them may even have conditions conducive to the develop-
ment of life and the evolution of intelligence.

Appropriately, the discovery of a low-mass companion
to HD 114762 was made at the Smithsonian-operated
Oak Ridge Observatory in Harvard, Massachusetts, with
an optical telescope located just a few yards from an 84-
foot radio receiver devoted exclusively to the search for
signals from a technologically advanced civilization else-
where in the universe.

These two unusual investigations underscore the some-
times unexpected, often complementary, and always ex-
citing nature of the diverse research programs of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Founded in 1890
by the Institution’s third secretary, Samuel Pierpont Lang-
ley, for studies of “the new astronomy,” the observatory
today prepares to celebrate its centennial as one of the
world’s premier centers for astrophysical research. From
_ oneering studies of solar-terrestrial relationships to the
establishment of a worldwide satellite-tracking network,
the SAO has been a leader in fields as diverse as the
application of new technology to telescope design, the
observation of cosmic x-rays, and the survey of large-
scale structure in the universe. Since its move to Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, in 1955, the SAO has been closely
associated with the Harvard College Observatory (HCO).
Their partnership in the Center for Astrophysics (CfA)

has allowed a broad interdisciplinary approach to re-
search that combines observations across the entire elec-
tromagnetic spectrum with theoretical studies to provide
a deeper understanding of the basic physical processes
shaping the cosmos.

Research programs are organized in seven divisions,
with efforts coordinated to complement each other. Data-
gathering facilities include telescopes at the Fred Law-
rence Whipple Observatory on Mount Hopkins in Arizona
and at the Oak Ridge Observatory, and a millimeter-
wave radio telescope in Cambridge. In addition, SAO
scientists gain access to data from instruments aboard
rockets, balloons, and space satellites, as well as from
laboratory experiments.

On behalf of the International Astronomical Union,
the SAO operates two global science information ser-
vices. The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams
disseminates information about transient astronomical
phenomena such as comets and supernovas. The Minor
Planet Center computes orbits and provides observational
information on asteroids and serves as the official arbiter
of minor planet nomenclature.

In collaboration with Harvard, the SAO is conducting
an innovative program to develop secondary-school cur-
riculum materials that use examples from astronomy to
teach basic principles of physics and mathematics. This
year the SAO hosted a special Summer Institute for high
school teachers from around the country who critiqued
and refined teaching aids and classroom activities to be
field-tested in their home schools.

Highlights of the research conducted during the past
year in each of the observatory’s seven divisions follow.

Atomic and Molecular Physics

Almost all the information that comes from astronomical
objects is in the form of light. To understand the physical
conditions within those objects, as well as the intervening
medium through which the light travels, one must first
understand the complex atomic and molecular processes
that create the light and alter it during its long journey to
Earth. Through a combination of theoretical studies and
laboratory experiments, SAO scientists attempt to de-
scribe these processes.

In one such project, SAO scientists have studied how
the presence of unusually large molecules in space may
change our understanding of interstellar cloud chemistry.
Increasing evidence suggests that the interstellar medium
may be laced with giant molecules ranging in size from

UI
30 to 100 atoms each. These molecules may be the source
of infrared radiation seen near many astronomical bod-
ies. Moreover, the presence of such molecules, known to
researchers as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, appears
to resolve a discrepancy between astrophysical models of
diffuse interstellar clouds and observations by reducing
the abundance of singly charged atomic ions through a
process known as charge-transfer.

- Inside very hot astronomical bodies, a process known
as dielectronic recombination occurs, in which electrons
collide with positively charged atoms to form less highly
charged atoms. This process is particularly important in
high-temperature, low-density plasmas, such as those in
the atmospheres of the Sun and other stars. SAO scien-
tists have developed an extremely sensitive ion-beam ex-
periment to measure the dielectronic recombination rates
as a function of electric field for several ions present in
the solar corona, or outer atmosphere.

High-Energy Astrophysics

High-energy x-ray radiation is associated with some of
the most energetic—and violent—processes in the uni-
verse. Fortunately for humans, the Earth’s atmosphere
absorbs x-rays, but this also means all observations must
be made from balloons, rockets, or space vehicles. SAO
scientists are currently analyzing x-ray data from several
past space missions and are preparing instrumentation in-
tended for future spaceflight, including a High-Resolu-
tion Imaging Telescope to fly aboard the Advanced X-ray
Astrophysics Facility.

Clusters of galaxies, the largest aggregations of matter
yet recognized in the universe, can be studied by observ-
ing the x-ray emissions from the very hot gas filling the
space between individual galaxies. SAO scientists used x-
ray images from the Einstein Observatory satellite, which
completed its mission in 1981, and visible light observa-
tions of both large clusters and smaller groups of galaxies
to compare the amount of matter found in the galaxies
with that seen in the medium between them. They found
a much larger percentage of gas in the large clusters,

Aerial view of the Fred L. Whipple Observatory in Arizona.
Lower left: at the 7,600-foot level, site of the gamma-ray collec-
tor and two optical telescopes. Upper left: on the 8,500-foot
summit of Mt. Hopkins, the Multiple Mirror Telescope.
(Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory photograph)

‘which suggests that galaxy formation (by condensation

out of the gaseous medium) may be more efficient in
smaller clusters.

Further studies will be aimed at determining how much
of the intercluster gas is primordial—left over from the
early formation of the universe—and how much has been
produced more recently by processes inside the stars. In-
deed, SAO scientists examining images of nearby galaxies
have already found some evidence that explosive forces in
galactic centers may be driving gas out into the surround-
ing space.

Although the Sun is not a particularly copious emitter
of x-rays, its 2-million-degree-Celsius gaseous outer at-
mosphere does radiate strongly at these wavelengths.
This year, a novel SAO-built x-ray telescope, equipped
with a modified Hasselblad camera and special high-sen-
sitivity film, was flown aboard a suborbital sounding
rocket to make extremely high spatial resolution images
of the hot corona.

Optical and Infrared Astronomy

Optical and infrared astronomy research at the Smithson-
ian Astrophysical Observatory ranges from studies of the
large-scale structure of the universe to the formation and
evolution of stars. In support of this research, the SAO
operates the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory, site of
the Multiple Mirror Telescope, the world’s third largest
optical telescope, jointly run with the University of Ari-
zona. Other optical telescopes at the observatory are used
for large-scale surveys and other observations. A light
collector to meters in diameter, the most sensitive of its
type, is used for ground-based searches for high-energy
gamma rays. In collaboration with Harvard, the SAO
also operates the Oak Ridge Observatory, where a vari-
ety of instruments are employed for research ranging
from asteroid orbital determinations to galactic studies to
the search for extraterrestrial intelligence.

The long-term program using a 1.5-meter telescope at
the Whipple Observatory to survey the distribution of
more than 10,000 galaxies has produced a striking three-
dimensional map that suggests that the galaxies are dis-
tributed on flattened sheets surrounding vast, bubblelike
voids, some more than 100 million light-years in diame-
ter. This year, the survey was extended to the Southern
Hemisphere through collaborative programs with obser-
vatories in Brazil and Argentina. The initial results indi-
cate that the large-scale structures seen in the northern
sky prevail throughout the universe.

79
SAO scientists and their collaborators reached a mile-
stone in ground-based gamma-ray astronomy when they
detected gamma rays from the Crab Nebula with the 1o0-
meter-diameter light collector. The observation estab-
lishes a “standard candle,” that is, a steady source of
gamma-ray emission at a known level against which to
search for and measure other, weaker sources in the sky.
It also offers new clues to the physical processes at work
within the expanding shell of that exploded star.

Planetary Sciences

Research in planetary sciences at the SAO strives to un-
derstand planets, satellites, and other small bodies of the
solar system, as well as the processes that created them
billions of years ago. Research continued this year on the
wealth of data provided by the European Space Agency’s
Giotto mission to Comet Halley in 1986, and a new study
is under way on the likely mode and place of comet
birth. As part of investigations on the mineral composi-
tion of meteorites, SAO scientists have calculated that the
original solar nebula must have been rich in oxygen, sug-
gesting that icy, cometlike, presolar material may have
vaporized and then recondensed without ever mixing
with the nebula’s gases.

Worldwide interest in Supernova 1987A continued to
play a major role in the record-breaking activity of the
Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams. An unprece-
dented number of reports on comets—sixteen new dis-
coveries and seventeen recoveries—added to the total of
messages received and transmitted this year.

Radio and Geoastronomy

Research in radio astronomy attempts to understand the
structure, evolution, energy sources, and ultimate fate of
those astronomical objects that emit radio waves. As pio-
neers in very long baseline interferometry (VLBI), SAO
scientists use this radio observing technique to measure
directly drifts among the continents, to probe the interior
of the Earth, and to determine the distances to cosmic
sources and study their structures.

One major effort has been to measure the size of our
own galaxy and the distance to neighboring galaxies. By
charting the relative motions of water-vapor masers (am-
plified emissions of microwaves) surrounding a newly
formed massive star, scientists can determine the distance
to that star with high precision. This technique has been

80

used to measure the distance to the center of the Milky
Way, and this year new data yielded an even more accu-
rate value for this distance. Similar measurements were
made of maser complexes in the neighboring galaxy M33;
these measurements may make possible the first direct
determination of this galaxy’s rotation.

The large-scale structure of the Milky Way can be
probed and mapped by measuring the distribution of car-
bon monoxide gas, a molecule that emits strong radio
signals at millimeter wavelengths. This year SAO scien-
tists conducted the first complete survey of clouds of car-
bon monoxide, leading to the discovery that the inner
part of the Milky Way may contain as much matter in
molecular form as has been previously seen in the form
of atomic gas.

The SAO continued its leadership in the development
of instruments for astronomical research, including
highly stable atomic clocks built to support programs of
VLBI, deep-space tracking efforts, and national time-
keeping programs. The most novel instrument, an optical
interferometer constructed on Mount Wilson in Califor-
nia by the SAO in collaboration with several other insti-
tutions, began daily observations to determine the
position of stars with an accuracy Io to 100 times greater
than is possible with conventional telescopes.

Solar and Stellar Physics

Research in solar and stellar physics is concerned with
understanding the physical processes underlying the be-
havior of the Sun and other stars. Scientists study stars
like the Sun to understand the dependence of observed
properties on factors such as their age, their composition,
and their physical association with others in pairs and
groups. Of particular interest to SAO scientists is the be-
havior of hot gas under varied conditions—in the Sun’s
interior, in the outer atmospheres of stars, in the space
between stars, and in the material ejected by young stars
and supernovas.

One of the major puzzles of solar physics, for example,
is determining what process heats the Sun’s outer atmos-
phere and creates the powerful flow of gas and super-
charged particles called the solar wind that sweeps over
all the planets. An SAO-conceived instrument called an
Ultraviolet Coronagraph Spectrometer, designed to create
artificial eclipses and allow continuous observation of the
solar corona and study of the solar wind, has been se-
lected for flight aboard the international Solar Helio-
spheric Observatory in the mid-1990s.

To study magnetic activity cycles in other stars, SAO
scientists observe the relationship between this activity—
as evidenced by “spottedness” on a star’s surface—and
stellar rotation. For example, since one hemisphere of the
giant star Delta Coronae Borealis is covered with dark
regions, or “starspots,” its exact period of rotation has
been determined from accurate measurements of the star’s
periodic dimming. A new research tool being used for
these observations is the Automatic Photoelectric Tele-
scope, a relatively low-cost, fully automated instrument,
ideal for long-term monitoring of cyclic stellar brightness
variations. The SAO has established two such telescopes
at the Whipple Observatory, and plans are now under
way to develop a worldwide network.

Theoretical Astrophysics

Theoretical astrophysicists study the objects and systems
of the universe by means of mathematical analysis and
computer simulations. Although usually intended to in-
terpret observed phenomena, this research often results in
the prediction of new phenomena not yet seen. Among
other investigations last year, SAO scientists sought pos-
sible explanations for a number of phenomena, including
the cosmic background radiation thought to be a rem-
nant of the Big Bang, the manner in which large gas
clouds collapse to form galaxies, the properties of the
material spiraling into black holes, the instabilities in the
powerful winds expelled from stars, and the processes
that destroy globular clusters.

Globular clusters are dense, spherical congregations of
several million stars, usually found on the periphery of
the Milky Way. Among the oldest objects in the galaxy,
they may hold clues to its formation. The manner in
which globular clusters are destroyed becomes important
in accounting for observed differences between the orbits
of globular clusters and halo stars, also found outside the
main disk of our galaxy. In their investigations, SAO
theorists found that most of the initial population of clus-
ters had been destroyed by tidal disruption and that those
remaining have generally been distributed in orbits
aligned along the plane of the galaxy.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

On 2,600 acres bordering the Rhode River, a tributary of
the Chesapeake Bay, Smithsonian scientists are contribut-
ing to a better understanding of complex environmental
phenomena and problems. Through the Smithsonian En-
vironmental Research Center (SERC), located in Edgewa-
ter, Maryland, they carry out long-term interdisciplinary
studies in the field and in the laboratory.

The center complements its research activities with ed-
ucational programs for students—from undergraduates to
postdoctoral fellows—and for the public. Teacher- and
docent-led tours acquaint the public with the center’s
mission and facilities. Hikes along the two-mile Discov-
ery Trail or center-organized canoe outings on the tidal
river introduce visitors to the wonders and fragility of the
coastal environment.

Through regular seminars, center researchers and their
counterparts from universities and governmental labora-
tories keep each other abreast of work and issues in areas
of mutual interest. In addition, the center organizes and
hosts scientific workshops on a variety of topics.

The center sponsored about thirty research seminars
for its staff and the public during 1988. Educational tours
and activities involved about 5,000 visitors. Approxi-
mately thirty undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral
students conducted research projects at the center.

During 1988 the center’s facilities were expanded to
meet growing research needs. A 7,400-square-foot labo-
ratory wing was added to the main office and laboratory
building, and the building was renamed in honor of for-
mer U.S. Senator Charles McC. Mathias of Maryland, a
tireless champion of the Chesapeake Bay. An instrument
shop was also added to the shop building.

The following examples of 1988 research activities
show how SERC studies help unravel the complex web of
factors that influence the health of the environment. Re-
search is conducted by staff scientists, who represent a
diverse array of disciplines, and by visiting scientists and
students.

Impact of Air Pollution on Forests

Air pollution has many documented impacts on the de-
ciduous hardwood forests of the Chesapeake Bay drain-
age basin, including decreased physiological vigor,
leaching of nutrients, and the inhibition of photosynthe-
sis. Scientists at the Environmental Research Center have
measured a high correlation between daily ozone levels in
the Washington, D.C., urban area and at the center’s
research facility. Using a variety of approaches, they are

81
Dr. David Challinor, Dean Anderson, and Dr. David Correll
flanked by visitors and staff watched Senator Charles Mathias
break ground for a new laboratory addition named in his honor
at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center in Edgewa-
ter, Maryland. (Photograph by Richard K. Hofmeister)

measuring the deposition of gases and fine particles in
these forest canopies. In a research tower constructed in a
tall tulip poplar forest, instruments enable scientists to
measure the forest’s photosynthesis, respiration, and effi-
ciency of trapping air pollutants. Initial studies to charac-
terize this forest with respect to peak basic ecological
parameters have found median leaf numbers at an eleva-
tion of seven to eight meters, median leaf mass at twenty-
two to twenty-three meters, and median leaf area at
eighteen to nineteen meters. Leaf stratification is species
specific and segregates into understory (zero meters to ten
meters), midcanopy (ten meters to twenty-five meters)
and overstory (twenty-five meters to thirty-seven meters).
Intensive studies of this forest will determine the rates of
wet and dry atmospheric deposition and measure the im-
pacts of these depositions on the vegetation and soil of a
forest, which has been carefully characterized for future
comparative purposes.

Woodland Bird Populations

In the past, the center’s researchers have investigated the
breeding habitat preferences and requirements of wood-
land birds in the Chesapeake Bay region. These studies
included the effects of forest fragmentation that results

82

from development and land usage (for example, farm-
ing). Most woodland bird species spend the majority of
their lives wintering in the tropics, so the staffs research
has expanded to investigate the impact of land manage-
ment in the Yucatan peninsula of Mexico on these bird
populations. Overwintering migrants comprised forty-
two regularly occurring species and accounted for forty-
one of the individual bird species surveyed in a wide
range of natural and disturbed habitats. The preferred
habitat for most migrant species was tropical forest. Spe-
cies that preferred mature forest as their breeding habitat
in the Chesapeake region also preferred mature forest in
the tropics, while overwintering migrants that breed in
forest edge or field habitats avoided tropical forest. In the
course of this study, thirteen species of birds were re-
corded for the first time in the Yucatan peninsula; fifty-
six other species of birds were found in new locations.

Ant Identification

Ants are a diverse and important part of the Chesapeake |
landscape. This year, center staff published an annotated
checklist and key to the ninety ant species that occur on
the coastal plain lands of Maryland, Virginia, and Dela-
ware. This publication was designed as an aid to biolo-
gists interested in behavioral and ecological studies of
ants in the mid-Atlantic region. Seventy of these ant spe- _
cies have been collected at the center’s study site on the
Rhode River.

Greenhouse Effect on Tidal Marshes

The center is conducting the only current study of the
impact of increased concentrations of carbon dioxide in

the atmosphere—the “greenhouse effect”—on natural

plant communities. On a tidal marsh, experimental plant —
plots have been created in open-top chambers that are |
designed, built, tested, and calibrated for continuous car-
bon dioxide enrichment of the air. The chambers allow

the continuous measurement of plant photosynthesis, res-
piration, and water-use efficiency. The test atmosphere
composition was selected to simulate conditions predicted
for the Earth early in the twenty-first century, when the
warming of global temperature is expected to cause mas-
sive changes in the ecosystem. Long-term studies will al-
low investigators to assess whether plant communities
can acclimate to the altered atmosphere and whether spe-
cies composition in these communities will be affected.

In one of the plant species studied—Scirpus olneyii—
the elevated carbon dioxide levels resulted in greater pro-
ductivity. There was increased shoot density and fall dor-
mancy was delayed. On the other hand, there was no
effect on the growth of Spartina patens plants, probably
because of the nature of their photosynthetic mechanism.
Another aspect of the study focuses on the dynamics of
nitrogen nutrition in these plants. When exposed to in-
creased carbon dioxide, the Scirpus community showed
no increase in nitrogen assimilation, and scientists project
that this factor may limit the impact of increased carbon
dioxide levels on the productivity of this wetland area.

Narrow-Leaved Cattail Ecology

Tidal marshes of the Chesapeake are categorized as either
low- or high-elevation marshes. Low marshes, which
flood frequently at high tide, are dominated in the Rhode
River by narrow-leaved cattail. Field experiments have
shown that dead shoots provide vital aeration for under-
ground storage organs during the dormant season. Cut-
ting or bending dead shoots at the soil surface lowered
the oxygen concentrations in below-ground plant parts
and also lowered above-ground production and flowering
in the following growth season. Cutting had a greater
effect than bending. Dead shoots can be bent over by
wind or snow, destroyed by fire, or cut off by ice move-
ment or by animals such as muskrats. These natural dis-
turbances have significant effects on plant growth and
reproduction.

Self-Thinning in Wild Rice Populations

Plant ecologists have been interested in size variation and
self-thinning in plant populations for many reasons. As
natural plant populations mature, differences in self-thin-
ning between species help determine which species will
dominate. In managed plant populations, self-thinning
characteristics help managers determine optimal plant
spacing at each stage. The center’s staff have investigated
these aspects of a wild rice population in a Chesapeake
Bay freshwater tidal marsh. Size variability decreased
during the course of density-dependent mortality (self-
thinning). This effect was probably driven by competition
for light. These results have important implications for
plant evolution, since only those plants that survive this
self-thinning process will reproduce.

Blue Crab Ecology

The blue crab is a pugnacious predator in the Chesa-
peake Bay. One result of its aggressive activity is the fre-
quent loss of one or more legs. These legs can regenerate,
but the adverse effects of limb loss and regeneration are
not well understood. A study at the Environmental Re-
search Center found that 19 to 25 percent of the blue crab
population were missing at least one limb. The loss of
four or more limbs was rare.

In laboratory experiments, various limbs and combina-
tions of two limbs were removed and the long-term ef-
fects on growth and molting frequency were measured.
The loss of a single cheliped (large claw) did not alter the
molting frequency or the percentage of weight increase.
Multiple limb loss, however, significantly affected growth
rate. By the second molt, this effect was no longer ob-
served. Blue crabs regenerated 85 percent of a limb in the
first molt following limb loss. The rarity of multiple limb
loss in the natural population suggests that the popula-
tion’s overall growth rate is not seriously affected by limb
loss.
Smithsonian Institution
Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) cares for the
Institution’s records and is responsible for documenting
Smithsonian history. As the Institution grows and diversi-
fies, so do its archival needs. To acquire, preserve, and
service an adequate historical record, the Archives must
anticipate future preservation and research requirements
and make effective use of new technologies. Toward that
end, the Archives has begun a decade of modernization
and development. Program reviews by the Archives staff
and the Smithsonian’s Management Committee, a study
conducted by American Management Systems, Inc., to
assess automation alternatives, and a conservation study
have all contributed to the Archives’ plans for the future.
In order to identify and coordinate the needs, interests,
and concerns of archives and special collections through-
out the Institution, a Smithsonian Institution Archives
and Special Collections Council was established and held
its first meetings during the year.

Major developments this year included the lease of in-
terim archives storage in the Northern Virginia suburbs
of Washington, D.C.; receipt of a grant from the Smith-
sonian Research Resources Program to conserve early
architectural drawings of Smithsonian buildings; develop-
ment of an automated data base for accession reports;
development of an automated box-labeling procedure;
and an Institution-wide seminar on the management re-
quirements of audiovisual records.

General Archival Program

During the year the Archives helped the newly appointed
archivist at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gal-
lery of Art formulate a mission statement. Assistance
with filing and information systems was provided to the
Office of Fellowships and Grants, the Office of Environ-
mental Management and Safety, and the Wilson Ouar-
terly. The Archives also advised the archivist of the
American Association of Museums Registrars Committee
and began a records survey of the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries.

Nearly 200 groups of records were accessioned this
year, including records of the museums and central ad-
ministrative offices, private papers of curatorial and sci-
entific staff, and records of professional societies. One of
the largest accessions was the papers of herpetologist
George W. Nace of the University of Michigan. Also ac-
cessioned were the papers of former Smithsonian research
associate and helminthologist Roman Kenk and those of
former curator of entomology Ralph E. Crabill. The ar-

84

An early twentieth-century photograph of a National Zoologi-
cal Park keeper feeding a pygmy hippopotamus was included in
the Archives’ first number in its new series Occasional Papers.
The “Guide to Animal-Related Records at the National Zoolog-
ical Park, 1887-1985” was written by Julie Hamman of Portland
State University.

chives received additions to the papers of entomologist
Curtis W. Sabrosky, botanist Floyd McClure, historian
Nathan Reingold, paleontologist Ellis L. Yochelson, and
paleontologist Charles L. Gazin.

This year the Herpetologists’ League and the American
Arachnological Society named the SIA as the repository
for their records. The Archives received additions to the
papers of the Crustacean Society, the American Society of
Zoologists, the American Association for Zoological No-
menclature, and several other professional societies.

Reference Service

The Archives staff answered nearly 1,400 inquiries and
provided almost 6,000 items and some 25,000 copies to
researchers. Smithsonian Institution Press Director Emeri-
tus Edward F. Rivinus wrote an article on the philatelic
interests of second Secretary Spencer F. Baird as a side-
light to his work on a biography of Baird. Harvard pale-
ontologist Stephen Jay Gould studied the fourth
Secretary, Charles D. Walcott, and his discovery of the
Burgess Shale locality, while paleontologist Ellis Yochel-
son continued his work on a biography of Walcott. Ar-
chives staff spent considerable time helping researchers
working on the Crow Ethnology Catalogue, which will

document the Smithsonian’s Crow Indian collection. The
staff and interns of the Office of Architectural History
and Historic Preservation continued to study the history
of the Natural History Building and the National Zoo-
logical Park.

The SIA added many new entries to the list of publica-
tions based on research using archives collections. These
included Exploring the West, by Herman J. Viola (Wash-

ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Books, 1987); “Meteo-

rology in America, 1814-1874: Theoretical, Observa-
tional, and Institutional Horizons,” by James R. Fleming
(Ph.D. dissertation, Princeton University, 1988); and “‘All

about Me Forgotten’: The Education of Caroline Healey °

Dall (1822-1912),” by Gary Sue Goodman (Ph.D. disser-
tation, Stanford University, 1987). A recent issue of Earth
Sciences History (volume 6, 1987,) contained three arti-
cles that draw on SIA collections: “James Hall and the
New York Survey,” by Michele L. Aldrich and Alan E.
Leviton; “Walcott in Albany, New York: James Hall’s
Special Assistant,” by Ellis L. Yochelson; and “Meek at
Albany, 1852-1858,” by Clifford M. Nelson.

The Research in Progress lecture series continued this
year with topics ranging from archaeology to aeronau-
tics. David J. Meltzer of Southern Methodist University
spoke on American archaeology at the turn of the cen-
tury. Tom Crouch, chairman of the Department of Social
and Cultural History at the National Museum of Ameri-
can History, discussed facets of his research for a biogra-
phy of the Wright brothers. The series closed for the year
with a lecture on “A Botanical Rivalry: Stephen Elliott,
William Baldwin, and the LeContes,” by George A. Ro-
gers, professor emeritus in the Department of History at
Georgia Southern College.

Projects

The Smithsonian Archives Oral History Project continued
interviews of Institution scholars and administrators in
1988. The collection now totals 316.5 hours of recording,
accompanied by 5,600 pages of transcripts. Interview top-
ics ranged from the history of systematic biology to the
development of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden.

The Smithsonian Videohistory Program, funded by the
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, continued to support the
work of Smithsonian historians and curators to document
the history of science and technology using videotape. By
the end of the year the program had created nearly ninety
hours of videotape. Topics included the design and man-

ufacture of twentieth-century small arms; the observing
techniques in traditional ground-based astronomy; the
development of the first electronic digital computer; the
history of the Manhattan Project; and the role of the
Rand Corporation in aerial reconnaissance. The archives
historian began work on a multiyear project that will
trace the role of Smithsonian scientists as policy advisers
on the conservation of endangered species.

During 1988 the SIA’s ongoing survey of Smithsonian
photographic collections resulted in the second volume of
the Guide to Photographic Collections at the Smithson-
ian, to be published by Smithsonian Institution Press.
This volume serves as a guide to photographic collections
in the National Museum of Natural History, the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute, the Smithsonian As-
trophysical Observatory, and the National Zoological
Park. Work has begun on the third volume, a guide to
art bureau photographic collections.

Surveying began during 1988 at the National Museum
of American Art. By the close of the year, collections
containing seven million photographs had been surveyed
and described. Project staff members also assisted more
than 125 photo collection managers and curators from
Smithsonian bureaus and outside organizations in solving
reference, management, and conservation problems in-
volving audiovisual resources.

Publications

In 1988 the Archives issued the first in a new series of
publications, Occasional Papers. The Guide to Animal-
Related Records at the National Zoological Park, 1887-
1985, the result of a survey undertaken to document regis-
tration records, was written by Julie Hamman, an intern
from Portland State University. Two new numbers in the
Guides to Collections series were published during the
year. William E. Cox was the author of the Guide to the
Papers of George Sprague Myers, circa 1903-1986, and
Undated. James A. Steed wrote the Guide to the Records
of the Office of the Secretary, (Samuel P. Langley),
1866-1927.

85
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

With collections numbering more than one million vol-
umes, including more than 20,000 journal titles and
35,000 rare books, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
(SIL) supports the Institution’s research and curatorial ac-
tivities and its programs for loan and information serv-
ices, publications, exhibitions, and public lectures. SIL
serves its users through a network of fourteen branch
libraries spread over thirty-eight locations throughout the
Washington, D.C., area and in New York City; Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts; Mount Hopkins, Arizona; and
the Republic of Panama. Personnel resources are en-
hanced through the service of fifty-two volunteers, many
young people who are participating in stay-in-school pro-
grams, and five interns, including a professional librarian
from Australia. SIL participates in the creation of a na-
tional bibliographic data base, Online Computer Library
Center (OCLC), with more than 18 million records and
8,000 member libraries, and makes its records available
through an on-line catalogue, accessible from more than
100 terminals.

A member of the Association of Research Libraries,
SIL is divided into three operational divisions—Research
Services, Collections Management, and Automated Sys-
tems—and a Planning and Administration Office. High-
lights of this year included the final stages of a multiyear
renovation, which continued in units of the Automated
Systems Division and in the Planning and Administration
Office.

Research Services

The Research Services Division provides library service
for Smithsonian staff, scholars from outside the Institu-
tion, and members of the public. In 1988 staff of the four-
teen branch libraries answered 74,160 reference questions
posed by on-site users and in telephone and written in-
quiries. The Museum Reference Center in particular ex-
perienced a surge of more than 3,500 additional requests
for information, many from foreign countries planning
new or expanded museum ventures.

In order to provide additional information on a num-
ber of topics of continuing interest, the staff developed
more than a dozen new bibliographies. These range from
an annotated bibliography on the Victorian garden in the
United States, prepared by the Office of Horticulture
branch library, to a bibliography on the golden-lion tam-
arin written for the National Zoo branch library. These
two branches, as well as branches in the National Mu-
seum of African Art and the Anthropology Department

86

of the National Museum of Natural History, prepare
monthly lists that alert potential users to newly acquired
materials in the SIL collections.

Providing appropriate research materials to readers is
another important function of the Research Services Divi-
sion. This year, SIL circulated almost 67,000 items to
borrowers within and outside the Institution. Of these,
nearly 38,000 volumes were from the SIL collections. The
remainder were borrowed from other libraries to meet
the needs of Smithsonian researchers, were photocopied
from materials in the SIL collections, or were obtained in
photocopy from other libraries or from a commercial
document delivery service. Of the loans made in all for-
mats, close to 7,000 went by interlibrary loan to libraries
outside the Institution for use by their patrons.

The third area of focus for Research Services staff was
the improvement of physical facilities in several SIL
branches through renovation, expansion, or rearrange-
ment to make better use of available space. The branch
at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center ac-
complished the greatest leap forward. Thanks to the cen-
ter’s willingness to make available and remodel a large
area, the library is for the first time properly housed with
room for expanded collections and study space. The Re-
mote Annex on North Capitol Street in Washington,
D.C., was expanded and renovated to ensure the long-
term survival and immediate accessibility of the collec-
tions housed there. Especially critical was the installation
of air-conditioning. At the National Museum of Ameri-
can History (NMAH), about half of the branch library
collections previously stored in the first-floor storage
area, including serials, auction catalogues, and encyclo-
pedias, were moved to the new and improved facilities at
the Remote Annex. The other half, principally the trade
literature collection, is being housed in a temporary area
in the museum awaiting the completion of the Dibner
Study Center. As at the NMAH branch, the shifts and
changes at the National Air and Space Museum branch
library were undertaken at the museum’s instigation in an
effort to solve space problems. Compact shelving was in-
stalled in order to consolidate the branch’s collection and
release space for the construction of museum offices.

In the National Museum of Natural History (NMNH),
the Botany Library has been renovated and expanded and
the collections shifted to improve their accessibility. Simi-
larly, the Anthropology Department is providing addi-
tional space in which to erect stacks and relieve
overcrowding. Concurrently, the SIL is continuing to
merge the collections from the Bureau of American Eth-
nology and the Smithsonian Office of Anthropology. The
Smithsonian Institution Libraries reception for opening of Na-
tional Museum of African Art Branch in the South Quadrangle,
November 1988. left to right: Janet L. Stanley, chief librarian of
the African Art Branch of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
with Warren M. Robbins, founder and director emeritus of the
National Museum of African Art, for whom the SIL Branch is
named.

collections in the Mollusks, Fishes, and Kellogg libraries
have also been shifted to achieve greater accessibility.
The NMNH library staff and users continue to enjoy the
remodeled main branch space, which was officially inau-
gurated with a gala open house early in the fiscal year.

The new branch at the National Museum of African
Art is also enjoying a positive response from its users.
Branch use has increased substantially since it moved to
its new facility. The branch was named in honor of
Warren M. Robbins, founder and director emeritus of
the National Museum of African Art.

Collections Management

Selection, acquisition, deaccession, and preservation are
the management activities of this division, which is re-
sponsible for the maintenance of the more than one mil-
lion volumes and other research resources that form the
libraries’ collections. In June the Institution transferred
the Smithsonian International Exchange Service (SIES),
formerly known as the Office of Publications Exchange,
to the libraries. On behalf of U.S. universities, institutes,
and other nonprofit organizations, SIES receives, sorts,
and ships scholarly materials to their foreign counterparts

and, in turn, receives foreign publications for domestic
distribution. Established in 1848, SIES is one of the
Smithsonian’s oldest continuous programs and provides
an important link among scholarly communities here and
abroad.

Through its own exchange program, SIL acquires valu-
able research materials by agreements with 3,500 official
exchange partners throughout the world. This year the
division staff began to review and reactivate journal sub-
scriptions (more than two-thirds of SIL’s active subscrip-
tions) that come from foreign universities and research
organizations in exchange for Smithsonian publications.
This is an especially important task in the light of recent
dramatic price increases in journal subscriptions, pro-
voked in part by the rapid fall of the dollar against for-
eign currencies since 1985.

SIL added a new Preservation Services unit to the divi-
sion roster in February 1988 to develop and implement
programs to improve the life span of non-rare books and
journals. Unit responsibilities include binding paperback
volumes and journal issues, microfilming brittle books,
and improving the care and maintenance of collections.
Improved procedures and enhanced funding enabled the
unit to bind approximately 13,000 volumes in 1988, an
increase Over previous years.

Books and journals containing highly acidic paper are
in the most danger of deterioration. SIL’s Book Conser-
vation Laboratory has installed a new nonaqueous “soft-
spray” deacidification system to neutralize acids in paper
and protect it against further acid-caused damage. The
convenient, reliable system lowers considerably the cost
of treating books and flat papers. The system has been
useful this year in conserving SIL’s collection of books
and journals owned by James Smithson, the Institution’s
founder.

To protect brittle volumes until they can be micro-
filmed, SIL places them in specially constructed boxes. A
grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Associates in 1988 enabled SIL to construct boxes to pro-
tect several hundred late-nineteenth-century volumes per-
taining to Native American languages.

SIL’s African art collections were greatly enhanced by
Helen Segy’s gift of the library of her late husband, Lad-
islas Segy. A pioneer in the field of African art, Mr. Segy
opened one of the first African art galleries in 1952 in
New York City and ran it until his death in 1987. The
gift includes books, journals, slides, photographs, and
field notebooks. SIL honored another major donor who
passed away this year, Dr. Bern Dibner, by purchasing a
rare work on natural philosophy, Gines Rocamora y

87
Torrano’s Sphera del universo (Madrid: Juan de Herrera,
1599) as a memorial volume. A 1988 award from the
James Smithson Society enabled SIL to purchase one of
the rarest eighteenth-century books on the history of pap-
ermaking, Versuche und Muster ohne alle Lumpen oder
doch mit einem geringen Zusatze derselben Papier zu
machen, by Jacob Christian Schaeffer (Regensburg: 1765-
1771). The volume has special significance for the Smith-
sonian. In 1856, the Washington Star reported that the
Institution had acquired a copy of the 1772 edition,
which may have been lost in the 1865 fire in the Castle,
since no evidence or record of it exists.

Automated Systems

SIL increasingly uses electronic technology for most of its
processing functions, both for internal library operations
and for resource-sharing and communication with other
libraries. The Institution’s Bibliographic Information Sys-
tem (SIBIS), installed in 1984, is the major mechanism for
most SIL automated functions. It provides an on-line sys-
tem with a central data base of bibliographic informa-
tion. Manual processes and files are gradually being
replaced with electronic processing and machine-readable
files that can be updated and accessed from most of SIL’s
scattered locations. In 1988 SIL completed the basic con-
version of its records from standard manual files to ma-
chine-readable format. This conversion program, begun
in 1981, has added a total of 375,000 records to the data
base. The program is now directed toward upgrading
and converting partial and substandard records.

SIL planned and implemented new phases of the SIBIS
automated system this year. The SIBIS circulation system,
which will be phased in gradually, will be operational in
the first branch in October 1988. Approximately 425,000
volumes in the SIL collections represented in the on-line
catalogue were bar-coded to allow for electronic identifi-
cation and circulation control. SIL implemented a new
capability in the SIBIS acquisitions module this year: an
automatic claim for books ordered, but not received. The
acquisitions module is also used for on-line ordering,
processing orders, account maintenance, interface with
the Institution’s Accounting Office, and on-line access to
order information. The SIBIS electronic mail system, in
use for two years, has fostered better and faster interof-
fice communication among SIL staff.

During 1988 SIL continued to catalogue previously un-
catalogued gift and trade literature collections. In addi-
tion to in-house work, almost 13,500 titles were

88

catalogued by contract. More than 2,300 trade catalogues _

were indexed and added to SIL’s on-line catalogue by
July 1988. SIL also began cataloguing rare items in the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum branch.

Public Programs

In February SIL honored Dr. Bern Dibner, who died Jan-
uary 6, 1988, with a memorial exhibition that featured
memorabilia highlighting his life and accomplishments. A
concurrent exhibition was held at the Burndy Library,
which he founded in Norwalk, Connecticut. Dr. Dibner
collected the 10,000 books and 1,600 manuscripts that
the Burndy Library donated to the Institution in 1974,
forming the core of the Dibner Library of the History of
Science and Technology, a part of SIL’s Special Collec-
tions Branch.

As a member of the Washington Collegium for the Hu-
manities (WCH), SIL presented a public lecture for the
1988-89 Lecture Series, “Death and the Afterlife in Art
and Literature.” Professor Betty Jo T. Dobbs of North-
western University gave an illustrated lecture, “Alchemi-
cal Death and Resurrection: Alchemy in the Age of
Newton,” featuring Newton manuscripts in the library’s
collections.

SIL published catalogues for two of its exhibitions,

“Book Conservation Laboratory Tenth Anniversary Exhi- —

bition” and “Marbled Papers in Books.” An exhibition of
selected issues of nineteenth- and twentieth-century jour-
nals purchased from the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia
were displayed in the Dibner Library. A new book pub-

lished in the Translation Publishing Program, Description |

of the Tula Weapon Factory (originally published Mos-

cow, 1826), was distributed to 170 domestic and foreign
libraries and deposited in the National Technical Infor-

mation Service for permanent accessibility. “Information
for Borrowers,” incorporating guidelines for SIL’s auto-

mated circulation system, was published for distribution
to users of the libraries’ system.

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

The luxuriance of the natural world peaks in the tropics,
which shelter the earth’s greatest diversity of plants and
animals. Tropical organisms exhibit the greatest variety
of ways to live and reproduce, and the relationships be-
tween different species are most complex and elaborate in
the tropics. Just as this stunning abundance of life was a
revelation and a stimulus to early evolutionary biologists
like Charles Darwin and Alfred Russell Wallace, so it is
to modern biologists.

The rapid disappearance of tropical habitats requires
us to learn as many lessons as they have to offer, as
quickly as possible. A greater understanding of why natu-
ral communities in the wet tropics are so lush may sug-
gest how humanity can live in tropical habitats without
ruining their beauty or productivity. Indeed, a knowledge
of how tropical habitats interact with global ecosystems
may be critical to the ultimate ability of humans to sur-
vive anywhere on this planet.

Scientists at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute (STRI) work to increase our knowledge in these and
other areas of tropical biology. STRI is a premier interna-
tional center for tropical research and is recognized as an
international mission by the Republic of Panama. The
institute’s twenty-seven scientific staff and scores of visit-
ing scientists carry out basic research on the ecology, be-
havior, and evolution of tropical plants and animals and
are concerned with how man’s past and present activities
in the tropics affect biological processes. In addition, the
institute supports international education and training in
its research areas and encourages the conservation of
tropical flora, fauna, and cultures.

STRI’s unique geographic location in the Republic of
Panama and the variety of its facilities offer students and
Visiting scientists from around the world access to a rich
diversity of terrestrial and marine environments. STRI
scientists also conduct research elsewhere in the tropics
and collaborate with colleagues at research institutions
worldwide.

The institute administers the Barro Colorado Nature
Monument, which protects more than 13,000 acres of
tropical forest surrounding the Panama Canal. The cen-
terpiece of this monument is Barro Colorado Island.
STRI also maintains three marine laboratories, on the
Pacific coast near Panama City, on the Caribbean coast
near Colon, and in the San Blas Archipelago in the Ca-
ribbean. STRI sponsors research at these and other sites
through a variety of resources. In addition to its own
scientific staff, STRI supports predoctoral and postdoc-
toral fellows for periods of two months to three years.
Visitors and staff have access to an extensive reference

library, and STRI provides housing, office, and labora-
tory space for visiting scientists for a modest fee.

In 1988 STRI continued its long record of progress and
achievement in research, facilities development, and in-
ternational education and conservation. The number of
research publications from work done at the institute
should exceed the more than 200 published in 1987. Two
STRI scientists received major honors for their research.
The bureau opened a new cloud forest research station,
and construction neared completion on the state-of-the-
art Earl Silas Tupper Research Center.

Honors

Basic to understanding any biological phenomenon is a
sound grasp of the natural history of the organisms con-
cerned. Two STRI naturalists have been signally honored
for such work this past year. The election of Dr. Mary
Jane West Eberhard to the National Academy of Sciences
was a fitting tribute to STRI’s tradition of research in
ethology, ecology, and evolution. Dr. Eberhard has stud-
ied the social organization of wasp colonies, the circum-
stances by which a queen wasp comes to dominate a
colony, and the extent to which she can cause her fellow
colony members to work together for her benefit. These
studies show the important role sexual selection and
other forms of social competition play among all social
animals, and they shed much light on how social behav-
ior can evolve.

Dr. Philip De Vries, who has been a predoctoral and a
postdoctoral fellow at STRI, recently received an unsoli-
cited award from the MacArthur Foundation to support
him and his research for five years. He is studying riodi-
nid caterpillars which, when alarmed by potential insect
predators, produce sounds that attract certain ants to
protect them. Fellows at STRI have always made impor-
tant contributions to our understanding of Barro Colo-
rado Island and other sites, and it is satisfying to see
them suitably honored.

Research Highlights: Sexual Selection and Behavior

Environmental biologists have argued that sexual selec-
tion can be an important agent of biological diversifica-
tion. In species where males compete for matings, novel
ways of attracting or stimulating females are at a pre-
mium. Coevolution between male attractions and female

89
CE eh O85 SARE aac ae ae

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, in cooperation
with INRENARE and ANCON of the Republic of Panama,
replaced several bridges in Soberania National Park, one of the
most accessible lowland tropical forests in the new world.

responses to them is, however, an unpredictable process.
If a population is geographically divided, this process can
develop differently in the different subpopulations. Even-
tually, females of one may find themselves not attracted
by, or even unable to mate with, males from the other,
rendering the two groups distinct species. Thus, under-
standing the circumstances that favor effective sexual se-
lection, and the mechanisms by which it works, may help
us understand how species originate.

Dr. David Zeh, a three-year postdoctoral fellow at
STRI, is studying a species of pseudoscorpion in a lineage

90

that disperses by riding large beetles. They disperse from
one dead fig tree to another under the elytra, or wing
cover, of a species of harlequin beetle whose larvae usu-
ally occur in dead fig trees. Mites, which the pseudoscor-
pions eat, also live under the elytra of these beetles,
providing sufficient food to maintain male pseudoscor-
pions for at least three weeks.

Dr. Zeh’s species is the only one of its lineage where
males are markedly larger than females. This kind of dif-
ference is usually a sign of sexual selection based on com-
bat between males. And indeed, these males establish
mating territories under the elytra of their beetles. Dr.
Zeh is interested in how the males compete for mates,
what constitutes an attractive mating territory, and, more
generally, why sexual selection is so much more effective
in this species than in its relatives.

Dr. John Christy of the STRI staff is studying sexual
selection in fiddler crabs, Uca beebei, which live on mud
flats of the Pacific coast. Many males build a pillar of
mud next to their burrows. Forty-eight percent of the
females courted by males with pillars enter the males’
burrows, while only 20 percent of those courted by males
without pillars do so. Yet once a female enters a burrow,
the length and depth of the burrow, but not the presence
or absence of a pillar, affect her decision whether to stay
and breed. When frightened, fiddler crabs are more likely
to flee into a burrow with a pillar. An unanswered ques-
tion is, why don’t all males build pillars? They seem easy
to build, and Dr. Christy’s experiments show that the
pillars do not attract predators or unwanted intruders.
Moreover, males without pillars do court females, a
vastly more energetic business than building pillars.

Dr. A. Stanley Rand of the STRI staff is continuing his
study of sexual selection in tungara frogs, testing females
to determine which aspects of the complex male call
make it preferred to the simpler call. Working with Dr.
Michael Ryan of the University of Texas, Dr. Rand is
asking whether the complex call stimulates part of the
female’s auditory apparatus that the simpler call does not
or, in other words, whether the complex call exploits a
sensory capacity of the females that can be pleasurably
stimulated.

Tungara frogs call only when floating in the water,
and they produce waves on the water surface with each
call. Dr. R. Stimson Wilcox of the State University of
New York has “recorded” these surface waves and
“played them back” to male frogs. The males responded
to the waves of water as if they were hearing real calls
and adjusted their own accordingly.

Kyle Summers, STRI predoctoral fellow from the Uni-

ersity of Michigan, is studying mating behavior in Den-
drobates auratus on Taboga Island, a few miles beyond
aos. Another study of mating behavior is being carried
ut by postdoctoral fellow Christopher Peterson, who is
ooking at the simultaneously hermaphroditic coral reef
fish Serranus tabacarius at STRI’s San Blas field station.
Among the tropical forest’s most characteristic features
is the stunning variety of insects. Yet they are difficult to
study and, with a few spectacular exceptions, are poorly
nown. As a result, many species are not even named,
nd most of the named species can only be identified by
xperts. We know, however, that they play a fundamen-
al role in the life of the forest: They may actually be
esponsible for the great diversity of tropical trees. The
mazing differences in their habits from one species to
he next may help us grasp general principles governing
he evolution of social behavior.

Dr. Donald Windsor of the STRI staff, along with re-
earch associate Dr. Henry Stockwell, is surveying the
ecology and social behavior of the 120 species of cassi-
dine beetle in Panama. Dr. Windsor has found host
lants for more than forty of these species. Their larvae
Il feed on fast-growing secondary foliage of several dif-
erent plant families. No one species of larva, however,
as yet been found to feed on more than one genus or
ore than two species within that genus, suggesting a
pecialization to particular food plants of the type thought
o maintain plant diversity. The idea is that insect spe-
ialists depress the numbers of their own host plant, al-
Owing room for different species that they cannot eat.
he beetles vary greatly in behavior, and Dr. Windsor is
2xploring possible explanations for this diversity.

Dr. Allan Herre, a STRI postdoctoral fellow, is study-
ng the effects of parasitic nematodes on fig-pollinating
wasps. This study should shed light on the circumstances
hat allow natural selection to transform parasitic rela-
ionships into mutually beneficial ones, a fundamental
drocess in evolution.

STRI staff scientist Dr. William Eberhard is completing
study of the relationship between the shapes and the
ses of the pinchers on the hind ends of male earwigs.
ike beetle horns, earwig pinchers have diverse, fre-
uently elaborate shapes, often characteristic of a partic-
lar species. But unlike male beetles, which use their
orns almost exclusively to fight for access to females,
ale earwigs also use their pinchers as threat devices,
ourtship devices, and to clasp hold of a female during
opulation. The role of these pinchers in sexual selection,
Owever, may be the primary reason why shapes usually
iffer from species to species.

Research Highlights: Molecular Evolution

This year marked the beginning of the new program in
molecular evolution at the Smithsonian. Research at
STRI is a major component of this initiative at the fron-
tiers of evolutionary biology. This new capability permits
STRI scientists to address fundamental questions about
the origin and integrity of species. When the Isthmus of
Panama rose from the sea several million years ago, it
geographically separated the populations of marine spe-
cies that occurred in the area. Many of these organisms
are now distinct species.

Staff scientist Dr. Harilaos Lessios and new staff scien-
tist Dr. Eldredge Bermingham asked whether proteins in
species of sea urchins on either side of the Isthmus evolved
at a different rate than the DNA in their mitochondria,
which are organelles found inside cells. They found that
the DNA evolves at a much more regular rate than the
proteins. The results imply that mitochondrial DNA is a
much better “molecular clock” than proteins for estimat-
ing the amount of time a given pair of species has been
separate.

Dr. Lessios and former postdoctoral fellow Dr. James
Weinberg, now of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Insti-
tution, compared proteins from populations of the small
crustaceans called isopods from different Atlantic and Pa-
cific beaches in Panama. They were surprised to find
smaller differences between oceans than between different
beaches on the same ocean. Practically every beach in the
eastern Pacific is characterized by populations with unique
genetic structure, even over distances of less than one-
sixteenth of a mile. The low dispersal ability of these
animals probably accounts for this striking effect.

Along with Dr. Howard Lasker of the State University
of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo, Dr. Lessios also exam-
ined the variability of proteins in a species of gorgonian,
a soft coral. The species exhibited absolutely no variabil-
ity, even from populations as distantly separated as the
Bahamas and Panama. The cause of this uniformity re-
mains a puzzle. Dr. Lessios and Daniel Brazeau of SUNY
Buffalo found that another species exhibited high varia-
bility. Yet this latter species tends to occur in clones of
asexually produced offspring, which in theory should be
genetically uniform. Much remains to be learned from
the gorgonians.

Research Highlights: Seasonal Rhythms

The tropics are not usually thought of as particularly sea-
sonal in nature. Yet the Panamanian climate creates a

91
strikingly cyclical alternation of wet and dry seasons.
While physical seasonality in Panama is not nearly as ex-
treme as in the temperate zone, research at STRI has
shown that animals and plants respond significantly to
the changes that do occur.

STRI scientist Dr. John Cubit and his associates have
just published a fifteen-year record of different climatic
variables for the reef flat at Galeta and the ways different
aspects of the physical environment respond to those var-
iables. Dr. Donald Windsor is preparing a similar docu-
ment for Barro Colorado Island.

Dr. Robert Stallard of the U.S. Geological Survey in
Denver has been monitoring seasonal changes in the
chemical content of streams draining different soils on
Barro Colorado Island. From these data he can deduce
the chemical processes responsible for weathering these
soils and the impact of those processes on soil fertility at
different seasons.

Michael Keller, a graduate student at Princeton Univer-
sity, is assessing the net contribution of methane to the
atmosphere from various habitats of central Panama. In
Panama, perennially flooded habitats release methane.
Seasonal swamps release methane when flooded and sud-
denly start consuming it when dry. Upland forest soils
(but apparently not vegetation) consume methane more
rapidly during the dry season than during the rainy
season.

Jaime Cavalier, a STRI predoctoral fellow from the
University of Cambridge, is comparing the seasonal
rhythm of root production on Barro Colorado Island, at
nearby Gigante, and at the cloud forest near Fortuna on
the Chiriqui Highlands. On Barro Colorado, he finds
that irrigation abolishes the seasonal rhythm of root pro-
duction. In the cloud forest, the peak flush of new roots
occurs during the driest months, and root production is
much lower than at Gigante.

Seasonal rhythms in climate influence the timing of leaf
flush, leaf fall, and fruit production. The resulting sea-
sonal alternation of feast and famine in fruit and new
leaves is thought to regulate animal populations. Deci-
phering those features of climate that affect leaf and fruit
production of different plants will allow us to infer from
the climatic record the reliability with which the forest
supplies food to different kinds of animals.

Dr. Joseph Wright of the STRI staff is completing a
four-year field experiment assessing the effect on different
kinds of plants of keeping the soil saturated all year and
thereby mitigating the effects of the annual dry season.
Canopy and midstory trees were, for the most part, little
affected, but irrigation increases the total year-round leaf

92

production of understory shrubs, such as Piper and Psy-
chotria species.

Dr. Alan Smith and Dr. Joseph Wright, STRI scien-
tists, and Dr. Stephen Mulkey of the University of Mis-
souri at St. Louis are studying the different ways that
understory shrubs adjust to seasonal variation in water
supply. Psychotria marginata makes one set of leaves
early in the rainy season and another set very late. As one
might expect, the second set of leaves is designed for the
dry season. During the early dry season, they photosyn-
thesize more per unit of water transpired than the leaves
designed for the rainy season. Another shrub, Psychotria
limonensis, produces long-lived leaves throughout the
year. A particular leaf changes physiologically from one
season to another, improving its overall performance as a
result. Psychotria furcata, however, produces 90 percent
of its leaves early in the rainy season. They are well
suited to wet conditions, but very poorly suited for the
dry season. A close link appears to occur between the
rhythm of leaf production and the conditions for which
the leaves are suited.

This year, STRI fellow Dr. Jacalyn Giacalone of Up-
sala College continued a long-term study of frugivorous
mammals, red-tailed squirrels, and agoutis (burrowing
rodents) on Barro Colorado Island. Dr. Giacalone also
began following brocket deer, finding that during the dry
season they eat mostly leaves, flowers, and fruit newly
fallen from the forest canopy.

Dr. Nicholas Smythe of the STRI staff found that seeds
of the palm genus Astrocaryum can only germinate and
grow if buried by agoutis. During the season of fruit
shortage, the animals depend heavily on buried seeds.
The dormancy of Astrocaryum seeds varies greatly. Some
germinate in a month, and some remain dormant but
viable through three successive seasons of fruit shortage.

STRI scientist Dr. Ross Robertson is exploring what
factors govern seasonal rhythms of reproduction in coral
reef fish. Do they reproduce when conditions are good
for adults or when their larvae can best survive in the
plankton? To address this question, Dr. Robertson simul-
taneously records reproductive activity and recruitment
of larvae from the plankton at various reefs in the San
Blas Islands. He finds that adults breed when they can,
regardless of the prospects for their larvae.

Research Highlights: Effects of Catastrophes
and Disturbances

To what extent are the fates of various populations gov-
erned by occasional catastrophes? With the passage of
time, STRI has witnessed several such events and moni-
tored their effects. The 124-acre Forest Dynamics Project
plot of old forest on Barro Colorado Island was re-
mapped in 1985-86. Dr. Stephen Hubbell of Princeton
University found that 16 percent of the trees over 10 cm
in trunk diameter had died since 1980-81. This figure
amounts to a death rate of more than 3 percent per year.
Earlier, more limited studies in the same place had indi-
cated death rates of 1 percent per year. Apparently, the
very severe E] Nino dry season of 1982-83 killed one-
tenth of the trees on the plot. The next recensus in 1990
will enable STRI scientists to judge the long-term effects
of this event.

A group led by STRI scientist Dr. Jeremy Jackson and
managed by Dr. Brian Keller continues its study of the
consequences of the April 1986 Caribbean oil spill. Corals
have been sliced and x-rayed to assess recent changes in
growth rate. For all species of coral, the growth rate has
declined during the last five years, perhaps because the
die-off in 1983 of long-spined sea urchins (Diadema antil-
larum) has allowed greater competition from the algae
the Diadema were eating. Coral growth was particularly
low during the year of the oil spill. This study will be
extended to older corals to place the effects of the oil spill
in perspective, to monitor the effects on coral growth of
recent nearby reforestation, and perhaps to assess the ef-
fects of the disappearance of Indians and subsequent for-
est regrowth after the Spanish conquest.

The oil spill project may force a reconsideration of evi-
dence in intertidal ecology, which relies heavily on the
results of small-scale field experiments. Such experiments
have established the causes of zonation and the models of
population regulation of rocky shores of the temperate
zone. One cannot infer, however, the results of a wide-
spread calamity such as a Diadema die-off or a major oil
spill from small-scale Diadema removals or applications
of oil. The scale of the calamity alters the community’s
owers of recovery.

Research Highlights: Anthropology

nthropological researchers at STRI are seeking to recon-
struct the history of human settlement in Panama. To a
arge extent, this history can be inferred from the history
f vegetation recorded in sequences of pollen and phyto-
iths in lake sediments. But the history of the vegetation is
interesting for many other reasons. Was the forest largely
leared before the arrival of Columbus? Was Panama

uch drier or much cooler 15,000 years ago than it is

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s new high-speed
launch for Barro Colorado Island being placed in Gatun Lake in
November 1987.

now? Answers to these questions could reveal how quickly
tropical forest recovers from widespread disturbances.

As part of this study, new STRI staff scientist Dr. Do-
lores Piperno and visiting scholars Dr. Paul Colinvaux
and Dr. Mark Bush, both of Ohio State University,
bored and lifted a 60-meter-long core, spanning over
35,000 years, from a lake near El Valle. They also con-
tinued their study of a 14,000-year core from La Ye-
guada, a lake in the highlands of Veraguas. Their results
indicate that more than 12,000 years ago the vegetation
zones near La Yeguada were 800 meters lower than they
are now, suggesting that the climate was much cooler
then. Carbon from fires set by humans first appeared in
the lake 11,200 years ago. Temperatures there attained
present-day levels about 8,600 years ago. Pollen and
other traces of maize appeared in the lake 7,000 years
ago.

Mediating between Man and Nature
With support from the W. Alton Jones Foundation, five
years ago STRI initiated research on how man could live

in profitable harmony with tropical nature. Among the
projects started then is Dr. Nicholas Smythe’s continuing

93
study of the domestication of the paca, a small mammal
considered a delicacy. Wild pacas are exceedingly aggres-
sive toward each other, and Dr. Smythe has sought ways
to make them more tolerant in populations dense enough
for commercial exploitation. He has scored a signal suc-
cess: Fifteen young have now been born, one or both of
whose parents were born in the colony and “tamed” by
being with other pacas when young. This second genera-
tion of pacas was not forced to live together, yet the
female offspring are living happily and unaggressively in
a group with one male. Without human intervention,
they have learned from their parents how to be social
animals—a truly novel behavior for pacas.

Dr. Dagmar Werner is completing her project on rais-
ing iguanas for commercial exploitation and reintroduc-
tion to the wild. She plans to continue iguana work with
the National University of Costa Rica’s master’s program
in wildlife management in Heredia, Costa Rica.

STRI scientist Dr. Gilberto Ocana is continuing his ex-
periments with reclaiming soils ruined by fire and over-
grazing. He has planted two and a half acres of old
pasture with three leguminous trees, Giliciridia sapium,
Acacia mangium, and Acacia flexuopa, all of which fix
nitrogen in the soil and provide leaves for livestock. He
has planted cassava under a third of these trees and will
plant sorghum and Pueraria phaseoloides, a crawling
vine, under the rest. When the trees mature, their leaves
will be fed to stabled goats. Dr. Ocana hopes his experi-
ments will demonstrate a profitable way of using the land
without depleting its nutrients.

Education and Conservation

As part of its mission, STRI provides research and train-
ing opportunities for tropical biologists. During 1988 the
institute supported more than eighty men and women at
various academic levels, from undergraduates through
senior scientists, representing fifteen nations. STRI also
added a second three-year postdoctoral position in eco-
physiology, a program established this year.

In addition to its own fellowship program, STRI re-
ceived funding from the Smithsonian and the Exxon Cor-
poration to enable Latin American students and senior
scientists to conduct their own research or to participate
in Ongoing projects at various STRI facilities. As part of
the program for senior Latin American scientists, Dr. An-
tonio Brack-Egg from Peru used the resources of the
STRI Library for his book on Peruvian fauna. Dr. Noris
Salazar, a specialist in bryophytes at the University of

94

Panama, continued her work with two students on the
preparation of a flora of lichens and mosses of Barro
Colorado Island. Dr. Salazar’s project is a sequel to her
university course offered during 1987.

STRI’s educational program includes weekly public
group tours to Barro Colorado Island. To enhance the
experience of Spanish-speaking visitors, this year STRI
published a Spanish edition of its guidebook A Day on
Barro Colorado Island, Panama. This book provides in-
formation on the fifty-four stations along the island’s na-
ture trail and explains important characteristics of
lowland tropical forests.

STRI continues to collaborate with international and
local groups to promote conservation of marine and ter-
restrial tropical environments. Because of its biological
diversity and proximity to the city, Panama’s Soberania
National Park is an important research site for the inter-
national scientific community, and its protection and ac-
cess are essential to the success of the long-term research
efforts in the area. Toward this end, STRI collaborated
this year with Panama’s National Association for Conser-
vation of Nature, a private, nonprofit organization, and ©
the Institute for Natural and Renewable Resources, a
government agency, in extensive repairs to the Pipeline
Road through the park. This work was funded in part by
the James Smithson Society.

Facilities Development

During the past year STRI continued its program of facil-
ities improvement. At Tivoli, construction of the Earl
Silas Tupper Research and Conference Center, a state-of-
the-art laboratory facility and auditorium with adjoining
rooms for exhibits and meetings, nears completion and is
on schedule for an opening in 1989. On Barro Colorado
Island, new dormitories, a dining hall and kitchen, and a
seminar hall are well under way. A new dormitory and
associated offices and laboratories have been completed
in Gamboa.

At Naos, renovation is progressing for the new molec-
ular evolution program. One just-completed laboratory
will be available for work on the molecular genetics of
enzymes, and another will be used for research on DNA.
A site convenient to other STRI facilities has been se-
lected for the new Naos dormitory, and bids for its con-
struction will be advertised soon. Negotiations are under
way with the Kuna Nation for a new site for the San Blas
marine station in the Caribbean.

STRI has also successfully negotiated with the Pana-

anian Institute for Hydroelectric Resources and Electri-
ication for the use of a new field station in the montane
et forest at the Fortuna hydroelectric project watershed
n western Panama. Simple office and laboratory space
nd fully equipped living facilities are available to indi-
idual scientists and small groups wishing to carry out
tudies in this unique environment.

taff Changes

r. Eric A. Fischer was appointed deputy director of
TRI in July 1988. Dr. Fischer is an evolutionary biolo-
ist specializing in the study of reproductive patterns and
ehavior. He was an assistant professor in the animal
ehavior program at the University of Washington and
ast year worked with the U.S. Senate Budget Committee
s a Congressional Science Fellow sponsored by the
erican Association for the Advancement of Science.
Dr. Fischer replaces Dr. James R. Karr, who accepted
n endowed chair at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
tate University in Blacksburg, Virginia.

MUSEUMS

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums

97
Anacostia Museum

Established more than twenty years ago, the Anacostia
Museum has evolved into a national resource for diffu-
sion of knowledge about Afro-American history and cul-
ture. Located in the historic Fort Stanton Park in
southeast Washington, D.C., the museum mounts art
and history exhibitions, conducts scholarly research on
Afro-American history and culture, and produces pro-
gramming for an audience of children and adults who are
empowered by increased knowledge of African-American
creativity.

Exhibitions

More than 30,000 visitors passed through the doors of
the museum to see “Climbing Jacob’s Ladder: The Rise of
Black Churches in Eastern American Cities, 1740-1877,”
an exhibition that opened in October 1987. The exhibi-
tion drew record numbers of visitors during its stay,
which was extended to the end of October 1988. Histo-
rian Edward Smith unearthed the artifactual history of
the black church, which emerged as an independent insti-
tution when black ministers seceded from segregated con-
gregations. The exhibition shows that black churches
were arenas of rejuvenation and self-pride for communi-
ties bereft of mainstream social service institutions. The
pathos of the black church’s struggle for self-determina-
tion in America was captured in the exhibition installa-
tion with original church pews, hymnals, photographs,
and tattered frocks of itinerant preachers. Perhaps just as
important is the exhibition catalogue, which provides a
visual record of the exhibition and makes a well-docu-
mented contribution to Afro-American religious history.

Also in 1988 historian Portia James and other staff
members continued research and planning for the exhibi-
tion “The Real McCoy: Afro-American Invention and In-
novation, 1619-1930,” scheduled to open in May 1989.
The exhibition and catalogue will trace the pivotal role of
Afro-American inventiveness from the Colonial period of
agricultural production to the late nineteenth- and early
twentieth-century period of modern industrial
innovation.

Several other promising exhibitions were planned in
1988. An exhibition of works by artists in the District of
Columbia Art Association is scheduled to open in Janu-
ary 1989. Research continued for an exhibition of the
works of P. H. Polk, a noted black photographer whose
prints vividly record the folkways of the rural South. Re-
search and planning began on an exhibition titled “The
Health Problems of the Black Community,” which will

98

explore the causes and cures of several diseases, including
sickle cell anemia and AIDS, that afflict the black com-
munity with particular devastation. This exhibition will
reflect the museum’s responsibility and commitment to
present contemporary community social problems.

Collections Management

The museum made significant progress in collections |
management and inventory of the permanent collection.

A new Collections Management Policy Statement reflects —
the museum’s expanded mission to collect, as well as to
interpret, Afro-American history and culture. This state- —
ment focuses the museum’s collecting on the preservation
of black history. The statement also establishes proce-
dures for the acquisition, accession, and inventory of ar-
tifacts. In 1988 the first computerized inventory of the
museum’s permanent collection was completed. The Ana-
costia Museum is now ready to collect Afro-American |
artifacts in a systematic manner.

Education and Public Programs

The Education Department increases the value of the mu-
seum’s exhibitions by bringing elements of the curators’
research to area schools and adult audiences. To support
the exhibition on the black church, there were concerts
by Joan Hillsman, Toshi Reagon, and the Eastern Senior
High School choir and Lunch Box Forum lectures by Dr.
Richard Powell and Rev. Clarence G. Newsome. The
museum collaborated with the National Museum of
American History to host a dramatic presentation by ac-
tor Michael W. Howell of the life and times of Richard
Allen, first bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal
Church. The department’s in-service course for teachers
brought experts on the history of the black church to the
museum for a four-day teachers’ workshop.

Perhaps most successful was “Conservation for the
Layperson,” a seminar for church historians, archivists,
and other interested individuals on the techniques of con-
serving books, letters, clothing, paintings, furniture, and
photographs. In panel presentations and talks, conserva-
tors from throughout the Smithsonian provided expert
assistance. As a result of this seminar, an active group of
people representing churches and community organiza-
tions now meets monthly at the museum.

rchives of American Art

he Archives of American Art, founded thirty-four years
go and a Smithsonian bureau since 1970, is a leading
esource for research in American art history. Its collec-
ions, which include nine million items of primary docu-
entation, cover a 250-year period and embrace every
spect of the visual arts. Through its central office in
ashington and its five regional centers, the Archives
erves thousands of graduate students, faculty members,
curators, and independent historians each year. Its quar-
erly Journal is highly regarded in the profession, and its
ymposia have achieved a strong reputation for scholarly
ubstance.

cquisitions

The Archives added 180 collections to its holdings in

988. The much-sought-after papers of Walter Pach, a
ainter and writer in New York and Paris during the first
alf of this century, were acquired a full twenty-five years
fter the first fruitless approach to his widow. Composed
f nearly a thousand letters, together with diaries, sketch-
ooks, photographs, and rare exhibition catalogues, the
collection is especially valuable as a revealing source of
nformation on early twentieth-century modernism in Eu-
ope and America. In addition to important documenta-
ion on the 1913 Armory Show and other art exhibitions
n New York, the papers include letters from Matisse,
rancusi, Duchamp, Diego Rivera, Bernard Berenson,
obert Henri, Arthur B. Davies, John Sloan, and a long
ist of other friends and colleagues.

The nineteenth century is well represented in the year’s
cquisitions in the papers of James L. Claghorn, a Phila-
elphia art patron and collector who corresponded with
rederic E. Church, John Kensett, Hiram Powers, and
orthington Whittredge; of Frederick MacMonnies,
hose 1885 diary records his experiences as an art student
n Paris; and of Francis Millet, including diaries, sketch-
ooks, and letters from his sister describing visits from
enry James, John Singer Sargent, and Mark Twain.
Hardly a year goes by without the addition of at least a
ew letters from Marsden Hartley, surely American art’s
ost prolific correspondent. Twenty of them, all dating
rom the 1930s and 1940s, were donated in 1988. More
han a hundred letters from Jean Dubuffet to an Ameri-
an collector and adviser touch on the market for his
ork in this country. Other artists represented by useful
etters acquired this year are Cecilia Beaux, Kenneth
ayes Miller, David Smith, and Grandma Moses.

The Archives’ oral history program covered an unusu-

ally broad generational range through taped interviews
conducted with museum director John Coolidge, folk art
dealer Jeffrey Camp, and artists Jennifer Bartlett, Isabel
Bishop, Paul Cadmus, Chuck Close, Janet Fish, Kenneth
Noland, and Susan Rothenberg. A videotaped interview
with Seattle sculptor George Tsutakawa was also com-
pleted for the program.

Research

On the evidence of research conducted at the Archives,
scholarship in American art history continues to flourish.
Thirty-five hundred research visits were made to the six
Archives centers in 1988. Twenty-five hundred rolls of
microfilm were circulated through interlibrary loans, a
substantial increase over figures for previous years.

Books, articles, exhibition catalogues, and doctoral
dissertations are the concrete results of research. Among
those published in 1988 with acknowledgments to the Ar-
chives are major studies of Washington Allston, Frank
Duveneck, George Luks, Marsden Hartley, Georgia
O'Keeffe, Philip Evergood, and Stuart Davis. Other
publications dependent on Archives holdings included
books on the early twentieth-century socialist magazine
The Masses, expressionist painting in America, and
Works Progress Administration posters.

%

N. B. — Cette carte est strictement per- —
sonnelle. Elle sera retirée si on la trouve | ‘
en d'autres mains que celles du titulaire. | i

Elle devra étre présentée aux gardiens }
de service, a toute réquisition.

Walter Pach’s permit to work at the Louvre in rg12 is part of
the extensive collection of the artist’s papers acquired by the
Archives of American Art in 1988.

99
Exhibitions and Education

The Archives lent selected items from its holdings to sev-
eral museum exhibitions this year. Its own exhibition of
documents from its official and unofficial records of the
1913 Armory Show opened at the Archives’ new New
York quarters in October 1988.

Archives education activities included three well-at-
tended symposia: “The Coming of Modernism to Chi-
cago, 1900-1940,” held at the Art Institute of Chicago;
“Art for the Record: Issues of Documentation and Con-
temporary Art,” held at the Huntington Library in San
Marino, California; and “Earthquake to Albright: Mod-
ernism in Northern California, 1906-1945,” held at the
California Palace of the Legion of Honor in San Fran-
cisco. On a smaller scale, the Archives’ Washington office
sponsored eight informal seminars devoted to discussions
of work in progress by art historians and American stud-
ies scholars. The quarterly Archives of American Art
Journal continued to publish articles based on research at
the Archives, reports from the regional centers, and se-
lected items from the collections.

Collections Management

The Archives completed the first phase of a three-year
project to record all cataloguing information about its
more than 3,000 collections in the Institution’s on-line,
computerized data base for archival, library, and other
special collections. The project is funded by grants from
the J. Paul Getty Trust and the Andrew W. Mellon Foun-
dation. Funding from these grants also enabled the Ar-
chives to prepare two large and complex collections for
research use, the papers of Rockwell Kent, and those of
the art historian and curator William Ivins.

Staff Changes

Richard Murray resigned October 1, 1987, after having
been director of the Archives since 1983. John Fleckner,
director of the National Museum of American History

Archives Center, served as acting director.

Ioo

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

The inaugural year of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the
Smithsonian’s new museum of Asian art, began with a
change in leadership. Dr. Thomas Lawton resigned as
director of the Sackler and the Freer Gallery of Art in
order to pursue his research in the art of ancient China.
He assumed the position of senior research scholar. Dr.
Milo C. Beach, who had been assistant director of the
Sackler Gallery, was named acting director. Dr. Beach is
a scholar of the art of India, particularly Indian painting.
Patrick H. Sears was named assistant director of the
Sackler and the Freer for exhibitions and facilities. He
continues to serve as head of the Department of Design
and Installation.

International publicity on the building and the inaugu-
ral exhibitions greeted the opening of the Sackler, with a |
partial compilation of articles from magazines and news-
papers filling a 2-inch-thick report. First-year attendance
was projected at more than half a million visitors.

Among the distinguished foreign guests was His Excel- |
lency Yasuhiro Nakasone, former prime minister of Japan,
whose country donated $1 million toward the construc-
tion of the Sackler Gallery. Other notable visitors repre-
sented the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of
Korea, Sikkim, Singapore, Bahrain, Israel, Luxembourg,
and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

Exhibitions

An important international loan exhibition of objects
from the Shanghai Museum, “The Chinese Scholar’s Stu-
dio: Artistic Life in the Late Ming Period,” presented 120 —
rare paintings; sculptures; objects in ceramic, bamboo,
and stone; and books. The exhibition, organized by the
Asia Society Galleries in New York City, explored the
world of a highly influential group of Chinese scholar-
artists born near Shanghai on the Yangzi River delta dur-
ing the late Ming dynasty, a period that spanned the late
sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries.

To illustrate the type of environment that intellectuals
of the period sought to create, the Sackler design staff
built and installed a room adjacent to the exhibition that
was intended to suggest the appearance of a scholarly
retreat. It was fitted with paintings, books, and furniture
drawn from private collections, including the estate of
Arthur M. Sackler.

A contribution from the Boeing Company made possi-
ble a concert of traditional Chinese music during the ex-
hibition. A grant from the Washington Post supported a
variety of educational and public programs, including a

mily guide to the exhibition, a teacher’s workshop, and
ucational materials.

The gallery’s first display of contemporary South Asian
rt showcased eleven large terra-cotta figures, represent-
g Hindu deities and animals, which had been presented
the museum by the Indian Advisory Committee for the
estival of India and the development commissioner
andicrafts), government of India. Another selection of
dian objects, ranging from the thirteenth through the
ineteenth centuries, displayed recent acquisitions in
ulpture, painting, and the decorative arts.

ducation

a continuing effort to encourage the appreciation of
sian art among a broad range of visitors, the Education
epartment of the Sackler and Freer galleries established
n advisory council to investigate plans and programs
ertaining to accessibility. In its first year, the committee
orked with groups representing hearing-impaired, visu-
lly impaired, and mentally disabled individuals. Using
formation gathered through special workshops and
urs, the committee hopes to contribute to more enlight-
ned decision making about accessibility in the museum.
Public programs in the Sackler’s inaugural year, organ-
ed by the Education Department and advertised

rough the bimonthly calendar, drew enthusiastic
rowds to the museum. Programming was designed to
ppeal to specialists and the general public alike; some
vents were aimed at those with well-developed interests
nd others were planned to tantalize the uninitiated with
e rich panorama of Asian culture.

Highlights included musical programs by master sitarist
ilayat Khan; Wu Wenguang, accomplished performer on
e€ gin, a seven-stringed zither that is the oldest Chinese
lucked musical instrument; traditional vocal and instru-
ental musicians from Uzbekestan and Azerbaijan; and
akistani master singer Salamat Ali Khan.

Among the events of interest to children was a popular
orytelling program concentrating on Chinese, Indian,
ersian, and Japanese folktales that related to images
ortrayed in the exhibition galleries. Other activities
emonstrated traditional Chinese musical instruments

d techniques from the Beijing Opera.

A public lecture series offered eighteen programs rang-
g from a talk about the design of the Sackler Gallery

d its inaugural exhibitions to an exploration of “Arabic
d Persian Calligraphy: Illuminating the Eye of the

ul.” Overflow audiences attended the twelve Japanese
d Indian films shown by the gallery this year.

Among the distinguished visitors to the Sackler Gallery in its
inaugural year was His Excellency Yasuhiro Nakasone, former
prime minister of Japan (center). Dr. Milo C. Beach, acting
director (left), escorted Mr. Nakasone through the exhibitions.

Research

The Sackler Gallery sponsored its first scholarly confer-
ence, “Investigating Artistic Environments in the Ancient
Near East,” an exploration of evidence for the environ-
ments in which works of art were produced. Secretary
Adams delivered opening remarks, and twelve scholars
from institutions in the United States and Europe were
featured. The conference was organized by Dr. Ann Gun-
ter, assistant curator for ancient Near Eastern art, and
was made possible through the generosity of Mrs. Arthur
M. Sackler.

The Sackler and Freer jointly sponsored three addi-
tional scholarly programs drawing on the expertise of the
galleries’ staff and scholars from other institutions. These
programs were “Ancient Sources of Metal in Asia, East
and West,” with speakers K. Aslihan Yener, a fellow at
the Smithsonian Conservation Analytical Laboratory, and
W. T. Chase, head conservator at the Sackler and Freer
galleries; “The Depiction of Nature in Heian Period
(794-1185) Manuscripts and Handcraft Ornament,” by
Professor Yasushi Egami of Sophia University, Tokyo,
the 1988 Harold P. Stern Memorial Fellow; and “Recent
Studies in Ancient Chinese Metallurgy and Bronze Cast-

Iot
ing Techniques,” a symposium led by Hua Jue Ming, a
professor at the Institute of History of Natural Science,
Academia Sinica, Beijing.

Dr. Glenn Lowry, curator of Near Eastern art, re-
ceived a grant from the Institute for Turkish Studies to
conduct research in Istanbul on fifteenth-century Persian
drawings. He completed the second and final year of a
Smithsonian Scholarly Studies Grant to work on Timurid
art and culture in preparation for the 1989 exhibition,
“Timur and the Princely Vision: Persian Art and Culture
in the Fifteenth Century.”

Dr. Shen Fu, curator of Chinese art, received a Smith-
sonian Scholarly Studies Grant for an upcoming exhibi-
tion, “Chang Dai-chien: Synthesis and Transformation in
Chinese Painting.” Dr. Fu conducted research in China,
Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan, and India.

Ann Yonemura, assistant curator of Japanese art, trav-
eled to Japan to study prints made during the Yokohama
period (1860-70), a time when many foreign businessmen
came to trade in that port city. Yonemura’s research,
which was conducted in preparation for a Sackler Gallery
exhibition in 1990, was supported by a grant from the
Daval Foundation.

Dr. Ann Gunter received a grant from the American
Research Institute in Turkey for two months of study in
that country. She also received grants from the Smithson-
ian Research Opportunities Fund to give papers at three
scholarly conferences.

Louise Cort, museum specialist for ceramics, elected a
year-long sabbatical leave to translate the diary of a
seventeenth-century Japanese potter under a National En-
dowment for the Humanities Translation Grant and a
Japan Foundation Professional Fellowship.

Wheeler Thackston of Harvard University completed a
year’s residency as a Smithsonian-Rockefeller Foundation
Resident in the Humanities. George Michel, an art and
architectural historian specializing in South Asia, began
his residency as the new Smithsonian-Rockefeller Fellow.

Publications

Subscriptions to Asian Art, the quarterly journal pub-
lished by Oxford University Press in association with the
Sackler Gallery, reached 1,700 individuals and institu-
tions after just three issues had been released. Introduced
in September 1987, Asian Art continued in 1988 with is-
sues on “The Art of Eating and Drinking in Ancient Iran”
and the art of India.

102

Library

The library, one of the few at the Smithsonian that is
open to the public without appointment, became a spe-
cial member of the Research Libraries Group, using their
Chinese-Japanese-Korean languge capability. This na-
tional organization promotes the coordination of collec-
tion development among its members and offers improved
access to collections through the computerized Research
Libraries Information Network. The library grew by
1,521 volumes and added approximately 300 slides. The
staff responded to more than 3,000 reference inquiries
and handled more than 200 interlibrary loan requests.
Colleen Hennessey was hired as the library’s first full-
time archivist to organize, maintain, and make accessible
the archives of the Freer and Sackler galleries.

Conservation

The Technical Laboratory and the Oriental Art Restora-
tion Studio moved from the Freer Gallery of Art to tem-
porary quarters in the Sackler Gallery, where these
departments will be housed until the Freer renovation is
complete. In spite of this major disruption, the staffs con- _
ducted technical research on Persian and Indian paintings, -
Chinese bronzes, Chinese lacquer, and other materials; |
completed conservation on objects in the collections; and
monitored the condition of works of art on loan. |
A major effort was given to the restoration and conser-
vation of a Japanese ceremonial palanquin made to carry
the bride of a noble family to her wedding. This striking
black-and-gold lacquer conveyance, acquired through the -
Smithsonian Collections Acquisition Program Fund in
1985, was the first purchase for the Sackler Gallery. The —
palanquin was placed on exhibition in the fall of 1988.
A collaborative effort by the Technical Laboratory staff
resulted in a paper describing their work on a Chinese
lacquer box in the Sackler Gallery collection. The paper
was delivered at a meeting in Japan of the International
Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works.

Acquisitions

An important pair of Japanese six-panel folding screens
depicting the Legend of Mount Oe, by an anonymous
artist of the early seventeenth century, was purchased
through the Smithsonian Collections Acquisition Program
Fund. Significant groups of twentieth-century Japanese

prints were added to the collection from several sources.
Margot Paul Ernst and Henry Horowitz each donated
works from their collections. Additional Japanese prints
were transferred from the collections of the Hirshhorn
“Museum and Sculpture Garden and the National Mu-
-seum of American Art.

Other additions to the Sackler Gallery collection in-
cluded five hanging scrolls by the twentieth-century Chi-
nese artist Chang Dai-chien and a mother-of-pearl box
from India dating to the first decade of the seventeenth
‘century. Flower and Rock Arrangements in Pots, an al-
bum of eight leaves by the Chinese artist Sun Kehong

i 75-1670), was given by Karen Wang.

———————eeeE

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) is the
Smithsonian’s specialized research facility for wide-rang-
ing aspects of the conservation and technical study of
museum objects. Research is performed on the conserva-
tion-related properties of materials, the improvement of
conservation treatment technology, and the extraction of
historical information from the technical record of the
materials being studied. Within these areas of expertise,
CAL staff provide assistance and advice to specialists in
other bureaus of the Smithsonian. CAL conducts a con-
servation training program that includes basic and ad-
vanced training, holds workshops and seminars, and
provides information services to museum professionals
and the general public.

Archaeometric Research

In this area of research, CAL scientists develop methods
of chemical and physical analysis and apply these meth-
ods to museum objects and related materials to answer
questions pertaining to anthropology or art history. To
identify the place of origin of archaeological ceramics and
clay resources and draw conclusions about historical
trade patterns, for example, scientists can generate large
amounts of analytical data on the chemical and minera-
logical composition and the manufacturing methods of
ceramic and clay artifacts. One such project led to a ma-
jor outreach program. More than 1,000 chemical analy-
ses of Hopi pottery were integrated with the stylistic
analyses of these ceramics in order to develop and test
models of the socioeconomic dynamics of the Hopi peo-
ple during the period of the great migrations (ca. A.D.
1300). In a specially designed applied science course
taught at the Hopi Junior/Senior High School in north-
eastern Arizona, CAL scientists used their own research
methods and results to illustrate principles of scientific
research design. In turn, the students spent three weeks
during the summer at the laboratory and gained experi-
ence in using sophisticated equipment and evaluating ex-
perimental data.

In collaboration with the National Bureau of Stan-
dards, CAL staff used lead isotope analysis to character-
ize and identify Mexican lead ore sources, which are
thought to have been used for glazes on Spanish-Colonial
majolica ceramics. This demonstration of the use of New
World raw materials for glaze production in the sixteenth
century complements other ongoing work on the identifi-
cation of the clay sources used in these ceramics.

Similar research projects, often involving international

103
“ye
collaboration, relate to the Old World. Examples include
a major study of the production and distribution of Mid-
dle Eastern ceramics, which has interesting ramifications
for understanding the diffusion of early ceramic technolo-
gies. Additional projects deal with the technological his-
tory of Far Eastern porcelains, stonewares, or glazes of
Egyptian, Middle Eastern, and Far Eastern provenance.

The laboratory is also conducting a project with the
National Bureau of Standards and the National Museum
of American Art on autoradiographic studies of paint-
ings. Using autoradiography, a nondestructive technique
for examining underlying paint layers, scientists have
gained new insights into the painting techniques of turn-
of-the-century artists Thomas W. Dewing and Albert P.
Ryder. This project, strengthened by the recent hiring of
a research art historian, involves a number of other ex-
amination and analysis techniques, which in combination
provide new information on the creation process of these
works.

In a new initiative, CAL staff members have estab-
lished new ties with the Carnegie Institute to examine the
organic phase of archaeological bone for traces of ancient
disease and evidence of prehistoric diets and to develop a
methodology of preparing unadulterated microsamples
from collagen-derived amino acids for carbon-14 dating.

Conservation Research

The goal of the conservation research program is a fun-
damental understanding of the chemical and physical
processes involved in the deterioration of museum objects
and the factors that affect the rates of these processes.
The development and testing of treatment technology to
stabilize decaying objects is also a focus of conservation
research. On request, CAL scientists perform chemical
and physical analyses and technical examinations for con-
servators and curators throughout the Institution. The
following examples illustrate the directions of conserva-
tion research.

The CAL’s materials research engineer has designed
and constructed innovative testing equipment to deter-
mine the mechanical properties of polymeric materials
under environmentally controlled conditions. Conserva-
tors use this equipment in cooperation with the research
engineer in a number of ways: to evaluate the effective-
ness of materials and techniques used in lining paintings,
assess the mechanical changes seen in aqueous treatment
of paper objects, and monitor the effects of humidity,
temperature, and aging on the mechanical properties of a

104

Postgraduate conservation intern Ann Boulton examines a
group of 7,000-year-old plaster figures from Jordan at the Con-
servation Analytical Laboratory. Because of their extremely fri-
able condition, these objects could not be excavated on site, but
were shipped in the soil for consolidation in the laboratory
prior to their recovery.

range of materials. In another area of mechanical re-
search, results from testing and computer modeling help
CAL researchers understand and predict the effects of
shock and vibration on art objects during transport. Mu-
seum staff will use the resulting advice on packaging to
ensure improved safety for these objects.

This year CAL conservators and scientists initiated a
joint program to study the effects of the various cleaning
solutions that conservators use to remove old varnish
from paintings. In this project, which has important im-
plications for the conservation of paintings, they will ex-
amine in depth the effects of cleaning solutions on the
paint layer itself.

In the area of photograph conservation, a photo-
graphic scientist joined the CAL in the summer of 1988
and began research on deterioration phenomena in glass
collodion negative plates, which form a significant part
of most photographic collections.

CAL paper conservators are involved in research on
various aspects of treatment through light bleaching and

on the effects of a range of aqueous and solvent treat-
ments on the surface texture and strength of paper arti-
facts. Scientists continued a long-term project to evaluate
accelerated aging tests for paper and other cellulosic ma-
terials. A reliable acceleration of reactions is essential in
order to validate the efficiency and safety of preservation
treatments.

A joint investigation of the effect of sulphury] fluoride
‘fumigant on a wide range of materials is nearing comple-
tion; the project has been supported by the Getty Conser-
vation Institute. The CAL is investigating proteinaceous
materials, such as wool, silk, leather, and glue, as well as
textile dyes, while the Canadian Conservation Institute
and the Getty Conservation Institute are conducting re-
search on other materials.

Objects conservators used a variety of techniques to
determine the composition, structure, and manufacture
of 7,000-year-old Near Eastern plaster figures and to test
the efficiency of a range of possible reinforcing agents for
these objects. One conservator set up an on-site conserva-
tion laboratory for the excavations at Harappa, Pakistan,
and worked on objects from the site. In textile conserva-
tion, research centered on the stability of certain pig-
ment-binder systems used in textile printing and on the
deterioration of weighted silk fabrics.

Conservation Training

The diversity of the CAL’s conservation training program
is reflected in the year’s activities. The laboratory spon-
sored six one-year postgraduate internships for recently
graduated conservators to work in conservation laborato-
ies throughout the Smithsonian. A number of interns at
arious levels of experience and expertise were trained at
CAL, including seven summer interns, two one-year
graduate interns, and two of the above-mentioned post-
raduate interns.

The first class in the CAL’s Furniture Conservation
raining Program will finish its third and final year in
989. By that time they will have had twelve two-week
ets of formal courses interspersed with return to their
ormal work and assigned home study. The students will
hen be required to complete an additional year as interns
ith a recognized furniture conservator. Because of the
uccess of this program and the imminent completion of
he formal course phase, a new group of students will be
elected for a second class. As evidence of the program’s
uccess and the need for training in furniture conserva-
ion, all of the students who were interested in attaining

employment were able to find jobs in major American
museums while they were attending the program.

The joint doctoral program with the Johns Hopkins
University to train conservation scientists finished its first
year. CAL scientists and conservators taught a course on
the properties of organic materials encountered in mu-
seum collections and served as research advisers to the
students. Next year, with more students enrolled, CAL
staff will continue to act in this capacity.

As in previous years, the CAL organized specialty
courses for practicing conservators. CAL staff and out-
side lecturers taught courses on a wide variety of sub-
jects, such as the identification of natural and early
synthetic dyes on historic textiles; coatings and colorants
for furniture; the technology of ancient jewelry; and the
deterioration and conservation of stone.

The laboratory’s information program continues to
provide specialized bibliographic and reference support to
professionals in the Smithsonian and other museums. On-
line access is maintained to the conservation literature
data base of the Conservation Information Network
(CIN), an international collaborative venture of which
the CAL is a contributing member. CAL staff also re-
sponded to questions about conservation from the gen-
eral public.

105
Cooper-Hewitt Museum

In the physical world that surrounds us, design is a uni-
versal human activity. Most fundamentally, it entails in-
dividual attempts to solve problems in a social context.
Design can impart, organize, and communicate values.
Since the Industrial Revolution, design has often referred
to the collective disciplines of separately trained profes-
sional groups who work for themselves or others, such as
architects, landscape architects, city planners, engineers,
industrial and product designers, interior and theatrical
designers, textile and fashion designers, and graphic
designers.

Too often, design is dismissed or discounted as the vis-
ible envelope or surface packaging of a functional prod-
uct or structure. Too rarely, it is appreciated as an ability
to organize the production and use of the physical matter
of our lives. Since its designation as the Smithsonian
Institution’s National Museum of Design in 1968, the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum has been an internationally ac-
claimed pioneer in the innovative exploration of both the
processes and the products of human design and art.

Collections

With more than 167,000 objects in its wide-ranging per-
manent collections, the Cooper-Hewitt is one of the
Smithsonian’s most active collection centers. The mu-
seum puts objects to work as aggressively as possible:
Forty-four items were lent to thirteen other museums in
just the first six months of 1988, during which time the
museum permanently acquired 461 items (78 by purchase
and 383 by gift) and borrowed 507 objects from forty-
three lenders for temporary exhibitions.

Among the year’s permanent acquisitions, the most
outstanding was a group of 1,488 sheets representing
more than 250 textile and wall-covering patterns by more
than fifty designers affiliated with the Wiener Werkstatte
during the early twentieth century. Unique in the world
outside of Vienna, this material represents a major
strengthening of twentieth-century holdings in the De-
partment of Drawings and Prints. Its purchase was made
possible, in part, by a grant from the Regents Collections
Acquisitions Program.

Collections that are growing and working at this rate
obviously require continuous conservation and data man-
agement efforts. The museum’s conservators treated more
than 460 objects in the first three quarters of 1988. The
application of current data processing technology to such
collections-related activities as inventory and loan man-
agement continued to evolve in all curatorial departments
throughout the year.

106

International Audiences

New York is an international design capital, and Cooper-
Hewitt audiences and interests reflect an increasing inter-
national awareness of the significance of design’s past,
present, and future. The museum welcomed a visit from
a U.S. Information Agency-sponsored group of museum
professionals from developing countries in 1987 and was
the site for the signing of a historic Accord of Mutual
Agreement and Exchange between the Industrial Design-
ers Society of America and the Society of Soviet Design-
ers. The museum was also host to King Carl XVI Gustaf
and Queen Silvia of Sweden, who toured the exhibitions,
“The Triumph of Simplicity: 350 Years of Swedish Silver”
and “Versailles: The View from Sweden,” both of which
were organized exclusively for the Cooper-Hewitt. Ad-
ministrative and curatorial colleagues from Czechoslo-

Three vases, c. 1902-20, from the William and Marcia Good-
man collection in the Cooper-Hewitt Museum featured in the
publication American Art Pottery.

Re ae

vakia and West Germany were among those greeted
during the year. Events with a local flavor included the
December 1987 meeting of the New York State Council
on the Arts and a reception for the members of the New
York City Museums Council.

A sampling of this year’s exhibition themes affirms the
international scope of the Cooper-Hewitt’s work and sug-
gests the diversity of design creativity at different times
and in different places. These themes included the career
of the twentieth-century architect Joseph Urban in
Vienna and New York; the colorful and inexpensive
household ceramics produced for Germany’s Weimar Re-
public; the influence of Versailles on late seventeenth-
and early eighteenth-century Swedish architecture; the
origins and influence of the American arts and crafts
movement; the history of European printed textiles; and
theatrical designs from three centuries of Paris Opera
productions.

The year also brought preparations on an international
scale for three major exhibitions scheduled for 1989 and
1990. “Courts and Colonies: The William and Mary Style
in Holland, England, and America” is being coproduced
with the Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh, by a team
of curators from all three countries. In celebration of the
bicentennial of the French Revolution, “L’Art de Vivre:
Decorative Arts and Design in France 1789-1989” incor-
porates the contributions of numerous colleagues from
France. “Czech Architecture and Design 1900-1950” is an
official exchange exhibition sanctioned by the govern-
ment of Czechoslovakia, with guest curators from the na-
tional museums in Prague. It is being organized by the
Cooper-Hewitt in association with Montreal’s Canadian
Center for Architecture.

Public Education

The museum sent study tours to Los Angeles, Miami,
and Venice, Italy, and planned itineraries for future ex-
plorations in central and eastern Europe and the Nether-
lands. More than 5,000 students attended courses,
symposia, workshops, and lectures in the international
design arts at the museum. Byzantine, Italian, French,
English, Russian, Japanese, and American topics were
among the offerings this year. A special evening focused
on questions relating to industrial design for global mar-
kets and the status of American productivity in this in-
creasingly competitive area. Summer studies in London
were available under the auspices of the master’s-degree-
level program that the Cooper-Hewitt and Parsons/New

School continue to offer as a unique training program for
future decorative arts scholars and curators.

International and Local Support

As the offerings and audiences are international, so are
the origins of the Cooper-Hewitt’s financial support. In
1988, for instance, grants and in-kind gifts were received
from sources such as the Smithsonian Special Exhibition
Fund, British Airways, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, Shell
Oil Company Foundation, Sotheby’s, and the Dutch
American West-India Company Foundation. The largest
grant in the museum’s history was received from France’s
Comité Colbert, a consortium of seventy leading French
firms, and Air France agreed to donate air-freight services
for “L’Art de Vivre.” Corporations such as SONY, Laura
Ashley, Brunschwig & Fils, Inc., J. P. Stevens & Co.,
Inc., Mitchell Energy & Development Corporation, Ger-
ald D. Hines Interests, Hearst Magazines, and Potlatch
Corporation became Corporate Patrons and made finan-
cial gifts in support of specific projects or as contribu-
tions to meet a three-year challenge grant from the
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for a permanent research
endowment. Individual members generously responded to
a special appeal in that campaign, and the William Ran-
dolph Hearst Foundation and James Smithson Society
each provided matching funds for the same purpose.

All of the museum’s publications are produced with
private funds. This year marked the publication of Amer-
ican Art Pottery, supported in part by Marcia and Wil-
liam Goodman and the New York State Council on the
Arts. A handsome gift from the Port Royal Foundation
made possible the catalogue for Versailles: The View
from Sweden, and the J. M. Kaplan Fund provided a
grant to help absorb the costs of the exhibition and ac-
companying publication on the work of the German ar-
chitect Erich Mendelsohn.

The Decorative Arts Association, a group of collectors
and others with special affinity for the Decorative Arts
Department, also raised funds for its future activities.

Support of this sort, in addition to annual allotments
from the Institution and from Congress, provides the
means for the museum to serve its growing public. In
response, that public has provided support in the form of
admissions and membership fees. The number of visits
for the year is estimated at 150,000. Twelve hundred
members crowded into the garden for the annual mem-
bers’ garden party in June. On the next evening 7,000
visitors of every age and background arrived to celebrate

107
the tenth anniversary of New York’s world-famous Mu-
seum Mile, with Mayor Edward I. Koch and New York
State Council on the Arts Chairman Kitty Carlisle Hart

presiding over the opening ceremonies.

Staff Changes

Harold Pfister served as acting director of the museum
during the year. At year’s end Dianne Pilgrim, chairman
of the Brooklyn Museum’s Department of Decorative
Arts, was appointed director.

108

Freer Gallery of Art

As the year began, Dr. Thomas Lawton stepped down
after a decade as director in order to pursue his research
in the art of ancient China. He assumed the position of
senior research scholar. Dr. Milo C. Beach, a specialist in
the painting of India, was named acting director of the
Freer and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Dr. Beach had
been assistant director of the Sackler Gallery.

Much of the staff effort at the Freer Gallery this year
was aimed at preparing the world-renowned collection of
Asian and turn-of-the-century American art for a major
construction and renovation project that is expected to
take more than three years. For the safety of the collec-
tion and for the convenience of gallery visitors, the Freer
closed to the public on September 6, 1988, for the dura-
tion of the project. All staff moved to the Sackler
Gallery.

The renovation is planned in four phases. In the first
phase, all work will be carried out below the gallery
level. An exhibition gallery will be constructed to provide
staff and public access between the Freer and the Sackler.
A new elevator between the Independence Avenue level
and the exhibition galleries will make the building acces-
sible to visitors with mobility impairments. Space for art
conservation and technical research will triple, and facili-
ties for art storage will expand by 7o percent.

Later stages of the project will involve restoration and
repair to the gallery level, the auditorium, and the exte-
rior, followed by reinstallation of the collection. Work
on the gallery level will preserve and restore the original
appearance of the building, which is listed on the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places. The north foyer (Jeffer-
son Drive) will emerge as the grand public entry, as the
building’s architect, Charles Platt, intended. The Gallery
Shop, now located in the foyer, will be moved to the
ground level.

Repairs to and restoration of eighteen exhibition galler-
ies will include new glass ceilings copied after the original
ones. A new artificial lighting system will complement
the generous natural light in the galleries. Gallery walls
will be replastered; marble flooring and limestone walls
will be repaired; and metal architectural detailing will be
restored. The courtyard, which will be excavated during
the first phase of the project, will be returned to its origi-
nal appearance.

In preparation for the renovation project, an inventory
was conducted and the collection was moved to the exhi-
bition galleries, which have been adapted for storage
during construction. An independent temperature and
humidity control system has been devised to maintain a
stable environment.

A late fifteenth- to early sixteenth-century Ottoman Turkish
bowl of silver and gilt added to the Freer Gallery’s Near Eastern
collection in 1988.

Research and Education

Study of the Freer’s American collection continued under
Dr. Linda Merrill, assistant curator of American art, and
three visiting students. Dr. Merrill completed the manu-
script for Dwight William Tryon: Paintings in the Freer
Gallery of Art, a catalogue to accompany the exhibition
scheduled to open in 1992. Dr. Merrill was awarded a
Regents’ Publication Fellowship for the preparation of
her manuscript, A Pot of Paint: Whistler v. Ruskin. This
critical analysis and the reconstruction from contempo-
ary newspaper accounts of the transcript of the libel trial
f 1878 will be published by the Smithsonian Institution
Tess.
John Siewert, a Smithsonian Fellow from the Univer-
ity of Michigan, continued his research on the Whistler
octurnes; Victoria Corbeil, a Smith College—Smithson-
ian Intern, was in residence to study Abbott H. Thayer;
nd Jim Ganz, a Williams College intern, conducted re-
earch on Whistler prints. Professor Yasushi Egami of
ophia University, Tokyo, was in residence as the Harold

P. Stern Fellow, conducting research on Japanese sutras
of the Heian period in the Freer collection.

Acquisitions

A pair of illustrated narrative handscrolls depicting the
story of Tamamo-no-mae, by Yasunobu (Shichizaemon),
a Japanese painter of the seventeenth century, was pur-
chased for the collection. Another addition to the Japa-
nese collection, an eighteenth-century hanging scroll by
Tsukioka Settei, was given by Elizabeth Gordon Nor-
cross. A late fifteenth- to early sixteenth-century Otto-
man Turkish bowl of silver and gilt was added to the
Near Eastern collection. Four hanging scrolls, a hand-
scroll, and a Yuan dynasty (1280-1368) ceramic incense
burner were purchased for the Chinese collection.

109
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the
Smithsonian Institution’s museum of modern and con-
temporary art, maintained an active exhibition schedule
and acquisition program this year. Films, concerts, sym-
posia, tours, and other educational activities supported
these programs. The museum’s departments of conserva-
tion, registration, photography, and the reference library
continued to offer technical support to staff and scholars.

Exhibitions

Two complementary, simultaneous exhibition series that
offer an intimate experience with contemporary art were
inaugurated this year. The Directions series, which fo-
cuses on small-scale solo exhibitions, highlighted the
work of Joel Shapiro, Sherrie Levine, and Robert Cum-
ming. A 1,572-square-foot gallery on the museum’s third
floor was redesigned to accommodate these single-artist

On September 22, 1988, Mrs. Eduard Shevardnadze (second
from right), wife of the Soviet foreign minister, toured the
Hirshhorn Museum’s exhibition of Russian and Soviet paint-
ings, 1900-30. With her are Museum Director James Demetrion
(left, with an interpreter) and Mrs. Yuriy Dubinin (far right),
wife of the Soviet ambassador to the United States. After the
tour, Mrs. Shevardnadze crossed the Mall to preview the
“Crossroads of Continents” exhibition at the Museum of Natu-
ral History. (Photograph by Lee Stalsworth)

IIo

exhibitions. The WORKS series, which features tempo-
rary installations created for the museum’s building and
grounds, is the only ongoing program of its kind in a
major American museum. Sol LeWitt, the team of Kate
Ericson and Mel Ziegler, and Vernon Fisher created site-
specific pieces this year. Both series and the accompany-
ing publications were made possible, in part, through the
Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund.

Three major exhibitions were organized by Hirshhorn —
staff members this year, with catalogues published or dis-
tributed by the Smithsonian Institution Press. With sup-
port from the Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund, the —
Hirshhorn mounted “Russian and Soviet Paintings, 1g900—
1930: Selections from the State Tretyakov Gallery, Mos- —
cow, and the State Russian Museum, Leningrad.” This
was the first American exhibition of early twentieth-
century works by Russian and Soviet artists drawn exclu-
sively from the two most important museums in the
Soviet Union specializing in works from that period. The
exhibition was selected by director James T. Demetrion
and chief curator for exhibitions Dr. Edwin Rifkin.
“Alberto Giacometti 1901-1966,” organized by associate
curator of sculpture Valerie J. Fletcher, opened in the fall)
of 1988 and then traveled to the San Francisco Museum
of Modern Art. Grants from Credit Suisse and the Xerox
Foundation, with supplemental assistance from Balair
and the Pro Helvetia Foundation and an indemnity from
the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities,
made this retrospective possible. “Different Drummers,”
organized by curator of prints and drawings Frank Get-
tings, focused on highly individual and diverse art in
many media by nine contemporary artists.

Other exhibitions included “A Quiet Revolution: Brit-
ish Sculpture since 1965,” sculpture and works on paper
by six artists, organized jointly by the Museum of Con-
temporary Art, Chicago, and the San Francisco Museum
of Modern Art. The Hirshhorn Museum was the only
American venue for “Expressiv: Central European Art
since 1960.” This exhibition of paintings, sculptures,
mixed-media pieces, and photographs by artists from
Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Yugosla-
via was first shown at the Museum of Modern Art in
Vienna.

Smaller exhibitions featuring works from the perma-
nent collection included “Sea and Shore: Selections from
the Permanent Collection” and “The New Spirit: Artist-
Organizers of the Armory Show,” both organized by as-
sociate curator of painting Dr. Judith Zilczer.

Loans from the Hirshhorn Museum were featured in
retrospective exhibitions honoring several artists. Two of

rst Barlach’s Seated Girl, 1937, is one of the major works
rom the Marion L. Ring Estate given to the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden.

harles Demuth’s popular watercolors, Circus and
audeville: Many Brave Hearts Are Asleep in the Deep,
ere part of a touring exhibition organized by the Whit-
ey Museum of American Art in New York City. Two of
ablo Picasso’s works on paper from the recently ac-
uired Joseph H. Hirshhorn Bequest traveled to West
ermany for inclusion in a show about the artist’s classi-
al period. Charles Sheeler’s oil painting, Staircase,
oylestown, was part of a comprehensive exhibition that
howcased works in many media executed by this artist.
oordinated by the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the
xhibition also traveled to New York City and Dallas.
nselm Kiefer’s two-panel painting, Das Buch, has been
een throughout the United States in a critically ac-
laimed exhibition focusing on this painter’s unusual style
nd subject matter.

Among the more than seventy works lent to museums
in this country and abroad were several borrowed for
shows that dealt with artistic endeavors of the 1950s. In
“The Figurative Fifties,” an exhibition at the Newport
Harbor Art Museum in California, Bob Thompson’s La
Fete and Fairfield Porter’s Katie and Anne depicted the
style known as New York figurative expressionism. At
the Paine Art Center in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, Joan
Brown’s Nun with Staffordshire Terrier and Elmer Bis-
choffs Houses and Hills illustrated another regional style
in the exhibition, “Painting from the San Francisco Bay
Area.” Overseas, this trend to analyze the art of the 1950s
continued with the Berlinische Galerie’s “Documenta II,”
to which the Hirshhorn’s stainless steel Sentinel II, by
David Smith, and large canvas Delaware Gap, by Franz
Kline, were important contributions. The new Nagoya
City Art Museum in Japan included Edward Hopper’s
City Sunlight and Willem de Kooning’s Woman in its am-
bitious inaugural exhibition. Other loans, to an exhibi-
tion organized by the International Sculpture Center that
dealt with American industrialization from 1920 to 1930,
were part of a four-venue tour of major Japanese cities.
Finally, the Hirshhorn’s Study for a Portrait of Van Gogh
III, by Francis Bacon, was part of an exhibition orga-
nized by the British Council in London that traveled to
the Soviet Union.

The Hirshhorn Museum’s acquisition funds were
handsomely increased by a gift from the Holenia Trust,
established by the late Joseph H. Hirshhorn for the ad-
vancement of art. The museum also received a grant
from the Lannan Foundation under its new contemporary
art acquisitions program for emerging artists. Two mu-
seum facilities were named in recognition of the support
of generous donors. The pool in the Sculpture Garden
has been designated the Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation Pool and the auditorium now bears the name
the Marion and Gustave Ring Auditorium.

Education

The education department continued to bring the mu-
seum’s exhibitions and permanent collection alive for au-
diences ranging from schoolchildren to senior citizens. A
docent symposium, “Pulse: A Practicum on Current Ideas
and Approaches in Museum Education,” focused on mu-
seum outreach endeavors. The museum’s ninety-five do-
cents conducted tours for 18,000 visitors during the year.
Programs for area schools attracted both elementary- and
secondary-school students. The summer intern program

Iil
gave five undergraduate students much-desired museum
experience. Regularly scheduled free films about artists,
films by artist-filmmakers, and a special program of films
for young people were vital aspects of the museum’s out-
reach to the public.

Acquisitions

The museum’s permanent collection was enriched by
twenty-six gifts and twenty purchases. Among the recent
acquisitions are seven major works from the estate of
Marion L. Ring, the most significant art donation the
museum has received to date other than through Joseph
H. Hirshhorn’s benefactions. Works in the Ring gift in-
clude a wood sculpture by Ernst Barlach and paintings by
Milton Avery, Stuart Davis, Adolph Gottlieb, Giorgio
Morandi, and Edouard Vuillard. Other important addi-
tions to the collection were nine works from the Mary
and Leigh Block Collection, including sculptures by Jac-
ques Lipchitz, Marino Marini, and Auguste Rodin and a
painting by Daniel Vladimir Baranoff-Rossiné. Other
newly acquired paintings include: Everything Is Going
Well (1981), by Sandro Chia; Untitled (1988), by Moira
Dryer; Ancient Wall (1976), by Philip Guston; Landscape
(1987), by Robert Moskowitz; In the Dark (1987), by Eli-
zabeth Murray; Sanctuary (1988), by Gerhard Richter;
and Thursday (1960), by Jack Tworkov. Among the no-
table sculpture acquisitions are Spanse (1987), a paint-
infused bronze by Nancy Graves, and Timber’s Turns
(1987), a wood sculpture by Martin Puryear.

Ii2

National Air and Space
Museum

The National Air and Space Museum, which houses the
largest collection of historic air and spacecraft in the
world, is the nation’s center for exhibition, education,
and research in the history of the science, technology,
and culture of aviation and spaceflight. This year the mu
seum took steps to make the contributions by other
nations to space exploration more visible. It also empha-
sized the development of long-range plans for exhibits
that will examine the history of aviation and space tech-
nology in its broader social and scientific contexts. The
museum recorded more than nine million visits in 1988.

Research

The museum’s three curatorial units conduct a wide
range of research projects. Research in the Department 0+
Aeronautics focuses principally on the history of aviation
technology. The Department of Space Science and Explo
ration carries out studies on the history of astronomy,
space science, and rocket and space technology. Scientific
research on satellite remote sensing of the Earth and on
comparative planetology is the emphasis of the Center fo:
Earth and Planetary Studies.

The activities of resident staff members are augmented)
by the work of visiting scholars, who use the museum’s
singular collections of artifacts and documents to pursue -
their research interests. In 1988 Dr. John W. Fozard,a
distinguished British aeronautical engineer and designer
and past president of the Royal Aeronautical Society,
held the Charles A. Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace His-
tory. His research at the museum was concerned with
producing a definitive technical history of jet-powered lift
flight (used by a class of fixed-wing aircraft that can op-
erate from short runways and small ships). Dr. John A.
Simpson of the Laboratory for Astrophysics and Space
Research, University of Chicago, was appointed to the
Martin Marietta Chair in Space History. Simpson, who
was principal investigator on twenty-seven scientific
spacecraft missions, conducted research at the museum ta
document his successful placement of a dust detector on
the two Soviet Vega spacecraft to Comet Halley. Dr. Mi-
chael J. Neufeld of Colgate University came to the mu-
seum as the Verville Fellow to study the career of
Wernher von Braun.

Museum staff members published two major reference
works in 1988. Air and Space History: An Annotated Bib-
liography, compiled by curators Cathleen S. Lewis (De-
partment of Space Science and Exploration) and Dr.
Dominick A. Pisano (Department of Aeronautics), was

published by Garland Publishing. This book has been de-
scribed by one reviewer as a landmark event for scholars.
The year also saw publication of the definitive NASA
Historical Data Book, Volumes II and III, written by Lin
Ezell, the museum’s assistant director for collections
management.

Work has begun on the Smithsonian History of Avia-
tion book series, under the general editorship of Dr.
Dominick Pisano in collaboration with other aeronautics
department curators and an international board of edi-
tors. The series will include monographs as well as re-
prints of classics, source documents, and translations.

It was a benchmark year in historical research and
writing for several members of the Aeronautics Depart-
ment. R. E. G. Davies won the Aviation/Space Writers
Association Award of Excellence for the best nonfiction
aviation book of 1987, Rebels and Reformers of the Air-
ways, published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Davies recently completed research for a book on the his-
tory of Lufthansa Airlines and is conducting research for
three additional books. Dr. Von Hardesty was coeditor
and translator of H. N. Finne’s important biography,
Igor Sikorsky: The Russian Years. Hardesty and Dr.
Dominick Pisano jointly wrote the introduction to
Thomas E. Simmons’s The Brown Condor, a historical
novel based on the life of John C. Robinson, an early
black aviator. Robert C. Mikesh published the Flying
Dragons: The South Vietnamese Air Force, one of the
few historical works available on the air war in Vietnam.
Peter Jakab is completing work on The Wright Flyer:
Study in the Process of Invention, to be published in
1989 by the Smithsonian Institution Press. Robert van der
inden completed the manuscript for a forthcoming book
n the Boeing 247, and Rick Leyes is coauthoring a book
with William R. Fleming) on the evolution of the small
as turbine aircraft engine industry in America.

In the Department of Space Science and Exploration,
the Glennan-Webb-Seamans Project for Research in
Space History, directed by Martin J. Collins, entered its
second year. Project staff are working on archives preser-
vation and conducting oral history interviews in support
f their research on the administration and management
f large-scale projects in the space program.

Also entering its second year was a collaborative pro-
ject between the Space Science and Exploration Depart-
ent and the Rand Corporation involving the archival
reservation of unpublished papers related to the first
ecade of the corporation and the compilation of more
han ten hours of videotaped interviews with Rand-asso-
iated pioneers in aerial and space-borne reconnaissance.

Curators Dr. Joseph Tatarewicz and Martin Collins are
coinvestigators on the project.

The NASM-Johns Hopkins University Program in the
History of Space Science continued, with the completion
and submission to Cambridge University Press of Shaping
the Space Telescope: The Interpenetration of Science,
Technology, and Politics, by Dr. Robert W. Smith et al.

Dr. Allan A. Needell is conducting research on several
fronts: the relations between physical scientists and the
American military and civilian space programs; the career
of Prof. Lloyd Berkner, first president of the Space Sci-
ence Board of the National Academy of Sciences; and the
study of cosmic rays and solar and terrestrial electromag-
netic fields using rockets and spacecraft. Needell has also
written an extensive introduction to be published in the
1988 reprinting of Max Planck’s classic Lectures on the
Theory of Heat Radiation.

Dr. Paul Ceruzzi completed a book on the history and
present role of computers in aerospace applications, to be
published next year by the MIT Press. The book will
document the forthcoming permanent exhibition, “Be-
yond the Limits: Flight Enters the Computer Age” (for
which Ceruzzi was curator), while treating the more sub-
tle historical issues in greater depth. Ceruzzi also contrib-
uted to the forthcoming book Computing before
Computers (Iowa State University Press).

Dr. David DeVorkin is completing Spectacle in the
Stratosphere, a major book on manned scientific balloon-
ing in the 1930s and r94os. Derek W. Elliott is conduct-
ing dissertation research on the political influences in the
development of early U.S. space policy.

Department curators have also been involved in univer-
sity teaching. Needell and Smith planned and taught a
graduate seminar on “The Organization of American Sci-
ence since 1930” at the Johns Hopkins University, and
Tatarewicz was named visiting assistant professor of his-
tory at the University of Maryland, teaching two courses,
“Science and Technology in World History” and “History
of Technology.”

In the museum’s Center for Earth and Planetary Stud-
ies (CEPS), basic research on the use of remote sensing of
terrestrial and planetary surfaces continued, with empha-
sis on desert regions of Earth and structural land forms
on Mars. Analysis of satellite images of Africa concen-
trated on determining changes that took place in Egypt,
Mali, and Botswana over a nine-year period. Analysis of
Landsat orbital images by Dr. Patricia Jacobberger
showed that desert dunes in Mali and Botswana that are
stabilized by vegetation do not migrate, but are subject to
increased local erosion from lack of rainfall. Fieldwork

113
and samples taken in 1988 resulted in an increased aware-
ness of climatic changes as a controlling factor of dune
form and migration rate.

Dr. Ted Maxwell’s investigations of the hyperarid de-
sert core in the Western Desert of Egypt and the northern
Sudan continued in 1988 with the mapping of sand sheet
deposits in the area where the Space Shuttle Radar Ex-
periment revealed buried drainage patterns in 1981. Com-
parison of images taken fifteen years apart has shown
significant change in the desert surface. Large-scale rip-
ples, 3 miles from crest to crest, were discovered in
Landsat images and confirmed by field surveying. These
features move up to 100 meters per year, transporting
enormous volumes of sand. Joint work with Dr. C.
Vance Haynes of the University of Arizona, who was a
senior postdoctoral fellow at CEPS in 1987, helped refine
prior estimates of dune migration rates in the region.

In November 1987, at an international conference in
Paris sponsored by the Centre Nationale d’Etude Spa-
tiales, Dr. Ted Maxwell and Constance Andre presented
their results of using the French SPOT satellite data. The
stereo capabilities of SPOT enabled them to define the
location of a fault system in Saudi Arabia, which may be
one of the largest known intracontinental faults.

Dr. Tom Watters used Viking Orbiter images of the
Martian surface together with models of structural geol-
ogy to deduce that folding of the near-surface crust has
played a major role in the tectonic evolution of the
planet. Analogous fold belts in the Columbia Plateau in
Washington State are being studied to further define the
role of folding and faulting. Additional Mars research by
Dr. Ted Maxwell detailed the timing and nature of fault-
ing episodes along the boundary between the southern,
highly cratered hemisphere and the northern smooth
plains. This work made it possible to identify a unique
class of rimless impact craters, indicating a widespread
zone of erosion or deposition early in Martian geological
history.

Studies of Mars using data from the Viking Infrared
Thermal Mapper experiment are planned to provide con-
straints on the size range of rocks exposed on the surface.
These studies, by Dr. Jim Zimbleman and Robert Crad-
dock, will be field-checked by studying analogous sur-
faces in the Mojave Desert.

Collections

In 1988 the museum completed a building at the Wash-
ington-Dulles International Airport to shelter part of the

114

collection that was previously out-of-doors. In addition

to the space shuttle Enterprise, the building houses sev-
eral historically important aircraft, including B-25, B-57,
and B-17 bombers; an F-8U Crusader; and a Junkers Ju-
52 transport plane. A Super Constellation transcontinen-
tal airliner has recently been acquired and is now at
Dulles.

The staff at the museum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation, —
Restoration, and Storage Facility in Suitland, Maryland,
finished restoring the o8-2U Kingfisher seaplane, the Ar-
ado 234 German World War II jet bomber, and the
Fowler-Gage wooden biplane. Restoration work was
completed on the interior of the forward fuselage of the
Enola Gay, the B-29 that dropped the atomic bomb on
Hiroshima, and the full restoration of this important air-
plane is now being given high priority. Complete restora-
tion of the ATS-6 satellite awaits only the treatment of
the antenna meshing and final assembly. The Hubble
Space Telescope’s structural dynamic test vehicle, slated
for exhibition in the museum’s Space Hall, is being |
treated at the Garber Facility, as are several small arti- |
facts that will figure prominently in the new aerospace
computing gallery, “Beyond the Limits.” Restoration has |
also begun on a World War II British Hawker Hurricane. —
Restoration efforts have been enhanced by the addition
of a program in which volunteers with special skills work ©
on restoration projects. Two new environmentally con- —
trolled storage units were constructed at the Garber Facil- |
ity this year. |

During 1988 the museum’s archives acquired 115 col- |
lections, including materials related to the Bendix Air |
Races and Trophy, donated by Allied-Signal Aerospace
Company; a collection from United Technologies Cor- |
poration; and personal papers, maps, charts, and memo- —
rabilia belonging to Arthur Raymond Brooks, who flew
the World War I Spad XIII aircraft that is now in the
museum’s collection.

The museum’s film archives acquired 800 films during
1988 from the Department of Defense Motion Picture De-
pository. Preservation efforts included duplication of a
film on the Grover Loening Aircraft Company.

Two videodiscs have been added to the museum cata-
logue and are ready for public distribution. Videodisc 4
contains 50,000 images of U.S. Air Force activities prior
to 1954 and includes the Air Force Art Collection; video-
disc 6, assembled with the cooperation of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), contains
100,000 images from all the U.S. lunar missions. |

To provide better support for curatorial and collection’!
management staffs, the museum is developing an interim —
collections information system. This on-line inventory
system, which will later be incorporated into the planned
Institution-wide Collections Information System, will give
the staff maximum computing power for recording infor-
mation about objects in the collection and provide im-
proved research and collections management capabilities.

Exhibitions

In December 1987, to mark the first anniversary of the
first nonstop, nonrefueled flight around the world, the

Craftsmen from the National Air and Space Museum’s Paul E. Garber Facility prepare to suspend the Voyager, the first aircraft to
fly around the world without landing or refueling, from the ceiling of the museum’s South Lobby on November 20, 1987.

museum opened “Voyager: Around the World without a
Pit Stop.” The exhibition has become one of the most
popular at the museum. It features Dick Rutan and
Jeanna Yeager’s Voyager aircraft, together with photo-
graphs and a videotape of highlights of the flight.

“Horizons,” a new art exhibition in the Flight and the
Arts Gallery, features the extraordinary paintings and
drawings of British artist Robert Taylor. Many of the
thoroughly researched and meticulously detailed paint-
ings and drawings are highly realistic portrayals of inci-
dents that occurred during World War II.

II5
The spirit of international cooperation is alive and well
at the museum and is being fostered through an exhibi-
tion of full-scale and engineering test models of space-
craft developed by the European Space Agency (ESA).
The exhibition, mounted with the cooperation of ESA,
includes the Giotto spacecraft, which approached within
370 miles of Comet Halley in 1986 and obtained the first
detailed images of a comet nucleus; the Ulysses space-
craft, which will be launched in 1990 into an orbit taking
it over the heretofore unseen poles of the Sun; the Hip-
parcos satellite, which will carry an astronomical tele-
scope designed to bring unprecedented accuracy to the
determination of the positions and motions of the stars;
and Exosat, a satellite that will study x-ray sources in
our galaxy and beyond.

A team of five staff members led by Claudia Oakes
continued its work on the new World War I gallery. This
major project will address the historical theme of the gen-
esis of air power in its larger social and political context.
Work also began on a new exhibition to mark the 1989
centenary of the birth of Igor Sikorsky, the famed Rus-
sian-American aircraft designer.

In cooperation with the U.S. Customs Service, the mu-
seum produced an exhibition titled “The War against
Drugs: Air Interdiction Program,” which portrayed the
agency’s use of aircraft to prevent the airborne smuggling
of illicit drugs into the United States.

As part of the museum’s continuing effort to represent
women in its exhibitions, an exhibition devoted to the
history of “Women in Helicopter Aviation” was added to
the Vertical Flight Gallery. This photographic display
was produced in cooperation with Whirly-Girls, the in-
ternational association of women helicopter pilots.

Public Events and Educational Programs

During the year the museum presented a wide selection of
programs and events designed to educate, entertain, and
involve the public in the museum. From the popular
IMAX films shown in the Samuel P. Langley Theater to
outreach programs for minority young people, the mu-
seum’s public programs appealed to a cross section of the
museum’s audience. Lectures and seminars for scholars
and specialists also drew on the rich resources of the mu-
seum’s collections and research efforts.

The Office of Public Affairs and Museum Services con-
tinued to run the well-received thirteen-week “Fly-By-
Night” series, intended to take advantage of the mu-
seum’s late summer evening hours. The series included
lectures, films, and other free activities for families.

116

The office also coordinated the second annual nation-
wide photography contest, “Focus on Flight,” adding spe- |
cial categories for young people and senior citizens. An
exhibition featuring the prizewinning entries was installed
in the Pioneers of Flight Gallery. At a press conference in ©
May 1988, the museum announced the winners in its |
Race for Space Software Chase, a computer software }
competition among colleges and universities nationwide. _
The competition was sponsored jointly by the museum
and by Apple Computer, Inc. The museum will install
the winning entries in the new gallery, “Beyond the Lim- |
its: Flight Enters the Computer Age,” which opens in
May 1989.

On June 30 the Samuel P. Langley Theater welcomed
the ten millionth visitor to see the film To Fly. Regina
Doll of Thurmont, Maryland, was greeted on arrival by
Dr. Martin Harwit, director of the National Air and
Space Museum, and Stacy Mobley, vice-president for fed-
eral affairs of the Dupont Company, the film’s sponsor.
The five IMAX films commissioned by the museum—To
Fly, The Dream Is Alive, On the Wing, Living Planet,
and Flyers—continue to play to delighted audiences.

During the year the museum offered free to the public _
nine General Electric Aviation Lectures, twelve Monthly
Sky Lectures in the Albert Einstein Planetarium, seven
aviation film classics, eight space science fiction film clas-
sics, four lectures titled “Astronomical Enigmas: True
Mysteries of the Cosmos” and delivered by scientists
from the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, five
lectures on “The Universe in a New Light” by distin-
guished astrophysicists, and a well-attended, seven-part
adult education course entitled “Investigating Modern As-
tronomy.” The latter, presented in the Albert Einstein
Planetarium, dealt with topics ranging from the use of a
telescope to the large-scale structure of the universe. The |
annual Wernher von Braun lecture was given by Gen.
Samuel C. Phillips (USAF, Ret.) and was called “Destina-.
tion Space: Managing the U.S. Space Program.” Dr. John:
W. Fozard gave the annual Lindbergh lecture on “The
Engineering Elegance of Jumping Jets.” |

The museum marked the twenty-fifth anniversary of
planetary exploration with a lecture by Dr. Carl Sagan,
“Voyage to Venus: The Mission of Mariner 2”; a lecture
by Dr. Jeff Plescia of NASA, “Exploring the Planet
Mars”; and a video history symposium with pioneers of |
the planetary program entitled “Toward a Venus En- |
counter, 1962: The Organization and Execution of Man- |
kind’s First Mission to Another Planet.”

Under the auspices of the Office of Cooperative Pro- |
grams, the museum conducted a one-week workshop in |

|
The Viking Lander, identical to the two that landed on Mars in
1976, was of particular interest to King Carl XVI Gustaf of
Sweden on his early morning visit to the National Air and
Space Museum on April 11, 1988. Accompanying the king were
Director Martin Harwit (left) and Deputy Director Donald S.
Lopez (right).

January on the history of aviation, spaceflight, and re-
lated technologies for twenty professors from the Univer-
sity of Maryland and Clemson University who are
participating in the New Liberal Arts Program of the
Sloan Foundation. A random-access videodisc and curric-
ulum material based on the workshop will constitute an
aviation module for courses on the history of technology
in the New Liberal Arts Program.

In March the museum and the American Association of
Museums cosponsored a two-day seminar, “Mutual Con-
cerns of Air Museums.” The seminar included lectures,
behind-the-scenes tours, and workshops.

In April the museum sponsored an all-day seminar,
“Blacks in Aviation: Three Historic Films.” This event
brought together for the first time an eminent group of
historians and specialists to evaluate the contribution of
blacks to aviation in the social and racial context of
America from the 1920s through the 1940s. Among the
invited guests were Gen. Benjamin O. Davis and the Tus-
keegee Airmen.

This year the Office of Volunteer Services recruited
behind-the-scenes volunteers with wood- and metalwork-
ing skills to undertake restoration projects at the Garber

Facility. The office also initiated a series of summer
“highlights” tours of the museum designed for a school-
age audience.

The museum began a new minority outreach program
that brings to Washington, D.C.—area public schools the
relatively unknown story of the contributions of blacks to
American aviation. To follow up and reinforce the class-
room program, the students may tour the museum with
their classes. The tour emphasizes the “Black Wings” ex-
hibit about black aviators and astronauts and features an
IMAX film showing. The program has visited more than
thirty area schools this year; more than half of these vis-
its have resulted in group tours of the museum.

For Black History Month in February, the museum of-
fered “Flying against Tradition: Blacks in Aviation.” This
program included lectures titled “Blacks in Space Flight,”
by Derek Elliott, assistant curator in the Department of
Space Science and Exploration; “From These Begin-
nings,” by Elwood Driver, director of NASA’s Aircraft
Management Office; and “Memoirs of a Black Fighter
Pilot,” by Louis R. Purnell, a former National Air and
Space Museum curator.

To mark Hispanic Heritage Week in September, the
museum offered free recorded tours in Spanish and Por-
tuguese. Also featured was an evening lecture by astro-
naut Sidney M. Gutierrez (Major, USAF) called “Return
to Flight.”

The museum’s Office of Publications produced The Of-
ficial Guide to the National Air and Space Museum, pub-
lished by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The office
also coordinated publications projects for other museum
departments.

The museum’s Education Resource Center opened on
January 12, 1988, with astronaut Jon McBride as the
guest speaker. More than 1,300 teachers visited the cen-
ter, which provides air-and-space-related materials for
teachers, during its first six months of operation.

The Office of Education produced three new publi-
cations this year: Discovery, a curriculum package for
kindergarten through third grade, produced in coopera-
tion with NASA; 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, a guide for the very young
visitor; and Skylines, a quarterly newsletter for educa-
tors. Kasse Andrews-Weller of the Office of Education
received a Charles A. Lindbergh Foundation grant to de-
velop a slide kit, “The Fragile Earth.”

The museum conducted fifteen teacher workshops on a
wide variety of subjects during the year. An “Exploring
Frontiers” workshop was presented in collaboration with
the National Science Foundation. Six workshops were
funded by the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian

117
Associates, and two were offered for continuing educa-
tion credit through Oklahoma State University.

In collaboration with the Anacostia Museum, District
of Columbia Public Schools, and the National Urban Co-
alition, the museum held several workshops on the
grounds of the Anacostia Museum involving building,
flying, and launching hot air balloons, kites, and rockets.

Air & Space/Smithsonian

The bimonthly magazine Air & Space/Smithsonian
marked its second anniversary by creating a “Space Ex-
plorers” poster for insertion in the April/May 1988 issue.
The poster, a compilation of photographs and data on all
204 astronauts and cosmonauts from nineteen countries
who had orbited the Earth by the end of 1987, was pre-
sented to the science adviser to the president and to the
Soviet Academy of Sciences. In addition to the 390,000
copies of the poster that were inserted in Air @Space/
Smithsonian, 100,000 copies were purchased for distribu-
tion by NASA; 60,000 were inserted in the magazine So-
viet Life, published by the Soviet government for readers
in the United States; and another 60,000 (in Russian
translation) were inserted in the magazine Amerika, pub-
lished by the U.S. Information Agency for readers in the
Soviet Union. The shared poster represents a first in edi-
torial collaboration between these two magazines, which
are published under the terms of a bilateral governmental
agreement.

In further recognition of international space efforts, Air
e& Space/Smithsonian published “The Chariot of Indra”
on the space program of India and “Balloons over Venus”
on the Soviet Vega mission to the planet Venus and
Comet Halley. For the latter article, the magazine com-
missioned five paintings by astronomical artist Ron
Miller.

118

National Museum of
African Art

The past year marked a milestone for the National Mu-
seum of African Art: its first year at its new location on
the National Mall. Nineteen eighty-eight also saw the
museum take great strides toward realizing director Syl-
via Williams’s vision of bringing to the public the finest,
most classic examples of the art of Africa south of the
Sahara. Exhibitions and activities during the year rein-
forced the museum’s goal of guarding, cherishing, and
sharing these works, which stand as a tribute to the crea-
tive skill and ingenuity of African artists and to their dy-
namic past.

A record number of visits—640,000 in all—were re-
corded by the National Museum of African Art, the only
museum in the United States dedicated to the collection,
exhibition, and study of the art of Africa south of the
Sahara. Among the distinguished visitors were U.S. Su-
preme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor; Her Royal
Highness, the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg; the am-
bassadors to the United States from Senegal, Nigeria,
Italy, and Switzerland; the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Ofala
Okagbue III; and Princess Njoya of Bamum, Cameroon.

Exhibitions

Five inaugural exhibitions launched the museum’s ambi-
tious exhibition schedule for the year. Among the high-
lights was “The Permanent Collection of the National
Museum of African Art,” including sculpture, textiles,
utilitarian objects, and decorative arts. “African Art in
the Cycle of Life” featured eighty-eight works illustrating
various stages of the life cycle, from birth and the coming
of age to death, the afterlife, and ancestors. Three addi-
tional installations, focusing on African textiles (“Patterns
of Life: West African Strip-Weaving Traditions”), utili-
tarian objects (“Objects of Use”), and Benin metal sculp- —
ture (“Royal Benin Art in the Collection of the National
Museum of African Art”), completed the opening exhibi- —
tion schedule. |
Nine months after opening its doors, the museum pre- —
sented two exhibitions, one focusing on historical photo- |
graphs of a Cameroonian kingdom in the early r900s and _
the other featuring textiles from Zaire. “Images from Ba- |
mum: German Colonial Photography at the Court of |
King Njoya, Cameroon, West Africa, 1902-1915,” pre-
sented sixty compelling photographs taken by German
colonials portraying the life at the court of King Njoya,
ruler of the Bamum Kingdom in Cameroon at the turn of |
the century. The second exhibition, “Shoowa Design: |
Raffia Textiles from Zaire,” featured more than roo raf-
fia textiles created by the Shoowa group of Zaire’s Kuba
peoples.

As the fiscal year came to a close, curatorial and other
museum staff were putting the finishing touches on two
major fall exhibitions celebrating Kalabari art and ritual.
“Kalabari Ancestral Screens: Levels of Meaning,” will ex-
plore the traditional function and use of the screens as
well as their history and formal qualities. The museum’s
first exhibition of contemporary art since becoming part
of the Smithsonian, “Echoes of the Kalabari: Sculpture
by Sokari Douglas Camp,” will feature life-size figurative
sculpture in steel and other materials. Inspired by Kala-
bari performing and visual arts, Sokari Douglas Camp
draws inspiration from Kalabari masquerades, funeral
celebrations, and festivals.

Acquisitions

In the past year twenty-two works of art were added to
the permanent collection, including five objects acquired
through gift and thirteen acquired through purchase. In
addition, a rare Yoruba staff was purchased with funds
provided by the Smithsonian Institution Collections Ac-
quisitions Program. A Kuba mat and a Mangbetu vessel
were acquired through a combination of donated and
federal funds. A grant from the James Smithson Society
supplemented federal funds that enabled the museum to
purchase a Hongwe reliquary guardian figure. Among the
gifts to the museum were a Fulani textile given by the
National Museum of Guinea-Bissau and a Kente cloth
donated in honor of Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley
and Mary Ripley.

Education and Research

A rich program of lectures, teacher workshops, seminars,
performances, demonstrations, and films brought the
museum’s exhibitions and collections alive for audiences
ranging from elementary-school children to senior citi-
zens. Several projects—including workshops and a book-
let of gallery activities for both children and adults—were
organized in conjunction with the “Shoowa Design”
exhibition.

The museum launched its first film series—one for chil-
dren and another showcasing films on the lives of African
women—and began planning for a third series on the
aesthetics of African cinema. Another educational pro-
ject, funded by the Women’s Committee of the Smithson-

I20

ian Associates, invited students from Washington, D.C.,
high schools to participate in a ten-week in-depth study
of the museum profession and African art.

Additional events included a two-day symposium held
at the museum on “History, Design, and Craft in West
African Strip-Woven Cloth” and a reception to celebrate
the dedication of the museum’s Smithsonian branch li-
brary, which is named for museum founder Warren M.
Robbins. Curators, scholars, and the museum’s designer
and conservator participated in a week-long seminar,
“African Art at the Smithsonian,” held in conjunction
with the Smithsonian National Associate Program.

Throughout the year, the museum’s curatorial staff and —
guest curators published exhibition catalogues and addi-
tional informational materials to accompany the exhibi-
tions. A brochure on the permanent collection was
published to complement the didactic material in “The
Permanent Collection of the National Museum of African »
Art.” The full-color brochure focuses on masks and mask —
performances, rites of passage, regalia and personal
adornment, and artists and clients.

Dr. Herbert M. Cole, the recipient of a Rockefeller
Residency Fellowship in the Humanities, studied “Arche-
types: Five Themes in the Visual Arts of Africa,” which is —
scheduled to open as an exhibition in the fall of 1989.
Funded by a grant from the Smithsonian Institution Spe-
cial Exhibition Fund along with federal funding, the ex-
hibition will be accompanied by a scholarly publication |
that will illustrate all the exhibited works of art and ex- |
plore the related imagery and ideas in depth. |

Research and planning continue for a future major ex-
hibition on the art and architecture of African nomads. A —
grant from the Rockefeller Foundation for a working
conference set the parameters for this exhibition. |

The museum’s full-time paid staff grew to nearly sixty,
double the number of people who worked at the museum —
when it became part of the Smithsonian Institution in
1979. In addition, dozens of docents and information
desk volunteers helped to fulfill the museum’s mandate of _
educating the public about African art.

ational Museum of
merican Art

The National Museum of American Art (NMAA) is dedi-
cated to the acquisition, preservation, study, and exhibi-
tion of American painting, sculpture, graphic arts,
photography, and folk art. The Renwick Gallery, a cura-
torial department of the NMAA, collects and exhibits
American crafts, decorative arts, and design objects. The
Barney Studio House is also maintained by the museum
as a period home open for tours and special interpretive
programs.
The museum houses the largest collection of American
art in the world, now comprising almost 34,000 objects.
In addition, the NMAA maintains seven research data
bases, which include over 500,000 object listings of
merican art, for the benefit of investigators both at the
Smithsonian and throughout the country. Complement-
ing the research opportunities at the museum and within
the Institution are active programs for fellows and in-
terns, which serve some forty-five scholars and students
each year.

After six years of leadership as director of the museum,
Dr. Charles C. Eldredge announced his resignation effec-
tive August 22, 1988. Until a search committee chooses a
uccessor, assistant director and chief curator Dr. Eliza-
beth Broun will serve as acting director. Among his ac-
complishments during his tenure, Dr. Eldredge
reorganized the museum’s administrative structure and
budgetary practices; established the American Art Forum
as an important support group for the Smithsonian col-
lections of American art; founded the nationally re-
spected Smithsonian Studies in American Art; reinstalled
the museum’s galleries with fresh coherence and beauty;

nd profoundly enhanced the museum’s collection both in
scope and substance.

Renwick Gallery

This year the Renwick Gallery presented a series of suc-
essful exhibitions on diverse themes in American crafts
nd decorative arts. Its major effort culminated in the
resentation of “Lost and Found Traditions: Native
merican Art 1965-1985,” organized by the American
ederation of Arts and curated by former NMAA senior
ellow Ralph T. Coe. Tracing the threads of continuity
etween artistic traditions rooted in the past and their
urrent manifestations, the 380 Native American works
n the exhibition demonstrated a will for cultural sur-

vival. Many people had believed that such objects were

no longer being made, but far less has been lost than had
been assumed, and traditions thought to have been aban-

Dr. Charles C. Eldredge—director of the National Museum of
American Art for six years until his resignation in August 1988
to accept the position of Hall Distinguished Professor of Ameri-
can Art History at the University of Kansas—with Vigdis Finn-
bogadottir, president of Iceland, viewing a selection from the
museum’s Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr., Collection of American
Folk Art.

doned have survived and evolved. Among the objects in
the exhibition were canoes, drums, a full-size tepee,
masks, a cradle, feather war bonnets, kachinas, and vari-
ous textiles.

An impressive array of public programs and events en-
hanced “Lost and Found Traditions.” A colorful and dra-
matic ceremonial dedication, featuring singing and
dancing in tribal dress, took place in Lafayette Park
across from the White House. In addition, craft demon-
strations were held throughout the duration of the exhi-
bition on such topics as pottery decoration, beading
applications, mask making, rug and basket weaving, and
flute making.

Another series of public programs at the Renwick dur-
ing Black History Month considered the historical and
contemporary contributions of Afro-Americans in aes-
thetic and functional crafts. A panel discussion, an illus-
trated lecture by a story quilter, and a presentation by a
multimedia artist explored the historical background and
African antecedents of cloth, clay, and wood crafts. Also
discussed was the fine line between folk art, crafts, and
memorabilia.

I21
Other exhibitions at the Renwick in 1988 included
“Cynthia Schira: New Work,” which presented this art-
ist’s intricate abstract weavings created on a computer-
ized loom; “American Art Pottery, 1880-1930, from the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum,” which featured seventy-five ex-
amples in the aesthetic and historical development of this
movement; and “Clay Revisions: Plate, Cup, Vase,”
which examined three traditional ceramic forms as trans-
formed into nonfunctional art objects by twenty-six na-
tionally known contemporary American artists.

In an effort to foster scholarly activities at the Ren-
wick, the James Renwick Fellowships in American Crafts
were inaugurated in 1988. After a national competition
based on the criteria of historical, aesthetic, and intellec-
tual study and evaluation of the American studio craft
movement, two recipients were appointed. These in-resi-
dence fellows conducted research on critical approaches
to art in craft materials and on fiber art as a manifesta-
tion of the post-World War II crafts revival in America.

Two other events of 1988 will greatly strengthen the
Renwick and its programs: the appointment by the
NMAA Commission of an ad hoc advisory committee to
encourage new initiatives, increase collecting and other
opportunities, and extend the efforts of the professional
staff; and the inclusion of the Renwick as a beneficiary of
the Smithsonian’s Collections Acquisitions Program. As a
result of the latter, the gallery was able to acquire major
works by such notable artists as William Hunt Diederich,
Lenore Tawney, William Daley, and Frederick Miller.
Significant gifts and purchases from other sources in-
cluded important works by Otto Natzler, John McQueen,
Tom Patti, Paul Bogatay, Tage Frid, and Frances and
Michael Higgins.

Research Resources and Activities

In the spring of 1988, with the support of the Henry Luce
Foundation, the museum began a nationwide solicitation
of information for its newest research data base, the In-
ventory of American Sculpture. Questionnaires were
mailed to more than 14,000 museums, historical socie-
ties, and cultural institutions around the country; respon-
ses have been received at a steady rate. The Inventory,
which began with a core of 24,000 records developed
through a pilot project in fiscal year 1987, will continue
with a national survey and conservation assessment of
outdoor sculpture, to be cosponsored by the NMAA and
the National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural
Property, in cooperation with the American Association

I22

for State and Local History, the National Conference of
State Historic Preservation Officers, the National Park
Service, and the Smithsonian Conservation Analytical
Laboratory.

The NMAA’s widely acclaimed scholarly journal,
Smithsonian Studies in American Art, this year increased
the number of annual issues from two to three; articles
have been secured to put the journal on a quarterly publi-
cation schedule beginning in 1989. Articles ranged over a
wide spectrum of subjects and approaches, from an in-
sightful interview with contemporary artist Wayne Thie-
baud to a new investigation of the scenic artistry in the
classic film Casablanca.

During the year, the museum welcomed its second con-
secutive Smithsonian Regents Fellow. Dr. Albert Boime,
professor of art history at the University of California,
Los Angeles, pursued research on the social history of
modern art and on American art at the 1899 Paris Expo-
sition. Other fellows and visiting scholars in residence
during the year came from such universities as Cornell,
Minnesota, Arizona, Syracuse, Tennessee, and Connecti-
cut College.

Exhibitions |

The museum presented exhibitions of works by specific
artists and exhibitions drawn from thematic topics per-
taining to the history of American art. The source for
“Special Delivery: Murals for the New Deal Era” was the
museum’s collection of mural studies submitted in na-
tional competitions held between 1934 and 1943 for com-—
missions to decorate post offices and other federal
buildings. In addition to studies on paper and sections of
actual murals, the exhibition included sculpture that was _
executed for specific federal projects. In conjunction with
the exhibition, author Studs Terkel moderated a panel
discussion on related federal arts activities during the
1930s and 1940s, featuring artists who had worked under
New Deal programs. After closing in September 1988,
“Special Delivery” began a five-city tour.

Three exhibitions continued the museum’s new direc-
tion of exploring contemporary photography as artistic
expression. “City Life: Photographs by Bruce Davidson”
consisted of 168 works selected by the museum from |
three of Davidson’s series, which illustrate the often mov-)
ing and sometimes brutal life of New York City in
streets, subways, and a cafeteria. Organized by the Cen- |
ter for Creative Photography, “Supreme Instants: The |
Photography of Edward Weston” surveyed this pioneer-
ing artist’s entire oeuvre from 1904 until 1947, when he

was stricken by Parkinson’s disease; the exhibition in-
cluded many images that have long been classics in the
field of photography. “Wanderlust,” from the Hallmark
Collection, provided a taste of the exotic with works by
eight contemporary photographers who recorded scenes
of such diverse locales as Spitzbergen and Calcutta, Cairo
and Beijing, Kyoto and Afghanistan.

For the avant-garde, “Lucas Samaras: Objects and Sub-
jects, 1969-1986,” organized by the Denver Art Museum,
presented an overview of this artist’s remarkable versatil-
ity and intellectual challenge in a host of expressive me-
dia. Assemblages of distorted and transformed objects
(including jeweled, reliquary-like boxes filled with bizarre
materials), “unsittable” and encrusted chairs, and a 5o0-
foot-long mirrored corridor were shown with paintings,
sculpture, photographs, collages, and cloth hangings.
The artist assisted with the design of the installation and
was present at the opening.

More traditional images from the museum’s collections
provided the basis for special thematic installations in the
galleries, such as “Images of Innocence: The Child in
American Art,” drawn from paintings and sculpture of
the mid-nineteenth to early-twentieth century, when chil-
dren were often idealized as examples of purity. “Close
Focus: Prints, Drawings, and Photographs” examined
ways in which contemporary realists crop and press their
images so near the frontal plane of the picture that lines,
forms, and color fields work as abstractions. “Drawings
from the Collection” and “Olympian Trials” (a selection
of photographs from Walter Iooss, Jr.’s, portfolio of ath-
letic events) presented other works that had not been pre-
viously shown at the museum.

The return of “Treasures from the National Museum
of American Art,” which had been on tour since February
1986, required an extensive rehanging of the permanent
collection galleries. Two other large-scale exhibitions or-
ganized by the museum completed their national tours:
“John La Farge” (which opened at the NMAA and trav-
eled to two other locations) and “American Art Deco”
(which opened at the Renwick and traveled to five other
venues).

Acquisitions

A number of major gifts and purchases enriched the
NMAA’s permanent collection this year. The museum’s
extensive holdings in American landscape painting were
further strengthened by gifts of Thomas Moran’s Rain-
bow over the Grand Canyon, 1900 (bequest of Marion
H. Conley); Looking Out of Battle Harbor, 1877, by Wil-

FARE NC "Ir a

Mike Wilkins’ Preamble—a gift to the National Museum of
American Art from Nissan Motor Corporation in the United
States—is a collection of personalized license plates from fifty
states and the District of Columbia that phonetically spell out
the preamble to the U.S. Constitution.

liam Bradford (gift of David S. Purvis); and Sanford Gif-
ford’s From the Shawangunk Mountains (gift of the
Estate of Charles H. Ettl). The twentieth-century collec-
tions were enhanced by the addition of Leon Kroll’s Sum-
mer, New York, 1931 (bequest of Mrs. Leon Kroll).
Preamble, 1987, Mike Wilkins’s assemblage of “vanity”
license plates from fifty-one states spelling out the pream-
ble to the U.S. Constitution, a project conceived to com-
memorate that document’s bicentennial, received
substantial public and media interest; it came as a gift to
the museum from Nissan Motor Corporation in U.S.A.
A series of twenty-five photogravures of Indian life (c.
1903-27) by Edward Curtis was added to the photogra-
phy collection as a transfer by the U.S. Department of
Justice from art confiscated under its drug enforcement
program. The National Endowment for the Arts made a
significant transfer of sixty-four prints created under its

123
grant programs by such artists as Robert Rauschenberg,
Jasper Johns, Josef Albers, Ernest Trova, William T.
Wiley, and Jacob Lawrence.

The museum was able to make significant purchases
through a combination of federal and trust funds. These
included Marsden Hartley’s Yliaster (Paracelsus), a 1932
oil reflecting the artist’s conjunction of landscape and
spiritual themes; Raymond Jonson’s Composition Four—
Melancholia (Space Moods), 1925, an oil on canvas; and
John Trumbull’s The Misses Mary and Hannah Murray,
1806, a rare double portrait from the early Federalist pe-
riod. The Pilgrim of the World at the End of His Jour-
ney, 1846-48, by Thomas Cole, a study for the artist’s
ultimate but unrealized allegorical cycle, joined another
work from this series already in the museum’s collection.

Collections Management

Computer-assisted object tracking has greatly enhanced
collections management in all areas during the past three
years. The system was developed in cooperation with the
Smithsonian Office of Information Resource Manage-
ment and is in use at four locations within the museum.
Efforts have begun to expand its use to include inventory
functions.

In 1988 the NMAA launched its Artist Authority Proj-
ect to establish a data base that will link listings in the
museum’s permanent collection and those in its seven re-
search data bases. More than 2,500 artists’ names have
now been researched. In a related effort, the NMAA has
joined other Smithsonian bureaus in a continuing analysis
of collection information, research, and collection man-
agement needs and the data structures that will support
access to collection information at the Smithsonian. A
working information model has been produced, and the
feasibility of providing simultaneous electronic access to
images and data for research use of the museum’s perma-
nent collection has been successfully demonstrated using
CD-ROM, which incorporates text and images on a laser
disc.

Continuing its policy of supporting important exhibi-
tions at other museums and institutions in the United
States and abroad, the museum this year lent a total of
187 artworks from its collection. Not only was art added
to the NMAA’s collection, but a total of 301 deacces-
sioned works from the collection were sold at public auc-
tion. Proceeds from the sales will be used solely for
acquisitions for the collection, with donors’ names appro-
priately credited for the newly acquired works.

124

National Museum of
American History

The National Museum of American History (NMAH) in-
vestigates, interprets, collects, preserves, exhibits, and
honors the heritage of the American people. The mu-
seum’s first responsibility is to protect and present tangi-
ble pieces of history—tools, machines, gowns, ceramics,
photographs, and countless other survivors of the past.
But it also seeks to reconstruct more elusive pieces of the
past through music, drama, and the oral heritage of
Americans. Drawing on original research, the museum’s
exhibitions, publications, and public programs contribute:
to both the scholarly understanding of American history
and the broad dissemination of knowledge.

The life of the museum this year was full and varied.
The year began with the opening of a controversial exhi-—
bition on the constitutional issues raised by the intern-
ment of Japanese Americans during World War II;
included the acquisition of the magnificent Duke Elling-
ton Collection of the composer’s manuscripts, photo-
graphs, papers, and many other objects; and ended with
the completion of the Smithsonian Institution’s first child’
care center.

Exhibitions

The museum presented more than two dozen exhibitions.
large and small, in the last year. The first was among the’
most dramatic. “A More Perfect Union: Japanese Ameri-
cans and the United States Constitution,” which opened
in October 1987, focuses attention on the bicentennial of
the U.S. Constitution. Funded through a special congres- |
sional appropriation, the exhibition explores a period
when fear and racial prejudice upset the balance between
the rights of the citizen and the power of the state and
led to the internment of some 120,000 Japanese Ameri-
cans during World War II. The exhibition features scores
of everyday objects and works of art made by Japanese
Americans in internment camps during the war and com-
pelling video interviews with men and women who spent
months, even years, in the camps. A section also de-
scribes the valor of the men of the rooth Battalion/442nd
Regimental Combat Team, an all-Japanese American unit
of the U.S. Army.

Events of the late summer confirmed that the influence
of this period continues to ripple through American his-
tory. On August 4, 1988, the U.S. House of Representa-
tives voted the nation’s apologies to Japanese Americans
interned during the war and granted cash reparations of
$20,000 to each of about 60,000 surviving internees.

The next large exhibition demonstrated the museum’s

willingness to tackle even the most complicated and con-
temporary of subjects. “The Search for Life: Genetic
echnology in the Twentieth Century,” which opened in
ovember 1987, chronicled the rise of molecular biology
and genetic engineering. Funded by a grant from the

V. K. Kellogg Foundation, the exhibition explored how
the knowledge gained in these fields brings with it a new
responsibility. It pointed to technologies with which peo-
ole can alter their environment, create man-made plants
and animals, and, perhaps, even manipulate their own

“A Material World” opened in April and serves as a
zeneral introduction to the artifacts of the museum as a
whole. Most exhibitions ask questions like “Who made
hese objects, how, and what were they used for?” This
exhibition poses other, seldom-asked questions: “What is
his object made of, why, and why does it matter?” Using
aundreds of objects, from a spinning wheel to a dragster,
he exhibition traces changes in the composition of arti-
acts over the past 250 years and explores how our
hoices of materials affect the makeup and “feel” of our
artificial environment. A softcover exhibition booklet by
istorian of science Robert Friedel accompanies the exhi-
dition, which was funded by E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company.

_ For the last large exhibition of the year, the museum
‘iterally raised the roof. From July 1 on, visitors at the
museum’s Constitution Avenue entrance encountered a
sonian Automatic House, designed by Frank Lloyd
Wright in 1955 and erected for “Frank Lloyd Wright: In
he Realm of Ideas.” Organized by the Scottsdale Arts
enter Association and the Frank Lloyd Wright Founda-
tion, this traveling exhibition explores the ideas and

‘rom his writings.

The museum’s other exhibitions addressed subjects as
liverse as international art medals; changing visual im-
iges of work and workers in America; and the develop-
nent of the collotype process, one of the first successful
nethods of printing photographs in permanent ink. One
exhibition highlighted the national efforts to preserve and
estore migratory waterfowl populations and the wet-
ands they inhabit, efforts made possible in part through
he sale of Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation

sh RESETS
~

As quartet-in-residence at the National Museum of American
History, the Smithson String Quartet holds a preeminent posi-
tion as one of the few quartets to perform the great classical
and early romantic repertoire on original instruments. The
members of the quartet are (from left to right) Marilyn Mc-
Donald, Jaap Schroeder, Judson Griffin, and Kenneth Slowik.
(Photograph by Diane Penland)

Research, Scholarship, and Collections

The research and collecting activities of curators and
other staff members lay the groundwork for the mu-
seum’s exhibitions and publications. Some of the year’s
notable developments for each of the museum’s major
units, and for several other smaller scholarly enterprises,
are described here.

In addition to opening “A Material World,” the De-
partment of the History of Science and Technology con-
tinued its work toward the reinstallation of other halls of
science and technology. The two largest projects under
way are a permanent exhibition on information technol-
ogy and its effects on society, scheduled to open in
March 1990, and a new hall of American science, empha-
sizing the history of the physical sciences, especially
chemistry, during the last century.

125

During the past year, the department established im-
portant new contacts with scholars abroad, especially in
Asia. Ramunas Kondratas and Michael Harris of the Di-
vision of Medical Sciences visited the People’s Republic of
China to promote communication between Chinese and
American medical historians and to study how traditional
Chinese methods are being practiced in conjunction with
Western medicine. Historians Marie Mattson, David Alli-
son, and Arthur Molella accompanied Secretary Adams
to Japan to begin a dialogue with museum officials, scho-
lars, and industrial leaders there on issues of technologi-
cal history. Dr. Bernard Finn, curator in the Division of
Electricity and Modern Physics, traveled to India as a
consultant for an exhibition on the information age, and
a group from India visited the Smithsonian in September.

A brief list must represent the many other projects un-
dertaken by members of the department. As part of the
celebration of the centennial of the National Institutes of
Health (NIH), staff of the Division of Medical Sciences
used objects from the collections to re-create a part of the
original U.S. Hygienic Laboratory, which evolved into
the NIH. Lu Ann Jones, a historian working for the Divi-
sion of Agriculture and Natural Resources, completed in-
terviews of 175 farm men and women for the Oral
History of Southern Agriculture project. Smithsonian
photographers also took thousands of photographs of the
subjects. Donald Kloster, curator in the Division of
Armed Forces History, served as a member of a joint
U.S.-Canadian team that identified artifacts from the
War of 1812 at Fort Erie, Canada. The investigation de-
termined that remains found at the site were those of a
member of the U.S. Army; they were brought to the
United States and reinterred in a veterans’ cemetery at
Bath, New York.

Among the department’s important accessions were
SCAMP, the first personal computer made by IBM; a
Rumely Oil Pull 20-40 tractor; the laboratory instruments
and notes of Stanley Cohen of Stanford University, who
with Herbert Boyer invented and patented the technique
for producing recombinant DNA; a complete uniform of
Helen Ostheimer, World War I U.S. Marine, 1918-19;
and an eighteen-inch Hadley quadrant, which became the
standard instrument for determining latitude at sea in the
late eighteenth century.

The work of the Department of Social and Cultural
History revealed an ongoing concern for the study of the
diverse traditions present in America and an increased
emphasis on twentieth-century material culture. This year
the Afro-American Index Project, directed by Theresa
Singleton, neared the end of its task of collecting informa-

126

tion about Afro-American artifacts housed in five Smith-
sonian bureaus. The information will be published in a
collections guide that will include essays on Afro-American’
material culture. New curators Charles McGovern and
Bernice Reagon bring to the Division of Community Life —
expertise in the history of consumerism and in Afro-
American culture, respectively, to reinforce the museum’s—
commitments in these areas. ;

The Division of Musical Instruments and staff from the
Department of Public Programs’ performance section
merged to create the Division of Musical History; its re-
search, acquisition, exhibition, and performance objec-
tives emphasize music in America. The division organized
several critically acclaimed performances featuring the
Smithson Quartet and the Smithsonian Chamber Orches- —
tra, culminating in the first U.S. performance of Bee-
thoven symphonies using period instruments.

Dramatic progress was made during the year on the
planned long-term interpretive exhibition on nineteenth-
century America, and work proceeded for its counterpart
on the twentieth century. Barbara Smith and Claudia
Kidwell, with the staff of the Division of Costume, con-
tinue to combine social history with costume history in
an exploration of attitudes toward gender; the product of
their work will be a book and an exhibition scheduled
for 1989. Department staff also organized several confer- |
ences last year in cooperation with other institutions and —
NMAH offices. The subjects of these conferences ranged —
from “Women in the Progressive Era” to “Black Migra- |
tion and the American City: Forging the African Ameri- '
can Urban Community.” |

The department’s major acquisitions of the past year
include a large, well-documented collection of textiles
copyrighted between 1955 and 1977; a gift from Mr. and
Mrs. C. Malcolm Watkins of 5,085 stereographs that rec-
ord details of American technological and social history;
and kitchen appliances dating from the 1930s to the 1960s
that reflect changes in household technology and design. |

As a living history project, the National Philatelic Col-
lection dispatched a newly restored vehicle to retrace the
nation’s original Highway Post Office route from Harri- |

sonburg, Virginia, to Washington, D.C. The bus was the
same one used on that first route in 1941 when service
was inaugurated; it completed the 146-mile journey on
April 15. |

The philatelic library expanded the computerization of |
its reference collection of books, monographs, serials, ad

=<

i
ticles, and photographs using the Smithsonian Institution —
Bibliographic Information Service system for information |
and retrieval under the direction of librarian Nancy Pope.)

I
)
}
)

| ie new slide programs were added to the twenty-
ve already available free of charge to civic groups,
ostal unions, and philatelic organizations. Curator

mes Bruns and specialist Joseph Geraci gave a course
n philatelic research in conjunction with the American
hilatelic Society’s summer seminar at the University of
ennsylvania. This year’s accessions totaled 88,000 ob-
»cts, among them 53 historic American postal marking
evices.

Research by the staff of the National Numismatic Col-
‘ction proceeded at its customarily ambitious pace. Cu-
ator Richard Doty continued his research at the museum
nd at the Matthew Boulton Archives in Birmingham,
ngland, on the revolutionary coining process developed
y Boulton and James Watt in the 1780s and 1790s and

bsequently exported around the world. Executive di-

ctor Elvira Clain-Stefanelli published an article on an-
ent Greek metrology in a leading Belgian numismatic

view and was invited to testify at Senate hearings on a

ecial bill introduced to change the design of our na-
onal coinage. In April, curator Cory Gillilland attended

e International Delegates’ meeting of the Federation of

e Medal in Paris. Especially important this year was the

sign of an automated collections management system,
hich will aid both recordkeeping and research. Acces-
ons numbered more than 600 items, among them a

ique copper pattern of an 1894 dollar, the first dollar
sued by the U.S. Mint.
| While archivist John Fleckner has been serving as act-
g director of the Archives of American Art, the Ar-
nives Center has continued its growth onde acting
ministrator Robert Harding. This year’s most signifi-
nt activity was the inauguration of the Duke Ellington
‘oject—the processing, rehousing, and cataloguing of
€ musician’s massive archives, including manuscripts,
tapbooks, photographs, correspondence, memorabilia,
pe recordings, and other valuable artifacts related to
llington’s life and work. With funds provided through a
ecial congressional grant, the museum acquired the col-
ction this year through the joint efforts of the Archives
enter and the Division of Musical History. Other new
llections acquired during the year include the Sam
eVincent Collection of Illustrated American Sheet Mu-
, estimated at 150,000 items; the records of the Society
rt the History of Technology; the United Shoe Machin-
Company archives; and more than 300 photographs
lating to the life and work of Thomas A. Edison.
The Office of Academic Programs, established in 1987,
responsible for developing and coordinating the mu-
um’s relationships with colleges and universities. This

year the office brought the journal of the American Stud-
ies Association, American Quarterly, from Philadelphia
to Washington, established a board of managing editors
composed of scholars from nearby universities, and
opened new editorial offices here. The office also began
the first year of a joint NNYAH-American University pro-
gram. Gary Kulik, assistant director for academic pro-
grams, completed two forthcoming manuscripts,
“Designing the Past: A History of History Exhibits” and
“The Transfigured Past: Memory and Forgetting in the
Industrial Landscape of New England.”

In addition to its major offices and curatorial units, the
museum is home to several smaller projects, the work of
individual scholars or small staffs investigating specific
periods or historical figures. The Afro-American Com-
munities Project indexes and analyzes information from
social, economic, and personal documents to help scho-
lars assess historical assumptions about the nature and
role of black community life in the nineteenth century.
This year the project acquired death records for the city
of Boston for 1801-60; Boston marriage records for
1849-60; and the 1855 Buffalo census, which has been
coded and entered into a data base providing statistical
analysis of family structure, income, occupation, and res-
idency of the free black community of Erie County, New
York. The Robert Mills Papers project has collected cop-
ies of 3,500 documents related to the career of the archi-
tect of the Washington Monument. Publication in 1989 of
a microfilm edition, index, and guide to the materials
will facilitate research on Mills and early nineteenth-cen-
tury American architecture, including several buildings
now operated by the Smithsonian.

As a service to the history museum field, the museum
is providing space for the Common Agenda project of the
American Association for State and Local History.
Funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities,
the project promotes collaboration among museums and
related organizations in solving common problems in-
volving collections and interpretation. Initial activities
aim at strengthening ties between academic historians
and history museums and creating shared data bases of
history museum collections.

Public Programs

Our national experience and cultural traditions are
brought to the public both through exhibitions and
through the activities sponsored by the Department of

Public Programs. The department’s offerings increase the

127,
The Usonian Automatic House, designed in r955 by Frank Lloyd Wright but never before constructed, was open to visitors at the
National Museum of American History in the summer of 1988 as part of the exhibition “Frank Lloyd Wright: In the Realm of
Ideas.” (Photograph by Barth Tillotson, Greg Booth & Associates)

educational value of exhibitions, bring the museum’s
services to schools, and provide a live and artistic compo-
nent to the study of history. In 1988 the department pre-
sented films, live performances, symposia, and other
programs on a broad variety of subjects, such as the mu-
sic and life of Irving Berlin; musical traditions of black,
white, and American Indian communities; black women
composers; and the role of heroes in American life.

128

Building on the department’s efforts to attract a
broader constituency for the museum, the Program in
Black American Culture and the Smithsonian’s Commit-
tee for a Wider Audience presented a conference at whicl|
twenty-one scholars and museum practitioners explored |
ways to draw a larger and more diverse audience to mu- |
seums. The Program in Hispanic American History or-
ganized “The Other D.C./El Otro D.C.,” a series of

yerformances and forums focusing on the role of His-
yanic culture in shaping American history.
In the Division of Education, the audience research
ia continued to study the reaction of museum visi-
ors to exhibitions and public programs. In 1988 the pro-
ram gathered and analyzed visitor responses to the
»xperimental “Science, Power, and Conflict” exhibition
e aid in the development of science programming and
xhibitions planned in the next five years.
_ The Columbus Quincentenary Program planning
sroup, headed by Lonn Taylor, assistant director for
public programs, continued its work toward a permanent
»xhibition, “American Encounters,” to open in 1992. A
emporary exhibition, “Commerce and Conflict: The
inglish in Virginia, 1625,” opened this year in conjunc-
jon with a forum at which scholars of ethnohistory, an-
hropology, and folklore discussed American Indian
yerceptions of European colonization in North America.
Completing the department’s activities in 1988 were
uch popular and well-established programs as Jazz in the
is Court, Music in the Bandstand, America on Film,
nd Saturday After Noon. In addition, the department
oordinated the efforts of nearly 200 undergraduate and
aduate interns and approximately 200 docents.
_ The 1988 Frank Nelson Doubleday Lecture and Per-
‘ormance, coordinated by the Office of Special Events,
eatured black American gospel music. Conceived by Dr.
3ernice Johnson Reagon, the program included perform-
ances by Robert Anderson of Chicago, the Sterling Jubi-
ees of Bessemer, Alabama, and the Richard Smallwood
Singers of Washington, D.C. A special dress rehearsal

as open to the public. Although Smithsonian produc-
ion staff and research have undergirded all of the pro-
3rams in the Doubleday Lecture Series over the past
decade, this year’s marked the first occasion on which
ymithsonian research actually took the stage.

Behind the Scenes
A great deal of invaluable work goes on at the museum
simply to keep the building and the collections it houses
n shape and make possible the exhibitions and programs
‘hat millions of visitors come to see. This year, the mu-
i began to implement the first of four phases of its
aster space plan. The plan calls for new heating, venti-
ating, and air-conditioning systems, fire prevention sys-
‘ems, a new public address system, new communication
‘ines, a new roofing system, and the removal of asbestos.
The Office of the Building Manager is primarily responsi-

ble for overseeing the plan, but during the five or more

years it will take to complete, the master plan will have
an impact on virtually every office and division and will
necessitate the relocation of millions of objects as differ-
ent sections of the building are renovated in turn.

After more than a decade of effort by Smithsonian em-
ployees, the Institution’s first child care center opened on
the second floor of the museum’s west wing in early Oc-
tober. This 2,300-square-foot facility will accommodate
forty children aged two through five and consists of three
learning centers, an activities area, a kitchen, utility and
storage rooms, a director’s office, and bathrooms.

In the Office of the Registrar, important work contin-
ued in the collections management program during 1988,
especially in the automation of collections information
and in improvements in physical care. More than
100,000 objects were accessioned into the permanent col-
lection and almost 3,000 were lent or borrowed for exhi-
bitions. Important loans from the collections included the
early ENIAC computer, lent to Osaka, Japan, and the
exhibition “Isaac Newton and the Principia: Three Hun-
dred Years,” lent to the IBM Gallery of Science and Art
in New York City.

Newly designed automated recordkeeping systems
became available for the National Numismatic and Na-
tional Philatelic collections, as well as a general collec-
tions program for new acquisitions, loans, and object
tracking. Office staff also participated in the design of the
Institution’s central Collections Information System. As a
result of the numerous collections relocations and in an-
swer to the increasing lack of storage, the museum took
possession of 24,000 square feet of rental warehouse
space at Fullerton Industrial Park in Springfield, Virginia.

Staff of the Computer Services Center coordinated an
expansion in the central minicomputer system and the
network of microcomputers and workstations, accom-
panied by an extensive training program. The center’s
biggest projects dealt with collections, including the de-
velopment of a local system to support collections that
meets the requirements of the curatorial and registrarial
staffs and a project that is analyzing the functions of col-
lections management, public programs, and research. The
results of this analysis, which involves approximately too
staff members from all parts of the museum, will lay the
foundation for the development of a far-reaching system
containing information about collections at the museum
on the Institution-wide Collections Information System.

During the year the Division of Conservation rehoused
or gave basic stabilization treatment to more than 30,000
objects. A major new project was also begun, the work

129
of microfilming, audiotape copying, and paper conserva-
tion for the newly acquired Duke Ellington Collection. A
costume conservator and technician were hired to begin
treatment of the First Ladies’ gowns. Documentation,
cleaning, preparation of new mannequins, and the design
of safe storage and exhibit cases are just a few of the
elements in the complex process of stabilizing the collec-
tion and preparing selected gowns for a new exhibition.
The division’s conservators and curatorial collections
managers also began planning for the construction of a
specialized laboratory devoted to the museum’s holdings
of more than 40,000 costumes, uniforms, flags, and
other textiles and fragile organic objects. Pendragon Press
published The Metallurgy of 17th- and 18th-Century Mu-
sical Instrument Wire, by head conservator J. Scott Odell
and coauthor Martha Goodway.

130

National Museum of
Natural History/ National
Museum of Man |

The National Museum of Natural History/ National Mu-
seum of Man, the nation’s largest research museum,
houses the largest and most valuable natural history and
anthropological collections in the world—more than 118
million specimens of plants, animals, fossils, rocks, min-
erals, and human cultural artifacts. These vast, exten-
sively documented holdings support research by the 120
doctoral-level scientists on the museum staff, by visiting
scholars and students from all over the world, and by
eighty resident scientists from affiliated federal agencies
with natural history functions (the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, the National Marine Fisheries Service, the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the U.S. Geological Sur-
vey, and the National Institutes of Health).

The museum shares its work with the scholarly com-
munity through publications, symposia, and scholarly ex- |
changes and with the public through exhibitions, popular
publications, public forums, and educational programs. |
Testimony to the success of the public programs are the
more than seven million visits recorded to the museum in
1988, making NMNH by far the most heavily visited nat- |
ural history museum in the world.

Dr. Frank H. Talbot was appointed director of the
museum in June 1988; he assumed his new position in
January 1989. The former executive director of the Calli-
fornia Academy of Sciences, he is an expert on fish ecol-
ogy and coral reefs and a well-known innovator in
natural history exhibitions and education. Before his ten-
ure at the California Academy, Dr. Talbot held the
founding chair of environmental studies at Macquarie
University in Sydney, Australia (1975-82); served as direc-
tor of the Australian Museum in Sydney (1964-75); and
worked as a marine biologist and assistant director at the
South African Museum, Cape Town (1958-64). During
the year Dr. James C. Tyler served as acting director.

Highlights of the museum’s 1988 research, manage-
ment, exhibition, and educational activities follow.

Biodiversity Research

The major center of biological diversity on Earth is Ama-
zonia. With this region’s rich habitats imperiled by defor-
estation, the museum is moving as rapidly as possible to
document and study plant and animal species there. For
the second consecutive year, Dr. Terry Erwin led teams
of scientists to Beni Biosphere Reserve, Bolivia, and |
Manu Reserved Zone, Peru, where long-term, in-depth |
biodiversity inventories are under way in collaboration |
with the Bolivian and Peruvian governments, host coun- |
try scientists and students, and international conservation
organizations. The studies are expected to help protect
many of the rare and endangered species of the neotrop-
ics, some of which may yield new sources of food, medi-
cine, biological controls, and important germ plasm for
agricultural use.

Training workshops for fifty Bolivian and Peruvian
biologists and seventeen Puerto Rican biologists partici-
pating in biodiversity inventories were held at Beni Bio-
sphere Reserve, Manu Reserved Zone, and Luquillo
National Forest, Puerto Rico. As the biodiversity pro-
gram expands, the museum will train hundreds of host-
country biologists and conservationists to develop inven-
tories of species in these tropical ecosystems.

Museum botanists Dr. Lawrence Skog and Dr. Dieter
Wasshausen and colleagues from the United States,
France, Germany, the Netherlands, and the Guianas ex-
plored Montagne de Tortue, a remote and botanically
unknown mountain range in French Guiana, bringing
back an abundance of new, poorly known, or seldom-
collected species. The expedition was part of a long-term

Conservators at the National Museum of Natural History /Na-
tional Museum of Man working on Siberian and Alaskan cloth-
ing for the major exhibition “Crossroads of Continents.”
(Photograph by Diane Nordeck)

multinational effort to analyze the little-known vegeta-
tion of the Guianas. One goal is to determine what areas
in the Guianas merit special protection on the basis of
biotic diversity.

Museum zoologist Dr. Ronald Heyer investigated the
remnants of a vast coastal forest that was once continu-
ous along the northern Atlantic coast of Brazil. Most of
the forest has been logged and replaced by sugar and
cocoa plantations, but patches of forest survive. Studies
of these scattered fragments are planned as part of the
ongoing investigations of the composition, distribution,
and evolution of the plants and animals in Amazonia and
the Atlantic forests.

Investigation of Dolphin Deaths

When dead and dying bottlenose dolphins began strand-
ing on Atlantic coastal beaches in unheard-of numbers in
July 1987, members of the museum’s Marine Mammal
Program team—Dr. James Mead, William McClellan,
and Charles Potter—were the first to recognize that
something unusual was happening and alerted the scien-
tific community. The program began in 1972 to recover
data and specimens of marine mammals on the U.S. At-
lantic coast, an area that Smithsonian marine mammalo-
gists have had a keen interest in since the nineteenth
century. The program has vastly increased scientific
knowledge of the biology, migratory patterns, size, and
distribution of dolphin populations. To study the myste-
rious epidemic, the museum, the Marine Mammal Com-
mission, and the National Marine Fishery Service
assembled an international Dolphin Resource Team.
Throughout 1988 the museum made regular aerial sur-
veys of Atlantic coastal beaches, sighting many stranded
dolphins that otherwise might never have been recovered
and examined. The cause of the deaths has not been de-
termined, but researchers believe that a disease agent is
responsible, possibly a virus that spread through the dol-
phin population, weakening the animals’ immune
systems.

Museum Scientist Identifies Gigantic “Toothed”
Seabird

The discovery and identification of the largest flying sea-
bird ever to soar above the oceans of the world, an ex-
tinct creature thought to be related to pelicans,
cormorants, and their allies, was announced in Novem-

131
ber 1987 by the museum’s Dr. Storrs Olson and col-
leagues at the Charleston Museum in Charleston, South
Carolina. The bird, a member of an extinct family called
“the bony-toothed birds,” or pseudodontorns (so named
because of the unusual long “bony teeth” protruding
from the upper and lower jaws), had a wingspan of more
than 18 feet and may have weighed close to 90 pounds. It
lived thirty million years ago. All previous pseudodon-
torn species were known only from isolated bones or
from two-dimensional impressions in rock. The new spe-
cies is remarkable because it is much larger than any pre-
vious known pseudodontorn and because most of the
skeleton is preserved.

Global Fieldwork

Dr. Robert Fudali was a member of a U.S. scientific team
that collected more than 700 meteorites and meteorite
fragments on the Antarctica South Polar plateau. Dr. Er-
nani Menez, director of the museum’s Oceanographic
Sorting Center, led a marine biological expedition to the
relatively isolated and unexplored Tawi-Tawi Islands of
the Sulu Archipelago in the southern Philippines. Dr.
Charles Handley headed a field party that explored the
unique fauna of the Bocas del Toro Archipelago, a maze
of hundreds of biologically unknown islands, reefs, and
mangrove swamps off the northeastern coast of Panama.
Dr. James C. Tyler, using an underwater video system,
conducted studies with a colleague on sailfin blenny fish
behavior on the reef at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize. In China,
Malaysia, and Singapore, Dr. Robert Higgins made col-
lections of kinorhyncha and other tiny invertebrate ani-
mals that live between grains of sand on the ocean floor.

Folsom Hunting Campsite Excavated

Among the earliest human inhabitants of the Americas
were the Folsom people, who hunted bison and other
game animals in the western portion of the Great Plains
and Rocky Mountain regions between 10,900 and 10,400
years ago. In 1988, archaeologist Dr. Dennis Stanford,
director of the museum’s PaleoIndian Program, and re-
search archaeologist Pegi Jodry continued investigations
of a Folsom site in the San Luis Valley, Colorado, uncov-
ering new data on the activities of roving Folsom hunting
bands. The scientists were assisted by a team of volun-
teers from the new Research Expeditions Program, spon-
sored by the Smithsonian National Associate Program.

132

Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port

The Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port in Fort
Pierce, Florida, had more than too visits from Smithson-
ian scientists during 1988. Their diverse research activi-
ties—often undertaken in collaboration with colleagues
from other institutions—ranged from systematics, ecol-
ogy, and life histories of the marine flora and fauna to
the spectral attenuation of underwater light and the den-
sity of submarine volcanic pumice. One new project, ini-
tiated by the museum’s Dr. Ian Macintyre, Dr. Mark
Littler, and Diane Littler, seeks to document the distribu-
tion of the calcareous green alga Halimeda in the Florida
Keys in an effort to understand what environmental con-
ditions over geological time gave rise to the alga’s great
sediment-producing ability.

Native American Tribal Catalogues

In an effort to make the museum’s collections more acces- —
sible to Native American communities, the museum has __
begun to survey and describe its tribal holdings. The goal —
is a set of illustrated catalogues describing in detail the |
museum’s collections of ethnographic objects, film, pho-
tographs, and archival materials. These catalogues |
should provide the tribes with vast amounts of informa-
tion about their cultural past. The Kiowa, Zuni, and
Crow catalogues are in preparation, and others are |
planned. The catalogues will be inexpensive and thus

more available to tribal people, scholars, and the general
public. Coordinated by Dr. JoAllyn Archambault, direc-
tor of the museum’s Native American Indian Program,

the project is being carried out by interns from the tribes
involved.

Symposia

“Americans before Columbus: Prehistoric South Ameri-
cans,” a public symposium honoring contemporary South
American archaeologists who have received training and |
support from the National Museum of Natural History,
featured six leading South American anthropologists who
discussed new research findings bearing on the first peo-
ple to inhabit the South American continent. The forum |
was organized by the museum’s Dr. Betty Meggers, with |
the support of Dr. Herman Viola, director of the mu-
seum’s Columbus Quincentenary programs.
Forty authorities from the Soviet Union, Japan, China,
Australia, and eight other nations gathered to reassess
and clarify the systematic status and biological knowl-
edge of squid, octopus, and cuttlefish families important
in biomedical research and as fishery resources. Organ-
ized by the museum’s Dr. Clyde Roper, this hands-on
workshop allowed these scientists to conduct research on
thousands of specimens brought together from around
the world. Out of the workshop will come a publication
that will contain natural history data invaluable to biolo-
gists, ecologists, and fishery resource managers.

“The Poetics and Politics of Representation,” an inter-
national conference jointly sponsored by the Institution
and the Rockefeller Foundation, brought together leading
scholars from museums and universities throughout the
world to discuss the portrayal of human cultures in mu-
seum exhibitions. It was organized by museum anthro-
pologist Dr. Ivan Karp in collaboration with the
California Institute of the Arts.

Distinguished Soviet and American scholars were parti-
cipants in a symposium coinciding with the opening of
the museum’s major exhibition, “Crossroads of Conti-
nents: Cultures of Siberia and Alaska.” Sponsored by the
International Research and Exchanges Board, the Ameri-
can Council of Learned Societies, and the Institute of
Ethnology, USSR Academy of Sciences, the symposium
presented new perspectives on the relationships of the
North Pacific cultures that have occupied the lands on
both sides of the Bering Strait for at least the last 15,000
years.

More than roo U.S. and Canadian scholars attended
the Nineteenth Algonquian Conference at the museum.
Papers were presented on Algonquian Indian culture, his-
tory, prehistory, folklore, and languages. The museum’s
Dr. Ives Goddard, an authority on Algonquian language,
was the conference organizer.

New Technology

The museum purchased a new transmission electron mi-
croscope, ten times more powerful than the microscope
the museum has relied on for the past fifteen years. The
new instrument's resolution, speed, convenience of opera-
tion, and immense magnifying power—up to and above
500,000 X—are opening new paths of research for mu-
seum scientists who are attempting to chart and under-
stand the labyrinthine internal complexities of plant and
animal anatomy. For example, the museum’s Dr. W.
Duane Hope is using the new transmission electron mi-
croscope in combination with a scanning electron micro-

The largest faceted gemstone in the world, a 22,892.5-carat
golden yellow topaz, a gift to the National Museum of Natural
History / Museum of Man of the six regional federations of min-
eralogical societies and Drs. Marie and Ed Borgatta. (Photo-
graph by Vic Krantz)

scope to study details of marine nematodes, discovering
new taxonomic characters that may change their system-
atic position in nematode classification.

Museum researcher Dr. Jeffrey Post is employing state-
of-the-art analytical electron microscopy, powder x-ray
diffraction data, and computer graphics to learn more
about minerals. One ongoing study is shedding light on
the structure and formation of economically important
oceanic manganese oxides. These minerals, which occur
on the ocean floor, often contain cobalt, nickel, copper,
and other strategic metals. The United States has a lim-
ited supply of these minerals and may eventually decide
to mine them.

133
Notable Publications

In an April 1988 article in Science magazine, museum sen-
ior oceanographer Dr. Daniel Stanley reported that the
northeastern edge of the Nile Delta is rapidly subsiding, a
situation aggravated by sea-level rise and by the blockage
of normal sediment flow by the Aswan Dam on the Nile
River. The subsidence could flood a large part of the
northern delta plain by the year 2100, inundating agricul-
tural lands where several million people now live. The
findings were based on an ongoing multidisciplinary
study in the delta directed by the museum in cooperation
with the Egyptian government.

Exploring the West, by museum historian Dr. Herman
Viola, was published by Smithsonian Books. Drawing on
unpublished materials in the Smithsonian Archives, Viola
provides the most detailed description ever written of the
Smithsonian’s role in aiding the U.S. government-spon-
sored expeditions that mapped and described the nearly
unknown American West in the mid-nineteenth century.

Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Alaska and Sib-
eria was edited by museum anthropologists Dr. William
F. Fitzhugh and Aron Crowell, with contributions from
Soviet and American scholars. This 360-page book, with
color plates, was published by the Smithsonian Press to
accompany the “Crossroads of Continents” exhibition.

Collections Management

In 1988 approximately 428,000 specimens were added to
the collections by expedition, gift, purchase, and deposit
by affiliated federal agencies. Among the notable gifts
were a collection of 9,000 display-quality seashells of
rare form, pattern, and color; a 5.03-carat red diamond,
one of only five documented red diamonds in the world;
a 22,892.5-carat golden-yellow topaz, the world’s largest
faceted gemstone; and a complete skeleton of a 90-million-
year-old shark, the finest of its kind ever discovered.

The museum is actively engaged in the care and conser-
vation of the collections. A multiyear effort to convert the
collections inventory data base to the Institution’s on-line
Collections Information System is under way, contribut-
ing to more effective scholarly use of the museum’s vast
collections and helping to maintain inventory control. Ap-
proximately one million records are now accessible
through this system, developed in conjunction with the
Institution’s Office of Information Resource Management.

134

Museum Support Center Celebrates Fifth
Anniversary

A month-long schedule of special tours and programs in
May 1988 marked the fifth anniversary of the Museum
Support Center (MSC) in Suitland, Maryland, a facility
that provides modern storage and security for the na-
tional collections, as well as office and laboratory space.
The lack of space in the Natural History Building makes
the MSC vital to the continued growth of the museum
and its collections, many of which are the largest and
best of their kind. In 1988 the museum moved approxi-
mately 1.5 million collection items to the MSC, which
now houses more than 4 million of the museum’s anthro-
pological artifacts and natural history collections.

Exhibitions

“Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia and
Alaska,” an exhibition developed jointly by the museum
and the Soviet Academy of Sciences with the collabora-
tive aid of the International Research and Exchanges
Board, opened in September in the Thomas M. Evans
Gallery. Ten years in the planning, the exhibition marks
the first time many early and important archaeological
and ethnographic collections from this remote but in-
creasingly important geographic region have been
brought together for presentation to the people of both
continents. The artifacts had been held in museums in the
Soviet Union, Canada, and the United States.

The exhibition presents a unified and panoramic view
of the history, art, and traditional cultures of the native
peoples on both sides of the Bering Strait. The 550 arti-
facts on display—including kayaks, harpoons, ivory carv-
ings, beadwork, masks, drums, clothing, and weapons of
war—demonstrate the elaborate arts, cultures, and his-
tory of the Pacific Rim from 20,000 years ago to the
present. The museum’s Dr. William F. Fitzhugh headed
the North American curatorial team; Serghei Aroutiounov
of the Institute of Ethnology, Moscow, headed the Soviet
team. After closing at the museum in April 1989, the ex-
hibition will travel to seven cities in the United States and
Canada, as well as to Moscow, Leningrad, and two other
cities in the Soviet Union.

“King Herod’s Dream: Caesarea on the Sea,” a Smith-
sonian Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES) exhibition,
traced the colorful history of Caesarea, an ancient Medi-
terranean seaport and a significant center of early Christi-
anity. It drew nearly 300,000 visitors during its showing

in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery from late March
through mid-June. An ambitious “dream” of King Herod
of Judea, Caesarea was intended to rival Alexandria,
Egypt, as a harbor. It was built at the end of the Helle-
nistic age and survived through five other historical per-
iods: Herodian, Roman, Islamic, Byzantine, and the
Crusades. The design, development, and evolution of the
city and the harbor can be traced by the underwater and
land archaeological finds. Included in the exhibition, the
result of fifteen years of archaeological research, are a
statue of the Greek goddess Tyche, a hoard of Islamic
jewelry, Byzantine mosaics, glassware, coins, and culi-
nary items. The objects are supported by interpretive
graphics, models, and three video components. All of
these elements address the exhibition’s two interrelated
themes—archaeology and its techniques and the study of
an important urban culture.

The exhibition was organized by SITES, the University
of Maryland Center for Archaeology, the Caesarea An-
cient Harbour Excavation Project, and the Joint Expedi-
tion to Caesarea Maritima, in cooperation with the
Department of Antiquities and Museums of the State of
Israel.

“Plains Indian Art—Continuity and Change,” demon-
strated how the work of contemporary Plains Indian art-
ists is rooted in the tribal traditions of the past. The
exhibition, organized by Dr. JoAllyn Archambault, direc-
tor of the museum’s Native American Indian Program,
compared objects from Smithsonian collections made in
the nineteenth century with similar objects made by con-
temporary Plains Indian artists.

“Birds and Flowers of the Fifty States: The Singer
Stamp Series,” featured the work of Arthur Singer, one of
the best-known American wildlife painters, and his son
Alan, a noted botanical artist. On view from November
through March were the original Singer paintings of the
official birds and flowers of the fifty states, which were
reproduced in the best-selling set of 1982 U.S. commemo-
rative stamps.

“Andrew Jackson Grayson: The Audubon of the West”
was a showcase for paintings of the birds of the Pacific
slope by a brilliant self-taught nineteenth-century Ameri-
can artist. Organized by the Oakland Museum in cooper-
ation with the museum, this exhibition was the first
public showing of Grayson’s 156 surviving bird paintings.
It was on view from April to July.

“Places of Power: Sacred Sites of the Americas and Pa-
cific” featured sixty painted photographs of prehistoric
ceremonial sites by Corson Hirschfeld, who is undertak-
ing an exhaustive documentation of ceremonial sites

around the world. The exhibition was on view from Sep-
tember until January.

Other temporary exhibitions featured North American
butterflies and the wildflowers that they feed upon; scien-
tific illustration; wood and bronze insect sculptures; the
research activities of museum scientists at Aldabra Atoll,
home to many unique species and subspecies; and sea-
shells from the William Bledsoe Collection.

In the Gem Hall two new additions to the museum’s
collection were placed on permanent display. A 5.03-carat
red diamond was a bequest from the estate of S. Sydney
DeYoung, and a 22,892.5-carat golden-yellow topaz was
a gift of the six regional federations of mineralogical soci-
eties and Drs. Marie and Ed Borgatta. “The Incompara-
ble,” a 407.48-carat yellow diamond—the largest cut
colored diamond in the world—was on temporary dis-
play during August 1988.

Planning is in progress for “Vision of the Americas,” a
new permanent exhibition hall that will explain the diver-
sity and dynamics of Native American life. In 1988 mem-
bers of the planning committee visited Alaska,
Washington, and British Columbia to view Native Ameri-
can exhibits, museums, and cultural centers and meet
with representatives of Indian tribal political and cultural
organizations. One of the objectives of the trip was to
learn how Indians wish to be represented in the exhibi-
tion hall.

Education

Relying on the assistance of the 365 docents who volun-
teer to provide educational services, the museum’s Office
of Education gives free programs for a variety of audi-
ences, including families, students, and general visitors.
The office operates the Discovery Room, a nationally ac-
claimed hands-on facility for children, which hosted more
than 100,000 visitors, and the Naturalist Center, where
natural history objects, books, and equipment for visitors
aged twelve and older are available. It hosted approxi-
mately 17,500 visitors. The office also produces a quar-
terly calendar that is mailed to interested constituents and
made available at the museum’s information desks.

More than 65,000 students visited the museum in 1988
for lesson tours of permanent and temporary exhibitions.
Pre- and postvisit instructional materials were available
to enhance this experience. Special school programs in-
cluded the fall Indian Walkaround for students in kinder-
garten through second grade, the fall Dinosaur Walk for
nursery and kindergarten students, and National Science

135
Squirrel cuckoo, painting from the exhibition “Andrew Jackson
Grayson, Audubon of the West,” shown at the National Mu-
seum of Natural History/ National Museum of Man April 14 to
July 15, 1988.

Week in April. Nearly a dozen teacher workshops were
offered on weekends during the academic year and dur-
ing the summer weeks.

More than 18,000 people attended the free films and
lectures sponsored by the museum. Highlights included a
film program, “South Africa Today: Life in a Divided
Society,” and special showings of “Ocean Symphony,” a
film featuring spectacular underwater footage of the
earth’s oceans.

Films, festivals, tours, and seminars were scheduled in
conjunction with the exhibitions, “Ebla to Damascus,”
“King Herod’s Dream,” “Tropical Rainforests: A Disap-
pearing Treasure,” and “Crossroads of Continents.” The

136

office participated in the development of an exhibition of
Asian and Pacific artists, “Across the Sea and over the
Mountains: Immigration—Its Hardships and Rewards,”
produced in honor of Asian American Heritage Week.
Special programs were also held during Black History
Month and Hispanic Heritage Week. Other activities in-
cluded demonstrations of Native American craftsmanship
during American Indian Week, featuring Indian artists
from the American Southwest and Plains states, and
Scout Day, bringing more than 3,000 Boy and Girl
Scouts to the museum for demonstrations and tours.

National Portrait Gallery

The National Portrait Gallery is dedicated to the exhibi-
tion and study of portraits of people who have made
significant contributions to American history, develop-
ment, and culture and of the artists who created this por-
traiture. The gallery offers a continuing exploration of
the heritage and accomplishments of the American people
by collecting, studying, preserving, and exhibiting por-
traits in all media as both historical and artistic
documents.

Exhibitions

“American Colonial Portraits: 1700-1776” was the first of
the two major exhibitions at the gallery in 1988 and the
first in a series of exhibitions commemorating the bicen-
tennial of the U.S. Constitution. It has been more than
half a century since the subject was explored in a
museum exhibition, and never before have comparable
masterworks been gathered for study from public and
private collections throughout the country, as well as
from England, Ireland, Jamaica, Bermuda, and Canada.

In April King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of
Sweden opened “Masterpieces from Gripsholm Castle:
The Swedish National Portrait Collection.” Part of the
celebration of the 350th anniversary of Swedish settlement
in America, this exhibition brought to the National Por-
trait Gallery sixty objects ranging from a late-medieval
woodcarving to a contemporary photorealist painting. It
was the second in a planned series of exhibitions display-
ing highlights from the great portrait collections of other
nations.

Other exhibitions in 1988 were “Studies from Life: Por-
trait Photographs by Julia Margaret Cameron,” composed
of fifty-one images from the J. Paul Getty Museum, and
“The Artist’s Mother: Portraits and Homages,” featuring
works by twentieth-century artists who used their moth-
ers as the subjects of, or inspirations for, their work. The
latter exhibition was organized by the Heckscher Mu-
seum, Huntington, New York.

December 1987 marked the beginning of the first over-
seas tour of a major exhibition from the National Por-
trait Gallery. “Then and Now: American Portraits from
the Past Century,” a survey of important trends in Ameri-
can portraiture during the past 100 years, was generously
sponsored by American Express International, Emery
Worldwide, Inc., and Nippon Cargo Airways. It opened
at the Hong Kong Museum of Art, followed by showings
at the Hokkaido Museum of Modern Art in Sapporo,
Japan, and the Sogetsu Gallery of Art in Tokyo.

Exhibitions of recent acquisitions were mounted in
January and August. In July 1988 the gallery opened
“Champions on TIME,” an exhibition of twenty portraits
of athletes featured on the cover of Time magazine. All
but one of the portraits was from the gallery’s collection.

Polaroid Corporation cosponsored “The Instant Like-
ness: Polaroid Portraits,” which opened in August 1988.
The photographs in the exhibition surveyed the forty
years of instant photography’s history as reflected in por-
traiture; they included the work of some of the most fa-
miliar names in American photography.

Loans made from the National Portrait Gallery collec-
tion to museums and institutions across the United States
and abroad have tripled in number in the last two years.
The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) toured a portion of the gallery’s Harmon Collec-
tion of outstanding black Americans. Another SITES ex-
hibition from the gallery’s collection, “Athletes and
Heroes,” completed a nearly three-year tour in 1988. The
gallery’s portrait of Mary Cassatt traveled to France and
Canada and to New York for the Edgar Degas retrospec-
tive. Outgoing loans were made to several dozen mu-
seums and institutions during 1988.

Acquisitions

The presidential portrait series was enhanced by the gift
of Everett Kinstler’s portrait of President Ford from the
Gerald R. Ford Foundation, as well as by the purchase of
a miniature of President McKinley by Emily D. Taylor.

A major Gilbert Stuart portrait of the American states-
man Rufus King was acquired through a partial gift from
the James Smithson Society and through museum pur-
chase funds. Another substantial acquisition was
Marguerite Zorach’s portrait, Marianne Moore and Her
Mother, purchased with appropriated funds.

Through the Smithsonian Institution Collections Ac-
quisitions Program, the gallery purchased Thomas
Hicks’s portrait of Edward Hicks, the “naive” Quaker
artist best known as the painter of the several versions of
The Peaceable Kingdom. Charles Peale Polk’s portrait of
the agricultural scientist David Wiley was also acquired,
enhancing the gallery’s holdings of early American scien-
tists as well as adding to its collection of portraits by the
family of Charles Willson Peale.

Among the most important gifts to the collection were
a wax bust of Chief Justice John Marshall, by Robert
Ball Hughes, and an oil portrait of psychoanalyst Karen
Horney, by Suzanne Carvallo Schulein.

137
Major photographs purchased included a 1923 plati-
num print of cinematographer Karl Struss by Edward
Weston; a dye-transfer color print of Judy Garland and
Mickey Rooney by Harold Edgerton, the inventor of the
stroboscopic flash; a self-portrait of W. Eugene Smith,
the legendary photojournalist; a silver print of author
Theodore Dreiser by Charles Sheeler; a portrait of Ezra
Pound by Richard Avedon; a rare and unusual Barbara
Morgan photograph of Martha Graham performing
“Deep Song;” an early photograph of Lazlo Moholy
Nagy taken in Paris by the Hungarian-born Ergy
Landau; an extremely rare Civil War carte de visite of
Mathew Brady; and rare portraits of Igor Stravinsky by
Edward Weston and Alfred Langdon Coburn.

Major gifts of photographs included two daguerreo-
types and sixteen 17-by-21-inch Mathew Brady glass plate
negatives from 1862 of the actor Edwin Forrest, from the
collection of the Edwin Forrest Home for Retired Actors
in Philadelphia; a collection of sixty portraits by Irving
Penn, selected and donated by the artist; Joanne
Verberg’s unique 20-by-24-inch Polacolor ER portrait of
artist Andy Warhol, given by an anonymous donor; and
a portfolio of Hollywood portraits by George Hurrell,
given by David Davis of Los Angeles.

The gallery acquired several fine drawings, including
William Glackens’s humorous image of Charles Dana
Gibson, Reginald Marsh’s portrait of Thornton Wilder
(the gift of Wilder’s sister), J. Alden Weir’s charcoal of
John Twachtman, Eastman Johnson’s pencil of William
Henry Vanderbilt, Cecilia Beaux’s drawing of Henry
James, an early Raphael Soyer self-portrait, and an ink
sketch of Man Ray by Czech artist Adolf Hoffmeister.
An important acquisition of four portraits of John Held,
Jr., from his widow’s estate was negotiated. In addition
to a bronze bust and a sketch by Mahonri Young, it
included caricatures by Peter Arno and Al Hirschfeld.
The gallery was particularly lucky to find intriguing cari-
cature material, including a watercolor cartoon of Wil-
liam Jennings Bryan and William Randolph Hearst by
Peter Newell, a watercolor of Eddie Cantor, and a pencil
of Senator Theodore Bilbo by Sam Berman.

Two significant early works on paper were added to
the collection with the purchase of William Henry
Brown’s silhouette of Elias Howe and the rare and bril-
liantly colored 1775 mezzotint of John Hancock by
Joseph Hiller, Sr. In addition, a Thomas Hart Benton
self-portrait lithograph and posters depicting Joe Louis,
General John Pershing, Lillian Russell, and Paul Robeson
were acquired.

138

Publications

This year marked the culmination of the Publication De-
partment’s largest and most ambitious project ever, the
newest edition of the National Portrait Gallery Perma-
nent Collection Illustrated Checklist. This invaluable ref-
erence document reproduces some 4,000 portraits and
includes two indexes.

The exhibition catalogue, Then and Now: American
Portraits of the Past Century from the National Portrait
Gallery, was published in Hong Kong, funded by a gift
from a Hong Kong benefactor (Bay Apparel, Ltd.). Sub-
sequently, a Japanese-language edition of the book was
published in Tokyo, sponsored by Nihon Zooki Seiyaku
(a pharmaceutical firm) and will reach new audiences in
both Japan and the United States.

American Colonial Portraits 1700-1776, by guest cura-
tor Richard H. Saunders and staff curator Ellen G.
Miles, and Man of the Year: A TIME Honored Tradi-
tion, by Frederick S. Voss, curator of the Time collec-
tion, were copublished with the Smithsonian Institution
Press

Education

The Education Department offered secondary-school
classes several programs in commemoration of the bicen-
tennial of the U.S. Constitution: “Before the Constitu-
tion: The Roots of Self-Government,” “Constitution
Quest: Why a Navy?” (developed and run jointly with
the Navy Museum), and “The Constitution and the Presi-
dency.” These programs were officially recognized by the
Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States
Constitution for their exceptional merit, national signifi-
cance, and substantial educational and historical value.
Special lectures were presented in conjunction with
“The Artist’s Mother: Portraits and Homages” by the
guest curator and by five of the artists represented in the
exhibition. For the exhibition, “Masterpieces from Grip-

Gustav III by Alexander Roslin, oil on canvas, 1777. Lent by
the Sweden Nationalmuseum Collection, Gripsholm Castle, for |
the National Portrait Gallery’s exhibition, “Masterpieces from
Gripsholm Castle: The Swedish National Portrait Collection.”
(Photograph by Eugene Mantie)

sholm Castle: The Swedish National Portrait Collection,”
the gallery collaborated with the Washington Stage Guild
in presenting a theatrical performance, “Voices from the
Inferno: A Biographical Sketch of August Strindberg.”

The Education Department was awarded a grant to
develop a new public program series, “Cultures in
Motion: Portraits of American Diversity.” Intended to
promote serious reflection on the multiethnic aspects of
American history, “Cultures in Motion” will bring the
gallery’s collection to life through lectures, symposia,
one-person biographical plays, recitals, concerts, and
storytelling.

Research

Approximately 3,100 additional portrait records and
about 40,000 newly edited records were added to the
computerized data base of the Catalog of American Por-
traits, which serves researchers in American art history
and American history. Fieldwork to gather new portrait
material and photographing of collections continued,
with five public collections and three private collections
added to the survey. The Southern states survey com-
pleted earlier has been edited into the current computer
system. Work is under way to include two large and im-
portant local collections in the data base—the portraits at
the U.S. Capitol and those in the National Museum of
American Art. The Catalog of American Portraits contin-
ued its active role in the Smithsonian-wide Collections
Information System.

The Peale Family Papers staff continued transcribing,
researching, and annotating selected letters and docu-
ments of the noted artist and naturalist Charles Willson
Peale and his artist-sons Raphaelle, Rembrandt, and
Rubens. In April 1988 volume 2 of The Selected Papers of
Charles Willson Peale and His Family, subtitled The Art-
ist as Museum Keeper, 1791-1810, was published in two
parts consisting of about 1,300 pages, illustrated in black
and white and in color. With funds from the Smithsonian
Institution Scholarly Studies Program and the Baltimore
Gas and Electric Foundation, the project has embarked
on a program to hire two consultants to assist the editor
in the identification of portraits by Rembrandt Peale
(1778-1860) and ultimately in the publication of a cata-
logue raisonné of Rembrandt Peale’s work. An exhibition
of Rembrandt Peale’s portraits will follow the completion
of the catalogue. The staff looks forward to the comple-
tion of the seven-volume series of Selected Papers within
the next decade and to an updating of the catalogue rai-

140

sonné of the portraits and miniatures of Charles Willson
Peale.

The American Art/Portrait Gallery Library acquired a
large collection of exhibition catalogues and periodicals
from the Corcoran Gallery of Art. In addition to the five
data bases already available to library users, major
national bibliographic data bases and other commercial
on-line services are now accessible thanks to the latest
technology.

Through contributions from the family and friends of
Gloria Haas, a fellowship fund was established this year
to enable graduate students in the history of art and
other related fields to work at the National Portrait
Gallery.

Office of Exhibits Central

The Office of Exhibits Central (OEC) supports the
Smithsonian’s exhibition programs by providing exhibit-
related services throughout the Institution. In 1988 the
OEC completed more than 300 projects serving nearly
every museum, bureau, and office. The services that the
office provides range from exhibit design and script writ-
ing and editing to all facets of exhibit production, includ-
ing woodworking, plastics, modelmaking, taxidermy,
packing, framing, and silkscreening.

“King Herod’s Dream: Caesarea on the Sea,” the of-
fice’s largest single project of the year, is an example of
the variety of expertise available in the OEC. Designed
and produced for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, the exhibition opened in March in the
Thomas M. Evans Gallery at the National Museum of
Natural History. OEC staff were involved in every aspect
of the exhibition: design, editing, graphics, model-
making, and fabrication.

The office designed both the traveling exhibition and
the installation in the Evans Gallery. Design decisions en-
compassed everything from the design of the exhibit cases
to the position of objects inside them, from label typogra-
phy to interpretive graphics, from wall color to traffic
flow.

Large portions of the exhibit script were submitted in
outline form. Using materials that the curators provided,
the OEC editor researched, wrote, or rewrote the copy.
The script was then carefully edited for accuracy and for
appeal to a lay audience. The OEC graphics lab silk-
screened labels, text panels, diagrams, and maps;
mounted photographs; and mounted and framed prints.

“King Herod’s Dream” called for several models em-
ploying a variety of techniques. Excavation drawings
from several shipwrecks and frequent consultations with
the curators enabled OEC staff to build a model of a
merchant vessel from about A.D. 100. Full-size models of
an excavation wall and a Crusader burial were cast in
fiberglass. From materials provided by the curators, OEC
staff also created a scale model of a trench showing ar-
chaeologists at work with their tools and equipment.
Custom brackets were fabricated for about 140 objects to
secure them while on display or for travel. Of particular
note was the 1,200-pound marble statue of the city god-
dess, which required a specially designed bracket pro-
duced under OEC supervision.

The office built all the components and furniture for
the exhibit, including interpretive panels with text and
photographs, wall-hung vitrines, free-standing exhibit
cases, and pedestals for large and small objects. Shipping
containers with custom-designed interiors were also built

at OEC. The containers and the packing methods will
ensure the safety of the objects during travel.

In addition to large and small exhibits, the office sup-
ported a number of other projects: brochure design and
editing for the Smithsonian National Associate Program;
printed materials for the Washington Craft Show spon-
sored by the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Na-
tional Associates; interpretive panels and silkscreening for
the Festival of American Folklife; and illustration and
graphics for the Office of Horticulture’s presentation at
the Philadelphia Flower Show.

141
Office of Horticulture

Managing more than forty acres of gardens and grounds,
caring for the plants in museum interiors, and providing
plants and floral arrangements for Smithsonian Institu-
tion special events and exhibitions are among the respon-
sibilities of the Office of Horticulture (OH). In addition
to this full range of horticultural services, the office de-
velops educational and outreach activities and exhibitions
for local, national, and international audiences. Large
collections of living plants and horticultural artifacts and
images are maintained for use in all of these programs.

The new museum complex on the Quadrangle, with its
interior plantings and the Enid A. Haupt Garden, has
substantially increased the scope of the office. In 1988,
83,000 annuals and 7,000 pot plants were raised; these,
along with 50,000 tulip bulbs, were planted and main-
tained on the grounds and in museum interiors. Six hun-
dred ninety-five special events alone required the
production, preparation, pickup, and delivery of 13,500
plants and 328 floral arrangements. The office also se-
lects, installs, and cares for all landscape materials and
interior plants for the new National Air and Space Mu-
seum Restaurant.

Program Highlights

Among many projects accomplished during the past year
was the dedication on May 25, 1988, of the Mary Liv-
ingston Ripley Garden. Located between the Arts and In-
dustries Building and the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, the garden was established in 1975 by
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.
It has now been renovated and is named for the commit-
tee’s founder. Over the years the committee has gener-
ously supported the development of the garden. This
year’s grant purchased plants, signs, and an irrigation
system. Hilda van Roijen, first chair of the committee,
funded the purchase and restoration of an antique cast-
iron “Gothic” settee, one of the earliest and most popular
nineteenth-century styles. Mrs. Horace Peters, also a
committee member, donated a rare nineteenth-century la-
beled “Bouquet” settee.

As part of the official celebration of Mrs. Lyndon B.
Johnson’s seventy-fifth birthday, the office organized the
exhibition, “Native American Flora” in the Arts and In-
dustries Building Rotunda. Photo panels and native
plants portrayed Lady Bird Johnson’s well-known efforts
to conserve wildflowers. The office coordinated a recep-
tion in honor of Mrs. Johnson and her contributions to
conservation on April 29 in the Rotunda.

142

A holiday tradition at the Institution, the eleventh an-
nual “Trees of Christmas” exhibition was held in the Na- —
tional Museum of American History. Ten new collections _
of ornaments created by American craftspeople were dis- _
played and then donated to the office. Stenciling, tin |
punch, candlewicking, rug hooking, and macramé were |
among the handiwork techniques new to this popular
show.

The office was pleased to assist U.S. Chief of Protocol
Selwa Roosevelt with the extensive Blair House renova-
tion project. A fine antique cast-iron fountain, c. 1850,
from the prominent American foundry of J. W. Fiske,
and two pairs of antique cast-iron urns were loaned for
use in the handsome new courtyard garden.

Educational Outreach

In March the office received the Emile H. Geshick Award
for its display in the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society’s
Flower Show in Philadelphia. The exhibit was a remarka- —
ble re-creation of part of the interior of Horticultural
Hall at the time of the Centennial Exposition.

James R. Buckler, director of the Office of Horticul-
ture, and Kathryn Meehan, museum specialist, were the
curators of a traveling exhibition, “Victorian Gardens: A
Horticultural Extravaganza,” developed with the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and the
Office of Exhibits Central. The exhibition started a fully |
booked three-year itinerary in May. :

To respond to requests for information, photographs
and illustrations, lectures, and tours of gardens and
greenhouses, the office trained volunteers to help organ-
ize graphics, handle processing, and lead tours. |

Director Buckler led a week-long Garden Study Tour
in May for the National Associate Program (SNAP) and
lectured for the SNAP symposium on historic horticul-
ture, held in Greenwich, Connecticut. Buckler also lec-
tured at the Ohio Historical Society, the Alexandria
(Virginia) Forum, Morris Arboretum, National Master
Gardeners Conference, American Ivy Society, and Vir-
ginia Museum of Fine Arts.

Collections Management |

Both the living plants and the artifacts collections have
grown. Four hundred fifty-one orchids, bromeliads,
ferns, and ivies were acquired. Two orchids grown in
greenhouses from seedlings were selected while in bloom |
for awards by the American Orchid Society.
c=
=.
J)
=
eer

“Exotic Plants: Horticultural Hall 1876,” the Office of Horticulture exhibition at the 1988 Philadelphia Flower Show, won the

Emile H. Geshik Memorial Award.

To date 9,000 35-millimeter slides and 2,000 glass
plates have been received for the Garden Club of America
Slide Library of Notable Parks and Gardens. The exqui-
site hand-colored glass plates, made in the 1920s and
1930s, show great American gardens, some no longer in
existence. They represent an unparalleled archives of gar-
den history. The Frances Jones Poetker Collection of
more than 300 unique hand-bouquet holders was photo-
graphed and accessioned, primarily by volunteer techni-
cians Marilyn Hanlon, Ursula Pariser, and Sally
Tomlinson.

During 1988 the Office of Product Licensing success-
fully negotiated a licensing contract with furniture manu-
facturer Brown Jordan for a Smithsonian Collection.

Two groups of garden furniture, Day Lily and Fern Leaf,
were based on pieces in the Office of Horticulture collec-
tion and are now being marketed nationwide. Revenues
from the sales of these reproductions will be used to en-
hance the office’s collections.

143
Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs (OMP) is the museum
training and services arm of the Smithsonian. Under the
direction of Jane R. Glaser, the office provides extensive
professional development services to those who work in
museums in the United States and throughout the world.
These services include workshops, seminars, internships,
publications and audiovisual materials, short-term resi-
dencies for visiting professionals, career counseling, and
professional museum consultations. The office also
houses the Museum Reference Center, a branch of the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries.

Workshops

In collaboration with domestic and international museum
organizations, the Training Program develops and oper-
ates one- to five-day workshops on museum practices.
Faculty are drawn from all bureaus and offices of the
Smithsonian, as well as from museums and universities
across the country. In 1988 the Washington Workshop
Series consisted of eighteen workshops at the Smithson-
ian, attracting more than 400 participants from all parts
of the United States, two U.S. territories, and eleven for-
eign countries. Eighteen on-site workshops were con-
ducted at institutions throughout the United States and in
Trinidad, Barbados, and Puerto Rico. The Organization
of American States, UNESCO, and the University of
Puerto Rico were collaborating organizations. A special
workshop, “Planning a Small Local Museum,” was con-
ducted for Micronesian historic preservation and museum
professionals in collaboration with the National Park
Service. This was the inaugural workshop in a training
series for professionals from the U.S. Trust Territories
and the Federated States of Micronesia.

Internships and Visiting Professionals

The Internships in Museum Practices Program provides
placements at the Smithsonian for undergraduate and
graduate students and for museum professionals. In 1988
Participants came from the United States, Costa Rica,
Greece, Malaysia, Mexico, and the Sudan. The program
sponsored the eighth annual Museum Careers Seminars
Series for forty Washington, D.C.-area museum interns.
During this seven-week course, professionals from the
Smithsonian and other area museums discussed museum
operations and career opportunities.

The Visiting Professionals Program organized short-

144

term programs for twenty-nine museum professionals
from this country and thirty-one from abroad. The pro-
gram also developed a special seminar on museum prac-
tices for a group of Danish museum professionals. The
fifth annual project on museum management for Euro-
pean museum administrators, cosponsored with the U.S.
Information Agency, introduced concepts of management
and governance in American museums to museum direc-
tors from seven countries.

Native American and Minority Programs

The goal of the Native American Museums Program
(NAMP) is to strengthen the educational and professional |
capabilities of Native Americans by offering a full range
of training and information services. A training needs as-
sessment conducted in 1988 demonstrated that American
Indians were seeking better collaboration for sharing
resources and were interested in learning about new
museum models. The NAMP’s cooperation with the
Ak-Chin Indian Community in Arizona presented an op-
portunity to conduct research in the United States and |
Canada on tribal museums and ecomuseums, a new mu- _
seum concept that includes natural heritage conservation |
and public participation. Eight Ak-Chin staff members
attended a special NAMP workshop on museum practices
and information resources. |

Under the 1987-88 Awards for Minority Museum |
Professionals Program, twenty-four museum profession-
als received financial and logistical support for their at-
tendance at Office of Museum Programs workshops and
their participation in one-week Smithsonian residencies. _
For the first time in the program’s five-year history, parti-
cipants came from the outlying areas of Palau, Guam,
Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. An Institution-wide re-
view panel selected thirty-one professionals as recipients
of the 1988-89 awards.

Audiovisuals, Publications, and Reference Services

The Audiovisual Program produces and distributes in-
structional videotapes and slide-cassette programs on pre- |
ventive care, conservation, education, and other
museum-related topics. In collaboration with the OMP’s
Kellogg Project, the program produced a thirty-six-
minute film, Museum and Community, which focuses on
four museums that have developed exemplary public edu-
cation programs. Other new productions include two

slide-cassette programs, Connoisseurship in the Visual
and Decorative Arts: The Educated Eye and More than
Meets the Eye, and a film videotape, Horticulture in
Museums.

The Museum Reference Center responded to more
than 8,500 inquiries from within Smithsonian, across the
United States, and around the world this year. Three is-
sues of the center’s bulletin, Museworld, were published
and distributed to museum documentation centers
abroad, Smithsonian libraries, and Smithsonian staff
members. Nine of the approximately eighty bibliogra-
phies that the Museum Reference Center distributes were
revised this year; the topics range from museum market-
ing to transportation museums to planning and organiz-
ing a new museum.

A redesigned and updated edition of Museum Studies
International was published in 1988. This comprehensive
directory lists more than 400 degree programs, courses,
internships, fellowships, seminars, and workshops
offered at the undergraduate, graduate, and midcareer
levels in this country and abroad. Cosponsored by the
International Council of Museums Committee for the
Training of Personnel, the new edition features articles
about selecting and evaluating a museum studies
program.

Studies by Museums for Program Planning and Exhibi-
tion Evaluation, 1977-1985, a bibliography compiled
from responses to an OMP survey, was published this
year. The citations, most of which are unpublished stud-
ies, are available for use in the Museum Reference
Center.

Kellogg Project

The Kellogg Project, the office’s six-year-long special pro-
gram to expand the educational role of museums in their
communities, was completed during 1988. Among the ac-
complishments that had national impact were three na-
tional colloquia, twelve demonstration museums that
created model museum educational projects, residencies
at the Smithsonian, and regional and topical workshops.

This year the Kellogg Project broadened its Museum
Professionals Program, making all senior-level employees
in museums eligible for ten-day residencies at the Smith-
sonian. Museums and Adult Education is being published
jointly by the Kellogg Project and the National University
Continuing Education Association. In addition to the film
produced with the OMP’s Audiovisual Program, other
publications, videotapes, and a complete project evalua-
tion will be made available as a result of the project.

Office of the Registrar

As the focal point for the management of all museum
objects and specimens, the Office of the Registrar regards
as primary the development and implementation of poli-
cies and procedures that promote and strengthen collec-
tions management. The office celebrated one year of
residency in the Smithsonian Castle in 1988.

During this fiscal year the office launched a project to
review Office Memorandum 808: Collections Manage-
ment, which provides institutional guidance to bureaus
and offices responsible for museum collections. Informed
by the assembly of collection managers—curators, regis-
trars, scientists, conservators, archivists, and librarians—
and specialists in audit procedures, risk and information
management, law, and security, this document discusses
the issues, authority, and responsibility for the care and
use of the national collection. Led by Joseph Wiley, small
working groups of bureau staff reviewed and revised des-
ignated sections, stressing contemporary thinking related
to multiethnic collecting patterns and biodiversity. The
collaborative process, the issues raised, the breadth of
collection types considered, and the flexible format make
the revised office memorandum a useful guide for the
international museum community.

Physical care of the national collection constitutes only
half the activity of the Office of the Registrar. Equal ef-
fort is dedicated to the care of the intellectual collection—
data, documents, and records. In collaboration with the
Office of Information Resource Management and bureau
representatives, the office directs the transfer of collec-
tions information from outdated information technolo-
gies to modern computing media. In 1988, one million
records were made available through the interactive tech-
nologies of the Collections Information System. These re-
cords reside on a mainframe computer, along with a small
machine system at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, an im-
age-processing project at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, and local transaction programs at the
National Museum of American History. Standards that
guide the further development of the system have been
developed and embraced by the museum participants.

The publication of Registrars on Record: Essays on
Museum Collections Management in September 1988
completed a four-year editorial effort by Mary Case, di-
rector of the Office of the Registrar. Published by the
American Association of Museums, Registrars on Record
chronicles the daily challenges of working with priceless
works of art, irreplaceable icons, and countless natural
history specimens. It also defines the wide scope of mu-
seum registration and provides historical perspective.
Smithsonian staff members Margaret Santiago of the Na-

145
tional Museum of Natural History and Ellen Myette of
the Renwick Gallery contributed chapters, as did a dozen
other museum professionals.

The membership of the Registrar’s Council, which ex-
panded in 1988 to include metropolitan Washington col-
lections management specialists, grew to nearly Iso.
Programs included a timely range of subjects—managing
a building for collections care, registration methods at
the zoo, art theft, disaster preparedness, and foreign
loans and acquisitions.

On the international front, the office directed the first
stages of a worldwide survey of computer use in mu-
seums. This survey, which used Washington museums as
the pilot group, reached twelve countries in 1988 and will
continue throughout 1989 and 1990. Participants in the
International Council of Museums Documentation Com-
mittee meeting in Barcelona, Spain, discussed the 1988
results and expanded the program into more countries.

146

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) develops exhibitions on a range of topics and
circulates them to museums and other educational and
cultural institutions throughout the United States and
abroad. During 1988 SITES organized twenty-four new

exhibitions, among them three complex projects—exhibi- _

tions on fine art, natural history, and archaeology—that
illustrate the breadth and diversity of the SITES program.

“New Horizons: American Painting, 1840-1910,” the
reciprocal exhibition for “Russia, The Land, The Peo-
ple,” opened in Moscow in November 1987. In conjunc-
tion with the exhibition’s tour of four cities in the Soviet
Union, SITES also arranged for concerts, symposia, and
special events for members of the Smithsonian Board of
Regents. The exhibition was supported by funding from
the Armand Hammer Foundation and from the PepsiCo
Foundation.

“Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure” began
a five-year tour in May 1988 with a seven-month showing
in the International Gallery of the S. Dillon Ripley Cen-
ter. Organized by SITES with the World Wildlife Fund,
the exhibition surveys rainforest ecology and destruction
in a global context through multimedia presentations, di-
oramas, models, and interactive displays. The exhibition
and its public programs were supported by a major grant
from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Founda-
tion, with additional funds from the Smithsonian’s Spe-
cial Exhibition Fund, the George Gund Foundation, the
Wm. Wrigley Foundation, the James Smithson Society,
and the Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach Program.
The SITES exhibition book, People of the Tropical Rain
Forest, was copublished with the University of California
Press.

“King Herod’s Dream: Caesarea on the Sea,” which
opened at the National Museum of Natural History in
March 1988, introduces land and underwater archaeology
techniques involved in researching and reconstructing
Herod’s famed ancient harbor. The exhibition was organ-
ized with the University of Maryland Center for Mediter-
ranean Archaeology, the Caesarea Ancient Harbour
Excavation Project, and the Joint Expedition to Caesarea
Maritima, in cooperation with the Department of An-
tiquities and Museums of the State of Israel.

One-third of SITES’ new exhibitions were organized in
cooperation with Smithsonian bureaus. Among them were
“Exploring the Planets” and “Into the Sunlit Splendor”
with the National Air and Space Museum, “ZooArk” with
the National Zoo, “Victorian Gardens” with the Office
of Horticulture, “The Grand Generation” with the Office
of Folklife Programs, and “Official Images” and “Field to

Secretary of State and Mrs. George P. Shultz viewed SITES’
exhibition “Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient
Syria” in the Evans Gallery at the National Museum of Natural
History/National Museum of Man. In April 1988, the exhibi-
tion traveled to Japan as part of the Silk Road Exposition held
in Nara. (Photograph by Chip Clark)

Factory” with the National Museum of American His-
tory. Research and program assistance with “Tropical
Rainforests” was provided by the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (STRI), the International Activities
Council, and a curatorial review committee that included
members from the National Zoo, STRI, and the National
Museum of Natural History.

SITES continued to collaborate with other museums in
the presentation of “Athletes: Photographs 1860-1986”
(International Center for Photography, New York), “Com-
puters in Your Pocket” (Computer Museum, Boston),
“Master Watercolors and Drawings from the Norton
Gallery of Art” (West Palm Beach, Florida), “Sound-
tracks” (Staten Island Children’s Museum, New York),
“Tracks in the Sky” (California Academy of Sciences, San
Francisco), “Coverlets: New Threads in Old Patterns”
(Mountain Heritage Center, Cullowhee, North Carolina),
and “The Art of Botany” (New York Botanical Garden,
Bronx, New York).

SITES was fortunate to receive substantial funding for
its exhibitions and programs from a variety of sources. In
addition to those already mentioned, grants totaling in
excess of one million dollars were received from corpora-
tions, foundations, and the Smithsonian’s Special Exhibi-
tion Fund. One of the more innovative subsidies was
provided by the Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company and its lo-
cal bottlers for program support of individual exhibitors
for “Field to Factory.”

Eileen Rose, associate director for program, served as
acting director of SITES during 1988. Anna R. Cohn was
named director by Secretary Adams and began her tenure
in September 1988. Cohn, an art historian and educator,
has been associated with SITES over the past several
years as a guest curator and project director for “The
Precious Legacy” (1983-85) and “Generations” (1987-88).

Exhibition Summary

New Exhibitions, October 1, 1987, to September 30,
1988:

The Art of Botany

Athletes: Photographs, 1860-1986

Ceramics of the Weimar Republic

Computers in Your Pocket: The History of Hand-Held
Calculators

Coverlets: New Threads in Old Patterns

Exploring the Planets

Field to Factory: Afro-American Migration, 1915-1940
(two copies)

From Site to Sight: Anthropology, Photography, and the
Power of Imagery

Glamour and Allure: The Hollywood Photographs of
George Hurrell

The Grand Generation: Memory, Mastery, Legacy

Into the Sunlit Splendor: The Aviation Art of William S.
Phillips

King Herod’s Dream: Caesarea on the Sea

Master Watercolors and Drawings from the Norton Gal-
lery of Art

New Horizons: American Painting, 1840-1910

Official Images: New Deal Photography

A Russian Impressionist: Paintings and Drawings by
Leonid Pasternak, 1880-1945

Soundtracks

Spectacular Vernacular: Traditional Desert Architecture
from West Africa and Southwest Asia (second edition)

Tracks in the Sky: Wildlife and Wetlands of the Pacific

Flyway

147
Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure

Victorian Gardens: A Horticultural Extravaganza

Visions of Flight: A Retrospective from the NASA Art
Collection

What Style Is It? (two copies)

ZooArk

Exhibition Tours, October 1, 1987, to September 30, 1988
Number of bookings 333
Number of states served 44

(includes Washington, D.C.,

Puerto Rico, and Guam)
Number of cities served 202
Estimated audience to million
Exhibitions listed in 1988 Update 116

(catalogue of SITES exhibitions)

New exhibitions produced this year 24

148

PUBLIC SERVICE

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

149
National Demonstration
Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies

Through the National Demonstration Laboratory for In-
teractive Educational Technologies (NDL), the Smithson-
ian Institution has made a commitment to strengthening
the nation’s educational system through new and innova-
tive technologies. A cooperative project of the Smithson-
ian and the Interactive Video Consortium (IVC), a group
of public broadcasting stations seeking ways to use inter-
active technologies to enrich programming, the NDL is a
national resource for disseminating information, demon-
strating new technologies, and encouraging the develop-
ment of interactive projects.

The coupling of interactive computer programs with
multimedia materials offers educators the ability to make
maximum use of scarce resources, address curriculum
problems, achieve success with problem students, and
reach new groups of learners. Using interactive programs,
students can review, annotate, question, respond to, and
see relationships within a rich data base that includes
audio, video, and textual material. Schools, museums,
public broadcasting stations, and other educational insti-
tutions and organizations are hailing the potential of in-
teractive technologies as key ingredients to both formal
and informal learning.

To strengthen its ties to the academic community, the
NDL has established a Research Consortium composed
of prestigious academic institutions and educational or-
ganizations. With the consortium’s assistance, the NDL
staff will develop criteria for research in educational ap-

Susan Ueberhorst, program manager for National Demonstra-
tion for Interactive Educational Technologies, demonstrates
two of the many interactive programs at the lab.

150

plications of interactive video and evaluation of interac-
tive materials. The laboratory also intends to conduct
and issue needs assessments. Additional activities include
establishing a data base of interactive video information
and identifying elements of educational curricula that are
particularly suitable for interactive video applications.

The laboratory features an extensive array of hardware
and software for review and evaluation by visitors. The
NDL does not promote individual products, but rather
makes potential users aware of the variety of options
available to them. Demonstrations are offered several
times weekly by appointment. As many Smithsonian of-
fices consider the development of interactive capabilities
and displays, Smithsonian staff have found the laboratory
to be a valuable resource.

Jacqueline Hess joined the National Demonstration
Laboratory in April 1988 as its new director. In June the
NDL received an operational funding grant from the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting.

National Science Resources
Center

The National Science Resources Center (NSRC) was es-
tablished in 1985 as a joint undertaking of the Smithson-
ian Institution and the National Academy of Sciences.
The NSRC’s mission is to contribute to the improvement
of science and mathematics teaching in the nation’s
schools by establishing a science and mathematics curric-
ulum resource center and information data base, develop-
ing resource materials for science and mathematics
teachers, and offering a program of outreach and leader-
ship development activities.

The pressing need to start in the early years to improve
the scientific and technological literacy of young people
has led the NSRC to place a high priority on developing
programs to reform science teaching in the nation’s ele-
mentary schools. Several projects are under way in this
area.

NSRC Elementary Science Resource Database and
Guide. During 1988, the NSRC developed an elementary-
level science resource collection and computer informa-
tion data base. The resource collection will be used by

Children in the Milwaukee Public Schools working on elemen-
tary science activities. The Milwaukee Public Schools is one of
several large urban school districts participating in the National
Sciences Resources Center network. (Photograph by Robert Ze-
man)

school systems and regional science education centers
that are working to improve their elementary science pro-
grams and by participants in NSRC workshops and con-
ferences. The information data base includes annotations
written by teachers, as well as bibliographic information
about the materials in the resource collection. The data
base was published as a guide, Science for Children: Re-
sources for Teachers, by the National Academy Press in
October 1988.

Science and Technology for Children. This four-year
elementary science materials development project, sup-
ported by a grant from the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation, will make hands-on science
manageable for elementary-school teachers and link it to
the broader curriculum through a strong emphasis on
reading, writing, and mathematics. The Science and
Technology for Children project will develop twenty-four
instructional units for grades 1-6 on topics in life science,
physical science, earth science, and technology. After
they are tested in elementary-school classrooms, these
units will be revised, published, and distributed to school
systems throughout the country.

As another component of Science and Technology for
Children, the NSRC will sponsor leadership institutes to
prepare selected teachers and science supervisors to or-
ganize elementary science improvement projects in their
school districts. The center will also provide technical as-
sistance to help school systems design effective inservice
teacher education programs and establish resource
centers to supply teachers with science materials and
apparatus.

NSRC Elementary Science Network. The NSRC is de-
veloping a network of teachers, scientists, science educa-
tors, and school administrators who are working to
improve the teaching of science in the nation’s schools.
To communicate with the 20,000 network members, the
center published the first issue of NSRC Newsletter in
June 1988.

151
Office of the Committee for a
Wider Audience

In 1988 the Office of the Committee for a Wider Audi-
ence (OCWA) continued its role of extending the reach of
Smithsonian programs to segments of the public that tra-
ditionally have been underrepresented in the institution’s
audience. The office has helped museums, offices, and
bureaus throughout the institution in their outreach ef-
forts. Major activities for the year included the organiza-
tion of a radio pilot series, a celebration of Martin
Luther King’s birthday, and the design of a cultural tour
to the Caribbean. The office also collaborated in the
launching of a public awareness campaign carried out by
the Office of Public Affairs.

In an effort to identify the Smithsonian with the preser-
vation and dissemination of information on black Ameri-
can culture, to inform black Americans about their
culture, and to build relationships among black institu-
tions, artists, and the general public, the OCWA initiated
a radio pilot series. Funded by the Women’s Committee
of the Smithsonian Associates and produced in coopera-
tion with the Office of Telecommunications and Smith-

sonian magazine, the programs were aired on urban
contemporary radio stations across the country. The se-
ries marked the centerpiece of the OCWA’s summer pub-
lic awareness marketing campaign.

The OCWA systematically ensures participation of mi-
nority groups at receptions and special events. About 350
guests attended the Martin Luther King birthday celebra-
tion on January 18 at the National Museum of Natural
History; 40 percent were Hispanic and 60 percent repre-
sented a cross section of other groups. The event, which
was sponsored by the Smithsonian’s Cultural Education
Committee, featured Dr. Frank Bonilla, distinguished
Thomas Hunter professor of sociology and director of
the Center for Puerto Rican Studies at Hunter College in
New York City. His lecture was titled, “From Racial
Justice to Economic Rights: The New American Di-
lemma.” Los Pleneros de la 21, a Puerto Rican bomba
and plena musical group from New York, provided the
entertainment.

In conjunction with the Smithsonian National Associ-

Los Pleneros de la 21, a Puerto Rican Bomba and Plena musical group from New York. The group performed at the Martin Luther
King Celebration in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., sponsored by the Smithsonian Cultural Education Committee.

152

ate Program, the OCWA is designing cultural study tours
to developing nations. The first, a tour of the Caribbean,
is scheduled for the winter of 1989.

Exposure to all facets of the institution continues to be
an essential part of building new audiences. Throughout
1988 the OCWA continued to hold discussions with bu-
reau and office directors on the progress of wider audi-
ence initiatives.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

One of the participants in the Office of Elementary and Second-
ary Education’s National Seminar, Connie Kirby studies a spin-
ning wheel in the National Museum of American History.
(Photograph by Jonathan Barth)

Through teacher training programs, publications, special
education programs, and precollege training for young
people, the Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion (OESE) helps teachers and students reap the full po-
tential of museums as educational resources. Working
with other Smithsonian education offices, the OESE aims
to make known the instructional value of museums and
museum objects.

The OESE’s symposia and courses for teachers demon-
strate how to teach by using a museum-oriented ap-
proach. During 1988 the office collaborated with
education departments around the Smithsonian to organ-

153
ize ten courses for teachers from the Washington, D.C.,
area and one graduate-level course for instructors from
around the country. In addition, as part of an ongoing
effort to foster more productive relationships between
museums and school systems nationwide, the OESE’s Re-
gional Workshop Program sponsored a partnership in
Wilmington, North Carolina, one outcome of which was
a day-long event involving museums and more than 500
teachers. A Teacher Internship Program built on the
work of the Regional Workshop Program by training
high school teachers from four communities to serve as
liaisons between their local museums and schools.

The office also organizes special programs that focus
on important events and issues. In 1988 the OESE collab-
orated with the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies on a
symposium, “Afro-Americans and the Evolution of a Liv-
ing Constitution.” Classroom materials growing out of
the presentations were published in Update, an American
Bar Association magazine.

OESE periodicals for teachers continued to bring the
Smithsonian into the classroom, both in the Washington,
D.C., area and across the nation. Art to Zoo, a quarterly
newspaper, reached 70,000 teachers nationwide with in-
formation about how to use local resources to teach such
subjects as “animal communication” and life on the
World War II home front. Let’s Go to the Smithsonian, a
newsletter circulated to schools in and around Washing-
ton, alerted about 12,000 teachers to events at the
Smithsonian.

The office’s Summer High School Internship Program
brought forty-two recent high school graduates to the In-
stitution for two five-week sessions. The young people
learned about museum careers while assisting Smithson-
ian professional staff in such tasks as installing exhibi-
tions, adapting computer programs, researching topics in
Afro-American history, and building display cases.

On April 29, the OESE convened the second meeting
of the Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education. Ap-
pointed by Secretary Adams, the council is charged with
helping to stimulate and shape Institution-wide priorities
and directions in education. Developing wider audiences
was the topic of this year’s meeting, as participants ex-
plored ways in which Smithsonian educators could at-
tract to their programs such currently underrepresented
groups as Hispanic Americans, Native Americans,
blacks, Asians, and disabled people.

154

Office of Folklife Programs

Through scholarly research, professional advocacy, and
public programs, the Office of Folklife Programs engages
in cultural conservation and representation activities that
encourage continuity, integrity, and equity for traditional
cultures in the United States and abroad. Highlights of
the year included a successful Festival of American Folk-
life, a cultural exchange program with the Soviet Union,
a lecture series on South Africa, and the first publications
of Smithsonian Folkways Records.

Festival of American Folklife

The twenty-second annual festival on the Mall drew an
estimated 1.5 million people to a vibrant “living mu-
seum,” giving traditional artists needed national visibility
and exposing the public to the skills, knowledge, and
creativity of diverse peoples. At this year’s festival, held
June 23-27 and June 30-July 4, the focus was the folklife
of Massachusetts, the music of the Soviet Union, the cul-
ture of immigrants to metropolitan Washington, D.C.,
and the work of the American Folklore Society.

The Massachusetts program examined continuity and
change in the agricultural, maritime, small-town, and ur-
ban traditions of the state and featured talks and demon-
strations on topics ranging from city gardening to
computer assembly. Soviet performers treated festival vis-
itors to a sampling of musical traditions of the Soviet
Union. In “Migration to Metropolitan Washington:
Making a New Place Home” the festival explored how
immigrants to the Washington, D.C., area have pre-
served and adapted their traditions. Another festival pro-
gram celebrated the centennial of the American Folklore
Society, and the Festival Music Stage again featured per-
formances and evening dance parties.

The festival reached millions more people beyond the
Mall through network television coverage, National Public
Radio and “Radio Smithsonian” series, and many news-
paper and magazine articles. Portions of some festival
programs were remounted in other locations. The Massa-
chusetts exhibition was on view in Holyoke, Massachu-
setts; Soviet musicians performed in the S. Dillon Ripley
Center and in New York; and the American Folklore So-
ciety display was installed in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Folklife Research

During 1988 scholars conducted studies on the accessibil-
ity of natural and cultural resources needed to continue

The men’s choir “Elesa,” from Georgian SSR, perform poly-
phonic choral music at the 1988 Festival of American Folklife’s
Soviet music program. (Photograph by Rich Vargas)

the traditions of several American Indian tribes; ethno-
graphic research on Jamaican-American cultural identity
and its expressions; and analytic work on the folk tales
of Southeast Asian immigrants. Training for native and
community scholars was conducted as an integral part of
all office research projects.

Senior ethnomusicologist Dr. Thomas Vennum, Jr.,
published the monograph, Wild Rice and the Ojibway
People, which examines Ojibway ethnobotany, cultural
expressions related to rice harvesting and subsistence,
and current cultural conservation issues. The Smithson-
ian Folklife Studies series released the documentary film,
Kathputli: The Art of Rajasthani Puppeteers, which ex-
plores traditional Indian stringed puppetry.

Smithsonian Folkways Records

Dr. Anthony Seeger, an internationally renowned anthro-
pologist and ethnomusicologist, was named founding cu-
rator of the Folkways Collection. Among the first
recorded sound publications in the Smithsonian Folkways
series are Folkways: The Original Vision, a compilation
of songs by Woody Guthrie and Leadbelly, and Music of
the Soviet Union, based on the Soviet program at the

1988 Festival of American Folklife. Both publications in-
clude scholarly notes, maps, and bibliographic references.
The Office of Folklife Programs collaborated with Co-
lumbia Records to produce Folkways: A Vision Shared,
featuring Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan, Willie Nelson,
Emmylou Harris, Pete Seeger, and other artists perform-
ing Guthrie and Leadbelly songs. Donated artists’ royal-
ties from the recording will help the Smithsonian recoup
the costs of acquiring Folkways Records and support fu-
ture scholarly research and Folkways recording projects.

Special Projects

Distinguished South Africans addressed the historical,
communal, and personal dimensions of apartheid in a
lecture series cosponsored by the office, the Smithsonian
Resident Associate Program, the National Museum of
Natural History Department of Anthropology, and How-
ard University. A National Public Radio series and a
Smithsonian Institution Press publication based on the se-
ries, which was called “South Africa Today: Life in a
Divided Society,” are being developed.

The office has initiated a long-term program of cul-
tural exchange with the USSR Ministry of Culture, Melo-
diya Records, and various scholarly organizations as a
result of the performances of forty Soviet musicians at the
Festival of American Folklife and the participation of
American music groups at the International Folklore Fes-
tival in Moscow. Folkways Records and Melodiya
publications, Smithsonian World television treatment,
and Radio Smithsonian broadcasts enhanced this initial
exchange.

Staff Changes

Dr. Peter Seitel, director of the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams for the past five years, returned to the position of
senior folklorist. Dr. Richard Kurin was acting director
of the office during 1988.

T55
Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies

The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies contributes to
both the increase and the diffusion of knowledge in its
efforts to strengthen integrative learning and research in-
side and outside the Institution and to reach a wider au-
dience. Public officials, business and industry leaders,
educators, philanthropists, media representatives, stu-
dents, and interested members of the general public join
in seminars with scholars from a variety of fields to ex-
plore gaps in existing knowledge and speculate on the
implications of new research findings in the physical, nat-
ural, and human sciences. The office also coordinates
programs commemorating historic events and anniversa-
ries of the publication of classics in philosophy, science,
and literature. Books and educational materials are com-
monly generated from the major symposia.

A highlight of this year’s programs was a second sym-
posium organized for the bicentennial of the U.S. Consti-
tution, “Afro-Americans and the Evolution of a Living
Constitution.” According to Eddie N. Williams, president
of the Joint Center for Political Studies, which cospon-
sored the program, the purpose of the undertaking was
not to “lament the shortcomings or the limited reach of
the original document” but to celebrate “its vitality and
flexibility” and the creative role black Americans have
played in its 200 years of growth. Thirty distinguished
scholars, jurists, and civic leaders gave lectures and par-
ticipated in panels on constitutional interpretation. They
also examined how the struggles of black Americans for
full citizenship have affected other groups and communi-
ties, namely women, Native Americans, and Hispanic
Americans. The March 15-16, 1988, symposium featured
a special workshop for teachers and a teleconference that
was broadcast to thirty-six colleges and carried on public
radio stations across the United States. As the major bi-
centennial forum in Washington, D.C., to deal with the
relationship of Afro-Americans to the Constitution, the
program was notably successful in opening new channels
of communication and increasing interest in issues of na-
tional concern.

Other programs dealt with the global food supply and
science education. At the October 6-7, 1987, “Science,
Ethics, and Food” colloquium, a group of concerned
scholars and representatives of governmental and private
organizations in the United States and abroad addressed
pressing problems of global food production and distri-
bution. The colloquium, which initiated a multiyear col-
laborative effort between the Smithsonian and the
General Foods Fund, Inc., coincided with the presenta-
tion of the first General Foods World Food Prize. A semi-
nar on “Science Education: A Challenge for Excellence in

156

“Afro-Americans and the Evolution of a Living Constitution”
teleconference, March 16, 1988. From the left: Mary Berry, Ju-
lius Chambers, Renée Poussaint (moderator), and John Hope
Franklin. (Photograph by Frank Dexter Brown, Joint Center for
Political Studies)

America’s Future” demonstrated the viability of the “Vol-
untarism and the Public Interest in American Society” se-
ries begun in 1971 to promote private-sector initiatives in
public policy. Cosponsored by the ARCS (Achievement
Rewards for College Scientists) Foundation, the May 5,
1988, discussion on Capitol Hill attracted more than 300
people.

A new forum for Smithsonian staff and fellows, “Ways
of Knowing,” was launched in November. Sessions dur-
ing the first year provoked lively exchanges on such mul-
tifaceted subjects as perception and computers. Plans call
for continued efforts to foster the flow of ideas among
staff and fellows in different disciplines and bureaus on
intellectual questions related to research and exhibitions.

Two book manuscripts based on office programs were
completed during 1988. Contemporary Indian Tradition
will be copublished in December 1988 by the Smithsonian
Institution Press and Oxford University Press in India;
the “Science, Ethics, and Food” proceedings appeared in
September. Summary reports of the May 1987 sympo-
sium, “Constitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibili-
ties,” and of the March 1988 symposium have been
distributed to more than 1,000 public and school libraries |
across the country. Scholarly volumes, video documenta-
ries, and a radio series are also in preparation.

Office of Public Affairs

Millions of visitors to Smithsonian museums and millions
of others who are unable to visit the national museums
learn about the Institution’s research, exhibitions, collec-
tions, and programs through the media. To help print
and broadcast journalists tell the Smithsonian’s story, the
Office of Public Affairs provides news releases, back-
grounders, publications, photographs, videotapes, and
logistical support. The office also oversees Institution-
wide information and advertising programs.

During the past five years, the Office of Public Affairs
has strongly supported the Institution’s commitment to
reach a more diverse audience, including Afro-Ameri-
cans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, and Native
Americans. In 1988 the theme of the office’s activities was
“The Smithsonian. It’s for everyone—and for you.”

The office’s Black Outreach Media Program prepared a
coordinated media campaign designed to attract Afro-
American families to the Smithsonian. Two television
public service announcements, one featuring author Alex
Haley inviting visitors to the Anacostia Museum’s exhibi-
tion on the black church in America, were part of this
effort. The announcements were widely used in major
East Coast cities. Other elements of the campaign in-
cluded radio advertising during Black History Month (at-
tracting more than 1,000 calls); print advertisements in
New York, Atlanta, Philadelphia, and Chicago newspa-
pers; and colorful posters for the interior and exterior of
Washington’s Metrobuses. In cooperation with the D.C.
Committee to Promote Washington, the office prepared
full-color ads for Ebony, Essence, American Visions, and
Black Enterprise magazines, which brought well over
4,000 written requests for information about the Institu-
tion’s Afro-American programs. The office also began
publishing its full-page monthly calendar of events in
Washington’s Afro-American newspaper. Support for
these activities came in part from the James Smithson
Society through the Office of the Committee for a Wider
Audience and from the Smithsonian Educational Out-
reach Program.

Activities in the Hispanic Outreach Media Program in-
cluded the publication of the monthly calendar in Spanish
in E/ Latino newspaper, the distribution of calendar re-
prints to Hispanic organizations, and expanded distribu-
tion of the Spanish edition of the Smithsonian News
Service in the United States and Latin America. To de-
scribe Smithsonian resources for Latinos, the office pro-
duced Spanish- and English-language versions of a
television public service announcement and a bilingual
brochure. An Educational Outreach Program grant ena-
bled the office to hire a Native American intern to help

Alex Haley generously donated his time and talents to the
Smithsonian in the production of a public service announcement
for television promoting the exhibition at the Anacostia Mu-
seum on the history of the black church in America. Here he is
shown in one scene of the spot announcement holding a historic
hymn book.

design a media program directed to the national Native
American community. Three additional public service an-
nouncements were prepared: two about the multicultural
nature of Smithsonian exhibitions and programs and one
targeted to senior citizens.

During 1988 the Office of Public Affairs provided pub-
licity assistance to other Smithsonian bureaus and offices.
The office planned and implemented major publicity
campaigns for such activities as the Columbus Quincen-
tenary Program; the fifth anniversary of the Museum

1§7
Support Center; the National Museum of Natural Histo-
ry’s landmark exhibition, “Crossroads of Continents”;
Archives of American Art symposia in San Francisco and
Chicago; a symposium, “Afro-Americans and the Evolu-
tion of a Living Constitution”; and the Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife. In cooperation with several offices, the
Office of Public Affairs coordinated a special promo-
tional effort for the exhibition, “Tropical Rainforests: A
Disappearing Treasure.”

The office’s publications, which report on behind-the-
scenes activities at the Smithsonian, continue to be recog-
nized for their excellence. Research Reports, a three-times-
a-year periodical, received an award from the Society for
Technical Communication, and the Smithsonian News
Service, a monthly feature story service for daily and
weekly newspapers, was honored by the National Associa-
tion of Government Communicators. The Torch, a month-
ly newspaper for Smithsonian staff, received the highest
honor from the Society for Technical Communication.

158

Office of

Telecommunications

Through nationally broadcast television and radio pro-
grams, educational films, and home video, the Office of
Telecommunications extends the reach of the Smithson-
ian. The office collaborates with Smithsonian research-
ers, historians, and curators to produce quality programs
that present the Institution’s wide-ranging activities to the -
American public.

This year the office joined with the Smithsonian Film,
Television, and Radio Communications Council to
launch the Smithsonian Video Collection, a new series
directed at the growing home video market. Production
of the programs, which will concentrate on the Institu-
tion’s own collections and research, is funded by East-
man Kodak Company, which will also be the principal
distributor. The programs’ subjects, content, and produc-
tion teams have been selected by the Smithsonian. The
first three one-hour programs—“Dinosaurs,” “Insects,”
and “Gems and Minerals”—are scheduled for release in
early 1989.

Work moved forward on a large-scale radio project, an
expanded version of “Radio Smithsonian,” designed to
provide a broad picture of the Institution’s research and
exhibitions, featuring music and cultures from around the
world. In cooperation with public radio station WETA-
FM in Washington, D.C., the office produced a pilot pro-

A film crew shoots the marsh and oyster bed areas in the Ches- |
apeake Bay for an Office of Telecommunications production |
.
.

that was completed in 1988.
gram that received high praise from public radio program-
mers nationwide. Efforts are now under way to raise
private funds to support the series. The series would re-
place the current half-hour “Radio Smithsonian,” which
reaches a potential audience of 3.5 million people each
week.

“Here at the Smithsonian” launched its seventh season,
airing on 175 subscribing television stations that serve
more than half the prime-time viewing audience in the
United States. The program is a series of short features
that highlight exhibitions, research, and performances
throughout the Institution.

As part of its effort to reach wider audiences, the office
conducted marketing research to assess the feasibility of a
Smithsonian television series for Hispanic audiences. The
research identified a need for more cultural and informa-
tional programming about the United States for Spanish-
language television. As a result, the office is exploring the
development of a pilot for a series of short, Spanish-lan-
guage television features about the Smithsonian. To in-
crease awareness of Smithsonian programs among black
Americans, the office helped plan a series of short pro-
grams for black commercial radio stations. Joining with
the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, the office assisted
in producing a live teleconference on “Afro-Americans
and the Evolution of a Living Constitution.”

The office completed a number of video and film pro-
jects in 1988. For the National Museum of American His-
tory’s exhibition, “A Material World,” the office
produced a major interactive video project, which incor-
porates video animation, puppetry, and on-location pho-
tography. Also for NMAH, the office produced an
exhibition videotape on the music of Irving Berlin, mark-
ing the composer’s rooth birthday. “The Reel Jungle,”
showing the myths and misconceptions that artists and
filmmakers have created about tropical rainforests, was
produced to accompany “Tropical Rainforests: A Disap-
pearing Treasure,” an exhibition organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. For the
Museum Support Center, the office created a new video-
tape for museum professionals that gives a comprehensive
overview of this innovative facility.

Work also progressed on a half-hour video for the Vis-
itor Information and Associates’ Reception Center that
will play continuously in two theaters in the new Smith-
sonian Information Center in the Castle. The office is
also producing the video programming for another aid to
visitors—nine interactive video stations, operated by
touchscreen. These video highlights will be available in
several languages and captioned for the hearing impaired.

Working in cooperation with Bank Street College of
Education, the office is proceeding with a major project
for children aged nine through twelve. “Smithsonian
Quest—1492” is an interactive videodisc and a videotape
series that will focus on the worldwide events of the cen-
tury surrounding that date.

In February 1988 Paul Johnson was named director of
the Office of Telecommunications. Producer of numerous
films and video and radio programs, Johnson was previ-
ously the office’s associate director.

159
Smithsonian Institution Press

The Smithsonian Institution Press, the publishing arm of
the Smithsonian, produces the works of scientists, schol-
ars, researchers, art historians, and other authors in a
wide spectrum of disciplines. Manuscripts may be ac-
quired from the Institution’s staff as well as from a
worldwide array of institutions and individuals in diverse
fields of endeavor. Publications include research mono-
graphs, technical and scientific series, exhibition cata-
logues for Smithsonian museums, informational and
educational pamphlets, as well as trade books, sound re-
cordings, and archival videodiscs.

University Press Division

Books published this year by the General Publications
section continued to receive critical acclaim. Galapagos:
Discovery on Darwin’s Islands, by David W. Steadman
and Steven Zousmer, and Fragonard in the Universe of
Painting, by the leading scholar and art critic Dore Ash-
ton, were among the lead titles. One of the division’s
most important publications was Crossroads of Conti-
nents: Cultures of Siberia and Alaska, by William W.
Fitzhugh and Aron Crowell, published in conjunction
with the major international exhibition, which opened in
September. The Recovery of Meaning: Historical Archae-
ology in the Eastern United States, edited by Mark P.
Leone and Parker B. Potter, Jr., was also prominent on
the trade list in conjunction with the Anthropological So-
ciety of Washington. Among the Press’s new titles in the
sciences were North American Owls: Biology and Natu-
ral History, by Paul A. Johnsgard; The Bald Eagle:
Haunts and Habits of a Wilderness Monarch, by Jon M.
Gerrard and Gary R. Bortolotti; and Grass Systematics
and Evolution, by Thomas R. Soderstrom, et al.

The University Press Division also inaugurated “Ex-
ploring the American West,” a series featuring reprints of
rare and out-of-print reports, with two titles: The Ex-
ploring Expedition to the Rocky Mountains, by John C.
Frémont, with a new introduction by Herman J. Viola
and Ralph E. Ehrenberg, and Exploration of the Valley
of the Great Salt Lake, by Howard Stansbury, with a
new introduction by Don D. Fowler. New books in avia-
tion history included From the Ground Up: The Autobi-
ography of an Aeronautical Engineer, by Fred E. Weick
and James R. Hansen; Pacific Air Race, by Robert H.
Scheppler; and Test Pilots: The Frontiersmen of Flight,
by Richard P. Hallion.

On the anthropology/ archaeology list, The People of
the Bat: Mayan Tales and Dreams from Zinacantan, ed-

160

ited by Carol Karasik and collected and translated by
Robert M. Laughlin, received excellent reviews in the
public press. New titles published in the Smithsonian Se-
ries in Ethnographic Inquiry include Raramuri Souls:
Knowledge and Social Process in Northern Mexico, by
William L. Merrill, and Raiders & Refugees: Trends in
Chamba Political Development, by Richard Fardon.
Three new titles were published in the Smithsonian Series
in Archaeological Inquiry: Prehispanic Settlement Pat-
terns in the Lower Santa Valley, Peru, by David J. Wil- _
son; Status and Health in Prehistory: A Case Study of the
Moundville Chiefdom, by Mary Lucas Powell; and Stylis-
tic Boundaries among Mobile Hunter-Foragers, by C.
Garth Sampson.

In this year of expanding cooperation with other
bureaus, a book of special interest published with the
Anacostia Museum was Climbing Jacob’s Ladder: The
Rise of Black Churches in Eastern American Cities,
1740-1877, by Edward D. Smith. Giacometti, by Valerie
J. Fletcher, was published in collaboration with the |
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. |

The Series section of the University Press Division pub-
lishes the federally funded Contributions and Studies, |
consisting of ten series of monographs that report the |
research of Smithsonian staff. All of the editing, design,
and typesetting for these publications is accomplished on —
Smithsonian Press computers.

Among the eighteen publications in these series during
1988 series were: “A Monograph of the Lichen Genus
Parmelia. . . .” by Mason E. Hale, Jr. (Smithsonian Con- ©
tributions to Botany, no. 66); “Hydrographic and Mete-
orological Studies of a Caribbean Fringing Reef at Punta ©
Galeta, Panama... ,” by John D. Cubit et al. (Smith-
sonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, no. 32);
“The Cretaceous Birds of New Jersey,” by Storrs L. Ol-
son and David C. Parris (Smithsonian Contributions to
Paleobiology, no. 63); “A Survey of Internal Oral Fea-
tures of Leptodactyloid Larvae (Amphibia: Anura),” by |
Richard J. Wassersug and W. Ronald Heyer (Smithson-
ian Contributions to Zoology, no. 457); and “Late Holo-
cene Fossil Vertebrates from Burma Quarry, Antigua,
Lesser Antilles,” by Gregory K. Pregill et al. (Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, no. 463).

Smithsonian Collection of Recordings |

The Recordings Division produced and released three
new albums under the Smithsonian Collection (SCR) la-
bel, each with extensive liner notes in an accompanying

book. The largest of these was the six-record, six-com-
pact-disc, and five-cassette set entitled Beethoven: Early
Years through the “Eroica,” distributed by direct mail to
Smithsonian Associates. The recording contains Beethoy-
en’s first three symphonies as well as his Opus 18 quartets
and his two cello sonatas, performed on original instru-
ments by, respectively, the Smithsonian Chamber Orches-
tra, the Smithson String Quartet, and James Weaver and
Kenneth Slowik. These are the first recordings issued on
compact disc by SCR.

Piano Music of Louis Moreau Gottschalk, performed
by pianist Lambert Orkis, and Smetana/Dvorak Piano
Trios, performed by the newly formed Castle Trio, are
the inaugural releases in an “Instruments of the Smithson-
ian” series and include extensive notes about the instru-
ments from the collection. Also released in 1988 were the
first two records launching a Smithsonian/ deutsche har-
monia mundi series: Mozart’s Concertante K.364/Con-
certone K.190 and Servais’s Souvenirs and Caprices. The
Mozart is performed by the Smithsonian Chamber Or-
chestra and the Servais by cellist Anner Bylsma. This se-
ries will be available to the retail record trade in the
United States through Angel Records.

Last year’s release Singers and Soloists of the Swing
Bands, annotated by Mark Tucker, was nominated for
two Grammy Awards, for Best Historical Album and
Best Album Notes. Jimmie Rodgers on Record: America’s
Blue Yodeler, by Nolan Porterfield, was also nominated
for Best Album Notes.

Smithsonian Books

A highlight of this year for Smithsonian Books was the
publication of Exploring the West, by Herman Viola.
This beautifully illustrated story of the exploration and
mapping of the West by Smithsonian scientists and others
was distributed to Smithsonian Associates by direct mail
and to the retail book trade by Harry N. Abrams. It was
also a Book-of-the-Month Club dividend selection. Fol-
lowing on the success of Exploring the West was the
publication in August of In the Age of Mankind: A Smith-
sonian Book of Human Evolution, by Roger Lewin. Smith-
sonian Institution Press distributed this volume to the
retail book trade, as well as to Smithsonian Associates by
direct mail.

Book Development

The newly formed Book Development Division produced
full-color postcard books featuring works in the collec-
tions of Smithsonian museums. They are intended pri-
marily for sale in the Museum Shops. The first postcard
books feature the collections of the National Museum of
African Art, the National Museum of American Art, the
National Museum of Natural History, and the National
Air and Space Museum and the National Portrait Gal-
lery. Several more are planned for release by the spring
1989 tourist season.

For the first time, three museums have their own
guidebooks, each coordinated and published by the Press.
Guides for NYAH, NMNH, and NASM are enormously
popular with visitors, especially through the busy sum-
mer months.

Optical Publishing

The Optical Publishing Division, established this year un-
der the direction of Glen Hoptman, is exploring projects
that use interactive educational technologies. The divi-
sion is working with Smithsonian Books staff, for exam-
ple, on Treasures of the Smithsonian and, with the
Smithsonian Collection of Recordings and the Office of
Folklife Programs, has begun a cooperative venture in-
volving the recently acquired Folkways Collection.

In a related development, planning has begun for the
Press to serve as the electronic publisher of Smithsonian
research data bases, such as the Index of American Sculp-
ture, the Hymenoptera Catalog, and bibliographies in
several fields. The result could be the distribution of re-
search information by floppy disks, by CD-ROM (which
combines visual and textual material on laser disks), or
by telephone dial-up. The target audience will be librar-
ies, research institutions, and individual scholars.

161
Smithsonian Internship
Council

The Smithsonian Internship Council, formed in 1981, sets
standards for internship programs and coordinates these
programs throughout the Institution. Its members, who
meet monthly, represent each Smithsonian museum and
office. During 1988 more than 500 individuals partici-
pated in the Institution’s internship programs, which
ranged from working with exhibit designers on an exhibi-
tion at the National Museum of Natural History to or-
ganizing special events with the Resident Associate
Program.

The council has produced three publications for in-
terns: Internships and Fellowships describes the majority
of internship and fellowship programs at the Smithson-
ian. The Handbook for Smithsonian Interns provides in-
formation about Smithsonian procedures, facilities,
services, and activities available to interns. Housing In-
formation for Interns and Fellows is a guide to short-term
housing in the Washington metropolitan area.

The Internship Council cochairs for 1988 were Bruce
Craig of the Office of Museum Programs and Mary Dyer
of the National Museum of American History. The staff
assistant to the council registers interns, provides identifi-
cation credentials and orientation, and produces reports
about interns and internship programs throughout the In-
stitution. The staff assistant also provides services for in-
terns at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars.

This year the council directed most of its energies to-
ward two goals: the establishment of a central stipend
fund and the standardization of application procedures.
To gather background information for both efforts, the
council conducted a multiyear survey of internship pro-
grams that yielded data on Smithsonian staff who work
with interns, demographic information on program par-
ticipants, and types of supplementary activities available
to interns. The survey revealed the extent of services that
various programs offer and indicated areas needing
greater effort.

The council has long advocated a central stipend fund
to attract members of minority and socioeconomic
groups who traditionally have not considered museum
work as a career. Using the survey data, the council de-
veloped a proposal for such a fund. The proposal met
with great interest throughout the Institution, as the
council cochairs met with bureau and office directors and
other staff to seek feedback and discuss methods of ad-
ministering the fund. The Office of Museum Programs
agreed to include the stipend fund in its budget request;
approval of the request is pending.

At the end of the year the council began work on a

162

standardized application form that would be used for in-
ternships carrying stipends. Looking ahead, council mem-
bers will develop a standardized application review
process and increase their efforts to help staff identify
internship opportunities.

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian, the official magazine of the Institution, has
the largest circulation of any museum-affiliated magazine
in the world. To many of its four million primary readers
and its pass-along audience of an additional three mil-
lion, it is their only experience of the Institution.

In the last year, Smithsonian magazine covered a wide
range of institutional activities both in feature stories and
in regular monthly departments. A balanced and thought-
ful treatment of India’s current problems with helping ti-
gers and humans to coexist dealt with an issue of direct
concern to the Institution. A feature on the artist Andrew
Jackson Grayson coincided with the exhibition of his
work at the National Museum of Natural History, and
an article on Alberto Giacometti coincided with an exhi-
bition at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
Zoo director Michael Robinson wrote about his work
with spiders, and Smithsonian researcher Eric Dinerstein
did an article on the Institution’s working elephants in
Nepal. Smithsonian published a major excerpt from the
new space history book by former Under Secretary Mi-
chael Collins. A cover story on the National Museum of
Natural History’s “Crossroads of Continents” exhibition
appeared in the October issue. The cutting of the world’s
second largest diamond, now on display at the National
Museum of Natural History, was a three-year process
described in detail in a Smithsonian article.

Reflecting continued interest in the issues of tropical
forest destruction, the magazine treated the World Wild-
life Fund’s minimum critical habitat project in Brazil, as
well as Janis Carter’s chimpanzee rehabilitation efforts in
Gambia. Other environmental stories included those on
plastic pollution in our seas, current research into the
ozone hole over Antarctica, and the attempts by the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service to reintroduce the red wolf in
the wild.

In the arts, the magazine did major treatments, com-
plete with gatefold illustrations, on Hieronymous Bosch
and Georgia O’Keeffe, as well as substantial stories on
Georges Braque, Paul Gauguin, and the Art Institute of
Chicago. In the performing arts, the cover story on the
Dance Theater of Harlem was notable.

History, of course, was part of the main menu of every
issue, with stories on such subjects as Henry Christophe
of Haiti, the East India Company and the Great Blizzard
of ’88. Especially memorable was a feature on what hap-
pened to one Newfoundland regiment during the Battle
of the Somme in World War I. The magazine continued
its coverage of the Constitution with a stimulating article
speculating on what would have happened to the United
States if that document had not been ratified.

The sciences were represented with stories on Kenya’s
center of research on destructive insects, the Marine Bio-
logical Laboratory at Woods Hole, current research into
lightning, and the cause of headaches. On the business
side, the magazine enioyed a successful year, on a par
with 1987. The first half was especially strong in advertis-
ing, while the last half was weaker than the previous
year. Circulation was stable.

During 1988 a promising new plan of integrating infor-
mation about membership services and products was con-
ceived and funded by the Institution. This plan, known
as the Smithsonian data base or master file, will collate,
organize, and standardize names and addresses of Smith-
sonian Associates as they take advantage of services pro-
vided by various divisions of the Smithsonian.
Smithsonian Project
Discovery

Smithsonian Project Discovery (formerly the University of
the Air) was established in 1986 by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and television producer Adrian Malone to create a
new, integrated, multimedia curriculum on the history of
ideas of the twentieth century. The goal of Smithsonian
Project Discovery is to have a positive influence on the
quality of U.S. education by integrating high-caliber
broadcast television dramas and documentaries, books,
and interactive, multimedia computer programs and
videodiscs.

The Project’s television programs will dramatize the
lives of twentieth-century intellectual and cultural leaders
and link those lives by documentary series hosted by the
great teachers of our time. Together, the dramas and
documentaries will offer viewers the best attributes of
each: people, dramatic and vital, and ideas brought to
life by artifacts, place, and time. Smithsonian Project Dis-
covery will use books, learning guides, and the latest
technology—interactive videodiscs—to encourage each
student to take his or her own path. Students will be able
to experience the excitement of discovery, the drama of
human stories, the context of time and place, and that
old-fashioned aim of classical education—synthesis.

By 1991 Smithsonian Project Discovery intends to have
completed four dramas (on Albert Einstein, Werner Hei-
senberg, Nadia Boulanger, and John Maynard Keynes),
one eight-part documentary series, and accompanying
computer programs, videodiscs, and books.

Smithsonian Project Discovery has established coopera-
tive relationships with Apple Computer, to complete the
prototype interactive multimedia disc, and with The Dis-
covery Channel, to produce and present the television
component on cable, followed by broadcasts on Ameri-
can public television and abroad. The Project is also
working with other offices at the Smithsonian, including
the Resident Associate Program and Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press.

164

“Smithsonian World”

As the year ended, “Smithsonian World,” the prime-time
Emmy Award-winning television series coproduced for
the Public Broadcasting Service by the Smithsonian Insti-
tution and WETA-TV in Washington, D.C., entered its
fourth season with a growing audience, substantial un-
derwriting, and strong critical acclaim. More than four-
teen million viewers watch each program of “Smithsonian
World,” including repeat telecasts, with audiences for the
repeats sometimes outnumbering those who tuned in for
the original programs.

“Smithsonian World’s” fourth season is funded in part
by the series’ original supporter, the James S. McDonnell
Foundation. The series also welcomed its first corporate
sponsor, the Southwestern Bell Corporation, as the sole
corporate underwriter for the season’s five new pro-
grams, together with five encore programs from earlier
seasons.

The following new programs were produced during
1988 for the coming season:

@ “The Living Smithsonian,” which celebrates the peo-
ple committed to creating a center for exploring the past
in order to understand the future (air date: October 24,
1988)

@ “American Dream at Groton,” an examination of
one of the diverse ways of learning in a multicultural
society (air date: November 21, 1988)

@ “The Way We Wear,” a look at the impact of fash-
ion on society and the impact of society on fashion, lean-
ing heavily on the backdrop of history (air date:
December 26, 1988)

@ “Web of Life,” which is based on the National Mu-
seum of American History’s “Search for Life” exhibition
on genetics and examines the quest to understand and
control the genetic basis of life on earth (air date: Janu-
ary 25, 1989)

@ “The Vever Affair,” a look at the Smithsonian’s
magnificent Henri Vever collection of Persian and Indian
paintings from the fourteenth to the eighteenth centuries
and at the intriguing tale behind its acquisition. Secretary
Adams calls the Vever Collection “perhaps the most im-
portant acquisition in the history of the Smithsonian In-
stitution” (air date: March 1, 1989).

Years One and Two of “Smithsonian World” continue
to be broadcast across the nation and throughout the
world in syndicated form, generally as two-hour specials
on commercial television stations.

Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Cen-
ter (VIARC) operates Institution-wide information and
assistance programs for the public, Associate members,
staff, volunteers, and interns. VIARC volunteers and
staff provide a wide range of services seven days a week,
including staffing museum information desks, answering
public inquiry telephone lines, providing daily informa-
tion on the Dial-a-Museum and Dial-a-Phenomenon re-
cordings, and responding to written inquiries from the
public. VIARC also operates mobile outdoor information
units during the summer months and conducts behind-
the-scenes tours of the Smithsonian Castle building.

Other support services include recruitment and place-
ment of volunteers behind the scenes, registration and
orientation of interns, and operation of an outreach pro-
gram to promote membership and previsit education.
The center also administers the Institution’s exterior
graphic information system.

Renovation, construction, and program activities for
the new Smithsonian Information Center in the Castle
went into full swing in 1988. The project is on schedule
for the anticipated July 1989 opening date.

The Commission of Fine Arts approved the design con-
cept and materials for the Institution’s Exterior Graphic
Information System, and the National Capital Planning
Commission has given its endorsement. Work on one as-
pect of this project—updating and refurbishing the gen-
eral information directories on the Mall—was initiated
this year in cooperation with the National Park Service.

Since the opening of the National Museum of African
Art, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, and the S. Dillon
Ripley Center, museum information desk services have
expanded substantially. To staff the sixty-two daily as-
signments at sixteen desks in eleven buildings, the volun-
teer information specialist ranks swelled to 534. The
overall minority participation in this program rose to
13.8 percent.

The Telephone Information Service handled more than
430,000 calls during the year. Annual events such as the
Resident Associates Kite Festival, the Washington Craft
Show, and the open house at the Paul E. Garber Preser-
vation, Restoration, and Storage Facility all resulted in
thousand-call days. The popular Dial-a-Phenomenon re-
cording on short-lived celestial events attracted 47,000
interested callers. Special recorded information was also
provided to highlight Smithsonian activities during Black
History Month, Women’s History Week, Asian-Pacific
American Heritage Week, and Hispanic American Heri-
tage Week.

VIARC’s Public Inquiry Mail Service received and

SI Shutterbugs, a pilot program to assist visitors by taking
group photos using the visitors’ cameras, served as another out-
of-doors visitor assistance program sponsored by the Visitor
Information and Associates’ Reception Center.

processed some 55,000 pieces of general information and
research mail during 1988. The service also packaged and
mailed more than 4,700 information packets to indivi-
duals responding to the Institution’s efforts to expand its
minority constituency.

The pylons used outdoors during summer months to
orient and inform visitors of extended summer museum
hours were redesigned and enthusiastically received by
the public. Mobile information carts made more than
120,000 information leaflets available to visitors on the
Mall. Through SI Shutterbugs, a pilot program, volun-
teers helped visitors record their trip to the Smithsonian
by taking group photos using the visitors’ cameras.

Year-round, some 1,088 volunteers were active behind
the scenes at the Smithsonian. Four hundred thirty-seven
volunteers provided short-term assistance on special pro-
jects. The translation services group expanded to sixty
participants who have capabilities in thirty-eight lan-
guages. In all, volunteers translated 167 documents for
Smithsonian departments and divisions.

VIARC’s Information Resources Division oversaw the
development, production, and review of a range of
printed materials, including internal reference sources

165
and, jointly with the Office of Public Affairs, visitor-ori-
ented publications prepared by individual museums and
program offices. More than seventy printed pieces were
completed, including the principal public information
brochure for the Quadrangle complex.

Results of the center’s annual Institution-wide volun-
teer survey indicated that 5,763 volunteers contributed
485,084 hours of service during 1988.

166

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Thomas Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for External Affairs

167
James Smithson Society

The James Smithson Society was founded in 1977 as the
highest level of the Contributing Membership of the
Smithsonian National Associate Program. Since then, the
society has granted more than $2.3 million in support of
Smithsonian projects and acquisitions.

The Smithson Society’s annual meeting was held on
September 23-24 in conjunction with the fall meeting of
the National Board of the Smithsonian Associates. At a
formal dinner at the National Museum of American His-
tory on Friday, September 23, Secretary Adams welcomed
the group, and Charles D. Dickey, Jr., chairman of the
National Board, announced the projects receiving 1988
Smithson Society grants.

In 1988, through the contributions of Smithson Society
Annual Members, the society made awards totaling
$344,700 to support the following projects.

National Museum of American Art: To mount the ex-
hibition, “The Art of Paul Manship (1885-1966)” and, in
conjunction with the National Portrait Gallery, acquisi-
tion of a Wild stereomicroscope.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden: Purchase of
a pair of 35-millimeter projectors.

National Museum of American History: Acquisition of
six Audubon engravings, publication of three catalogues
of the DeVincent Collection of illustrated sheet music,
and publication of American Clocks.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum: Toward the Andrew W. Mel-
lon Foundation challenge grant to establish a permanent
endowment for research and publications.

Office of Horticulture: Purchase of a freeze-drying ma-
chine for drying flowers.

National Air and Space Museum: Construction of two
scale models of World War I strategic bombers and com-
pletion of close-caption programming of audiovisual pre-
sentations.

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies: To commemorate
Martin Luther King, Jr., Day on January 16, 1989.

National Museum of Natural History: For the Colum-
bus Quincentenary exhibition, “Americans before Colum-
bus: Prehistoric South Americans.”

National Zoological Park: Development of educational
graphics illustrating the contribution of Algonquin Indian
and Afro-American foods and medicinal herbs to contem-
porary medicine and diet.

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center: Study of
the demise of the American chestnut in an Appalachian
forest.

Smithsonian Press: Recording of Bach’s St. John Pas-
sion.

168

Smithsonian Institution Libraries: Purchase of Ver-
suche und Muster ohne alle Lumpen oder doch mit einem
geringen Zusatze derselben Papier zu machen, by Jakob
Christian Schaeffer.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory: Updating and
conversion of the film, Mirror on the Universe: The
MMT Story, and funds to conduct a two-week summer
institute for high school astronomy teachers.

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

The National Board of the Smithsonian Associates was
established to bring the Institution into closer association
with corporate, professional, community, and cultural
leaders from throughout the country. The Institution
looks to guidance from the National Board in stimulating
appropriate forms of cooperation among these sectors
and for assistance with regional Smithsonian activities,
educational services, and private support for these and
other programs.

At their spring meeting in Philadelphia, members heard
from Secretary Adams about significant developments at
the Institution. Afterward, the board took advantage of
the opportunity provided by chairman Charles D.
Dickey, Jr., to visit museums and participate in other
cultural activities in the Philadelphia area. The eleven
new members elected to the board were W. J. “Jack”
Bowen, Houston, Texas; Dan W. Burns, Los Angeles,
California; James H. Evans, New York City; Peter E.
Haas, San Francisco, California; Frank W. Hoch, New
York City; Robert Van Cleef Lindsay, New York City;
Antony Merck, South Carolina; Anne Murray Morgan,
Worcester, Massachusetts; Thomas J. Pritzker, Chicago,
Illinois; Lloyd G. Schermer, Davenport, Iowa; and A.
Alfred Taubman, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.

The board’s autumn meeting was held, as usual, in
Washington, D.C. At the Friday, September 23, session,
members and spouses heard Joseph Bonsignore, publisher
of Smithsonian magazine, and Adrian Malone, chairman
of the Smithsonian Communications Council, describe
their respective areas of responsibility. The annual Na-
tional Board—Smithson Society dinner was held at the
National Museum of American History that evening. On
Saturday, September 24, Secretary Adams discussed cur-
rent issues at the Smithsonian. Mrs. Gay Wray was
elected unanimously to succeed Mr. Dickey as chairman
of the National Board.

Office of Membership and
Development

The Office of Membership and Development (OMD) car-
ries out fund-raising activities in support of Institution-
wide priorities and assists individual bureaus in their
development projects. A major focus in 1988 was the re-
organization of the office in response to the continuing
decentralization of development functions at the Smith-
sonian. As development offices were established at the
National Air and Space Museum, the National Museum
of Natural History, and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
and Freer Gallery of Art, some members of the central
office staff took on additional duties oriented toward the
broader needs of the Institution. This larger, more dis-
persed network of development activity requires greater
planning and coordination. To this end, the OMD of-
fered a series of development workshops to staff in other
Smithsonian offices and bureaus.

In October 1987 James McK. Symington retired as di-
rector of membership and development. During his eleven
years of Smithsonian service, he led the office as it grew,
in response to expanding funding needs, from seven staff
members to twenty-one. Deputy director E. Jeffrey Stann
acted as director during most of the year. In September,
Thomas McCance, Jr., joined the Institution as deputy
assistant secretary for external affairs/director of mem-
bership and development after eight years as managing
director of the Yale Alumni Fund at Yale University.

The OMD staff began refocusing its energies on a
number of Institution-wide fund-raising activities, with
an an emphasis on individual donors and planned giving.
Two development officers began building a program that
is expected to produce considerable results for the Institu-
tion and for individual bureaus in the future.

The National Museum of African Art’s acquisitions
funds received a major gift from the Annie L. Aitken
Trust early in the year; the Brown Foundation under-
wrote a major acquisition by the Archives of American
Art; and the Enid and Kemper Crosby Foundation con-
tinued its support of acquisitions at the National Mu-
seum of American Art.

Several exhibitions at the National Portrait Gallery
were made possible through corporate and foundation
gifts. The law firm of Morgan, Lewis, and Bockius will
provide partial support for “Distinguished Jurists” and
has taken the lead in identifying cosponsors, including
the firm of Vinson and Elkins. An exhibition of the work
of Winold Reiss will be made possible through the gener-
osity of the Burlington Northern Foundation and the An-
schutz Foundation. “Then and Now,” the gallery’s first
overseas exhibition, was made possible by Bay Apparel
Limited (Hong Kong), American Express, and with in-

169
kind support from Emery Worldwide and All Nippon
Airways. Thanks to the Nihon Zooki Seiyaku K.K. of
Osaka, the exhibition catalogue was printed in Japanese.

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum announced an agreement
with the Comité Colbert of Paris to sponsor a major his-
torical look at French decorative arts. The museum was
also able to offer extended hours through the support of
Mobil Oil Corporation. Another major gift was made by
the Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman Foundation to the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, which has
named the reflecting pool in honor of Mr. and Mrs.
Lehrman.

In the public service area, “The Buried Mirror,” a tele-
vision series planned as the cornerstone of the Institu-
tion’s observance of the Columbus Quincentenary,
moved forward with promises of underwriting from a
consortium of Spanish and Mexican interests. Brother In-
ternational, in honor of its thirty-fifth anniversary in this
country, has agreed to sponsor a curriculum kit for high
schools based on Smithsonian collections; the kit is ex-
pected to be the first of a series. The Gannett Foundation
continued its support of the symposia on the bicentennial
of the Constitution organized by the Office of Interdisci-
plinary Studies. The Clark-Winchcole Foundation sup-
ported a second year of curriculum development for the
Smithsonian Child Care Center.

The National Museum of American History and the
National Air and Space Museum have continued work to
fund their respective exhibitions about computers and the
information age. New supporters include AT&T, NCR,
Hitachi, and Computervision corporations. At the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, the Alfred M. Sloan Foun-
dation completed funding of a videohistory on science in
national life. The National Museum of American History
received a commitment from the National Cosmetology
Association to sponsor an exhibition about clothing and
sexual stereotypes.

Another aspect of American culture is being treated in
an exhibition about baseball, “Diamonds Are Forever,”
thanks to the assistance of American Express; this project
is being organized by the Smithsonian Institution Travel-
ing Exhibition Service. The Smithsonian Museum Shops
were pleased to accept a gift from the Island Pacific Sys-
tems Corporation.

The Smithsonian was grateful for the interest of the
Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation in supporting
an extensive examination of a possible experimental gal-
lery at the Smithsonian. The Rockefeller Foundation has
also provided funding for investigating experimental ex-
hibitions about minority and non-Western cultures. The

170

J. N. Pew, Jr., Charitable Trust made possible the con-
tinuation of the Wildlife Conservation and Management
Training Program at the National Zoological Park.

Among the bequests to the Institution, Joseph Hirsh-
horn’s long-term generosity continued in the form of a
major gift from his estate and another from the Holenia
Trust Fund to the museum bearing his name. The Smith-
sonian was also grateful to receive a major bequest from
Charles H. Ettl.

The Smithsonian was fortunate in having two interna-
tional representatives to help in global activities this year.
In Japan, Mrs. Hanako Matano provided coordination
and support for the National Portrait Gallery’s “Then
and Now” exhibition. In Paris, Sir Valentine Abdy’s
long-term efforts with the Comité Colbert came to frui-
tion for the Cooper-Hewitt. A third representative, Luis
Gomez-Acebo, the Duke of Badajoz, has agreed to assist
the Institution’s efforts in Spain, thus extending the Insti-
tution’s reach to that important country as planning con-
tinues for the Quincentenary.

Office of Special Events

Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley acknowledges the dedication of the new
Mary Livingston Ripley Garden, opened May 25, 1988, in
honor of her more than twenty years of service to the Smith-
sonian.

Special events are essential for developing and maintain-
ing important constituencies. As the principal office re-
sponsible for organizing Institution-wide events and
programs, the Office of Special Events coordinated sev-
eral hundred activities in 1988. These included the dedi-
cation of the Mary Livingston Ripley Garden, the
celebration of Lady Bird Johnson’s seventy-fifth birthday,
the fifth anniversary celebration of the Museum Support
Center, the Institution’s first annual garden party for
members of Congress in the Enid A. Haupt Garden, and
several receptions in the International Gallery exhibition,
“Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure,” to in-
form special groups of the plight of the world’s rainfor-
ests. In addition to such events, the office handled more
than 1,000 requests from outside organizations seeking to
use Smithsonian facilities.

Smithsonian National
Associate Program

Serving more than two million members, the Smithsonian
National Associate Program offers innovative educational
opportunities throughout the nation, expanding the
boundaries of the Institution to encompass all fifty states.
The program’s far-flung membership is kept abreast of
the Institution’s activities through Smithsonian magazine.
In cooperation with other Smithsonian bureaus, the pro-
gram has organized a diverse range of activities for mem-
bers. As a result, the program has, since its beginning in
1970, fostered a strong national constituency for the
Smithsonian’s work.

A sampling of the activities and accomplishments of
the program’s four units follows.

Contributing Membership Program

The Contributing Membership of the National Associate
Program, established in 1976, provides unrestricted and
restricted funds to support Smithsonian research, educa-
tion, and outreach programs. This financial support is a
combination of annual membership dues and corporate
matching funds, plus the Contributing Members’ gener-
ous response to special fund-raising appeals for specific
Smithsonian projects or the Institution’s ongoing work.

Members may participate at six levels: Supporting
($60; available only to members who live outside the
Washington, D.C., metropolitan area); Donor ($125);
Sponsoring ($300); Sustaining ($600); Patron ($1,200);
and the James Smithson Society ($2,000).

The Contributing Membership Program continues to
grow steadily, numbering 47,400 households in 1988, or
6 percent more than in 1987. Ninety percent of these
members reside outside the Washington, D.C., metropol-
itan area. Total membership income also continues to
increase: this year’s $2.85 million in net unrestricted gain
to the Institution topped the 1987 unrestricted net by 13
percent.

The Institution expresses its appreciation to Contribut-
ing Members through a variety of benefits and special
programs. In 1988, members were invited to attend eight
exhibition previews and receptions at a variety of Smith-
sonian museums. Among the other special events held for
Contributing Members were an evening hosted by
Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for External Af-
fairs, at the exhibition, “Tropical Rainforests: A Disap-
pearing Treasure,” and a private tour for James Smithson
Society members of the Paul E. Garber Preservation, Res-
toration, and Storage Facility. Contributing Members
also received several complimentary publications in 1988,

171
Participant in Associate Travel Program on South American
cruise stops at Punto Tambo, Argentina, to observe megellanic
penguins. (Photograph by John Tveten)

including A New View from the Castle, People of the
Tropical Rainforest, and the Smithsonian Engagement
Calendar.

Contributing Members in the Washington, D.C., met-
ropolitan area are enrolled automatically in the Resident
Associate Program (RAP). Members outside Washington
receive Smithsonian Research Reports, published three
times a year by the Office of Public Affairs to highlight
special research and educational projects throughout the
Institution.

Twice during 1988, members participated in “Smith-
sonian Treasures,” an exclusive, behind-the-scenes visit

172

to the Institution. The highly popular five-day tour is
planned by the Associates Travel Program, which also
coordinated the first international study tour exclusively
for Contributing Members, “Voyage to Hudson Bay,
Greenland, and Iceland.” Accompanying members on the
voyage were Smithsonian scholars, including Dr. Robert
Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for Research, who lec-
tured on the polar Ice Age, the cycle of Arctic seasons,
and current Smithsonian research priorities. Other bene-
fits are offered in conjunction with the Lecture and Semi-
nar Program, which organizes educational activities in
communities nationwide and abroad. Contributing Mem-
bers are offered priority registration, complimentary tick-
ets to one lecture, and often an invitation to an informal
reception following the lecture.

Research Expedition Program

The Smithsonian Research Expedition Program was initi-
ated to enthusiastic response in 1988 as another impor-
tant benefit of National Associate membership. Through
this program, Associate members volunteer their financial
support and their labor to participate in two-week field
experiences led by Smithsonian scientists or curators.

The purpose of the program is twofold: to offer Asso-
ciates the opportunity to become personally involved
with the Institution by working closely with Smithsonian
professionals, and to provide Smithsonian scientists with
an additional source of field assistance and funding for
their research projects.

This year sixty-four Associates participated in five re-
search expeditions in Costa Rica, Colorado, Idaho, and
Washington, D.C. Topics included volcanology, botany,
archaeology, oral history, and archival processing. The
program is expected to expand in coming years.

Lecture and Seminar Program

The Lecture and Seminar Program, now in its thirteenth
year, highlights the research and collections of the Smith-
sonian for National Associate members and the general
public nationwide. Under the program’s auspices, Smith-
sonian curators, scientists, and research associates pres-
ent lectures, seminars, and hands-on workshops in
approximately twenty U.S. cities each year.

During the past year, the Lecture and Seminar Program
visited for the first time Billings and Helena, Montana;
Tacoma, Washington; Baton Rouge, Louisiana; Wichita,

Kansas; Huntsville, Alabama; New Paltz, New York;
and Hattiesburg, Mississippi. Following successful events
in previous years, the program returned to Missoula and
Bozeman, Montana; Seattle, Washington; Minneapolis
and St. Paul, Minnesota; Honolulu, Hawaii; Tampa, St.
Petersburg, and Sarasota, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; and
Santa Barbara and San Diego, California. The mayors of
Hattiesburg, Mississippi, and Boone, North Carolina, is-
sued proclamations honoring the Smithsonian visits to
their communities. The Smithsonian also received the key
to the City of Hattiesburg.

The success of activities organized by the Lecture and
Seminar Program depends in part on collaboration with
local and national organizations. During 1988, the pro-
gram worked in tandem with 120 local organizations
throughout the country, including museums, universities,
zoological parks, and botanical gardens. National organi-
zations that cosponsored Smithsonian events were United
Airlines, the National Trust for Historic Preservation,
Sigma Xi—The Scientific Research Society, EAA Avia-
tion Foundation, and the World Wildlife Fund—U.S.

Thirty-two new programs were developed this year.
Among these were “Computers in Aerospace,” taught by
Paul Ceruzzi of the National Air and Space Museum;
“African Art at the Smithsonian,” taught by Roslyn
Walker of the National Museum of African Art; “Splen-
dors of Asian Art,” taught by Patrick Sears of the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery; and “Meteorites and the Origin of
the Solar System,” taught by Glenn MacPherson of the
National Museum of Natural History.

The Lecture and Seminar Program also offers week-
long seminars in Washington, D.C., which enable Associ-
ates from across the country to study with Smithsonian
curators during lectures and special behind-the-scenes
tours. Nine Washington seminars were held during the
past year, including “African Art at the Smithsonian,”
“Splendors of Asian Art,” and “Adventures in Archae-
ology: Caesarea on the Sea.”

The Lecture and Seminar Program enjoyed continued
success with its week-long residential seminars, held at
Appalachian State University in Boone, North Carolina;
in Vail, Colorado; at the University of Southern Missis-
sippi in Hattiesburg; and at Mohonk Mountain House in
New Paltz, New York. Among these seminars were “The
Art and Craft of Creative Writing,” “Salute to American
Popular Song and Jazz,” “Exploring the Heavens and the
Earth: Past and Present,” and “Creative Photography.”

The Lecture and Seminar Program presented two inter-
national series during 1988: a six-day series in Melbourne
and Sydney, Australia, in celebration of Australia’s Bicen-

Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associate
Program survey the archaeological discoveries of Caesarea dur-
ing the special viewing of “King Herod’s Dream: Caesarea on
the Sea,” at the National Museum of Natural History on March
23, 1988.

tennial and a six-day lecture program in five cities in
Denmark. Continuing the program’s strong ties to Japan,
ten Japanese high school and junior high school students
visited the Smithsonian in the summer of 1988 under the
auspices of MYC Cultural Exchange Institute. During
their visit, the Japanese Minister of Education officially
praised the bond that has been established and encour-
aged continued development through these Summer Edu-
cational Enrichment Programs.

Associates Travel Program

The Associates Travel Program organizes educational
tours that mirror the many and varied interests of the
Institution. In 1988, more than 7,000 National Associates
participated in 142 foreign and domestic tours. Since the
program’s inception in 1975, more than 80,000 Associates
have embarked on these journeys. The educational value
of each outing is enhanced by carefully chosen study
leaders. One or more Smithsonian staff members also ac-
company each trip.

Foreign Study Tours span the globe, offering a wide
variety of destinations and many unique learning experi-
ences. For example, a tour focusing on the wildlife and
national parks of Argentina was one of the new program
offerings in 1988. Also introduced was a tour of Indone-
sia, where Associates met with craftspeople, performers,

173
and political leaders, and a tour of Nepal, Ladakh, and
Bhutan, with emphasis on history, culture, traditional
crafts, and religious festivals.

Associates also retraced historic sea routes and learned
about early explorations as they sailed on the four-
masted barque Sea Cloud in the southern Caribbean. On
their journey, Associates traveled from Costa Rica to the
San Blas Islands, Cartagena, and on to Curagao. They
enjoyed the lectures of historian and anthropologist An-
thony Maingot and author James A. Michener, who is
writing a book on southern Caribbean history. On an-
other study voyage, participants traveled on the cruise
ship Argonaut around Italy and Sicily, from Venice to
Genoa. The tour featured lectures on the region’s cultural
history, art, and architecture.

On other study cruises, Associates explored history and
modern-day political and social concerns while traveling
on the Volga River. During a cruise along the coast of
Europe from England to Portugal, they learned about art
and literature. A trip from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, around
Cape Horn, and to Santiago, Chile, examined the history
and current politics of Latin America.

Among the thirteen tours offered in China were the
popular “China by Train,” “Decorative Arts and An-
tiques in China,” and “Hiking China’s Sacred Peaks.” As-
sociates also explored Tibet on a tour that included an
overland trip to Nepal. Other travelers flew to Moscow,
traveled to Tashkent and Samarkand in Central Asia,
and then crossed the recently opened Soviet border region
from Kazakhstan into China’s Xinjiang Autonomous Re-
gion. They continued tracing the Silk Road to Kashgar,
Dunhuang, and Xian, before reaching Beijing.

Countryside programs in 1988 provided the opportu-
nity to live in small towns in The Netherlands, Hungary,
England, Wales, Italy, Switzerland, Austria, or France.
Residential seminars included programs on history and
art in Florence; on decorative arts, literature, and culture
at Trinity College in Dublin; and on ancient history in
Cairo. At the tenth annual Oxford/Smithsonian Seminar,
Associates could choose from a variety of specially de-
signed courses in the arts and sciences.

The fifty Domestic Study Tours offered in 1988 ena-
bled Associates to experience the natural wonders and
regional heritage of America. Three domestic cruises
were new; the fourth—on the popular Delta Queen—was
offered for the fifth time in four years. Gardens and his-
toric homes were featured on a cruise from New Orleans
to Campobello, Maine. Marc Pachter, chief historian at
the National Portrait Gallery, accompanied Associates on
a summer cruise in New England. His lectures on the

174

history of America’s resorts developed interest in stops at
Provincetown, Nantucket, Woods Hole, and Newport.
Associates learned about the importance of the Sacra-
mento River from Gold Rush days to the presen: on a
cruise through the waterways of the California Delta.

The “sojourn” programs offered participants the op-
portunity to spend a week in one city to explore all as-
pects of the area with guest lecturers and on field trips. In
addition to programs in San Francisco and Tucson, a
new program to Santa Fe, featuring Pueblo Indian cul-
ture, was designed as a sequel to another study tour of
Spanish art and culture in the Southwest.

Associates also had a wide variety of outdoor des ‘ \a-
tions from which to choose in 1988. Popular hiking pro-
grams were planned to Hawaii, Alaska, and New
Hampshire. Associates camped in Idaho on a Salmon
River rafting trip and floated through the Grand Canyon
on a Colorado River adventure. Study leaders lectured on
the geology and natural history of these wilderness areas.
Coral reefs, tropical fish, and other marine life were the
focus of a week-long study tour in the Florida Keys at
Seacamp on Big Pine Key. These active outdoor pro-
grams help to increase understanding and appreciation
for conservation of our natural resources.

Special weekend programs at the Institution—including
the sixteenth annual “Christmas at the Smithsonian Week-
end”—were planned not only for National Associates, but
also for Contributing Members and National Air and
Space Associates. In addition, Associates participated in
the “Washington Anytime Weekend,” organized in coop-
eration with the Visitor Information and Associates’ Re-
ception Center. The program includes a behind-the-scenes
tour of the Castle and offers guidance and information to™|
visiting Associates.

Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

As an important link between the Smithsonian Institution
and the metropolitan Washington community, the Smith-
sonian Resident Associate Program (RAP) engages area
residents\in the life of the Smithsonian. During 1988—its
first full year of presenting programs in the S. Dillon
Ripley Center—RAP offered nearly 2,000 innovative,
high-quality, and timely activities for more than 296,700
adults and young people. RAP programs and activities
enhance and complement the Institution’s collections, ex-
hibitions, and research while upholding the Smithsonian’s
role as the national museum complex. A privately sup-
ported continuing education, membership, and public
outreuth arm of the Smithsonian, RAP is a model for
museum and university programs around the world.

The year 1988 was a time of growth for the program.
With the help of a direct-mail marketing campaign and
successful programming, more than 16,000 new member-
ships were achieved, a record number for RAP. Registra-
tion for adult courses grew, too, showing an increase of
more than 20 percent over last year. The total RAP mem-
bership (including Contributing Members) exceeded
64,800 households, up from 60,000 in 1987. In 1988 the
preliminary work was completed and the contract
awarded for the long-anticipated integrated registration
and membership software, which will be in operation in
fiscal year 1989.

Attending the premiere gala of The Last Emperor, with recep-
tion at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and screening at the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum’s Langley Theater, were Xu
Jiaxian, cultural counsellor, Embassy of the People’s Republic
of China, Mrs. Han, His Excellency Han Zu, ambassador of
the People’s Republic of China, director Bernardo Bertolucci,
and film stars Joan Chen and John Lone.

In an effort to reach new constituencies, the Resident
Associate Program, with the support of the Institution,
established a Development Office in March. The office
will spearhead expanded outreach efforts in an effort to
build new audiences and attract new members from
Washington’s minority communities.

RAP received an award for creative and innovative
programming from the National University Continuing
Education Association for the course, “The Best of The
New Yorker,” which featured some of the magazine’s
best-known writers and artists. RAP was also honored by
the National Association of Government Communicators
with a Blue Pencil award for its informational brochure.

The year was marked by the successful sale of the
RAP-commissioned, limited-edition silkscreen, In Cele-
bration, by Washington artist Sam Gilliam. The print cel-
ebrated the September opening of the Smithsonian’s new
museum complex and generated support for Discover
Graphics, RAP’s free printmaking project for area public
high school students and their teachers. Last summer,
RAP commissioned Washington artist Willem de Looper
to create a limited-edition serigraph—his first print—
Tunis on My Mind. Proceeds from the sale of the print
will also benefit Discover Graphics.

Volunteers

More than 400 volunteers gave approximately 25,000
hours of invaluable assistance to the Resident Associate
Program by monitoring activities and performing vital of-
fice tasks. They were recognized at a spring luncheon for
office volunteers and at an awards reception held in the
Arts and Industries Building Rotunda in September.

Cooperation within the Smithsonian

During 1988, RAP continued to draw on the rich re-
sources of Smithsonian museums to create programs and
activities that span the arts, history, and science. A sam-
pling of this collaboration includes the four-part chamber
music series cosponsored with the National Museum of
American History; the 2oth-Century Consort music series
cosponsored with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden; and a concert and lecture offered to complement
the Hirshhorn exhibition “Russian and Soviet Paintings:
1900-1930.” With the National Air and Space Museum,
the program presented Soviet space scientist Roald Sag-
deyev in a lecture about the Soviet mission to Mars. And

175
“Crossroads of Continents,” the first jointly curated So-
viet-North American exhibition, was the focus of an all-
day seminar, cosponsored with the National Museum of
Natural History and featuring Soviet, American, and Ca-
nadian anthropologists and ethnographers. RAP also or-
ganized a ten-session course, “South Africa Today: Life
in a Divided Society,” which featured South African lead-
ers and scholars. This course was cosponsored by RAP,
the National Museum of Natural History, the Smithson-
ian Office of Folklife Programs, the Smithsonian Educa-
tional Outreach Program, and Howard University.
Other Smithsonian-oriented programs for adults and
children that showcased museum exhibitions included
“The Chinese Scholar’s Studio,” with the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery, and “Visions of Paradise: Travels in the
Tropical Rainforest,” in cooperation with the Smithson-
ian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. In addition,
the Museum Shops regularly sponsored parties for RAP
members and book-signing receptions following lectures.

Outreach

Through scholarships and special projects, RAP actively
seeks to involve wider audiences—from inner-city young
people to single adults—in its programs. The annual Dis-
cover Graphics program, for example, provides free etch-
ing and lithography training on Smithsonian presses for
nearly two hundred talented area public high school stu-
dents and their art teachers. The culmination of the pro-
gram is a juried exhibition of student prints held at the
National Museum of American History. The Gene Davis
Printmaking Studio, the program’s home in the Arts and
Industries Building, also serves as a printmaking and
bookbinding complex for Smithsonian members and
staff.

In 1988 seventy young people and 299 adults from the
inner city were awarded scholarships to Young Associates
and adult courses through the District of Columbia pub-
lic school system. Under the auspices of the Smithsonian
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Career
Awareness Program, eighteen inner-city young people
served as teacher assistants for Young Associate Summer
Camp.

Now in its sixth year, RAP’s weekly lecture series,
Tuesday Mornings at the Smithsonian, is designed to ap-
peal primarily to the area’s large population of retired
adults, who are able to participate in daytime activities.
Leading Smithsonian scholars presented thirty lectures to
7,300 people in 1988 on a wide range of topics.

176

Singles Evenings, the widely publicized and emulated
series featuring lectures by Smithsonian scholars followed
by champagne and hors d’oeuvre receptions, was pre-
sented this year at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery, and
the S. Dillon Ripley Center. Each of the programs, at-
tended equally by men and women, attracted capacity
registration, with a total of 4,100 participants.

Outside Collaboration

RAP cosponsored its fifteenth annual lecture series with
the Audubon Naturalist Society of the Central Atlantic
States and the Friends of the National Zoo, attracting
7,800 people. Throughout the year, RAP collaborated
with other organizations to produce lectures, seminars,
films, concerts, and courses for adults and young people.
These organizations included the National Geographic
Society, National Gallery of Art, Filmfest D.C., Meridian
House International, World Wildlife Fund, National Aer-
onautics and Space Administration, Council for the Ad-
vancement and Support of Education, Baltimore-D.C.
Institute for Psychoanalysis, Washington Post, Washing-
ton Project for the Arts, George Washington University,
Levine School of Music, and major museums in New
York, Baltimore, and Philadelphia. New collaborations
were initiated to produce adult courses with the Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of Science and the
Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise at the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill. New collaborations with
publishers, particularly Harry N. Abrams and Double-
day, have resulted in outstanding programs, including re-
ceptions and book signings, with writers Allen Ginsberg,
Chinua Achebe, Isaac Asimov, John Kenneth Galbraith,
and Reinaldo Arenas.

In February RAP organized and produced its second
annual seminar in collaboration with the National Uni-
versity Continuing Education Association, “Gorbachev’s
Initiatives: Implications for Our Time.” Forty deans from
major universities throughout the United States attended.
The seminar featured lectures by eminent scholars; din-
ners, luncheons, and receptions at the Soviet, Finnish,
Dutch, Czech, and Yugoslavian embassies; meetings at the
Hillwood Museum and Intelsat headquarters; and visits
to exhibits on early Soviet aviation and the Apollo-Soyuz
space mission at the National Air and Space Museum.

Foreign embassies that have collaborated with the Resi-
dent Associate Program include the Embassy of Canada
for a film series, concert, and course; the British Embassy

for an adults’ and children’s tour of the ambassador’s res-
idence; and the embassies of Australia, Czechoslovakia,
Finland, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, Sweden, Yugo-
slavia, Israel, and Mexico for courses, all-day seminars,
films, and concerts.

Courses

RAP’s Smithsonian Campus on the Mall is the center of
continuing education at the Institution, offering six- to
eight-week lecture series and intensive weekend courses
on topics ranging from interior design to the natural sci-
ences. In four terms during 1988, the program provided
more than 200 lecture courses and attracted approxi-
mately 10,000 students. With the goal of building a cur-
riculum that gives participants both continuity and
guidance, RAP launched a new certificate program, a
seven-course series in Western civilization to be given
over one and one-half years. Three of the seven courses—
on ancient Greece, Rome, and the Middle Ages—were
offered in 1988 to capacity audiences. Other certificate
programs are planned for the near future.

Among the year’s most well-received new courses were
several that represented creative partnerships with the
business and scientific communities. With the Washing-
ton Post, RAP presented a course on “Inside the Wash-
ington Post.” “New Frontiers of Science: Discoveries
That Could Change Our Lives” was organized in cooper-
ation with the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science.

Studio Arts

Two hundred fifty-seven studio arts courses and work-
shops were presented in 1988, with a total attendance of
17,100. Monthly workshops feature hands-on experience
in contemporary arts and crafts and both color and
black-and-white photography in RAP’s state-of-the-art
photography laboratory. Notable among the courses,
which are offered four terms per year, were “Glazed Fin-
ishes: Marbling and Graining”; “Natural Science IIlustra-
tion,” cosponsored with the Guild of Natural Science
Illustrators; and “Papermaking.” Internationally known
instructors and lecturers included New Zealand designer
Lee Andersen, painter Jacob Lawrence, and master Japa-
nese woodblock printer Un’ichi Hiratsuka.

Actress Ellen Burstyn reads the poetry of D. H. Lawrence as
part of the Resident Associate Program’s International Poetry
Forum series.

Lectures, Seminars, and Films

Lectures, symposia, and all-day seminars featuring distin-
guished experts addressed a wide range of current topics
in the arts, the humanities, and the sciences. A total of
30,800 people attended 104 lectures during 1988; 2,000
attended 17 seminars; and attendance at 56 films was
15,400. Notable speakers included Lebanese ambassador
Abdallah R. Bouhabib, art critic Robert Hughes, science
author James Gleick, economist John Kenneth Galbraith,
former Egyptian first lady Jehan Sadat, Pulitzer Prize-
winning author and journalist David Shipler, violinist
Isaac Stern, poet Allen Ginsberg, anthropologist Mary
Catherine Bateson, physicist Paul Chu, and novelists
Chinua Achebe and Isaac Asimoy.

All-day seminars focused on such topics as biblical ar-
chaeology, a vicarious tour of Prague, new genetics
breakthroughs, creativity, Buddhism, and the current

177
concern with professional ethics in the American work-
place.

Films and film series during 1988 featured both U.S.
and Washington premieres. Series included six films from
the People’s Republic of China and a five-part premiere
series showcasing new Australian cinema. RAP hosted
the American premiere of Bernardo Bertolucci’s award-
winning The Last Emperor, with Bertolucci and actors
John Lone and Joan Chen in attendance. Soviet ambassa-
dor Yuri Dubinin introduced a screening of the Soviet
film, Repentance.

Performing Arts

In its fifth season of sponsoring ticketed performing arts
events, RAP presented 115 concerts and performances at-
tended by 32,600 people. Highlights were a dance and
music program from Mongolia to mark the opening of
the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery; appearances by Broadway
and cabaret star Eartha Kitt, French guitarist Pierre Ben-
susan, the a cappella vocal ensemble Chanticleer, and Ire-
land’s traditional music band Patrick Street; new music
from the West Coast featuring the Bobs; and the first
annual Thelonious Monk International Solo Jazz Piano
Competition.

Major series offerings included four jazz concerts,
“Round Midnight . . . and After,” assembled by jazz
expert and Smithsonian Institution Press special projects
editor Martin Williams. A new summer jazz series was
inaugurated, and the Pro Musicis Foundation series put
the spotlight on outstanding young musicians on the
threshold of important careers. A highlight of the Inter-
national Poetry Forum series, now in its fourth season,
was actress Ellen Burstyn reading D. H. Lawrence.

Study Tours

More than 18,000 people participated in 544 tours during
1988. These firsthand learning experiences in art, archi-
tecture, archaeology, history, industry, and science
ranged from overnight excursions to afternoon walking
tours, all kept small for the benefit of the participants.
Two-day trips took RAP members to Newport, Rhode
Island; Wheeling, West Virginia; New York City; and
the Hudson River Valley, New York. Tours in six states
traced battles and troop movements from the Revolution-
ary, French and Indian, and Civil wars. A series of inten-
sive rail technology and history tours, offered with the

178

cooperation of major rail corporations such as AMTRAK
and CSX, included such sites as the AMTRAK northeast
corridor computerized control center in Philadelphia and
the endangered remnants of turn-of-the-century rail yards
and equipment shops in Brunswick, Maryland. Visits to
nearby areas, led by experts, featured walking tours of
historic neighborhoods, parks, and cemeteries and be-
hind-the-scenes tours in museums. Among the most pop-
ular local tour sites were Blair House, Congressional
Cemetery, the Smithsonian Museum Support Center, and
Intelsat headquarters.

Young Associate and Family Activities

In 1988, 15,200 young people—aged four to fifteen—and
their families enjoyed workshops, classes, monthly free
films, tours, performances, family lecture programs, and
summer camp through RAP. Workshops and classes de-
signed for adults and children together continue to be
valuable learning tools. In all, there were 211 Young As-
sociate and family activities, kept small for maximum
learning. “Dinosaurs Galore and More” was the theme of
this year’s Family Halloween Party, which was held in
the National Museum of Natural History. Other annual
events are a winter film and reception in conjunction
with the Trees of Christmas display in the National Mu-
seum of American History, the summer “Evening Picnic
at the Zoo,” and a family program during Children’s
Book Week.

Discovery Theater

After a year in Baird Auditorium at the National Mu-
seum of Natural History, Discovery Theater returned to
its home in the Arts and Industries Building in April
1988. Live theater performances for young people and
their families are presented from October through June
each year. Sixty-five thousand people—about 50 percent
of whom were members of minority populations—at-
tended 215 performances during 1988. In March, Discov-
ery Theater produced Unto These Shores, a highly
praised original production about recent emigrants to the
Washington, D.C., area.
Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Through grants to Smithsonian museums and bureaus,
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
supports a wide variety of creative and practical efforts
that might not otherwise be possible—from educational
programs to scientific research equipment to the care and
restoration of objects in museum collections. Sixty-three
active members and seventy resource members contrib-
uted more than 7,000 volunteer hours to the Smithson-
ian. Net proceeds from the annual Christmas Dinner
Dance and the 1987 Washington Craft Show enabled the
committee to award forty-one grants totaling $140,210 to
sixteen museums and bureaus. Projects were supported in
amounts ranging from $700 to $9,000. The year also
marked the establishment of the Women’s Committee En-
dowment Fund with an initial contribution of $20,000.

The inherent variety of the Smithsonian Institution is
reflected in even a partial list of the projects funded by
the Women’s Committee. Awards were used to fund
workshops for elementary school teachers titled
“Weather” and “The Solar System”; scholarships for mi-
nority participants in seminars sponsored by the Smith-
sonian National Associate Lecture and Seminar Program;
a pilot education program on African art and culture for
District of Columbia high school students; the purchase
of a modern Japanese Nabeshima-ware bow] for the Ar-
thur M. Sackler Gallery; construction of acid-free boxes
to store rare American Indian language publications; es-
tablishment of an ecological buffer zone around the
Barro Colorado Nature Monument in Panama; and res-
toration and conservation of a family portrait of William
Jervis Hough, an early Regent of the Smithsonian.

The National Museum of American History received
support for an exhibit to mark Irving Berlin’s centennial
year, for research and architectural drawings of the facade
of Chicago’s Hull House, and for the restoration of the
Appleton organ. The National Zoological Park was given
funds for a transparent beehive and video monitoring
equipment for the Beaver Valley exhibit, radio tracking
equipment for a new exhibit of free-ranging golden-lion
tamarins, and seed money to establish a quantitative test-
ing program for poisonous plant compounds. The Na-
tional Museum of Natural History received support to
purchase a collection of Cretaceous decapods from the
Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, to construct an exhibit
on the Aldabra Atoll Research Project, and to purchase
specimens and tools to enable the Naturalist Center to
offer a hands-on high school anthropology program.

On May 25, 1988, the Smithsonian Institution dedi-
cated the Mary Livingston Ripley Garden in honor of the
founder of the Women’s Committee. Located between the

Arts and Industries Building and the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden, this garden has long been of spe-
cial interest to Mrs. Ripley and the Women’s Committee,
which provided initial funding for its establishment in
1975. Over the years, the committee has continued to
support the development and maintenance of the garden,
most recently with a grant for plants, signs, and an irri-
gation system.

The seventeenth annual Christmas Dinner Dance was
held in the new restaurant of the National Air and Space
Museum. An established Smithsonian tradition, this gala
evening again proved to be a tremendously successful
fund-raising event.

One hundred artist-craftspersons from thirty-three
states participated in the sixth annual Washington Craft
Show, which has been acclaimed as one of the best in the
nation. In conjunction with the April show, a preview
reception and silent auction were organized to raise funds
for the Smithsonian. In addition, the High School Craft
Competition recognized young artisans from local school
districts and offered them the opportunity to meet some
of the country’s finest craftspersons.

179
ADMINISTRATION

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Administrative and
Support Activities

Operating primarily behind the scenes at the Smithson-
ian, a network of administrative and technical support
offices provides services essential to the smooth function-
ing of the Institution. These offices support scholarly and
public activities and ensure central oversight of and ac-
countability for the management and use of financial,
personnel, and physical resources. Fifteen offices and
their divisions serve a range of functions, from personnel
administration to protection services, from congressional
liaison to environmental management and safety. Fund-
ing for central services in 1988 amounted to about

7 percent of the Institution’s total operating expenses, ex-
clusive of maintenance, operation, and facilities protec-
tion costs.

Office of Information Resource Management

In its continuing effort to support Smithsonian computer
users, the Office of Information Resource Management
(OIRM) opened a Help Desk that offers telephone or
walk-in assistance. The OIRM training program has ex-
panded to feature eleven courses, involving over 1,000
Smithsonian staff in more than 100 classes. Consultation
in office automation and scientific applications is also
available, and the user production area provides assis-
tance in computer mapping and graphics, document
conversion, image scanning, and optical character
recognition.

The OIRM continued to coordinate the development
of a Smithsonian information architecture. The com-
pleted architecture, consisting of integrated graphic mod-
els and supporting documentation, will describe the
Institution’s information requirements and provide a tool
for systems planning and development.

Under the OIRM Communications Management
Division, all Mall locations will soon be linked by a high-
speed integrated telecommunications system, which will
join more than 300 personal computers in a network with
the central computing facility.

Office of Protection Services

During 1988 the Office of Protection Services (OPS) was
involved in a record number of escorts for objects in
transit to and from the Smithsonian and other museums
and institutions in the United States and abroad. Close
cooperative efforts between the OPS investigative staff
and the Columbus, Georgia, police department resulted

182

in the recovery of a Smithsonian painting stolen about
twenty years ago.

In the area of occupational health services, the asbestos
monitoring program expanded to include annual physical
examinations for more than 300 staff members. The em-
ployee assistance program has grown and an additional
professional counselor has been added to the staff. Medi-
cal standards for diving scientists were refined so that
they are consistent with other academic and scientific div-
ing medical standards.

The OPS staff is completing a museum security lexi-
con, a technical vocabulary index of more than 500 terms
or concepts relating to security, fire safety, and health in
museums and cultural institutions. Produced in conjunc- \
tion with the International Council of Museums, the lexi-
con will be published in English, Spanish, French, and
German, with plans to publish later in Arabic, Russian,
Chinese, Japanese, and Portuguese.

Office of Printing and Photographic Services

Filming is complete for two videodisc projects: updating
the office’s 35-millimeter slide files and adding several
small collections to the videodisc produced for the Na-
tional Museum of American History’s Division of Trans-
portation. Filming is more than half complete for the first
in a series of videodiscs of 35-millimeter black-and-white
negatives. To protect and identify the growing number of
Smithsonian videodiscs, the Office of Printing and Photo-
graphic Services (OPPS) has designed and printed a stan-
dard videodisc jacket and label.

OPPS staff is active in teaching programs inside and
outside the Institution. The office hosts a photographic
workshop for museum professionals each year and cos-
ponsors, with the White House News Photographers As-
sociation, a free one-day workshop for local high school
students.

Other Activities

The Office of Programming and Budget (OPB) continued
to implement improvements in the internal budget formu-
lation process as the result of a review of procedural
changes made in 1987. The office also expanded the use
of automation to collect data and assemble budget narra-
tives for submission to the Office of Management and
Budget and to Congress. The OPB concentrated efforts
on increasing analytical support to senior Smithsonian

managers during the 1990 fiscal year budget formulation
process. The office also issued two releases of the first
Smithsonian Institution Budget Manual and provided In-
stitution-wide training on how to write budget justifica-
tions. Detailed program and financial information is now
more easily accessible, aiding decisionmaking within the
Institution and tightening the relationship between long-
range planning and budgeting.

The Office of Personnel Administration devoted much
of the past year to consolidating and refining its imple-
mentation of the Federal Employees Retirement System,
the Immigration Reform and Control Act, the personnel
and payroll system operated by the National Finance
Center of the Department of Agriculture, and the Trust
Fund benefits program. Union contracts with both the
National Maritime Union and Local 2463 of the Ameri-
can Federation of Government Employees were automati-
cally extended.

The Office of Equal Opportunity (OEO) placed re-
newed emphasis on affirmative action efforts, and the
representation of minorities and women in professional
and administrative positions continued to improve. Em-
ployment of disabled persons within the Institution also
continued to increase. OEO-sponsored activities for staff
and the public to highlight ethnic observances and ex-
pand cultural understanding received increased attention
and support throughout the Institution.

The Office of Procurement and Property Management
continues to provide logistical support and acquisition
policy guidance to the varied program areas of the Smith-
sonian. In 1988, contracting projects became more com-
plex and the total dollar value and number of requisitions
increased. OPPM continued to delegate small purchasing
authority throughout the Institution, thus eliminating the
need for processing large volumes of requisitions in small
dollar amounts. To increase the safety of visitors and
employees, contracts were awarded for the replacement
of PCB transformers, the removal of asbestos, and the
renovation and replacement of the terrace of the National
Air and Space Museum.

The Management Analysis Office (MAO) continued to
identify and promote actions to strengthen internal con-
trols. The office conducted several reviews of Institution
units and activities, including those that might reduce
costs and improve efficiency by hiring outside contractors
to perform commercial functions traditionally carried out
by Smithsonian staff. The MAO also coordinated the
placement of graduate and postgraduate students in busi-
ness administration, who worked on important manage-
ment projects at the Smithsonian Museum Shops, the

National Air and Space Museum, and the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Administration. The office pub-
lishes a biweekly employee bulletin, which covers timely
administrative matters.

The Smithsonian Institution Ombudsman, a position
established in 1977, serves as a neutral party to whom
employees may bring work-related problems or concerns
that cannot be resolved through normal channels. During
the past year more than 200 employees have sought help
for problems ranging from policy questions to pay and
personnel matters to conflicts with supervisors.

In addition to assessing the impact of proposed legisla-
tion on the Smithsonian, the Office of Congressional Li-
aison monitored several important Institution-related
initiatives during the legislative process. Bills proposing
the Smithsonian’s affiliation with the Museum of the
American Indian and the repatriation of American Indian
skeletal remains and ethnographic materials demanded
the greatest attention this year.

The Travel Services Office continued to help Smithson-
ian employees and consultants make efficient and eco-
nomical travel plans. Travel was arranged, for example,
for the Festival of American Folklife participants and for
a growing number of people involved in workshops and
symposia.

The Office of Audits and Investigations, which reports
to the Under Secretary of the Smithsonian, continued to
perform regular internal audits of both federal and trust-
funded activities. External audits involving claims, cost
proposals, and cost and pricing data related to contracts,
grants, and other financial agreements resulted in consid-
erable savings to the Institution.

In the Office of Facilities Services, highlights under the
direction of the Office of Design and Construction in-
cluded the completion of the new $15 million restaurant
at the National Air and Space Museum. Construction of
the Mathias Laboratory Wing at the Smithsonian Envi-
ronmental Research Center was also completed. Al-
though there were some delays in projects at the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama be-
cause of the political situation there, construction re-
sumed on the Tupper Research and Conference Center,
and major upgrading of facilities on Barro Colorado Is-
land started. Construction also began on the visitor cen-
ter in the Smithsonian Castle Building. Freer Gallery of
Art renovations and construction on the link to the Sack-
ler Gallery were expected to begin in October 1988. The
planning phase of the multiyear, multimillion-dollar heat-
ing, ventilating, and air-conditioning rehabilitation
project at the National Museum of Natural History con-

183
tinued throughout the year. Planning also continued for
an extension to the National Air and Space Museum.
Planning was conducted in connection with the proposal
for a Museum of the American Indian on the last remain-
ing Mall site.

The Office of Plant Services continued to refine its au-
tomated financial, personnel, and program management
systems. The local area computer network has enabled
the staff to standardize and maintain forms, reports,
schedules, and maintenance data. Energy conservation ef-
forts were ongoing throughout the Institution, as the of-
fice began working more closely with utilities companies
on strategies to reduce utility consumption. Comprehen-
sive facility maintenance and repair inspections continued
during the year and included an inspection of the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute.

The revision of the Smithsonian Handbook on Safety
and Environmental Management was one of the year’s
most important initiatives for the Office of Environmen-
tal Management and Safety (OEMS). The handbook was
rewritten to broaden its scope and its applicability to cur-
rent requirements. Following last year’s successful imple-
mentation of management evaluation/technical reviews,
the OEMS conducted twenty-two facility reviews this
year. The staff also held several important life-safety
training courses and implemented a comprehensive haz-
ardous waste disposal program at all Smithsonian facili-
ties to ensure compliance with Environmental Protection
Agency requirements for identifying, storing, and dispos-
ing of hazardous waste. The office conducted a successful
three-day workshop on program development and prob-
lem-solving in areas such as fire protection, disaster plan-
ning, occupational safety and health, and environmental
management

The Office of Architectural History and Historic Pres-
ervation has added depth to the understanding of Smith-
sonian buildings with two architectural history studies on
aspects of the Natural History Building (1910). Further
study was devoted to the architectural history of the Na-
tional Zoo (1891-1970), including a special section on the
artwork of the zoo. Much was learned about the Smith-
sonian Institution Building (1858) through historical stud-
ies of the windows and the original structure. Studies of
old paint chips resulted in the development of a palette of
historically accurate colors, which will be used in some of
the public areas of the building. As required by the Na-
tional Historic Preservation Act, the staff presented five
major projects to the District of Columbia Historic Pres-
ervation Officer and to the federal Advisory Council on
Historic Preservation.

184

Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

Established in 1972, the Smithsonian Institution Women’s
Council identifies and studies the concerns of employees,
advises management on women’s issues, and strives to
improve working conditions. Chaired by Judith O’Sulli-
van and composed of twenty members elected by Smith-
sonian staff, the council is particularly concerned with
ensuring the equal treatment of women at the Smithson-
ian. It holds open meetings on the second Wednesday of
each month in the Regents Room of the Castle.

Four standing committees—Benefits and Child Care,
Newsletter, Outreach, and Programs—carry out most of
the council’s tasks. Ad hoc committees are created when
necessary to further council goals. In 1988 the council
continued to support the establishment of the child care
center for children of Smithsonian employees; the center
opened in October 1988. The council cooperates with the
Child Care Advisory Board, on which two council mem-
bers serve. In addition, the council continued publication
of its quarterly newsletter Four Star, a major communica-
tion link among employees; presented programs on
sexual harassment; and researched a proposed compre-
hensive brochure on the Smithsonian’s affirmative action
programs.
UNDER SEPARATE
BOARDS OF TRUSTEES

185
John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts

Ralph P. Davidson, Chairman

To citizens and government leaders in this country, visi-
tors from abroad, and members of the diplomatic com-
munity in the Nation’s Capital, the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts symbolizes our nation’s
commitment to the performing arts and its dedication to
the cultural enrichment of its people. The center gives
American accomplishments in the performing arts the na-
tional recognition they deserve by bringing programs
from all over the United States to its stages. Through its
presentations and its nationwide education programs, the
center gives millions of Americans a chance to learn
about and enjoy live performing arts. The center also
encourages young and lesser-known artists by giving
them opportunities to perform through national competi-
tions that provide them recognition.

Created by an act of Congress in 1958 as a self-sustain-
ing bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy
Center is both a presidential memorial under the aegis of
the Department of the Interior and a privately supported
performing arts center directed by a board of trustees.
Thirty citizen members of the board are appointed by the
President; six congressional representatives and nine des-
ignated ex officio representatives of the executive branch
complete the membership. This annual report covers the
activities and programming presented by the performing
arts center in its six theaters and around the nation
through its touring and education programs.

Roger L. Stevens, who served as chairman of the Ken-
nedy Center’s board of trustees from 1961 to 1988 and led
the center since it opened in 1971, retired this year to the
position of founding chairman. Ralph P. Davidson, who
had served as president and chief executive officer of the
Kennedy Center since February 1988, was elected chair-
man of the center by the board of trustees on August 4,
1988.

Performing Arts Programming

The 1987-88 season at the Kennedy Center was attended
by 1,470,785 people in the Opera House, Concert Hall,
Theater Lab, and Eisenhower and Terrace theaters. An-
other 158,611 people enjoyed free performances through
the Kennedy Center’s Education Program, Holiday Festi-
val, Cultural Diversity Festival, Kennedy Center Open
House Arts Festival, and other activities throughout the
year. Another 70,000 people attended the films presented
in the American Film Institute Theater.

In June the center presented the San Francisco Festival
at the Kennedy Center, the first in a proposed series of

186

regional festivals that will illuminate the unique aspects
of the performing arts that thrive in different regions of
the country. The festival consisted of four weeks of
drama, dance, music, film, sights, sounds, tastes, history,
and science exhibits from the City by the Bay. This was
also the year that the center launched its “Washington,
Front and Center!” series of performances, designed to
showcase the varied talents of Washington-area perform-
ing artists.

Drama and Musical Theater

By far the most unusual event of the season came cour-
tesy of the Kennedy Center San Francisco Festival, which
presented in the Opera House a sound and light show,
George Coates Performance Works’ Actual Sho. An eclec-
tic score, dances, scrims, and bizarre three-dimensional
slides and film projections were just a few of the elements
of this music-theater spectacle. The festival also gave
Washington a chance to see the work of two distin-
guished theater companies from the West Coast: the San
Francisco Mime Troupe, which performed its African spy
thriller with music, The Mozamgola Caper, and Theatre
Rhinoceros, which brought Ouisbies, the fourth in the
company’s cycle of AIDS dramas.

This was the year of the “extended-by-popular-de-
mand” shows. Lily Tomlin’s accolade-laden Search for
Signs of Intelligent Life in the Universe scored an unprec-
edented twenty-week run in the Eisenhower Theater, fol-
lowed closely by the return engagement of the musical,
Les Misérables, whose epic sixteen-week run matched its
grand theatrical scope. Shear Madness is still going
strong, now in its second year of Washington perform-
ances in the Theater Lab Cabaret.

The Eisenhower Theater also featured engagements of
the hip new musical, Mail, and two biographical offer-
ings—the British drama, Breaking the Code, with a bril-
liant performance by Derek Jacobi as Alan Turing,
and Sullivan & Gilbert, a comedy with music by Ken
Ludwig.

On the musical front there were Drood! and H.M.S.
Pinafore in the Opera House. The Terrace Theater
rounded out the season with the Acting Company’s Cu-
ban-flavored Much Ado about Nothing; Larry Shue’s re-
markable last play, Wenceslas Square; and two popular
productions from the Washington theater scene under the
umbrella of “Washington, Front and Center!”—GALA
Hispanic Theater’s Matatangos and Woolly Mammoth
Theatre Company’s Christmas on Mars.

Heidi Ryom and Palle Jacobsen in the Royal Danish Ballet’s production of Abdallah at the Kennedy Center Opera House.

(Photograph by Rigmar Mydtskov)

Dance

The 1987-88 season featured the long-awaited return en-
gagement of the Royal Danish Ballet and the Washington
debuts of the Royal Spanish National Ballet and the Jof-
frey Ballet’s new Nutcracker. The Danes, in their first
visit to Washington since 1982, brought two Bournonville
full-lengths—Napoli and Abdallab—while the Spaniards
presented a week of works that blended ballet and fla-
menco. The Joffrey’s Nutcracker, which enjoyed a two-
week, sold-out run, transplanted the beloved ballet to a

Victorian-American setting with winning results. Round-
ing out the ballet season were the Houston Ballet, the
New York City Ballet, the American Ballet Theatre, and
Dance Theatre of Harlem.

“Washington, Front and Center!” provided a showcase
at the Kennedy Center for nine Washington dance organ-
izations, while Dance America, sponsored jointly by the
Kennedy Center and the Washington Performing Arts So-
ciety, presented the best of modern dance, including en-
gagements by the Daniel West Dancers, the Erick
Hawkins Dance Company, the Mafata Dance Company,
and Nina Wiener and Dancers.

187
Music

The National Symphony Orchestra played in five coun-
tries during a three-week European tour. The orchestra
also performed for twenty-eight weeks in its home, the
Kennedy Center Concert Hall, and for a week at the an-
nual Casals Festival in Puerto Rico. Three holiday con-
certs on the lawn of the U.S. Capitol, a summer series at
Wolf Trap Farm Park, and an evening of American music
during the San Francisco Festival rounded out the orches-
tra’s season.

The Terrace Concerts—featuring piano and vocal reci-
tals, chamber ensembles and orchestra, the International
Series, the United States Information Agency’s Artistic
Ambassadors Series, and the Young Concert Artists
Series—presented a roster of international stars and up-
and-coming young artists. These included pianist Cole-
man Blumfield, the Guarneri String Quartet, three even-
ings of Music from Marlboro, a program devoted to the
music of American composer Ben Johnson, tenor Michael
Hume, and the Cleveland Octet.

The annual Kennedy Center Friedheim Award, de-
signed to recognize and encourage the creation of new
American music, was awarded to Christopher Rouse.

Theater Chamber Players of Kennedy Center, the Cho-
ral Arts Society and Oratorio Society of Washington, and
the Paul Hill Chorale returned for their annual concerts,
as did the Lincoln Center Mostly Mozart Festival. A mul-
titude of free events, many featuring performers from the
Washington metropolitan area, took place in conjunction
with the Holiday Festival in December and the Kennedy
Center Open House Arts Festival in the fall.

Kennedy Center Associate Organizations

Many events at the Kennedy Center are produced by the
center’s artistic associates: the American Film Institute,
which presents classic films, independent features, foreign
films, and contemporary video works in its 224-seat thea-
ter, and the Washington Opera, which this year pro-
duced its first Eisenhower Theater season—Ruddigore,
L'taliana in Algeri, The Consul, and the rarely seen
L’Amico Fritz. In addition, the Washington Performing
Arts Society presented musicians and dancers from around
the world in its diverse series.

Educational and Public Service Programming

As the national cultural center, the Kennedy Center has a
unique responsibility for advancing all the arts in the edu-

188

cation of the nation’s youth. In 1988 the Education De-
partment sponsored performances and other events that
reached more than 3.5 million people nationwide through
four programs: the Alliance for Arts Education, Ameri-
can College Theater Festival, National Symphony Or-
chestra Education Program, and Programs for Children
and Youth.

The Alliance for Arts Education is a national network
of volunteer committees in the states and special jurisdic-
tions that develop and promote the arts in high schools
and school districts. In 1988 two arts educators were
awarded Kennedy Center Fellowships for Teachers of the
Arts, and twenty-three school principals and superinten-
dents were cited for fostering the arts in their schools and
school districts. The inaugural Kennedy Center/ National
School Boards Association Award and four citations of
excellence were given to school boards for their support
of arts education. Approximately 200 arts education
professionals attended the biennial National Summit
Conference on the Arts in Education at the Kennedy Cen-
ter, at which artists Alwin Nikolais and Laurie Anderson
were featured speakers. The alliance also sponsored the
second phase of Arts Dialogue—Australia, a major cul-
tural exchange with Australia marking that country’s bi-
centennial in 1988. The alliance produced the
presentation and performance of twenty Presidential
Scholars in the Arts in the Concert Hall. More than a
million young people, families, and teachers participated
in Imagination Celebration, the Kennedy Center’s
national children’s arts festival.

The American College Theater Festival (ACTF) cele-
brated its twentieth anniversary in 1988—the second year
under major corporate sponsorship by the National
Broadcasting Company—as it continued to recognize and
promote the finest work produced in university and col-
lege theater programs. More than 17,000 students and
2,100 faculty members representing nearly 50 schools pre-
sented more than 700 college theater productions in 1988.
Sixty-four productions were student-written. Eighty-five
productions were mounted at twelve regional festivals.
Seven productions were brought to Washington for the
national festival at the Kennedy Center in April, along
with one invitational production from the University of
Evansville and one from Yale University in honor of
ACTF’s two decades. Audiences across the country to-
taled more than 800,000. ACTF also cosponsored nu-
merous awards programs in playwriting, design,
criticism, and acting.

The National Symphony Orchestra Education Program
continued to present concerts designed to help further the

Lily Tomlin in her record-breaking play, The Search for Signs
of Intelligent Life in the Universe, at the Kennedy Center Eisen-
hower Theater. (Photograph by Norman Seeff)

music education of students and adults in the Washing-
ton metropolitan area. The orchestra presented sixteen
Young People’s Concerts to more than 38,000 elementary
school students and two “Meet the Orchestra” concerts
for 4,113 secondary school students. For the general pub-
lic, there were four Encore Concerts for Families and the
Young Soloists’ Competitions for high school and college
musicians, with the finals presented as free concerts.
Programs for Children and Youth provided nearly 200
free or low-cost performances and events to audiences of

almost 74,000. By 1988 the program had commissioned
thirty-one new theater and music works for young peo-
ple. The programs also included classes in acting and per-
formance for approximately 750 Washington-area young
people. In addition, about 150 young people participated
in “Reaching the Write Minds” playwrighting workshops;
three original scripts were given staged readings as part
of the Kennedy Center Imagination Celebration 1988.

The Educational Services Division uses the performing
arts resources at the Kennedy Center as the basis for
workshops and other educational formats and events for
students, teachers, parents, and the general public. This
year more than 2,500 teachers, 2,200 other adults, and
4,200 high school students were direct participants in
these programs.

The Kennedy Center Education Department gave the
1988 Frances Holleman Breathitt Award for Excellence to
actor Richard Thomas in recognition of his contributions
to the arts and to young people.

The Kennedy Center carries out a broad range of cul-
tural diversity activities. These include the National Pro-
gram for Cultural Diversity, which encourages—through
its sponsorship of performances, commissions, work-
shops, conferences, internships, and advisory and techni-
cal services in arts administration—artistic activities that
reflect our nation’s cultural and ethnic variety. These
programs are supported by the U.S. Department of Edu-
cation and by private funds raised by the Kennedy Cen-
ter.

Subsidies from the Kennedy Center support many free
and low-priced performances and events that were en-
joyed in 1988 by more than a million people in Washing-
ton, D.C., and around the country. Since it opened in
September 1971, the Kennedy Center has maintained a
Specially Priced Ticket program in conjunction with per-
formances produced and presented at the center. The
largest of its kind in the nation, the program makes half-
price tickets available to students, persons with perma-
nent disabilities, senior citizens, low-income groups, and
certain military personnel. The Kennedy Center bears the
attendant costs.

In addition, 17,494 people visited and used the Per-
forming Arts Library, which is a joint project of the Ken-
nedy Center and the Library of Congress.

Funding

The Kennedy Center is unique in its operation as both a
performing arts center and a presidential memorial. The

189
National Park Service provides nearly $5 million in fund-
ing through annual appropriations to maintain and se-
cure the buildings as a presidential memorial; the
performing arts operation is charged its pro rata share of
such costs, which totals more than $1 million annually.
The Kennedy Center’s board of trustees is wholly respon-
sible for the cost of maintaining and improving the thea-
ters, backstage, and office facilities.

Artistic programming at the Kennedy Center and its
day-to-day performing arts operations are largely pri-
vately supported. The Kennedy Center also raises private
funds for its wide range of free or modestly priced educa-
tional and public service activities. The nation’s business
community has made important contributions through
the Corporate Fund, established in 1977 by a group of
national corporate leaders. Under the leadership of Cor-
porate Fund chairman John Creedon, chairman and chief
executive officer of Metropolitan Life Insurance, the 1988
Corporate Fund contributed more than $2.7 million from
nearly 300 corporations.

The Kennedy Center’s campaign to build a permanent
endowment to help achieve the financial stability needed
to sustain and increase the quality and variety of pro-
gramming continued in 1988. As a result of the center’s
1986 administrative affiliation with the National Sym-
phony Orchestra, a joint campaign is now under way to
build an endowment for the two institutions.

Kennedy Center Honors

The Kennedy Center Honors were first awarded by the
board of trustees in 1978 to recognize individuals who
have made outstanding cultural contributions to the na-
tion. The annual Honors Gala is the Kennedy Center’s
most important fund-raising benefit. The 1987 honored
artists were Perry Como, Bette Davis, Sammy Davis, Jr.,
Nathan Milstein, and Alwin Nikolais.

Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center provide financial, ad-
ministrative, volunteer, and community relations assis-
tance to the center. Founded in 1966 to raise grass roots
support among private citizens for the building of the
national cultural center, the organization counted more
than 35,000 donor members and 600 volunteers in 1988.
Revenues from the Friends membership program, fund-
raising events, and gift shops help to support the overall

190

operations of the center, as well as a number of national
and community projects. Friends-sponsored events this
year included the fourth annual Kennedy Center Open
House Arts Festival, a free, all-day festival of perform-
ances by some of the best artists in the Washington area.
The festival drew more than 65,000 people to the Ken-
nedy Center.

The Friends volunteers—who contributed more than
60,000 hours at an estimated value of a quarter of a
million dollars—conducted free tours for more than
200,000 people, staffed the gift shops and information
center, provided assistance to visitors with disabilities,
and administered the Specially Priced Ticket program.
The Friends also administered the membership and activi-
ties of the National Symphony Orchestra Association and
FANS (Friends Assisting the National Symphony), includ-
ing an annual Radiothon and 10-kilometer run. Although
the majority of Friends members are drawn from the
Washington area, there are members in all fifty states,
with Texas established as the first state chapter.
National Gallery of Art

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art, although formally estab-
lished as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an
autonomous and separately administered organization. It
is governed by its own board of trustees, the ex officio
members of which are the Chief Justice of the United
States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury, and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. Of
the five general trustees, Franklin D. Murphy continued
to serve as chairman of the board, with John R. Steven-
son as the gallery’s president. Also continuing on the
board were Ruth Carter Stevenson, Robert H. Smith,
and Alexander M. Laughlin. Paul Mellon is honorary
trustee and Carlisle H. Humelsine is trustee emeritus.
During the year, visitors entering both of the gallery
buildings numbered 7,173,926. Distinguished visitors
from other countries included Raisa Gorbachev, the wife
of the general secretary of the Soviet Union; King Carl
XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of Sweden; Vigdis Finnbo-
gadottir, president of Iceland; Mrs. Brian Mulroney, wife
of the prime minister of Canada; Josip Vrhovec, vice-
president of Yugoslavia; Tian Jiyum, vice-premier of the
State Council of the People’s Republic of China; and
Prince Richard, duke of Gloucester. The annual survey of
visitors seeking assistance at the information desks during
one week in August counted more than 3,500 visitors
from 48 states and more than 2,000 from 63 foreign
countries.

xhibitions

he first exhibition to open during the fiscal year was
devoted to the drawings, prints, and decorative arts of
the sixteenth-century Italian artist, Rosso Fiorentino,
who went to France in 1530 to become the prime painter
to King Francis I. The exhibition included twenty-five of
his finest surviving drawings and eighty prints, as well as
majolica, Limoges enamels, and tapestries after his com-
positions.
A retrospective exhibition of the works of American
artist Georgia O’Keeffe celebrated, a year after her death,
he rooth anniversary of her birth. Approximately r15 oil
aintings, watercolors, pastels, and drawings—abstrac-
ions, flower paintings, cityscapes, landscapes, and still
ifes—illustrated the most influential aspects of her work.
“An American Sampler: Folk Art from the Shelburne
useum” presented 121 works from America’s artistic
nd cultural heritage, selected from the vast holdings of
he Vermont museum. Included were decorative but use-

ful items such as quilts, hooked rugs, weather vanes and
whirligigs, decoys, carousel animals, and trade signs.

“The Human Figure in Early Greek Art” exhibited
sixty-seven marble, bronze, and terracotta works from
the Geometric period of the ninth century B.c., through
the Orientalizing and Archaic periods, to the early Classi-
cal period of the fifth century B.c.. Most of the works
had never before traveled outside Greece. The exhibition
explored the treatment of the human figure during the
formative stages of the Greek classicism that influenced
Western art for many centuries thereafter.

In honor of the state visit of Soviet General Secretary
and Mrs. Gorbachev, the gallery and the Hermitage Mu-
seum in Leningrad agreed to a temporary exchange of
paintings. The Hermitage lent its Titian Saint Sebastian
and the gallery will lend its Laocodn by El Greco for the
Hermitage’s 225th anniversary in 1989.

During seven weeks in April and May, five exhibitions
opened to the public presenting a wide range of subject
matter, from the baroque decorative arts in the Swedish
royal collections to the gaily patriotic “flag paintings” of
American impressionist Childe Hassam. An exhibition of
100 objects from 1550 to 1700, borrowed from the Swed-
ish government, was part of “New Sweden ’88,” a nation-
wide observance of the 350th anniversary of the first
permanent Swedish colony in North America. Included in
“Sweden: A Royal Treasury, 1550-1700” were jewels, ar-
mor, drawings, enamels, sculpture, and elaborate court
costumes.

The comprehensive exhibition, “The Art of Paul Gau-
guin,” presented 235 paintings, sculptures, and works on
paper, in addition to rarely seen ceramics, from the be-
ginning of the artist’s artistic career in France to its end at
his death in the Marquesas in the South Pacific. Sixty-one
paintings by the nineteenth-century American founder of
the luminist movement, Fitz Hugh Lane, provided an in-
teresting contrast in subject matter and style to those of
the French artist. Painted during the years 1844 to 1864,
most of the works showed the waterfronts, harbors, and
coastlines of New England from Massachusetts to Maine.
“The Flag Paintings of Childe Hassam” was the second in
a series of exhibitions concentrating on important aspects
of American impressionism. The artist used the theme of
the flag-decorated streets of New York City during
World War I, between 1916 and 1919, to explore elements
of composition, shape, color, and light.

“Masterworks from Munich,” a selection of sixty-two
paintings by major Italian, Flemish, Dutch, German,
Spanish, and French artists from the sixteenth through
the eighteenth centuries was generously lent by the Alte

191
Pinakothek in Munich, one of the greatest public collec-
tions in Europe. Included were important paintings by
Rubens, Rembrandt, Titian, Tintoretto, Van Dyck, Mu-
rillo, Velazquez, El Greco, Boucher, and Fragonard.

A number of smaller exhibitions during the year fea-
tured selections from the gallery’s collection of graphics.
“English Drawings and Watercolors, 1630-1850” included
works by British-born artists and works made in England
by foreigners. “Naive Visions” showed watercolor ren-
derings of decorative arts from the gallery’s Index of
American Design, along with toys from the Shelburne
Museum and several paintings from the collection of
works by American naive artists donated by Col. Edgar
William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch. “Drawings on
Stone: Early European Lithography” showed examples of
this process from its invention in 1796—98 to the 1820s
and 1830s. An exhibition of eighty fifteenth- and six-
teenth-century Italian Renaissance drawings included
some of the finest and earliest sheets in the permanent
collection by such artists as Mantegna, Leonardo, Peru-
gino, Tintoretto, and the Carracci.

A highlight of the year was the reinstallation of the
gallery’s twentieth-century collection in the East Building,
for the tenth anniversary of the opening of the building.
The installation covers almost 30,000 square feet and in-
cludes a number of loans from private collections.

Education Programs

The department of public programs in the education divi-
sion presented five minicourses in conjunction with the
exhibitions of Greek sculpture, sculpture from the Patsy
and Raymond Nasher Collection (an exhibition that
opened in fiscal year 1987), the works from the Alte Pi-
nakothek in Munich, folk art from the Shelburne Mu-
seum, and Gauguin. The department also produced
interpretive materials and introductory brochures for
three exhibitions of the works of George Catlin being
circulated by the newly inaugurated loan exhibition pro-
gram of the gallery’s National Lending Service. During
the year the department was actively involved with the
Museum Education Consortium’s interactive videodisc
project, working with the staffs of the Museum of Mod-
ern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Philadel-
phia Museum of Art, the Art Institute of Chicago, the
Brooklyn Museum, and the Museum of Fine Arts, Bos-
ton, to explore uses of computer technology as a visual
and textual resource in the classroom.

The academic programs section of the public programs

192

department administers the regular Sunday lecture series.
This year the section also offered three special Sunday
programs in conjunction with exhibitions. “Conversa-
tions with Artists, Part IV” presented sculptors George
Segal and Scott Burton discussing their work, examples
of which were on view in the Nasher collection. In a
program during the O’Keeffe exhibition, National Mu-
seum of American Art director Charles Eldredge lectured,
research curator Sarah Greenough discussed O’Keeffe’s
letters, and film footage of the artist at her ranch in New
Mexico was shown. During the Gauguin exhibition, a
program explored the artist’s years in Brittany and in-
cluded talks by Bogmila Welsh-Ovcharov and Robert
Welsh. Also in 1988, two new annual graduate lecturing
fellowships were established.

The special exhibition projects section prepared intro-
ductory brochures, recorded tours, and audiovisual pro-
grams for the temporary exhibitions and worked with the
curators to prepare wall texts. These materials are some-
times the key to increasing the visitor’s understanding of
the contents of the more popular exhibitions, where large
crowds make guided tours impractical. Many of these
programs continue on with the exhibitions to their other
venues.

The new teacher and school programs section of the
department combined the former young people’s pro-
grams and volunteer docent training program. In plan-
ning for expanded services to the schools, the section
surveyed area curriculum supervisors to seek their ideas
and opinions. A new program on the Middle Ages in-
cluded a film based on the book Castles, by David Ma-
caulay, and a tour of paintings, sculpture, objects, and
furniture relating to the period. A new type of teacher
packet, consisting of a classroom display of photographs
and captions, background material, and a bibliography,
was prepared for the Shelburne exhibition. In collabora-
tion with the Washington Cathedral, a program for jun-
ior high and high school students was planned with social
studies curriculum specialists from the Washington,
D.C., public schools. The section also worked with the
Prince George’s County, Maryland, traditional magnet
school to bring sixth-, seventh-, and eighth-grade stu-
dents to the gallery for tours and workshops on mythol-
ogy, medieval life, and the Renaissance.

The Saturday morning family programs continued to
be popular and were extended through the summer. A
film on the pentathlon was shown in conjunction with a
visit to the Greek exhibition, and a look at twentieth-
century sculpture was combined with a workshop in
which families created their own three-dimensional
asks. A highlight of the program was a performance by
ordon Hawkins, a member of the Affiliate Artist Pro-
ram sponsored by the Washington Opera Guild, who
alked with parents and children about his life in the
pera.

William Merritt Chase at Shinnecock, a film produced
in 1987 by the department of extension programs, was
warded a 1988 CINE Golden Eagle. The department
Iso produced a series of films on the historical back-
rounds of modern painting designed to support second-
ry school curricula.

cquisitions

ew acquisitions in 1988 spanned the range of the gal-
ery’s collections. A portrait by seventeenth-century

ritish artist Gerard Soest was bequeathed to the gallery,
ugmenting the small collection of British works of this
eriod. The Collectors Committee purchased two impor-
ant paintings for the twentieth-century collection. The
uman Condition, 1933, is one of the earliest and best
nown of René Magritte’s window paintings and one of
he key monuments of surrealism. A Russian constructiv-
ist work painted in 1919 by Alexander Rodchenko is the
irst by that artist to enter the collection. American artist
eorgia O'Keeffe, who died in 1987 at the age of ninety-
ine, bequeathed eight major paintings done over thirty-
ix years of her career. Included were an early mono-
hrome abstraction, a small still life of a spiraling snail
hell, a large painting from a series inspired by the view
of the sky and distant horizon seen from an airplane, and
ne of her most important series, five paintings of a jack-
in-the-pulpit.

A draped female figure done in the 1920s by American
culptor Daniel Chester French joined the collection of
mall bronze sculptures. The medals collection was en-
anced by a purchase at auction of six fine Renaissance
edals, including the unique medal of Claudius by the
lorentine Beltrame Belfradelli, called Varro, an assistant
f Filarete on the great bronze doors of St. Peter’s in
ome. Previously unpublished before the 1988 sale cata-
ogue, the medal is a key to the understanding of the
edallist of the Roman Emperors (often identified as Fi-
arete); the gallery owns an important group of the med-
llist’s works.

Among the additions to the graphics collection were
hree outstanding British watercolors. An enchanting
cene of Skaters on the Serpentine in Hyde Park is per-
aps the finest work by Julius Caesar Ibbetson; a haunt-

ing, delicately shaded Monte Circeo at Sunset, by John
Robert Cozens, is still on the artist’s original mount; and
a fresh and lively Sandby contains a long inscription by
the artist telling the story of the watercolor.

Outstanding among the other drawings added to the
collection during the year were a characteristically ener-
getic Parmigianino chalk drawing of Mercury; a sheet of
ink sketches by Bonnard, including a promenade of
women in fancy hats; a pre-Raphaelite work by Dante
Gabriel Rossetti, a mysteriously moving portrait of Jane
Morris reclining on a sofa; a Redouté watercolor, height-
ened with gold on vellum, of a bouquet of flowers with
insects; and a pastel landscape by Roussel that is a study
for a color lithograph already in the collection. Also re-
ceived were an extraordinary calligraphic manuscript,
heightened with gold, by Valerio Spada, which was pre-
sented in 1653 to the Archduke Ferdinand Karl of Austria-
Tyrol; an evocative red chalk pastoral scene by Piazzetta;
a large biblical drawing by Giovannia Domenico Tiepolo;
a red chalk head of a young woman by Greuze; and a
large, romantic view of towers along the Rhine by Karl
Bodmer. Finally, efforts to find later German drawings
produced several, including a humorous Klee “portrait”
of five dogs.

Purchases of prints included an impression of Goltz-
ius’s Great Hercules and a large ceiling design of Venus
Entrusting Cupid to Time, by Domenico Tiepolo.

Among the outstanding gifts of prints were a monu-
mental early woodcut by Kirchner, as well as his dynamic
1913 drypoint of a circus acrobat on a horse. Eighteen
Whistler etchings and fifty-nine early twentieth-century
American works, as well as twenty-six English drawings,
were included in a large bequest. The Graphicstudio of
the University of South Florida continued to add contem-
porary prints to their archives at the gallery. Among
them were works in a variety of media by Chuck Close,
Jim Dine, Robert Mapplethorpe, Philip Pearlstein, James
Rosenquist, and Alfred Leslie.

Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts

During its eighth year, the Center for Advanced Study in
the Visual Arts continued its programs of fellowships,
meetings, publications, and research. There were six sen-
ior fellows, thirteen visiting senior fellows, two associ-
ates, and eleven predoctoral fellows for the 1987-88
academic year. The center convened series of seminars,
symposia, colloquia, and lectures on various themes in
the history, theory, and criticism of art, architecture, and

193
urbanism. “The Mall in Washington, 1791-1991” was a
symposium that looked at the history of architecture and
landscape architecture of the National Mall. Other sym-
posia included “Urban Form and Meaning in South Asia:
A Shaping of Cities from Prehistoric to Precolonial
Times”; “New Perspectives in Early Greek Art”; and
“Nationalism in the Arts.”

There was a series of seminars devoted to “Italian Ar-
chitecture in the Overseas Colonies”; “Psychoanalysis and
Art History”; and “Cinema Studies, Artistic Practice, and
Art History.” Ten colloquia were presented to resident
senior fellows over the year. The center also sponsored
seven lectures by distinguished art historians, including
Spiro Kostof (College of Environmental Design, Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley), Frederick Hartt (University
of Virginia), Irving Lavin (School of Historical Studies,
Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University), Gert
Schiff (Institute of Fine Arts, New York University), and
David Bordwell (University of Wisconsin, Madison).
Prince Richard, duke of Gloucester, spoke on the conser-
vation of historic buildings and monuments in Britain.

As part of the publications program, this year saw the
appearance of Center 7, the annual record of the schol-
arly events and research of the preceding year, and Spon-
sored Research in the History of Art, 1986-1987 and
1987-1988, a directory of art history research projects
supported by granting institutions in the United States
and abroad. Publication of the proceedings of center
symposia in the gallery’s Studies in the History of Art
continued with volumes 19 and 21, James McNeill Whis-
tler: A Reexamination and Italian Metals.

As another ongoing activity, the center developed rela-
tions with other scholarly institutions and strengthened
communication with kindred organizations, both locally
and nationally, through periodic meetings of the Associa-
tion of Research Institutes in Art History, the Washing-
ton Collegium for the Humanities, and the Consortium
of Washington Area Universities.

Library

With the library’s acquisition of the Virginia Tech Li-
brary System, the gallery became the first art museum in
the country to install a fully integrated, automated li-
brary system. Nine years of on-line cataloguing—repre-
senting approximately 60,000 titles—were transferred
into the new system, and the availability of the forty-two
terminals strategically located throughout the East Build-
ing will eventually eliminate the need for a labor-inten-
sive central card catalogue.

194

Special Exhibitions

“A Century of Modern Sculpture: The Patsy and Ray-
mond Nasher Collection.” Continued from the previous
fiscal year to February 15, 1988. Coordinated by Nan Ro-
senthal. Supported by Northern Telecom.

“William Merritt Chase: Summers at Shinnecock, 1891—
1902.” Continued from the previous fiscal year to No-
vember 29, 1987. Coordinated by Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr.
Supported by Bell Atlantic.

“Berthe Morisot—Impressionist.” Continued from the
previous fiscal year to November 29, 1987. Coordinated
by Charles F. Stuckey. Supported by Republic National
Bank of New York and Banco Safra, S.A., Brazil, and
the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Le Repos” (Portrait of Berthe Morisot). Continued from
the previous fiscal year to November 29, 1987. Coordi-
nated by Charles F. Stuckey.

“Rosso Fiorentino,” Drawings, Prints, and Decorative
Arts. October 25, 1987, to January 3, 1988. Coordinated
by H. Diane Russell. Supported by the Federal Council
on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Georgia O’Keeffe, 1887-1986.” November 1, 1987, to
February 21, 1988. Coordinated by Jack Cowart. Sup-
ported by Southwestern Bell Foundation.

“The Armand Hammer Collection: Eighteenth-Century
Drawings.” November 1, 1987, to April 17, 1988. Coordi-
nated by Andrew Robison.

“An American Sampler: Folk Art from the Shelburne Mu-
seum.” November 15, 1987, to April 14, 1988. Coordi-
nated by Deborah Chotner. Supported by The New
England.

“Master Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collec-
tion.” November 22, 1987, to June 5, 1988. Coordinated
by Margaret Grasselli.

On Loan from the U.S.S.R.: Titian’s “St. Sebastian.” De-
cember 6, 1987, to February 15, 1988. Coordinated by
Sydney J. Freedberg. Supported by the Federal Council
on the Arts and the Humanities.

“English Drawings and Watercolors, 1630-1850.” Decem-
ber 13, 1987, to March 13, 1988. Coordinated by Andrew
Robison.

“Naive Visions: Antique Toys from the Shelburne Mu-
seum.” December 20, 1987, to April 10, 1988. Coordi-
nated by Laurie Weitzenkorn.

“The Human Figure in Early Greek Art.” January 31 to
June 12, 1988. Coordinated by D. Dodge Thompson.
Supported by the Federal Council on the Arts and the
Humanities.

“Sweden: A Royal Treasury, 1550-1700.” April 12 to Sep-
tember 5, 1988. Coordinated by D. Dodge Thompson.
Supported by The Boeing Company, the Federation of
Swedish Industries, the Swedish Government, and the
Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Gauguin Drawings from the Armand Hammer Collec-
tion.” May 1 to October 23, 1988. Coordinated by Judith
Brodie.

“The Art of Paul Gauguin.” May 1 to July 31, 1988. Co-
ordinated by Charles S$. Moffett. Supported by AT&T
and the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“The Flag Paintings of Childe Hassam.” May 8 to July
17, 1988. Coordinated by Deborah Chotner. Supported
by Bell Atlantic.

“Paintings by Fitz Hugh Lane.” May 15 to September 8,
1988. Coordinated by John Wilmerding. Supported by
GTE Corporation.

“Masterworks from Munich: r6th- to 18th-Century Paint-
ings from the Alte Pinakothek.” May 29 to Sepember 5,
1988. Coordinated by Beverly Louise Brown. Supported
by the German-American Cultural Fund, Inc., Lufthansa
German Airlines, and the Federal Council on the Arts
and the Humanities.

“Drawings on Stone: Early European Lithography.” June
12 to September 4, 1988. Coordinated by Carlotta
Owens. Supported by Maxwell Communication
Corporation.

“Master Prints: Selections from the Permanent Collec-
tion.” June 26 to December 31, 1988. Coordinated by
Margaret Grasselli.

“Italian Renaissance Drawings.” September 18 to Decem-
ber 31, 1988. Coordinated by Diane De Grazia.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, Chairman
Ruth Graves, President

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) was the inspiration
of the late Margaret McNamara and a group of parents
in inner-city Washington, D.C. Their goal when they
started the first RIF project in 1966 was to enrich chil-
dren’s lives and motivate them to read by allowing them
to choose and keep books they liked. For citizens who
wanted to help children become readers, the RIF ap-
proach hit a responsive chord. Today RIF is a national,
nonprofit literacy organization affiliated with the Smith-
sonian and supported by corporations, foundations, pri-
vate citizens, and a federal contract. After more than two
decades, the program has expanded into a nationwide
network of grass roots projects in all fifty states, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and
Guam. During that time, RIF has put more than eighty-
five million books into the hands of young people.

RIF projects can be found in more than 10,000 loca-
tions, including schools, libraries, community centers,
housing projects, migrant labor camps, Indian reserva-
tions, and hospitals. Comments from school administra-
tors, teachers, parents, and others indicate that, as a
result of RIF, young people are reading more, their read-
ing skills have been strengthened, and their attitudes to-
ward reading have improved. Also frequently cited are
increased library circulation and greater parent involve-
ment in the children’s reading and education. In addition
to motivating young people to read, RIF offers work-
shops and publications to help parents encourage reading
in the home.

1988 Highlights

This year a grant from the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation enabled RIF to establish eight
model programs to involve at-risk families in encouraging
their children to read. Participating in the program are
low-income Hispanic families in Washington, D.C., Al-
buquerque, New Mexico, and Chicago; teenaged moth-
ers in Albuquerque and on Chicago’s West Side; parents
who work in textile mills in Surry County, North Caro-
lina; and disadvantaged families in Bryan, Texas. RIF
also joined the California Human Development Corpora-
tion and its nonprofit radio station in Salinas, California,
in inaugurating a literacy radio broadcast in Spanish and
English, reaching an estimated 133,000 listeners—many
of them seasonal farm workers—in Monterey and Santa
Cruz Counties.

Concern over illiteracy has prompted a number of
businesses to support RIF’s work. Among the many bene-

195
NO
WON?
SOLINES y

Youngsters and their books at a Reading Is Fundamental distribution in Arlington, Virginia. (Photograph by Rick Reinhard)

fit programs for RIF is a Golf and Tennis Tournament
sponsored by Waldenbooks each September. The tourna-
ment attracts widespread participation and support from
the book industry. Waldenbooks also arranged with
Muppets creator Jim Henson to produce a poster to be
sold in Waldenbooks stores; the proceeds will go to RIF.

For the third consecutive year, RIF was the beneficiary
of a Clorox Company storewide promotion. This year
the Jimmy Dean Meat Company announced a similar
promotion called “Help Jimmy Dean and RIF Give Books
to Kids.” National ad campaigns are slated for both pro-
motions.

196

In the four years since RIF started its Parent Services
program, RIF has conducted thirty-one “Growing Up
Reading” workshops for parents in cities nationwide.
This year more than 1,300 parents took part in sessions
covering a wide range of topics related to family reading.
This series of workshops was underwritten by the Gen-
eral Electric Foundation and cosponsored by RIF projects
in West Harlem, New York; St. Louis, Missouri; New
Haven, Connecticut; Salt Lake City, Utah; Alexandria,
Louisiana; and Pittsfield, Massachusetts.

Once again, hundreds of thousands of youngsters
across the country participated in RIF’s annual “In Cele-

bration of Reading” program, a campaign sponsored by
the Metropolitan Life Foundation to encourage reading
in the home. Through leisure-time reading, youngsters
became eligible to enter a drawing to become “National
RIF Reader.” Both the RIF Reader and the winner of
RIF’s annual poster contest, sponsored for the third con-
secutive year by Hallmark, Inc., were awarded prizes and
honored at a ceremony at the National Zoo.

Of all the reading events in which RIF has been in-
volved, none has equaled the Summer of the Readasaurus
in the breadth of its reach. This campaign to spur sum-
mertime reading was kicked off on May 3 at the National
Zoo in a ceremony covered live on ABC’s “Good Morn-
ing America.” The program centered around a mythical
dinosaur egg “discovered” on the North Slope of Alaska
on April Fool’s Day by two “paleontologists,” Drs.
Schmidt and Zonian. Children were urged to read during
the summer months so that the Readasaurus twins inhab-
iting the egg would thrive. As a further incentive, youngs-
ters aged five to twelve who read three books could enter
their names in a drawing. Prizes included an IBM Writing
to Read laboratory for the winner’s school, a personal
computer for the child, books and encyclopedia sets, and
a trip to Washington.

The Summer of the Readasaurus was presented by RIF
and ABC/PBS “Youth PLUS,” administered by Read
America/ Win America, and sponsored by IBM Writing
to Read. Program partners included the Smithsonian In-
stitution, the U.S. Postal Service, the Center for the Book
at the Library of Congress, and a number of organiza-
tions and businesses.

Barron’s Educational Series, in partnership with Read-
ing Is Fundamental, sponsored a scholarship competition
this year for RIF youngsters in grades 6 through 12. The
program was launched on April 27 with a “RIFnic” held
at Hofstra University in Hempstead, New York, for RIF
children from the Bronx, Queens, and Long Island. Two
winners, chosen in a random drawing, each received a
$10,000 college scholarship.

The Orlando Sentinel joined forces with RIF to launch
Reading Roundup, a campaign described by RIF chair-
man Mrs. Elliot Richardson as “the single largest effort
by a newspaper to bring RIF books and reading to
youngsters.” The roundup serves more than 20,000 cen-
tral Florida fifth graders, who are at a critical age for
reinforcing interest in reading.

In September 1988 RIF joined community leaders and
literacy groups in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in initiating
“City of Readers,” a year-long literacy program receiving
financial support from the General Electric Foundation.

RIF president Ruth Graves commented on the program’s
goals: “With many smokestack industries in the area be-
ing replaced by high-tech manufacturing, a community-
wide reading initiative has practical appeal. ‘City of
Readers’ can be a way to promote Chattanooga’s com-
mitment to education and at the same time address the
long-term need of business and industry for a literate
work force.” :

In 1988 RIF added several new titles to its list of
publications, including Magazines and Family Reading,
the eighth in the series of “Parent Guide” brochures.

RIF also produced a new technical assistance manual for
RIF volunteers. The acclaimed RIF Guide to Encouraging
Young Readers, published by Doubleday in 1987, was
issued as a Book-of-the-Month Club members’ premium.

197
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

Charles Blitzer, Director

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
is a presidential memorial that fosters scholarship and
dialogue in the humanities and the social sciences. By
bringing fellows from around the world to Washington,
D.C. encouraging discourse among disciplines and
professions, and publishing the results of these activities,
the center enriches the quality of knowledge and debate
in the Nation’s capital and throughout the world.

The Wilson Center, established by legislation within
the Smithsonian Institution, has an independent board of
trustees and administration. The board is composed of
citizen members, appointed by the President; seven gov-
ernment officials who serve by statute; and an additional
representative from government appointed by the Presi-
dent. William Baroody, Jr., serves as chairman of the
board and Robert Mosbacher as vice chairman. Don W.
Wilson joined the board this year as a government repre-
sentative after his appointment as Archivist of the United
States.

When James Baker submitted his resignation as Secre-
tary of the Treasury this year, the Wilson Center’s board
lost a valued and distinguished member. Mr. Baker had
served for eleven years, first as a private citizen and,
most recently, as the member from government desig-
nated by the President. The value of his advice and lead-
ership will long enrich the center.

The Wilson Council, a group of private citizens who
advise and support the center, provided extraordinary
service during the year. Thanks in large part to the gener-
osity and hard work of council members, the center was
able to match successfully a special endowment challenge
from the Congress. Council members also continued to
assist in the development of the center’s Patrons Program.

Two distinguished leaders departed the center this
year. James Billington, director for fourteen years, be-
came Librarian of Congress just before the year began.
Prosser Gifford, deputy director, served as acting director
for much of the year and went on administrative leave in
the spring.

In March the board of trustees announced the appoint-
ment of Charles Blitzer as director of the Wilson Center.
Dr. Blitzer, director of the National Humanities Center
from 1983 to 1988 and assistant secretary for history and
art at the Smithsonian from 1968 to 1983, assumed his
new duties on June 1. He appointed Samuel F. Wells, Jr.,
as deputy director and Jon E. Yellin as associate director.

198

Fellows

At the heart of the Wilson Center enterprise are the Fel-
lows, who are selected through an annual international
competition. They bring to Washington fresh insights on
the historical, cultural, and political issues they are study-
ing. This year seventy-one fellows and guest scholars
from twenty-six countries were in residence at the Wilson
Center for varying periods.

Fellows select their own research projects. Among the
subjects studied this year were the imagination of chaos;
taxation and social choice in the United States; the char-
acter of Ivan the Terrible; and legitimacy and the prob-
lems of representation and democracy in Latin America.
Other projects included studies of Islamic fundamental-
ism in Asia; Israel’s competing grand strategies; national
identity and state power in modern Romania; and histor-
ical ethnography in European family life since 1800
through the study of festivals and special occasions.

Programs and Meetings

Each Fellow and Guest Scholar is associated with one of
the center’s eight programs—American Society and Poli-
tics; Asian; East European; History, Culture, and Soci-
ety; International Security Studies; Kennan Institute for
Advanced Russian Studies; Latin American; and West
European. The programs provide the structure for the
center’s active schedule of meetings. These gatherings
might be informal lunchtime discussions of a Fellow’s re-
search, dinner sessions with formal presentations and in-
formal dialogue, or major international conferences. All
of the gatherings are distinguished by the tradition of
bringing together people who differ in discipline, profes-
sion, and nationality, but who share an interest in a
subject and in having their views challenged in often-
vigorous debate.

The programs of the Wilson Center sponsored several
major conferences during the year. These ranged from a
meeting on “Collections and Culture: Museums and the
Development of American Life and Thought” to “Human
Rights in Cross-Cultural Perspective,” “The Gorbachev
Reform Program: Its Impact on Soviet and East Euro-
pean Policies,” and “Italy: Political, Social, and Economic
Change Since 1945.” Other meetings included “Ideology

and Self-Image: East European Intellectuals and the Pres-
ent and Post-War Crises,” “Defining Industrial Democ-
racy: Work Relations in zoth Century America,”
“Democratizing Economics in Latin America,” and “Per-
spectives on the American Study of Contemporary
China.”

Members of Congress drew on the expertise of Wilson
Center staff and fellows during the 1988 “Congressional
Breakfast” briefings and discussions. By sponsoring meet-
ings at the Capitol with key senators and representatives
and their staffs, the center aims to place contemporary
policy issues within a larger historical and cultural frame-
work. The year’s meetings addressed Islamic fundamen-
talism in Africa, prospects for Soviet economic and
cultural reforms, and Greek and Turkish relations within
the NATO alliance.

Publishing and Outreach

The center’s publishing office, launched last year, con-
ducted a full program in 1988. Through numerous
publications, the results of meetings at the center were
made available to a broad public. Published works in
1988 included four books from the Wilson Center Press
that proved especially timely and relevant in the world of
international relations: Haiti’s Future: Views of Twelve
Haitian Leaders; Solidarity and Poland: Impacts East and
West; Yugoslavia: A Fractured Federalism; and Burma: A
Study Guide. A fifth title, in press as the fiscal year
closed, was American Media: The Wilson Quarterly
Reader, which offers valuable insights into the ways the
“fourth estate” affects our lives.

Research conducted by former scholars at the center
-esulted in the publication of several books this year.
These included Highbrow/Lowbrow: The Emergence of
Cultural Hierarchy in America, by Lawrence Levine
Harvard University Press); Threshold of War: Franklin
D. Roosevelt and American Entry into World War II, by
Waldo Heinrichs (Oxford University Press); Songs of the
Saints of India, translated by Mark Juergensmeyer, co-
ranslated with J. W. Hawley (Oxford University Press);
nd The Limited Partnership: Europe, the United States,
nd the Burdens of Alliance, by Josef Joffe (Ballinger
ublishing Company).

The Wilson Quarterly, in its twelfth year, combines a

scholarly approach with an editorial format aimed at a
general audience. Aided by the resources available at the
Wilson Center, the WQ explored a variety of topics,
ranging from Nicaragua to social mobility to the evolu-
tion of American music. This year, for the first time,
Wilson Quarterly subscribers became members of the
Wilson Center Associates. Membership benefits include
certain Wilson Center publications and conference re-
ports, as well as benefits from the Smithsonian.

199
SMITHSONIAN

BOARD OF REGENTS

re ce eae SECRETARIAT* — THE SECRETARY*
ae aria Office of ———————— UNDER SECRETARY*
National Gallery of Art AUDITS AND
INVESTIGATIONS

|

|

|

|

|

|

Woodrow Wilson |
International Center |
for Scholars |
|

|

—l)

Reading Is Fundamental

TREASURER* GENERAL COUNSEL*
Business Management Office
Concessions
Mail Order Division
Office of Product Licensing
Smithsonian Museum Shops
Contracts Office
Office of Accounting and
Financial Services
Office of Financial Management
and Planning
Office of Risk Management

Assistant Secretary for Assistant Secretary for

RESEARCH* MUSEUMS*

International Environmental Science Anacostia Museum** National Portrait Gallery*
Program Archives of American Art** Office of Exhibits Central

Joseph Henry Papers Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Office of Horticulture

National Zoological Park** Freer Gallery of Art** Office of Museum Progran

Office of American Studies Conservation Analytical Laboratory ** Office of the Registrar

Office of Fellowships and Grants Cooper-Hewitt Museum* * Smithonian Institution Tra

Office of Quincentenary Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden** Exhibition Service
Programs International Gallery

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory National Air and Space Museum **

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center National Museum of African Art**

Smithsonian Institution Archives National Museum of American Art

Smithsonian Institution Libraries Renwick Gallery **

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute National Museum of American History **

National Museum of Natural History/
National Museum of Man**
Museum Support Center**

*Secretary's Management Committee

**The assistant secretaries for research and museums collaborate in the
oversight of scholarly and presentational activities in these bureaus and offices

July 1988

200
INSTITUTION

Advisory Council on Education

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Visiting Committee

Board of Fellowships and Grants
Committee for a Wider Audience

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Advisory Council

Cultural Education Committee

Folklife Advisory Council

Freer Visiting Committee

BOARD AND COMMISSIONS

Hirshhorn Museum and National Museum of American Art
Sculpture Garden Commission
Board of Trustees

National Portrait Gallery
Horticultural Advisory Committee | Commission

Smithsonian Council
Joint Sponsoring Committee for
the Papers of Joseph Henry Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates
National Air and Space Museum
Advisory Board

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

National Museum of African Art
Commission

Assistant Secretary for

ADMINISTRATION*
Management Analysis Office Office of Information Resource
Office of Congressional Liaison* Management
Office of Equal Opportunity Office of Personnel Administration
Office of Facilities Services Office of Printing and Photographic
Office of Architectural History Services

and Historic Preservation Office of Procurement and
Office of Design and Construction Property Management

Office of Environmental Management Office of Programming and Budget

and Safety

Travel Services Office

Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SERVICE*

National Demonstration Laboratory for
Interactive Educational Technologies
National Science Resources Center
Office of the Committee for a
Wider Audience
Office of Conference Services
Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education
Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies
Office of Public Affairs
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
_ Air and Space Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

Assistant Secretary for
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS*

Office of Membership and Development*
Institutional Advancement*
Office of International
Relations
Office of Special Events
Smithsonian National Associate
Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program

201
Cover: Detail of a Chilkat tunic of the Tlingit people, on view
in the exhibition Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia
and Alaska. (Photograph by Staff, Office of Printing and Photo-
graphic Services)

Frontispiece: Jalalu-Kalvert Nelson performs at a free concert

in the Cooper-Hewitt’s Carnegie Garden, June 21, 1988, organ-
ized in conjunction with Artists and Audiences Program of the

New York Foundation for the Arts.

(Photograph by Susan Yelavich)

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents,

U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
(paper cover)

Stock number: 047-000-00405-5

202

_
1.1:989
nithsonian Year, 1989...

Smithsonian Year 1989

SUPERENTEROET GSAS
DEPGSITORY

er & JUN? 999

Dit ole =! Vig pee
ponte Ne T eae ODER ay, ERT j

—
resoanettine asoane

om

Ride

re
Smithsonian Year 1989

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year Ended September 30, 1989

Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C. 1990
Young museumgoers experiment with a mirror kaleidoscope that is part of the SITES traveling
exhibition, “Kaleidoscopes: Reflections of Science and Art.” (Photograph by Robert Jordan)
Contents

Smithsonian Institution 7
Statement by the Secretary 9
Report of the Board of Regents 32
Benefactors 34
Financial Report 41

Research
International Center 68
Joseph Henry Papers 71
National Zoological Park 72
Office of American Studies 76
Office of Fellowships and Grants 77
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 79
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center 84
Smithsonian Institution Archives 86
Smithsonian Institution Libraries 90
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute 93

Museums
Anacostia Museum 100
Archives of American Art 102
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 103
Conservation Analytical Laboratory 105
Cooper-Hewitt Museum 107
Freer Gallery of Art 111
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 112
National Airand Space Museum 114
National Museum of African Art 118
National Museum of American Art 122
National Museum of American History 125
National Museum of Natural History/National Museum
of Man 131
National Portrait Gallery 135
Office of Exhibits Central 138
Office of Horticulture 139
Office of Museum Programs 140
Office of the Registrar 141
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service 141

Public Service
National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies 146
National Science Resources Center 146
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 147
Office of Folklife Programs 148
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies 151
Office of Public Affairs 153

Office of Telecommunications 154

Smithsonian Institution Press 156

Smithsonian Internship Council 158

Smithsonian Magazine 158

“Smithsonian World” 159

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
University of the Air 161

External Affairs

Office of Membership and Development 164
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program 168
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 171
Office of Special Events 176

Office of Congressional Liaison 176

Administration

Administrative and Support Activities 178
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council 181

Under Separate Boards of Trustees
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 184

National Gallery of Art 188
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 194
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

Organization Chart 198

160

167

196

wna
Smithsonian Year 1989 Supplement, containing the Chronology and Appendixes
1-8, is published in a microfiche edition of photomechanically reproduced
typescript provided by the individual bureaus and offices of the Smithsonian
Institution. The appendix contents are as follows:

Appendix 1. Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards, and Commissions
Appendix 2. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums

Appendix 3. Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments
Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press

Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution

Appendix 6. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries (staff lists)
Appendix 7. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution

Appendix 8. Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Institution

Please address requests for copies of the microfiche edition of the Supplement to
Alan Burchell, Production Coordinator

Smithsonian Institution Press

470 L’Enfant Plaza, Suite 7100

Washington, D.C. 205 60/202-287-3738.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Con-
gress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of
James Smithson of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his
property to the United States of America “to found at
Washington, under the name of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and
accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution
in an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the
President, the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the
heads of the executive departments, and vested responsi-
bility for administering the trust in the Smithsonian
Board of Regents.

The Establishment,
September 30, 1989

George H. W. Bush, President of the United States

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United States

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States

James A. Baker III, Secretary of State

Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury

Richard B. Cheney, Secretary of Defense

Richard L. Thornburgh, Attorney General

Manuel Lujan Jr., Secretary of the Interior

Clayton K. Yeutter, Secretary of Agriculture

Robert A. Mosbacher, Secretary of Commerce

Elizabeth H. Dole, Secretary of Labor

Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services

Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development

Samuel K. Skinner, Secretary of Transportation

Lauro Cavazos, Secretary of Education

James D. Watkins, Secretary of Energy

Edward J. Derwinski, Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Board of Regents and
Secretary
September 30, 1989

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United States,
ex officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Jamie L. Whitten, Representative from Mississippi

David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey

Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Citizen of Pennsylvania

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Barnabas McHenry, Citizen of New York

The Secretary
Robert McCormick Adams

Dean W. Anderson, Under Secretary
Milo C. Beach, Chairman, Council of Bureau Directors
Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives
Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums
Margaret C. Gaynor, Congressional Liaison
James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for Research
John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Ann R. Leven, Treasurer
Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
Marie Mattson, Special Assistant to the Secretary
Thomas McCance, Jr., Director of Membership
and Development
William W. Moss, Chairman, Council of Information and
Education Directors
Peter G. Powers, General Counsel
Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

Statement by the Secretary

Robert McC. Adams

In a narrowly budgetary sense, these are unquestionably
difficult and uncertain times for the Smithsonian. The main-
tenance of what is called a “current services” budget—
freezing growth in most respects, while accommodating
some but not all of our unavoidable increases in costs—is
about the best the Institution can look forward to for several
years ahead. Planning, meanwhile, is hampered by divergent
assumptions about the trends of future federal budgets, not
only between the administration and the Congress but within
the Congress itself.

Yet at the same time, in some respects contradicting in our
own case the apparently negative message of these reduc-

tions, we find ourselves celebrating the enactment of a bill
authorizing the establishment of a new National Museum of
the American Indian, and also receiving strong encourage-
ment from the administration to develop new research
initiatives on global change and biodiversity. For all the
generalized gloom in Washington over the programmatic
impacts of the deficit, for all the confusing signals over
long-term trends, both the core of the Smithsonian’s work
and our important and exciting new initiatives continue to
meet with solid encouragement.

The difficult course we have chosen to follow, in other
words, involves not brushing aside as unthinkable the possi-

Secretary Robert McCormick Adams signs the Memorandum of Understanding with the Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation,
which will transfer its superb collection of American Indian artifacts to the Smithsonian Institution. The signing ceremony on May 8, 1989,
overlooking the site of the planned new National Museum of the American Indian, was attended by (left to right) Suzan Harjo, member,

Board of Trustees, Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, New York City; Roland Force, director, Museum of the American
Indian; Senator Daniel K. Inouye (D.-Hawaii), principal supporter of legislation to create the National Museum of the American Indian within
the Smithsonian Institution; Dick Baker, member of the Lakota Sioux Red Feather Society, who offered a prayer for the success of the museum;
and Congressman Ben Nighthorse Campbell (D.-Colorado), the only American Indian member of Congress. (Photograph by Laurie Minor)
bility of future retrenchment in some of our programs, while
also not concluding that this is a time to retreat into a
diminished but more defensible citadel. As open as ever
before us is an opportunity to revitalize the core of our
activities while still seeking to develop new realms of popular
as well as scholarly significance.

Considered as a whole, the record of our growth in
resources and scale of activities across several recent decades
must be virtually unmatched. This record argues for consis-
tent and widespread support, in the administration, the
Congress, and the public alike. But it is also interesting to
note that, in real dollar terms, our federal appropriations
have been decidedly “sticky” in their upward movement.
They exhibit a tendency to stay ona plateau, merely
matching the rate of inflation, until major projects come
along like the Quadrangle and the new American Indian
Museum that command wide enthusiasm. Only then has the
support materialized allowing the budget to be readjusted
upward, establishing a new base. When important new
initiatives are undertaken, in other words, it has proved
possible to enlarge the size of the pie that is to be cut up

This pilaster capital, weighing two-and-one-half tons and known as
The Sunstone, was originally part of the Mormon temple constructed
in 1846 in Nauvoo, Illinois. Its acquisition by the National Museum
of American History was made possible by a grant from the
Collections Acquisition Program.

ice)

among our various activities, rather than just to add another
ple-consumer and leave every share a little smaller.

Another, equally important lesson from taking a longer-
term look at trends affecting the resource base of the
Institution is that the income to the Institution on the private
or “trust” side of its budget has grown at a substantially
faster and steadier rate than the federal appropriation. I do
not believe we have more than begun to attain our potential
in this respect. Hence there can be enormous returns to the
basic health of our core activities, and to our ability to launch
ambitious new undertakings and plan confidently for their
full success, if we move deliberately toward a greatly expanded
and diversified program of private fund-raising. That is
exactly what we propose to do, both on behalf of the
Institution as a whole and on behalf of its individual bureaus
and offices.

A preoccupation with budgetary issues like those with
which I have begun is unavoidable when, as currently, they |
threaten to dictate a number of unpleasant decisions about
the aggregate scale of our activities, and perhaps even about
the survival of some of our programs. Having completed my
first five years as secretary, however, I hope I may be excused
for regarding this annual report as something of a milestone
calling for an appraisal extending far beyond matters of
finance. What follows is an essentially personal view—
although obviously drawing heavily on the (by no means
always concordant!) views of many colleagues on the senior
staff and administration of the Institution—of the directions
the Smithsonian is taking, the principles governing the |
choices we face, and the world context within which our
actions must be measured.

Many different forces and priorities obviously converge to
influence our actions and choices. If it were ever possible for
the Institution to go its own way at a pace of strictly its own
choosing, that time is long past. However, this is certainly
not to imply that we are helplessly adrift in chaotic cross-
currents, with no alternative but to move at the discretion of
the strongest tide. To the contrary, the substantial degree of
deliberate consistency in the Institution’s programs probably
has strengthened popular support for them. AsI proposeto
describe in detail, we can call upon strong and coherent
rationales as we seek to adjust those programs to new
circumstances. Fulfilling our mission, especially in difficult
and uncertain times, in fact seems to require that we maintain
a proactive, creatively selective and opportunity-seeking,
outward-looking stance rather than a defensive, passive, or
self-enclosed one.

Epochal events of the current year in China, the USSR,
Eastern Europe, and southern Africa provide a remarkable
setting, I believe, for our own stocktaking and direction-
setting. Unfolding before our eyes has been a wide, often
sudden, and seemingly almost unplanned, array of extraordi-
nary institutional changes. Some of them have genuinely
empowered and facilitated the forces of reform, others
merely recognized and legitimated them, and still others are
patently attempting at least temporarily to stifle the massive,
spontaneous movements toward human rights and democra-
tization. What better background could there be for our own
consideration of the interplay between structure and func-
tion, vision and reality, in this institutional setting? I only
hope that most of the steps being taken at the Smithsonian
will be seen as encouraging and facilitating, rather than
falling toward the stagnating or suppressing end of the
continuum.

There is an additional, special meaning for us in the still
accelerating developments across the vast arc from the Berlin
Wall to the Sea of Japan. They signal a worldwide reemergence
of broadly shared human values and aspirations. This Institu-
tion’s measures in support of many of the same ends may
look quite minor alongside those epochal changes. But the
immense reawakening they imply infuses us with the recog-
nition that we are not—or at least, need not be—isolated.
Other developments much nearer at hand—as close as the
absence of a racially dictated outcome in the recent guberna-
torial election in the adjacent, former cradle of the
confederacy—carry the same message. It reestablishes the
climate of hope and thought in which the Smithsonian was
itself first envisioned.

I have in mind, of course, the commitment in our charter
to the “increase and diffusion of knowledge.” It reflects a
striking degree of confidence on the part of our founders in
the unqualified and endlessly contributive potential of knowl-
edge for human life—in its power to sweep across changing
contexts of time, historical consciousness, and ethnic and
national differences. There have been many dark and uncer-
tain years when that confidence at times may have seemed
obsolescent or misplaced. But now, once again, it is gather-
ing force as a doctrine to live by.

What does the Smithsonian stand for today? My own list
begins with general qualities, transcending any particular
activities or collections. First, and to the surprise of some, the
Institution makes no claim for the comprehensiveness of the
knowledge increased and communicated. It is a vain hope to
be all-embracing, and even to set that as a distant goal would

Dr. Judy Blake works on a DNA sample in the National Museum of
Natural History’s new Molecular Systematics Laboratory. The
laboratory became fully operational in 1989, making possible
biochemical and molecular genetic studies of DNA and proteins
useful in resolving questions about the natural and evolutionary
biology of organisms. (Photograph by Doc Dougherty)

be needlessly and wastefully duplicative of many other great
research institutions and universities. University programs
extend (as ours do not) into all fields of history, across the
full sweep of the social sciences and humanities, into the
heart of the epoch-making revolution in suborganismic
biology, and along the full length of the theoretical and
experimental frontiers of the mathematical and physical
sciences. Ours, by contrast, have grown less by design than
by an accretion of external influences.

To mention only a few of these influences, they include

1a f
the Institution’s availability as a research organ and reposi-
tory in connection with our nation’s westward expansion;
the lasting involvement in astronomy that probably can be
traced to the personal interests of John Quincy Adams; and
the public’s sense of identification with the triumphs of the
epoch of American industrial growth, and, more recently,
with our unparalleled achievements in air and space. There
are, of course, many others. We can take satisfaction in this
evidence of the Institution’s responsiveness to broad tides of
national concern. But let us not pretend that our programs
are, or ever have been, continuously pruned and shaped on
the basis of exclusively “internal,” scholarly criteria. They
are products of a living institution, actively engaged on many
fronts and committed to public service and public dialogue.
It would be unwise to offer the further defense that they are
also models of some pristine inner symmetry or rationality.

Second, we must not forget that our great collections are
the primary source of the Smithsonian’s strength and reputa-
tion. We hold them as a national trust to be passed on to
succeeding generations. Their custody, study, exhibition,
and publication thus are always a primary responsibility.
That applies as well to closely related support activities that
may be virtually invisible to most of the public but that are
essential for the collections to be made fully accessible and
serviceable: comprehensive, machine-readable cataloging;
object and specimen conservation; and the archiving of
relevant documents. Equally invisible and vital are the provi-
sions for repair and rehabilitation of our aging buildings, into
which we have recently found it necessary to triple our
annual investment. Fortunately, we can point to one decid-
edly visible affirmation of this responsibility, our new Museum
Support Center in Suitland, Maryland, that is also a state-of-
the-art facility for carrying it out. But in any case, all those
involved with collections are aware that collections continue
to grow, that standards can only move forward, and that new
demands on collections multiply endlessly. It takes a gruel-
ing struggle merely not to fall further behind.

Here | have slipped in an additional, no less central
responsibility associated with collections: their augmenta-
tion. It is nota fixed principle of the Smithsonian that
collections can only grow and will never be allowed to
shrink. We do, in fact, practice selective deaccessioning in a
number of areas, permitting a strengthening of the collec-
tions in other directions through further acquisitions. But
more important, our view is properly directed toward
augmenting the role and stature of the Institution over the
very long term through its collections. Thus there is nothing

12

fixed about the present extent of its coverage. With due
consideration for issues of cost, available staff expertise,
endangerment of some important cultural or natural resource,
areas of growing public interest or concern, and our own
comparative advantage, the Smithsonian frankly exists to
step forward when a sufficiently compelling need or oppor-
tunity offers itself. The extraordinary Heye Foundation
collection that will shortly come to the Mall, and thus finally
to the world public it richly deserves, from the Museum of
the American Indian in New York, is only the latest and most
salient example of this principle at work.

As the Smithsonian is in large part collections-based, it is
only natural that at least the museum research carried on
here is predominantly empiricist, almost phenomenological
in character. But there is nothing intentionally uniform about
the scholarly approaches taken. In this as in so many other
respects, breadth and diversity are sources of strength and
renewed vitality. Sometimes it is entirely appropriate to let
objects in our collections speak for themselves, or merely
rely upon description with a minimum of interpretation. But
at other times, and no less frequently, we need to come out
from behind the cover of this apparent noninvolvement and
declare a thematic or programmatic perspective to what we
do. After all, as no less redoubtable an authority than Charles
Darwin once wrote, all knowledge must be for or against
some view if it is to be of any significance.

Third, as this suggests, the Smithsonian has always prized
a vigorously independent expression of views and choice of
research initiatives by its professional staff. No other stance is
consistent with the encouragement of creativity and the
pursuit of excellence. Hence those of us in positions of
administrative responsibility on the whole have consciously
avoided imposing any pattern of uniformity we happened to
favor. We must recognize that this is of critical importance
for the long-term scholarly strength of the Institution, even
while also believing that it can involve real and immediate
costs for some of the Smithsonian’s broader programmatic
interests.

The difficulties arise from our simultaneous need to set
pan-Institutional directions or priorities. It is obvious, to
consider first the setting of our research strategies, that we
must take into account the Smithsonian’s comparative advan-
tages if we are to fulfill our mandate. That involves
complementing rather than duplicating programs elsewhere,
as for example by fully utilizing our potential for long-term
research commitments. In certain circumstances, maintain-
ing this advantage could imply preserving programs that

=

a

“eee <
on Wr:
mB

First Lady Barbara Bush, assisted by Zoo Director Michael H. Robinson, cuts the centennial birthday cake. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

some staff members believe no longer provide optimal
research opportunities for them personally. Conversely, a
pan-Institutional view may suggest that some program, while
still actively engaging staff participants, has declined mark-
edly in productivity or is slipping into scientific obsolescence.

Certainly no action should be taken in cases like these
without extensive internal and external review and consulta-
tion. But occasionally it has fallen to a secretary to make a
decision based on these larger considerations even in the face
of some staff opposition, and it will again. Broad research
directions cannot always be set through an exclusively
bottom-up process. I must insist on this in the “‘buck stops
here”’ tradition, even though doing so may seem inconsistent
with my earlier principle that our research efforts generally
depend for their creativity and excellence on the maximal
freedom of action of those knowledge-based specialists
immediately involved in them.

Other potential costs of our encouragement of the inde-
pendence of the individual curator or investigator are con-
nected not only with increasing knowledge but with diffusing
it—through our exhibitions, educational activities, outreach
efforts, and public programs generally. Salient public goals of
the Institution seldom can be seriously pursued without
broad and concerted staff efforts. A limiting side effect of
respect for individual autonomy may be a skewing, blurring,
or slowing of our ability to respond on a major set of issues.

But in the end, it is at least my own strong conviction that
there is no valid way of avoiding this continuing state of
tension between advancing pan-Institutional priorities and
preserving as much individual freedom of action as possible.
This tension need not be antagonistic. Recognition of the
integrity and complementarity of each of these elements of
the Institution can lead to productive exchange, debate, and
compromise. What we must emphasize is finding ways to
create positive inducements that will encourage but not
compel the choice of common courses of action—that will
strive to move us forward on larger commitments in an
atmosphere of consensus.

The need for a sensitive balancing of programmatic priori-
ties against the maximal encouragement of individual choices
and opportunities has been raised as if it were of primary
concern to the Smithsonian’s professional staff. After all, this
is the level at which programmatic initiatives or modifica-
tions generally begin. But I hasten to add that our profession-
als are nota fixed group with unique rights and privileges,
surrounded by an insurmountable wall! We are determined
to make the whole staff of the Smithsonian, and in particular
its professional ranks and senior administration, more repre-
sentative of the multiracial, multiethnic society from which it
is drawn. That involves intensified efforts to widen the pools
from which our staff is recruited, even if the stabilization of
staff size under budgetary pressures means that progress
toward correcting present, unacceptable imbalances will be
slow. It also involves improved training and advancement
programs, one of them just beginning, that will encourage
employees at lower levels to move steadily ahead and
prepare themselves to enter professional or administrative
ranks. With their breadth of representation, the several
cultural councils at the Smithsonian that are now in place
should be very helpful in making these programs more
effective, and in linking them to other programmatic
initiatives.

Fourth, we come to the place of salient, public goals in our
program. Before dealing in more detail with the two that are
most important, let me offer a single, inclusive formulation
that covers both of them. Recalling that the objectives of any
living institution must shift, and that those of the Smithsonian
have usually come to the fore as a result of externally
recognized needs and opportunities, I will certainly not
hazard a prediction that these two will never be superseded.
Given any balanced characterization of trends in national and
world conditions to which we must be responsive, however,
I believe that an overarching concern for preserving and
articulating our cultural and natural heritage is likely to
remain the Smithsonian’s highest responsibility for a good
many years to come.

Consider first our cultural heritage. A cultural map,
whether of our nation or of the world, has little to do with
administrative or geopolitical borders. It is never static, and
ideally should be able to record massive, continuing flows
and growing interdependencies. Under the homogenizing
influence of the mass media, and particularly television, a
worldwide change in cultural values, often accompanied by
erosion of cultural diversity, and complexity is proceeding
rapidly. Also frequently brought to bear to accelerate the
destructive aspects of this process is all the authority of
national institutions and elites. The usual, almost inevitable,
consequence for those designated as “minorities” is negative
stereotyping, alienation, or exclusion from participatory
structures of governance and social interaction, and multiple
forms of educational and economic deprivation.

The Smithsonian is to be included among national institu-
tions, to be sure, but it is like no other. It is here to serve all
segments of our population, and to address a world audi-
ence. It cannot escape the responsibility to speak to and for
that entire population and audience. This requires that we be
at pains neither to idealize and reify the purported
“mainstream” of global as well as our national culture, when
so many are still denied access to it, nor to place

14

“nonmainstream”’ cultures under an idealized bell jar that
freezes them in time.

Exemplifying this stance are the outstanding television
series, exhibitions, and other activities we plan for 1992 and
later years, commemorating the Quincentenary of the arrival
of Columbus in the New World. It is designed, in the first
instance, to intensify our awareness of the hemispheric
context in which the United States arose as a nation, and
whose contributions to our own economic growth and
cultural diversity we still recognize only dimly through a
screen of our own national preoccupations and stereotypes.
There is a significant shift of emphasis here, in no sense
denying the initiating act of “discovery” by an intrepid
navigator but focusing instead on the vast, prolonged, and |
absolutely unprecedented encounter between streams of |
civilization that previously had been absolutely unaware of
one another. Implicit in the substitution of the word |
“encounter” for “discovery,” as historian Alfred Crosby has
noted, are “connotations of equality between the participants,
unpredictable results, and, quite possibly, of injurious colli-
sion.” He goes on to observe:

The rapidity and magnitude of change in our century has prepared
us to ask new questions about history and, specifically, about the
Encounter of Amerindians, Europeans and Africans. I think ours are |
better questions than were asked a century ago, simply because we
are equipped by our twentieth-century lifetimes to see and recog-
nize changes as great as those that the Encounter unquestionably did
cause.... |
The significance of the Encounter towers above the origins of this
or that kind of government or even the fate of this or that group of
humans. The Encounter marks one of the major discontinuities in
the course of life on this planet. The measuring of its influence |
requires reference to a scale of time far greater than historians or
archaeologists normally consult, that is, reference to the “deep
time” discovered by the great geologists, biologists, and thinkersof
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. To find changes compara-
ble to those wrought by Columbus and friends we have to go back |
beyond recorded time to the divisions between the periods of
geological history. These were characterized by great geological |
changes—the meeting or separation of continents, the rising up of
mountains, the draining or filling of inland seas—and sometimes by
large numbers of extinctions and the proliferation of new species.
(“Reassessing 1492,” American Ouarterly 41 [1989], 661-69)

In embracing this more comprehensive, culturally sensitive
view we are also driven to reconsider fundamentally the
purpose and potential scope of at least some of the museum
activities through which the Smithsonian has traditionally

SOAS AD Ig

Wang Yani, a fourteen-year-old Chinese artist, demonstrates her painting at the press preview of her exhibition at the Sackler Gallery, “Yani:

The Brush of Innocence,” on June 20. (Photograph by Jeff Crespi)

addressed a world audience. Museums, it will be recalled,
began a few centuries ago as cabinets of curiosities—jumbled
assemblages of what caught a princely collector’s fancy and
were shown to favored visitors only at his discretion. As
museums went on to become national collections, they took
on a more systematic character. But all too often they have
continued to impose from above a vision of a glorious past
that was like our melting-pot myth: focused on symbols and
icons that someone in charge proclaimed to be all-embracing
and unifying but that were in fact all too often partisan and
exclusionary.

A legislative step taken last year in Canada sets a new
direction that may provide a good example for us. It was
declared thenceforth to be a matter of national policy there
to “recognize and promote the understanding that
multiculturalism reflects the cultural and racial diversity of
Canadian society . . . {and is] a fundamental characteristic of
the Canadian heritage and identity.” No less than Canada,
ours is also a pluralistic country for which it would be timely
to discard myths to the contrary. “The point about the
melting pot,” as Nathan Glazer and Patrick Moynihan tartly
observed already a generation ago, “‘is that it did not
happen.” If there is some reason to remain in a gustatory
framework, perhaps this particular bit of symbolism should
be replaced by that of a salad bowl, in which separate
ingredients create a new composite while yet retaining their
independent taste.

We need to recognize further that our society is still
marred by striking inequalities in opportunity, and by the
persistence of racial, ethnic, and gender stereotypes that
museums can play an important part in dispelling. Toward
that end, the Smithsonian must accept the obligation and act
upon it urgently, so that our staff and advisory boards will

more adequately represent our scholarly and public commu-
nities in all their diversity. Equally pressing is the need to
rethink and redirect our existing forms of popular education
and outreach in a more comprehensively inclusive manner.
And fundamental to the success of both these efforts is a
recognition that knowledge is multiplex. That means it can
best be advanced and diffused in a mode of sharing through
broad collegial collaboration and public dialogue, rather than
held aloof as the province of specialists. In everything we
exhibit, publish, or otherwise disseminate, in other words,
the Smithsonian must strive for sensitivity to the conditions,
needs, and aspirations of the multiple and growing audiences
it has an obligation to reach.

This is the primary context in which to view the
Smithsonian’s new project to develop a National Museum of
the American Indian, now unanimously passed by the Con-
gress and signed into law by President George Bush. Nothing
could be more appropriate, I believe, than for the first
Americans to be at the head and heart of the effort to
research, interpret, and celebrate the diverse cultural experi-
ences that go to make up this nation—for their museum to
become a flagship of hemispheric cultural diversity. | empha-
size that this will be, to an unprecedented extent, their
museum: under Native American leadership, devoted not to
the timeless past of Hollywood (and, too often, also school
textbook) myth making but to the full range of intellectual,
artistic, and cultural achievements of a living people, pulsing
with the diversity of belief and material expression within
their own number, and speaking to the world in their own
voices of their hopes and tragedies and permanent place in
the family of humanity.

If we succeed in realizing this dream there will be no
turning back from the unique position of leadership in
Researchers from the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama take the measure of a tree on Barro Colorado Island in a
long-term study of the diversity of tropical forests. (Photograph by Carl Hansen)

16

conserving and celebrating cultural diversity that the
Smithsonian will then occupy among national institutions.
The model is one that, with variations still under discussion
and the timetable for enactment into law accordingly uncer-
tain, should presently be extended to African American
culture and history. Subsequently it may well be taken up by
Hispanic Americans and other groups as well, and I hope and
expect it will also be found relevant in other countries. It
comes as no surprise that, in spite of the freezing or
retrenchment of numerous programs as a result of federal
government deficits, the president’s Office of Management
and Budget has directed us to move ahead on this extraordi-
nary opportunity.

Note should be taken of a special feature of planning for
the National Museum of the American Indian that also has
figured prominently in our discussions of improvements in
the Smithsonian’s African American programming. Ina
word, it is anew emphasis on networking. The Indian
legislation envisions training programs here that will eventu-
ally go well beyond filling our own needs for ethnohistorians,
curators, archivists, conservators, exhibition specialists, and
the like for the new museum, and that will help to provide
staffs for growing numbers of smaller museums in tribal
centers and pueblos all across the country. Our capabilities
for mounting and circulating traveling collections, based on
our unsurpassed holdings of Native American materials, will
have to grow accordingly. The African American case is
different in detail, and yet generically similar. It is simply
unthinkable that we should plunge ahead in this field toward
major new collecting capabilities, facilities, or programs of
any kind without taking into account the needs and potenti-
alities of the African American Museum Association that
already exists with about a hundred member organizations.
Taken together, these two examples set a direction toward a
dominant form of outreach for the Institution during the
years ahead.

Fifth, let us turn to the Institution’s contribution to
monitoring, understanding, and moving to arrest the many
interacting aspects of deterioration of the global environ-
ment. It has been widely observed that some of these
processes, originally more controllable because they were
localized and hence partly isolated from one another, are
now spreading and ominously converging to suggest the
onset of a deep-seated and intractable crisis. Intergovernmental
means of coping with them have been slow to develop
beyond the discussion stage, and the measures currently
planned seem to be of very limited and questionable effec-

tiveness. How could we not regard this as a crucial focus of
Smithsonian effort, given our long tradition as a world center
of research in natural history and our concentration of
expertise in many of the relevant fields?

Several daunting features characterize this problem, and
have compelled us to consider carefully where our compara-
tive advantages as an institution direct us to place our
primary attention. One aspect of this problem is its enor-
mous scale and complexity, dictating scientific efforts of
unprecedented size that call upon the collaborative as well as
interdisciplinary efforts of specialists in many countries.
Another is the very incomplete understanding of positive and
negative feedbacks—of nonlinear interactions, possibly both
serious and sudden, when multiple, primary parameters of
change interact with one another. Still another is the inade-
quate base of fine-grained, and especially longitudinal, data
with which models of dynamic interaction can be tested and
thence extended to provide reliable predictions.

Our most important contribution to the massive scientific
efforts now getting under way should focus on one of our
greatest traditional centers of strength, the study of tropical
rainforests. Tropical deforestation is surely one of the most
devastating features of the present complex of destructive
processes of environmental change. Annual burning adds a
billion tons of excess carbon to the atmosphere, contributing
perhaps a fifth of the increasing proportion of carbon dioxide
responsible for the so-called greenhouse effect. And quite
apart from this, it has catastrophic, irreversible consequences
for maintaining biodiversity and the way of life of many
indigenous peoples. Tropical forests are the richest of the
earth’s biological environments. Efforts to understand the
tragic impacts of their disappearance must begin with securely
established species identification and classification. This is,
of course, a major concern and area of expertise of our
National Museum of Natural History. Equally crucial to the
same set of efforts is the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute in Panama, its understanding of neotropical
rainforests drawing upon nearly seventy years of ongoing
studies.

Not adequately represented in our present program of
tropical studies is work on the nature of the destructive
processes themselves. We need to turn our attention to the
interface between existing regions in which rainforests sur-
vive and the various forms of human assault on them—
principally for cattle-raising, for timber products, and for a
gradual enlargement of the area of subsistence farming by
impoverished, landless peasant cultivators. There is much
yet to learn about these processes and the social and
economic forces underlying them. How different are they
today than in the preindustrial past? Can they be checked?
Are they reversible? Such questions urgently call for interdis-
ciplinary investigations, in which I hope some of our natural
and human scientists can join forces to make a contribution
much larger than they could make alone.

Sixth, there are additional, still unscheduled and perhaps
not fully defined, programmatic initiatives of the Smithsonian
that deserve to be mentioned. Of longest standing on the list
is the Old General Post Office on Gallery Place. One of the
early historic buildings of Washington, it was transferred to
the Smithsonian some years ago in a condition of disrepair
that virtually precludes our making any use of it. Although it
is eagerly sought after by the National Portrait Gallery, the
National Museum of American Art, and especially the
Archives of American Art, efforts to obtain congressional
funding for its complete renovation have so far been com-
pletely unavailing. One day, we must assume, this project
will go forward. Suitably restored, the building has the
potential of becoming not only an important architectural
monument of the early Federal period but an attractive
anchor for the entire Lower Pennsylvania Avenue develop-
ment program.

Apparently closer to realization is a substantially larger
facility to be located at either the Dulles or Baltimore
airports. In fact, a final choice between these two locations is
on the agenda for the regular meeting of the Smithsonian
Board of Regents in January 1990, presumably to be fol-
lowed by intensive negotiations with one of the two state
governments and the introduction of enabling legislation in
the Congress. Given the prior position in line of the National
Museum of the American Indian, however, it is uncertain
how quickly funding for construction might be expected to
follow.

Central to the design of this new facility is our need for an
extension of the Smithsonian’s National Air and Space
Museum in order to house additional aircraft and spacecraft.
Especially pressing is the problem of the largest classes of
vehicles, readily deliverable in an airport setting but needing
expensive (and destructive) dismantling if they must be
transported by road. An outlying location may be disadvan-
tageous to many Washington visitors and residents, but on
the other hand possibly will attract a large and growing flow
of international air travelers. Equally important, only loca-
tions fairly remote from downtown Washington, D.C., like
these two airports, make it possible to provide for future

18

expansion and extensive parking. As the planning horizon
extends well into the next century, it is also probably safe to
assume that access from the metropolitan center to either
airport will be greatly simplified through a Washington
Metro extension or greatly improved commuter rail service.

Accompanying preliminary plans for what we are simply
referring to as a “NASM extension,” it should be stressed, is
a powerful rationale that goes well beyond merely housing
an overflow of aircraft and spacecraft. “Remote sensing”
from air and space platforms, to begin with, has provided the
unique vantage point from which to see our gathering
environmental problems as the unique, complex, and globally
integrated challenge that we now know they constitute.
That, too, will be part of the new museum’s subject matter.

But beyond this, I urge you to consider the cumulative
significance of the long string of scientific discoveries and
engineering triumphs that have extended our human (and
even more spectacularly, our instrumental) range so pro-
foundly within a single human lifetime. Aiming at genera-
tions yet unborn, as it is the Smithsonian’s responsibility to
do, how could we possibly justify breaking off the continua-
tion of the record we have already assembled in the National
Air and Space Museum of this brief but mighty epoch of
exploration without bending every effort to complete the
story? Whatever this country is credited with, for as far ahead
into the mists of the next millennium as we care to speculate,
it seems impossible to deny that our leadership in this effort
will stand out as our single, most enduring achievement.

Seventh, I turn back from program goals to a few remain-
ing general characterizations of the approach we take. Some
of these are already implicit in operating principles and
long-term interests mentioned earlier. In the intensifying
international debate over steps to protect the environment,
for example, how could we not be guided by a strong
concern for the interests of those countries least able to claim
a just share of the world’s resources? Our capacity for
independent, effective action in this field is frankly very
limited, but as an institution we must surely concur in spirit
with an observation made in the Rockefeller Foundation’s
new Global Commons program:

The enormous inequality now separating the wealthy populations
of the world from the one billion who barely survive on marginal
lands and in urban slums could grow greater yet. This will occur if
the political, financial, and technical responses to environmental
damage are designed by and on behalf of the more powerful nations
and if they fail to address equitable development opportunities.

More broadly, as the Smithsonian addresses a world
audience, so it must maintain a determinedly world perspec-
tive. We seek at every point to override national rivalries, and
ethnic, racial, religious, or gender stereotypes and prejudices
of all kinds that act as barriers to intercommunication and
common action. Our programs increasingly focus upon the
interdependence and interconnectedness of peoples, cul-
tures, civilizations, and their environments. As our substan-
tial role in the forthcoming celebration of the Quincentenary
of the voyage of Columbus suggests, we perceive in studies
and exhibitions of shared history an important pathway to
enhanced international understanding and cooperation. Even
on issues where a preoccupation with America’s own achieve-
ments might well seem natural, as for example in the
conquest of aerospace, we are at pains to supplement this
with a world perspective.

With limited resources, there are obvious limits to how far
the Institution can reasonably project its concerns and
programs into a worldwide theater of action. Our special
concentration on tropical rainforests within the larger subject
area of global change and biodiversity is a good example of
the more significant contribution that a focusing of effort
makes possible, as are also our Quincentenary activities in
the cultural field. Clearly, we cannot begin to respond to the
full range of opportunities for binational exchange programs
that exist. Instead, we are at present directing our most
substantial and consistent efforts toward Latin America, the
Soviet Union, and Japan, and are seeking opportunities to
extend our research and exchange activities in Africa.

An eighth organizing principle is one in which a traditional
posture of the Smithsonian certainly will continue, and yet
may also be on the cusp of significant change. As we
regularly transcend national borders and concentrate on
concerns and networks of intercommunication that embrace
the whole world, we have also consistently emphasized
long-term rather than immediate issues. This has meant that
little policy-relevant research is conducted here, since much
of it concentrates on transient or situationally dependent
scientific issues. But the urgency and complexity of the
challenges now facing us, particularly in the environmental
field, are likely to force a reconsideration of this exclusionary
tendency.

It has long been the case that our systematic collections in
natural history are crucial points of departure for studies
ranging from the most basic to some of the most highly
policy-oriented or applied. This is especially true in fields
like agriculture, forestry, wildlife management, and insect-

Among the additions to the Freer collection was this seventeenth-
century Japanese gold-lacquer covered box embellished with the
Tokugawa family crest.

borne vectors of disease. But can we adequately understand
the dynamic interactions of human societies and rainforests,
for example, without critically addressing the policy frame-
work within which most of these interactions occur? Can we
justify merely cataloging the deteriorating stock of biodiversity
without contributing in some form to concerted interna-
tional policies aimed at cultural as well as biological conser-
vation? Precisely because the vision we pursue and
communicate is consistently broad, long-range, and contex-
tual, do we not need to make some contribution to policies
that will help to shape a world where such a vision can
flourish?

There is no natural ending to a listing like this. It could
continue with a number of other qualities that are, or in my
judgment certainly should be, associated with the Smithsonian
ona more or less permanent basis. As the list is extended,
however, its elements become more abstract, difficult to
identify individually as genuinely unifying principles, and
subject to debate. Perhaps the heterogeneity of these addi-
tional elements furnishes the best clue to a ninth and final
member of my personal prescription for the Institution’s
basic core of premises and attitudes. It is that we should
never neglect the importance of maintaining a significant
degree of variability and novelty in what we do, and that we
not shrink back, in anticipation of criticism—even official
criticism—from a readiness to take positions that may be
against the grain of popular opinion.

This is not to deny that our museums must be authorita-
tive in much of what they do and display. But there is also a

19
place for taking consciously divergent or contrarian stances
that may help to broaden the horizons as well as the makeup
of Smithsonian audiences. Among the possibilities that extend
almost indefinitely in this direction are, for example, finding
exhibition themes that help to establish a link between ideas
and material objects; undermining weak but popular assump-
tions and stereotypes with well-chosen examples; diagnosing
social change as a shifting mix of continuities and abrupt
departures or uncertainties (as in eastern Europe today);
contrasting the not uncommon fringes of experience with
imagined ideals or averages; highlighting the unnoticed or
repressed; and dealing in tones of serious respect with the
experimental, the controversial, and even the playful.

Let me return, in conclusion, to my earlier reference to the
Smithsonian as a living Institution. I have spoken of it as I
perceive it today, mindful of its traditions but responding to
contemporary needs and opportunities. We should accept
that life is change, and that the price of attaining permanent
significance is endless adaptation to new challenges. Just as
my personal view and each of yours will obviously differ at
many points, so whatever we hold most in common about
the Smithsonian will surely be turned in some unsuspected
directions by our successors. In the words of the eminent
social scientist Herbert Simon,

The idea of final goals is inconsistent with our limited ability to
foretell or determine the future. The real result of our actions is to
establish initial conditions for the next succeeding stage of action.
What we call “final” goals are in fact criteria for choosing the initial
conditions that we will leave to our successors. . . . Our essential
task—a big enough one to be sure—is simply to keep open the
options for the future or perhaps even to broaden them a bit by
creating new variety and new niches. Our grandchildren cannot ask
more of us than that we offer to them the same chance for
adventure, for the pursuit of new and interesting designs, that we

have had.

The Year in Review

For well over a century, the Smithsonian Institution has been
known throughout the world as a unique array of museums.
From American art to natural history, air and space to design,
the Smithsonian has displayed the best of our cultural,
historical, and scientific heritage. Today, at the brink of the
twenty-first century, the Institution is taking a more aggres-
sive and relevant role in shaping solutions to societal and
planetary problems.

The Smithsonian is more than just museums—it is a leading

20

center of research, specializing in subjects as far-ranging as
global warming, environmental conservation, astrophysics,
and the sociohistory of Indian-Anglo relations. The
Smithsonian draws on what it has discovered by mounting
exhibitions for the public to view, in addition to publishing
books, magazines, and news service stories, and sponsoring
programs, classes, lectures, workshops, and television and
radio programs.

This year, the Smithsonian reaffirmed its commitment to
two timely efforts. Throughout the Institution, progress was
made in expanding and communicating information about
our nation’s cultural diversity by ensuring that the
Smithsonian’s exhibitions, public programs, research, and
staffing reflected a full range of diverse cultures. A particular
effort was made to redress the neglect of American Indian
culture. This long-overlooked story will be the focus of a
newly proposed National Museum of the American Indian.
On May 8, 1989, the Smithsonian signed an agreement with
the Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, to
transfer its superlative collection of one million American
Indian artifacts to the Smithsonian, and during the summer,
legislation moved forward in Congress. As this publication
went to press, the legislation establishing the new museum
was signed into law by President Bush. The National Museum
of the American Indian will be located in Washington, D.C.,
next to the National Air and Space Museum. The museum
will also have an exhibition facility in New York City in the
Old United States Custom House and a storage facility at the
Smithsonian’s Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland.

In a similar spirit, the Smithsonian’s research units, contin-
uing a long tradition and inspired by recent public concern
for the environment, have focused on such issues as the
hazards of global warming and deforestation, the importance
of biological diversity, and the protection of endangered
species. The completion of the Earl $. Tupper Research and
Conference Center at the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute in Panama and the Charles McC. Mathias Labora-
tory at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
further promotes these efforts. A new endowment estab-
lished by the Office of Membership and Development, the
Global Environmental Endowment Fund, will foster research,
conservation, training, and public education in these areas.

Two special forums focusing on these issues were held
during the year. In May, the “Forum on Global Change and
Our Common Future” was organized by the Smithsonian in
cooperation with the U.S. Committee for Man and the
Biosphere; the National Academy of Sciences; the American

>

Fourth-grade students, Demeka Yarborough and Jalil Shelton, Capitol Hill Cluster Schools, Washington, D.C., work together to light two
flashlight bulbs with a D-cell battery by connecting them in a parallel circuit. Cooperative learning is integrated into the new hands-on science
lessons for elementary students under development by the Science and Technology for Children project staff of the National Science Resources

Center. (Photograph by Dane Penland)

Association for the Advancement of Science; and Sigma Xi,
the scientific research society. About a thousand people
attended the two-day event, which brought together mem-
bers of the public, scientists, and journalists (more than 150
from around the world) to present a balanced and authorita-
tive view of the wide range of global change issues. In Sep-
tember, the Smithsonian gathered together 150 members of
the media and environmental authorities to explore the topic,
“The Global Environment: Are We Overreacting?” Secretary
Adams served as the chair; he was joined by vice-chairs Sena-
tor Timothy E. Wirth and Senator John Heinz.

To support and carry out a number of new endeavors, the
Smithsonian created a new position, assistant secretary for
institutional initiatives, and named Alice Green Burnette to
the post. With congressional approval of the National
Museum of the American Indian, the assistant secretary for
institutional initiatives will initially focus on fund-raising for
the new museum as her highest priority. Looking to the
future, the office will also plan and propose mechanisms that
will expand and deepen the Smithsonian’s relationship with
institutions of higher education, both locally and nationally.
Burnette also will be involved in the promotion of the
Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary, to be celebrated in 1996

and, in concert with other members of the Smithsonian’s
Management Committee, will explore such diverse initia-
tives as proposals to establish an African American museum
and to develop an extension of the National Air and Space
Museum.

Just as the Smithsonian is looking boldly toward the
future, it also had several occasions this year to mark
milestones of the past. The National Zoological Park cele-
brated its centennial anniversary and used the event as a time
to emphasize the ways that the Zoo is becoming a biological
park, an environment that illustrates the varied and complex
relationships between plants and animals. The Archives of
American Art marked its thirty-fifth anniversary and opened
its new central headquarters with space for permanent exhi-
bitions in the Equitable Building in New York City. The
National Museum of American History celebrated its twenty-
fifth anniversary and boasted a record five million visitors
this year. And the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
marked the tenth anniversary of the Einstein Observatory,
the space satellite that carried the first telescope capable of
producing images of cosmic X-ray sources that have led to
spectacular images from the far reaches of the Solar System.

The Smithsonian also participated in several events of
national and international importance. The 15 oth anniver-
sary of the invention of photography and the medium’s
evolution as an art form was the subject of intriguing
exhibitions throughout the Institution. The National Museum
of American History sponsored “The Seasoned Eye II,”
which included fifty photographs of people and places, taken
with a wise and gentle perspective. The National Museum of
American Art organized “The Photography of Invention:
American Pictures of the 1980s,” which included recent
works by ninety artists. And the National Gallery of Art,
which is administered by a separate board of trustees, capped
the event with an exhibition of nearly four hundred original
black-and-white and color photographs titled “On the Art of
Fixing a Shadow: 150 Years of Photography.’ The show
traced the history of photography as a fine art and was
organized chronologically in four sections, from 1839 to the
present.

The bicentennial of the French Revolution offered the
Smithsonian the opportunity to join other cultural organiza-
tions around the world in celebrating the French Revolution
of 1789 and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the
Citizen, which it inspired. The 200-year-old copy of the
document was brought to the United States for the first time
and displayed in the Smithsonian’s Arts and Industries
Building as part of the Institution’s involvement in this
important event.

Other Smithsonian activities shaped around the French
bicentennial included the Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s land-
mark exhibition “L’Art de Vivre: Decorative Arts and Design
in France, 1789-1989,” which brought together more than
five hundred examples of furniture, silver, glass, ceramics,
textiles, wallpaper, couture, and jewelry created by the great
names in French design and manufacturing. The exhibition
explored the techniques, materials, consumer trends, and
personalities that shaped the decorative arts in France from
the age of Versailles in the eighteenth century to the bicen-
tennial period of today.

The French were also remembered during this year’s
Festival of American Folklife, which featured French and
French American culture. On the eve of Bastille Day, the
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program featured Johns
Hopkins historian Robert Forster, who discussed the impact
of the Revolution on the history of France and the world. In
addition, the Smithsonian’s tenth International Symposium,
organized by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, was
titled ““Les Droits de !Homme and Scientific Progress.” It
commemorated the 2ooth anniversary of the French Revolu-

tr
Ns)

tion, the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the
Citizen, and the U.S. Bill of Rights. Another anniversary took
place this year, one that is strictly an American experience.
The National Air and Space Museum celebrated the twenti-
eth anniversary of the first U.S. Moon landing. Events
marking the day included a public ceremony on the muse-
um’s steps with the three Apollo 11 astronauts—Neil
Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins—and President
Bush and other dignitaries. On July 20, the museum stayed
open until 1:30 a.m. and replayed television coverage of this
historic event. Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine used the
historic moment as an opportunity to create its first single-
subject issue, which proved to be a sellout.

Exhibitions surrounding special events represent only a small
portion of the Smithsonian’s offerings this year. Other
shows, appealing to wide and diverse audiences, covered
subjects in history, the natural sciences, art, and culture. The
exhibitions serve to educate and enlighten; they also expose
the public to relics from the past, and to the genius of
contemporary artists, scientists, and craftspeople. The evi-
dence of talent on display at the Smithsonian reminds us of
what humankind can achieve and encourages us to reach
ever farther in the struggle to realize our full potential.

The numbers reveal that the Smithsonian continues to
draw large crowds to its numerous and varied exhibitions. In
FY 1989, almost twenty-five million visits were recorded at
the Smithsonian’s fourteen museums and galleries; an addi-
tional three million visits were made to the National Zoo.

One of this year’s most inspiring exhibitions was the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s show “Yani: The Brush of
Innocence.” Featuring sixty-nine paintings of Wang Yani, a
fourteen-year-old Chinese artist, the show revealed the work
ofa child prodigy who has the uncanny ability to reflect the
history of Chinese art in simple renderings of animals,
flowers, and everyday scenes. Already well-known in her
native land, Yani is the youngest artist ever to have a
one-person show at the Smithsonian.

Another extremely popular exhibition this year was the
National Museum of American Art’s “Perpetual Motif: The
Art of Man Ray.” The exhibition captured Man Ray’s artistic
vision and contribution as one of the founding fathers of
dada and surrealism through paintings, works on paper,
photographs, films, and objects. Also shown at the National
Museum of American Art was the ‘Patricia and Phillip Frost
Collection: American Abstraction, 1930-1945,” which high-
lighted another important artistic movement: the rise of

abstract art during the years of the Great Depression. The
Renwick Gallery celebrated sailing vessels in its major exhi-
bition “The Boat Show: Fantastic Vessels, Fictional Voy-
ages,’ which featured eighteen three-dimensional objects
drawing upon the legacy of maritime imagery.

At the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, “Recent
Acquisitions, 1986-1989” presented primarily contempo-
rary works from the 1940s to the 1980s that the museum
had acquired since 1986. “Robert Moscowitz” represented
the first museum retrospective for this important American
artist and included collages, drawings, and paintings span-
ning his thirty-year career.

To mark our cultural heritage, several museums mounted
exhibitions chronicling our rich and recent past. At the
National Museum of American History, a large exhibition,
“The Ceremonial Court,” now on permanent display, fea-
tures White House memorabilia, including first ladies’ inau-
gural gowns from recent administrations, pottery, glassware,
pieces of White House china, and presidential objects such
as Lincoln’s top hat and George Washington’s telescope.
“American Television from the Fair to the Family,
1939-1989,” also at the National Museum of American
History, traced the rise of television from its introduction at
the New York World’s Fair in 1939 to the present, with
ample documentation of early television classics such as
“Lassie,” “Star Trek,” and ““Gunsmoke.” The National Por-
trait Gallery included another salute to the broadcasting
industry in “Pioneers of American Broadcasting,” which
featured inventors, entertainers, writers, and newscasters
who have had an impact on the industry.

Focusing on the African American experience, the
Anacostia Museum unveiled the highly successful exhibition
“The Real McCoy: African American Invention and Innova-
tion, 1619-1930,” which celebrates well-known inventors,
as well as the often forgotten African American men and
women who contributed to technology from the Colonial
era to the early twentieth century. The National Museum of
African Art featured “Echoes of the Kalabari: Sculpture by
Sokari Douglas Camp,” the museum’s first show of contem-
porary sculpture.

The world of science and technology is ever-expanding.
Some facets of its exciting progress are documented in a new
National Air and Space Museum gallery, “Beyond the Limits:
Flight Enters the Computer Age.” Organized in seven exhibit
areas, the gallery illustrates the varied ways the computer is
used in the aerospace industry. Design, flight testing, and
flight simulation are just a few of the topics covered in this

innovative display. Each exhibit in the gallery includes
hands-on interactive computer terminals that enable visitors
to see for themselves the kinds of tasks that computers
perform.

“Inside Active Volcanoes,” a major exhibition organized
by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES), features a natural phenomenon that has forever
fascinated and held people in awe. Premiering during the
summer at the National Museum of Natural History, the
exhibition details the eruptions of Kilauea and Mount St.
Helens and includes many special features that dramatize this
spectacular natural event. The exhibition includes a real-time
seismic computer display that monitors seismic activity on
the island of Hawaii, demonstrating that it is one of the most
seismically active places on Earth. In addition to “Inside
Active Volcanoes,” SITES organized twenty-three other new
exhibitions and booked an additional 327 exhibitions in
other locations. During the year, SITES exhibitions traveled
to thirty-seven cities in forty-six states, the District of
Columbia, and countries abroad and were viewed by more
than eleven million people.

At the National Zoological Park, new exhibitions are
reinforcing the Zoo’s evolution into a biological park. The
important addition of ‘“‘Wetlands,” opened by renowned
conservationist Sir Peter Scott and Smithsonian Secretary
Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley as part of the Zoo’s centennial
celebrations, reflects a concern for the little-understood and
complex relationship between plant and animal life. Also in
keeping with the Zoo’s birthday celebrations, a unique
photographic display illustrated its history, from the Zoo’s
early days as a collection of exotic animals to its develop-
ment as a highly respected research and educational institu-
tion. Throughout the Zoo, there were more than a thousand
births and hatchings; among the most significant was the
birth of seven black-footed ferrets, a North American species
that is extinct in the wild.

Reaching out to ever wider audiences, the Smithsonian
reinforced its commitment to the African American, Hispanic
American, Native American, and Asian American communi-
ties, as well as to the vast numbers of disabled visitors who
visit its facilities each year. Even as the groundwork for the
National Museum of the American Indian was being laid, the
Smithsonian’s Office of Public Affairs launched a new Native
American Media Outreach Program. Under the leadership of
a Seneca Indian, the Institution introduced itself to more
than four hundred publications and a network of Native

i
Qa
Laura and Esther Between-the-Lodges and granddaughter Julie
Lakota inspect handcrafted Sioux cradles from the collection at the
National Museum of Natural History. They came to the museum to
participate in an oral-history project on the traditional arts of Lakota
Sioux women. (Photograph by Jane Beck)

American media professionals from tribes across the country
and prepared a prototype of a newsletter for Native Americans.

David Warren was appointed to the Office of Interdiscipli-
nary Studies as special assistant for applied community
research. He served as adviser and resource for various
outreach programs to American Indian communities and
constituencies in the United States and abroad and was
appointed to the search and program committees of the
National Museum of the American Indian.

During the year, Smithsonian museums and public pro-
grams were awarded a total of more than $5 50,000 through
the Educational Outreach Program, administered by the Office
of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service. One project to
which Educational Outreach funds were allocated was the
Hopi Ceramics Project, which represents a collaboration
among the Smithsonian Conservation Analytical Laboratory,
a Hopi ceramicist, and a Hopi film producer. Combining
American Indian traditions and the appropniate scientific meth-
ods, the project has served as a model program for another
project with American Indian communities. At the National
Museum of Natural History, a program was created to bring
storytellers, musicians, dancers, and artisans to the museum
setting from tribes throughout the United States and Canada.
The program, started in July of 1989, will continue for two
years. The National Museum of American History docu-
mented the experiences of Buffalo Bird Woman, her brother
Wolf Chief, and her son Edward, in an exhibition titled “The
Way to Independence: Memories of a Hidatsa Indian Family,
1840-1920,” which was organized by the Minnesota His-
torical Society and coordinated by the museum’s American
Indian Program.

The Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience under-
went a revision in 1988-1989 to become the Office of
Wider Audience Development (OWAD). In the absence of an
OWAD director, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Public Service managed the OWAD programs—exhibitions,
membership programs, media output and ethnic working
committees—as the Institution experienced increased partici-
pation of culturally diverse audiences. Noteworthy among
these programs was the third annual Smithsonian observance
of the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Presented on
January 16, 1989, the event featured John Kuo Wei Tchen,
director of the Asian Pacific Studies Center at Queens
College.

With the establishment of the Smithsonian Cultural Edu-
cation Committee in 1987, Public Service strengthened its
outreach efforts by addressing new responsibilities posed to
the national museum by the increase and diversity of cultural
and ethnic communities in the United States. Toward that
end, the committee has commissioned a paper titled “Cultural
Equity,” written by Dr. Henry Gates, W. E. B. DuBois
Professor of Literature, Cornell University.

As in previous years, the Smithsonian participated actively
in Black History Month, Asian Pacific American Heritage
Week, and National Hispanic Heritage Month. Seven
Smithsonian museums and the Resident Associate Program
helped mark Black History Month, which centered around
the role of Afro-American churches in economic, political,
and social development at home and abroad. In observance
of Asian Pacific American Heritage Week, the Smithsonian
focused on the history of Filipino women in America, the
internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, and
daily challenges faced by recent immigrants from Southeast
Asia. During National Hispanic Heritage Month, the Institu-
tion offered music programs, films, and special tours of
Hispanic American art at the National Museum of American
Art. As part of the Smithsonian’s recognition of the impor-
tance of the Hispanic American community, the noted
Mexican author Carlos Fuentes is writing and narrating “The
Buried Mirror,” a bilingual series of five one-hour television
programs about the interaction between Iberia and the
Americas. This series, which will finish production in 1991,
is the centerpiece of the Smithsonian’s planned Columbus
Quincentenary activities marking the 5ooth anniversary of
Columbus’s historic voyage.

In another tribute to North American cultures, the exhibi-
tion of “Caribbean Festival Arts” on display at the Interna-
tional Gallery brings to life three important Caribbean festivals:
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago; Jonkonnu, a street mas-
querade once held at Christmastime in Jamaica; and Hosay,
an Islamic festival celebrated in Trinidad, Jamaica, and other
Caribbean islands. The exhibition, which includes thirty-six
imaginative costumes displayed on life-size mannequins ina
setting reminiscent of the Caribbean islands, shows how
these festivals are derived from the convergence of African,
English, French, Indian, and Spanish traditions.

The annual Smithsonian Festival of American Folklife also
picked up on the Caribbean theme, focusing on, among
other things, the state of Hawaii and the influence of Creole
traditions on Caribbean cultures. To study these and other
cultures on a grass roots level, the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams initiated anew summer folklore institute this year.

In addition to reaching out to ethnic communities, the
Smithsonian also made new overtures to disabled people.
Discovery Theater extended its season to July this year so it
could produce “Rosa Parks: Speaking Out” in both English
and American Sign Language with a cast of deaf actors and
hearing actors. The show was presented in conjunction with
the Deaf Way, an international festival and conference on the
language, art, and history of hearing-impaired people. The
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (OESE) and
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Museums also
participated in this event with a brochure highlighting the
works of deaf artists. This year, OESE also produced a
pictorial newsletter for mentally retarded adults explaining
Smithsonian events and exhibitions.

To help Smithsonian museums and bureaus learn more
about their visitors, the Office of Institutional Studies worked
in collaboration with other Smithsonian offices and bureaus
to examine their constituencies and activities. The aim of the
office is to provide information and analyses that fulfill the
common goal of improving and enriching the Smithsonian
experience. Scientifically sampled surveys help bureaus under-
stand their visitors’ characteristics, attitudes, and interests.
This information has led to in-depth profiles of Contributing
Members and Resident Associates. An in-depth six-month
demographic study of visitors to the National Air and Space
Museum also resulted in two derivative studies. One of those
studies helped explore the feasibility of a NASM extension
facility. The second sketched preliminary visitor profiles for
two other Smithsonian museums on the Mall—the National
Museum of American History and the National Museum of
Natural History.

Exhibition studies seek to assess not only who comes to
specific exhibitions but also what educational experiences

occur in the gallery. Several upcoming studies in the National
Museum of Natural History will examine the effectiveness of
interactive computers as sources of both education and
entertainment. While many studies to date have focused on
existing audiences and services, an underlying and critical
theme for research is the concern for finding ways of
reaching, attracting, and communicating to new and diverse
audiences.

Education for all people—from the very young to senior
citizens—continued in full force this year with a wealth of
high-quality and timely activities offered through the
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program (RAP). The pro-
gram offered 1,938 activities that reached more than 294,000
adults and young people. As in other parts of the Institution,
RAP made special efforts to reach wider audiences. Its
Discover Graphics program offered 200 talented high school
students and their teachers in the Washington, D.C., area free
etching and lithography training. The new Afro-American
Studies program presented a wide range of liberal arts
courses connected to Afro-American heritage and reached a
record 10,000 people through forty varied events. And
traditional RAP events—the twenty-third annual Kite Festi-
val, Tuesday Mornings at the Smithsonian, and Campus on
the Mall—continued to attract record audiences ranging from
10,000 people for the kite festival to more than 70,000
students to the Campus on the Mall program.

The Smithsonian National Associate Program offers inno-
vative educational opportunities to more than two million
members around the world, providing an effective way to
expand the Smithsonian’s boundaries. The recently estab-
lished Research Expedition Program spanned the globe, from
the Arenal Volcano near San Jose, Costa Rica, to American
Indian studies in Montana.

Committed to education for people who are not able to
visit the Institution, the Smithsonian reaches audiences
through television, radio, books, and magazines. Through
the Office of Telecommunications, the Smithsonian has
developed several important video projects, including The
Earth in Our Hands, a PBS broadcast narrated by Robert
Redford that follows the laboratory and field staff of the
Smithsonian’s Marine Systems Laboratory as its scientists
work to construct an experimental model of the Earth’s
ecosystems. To reach Spanish-speaking audiences, the office
designed a pilot, “Descubra el Smithsonian,” which describes
the Smithsonian’s museums and programs in a series of
two-minute features. The Institution’s Latino Media Com-
mittee served as an adviser on the project.
Ina children’s workshop conducted for the exhibition ““The Art of
Paul Manship” at the National Museum of American Art, participants
developed their visual skills by studying the artist’s interpretation of
such animals as lions, dolphins, and baboons.

“Radio Smithsonian,” a weekly half-hour series, is now
carried by ninety National Public Radio affiliates and is heard
by some four million people. “Smithsonian World,” a
coproduction of the Smithsonian and WETA-TV in Wash-
ington, D.C., with major funding from Southwestern Bell
Corporation, won several awards for its 1989 productions,
including CINE Golden Eagle awards for “The Living
Smithsonian” and “American Dream at Groton.” On line for
next year are programs about the National Zoo, an explora-
tion of how people have found new and ingenious ways to
adapt food to fast-paced and ever-changing technological
culture, and a look at a recent exhibition of contemporary
Nigerian sculpture at the National Museum of African Art.

Another television project that emerged this year, through
the efforts of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public
Service, was “Invention,” planned as a thirteen-part televi-
sion series focusing on the collections of the National
Museum of American History. Funded and produced by the
Discovery Channel and scheduled for airing in 1991, the
series is expected to be broadcast on cable television (Dis-
covery Channel) nationwide and subsequently released for
worldwide distribution.

26

Andrew Ferguson was appointed special assistant for
media activities in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Public Service in January. In addition to carrying out his
advisory and development responsibilities, Ferguson served
as executive producer of the “Smithsonian Video Collec-
tion,” a six-hour video series, jointly undertaken by the
Smithsonian and Eastman Kodak, on some of the Institution’s
most popular collections.

As for Smithsonian publications, circulation of Air &
Space/Smithsonian and Smithsonian magazines continued to
soar, making them among the most important museum-
affiliated magazines in the world. The Office of Public Affairs
increased circulation of its newsletter Research Reports by
more than 6,000 readers. Now, nearly 5 8,000 people receive
Research Reports, which will increase the frequency of publi-
cation from three to four times a year in 1990.

The Smithsonian Institution Press published eighty-five
books this year, covering topics in art, science, anthropol-
ogy, aviation, and history. The Book Development Division
is establishing a children’s publishing branch at the Press that
would focus on twentieth-century American children’s clas-
sics with a broad, multicultural appeal.

The Office of Optical Publishing, established in 1988 to
promote the development of “hypermedia” or multimedia
products and to provide in-house expertise in all aspects of
interactive educational technology, carried forth a number of
projects this year. In progress are interactive compact disks
produced in conjunction with Phillips Polygram: a disk
version of the Smithsonian Institution Press publication
Treasures of the Smithsonian (1983) by Edwards Park and
disks on the National Air and Space Museum and the Duke
Ellington Collection.

In addition to the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education, two central offices at the Smithsonian work with
our nation’s schools in an attempt to improve education ona
large-scale basis. The Science and Technology for Children
curriculum of the National Science Resources Center
(NSRC) introduces to elementary school classrooms hands-on
science units in the natural, physical, and biological sciences
as a way to improve science teaching. The first three units in
this series are being field-tested in schools throughout the
country. In addition to promoting this innovative concept
through classroom materials, the NSRC also holds annual
leadership institutes to foster effective teaching methods at
the grass roots level. Also concerned with improving educa-
tion nationally, the National Demonstration Laboratory for
Interactive Educational Technologies focuses on the use of
Cameras roll in the Enid A. Haupt Garden on a soggy spring day as celebrity Pat Morita tells a group of twenty children ““The Smithsonian
Story.” Through the magic of filmmaking, the final thirty-second television public service announcement made the day look sunny and bright.

interactive technologies such as videodiscs as a way to
strengthen the nation’s approaches to education.

With the increasing worldwide concern for the environment,

the Smithsonian accelerated its research efforts in this area.
The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO), the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center (SERC), the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI), and the
National Museum of Natural History all have research
programs focusing on key aspects of the environment.

At SAO, researchers are investigating the processes that
may preserve or destroy the Earth’s ozone layer. Using data
from the spectra of several stratospheric molecules obtained
by a balloon-borne infrared spectrometer flown in May
1989, SAO scientists are investigating how the amounts of
such chemicals as ozone, carbon dioxide, hydrogen perox-
ide, and hydroxyl vary with both time and altitude. This
information is being analyzed as part of the effort to deter-
mine what processes may preserve or destroy Earth’s protec-
tive shield of atmosphere.

For the last several years, SERC has been involved in a
project designed to measure the amount of harmful radiation
penetrating the Earth’s atmosphere. In addition, SERC

researchers are measuring the levels of carbon—which are
reflected in the “greenhouse effect” —in specialized environ-
ments on the Chesapeake Bay. STRI has long been interested
in biological diversity, and its location on the isthmus of
Panama makes it an ideal center for such research. Research-
ers are studying new species in the Caribbean, interrelations
in tropical communities, and the impact of the greenhouse
effect on Earth.

The National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man is also involved in serious study of the
environment. The museum manages a biodiversity program
called the Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems (MCS),
located in Manaus, Brazil. The project is studying ways to
conserve the tropical forest. In a second biodiversity project,
museum researchers sent scientists to the Amazonia forests
in Manu Reserved Zone, Peru, for the third year in a row, to
participate in long-term inventories of tropical life as part of
an effort to protect rare and endangered species.

Other areas were also studied this year as researchers
strived to add to our collective knowledge about the Earth,
the solar system and the Universe. At SAO, scientists
became detectives as they struggled to decipher lunar sam-
ples brought back by Apollo rz astronauts twenty years ago.
Another team at SAO is working to understand data from the
Einstein Observatory, which brought information on the first
cosmic X-ray sources to Earth, a decade after they were first
received. The result of this endeavor will be a catalogue of
some one thousand X-ray objects, half of which had not
been seen before the satellite’s operation.

Research efforts at the National Zoological Park expanded
this year as a result of the opening of the renovated Research
Building. Several researchers were added to the staff to
explore areas ranging from animal conservation to the
establishment of a wild animal tissue-cell culture bank.
Conservation has been an important component of research
efforts at the Zoo for the last several years and is especially
highlighted in its world-renowned conservation program. In
1989, the number of reintroduced tamarins in the wild
reached sixty-seven; twenty-nine of those survived. These in
turn had thirteen surviving offspring.

The National Air and Space Museum carries out research
in a wide range of areas, including the history of aviation, the
history of rocketry and spaceflight, and comparative plane-
tology. This year’s advances include the completion of
additional volumes in the Smithsonian History of Aviation
Series; detailed geological mapping of parts of Mars; research
on desertification in Egypt, Mali, and Botswana; and research
on the development and testing of infrared spectroscopic
instruments for ground- and space-based astronomical obser-
vations through the newly established Laboratory for
Astrophysics.

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory continued to
investigate techniques to preserve the Smithsonian’s valuable
collections. One multiyear project is concerned with the
effect that solvents used to clean paintings have on long-term
preservation. In another important research effort, scientists
are analyzing the effect of insecticides—a necessity in most
museums—on the color stability of textile dyes.

Smithsonian research opportunities for students and scholars
are unparalleled around the world. The Office of Fellowships
and Grants (OFG) administers programs that provide an
important link between the Institution and scholars from
other countries. This year, the office awarded eighty-seven
predoctoral, postdoctoral, and senior postdoctoral Smith-
sonian Research Fellowships. Grants included both long-
and short-term appointments and involved research in a
wide range of fields, from protein metabolism in lactating
grey and harbor seals to the representation of consumer

28

culture from 1900 to 1930. The Faculty Fellowship Program
is especially geared to minority faculty members and enables
participants to conduct research at the Institution for two to
four months. OFG also administers internship programs; this
year, a total of 131 appointments were made, a substantial
increase Over previous years.

Several bureaus offer degree programs in cooperation with
a major university. Now in its sixth year, the Cooper-Hewitt/
Parson’s Master’s Program in the History of Decorative Arts
offered invaluable training to future scholars and curators.
The doctoral program under the auspices of the Conserva-
tion Analytical Laboratory (CAL) in collaboration with the
Johns Hopkins University continues to flourish, with CAL
staff supervising the work of three doctoral students this
year.

Lectures, symposia, and seminars are another way that the
Smithsonian seeks to educate the academic community and
the general public. The Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program presented one hundred lectures, with such well-
known figures as novelist Alice Walker, poet Nikki Giovanni,
and Nobel Prize-winning geneticist James D. Watson. All-day
seminars covered medieval French architecture, Hinduism,
and Central American history and politics. The Office of
Interdisciplinary Studies sponsored several symposia, includ-
ing the second colloquium on world food issues.

Providing information to the public by answering ques-
tions and circulating books is another important service that
the Smithsonian offers. This year, the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries answered 57,745 questions and circulated
42,684 books. At the Smithsonian Institution Archives, staff
answered more than 1,200 requests and provided nearly
6,000 items and 15,000 copies to researchers. The Visitor
Information and Associates’ Reception Center received and
processed more than 57,000 pieces of mail and distributed
3,500 information packets. And nearly 4,500 faculty mem-
bers, graduate students and fellows, museum and gallery
curators, collectors, and freelance writers and historians
made use of the Archives of American Art’s rich collections.

Each year, the Smithsonian seeks to improve its facilities by
adding to its already impressive collections. This year was no
exception as the Institution enhanced its holdings with
several noteworthy acquisitions.

At the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the
museum’s permanent collection was enriched by twelve gifts
and thirty-two purchases. Notable acquisitions include a
major painting by Jasper Johns, Untitled (1987); significant
A monumental projected image by the Polish-born, politically oriented artist Krzysztof Wodiczko appeared on the exterior of the Hirshhorn
Museum on the evenings of October 25, 26, and 27. The dramatic image reflected, among other interpretations, the artist’s views concerning
America’s media-oriented election process.

works by European artists, including The Soul of Morvan
(1954) by Jean Dubuffet and Stainvell (Treppenhaus) (1982)
by Sigmar Polke; and several pieces by Washington-area
artists, including Kendall Buster, Robin Rose, Alan Stone,
and Andrea Way.

The National Museum of American Art added paintings
that marked significant developments in each artist’s career.
Louis Comfort Tiffany’s Market Day outside the Walls of
Tangier (1873) illustrates the artist’s fascination with oriental
themes. Alice Neel’s oil portrait of Max White, Theodore
Roszak’s Recording Sound, and significant sculptures by
Brian Hunt were among the museum’s important 1989
acquisitions. The National Portrait Gallery acquired a bronze
bust of President George Bush, as well as the John Smibert
portrait of Bishop Berkeley from the Morris and Gwendolyn
Cafritz Foundation and the Rene Bouche portrait of Benny
Goodman from the musician’s daughters. The Cooper-
Hewitt Museum added 2,253 items in 1989, including the
Ludmilla and Henry Shapiro Collection of Soviet porcelains.

The acquisitions of the National Museum of American
History spanned a wide range of subjects, including 7,000

objects from Larry Zimmerman’s World’s Fair Collection;
several hundred pieces of ceramic tableware produced by the
Salem China Company; a collection of Max Factor cosmetics
from the 1920s through 1950; and 196 Chinese patent
medicines, tonics, vitamins, antibiotics, and contraceptives.

The National Museum of African Art had a successful
year, acquiring 225 objects, a marked increase over last
year’s total of 22. One of the most exciting acquisitions was
a collection of 85 ceramic vessels from central Africa. Other
significant gifts include a Yoruba palace door carved by
master sculptor Olowe of Ise and a rare Kongo cast copper-
alloy bracelet from Zaire. The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
acquired a late eighteenth-century Nepalese painting and a
glazed jar from a modern Japanese ceramicist. The Freer
Gallery of Art acquisitions included a seventeenth-century
gold-lacquer covered box and a Ming dynasty Chinese
hanging scroll.

The National Air and Space Museum added 120 objects to
its collections, including archives from the Fairchild Corpo-
ration, the HiMAT aircraft collection, and a C-130 cargo
carrier typical of those used in Vietnam. And the National
Museum of Natural History, among its tens of thousands of
acquisitions, received a collection of four thousand silver-
spotted fritillary butterflies gathered from nine western states
over a period of forty years. They fill an important gap in the
museum’s rare butterfly collections.

To manage these vast holdings, the Smithsonian has been
establishing computer data bases over the past several years.
The Office of Information Resource Management imple-
mented new Collections Information System data bases for
the mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians, and botany
collections within the National Museum of Natural History
and began work on data bases for entomology and anthro-
pology and for the permanent collections of the National
Museum of American Art. In addition, work on data bases
for the permanent collections at the National Air and Space
Museum is also under way.

The Smithsonian would not be able to function smoothly
without the many offices behind the scenes that lend their
expertise to its countless activities. Under the direction of the
Office of Design and Construction, many important renova-
tion projects are progressing smoothly. An architectural firm
has been selected to determine if the Baltimore- Washington
International Airport or the Dulles International Airport is an
appropriate site for an extension to the National Air and
Space Museum. The office is also managing the renovation
of the Freer Gallery of Art, which is well under way. And the
Tupper Research and Conference Center at the Tropical
Research Institute in Panama and the Smithsonian Informa-
tion Center in the Castle both opened this year. Programs to
maintain the National Museum of American History and the
National Museum of Natural History are also part of this
office’s domain.

Other administrative offices concentrated on improving
work conditions at the Smithsonian. The Office of Personnel
Administration continued in its efforts to improve the quality
of staff services provided to Smithsonian bureaus and organi-
zations. This year a special examining office with authority
delegated from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management
was established to speed up staffing and recruitment actions.
The Office of Equal Opportunity continued to emphasize the
placement of minorities in senior, professional, and adminis-
trative positions through the Institution-wide affirmative
action plan. The Institution sustained limited but steady
progress in its effort to achieve cultural diversity in key
positions by the appointment of a minority woman as an
assistant secretary, and American Indians, Asian Americans,

(eo)

We

African Americans, and Hispanic Americans to a variety of
research, curatorial, and program management positions.

The Office of Information Resource Management (OIRM)
implemented the first phase of an Institution-wide electronic
mail system, linking more than 350 staff members into a
central system. OIRM also continued to establish data
communications service between the Mall and the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama.

The Office of Printing and Photographic Services expanded
its highly successful cold storage facility during 1989 to
provide additional space for the archival protection of its
growing photographic collection, which is increasing by
20,000 photographs each year.

To tighten security at the Smithsonian, the Office of
Protection Services (OPS) changed all the locks at the
Museum of Natural History and extended card access sys-
tems to new sites, including the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art, the National Portrait Gallery, and the Garber
Facility. The National Air and Space Museum became the
last major Smithsonian facility to be converted to the
Institution’s own proprietary security system.

Recognizing the importance of a healthy work force, OPS
expanded the Institution’s occupational health program by
instituting employee wellness activities such as an HIV-
positive support group as part of the Employee Assistance
Program.

The Office of Architectural History and Historic Preserva-
tion tried an innovative historic preservation project this
year—recording on videotape the renovation process of the
Great Hall of the Smithsonian Castle. The technique proved
to be a successful way to document progress and will be used
for other such projects.

Behind-the-scenes work at the Smithsonian involves
people—both staff and volunteers—who contribute immea-
surably to the functioning of the Institution. This year,
volunteerism at the Smithsonian continued to rise, with
whole families giving of their time and expertise to make the
Smithsonian experience as enjoyable as possible. Some 5,252
volunteers were active during the year, contributing 468,099
hours of service. The volunteers provided assistance during
regular museum hours and at special events. And two
important “labors of love’—the annual Washington Craft
Show and the annual Christmas Dance—sponsored by the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates col-
lected enough money to enable the committee to award
forty-four grants to twenty museums and bureaus. Sixty-
three active members and seventy-five resource members
from the Women’s Committee contributed more than seven
thousand volunteer hours to the Institution.

The dedication of all the people associated with the
Smithsonian—from museum curators to public affairs offi-
cers, security guards to volunteer docents—has enabled the
Institution to thrive as a dynamic multifaceted center of
education that provides pleasure and intellectual stimulation
to millions of people from around the country and the world.

Staff Changes

This last year began with the extraordinarily disheartening
death of Joseph Coudon, who had served as the special
assistant to the secretary for the last eight years. While his
presence will long be missed, we were pleased to bring to
that position Marie Mattson from the National Museum of
American History. As the year progressed, we lost two other
highly valued members of the staff. Rev. John R. Kinard, the
founding director and guiding light of the Anacostia Museum
for twenty-two years, died in August; the museum—one is
tempted to say his museum—is now under the steady hand of
interim director Zora Felton. More recently, we were very
sorry to lose, at first by retirement and then by death, the
accomplished Sam Greenberg, who had served as director of
the Museum Shops since 1982.

It is always a pleasure to find among the existing staff
people who are ready to assume larger responsibilities. This
year, for instance, we asked Alice Green Burnette, who came
to the Smithsonian in 1988 from Howard University as our
deputy assistant secretary for external affairs, to assume the
new position of assistant secretary for institutional initiatives.
Similarly, we appointed Milo Beach, formerly assistant direc-
tor for the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, to the position of
director of the Freer and Sackler Galleries; David L. Correll,
formerly acting director at the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center, to be director of the center; and Joseph M.
Carper, formerly acting director of the Smithsonian National
Associate Program, to become director of the program. The
obverse of this process, however, takes its unfortunate toll,
and in that regard we accepted the resignations of Howard
Toy as director of the Office of Personnel Administration,
Patrick Stanton as director of the Office of Audits and
Investigations, Jane Glaser as director of the Office of
Museum Programs, and James Buckler as director of the
Office of Horticulture.

As the year draws to a close, we are still in the process of

recruiting for a number of vacancies in the senior staff, but
we were delighted to attract Barbara J. Smith (formerly
assistant dean of libraries at the Pennsylvania State Univer-
sity) as director of the Smithsonian Libraries.

These comings and goings remind us all, once again, of
the extent to which this venerable Institution is dependent
upon the qualities and energies that the staff bring to bear.
Indeed, it is they who constitute the core vitality and
continuity that the Smithsonian has come to symbolize.
Report of the Board of Regents

The Board of Regents’ first meeting of the year, held on
January 30, 1989, was called to order as the Carlisle H.
Humelsine Memorial Meeting in honor of the late regent
who had died shortly before. Paying tribute to Mr. Humelsine,
the Board of Regents expressed their heartfelt sympathy to
Mrs. Humelsine and “their deep sense of loss that the
Institution and the nation have sustained in the passing of
this extraordinary citizen, public servant, and member of the
Board of Regents.” He had been a regent since 1980 and
chairman of the Executive Committee since 1982. To fill
voids left on the Executive Committee by Mr. Humelsine’s
passing, the regents elected Mr. David C. Acheson as
chairman and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist as a
member.

The board amended its bylaws to provide for a nominating
committee and to effect certain other editorial changes. The
board also accepted the recommendations of the Audit and
Review Committee with respect to contracting for external
audit services, providing that the firm of Coopers & Lybrand
be engaged under contract on a yearly basis, renewable at the
pleasure of the board or committee for no more than ten
years without further competitive bidding.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents
met on December 7, 1988, to discuss financial procedures at
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, aspects of the
amendment to the Inspector General Act of 1978 enacted on
October 18, 1988, and steps taken to safeguard the financial
interests of the Smithsonian’s non-U.S. employees in Panama.
The Personnel Committee reported that it had found no
conflict of interest whatsoever in its annual review of the
senior management’s statements of financial interests. As
recommended by the Investment Policy Committee, the
regents approved the appointment of Mr. John English as a
committee member. On October 18, 1988, the Investment
Policy Committee met with the investment managers and
exchanged views of investment opportunities.

Building upon extensive prior discussion, the Board of
Regents accepted in principle the major provisions of the
most recent draft agreement between the Museum of the
American Indian, Heye Foundation, and the Smithsonian
and, bearing in mind that certain issues remained, encouraged
the secretary to conduct further discussions toward an
agreement that is in keeping with the interests of the
Smithsonian. Referring similarly to previous deliberations,
the regents approved in principle the establishment of the
National Postal Museum in the City Post Office Building, to
be operated by the Smithsonian Institution in cooperation

with the U.S. Postal Service, and authorized the secretary to
work toward a detailed agreement for its support and
operations.

Other actions at the meeting included the appointment of
Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark as chair of the National Portrait
Gallery Commission, the authorization to purchase a town-
house apartment building adjacent to the property of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the establishment of three new
endowment funds in accordance with several bequests,
approval of The Five-Year Prospectus, Fiscal Years 1990-1994,
authorization for consultative services toward the procure-
ment of special foreign currencies, support for legislation
marking the Centennial of the National Zoological Park and
providing for adjustments in the salary scales of the Zoologi-
cal Park Police, approval of a policy with respect to persons
residing on Smithsonian property at the Environmental
Research Center, authorization for the secretary to investi-
gate the acquisition of a new light industrial warehouse and
special purpose space through lease/purchase arrangements,
and the appointments of David Driskell, Robert Nooter,
Frances Humphrey Howard, Robin Bradley Martin, and
Donald M. Stewart to the Commission of the National
Museum of African Art, and Charles Parkhurst, Norman
Bernstein, Jacob Lawrence, Jacques Lennon, Owen M. Lopez,
and Mary Schmidt Campbell to the Commission of the
National Museum of American Art.

Reports were discussed on the Institution’s agreement to
manage the World Wildlife Fund’s Minimum Critical Size of
Ecosystems Project, the status of the American Visions
magazine, the status of funds, initiatives to be taken for the
enhancement of membership and development activities,
problems in setting appropriate salaries for senior staff, major
development initiatives, legislative actions and issues, the
potential extension of the National Air and Space Museum,
African American programming throughout the Institution,
strategic planning at the Smithsonian, the policy ona
drug-free workplace, the Smithsonian Council’s meeting in
October 1988, and a wide variety of other status reports.

As a final item in the regents’ agenda, the Smithsonian
Project Discovery was demonstrated through the use of its
computers, video monitors, and laser disc components. On
the preceding evening, January 29, 1989, the traditional
regents’ dinner was hosted by the chancellor and Mrs.
Rehnquist in the Supreme Court. Following tributes to the
late Mr. Humelsine by Messrs. Adams and Acheson, the
chancellor treated the guests to an enlightening glimpse of
Supreme Court history as played out through the lives and

N
work of some of his distinguished predecessors.

The regents’ second meeting of the year was held on the
morning of May 8. To fill the vacancy created by the death of
Mr. Humelsine and to appoint a chairman in his stead, the
regents appointed former Senator Charles McC. Mathias, Jr.,
as chairman of the Personnel Committee and Mrs. Jeannine
Smith Clark as a member of that committee. Accepting the
recommendation of the Nominating Committee, the board
nominated Mrs. Clark and Mr. Samuel C. Johnson to serve
additional terms for the statutory period of six years. The
Audit and Review Committee reported on its meeting of
March 7, noting that Coopers & Lybrand gave the Smith-
sonian a “clean opinion” on its financial statements for fiscal
year 1988 but made several recommendations for manage-
ment improvements; at the same meeting the Institution’s
internal auditors presented their annual report of significant
audit recommendations. The Investment Policy Committee
reported on the status of the endowment portfolio, and the
committee’s recommendation of a slight increase in the rate
of payout from endowment funds was approved by the
board for fiscal year 1990.

Mr. Adams brought the regents up to date on certain
legislative initiatives and hearings in the Congress, on the
status of Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine, on plans for the
dedication of the Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., Laboratory of
the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center on June 1,
on a major grant received from the Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation for a three-year program of fellowships in terres-
trial biology, and on the minimal impact of political and
economic difficulties on the activities of the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute in Panama. After receiving the
financial report, the regents voted to establish, as part of the
Institution’s endowment funds, a quasi-unrestricted fund to
be known as the Roy R. Phillips Fund. It was also noted that
a contract was signed for the purchase of the Fox House, a
townhouse adjacent to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

The regents gave careful consideration to a draft Memo-
randum of Understanding between the Heye Foundation and
the Smithsonian, signed on behalf of the Heye Foundation
on March 16, 1989, and draft legislation that would imple-
ment the Memorandum of Understanding by authorizing the
establishment of the National Museum of the American
Indian on the Mall in Washington, a storage and conserva-
tion facility at the Smithsonian’s Museum Support Center,
and a branch of the Museum in the Custom House in New
York City. Voting affirmatively on three separate motions,
the regents (1) recognized that the future use of the present

facility at Audubon Terrace needs to be considered, and the
Smithsonian Institution will continue to work with the city
of New York and the Heye Foundation on programming and
related questions, (2) approved the Memorandum of Under-
standing and authorized the secretary to execute it, and (3)
requested the congressional members of the board to sup-
port legislation to establish the museum within the Smith-
sonian. With these actions completed, the secretary invited
the regents to join him for a public signing ceremony and
press conference on the east terrace of the National Air and
Space Museum (overlooking the site of the proposed mu-
seum) following the meeting.

In other actions, the secretary discussed with the regents a
variety of possibilities for the establishment of an African
American museum within the Smithsonian and the possible
implications for the future development of the Anacostia
Museum, and he indicated that he will take measured steps
toward resolution of these issues. Mr. Adams noted that a
site evaluation study has been initiated under contract for the
National Air and Space Museum extension. He and his staff
described plans laid to enhance the current level of private
sector support of the Institution and to identify the prerequi-
sites that could be used to plan a pan-Institutional develop-
ment campaign. The regents discussed several bills introduced
thus far in the First Session of the rorst Congress and
expressed concern over their implications for the Smithsonian.
Finally, the board accepted the Annual Report of the secre-
tary for fiscal year 1988.

The traditional regents’ dinner was held on the preceding
evening, May 7, 1989, beginning with a reception in the
pavilion of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, which was fol-
lowed by dinner in the pavilion of the National Museum of
African Art. Following the dinner Mr. Adams welcomed the
guests, and African Art Museum Director Sylvia Williams
spoke briefly about her fascination with the art of Africa and
provided insights into the museum’s two new exhibitions,
“Gold of Africa: Jewelry and Ornaments from Ghana, Cote
d'Ivoire, Mali, and Senegal” and ‘“‘Sounding Forms: African
Musical Instruments,” in which the regents and their guests
were encouraged to linger after dinner.

The regents’ final meeting of the fiscal year was held on
September 18, 1989. After the Nominating Committee
reported on its activities, the regents nominated Dr. Homer
A. Neal of Michigan and the Honorable R. James Woolsey of
Maryland as citizen members of the board for statutory terms
of six years. The Audit and Review Committee reported on
its June 1 meeting in which it reviewed Coopers & Lybrand’s

ww
Ls)
audit plan for fiscal year 1989, corrective activities with
respect to museum shop management and certain banking
relationships, and actions taken to close out significant
long-standing “‘open recommendations” of the Smithsonian’s
Office of the Inspector General. The Investment Policy
Committee reported on the status of the endowment funds.

Reporting on a wide variety of recent developments, Mr.
Adams briefed the regents on the status of Air & Space/
Smithsonian magazine, legislative initiatives to establish a
National Center for Biological Diversity at the Smithsonian,
activities leading to the establishment of the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian, possibilities of establishing an
African American presence at the Smithsonian, and plans for
the renovation of the National Museum of Natural History.
The secretary described the evolution of the Smithsonian’s
Corporate Associate Program, and the regents enthusiasti-
cally endorsed his initiatives. He also outlined the need for
an organizational and management review, which promises
to enable the Institution to meet future challenges most
effectively.

Actions of the regents included preliminary consideration
of the site selection evaluation for the extension of the
National Air and Space Museum, approval of budget revi-
sions for fiscal years 1989 and 1990, and approval of the
budget request to the Office of Management and Budget for
fiscal year 1991. The regents discussed the draft of the
Five-Year Prospectus for fiscal years 1991-1995 and adopted
motions requesting amendment of their authority to appoint
assistant secretaries to federal executive-level positions, ap-
pointing Robert L. McNeil, Stephen Jay Gould, Marta Istomin,
and David Levering Lewis to the Commission of the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery, and approving revised bylaws for the
Commission of the Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design.

At the regents’ dinner on Sunday evening, September 17,
in the S. Dillon Ripley Center, Mr. Adams greeted the guests,
Assistant Secretary Freudenheim spoke about the Interna-
tional Gallery’s potential as a pan-Institutional exhibition
facility, and Dr. Vera Hyatt, curator of the “Caribbean
Festival Arts” exhibition, invited the guests to view the
exhibition after dinner.

Benefactors

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the support of the
individuals, foundations, and corporations listed below,
whose gifts, bequests, and contributing memberships aided
the work of the Institution during the past fiscal year.

The Smithsonian owes its founding to the generosity of
one individual. During most of its history since 1846, the
Institution has relied upon a combination of both federal and
trust funding to carry out the terms of James Smithson’s
will. As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the
Smithsonian has received federal appropriations for re-
search, exhibition of the national collections, and mainte-
nance of the valuable objects of science, history, and culture
entrusted to it.

The trust funds have been equally important, providing the
Smithsonian with the flexibility and independence essential
to its innovative growth. Such nonfederal funds traditionally

have made possible many of the research, acquisition,
and educational programs central to the Institution’s

achievements.

Donors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts of $1,000 or more

to the Smithsonian trust funds.

$500,000 or more

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
The Pew Memorial Trust
Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

$100,000 or more

American Committee on the French
Revolution, Inc.

Association for Japan-U.S.
Community Exchange

Boeing Company

Burch Heart Research & Education
Fund

The Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Comite Colbert

Digital Equipment Corporation

Domino Farms Corporation

Electronic Data Systems
Corporation

Electronic Industries Association

Exxon Coal & Minerals Company

State of Hawaii, State Foundation
for Culture and the Arts

Hawaii Visitors Bureau

Homestake Mining Company

INTEL Corporation

International Business Machines
Corporation (IBM)

Lotus Development Corporation

National Institute for the
Conservation of Cultural
Property, Inc.

Northrop Corporation

Oracle Corporation

Reading Is Fundamental

Rockefeller Foundation

Shell Oil Company Foundation

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

Bruce F. Springsteen

Texaco Inc. Foundation

Tiffany & Co.

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

Xerox Foundation

$50,000 or more

AT&T Foundation
Advanced Computer Systems
Ameritech Foundation
Campbell Soup Company
Chevron U.S.A. Inc.
Colgate-Palmolive Company
Exxon Corporation

Dr. & Mrs. Phillip Frost
General Foods Fund, Inc.

J. Paul Getty Trust

Jerome L. Greene Foundation, Inc.
Grumman Corporation

Hewlett Packard Company

INTELSAT

W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc.

Kraft, Inc.

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

Martin Marietta Corporation

Maxell Corporation of America

Nan Tucker McEvoy

The Mabel Pew Myrin Trust

Nature Conservancy

Novell Incorporated

Noxell Corporation

NYNEX Service Company

Pacific Telesis Group

J.N. Pew, Jr., Charitable Trust

Phenie R. & Herman T. Pott
Foundation

Recording Industry Association

Rockwell International Corporation

Mrs. Else Sackler

Smithkline Beckman Corporation

Southwestern Bell Telephone

Swedish Tobacco Company

University of Tennessee

US WEST

U.S. Patent Model Foundation

United Technologies & Sikorsky
Aircraft

The Andy Warhol Foundation

World Wildlife Fund

Barry Yampol

$10,000 or more

AKC Fund Inc.

James R. Agen

Ahmanson Foundation

Air Line Pilots Association

University of Alaska

Alexander & Baldwin, Inc.

Aloha Airlines, Inc.

American Association of Retired
Persons

American Express Company

American Finance Group

American Friends of the Vatican
Library

American Movie Classics

American Pharmaceutical
Association

American Telephone & Telegraph
Co. (AT&T)

The Anschutz Foundation

Barbara Cox Anthony Foundation

ARCO Oil and Gas Company

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Asian Cultural Council for the
Indo-US Subcommission on
Education and Culture

Association of Research Directors,
Inc.

Atomic Library & Technology
Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Jeane Paul Austin

Banco Di Santo Spirito

Bank of Hawaii

Mr. Bahman Batmanghelidj

Bristol-Myers Company

Brother International Corporation

Brown Foundation, Inc.

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

Emil Buehler Trust and Buehler
Aviation Research, Inc.

Fish and Game Department,
California

Carnegie Corporation of New York

Children’s Television Workshop

Cincinnati Insurance Company

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards Foundation

G. Arthur Cooper

Coordination Council for North
American Affairs

The Corporate Printing Company

Josephine R. Cunningham

Dentsu, Inc.

Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc.

E.I. du Pont de Nemours &
Company

Dutch American West-India Co.
Foundation

Duty Free Shoppers, Inc.

Barney A. Ebsworth Foundation

The Equitable Life Assurance
Society of the United States

T. M. Evans Foundation

Fairchild Industries, Inc.

Kitty Fassett

Federal Express Corporation

First City National Bank of Houston

First Hawaiian Bank

Florence Gould Foundation

Freeport-McMoRaan, Inc.

Frito-Lay of Hawaii

GTE Hawaiian Telephone
Company Incorporated

Sidney Gamble Foundation for
China Studies

Gannett Foundation

General Dynamics Corporation

Mrs. Robert H. Gibbs

Grand Marnier Foundation

Great Bear Natural Spring Water
Co.

Agnes Gund

George Gund Foundation

Hawaiian Electronic Industries, Inc.

Hitachi America, Ltd.

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg

International Savings/National
Mortgage & Finance Company

International Union for
Conservation of Nature

Japan Travel Bureau

S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Harry Kahn

King Features Syndicate

Kirkland & Ellis Foundation

Estate of Franklin H. Kissner

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Lannan Foundation

Erno Laszlo Ltd

Lewis Unitrust

MCI Foundation

M&M/Mars

Richard Manoogian

Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Company

Mars Foundation

Merck Family Fund

Mill Pond Press, Inc.

Morgan, Lewis & Bockius

National Geographic Society

Nestle Enterprises, Inc.

New York Times Company
Foundation

NeXT, Incorporated

Edward John Noble Foundation,
Inc.

Oceanic Properties, Inc.

Pacific Resources, Inc.

Pepsi-Cola Company

Perkin-Elmer Corporation

Phelps Dodge Corporation

Rinaldo Piaggio

Max Planck Institut

Prime Computer, Inc.

Purdue University

James Renwick Collectors Alliance

Ringling Brothers and Barnum &
Bailey Combined Shows, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Milton Rosenthal

Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Helena Rubinstein Foundation

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

David Schwartz Foundation, Inc.

David Shepard Conservation
Foundation

Emma M. Sims

Michael R. Sonnenreich

State of South Dakota

Staten Island Children’s Museum

Mr. & Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Gerald Stiebel

The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.

Syntex Laboratones, Inc.

Tennessee State Museum

Times Mirror Foundation

U.S. Borax & Chemical Corporation

UNESCO

U.S. Man & the Biosphere Program

United Technologies Corporation

Van Munching & Co., Inc.

Vinson & Elkins

Dr. George B. Vogt

Warner Communications Inc.

Washington Post

Wildlife Preservation Trust
International, Inc.

Zoologische Gesellschaft

$5,000 or more

AFL-CIO

Ronald Abramson

Joseph Alfandre & Co. Inc.

Ellsworth C. Alvord, Jr.

American Legion Auxiliary

Robert Amory, Jr.

ARCO Foundation

Barra Foundation, Inc.

Richard H. Benson

Max N. Berry

Mr. & Mrs. George Bingham, Jr.

Dr. A. Robert Bissell

Mrs. Helen B. Bissell

BP Minerals America

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust

Eli Broad Family Foundation

Carlson Gallery

William Waller Carson, Sr.,
Revocable Trust

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Gerald W. Chamberlin Foundation,
Inc.

Chase Manhattan Bank

Citicorp/Citibank

Cleveland-Cliffs Foundation

Mary Ann P. Cofrin

The Conde Nast Publications, Inc.

Conservation Treaty Support Fund

Mrs. Joseph Coudon VI

CUBIC Corporation

Dibner Fund, Inc.

Gaylord & Dorothy Donnelley
Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.

The Dudley Observatory

Evergreen Marine Corporation

Fairchild Industries Foundation,
Inc.

Jean Feys, M.D.

Fieldstead & Co.

Miles Fiterman & Shirley Fiterman
Charitable Foundation

Walter & Josephine Ford

Friends of the National Museum of
African Art

Fujisankei Communications
International, Inc.

Gap Foundation

Florence Gould Foundation

Mary Livingston Griggs & Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. Hugh Halff, Jr.

Joseph H. Hazen Foundation Inc.

Dr. Edward P. Henderson

Henri Bendel

Herman Miller Inc.

Hughes Aircraft Company

William J. Hume Trust

The International Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Koppers Company, Inc.

Leslie Fay Companies, Inc.

35
William R. & Nora H. Lichtenberg
Foundation, Inc.

Meredith J. Long

Joe & Emily Lowe Foundation, Inc.

Lunar and Planetary Institute

McDonnell Douglas Foundation

Mr. Paul Mellon

Miss Julienne M. Michel

Mayor & Arlene Mitchell
Charitable Foundation

Mobil Foundation

Nancy Brown Negley

New York State Council on the Art

Oberlin College

Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Omega Watch Corporation

The Overbrook Foundation

PacifiCorp Foundation/NERCO
Fund

Howard Phipps Foundation

Gouvernement du Quebec,
Ministere des Affaires Culturelles

RJR Tobacco International

Raytheon Company

Mary L. Ripley

Rolls Royce, Inc.

Rona K. Roob

Clyde F. E. Roper

Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

SPG International, Inc.

Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund

Matthew F. Schutz

Schwartz Family Foundation

Robert F. Shapiro

Mrs. Clarice R. Smith

SNECMA, Inc.

Stack’s

Starline Optical Corporation

Dr. Judith P. Sulzberger

The Taubman Endowment for the
Arts

Texas Instruments Incorporated

Time-Life Books, Inc.

Union Pacific Corporation

William Vareika

Victor Company of Japan (JVC)

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust

Annie B. Wetmore

John Whitehead

Marshall & Marilyn R. Wolf
Foundation

Xerox Corporation

Xerox Credit Corporation

Leonard C. Yaseen Foundation, Inc.

$1,000 or more

Airbus Industries of North America

Algemene Bank Nederland N.V.

Allied Foundation

American Association of
Advertising Agencies

Fernando Amores Carradeno

Amos Press, Inc.

Anheuser Busch Companies, Inc.

6

Seo

Apple Computer, Inc.

Atlantic Richfield Company
(ARCO)

Australian Women’s Association

BP America Inc.

Mr. Louis C. Bakker

William N. Banks Foundation

Harry Bass Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. C. Victor Beadles

Beardsley Foundation

S. D. Bechtel, Jr. Foundation

Bellcore

Bergman Family Charitable Trust

Philip I. Berman

Norman & Diane Bernstein

Mr. & Mrs. Moreton Binn

Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler

Esther Bondareff

Laura Boulton Foundation, Inc.

Col. Donald S$. Bowman

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

Dave Brewer

Earle Palmer Brown Companies

Kingsbury Browne, Jr.

Mario Buatta, Inc.

Mrs. R.M. Burgess

Preston Butcher

State of California

Alan Campbell, Inc.

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Constance R. Caplan

David Carlson

Edward Lee Cave

The Center Club

Chemical Bank

Chevron Corporation

Dr. & Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

CIGNA Corporation

Claneil Foundation, Inc.

David C. Clapp Foundation

Coca-Cola Company

Mr. & Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen

The Compton Foundation

Consolidated Edison Company of
New York

Daniel Foundation of South
Carolina

D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles,
Inc. (DMB&B)

Elizabeth De Cuevas

Deluxe Check Printers Foundation

Helen Dettweiler

Anthony J. Diorio

Walt Disney Company

Hunter Douglas, Inc.

The Henry Francis du Pont
Winterthur Museum

The Frederick Eberstadt Foundation

Emhart Corporation

Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun

James H. Evans

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Richard & Colleen Fain

Ferer Internacional

Harvey Firestone, Jr. Foundation

Charles T. Fisher III

Miles & Shirley Fiterman
Joseph F. Fletcher, Sr.
Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Flying Midshipmen Association Inc.

Mrs. Clifford Folger

George S. Franklin

The Franklin Mint

Norma Lee & Morton Funger

Mr. & Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr.

Margaret C. Gaynor

General Electric Company

Mr. & Mrs. Robert Geniesse

Gordon P. & Ann G. Getty

Giant Food Foundation, Inc.

Gilman Paper Company

Raymond Goetz

Leslie H. Goldberg

Alice Gottesman

Arvin Gottlieb

Great Northern Nekoosa
Corporation

Calvin & Marilyn B. Gross

Jack Haas

Farhad Hakimzadeh

Lauren P. Hallinan

Mr. & Mrs. R. Philip Hanes, Jr.

Mr. C. W. Hart, Jr.

Hayes Productions

Henry J. & Drue Heinz Foundation

Hermes of Paris, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Frederick Hill

Harry N. Hind

Benjamin D. Holloway

Mrs. Harriette Houseman

Mr. F. Harvey Howalr, Jr.

Humane Society of the United
States

Mr. & Mrs. Jaquelin Hume

Edgar & Theresa Hyman
Foundation, Inc.

IFINT-USA Inc.

International Center for Diffraction
Data

Ali Iravani

Irwin Family

Island Restaurant

Dr. & Mrs. David Jacknow

Richard J. Janes

Mr. & Mrs. Philip C. Jessup, Jr.

Virginia W. Kettering

Sally A. Klingbeil

Wayne Koonce & Harriet Hentges

Korea Foundation

LaChaise Foundation

Linda Mae Laine Foundation

Mr. & Mrs. A. R. Landsman

Chester H. Lasell

Jacob & Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

Edward J. Lenkin & Katherine L.
Meier

Jacques E. Lennon

Leo Burnett, U.S.A.

Mr. & Mrs. J.W. Levan

Mr. & Mrs. Alan D. Levy

Mr. & Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Lincoln Kirstein

Ms. Jean C. Lindsey

ListerButler, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. J. Russell Lynes

James A. Macdonald Foundation

Macmillan Foundation

Lt. Gen. & Mrs. Sam Maddox, Jr.

Samuel P. Mandell Foundation

Matson Navigation Company

May Department Stores

George S. May International Co.

Mr. J. McEwen

Mr. J.S. Mcllhenny

Mr. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. & Mrs. Alexander R. Mehran

Mr. & Mrs. Paul Mellon

Mettler Family Charitable
Foundation

Mrs. Marie B. Miller

Monomoy Fund

Monsanto Company

Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan

Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of
New York

Mr. & Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.

Mzuni Wildlife Foundation

NCR Foundation

Nancy & Company

National Association of Dealers in
Antiques

National Space Club

National Trust for Historic
Preservation

Navy Mail Service Veterans
Association

Mr. & Mrs. Denis M. Neill

Nevada State Museum

New Mexico Council on
Photography

Mr. & Mrs. Robert Newbill

Mr. & Mrs. Robert H. Nooter

Ogilvy & Mather

Ms. R. O’Hara

Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer

The Pace Gallery of New York, Inc.

Mr. William Papp, Jr. (Florian Papp,
Inc.)

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Gerald P. & Kathleen K. Peters

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Phillips Petroleum Foundation, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. M. P. Potamkin

Pritzker Foundation

Puerto Rico, USA Foundation

David S. Purvis

Rabobank Nederland

Mrs. Louise Bell Reinhardt

David Rockefeller, Jr.

Senator & Mrs. John D. Rockefeller

Richard Roob

Samuel G. Rose

Gerald M. and Elaine G. Rubin

SSC&B Lintas Worldwide

Salomon Inc.

James & Betty Sams

Sanders Associates, Inc.

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.
Mrs. Carl L. Selden

Sepp Leaf Products, Inc.

Judge & Mrs. Oliver Seth

Lt. Cdr. Jeffrey Shedd, USNR (Ret.)
Caroline T. Simmons
Skidmore, Owings & Mernll
Frances D. Smyth

Eloise A. Spaeth

Mr. & Mrs. Maury L. Spanier
Ira Spanierman

Sport Fishing Institute Fund
Squibb Corporation

W.R. Stamler Corporation

Dr. & Mrs. Frank Stanton
Philip & Lynn Straus Foundation
TRW Foundation

Tandem Computers

Mrs. Lisa M. Taylor
Thanhardt-Burger Corporation
Dr. F. Christian Thompson

Thomson-CSF, Inc.

Time, Inc.

Aileen B. Train

The Travelers Companies

Truevision, Inc.

UNOCAL Corporation

Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust

Mr. & Mrs. Jack Warner

Washington Technology
Foundation

Mrs. Paul L. Wattis

Raymond John Wean Foundation

Bobbie K. Weinstein

Wertheim Schroeder & Company

Jerome Westheimer

Westinghouse Foundation

John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey

Edward T. & Edward F. Wilson

Mr. R. Frederick Woolworth

Certain donors have requested anonymity. If the name of
any other donor has been omitted, it is unintentional and in
no way lessens the Smithsonian’s appreciation.

Donors of In-Kind Support

In addition to the financial support of individuals, founda-

tions, and corporations listed above, the Smithsonian Institu-
tion acknowledges in the following list our Fiscal Year 1989
donors of in-kind gifts. Ranging from equipment for office or

program use to pro bono professional consulting services,
such in-kind gifts contribute greatly to the success of re-
search and educational programs as well as to efficient

administration of the Institution.
Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smithsonian

to accomplish a variety of programs and to offer expanded
services to the public. The names of our docents and
behind-the-scenes volunteers are listed annually in “The

Torch.” In Fiscal Year 1989, 5,252 volunteers gave 486,099

hours of their time, which is conservatively estimated at a
value of more than $7 million. This invaluable corps of
volunteers brings expertise, experience, and enthusiasm to
their work here, and we express to them collectively our
great appreciation for their dedication to the Smithsonian

Institution.

Air France

Air Jamaica

Allied Plywood

American Airlines

Andre Chenoue & Fils

Angostura International Ltd, U.S.
Division

Anheuser Busch, Inc.

Appleton Rum Company, Jamaica

Giorgio Armani Corporation

Atebara Potato Chips Company,
Inc.

BWIA International

Bacardi Import

Barrons Lumber

Ben & Jerry's Homemade Ice
Cream

Bong Brothers Coffee Company

Botanical Gardens

Boudin King

British Airways

The Earle Palmer Brown Companies

Cafe Bustelo

Campbell Sales Company

Captain Cook Coffee Company

Carillon Importers Ltd.

Carnation Company

Cascade Mountain Vineyards

Centre des Nouvelles Industries et
Technologies

Crop Genetics International

Devlin Lumber

Dial Corporation

Domaine Laurent Perrier France

Easterwood Rice Sales Corporation

Florida State Department of
Agriculture, Division of Forestry
and Consumer Services

Florida Sugar Cane League

Foundation for Iranian Studies

Frito-Lay of Hawaii, Inc.

Frost Lighting Company

Fruit and Spice Park

Fugya, Ltd

G Street Fabrics

GE Aircraft Engines Company

Foreign Office of the German
Federal Republic

Gould’s Pumps

Granny Goose Foods, Inc.

Hawaii Pork Industry Association

Hawaii Department of Agriculture,
Marketing Division

Hawaiian Service, Inc.

Geo. A. Hormel & Co.

Imperial Products

Iranian Community Association

Embassy of Jamaica

JAMPRO

KLM Royal Dutch Airlines

Kolbeh Restaurant

Kona Kai Farms

Konnko

Kron Chocolatier

Kuai Kookies

Lanai Company

Dr. Jeffry Life

Lufthansa German Airlines

Maidstone Importers

J. Martinez and Company

Maryland Pork Producers

Maui Chips

Dick Mendelsohn

Music Performance Trust Funds

National Geographic Society

Nell’s

Papaya Administrative Committee

Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company

Persepolis Restaurant

Pier I Imports

Piper Heidsieck Champagnes

Puukapu Farms

Remy Martin, USA

William B. Riley Coffee Company

Rudi’s Foods, Inc.

Joseph E. Seagram and Sons, Inc.

House of Seagram

Alfredo Siani

Sioux Trading Post Inc.

A.O. Smith/Thomas Sommerville
Company

Smithsonian Magazine

Sociedad Estatal para la Ejecucion
de Programas del Quinto
Centenario

Sociedad General de Television S.A.

SONY Corporation of America

Sotheby's

Southern Tropicals

Standard Clay Mines

Steel and Wire Company

Sugar Association

TWA

Tandy Leather Company

W. A. Taylor & Co.

Tiffany & Co.

TOTAL Compagnie Francaise de
Petroles

B.F. Trappey’s and Sons, Inc.

Embassy of Trinidad and Tobago

University of Maryland at College
Park, Department of Spanish and
Portuguese

The Upper Crust

Vanity Fair Magazine

Vie de France Baking Corporation

Villa Deli

Williams Whittle Associates, Inc.

Yick Lung Company, Inc.
Bequests

It is with special appreciation that we remember and ac-
knowledge those friends who made gifts by will and thus
continue the legacy of James Smithson, our founder.

Unrestricted gifts become part of the Bequest Endowment
Fund. The principal of this fund is maintained in perpetuity,
while the income supports acquisitions, exhibitions, schol-
arly studies, educational outreach, and other functions of the
Smithsonian. Some gifts are designated for a special purpose
by the donors.

Ralph S. Barnaby

S. Stillman Berry

Alice H. Colquitt

Franz H. & Luisita L. Denghausen
Charles H. Ettl

John K. Havemeyer

Marguerite Kellogg

Dorothy B. Koteen
Elizabeth McBurney
Betty J. Morgan
Laura I. O’Dea

Roy Rogers Phillips
Leon Pomerance
John S. Thacher

Memorial Gifts

Memorial funds have been established in honor of the
following persons by their families and friends.

Arthur H. Bissell, Jr., Fund

Edward Waldo Forbes Endowment
Fund

Betty J. and Gilbert Morgan Fund

These funds will perpetuate the Smithsonian’s work in the
area most important to the persons honored.

Gifts by will and memorial gifts, of all levels, are important
to the Smithsonian. Persons interested in learning about
such gifts can talk with our planned giving officer at
(202) 357-2359.

Smithsonian Contributing Members

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National
Associates support the Institution’s work through generous
annual contributions.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to
encourage and recognize major gifts to the Institution. The
Society, which is the highest order of Contributing Member-
ship, is comprised of Annual ($2,000) and Life membership
categories. Extraordinary contributions to the Smithsonian
are recognized through the Society’s Founder Medal award
and Life membership.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges here the generous

38

support of the James Smithson Society and the Patron
Members ($1,200) of the Contributing Membership Program.

James Smithson Society Life
Members

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Mr. David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains
Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett
Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. Ralph E. Becker
Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford
Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton
Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Mrs. Gerald M. Best

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd
Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth D. Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Barnet Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell,

Jr.
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel Stone
Campbell
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell
Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.
Mr. Allan Caplan
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Mr. Robert L. Coleman
Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Mrs. Howard F. Cook
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell
Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling, II
Mr. John R. Doss
Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.
Dr. Dale B. Dubin
Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont
Mr. Mercer Ellington
Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi
Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II
Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew
Funt

Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Dr. and Mrs. Armand Hammer

Mrs. Richard Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

Mrs. E. W. Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mrs. David Landau

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Mr. John A. Masek

Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. Fredric Mueller

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. and Mrs. James Brooks Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger
Mrs. John A. Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. John P. Remensnyder

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts
Hon. Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.
Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mrs. Howard J. Sachs

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz

Hon. Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith
Mrs. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mrs. Benjamin Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Dr. Yen Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis $. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten, II
Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

James Smithson Society Annual
Members

Mr. W. Mike Adams

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Col. John S. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Philip F. Anschutz
Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Ms. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Attaway

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Lee M. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. Henry C. Beck

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Berkey

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Jr.

Mr. John L. Black

Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Boeschenstein

Dr. Harold M. Boslow

Mr. and Mrs. W.J. Bowen

Col. Donald $. Bowman

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lee Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Owsley Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Paul H. Broyhill

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Burlingame

Mrs. Poe Burling

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner

Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher L. Byrom

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. Milton Cades

Mr. and Mrs. William D. Campbell

Ms. Lily Marie Carter

Mrs. Winifred Carter

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins
Catherwood, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. Henry E. Catto, Jr.

Dr. David Challinor

Dr. William M. Chardack

Hon. and Mrs. Robert Horne
Charles

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement

Mr. David L. Coffin

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin S. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey A. Cole

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Coleman

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mr. Thomas G. Cousins

Mr. John D. Crow

Dr. James H. Curl

Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry

Mr. and Mrs. George A. Davidson,

Jr.
Mr. Charles Alfred Davis
Mrs. Keith Davis
Mrs. Anna M. Day
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph N. Deblinger
Mr. Lowell Deyoung
Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Dibona
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon
Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Donner

Mrs. John T. Dorrance, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas
Mrs. Fleur K. Dudman

Mr. Robert W. Duemling

Mr. Charles H. Dyson

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Mr. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds
Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr.
Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Evans
Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. Charles E. Exley, Jr.

Mr. Stephen L. Feinberg

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Field

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone
Hon. and Mrs. William H. Fitzgerald
Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Mr. and Mrs. Owsley Brown Frazier
Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson
Mrs. Elizabeth W. Glascock

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Avram J. Goldberg
Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. Albert H. Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. Willard Gortner
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Dr. and Mrs. H. D. Green

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes
Mr. and Mrs. Ray J. Groves

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas

Hon. and Mrs. Najeeb Halaby
Mrs. W. Averell Harriman

Mr. and Mrs. J. Warren Harris
Dr. and Mrs. John T. Hayes

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

Mr. David W. Hearst, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald D. Hines
Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Hoover
Mrs. Lee Hunter

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. John Ippolito

Hon. and Mrs. John N. Irwin, II
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic C. Itzin
Mr. and Mrs. George F Jewett, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. E. Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaplan
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Mrs. Nancy Berry Keeran

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.
Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Keresey
Mr. and Mrs. Harry F. Kern

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

Hon. Randolph A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Hon. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Knight, III

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox, III

Mr. David Hamilton Koch

Ms. Jane E. Kosa

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Mrs. Marge Langworthy

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Lawson-
Johnston

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Hon. and Mrs. William Leonhart

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Rear Adm. and Mr. Walter M. Locke,
USN (Ret)

Miss Doris J. Lothrop

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Gene E. Lynn

Mrs. Jane Macelree

Mr. H. L. Mahoney, III

Mr. Michael Maloney

Mr. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.

Mrs. John F. Mars

Mrs. Virginia Mars

Ms. Mary Martell

Hon. and Mrs. William M. Martin,

Jr.

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Mr. and Mrs. David E. McGiffert

Hon. and Mrs. Robert M. McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K.
McLanahan

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Antony Merck

Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. David R. Montz

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S$. Morgan

Mr. John W. Morrison

Mr. Furman C. Moseley

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Moser

Dr. W. Dickson Moss, III

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Murphy,
Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. Wilson Nolen

Mr. Robert C. Ochsner

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. Steve Ott

Mr. George M. Page

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Hon. Daniel Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

39
Ms. Helen Ann Patton

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Phillips

Mr. Howard Phipps, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Allan R. Phipps

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. Zigmund J. Podell

Mrs. Malcolm Price

Dr. Don W. Printz

Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin N. Puryear

Mr. and Mrs. Russell $. Reynolds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Hon. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller,
IV

Dr. Milton L. Rock

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rose

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Rosenthal

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Rossetter

Mr. Arthur N. Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Ms. Leidy Samson

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schmidt

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Rey. and Mrs. Alfred R. Shands

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Sanford Slavin

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper

Mr. Sydney Stein, Jr.

Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

Hon. Robert D. Stuart

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

Dr. Joan E. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. James B. Tito

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. Samuel D. Turner

Mrs. Gordon Tweedy

Mr. and Mrs. C.Woods Vest, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von
Hoffmann

Mr. and Mrs. Alan W. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton

Hon. and Mrs. Thomas J. Watson,

Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.
Mr. Leigh R. Weiner
Mrs. Keith S. Wellin
Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan
Mr. John C. Whitehead
Mr. and Mrs. Brayton Wilbur, Jr.
Mr. David R. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin D. Williamson
Mr. John W. Winn

40

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Wray
Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Wright
Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff
Mr. and Mrs. Norman E. Wymbs
Mr. and Mrs. Barney Young

Mr. Bernard J. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Patron Members

Mr. Walter Alber

Mr. John Baum

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth W. Beckman
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Bricker
Mr. Keith S. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Townsend Burden, III
Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Burka
Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. S. Harold Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Cole

Mr. Charles W. Consolvo

Mrs. C. V. Cummings

Ms. Mae E. Dahl

Mr. D. Daly

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr.
Mr. Ostrom Enders

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Dr. William H. Gerber

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Gilbert
Ms. Marion E. Greene

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. Frederick H. Heierding

Mr. and Mrs. S. O. Hessler

Mr. James T. Hines, Jr.

Mrs. Ruth Housek

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip $. Hughes
Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy
Mr. and Mrs. John Laguardia
Mrs. Jacques Leslie

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Levan

Col. Billie G. Matheson (Ret)
Mr. and Mrs. Terence McAuliffe
Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr.

Ms. M. Miyamoto

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose, Jr.
Ms. R. Ohara

Dr. John C. Petricciani

Mr. Paul E. Pontius

Mrs. Helen G. Price

Mrs. Janmarie C. Prutting

Mr. Daniel M. Ricker, Jr.

Mrs. Mary Pigott Riggle

Mr. and Mrs. L. Rothschild

Mr. C. W. Scott

Dr. Richard C. Shaw

Mr. M. Silverman

Mr. William C. Sterling, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey C. Thomas
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Tishman
Mrs. Maria C. Volpe

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Warner
Ms. Patricia F. Wheeler

Ms. Mary Wibel

Financial Report

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

Fiscal 1989 proved to be a year of solid financial progress for
the Institution. It was marred only by a significant drop in
Mall attendance, which precluded visitor-dependent auxiliary
activities from meeting their goals.

The Institution concluded the sale of the buildings for-
merly housing the National Museum of African Art. The
proceeds received had been earmarked for already expensed
construction costs of the new museum on the Mall. It is a
pleasure to report that funding for the Quadrangle facilities is
complete.

Operations

Federal appropriations provided $2 11,240,000 to fund on-
going operations, almost a 5 percent increase over fiscal
1988. New support was included for molecular systematic
programs at both the National Museum of Natural History
and the National Zoological Park, the biological diversity
program at the Museum of Natural History, and the Smith-

Federal S & E Funds

Millions
$250 =

TA Te othr

79 81
Fiscal Year

—— Current Dollar —— Constant Dollar

83 85 87 89

sonian Astrophysical Observatory’s conversion of the Multi-
ple Mirror Telescope at Kitt Peak, Arizona, into a single-lens

telescope. A meager $89,000 of the year’s appropriation was
returned to the Treasury, representing uncommitted salaries

and expenses.

Government agencies and bureaus utilized project grants
and contracts with the Smithsonian to fund research prima-
rily at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the
National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of
Man. Funded projects included orbital investigations of
comets and asteroids, the establishment and maintenance of
an international astronomical computer data base, an exhibi-
tion entitled ‘“The First Federal Congress,” and a behavioral
study of northern mockingbirds.

Nonappropriated income from gifts, grants, endowments,
current investments, and revenue-producing activities sup-
plemented federal funds. Unrestricted trust funds were allo-
cated to base support and Institution-wide priorities:
$1,567,000 was allocated for acquisitions, $3,262,000 for
special exhibitions, $3,015,000 for fellowships, $2,320,000
for scholarly research, and $563,000 for educational outreach.

In addition, $3,000,000 in revenue generated from auxil-
lary enterprises was transferred to endowment following past
practice to strengthen this important asset. The unrestricted
trust fund balance was also augmented by $4,265,000. The
Institution achieved its goal of bringing this fund, which
serves as working capital, to a comfortable level vis-a-vis the
magnitude of our commitments.

The Smithsonian is especially grateful to its many friends
in the private sector, whose generosity contributed so impor-
tantly to its work. Individuals, foundations, and corporations
are listed in the “Benefactors” section. Restricted gifts to the
Institution totaled $17,850,000. Of this sum, $5,382,000

Gross Net Net

Source Revenues Income Income
of Funds ($1,000s) ($1,000s) (%)
Federal

Appropriation $211,240 $211,240 70
Government Grants

and Contracts 20,977 20,977 7
All Trust Sources 239,969 70,827 23
Total Available

for Operations $472,186 $303,044 100

41
was specifically designated as endowment by the donor or so
designated by the Board of Regents. An additional $1,230,000
in unrestricted gifts was designated as endowment by the
Board of Regents.

The single largest project funded during 1989 was the
renovated Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center in the Castle. Private-sector support was also pro-
vided for the traveling exhibition “Inside Active Volcanoes”;
the Caribbean Arts Festival, which focused on the cultural
richness and intellectual life of the area; and tropical forest
ecosystem research.

A much-discussed topic in Washington and within the
nonprofit community during the course of the past year was
the subject of unrelated business income tax. The Institution
is ever mindful of the impact such a tax might have on the
availability of nonappropriated funds. Auxiliary activities at
the Institution date back to the 1860s and extend the
Institution’s mission “to increase and diffuse knowledge”
through the distribution of educational materials and experi-

ences for the visitor and those more distant from Washington.

While taxation remained a talking issue, 14 percent less
visitation during 1989 on the Mall had a direct impact on
revenues. It appears that adverse national publicity on drugs
and crime in the Washington area dissuaded many families
from visiting. The Museum Shops experienced their first
“down” year in many. Restaurant concessions fees were on
budget, but not exceeded as had been hoped. All payments
to The Riggs National Bank for the National Air and Space
Restaurant loan were more than adequately covered and
made on a timely basis.

The auxiliary activities appealing to a more national
audience did best: the Smithsonian National Associate Pro-
gram, Smithsonian magazine, and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press. The Press’s promotion of the book Lords of the
Airat year-end significantly enhanced its revenues. The
growth of nonappropriated funds over the years has been
quite impressive. However, it must be pointed out that in
constant dollar terms, Smithsonian funding has just kept
even with inflation and the costs of new program initiatives.

Financial Management Activities

Improving financial and support systems continued to be the
number one priority within the Treasurer’s Office. The
development and implementation of several new systems
were accomplished during the year. The most significant of

Total Operating Funds

Millions
SY) 9) SS STE

71 #73 75 #77 #79 #81 #83 85 87 89
Fiscal Year

—— Current Dollar = — Constant Dollar

these is the Personnel Cost Projection System, a joint project
of the Office of Financial Management and Planning, the
Office of Accounting and Financial Services, and the Office
of Planning and Budget.

The Office of Planning and Budget reports to the assistant
secretary for administration. Under the leadership of its
director, Nancy D. Suttenfield, the office initiated first steps
at strategic planning in conjunction with Institutional prepa-
rations for the 1990 budget. Mrs. Suttenfield has likewise
been instrumental, since coming to the Smithsonian in 1986,
in refining existing budget policies and procedures.

Using federal funds, the Institution purchased new ac-
counting software; in fiscal 1990, this package will be
modified to fit the Smithsonian’s unique needs. Anticipating
this, considerable work was done within the Treasurer’s
Office to codify existing fiscal policies and procedures.

During the course of fiscal 1989, the Treasurer’s Office
assumed oversight of the Office of Sponsored Projects. The
office was restructured, office systems were updated, and
work begun on outreach within the Institution. The goal is to

enhance the base of sponsored research at the Smithsonian.
Ardelle Foss was hired as director; Dell comes to the Institution
from Brown University, where she headed a similar office.

The Treasurer oversees four revenue-producing activities
through the Business Management Office: Museum Shops,
Mail Order, Product Development and Licensing, and Con-
cessions. Here, too, substantive effort was expended upon
improving support systems, most notably in the Museum
Shops and Mail Order. The Office of the Inspector General,
working closely with the new deputy director, Museum
Shops, Edward F. Sullivan, was particularly helpful in the
development of new policies and procedures with respect to
retail sales.

Sadly, the Treasurer must report the death of Samuel J.
Greenberg on October 4, 1989. Sam waged a valiant cam-
paign against cancer during most of his tenure as director,
Museum Shops. Nonetheless, during those years he en-
hanced the shops’ selection of merchandise, emphasizing its
Smithsonian relatedness and educational value. All shops
were refurbished; a new efficient warehouse was leased.
With Sam’s unremitting focus on customer service, the
shops’ contribution to the Institution grew from $620,000 in
1982 to $3,100,000 in 1989.

Endowment

The Smithsonian Endowment fund was valued at
$279,665,000 on September 30, 1989. This represents an
increase of 27 percent from the same date last year, and a 16
percent rate of growth over the past five years. The Institu-
tion changed its basis of recording investment transactions
from settlement date to trade date. The strong market
experienced during fiscal 1989 helped increase the Smith-
sonian endowment well above pre—-““Black Monday” levels
to anew high. The guidelines set by the Regents Investment
Policy Committee require a South Africa-free portfolio.

The Institution’s managers continue to be two balanced
managers, Fiduciary Trust Company of New York, and
Miller, Anderson and Sherrerd; and one equity manager,
Batterymarch Financial Management. The asset mix as of
September 30, 1989, was 67 percent equities, 23 percent
fixed income, and ro percent cash or cash equivalents.

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to
investment management of its consolidated endowment
funds. As to the use of principal, 39 percent is restricted; 61
percent is unrestricted. Of the resulting income, 54 percent

Total Endowment Funds

Millions
$300 as SS SS SSS —

T

$250

a0)

T

$100

TZ, ih
Y

ay

Wl

py fy Uy
YY
1 83 85 87 89g
ae Year

Yy
WY
Yy
Z
Bt

Market Value

is restricted as to purpose; 46 percent is unrestricted.

Regent Barnabas McHenry chairs the Investment Policy
Committee of the Board of Regents. The loss of Regent
Carlisle H. Humelsine, who passed away in January 1989,
was deeply felt by the Investment Policy Committee and the
Institution as a whole. Mr. Humelsine had served from
November 1984 to April 1986 as acting chairman of the
committee, in addition to his chairmanship of the Board of
Regents Executive Committee. Regent Norman Y. Mineta,
U.S. Representative from California, agreed to serve on the
committee.

Also during the year, William R. Salomon resigned after
17 years of valued committee service. He was honored by
committee members with the presentation of a Smithson
Society Medal. Mr. John W. English, vice president and chief
investment officer of The Ford Foundation, joined the com-
mittee. The Institution is indebted to Donald Moriarty,
Charles H. Mott, Thomas J. Watson, and Jane Mack Gould
for their continuing service.

43
R & R Appropriations

Millions
0

|
$25 - by

$20

t 73) (81 (83

TA) 1K) 73 85 87 89
Fiscal Year
MRa&R ~ZooR&R

Construction and Plant Funds

In addition to its appropriation for salaries and other operat-
ing expenses, the Institution receives federal support for the
restoration and renovation of its facilities. In fiscal 1989,
$20,735,000 was appropriated for work on fire detection
and suppression systems, utilities, facade restoration and
replacement, and routine repairs. Appropriations for other
construction activities included $2,020,000 for major altera-
tions and modifications, as well as $750,000 for construc-
tion planning.

Also, $2,700,000 was provided for a new Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute facility on Barro Colorado Island;
$3,185,000 was provided for the construction of the Whipple
Base Camp to serve the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory operations on Kitt Peak in Arizona. A separate appropri-
ation of $5,305,000 allowed the National Zoological Park to
continue projects in its master construction plan.

Trust funds were used for the purchase of a mixed-use
townhouse adjacent to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum/National
Museum of Design.

Audit Activities

The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated, are
audited annually by an independent public accounting firm.
Early in 1989 the Regents Audit and Review Committee
issued a Request for Proposal for audit services. Coopers &
Lybrand at that time had been our external auditor for ten
years. After an exhaustive review of all proposals received,

44

Coopers & Lybrand was reappointed.

Coopers & Lybrand’s unqualified report for fiscal year
1989 is reprinted on the following pages. In addition to the
annual audit, during the year, consultants from Coopers &
Lybrand undertook an analysis of the Institution’s overhead
system. The firm also presented a staff seminar on retail
inventory management.

The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff, transferred to the
newly formed Office of the Inspector General, regularly
reviews the Institution’s financial activities and fiscal sys-
tems, assists the outside auditors, and does special projects
as required. The Defense Contract Audit Agency audits grants
and contracts received from federal agencies and monitors
allocated administrative costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Re-
gents, chaired by Regent David C. Acheson, met three times
during the fiscal year pursuant to its fiduciary responsibilities
under legislation pertinent to the Institution, and the bylaws
of the Board of Regents. In addition to reviewing the 1988
audit performed by Coopers & Lybrand, and the 1989 audit
plan, the committee received reports from the Office of the
Inspector General on a wide variety of institutional programs
and procedures.

Related Organizations

The National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars were established by Congress within the
Institution. Each organization is administered by its own
board of trustees and reports independently on its financial
status. The Smithsonian provides the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars with certain fiscal, adminis-
trative, and other support services plus office space on a
reimbursement basis.

Administrative services are provided by the Institution on
a contract basis for Reading Is Fundamental. Office space
continued to be provided for Visions Foundation, Inc., a
nonprofit organization that publishes American Visions mag-
azine, through July 1989. The Institution assisted Visions in
acquiring their own office space. An independent nonprofit
organization, the Friends of the National Zoo, operates under
a concessions contract; proceeds from Friends activities
accrue to the Zoo.
Smithsonian Institution Operating Funds

FISCAL YEARS 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989
(In $1,000,000s)

500
FUNDS PROVIDED =
45(
Auxiliary
400 4 and
t— Bureau
Activities Nonappropriated
ae Expenses — Trust Fund
ae (Gross Revenues)
|
| HI
i
II MII HHI WI} I
AAA ATT Mi I
HATA MAA WN |
I) I i WH ee
300 ->——IIll| HI | i MT | | —-
| I WIT Unrestricted
fevseeneneneneernenny
INI ill Net
WANA Trust
Hil HT BBGEEEBOOROUOCCEOOO
WN i] Funds
50 -}—]l | l | | Restricted
WAN |
))
HATA Government Grants
I) and Contracts
200
150
|__ Federal
100 Appropriations
50
0
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989
500
FUNDS APPLIED
To Plant and Endowment
45( 4
40¢
Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses
|
50
! |
| | |
HATA i i
HI | HI |
| HH
WH WN HI
300 IH MN NANI i} |
HHH HI MH | | AAT
i i) aah —
ANA WN WH il i]
il | i WAI |
WANA WANN eecererares
| HI
250 HI | | i
AANA | il
WN PU Administration and Facilities Services
i} i}
pul
oo K+
seeseaeeneeeeeees Special Programs International
es os
| Seo |
External Affairs
Se ee
7. ———— a!
_
Museum:
ot ——}
LSS Public Service
0
Research
0

1985 1986 1987 1988 89
Table 1. Financial Summary (in $1,000s)

FY 1988 FY 1989
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:
RederallAppropriations.— Salaries Se Expenses merit rts tet eye te tete te negen kettle) het cette tee r $ 201,432 $ 211,240
(Govemmnent Grants Gc ContractsS += 1. ene ie nee colo cite oiena tele nereaeistelien-beretetot ter 17,438 20,977
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
FoselResineiGl NOSES c ooo gbasce guano cosh cee Do soe sso cc REDS DIGI mBOn GD aEED oss oGur 26,332 30,412
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary 6e Bureau Activities/Reyenues—Gross) . 2.2. fete = eee ee 186,565 195,786
WessikclatediExpemnSesi rere: at ira een te Rares otaner =a RRR et ocelot need (157,410) (169,142)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities\Net Revenue”. 7.22 2. eee 2 2 2 oe eo PEE NSS) 26,644
Mnvestinent| Gitta oa Other com cue e meer eee tee een eRe ete) cee eeee e-toc nee 12,255 13,771
otaliNet UnrestrictediSeSpeciallPurposel Revenue ary. siya = eietety-)- 1 a)et let neetetiede elle eleke fe tee eee 41,410 40,415
TotaliNonappropriatediinistkunds—Grossyverey el oe ee eer 2 ae epi D252: 239,969
SN Gin aralee GORE age Ge OO och. s een Se CeIn algas dots 67,742 70,827
Totali@perauing hunds|Provided—Grossipernntyeer= he eect ete tee oe eee ee or) Ren 444,022 472,186
BEN (ot ik, Ss OS eo Gunes <>. cick o GO eR ae I is ane GoevoaeG 286,612 303,044
FUNDS APPLIED:
LEC serycl ah. Ree A ths As ein SIR is Men 66 O'o(0-0 5 CIRIIRIGIERS © 00 5 1.4.0.0 REEDED do's 06 oR EEEoteRe, clone ters 60,960 67,419
MesstsA@jOverheadiRecovenys a: rjeiecis tert terete neat ieee nae RT ce ecient ana ase eee (2,731) (3,807)
IN RTCGLE 0 ae ee coc Oo 6 co oR obra e610) aoa Oa aa 6 104,285 111,020
[PAE 1b) PYCRGYS 0s (6 See At aR oe IN 9 i EMER S co Oro oon ME: Gore SO CGR EMR ODO O00 Los 6,196 7,104
ExtemialtAttaitg. cer sre. 5 6 po ed aces fs cS = os) © MIEN 2 Go le SRR 2 oc con = 1,534 2,347
[nternationalpAtctivitiestier ca ccke mcrae ene Reore eee oer ome EMR eo = race =) ae Nato oN) ).- ean PALF 2,094
Speoellidrseins sap guasacdasseBanans bo cocodepUoS co SoU Ct OMEmEmOvadcocn agAEeEbS SABC 11,635 12,748
(Associates. c@ Business) Manapem Cnt, = sly srense ett yaya =) = ene eens ta ool) eee eee le) eee 117 525
Wdministration—Bederale =). ci-pscs <i ie Seen ooo) == estes ==, ola ene nSeae eee none 16,258 17,497
Nonappropnated inst/bumd se a2 a1 See eneyede couse = ote tenet pete yi ee) enter yo =eoee 12,361 12,444
ess Smithsonian! OverheadiRecovery, sessile = 1/15 eet sient etal ala anette). eee (9,695) (10,825)
AGI ItE SIS CLV1GES Heyes fe ee eyes Woe es ra PASS aside Ce apes a arr napte oiai tas, Guleuenents cor eyncoue rene oyaiag claus oi agenegtone 60,651 63,228
TigZlOpemiine stincb Ay olEG! ses doe eh obedansdvebenoues soos rodse co oscoKDSocKoecarheeusoc 262,788 281,794
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Unreal FCB SIO IMENT . oo adage daoodsdeeadcacodsGadoges to sascucdoguerooasaeascose 178 —
—=1 [Gil Botton nse eiaera ea cates Sere Ge OM Aa oom ce oe coe Ones s 6,311 6,189
Rec nnteretal CS — Mo laaelOMaMeale bo pa oscoceoguMmadcécacsene sos dEnOGS ARSED MEoOoObSe sens 10,033 6,641
Morall(@peratine/hundsyA\pplied!Geicansferred! Ottis ey -eetete eeietsy re) tere he ee een ened tea i 279,310 294,624
CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES:
Nonappropriated|brust—Restrcted|burposerriitee te. sitter tte get (ote See Mette ole rele ted 2,807 4,371
—Wnrestricted—GenerallPurpose. = sem tn sia is = ai-t eeie ietstetenel tach ie aeeen 3,860 4,265
—SpecialiPurpose =e Sari riiais = «hie terres cteteket -f1-F poten 635 (S86)
[No Soar aeee Coma gan cioomate ce Snood nko COMMA nay soos bommano eT Hoc 00 bono moda 00 ats « = 370
lo | Ue eee Es 5 clos ot NEEM 6 cholo. d.ciclo RRCRIERAS oc not o REA G 3, 60.0.c'e~ $0 72302) $ 8,420
YEAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
Restricted!/Purposeis atk rience Salerro er ne deers > aie er araiotetsker reper eee $ 16,576 $ 20,948
Wnrestrcted—GenerallPurposcmae ere itt ieee tid eee ened oa ve ee 9,036 13,300
SHonsullsinpoys ososeonascos sas asegoaas so cosoeussaGEnenesdn Ds Smo EEe obo dse 34,394 33,808
Total! = 200), Oe 2 eS se petecmees: EER: = 2 «ee == ne Oaeiiemaiiat toene nope herent $ 60,006 $ 68,056
OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS***
GanalZoneBiological/Area Rund|= ee ereertertete lee) <a teeee nee a ae eee eee tte ere eee $ 143 $ 101
{Sroyotinh (cist) sa ee A ee on doo cD eetmant oo ce bie e a inloroee ida Db 0-6 28,719 34,695
TotallFederal/Appropriationi(Including!SiSe/Eiabove)) <.. 2-2 stereo ciel: @ > ie ete eee eee $ 230,294 $ 246,036

“Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1988—$118 thousand; FY 1989—$89 thousand.
“Effective FY 1989, the fund balance represents multiple-year funding for instrumentation.
*Excludes $1,500 thousand received in FY 1988 and $1,992 thousand received in FY 1989 from the Department of State for research projects
in India.

46
Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1989
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $1,000s)

Nonappropmiated Trust Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government
Non- Grants
Federal appropriated Auxiliary Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose = General ~— Contracts
FUNDS BALANCES—Beginning of Year... .... $ — $ 60,006 $ 9,036 $ — $34,394 $16,576 $ =
FUNDS PROVIDED:
RederibAppropriations- sss. snee7s os oue eee. 211,240 - - - - - =
IMVEStIMENtINCOME a2 66 deydyaeie @« ah shoal =< - 16,947 7,463 - 1,486 7,998 —
Government Grants and Contracts ........... - 20,977 _ _ _ ~ 20,977
(GES <0 mevencinie thet cReac ee IBiencar NAGI CUPS Ice Rae - 24,624 80 5,391 1,375 17,778 _
Sales and Membership Revenue ............. = 190,395 = 181,720 8,675 ~ -
(QUIN? dad oo eae ye ELE CS Coe ae = 8,003 998 - 2,369 4,636 =
Skotallbrovidedin srry. cisccicve ster, aoa yscacniaue 211,240 260,946 8,541 187,111 13,905 30,412 20,977
SotaleAvallablemmerrerss rciacy tio cirors ciciae ce 211,240 320,952 G/ESYEATL 187,111 48,299 46,988 20,977
FUNDS APPLIED:
Research:
PGSISTAMIISSEGLELALY, cece esses siciays 5 wusieie t vie sie ees < 1,203 818 315 = 18 123 362
Wstrophysicall@bservatory)....-..-540------ 11,586 22,970 3,704 - 2,309 216 16,741
Mess'@verhead Recovery ...-.-...0--+-:+- ~ (3,807) (3,807) - - _ —_
iiropicalkesearchiInsntute 2 -fc. 2 = S/T 1,754 265 = 538 61 890
Environmental Research Center ............. 1,426 622 99 - 111 30 382
INational’ZoologicaliPark’ saciacs - asec ees. 14,190 1,286 144 = 616 318 208
SriithSOmanvATGhives!« f6e).-cil ssie «meee e 592 225 201 - 24 _ -
Sm wovemiulyeisCS 55 cesncesns5 see asen ar 5,150 463 424 - 38 1 =
Motalthescarchimey ce hee eet ee ee 39,924 24,331 1,345 _ 3,654 749 18,583
Musuems:
INSSISfan@SeGLetaLy, tar-ter-wsyopais siicrs ie) -9o-a sere 1,699 490 274 - 163 43 10
NARS eliImIPLOPTAMS) /<c<- -)-belspei sie. cves 5 araasus.ctsiecntss - 89 9 = 89 (9) -
National Museum of Natural History/Museum
GCIMET 96 & stake R REESE on ene ae re 26,357 5,099 331 — 1,562 AAS 914
National Air & Space Museum .............. 9,594 WD 414 - 4,699 2,296 316
National Museum of American History........ 14,446 4,399 152 - 1,520 2,711 16
National Musuem of American Art ........... 5,545 1,956 US — 1,054 827 _
INationallPortraitGallenyse a. chi sci-jcieaes ee 4,125 685 20 — 228 320 117
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden .... . 3,453 2,701 14 - 838 1,849 -
@ententomASianvAttnt. ecrmitoesseee cane 4,296 3,464 88 - 249 Bel, -
ArchivesowAmentcan Atti. oss e5..-5.054-- 1,062 APle72: 98 - 52 1,022 =
GooperHewittMustem=.. ..---6.--0.-55-. 1,288 3,469 869 - 1,573 1,018 9
National Museum of African Art............. 3,503 422 76 - 277 69 =
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum ........... 905 53 29 — 24 - -
Conservation Analytical Laboratory .......... 2,526 43 - = 36 7 =
OfficevofExhibitsiGentrall. 4-22) yee se oe 1,886 39 - - 39 - -
Traveling Exhibition Service ................ 665 2,940 304 - 2,135 437 64
otal useumisern meteoric ae tcanere 81,350 34,746 2,753 - 14,538 16,009 1,446

47
Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1989
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $1,000s) (continued)

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Government
Non- Grants
Federal federal Auxiliary Special and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose = General _— Contracts
Public Service:
INOS CEIMESASTIBINY S dood sao aaneeenouauooese 319 984 675 = 330 (21) =
elecommunicatiousee eee eee meee erie ee 250 1,701 609 — 82 972 38
Visitor Information and Associates’

Reception Centenary seriall ere 163 1,080 975 = 20 85 =
OffrceropPubligAttairs) a1 ese oe eee 659 740 667 — 7 - -
Smithsonianibressimaen eee cece een 1,214 18,861 (2) 18,801 55) 7 —

Troxel Pe SaaneO acossccscoccacnooascce 2,605 23,366 2,924 18,801 560 1,043 38
External Affairs:

Assistant Sechetanyamie jer pasitsrercien chairs eere — 751 582 = 104 S57/ 8
Development] Office: rm cori cleats ae lores = 1,432 1,429 — (1) 4 —
Office ofSpecialiBventsiemem eran eee - — 164 164 - - - -

orallextemalyAffairsmen eee eee eee _ 2,347 DAGAS 103 61 8
InternatronalyActivities) sean e seek eee: 740 1,354 546 - Ss 180 71
Special Programs:

American Studies & Folklife Program .......... 918 2,601 819 - 561 390 831
International Environmental Science Program ... . 757 - - - - - -
Academic & Educational Program............. 1S 2,945 636 — Dili 192
MuseumisupportCentena ne see eioeee cir 4,405 = — — = = =

WotaliSpecialiProcramseeemeas aon eee 7,267 5,546 1,455 = 2,678 582 831
INCROSENS Biol a akan acaposnoncauGoasene = 95,006 399 94,466 110 31 =
Business) Manapementemaeareiiecr cries vere - 48,640 _ 48,644 - (4) =—
Wdministratlonun seer nt eee oe: 17,243 13,728 11,424 = 2,184 120 -

essi@verheadiRecovenyari iets - (10,825) (10,825) ~ - -
RAcIKines SERIES os Soo eobbnosooeodeuncesecs 61,652 1,827 1,221 — 606 ~ —
Transfers Out/(In):

SIPEASUEV ewer The eh rete ss ene Fe ree 89 — — ~ - = —
PEO PLAINS Madera elle anata) cir) sxe Lonel even er code svoeene neuen sts _ - Weg — (7,712) — =
Net AuxiliaryeA ctivitiesmysmry- coe eta reeie = = (23,740) 23,740 — - =
@therDesionated|Burposesie ane clue eee - _ 2,178 1,460 (4,267) 629 —
IDES Ggeeees oa yee Soar a ene ciscaeears _ — = — — - —
Endowment: seatersictaer. csi eteesrieeel oe eee - 12,830 4,709 — 1,480 6,641 -

Wotalkliranstersemrentee Meine Cire cle 89* 12,830 (9,141) 25,200 (10,499) 7,270 -

otalikundstAippliedaas em eericcetire nee 210,870 252,896 4,276 187,111 14,491 26,041 20,977
FUND BALANCES—End of Year*** ........... $ 370 =6. $: 68,056 += $$: 13,301 §$ — $33,808 $20,947 $ =

* Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
* Includes Collection Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.
*** The fund balance for federal funds represents mulitiple-year funding for instrumentation.

48

Table 3. Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (in $1,000s)

Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989

Government Agencies

Agoney Lor lingmeEtCElliDAGoipwalt sas oscese sk onodeusrcouadaenaonds dus be osaOa nae eer nnooeee
PEMARtInIEMt Of COMME Ean ps Becton soy chosen Sauk « cy ay sana yt vaca Sheat yds pasha ROC « Fafeeeeadcusnsycuslans & Gucsaeltousyaleagye
WepartmentonDectense: acess Stes eee SE ee oer es eee pes eee eH rs

Department of Energy
Department of Health and Human Services
Department of Interior
National Aeronautics and Space Administration*

INEACIOLIAUSCICH CEN ROUNG Ati Olena tg easter pee cat oie SeepeBe hots ete (abc s con nema meres uci e alsa iic ce RNE area el ee

Other

FY 1988 FY 1989
$ 465 $ 0
24 12

Ie 2a7: 966
509 465
320 461
984 1,130
11,940 15,992
562 834
907 ileslalys
$17,438 $20,977

* Includes $629 thousand (FY 1988) and $712 thousand (FY 1989) in subcontracts from other organizations receiving prime contract funding

from NASA.

** Includes $106 thousand (FY 1988) and $187 thousand (FY 1989) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

Table 4. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (in $1,000s)

Sales
and Less Net
Membership Cost of Gross Revenue*
Revenue Gifts Sales Revenue Expenses (Loss)
PYC TIQESD « cacscoreacsaet OF ane otcne pearslartee ieee) ee $172,507 $5,119 $95,657 $81,969 $53,866 $28,103
FY 1989:
ASS OCIALCIELO PLAN Sie ee has ae fas sete Mieasten eles $105,131 $5,391 $70,764 $39,758 $23,702 $16,056
Business Management:*
—Museumishops/Maili@rder® se --2 4-2 4224-4124: 51,241 PEAS Z/ 28,084 21,898 6,186
(CONCESSIONS Pe eset eiesece oe ee is eae 3,401 — — 3,401 2,701 700
= CHUNG? ste TOs ety PSS a ee ee eee ae 829 — _ 829 888 (59)
STRICHSOMANIECES Syrweticiey wun aeeetae ner setae A pemernes meee 21,118 — 6,044 15,074 WAS 2,317
fotalsenyelO SO barren te eet mee me nn ee ee $181,720 $5,391 $99,965 $87,146 $61,946 $25,200

* Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $1,568 thousand (FY 1988) and $1,460 thousand (FY 1989).

49
Table 5. Endowment and Similar Funds, September 30,

ASSETS:

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:

GashrandiEquivalentspascisrt. aire steerer eee tee
Mitral Ruin Siem aaptacite aint ste ste cts soe aise emeny sue iter ile eas
IntertundiReceivablemen eee ae reise oe eee
U.S. Government and Government Obligations ..........
Bond seer erie le ae see ios sige sia at Pines leeie ets

SEO GIES ie ae ee rae ts Fac enya Eat ee so SE

Nonpooled Endowment Funds:

IMMiDALTRWOMGS sce wn bo doleanune soe pute boneanee bobs 6
KoanitolW-Ssilreasuryin’Perpetuity(. = = sane see. oe ==
FRE GELV AD) Stebspcwcerse ooh srr sirs olen wy ce Poe cice BS Sian ah WORE wae
Land (Net of $3,050 of expense)...................---
Investmentsiin(@haritable Drusts)........-cenc+e-++-----

NotaliNonpooled!Bundsiyame ce eects aes

TotaliAssetsmsqmia an eee in cee ete ee isis

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:

LIABILITIES:

Payablesitor, Securities|Purchased!..4-4- eee eee ae ocr
Deferred Revenue—Charitable Trusts .................-.

ihotaliliiabilitieseaicy oe eee cc eee

FUND BALANCE:

Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ................
QuasilEndowment macey-raci eer

otallUnrestrcted|Purposejsaae. + soee uae omer eee:

Restricted Purpose: True Endowment................--
Q@uasiEndowments-— acorn

WotallRestricted|Purposes ae eckaset reeset
Motal(kund)Balancesy.-eein aera

Total Liabilities and Fund Balances ................--

5o

1989 (in $1,000s)

Book
Value

Pe TS CONROE, ny BEE oe 1,141
eee ee dae goer iret at 1,123
ON coh RA oubnn) ie Ye = 2 M7 Dt 488
EC Se Se haar eer 237,
Re ee er eae eer 546

RE a ha RR ee 3,535
$248,404

SEIS Ice ee Dcnceidks a  coriaian 6,638

104,158
110,796

en a AE oe eee ee tt 83,991
Li ar rane: oid aineal | ieee 43,001

126,992
237,788
$248,404

244,869

Market
Value

$ 3,861
29,758
1,741
30,396
30,282
5,475
176,668
8,501

286,682

1,181
1,146
488
237
581

3,633
$290,315

$ 10,069
581

10,650

8,450

118,944
127,394

101,849

50,422
152,271
279,665

$290,315

Table 5A. Market Values of Endowment and Similar Funds (in $1,000s)

Fund 9/30/85 9/30/86 9/30/87 9/30/88 9/30/89
Wines triGte darewnomryy assays c glelagiesacrs eh ane $ 66,543 $83,209 $108,925 $101,432 $127,394
Te LM RRE PRCT Poe aI 5s, 35x) ¢: shin, epetereial wa o> 34,066 39,570 50,380 44,228 53,731
WOE CURES EIGted fee ycicp. cy 5 es oS pesos 5 re ole 47,979 58,382 74,816 75,169 98,540

iMcotallleperee toe she otete ee oss Fiz caie Shei eh ee, Seas $148,588 $181,161 $234,121 $220,829 $279,665

Table 6. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment—Fund Balances at Market (in $1,000s)

Restricted
Unrestricted Freer Other Total

Niaricerava lel OAS Sires aye ci vec apsersye rete c avcais oqettaa Ml eiene cuareace $100,167 $44,228 $73,747 $218,142
Changes
(GES 2.5 :55.5 6 oO a eee ae ae eae ee 35 - 1,072 1,107
Transfer of Excess Yield (Net of Below)

Materestancl Divid end See ert pc eys ce Bera seer ed ae 5,359 2,346 4,148 11,853

neormeleNGhOMye.s ao aae Seer oC 0 cite rere ee ete ea (3,420) (1,498) (2,643) (7,561)
ranstersion@ therInCOme .-2<6 6 nce eens oe on Seema sr see 4,230 = 4,927 ON Si7.
MarketvalllevA ppreciatlonis. = s.<.2 < /iorcechere oie favs See ayy is soso 19,749 8,655 1'SeSiil 43,915
Marketav alte 9/5 0/8 os ares er sere tas ets a Choe uch ve ENS ee wRESE $126,120 $53,731 $96,762 $276,613

* Income earned, less managers’ fees of $953 thousand.
** Nonpooled Endowment Funds have a market value of $3,052 thousand for a total endowment market value of $279,665 thousand.
Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1989

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

PASC Tey BES LING ae t<oh Naira MM ON IEA ee SIG AGRON cp SREP ONS netoncNSb A en eant gehen snare Aree
Ista, ISetiny MiG os soc cacnauspaoessgeeoooseauooue
lodekingum des yet peae eperet tere gy a: toxpere esa ven nea uayenst ets
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J. Memorial Fund ................
Morrow sD wie hita esate pracnsweretrcy ieoras estar sears) nese ey oceanic
IMussittanee tre dii-cens peintes Par tee tect cai ci rae ceca nee Sa
@lmstedmitelentAy- 5 Peres oo RRR Rte tiene: oer
Rooresleucyalandi Georgea War anes terre emeeiereeetarcle
PortemblenryKirkes Memorial sary qq) cern er eee tee = ote =
SantordAGeorgedss we ce er access Mee cus oun ee weiss swiss
Sil Aon | EGS” ceone soe owaca ponuee oo Oompa Dec nese
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,

Research\(Desienated) mers rian selec. sacra

SUbtotal were Sener toes enc eee Ne eee cae

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Erel@@hanlesssisikundiee mete cence maine cic tans cues ores
ROLRESCARODELiIRC Cer mre rr yer ela eraseh case eee
(Generalendowinentseecs rede cic sicker eens ronan arecnceie See
GoddardhRoberthl eps te ke oo ene aainisle see eae ae
[Ela DEAR eo Geared SARS One Eten ea Pee ea SS ee oor
Plants Gustav isibcde te eistegs com ste) a) cis jov2) s,s ees
Elennys Carolinetie ecaccrs etic eo ccat amici e crcne cbetarssenele Seer ones rene
lenny osephyand|iarnetyAere aise eee teers oe ieee lee
ley ss MaudetGe. sistance acts sstticvatie ait cncienate wx oes eke thin fre tere sei ieha ce
Elintons GarricsSuSaneeee piers Oe ie ate eee cis acielee nak s Gian c
Koteeny) orothysBu rancor on ori aa eee cae icin eeaeiene 1a
[eatmbertaealilal Gea wnt epi a Oe nee pri Serer eee
Michie: (Girly sana Se oes Geb cee oot Soe e eon hbo s Faube
@iDeas aural sate es Peps ewe oni sere oS roreteerereta ey a2
BhillipssRoyiReg a8: eetothetvsce sisi ce rs ace. gy ase atcha crete sere aes es
Ribcesawallianal] on esgg ric ot we keche esau kA ken OEIC
Satforda GlaralsoniSera.,scese itis Tecate atic: Panne oes
Smithsonian)Bequestkundse- samen (eerste ele erty Were eevee
WagpartsGansonibe sence see seis tae Oss Ha oh ere ere
Abbottawilliamiles (Designated) ery a eer ae ra
BarstowabredencDs(Desionated) meme ies se) leneira ere ares
Hirshhorn Musuem Acquisition Fund (Designated) .............
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) .............
MindherghCharlessAs (Desionated)yem- 1s eie te sete ae ener
[byons Marcus Wards)|r (Designated) se aner aeran eee erie
Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) ..................-
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) ...........
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Endowmentkundi (Designated) a4. -maea sear eae
Webb, James E., Fellowship (Designated) ...................-.

Subtotalervace oh rctie 2 nee eee Eien

Principal Income

Book Market Net Unexpended

Value Value Income Balance
223,963 §$ 290,383 $ 8,819 §$ 0
80,720 101,702 2,835 0
332,588 375,844 16,493 0
36,339 40,164 814 0
401,367 530,643 14,789 0
122,974 155,183 4,325 0
4,165 5,417 151 0
888,621 1,168,682 33,955 0
1,483,442 1,959,470 54,611 0
6,112 7,631 270 0
739737: 761,132 49,300 0
2,317,942 3,053,886 85,113 62,816
6,637,970 8,450,137 271,475 62,816
1,049,144 72st 13} 28,682 0
55333: 9/75 5,905,040 164,576 0
82,510,855 94,422,080 2,563,995 0
42,221 46,764 1,303 0
683 703 46 0
2,844 3,500 98 0
7,031 8,631 241 0
282,255 345,218 9,621 0
$14,024 574,592 16,014 0
141,800 168,087 4,685 0
183,003 190,916 1,774 0
256,938 308,377 8,595 0
5,097 5,719 159 0
171,442 196,346 4,104 0
718,555 789,633 14,641 0
3,539 4,176 147 0
236,455 268,387 7,480 0
1,604,237 1,737,607 43,413 0
2,497 3,270 91 0
661,820 811,450 22,616 72,455
5,538 6,782 189 5,107
3,705,659 4,184,064 116,612 204,314
2,462,903 2,810,408 78,327 102,202
40,346 45,248 1,261 5,686
21,278 24,180 674 6,570
335312 35,940 986 0
1,609,497 1,969,425 54,889 77,090
1,405,627 1,719,964 47,936 83,765
1,145,391 1,185,486 33,040 108,637
104,157,966 118,944,106 3,226,195 665,826
$110,795,936  $127,394,243 $ 3,497,670 $ 728,642

Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1989 (continued)

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

Aitken, Annie Laurie,
Arthur, James .....

Endowment nunca eee ee

seirnal, Qojaeteate IMU inves, cic. 5 a0 MO ee One cigic ecko Deine occ o.4 ore
BAMeveAlicebikes Memorials sassya sec seiacrers aie secre

Batchelor, Emma E. .

Beauregards @atherine, Memorial... Jo-.cue- os ++--2 seuss

Bergen, Charlotte V.
Brown, Roland W. . .

Burch, George, Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and

Affiliated Theoretic
Canfield, Fredrick A.

Sciencesikundhs searae settee: «nei eee

Czsevemlibomasilincol mess ycrs ic seie sien acy veveneovs Siateec ers ovelaus bus, oN

Chamberlain, Frances

LE cen cient ee iee tes OG SREECIS: Bete aeN ERTL Cn een PEER

Coopegbunditor Paleobiology, -- 5-4 aeeie oad oe ee e ee-
Division of Mammals Curators Fund ........................

Drake Foundation . .

Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund...............
Dykess @harlessBequestarme cs aceae cin rasta aka s Snen lese

Eickemeyer, Florence

OV OOD bg. wastes tee eee a foe astern me eres

oars, leakwvardal WANG); . so cocoo eat acasous sem eaobeom se unen

Freer, CharlesL. ...
Grimm, SergeiN... .
Groom, Barrick W. .

GneeenheimyDanieltandiblorence:= .4-ya- eer ies ee eee arse

Hamilton, James* . .

Hammond, John, Performance Series Fund ...................

Henderson, Edward P.

B Meteorite kunci eenr ee eee

MewitrbleanornGaRepaimkund) | ..c oe eens. ees cea + -

Hewitt, Sarah Cooper
Hillyer, Virgil .....
Hitchcock, Albert S.

Hodgkins Fund* ...

PirditckawAlesiandi Matlew ert. icoe cee. rere ee ea

Hughes, Bruce.....

Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography................
Kellogg, Remington, and Marguerite, Memorial................

Kramar, Nada .....
Maxwell, Mary E. ..

Milliken, H. Oothout,

Mineral Endowment
Mitchell, William A.

Memorialr:. 52 eter mn hcnnia a Oe

NelnssidenningEndowmentikund — ee seeeia cas. seme -
Nelsonsedwardiwilliammers ae se. io Screen oma coe eee Nene nie
Retrocellimjosephs Memoriale 4-72 See ee sent

Reid, Addison T. * . .

Ripley, S. Dillon and Mary Livingston .......................

Roebling Fund.....

Rote Mitretetel Whiteley Boncocdsccenopouodosnononunce:

Sims, George W. ...
Sprague Fund .....
Springer, Frank ....

Stern sinaroldiPa Memorials eit eerie ie see
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library .....................

Stuart, Mary Horner

Principal
Book
Value

267,872 $
199,894
180,182
143,281
169,263
217,228
17,967
160,112

1,616,743

10,098
917,217
288,710
268,091

54,288
845,374

43,894,586
151,855
154,959
600,975

5,528
250,844
119,619

36,677
216,734
36,498

7,968
136,531
266,833

95,698

18,195,889

235,661
14,464
98,056

1,080
494,359

67,302

211,910

113,647
37,150

113,743

162,483

601,145

1,224,905
138,607
7,747,313
89,832

967,812
26,617

389,583

Income
Market Net Unexpended
Value Income Balance

329,399 9,181 $ 16,877
265,782 7,407 15,632
237,582 6,622 8,409
190,461 5,308 48,042
197,011 5,491 LZR ONS)
266,152 7,418 84,758
19,670 548 3,104
197,470 5,504 8,705
1,726,076 88,300 11,705
292,831 8,161 141
85,328 2,378 6,323
187,008 5,212 32,061
201,104 4,995 137
12,051 336 5,985
1,080,477 29992 186,262
BWA 92! 8,851 $2,314
323,361 DOM! 44,386
72,156 2,011 7,736
917,484 23,259 72,282
53,731,030 1,878,028 2,647,619
168,343 4,692 41,628
169,459 4,723 22,416
687,496 19,161 79,476
6,389 248 3,328
249,678 580 580
118,779 3,310 3,166
43,224 1,205 1,791
255,134 Teslitn 8,033
44,747 1,247 19,534
10,647 297 738
140,479 6,721 15,088
330,888 SED 15,941
127,262 3,547 18,674
22,347,530 622,837 487,986
270,686 7,478 16,088
17,395 485 6,401
130,391 3,634 54,879
1,270 35 184
586,824 16,355 201
80,108 2,233 S45
211,325 see S 13,098
147,657 4,115 2,821
49.459 1,378 20,246
136,461 4,112 9364
185,780 5,071 0
797,634 22,230 965
1,521,470 42,063 13,028
152,100 4,029 8,285
9,096,140 251,473 129,420
119,025 3,317 32,937
1,129,599 31,075 214,009
32,518 906 3,966
413,163 11,515 0

3)
Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1989 (continued)

Principal
Book Market
Value Value

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ................-. 798,251 977,282
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications................. 291,355 402,585
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research .................. 29,689 33,464
ercessrances)brincklemewse: we oe ne eee oie oe 4,720 6,259

Siibtotaleat cc cncer ee meer tare ere hyd eae ee 83,991,169 101,848,675
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
(NaC iRONs, RGN GI EWES aan eoun sas socasdesaudcoc0a5~ 9005 19,221 Dad Rif
ING] PE VOTE) Fl IG ltl eget 5 Ae teeatO MER RONCIERA © 0 NCR © cotta CER 99,266 110,135
Bacons virginia Pur yorerster «<..i coer keene a-aia chee toga, « 470,619 552,774
BeckermiG@eorgeds: soot fers. noes seer Re ce ea 1 me Ne eee 812,224 956,748
DenghausenyLeuisitalleandibranz Hobunds. 255 .>---42 904s 4,018,003 4,656,039
DesamtelsaibatltEe nse sep 5-year Re eae, srneae es eS Soe 53,776 66,626
GaversGordonieacy- Meee a ocio PRe o o Oe Pae 9,032 10,462
FlachenbereaGeorge brand|\@arolinel- aera ae eta + cel i eee 23,238 29,082
Hanson) Martin) Gustayand Caroline Riis...) .os- eae « - 49,346 60,485
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund..................... 4,997,039 5,328,430
Elirshhors)|osephiE ybequestibund) . q-vssetes eee ale 2,490,816 2,756,008
Wes Fa Sore Maseleall. ns oadonanccoreoeasuuusowanuubve 4,780,838 5,629,181
unterdoniEndowmentieri esse. an een yee 16,378,649 19,874,803
LEBRIEndOwmentys oes eck osc ae ie ac coset a aA eaecs 1,035,505 1,165,173
[@BR@onsenvationiEndowments-. eee eee deena. 222,169 247,631
JobnsonsbakRenimores fae nis srs ebb c= 2 ses Ore ee a: 39,513 44,784
Mocba Morn Speci pce teks calc sicscsaia Pye: coscc: cae a. RUSE Re poes. cy 487,742 599,880
RonpaAlnettesbaandiedith) Cree 1) ein ie omer 2,763 3,705
Miers GathermenWaldentewe seacici seers cieucn= eerie cr 112,160 137,484
Noy esarankyB i c.2 ake Si cos ost oe ord, RRS snort ear sy he Pua as 5,558 6,929
NoyesabaulinciRigosimes aeriacieie ci «inet tom ecra- -ys he ets ar 46,757 51,898
Rall Copans helio penageaceaccoocusocanoosuccecapen 41,330 50,755
RamseysAdmand Mrsabewitt Clintonfiecaes oo... 468m: 950,282 D7 2ES22:
RathbunskichardsMeniorialu eesti a cin eee 59,244 W2e723.
as otis SLAIN eid Ganccemvescoaueuunpadedocosocagoar 130,995 156,356
RuefBerthaiNM yo) ee 2 ays oR eS ca OMe rly gen 154,028 174,523
Schulezal:conard!Pa ane aon cee ie Ries ee 93,252 106,676
Seidell®Atthertomiis face hips coi tas covews AE Pay teas ta. Pence CR eee 3,217,037 3,779,939
SmthsomanvaA gencysACcount...4yaa gaan ce eee eee aie 1,429,055 1,652,655
Stromon uliav tape otase Aye chon crsscxsntue ie: aR Wy. caredcotee eM eberere 55,676 68,336
Witherspoon; ihomasjA\,Memoriall -a-t9een- 4-52 --oteeie 715,639 876,838

Subtotal bots spots eres Pk peg nec W IES Oreo one IS 43,000,772 50,421,817

iotaliRestrctediRurposemar- te ne craeirreie cine keer arene 126,991,941 152,270,492
NOTABENDOWMENTIEUNDS see anaes eee enoe $237,787,877  $279,664,735

* Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

** Income on investments; does not include $344,425 of interest income, which is included in unexpended balances.

54

Income

Net Unexpended

Income Balance
38,170 19,629
19,881
819 9,345
174 ACE
3,249,497 4,674,286
610 0
3,070 2,104
15,406 76,047
26,665 12,072
108,140 i Sil)
1,934 606
242 22923)
811 6,226
1,686 13,862
132,600 214,850
158,436 530,722
162,219 176,558
553,921 275,489
32,467 43,259
6,881 15,901
1,248 8,688
16,719 48,488
103 898
3,832 29,576
193 4,479
1,446 3,596
1,415 7,403
32,921 44,965
2,027 PBS
4,358 11,388
4,864 2,410
2,547 22,072
105,349 532,196
47,075 12,315
1,905 9,511
24,438 140,986
1,455,529 2,384,224
4,705,026 7,058,510
$ 85202,696** $ 7:787,152.

Table 8. Construction and Plant Funds,
Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (in $1,000s)

FY 1988
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:
INationale/aologicaliPankgeresar 1 caine Racy WotR cheb cacao Parse re = Sie srcueiet ti suece ansts lelavens @ySen thee $ 8,150
Restorationiand RenovatiomoOn Buildin gsi atereveia stele tcletersiexcvs alee evexedeshet ele sari sieve suatle cee ciobeyte c's 19,254
Constictioniblanningand! Minor Construction) ssc. ese oo eee oe eee cee nee sss -
iiropicalResearchilnstitute—lupperResearchiFacilities) 2.) . 20222 ees cases ec neces soe weet - -
Astrophysicall@bservatony—WhippleBase Gampier.tkie eels «cee eres. ccc cece. ssn yee « 1,315
otal WeederalPAppropriatton sr acegey ssoreye ce PeV BoB yedeyauesscapeliele ueasie oe veo 2 cue Sire cue lee e¥euensortcaMeneus 28,719
Nonappropnated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Bnvironmentalllesearch| Genter—WanGd ACquISItiOnS 2. sy. cele ccna Se ee ly ey = ocr 240
ropicaliResearchiinstitute—luppecResearchiFacilities/a.- 0200. -4 22. -oae8- eee nse esses eee eee 763
CeO ae UE MUS ATIN oo. 6.3.6.4 da 010.0 Kenta e.6td 015.0 D.01o/c-5 BIDS DIOIoInts a eraolo Oo ier crates ob cin aio 286
Quackers aval ROE ote 6 gon B ome 6 One eon ac OSU. oc mcicincI non aianicmn ip sitteic cimencIbieie cia 322
Wisitomniormationrandineceptioml\ Center oie ser releeses  acaus <ciee) © e)e)sicrsueiaisie eure) s-e eke reac 692
MganGispace Museum D ullesiShelteneteernr erie sciote eile cite eieiole cesusy | ei eaeusle bie Seve OL ene 69
OCC PR TE er one erect tee ee racer ewan D Sieces ev sifel euten¥aneon io siayeus Sui eoer a, ani Guatovea egehald ares 100
TRINA ono cas OOOO MEO O EDOM OOS COO UD SOIC a COG ESIIIGH Ot cea eins 4 ober ape 2,472
Transfers from Other Funds:
Bovironmentalikesearchi Center—leand/ Acquisitions sean cers yee tees eye else = 178
otalbiransfersme meme ieseel a eneene ee =e ene ea MEDD, elas 5 ascidins aimee der Seanaptlachiciw’el sag Rue 178
Mota IbUnCS|RLOVIC CORMIER cart eee amir re hres Ba era ern tainty nan Seta tctene $31,369

FY 1989

$39,541

55
Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial
condition of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30,
1989, and the related statement of financial activity for the
year then ended. These financial statements are the responsi-
bility of the Institution’s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit. We previously audited and reported upon the
financial statements of the Smithsonian Institution for the
year ended September 30, 1988, totals of which are included
in the accompanying financial statements for comparative
purposes only.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1989, and
the results of its operations for the year then ended, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Washington, D.C.
December 20, 1989
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition, September 30, 1989
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1988) (thousands of dollars)

Trust Federal
funds funds
ASSETS:
Eundibalances with WS» lreasury andcashionihand!.........2+..2.--0s--++- 255: $ 2,120 §$ 98,771
lawestiients|(Noteswaandss) warn cusrstsiencramime acre ats. oa leusrcieuth sai cats cious cisverspetee ioe 303,899 —
EGO ADLESKINOLCE) Pie nen rea there eesuescis suedd cud ck Se pciets vias he we minineacudace orsgis 45,629 9,245
AGMAREE PANIES (NED) hs sietinoe ceohcor a eee oh cocina atone meer - 21,743
MUIMETELOEICSHINOTEML) Mertens teacher soutien seeeelines costae oierat bore oe onc ce oe cpepstova suo enens 15,545 1,492
Prepaidydeterrediexpense'andiother(Notel) - -...6)-- d-cemc scenes oe sods sss nne 16,324 -
Rrapertyandequipment(INOteS land 7) ian aa = ecules me niercastertt acres) ere e(s cietere ee 77,256 246,350
Slip tallasset sree i, OM eT oc ei a ae OO ae ee $460,773 $377,601
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable:
AACcOMDtS) payablerandiaccruediexpenSesic.= asa seseserieeee ean see cece ne 18,429 19,765
lisvonqurnGl PEN ElS, Poe coameio os» aca Uae ceo Sore eee cia ta Aaa sere 9,764 -
Payableiforinvestmentsecurities|purchased| ...... sce - = .- see «f+. ace ees 10,070 ~
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) ..................+.05- 3,148 =
ACCIMEG annua lileavel(INOtE 1) inayat cayscter depen tes seco slaarouo er coat atola chelbacweveve eh duges ects DLT: 9,004
MEterrecinev ene! INO tent) ewe demeanor ate y. Kone tc eee or ety cme « 37,653 —
aM Pace Ge Dt INO CED) ie tyaen sc meysreseae ve tebsre, saree roe heen ck Soe Muah where 4 Soniorereine flalestls} -
Sota iabiliticsmepeestnr pets nae eo ene Ae NEP a aoa oA yee ane 92,904 28,769
Bintdelin ereGhorderst INGtEsL) pase A cierete choca, avs taree ere ae eal Ge oleae eee - 67,489
Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)
FUND BALANCES (Note 1)
Trust Current:
Wiresticted!eeneralipurposel sts acy eae eey save oe ie ise aap lel aimee ee aes 13,300 —
Special purpose geperpevssves fe cas Meet eheenisy cre eis een sehen isi rte eeasa dieu hoe casa 33,808 -
TBC aH EGG Sg iy Go rey eng Th SCAG SO Ou SLE I SSO oer oe en ea pea 20,948 =
imaist endowment and similarfunds Note) 2... 544.222.2665. -.220+c4gccce ce 237,788 —
firnseblanttands (INOteW, serior er ett ieee ernie ee ee ete eer iaie cee 62,025 =
Rederall@peratinetundSipana crevasse acc se a Ate © Sykes eee sec d - 12
Raclerll ComAeNGGO Unis Baap bob Em oon omee b.6.00.0 FAN EO bole och co giene aod mee - 32,189
ECeraluGapitalitunds pases heycasieecss lasers see eae hic is Sees Geos sore ee - 247,842
shotalifundibalanceswenc. wrrccs ste nee eM ann ca ae hae oe a are 367,869 281,343
Total liabilities, undelivered orders and fund balances ...................-.. $460,773 $377,601

Totals,
all funds

$100,891
303,899
54,874
21,743
17,037
16,324

323,606
$838,374

38,194
9,764
10,070
3,148
11,531
37,653

115313
121,673

67,489

13,300
33,808
20,948
237,788
62,025
oN:
32,189

247,842
649,212
$838,374

Totals,
1988

$ 98,864
281,921
46,685
21,602
13,442
16,105

298,111
$776,730

38,472
14,048
1,436
4,376
10,859
35,713

12,062
116,966
76,198

9,036
34,394
16,576

215,090
59,437
335)
21,681

227,017
583,566
$776,730

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

u/
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1989
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1988) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds
Totals, Endowment Totals,
trust Current and similar Plant federal
funds funds funds funds funds
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
ANG YIROVIEIONG soe ooacenadersnaaabedds $ = $ — $ = $ = $245,935
Goverment grants and contracts .......... 20,977 20,977 — _ -
InvestmentincOme) «em se)<=1- testes 2 ere 17,747 16,947 ~ 800 -
Net gain (loss) on sale of securities. ........ 9,428 - 7,697 1,731 —
Gifts, bequests, and foundation
PS Saee a ac op CERT 0 Coren Bena Eran 28,353 24,624 PENTEL 1,558 —
Wodditionsitoiplantamrersacrecrieiic erie 10,006 = _ 10,006 45,277
Rentals, fees, commissions,
ANGIOLNEOR Te Sony Et OOM nee 8,003 8,003 = Pals
Auixilianyactivitiesie ec cleerocoeee 190,395 190,395 — — -
Total revenue and other
AddItONS Hey ta ee rece: 284,909 260,946 9,868 14,095 293,343
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research, educational, and collection
acquisition (INotemlil)) miemccreie cio: 58,246 58,246 — _ 133,410
AGHMIMECATORN ¢ os Gosngodsocosqubennoe 18,635 18,635 = - 17,243
Bacilitiesisenyicesmnecine ane eine ee one 1,822 1,822 - - 61,652
NcQustuionionplantemmsse secre 9,017 — — 9,017 24,187
Property use and depreciation
(Naren otc: atte Sek 2,491 = = 2,491 24,452
AuxilanyiactivitieSi snc ioe cine 161,363 161,363 — -
Total expenditures and other
deductonsiae =a ne eae 251,574 240,066 — 11,508 260,944
Excess of revenue and
other additions over
expenditures and other
deductionsus-senee ere eerie 33,335 20,880 9,868 2,587 32,399
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) (Note 12) = (12,830) 12,830 - a
Net increase forthe year........... 333335 8,050 22,698 2,587 32,399
Returnedito WS! Treasury 92.2 = sseise nae ~ _ — (89)
Fund balances at beginning of year......... 334,534 60,006 215,090 59,438 249,033
FUND BALANCES AT END OF YEAR
(NotenlO) ete; ie cc easraeereeoee: $367,869 $ 68,056 $237,788 $62,025 $281,343

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

58
Federal funds

Operating
funds

$211,240

2,131

233374

133,410
17,243
61,652

212,305

1,066

Construction

funds

$34,695

34,695

45,277

20,825

20,825

227,017

$247,842

Totals,
all funds

$245,935
20,977
17,747
9,428

28,353
55,283

10,134

190,395

578,252

191,656
35,878
63,474
33,204

26,943

161,363

512,518

65,734

65,734
(89)

583,567

$649,212

Totals,
1988

$230,151
17,438
15,049
(2,539)

23,622
31,347

9,748

181,171

505,987

179,038
31,789
60,872
27,770

25,292

150,226

474,987

31,000

31,000
(118)

552,684

$583,566

59
Smithsonian Institution Notes to Financial Statements

rt. Summary of significant accounting policies

Basis of Presentation

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the
National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars, which were established by Congress
within the Smithsonian Institution (the Institution) but are
administered under separate boards of trustees.

The financial statements of the Institution with respect to
federal appropriations have been prepared on the obligation
basis of accounting, which is in accordance with accounting
principles prescribed by the Comptroller General of the
United States as set forth in the Policy and Procedures Manual
for Guidance of Federal Agencies. The obligation basis of
accounting differs in some respects from generally accepted
accounting principles. Under this method of accounting,
approximately $49,254,000 of commitments of the operat-
ing fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, have been
recognized as expenditures, and the related obligations have
been reported on the Statement of Financial Condition at
September 30, 1989, even though the goods and services
have not been received. Approximately $13,561,000 of
these commitments are for grants under the foreign currency
program. Approximately $18,007,000 of these commit-
ments are for internal storage facilities and equipment at the
Museum Support Center. In addition, construction fund
commitments for other projects amounted to approximately
$18,235,000 at September 30, 1989.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of
funds obtained from private sources, government grants and
contracts, investment income, and certain business activities
related to the operations of the Institution.

Fund Accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions
placed on the use of resources available to the Institution,
accounts are maintained in accordance with the principles of
fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources for
control, accounting, and reporting purposes into distinct
funds established according to their appropriation, nature,
and purposes. Funds that have similar characteristics have
been combined into fund groups in the accompanying

60

financial statements. Accordingly, all financial transactions
have been recorded and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution
are self-balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of appropri-
ated funds available for support of Institution operations.

Federal construction funds represent that portion of appro-
priated funds available for building and facility construction,
restoration, renovation, and repair. Separate subfund groups
are maintained for each appropriation—Construction and
Improvements, National Zoological Park Restoration and
Renovation of Buildings, Museum Support Center, and
the Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures
(Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the value of those assets of
the Institution acquired with federal funds and nonexpendable
property transfers from government agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and re-
stricted resources, represent the portion of nonappropriated
funds available for support of Institution operations. Amounts
restricted by the donor for specific purposes are segregated
from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are
subject to restrictions of gift instruments requiring in perpe-
tuity that the principal be invested and the income only be
used. Also classified as endowment and similar funds are
gifts which allow the expenditure of principal but only under
certain specified conditions. Quasi-endowment funds are
funds established by the governing board for the same
purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such
funds may be expended with board approval. Restricted
quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for restricted pur-
poses where there is no stipulation that the principal be
maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the
governing board has elected to invest the principal and
expend only the income for the purpose stipulated by the
donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for future
plant acquisitions and funds expended for plant.

Investments

All investment income, except that of endowment and
similar funds, and gains and losses arising from the sale of

investments and property, are accounted for in the fund in
which the related assets are recorded. Income of endowment
and similar funds is accounted for in the fund to which it is
restricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted
current funds. Gains and losses on the sale of investments are
recognized on the trade date basis using the average cost
method.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or
retail cost method (for those inventories held for resale).
Merchandise inventory approximated $15,545,000 and ma-
terials and supplies inventory approximated $1,492,000 at
September 30, 1989.

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and
Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine is recorded as income
over the period of the related subscription, which is generally
one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smith-
sonian magazine and Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine are
charged against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses
of other auxiliary activities during the period in which the
activity is conducted.

Works of Art, Living or other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include works
of art, library books, photographic archives, objects, and
specimens, through purchase by federal or private funds or
by donation. In accordance with policies generally followed
by museums, no value is assigned to the collections on the
statement of financial condition. Purchases for the collec-
tions are expensed currently.

Property and Equipment—Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds are
recorded in the capital funds at cost and depreciated on a
straight-line basis over their useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings were

appropriated and reserved by Congress for the Smithsonian
and are not reflected in the accompanying financial state-
ments. Property and nonexpendable equipment acquired
through transfer from government agencies are capitalized at
the transfer price or at estimated amounts, taking into
consideration usefulness, condition, and market value.

Property and Equipment— Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for use
by nonincome-producing activities are recorded at cost, or
appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain
islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion,
which have been recorded at nominal values. Property and
equipment are treated as a deduction of the current fund and
as a capitalized cost of the plant fund.

Property and equipment for use by nonincome-producing
activities is depreciated on the straight-line basis over their
useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 10 years

Depreciation is recorded in the plant fund as a deduction
to the investment in plant (see Note 7).

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with
trust funds and utilized in income-producing activities are
capitalized at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives of three to ten years.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts with the
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reim-
bursement to the Institution. Grant and contract revenue Is
recognized within trust funds as expenditures are incurred.

Pledges and Donations

The Institution records significant pledges based upon letters
signed by donors. Pledges are recorded at net realizable value
as a receivable and as deferred revenue on the statement of
financial condition. Revenue from pledges is recognized in
the year the pledged funds are collected.

Donations are recognized as revenue in the year the cash is
received.
Contributed Services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made signifi-
cant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the
Institution’s programs. The value of this contributed time is
not reflected in these statements in accordance with gener-
ally accepted accounting principles.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave in
accordance with federal law and regulations. However, only
the cost of leave taken as salaries is funded and recorded as
an expense. The cost of unused annual leave at year-end is
reflected in the accompanying financial statements as an
asset and an accrued liability in the federal funds.

Annual leave is expensed for trust employees in the trust
fund as earned.

Reclassification

Certain items on the 1988 statement of financial condition
have been reclassified to conform with 1989 presentation,
specifically receivables and payables on the sale and purchase
of investments.

2. Related Activities

The Institution provides certain fiscal and administrative
services to several separately incorporated organizations in
which certain officials of the Institution serve on the govern-
ing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these
organizations for the aforementioned services, together with
rent for Institution facilities occupied, totaled $373,000
($298,000 for the trust funds and $75,000 for the federal
funds) for the year ended September 30, 1989. Deposits held
in custody for these organizations were $3,148,000 as of
September 30, 1989.

The following summarizes the unaudited expenditures of
these organizations for the fiscal year ended September 30,
1989, as reflected in their individual financial statements,
which are not included in the accompanying financial state-
ments of the Institution:

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. $8,995,000
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars:
Trust funds $3,505,000
Federal appropriations $4,240,000

62

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a trade date basis, if
purchased, or estimated fair market value at date of acquisi-
tion, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1989, investments
were composed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)

Current funds:

Short-term investments $ 66,337 $ 66,280

Endowment and similar funds:
Short-term cash equivalents 32,490 34,800
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,123 1,146
U.S. Government and quasi-

government obligations 30,089 30,396

Corporate bonds and
other obligations 35,297 35,7071
Common and preferred stock 137,892 176,668
Charitable trusts 546 581
237,437 279,348

Plant funds:

Common stock 125 195
Total investments $303,899 $345,823

Since October 1, 1982, the deposit with the U.S. Treasury
has been invested in U.S. Government securities at a variable
yield based on market rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and
similar funds are pooled on a market value basis (consoli-
dated fund) with each individual fund subscribing to or
disposing of units on the basis of the per unit market value at
the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. As of September 30, 1989, 307,334 units were
owned by endowment funds, and 478,459 units were owned
by quasi-endowment funds.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in rela-
tionships between cost and market values of the pooled
investments:

($000s)
Market Cost Net change

$276,613 $234,799 $41,814
$218,142 $212,439 5,703

End of year
Beginning of year

Increase in unrealized

net gain for the year 36,110
Realized net gain for

the year 7,804
Net change $43,914

4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to invest-
ment management of endowment funds and quasi-endow-
ment funds. Under this approach, an amount equal to the
difference between actual interest and dividends earned
during the year and the amount computed under the total
return formula is transferred to or from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to
provide, as being available for current expenditures, an
amount taking into consideration such factors as, but not
limited to: (1) 4'/.% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this
period), (2) current dividend and interest yield, (3) support
needs for bureaus and scientists, and (4) inflationary factors
as measured by the Consumer Price Index. However, where
the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less
than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of
donation), the amount provided is limited to only interest
and dividends received.

The total return factor for 1989 was 4.1% to all participat-
ing funds. Actual dividends and interest earned exceeded the
total return for the year, and the amount was transferred from
the current funds to the endowment funds (see Note 12).

5. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1989, included the following:

($000s)
Trust Federal Totals,
funds funds all funds
Auxiliary activities and other
accounts receivable, net of
$6,245,000 allowance for
doubtful accounts $18,097 $ — $18,097
Receivables for investment
securities sold 8,501 ~ 8,501
Pledges receivable S77 ~ Sw/7
Endowment notes receivable 488 = 488
Reimbursements due from
grants and contracts 4,168 - 4,168
Interest and dividends
receivable 3,034 — 3,034
Interfund receivables 9.764 — 9,764
Value of accrued annual leave — 9,004 9,004
Other - 241 241
$45,629 $9,245 $54,874

6. Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to govern-
ment agencies, educational institutions, firms and individuals
for services to be rendered, or property or materials to be
furnished.

As of September 30, 1989, the Institution had advances
outstanding to the General Services Administration of
$18,199,000, principally for construction services including
the Museum Support Center and other projects to be
completed in future fiscal years. The Institution at that date
also had advances outstanding to educational institutions
amounting to approximately $1,796,000, principally under
the Special Foreign Currency Program.

63
7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1989, property and equipment were
comprised of the following:

($000s) ($000s)
Trust
Current funds
Capital improvements 23,001
Equipment 10,279
Leasehold improvements 1,609
Less: accumulated depreciation
and amortization (11,879)
23,010
Endowment and similar funds
Land 240
Plant funds
Land and buildings 60,543
Equipment 6,514
Less: accumulated depreciation (13,051)
54,006
Total, trust funds $ 77,256
Federal
Capital funds
Property $374,659
Equipment $2,536
Less: accumulated depreciation (180,845)
Total, federal funds 246,350
Total, all funds $323,606

Included in the accumulated depreciation of the federal
capital funds is $17,889,000 of depreciation expense for
1989.

Depreciation and amortization expense in the trust funds
for fiscal year 1989 for income-producing assets amounted
to $2,714,000 and is included in the current funds. Depreci-
ation of nonincome-producing equipment and buildings for
1989 amounted to $2,491,000 and is included in the plant
fund. The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1989,
included $8,222,000 of unexpended funds for future plant
acquisitions.

64

8. Commitments and contingencies

The leases for various Smithsonian office and warehouse
spaces provide for escalation of rents to coincide with
increases in property taxes, operating expenses attributable
to the leased property and the Consumer Price Index.

The Institution’s operating leases require future minimum
lease payments as follows:

Lease payments ($000s)
1990 $ 4,310

1991 4,306
1992 3,956
1993 2,214

1994 2,014
Thereafter 2,156

$18,956

Rental expense for office facilities aggregated approxi-
mately $3,365,000 in 1989.

The Institution may incur liability arising out of a suit
against the United States by a contractor who was defaulted
by the General Services Administration for failure to complete
a project for the Museum Support Center in a timely fashion.
The suit seeks to reverse the default and alleges, among other
things, breach of contract. Management believes that there
will be no material adverse effect on the federal funds as any
adverse settlement or judgment would be satisfied through
future appropriations.
9. Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1989, consists of the
following:

($000s)

9% note payable to The Riggs National Bank,
interest only payable quarterly commencing
December 31, 1986; interest and principal
payable quarterly commencing September

30, 1991, and ending on June 30, 1998 $11,000

Noninterest-bearing note payable for purchase
of food service equipment, due monthly
commencing September 18, 1987, through
July 21, 1990 113

9% note payable for purchase of Folkways
Records and Service Corporation, due in
four annual installments commencing
December 31, 1987 200

$11,313

The aggregate amount due for all borrowings for the years
ending September 30 are as follows: $212,000 in 1990;
$386,000 in 1991; $1,211,000 in 1992; $1,324,000 in
1993; $1,447,000 in 1994; and $6,732,000 in years
thereafter.

The proceeds of the note with The Riggs National Bank
were used to fund construction of a restaurant addition to
the National Air and Space Museum. Approximately
$990,000 was recorded as interest expense and was paid by
Auxiliary Activities funds for fiscal year 1989.

ro. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for sala-
ries and expenses which are expended in the year received.
Also included are amounts received with the provision that
such amounts can be expended over a period greater than
one year.

The federal operating funds for the year ended September
30, 1989, included the following:

($000s)
ny Fund balance
Additions at Sept.
Appropriations Other 30, 1989
Salaries and
expenses $211,240 $ - Ses70
Special Foreign
Currency
Program = = 72.
U.S. India Fund
(transfers from
Department of
State) — 2,044 842
Smithsonian
Tropical
Research
Institute = 87 28
$211,240 $2,131 $1,312

t1. Collection Acquisitions

In keeping with generally accepted accounting principles, the
Institution records the acquisition of collections as an expense
in the year of purchase. For fiscal year 1989, $3,388,000 was
expensed to trust funds and $1,337,000 to federal funds for
the acquisition of collections.

65
12. Transfers among Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) respective fund
balances for the year ended September 30, 1989:

($000s)

Endowment
Current funds

and similar
Unrestricted __ Restricted funds

Total return income

reinvested $(1,960) $(2,634) $ 4,594
Income reallocated

for special

purposes 630 (637) 7
Endowment

reallocated to

restricted funds — 584 (584)
Designated as

quasi-

endowment (4,229) (4,584) 8,813
Total transfers

among funds $(5,559) $(7,271) $12,830

13. Retirement Plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by
either the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the
Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The features of
both of these systems are defined in published government
documents. Under both systems, the Institution withholds
from the salary of each federal employee the percentage of
salary required; the Institution also contributes specified
percentages. The cost of the programs for the year ended
September 30, 1989, was $9,474,000.

The Institution has a separate retirement plan for trust
employees. Under the plan, both the Institution and the
employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary which
are used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which
are immediately vested with the employees. The Institution’s
cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1989, was
$4,797,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to fund the accrued costs
of all plans currently. There are no unfunded prior service
costs under the plans.

66

14. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the
provisions of Section 501(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Organizations described in that section are taxable
only on their unrelated business income. No provision for
income taxes is required for the year ended September 30,
1989, since the Institution had a net loss from unrelated
business activity.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from
taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as defined
in Section 5 01(c) (1) of the Code. Organizations described in
that section are exempt from all income taxation. The
Institution has not as yet formally sought such dual status.

15. Subsequent Event

On November 28, 1989, the President of the United States
approved legislation to establish the National Museum of the
American Indian (the National Museum) within the
Smithsonian Institution. The legislation gave authority to the
Board of Regents to enter into an agreement to transfer
certain assets, works of art and the endowment of the
Museum of the American Indian, located in New York City,
to the Institution. The transfer is expected to take place
February 4, 1990. The legislation also authorized appropria-
tions of $10,000,000 to the Institution for construction of
the National Museum, for administrative and planning
expenses and for care and custody of the collection of the
National Museum.
Robert Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for Research

International Center

From its inception, the Smithsonian has been an international
organization. During the last 143 years, Smithsonian re-
searchers have crisscrossed the globe, searching for unique
museum collections and forming a worldwide network of
friends and correspondents. In 1983, the increasingly com-
plex global activities of Smithsonian scholars and their
collaborators were brought together under the aegis of the
International Center.

Today, the International Center consists of five divisions:
the Office of International Relations, the International Gal-
lery, the Office of Quincentenary Programs, the Office of
Conference Services, and the Smithsonian-UNESCO Man
and the Biosphere Biological Diversity Program. The Interna-
tional Center also houses the offices of the Council of
American Overseas Research Centers. Each division reports
to one of the four assistant secretaries that make up the
Smithsonian’s International Activities Council, which over-
sees the center. The five divisions support Smithsonian
activities abroad and coordinate the Institution’s interna-
tional interests—particularly those that do not fall within the
scope of a single Smithsonian museum or office. The
International Center provides a meeting place and an organi-
zational channel to bring together the world’s scholars,
museum professionals, and decision-makers, as well as the
general public. Here, they participate in scholarly confer-
ences, make contacts for future research collaboration, and
attend such public programs as forums, lectures, exhibitions,
and performances. Through the International Center, the
Smithsonian seeks to encourage a broader understanding of
the histories, cultures, and natural environments of regions
throughout the world.

Office of International Relations

The Office of International Relations (OIR) provides logisti-
cal assistance and diplomatic support for the Smithsonian’s
international research and museum programs. The office is
responsible for many of the technical details of international
exchanges of museum objects and staff. It serves as the
Smithsonian’s formal liaison branch with international or-
ganizations, government foreign affairs agencies, and institu-
tions or individuals abroad seeking to establish cooperative
relationships with the Smithsonian.

Professional services and expert advice in a variety of travel
documentation and immigration-related matters are available
from the OIR. During 1989, the office provided visa docu-
mentation for 105 researchers and museum professionals

68

“Moco Jumbie” (stilt dancer) Kombo Oloharai entertains visitors on
Family Day at the Caribbean Festival Arts exhibition in the
Smithsonian’s International Center. This four-weekend event was
designed especially for families and featured traditional foods, crafts
demonstrations, musical performance, and costumes of the
Caribbean.
traveling to the Smithsonian or to corresponding U.S. insti-
tutions under the sponsorship of the Smithsonian’s govern-
ment-authorized Exchange Visitor Program. Eleven U.S.
museums and zoos are now provided with documentation
for international exchanges under the umbrella authority of
this Smithsonian program. The office also obtained nearly
100 passports and more than 950 foreign visas for foreign
travel by Smithsonian staff members and grant recipients.

The Office of International Relations coordinated a num-
ber of conferences, official visits, and planning meetings
during 1989. The fourteenth biennial gathering of the United
States-Japan Binational Commission on Cultural Exchange
took place at the Smithsonian under joint sponsorship with
the United States Information Agency. In April 1989, a
major conference titled “Macroeconomic Policy Impacts on
Natural Resource Utilization” was organized jointly by the
office and the Agency for International Development. Also in
April, the office organized a meeting of scholarly and
government organizations to discuss needs for a data center
in Madagascar and to coordinate U.S. scholarly contributions
to the World Bank’s Environmental Action Plan there. Out-
side Washington, the office organized a seminar on the
subject of global biodiversity for the American contribution
to the annual ASEAN Science and Technology Week, held
this year in Manila. Elsewhere in Asia, the director of the
office assumed an active role in the annual meetings of the
U.S.-Pakistan Subcommission on Education and Culture.

During the year, the Office of International Relations also
coordinated visits to the Smithsonian by several foreign
officials, including Genrikh Popov, head of Fine Arts at the
USSR’s Ministry of Culture; Jiang Nanfang, Americas Divi-
sion Chief at the China Association for Science and Technol-
ogy; and Samson Babi Mululu Kisekka, Prime Minister of
Uganda.

As part of the international outreach effort, the office
assumed responsibility for the secretariat of the International
Cultural Assistance Network (ICAN), an organization com-
posed of local officials from government agencies and private
institutions involved in foreign exchanges in the arts and
humanities. The International Center hosts meetings of
ICAN each month.

The Office of International Relations administers three
funding programs designed to encourage international coop-
eration in scholarly activities. During 1989, the Smithsonian’s
International Exchange Program supported workshops, train-
ing courses, and other short-term activities involving schol-
ars from eighteen countries working with eight Smithsonian

bureaus and offices. Now in its fourth year, the Suzanne
Liebers Erickson Memorial Fund facilitated ten exchange
visits between Smithsonian staff members and Danish schol-
ars, museum professionals, and students. The Smithsonian
Foreign Currency Program (SFCP) has enhanced the quality
of American scholarly work abroad since its establishment in
1965, providing in excess of $70 million in funding for
scholars from more than 250 institutions in almost every part
of the United States. This program awards grants to support
the research of the Smithsonian and other American instit-
utions working in those countries (currently only Burma)
where the United States holds blocked currencies derived
largely from past sales of surplus agricultural commod-

ities under Public Law 480. In recent years, local currencies
have also been made available through the SFCP for work in
countries where post-Public Law 480 funds have been
established for that purpose, such as the U.S.-India Fund

for Educational, Cultural, and Scientific Research and the
U.S.-Yugoslav Joint Board for Scientific and Technological
Cooperation.

International Gallery

The “Caribbean Festival Arts” exhibition opened in the
International Gallery in June 1989 and remained on view
through mid-February 1990. Organized by the St. Louis Art
Museum, the exhibition displayed costumes and masks from
several Caribbean festivals, with emphasis on three major
celebrations: the Jamaican street masquerade of Jonkonnu,
the pre-Lenten celebration of Carnival in Trinidad, and the
Islamic festival of Hosay.

The presentation of the show at the Smithsonian was
designed to place these festivals in their broader context,
utilizing supplementary displays and programs to explore the
diversity and vibrancy of the Caribbean. Architectural fa-
cades built for the exhibition transformed the corridors
surrounding the gallery into streets like those of the Carib-
bean. A short videotape served as an introduction to both the
exhibition and to the Caribbean. Two ancillary exhibitions
examined other dimensions of the Caribbean: A photo-
graphic essay on Jamaica by Ray Chen presented the many
facets of a single Caribbean island, and “Science as Art:
Marine Research in the Caribbean” focused on ongoing
research by scientists at the National Museum of Natural
History. A broad range of public programs was presented
throughout the run of the exhibition. Summer highlights

69
included an opening night Carnival; performances of the
Jamaican play, “Old Story Time,” sponsored in collaboration
with the Resident Associate Program (RAP); and a series of
four Family Days, day-long celebrations featuring Caribbean
foods, crafts, music, and dance. Fall programming featured

a RAP film series, scholarly symposia sponsored by the
Woodrow Wilson Center, and docent-led tours with artistic
demonstrations designed for schoolchildren by educators
from the National Museum of Natural History.

Office of Quincentenary Programs

The interaction between “old” and “new” world cultures
that resulted from Christopher Columbus’s first voyage to
the Americas created profound changes in the peoples and
history of our world. In observance of the 5ooth anniversary
of Columbus’s voyage, twenty museums and offices of the
Smithsonian are planning special activities, including exhi-
bitions, conferences, publications, recordings, and a television
series. All of these events, which are coordinated by the
Office of Quincentenary Programs, focus on the conse-
quences of the encounter between the original inhabitants of
the Americas with Europeans, Africans, Asians, and other
peoples.

A five-part public television series called “The Buried
Mirror” is the centerpiece of the Smithsonian’s Quincentenary
activities. Written and narrated by noted Mexican author
Carlos Fuentes and produced by Malone Gill Productions,
Ltd., “The Buried Mirror” will examine historical and con-
temporary relationships between Iberia and America. Addi-
tional funding for the television series was provided by the
Spanish National Quincentenary Commission and a group of
Spanish investors.

In May 1989, the Office of Quincentenary Programs
sponsored a conference titled “Violence and Resistance in
the Americas: The Legacy of Conquest.” This symposium
explored the reactions of indigenous peoples to the pres-
sures of European contact and examined the endurance and
emergence of Native American cultures. A small, traveling
exhibition on the theme of Native American ethnobotany
was developed from ideas discussed at the symposium.

Through the time of the 1992 commemoration, the Office
of Quincentenary Programs will be providing information
about the Smithsonian’s Quincentenary commemoration to
scholars, community leaders, and the public. To ensure the
broadest possible dissemination of information, the office, in

7O

August, began developing a quarterly newsletter, The New
World/El Nuevo Mundo, which will provide news about the
Smithsonian’s Quincentenary planning and programs.

Man and the Biosphere Program

The Smithsonian Man and the Biosphere Biological Diversity
Program promotes greater international understanding of the
cultural and biological diversity of developing countries. The
program conducts training, both in the field and in museums,
in the areas of conservation biology, natural resource man-
agement, the management of species and habitats, and
research methodologies. During 1989, a partnership was
established between representatives in three Latin American
countries—Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador—and Puerto Rico. An ef-
fort is under way to expand the program to ten countries by
1996.

One of the strengths of the program is that it helps develop
local talent by facilitating the work of Smithsonian research-
ers with in-country experts. In-country training programs are
developed with national and international organizations and
experts to ensure that these programs can address each
nation’s education priorities in conservation. Since 1987,
nearly 140 participants from three Latin American countries
have been trained in field and museum courses, and an
additional 60 are expected to be trained by the end of 1989.
Only this type of large-scale training program can provide
the local human resources that are needed to develop
long-term national conservation strategies.

The program has grown considerably, largely because of
the support of international organizations such as the Smith-
sonian-UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Program, the U.S.
Agency for International Development, the World Wildlife
Fund, the World Heritage Program, and other organizations
that have cosponsored its activities during the last three
years. The Smithsonian views the program as a great oppor-
tunity to take the lead in an international educational process
that will involve a large number of potential collaborators
who are—or will be—the decision-makers in their countries.

Office of Conference Services
Based in the International Center, the Office of Conference

Services is the Institution’s central coordinating office
for conferences that are either sponsored by or take place at
the Smithsonian. These conferences fall into three primary
categories:

Research conferences are those generated by one or more
Smithsonian staff members, usually curators, in order to
advance scholarly exchange on a subject integrally linked to
the sponsor’s ongoing research interests. Several conferences
of this type were coordinated and managed by the office in
1989, including “History from Things,” a cross-disciplinary
conference on material culture sponsored by the National
Museum of American History’s Division of Engineering and
Industry.

International congresses and annual meetings of profes-
sional organizations are sponsored at the Smithsonian many
times each year by Institution staff members. These meetings
often bring together the entire memberships of organiza-
tions, making them large and important events. In June, the
office worked with the National Museum of Natural His-
tory’s Department of Anthropology, the National Museum of
African Art, and the Arts Council of the African Studies
Association to host the Eighth Triennial Symposium on
African Art at the Smithsonian.

Collaborative programs are those the Smithsonian works
on with outside organizations. With most conferences of this
type, which vary considerably in size, the Smithsonian
actively participates in shaping the program, though at other
times the Institution serves only as host of the meeting. The
Office of Conference Services managed one such conference
in May, the “Forum on Global Change and Our Common
Future.” This landmark event was cosponsored by the
Smithsonian in cooperation with the National Academy of
Sciences, the U.S. Committee for Man and the Biosphere, the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, and
the scientific research society Sigma Xi. With registration
requests far exceeding the capacity of the original conference
site, the office negotiated a change of venue to Washington’s
National Theater and handled all logistical arrangements.

The office has increasingly assumed a clearinghouse role
for information on Smithsonian conferences, as well as on
conference facilities and suppliers at the Smithsonian, else-
where in Washington, and around the world. At the begin-
ning of 1989, the office began publishing a quarterly
Smithsonian Institution Conference Calendar, listing dates,
locations, and registration information for upcoming meet-
ings. The office is also preparing an inventory of Smithsonian
conference spaces and will publish a conference facilities
guide in 1990.

Joseph Henry Papers

The staff of the Joseph Henry Papers (JHP) completed the
sixth volume of the planned fifteen-volume letterpress edi-
tion of the correspondence and private papers of Joseph
Henry (1797-1878), a leader of the nineteenth-century
American scientific community and the first secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution (1846-1878).

Volume six, covering the years 1844-1846, is the last in
the series that traces Henry’s career as a professor of natural
philosophy (physics) at the College of New Jersey (now Prince-
ton University). Research has begun on volume seven, the
first volume dealing with Henry’s career at the Smithsonian.

JHP staff also worked on research projects focusing on
other aspects of the history of American science and technol-
ogy. John Rumm examined the transformation from scien-
tific management to industrial engineering at the Du Pont
Company. He organized a session on the theme of scientific
management for the annual meeting of the Society for the
History of Technology, at which he presented a paper. Dr.
Marc Rothenberg studied the patronage of Harvard College
Observatory during the antebellum years.

The staff of JHP also has been involved in joint activities
with other Smithsonian organizations. In cooperation with
the National Air and Space Museum and the Smithsonian
Upper Mobility Program, Beverly Lepley initiated and devel-
oped a program preparing Smithsonian staff for entry-level
clerical positions. Dr. Rothenberg helped organize the sym-
posium held in honor of the centennial of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory and the sesquicentennial of Har-
vard College Observatory.
National Zoological Park

The National Zoological Park (NZP) reached an important
milestone in 1989: It celebrated its tooth birthday. Festivi-
ties began with an old-fashioned birthday party attended by
First Lady Barbara Bush, who joined in a parade and cut the
cake for District of Columbia and Smithsonian officials, as
well as for throngs of excited schoolchildren.

Founded with a vision of conservation that was extraordi-
nary for the nineteenth century, the National Zoo in its
centennial year stands as a respected research institution
involved in international propagation programs, scholarly
research, and innovative education. The Zoo also has made
great strides in its long-term goal to convert the Rock Creek
Park facility into a biological park that illustrates the ecologi-

cal and evolutionary relationships between plants and animals.

Centennial Activities

Birthday celebrations reflected the Zoo’s commitment to
exhibits that demonstrate the ecological holism that is
fundamental to modern biology. In May, renowned conser-
vationist Sir Peter Scott and Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus
S. Dillon Ripley inaugurated “Wetlands,” a complex of
lushly planted ponds bridged by a wooden walkway leading
into the Bird House. Quickly becoming a favorite of photog-
raphers and bird-watchers, “Wetlands” also explores the
richness of this heretofore unappreciated environment with
many colorful displays, including those illustrating water-
fowl migration and courtship. In June, the Zoo opened its
“Bat Cave,” a closeup look at three species of bats. Interpre-
tive graphics combat widespread misconceptions about bats
and aim to foster admiration and empathy for these gentle
mammals. The crucial role that bats play in the pollination of
tropical plants is also emphasized.

The centennial provided an invaluable opportunity for the
Zoo to educate both tourists and local residents about its
mission. An open house in June featured behind-the-scene
tours of animal keeper areas; demonstrations by veterinari-
ans, researchers, craftspeople, graphic artists, and commis-
sary managers; and ongoing entertainment in a variety of
traditons. The public also had a chance to review an exhibit
chronicling the Zoo’s rich history. This photographic display
showed the Zoo’s progression from a collection of exotic
animals to a research center skilled in applying veterinary
science to promote longevity and reproduction to its current
role as a conservation and education institution. Selections
from the Zoo’s photo archives brought people, places, and

ideas alive, inviting comparisons between the past and
present, while keeping an eye on the future.

Other New Exhibits

As NZP evolves into a biological park, where the relationship
between living organisms and their environment is of para-
mount importance, new exhibits are being developed to
reflect these natural links. One example of this new approach
is the exhibit “Aquatic Amazonia,” for which work began in
1989. “Aquatic Amazonia” is a massive presentation of life
at the edge of the Amazon River, the planet’s most endan-
gered freshwater ecosystem. A realistic habitat recreation
will evoke the big picture: tall trees, roaring waterfalls, a
coiled anaconda, flashing birds, jumping monkeys, and
artifacts of Amerindians. Underwater views of the river itself
feature caiman, snakebirds, and the glory of the most wide-
spread diversity of fish on the Earth’s surface.

The whole exhibit will be enlivened by an exposition of
the diverse and crucial contributions of Smithsonian scien-
tists to tropical biology and conservation, with a contempo-
rary ecology hall showing up-to-the-minute global events.
“Aquatic Amazonia” and the biological park (referred to as
the BioPark) in which it will reside are intended to promote
the biological literacy that will be so urgently needed in the
twenty-first century.

The Visitor Experience

This year has seen a heightened commitment to making the
BioPark’s three million annual visitors comfortable during
their visit. New steps have been taken to improve the park’s
ambience, beauty, comfort, and safety. The first phase in this
process has been the restoration of Olmsted Walk. Originally
the backbone of Frederick Law Olmsted’s plan for a natural-
istic park, the walk had become in recent years an intrusive
and congested road. On the new walk, pedestrians can stroll
along a broad promenade from Connecticut Avenue to Rock
Creek, enjoying planned views of animals surrounded by
plant life from the original palette of the renowned park
designer.

The renovated Elephant House also opened this year, with
all of the elephants now living together as one herd. The
facility is bright, richly planted, and stripped of unsightly
barriers. Interactive stations illustrating the complex and
fascinating biology of these giant animals complement the
tranquil fish pond and the uncaged family of golden lion
tamarins scampering through the greenery.

Similarly, the “Delicate Hoof Building,” up to now an
unnatural and uninteresting exhibit situated at a critical site
near the Connecticut Avenue entrance, is being transformed
into a an area showcasing Australian biology. The action and
vibrant color of the Great Barrier Reef come alive in Wash-
ington in a magnificent 2,500-gallon saltwater tank. Emus
and wallabies already occupy spacious yards, and plans for
presentations of the unique nature of this continental island,
continental drift, and aboriginal culture are under way.

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
supported two new exhibits in 1989. Beavers, dam builders
of the animal kingdom, are largely nocturnal, spending much
of the day resting unseen in the lodges they construct. A
small television camera now allows visitors to watch the
sleeping beavers on a large color monitor. In addition, a new
honeybee hive has glass walls revealing the elaborate dances
bees use to communicate the nature and location of food
sources to their hive mates. Interpretive graphics explain this
navigational communication, as well as the co-evolution of
bees and flowers. Like bats, bees are essential for pollination
of many plants whose flower colors and shapes have evolved
to attract them.

Zoo visitors are now brought closer to animals and
keepers in several new demonstrations. Grunt, the Vietnam-
ese pot-bellied pig, began to walk the park with his keepers
and became an instant favorite. He belongs to a semidomes-
ticated species that lives in and around Asian villages. An
imposing red-shouldered hawk, rendered flightless by an
injury before coming to the Zoo, is the star of a demonstra-
tion highlighting bird biology and conservation.

A new free orientation brochure with accompanying map
helps visitors get around on hilly, winding side trails. A new
guidebook supplements these aids with thoughtful, biologi-
cally authentic information on each exhibit.

Art and technology, so critical to the life history of the
human species, is an integral part of the BioPark. For
example, the concept of flight is reinforced by the addition of
a life-sized model of a prehistoric dragonfly, 28 inches in
wingspan, created by the Smithsonian’s Office of Exhibits
Central in cooperation with Harvard University.

To make it easier for visitors to enjoy all the Zoo’s new
features, safety and security have been augmented. Remote
surveillance cameras have been placed in parking lots, at

Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley presents the National Zoo’s
Conservation Medal to Sir Peter Scott for his outstanding efforts on
behalf of international conservation during ceremonies marking the
opening of the “Wetlands” exhibit on May 3. (Photograph by Jessie
Cohen)

entrances, and on pathways. In the last six months, Zoo
police officers greeted 3,500 buses, making sure that each
group of schoolchildren and tourists arrived safely. Modern
bicycle racks were installed for the convenience of the large
biking community.

Other improvements were made to guarantee that the Zoo
functioned safely. The high-voltage electrical supply system
was replaced, ensuring that critical life-support systems can
be maintained. Because of its modern high-technology re-
search, special medical procedures, and exhibit fabrication
activities, the Zoo is burdened with a variety of hazardous
waste products. To address this situation, state-of-the-art
storage and disposal programs were implemented.

Education and Outreach Efforts

Exhibit-based public education is the mainstay of efforts to
promote biological literacy, but NZP recognizes the need to
educate people who may never visit the Zoo. In this spirit,
Dr. Christen Wemmer, assistant director for conservation,
developed a new training course for zoo managers in devel-
oping countries. The two-week course was presented both in
Brazil and Guatemala by a team of North American curators;
they reached forty-three participants from eight Latin Ameri-
can countries. Husbandry techniques, genetic and demo-
graphic management, and zoo education are featured in the
curriculum.

Twenty-one wildlife biologists from seventeen countries
participated in the 1989 session of Rasanayagam Rudran’s
Wildlife Management Training Course. Many of the students
were identified by zoo scientists abroad as part of a commit-
ment to include counterpart training as a component of
conservation research.

NZP also organized career-oriented symposia for high
school and junior-high students, traditionally hard-to-reach
audiences; teacher workshops explaining how to use the
Zoo to teach biology; classes in conservation and biology for
adults; and public lectures on wildlife research. The Ameri-
can Association of Museums awarded its 1989 Museum
Educator’s Award for Excellence to Judith White, chief of
NZP’s Office of Education, for developing the first discovery
center and family learning laboratories in museums and zoos.

ZooGoer, a monthly magazine published by the Friends of
the National Zoo that reaches 26,000 households, schools,
and conservation agencies, has been substantially improved.
The Smithsonian has also developed a video guidebook that
is now on sale, and filming was completed for a one-hour
“Smithsonian World” program on the Zoo that will be aired
in 1990.

Animal Exhibits

Animal exhibits, the centerpiece of the Zoo, are criticial to
the Zoo’s educational efforts. By observing animals in natu-
ral settings, visitors have an opportunity to observe animal
behavior and to learn about the relationship between plants
and animals.

The popular Invertebrate Exhibit expanded during 1989.
Of the 5,000 animals in the collections, 1,500 are inverte-
brates. Although this represents a sizable proportion of the
total Zoo population, it is actually an underrepresentation; at
least 95 percent of all animal species are invertebrates.

Throughout the Zoo population, there were more than
one thousand births and hatchings in 1989. Perhaps the most
significant births were seven black-footed ferrets, a North
American species that is extinct in the wild. Its very existence
hangs on the slender thread of captive breeding. The Zoo’s
Conservation and Research Center located at Front Royal,
Virginia, was selected as one of two zoos to receive some of

74

the remaining population of sixty-seven. Looking beyond
this breeding success, postdoctoral fellow Brian Miller is
using polecats as ferret surrogates to study the development
of prey catching and predator recognition. This research will
be crucial to the reintroduction of black-footed ferrets to the
wild, which is now a real prospect.

Births of golden lion tamarins, Guam rails, Bali mynas, and
Arabian oryx will bolster other ongoing reintroduction pro-
grams. International species management committees were
very excited by the births of golden-headed lion tamarins,
African lions, scimitar-horned oryx, clouded leopards, and
Cuban crocodiles. In addition, Micronesian kingfishers,
amakihis (Hawaiian birds disappearing at an alarming rate),
and Sumatran tigers were acquired as seed stock for new
breeding programs at the Zoo.

Dr. Mitchell Bush, head of the Department of Animal
Health, and Dr. Richard Montali, head of the Department of
Animal Pathology, report that many of the medical problems
in the collection now involve diseases of senescence: tumors,
heart defects, and kidney failure. This means that skilled
animal management, good nutrition, and assertive preventive
medicine are greatly extending longevity, mirroring the trend
of human populations in developed countries.

Research

The Research Building opened after a complete, federally
funded renovation that includes new laboratories, environ-
mental- and sound-controlled rooms, animal quarters, com-
puter and darkroom facilities, and a conference room and
office suites that are unrivaled by any zoo in the world.

With the new research facility complete, the Zoo added
several new researchers to its staff. Dr. Martha Fujita and Dr.
John Rappole joined the Department of Conservation, and
Dr. Linda Munson joined the Department of Pathology. Dr.
Fujita specializes in bat biology and will travel widely in Asia
to promote conservation research and training. Dr. Rappole
will coordinate research on exotic and native wildlife at the
Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal. Dr.
Munson is establishing a wild animal tissue-cell culture bank.
Dr. Fred Allendorf was selected as the head of the new
Molecular Genetics unit; he is internationally known for
work on subspeciation and its implications for conservation
biology.

Zoo scientists received grants from twenty different or-
ganizations in 1989, reflecting the quality and widespread
recognition of the research taking place at the National Zoo.
The work of one researcher, Dr. John Seidensticker, had a
direct effect on an important exhibit. After studying the
critical features of zoo habitats in controlling the behavior
and visibility of animals, Dr. Seidensticker recommended
that changes be made in the exhibit area of Smokey, the
American black bear that the public associates with forest fire
prevention. Since the installation of an inexpensive log
shelter, Smokey can now be seen 99 percent of the time,
compared with 6 percent before the change. More impor-
tant, this improvement is considered vital to Smokey’s health
and well-being.

Other Zoo scientists were involved in important research
programs this year. Dr. Bush began testing an antibiotic that
shows promise of eliminating the carrier state of shigellosis, a
bacterial disease that can decimate primate collections. Dr.
Bush has also begun studying the high rate of positive
reactions to tuberculosis skin tests in elephants in many zoo
collections. He gave skin tests to wild African elephants,
which apparently had never been exposed to tuberculosis,
and found that they, too, showed a high positive reaction
rate. He is now looking at blood and tissue samples in an
effort to better understand the physiological mechanisms of
these apparently false reactions, with the goal of developing a
more accurate test.

The reproductive physiology laboratory, headed by Dr.
David Wildt, is monitoring hormonal activity in a number of
species to document reproductive cycles and to diagnose
pregnancy. Because the hormones are recovered noninva-
sively from urine and feces, the work is especially applicable
to difficult-to-handle or free-ranging species, making it pos-
sible, for example, to determine if only the behaviorally
dominant female in a wild group of dwarf mongooses is
having fertile estrous cycles. By uniting the gametes through
in vitro fertilization, Dr. Wildt’s group is also pioneering the
recovery and storage of sperm and eggs from animals that are
reproductively incompetent or that die abruptly.

Dr. Montali extended his work on viral hepatitis in
marmosets and tamarins. This research is directed at finding
a control fora disease that has ravaged many primate
collections. He also hosted Dr. Zeng Yuan for a collaborative
study of the intestinal tract of giant pandas.

Dr. Eugene Morton and Dr. Russell Greenberg continued
their study of migratory birds, which is revealing that the
habitat destruction in the tropics caused by human activity
and Hurricane Gilbert (1988) are having profound, de-
leterious effects on the numbers of birds in the Northern
Hemisphere.

A focus on marine mammals extends from Dr. Katherine
Ralls’s work on sex and age differences in geographic
movements by California sea otters to the collaborative
studies of Dr. Daryl Boness and Dr. Olaf Oftedal on seal milk
composition and maternal strategies. Dr. Boness also contin-
ued his field studies on the endangered Hawaiian monk seal,
and he began observations with Dr. John Francis on the
maternal care and mating strategies of the Juan Fernandez fur
seal in Chile.

Dr. Oftedal and Dr. Rudran continued their study of the
diet of the leaf-eating red howler monkey in Venezuela. Dr.
Oftedal also provided nutritional expertise in collaborative
studies on green iguanas, red pandas, African lions, toque
macques, and bats. Miles Roberts studied the behavioral
ecology and reproductive success of chipmunks living on the
grounds of the Zoo.

Dr. Devra Kleiman received the Distinguished Achieve-
ment Award from the Society of Conservation Biology, in
part for leadership in increasing the population of golden
lion tamarins to 5 80 in more than 80 zoos worldwide.
Kleiman, NZP colleagues, and Brazilian counterparts have
launched studies of the behavioral ecology of wild tamarins
(with Dr. James Dietz and Andrew Baker of the University of
Maryland), conservation education in Brazil (with Lou Ann
Dietz of the World Wildlife Fund), and reintroduction (with
Dr. Benjamin Beck, NZP’s assistant director for exhibits).

The number of reintroduced tamarins reached sixty-seven
in 1989; twenty-nine of those survived. In addition, they had
thirteen surviving offspring. The program is widely cited as a
model of conservation biology.

Friends of the National Zoo

A nonprofit organization with more than 5 5,000 members,
the Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) contributed in many
ways to NZP’s accomplishments in 1989. A record number
of 721 FONZ volunteers worked more than fifty-nine
thousand hours at the Zoo, providing services worth an
estimated $820,000. These volunteers were critical to the
success of many of the Zoo’s research, education, and
interpretive programs, including the free-ranging golden lion
tamarin exhibit and the newly instituted encounters between
elephants and visitors. Volunteers also served as guides;
collected data for behavioral research on giant pandas,
maned wolves, and other species; harvested browse for the

75
Zoo’s primates and elephants; provided clerical support; and
assisted animal keepers and gardeners.

FONZ supported the Zoo’s education mission with more
than sixty classes, workshops, and natural history trips
attended by nearly 1,200 adults and children. FONZ pro-
duced a new, sixty-page Guide to the National Zoological
Park and an educational coloring book, as well as its flagship
educational magazine, ZooGoer. Special issues of ZooGoer
served as guides to the Zoo’s Centennial photographic
exhibit and to the new “Bat Cave” exhibit.

FONZ’s major fund-raising effort, National ZooFari, was
an outstanding success in 1989, collecting $70,000 for the
Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund. Monies from
this restricted fund were used in 1989 to support construc-
tion of the new Great Barrier Reef exhibit and to bring
several animals, including a new Sumatran tiger, to the Zoo
for conservation breeding programs. Other restricted-fund
support included $25,700 in animal food contributions and
$12,000 to place new benches throughout the Zoo.

FONZ operates, under contract to the Smithsonian, the
food, gift, bookstore, and parking concessions at the Zoo. In
1989, profits from these visitor services concessions pro-
vided $5 50,000 in grants for Zoo research and education
programs, $315,000 for Zoo services, and $5 10,000 to the
Smithsonian.

Visitor Services continued to upgrade facilities and cus-
tomer service with new, variable-rate parking fees, expanded
and healthier menus in food concessions, and a wider
selection of educational merchandise in the gift and book-
store concessions. For the first time, educational information
cards were provided with every purchase of a gift with an
animal theme from the shops and bookstore. The bookstore
also significantly expanded its selection of natural history,
biological science, and conservation book titles.

FONZ initiated a wide-ranging environmental conserva-
tion program in 1989, including office paper and aluminum
can recycling, eliminating styrofoam packaging and reducing
plastic packaging in food service, offering paper bags and
recycled paper products in Zoo gift shops and the bookstore,
and preparing a brochure of conservation tips for distribution
to the public.

In 1989, FONZ operated on gross revenues of $7.6
million, providing close to $2.7 million in financial re-
sources, volunteer time, and visitor services to the National
Zoological Park and the Smithsonian Institution.

76

Office of American Studies

Since its founding in 1967, the program in graduate educa-
tion sponsored by the Office of American Studies has been
designed to encourage research in the field of material
culture, utilizing the collections and personnel of the
Smithsonian Institution’s many museums. An additional
purpose was to overcome the separation then existing
between university and museum scholars. Through formal
courses conducted at the Institution, graduate students from
cooperating universities are encouraged to take advantage of
the opportunities offered by the national museums. Courses
have covered art, technology, and social, cultural, and politi-
cal history. The research interests of participating students
have ranged from art to anthropology.

The 1988 fall semester seminar, “Material Aspects of
American Civilization,” focused on material culture and the
political process. The seminar was taught by Dr. Wilcomb E.
Washburn, director of the program, and Dr. Bernard Mergen
of George Washington University. Ten students participated—
seven from George Washington University and three from
the University of Maryland.

Other seminars taught during the past year included “The
Decorative Arts in America,” taught by Barbara G. Carson of
George Washington University; “Studies in American Art
and History,” taught by Rebecca Zurier of George Washing-
ton University; and “Technology, Labor and American Soci-
ety,” taught by Gary Kulik of the Smithsonian Institution.
Thirty-three students participated in these seminars.
Office of Fellowships and
Grants

Smithsonian resources are unparalleled anywhere in the
world. Few other institutions offer scholars and students the
opportunity to conduct research in subjects ranging from
original works of art to historical and anthropological ob-
jects, from complex ecosystems on Earth to distant galaxies
in the universe. To help researchers take advantage of these
vast facilities, the Smithsonian has developed a number of
research support programs that encourage scholars to use its
museums, libraries, and research facilities in conjunction
with staff members. The Office of Fellowships and Grants
(OFG) administers these various programs, serving as an
institutional link with scholars throughout the world. These
academic programs, which include long- and short-term
residential appointments, are an important complement to
those offered by universities. In 1989, more than 800
undergraduate and graduate students and scholars received
awards administered by the OFG.

Programs for Visiting Students and Scholars

The office awarded 87 predoctoral, postdoctoral, and senior
postdoctoral Smithsonian Research Fellowships in 1989.
Twenty-seven of these awards went to foreign students and
scholars from fifteen countries. Participants in this program,
which was started in 1965, conduct independent studies
under the guidance of staff. Research is carried out in the
Institution’s bureaus or at field sites, usually over a period of
six to twelve months. Research topics covered a wide area of
subjects, including protein metabolism in lactating grey and
harbor seals, the representation of romantic love in con-
sumer culture from 1900 to 1930, Jamaican Maroon oral
traditions, developments in American sculpture from 1969
to 1988, and tectonic studies in the Martian equatorial
transition zone.

Awards are also given to students interested in exploring
potential dissertation subjects. Twenty-two U.S. and five
foreign students in the early stages of their graduate training
received these ten-week fellowships in 1989. They studied
such topics as the evolution of Duke Ellington’s composi-
tional style; molecular evolutionary genetics of sharks; com-
ics and intellectual debates over mass culture; and music,
culture, and ideology in the Andean world.

This year, the office developed a new postdoctoral fellow-
ship program in molecular evolution and plant physiology.
The program stipulates that research be conducted at two or
more of the following bureaus: the National Museum of
Natural History, the National Zoological Park, the Smith-

sonian Tropical Research Institute, and the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center. Two awards were offered
this year.

The Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellows in residence
in 1989 included Roy MacLeod of the University of Sydney,
who worked at the National Museum of American History
to explore the relations between science, technology, and
imperialism, and Peter Goldreich of the California Institute
of Technology, who continued his research on planetary
dynamics at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

The Faculty Fellowship Program encourages minority
faculty members to conduct research at the Institution. In
1989, five awards were made for periods of two to four
months. Faculty Fellows studied a wide range of subjects,
including the systematics, phylogeny, and zoogeography of
the cool-adapted mayflies of South Africa; the evolution of
images of black and white women in the Hollywood cinema;
and measurements and weights in West African cultures.

In addition to the Institution-wide programs funded
through the OFG, the office administers fellowships and
other awards supported with funds from bureau sources.
This year, 164 such fellowships were granted to visitors who
come to the Smithsonian for varying lengths of time.

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory offered four
postdoctoral and seven predoctoral fellowships. At the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, this year’s awards included
two appointments to the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim
Fellowship, one to the A. Verville Fellowship, and two to the
International Fellowship Program. The National Museum of
American Art, in conjunction with the James Renwick
Alliance, offered two senior fellowships under the James
Renwick Fellowship Program in American Art.

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) awarded
three postgraduate internship awards for research and training
in subjects ranging from objects conservation to art conserva-
tion. Two of these interns conducted their research at the
CAL; a third was appointed to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

The OFG received an increased number of applications for
its popular short-term visitor program. This program helps
scholars come to the Institution to conduct research and to
collaborate and interact with Smithsonian staff. In 1989, the
program provided 131 short-term travel grants, including 70
to international visitors from 32 countries.

Scholars in research, education, and museological fields
met to discuss issues of mutual or complementary interest
through the OFG’s successful workshop program. Nineteen
of these workshops were organized by Smithsonian staff

77
members. Topics studied included “The History of Astron-
omy at Cambridge, Massachusetts,” “History from Things,”
“Comparative Evolutionary Biology,” and “Science and the
Federal Patron since 1945,” which was a joint venture
between the National Museum of American History and the
Naval Research Laboratory.

Internships and Other Programs

Because internships offer such a valuable experience for
students, they are becoming an integral part of many under-
graduate and graduate school programs. The OFG adminis-
ters all internship appointments supported with stipends. In
1988, a total of 13 1 appointments were made, a substantial
increase over previous years. Students studied in a great
many Smithsonian bureaus, including twenty-four at the
National Air and Space Museum, four at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, eleven at the National
Museum of American Art, and twenty-one in the Botany and
Vertebrate Zoology Departments of the National Museum of
Natural History. Eleven students came to the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center to participate in their work-
and-learn program in environmental studies. Stipends were
awarded to an additional sixty-four interns placed in other
bureaus.

Nine students participated in the Smith College-Smithsonian
Program in American Studies. The program features a semi-
nar course and research projects conducted under the super-
vision of staff members.

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (OESE)
continued its high school internship program in 1989.
Forty-one students participated in a five-week session de-
signed to broaden an existing academic interest or vocational
skill.

The OFG offered a number of intern appointments aimed
at increasing the participation of minorities in Smithsonian
research activities and fields of interest. Thirty-three minor-
ity undergraduate and graduate students from across the
country were awarded internships to work at a variety of
bureaus and offices throughout the Smithsonian.

In collaboration with the bureaus, the OFG continued a
program for Native American students and community
scholars, making twenty-two short-term awards in 1989.
Scholarly efforts included the study of the 3,600 photographs
of the National Anthropological Archives Zuni Collection
and historical research on the Red Rock Community Ship-
rock Agency, Navajo Nation.

78

The Cooperative Education Program, aimed at minority
graduate students whose research interests coincide with
those of the Institution, continued this year. One graduate
student received an appointment. All students in this pro-
gram work in professional research-related jobs at the
Smithsonian while continuing their university education.
The appointments hold the potential for permanent employ-
ment at the Smithsonian.

The Education Fellowship Program also is designed to
involve minority students in the Institution’s diverse fields of
interest by offering support for graduate study and research
training. One fellow, a graduate student in anthropology, has
completed his master’s degree at the University of Massachu-
setts and is continuing his fellowship by working on his
doctoral degree.

To honor Regent Emeritus James E. Webb, the Institution
established a fellowship in his name designed to promote
excellence in the management of cultural and scientific
nonprofit organizations. This year, three professional staff
members from the Smithsonian were awarded fellowships to
enhance their administrative skills. The recipients came from
the staffs of the Management Analysis Office, the National
Air and Space Museum, and the Office of Planning and
Budget.

The Scholarly Studies Program is a competitive grant
program that funds research by Smithsonian staff. As a result
of two meetings of a review committee composed of scholars
from outside the Institution, 31 one- and two-year grants
were awarded in 1989.

The Research Resources Program supports archival proj-
ects that arrange, describe, preserve, and make more widely
available to the public selected archival materials and docu-
ment collections of major importance to research. In 1989,
the second year of the program, a review committee of
archivists from outside the Institution recommended that ten
grants be awarded.

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Like archaeologists who explore Earth’s past through the
relics of ancient civilizations, astronomers decipher our
cosmic history through the remnants of ancient light. By
collecting and analyzing radiation that left stars billions of
years ago, astronomers probe the secrets of celestial worlds
that may have disappeared long before Earth was even born.
And by gazing ever deeper into space, they also travel back
into time to record primordial events that may hold the clues
to our cosmic origins.

This year, several astronomers at the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory (SAO) turned their archaeological skills
to some unusual ends—digging into fields of data long
forgotten or ignored, and thereby advancing our knowledge
of the Moon, the Solar System, and the distant Universe.

Nearly two decades after the Apollo astronauts returned to
this planet with samples of lunar soil, a completely new rock
type was identified on the moon by an SAO scientist sifting
through the old material. Tiny grains of a magnesium-rich
mineral called cordierite, usually present only in very deep
geological deposits, were found in a collection made by the
Apollo 15 mission. The appearance of the rare mineral on
the lunar surface suggests that it was “excavated” by a
massive meteorite impact, perhaps the same one that created
the Moon’s huge Imbrium Basin near the site where the
sample was collected.

Painstaking orbital calculations by another SAO astrono-
mer revealed that a “new” asteroid observed in November
1988 by two amateur astronomers was actually one discov-
ered seventy-seven years ago. The tiny minor planet, offi-
cially known as Hapag, was first found in 1911; but because
it had not been seen since, it was considered lost. However,
additional checking by the SAO researcher showed tracks of
the “lost asteroid” on photographic plates taken in the 1950s
and again in 1980. Both times, it had gone unrecognized.

Through a combination of intuition, imagination, and
technical innovation, a team of SAO astronomers is creating
anew X-ray map of the sky using data once consigned to the
scientific scrap heap. A decade ago, the Einstein (HEAO-2)
Observatory produced the first focused images of cosmic
X-ray sources, including some of the most energetic—and
exotic—phenomena in the universe: supernova remnants,
quasars, pulsars, and suspected black holes. Unfortunately,
when the spacecraft reentered the atmosphere eighteen
months after launch, this unique window on the universe
was closed, and the five thousand images that had already
been produced were considered the final record. However,
one SAO researcher felt that some valuable Einstein data had

been overlooked. He reasoned that when the Einstein tele-
scope was swung from one “pointed” observation to another
in a different part of the sky, its still-activated detectors might
have made an unintentional record of the strip of sky along
the way. A computer program was devised to reconstruct
these thin strips into a full-blown sky survey. The result is a
soon-to-be published catalogue that includes some one
thousand bright X-ray objects, half of which have not been
seen before.

This respect for the value of past research—and its applica-
tion to new initiatives in the present—is most appropriate in
an organization about to celebrate its rooth anniversary.
Founded by Samuel Pierpont Langley, the third secretary of
the Smithsonian, SAO has for a century pioneered the study
of those physical processes determining the nature of our
universe. Today, its varied scientific programs are coordi-
nated with the Harvard College Observatory and, together,
the two observatories form the Center for Astrophysics (CfA)
in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In addition, SAO operates the
Oak Ridge Observatory in Massachusetts and the Fred
Lawrence Whipple Observatory in Arizona. The Whipple
Observatory is the site of the Multiple Mirror Telescope,
which SAO manages jointly with the University of Arizona.

Research at the center is organized in seven divisions,
whose efforts complement each other. Scientific data are
obtained from ground-based telescopes; instruments aboard
balloons, rockets, and space satellites; and laboratory experi-
ments. The analysis of these data is performed mainly with
the observatory’s computers, and the results and interpreta-
tions are published in scientific journals and reports. This
information is disseminated widely to various audiences
through lectures, books, and popular media. In cooperation
with Harvard, SAO also conducts an innovative program to
develop secondary-school curriculum materials that use ex-
amples from astronomy to teach the basic principles of
physics and mathematics.

On behalf of the International Astronomical Union, SAO
operates two global science information services. The Cen-
tral Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams disseminates infor-
mation about transient astronomical phenomena such as
comets and supernovas. The Minor Planet Center computes
orbits and provides observational information on asteroids
and serves as the official arbiter of minor planet nomencla-
ture. And, with support from the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration and the National Science Foundation,
SAO this year became the U.S. gateway for SIMBAD, an
international astronomical computer data base maintained at

PD,
Strasbourg, France.
A description of the work conducted at each of the seven
divisions in the past year, with research highlights, follows.

Atomic and Molecular Physics

Through a combination of theoretical studies and laboratory
experiments, SAO scientists explore the fundamental atomic
and molecular processes occurring in a wide variety of
astrophysical environments—from the interiors of stars to the
dusty cores of interstellar clouds to the upper reaches of the
Earth’s atmosphere.

One of the most remarkable discoveries associated with
Supernova 1987A was the detection of emission from a
carbon monoxide molecule that formed during the stellar
explosion. How this molecule could have formed—or
survived—in this hostile environment of intense radiation
and extreme heat poses some significant challenges to
current theory. Division scientists have developed new mod-
els that describe conditions in the supernova’s expanding
shell of gas and dust that suggest some specific mechanisms
for molecule formation.

Growing concern over depletion of the Earth’s ozone layer
and the prospect of global warming have turned a long-
standing divisional interest in atomic and molecular proc-
esses of the atmosphere into a subject of some urgency. In
collaboration with other SAO colleagues, the spectra of
several stratospheric molecules were obtained by a balloon-
borne infrared spectrometer flown in May 1989. How the
abundances of molecules such as ozone, carbon dioxide,
hydrogen peroxide, and hydroxyl vary with both time and
altitude is now being analyzed as part of the effort to
determine what processes may preserve or destroy Earth’s
protective shield of atmosphere.

Since November 1988, SAO and Harvard University have
operated the Institute for Theoretical Atomic and Molecular
Physics with funding from the National Science Foundation.
By attracting and training graduate students of the highest
quality, the institute hopes to increase the number of theo-
rists in this field, correcting a critical national shortage. The
institute also brings senior researchers to SAO for discus-
sions and collaborations with students and other staff mem-
bers. In its first year, the institute hosted some thirty visiting
scientists for stays varying from several days to several
months.

80

High-Energy Astrophysics

Research in this division is directed toward understanding
the mechanisms that generate X-ray radiation from objects
such as neutron stars, quasars, and pulsars; studying the
formation, evolution, and ultimate fate of stars and galaxies;
and measuring the overall distribution of matter in the
universe. Because X-rays are absorbed by the Earth’s atmo-
sphere, all observations must be made from balloons, rock-
ets, or space platforms. SAO scientists are currently analyzing
X-ray data from several past missions and preparing instru-
mentation for future flights.

An SAO scientist and a colleague at Bell Laboratories
are working to resolve a long-standing cosmic mystery:
the source of positrons—seen as high-energy gamma-ray
radiation—in the center of the Milky Way galaxy that disap-
peared suddenly early in this decade. These scientists are
investigating the possible linkage of this source with an
unusual X-ray source known as GX1+4 found in the same
region of the sky. They have observed changes in the
intensity of GX1+ 4 that seem to mimic the behavior of the
positron source. There is a growing body of evidence that
these two sources may be one and the same.

In March, a massive flare on the surface of the sun, the
third largest on record, created a geomagnetic storm on
Earth that disrupted radio communications, caused power
failures in Canada, and produced auroral displays seen as far
south as the Gulf of Mexico. By lucky chance, a rocket-borne
X-ray telescope using a new multilayer mirror was launched
from New Mexico in time to observe this gigantic solar
eruption. This SAO-built instrument obtained high-resolution
X-ray images of the flare’s onset phase. This information,
combined with simultaneous observations in other wave-
lengths, has provided new insights into the physical proc-
esses powering such events.

Optical and Infrared Astronomy

Optical and infrared research at the SAO ranges from studies
of the large-scale structure of the universe to the formation
and evolution of stars. This division’s many areas of interest
include the kinematics of the halo of our galaxy, active
galactic nuclei, gravitational lenses, supernovae, the chemis-
try of the Earth’s atmosphere, and the dynamics of globular
clusters and galaxies.
The Center for Astrophysics Redshift Survey, an ambi-
tious project designed to map the three-dimensional distribu-
tion of some fifteen thousand galaxies in the northern sky, is
now approximately two-thirds complete and has revealed
the galaxies to be spread across giant “sheets” surrounding
vast voids. Indeed, during the mapping this year, evidence
was found for what may be the largest, single coherent
structure so far seen in nature—a 2-inch wall of galaxies more
than 400 million light-years long. The existence of such an
extraordinarily large structure poses serious problems for all
current theories concerning the origin and evolution of the
universe.

While making extremely accurate measurements of the
radial velocities of bright stars to detect periodic motion,
SAO scientists discovered several low-mass companion ob-
jects. These otherwise invisible objects could be the elusive
“brown dwarf stars” thought by some theorists to make up
much of the mass of our galaxy.

SAO scientists have a reputation for creating innovative
instrumentation for both ground-based and space astron-
omy. Recognizing this leadership, the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration (NASA) this year selected SAO to
build and operate the Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satel-
lite (SWAS) to study how molecular clouds in the Milky Way
collapse to form stars and planets. Scheduled for launch in
1993, SWAS is part of NASA’s recently revitalized Small
Explorer Program, a series of small, relatively inexpensive
scientific spacecraft that can be developed quickly and
deployed by expendable rockets. Other SAO instruments
under development include two-dimensional-array electronic
detectors, optical-fiber-fed spectrographs, and a prototype
two-element optical and infrared interferometer with a base-
line approximately 50 meters long to be installed at the
Whipple Observatory.

Planetary Sciences

Research in this division strives to understand the planets,
satellites, and other small bodies of the Solar System, as well
as the processes that created them out of a great, whirling,
nebulous cloud of gas and dust billions of years ago. For
example, new insight into the dynamics of the early Solar
System was provided by a study of the stability of asteroids
orbiting between Jupiter and Saturn. According to this
analysis, none could persist there for longer than twenty or
thirty million years.

pe > =
or

me \

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory hopes to establish a
worldwide network of small, relatively inexpensive, and remotely
operated automatic photoelectric telescopes similar to this

0.7 §5-meter-diameter instrument installed at the Whipple
Observatory. (Whipple Observatory photograph)

A study of the two dozen or so known “Sun-grazing”
comets, those whose orbits come extremely close to the Sun,
including some thought to have actually crashed into the
solar surface, has shown that all these comets could have
originated from the breakup of a single, large, progenitor
comet in the fourth century B.c.

81
Activity in the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams
and the Minor Planet Center continued at very high levels
this year. Among the more interesting events reported were
the discoveries of six comets in the vicinity of the sun made
by a space-borne coronagraph.

Radio and Geoastronomy

Research in radio astronomy attempts to understand the
structure, evolution, energy sources, and ultimate fate of
those astronomical objects that emit radio waves. As pio-
neers in very long baseline interferometry (VLBI), SAO
scientists use this radio-observing technique to measure
directly drifts among the continents, to probe the interior of
the Earth, and to determine the distances to cosmic sources
and study their structures.

Various VLBI arrays were used to measure the properties
of relativistic jets emanating from quasars and active galaxies.
The goal is to understand how particles are accelerated to
velocities near the speed of light and why they seem confined
in well-collimated streams. For example, one experiment
using eighteen antennas imaged the structure of the jet in the
galaxy M87 with unprecedented clarity.

In its first full year of observations, a 1.2-meter-diameter
radio telescope installed at Cambridge made a sensitive
survey of carbon monoxide distribution in the little-studied
outer parts of the Milky Way, with the resultant identifica-
tion of two giant, star-forming regions. Other observations
of carbon monoxide in the nearer Perseus spiral arm of our
galaxy provided new details on the size and mass distribution
of molecular clouds in the vicinity of stellar associations and
supernova remnants. This study represents a vital step
toward understanding the process of star birth in such
clouds.

The close collaboration between radio astronomers and
laboratory spectroscopists at SAO resulted in the discovery
of anew molecule, silicon carbide (SiC), in the gaseous
envelope around an evolved star. This free radical—a dia-
tomic metal carbide—had long defied detection both on
Earth and in space. However, the tantalizing suggestion of
the molecule’s distinctive lines seen in the spectra of a star by
European astronomers led to its confirmation in SAO’s
laboratory.

SAO continued its development of innovative instruments
for astronomical research, including highly stable atomic
clocks built to support programs of VLBI, deep-space
tracking efforts, and national time-keeping programs. These

82

SAO-built clocks played a vital role at those NASA stations
around the world monitoring the Voyager spacecraft’s final
planetary encounter with Neptune in August.

Solar and Stellar Physics

Investigations in solar and stellar physics are concerned with
the physical processes underlying the behavior of the Sun
and stars. This information is crucial to our understanding of
the depenence of observed properties on factors such as age,
composition, and physical association with other stars in
pairs and groups. Of particular interest is the behavior of hot
gas under varied conditions—in the Sun’s interior, in the
outer atmospheres of stars, in the space between the stars,
and in the material ejected by young stars and supernovae.

Although the supernova in the Large Magellanic Cloud
(SN1987A) has faded considerably since its discovery in
February 1987, it continues to be an object of great interest.
Using optical speckle interferometry to obtain high-resolution
images of SN1987A, an SAO team detected a slight displace-
ment in the supernova’s center of brightness with respect to
the pre-explosion position of its suspected progenitor star,
Sanduleak —69 202. The finding suggests that this star may
have been part of’ a binary system and that only one
component survived the explosion. The presence of a sec-
ond, relatively bright star nearby could account for the
“flattening” of the supernova’s light curve, instead of the
expected steady, continuing decline in luminosity.

SAO scientists also are studying magnetic activity cycles in
other stars for clues to understanding how similar cycles in
the Sun produce diverse geomagnetic phenomena that may
be linked to terrestrial climate change. A new research tool
being used to obtain these observations is the Automatic
Photoelectric Telescope (APT), a fully robotic instrument
ideal for long-term monitoring of cyclic behavior. Asa
leader in the implementation of APTs, SAO has begun efforts
to organize and establish a global network of such instruments.

Theoretical Astrophysics

Theorists study the objects and systems of the universe by
means of mathematical analysis and computer simulation.
Although usually intended to provide interpretations of
observed phenomena, this research often results in the
prediction of new phenomena not yet seen. Most investiga-
tions involve independent work, but collaborations among
individuals and other groups at SAO are common.
The highest resolution X-ray image ever obtained of a solar flare and the Sun’s hot outer atmosphere, or corona, was taken by a Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory/IBM telescope aboard a NASA sounding rocket launched from White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico, on
September 11. (Photograph courtesy SAO and IBM Research)

One of the most exciting theories of cosmology is the
concept of an “inflationary universe,” in which the infant
cosmos suddenly and dramatically expands to a significant
percentage of its current size within a fraction of a second of
its creation. Although this theory solves many cosmological
problems posed by the observed distribution of matter in the
present universe, it is not without its own difficulties. Several
investigations this year concentrated on how the geometry of
large-scale structure in the universe might be made consis-
tent with inflation models.

Supernova 1987A was not only a bonanza for observa-
tional research but also stimulated much theoretical work on
supernova hydrodynamics and related nucleosynthesis. A
major surprise was the early detection of nuclear gamma rays
from the supernova, thus implying that materials synthesized
at great depths had been mixed toward the surface faster
than expected. SAO investigations of this problem found
that an overlooked process—convection in the supernova’s
expanding layers—could produce the required mixing.

Even two decades after Apollo, the origin of the moon
remains a mystery. Using the computer, SAO scientists have
produced one possible scenario for the birth of the moon out
of a massive collision between the early Earth and another
planet. This simulated cataclysm creates a large secondary
body with a mass and other physical characteristics similar to
our moon.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Scientists at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
(SERC) are on the cutting edge of studies contributing to a
better understanding of complex environmental phenomena
and problems. In Edgewater, Maryland, on 2,600 acres
bordering the Rhode River, a tributary of the Chesapeake
Bay, SERC researchers are conducting long-term interdiscipli-
nary studies in the field and in the laboratory.

The center complements its research activities with educa-
tional programs for students—from undergraduates to post-
doctoral fellows—and for the public. Teacher- and docent-led
tours acquaint the public with the center’s mission and
facilities. Hikes along the two-mile Discovery Trail and
center-organized canoe outings on the tidal river introduce
visitors to the wonders and fragility of the coastal environment.

Through regular seminars, center researchers and their
counterparts from universities and governmental laboratories
keep each other abreast of work and issues in areas of mutual
interest. In addition, the center organizes and hosts scientific
workshops on a variety of topics.

During 1989, the center’s facilities were expanded to meet
growing research needs. A 7,400-square-foot laboratory
wing, an addition to the main office and laboratory building,
was completed, and the building was named in honor of
former U.S. Senator Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., of Maryland,
an untiring champion of the Chesapeake Bay. The building
was formally dedicated on June 1, 1989. An instrument shop
addition to the main shop building was also completed.

The following examples of 1989 research activities show
how SERC studies help to unravel the complex web of
factors that influence the environment’s well-being. Research
is conducted by staff scientists, who represent a diverse array
of disciplines, and by visiting scientists and students.

Ultraviolet Radiation Studies

The Smithsonian pioneered studies in the collection of data
on the intensity and spectral distribution of solar radiation on
the Earth’s surface. For the past several years, these efforts
have been enhanced by a cooperative arrangement with the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
NOAA has provided office and laboratory space and utilities
and has helped operate Smithsonian ultraviolet spectral
radiometers at NOAA stations as part of a project called
Global Monitoring of Climatic Change.

These measurements make it possible to calculate the
concentration of ozone in the atmosphere and the amount of
harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation on the Earth’s surface.
When ozone concentrations decline, UV doses on Earth
increase, with potentially serious consequences. The Smith-
sonian UV measurements span a complete sunspot cycle,
which averages eleven years, and have been made at a
number of latitudes, from 90° S to 71° N. These data are
unique and demonstrate the strong interaction of the solar
sunspot cycle with the dynamics of ozone concentration
changes in the stratosphere. Radiation data gathered between
1976 and 1988 reveal unpredicted oscillations in ultraviolet
radiation, which are of great concern because they indicate
that radiation levels high enough to cause skin cancer are
penetrating the Earth’s surface.

A new generation of spectral radiometer now under
development at the Smithsonian is expected to be completed
soon and placed into operation in a network of sites. It will
allow more refined analyses of the atmospheric dynamics of
ozone and will be applied to research in other regions of the
solar spectrum as well.

Greenhouse Effect on Tidal Marshes

Rising levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide globally—which
cause the “greenhouse effect’’—are expected to have a major
impact on both climate and vegetation. During 1989, SERC
summarized results of three years of field research on the
effects of elevated carbon dioxide concentrations on Chesa-
peake Bay tidal marshes. The experiments have been con-
ducted in open-top chambers over sections of perennial
plant communities. The chambers were built, tested, and
calibrated for continuous carbon dioxide enrichment of the
air. The chambers allow the continuous measurement of
plant photosynthesis, respiration, and water-use efficiency.
Plants in the chamber were used to compare plants under
ambient and elevated (ambient plus 3 40 parts per million)
carbon dioxide amounts during the entire 1987 and 1988
growing seasons. Comparisons were made between sedge
and salt meadow grass communities.

These species have different photosynthetic mechanisms
for carbon reduction, and laboratory studies have found
significant differences in their responses to elevated carbon
dioxide. For sedge, elevated carbon dioxide resulted in more
shoots per surface area (30 percent), increased water-use
efficiency (133 percent), and delayed onset of fall dormancy.
For salt meadow grass, elevated carbon dioxide had relatively
little effect on growth but did spur increased water-use
efficiency. The overall net community storage of carbon
dioxide doubled in sedge and increased 25 percent in the salt

Secretary Adams and Senator Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., unveil the
dedication plaque for the new laboratory named in honor of the
senator at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center in
Edgewater, Maryland. (Photograph by Richard Strauss)

meadow grass. No physiological acclimation to elevated
carbon dioxide was observed over the two-year period.

Impact of Hurricane Gilbert on Tropical Forests

SERC scientists have been conducting long-term ecological
studies of a dry tropical forest in the state of Quintana Roo,
on Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula. Over a four-year period,
there were significant annual differences in tree growth and
litter production in response to variation in rainfall. How-
ever, the production of blossoms and fruits was relatively
constant between years.

In September 1988, Hurricane Gilbert, the most intense
tropical depression ever measured in the Caribbean, hit the
forest and affected natural growth processes. Most trees
were left standing, but they were defoliated. In addition,
most branches were broken. Sprouting of new growth began
within three weeks. Vines sprouted profusely in the'under-
story. Leaf litter production was about double the average
measured for the preceding four years. The recovery of this
forest from the hurricane will be followed in order to better
understand the dynamics of these widespread but little-
studied dry tropical forest ecosystems.

Forests and Water Protection

Studies focusing on headwater streamside, or riparian, for-
ests in the Chesapeake region have quantitatively docu-
mented how these forests act as natural buffers, filtering out
pollutants in runoff from agricultural uplands.

Over a three-year period, mixed hardwood forest strips 50
to 100 feet wide were studied to determine how effective

85
they are in protecting watershed streams from agricultural
runoff. Researchers discovered that the forest vegetation
trees transpired an average of 67 percent of the sum of
precipitation and groundwater inputs, and took up an aver-
age of 86 percent of the nitrate and 25 percent of the sulfate
that entered the forest as rainwater or groundwater. Only 25
percent of the nitrate was stored in the trees. Nitrate uptake
was relatively constant from year to year but was highest (97
percent) in autumn and lowest in winter (81 percent).
Studies of the relationships between floodplain forests and
larger streams concluded that there are qualitatively different
functional roles. Headwater streamside forests trap primarily
the coarse particulates resulting from soil erosion, while
floodplain forests trap finer particulates rich in phosphorous.
Also, though headwater forests are more effective at process-
ing shallow groundwater, floodplain forests are most effec-
tive at processing surface water. Thus, the combined effects
of forested streamsides on small feeder streams and forested
floodplains on larger streams are necessary to protect overall
water quality under the complete range of normal conditions.

Ecology of the Rhode River Estuary

Past SERC research has shown that most of the primary
production in the Rhode River estuary, an extremely produc-
tive ecosystem, comes from phytoplankton. New studies
have focused on the role of grazing planktonic microzoo-
plankton in regulating these phytoplankton populations.
Dilution- and fluorescent dye-labeling techniques were used
to measure grazing rates of specific zooplankton and the
overall impact of zooplankton community grazing. Thus, for
example, at concentrations of 50,000 cells per milliliter

of Nannochloris, a concentration of a single-celled green
phytoplankton typical in the Rhode River, the zooplankton
Brachionus grazed 300 cells per hour per organism.

Another type of zooplankton, a tintinnid, grazed 15 to 20
cells per hour, and Euplotes, a small ciliate protozoan, grazed
only 5 cells per hour. Although phytoplankton density and
species composition, as well as zooplankton species compo-
sition, affect grazing rates, various field experiments have
indicated that overall grazing by zooplankton reduced phyto-
plankton potential growth by 45 to 100 percent. To better
understand phytoplankton populations in estuaries, research-
ers needs to study grazing dynamics in conjunction with the
level of available nutrients, suspended sediments, light inten-
sity, and dilution rates.

86

Smithsonian Institution
Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) keeps records
highlighting the rich past of the Institution. As the Institution
grows and diversifies each year, so must its archives, whose
mission is to accommodate its records, to preserve them, and
to help people find in the records the evidence they need to
understand the past. This year, the Archives made great
strides in meeting these goals: Staff moved 5,300 cubic feet
of records from temporary storage on the balconies of the
Arts and Industries Building to leased space at Fullerton
Industrial Park near Springfield, Virginia. In addition, the
Archives completed the first year of a multiphase project to
conserve, describe, and photograph more than 1,500 archi-
tectural drawings of Smithsonian buildings.

As in past years, the Archives received many records and
other documentary material pertinent to the history of the
Smithsonian Institution, including the papers of Frank C.
Whitmore, Jr., vertebrate paleontologist, U.S. Geological
Survey; ichthyologist Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.; designer Crimilda
Pontes; and ornithologists Storrs L. Olson, John W. Aldrich,
and Richard C. Banks. Professional societies—the American
Ornithologists’ Union, the American Arachnological Soci-
ety, and the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology—continued
to add material to their archives housed at SIA.

The Archives also joined in the celebration of the centen-
nial of the National Zoo with the revision and publication of
number ten in the Guides to Collections series. The latest
edition is called Guide to the Records of the National
Zoological Park, 1887-1965, by Alan L. Bain. An exhibition
titled “The National Zoological Park, 1889-1989” was
mounted in the Archives.

General Archival Program

The work of surveying, scheduling, and transferring the
Institution’s records continued throughout the year. A re-
cords survey was begun at the National Air and Space
Museum, and work continued on records disposition sched-
ules for the Archives of American Art. By moving records to
the storage area at Fullerton, SIA was able to reopen its
records center at North Capitol Street. As a result, several
offices began transferring records to the center, where they
will be discarded when their legal retention age is reached.
With the help of SIA, registrars from the National Museum
of Natural History and the National Museum of American
History began the work of reviewing and separating acces-
sion records that have long been housed in the Archives in
one record unit.

Reference Service

The staff answered more than 1,200 requests and provided
nearly 6,000 items and 15,000 copies to researchers. David
DeVorkin of the National Air and Space Museum began
work on a biography of the fifth secretary of the Smithsonian,
Charles Greeley Abbot; and Desmond Collins of the Royal
Ontario Museum continued his study of the Smithsonian’s
fourth secretary, Charles Doolittle Walcott. Professor John
W. Larner of Pennsylvania State University began a project to
publish the papers of botanist Joseph Trimble Rothrock.

The Office of Architectural History and Historic Preserva-
tion continued to make heavy use of the Archives, as did
interns and volunteers working with the American Indian
Program. Joel B. Hagen, assistant professor of history at

We j

DENTET TT 17 Be
.

Radford University, undertook a study of the Institute for
Research in Tropical America, predecessor of the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) in Panama. Dr.
George Angehr also studied the institute for a bilingual
(Spanish-English) exhibition on the historical development
of tropical biology titled “‘Parting the Green Curtain: The
Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama.”

A number of new publications were added to the Archives
bibliography, based at least in part on research done at SIA.
University of Minnesota historian Dr. Sally Gregory Kolhstedt
added articles on various aspects of museum history to the
Archives bibliography. These articles included “History in a
Natural History Museum: George Brown Goode and the
Smithsonian Institution,” in The Public Historian 10 (1988):
7-26; “Curiosities and Cabinets: Natural History Museums

Among the architectural drawings being conserved by the Smithsonian Archives using funds from the Research Resources Grant Program was
this orginal drawing of a South Front Elevation, submitted by architect John Notman for the 1846 competition for the design of the Castle.

87
do; Eh aw

Ff “ 7 apes ts n .
Vii 23 Ge idk 9p j Z .
ek = he at ey
¥ rt Capo i ~*~
Sa Sy é P
bee FS 4
Ze Gig ey ~
. at r :
LeoF z c ¥
* - ae , oo
i 4 .
te #7 Led * 4 “a
* esha Fe "4 >
Avante yey j a ,
“ af] %
1h b4. Ped Sie P

This photograph of pet tapirs being fed by the staff at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama was discovered by the Archives
in the papers of Alexander Wetmore, the Smithsonian’s sixth secretary.

88

and Education on the Antebellum Campus,” in Isis 79
(1988); and “Museums on Campus: A Tradition of Inquiry in
Teaching,” in The American Development, edited by Ronald
Rainger, Keith R. Benson, and Jane Maienschien (University
of Pennsylvania Press, 1988). David L. Hull of the University
of Chicago published Science as a Process: An Evolutionary
Account of the Social and Conceptual Development of Science
(University of Chicago Press, 1988). Tom D. Crouch of the
National Museum of American History published “Capable
of Flight: The Feud between the Wright Brothers and the
Smithsonian,” in Invention and Technology (volume 2, 1987).
The Archives continued its Research in Progress lecture
series and sponsored specialists in a variety of topics. Edward
F. Rivinus spoke on “The Versatility of Spencer F. Baird,”
and Keith Benson of the University of Washington discussed
“The American Society of Zoologists, 1890-1990: One
Hundred Years of Organizing the Biological Sciences.” Kath-
erine Boyd finished the year by speaking on “Conrad
Gessner (15 16-1565) and Ornithological Illustration.”

Projects

The SIA Oral History Project continued its interviews of
Institution scholars and administrators, bringing the collec-
tion total to 338.5 hours of tape recording, accompanied by
5,800 pages of transcripts. The Archives resident historian
traveled to Panama to conduct interviews on the history of
tropical research at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute (STRI). Joel B. Hagen, Neal G. Smith, and Ira Rubinoff
gave interviews to the Archives on the history of STRI. In
addition, a series of interviews was begun with Theodore H.
Reed, former director of the National Zoological Park, in
conjunction with the centennial of the Zoo. Joseph A. Cain
donated an interview with paleontologist Frank C. Whitmore,
{fe

The Smithsonian Videohistory Program continued to sup-
port the work of Smithsonian historians and curators by
documenting the history of science and technology on
videotape. This year’s projects included group interviews
with a team of astronomers and optical scientists who
designed and developed the Multiple Mirror Telescope on
Mount Hopkins, Arizona, and interviews with artisans and
technicians who make mechanical clocks using equipment
spanning three generations. While at STRI, the Archives
historian began planning a series of video interviews as part

of a multiyear project tracing the role of Smithsonian scien-
tists as policy advisers on the conservation of endangered
species.

As part of the ongoing review of the Smithsonian photo-
graphic collections, staff surveyed more than seven million
photographs in fifteen hundred collections. Documenting
part of this review is a volume titled Guide to Photographic
Collections at the Smithsonian: The National Museum of
American History, which will be published late in 1989. The
staff is also working on volume 2, which describes photo-
graphic collections in the Smithsonian science bureaus.

89
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) has a long and
interesting history. A recently published article on the history
of SIL by Nancy E. Gwinn, assistant director, Collections
Management, outlines the controversy and intrigue in the
early years of the Libraries. Today, controversy still sur-
rounds SIL as it faces the challenge of preserving its rare
collection while ensuring access to current research and
scholarship. Escalating costs of journals also threaten the
ability of SIL—and of all research libraries—to remain on the
cutting edge of up-to-date information.

In spite of these concerns, the richness of the historical
collections remains a source of pride, and SIL’s fourteen
branches scattered in thirty-six locations throughout the
Washington, D.C. area; New York City; Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts; Mount Hopkins, Arizona; and the Republic of
Panama are a mecca for scholars and researchers. The
Libraries collections number 1,020,000 volumes, including
more than 20,000 journal titles and 35,000 rare books.

A member of the Association of Research Libraries, SIL is
divided into three operational divisions—Research Services,
Collections Management, and Automated Systems—and a
Planning and Administration Office. Highlights of the work
of these three divisions are presented below.

Research Services

The Research Services Division provides Smithsonian staff,
outside scholars, and the public with information. This year,
the staff answered 57,745 questions. A typical branch, such
as the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York City, averages
thirty-five phone inquiries a day.

The branches also provide information by circulating
books or making photocopies from the SIL collections. This
year, 42,684 such exchanges were made. Almost one-
quarter of these were loans from one branch to borrowers at
another. Another 6,032 were lent to libraries throughout the
country in response to requests from researchers elsewhere.
SIL branches also borrow books and acquire photocopies
from other libraries and purchase copies from commercial
document delivery services to meet local users’ needs for
publications not owned by SIL. This year, SIL obtained
12,328 outside publications for Smithsonian researchers.
Software developed by the Woodrow Wilson Center has
been installed in the SIL Loan Unit to assist in tracking
borrowed items.

To acquaint users with new sources of information and to
organize it into manageable segments for them, staff of the

90

branch libraries create lists of new acquisitions, compile
bibliographies, and offer other services for users. Because the
demand for information retrieval services is so great, staff in
the Research Services Division continue to perfect these
skills, particularly in the area of computerized data base
searching. The division is also working on ways to improve
future collection and analysis of statistics at SIL. To facilitate
these efforts, the chief of the National Museum of American
History branch library, who serves concurrently as manager
of the division’s History and Art Unit, spent three months as
a senior management intern at the National Agricultural
Library (NAL) in preparation for a report highlighting the
cost analysis of the functions performed by staff of NAL’s
Public Services Division. This report will serve as a model for
other branches of the SIL.

The Research Services Division is also responsible for
ensuring that collections are properly housed and that
adequate study space is provided for users. This requires
extraordinary creativity on the part of the staff, because the
stacks in six of the fourteen branches are already full.
Patience and persistence were required this year during the
renovation of three SIL branches: the Museum Reference
Center, the branch at the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center, and the area surrounding the Dibner Library
of the Special Collections Branch. The branch library at the
Tropical Research Institute in Panama continued its ongoing
struggle against water leaks, insects, and power outages.

Collections Management

Preservation of SIL’s books and journals is a growing con-
cern of the Collections Management Division. This year, the
division focused on preserving the two thousand catalogues,
guides, and other materials in the SIL collections that were
produced as a result of world’s fairs and regional expositions.
To accomplish this task, the SIL contracted with Research
Publications, Inc., to publish this information on microfilm.
The result of this joint project is an exposition microfilm
collection titled The Books of the Fairs. The collection
features more than eight decades of world’s fairs from 1834
to 1915. Ina fortunate coincidence, SIL received through the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum more than one thousand additional
world’s fair books and pamphlets from the estate of collector
Larry Zimmerman. Many of these have been incorporated
into the filming project. These materials, most of which were
published in the late nineteenth century, have deteriorated
greatly because of poor paper quality. The microfilm publi-
cation will ensure that the contents are preserved.

The availability of microfilm will also provide other librar-
ies and researchers with greater access to this valuable body
of materials. The division’s Preservation Services unit, which
manages this project, has embarked on planning for a more
general preservation replacement program to cover all SIL
branches.

Microfilming is only one preservation technique. In recent
years SIL has increased resources for binding paperbacks and
journal issues as a way to protect these newly purchased
works. The Binding Purchasing Section implemented a new
binding contract this year and installed a computerized
system that has improved communication and work flow.
The SIL’s Book Conservation Laboratory applies sophisti-
cated conservation techniques to stabilize and restore rare
and valuable books. The Women’s Committee of the Smith-
sonian Associates awarded $4,000 to SIL’s Cooper-Hewitt
Museum branch to restore a rare fifteen-volume text titled
Collection of Specimens of the Textile Manufactures of India,
by J. Forbes Watson (1874).

In addition to dealing with preservation concerns, the
division is responsible for selecting and acquiring new mate-
rials. Many new materials are acquired through publication
exchange agreements with 3,500 educational and research
institutions around the world that enrich SIL collections. The
Libraries also manage the Smithsonian International Exchange
Service (SIES), which supplies shipping services for U.S. uni-
versities, institutes, and other nonprofit organizations. This
year SIES installed sophisticated computerized postal equip-
ment to increase productivity and provide greater management
control. By March 1989, SIES had shipped 80,839 pounds
of mail, a significant increase over previous years.

SIL’s collection in aviation history, located in the National
Air and Space Museum branch, is considered one of the most
comprehensive in the nation. A donation from the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) library has added technical
reports and memoranda dating from 1919 to 1968 from the
FAA and the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion’s predecessor, the National Advisory Committee on
Aeronautics (NACA), to the museum’s holdings. The Burndy
Library of Norwalk, Connecticut, completed its generous gift
to the Smithsonian by sending nine volumes highlighting
works by Boethius, Christopher Columbus, Thomas Edison,
and Guglielmo Marconi. All of these noted figures number
among the two hundred “heralds of science,” which Bern
Dibner selected for inclusion in his book of that title (1955,
1980). The Dibner Library, Special Collections branch, ac-

Dr. Barbara J. Smith was named new director of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries in July. Dr. Smith (left) talks with Dr. Robert S.
Hoffmann (right), assistant secretary for research, at a reception
given to welcome her. (Photograph by Laurie Minor)

quired an extremely rare account, published in 1666, of the
use of a Campani telescope in observations of spots on
Jupiter.

Automated Systems

SIL relies almost exclusively on automated systems and
processes for creating and maintaining a data base of cata-
loguing and indexing records, which the Automated Systems
Division maintains and manages. All the catalogue records
are entered into a national bibliographic utility called On-line
Computer Library Center (OCLC); this creates an on-line
record for each title held at SIL. About ten thousand libraries,
including the Library of Congress, are members of OCLC.
Each of these libraries creates records of its holdings. The
twenty million OCLC records are shared by all contributing
members for purposes of cataloguing, reference, and inter-
library loan. The records entered by SIL staff into OCLC are
also linked to SIBIS, the Smithsonian Institution Biblio-
graphic Information System. SIBIS now includes an on-line
bibliographic data base that describes journal articles fea-
tured in journals held at the Panama branch. In addition to
OCLC and SIBIS, SIL cataloguers use CD-ROM (compact
disk, read-only memory) technology to access the Library of
Congress List of Subject Headings, the national authority.
SIL staff continued testing and implementing a new SIBIS
Bibliographic Processing System that will offer researchers
improved computerized search techniques.

A multiyear program to convert old manual records to
machine-readable format has permitted SIL to add to its
on-line bibliographic data base, which can be accessed using
a variety of search keys, such as subject, author, and title,
from any location within the Institution. The increased ease
of accessing important works is benefiting users throughout

gI
Viewers enjoy the Smithsonian Institution Libraries exhibition
“Stratigraphy’s Golden Age: Murchison and His Silurian System,”
Dibner Library, Special Collections Branch, in July. The exhibition
was mounted in conjunction with the meeting of the 28th
International Geological Congress. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

the Institution, but especially those interested in the collec-
tions in anthropology, mollusks, aeronautics, and fashion
and design.

During 1989, SIL continued to catalogue previously un-
catalogued collections, including many rare items located
mainly in the Cooper-Hewitt Museum branch and in the
collections of the Dibner Library, Special Collections branch.
The SIL bibliographic data base now has more than 402,000
records, all of which conform to the highest bibliographic
standards.

Automated circulation via SIBIS was installed at branches
at the National Museum of African Art, the National Zoolog-
ical Park, the National Air and Space Museum, and Central
Reference and Loan Services. To make it easier to locate and
reserve books requested by other users, officials at these
branches have issued bar-coded library cards to use for
checkout. At these and other branches, more sophisticated
data on library usage will also be available. SIL has acquired
the ability to download sets of records from SIBIS in
machine-readable form for later manipulation by personal
computer software. This ability will be used by the branch

92

librarians to produce specialized bibliographies, new acquisi-
tion lists, and other user services.

After a long testing period, the SIL local area network
(LAN) communications server now allows sharing of modems
and easy access for SIL’s administrative staff to the LAN from
numerous external hosts, including OCLC and other na-
tional data bases. Systems staff also provided access to the
Institution’s electronic mail system and to BITNET, a na-
tional network. Division staff installed software for comput-
erized office functions on the LAN for use of calendar,
scheduling, notebook, and calculator features.

Public Programs

In November, SIL presented a public lecture delivered by
Paul Vassallo, director of the Washington Research Library
Consortium, on the consortium’s plans to build a “Super-
Library” in the metropolitan area. SIL’s exhibition in the
Dibner Library on “Marbled Papers in Books” continued
through December. Further exhibition activities were cur-
tailed during renovation of the American History Building
until July, when SIL opened with “‘Stratigraphy’s Golden
Age: Murchison and His Silurian System.”

The SIL Publications Program was awarded three grants
totaling more than $13,000 this year. Two from the Atherton
Seidell Endowment Fund were for production costs for
Books of the Fairs and for a lecture that SIL will publish next
year, and one from the Women’s Committee of the Smith-
sonian Associates was earmarked for costs for the fairs book.
SIL staff published books and articles in professional jour-
nals, served on national library and information science
committees, delivered papers, and participated on panels at
professional meetings.

With funding from the Smithsonian Foreign Currency
Program and the National Science Foundation, the Libraries
published nine titles this year in its Translations Program.
The program provides Smithsonian researchers with English
translations of scholarly monographs originally published in
other languages. SIL catalogues the translations, distributes
free copies to libraries internationally, and registers the
published translations with the National Technical Informa-
tion Service to ensure their continued availability to scholars.
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) is de-
voted to promoting basic research in the tropics, training
students for such research, and supporting efforts in conser-
vation and public education to ensure the future existence of
tropical environments for people to enjoy and for scientists
to study. Tropical communities such as rainforests and coral
reefs reveal the most elaborate and complex forms of
interdependence among species that we know. Now that we
are becoming more aware of the interdependence between
the various ecological communities of our planet, the study
of tropical communities is becoming a more urgent priority.

STRI has two major assets for tropical biologists. First, it is
located in Panama, on a narrow bridge of land between two
oceans with very different ecological properties. The oceans
were separated only three million years ago by the isthmus of
Panama. The modern marine communities and the excellent
fossil deposits from both coasts spanning the past five
million years provide an unequaled record of a magnificant
natural experiment in evolution. Second, STRI is custodian
of the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, 13,000 acres of
tropical forest surrounding the central part of the Panama
Canal. Its centerpiece, Barro Colorado Island, a site for
tropical research for more than sixty-five years, is the most
nearly intact, protected tropical forest community readily
accessible from a metropolitan center in the world. The
unequaled background of information on the island’s flora
and fauna provides a superb foundation for future research.

To promote tropical biology, STRI supports a scientific
staff of twenty-six who conduct research in a variety of
tropical countries. Continued collaboration with officials
from the Republic of Panama facilitated the work of more
than 250 visiting researchers representing twenty-four na-
tions who worked at STRI during 1989. To accommodate
the work of resident staff and visiting scientists and students,
STRI maintains a laboratory, offices, and a major library in
Panama City; a well-equipped field station on Barro Colo-
rado Island, with computing facilities, air-conditioned offices
and laboratories, and facilities for the study of plant physiol-
ogy; and marine laboratories on both coasts, one well-
equipped for the study of molecular evolution. STRI also
offers short-term fellowships for graduate students and un-
dergraduates and long-term fellowships for predoctoral and
postdoctoral candidates.

This year members of the staff and visiting scientists and
students published more than two hundred works, including
two books—Bryozoan Evolution, which STRI scientist Dr.
Jeremy B.C. Jackson coauthored with Frank McKinney, and

Ecology and Natural History of Tropical Bees by Dr. David
Roubik.

Research Highlights: Evolutionary Consequences of Dividing
the Ocean

When the isthmus of Panama formed, previously homogene-
ous populations of marine organisms were divided, changing
conditions in which each lived. STRI scientists are interested
in studying how these events affect the evolution of the
populations involved.

Isolation allows two populations to diverge. How should
we measure this divergence? What affects the degree of
divergence? Does it make any difference whether a popula-
tion is divided equally, as opposed to having a small sub-
population isolated from the rest? Several researchers at
STRI are addressing these questions.

Dr. Haris Lessios of the STRI staff has compared different
measures of genetic divergence between “‘geminate pairs” of
sea urchins, twin pairs of species that descended from
ancestral populations split by the isthmus. Differences in
enzymes produced at thirty-one different genetic loci suggest
that three of these species diverged at quite different rates.
When Dr. Lessios examined changes in mitochondrial DNA,
he found that members of each species pair had diverged
only slightly. Thus mitochondrial DNA may be a much
better “molecular clock” than even a large set of enzymes.

STRI scientist Dr. Nancy Knowlton is comparing levels of
divergence in morphology, color pattern, behavior, bio-
chemistry, enzyme characteristics, and mitochondrial DNA
between the members of each of nineteen geminate pairs of
species of snapping shrimp in the genus Alpheus. She is also
comparing the divergence between members of the geminate
pairs with divergence between reproductively isolated but
morphologically similar populations (sibling species) not
separated by obvious geographic barriers. Did the latter
diverge as a result of the isolation of a small subpopulation
from a parent species? This project has been made feasible by
a comprehensive revision of the taxonomy of eastern Pacific
Alpheus.

Dr. Laurel Collins, a STRI postdoctoral fellow, is studying
the changes that have taken place in the communities of
bottom-dwelling (benthic) foraminifera (unicellular microor-
ganisms) during and after the formation of the isthmus of
Panama. Benthic foraminifera are represented on both sides
of the isthmus, apparently at comparable depths, during time
periods ranging from more than a million years before the

93
isthmus divided the seas to the present. Her study should
provide information on both the ecological changes that
occurred as a result of the dividing of the seas and the types
of evolutionary divergence that this land barrier permitted.

Research Highlights: Sexual Selection and Speciation

An essential aspect of understanding tropical diversity is
learning how new species evolve. A critical stage in the
transformation of two populations into separate species is
achieved when numbers of each population fail to recognize
members of the other as suitable mates. The criteria by
which females choose their mates—an important aspect of
sexual selection—and the ways these criteria evolve can play
an important role in speciation.

In beetles, a female is not usually concerned about which
male copulates with her but whether the copulation fertilizes
her eggs. Thus a male’s courtship—his attempt to persuade
the female to accept fertilization—may consist only of his
behavior during copulation; thus this becomes the primary
object of sexual selection. Species of the same genus of
beetle usually have somewhat different copulatory behaviors.
Does this mean that divergence in copulatory behavior plays
a role in speciation?

Dr. William Eberhard of the STRI staff has compared the
copulatory behavior of two species of Altica, a chrysomelid
beetle, in some detail. A female Altica has numerous barriers
that a male must overcome to fertilize her eggs. She may
prevent the male from inserting his packet of sperm; she may
discard, unused, most or all of the sperm after copulation; or
she may absorb some of the sperm rather than storing them
to fertilize her eggs. The copulatory behavior that leads to
fertilization differs greatly between the two species. This
difference apparently suffices to keep the species separate;
forced matings between the species yield viable, fertile
hybrids. Such studies are being extended to other pairs of
species.

Dr. David Zeh, STRI postdoctoral fellow, and collaborator
Jeanne Zeh are continuing their three-year postdoctoral
study of sexually dimorphic pseudoscorpions that disperse
from one fig tree to another, often in large groups, under the
elytra (hard outer wings) of harlequin beetles. When on the
beetles, males set up mating territories, and sexual selection
can be intense. On fig trees where harlequin beetles develop
as larvae, however, males find females hard to locate and
impossible to herd into guarded harems.

This species of pseudoscorpion is remarkably variable.

94

12 iR2> gt
Ee x
r a

The Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Center of the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Panama, was completed
this year. (Photograph by Marcos A. Guerra)

How much of this variation is inherited, and how strong is
the correlation between a gene’s effect on the two sexes?
Also, how rigid is the trade-off between first reproduction at
an early age and large size? The Zehs are studying the
quantitative genetics of variation in size and developmental
rate in order to answer these questions.

The calls of male tungara frogs Physalaemus pustulosus
are being computer-synthesized by Dr. Michael Ryan of
the University of Texas at Austin and Dr. A. Stanley Rand
of the STRI staff to determine what components of the call
are crucial to attracting females. The tungara’s call consists of
a “whine,” often followed by one or more “chucks,” which
render the male frog more attractive both to females and
to predatory bats. In Ecuador, Ryan and Rand found
that Physalaemus coloradorum, a close relative of the
tungara frog, do not distinguish between calls with and
without chucks. Chucks are not intrinsically attractive to all
Physalaemus.

Research Highlights: Learning What Lives in Tropical
Communities

Dr. Norman Duke, who recently joined the staff of the oil
spill project to head studies of mangrove forests, found the
mangrove Pelliciera rhizophorae growing along the Carib-
bean shore. Fossil Pelliciera had been discovered in the
Caribbean, but living trees had previously been known only
from the eastern Pacific. Duke has also found Nypa palms,
presumably introduced accidentally from Malaysia, in Carib-
bean Panama.

Even on an island as well studied as Barro Colorado, new
species remain to be discovered. William Hoffman, a student
employed by Dr. Stephen P. Hubbell of Princeton University
to work on STRI’s Forest Dynamics Project, has found a
blue-flowered Faramea treelet of a species new to Barro
Colorado Island and Ouiina trees, a genus not previously
known from Panama, in two 1-hectare plots on the island.

Dr. Nancy Garwood, a STRI research associate, is just
completing the fieldwork for her guide to the taxonomy,
physiology, and ecology of the seedlings of Barro Colorado,
and will soon be moving to the British Museum to write up
her results.

Research Highlights: Interrelations in Tropical Communities

On Barro Colorado Island, the shortage of fruit and new
leaves in the forest plays a major role in limiting the numbers
of many kinds of animals. To assess whether seasonal
changes in soil moisture content govern the times of year at
which different species of plants produce flowers, fruits, and
new leaves, Dr. S. Joseph Wright of the STRI staff has
irrigated two 2.25-hectare plots on Barro Colorado Island
for four successive dry seasons.

Irrigation had little overall measurable effect on canopy
trees, but it had considerable effect on smaller trees and
shrubs in the forest understory. It abolishes the natural
rhythms in soil moisture and soil nutrients released from
decomposing leaf litter. Wright finds that the seasonal
rhythms in leaf flush of the understory shrubs Psychotria and
Piper break down progressively from year to year on irrigated
plots. Psychotria furcata, a plant that puts out its leaves
during one of the first months of the rainy season in the
control plot, has lost much synchronization in the experi-
mental plot. Under natural conditions, Piper cordulatum
produces new leaves throughout the rainy season, but none
during the dry season. On the irrigated plots, its avoidance of
the dry season has progressively relaxed. Under natural
conditions, the march of the seasons presumably “‘entrains”’
these rhythms. It appears, however, that irrigation during the
dry months drowns the entraining signal(s).

On July 5, 1989, Barro Colorado Island experienced the
effects of a major storm. This storm overturned 30 percent

of the trees on some of Dr. Wright’s plots, both complicating
the analysis and providing new opportunities to examine
natural regenerative processes in the forest.

STRI is continuing its support for the mapping of all stems
greater than 1 centimeter in diameter on a 50-hectare plot of
lowland dipterocarp forest in Pasoh Reserve, Malaysia. This
project has been undertaken by the Forest Research Institute
in Malaysia. Dr. Stephen P. Hubbell of Princeton University
planned the project so that results could be directly com-
pared with the 5o0-hectare forest dynamics plot on Barro
Colorado Island. This comparison has yielded dramatic
results. The Pasoh plot has roughly 50 percent more stems
than does the Barro Colorado plot, which has 235,000.
Pasoh has more than 800 species, compared with Barro
Colorado’s 303. These long-term studies reveal just how
different New and Old World forests are and keep us
searching for the factors that generate such differences in
forest structure.

Research Highlights: The Impact of Man

The concentration of carbon dioxide in the Earth’s atmo-
sphere is rising and may double in the next 50-100 years. If
this happens, the Earth may become much warmer, and
rainfall patterns may be radically altered. How does in-
creased carbon dioxide influence the growth and physiologi-
cal behavior of tropical plants? To approach this question,
Dr. Lewis Ziska, a postdoctoral fellow at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center (SERC), Dr. Alan Smith of
the STRI staff and Dr. Bert Drake of the SERC staff, raised
nine species of tropical plants in laboratories on Barro
Colorado under normal and twice normal levels of carbon
dioxide. These species included a variety of growth forms,
including forest trees, root crops, and grasses. They also
included C3 and C4 plants, a C3/C4 intermediate, and plants
with crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM). With increased
carbon dioxide, all species used less water per unit of
photosynthesis, and all but one had lower respiration rates.
In general, increased carbon dioxide increased the total
photosynthesis of C3 plants, but not of C4 or CAM plants.
Dr. David Roubik of the STRI staff has completed a study
of the impact of invading Africanized honeybees on the
native bees of French Guiana. From 1977 to 1989, he has
periodically monitored bee visits in a 1-hectare field of
Mimosa pudica surrounded by tropical forest in a region first
invaded by Africanized honeybees in 1975. In 1977, 10 per-
cent of the bees visiting flowers in this field were Africanized

95
honeybees, compared with 90 percent today. Africanized
bees are poor pollinators; the total pollination rate in 1989
was half that in 1977, an important consideration for tropical
agriculture.

Dr. Anthony Ranere, a senior postdoctoral fellow at STRI,
and STRI archaeologist Dr. Richard Cooke have located
what appears to be human artifacts of the late Pleistocene in
Herrera Province, on the Pacific coast of Panama. They
found a deposit 10 to 20 centimeters thick, with scrapers
resembling late Pleistocene tools from Guatemala and South
America and projectile points resembling late Pleistocene
(“Clovisoid”) types found from Mexico to Costa Rica. If
their age has been judged correctly, these are the first
stratified human artifacts from the late Pleistocene found in

Central America. More extensive excavations are planned for

1990 or 1991.
Oil slicks from the major oil spill in 1986 continue to be
observed in Caribbean coastal waters near the Galeta Marine
Laboratory. Samples of sediments collected this year oozed

quantities of oil when cores were extracted. Analytical
chemistry conducted in collaboration with the Bermuda
Biological Station for Research will help researchers identify
the sources of oil pollution, conduct detailed mapping of the
spilled oil, measure the concentrations of oil in surviving
organisms, and estimate the amount of oil remaining in the
environment from the two-million gallon spill. Preliminary
findings of the project were published in an article in the
January 6, 1989, issue of Sctence magazine.

Putting Knowledge to Practical Use

Pacas are large tropical rodents that have the potential of
being raised as farm animals in Panama. Dr. Nicholas Smythe
artificially socialized pacas by placing the young together in
cages without individual shelters. He found that they passed
on their social characteristics—including communal nursing
by the females of a group—to two successive generations
without further human interference. Thus Dr. Smythe has
created a domesticated animal in one generation by cultur-
ally transmitted rather than genetic change. Polygynous
groups of these pacas are now being placed with campesinos
in Panama.

In the area of Las Pavas near the Barro Colorado Nature
Monument, Dr. Gilberto Ocana of the STRI staff has contin-
ued his experiments to reclaim impoverished soils for agri-
culture. His 2.5-acre “forest garden” is four years old and

96

Dr. S. Joseph Wright of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
staff explains to Dr. Thomas Lovejoy, assistant secretary for external
affairs, results from his novel project to determine the consequences
of seasonal drought on plants, animals, and nutrients in the forest.
(Photograph by Marcos A. Guerra)

now has six species of imported Acacia, two species of native
Inga, and several plants that can be harvested for animal
forage. The plants in this garden are growing well and
supplying food for dairy goats kept in a nearby stable. The
garden’s Acacia mangium should eventually supply firewood
and timber, and the goat manure should serve as fertilizer for
a vegetable garden. The forest garden should supply suitable
food and other necessities for man and mammals.

Outreach Activities

Organic remains are an important tool used to reconstruct
subsistence patterns in the humid tropics. For this reason,
one of the major training highlights this year was a six-week
workshop titled “The Reconstruction of Subsistence in the
New World Humid Tropics,” organized by STRI archaeolo-
gist Dr. Richard Cooke. The event was held at STRI from
February 20 through April 2, and fourteen Latin American
archaeologists from six nations attended the program. The
objective of the course was to introduce archaeologists with
limited experience in the analysis of botanical and faunal
remains to related theoretical and methodological problems.
The workshop was funded by Smithsonian Institution’s
International Exchanges and Educational Outreach pro-
grams and the Social Science Research Council.

STRI’s first professionally designed and produced exhibi-
tion, “Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of Tropical
Biology in Panama,” was completed this year. The bilingual
(Spanish-English) photographic exhibition was made possi-
ble by a grant from the Special Exhibition Fund and pro-
duced with assistance from the Office of Exhibits Central.
The exhibition’s twenty-three panels draw on information
derived from STRI research and convey the incremental
nature of science, illustrating how basic research can result in
important practical applications. Opening first at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, it provided a window on
STRI for visitors to the National Mall. It was accompanied by
a color booklet available to the public. The show then
traveled to Panama, where it will be on display at the new
Tupper Conference Center in late 1989 and 1990. Later, it
will tour throughout Latin America.

Facilities Development

The new Earl Silas Tupper Research and Conference Center
was completed this year. The center includes a laboratory
building, a cafeteria, animal cages, and a two-story confer-
ence center with an exhibit floor and auditorium.

Substantial progress was also made this year on the Barro
Colorado Island construction, including dormitory units for
resident scientists and a two-level kitchen, dining, and
conference building, all of which replaced structures dating
from the 1920s.

Staff Appointments

The expansion of the terrestrial and marine research pro-
grams led to the establishment of two new positions this
year: Dr. John Christy was appointed assistant director for
marine research and Dr. Alan P. Smith, assistant director for
terrestrial research. In February 1989, Dr. Smith took on the
temporary assignment of special assistant to the director to
perform liaison functions in Washington, D.C. Dr. Donald
Windsor was named acting assistant director for terrestrial
research. Mr. Edgardo Maravi was appointed as STRI’s first
development officer working from Washington, D.C.
MUSEUMS

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums

Anacostia Museum

During the Anacostia Museum’s twenty-two-year history, it
has grown froma small, experimental “museum of the
people” to an influential institution recounting the history
and culture of the African American experience. The museum
evolved in this direction under the guidance of its long-time
director, John R. Kinard. With great sadness, the Smithsonian
notes the untimely and tragic death of Mr. Kinard, who,
according to British expert Kenneth Hudson, developed the
Anacostia Museum into one of a small number of true
museums of influence in the world.

Although overshadowed by Mr. Kinard’s death, the mu-
seum has continued its mission of serving as a national
resource for exhibitions, scholarly and applied research,
historical documentation, and interpretive and educational
programs relating to African American history and culture in
America.

Exhibitions

This year marked the completion of research for the highly
successful major exhibition titled ““The Real McCoy: African
American Invention and Innovation, 1619-1930,” which
opened in May. Researched by historian Portia James, the
show traces the pivotal role played by African American
inventors from the era of Colonial technology to the early
twentieth century, a period of modern industrial innovation.
The exhibition celebrates well-known inventors such as
Elijah McCoy, who invented a lubrication system for railroad
locomotives and other engines. But it also looks at little-
known, often-forgotten men and women, who as slaves,
craftspeople, and workers helped develop innovative tech-
nologies. The exhibition catalogue will be published in early
1990. An interactive video program to encourage creativity
and inventiveness in young people is under way.

Work was also completed on a District of Columbia Art
Association (DCAA) exhibition titled “Inspiration: 196 1-
1989,” which opened in January. This exhibition displayed
the works of art by members of the DCAA. Coordinators of
the exhibition included association members William
Dorsey, Delilah Pierce, and Peter Robinson. Riddick Vann
and Ophelia Speight organized the show and wrote the
exhibition catalogue.

Louise D. Hutchinson, retired Anacostia Museum histo-
rian, continued research on an exhibition of the works of

photographer P. H. Polk, which is scheduled to open in 1990.

Staff also began research on a District of Columbia bicenten-
nial exhibition tentatively scheduled to open in 1991.

100

John R. Kinard (1936-1989). (Photograph by Harold Dorwin)

Education and Public Programs

The Education Department’s aim is to involve the commu-
nity in museum activities and to enhance the exhibitions on
display. This year’s Juneteenth Observance, the historic
African American holiday that commemorates the day the
slaves in Texas were officially informed that they had been
emancipated, two and a half years after the fact, provided the
museum with an opportunity to plan an event for the whole
family. Games, competitive events, entertainment, demon-
strations, films, and good old-fashioned fun were planned by
museum staff and an enthusiastic advisory committee com-
posed of an ample sprinkling of transplanted Texans, as well
as interested citizens and representatives of public and
private organizations from the wider metropolitan area and
the Smithsonian’s Office of Folklife Programs.

As a spinoff to the popular Real McCoy exhibition, the

The Anacostia Museum hosts an art class during the District of Columbia Art Association exhibition, “Inspiration: 1961-1989,” which opened
in July at the museum.

museum sponsored a four-day seminar that explored the
exhibition in depth and developed new strategies for teach-
ing this important segment in African American history.

More than thirty area teachers enrolled in this unique course.

This year, the museum worked jointly with members of
the D.C. Art Association in planning a full complement of
programs for the popular art exhibition, “Inspiration: 196 1-
1988.” The D.C. Art Association helped bring in artists to
conduct tours, lectures, and demonstrations of particular art
techniques. A panel discussion led by distinguished black
female artists focused on societal attitudes, restraints, and
controls that have brought acceptance of their work, as well
as the changes needed to allow for wider acceptability and
marketability. In addition to those activities, visitors viewed
films and videos on African American art and artists and had
the opportunity to create original silk screen prints in
docent-led workshops.

Friends for the Preservation of Afro-American Culture, a
group organized during last year’s exhibition on the black
church, has continued to thrive. It meets regularly in the
museum to improve the members’ proficiency in the preser-
vation of artifacts. This year, local experts discussed topics
dealing with oral histories and black genealogy. The group
also took a field trip to the Moorland-Spingarn Research
Center of Howard University to learn more about collections
management.

The summer brought another collaboration for the Ana-
costia Museum, this time with the National Air and Space
Museum. For the second year, the two bureaus conducted a
series of aerospace workshops for youngsters. Participants
built and launched hot air ballons, rockets, and kites. They
also learned about the role of African Americans in the world
of aviation and spaceflight.

IOI
Archives of American Art

The past year marked the thirty-fifth anniversary of the
Archives of American Art and saw the opening of its
handsome new administrative offices and regional center in
midtown New York City. Designed by Harry Weese and
Associates, the offices are located in the Equitable Center,
which houses a number of arts activities—including a branch
of the Whitney Museum of American Art.

The Archives has nine million items of primary documenta-
tion, including more than 400,000 photographs and 75,000
works of art on paper, which make it the nation’s largest
repository of archival source materials chronicling the U.S.
history of the visual arts. Through its central office in
Washington, D.C., its five regional centers, and interlibrary
loan, it serves thousands of graduate students, faculty mem-
bers, curators, collectors, and independent historians each
year.

Acquisitions

The Archives in 1989 added to its collections some extraor-
dinary material documenting art activity in the early to
mid-twentieth century. Among these acquisitions were Helen
Torr Dove’s diaries and correspondence with her husband,

Archives of American Art Board of Trustees President Richard J.
Schwartz presents a drawing to Trustee Benjamin D. Holloway at a
dinner in his honor on November 3. Mr. Holloway made it possible
for the New York operations of the Archives to be based in the new
Equitable Center complex. (Photograph by Steven Tucker)

102

the renowned American and early modernist painter Arthur
Dove (ca. 1920-1964), along with biographical data and
other writings tracing his life and work. In addition, the
Archives microfilmed the painter Andrew Dasburg’s (1887-
1879) correspondence, which includes letters from such art
and literary notables as Louise Bryant, Mabel Dodge, Mars-
den Hartley, Hans Hofmann, D. H. Lawrence, John Marin,
and Georgia O’Keeffe. Dasburg corresponded with many
prominent figures during his lifetime, most of whom he
knew well. Therefore, the collection is historically rich and
important.

Known for its strength in materials from the Depression
and the immediate postwar period, the Archives further
enhanced scholarship in these areas with the recent acquisi-
tion of several significant groups of documents. These
include Stuart Davis’s material on the Artists’ Union maga-
zine Art Front and additions to the papers of Marcel Breuer
and Joseph Cornell. The Archives was also fortunate to
receive Charles Pollock’s correspondence, which includes
letters from his famous brother Jackson.

The papers of photographers and craftspeople are among
other collections found at the Archives. This year, the
Archives received papers from the photographer Nickolas
Muray and the potter Maija Grotell. The newly acquired
Norlyst Gallery files, the extensive records of the prominent
art historian and former director of the Whitney Museum
John I. H. Baur, and the papers of the folk art collector
Herbert Hemphill add to the Archives coverage of art world
activities.

Exhibitions

In its New York Regional Center at the Equitable Center, the
Archives has permanent gallery space for the first time. Its
inaugural exhibition commemorated the seventy-fifth anni-
versary of the 1913 Armory Show with a selection of papers
from the collections documenting that milestone event. The
next exhibition featured selections from new acquisitions,
including documents from the Christopher Wilmarth, Joseph
Stella, Robert Smithson, Yasuo Kuniyoshio, and Katherine
Kuh papers. Following long practice, the Archives also lent
documentary materials to museum art exhibitions through-
out the country, including ones held at Washington’s Cor-
coran Gallery, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Pennsylvania
Academy of the Fine Arts, and the Graduate Theological
Union in Berkeley, California.

Research and Education

Scholarship in art history continued to thrive this year. Some
4,500 faculty members, graduate students and fellows, mu-
seum and gallery curators, collectors, and freelance writers
and historians worked at the Archives centers or borrowed
microfilm through the Interlibrary Loan Program. Earlier
research at the Archives was also recognized in the form of
acknowledgments and citations to the vast holdings that
appeared in more than two hundred books, exhibition
catalogues, articles, and dissertations published or completed
during the year.

In addition, the Archives sponsored a variety of programs
held across the country, including the U.S. Art Fair and a
panel discussion in San Francisco; a weekend visit to muse-
ums, galleries, and private collections in the Miami/Coconut
Grove area of Florida; and a variety of private tours of
museum exhibitions, visits to artists’ studios, and lectures all
across the country.

Special Program Support

The Archives of American Art receives approximately half of
its support from its members, its Board of Trustees, private
corporations, and foundations. Without these contributions,
the Archives would not be able to accomplish much of what
it now does. Its oral history program, for example, was
funded by the Lannan Foundation and gifts from Harry Kahn
and Mrs. Jacob Kainen. Work documenting the visual arts in
Southern California from 1900 to 1950 was given major
impetus by grants from the Ahmanson Foundation and the
ARCO Foundation, and completion of the Archives Philadel-
phia Documentation Project was ensured through a grant
from the Pew Charitable Trusts. General operations and
national collecting were supported by both the Brown
Foundation, Inc., and the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Collections Management

During 1989, the Archives made considerable progress in its
long-term project to record all cataloguing information
about its more than three thousand collections in the Institu-
tion’s on-line, computerized data base for archival, library,
and other special collections. The project, funded by grants
from the J. Paul Getty Trust and the Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation, aims to be on-line in a national data base
network within the next year.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s second year was punctuated
by its intensive and far-reaching search for a director. In
October, Dr. Milo C. Beach was named director of both the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art. The
Sackler Gallery is devoted to exhibitions, research, and
education about the art of Asia from the Mediterranean to
Japan.

Dr. Forrest McGill, a specialist in the art of South and
Southeast Asia, was named assistant director of the gallery.
Dr. McGill had been director of the Museum of Art and
Archaeology at the University of Missouri in Columbia and
its curator of Asian art, as well as associate professor at the
university.

Highlights of the year included a major effort to identify
the diverse populations of Asians and Asian Americans in
the Washington, D.C., area. Supported by funds from the
Educational Outreach Program, the gallery’s education staff
commissioned a study and produced a report titled Know!-
edge and Access. The report, which is based on interviews
with community members, provides information that can
help the Sackler build a thriving relationship with the diverse
populations of Asians and Asian Americans.

Exhibitions

Summer attendance at the gallery doubled this year as “Yani:
The Brush of Innocence” captured the public imagination.
The exhibition featured sixty-nine paintings by Wang Yani, a
fourteen-year-old Chinese artist from Guanxi province in
southern China. Each summer weekday, the exhibition was
accompanied by free public programs on Chinese culture.
Wang Yani, who has been painting since she was two and is
already well known in her native land, is the youngest artist
ever to have a one-person show at the Smithsonian.

As part of the events planned in conjunction with the
exhibition, Yani traveled to Washington, D.C., to meet
members of the press and the public at an informal family
day marking the exhibition opening. The show was organ-
ized by the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City,
Missouri, and was sponsored by the Ministry of Culture,
People’s Republic of China. The national tour of the exhibi-
tion, Yani’s visit to Washington, and public programs at the
Sackler Gallery were made possible by United Technologies
Corporation.

Two other major exhibitions brought a wealth of Islamic
art to the public eye. “A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the
Book,” organized by Dr. Glenn D. Lowry, curator of Near

103
A Reclining Prince, attributable to Aqa Mirak, Iran (Tabriz), ca. 15 30,
opaque watercolor and gold on paper mounted on an album page,
appeared on the cover of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery publication
A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the Book from the Vever Collection.

Eastern art, and Dr. Beach, included 160 of the finest
examples from the great collection of eleventh- to nineteenth-
century Persian and Indian paintings, drawings, manuscripts,
calligraphies, and bookbindings assembled by Henri Vever
(1854-1942), a Parisian jeweler. The exhibition was accom-
panied by two publications: A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of
the Book from the Vever Collection, by Dr. Lowry and Susan
Nemazee, and An Annotated Checklist of the Vever Collection,
by Dr. Lowry and Dr. Beach with Roya Marefat and Dr.
Wheeler Thackston. Both books were published by the
University of Washington Press. The paperback edition of
the catalogue won a 1989 award of merit from the American
Association of Museums.

The Vever collection has a long and complex history,
beginning with its mysterious disappearance during World
War II and culminating in its eventual rediscovery in 1984 by
Dr. Lowry and purchase by the Sackler Gallery in 1986. This
fascinating story was explored in an hour-long feature on
“Smithsonian World.”

The art and architecture created during the dynasty of the
legendary warlord Timur, better known in the West as
Tamerlane, were the subjects of “Timur and the Princely
Vision: Persian Art and Culture in the Fifteenth Century,” an
exhibition jointly organized by Dr. Lowry and Dr. Thomas
Lentz, curator of ancient and Islamic art at the Los Angeles
County Museum of Art. The exhibition, which was accom-
panied by a catalogue, was funded in part by grants from the

104

National Endowment for the Humanities, the National En-
dowment for the Arts, and the Smithsonian Institution
Special Exhibition Fund. Indemnification was supplied by
the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities.

Public awareness of Sackler Gallery exhibitions was stimu-
lated by eye-catching posters in area bus shelters and display
advertising in the New York Times. These presentations were
made possible by a generous gift to the Sackler Gallery Public
Affairs Office from Mrs. Else Sackler.

Public Education

Public interest in Persian art stimulated by two exhibitions on
the subject prompted the gallery to hold a Celebration of
Persian Art and Culture between February and March of
1989. Cosponsored by the Foundation for Iranian Studies,
the event offered free public lectures, films, and workshops,
as well as a concert and readings from the Shahnama, the
tenth-century epic poem that traces Iran’s history from the
first mythical kings to the downfall of the Sasanians in the
mid-seventh century.

Research

During the concurrent showing of two Persian art exhibi-
tions, the Sackler sponsored an international symposium,
“New Approaches to Persian Art and Culture,” made possi-
ble by the generosity of Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler. A day-long
session featured presentations by five noted scholars of
Persian art.

This and numerous other research activities reflect the
broad geographical range of the gallery's mandate. As mem-
bers of the Bunkacho-Smithsonian Institution Collaborative
Research Group, W. Thomas Chase, head of the Technical
Laboratory for the Sackler and Freer galleries, and Paul Jett,
senior conservator, discussed ways to develop and conduct
joint research efforts with the Bunkacho, Japan’s Agency for
Cultural Affairs.

Several scholars on the Sackler Gallery staff were the
recipients of major grants this year. Dr. Ann C. Gunter,
assistant curator of ancient Near Eastern art, Mr. Chase, and
Mr. Jett received a Smithsonian Scholarly Studies grant for
their research on the ancient Iranian metalwork in the
permanent collections of the Freer and Sackler galleries and
for the publication of an illustrated catalogue. The grant

supports the team’s travel, as well as that of a collaborator on
the project, Dr. Pieter Meyers, head of conservation, Los
Angeles County Museum of Art.

Dr. Shen Fu, curator of Chinese art, traveled to Brazil,
Argentina, and China under the second year of a Smithsonian
Scholarly Studies Program grant for research on the Chinese
painter Chang Dai-chien (1899-1983). He and Jan Stuart,
assistant curator of Chinese art, received a Special Exhibi-
tions Fund implementation grant toward a retrospective
exhibition of work by this great Chinese painter. The show
will open in 1991.

Ann Yonemura, assistant curator of Japanese art, was
awarded a Smithsonian Special Exhibitions Fund grant to
plan a major archaeological loan exhibition from Japan.

Louise Cort, assistant curator of Asian ceramics, began a
nine-month leave of absence based in Thailand to conduct
field research on Southeast Asian ceramics.

The archives of the Freer and Sackler Library contain a
wealth of rare early photographs of the lands and peoples of
Asia. The Conservation Center for Art and Historic Artifacts
of Philadelphia surveyed the condition of this collection and
made recommendations for its treatment under a grant from
the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

Among the many visiting scholars in residence at the
Sackler Gallery this year was Professor Huashan Chao, a
specialist in Central Asian and Chinese Buddhist art who
serves as director of the Arthur M. Sackler Museum of Art
and Archaeology at Peking University, now under construc-
tion. Dr. Massoud Azarnoush began a Smithsonian Postdoc-
toral Fellowship to study a Sasanian archaeological site in
Iran using the Herzfeld Archives housed in the library of the
Freer and Sackler galleries.

Acquisitions

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins donated a late eighteenth-
century Nepalese painting, The Siege of Mathura by the
Armies of Jarasandha. The Japanese collections were en-
hanced by a gift from ceramist Shimizu Uichi (born 1926) of
a glazed jar, which he made in 1988. Museum purchases
included Scholars in a Wintry Forest, a painting by Ming
dynasty Chinese artist Wen Zhengming (1470-1559), anda
group of four landscape paintings by the Qing dynasty
Chinese artist Gong Xian (ca. 1617-1689).

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) is the Smith-
sonian’s specialized center for research and training in the
conservation and technical study of museum objects. CAL’s
work also encompasses issues related to archaeology and art
history. A staff of specialized physical scientists, conserva-
tors, art historians, and archaeologists provide assistance and
advice to specialists in other Smithsonian bureaus and out-
side the Institution. CAL also operates a training program
that offers a wide range of educational opportunities to
conservators and other museum professionals at various
levels of expertise and experience. Both the general public
and museum professionals benefit from the wide array of the
laboratory’s information services.

Archaeometric Research

Known for its expertise in learning about past cultures by
studying archaeological artifacts, CAL pursued a wide range
of such projects in 1989. Questions ranged from studying
where the early bronze age Anatolian metal craftsmen pro-
cured the tin used to produce the numerous surviving bronze
artifacts to analyzing how the Spanish conquest affected the
production techniques and distribution mechanisms for ce-
ramics among the Hopi people. Other researchers at CAL
explored whether mothers in hunter-gatherer societies breast-
fed their babies longer than those in settled agricultural
groups.

Art historians pondered the painting techniques and mate-
rials used by the American artist Albert P. Ryder that created
distinctive effects unique to his work. Other researchers
explored how neolithic craftsmen in what is now Czechoslo-
vakia produced the Venus of Dolne Vestonice. Still other
researchers analyzed the economic and political relationships
between the various states emerging in the third millenium
B.C. in the Middle East. All of these issues are part of CAL’s
extensive archaeometry program.

Teams of scientists and archaeologists or art historians
jointly design projects, perform the experimental work, and
interpret the data within the context of historic information.
Many of these projects represent interinstitutional and even
international collaborations in which scholars from outside
the Smithsonian come to CAL’s specialized facilities to work
with experts on its staff.

To accommodate the demand for trace element analyses of
archaeological ceramics, which has consistently increased
over the last few years, CAL expanded its facilities for this
activity at the research reactor of the National Institute for

105
Research Art Historian Ingrid Alexander of the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory studies an autoradiograph of Albert P. Ryder’s
In the Stable. Neutron-induced autoradiography, among other
techniques, is being used to study this artist’s work. The laboratory,
in collaboration with the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, operates the only facility for this type of examination in
the United States.

Standards and Technology by adding a second gamma
spectrometry system. Grants from the Kress Foundation and
the Smithson Society made it possible to proceed with the
implementation of long-standing plans to build a special
facility at the same reactor for neutron-induced autoradiog-
raphy of paintings, which shows the distribution patterns of
various pigments throughout the painting. This information
is used to learn about materials used, artistic techniques, and
the overall creative process. This unique facility will dramati-
cally increase the number of paintings that can be studied
with this technique each year.

Conservation Research

The goal of conservation research is to develop a basic
understanding of how materials and objects change in time
and what factors influence the rate at which these changes
take place; then the crucial step is to translate this knowledge
into effective treatment and prevention programs. Physical
scientists and conservators at CAL collaborate to find the
answers to a variety of research projects covering all aspects
of conservation.

One multiyear project studies the effect solvents used to
clean paintings have on long-term preservation. Although a
variety of solvents are used for this process, little is known
about the consequences of this practice, especially after
repeated applications. Another major effort in collaboration
with researchers at other institutions around the world is
examining how shock and vibrations affect the stability of
works of art in transit. In addition, the effects of variations in
environmental conditions on these works of art are being
investigated.

106

Studying preservation techniques for photographic materi-
als is the focus of annother CAL project. Researchers have
established that there was variation in the studio technique of
an early photographic process, the glass-collodion negative.
Now they are investigating what effects these variations had
on the photographic materials. In another line of investiga-
tion, scientists know that works of art on paper are some-
times disfigured by stains and other discolorations, causing
them to need remedial treatment. CAL researchers design
and test appropriate procedures that address basic problems
related to the interaction of aged paper with various solvents.
They also examine the chemical and physical changes that
the paper may undergo and try to formulate conditions to
optimize treatment efficiency with a minimal change in the
paper’s strength and textural appearance. The subject of
another project is the validity of accelerated aging under a
variety of conditions; this technique is mandated in the
evaluation of the result of conservation work.

Insect infestations are a major problem in many museums,
especially in textile collections. The use of insecticides is
often unavoidable, but there is a dearth of knowledge on the
effects various insecticides have on the color stability of
textile dyes. To rectify this problem, CAL researchers evalu-
ated the effects of some commonly used insecticides on
delicate textiles. These and many other projects aim to add
to the body of knowledge that conservation professionals
worldwide depend on in their efforts to preserve our cultural
heritage for future generations.

Conservation Training

In its third year, CAL’s Furniture Conservation Training
Program saw its first class of six students complete all
required coursework for the program. After a year-long
internship in laboratories nationwide next year, the students
will be the first graduates. This program is an innovative way
to fill the need for specialists in furniture conservation;
museums across the country have felt this shortage for many
years. The second class of seven students was selected from
among a large number of applicants. They will begin their
studies at the end of 1989.

In addition to its successful furniture conservation training
program, CAL annually hosts a large number of interns and
fellows at different levels of expertise and experience. Six
recent graduates from academic training programs were
selected for postgraduate internships, two at CAL and four in
various Smithsonian museums. Seven students had intern-

Using specially designed instrumentation, Dr. Marion Mecklenburg,
assistant director for conservation research at the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory measures mechanical properties of the materials
from which art objects are commonly composed. The resulting data
can be used to predict how these objects will be affected by changes
in environmental conditions.

ships with CAL conservators ranging from three months to
one year, and two students prepared for an academic pro-
gram by spending a year as preprogram interns. Two post-
doctoral fellows in materials analysis and one in conservation
science were selected to spend a year performing research at
CINE,

For practicing conservators, CAL organized a total of eight
advanced courses on specialty subjects such as textile dye
analysis, color theory and measurement, exhibit and storage
case materials, the fabrication and use of suction tables in
paper conservation, and the conservation of earth science
collections. The joint doctoral program with Johns Hopkins
University to train conservation scientists continues to
flourish. CAL staff taught two semesters of courses on
conservation-related subjects and supervised the studies of
three doctoral students.

As in previous years, CAL continues to be an active
member of the Conservation Information Network (CIN), a
data base of conservation literature maintained through an
international collaborative effort. CAL provided assistance to
conservators in the Smithsonian and other museums by
performing 130 data base searches. CAL also contributed to
the further buildup of the CIN data bases and enlarged its
own rather unique collection of reprints from the conserva-
tion literature, a resource that now includes about 22,000
items. In addition to fulfilling 220 requests for conservation
information from professionals nationwide, CAL addressed
725 questions from the general public dealing with problems
such as the conservation of antique radios, music boxes,
marine calcareous fossils, antique steam pumps, and more
conventional “objects d'art.”

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

The Cooper-Hewitt Museum began the year by welcoming
Director Dianne H. Pilgrim. With new leadership, Cooper-
Hewitt has established new goals for the future and has
reaffirmed its mission to increase the understanding of
design as the unifying element in all aspects of the man-made
environment. More than just the visible envelope or surface
packaging of a functional product, design is the organization
and use of physical matter in our lives. The design concerns
of the museum are virtually unlimited, encompassing fields
as diverse as urban planning, architecture, industrial design,
landscape design, interior design, textiles, fashion, theater
arts, advertising, graphic arts, and crafts.

As the National Museum of Design, Cooper-Hewitt strives
to encourage “good design,” as well as to foster a greater
understanding of the design process and to improve the
dialogue between audience and designer. The museum pur-
sues these goals through diverse programs, which include
provisions for making the collections available for study,
research, and display; educational programs for professionals
and the general public; exhibitions; publications; and conf-
erences keyed to significant design issues.

Collections

As a working laboratory for the study of design, Cooper-
Hewitt is one of the Smithsonian’s busiest collection centers.
Its permanent collection of 170,000 objects ranges from the
utilitarian to the fine arts and includes decorative arts, prints
and drawings, textiles, wall coverings, and books from
Europe, America, and Asia. The specialized library of 50,000
volumes contains more than 5,000 rare books, 3,000 trade
catalogues, and subscriptions to 300 periodicals. Cooper-
Hewitt also has important industrial design archives, includ-
ing materials from Henry Dreyfuss, Donald Deskey, Ladislav
Sutnar, George Kubler, Therese Bonney, and Gilbert Rohde.

As part of its outreach philosophy, the museum engages in
an active loan exchange program with other museums. In
1989, 384 items were loaned to 42 other museums, and
1,471 objects were borrowed from 177 lenders for tempo-
rary exhibitions. The museum’s library, an important re-
source for both design students and professionals, opened its
doors to more than eight hundred outside users and circu-
lated nearly three thousand volumes.

This year, too, was an active year for increasing the
permanent collection. The museum added an additional
2,324 items in 1989 (385 by purchase, 1,937 by gift, and
two by bequest). The year’s most outstanding permanent

107
acquisition was the Ludmilla and Henry Shapiro Collection
of Soviet porcelains, including more than 250 examples of
tablewares and figural porcelains dating from the time of the
Russian Revolution to the present. Unique in the United
States, this collection provides an exceptionally complete
survey of the propagandistic ceramics made and promoted in
the Soviet Union. It was purchased with assistance from the
Regents’ Collections Acquisition Fund, matched by funds
raised by Cooper-Hewitt’s Decorative Arts Association. The
purchase was also made possible by a special donation, in the
form of a reduction in price, from the collectors.

The museum also received as a gift the remaining materials
in the Donald Deskey Archive from the late designer. The
museum already owned a portion of the materials, which
were donated in 1975; the rest were in the museum’s care on
loan. The entire archive contains nearly 2,400 drawings and
blueprints and more than 25 linear feet of documentary
artifacts from every aspect of Deskey’s career.

Collections that are growing and working at this rate
obviously require continuous conservation and data manage-
ment efforts. The museum’s paper and textile conservators
treated nearly four hundred objects in fiscal 1989. At the
same time, computer catalogue systems were upgraded and
interactive media applications began to evolve in an effort to
increase public utilization of the collections.

Exhibitions

Cooper-Hewitt’s exhibitions explore a variety of facets of
design—from its processes and products to the ways that
objects shape and are shaped by cultural conventions. Last
year, two cross-cultural exhibitions highlighted this theme.
The exhibition “Courts and Colonies: The William and
Mary Style in Holland, England, and America” celebrated the
300th anniversary of the accession of William and Mary to
the throne of England. Co-organized by Cooper-Hewitt and
the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, this tribute to the
Glorious Revolution included more than 250 works of art,
architectural prints, drawings, furniture, ceramics, and silver
from the late seventeeth and early eighteenth centuries.

The second major exhibit with a cross-cultural scope was
part of the elaborate international celebrations for the bicen-
tennial of the French Revolution. Cooper-Hewitt’s contribu-
tion to the event was an exhibition titled “L’Art de Vivre:
Decorative Arts and Design in France, 1789-1989.” Funded
by a generous grant from the Comit Colbert, it brought
together more than six hundred works from public, private,

108

and corporate collections in France and the United States.

Other exhibitions with an international scope included
showings of Dutch posters from the first half of the twentieth
century, the drawings of twentieth-century architect Erich
Mendelsohn, and landscape drawings of Rome and the
surrounding countryside from the collection of the Vatican
Library. Cooper-Hewitt also tapped its own permanent
collections for three unique exhibitions: a presentation of
American drawings dating from the 1830s to the 1930s; a
survey of purses, pockets, and pouches illustrating various
textile techniques from the early seventeenth century to the
present; and a presentation of jewelry from the nineteenth
century. An exhibition titled “The Intimate World of Alexan-
der Calder,” which opened in the fall, revealed personal
objects created by the sculptor for family and friends.
Organized by the Museé des Arts Décoratifs in Paris, the
exhibition is accompanied by a book of the same title.

Future exhibition plans will focus on the enormous diver-
sity of design as a human activity that imparts, organizes, and
communicates values. To focus attention on design issues for
the blind and other special audiences, the museum is in the
process of organizing a participatory exhibition of architect-
designed doghouses in cooperation with Guiding Eyes for
the Blind, Inc. Still other future exhibitions will promote
Cooper-Hewitt’s rarely seen collections. And in the fall of
1990, the museum will present a collection-based project as
part of a complex series of exhibitions and programs focus-
ing on the theme of “Home: A Place in the World.” The
series is a cooperative effort of New York City museums and
the New School for Social Research.

Exhibitions and Publications

Continuing a tradition of outstanding publications, the mu-
seum produced a wide range of books this year. Those of
particular note include Courts and Colonies: The William
and Mary Style in Holland, England, and America, a critically
acclaimed 25 2-page catalogue. A thematic publication con-
taining nine essays, L’Art de Vivre: Decorative Arts and
Design in France, 1789-1989, accompanied the exhibition of
the same name. Cooper-Hewitt also received a Federal
Design Achievement Award for its 1985 publication Wine:
Celebration and Ceremony.

Public Education

An important part of Cooper-Hewitt’s effort to increase

This silverplated tea service “La Géométrie,” designed by Henri Bouilhet for the French firm Christofle in 1970, was featured in the
Cooper-Hewitt’s exhibition, ““L’Art de Vivre.” The tea service was presented as a gift to the museum in 1984 by Christofle.

public awareness of design is its roster of educational
programs. This year, approximately six thousand students
attended a wide range of courses, symposia, workshops,
lectures, and study tours. In addition to programs held in
conjunction with major exhibitions, topics on this year’s
calendar covered such widely diverse areas as art deco
oceanliners, interior designs for Radio City Music Hall by
Donald Deskey, needle arts, American ceramics, French and
Italian garden design, the 1939 World’s Fair, the architecture
of Erich Mendelsohn, and magazine design. The museum
sent an architectural study tour to Central Eruope and is
planning a similarly focused tour to the Soviet Union. As the
sixth class graduated in May 1989, the Cooper-Hewitt/
Parson’s Master’s Program in the History of Decorative Arts
continued to provide invaluable professional training for
future scholars and curators.

In an effort to expand and diversify its audience, Cooper-
Hewitt forged new relationships with other organizations
such as the Schomberg Library, the Studio Museum in

Harlem, various United Fund agencies, the Victorian Society,
the Decorative Arts Society, the Attingham Society, a local
YMCA, Hospital Audiences, and others. In celebration of
Black History Month, a lecture series on African textiles was
held fora sellout audience. The museum also initiated
special programming for children and experimental pro-
grams for the entire family; the New York State Council on
the Arts then gave the museum a grant for educational
consulting services to develop these programs further. To
improve exhibition interpretation for school groups, special
audiences, and the public, the museum established regularly
scheduled free gallery talks led by approximately thirty
guides.

Audience
More than 136,000 visitors explored the museum’s exhibi-
tions in 1989; more than 70,000 poured into its landmark

exhibition “L’Art de Vivre” alone. Exhibitions also brought

109
international attention to Cooper-Hewitt. “Courts and
Colonies” opened in November 1988 under the gracious
patronage of Her Royal Highness Princess Margriet of the
Netherlands, who attended opening ceremonies with her
husand Mr. Pieter Van Vollenhoven and their son Prince
Bernard. “L’Art de Vivre” was visited by such notable guests
as Madame Francois Mitterand, Ambassador and Madame
de Margerie, French Consul General Benoit d’Aboville,
Mayor Jacques Chirac of Paris, designer Philippe Starck, and
actress Catherine Deneueve.

In addition to receiving public support, the museum was
recognized by colleagues. Two U.S. Information Agency-
sponsored groups of European museum administrators vis-
ited the museum this year, as did a group sponsored by the
American Society of Industrial Designers. Cooper-Hewitt
hosted a symposium on funding for small art institutions,
which was organized by the Metropolitan Historic Sites
Association. And last spring, museum professionals attended
a special viewing and reception of “L’Art de Vivre.”

Nearly two thousand members crowded into the muse-
um’s annual Garden Party; the next evening, another five
thousand visitors of every age and background participated
in New York City’s annual Museum Mile Festival. Free
concerts in the garden continued to attract diverse audiences
throughout the summer.

Membership and Development

Many of Cooper-Hewitt’s approximately six thousand mem-
bers, individual and foundation benefactors, and corporate
sponsors and patrons demonstrated their interest in design
with continued financial support. Significant fund-raising
accomplishments culminating in 1989 include grants from
the Shell Oil Company and the Dutch American West-India
Company Foundation, Inc., for “Courts and Colonies”; the
Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts for “The
Intimate World of Alexander Calder’; the Peter Krueger/
Christie’s Foundation, Inc., for an annual fellowship to a
promising scholar; the James Smithson Society for the
publication of a new visitor’s brochure; Banco di Santo
Spirito and the American Friends of the Vatican Library for
“Views of Rome’”’; Van Munching & Co., Inc., for “The
Modern Dutch Poster;”’ the Helena Rubinstein Foundation
for scholarships in the Master’s Program; and numerous
other grants and in-kind gifts or donated services.
Corporations such as Air France; AMEV Holdings, Inc.;
Anheuser Busch, Inc.; Henri Bendel; Bristol-Myers Com-

1 fe)

pany; Brunschwig & Fils; Conde Nast Publications, Inc.;
Consolidated Edison Company of New York; Hermes; IBM
Corporation; Kay Jewelers, Inc.; Koppers Company, Inc.;
Herman Miller; Nationale-Nederlanden U.S. Corp.; the New
York Times Company Foundation; Rabobank, N.V.; and
Rosenberg & Stiebel became corporate patrons and made
financial gifts in support of specific projects or as contribu-
tions to meet a three-year challenge grant from the Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation for a permanent research endow-
ment. The museum made important progress in the second
year of that drive, leading to the foundation’s first installment
on its pledge.

The Future

Under the aegis of its new director, the museum is striving to
be more than just a showcase for design. Rather, it is working
to become a forum to deal with serious design issues.
Dreams for the future—many of which are rapidly becoming
reality—include expanded outreach programs, a space in
Washington for rotating exhibitions, a scholarly journal
devoted to design issues, national conferences, increased
utilization of the collections, and strengthened emphasis on
education and research.

Cooper-Hewitt hopes to grow physically as well. First
stages in the museum’s physical evolution include plans to
make better use of current facilities, for example, by present-
ing experimental programs in the museum’s garden and by
improving accessibility to all public areas. The museum
envisions an addition on the east end of the current building
that will include a public study center for three-dimensional
objects, as well as space for a loading dock, a lecture hall, and
storage. A major element of the master plan was achieved in
the spring of 1989 with the purchase of the townhouse
adjacent to the museum’s facilities. The creation of a coher-
ent public facility and an extended scope will enable Cooper-
Hewitt to reach a broader and more diverse national audience.

Freer Gallery of Art

As the year opened, Dr. Milo C. Beach was named director
of the Freer Gallery of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.
Opened in 1923 as the first art museum at the Smithsonian
Institution, the Freer is dedicated to exhibition, research, and
public education about its outstanding collections of art from
Asia and works by late nineteenth-century American artists.

The gallery remained closed this year while a multimillion
dollar renovation program continued that will link this
landmark building with the neighboring Sackler Gallery. The
Washington, D.C., firm of Jowett, Inc., was selected as the
general contractor. The project, expected to continue into
fiscal year 1993, will also enlarge space for conservation,
exhibition, and collections storage and research.

The Freer collection has nearly doubled since the death in
1919 of museum benefactor Charles Lang Freer of Detroit.
To house these collections safely and to make them more
accessible for study by staff, visiting scholars, and interested
members of the public, storage areas will be designed with
ample space for examination. Additional space will be
provided in a full subbasement, an area that had never been
entirely excavated. This part of the project, as well as the link
between the two galleries, is currently under construction.

During the early stages of the project, the ground level is
being reconfigured, which will triple the facilities available
for art conservation and technical research. The Technical
Laboratory, whose staff serves the Freer and Sackler galleries,
has assumed the increased responsibility for conservation for
the Sackler Gallery’s traveling exhibitions and for pieces
borrowed from other institutions.

In the midst of the renovation project, the Freer awarded
the ninth Charles Lang Freer Medal to Alexander Coburn
Soper III. Professor Soper, of the Institute of Fine Arts, New
York University, is an educator, writer, and editor widely
recognized for his prolific contributions to the field of Asian
art history.

Research

As the staff began planning exhibitions and publications for
the reopening in fiscal year 1993, the James Smithson
Society funded a portion of a project to clean and restore
Harmony in Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room (1876-1877)
James McNeill Whistler’s only surviving interior decoration,
which is permanently installed in the Freer. The restoration
will be completed for the gallery’s reopening.

Continuing her research on Whistler, Dr. Linda Merrill,
assistant curator of American art, traveled to the Portland

Museum of Art in Maine under a Regents Publication
Fellowship awarded last year for her book in progress, A Pot
of Paint: Whistler versus Ruskin. Dr. Merrill has been working
on a publication about the Peacock Room with the assistance
of colleague Kim Nielsen, head photographer. Mr. Nielsen
visited the Royal Photographic Society Archives in Bath, Eng-
land, where he discovered the only known color images of
the Peacock Room as it looked when it was installed in Mr.
Freer’s Detroit home. The images provide valuable informa-
tion about the original state of the Peacock Room. They also
document the ways that Mr. Freer preferred his collections
to be displayed.

Acquisitions

Among the additions to the Freer collection were a spectacu-
lar seventeenth-century Japanese gold-lacquer covered box
embellished with the Tokugawa family crest; a Ming dynasty
(1368-1644) Chinese hanging scroll by Shen Chou (1427-
1509) titled “Composing Poetry by a Spring Stream”; a
collection of fifty-four Southeast Asian ceramics given by
Mr. Dean Frasche; and an Edo period (1615-1868) Japanese
dish and Ming dynasty Chinese ceramic bottle, both gifts
from Mrs. Karol Kirberger Rodriguez.

Itt

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Smith-
sonian Institution’s museum of modern and contemporary
art, maintained an active exhibition schedule and acquisition
program this year. Films, concerts, symposia, tours, and
other educational activities supported these programs. The
museum’s departments of conservation, registration, and
photography, as well as the reference library, continued to
offer technical support to staff and scholars.

Exhibitions

This year’s major exhibitions at the Hirshhorn brought to
public attention noteworthy acquisitions and the works of
renowned artists. “Recent Acquisitions, 1986-1989” pre-
sented a selection of primarily contemporary works acquired
by the museum since its last acquisitions summary in 1986.
Encompassing a wide range of styles and media, this acquisi-
tions roundup of seventy-nine gifts and purchases included
examples of early modernism and paintings, sculptures, and
mixed-media works from the 1940s through the 1980s.
The exhibition pieces were selected by Director James T.
Demetrion.

“Robert Moskowitz,” organized by Chief Curator for
Exhibitions Dr. Ned Rifkin, opened in the summer of 1989
and then circulated to the La Jolla Museum of Contemporary
Art in California and the Museum of Modern Art in New
York. The exhibition was the first museum retrospective for
this American artist and included collages, drawings, and
paintings spanning his thirty-year career. Dr. Rifkin wrote
the catalogue accompanying the exhibition.

Another exhibition, “Gerhard Richter Paintings,” the Ger-
man artist’s first North American retrospective, consisted of
forty-nine works, predominantly paintings, jointly organized
by the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto and the Museum of
Contemporary Art in Chicago. Its tour began at the Art
Gallery of Ontario.

The Hirshhorn continued to offer audiences an intimate
experience with contemporary art through its “Directions”
and ‘“‘Works” series. “Directions,” which focuses on small-
scale solo shows, highlighted the work of Ericka Beckman,
Mel Chin, Walter Pichler, and Keith Sonnier. “Works,”
which features temporary installations created for the muse-
um’s building and grounds, remains the only ongoing pro-
gram of its kind in a major American museum. This year,
site-specific pieces were created by Daniel Buren, Houston
Conwill, Buster Simpson, and Krzysztof Wodiczko. Both
series and the accompanying publications were supported in

rE

The Blind Leading the Blind (1947-1949), by American artist Louise
Bourgeois (b. 1911), was acquired by the Hirshhorn Museum
through the Regents Collections Acquisition Fund, with matching
funds from Jerome L. Greene, Agnes Gund, Sydney and Frances
Lewis, and Leonard C. Yaseen.

part by a grant from the Smithsonian Special Exhibition
Fund. The Special Exhibition Fund also provided funancial
assistance for the publication of Hirshhorn Works 1988, a
yearbook that presented analytical essays and photographic
documentation of the exhibitions in the inaugural year of the
series.

Smaller exhibitions showcased works from the permanent
collection. Two were presented in conjunction with the
anniversary of the r5oth year of photography. These in-
cluded “Ralston Crawford Photographs,” organized by Cu-
rator of Prints and Drawings Frank Gettings, and ““Thomas
Eakins Photographs: A Selection from the Permanent Collec-
tion,” organized by Associate Curator Phyllis Rosenzweig.

Loans

In addition to creating its own exhibitions, the museum lent
eighty-two works of art to museums in the United States and
overseas. This year, many of the major shows in the United
States focused on the invention of the photographic process.
The Walker Art Center’s “The Vanishing Presence,” a large
traveling exhibition, included six photographs by Thomas
Eakins selected from the Hirshhorn’s vast collection. Photo-

graphs created by artist Lucas Samaras were lent to the
exhibition, “Lucas Samaras, Objects and Subjects, 1969-
1987,” a retrospective organized by the Denver Art Museum
with venues in several American cities. Retrospectives
honoring painters George Ault, Oscar Bluemner, and Sey-
mour Drumlevitch were also held this past year, with the
Hirshhorn lending several examples of each artist’s work to
each show. The museum’s much-requested painting by the
late Andy Warhol, Marilyn Monroe’s Lips, was selected by
the Museum of Modern Art for inclusion in its Warhol
retrospective, a large comprehensive show that will be seen
in the United States, Italy, England, West Germany, and
France.

The highly acclaimed exhibition, “Perpetual Motif: The
Art of Man Ray,” organized by the National Museum of
American Art, included two important loans from the Hirsh-
horn. Man Ray’s small watercolor Landscape and the re-
cently purchased larger work Seguidilla helped demonstrate
this artist’s varied talents.

Museums abroad focused on retrospectives as well. The
Staatsgalerie Stuttgart mounted a Frank Stella exhibition to
which the Hirshhorn sent Arundel Castle, one of the artist’s
black paintings. The Ministry of Culture, Madrid, Spain,
presented a Philip Guston exhibition that was so well
received in Barcelona and Madrid that it was brought to the
United States by the St. Louis Art Museum. The Hirshhorn’s
painting Oasis traveled with the entire tour. In Italy, the
National Gallery of Modern and Contemporary Art bor-
rowed the imposing wood sculpture Colloquy by Pietro
Consagra for an exhibition of Consagra’s sculptures.

Education and Public Programs

The Education Department continued to broaden its efforts
to bring the exhibitions and permanent collection alive for
the Hirshhorn’s 18,000 group-tour participants, who range
from schoolchildren to senior citizens. Three workshops
were provided for the National Art Education Association, as
well as for high school art and social studies teachers from
the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. The “Currents”
seminars for high school juniors continued to familiarize area
students with the museum and the trends and ideas repre-
sented in new works of art. In addition, five undergraduate
students gained much-desired museum experience in the
Hirshhorn’s summer internship program. Popular, regularly
scheduled free films about artists, films by artist-filmmakers,

and matinees for young people were vital aspects of the
museum’s outreach to the public.

Monthly “Focus” talks began this year, each featuring an
artist or curator participating in a Hirshhorn exhibition. In
response to the debate over federal funding for the arts, the
Hirshhorn cosponsored a panel with the Washington Project
for the Arts titled “Art and Controversy: Historical Perspec-
tives, Current Issues.”

Acquisitions

The museum’s permanent collection was enriched by twelve
gifts and thirty-two purchases. Among the recent acquisi-
tions were a major painting by Jasper Johns, Untitled (1987),
and two sculptures by important American female artists,
Louise Bourgeois’s The Blind Leading the Blind (1948) and
Eva Hesse’s Vertiginous Detour (1966). The museum has
also acquired a number of significant works by European
artists, notably The Soul of Morvan (195 4) by Jean Dubuffet,
Stainwell (Treppenhaus) (1982) by Sigmar Polke, and The
Sorceress (1961) by Jean Tinguely, in addition to works by
Magdalena Jetelova, Anish Kapoor, Leon Kossoff, Walter
Pichler, and Sean Scully. Several pieces by artists featured in
“Different Drummers,” an exhibition held in the spring of
1988, were also acquired: collages and mixed-media works
by Wallace Berman and Robert Helm, as well as two collages
by Jess (Collins), including a new work, A Western Prospect of
Egg and Dart (1988). The museum has also continued
acquiring art by Washington-area artists, evidenced by its
purchase of drawings, paintings, and sculptures by Kendall
Buster, Robin Rose, Alan Stone, and Andrea Way. Generous
contributions received during this and previous periods from
the Lannan Foundation, the Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation, the Holenia Trust, and the estates of Mary and
Leigh Block, Joseph H. Hirshhorn, and Marion L. Ring were
instrumental in providing funding for the Hirshhorn’s acqui-
sition program.

113

National Air and Space
Museum

The National Air and Space Museum maintains the largest
collection of historic aircraft and spacecraft in the world. It is
also a vital center for research in the history, science, and
technology of aviation and spaceflight. Based on its research,
the museum will continue in its exhibitions to provide
additional emphasis on the historical, social, and economic
context that influenced the decision to build a particular kind
of craft, the new kinds of technology required for its
development, and the scientific knowledge gained from its
use.

Research and Publications

The museum’s four departments carry out research in a wide
range of areas. The Department of Aeronautics is concerned
with the history of aviation. The Department of Space
History studies the history of rocketry and spaceflight.
Scientists in the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies use
data from satellites and planetary probes to study geomor-
phology and comparative planetology. Astronomers in the
new Laboratory for Astrophysics design and test infrared
astronomical instruments and conduct theoretical studies in
astrophysics and planetary atmospheres.

In the Department of Aeronautics, work is progressing on
the Smithsonian History of Aviation Series, under the leader-
ship of Dr. Dominick A. Pisano and an international board of
editors. Initial publications in the series will include Visions
of a Flying Machine: The Wright Brothers and the Process of
Invention by Peter Jakab and The Evolution and Revolutions
of Aerodynamics: An Historical and Engineering Perspective
by Dr. John Anderson.

Dr. Von Hardesty, Dorothy Cochrane, and Russell Lee
produced The Aviation Careers of Igor Sikorsky, a cata-
logue based on the museum’s exhibition. Robert van der
Linden completed Boeing 247: The First Modern Airliner, and
R. E. G. Davies finished Lufthansa, a pictorial history of the
German airline. Peter Jakab is editing the first English-
language book-length treatment on the life and work of the
German glider pioneer Otto Lilienthal. Robert Mikesh com-
pleted Japanese Aircraft: 1910-1941, a comprehensive, in-
depth study. Rick Leyes, in collaboration with William R.
Fleming, is writing The Evolution of the Small Gas Turbine
Aircraft Engine Industry in North America.

This year’s visiting scholars added to the museum’s re-
search activities. Professor John Morrow, holder of the
Charles A. Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History, continued
his research on the evolution of air power during World War

II4

I. The museum had two International Fellows—Ron Dick,
former British defense attache, and Soviet filmmaker Yuri
Salnikov. Mr. Dick edited The Jet Age: Fifty Years of Jet
Aviation, to be published by the Smithsonian Institution
Press, and Mr. Salnikov worked on a film about Soviet-
American cooperation in aviation in the 1930s.

The museum hosted one Guggenheim fellow and four
Smithsonian Institution fellows. Guggenheim Fellow Rich-
ard Muller did thesis research on the Luftwaffe and the
Soviet Union during World War II. Smithsonian Institution
Fellow Jacob Vander Meulen finished his thesis on the
American aircraft industry; Jill Snider conducted research on
blacks and aviation in Chicago between the wars; Takashito
Hashimoto studied German and British aerodynamics in the
1920s; and Tami Davis Biddle carried out research on the
evolution of air power doctrine.

During the year, the Department of Space Science and
Exploration changed its name to the Department of Space
History and acquired a new chairman: Dr. Gregg Herken, a
historian of nuclear diplomacy and author of The Winning
Weapon: The Atomic Bomb in the Cold War, 1945-50, and
Counsels of War. He recently completed the manuscript of
Cardinal Choices: The President’s Science Advisers from
Roosevelt to Reagan. Dr. David DeVorkin finished Race to the
Stratosphere: Manned Scientific Ballooning in America, which
was published by Springer Verlag. He is now researching
Science with a Vengeance: The Origins of Space Science in
America. Dr. Paul Ceruzzi is contributing to a book titled
Computing before Computers. Martin Collins edited (with
Sylvia Fries) A Spacefaring Nation: Perspectives in Space
History. Dr. Allan Needell is writing a book on Merle Tuve
and Lloyd Berkner, which will explore the evolution of
large-scale American science over the last fifty years. Dr.
Robert Smith published a definitive history of the Space
Telescope and is working on a biography of the American
astronomer V. M. Slipher. Dr. Joseph Tatarewicz completed
Space Technology and Planetary Astronomy. Frank Winter
finished a book on the nineteenth-century rockets of Con-
greve and Hale and is researching another book on the
impact of Robert Goddard on modern rocket and spaceflight
theory.

In 1989, the museum’s Glennan-Webb-Seamans Project
conducted oral history interviews with key administrators
and managers from the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA) and the aerospace industry. It also
participated in the Smithsonian Videohistory Program by
conducting interview sessions on the origins of aerial recon-

naissance studies at the Rand Corporation. Concurrently, the
Smithsonian Videohistory Program supported the museum’s
research on the history of X-ray astronomy and aeronomy at
the Naval Research Laboratory.

Current research in the Center for Earth and Planetary
Studies (CEPS) deals with desertification and other arid zone
processes in Africa, studies of Martian surface morphology,
and structural deformation on the terrestrial planets. The
center is also involved in detailed geological mapping of
parts of Mars, which will be used in the selection of potential
landing sites for future missions to Mars.

During the past year, research on desertification focused
on Egypt, Mali, and Botswana. Analysis of SPOT satellite
images of the massive Abu Muharik dune system in the
Western Desert of Egypt led to the discovery of differential
mobility of sands according to spectral type. Dr. Ted Max-
well, the center’s chairman, led a team of American and
Egyptian scientists during eight days of field studies in the
region. Dr. Patricia Jacobberger has found a correlation
between vegetation abundance and geomorphology in arid
and semiarid regions.

Working with colleagues at Arizona State University,
Robert Craddock has discovered a large, ancient impact
basin in the Memnonia region on Mars, the formation of
which may have caused widespread faulting, uplift of con-
centric crustal blocks, and local volcanism. Dr. James Zimble-
man has proposed a wind-related origin for material filling
concentric zones of craters on Mars. Dr. Randall Forsythe, a
senior Smithsonian Fellow, has discovered features that may
be evidence of horizontal faulting on Mars.

Work directed by Priscilla Strain has begun on the Smuth-
sonian Satellite Atlas of the World, a major reference publica-
tion planned for the 1992 Columbus Quincentenary. The
atlas will provide the first complete coverage of the Earth’s
land surface as seen from orbit by such systems as Landsat,
SPOT, and the Shuttle Imaging Radar, together with a user’s
guide describing the various spacecraft sensors, missions,
and availability of data.

The Laboratory for Astrophysics, a new research depart-
ment, opened in October 1988. A laboratory facility was
built in the museum parking level and has been equipped
with carbon dioxide and far-infrared lasers, cryogenic detec-
tors, and basic electronics needed for research on the
development and testing of infrared spectroscopic instru-
ments for ground- and space-based astronomical observa-
tions. The laboratory’s research programs also include
theoretical and observational work on the meteorology of

In late March, exhibits production specialists at the National Air and
Space Museum installed the structural and dynamic test vehicle
used in the development of the Hubble Space Telescope, the largest
orbiting observatory ever built. The telescope is expected to provide
images of deep space with ten times the clarity and fifty times the
light sensitivity of the best ground-based telescopes. (Photograph by
Mark Avino)
Venus and Mars, star formation and associated phenomena
in interstellar molecular clouds, and the energetics of infrared
active galaxies.

Working with NASA’s Goddard Spaceflight Center, Dr.
Jeffrey Goldstein has developed laser systems to provide
absolute frequency stability for infrared spectrometers. These
systems have been used with ground-based telescopes at Kitt
Peak and Mauna Kea to measure local wind velocities on
Mars and above the clouds of Venus to an accuracy of 1
meter per second.

Dr. Matthew Greenhouse has developed equipment to
measure infrared line emission and is using it to study
material ejected in shells from novae, or active stars. He has
also made near infrared and radio molecular observations of
galaxies in an effort to explore the role of galactic spiral
structure in star formation.

Dr. Martin Harwit, the museum’s director, is developing
scientific goals for the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO),
which will be launched by the European Space Agency in
1993. He is also a coinvestigator on the Submillimeter Wave
Astronomy Satellite, a Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory collaborative program to be launched in 1993. Ina
series of papers on the origin of intense infrared emission
observed from “‘active” galaxies, Dr. Harwit is developing an
explanation in terms of collisional interactions between
galaxies.

Dr. Howard Smith, chairman of the laboratory and a
coinvestigator on ISO, developed a method using photoli-
thography and microelectronics to fabricate high-precision
metal mesh reflectors for use by the infrared spectrometers
on the spacecraft. In collaboration with astronomers at the
Naval Research Laboratory, Dr. Smith has been observing
strong outflowing winds around certain young stars, one of
which appears to be surrounded by a preplanetary disk of
material.

Exhibitions

A major gallery, “Beyond the Limits: Flight Enters the
Computer Age,” opened in May. Curated by Dr. Paul
Ceruzzi and designed by William Jacobs, the exhibition is
devoted to the computer’s impact on air and space technol-
ogy. Aeronautics has depended on computation from the
beginning of powered flight, but the recent ““computer
revolution” has changed the nature of aerospace technology
as profoundly as did the introduction of jet propulsion some

116

Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir (center) toured the National
Air and Space Museum’s Space Hall on April 5, accompanied by
Director Martin Harwit (left) and President George Bush. (Photograph
by Mark Avino)

forty years ago. The exhibition features a full-scale model of
the computer-stabilized X-29 aircraft, a CRAY-1 (among the
first supercomputers), a pair of robot arms that fold and
launch paper airplanes, the HiMAT remote-controlled re-
search airplane, and a flight spare of the Mariner 10 space
probe to Venus and Mercury, the first spacecraft to use the
gravity of one planet to swing itself toward encounter with
another.

Twelve computer interactive exhibits use a variety of
computer hardware. Two of them, “Multi-Stage Rocket
Design” and “Airplane Design: The Basic Ingredients,” were
developed in a software competition among college and
university students throughout the country. In the “Velocity
3-D” program, the user touches a video screen to create an
arbitrary shape, which the computer then transforms into the
image of a solid model that can be animated as the visitor
wishes. Another exhibit, ‘““The Workstation,” uses a sophisti-
cated program to show how a designer builds up an airplane
from wire-frame to final realistic image.

In Space Hall, the museum placed on exhibit the Structural
Dynamic Test Vehicle used in developing the Hubble Space
Telescope, the largest astronomical space telescope ever
built. In June 1989, the Art Gallery opened an exhibition,
‘‘Aeropittura Futurista: Images of Flight in Italian Art, 1913
to 1942,” which examines the first artistic movement to
embrace technology and glorify the airplane as a symbol of

the modern age. The museum also hosted an exhibition,
“Blockade and Airlift: The Berlin Crisis of 1948-1949,”
produced by the city of Berlin to commemorate the fortieth
anniversary of the Berlin Airlift.

The museum’s Film Production Unit created ten films and
video presentations, a preschool animated cartoon, and three
interactive displays. ““X-29 Experiment in the Sky” em-
ployed an advanced air-to-air tracking system installed in the
belly of a Learjet to film the X-29 aircraft as it performed
research maneuvers over the California desert. “Simulation
Takes Flight” integrated state-of-the-art supercomputer
graphics in a film creating the illusion of flight in an F-14, a
Boeing 767, and a Space Shuttle.

Collections

In 1989, the staff at the museum’s Paul E. Garber Facility
completed restoration of three significant space artifacts: the
Mercury 14 capsule, the Structural Dynamic Test Vehicle for
the Hubble Space Telescope, and the ATS-6 satellite. In
support of the forthcoming World War I gallery, the team
preserved a British Sopwith Snipe fighter and began major
restoration of a French Voisin 8 bomber. Also under restora-
tion is a World War II Aichi Seiran, a Japanese submarine-
borne seaplane designed for the sole purpose of bombing the
Panama Canal. The staff completed the restoration of the
German Arado 234, the first jet bomber. In addition, the
team working on the Enola Gay completed restoration of the
tail gunner’s section of the rear fuselage.

The museum’s archives acquired 120 collections this year.
Especially significant were materials from Sir Hiram Maxim,
archives from the Fairchild Corporation, the HiMAT aircraft
collection, and a valuable collection of early ballooning
material. Some thirty films were also added to the collection.
The museum’s sixth archival videodisc was released in time
for the twentieth anniversary of the Apollo rz lunar landing;
it contains some 80,000 images of solar system objects
obtained from unmanned space probes and the Apollo
missions.

Notable artifacts acquired during the year include a
C-130 cargo carrier typical of those used in Vietnam and a
McDonnell-Douglas F4S Phantom fighter, also used in Viet-
nam. The museum accepted from Air France the promise of
a Concorde airplane; it will become part of the collection
after its retirement from service.

Public Events and Educational Programs

On July 20, 1989, the three original Apollo rr astronauts,
together with President George Bush and other dignitaries,
took part in a ceremony on the museum’s steps to commem-
orate the twentieth anniversary of the first manned lunar
landing. During the day, the museum presented six free
screenings of the feature-length documentary For All Man-
kind, a poetic retrospective based on the Apollo film ar-
chives. That evening, the public was invited to view a “real
time” closed-circuit television replay of the original lunar
landing coverage. The anniversary also saw the opening of
an art exhibition, “Eyewitness to Apollo 11,” tracing the
history of the Apollo program through the eyes of artists
ranging from Robert Rauschenberg to Norman Rockwell.

A new planetarium show, “Calling All Stars,” opened in
the museum’s Albert Einstein Planetarium. Using dazzling
multimedia effects, the program takes viewers on a voyage to
other worlds to explore current scientific thinking on the
question of extraterrestrial life and our prospects for radio
communication with other civilizations in space.

During the year, the museum offered a wide range of
public programs designed to both educate and entertain.
Lecture series include nine General Electric Aviation lec-
tures; twelve Monthly Sky lectures; a lecture series titled
“Other Suns, Other Worlds”; a program sponsored jointly
with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory titled “The
Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence”; the annual Wernher
Von Braun and Charles Lindbergh lectures (by John McLucas
on “Mission to Planet Earth” and George McGovern titled
“Remembrances of a B-24 Pilot,” respectively); plus special
lectures by Frank Borman (“Countdown”), Prince Sultan bin
Salman (“A Royal View from Space”), and Edward Stone
(“Voyager 2 Encounters Neptune”). In addition, the museum
held symposia the following symposia: ‘““The Wright Broth-
ers: 85 Years after Kitty Hawk” and “Exploring the Habitable
Universe: The Next 500 Years of Space Exploration.” It also
cosponsored a three-day seminar, “Mutual Concerns of Air
and Space Museums.” Three aviation films and eight space
fiction films were also presented.

The Education Department held workshops for teachers
on topics ranging from weather to manned spaceflight and
prepared curriculum packages for “Beyond the Limits: Flight
Enters the Computer Age,” ‘Fragile Earth,” and “Exploring
Space.” The Department of Volunteer Services provided
tours for some fourteen thousand students, an increase of 43
percent over last year.

ya ns/
The Outreach Program sponsored a lecture by Captain
David Harris on his experiences as one of the first African
American pilots hired by a commercial airline. In May, some
700 elementary school students from the District of Colum-
bia took part in a special program featuring astronaut Guion
Bluford, which proved to be the museum’s most successful
effort to date to reach minority schoolchildren.

Air & Space/Smithsonian

Public enthusiasm for the bimonthly magazine Air & Space/
Smithsonian did not abate in 1989 as circulation continued
to climb steadily.

This year marked the twentieth anniversary of the first
manned lunar landing and Air & Space/Smithsonian cele-
brated this event by producing its first single-topic issue. It
was a sellout.

In only a few years, Air c» Space/Smithsonian has become
one of the biggest magazines in its field. In a recent poll, the
public indicated with a 99 percent positive response that the
magazine is what they expect from the popular National Air
and Space Museum.

118

National Museum of
African Art

The National Museum of African Art’s second year in its
permanent location on the National Mall brought a wide
range of exhibitions and several important acquisitions. In
particular, the acquisition of two important collections of
extraordinary utilitarian objects primarily from East and
South Africa was a source of pride for the museum, especially
since it has only been in the last ten years that these works
have been recognized for their aesthetic value.

This year, the museum also expanded its public outreach
efforts, adding a cornucopia of public programs to comple-
ment the museum’s ambitious exhibition schedule. Special
efforts were made to reach high school students by offering
courses in the arts and cultures of Africa. As the only
museum in the United States dedicated to the collection,
exhibition, and study of the art of Africa south of the Sahara,
the National Museum of African Art endeavors to share the
works of African artists with a far-reaching audience.

Exhibitions

In addition to the exhibition of “Royal Benin Art” and the
pieces shown as part of the permanent collection, there were
five temporary exhibitions. Each focused on a particular art
form or medium, demonstrating the extraordinary variety of
creative traditions found throughout Africa.

“Echoes of the Kalabari: Sculpture by Sokari Douglas
Camp” was the museum’s first show of contemporary
sculpture. Camp, who was born in Nigeria and works in
London, spent three weeks at the museum overseeing the
installation of the exhibition. The thirty-year-old artist’s
life-sized figurative pieces were shown in conjunction with a
second exhibition, “‘Kalabari Ancestral Screens: Levels of
Meaning,” which honored ancestral screens. To accompany
these exhibitions, British Museum anthropologist Nigel Bar-
ley wrote a catalogue titled Foreheads of the Dead: An
Anthropological View of Kalabari Ancestral Screens, which
was published by Smithsonian Institution Press. The mu-
seum staff also produced two illustrated brochures to accom-
pany the Kalabari exhibitions.

In April, two major shows debuted at the museum. “Gold
of Africa: Jewelry and Ornaments from Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire,
Mali, and Senegal,” organized by the Barbier-Mueller Mu-
seum in Geneva and circulated by the American Federation
of Arts, explored the art of the West African goldsmith.
“Sounding Forms: African Musical Instruments,” organized
and circulated by the American Federation of Arts, was the

first exhibition to examine the sculptural qualities of tradi-
tional instruments. Washington advertising and a preview for
both exhibitions was supported by a generous grant from the
Pepsi-Cola Company.

A small but impressive exhibition titled “The Essential
Gourd” featured seventy-five decorated gourds. The travel-
ing show was organized and circulated by the Museum of
Cultural History at the University of California at Los
Angeles.

Acquisitions

The museum acquired 225 objects this year through pur-
chases and gifts, a marked increase from last year’s total of
22. One of the most exciting purchases, made possible
through the Collections Acquisition Program of the Smith-
sonian Board of Regents, was a collection of 85 ceramic
vessels from Central Africa. Made mostly by women, these
durable, low-fire vessels were used as bottles or as cooking,
storage, or ritual vessels. The collection is particularly valua-
ble because the style traditions that gave rise to these pieces
have all but disappeared.

Other significant gifts include an important Yoruba palace
door carved by the master sculptor Olowe of Ise, Nigeria,
and a rare Kongo cast copper-alloy bracelet from Zaire.
Artist Olowe of Ise was also the subject of archival research
conducted at the museum. Scheduled to be completed in
1991, the finished product will be the first monograph
devoted to a traditional African artist.

The Eliot Elisofon Archives, the major research compo-
nent of the museum, expanded its holdings to more than 140
collections, including approximately 200,000 color slides,
78,000 black-and-white photographs, and more than 140,000
feet of motion picture film and videotape.

Outreach Efforts

As part of its mandate to reach large segments of the
population, the museum’s Education Department offered an
impressive number of public programs for a wide range of
audiences. The year’s offerings included free tours, art
classes, music workshops, and performances. Nearly forty-
five thousand people took advantage of these public programs.
The film series became a regular part of the museum’s
educational offerings this year. Four unique series came to
the public, including the U.S. premiere of Things Fall Apart,

This sculpture, Woman and Child from Audience Group, was
featured in the National Museum of African Art exhibition, “Echoes
of the Kalabari: Sculpture by Sokari Douglas Camp.”

which was funded through a grant from the Women’s
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates. Based on the
highly acclaimed novel by Nigerian author Chinua Achebe,
the series was produced by the Nigerian Television Author-
ity. Lectures featuring prominent black scholars were offered
in conjunction with the film. Another series, “African Rever-
berations: Films about Africa and the New World,” pre-
sented seven documentaries and African-produced features
exploring the interaction of African and Western cultures.
The films were introduced and discussed by film producers,
directors, and scholars.

I1g
Visitors to the National Museum of African Art view the impressionistic Kalabari festival created by Nigerian artist Sokari Douglas Camp.
Photograph by Jeffrey Ploskonka)
Among this year’s special projects were programs to
encourage people with special needs to visit the museum.
For visually impaired people, the museum published a
large-print permanent collection brochure. Tours for hearing-
impaired visitors were also offered.

In an effort to introduce the arts and cultures of Africa to
local students, the museum launched an ambitious outreach
effort. Funded with a grant from the Women’s Committee of
the Smithsonian Associates, the museum initiated a pilot
program titled “African Art for High School Students.” The
ten-week program held on Saturdays brought dynamic pub-
lic high school students from throughout the city to the
museum for instruction in the arts and cultures of Africa, as
well as for an overview of different museum professions. The
climax of the workshops was the opportunity to meet with a
Nigerian sculptor and a Ghanaian weaver.

For female high school students, the Education Depart-
ment developed a special month-long program in conjunc-
tion with the Potomac Chapter of the Links, Inc., an African
American women’s organization. And for younger children,
the museum hosted students from two local elementary
schools for intensive sessions as part of the D.C. Public
School’s Chapter I Program museum project.

Beyond the boundaries of the National Mall, the museum
served thousands of individuals through outreach programs
at senior care centers, hospitals, and other locations. For the
elderly, ill, and handicapped unable to visit the museum,
education staff provided programs on African art and culture.

For scholars in African art worldwide, the museum proved
to be a focal point of attention as it hosted the Eighth
Triennial Symposium on African Art, the most important
worldwide meeting of African art specialists. The conference
was organized by the Arts Council of the African Studies
Association (ACASA) and sponsored by ACASA, Shell Com-
panies Foundation, Inc.; the National Museum of African
Art; and the National Museum of Natural History. Dr. Philip
Ravenhill, the museum’s chief curator, and Dr. Mary Jo
Arnoldi, an associate curator from the National Museum of
Natural History, chaired the conference. Three hundred
scholars and specialists from the United States, Europe, and
Africa attended this important event.

Conservation

The museum’s conservation analytical laboratory welcomed
Dr. Janet Schrenk as a postdoctoral fellow. Schrenk’s year of
research, which began in April, concentrated on “The Tech-
nical Analysis of Benin ‘Bronzes’ in the National Museum of
African Art.” The works are part of the museum’s permanent
exhibition, “Royal Benin Art.”
National Museum of
American Art

The National Museum of American Art (NMAA) is commit-
ted to the acquisition, preservation, study, and exhibition of
American painting, sculpture, graphic arts, photography, and
folk art. As the largest museum of American art in the world,
the NMAA houses almost 3 5,000 objects. The Renwick
Gallery serves as a curatorial department of the NMAA and
collects and exhibits American crafts and decorative arts.
The Barney Studio House is also maintained by NMAA as a
period home open for tours by appointment.

Following the resignation in 1988 of Dr. Charles C.
Eldredge as director, Dr. Elizabeth Broun served as acting
director before being named director on August 30, 1989.
Dr. Broun, who had been assistant director and chief curator
of NMAA since 1983, is the seventh permanent director of
the museum since it became a separate administrative unit of
the Smithsonian in 1920.

Exhibitions

This year, NMAA’s four major exhibitions provided an
overview of trends in American art history in all media from
the turn of the century to the present day. One of the best-
received exhibits of the year was “Perpetual Motif: The Art
of Man Ray.” The retrospective exhibition included paint-
ings, works on paper, photographs, films, and objects by one
of the founding fathers of dada and surrealism. A grant from
the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities enabled the
museum to borrow from European, as well as from Ameri-
can sources, making it possible for the first time to assemble
an exhibition that fully explored the continuity of vision that
distinguished Man Ray’s long and productive career.

The artist’s widow, Juliet Man Ray, participated in pro-
grams and special events for the exhibition’s opening. Staff
curator Merry Foresta, who organized the exhibition, and
seven other scholars wrote essays for a book on the artist and
his long career, which was published by Abbeville Press. The
exhibition was supplemented by an international sympo-
sium, “Dada and Surrealism in American Art,” and a series of
Man Ray films, lectures, and demonstrations that presented
an overview of this multifaceted artist, who was recognized
as a painter, a craftsman, a photographer, a filmmaker, and a
participant in avant-garde circles on two continents. After
closing in Washington, “Perpetual Motif” traveled to muse-
ums in Los Angeles and Houston; it will close at the
Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1990.

An exhibition titled ““The Art of Paul Manship” focused on
acompletely different facet of American art of the same

period. Manship’s sculptures and drawings look back to the
serene, timeless art of Egyptian carvings, Greek vases, and
decorative elements of ancient civilizations. The graceful,
stylized forms attest to the artist’s position as the most
celebrated American sculptor of the first half of the twentieth
century and foremost exponent of the art deco style—a
position he held until postwar modernist abstract art eclipsed
his fame. To illuminate the myths used so often in Manship’s
work, a special slotted box shaped like a Greek temple was
constructed to hold paddles describing selected stories,
which could be removed and read by visitors as they walked
through the show. Manship’s life and works were examined
in depth in a book published for the exhibition by the
Smithsonian Institution Press and written by staff curator
Harry Rand, who selected works for the exhibition entirely
from the museum’s holdings.

The exhibition was further supplemented by a series of six
public lectures, sponsored in part by a grant from the
Smithson Society, and by two workshops for high school
students. “The Art of Paul Manship” will travel to six
museums across the United States, closing at the Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art in New York in 1991.

To celebrate the 150th anniversary of photography and to
reinforce its commitment to exploring the new direction of
contemporary photography as artistic expression, the mu-
seum organized “The Photography of Invention: American
Pictures of the 1980s,” which included recent works by
ninety artists; six of the works were especially created for the
show. The exhibit emphasized the new versatility and inven-
tiveness of the medium. Ranging in size from 5 inches to 12
feet high, the large, colorful, and arresting photographs often
invoked themes of social criticism and political commentary.
Many used new computer technology or borrowed the
visual vocabulary of advertising. Supported by a grant from
the Smithsonian’s Special Exhibition Fund, the show was
complemented by a scholarly catalogue, published by MIT
Press, which included an introduction by staff curator Merry
Foresta and an essay by guest curator Joshua P. Smith. A
lecture series, artist demonstrations, and student/teacher
workshops were also organized to explain the new concepts
in photographic art. After closing at NMAA, the exhibition
traveled to museums in Chicago and Minneapolis.

Equally avant-garde for their time were the works that
form the ‘Patricia and Phillip Frost Collection: American
Abstraction, 1930-1945.” This exhibition premiered eighty-
five works ranging from paintings and sculpture to collages
and films made by members of the American Abstract

Artists, an organization formed to deepen the understanding
of the utopian possibilities for abstract art during the years of
the Great Depression. The exhibition and its catalogue,
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press, provided a
new analysis and insight into a group whose accomplish-
ments have so far received little public or scholarly attention.
A documentary interactive video specially produced for the
exhibition offered visitors the opportunity to watch five of
these artists discuss the philosophical and aesthetic under-
pinnings of their art, as well as the social and political climate
in which they worked.

As part of its commitment to promote excellence in the
visual arts by young Americans, NMAA joined with the
White House Commission and the National Foundation for
Advancement in the Arts to sponsor an exhibition of works
by the 1988 Presidential Scholars in the Visual Arts. Twenty-
four paintings and assemblages by four high school students
were on view in the Finley Conference Room during June
18-25. The exhibition’s opening reception was attended by
141 Presidential Scholars, their teachers, trustees from the
National Foundation for Advancement in the Arts, and
members of the Commission of Presidential Scholars.

Three temporary graphic arts installations were also
mounted this year: “New Acquisitions in Graphic Arts”;
“On Watch: Benton and the U.S. Navy,” which consisted of
illustrations by Thomas Hart Benton while he was in the
Navy during World War II; and “Modern Abstraction in
American Prints,” which complemented the works in the
Frost Collection.

Acquisitions

Several important paintings that marked significant develop-
ments in each artist’s career were added to NMAA’s rich
holdings this year. Market Day outside the Walls of Tangier,
an 1873 oil by Louis Comfort Tiffany, summarizes the
artist’s intrigue with exotic oriental themes. Executed in
New York and exhibited there to critical praise, the painting
is a gift of the American Art Forum, NMAA’s patron support
organization. It is a key to the current reevaluation of Tiffany
as a significant American painter. Alice Neel’s 1935 oil
portrait of Max White represents the best of her early work
and shows her fascination with the ancient Olmec sculpture
of Mexico. Theodore Roszak’s 1932 work Recording Sound
was created following the artist’s introduction to the Bauhaus
and surrealism. Composed three-dimensionally of plaster
and oil on panel, the work illustrates Roszak’s fascination

with materials and the new technology of the gramophone.

Significant sculptures were also acquired by the museum
during the year. Stillscape I and II (1984) by Brian Hunt are
monumental abstract bronzes inspired by natural forms that
complement each other and enhance the ambience of the
museum’s courtyard. The museum purchased one of the
sculptures and received the other as a gift from NMAA
Commissioner Nan Tucker McEvoy.

NMAA continued to build its photography and folk art
collections as well. Final arrangements were completed for
the gift of sixty prints from the “master set” of photographs
by Irving Penn, which will be exhibited by NMAA in 1990.
Herbert W. Hemphill, Jr., added to the folk art collection
with a gift of 17 objects, which will join the 378 objects that
Mr. Hemphill donated in 1986. NMAA received from the
Federal Bureau of Investigation a handsome work on paper
by contemporary artist Tom Wesselmann, which had been
confiscated during a drug raid. Of the total acquisitions for
the year, 78 percent were received by gift or transfer.

Renwick Gallery

Exhibitions at the Renwick Gallery concentrated on diverse
themes in American crafts and decorative arts. The gallery’s
main effort was ““The Boat Show: Fantastic Vessels, Fictional
Voyages,” an exhibition of eighteen three-dimensional ob-
jects that breached the conventional boundaries separating
crafts from fine art. From the burial barges of the Egyptian
pharoahs to the spaceships of today’s science-fiction films,
the boat has played a prominent role in mythology, religion,
literature, and art. Both deliberately and unconsciously, the
artists in this exhibition drew upon the legacy of maritime
imagery, expanding its meanings in new and often compel-
ling ways. The works, produced in wood, glass, clay, fiber,
and hay, mark the survival of timeless symbols in the modern
world and challenge viewers to embark on their own imagi-
native voyages of discovery. An innovative public program
invited visitors into the gallery spaces to witness the artists’
on-site construction of five of the largest boats. The enthusi-
astic response the exhibition received in the press was
incentive for museums in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and in
Portland, Maine, to host the show as well.

Other prominent exhibitions at the Renwick this year
included “Stephen De Staebler: The Figure,” which pre-
sented this California artist’s powerful ceramic and bronze
figurative sculptures; “American Art Pottery, 1880-1930,”
from the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, which featured seventy-

123
Juliet Man Ray, right, attended the press conference preceding the opening of the National Museum of American Art’s exhibition, “Perpetual
Motif: The Art of Man Ray,” which included 268 paintings, works on paper, photographs, films, and objects by her late husband. Director
Elizabeth Broun is at left, and at center is Merry A. Foresta, curator and organizer of the exhibition.

five examples in the aesthetic and historical development of
this movement; and “Bound to Vary: Billy Budd, Sailor,”
which included bindings by seventeen of the finest book-
binders in North America for limited editions of Herman
Melville’s literary work.

In an ongoing effort to encourage scholarly activities at
the Renwick, two new recipients were appointed for the
second annual James Renwick Fellowships in American
Crafts. These in-residence fellows conducted research on
aspects of contemporary American ceramics and their his-
torical antecedents.

With the assistance of the Smithsonian’s Collections Ac-
quisition Program, the James Renwick Alliance (the Renwick’s
support group), and other sources, the gallery was able to
expand its burgeoning collection of contemporary crafts.
Major works by Wendell Castle, Dale Chihuly, Toshiko
Takaezu, Wayne Higby, Ed Moulthrop, John Prip, Richard
De Vore, Beatrice Wood, and Frans Wildenhain were pur-
chased, and a significant work by Margret Craver was
donated.

Research Resources and Activities

During the year, twenty-five pre- and postdoctoral fellows
and scholars-in-residence conducted research on a wide
range of topics in American art and American studies.
Returning for the second half of his appointment as a
Smithsonian Regents Fellow was Dr. Albert Boime, professor

124

of art history at the University of California, Los Angeles.
NMAA’s intern program had thirty-two

participants during the year, representing fifteen states and
two foreign countries; six of the interns were minorities, and
twenty-seven were women.

NMAA’s widely acclaimed scholarly journal, Smithsonian
Studies in American Art, increased the number of annual
issues this year to a full complement of four. Published by
Oxford University Press, the journal includes articles cover-
ing a wide spectrum of topics—from Edward Hopper to folk
art and comic strips. Research Curator Lois M. Fink com-
pleted work on American Art in the Nineteenth-Century Paris
Salons; assisted by a generous award from the Getty Grant
Program, the book is scheduled for publication next year by
the Cambridge University Press.

The museum continued to solicit information for its
newest research resource, the Inventory of American Sculp-
ture. Last year, NMAA mailed fourteen thousand question-
naires to museums and other institutions about their sculpture
holdings; this year, NMAA sent ten thousand queries to
private collectors throughout the country. The steady influx
of replies has resulted in a total of 32,000 works recorded in
the inventory’s data base. Late in the year, the museum
received the good news of awards of $850,000 from the
Getty Grant Program and $270,000 from the Pew Charitable
Trusts for the support of the sculpture inventory and fora
national survey of outdoor sculpture in cooperation with the
National Institute of the Conservation of Cultural Property.
The Inventory of American Paintings, which now holds
computer records of more than 250,000 works, also bene-
fited from the questionnaires, because many private collec-
tors also reported paintings. Use of the data base increased
40 percent during the year.

Several special projects were advanced in the museum’s
Photographic Archives. Support from the Smithsonian’s Re-
search Resources Program allowed the museum to begin
preservation and printing of the seven thouand negatives in
the Walter Rosenblum Collection. The images in the collec-
tion represent American and some European art and artists
photographed by Rosenblum for prestigious galleries and
other clients in the New York City area between 1945 and
1962. Staff also sorted and developed a brief finder’s guide to
the five thousand photographs and photomechanical repro-
ductions of the period 1860-1940 froma collection of
copyright deposit materials transferred to NMAA from the
Library of Congress.

Collections Management

A sophisticated computer program designed to manage the
numerous requests, records, and reports that are part of the
lending process has greatly improved collections manage-
ment. This year, NMAA lent 150 works from its collection
to institutions in eighteen states and seven foreign countries.
A total of thirty-two works on paper were approved for
deaccessioning from NMAA’s collection, of which twenty-
two were transferred to other Smithsonian museums; the
remainder will be sold at public auction. To meet the
desperate need for additional art storage space, the museum
is planning to construct an area in unused portions of the
museum’s attic.

Design of a multifile data base for the museum’s collection
was completed this year. In addition to providing on-line
access to the collection, the two-file structure of the data
base will permit development of a separate artist biographical
file. Toward that end, a total of 2,700 artist names have been
researched under NMAA’s Artist Authority Project.

National Museum of
American History

The National Museum of American History (NMAH) inves-
tigates, collects, preserves, interprets, exhibits, and honors
the heritage of the American people. The museum’s first
responsibility is to protect and present tangible pieces of
history— furniture, tools, clothing, inventions, and countless
other artifacts of the past. But it also seeks to reconstruct
more elusive pieces of the past through music, drama, and
the oral heritage of Americans. Drawing on original research,
the exhibitions, publications, and public programs of the
museum contribute to both the scholarly understanding of
American history and the broad dissemination of knowledge.
This year, the museum pushed ahead with its comprehen-
sive renovation of the building while keeping to a heavy
schedule of exhibitions, scholarly programs, public perform-
ances, and other projects. Also of note this year, Bernice
Johnson Reagon, founder and former director of the muse-
um’s Program in African American Culture and now a
curator in the Division of Community Life, received a special
honor—a $275,000 MacArthur Foundation Fellowship.

Exhibitions

The exhibition program is the principal way in which the
museum portrays the social, technological, and cultural
heritage of the nation to its roughly six million annual
visitors. Exhibitions draw on the talents of the entire mu-
seum, from curatorial divisions to conservation to building
management. Twenty-three exhibitions were installed last
year, including simple one-case displays; traveling shows;
and “Ceremonial Court,” a new permanent exhibition. “The
Fabric of a Friendship” and “Delaware 350: Commemerat-
ing New Sweden, 1638-1988” combined two traveling
exhibitions marking the 3 50th anniversary of the first Swed-
ish and Finnish settlements in the United States. ‘““The Way
to Independence: Memories of a Hidatsa Indian Family,
1840-1920” documented the experiences of Buffalo Bird
Woman, her brother Wolf Chief, and her son Edward
Goodbird, and chronicled the upheavals in their lives over
eighty years. The exhibition was organized by the Minnesota
Historical Society and coordinated by the museum’s Ameri-
can Indian Program.

At the request of Japan’s Association for Japan-U.S. Com-
munity Exchanges, the museum produced “American Inven-
tions,” an exhibition of 113 patent models and seventeen
other objects that toured seven cities in Japan. Plans are
under way to bring the exhibition to the United States on the
bicentennial of the patent system in 1990. The exhibition

125
was sponsored by Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, Pio-
neer, Nomura Securities, Kokusai Denshin Denwa, and the
Tokyo, Kansai, Chubu, Tohoku, Chugoku, and Shikoku
electric and power companies.

Several important temporary exhibitions opened, includ-
ing “The Perpetual Campaign: How Presidents Try to Per-
suade the People (and Vice Versa)” and “American Television
from the Fair to the Family, 1939-89,” which explored
television from its introduction at the New York World’s Fair
in 1939 to its role as a dominant force in our culture. “Duke
Ellington, American Musician” commemorated Ellington’s
career and musical legacy. “Men and Women: A History of
Costume, Gender, and Power” examined changing—and
unchanging—standards of appearance and behavior for men
and women. “Rome at War as Seen through Coins” was
created around a loan exhibition from the Staatliche Munz-
sammlung in Munich, Germany, and enlarged at NMAH to
display more than four hundred coins depicting ancient
Rome and its conquest of the Mediterranean world.

The entrance to the “Ceremonial Court” recreates the
front corridor of the White House as it looked during
Theodore Roosevelt’s administration. The exhibition in-
cludes a number of original elements from the White House,
and its design motifs are based on original molds and
castings. Galleries within hold first ladies’ gowns, presiden-
tial artifacts, jewelry, pottery, and other objects from collec-
tions throughout the museum.

Research, Scholarship, and Collections

The research of curators and other staff members lays the
groundwork for the museum’s exhibitions and publications.
Books published this year by staff of the museum included
Orders from France: The Americans and the French in a
Revolutionary World, 1780-1820 by Roger G. Kennedy, the
director of the National Museum of American History, and
The Bishop’s Boys, a biography of Orville and Wilbur Wright
by Tom D. Crouch, chairman of the Department of Social
and Cultural History. Claudia Kidwell, curator in the Divi-
sion of Costume, coedited with Valerie Steele Men and
Women: Dressing the Part, a study of the relationship be-
tween changes in fashion and changing ideas about mascu-
linity and femininity. In the Department of the History
of Science and Technology, Barbara Janssen published
Technology in Miniature: American Textile Patent Models,
1819-1840.

The Department of Social and Cultural History continued

126

to emphasize ethnic groups in America, concerns related to
gender, and the lives of ordinary people by combining social
history and the study of historical artifacts. Bernice Johnson
Reagon, in collaboration with the Program in African Ameri-
can Culture, organized a three-day national conference at the
museum on nineteenth-century worship traditions that have
survived. Lonnie Bunch, a newly appointed curator in the
Division of Political History, is developing a section on
African American communities for the department’s next
permanent exhibition, “Land of Promise: America in the
Nineteenth Century.” A gift of more than one hundred
nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century objects related to
the Journeymen Tailors’ Union of America and the American
Federation of Labor will bring artifacts of the lives of working
people into the exhibition.

The Division of Musical History produced performances,
public broadcasts, and recordings of period music featuring
the Smithson Quartet, the Castle Trio, and the Smithsonian
Chamber Players. In April, the group presented the sympo-
sium, “The Ellington Legacy and the Smithsonian.”

This year, many staff members received recognition for
their professional achievements. The work of Curator John
Edward Hasse, producer and annotator of the four-record set
and book The Classic Hoagy Carmichael, was honored by
two Grammy Award nominations and an award in England
as “Best Popular Historical Album.” Eugene Ostroff, curator
of photographic history, received the Outstanding National
Service Award from the Society of Imaging Science and
Technology. This division was also represented on many
conference agendas. To cite only a few examples, Claudia
Brush Kidwell gave the paper “Transformation of the Cloth-
ing Industry into the Fashion Industry” at a meeting on
“Consumer Culture and the American Home.” Rodris Roth
spoke on “Oriental Carpet Furniture” at a conference de-
voted to the subject “Culture and Comfort: The Draped and
Upholstered Interior.” Spencer Crew served as program
cochairman for the annual meeting of the Oral History
Association; his paper “Can You Say It If You Can’t See It:
The Use of Generic vs. Authentic Artifacts” was presented at
the Organization of American Historians’ meeting.

A wide range of collections management projects are also
under way at the museum. September marked the comple-
tion of a two-year project in the Division of Graphic Arts to
rehouse some 35,000 prints in acid-free folders and to
record data on the conservation needs of the specimens. The
project was directed by Helena Wright, funded by the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, and

carried out jointly with the Division of Conservation. Sheila
Alexander began the transfer of some 25,000 objects in the
Division of Ceramics and Glass to new reference areas—an
example of the extensive movement of objects necessitated
by the museum’s master space plan.

During the past year the Department of the History of
Science and Technology has been involved in two major
exhibition projects. The “Information Age” exhibition,
scheduled to open in the spring of 1990, has now moved
into the final stages of design and the beginning stages
of production. Concept development has also begun on
“Science in American Life.” In June, the American Chemical
Society approved the department’s feasibility for the exhibi-
tion and agreed to supply major funding. As proposed,
“Science in American Life” will include a science discovery
center and sections on the history of scientific ideas and the
role science plays in everyday life.

Staff within various divisions have contributed to the
Smithsonian Videohistory Program, which has made possi-
ble valuable video interviews with inventors associated with
some of the museum’s most recent and important collec-
tions. Members of the Division of Medical Sciences recorded
an interview with Dr. Robert Ledley, inventor of the first
whole-body CAT-scanner. Other staff documented robotics
research through video interviews with researchers at the
University of Maryland and the National Institute of Stand-
ards and Technology. Mikhail Timofeyevich Kalashnikov,
designer of the AK47 assault rifle, was interviewed in
Moscow in July.

A brief list of some of the papers delivered by members of
the department suggests the breadth of their scholarly inves-
tigations. Arthur P. Molella, chairman of the department,
spoke on “‘Sigfried Giedion and Science Moderne’ at the
Institut fur Geschichte und Theorie der Architektur in
Zurich, Switzerland. Bernard Finn delivered a lecture titled
“Submarine Telegraphy: Technical Supply vs. Social De-
mand” at a symposium in Villefranche-sur-Mer, France.
Barbara Melosh spoke to the American Studies Association
on “Speaking of Women: Museum Representations of Wom-
en’s History.”

Staff of the National Numismatic Collection (NNC) pur-
sued their scholarly interests at home and abroad. In January,
Mrs. Elvira Clain-Stefanelli, executive director of the NNC,
was nominated honorary member of the Societe Royale de
Numismatique de Belgique. In April, she received the 1989
award of the Gesellschaft fur Internationale Geldgeschidite
(Society for International History of Money) in Frankfurt-

Main, West Germany. Dr. Richard Doty contributed a paper
titled “The Export of an Idea: Three Case Studies” to a
symposium, the “Techniques of Coin Production,” spon-
sored by the British Museum and the United Kingdom
Numismatic Trust. Mrs. Ann Guell, visiting museum profes-
sional from the University of Missouri, Columbia, provided
invaluable help with the exhibition “Rome at War” and its
catalogue.

The National Philatelic Collection (NPC) significantly ex-
panded its exhibition programs, which this year included
“Scouting of Stamps” and traveling exhibitions on airmail
and U.S. postal history. The NPC began a quarterly newslet-
ter and published a guide to the research library, both
developed by Nancy A. Pope. A significant collections
management project forged by Virginia Kilby involved the
consolidation of the stamp design and production files of the
U.S. Postal Service into a new storage system for easy
accessibility and preservation. Negotiations also continued
with the U.S. Postal Service about the establishment of a
National Postal and Philatelic Museum in the redeveloped
City Post Office building near Union Station.

In the Archives Center, the Center for Advertising History
was established to undertake oral histories and other proj-
ects. The Center for Advertising History recently completed
a documentation project on Federal Express advertising, and
studies of Campbell Soup and Noxell advertising are under
way. Print advertisements, television commercials, and oral
histories documenting modern advertising campaigns are a
major research resource. The now-completed remodeling of
the Archives Center and enlarged reference area have drawn
greater numbers of researchers and made their work far more
comfortable and convenient. Preservation microfilming and
other conservation measures have begun on the Duke Elling-
ton Collection, acquired last year, and a computerized
cataloging system for the Ellington musical manuscripts and
sound recordings has been designed. Staff members have
also prepared guides to three parts of the massive Sam De
Vincent Illustrated Sheet Music Collection.

The Office of Academic Programs, established in 1987, is
responsible for developing and coordinating the museum’s
relationship with colleges and universities and is also the
editorial office for American Quarterly, the journal of the
American Studies Association. The office held two confer-
ences this year and planned a 1990 joint conference with
American University marking the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
The American Quarterly published its first exhibition re-
views, first retrospectives on important books and writers in
American studies, and a new section called “Teaching Amer-
ican Studies.” The support this year of American University
and Georgetown brought the number of area universities
contributing to the work of the journal to seven.

In addition to its major offices and curatorial units, the
museum is home to several smaller projects—the work of
small staffs investigating specific periods, historical figures,
or aspects of museums. Staff of the Papers of Robert Mills
completed work and sent camera-ready copies of 3,500
documents for publication in a microfilm edition. The work
includes copies of Mills’s correspondence, drawings, jour-
nals, diaries, and publications concerning architectural engi-
neering projects during the first half of the nineteenth
century. The project was supported by the museum, the
National Endowment for the Humanities, the National His-
toric Publications and Records Commission, and several
private organizations.

The museum also has provided space and support to a
project of the American Association for State and Local
History titled Common Agenda for History Museums, which
is being funded by the National Endowment for the Humani-
ties. In July the Common Agenda completed its two-year
grant project to help standardize the development of com-
puterized data bases on history museum collections and to
increase contacts between academic historians and other
disciplines with history museum staff. The Common Agenda
is now a permanent core program of the association.

Acquisitions

The scope of research and collecting at NUAH means that
acquisitions in any year will represent a remarkably broad
range of subjects. Notable additions to the museum’s collec-
tions this year included many artifacts of twentieth-century
society and culture, such as Larry Zimmerman’s World’s Fair
Collection, composed of about 7,000 objects and 1,600
graphic items that date from 1851 to the 1980s; several
hundred ceramic tablewares produced by the Salem China
Company that date largely from 1930 to 1960; a collection
of Max Factor cosmetics from the 1920s through 1950; and
two chairs by African American chairmaker Willie Lee
Nabors of Mississippi. Acquisitions in the history of science
and technology included 196 Chinese patent medicines,
tonics, vitamins, antibiotics, and contraceptives; and Digital
Equipment Corporation’s PDP-1, the first true minicomputer.
The tens of thousands of objects acquired by the museum’s
philatelic and numismatic collections included rare booklet

128

panes of stamps developed during World War I for use by
the American Expeditionary Forces and twelve medals
awarded to Dr. Alexander Wetmore, sixth secretary of the
Smithsonian.

Public Programs

The Department of Public Programs continued to search for
more effective ways to bring the messages of the museum’s
exhibitions and research to visitors and to new audiences
through performances, seminars, films, publications, and
curriculum materials. A curriculum kit for the ‘‘Field to
Factory” exhibition was tested by the Education Division in
thirty classrooms across the nation. Ninety thousand visitors
participated in “hands-on” demonstrations conducted by
volunteers in five exhibitions; docents led close to two
thousand tours in the museum; and the division received an
Educational Outreach grant to experiment with mobile
demonstration stations. The division also produced public
seminars on the freedom of the press, waste disposal,
neighborhood preservation, waterfowl conservation, and
seventeenth-century Delaware Valley foodways, as well as a
week-long Holiday Celebration in mid-December.

The Division of Museum Programs produced 114 con-
certs and performances in eight different series, bringing a
broad sampling of American music to the public in free
performances. The year’s highlight was a month-long Duke
Ellington Festival marking the ninetieth anniversary of the
composer’s birth. The festival featured thirty-seven perform-
ances of Ellington’s music. The division added three new
program series this year: American Sampler, which features
American eighteenth- and nineteenth-century music and
dance traditions; Music in America, a look at the wide variety
of American ethnic music; and Capitol Writers, a series of
readings and discussions by Washington-area writers.

The Program in Black American Culture changed its name
this year to the Program in African American Culture. A new
director, Dr. Gwen Robinson, formerly of the Department of

This cotton quilt in the collections of the National Museum of
American History extols “Industry and Proper Improvement of
Time” along one border and declares “Vanity of Vanities, All Is
Vanity” on another. Dated 1847, the quilt was made by Emily
Holbert of Chester, New York, and donated by Mr. and Mrs. John
Beard Ecker (Mrs. Ecker is the grandniece of the quiltmaker).

Dodddraddahahhnaded beaded a baad adr eDehaDADRRRRDDADADDDARRRDDDRD DAD DADDD
‘ey el OY *AUVANVE GEHYUOMELIIAG S§.; Luaa1on RTIWG 4

ta ted abalalche G

Fe bud Bod Eo Bees
spebebe bee re
telebelebe: §:

AMAA AMARA AMA

UST RYs AND PROPER - IMPROVEMENT OF ah! TIME.
BARDAARARDARDRRARRARARRRARRARRARAD ARERR AD

MAU AN

a.

L

a4

i

"MHOA MANSALNAOD GZAONVYE

S BARANAN IN

History at the University of Florida, joined the staff in
January. This year’s public programs included the annual
Martin Luther King celebration in February, which featured
Rey. Fred Shuttlesworth; a seminar on the black American
beauty tradition; and a tribute to composers Francis Hall
Johnson and Wendell P. Whalum. The Columbus Quin-
centenary Program produced a small exhibition and a public
seminar that explored the interrelationships between Spanish
colonists and Native Americans in the Spanish borderlands.

One departmental publication of note was “Soldier of the
Cross,” an audiotape cassette based on a public program
about Richard Allen, founder of the African Methodist
Episcopal Church.

Behind the Scenes

Work goes on continually to maintain the building and the
collections and to prepare the broad range of exhibitions and
programs. This year, the museum continued its master space
plan, which is being coordinated by the Office of Adminis-
tration. The plan calls fora comprehensive renovation of
virtually all of the building’s heating, air conditioning, and
fire prevention systems. The Office of the Building Manager
assisted in planning, coordinating, and overseeing the imple-
mentation of the master space plan and the construction of
several major exhibitions; coordinated the replacement of
both entry ways and all windows and window walls through-
out the museum; and supported more than 2,500 special
events, including the vice president’s inaugural reception.

Preservation of the museum’s costume and textile collec-
tions continued as a major emphasis in the Division of
Conservation. Several of the more recent first ladies’ gowns
were treated and installed on redesigned mannequins in the
new “Ceremonial Court” exhibition, and pretreatment ex-
amination and testing of the remainder of this important
collection were begun. Although more than 3,200 objects
were surveyed, treated, and mounted in the division labora-
tories for exhibitions and loans, treatment of the more than
400,000 objects known to need stabilization and rehousing
was slowed somewhat by the heavy demands of current
exhibitions and building renovation projects. Although staff
and contract conservators made good progress with the
graphic arts print collection and the Duke Ellington Collec-
tion, the identified needs of the museum’s paper-based
collections far outstrip the resources of available staff, space,
and storage equipment.

The Division of Conservation staff gave tours of the

130

laboratories and conservation information to more than four
hundred people, including groups of Japanese curators and
Soviet museum directors.

At the Office of the Registrar, more than 17,000 objects
were accessioned into the permanent collection, and 3,932
objects were lent or borrowed for exhibitions. Important
loans included more than 100 objects to an exhibition of
patent models that traveled through Japan and 60 objects of
George Washington memorabilia to two museums honoring
the anniversary of Washington statehood. The Record Files
Division undertook a conservation survey to assess the
condition of older, fragile accession documents. This study
will lead to further rehousing and specialized treatment for
the preservation of these critical research files.

The Computer Services Center continued its support
for office automation, collections system development, in-
formation architecture, and publishing. It also initiated a
computer-aided design (CAD) program. The first phase of
the information architecture project, analyzing collections
management, educational services, exhibitions, and research,
was completed and phases in data modeling and analysis
were begun. The results will ultimately become part of the
museum’s portion of the SI Collections Information System.

The Computer Services Center also initiated a cooperative
project with the University of Maryland’s Interior Design
Department to develop CAD drawings of the museum for
use in exhibitions and facilities management programs. Draw-
ings of the structural components of the first through fourth
floors were finished in May, and work to confirm and add
more data is under way.

National Museum of
Natural History/National
Museum of Man

The National Museum of Natural History/National Museum
of Man (NMNH), the nation’s largest research museum,
houses the most extensive and the most valuable natural
history and anthropological collections in the world—more
than 119 million specimens of plants, animals, fossils, rocks,
minerals, and human cultural artifacts. These vast, extensively
documented holdings support research by the 135 doctoral-
level scientists on the museum staff, by visiting scholars and
students from all over the world, and by more than 50
resident scientists from affiliated federal agencies with natu-
ral history functions (the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the
National Marine Fisheries Service, the U.S. Geological Sur-
vey, and the National Institutes of Health).

The museum is an active member of the scholarly commu-
nity and has numerous publications, symposia, and scholarly
exchanges to its credit. The public benefits from its diverse
exhibitions, popular publications, public forums, and educa-
tional programs. Testimony to the success of the public
programs are the six to seven million visits recorded each
year, making NMNH by far the most heavily visited natural
history museum in the world.

Exhibitions

This year, the NMNH brought a wide range of innovative
exhibits to the public. Perhaps this year’s “hottest” exhibi-
tion was “Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St.
Helens,” which attracted large crowds throughout its three-
month run. The exhibition coincided with the peak summer
tourist season and the opening of the 28th Geological
Congress, an international gathering of more than 6,000
earth scientists, held in the United States in 1989 for the first
time in fifty-six years. The exhibition was developed for the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES)
by museum volcanologist Dr. Richard Fiske, who drew upon
the research of the museum’s Global Volcanism Program and
that of colleagues at the U.S. Geological Survey Cascades
and Hawaiian Volcano Observatories to develop the show.
Innovations of the exhibition included a unique fiber-optic
map that displays at a touch the locations of a thousand of
the world’s most active volcanoes; interactive computer
displays that let the visitor call up video images of volcanoes,
look up facts about them, and tap into the museum’s Global
Volcanism Program’s computer bulletin board of field re-
ports on active volcanoes; and a real-time seismic computer
display that monitors the seismic activity on the island of
Hawaii, demonstrating that it is one of the most seismically

active places on Earth.

The major international exhibition “Crossroads of Conti-
nents: Cultures of Siberia and Alaska” was on view in the
museum’s Thomas M. Evans Gallery for six months in
1988-1989. Developed jointly by the museum and the
Soviet Academy of Sciences in collaboration with the Inter-
national Research and Exchange Board, the exhibition marks
the first time that people of both continents have the
opportunity to view many early and important archaeologi-
cal and ethnographic collections from the remote but impor-
tant North Pacific geographic region.

Poking fun at the Hollywood stereotype of the Native
American, artist Henry Fonseca’s exhibition “Coyote: A
Myth in the Making” featured works focusing on Fonseca’s
vision of Coyote, a magical being prominent in the tradi-
tional literature and religious beliefs of many native peoples
of the Americas.

The ten-year retrospective of the Native American artist was
organized and circulated by the Natural History Museum of
Los Angeles.

Another exhibition highlighting Native American culture
was “Iroquois Beadwork,” which traced the evolution of the
beadwork craft within the changing Iroquois culture from
the introduction of glass beads in the seventeenth century to
the present. The first of a planned series of temporary
exhibitions from tribal museums and collections, the exhibi-
tion features nearly 150 pieces, including representative
material from all Iroquois tribes.

A series of shows chronicling botanical cycles began with
“Flowers from the Royal Gardens of Kew: Two Centuries of
Curtis’s Botanical Magazine,” which featured seventy water-
colors dating from the eighteenth to the twentieth century by
renowned botanical illustrators. The exhibition was organ-
ized by the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew (London, Eng-
land), to celebrate the 2ooth anniversary of the magazine
(1787-1987).

“John Muir’s High Sierra: A Watercolor Diary by Tony
Foster” featured twenty-eight panoramic landscape views
painted in watercolor by the artist while on a 200-mile walk
through the High Sierra in California.

To commemorate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the
passage of the 1964 Wilderness Act, the Wilderness Society
organized ‘““Wilderness America,” an exhibition of fifty color
photographs of the American wilderness by thirty noted
landscape photographers.

An exhibition tracing the plants and animals that began to
move onto land 420 million years ago during the Silurian

131
Period opened in the museum’s permanent paleontology
exhibition complex. Work continued on the final exhibit hall
in the paleontology complex, “Life in the Ancient Seas,”
scheduled to open in spring 1990. Museum staff continued
to plan “A Vision of the Americas,” a new permanent hall of
Native American cultures. Innovative and experimental dis-
plays, including a small theater for films by and about Native
Americans and an area for live performances and demonstra-
tions of Native American handicrafts, were established for
testing and possible incorporation into the new permanent
display.

Notable Publications

Global Volcanism 1975-1985: The First Decade of Reports
from the Smithsonian Institution’s Scientific Alert Event
Network (SEAN) was edited by museum researchers Lindsay
McClelland, Dr. Tom Simkin, Marjorie Summers, Elizabeth
Nielsen, and Thomas C-. Stein. Jointly published by Prentice-
Hall and the American Geophysical Union, this 672-page
book is the most extensive record ever assembled of all
known volcanic events in the world—both major and minor—
during a ten-year period.

Introduction to the Study of Meiofauna, coedited by mu-
seum marine biologist Dr. Robert Higgins, who is one of the
world’s top authorities on meiofauna, and published by
Smithsonian Institution Press. The book sums up compre-
hensively for the first time new advances in our knowledge
of a group of microscopic invertebrates of key ecological
importance, which live in freshwater and marine sediments.

History of Indian-White Relations, volume 4 of the
Smithsonian’s encyclopedic Handbook of North American
Indians, was published by Smithsonian Institution Press. The
book’s fifty-seven chapters, written by leading historians and
anthropologists, cover political, military, economic, and
other aspects of Indian and white relations from Colonial
times to the present.

A Field Guide to the Marine Plants of the Caribbean was
prepared by a team of museum marine botanists (Diane S.
Littler, Dr. Mark M. Littler, Katina E. Bucher, and Dr. James
N. Norris), who did the research, writing, and color photog-
raphy, and was published by Smithsonian Institution Press.
The first such guide ever produced, it is designed for both
the marine biologist and the amateur skin diver. It took eight
years to complete and involved oceanographic expeditions
from Bermuda to Brazil and the Lesser Antilles to Panama.

Fossil Birds from Late Quaternary Deposits in New Cale-

132)

donia, by museum ornithologist Dr. Storrs L. Olson and
colleague Jean Christophe Balouet, is a study of fossil birds
from cave deposits in New Caledonia in the South Pacific.
The book adds to the increasing evidence that man, espe-
cially prehistoric man, has been responsible for exterminat-
ing a large proportion of the native island faunas. This work
was published as contribution number 469 in the Smith-
sonian Contribtutions to Zoology.

The Great Tzotzil Dictionary of Santo Domingo Zinacantan
was edited by museum anthropologist Dr. Robert M.
Laughlin, the author of a dictionary of the contemporary
Tzotzil language, and published as contribution number 31
in the Smithsonain Contributions to Anthropology series.
This three-volume dictionary of Tzotzil (Mayan) vocabulary,
based on a sixteenth-century original compiled by an anony-
mous Dominican friar, examined the grammatical changes
that have occurred in this Mayan language over the past four
centuries. Laughlin concludes that perhaps literacy, which
traditionally has been thought to deter language change, in
fact accelerates it.

Sharks in Question: The Smithsonian Answer Book, writ-
ten by museum researchers Dr. Victor Springer and Joy P.
Gold, was published by Smithsonian Institution Press. In-
spired by the thousands of questions the public asks the
Smithsonian about sharks, the authors try to dispel some of
the misconceptions about sharks that resulted from the Jaws
motion pictures.

An Interdisciplinary Bibliography of Freshwater Crayfishes,
by museum researchers William H. Hart and Dr. Horton H.
Hobbs, brings together for the first time all of the scientific
literature on freshwater crayfishes, as well as popular books
and articles dealing with biological aspects of crayfish—more
than eleven thousand listings.

Education

The museum’s Office of Education initiated two major
outreach programs in 1988-1989. “New Americans—New
Challenges” was designed to foster greater understanding and
appreciation of the diverse cultures of recently arrived South-
east Asian refugees and immigrants in the Washington, D.C.,
area. Funded by a grant from the Educational Outreach
Program, the project received enthusiastic support from the
local Cambodian, Laotian, Thai, and Vietnamese communi-
ties. The program concluded with “Southeast Asian New
Year,” a series of three special Southeast Asian museum
performances for school groups and the general public

featuring Vietnamese music, Cambodian and Thai classical
and folk music and dance, and Lao traditional music.

To demonstrate that the cultural heritage of Native Ameri-
cans has not vanished but is alive and thriving in many
different forms throughout North America, a program was
created that brings storytellers, musicians, dancers, and
artisans to the museum setting from tribes throughout the
United States and Canada. The program, begun in July, will
continue for two years. Among the participants this year was
Vanessa Morgan, an Oklahoma Kiowa, whose skill at bead-
working made her a 1989 recipient of a National Heritage
Award from the Folk Art Program of the National Endow-
ment for the Arts.

The focus for many educational activities in 1989 were the
two special exhibitions in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery:
“Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia and Alaska”
and “Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St.
Helens.” For the first exhibition, a group of King Island
Eskimos were invited to the museum to perform traditional
songs and dances and to demonstrate crafts techniques. A
“Crossroads” film festival, Changing Views: Filming the
People of the North Pacific Rim, was presented with rare and
early footage of northern Alaska and Siberia from Smithsonian
and Finnish film archives and recent Soviet films on Siberian
people. The first troupe of musicians and dancers ever to
appear in the United States from northeastern Siberia (repre-
senting the Nanai, Ulchi, and Koryak peoples) presented a
series of programs of music, dance, storytelling, and crafts.

More than 22,000 people attended free films and lectures
sponsored by the museum in 1989. Highlights included
illustrated lectures by Grenville Lucas, keeper of the Herbar-
ium at England’s Royal Botanic Gardens; Thomas Lovejoy,
assistant secretary for external affairs, on threatened tropical
rainforests; and talks about human origins in Africa by
museum researchers Richard Potts and Allison Brooks.

Symposia

A workshop on Caribbean mangrove ecology was held for
scientists participating in the museum’s mangrove commu-
nity study on Twin Cay, Belize. Coordinated by museum
marine biologist Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, the long-term goal of
this unprecedented research program is to document the
biology, geology, ecological balance, economic importance,
and aesthetic value of a mangrove swamp, using the example
of a diverse and undisturbed 1-square-kilometer swamp

Anemone bucharica (Windflower) (1970), watercolor and pencil on
paper by E. Margaret Stones, was shown in the National Museum of
Natural History exhibition, “Flowers from the Royal Gardens of
Kew: Two Centuries of Curtis’s Botanical Magazine.” (Photograph
courtesy of Hood Museum, Dartmouth College)

community on the barrier reef of Belize, a Central American
nation on the Caribbean coast.

The first joint Mexican and American workshop focusing
on the taxonomy and natural history of the bees of Mexico
was held in Mexico. Organized by Mexican and U.S. scien-
tists through funding provided by the Smithsonian Office of
International Relations (International Exchanges Program),
the workshop was an outgrowth of a cooperative program
on the bees of Mexico. One of the leaders of this interna-
tional cooperative program is museum entomologist Dr.
Ronald McGinley.

“Changing Patterns of Disease and Demography in the
Americas before and after 1492,” the museum’s third
Quincentennial Public Forum, brought leading international
authorities to the museum to discuss current research on
human disease experience in the New World before 1492
and the demographic impact of Old World disease imports
on the New World populations during the contact period.

133
Molecular Biology Program

The museum’s new laboratory of Molecular Systematics
became fully operational in 1989. This facility provides a
powerful new thrust to the museum’s programs in system-
atic and evolutionary biology, making possible biochemical
and molecular genetic studies of DNA and proteins useful in
resolving questions about the natural history and evolution-
ary biology of organisms. The laboratory, located at the
Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland, is directed
by Dr. Michael Braun.

Linguistics Research

Museum anthropologist Ives Goddard and colleague Dr.
Kathleen Bragdon presented copies of their newly published
study, “Native Writings in the Massachusett Language”
(American Philosophical Society), to representatives of the
Wampanoag Tribal Councils of Mashpee and Gay Head
(Massachusetts) at a ceremony at the Commonwealth Mu-
seum and the Massachusetts Archives, Boston. This two-
volume work contains the first translations ever made of the
body of known surviving manuscripts written by Christian
Indians in southeastern Massachusetts in the Colonial pe-
riod. The communities on Cape Cod and Martha’s Vineyard
are the principal descendants of the Indians who wrote in
the Massachusett language during the Colonial period. The
presidents of the Mashpee and Gay Head Tribal councils
praised the study as a significant contribution to the
Wampanoag cultural patrimony.

New Acquisitions

Four thousand silver-spotted fritillary butterflies collected in
Nebraska and eight other western states, Canada, and Mex-
ico over a period of forty years by Orville and Eunice
Spencer of Lincoln, Nebraska, filled a gap in the museum’s
butterfly holdings. With many rare specimens, it is one of the
finest butterfly collections donated to NMNH in recent
years.

The late John M. and Lucy McLuckie of Coal City, Illinois,
assembled one of the best private collections of American
coal-age fossils. Their collection of more than 2,500
Paleozoic era specimens of coal-swamp flora and fauna was
donated to the museum by the McLuckie children. Most of
the material is of exceptional quality and spectacular size,

134

including one-of-a-kind and rare imprints of ancient coal-
forest seeds, cones, fern branches with long needle-like
leaves, and the fossilized bark of scale trees that grew toa
hundred feet.

Biodiversity Research

The museum added a major component to its biodiversity
program in 1989 by taking over administrative responsibility
for the Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems project (MCS)
from the World Wildlife Fund, which initiated it. The
project, located in Manaus, Brazil, has made a significant
contribution to tropical forest conservation by demonstrat-
ing that species disappear from a land area in inverse relation
to its size.

For the third consecutive year the museum sent teams of
scientists to Amazonia forests in Manu Reserved Zone, Peru,
to participate in long-term, in-depth biodiversity inventories
under way in collaboration with the Peruvian government
and participants from previous years. Data from these studies
will help protect many of the rare and endangered species of
the neotropics. Some of these plant species may yield new
sources of food, medicines, biological controls, and impor-
tant germ plasm for agricultural use.

Museum scientists continued a long-term study of the
composition, distribution, and evolution of the plants and
animals in Amazonia and the Atlantic forests. They also
remained involved in a multinational effort to investigate the
biological diversity of the Guyanas. Among the explorations
mounted by the museum in 1989 was a collecting expedition
to three Ications in Guyana (Kato, Kaietaur Falls, and
Paramakatoi), led by a museum botanist and two World
Wildlife Fund zoologists.

National Portrait Gallery

The National Portrait Gallery studies the past through por-
traits of people who have made significant contributions to
American history. The quality of the portraits also reveal
much about the sensibility of the artists who created them.
By collecting, studying, preserving, and exhibiting portraits
in all media as both historical and artistic documents, the
gallery gives new dimension to the heritage and accomplish-
ments of the American people.

Exhibitions

This year, the gallery featured an unusual array of exhibitions
highlighting epochs in history, as well as glimpses of individ-
ual artists. “Pioneers of American Broadcasting” was co-
organized by the gallery and the Museum of Broadcasting,
New York, in October 1988. The exhibition featured inven-
tors, entertainers, writers, and newscasters who had a signifi-
cant impact on radio and television history. In addition to
portraits and memorabilia, the exhibition included excerpts
from radio and television programs played on monitors
located throughout the galleries.

As part of its celebration of the bicentennial of the
Constitution, the gallery joined with the U.S. Senate and the
House of Representatives in presenting “The First Federal
Congress, 1789-1791,” from March through July. Senator
Robert Byrd, Representative Lindy Boggs, and Secretary
Adams opened this exhibition at a special reception attended
by many members of Congress. Partial funding for the
exhibition was received from the Bicentennial Commission
of the U.S. Constitution and from the firms of Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette and the Equitable.

“Isamu Noguchi Portrait Sculpture,” the first major retro-
spective of an important and little-known aspect of the
artist’s work, opened in April 1989. Favorably reviewed in
the national press, this exhibition traveled to a branch of the
Whitney Museum in New York after its Washington closing
the previous year.

Loans from the National Portrait Gallery to museums
around the world continue to increase. Because of the many
international celebrations of the 150th anniversary of pho-
tography, loans from that collection have been particularly
numerous.

Acquistions

The presidential portrait series was augmented by the gift of
sculptor Marc Richard Mellon’s bronze bust of President

Bush, given by Vincent and Sheila Melzac.

Major gifts to the collection included the John Smibert
portrait of Bishop Berkeley from the Morris and Gwendolyn
Cafritz Foundation, the Rene Bouche portrait of Benny
Goodman from the musician’s daughters, three self-portraits
in different media by Victor Hammer, as well as “The
Family”—an important limited-edition portfolio of sixty-nine
portraits by Richard Avedon of the men and women who
made up America’s political leadership in 1976. This series
was orginally commissioned by Rolling Stone magazine.
Acquisition of the Avedon photographs was funded by
generous contributions from Mrs. J. Paul Austin and the
James Smithson Society.

Through purchase, the gallery was able to acquire Cephas
Thompson’s portrait of William Wirt, U.S. attorney general
from 1817 to 1829, as well as busts of the writers A.
Bronson Alcott and J. P. Marquand, portraits of Gertrude
Stein with Alice B. Toklas, and the artists Thomas Seir
Cummings, Jacob Epstein, Ernest Lawson, and Mark Tobey.

The Prints and Drawings Department acquired a number
of significant portrait drawings in 1989. Highlights of these
acquisitions included crayon portraits by Hugo Gellert of
geographer Gilbert Grosvenor, convicted espionage agents
Ethel and Julius Rosenberg, journalist Mary Heaton Vorse,
and others; Boardman Robinson’s image of journalist John
Reed; an English watercolor of actor Edward Sothern; pencil
drawings by Miriam Troop of diplomat Ellsworth Bunker,
financier and art patron Joseph Hirshhorn, author James
Farrell, labor leader A. Philip Randolph, and physician How-
ard Rusk; and portraits of artists Milton Avery, Stanton
MacDonald-Wright, and Theodore Roszak. The gallery also
acquired several groups of caricature drawings, including
works by Peggy Bacon, Will Cotton, David Levine, Charles
Johnson Post, and Paolo Garretto.

The gallery was particularly fortunate to add several
portraits of important African American subjects to its
collection, including a lithograph of abolitionist Henry Bibb,
a drawing of dancer and choreographer Katherine Dunham,
and posters of pugilist Jack Johnson and World War II hero
Dorie Miller. Other posters acquired were images of Alla
Nazimova, Will Rogers, Veronica Lake, Lon Chaney, and
John Gilbert. Among other important print purchases were
lithographs of author Theodore Dreiser by Adolf Dehn and
of motion picture director Rouben Mamoulian by Don
Freeman, as well as an etching of George Washington by
Joseph Hiller, Jr.

Important photographs purchased for the gallery’s collec-

1 3)0)
This painting of Anglican cleric-philosopher George Berkeley
(1685-1753) by colonial artist John Smibert was a gift to the National
Portrait Gallery by the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation.
Berkeley sailed to America in 1728 to establish a school dedicated
to creating a truly cultured New World civilization.

tion in 1989 included a unique, life-size, Polaroid Polacolor
self-portrait by contemporary artist Lucas Samaras; a rare
vintage print of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas taken in
Stein’s Paris home by Man Ray in 1923; a daguerreotype of
future outlaw Jesse James at the age of three, as well as a
tintype portrait of the adult James, circa 1870. Other unique
images acquired were a vintage platinum print portrait by
Alice Boughton of poet and reformer Julia Ward Howe; a
daguerreotype of artist Charles Loring Elliott attributed to
Mathew Brady; a handsome, vintage portrait of artist Louise
Nevelson by Lotte Jacobi; Paul Haviland’s rare, cyanotype
portrait of photographer Alfred Stieglitz from 1910; an
informal view of photojournalist Arthur Fellig (better known
as ‘““Weegee’’) by news photographers Bert Brandt and
Edward Jerry; and a dramatically posed, vintage silver print
of evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson taken at the Gerhard
sisters’ studio in St. Louis in 1923.

Several significant gifts also added to and enhanced the
gallery’s photographic holdings in 1989. A gelatin silver
print of author Lillian Hellman by Marianne Cook joined the
collection as a gift of the photographer, while an anonymous
donor gave a portrait of author James Jones by Nancy
Crampton. A 1948 vintage portrait of public official David E.
Lilienthal came as a gift from the family of Mr. Lilienthal.

136

Publications

Exhibitions have been the focus of publishing activity in
1989. The gallery’s most notable accomplishment came with
the publication of The First Federal Congress, an in-depth
study of this historical landmark in history. The Publications
Department also completed work on four other exhibition-
related books: Isamu Noguchi Portrait Sculpture, Ining Penn
Master Images, To Color America: Portraits of Winold Reiss,
and Portraits of the American Law, as well as various
brochures related to the exhibitions. The Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press is distributing all but one of the books— Portraits
of the American Law—which, in a new venture for the
National Portrait Gallery, will be distributed by the Univer-
sity of Washington Press.

Education

The Education Department of the National Portrait Gallery
combines a daily schedule of gallery tours with intensive
elementary and secondary school programs, as well as senior
citizen outreach programs. These outreach programs and
tours are conducted by trained education aides and docents.
The gallery’s education program includes slide-lecture pre-
sentations such as “Yet Do I Marvel,” which illuminates the
careers of black poets and writers such as Phillis Wheatley
and Alice Walker; “FDR, A Rich Legacy”; and musical
performances such as “A Tribute to Cole Porter.” Programs
have been developed to address the needs and interests of
multiethnic communities nationwide and of broad audiences
locally.

A new program, “Cultures in Motion: Portraits of Ameri-
can Diversity,” (CIM) has been designed to promote serious
reflection on portraiture, biography, and history. These
programs bring the gallery’s collection to life through such
formats as lectures, symposia, one-person biographical plays,
recitals, concerts, storytelling, and other performance media.
The programs provide a constructive way for museum
visitors to broaden their understanding of the multicultural
aspects of American history.

The Education Department has developed a brochure to
attract “mobile seniors” who have access to transportation
to the National Portrait Gallery for a morning or afternoon.
The goal is to reach older people living within two hours of
the District of Columbia. To reach other audiences, research
is being conducted to develop supplemental education pack-
ages for teachers nationwide and a self-guide brochure for
families with young children.

The Education Department also offers a Lunchtime Lec-
ture series related to the gallery’s special exhibitions. The
permanent collection is highlighted through Speaker’s Bu-
reau slide-lectures on themes such as “Leading Ladies:
Women and Reform in the United States” and “Men of
Progress: Nineteenth-Century American Inventors.”

In cooperation with the Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program, the gallery has continued its series of “living
self-portraits,” public interviews with distinguished Ameri-
cans. The gallery’s historian, Marc Pachter, interviewed
Eleanor Dulles, whose remarkable public career included
helping to shape America’s role in the rebuilding of postwar
Berlin, and Senator J. William Fulbright, the principal archi-
tect of America’s international cultural exchange program.

Research

The Catalog of American Portraits (CAP) continued to serve
researchers in the fields of American history and American
art history during 1989. Research requests increased in
number and complexity over previous years. CAP added

Andrew Ferguson, special assistant for media activities at
Smithsonian, interviews Representative Lindy Boggs and Senator
Robert Byrd at the opening of the National Portrait Gallery’s
exhibition, “The First Federal Congress, 1789-1791.”

portrait records from the Midwest and California to its
computer data base, bringing the total number of automated
records to approximately 5 4,000. Participating institutions
received automated printouts and accompanying negatives
covering their portrait collections. With the receipt of a
generous grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smith-
sonian Associates, the staff researched and updated informa-
tion about some 6,000 portraits in the southern United
States.

In cooperative research efforts, the catalog staff shared its
information about approximately 2,500 portraits of Native
Americans with the National Museum of Natural History’s
Native American Indian Program and assisted the National
Museum of American History’s Division of Military History
in the study of military uniforms as depicted in eighteenth-
and nineteenth-century portraits. Information from these
research projects will be incorporated into the Smithsonian
Institution Collections Information System.

During 1989, the Peale Family Papers staff continued its
work of transcribing, researching, and annotating the Se-
lected Papers of the noted artist and naturalist Charles
Willson Peale and his artist sons Raphaelle, Rembrandt, and
Rubens. The staff now has volume 3— The Artist on His
Farm, 18 10o-1820—ready for the Yale University Press, with
publication scheduled for April 1991. Work has begun on
volume 4, which will cover the years 1820-1827, and on
Charles Willson Peale’s Autobiography (volume 5), both
scheduled for publication in 1993.

The project’s research program to identify the portraits
painted by Rembrandt Peale (1778-1860) and to collect
information about the extensive work of this important
American artist is successfully under way. Publication of the
catalogue raisonné of Rembrandt Peale’s total oeuvre will meet
scholarly needs in the art history world. An exhibition of
Rembrandt Peale’s portraits will follow the completion of the
catalogue.
Office of Exhibits Central

How do you put a museum artifact on exhibit and help the
visitor appreciate and understand its importance? The Office
of Exhibits Central (OEC) tries to answer this question every
day with artifacts that range from a piece of volcanic lava to
children’s art, from a Native American dance bustle to
Himalayan masks.

OEC provides exhibit-related services throughout the
Institution in the areas of exhibit design and script writing
and editing, fine cabinetry, sheet plastics, packing and ship-
ping artifacts, model-making, taxidermy, matting and fram-
ing, and silk-screening.

“Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St. Helens,”
the office’s largest single project in 1989, is an example of
the variety of expertise available at the OEC. Designed and
produced for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service (SITES), the exhibition opened July 5 in the
Thomas M. Evans Gallery at the National Museum of
Natural History. OEC staff were involved in every aspect of
the exhibition: design, editing, graphics production, model-
making, and fabrication. In addition to designing all the
components for the traveling exhibition, OEC staff also
designed the installation for the Evans Gallery. All the visual
elements were written to appeal to a wide and diverse
audience. All the interactive computers and models were
constructed so that they were accessible to people in
wheelchairs.

The Model Shop created two life-size dioramas to help
depict the different effects of the two volcanoes. An actual
tree stump removed from the blast area was incorporated
into the Mount St. Helen’s diorama, and the ground was
recreated with papier-mache. The Kilauea diorama displays a
landscape after lava has flowed into and out of the area. The
ground is cast from molds made in Hawaii of actual lava
flows. A scale model of a lava lake and a cutaway model of
the east rift zone were also built for the exhibit.

The office produced all of the components and furniture
for the exhibition, including building wall-hung vitrines and
free-standing exhibit cases, fabricating custom brackets and
mounts for the artifacts, silk-screening all interpretive text
panels and labels, and building shipping containers with
custom-designed interiors to ensure the safety of the artifacts
and exhibit components during three years of travel.

In addition to “Inside Active Volcanoes,’ OEC produced
about a dozen other traveling exhibitions for SITES, an
exhibition for the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
and two small exhibitions for the Resident Associate Pro-
gram. OEC produced thirteen custom mannequins for the

138

National Museum of American History’s exhibition “Men
and Women”; built cases for an exhibition of Japanese hell
scrolls at the National Museum of Natural History; and
produced replica patent models, three mannequins, and a
brochure for “The Real McCoy” at the Anacostia Museum.
To help commemorate the bicentennial of the French Revo-
lution, OEC put two documents on loan from the French
National Archives on display in the Arts and Industries
Building.

OEC’s work is not limited to exhibits. The office designs
brochures for the Smithsonian Associate Travel Program,
supports the annual Washington Craft Show and Christmas
Dance for the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Associates, and produces panels for the Festival of American
Folklife.

Keeping accurate records about completed projects and
exhibits on the road helps OEC assess the suitability of new
materials and techniques and in the process helps solve
problems that might arise after an exhibition is in place or
traveling. To this end, the administrative unit at OEC has
installed a computer network system with a specially de-
signed tracking system named ITEMS to track current work
and record detailed descriptions of exhibitions that are on
the road. All accounting and purchasing records will be
transferred to the network in the coming year. |

Office of Horticulture

The Office of Horticulture (OH) manages more than 40
acres of gardens and grounds, cares for the plants in museum
interiors, and provides plants and floral arrangements for
Smithsonian Institution special events and exhibitions. In
addition to this full range of horticultural services, the office
has developed educational and outreach activities and exhib-
itions for local, national, and international audiences. Large
collections of living plants and horticultural artifacts and
images are maintained for use in all of these programs.
Landscape projects and interior plants for new museum
construction, building renovations, and expanded programs
have substantially increased the scope of work for the office.
In 1989, 55,462 annuals and 5,815 pot plants were raised,
along with 5 3,000 spring bulbs, of which 685 were forced
for interior display. In addition, 16,800 pansies, a full display
of 3,150 ornamental cabbage and kale, and 700 trees, shrubs,
and perennials were planted and maintained on the grounds.
To complete these projects, OH staff made three seasonal
plantings in the Enid A. Haupt Garden. More than 2,000
poinsettias were grown and used to decorate the museums
for the holiday season. Seven hundred and fifty special events
alone required the production, preparation, pickup, and
delivery of 1,400 plants and 400 floral arrangements.

Program Highlights

Working with SI curators and designers, the office assisted
with many exhibitions at the National Museum of Natural
History, the National Museum of American History, the
International Gallery, and the Renwick Gallery.

With the completion of the newly constructed access to
the Smithsonian Institution Building came a new plan with
plants selected for year-round interest, as well as twelve
‘Fern Leaf” settees for visitor relaxation. These reproduc-
tions from the OH garden furniture collection were fabri-
cated by Brown Jordan through the SI Office of Product
Development and Licensing.

The old grape-leaved linden (Tilia platyphyllos ‘Vitifolia’)
that presided over the Enid A. Haupt Garden and provided a
protective bower for millions of SI visitors fell during a
January windstorm. The tree, thought to have been more
than one hundred years old, has been replaced by a ring of
five small-leaved lindens (Tilia cordata). The marble urn
given to the Smithsonian as a memorial to Andrew Jackson
Downing, the original landscape designer for the Smithsonian
Pleasure Grounds, has been placed in the center.

As a memorial to Joseph L. Coudon VII, special assistant

to the secretary, a small-leaved linden (Tilia cordata) was
planted near the north entrance to the Arts and Industries
Building.

This year, the twelfth annual “Trees of Christmas” exhibi-
tion, a Smithsonian holiday tradition, was held at the Na-
tional Museum of American History. Five new collections of
ornaments created by American craftspeople were displayed
and then donated to the office. Beadwork, lace-making,
basket-making, shellwork, and carousel figures formed the
new collections displayed in this popular show.

A delightful nineteenth-century fountain from the office’s
collection was installed in the Arts and Industries rotunda.
The office has continued its changing exhibitions of plant
collections in the north foyer of the National Museum of
Natural History. Accompanied with fact sheets and a bibliog-
raphy, the collections include ivies, poinsettias, ornamental
grasses, and chrysanthemums.

Collections Management

Five exquisite watercolors of orchids were donated by the
artist, Barbara Todd Kennedy. The office has now received
seven works by Mrs. Kennedy.

Specimens from the orchid collection were displayed at
the National Capital Orchid Society Forty-First Annual Or-
chid Show held at the National Arboretum. The OH received
several awards from this prestigious event.

To date, fourteen thousand 3 5-millimeter slides and twelve
hundred glass plates have been received for the Garden Club
of America Slide Library of Notable Parks and Gardens.

During 1989, the Office of Product Development and
Licensing successfully negotiated with furniture manufac-
turer Garden Source for a Smithsonian Collection. Now
marketed nationwide, several urns, settees, and other garden
accessories have been reproduced. Revenues from the sales
of these reproductions will be used to enhance the office’s
collections.

139
Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs offers professional training
to museum staff in the form of programs in career counseling,
internships, and professional residencies that are paired with
regular course offerings on ethical, conceptual, and technical
topics. To broaden the perspective of these programs, the
office ensures that national and international colleagues are
connected to Smithsonian staff members working on similar
problems.

The Museum Reference Center, a Smithsonian Institution
Libraries branch under the direction of the office, answers
questions about museum operations, offering a unique ser-
vice to museum professionals throughout the country.

Under the guidance of the assistant secretary for museums,
the office began an intense period of reassessment and
redefinition in 1989. New objectives were adopted that
charge the office to provide leadership in defining conceptual
and ethical issues in museology within the broader profes-
sion—and to provide professional staff development for
museum practitioners in the Institution. Curators, designers,
educators, conservators, collections managers, security per-
sonnel, and administrators at the Institution are now seen as
potential students in the training programs of the office.

Special emphasis has been given to creating training
programs that will encourage greater numbers of Native
American and non-Western minorities to enter the museum
profession. The Minority Awards program continues to
support study at the Smithsonian for professionals from
culturally diverse communities throughout the United States.

The task of converting the Office of Museum Programs
into a training and discussion center has meant that some
programs, including those that offer technical assistance,
consultation, and audiovisual production and distribution,
have been eliminated. The construction of a graduated
curriculum for entry-level, midcareer, and senior museum
professionals has now become the core of the office strategic
planning. Instructional materials and publications are now
being developed within the context of learning objectives for
our seminars, workshops, and conferences. Once tested at
the Institution, these courses will be made available through
other national distributors.

Intern programs were consolidated in the office in 1989:
Career counseling, intern placement, orientation to the Insti-
tution and to museum careers, and special opportunities for
resident research and hands-on learning are now under one
roof at the Office of Museum Programs.

The Museum Reference Center was relocated to new,
larger, and more accessible quarters in 1989. Collecting the

140

ephemera of museum work—sketches of exhibitions, con-
cept proposals, audience studies—began this year. This new
aspect of collecting is in response to the emerging mission of
the office to serve as a center for museological research, as
well as for timely reference.

The office has entered a period of close evaluation of its
recent offerings, analysis of current needs in the national and
international museum community, and a development of
cooperative initiatives with academic and professional mu-
seum studies programs. Regular courses will again be offered
at the Institution and in other sites around the world
beginning in the fall of 1990. The second half of 1989 was
spent in shaping the new period of leadership in the museum
studies programs of the Smithsonian. New approaches to
program development, faculty training, and student evalua-
tion of learning experiences are being constructed ona solid
foundation of twenty-two years of experience in providing
professional services to colleagues in museums around the
world.

Office of the Registrar

The Office of the Registrar (OR) guides the Institution’s
collections management program. The small central staff
advises, monitors, and assists bureau initiatives that provide
access to and accountability for 137 million objects and
specimens.

The primary document guiding collections activity—
“Office Memorandum 808: Collections Management’’—was
substantially revised during 1989. With the cooperation of
bureau specialists, the project restated the essentials of
collections management. Particular emphasis was placed on
more effective approaches to internal controls, collecting
plans, and managing collections information. To more ade-
quately reflect the secretary’s concerns for institutional initia-
tives, the plans stress the need for balancing the goals of
access and accountability and for collecting activities that
show greater sensitivity toward cultural and biological diver-
sity. The document includes an extensive glossary and a
guide for the preparation of a collections management
policy.

The automated Collections Information System (CIS) con-
tinued to occupy considerable time and attention throughout
the year. The Local Collections Information System (LCIS) at
the National Museum of American History came on-line,
with all of the museum’s departments contributing to the
effort and using the product. The National Air and Space
Museum launched a project to bring its collections on-line
during 1990. Jane Sledge, the CIS administrator, was offi-
cially transferred to the Office of the Registrar from the
Institution’s Office of Information Resource Management.

The Registrar’s Council, coordinated by the Office of the
Registrar, received monthly presentations on topics such as
“Domestic Indemnification,” “How Museum Shipments Are
Affected by the Regulations of the Department of Fish and
Wildlife,” and “Collecting Black Culture: Three Perspec-
tives.”’ Other training projects sponsored by the Office of the
Registrar in collaboration with the Office of Museum Pro-
grams and the Registrar’s Committee of the Mid-Atlantic
Association of Museums included workshops titled “‘Pre-
ventive Conservation” and “How Safe Are You and Your
Collections? Museum Fire, Safety, and Health.”

In 1988, the office tested a survey instrument for muse-
ums using automation to manage museum collections. In
1989, the survey reached thirteen countries and received
responses from more than four thousand museums. From
these, an advisory panel of 428 museum professionals can be
called upon by any museum attempting to establish or
improve an automated collection documentation system.

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) saw the arrival of a new director, Anna R. Cohn, this
year. Under her leadership, SITES began to refocus and
sharpen the direction of its programs.

To intensify the circulation of Smithsonian exhibitions,
SITES added to its program calendar traveling versions of
nine new projects created within the Institution. Included is a
National Zoological Park exhibition about human percep-
tions of animals and attitudes toward them; two Anacostia
Museum exhibitions about the black church movement in
America and African American invention; a National Mu-
seum of American History exhibition on the relationship
between fashion, gender, and social roles; a National Air and
Space Museum exhibition about space transportation tech-
nology; a traveling version of the National Museum of
Natural History’s Columbus Quincentenary exhibition,
“Seeds of Change”; a National Portrait Gallery exhibition
surveying the work of artist Winold Reiss; a Sackler Gallery
exhibition by one of India’s leading photojournalists; and an
exhibition based on the Office of Folklife Programs activities
with family farms.

SITES also began to go beyond traditional exhibition
subjects by initiating programs involving critical public con-
cerns. Exhibition projects that explore issues of aging, the
homeless, geographic illiteracy, global warming, and AIDS
were introduced into the program for development over the
next several years.

As part of a heightened effort to respond to the needs and
interests of Smithsonian audiences beyond the National
Mall, SITES began to explore new, low-cost exhibition
techniques suitable for institutions that often had not been
able to afford Smithsonian programs. Such institutions in-
clude smaller, budget-limited museums, many of which are
located in nonurban areas, as well as schools, university
galleries, libraries, and community centers.

To expand its service capabilities even more, SITES initi-
ated a program to underwrite exhibition tours nationwide
through State Humanities Councils. SITES activities in New
Mexico set the model for this partnership. There, the State
Council agreed to fund program rental and shipping fees for
a group of host museums willing to schedule SITES exhibi-
tions consecutively. Institutions throughout New Mexico
that could not have afforded a SITES exhibition independ-
ently not only booked them, but also created accompanying
public programs by pooling the limited funds available from
each.

“Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia and Alaska”

141
Senator Kit Bond and his son track the history of volcanoes through
a computer at the new exhibition, “Inside Active Volcanoes,”
organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

began a six-year international tour following its opening at
the National Museum of Natural History (NMNH). Organ-
ized by NMNH and circulated by SITES, the exhibition
represents a ten-year collaboration and joint exchange among
curators and scholars in the Soviet Union, Canada, and the
United States. “Crossroads,” which contains more than five
hundred objects and will travel to museums in all three
countries, explores themes of cultural diversity and the
similarities between peoples on both sides of the Bering
Strait.

‘African American Artists, 1880-1987: Selections from
the Evans-Tibbs Collection” began its three-year tour at
Dartmouth College. Culled from the personal collection of a
third-generation Washington, D.C., collector, the works
represent leading African American artists of the twentieth
century and show the influence of nineteenth-century black
artists. Included in the exhibition are Edward Bannister,
Jacob Lawrence, Romare Bearden, and Alma Thomas.

Together with the National Museum of Natural History
and the U.S. Geological Survey, SITES also organized “Inside
Active Volcanoes.” This major exhibition examines two
totally different types of active volcanoes and offers a
fascinating account of how and why the great forces of
nature exist. Its ten-city tour was made possible through
generous funding from the Smithsonian Special Exhibition
Fund and MCI Communications Corporation.

In keeping pace with its international profile, SITES intro-
duced eight new exhibitions that are international in scope
and subject. These programs highlighted major museum
collections in Ireland, the Netherlands, and Italy; selections
from private collections in Switzerland and at the Vatican;
the international artists Kuniyoshi and Goya; and interna-
tional topics dealing with China between its revolutions and
Rome through the ages.

During the past year, SITES exhibitions traveled to thirty-
seven Cities in forty-six states, the District of Columbia, and
countries abroad and were viewed by more than eleven
million people. A total of 327 exhibition tours were sched-
uled between October 1, 1988, and September 30, 1989.
Twenty-three new exhibitions were introduced in 1989.

Exhibition Summary

New Exhibitions, October 1, 1988, to September 30, 1989:

African American Artists, 1880-1987: Selections from the
Evans-Tibbs Collection

America’s Star: The U.S. Marshals, 1789-1989

Art of Our Time: Selections from the Olga Hirshhorn
Collection

Badges of Pride: Symbols and Images of American Labor

China between Revolutions: Photographs by Sidney D.
Gamble, 1917-1927

Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia and Alaska

Drawings by Utagawa Kuniyoshi from the Rijksmuseum
Voor Volkenkunde, Leiden

Facing the Gods: Ritual Masks of the Himalayas

Goya Etchings: Caprichos, Desastres, and Tauromaquia

Imperial Enamels: Chinese Cloisonné from the Pierre Uldry
Collection

Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount St. Helens

Kaleidoscopes: Reflections of Science and Art

The Legacy Endures: Conserving Wetlands and Waterfowls

The National Geographic Society: 100 Years of Discovery
and Adventure

Portraits and Prospects: Master British and Irish Watercolors
and Drawings

Sea Stars

Steichen and His Men: A Photographic Portrait of World War II

Superman: Many Lives, Many Worlds

Threadworks: Miniature Textile Art

Training the Hand and Eye: American Drawings from the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum

View from Space: American Astronaut Photography,
1962-1972

Views of Rome: Watercolors and Drawings from the
Collection of the Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana

Exhibition Tours, October 1, 1988, to September 30, 1989

Number of bookings 327

Number of states served 45
(including the District of Columbia)

Estimated audience tr million

Exhibitions listed in 1988 Update 116

(catalogue of SITES exhibitions)
New exhibitions produced this year 23

PUBLIC SERVIGE

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service

National Demonstration
Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies

In January 1989, the National Demonstration Laboratory for
Interactive Educational Technologies (NDL) moved to a
large, specially designed facility in the Arts and Industries
Building. With its increased accessibility and size, the NDL
has become the gathering place for people around the world
interested in the development of interactive technologies for
educational purposes.

Interactive technology, or the combination of computers
with multimedia materials, has spurred some of the most
significant advances in education today. Students are able to
interact with scientific simulations that would be too dan-
gerous or expensive to use in a classroom. Workers are
trained at their own pace in health and safety techniques
using videodisc programs, and students in remote areas
across the country can take an “interactive video field trip”
to the Smithsonian and other museums without ever leaving
their classrooms.

Still, the potential of these technologies remains largely
untapped. It is the mission of the National Demonstration
Lab to increase public awareness of the power of interactive
programs and ultimately to help strengthen the nation’s
educational system. Several NDL outreach activities initiated
in 1989 serve this goal.

To fulfill its role as a national clearinghouse, the NDL has
begun to compile information for a data base that will be
accessible electronically. The data base will include basic
information about technologies, a description of successfully
developed programs, a bibliography of relevant materials,
and a listing of the major players—individual, corporate, and
institutional—in the field.

Other outreach activities include the NDL’s sponsorship
of workshops on intellectual property rights, collection
management using interactive technology, and the impact of
technology on the future of American education. The NDL’s
inventory was updated significantly in 1989, with new work
stations provided by IBM, AT&T, Commodore, and the
Department of Defense. Innovative new programs demon-
strated include Cornell University’s ‘Guide to Insects and
Culture,” ABC News Interactive’s “Election 88,” a Defense
Department foreign language training program, and a
new program for the BBC Domesday system, “North Polar
Expedition.”

The NDL also conducts special demonstrations of unique
interactive programs. In July 1989, Secretary of Education
Lauro Cavazos visited the NDL for a demonstration of the
University of the Air’s prototype program, “Life Story.”

146

National Science Resources
Center

The mandate of the National Science Resources Center
(NSRC), sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Academy of Sciences, is to improve the teaching of
science in the nation’s schools. NSRC accomplishes this goal
by disseminating information about effective science and
mathematics teaching resources, developing hands-on curric-
ulum materials, and sponsoring outreach and leadership-
development activities.

The NSRC has established as its first priority the improve-
ment of science teaching in elementary schools and has
initiated a number of programs in this area. These include

The initiation of a four-year elementary science
curriculum project, Science and Technology for Children
(STC). This project is developing twenty-four hands-on
science teaching units for grades one through six on
topics in physical science, life science, earth science, and
technology. Each STC unit will be field-tested in public
school classrooms across the country.

The development of a comprehensive resource col-
lection and computerized data base of information about
elementary science curriculum materials from federally
supported projects, science museums, and curriculum

Third-grader Marissa Wright uses a hand lens to observe a dried
worker bee mounted on a toothpick. This “beestick” will be used to
cross-pollinate blossoms as part of the Plant Growth and
Development science lessons being developed by the Science and
Technology for Children project staff of the National Science
Resources Center. (Photograph by Dane Penland)

projects in other countries.

The publication of an annotated elementary science
resource guide, Science for Children: Resources for Teach-
ers, which is being distributed by the National Academy
Press. More than 30,000 copies of the guide are now in
use by educators across the country, including the na-
tion’s sixteen thousand school superintendents.

The creation of a network of eight thousand scientists
and science educators who are working with the NSRC to
improve the teaching of science in the nation’s schools.
The NSRC publishes a newsletter to communicate with
network participants.

The development of a program of outreach activities
to stimulate public support for the reform of elementary
school science education and to enhance local efforts to
introduce hands-on science teaching into elementary
schools. For example, the NSRC has organized Elemen-
tary Science Leadership Institutes to help school systems
organize elementary science program improvement
efforts.

The NSRC is governed by an advisory board composed
of thirty leading scientists, educators, museum adminis-
trators, and corporation executives. The NSRC’s dual
sponsorship by both the Smithsonian and the National
Academy of Sciences enables the staff to tap the scientific
expertise available in both institutions.

Office of Elementary and

Secondary Education

New publications, teacher training programs, special educa-
tion projects, and internships for precollege young people
encompass all the varied ways that the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education (OESE) brings museum resources
to teachers and students. Working with other Smithsonian
education offices, the OESE helps make museums and their
holdings come alive for the educational community.

This year saw a flurry of new publications for children of
all ages. Work began on a series of teaching kits designed to
bring Smithsonian collections to young adults. These kits,
which will be published beginning in 1990 by the Golden
Owl Publishing Company and sold to secondary schools,
contain artifact reproductions, lesson plans and activities,
and audiotapes. The initial series highlights musical instru-
ments and topics in music history. OESE also worked
collaboratively with WETA-TV, a Washington, D.C., public
television station, to produce teachers’ guides to accompany
“Smithsonian World” programs.

Making the museum familiar and engaging to younger
children and beginning readers is the goal of a projected
series of books to be published in colorful, inexpensive
formats. For the youngest children, aged four and five, OESE
is developing and testing prototype kits that promote multi-
cultural awareness. These materials will be piloted with early
childhood programs in North and South America in 1991.

Technology and cultural values is the subject of Carbons to
Computers: The Changing American Office, a kit published in
1989 with a grant from Brother International, Inc. Designed
to give students practice in using museum objects and other
primary source materials as research tools, the kit has been
distributed on request to five thousand high schools across
the country. In response to popular demand, a second
printing will soon be initiated.

As part of its outreach effort to disabled visitors, OESE
produced a brochure, “A Tour of Works by Deaf Artists,” in
conjunction with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Museums in honor of the Deaf Way, an international festival
and conference on the language, culture, art, and history of
hearing-impaired people. In addition, the office published a
monthly pictorial newsletter for mentally retarded adults
highlighting Smithsonian events and exhibitions.

OESE’s publications for teachers continued to be popular
this year, with subscriptions to the quarterly newspaper Art
to Zoo increasing 60 percent. Teachers were especially
enthusiastic about the tropical rainforest issue, which was
supported in part by the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute. Let’s Go to the Smithsonian, a newsletter for local

147
schools, kept teachers informed about events at the Smith-
sonian. “Smithsonian Spectrum,” a brochure for teachers
highlighting Smithsonian-wide school tours and other pro-
gramming, continued publication. In collaboration with edu-
cators throughout the Institution, OESE also published a
directory of teachers’ resources at the Smithsonian.

Teacher training expanded this year as the office enrolled
nearly two hundred teachers nationwide in annual Summer
Sessions offered in collaboration with the education depart-
ments of various Smithsonian museums. The office’s Re-
gional Workshop Program, which fosters more productive
relationships between museums and school systems through-
out the country, also flourished this year. The program
expanded its outreach efforts to schools in Amarillo, Texas;
Tallahassee, Florida; St. Louis, Missouri; and Wichita, Kan-
sas. In addition, the program boasts a new brochure and logo
and is developing a planning manual for participants that will
be published in 1990.

This year’s Summer High School Internship Program
brought forty-two recent high school graduates to the Insti-
tution from around the country to work behind the scenes in
the museums and at the Zoo under the guidance of curators
and other experts. In addition, the Career Awareness Pro-
gram introduced ninety Washington, D.C., teenagers to
career possibilities at the Smithsonian. The highlight of the
program was a student-written magazine on the Smithsonian,
published in collaboration with the District of Columbia
Public Schools.

148

Office of Folklife Programs

The Office of Folklife Programs seeks to encourage continu-
ity, integrity, and equity for traditional cultures in the United
States and abroad through a wide range of conservation and
representation activities, including scholarly research, pro-
fessional advocacy, and public programs. Highlights of the
year included the mounting of a successful and critically
acclaimed Festival of American Folklife, the initiation of a
Folklore Summer Institute, the development of a seminal
Columbus Quincentenary series of symposia, the winning of
a Grammy Award, and the startup of a Smithsonian Folk-
ways Records mail order on-demand cassette operation.

Festival of American Folklife

The twenty-third annual festival was the most extensive and
diverse festival since the U.S. bicentennial. Held June 23-27
and June 30-July 4, the festival featured living exhibition
programs highlighting the state of Hawaii; oral traditions and
crafts of Francophone communities in France and North
America; the creolization of Caribbean traditions; and access
to cultural, natural, and social resources among American
Indian tribes.

The multicultural society of Hawaii was presented by
more than 130 Hawaiians and descendants of later immi-
grants from Japan, Okinawa, China, Portugal, Korea, Samoa,
the Philippines, and Puerto Rico, who demonstrated the
traditions of boat-making, quilting, the hula, the luau, the
cowboy, and storytelling from the islands. In “Les Fétes
Chez Nous: France and North America,” French and French
Americans celebrated the bicentennial of the French Revolu-
tion and rights to free cultural expression through Cajun
music, stepdancing, bagpipes, storytelling, and crafts as
practiced by people in western France, Quebec, French New
England and Missouri; among Cajun Creoles and Houma
Indians in Louisiana; and among the Francophone Mitchif
Indians of North Dakota. The American Indian program
featured participants from the Iroquois Nation and Yaqui,
Washoe, Paiute, Shoshone, Ojibway, and Northern Plains
tribes, who demonstrated basket-making, buffalo dancing,
deer dancing, wild ricing, and lacrosse playing. Cultural
encounters in the Caribbean were presented in a fourth
major program, with participants from Puerto Rico, Haiti,
Jamaica, and Cuba. Through sacred and secular music, ritual,
and foodways, the participants conveyed the persistence of
traditional expressions and the creation of new forms from
native, European, and African cultures.

Scholars and museologists from ten nations, several U.S.

Hawaii Governor John Waihee (left) greets Wright Bowman, Jr., koa canoe builder from Honolulu, Oahu, on opening day of the Festival of
American Folklife. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

arts councils, other festival representatives, and universities
came to observe and study the festival as a model of
research-based cultural presentation. A recent international
conference and critical review identified the festival as a
state-of-the-art museological model for the presentation of
culture.

Folklife Research

During 1989, scholars conducted studies on the traditions of
Afro-Americans in Philadelphia, immigrant cultures from
Latin America and Southeast Asia, Navajo music, African
epics, Soviet and Soviet American music and folklore, and
Caribbean and Brazilian music and culture.

A summer folklore institute for community-based re-
searchers, particularly those from minority groups, was well
received. Twelve community scholars worked with museum
and academic experts to develop a strategy for studying
diverse, grass roots American traditions. The program was
endorsed by both the American Folklore Society and the
Society for Ethnomusicology.

Dr. Anthony Seeger was awarded the Kinkeldey prize by
the American Musicological Society for the best scholarhip
of the year, based upon his book/recording Why Suya Sing.

Other office researchers held their academic appointments,
with Dr. Peter Seitel at the University of Pennsylvania and Dr.
Richard Kurin at Johns Hopkins University.

Smithsonian Folkways Records

“Folkways: A Vision Shared,” a tribute to Woody Guthrie
and Leadbelly produced through Columbia Records, was
awarded the 1989 Grammy Award for best traditional
recording. An accompanying video produced with Showtime
was nominated for an Awards for Cable Excellence award. A
new distribution system for Smithsonian Folkways Records
is now in place. Rounder Records, Inc., will reissue and
distribute the better-selling Folkways titles in multiple for-
mats, often with new cuts and sometimes with new notes.
The Office of Folklife Programs will distribute the less
popular titles through mail order on a cassette-only basis,
manufactured using desktop publishing and its audio equiva-
lent. The complete Folkways catalogue will remain in print
and will be available both to the public and to the communi-
ties from which the recordings originated.

New Smithsonian Folkways publications this year include
“Music of Hawai'i,” “Cajun Social Music,” “Puerto Rican
Music in Hawai,” “Hawaiian Drum Chants,” “Big Bill

149
i”

The Voudon Group de Madame Nerva from Jacmel, Haiti, performs a voudon ceremony consecrating the altar for the /oa (spirit) Damballah
within the hounfor, a ceremonial center, constructed for the Haitian participants in the Festival of American Folklife’s Caribbean program.

(Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

Broonzy Sings Folk Songs,” and several children’s albums by

Ella Jenkins.
Special Projects

Two symposia in the Columbus Quincentenary series exam-
ined the relationship between expressive culture and eco-
nomic systems in the New World. “Seeds of the Past,”
cosponsored with Cornell University, explored indigenous
subsistence and cultural systems at the time of the first
encounter between Europeans and Americans, how these
systems were transformed, and how they persist today.
“Seeds of Commerce,” held in Santiago de Cuba through La
Casa del Caribe, brought together scholars from eight na-
tions to examine the impact of colonial plantation systems
on the economic, political, and cultural development of the
Caribbean societies. Published volumes in English and in
Spanish are planned.

The Smithsonian Folklife Studies (SFS) series released a

150

documentary film titled ““Onggi: Korean Folk Pottery” this
year. Other SFS projects initiated included a monograph and
recording on ancient and contemporary Hawaiian hula, an
edited work on migration lore based upon materials re-
corded at the 1988 Festival of American Folklife Migration
to Washington program, and a film/monograph on religious
drama of Afro-Indian goldminers in Colombia.

The festival was featured this year in the “Smithsonian
World” program, “The Living Smithsonian.” A series of
shows on ‘Radio Smithsonian” followed up with interviews,
stories, and music on the themes of the 1988 festival and
Folkways projects. Talking Feet, a documentary film on
Appalachian flat foot dancing and clogging, was released
earlier this year in videocassette format.

Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies

How can science and technology advance human rights?
How do scientific and religious definitions of human beings
change over time and influence the recognition and exercise
of rights? These and other questions were raised at the tenth
international Smithsonian symposium, “Les Droits de
Homme and Scientific Progress,” held October 25-28,
1989. Cosponsored by the National Academy of Sciences
and organized in cooperation with the University of Virginia,
the symposium was arranged and financed through the
efforts of the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies. Cochairmen
were Smithsonian Secretary Robert McC. Adams and Frank
Press, president of the National Academy of Sciences. The
symposium commemorated the bicentennial of the French
Revolution, the U.S. Bill of Rights, and the French Declaration
of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. It laid the ground-
work for a book of essays to be published by the Smithsonian
Institution Press.

More than thirty distinguished French and American
scientists and other scholars convened first for sessions at the
University of Virginia and later at the National Academy of
Sciences in Washington, D.C. Presidents Francois Mitterrand
and George Bush sent messages.

Starting with the intellectual history of the eighteenth
century, the symposium continued with sessions on the
ethics of biotechnology and on how France, the United
States, and other countries might cooperate in the discovery
and development of talent in science and engineering. A
special focus on future scientific-technological development
was found in commentaries by Gene Roddenberry, creator
of “Star Trek: The Next Generation,” on his television
episode, “The Measure of a Man,” about a trial held in outer
space to determine whether an android has rights. Former
Senator Charles Mathias, chairman of the U.S. Committee on
the Bicentennial of the French Revolution, concluded with
an address on the implications of computer technology.

In addition, the year was marked by vigorous efforts to
strengthen learning and research both inside and outside the
Institution and to reach new audiences in new forms. One
way that the office realized this goal was by publishing, in
June, a new brochure, “The Wholeness of Knowledge,”
which summarizes two decades of efforts to link the sciences
and the humanities.

Other major accomplishments of the year included the
completion of the richly illustrated book, Contemporary
Indian Tradition, edited by Carla M. Borden and published
by the Smithsonian Institution Press and Oxford University
Press in Delhi. An engaging collection of personal essays by

India’s leading intellectuals and noted American scholars, it
will be one of the lasting rewards of the 1985-1986 Festival
of India. In addition, the proceedings of a timely May 1988
colloquium, “Science Education: A Challenge for Excellence
in America’s Future,” were printed, courtesy of Times
Mirror, and distributed nationally to schools and science
educators at state and local levels. Essays emphasize the need
for stronger science and math training in the schools, new
approaches to teaching science, and the recruitment of
minority and female students into math and science careers.
On May 2, more than two hundred guests attended the
premiere screening of Democracy and Rights: One Citizen’s
Challenge, a video documentary for high school students that
was jointly produced with the Close Up Foundation. The
thirty-minute program explores the role and exercise of
individual rights in American government through the story
of Ernest Green, one of the nine African American students
who integrated Central High School in Little Rock, Arkan-
sas, in 1957. Also featured in the video are Justices William J.
Brennan, Jr., and Sandra Day O’Connor, who serves as the
narrator. The office and the Close Up Foundation are
currently planning a companion video on citizens’ responsi-

The May 2 premiere of the documentary “Democracy and Rights”
attracted (from left to nght) Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Wilton S.
Dillon, and Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. (Photograph courtesy of
Renee Bouchard, Close Up Foundation)

151
anthers

Speakers at the 1988 world food colloquium ‘“‘Completing the Food Chain” included (from left to right): John C. Waterlow (Great Britain),
Pablo A. Scolnik (United States), Richard R. Harwood (United States), Thomas R. Odhiambo (Kenya), Beatrice L. Rogers (United States),

J. E. Dutra de Oliveira (Brazil), Nevin S. Scrimshaw (United States), Sidney W. Mintz (United States), Ricardo Bressani (Guatemala), Anne de
Lattre (France), Uma Lele (United States), Aree Valyasevi (Thailand), and Gelia T. Castillo (the Philippines). Missing from the photograph is

Mohamed A. Nour (Sudan).

bilities. Both pieces were inspired by the 1987 symposium,
“Constitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities” cele-
brating the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution.

During Black History Month in February, Radio America
aired an eight-part series on the March 1988 symposium
“Afro-Americans and the Evolution of a Living Constitu-
tion.” Distributed free to more than 300 radio stations
nationwide, the programs were warmly received and won an
award for “outstanding contributions to the enhancement of
learning and understanding of the U.S. Constitution and Bill
of Rights” from the Bicentennial Leadership Project.

Seminars this year included several lively conversations in
the Ways of Knowing series on such topics as ““Metascience,
Ethnoscience—What Is Science Anyway?” and ‘““Communi-
cating Science: The Phenomenon of the General-Interest

Science Book.” Now in its third year, Ways of Knowing is an
effort to stimulate the exchange of ideas and information
among Smithsonian staff and Fellows.

Organized in conjunction with the presentation of the
World Food Prize, the second colloquium on world food
issues was titled “Completing the Food Chain: Strategies to
Combat Hunger and Malnutrition.” Convening at the Smith-
sonian and at the International Food Policy Research Insti-
tute on October 4-5, 120 specialists from universities,
industry, and government in the United States and abroad
probed the lessons of the “green revolution,” as well as
leading food and agriculture issues in Asia, Africa, and Latin
America, paying special attention to new food and biogenetic
technologies that could boost future food production. The
proceedings of the colloquium were published in September.

Office of Public Affairs

Actors Pat Morita and Robert Redford journeyed, on separate
occasions, to the Institution this year to help publicize
cultural and environmental diversity, two aspects of the
“Smithsonian story” that the Office of Public Affairs empha-
sized throughout the year. The office helps print and broad-
cast journalists tell the Smithsonian story through news
releases, backgrounders, publications, photographs, video-
tapes, logistical support, public service announcements, and
advertising. The office also oversees Institution-wide infor-
mation and advertising programs.

Morita was filmed with twenty children from diverse
ethnic and cultural communities for a public service an-
nouncement on the theme “The Smithsonian Is for Every-
body.” Released to television stations in the summer of
1989, the announcement was very well received by stations
around the nation. A backlighted poster using a photograph
from the production was prepared for the Metrorail system
in Washington, D.C.

Redford recorded a public service announcement focusing
on the Smithsonian’s involvement in environmental research
and conservation. Scheduled for release in early 1990, it is
the first television announcement to focus on science proj-
ects at the Smithsonian.

Other television announcements produced by the office
included one highlighting multicultural aspects of Smith-
sonian museums, complemented by posters on Metrobus
exteriors, and the “Caribbean Festival Arts” exhibition,
accompanied by backlighted Metrorail posters.

The office continued in its support of the Institution’s
commitment to reaching a more diverse audience, devoting
approximately half of its resources to this enterprise. A major
Smithsonian goal is to reach African American, Hispanic
American, Asian American, and Native American communi-
ties. With this goal in mind, the office launched its Native
American Media Outreach Program with its first intern, a
Seneca Indian, supported by the Smithsonian Educational
Outreach Program. The intern helped the Smithsonian intro-
duce itself to more than four hundred publications and a
network of Native American media professionals from tribes
across the country. Other accomplishments of the program
were a traveling exhibit, an advertisement for the National
Indian Education Association conference brochure, and the
prototype of a quarterly newsletter for Native American
readers.

The office’s Black Media Outreach Program expanded its
radio advertising this year. Radio commercials were aired in
October, February, and September. The Black History Month

commercials, which offered information packets that in-

cluded a Metrorail fare card, prompted 2,700 calls from
radio listeners—more than double the number received the
previous year. To assist the Office of Equal Opportunity, the
office prepared recruitment advertisements featuring promi-
nent African Americans on the Smithsonian staff for use in
various publications.

As part of its Hispanic Media Outreach Program, the
office, in conjunction with others at the Institution, coordi-
nated an exhibit, a reception, a full-page conference-booklet
advertisement, and Secretary Adams’s keynote address for
the Seventh Annual National Hispanic Media Conference in
Puerto Rico. Twelve hundred reporters attended the confer-
ence. The office also organized a news media briefing on the
signing of the contract for the Columbus Quincentenary
television series, “The Buried Mirror,” and prepared an
extensive publicity campaign involving newspaper and radio
advertisements in Spanish for Hispanic Heritage Month.

A number of special publications were produced this year,
including a flyer on resources for children, which was
distributed at a Congressional Black Caucus Foundation
meeting. Research Reports, an award-winning publication
published three times a year, will begin appearing four times
a year and will sport a new look and some new features—the
result of a readership survey. The employee newspaper, The
Torch, received several awards as it continued to publish
quality information. In all, the office received twelve awards
for publication excellence. The Smithsonian News Service, a
syndicated feature-story service that serves hundreds of
newspapers nationally, was also honored.

During the year, the office responded to well over seven
hundred inquiries from reporters, initiated dozens of media
proposals, and edited and distributed 5 50 news releases. The
office organized major publicity campaigns for the “‘Carib-
bean Festival Arts” exhibition; the Forum for Global Change
and Our Common Environment; an exhibition on the evolu-
tion of tropical biology in Panama and one on African
American inventors; a media conference on the global
environment; the opening of the Archives of American Art’s
new offices; the dedication of the new Mathias Laboratory;
introduction of the historic furniture collection; and an
exhibition of the French Declaration of the Rights of Man
and of the Citizen.

One of the major events of the year was a nationally
covered May 8 press conference at which Secretary Adams
signed an agreement with the Museum of the American
Indian, Heye Foundation, in New York City to transfer its

ESS
extensive collections to the Smithsonian. As media interest
focused throughout the year on the Smithsonian’s Native
American collections, the office responded to hundreds of
requests for information.

154

Office of Telecommunications

In 1989, the Office of Telecommunications produced a
record number of media programs, ranging from state-of-
the-art interactive videodiscs for museum use to television
and radio programs for national broadcast. These quality
programs, produced in collaboration with Smithsonian scien-
tists, historians, and curators, present the full range of
Smithsonian research and exhibition activities to the public.
Moreover, the diversity of projects in 1989 reflects the
office’s ability to use electronic media creatively to reach
wider audiences. The office’s productions received more
awards and recognition in 1989 for technical excellence and
program quality than in any previous year.

Several significant video and film projects were completed
in 1989. One of the video projects, produced for the new
Smithsonian Information Center in the Great Hall of the
Castle, is an interactive videodisc program providing visitors
with detailed information about each museum and its collec-
tions, tours, special attractions for children, and restaurants.
This interactive program, one of the most extensive devel-
oped for museum use, is an innovative way to convey
information to museum visitors. It is programmed in seven
languages and can be updated by staff as museum informa-
tion changes. In addition, a twenty-minute orientation pro-
gram to the Smithsonian was produced by the office to run
continuously in two theaters.

A major one-hour film titled “The Earth in Our Hands,”
narrated by Robert Redford and designed for PBS broadcast
in this country, for foreign broadcast, and for educational
distribution, was completed in September. This unique film
follows the laboratory and field staff of the Smithsonian’s
Marine Systems Laboratory and Arizona’s Space Biosphere
Ventures as they work with a cadre of dedicated scientists,
architects, engineers, and builders in their attempt to create
Biosphere II, an experimental model of the Earth’s ecosys-
tems. The film shows an extraordinary effort being extended
to bring global ecological problems into the realm of experi-
mental science and reflects the significant role the Smith-
sonian is playing in addressing a critical scientific issue.

As part of its effort to reach new audiences, the office
completed a pilot project designed for the nation’s growing
Spanish-speaking population. The pilot, ““Descubra el Smith-
sonian,”’ is a series of two-minute features exploring Smith-
sonian museums, galleries, research, and performances.
Designed for commercial television, the pilot debuted at the
National Hispanic Media Conference in April to excellent
reviews. The office is currently seeking funding to develop
the project into the Smithsonian’s first Spanish-language

Lee Cioffi (far right), Office of Telecommunications producer/
director of the new Smithsonian Information Center’s orientation
program, directs a camera crew in a video segment shot at the
Hirshhorn Museum. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

television programming effort. Additional programming for
Spanish-speaking audiences is also being planned.

A unique home video series for a general audience, called
the Smithsonian Video Collection, is the Institution’s first
venture for the expanding home market. In collaboration
with Eastman Kodak Co., the project completed five pro-
grams available for purchase: “The Zoo behind the Zoo,”
“The Flying Machines,” ““Dinosaurs/Insects,”’ “Gems and
Minerals,” and ‘The First Ladies.” ““Supertour,” a compre-
hensive tour of Smithsonian museums, was scheduled to be
released at the end of 1989.

The office continued to produce two ongoing program
series broadcast in the United States and abroad. “Here at the
Smithsonian,” an award-winning series of short features for
television, launched its eighth season on PBS with 180
subscribing stations, including stations in seven of the top
ten cities in the country. ‘Radio Smithsonian,” a weekly
half-hour series, is carried by ninety National Public Radio
affiliates nationally, reaching a potential weekly listening

Office of Telecommunications Deputy Director Karen Loveland
(right), producer/director of The Earth in Our Hands, discusses a
scene with narrator Robert Redford (left) in the living Everglades
ecosystem created by the Smithsonian’s Marine Systems Laboratory.
(Photograph by Richard Hofmeister)

audience of four million people. Programs in both series
focus on exhibitions, research, and performance activities
throughout the Institution.

The office also provides video and film production ser-
vices for museum and traveling exhibitions. Completed
programs for 1989 included nine short films on the role of
towboats on the Mississippi River for the Maritime Hall of
the National Museum of American History (NMAH); three
videos for the NMAH exhibition “Men and Women: A
History of Costume, Gender and Power”; a video, “Moving
America’s Mail,” for the NMAH National Philatelic Collec-
tion exhibition; an interactive videodisc to accompany an
exhibition on Duke Ellington for the NMAH Division of
Musical History; a film to accompany the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service’s Frank Lloyd Wright
exhibition; and an interactive videodisc to enrich an exhibi-
tion of abstract art from the Patricia and Philip Frost Collec-
tion at the National Museum of American Art.
Smithsonian Institution Press

The Smithsonian Institution Press, the publishing center of
the Smithsonian, produces a wide range of books in many
fields of interest. This year’s list was marked by a record
number of nearly eighty-five books published in the fields of
art, science, anthropology, archaeology, aviation, and history.

Manuscripts on a wide range of subjects are acquired from
Smithsonian staff and from institutions and individuals
throughout the world. Publications include research mono-
graphs, technical and scientific series, exhibition catalogues
for Smithsonian museums, informational and educational
pamphlets, as well as trade books, sound recordings, and
archival videodiscs.

University Press Division

Many of the books published by the General Publications
section received attention in both the general and the
scholarly media. This year’s most notable titles include
Women of Deh Koh: Lives in an Iranian Village, by Erika
Friedl; The Recovery of Meaning: Historical Archaeology in
the Eastern United States, by Mark P. Leone and Parker B.
Potter; and Men and Women: Dressing the Part, by Claudia
Brush Kidwell and Valerie Steele.

This year, Smithsonian Press published Just before Jazz:
Black Musical Theater in New York, 1890 to 1915, by
Thomas L. Riis. The volume, which marks a renewed
emphasis on the history of music and musicians, 1s illustrated
with photographs, sheet-music facsimiles, musical examples,
and newspaper reviews.

The University Press Division has recently announced a
new series, the Smithsonian History of Aviation. The lead
title published this year is Strike from the Sky: The History of
Battlefield Air Attack, 1911-1945, by Richard P. Hallion.
Other aviation titles published include Combat Flying Equip-
ment: U.S. Army Aviators’ Personal Equipment, 1917-1945,
by C. G. Sweeting; Cierva Autogiros: The Development of
Rotary- Wing Flight, by Peter W. Brooks; and (new in paper-
back) A Dream of Wings, by Tom D. Crouch.

The Smithsonian Series in Archaeological Inquiry was
enhanced this year by the publication of A Late Pleistocene
Settlement in Chile, by Tom D. Dillehay. The first of two
volumes, the book reports on evidence of human habitation
in the ancient site of Monte Verde. Off the press at almost
the same time was the first volume of David Hurst Thomas’s
three-volume Columbus Quincentenary series on the Span-

156

ish Borderlands (the northern rim of New Spain), Columbian
Consequences: Archaeological and Historical Perspectives on
the Spanish Borderlands West. Volumes published in the
Smithsonian Series in Ethnographic Inquiry include Pilgrims
of Paradox: Calvinism and Experience among the Primitive
Baptists of the Blue Ridge, by James L. Peacock and Ruel W.
Tyson, Jr., and Ritual Passage, Sacred Journey: The Form,
Process, and Organization of Religious Movement, by Richard
Werbner.

Smithsonian Press published several books in the natural
sciences this year, including Sharks in Question: The Smith-
sonian Answer Book, by Victor G. Springer and Joy P. Gold;
Turtles of the World, by Carl H. Ernst and Roger W. Barbour;
Marine Plants of the Caribbean: A Field Guide from Florida to
Brazil, by Diane and Mark Littler et al.; and The Restless Sun,
by Donat G. Wentzel.

In the area of visual arts, Smithsonian Press published for
and with many different museums, as well as its own series.
Working with the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, Texas,
the Press copublished The Intimate Interiors of Edouard
Vuillard, by Elizabeth Wynne Easton. Albert Pinkham Ryder,
by Elizabeth Broun, was copublished with the National
Museum of American Art, and Tropical Renaissance: North
American Artists Exploring Latin America, 1839-1879, by
Katherine Emma Manthorne, was published by Smithsonian
Press in the New Directions in American Art series.

The Series section of the University Press Division
publishes the federally funded Contributions and Studies,
consisting of nine series of monographs that report the
research of Smithsonian staff. All of the editing, design, and
typesetting for these publications is accomplished on Smith-
sonian Press computers.

Among the twenty-nine publications in these series during
1989 were The Great Tzotzil Dictionary of Santo Domingo
Zinacantan with Grammatical Analysis and Historical Com-
mentary, by Robert M. Laughlin with John B. Haviland
(Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology, no. 31); A
Bibliography of Plant Collectors: Bolivia, by V. A. Funk and
Scott A. Mori (Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, no.
70); Seagrasses, by Ronald C. Phillips and Ernani Ménez
(Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, no. 3 4);
The Autochthonous North American Musk Oxen ..., by
Jerry McDonald and Clayton E. Ray (Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Paleobiology, no. 66); and Technology in Miniature:
American Textile Patent Models in 1819-1840, by Barbara
Suit Janssen (Smithsonian Studies in History and Technol-
ogy, no. 49).

Smithsonian Collection of Recordings

The Recordings Division produced and released four new
albums under the Smithsonian Collection of Recordings
(SCR) label, each with extensive liner notes in an accompa-
nying book. The most popular of these, American Musical
Theater, includes six records, four compact discs, or four
cassettes. The album surveys the history of the musical
theater from its roots in the nineteenth century to 1964. The
album is distributed through direct mail to Smithsonian
Associates and through retail outlets all over the country.
Reviewers have praised the effort in many popular maga-
zines, including Newsweek, Audio, and People.

Another major package released this year was Jazz Piano,
which also has been recorded on six records, four compact
discs, or four cassettes. This album, programmed by Smith-
sonian jazz expert Martin Williams, is a presentation of the
diverse styles of jazz piano. The collection includes sixty-
eight selections.

Two single compact discs were released in the Instruments
of the Smithsonian series: Beethoven: The Two Piano Trios of
Op. 70, performed by the Castle Trio, and Corelli: The
Twelve Trio Sonatas of Op. 3, by the Smithsonian Chamber
Players. Both include extensive notes about the instruments
from the collection.

Smithsonian Books

Smithsonian Books, a division of the Smithsonian Institution
Press, publishes books for a general audience on subjects that
relate to Smithsonian collections and research interests.
Highlights of the year include Images of America: A Pano-
rama of History in Photographs, which commemorated the
150th anniversary of photography, and Lords of the Air: The
Smithsonian Book of Birds. Other recent accomplishments
include In the Age of Mankind: A Smithsonian Book of
Human Evolution, a continuity series; the twelve-volume
Smithsonian Guide to Historic America; and a sixty-minute
video titled The Magnificent Whales.

Book Development
Now in its second year, the Book Development Division

continued to expand its list of general titles for the museum
visitor. During the fall and spring seasons, four postcard

books were published and five new ones developed. The
latest additions to this popular series feature highlights of the
collections of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
the National Museum of American Art, and the National
Museum of American History. A second group features
historical graphics selected from the Warshaw Collection of
Business Americana at the National Museum of American
History. Although originally intended for sale through the
museum shops, the fifteen-title series is beginning to attract
trade sales in the United States and abroad.

With the publication of The National Air and Space
Museum: A Visit in Pictures, by National Air and Space
Museum Deputy Director Donald Lopez, the division
launched a new series of books that captures the high points
of individual museums in a large-format, pictorial overview.
In addition, the three individual guidebooks produced by the
Book Development program last year continue to enjoy a
very strong reception.

The Book Development Division also is working to estab-
lish a children’s publishing program at the Press. Together
with experts in children’s literature at the Library of Con-
gress and the American Library Association, the division is
currently refining a forty-title fiction reprint series for direct-
mail testing. The goal of the series is to encourage parents to
build a home library of twentieth-century American chil-
dren’s literature with broad, multicultural appeal.
Smithsonian Internship Council

The Smithsonian Internship Council monitors internship
programs throughout the Institution. This year’s primary
goal was to increase the awareness of minorities at colleges
and universities about internship opportunities at the Smith-
sonian. As part of this effort, the council met with the Dean
of the Office of Afro-American Affairs at the University of
Virginia, Charlottesville (UVA) and explored ways to estab-
lish relationships and identify Smithsonian resources for
UVA’s African American students. The dean extended an
invitation to the council to meet with the president and other
administrators at UVA to further this relationship.

In further efforts to reach out to minority audiences,
council members visited four traditionally black campuses
and three other campuses with a substantial minority enroll-
ment in Virginia, as well as several traditionally black
campuses in Maryland and the District of Columbia.

As an ongoing effort to stay abreast of high school,
college, and university internship programs, coordinators
have been invited to give an update of their programs before
the council. As a result, the council has been briefed about
programs at American University, Gallaudet University, the
Washington Center Program, and Tall Oaks Vocational High
School in Bowie, Maryland. The council also standardized an
intern application form to be used by all bureaus.

158

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian magazine continued to provide up-to-date,
interesting coverage of museum events. Circulation increased
this year, making this publication among the most important
museum-affiliated magazines in the world.

One of the editorial highlights of the year was a two-part
series on the Gulf Stream. This project, which originated
with the magazine and became both a book and a PBS
documentary, took author Bill MacLeish two years to com-
plete. Spanning twenty-eight pages of the magazine and
illustrated with a combination of photographs, maps, and
graphics, the series covered the history of the Gulf Stream
and its impact on politics and settlement patterns, as well as
current efforts by oceanographers to learn more about the
Gulf Stream in relation to weather and climate.

A major exhibition of the work of Thomas Hart Benton at
the Nelson-Atkins Museum in Kansas City gave Smithsonian
a perfect opportunity to produce gatefold illustrations of
Benton’s murals, which accompanied an insightful piece by
Verlyn Klinkenborg.

In the sciences, Smithsonian produced an impressive piece
about current research on galaxies. Physicist James Trefil
described recent discoveries as part of a larger story about
galaxies and the history of our understanding of them. This
kind of story—in which current news is presented within the
context of a larger and more general background—is among
the things that Smithsonian does best.

Other stories in the sciences that Smithsonian published
this year included a profile of ethnobotanist Mark Plotkin
and his work in Amazonia, a story on quartz, one on research
in biomechanics, and another on the innovative ideas of
biomedical researchers Candace Pert and Lynn Margulis.

The magazine covered institutional activities both in Ted
Park’s “Mall” column and in the “Highlights” section. In
addition, the magazine started a new column, “The Object at
Hand,” which features objects from the museums’ collec-
tions. This column will run on an occasional basis.

The centennial of the National Zoo was a perfect time for
a cover story on the Zoo that included a look back at its
history and a look forward to its future. Other important
cover stories of the year included one on the “Crossroads of
Continents” exhibition and one on the Vever exhibition,
which coincided with its showing at the Sackler. Of special
note was the cover story on the Dust Bowl, which displayed
some of the great photographs of the Farm Security Admin- |
istration. This story was particularly timely, because of |
concern about the possibility of global warming and the |
serious droughts that it could bring. |

Smithsonian

June 1989

In a historic Dorothea Lange photograph, a homeless Oklahoma

family walks a long, hard road during Dust Bowl days (p. 44)

This striking Smithsonian magazine cover featured a historic Dorothea
Lange photograph of a homeless Oklahoma family walking a long,
hard road during Dust Bow] days.

Stories in the arts this year included coverage of African
American photographer/filmmaker/novelist Gordon Parks,
Degas, the Walters Gallery in Baltimore, and the kinetic
sculptures of George Rhodes.

This year also brought a joint project with the School of
Continuing Education at Howard University to enhance
careers for minorities in magazine publishing procedures.
Thirty young professionals gathered from across the nation
June 25 to July 2 to learn about the fundamentals of
magazine editing, advertising sales, circulation sales, manu-
facturing, and business plans. The courses were conducted
by sixty professionals from the field.

Participants came from Ebony, Changing Times, Black
Collegian, National Geographic, Essence, the Hearst Publica-
tions, Rodale, Meredith, Crain Publishing, Reader’s Digest,
and other magazines. The Magazine Publishers Association,
on whose board Smithsonian is represented, also helped with
the project.

“Smithsonian World”

“Smithsonian World,” the critically acclaimed prime-time
television series coproduced by the Institution and
WETA-TV in Washington, D.C., launched its fourth season
in the fall. The season’s first program about the many
exciting facets of the world’s largest museum and research
complex, the award-winning “The Living Smithsonian,”
premiered at a reception at “The Material World” exhibition
at the National Museum of American History. The event was
hosted by the sole corporate underwriter of the series,
Southwestern Bell Corporation.

The fourth season’s five one-hour specials, broadcast
nationally on PBS in October 1988 through March 1989,
included “American Dream at Groton,” which won a CINE
Golden Eagle Award and an American Film Festival Ribbon;
“The Way We Wear”; ‘Web of Life”; and “The Vever
Affair.”

In tandem with these original broadcasts, Southwestern
Bell Corporation underwrote a major advertising and promo-
tion campaign, with award-winning four-color advertise-
ments for each program featured in the Atlantic, TV Guide,
Forbes, Harper’s, Natural History, American Heritage, the
New York Times Magazine, Smithsonian magazine, and the
metro editions of Newsweek and Time.

As part of “Smithsonian World’s” Summer Encore Season,
the ten programs from its third and fourth seasons were aired
nationally on PBS from July through September 1989, with
advertising in major print publications.

Under Executive Producer Adrian Malone, production for
season five began in the spring of 1989. In the five programs
scheduled to be broadcast in 1990, “Smithsonian World”
will continue to examine unique ideas and concepts in
collaboration with the Institution’s National Zoological Park,
the National Museum of African Art, the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, the National Museum of Natural
History, and the National Museum of American History.
Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
(VIARC) is responsible for a range of centralized Institution-
wide information and assistance programs for the public,
Associate members, Smithsonian staff, interns, and volun-
teers. Operating seven days a week, many VIARC programs
involve the coordination and direction of large numbers of
volunteers. Daily services include staffing sixteen informa-
tion desks in eleven buildings and two Associates reception
desks, answering the Institution’s public telephone lines, and
providing twenty-four-hour recorded information on Dial-a-
Museum and Dial-a-Phenomenon. In addition, VIARC re-
sponds to the Institution’s public mail, handles the recruit-
ment and placement of volunteers behind the scenes, oper-
ates an outreach program to promote membership and
previsit education, and administers the Institution’s exterior
graphic information system.

Renovation, construction, and program activities for the
new Smithsonian Information Center in the Castle were
completed this year; however, the official opening of the
center was delayed to accommodate a major but unrelated
renovation project—the replacement of all windows in the
public areas of the building.

VIARC’s exterior graphic information system progressed
with the installation of directional signs to the Anacostia
Museum and the completion of a joint project with the
National Park Service—the installation of redesigned,
updated, and refurbished general information directories
within monumental cores. In addition, VIARC’s seasonal
outdoor information pylons were updated and in place for
year-round use.

The Public Inquiry Mail Service received and processed
more than 57,000 pieces of mail in 1989 and distributed
3,500 information packets in conjunction with the Smith-
sonian’s efforts to broaden its minority constituency. The
Telephone Information Service handled more than 420,000
calls during the year. The Resident Associate Program’s Kite
Festival, the Washington Craft Show, Black History Month,
and the National Air and Space Museum’s “Wings and
Things” and Lunar Landing Party generated a peak volume
of several thousand calls each day. VIARC provided compre-
hensive recorded information about Smithsonian activities
during the Festival of American Folklife, Black History
Month, Asian Pacific American Heritage Week, and Hispanic
Heritage Month. Dial-a-Phenomenon, the popular recording
on short-lived celestial events, attracted some 44,000 calls.

The Seven-Day Information Service Unit increased the
volunteer information specialist corps to well over six hun-

160

dred in anticipation of staffing needs for the new Smithsonian
Information Center. Approximately 12 percent of these
volunteers represent minority constituencies. Volunteers ex-
tended coverage at information desks at three museums—the
National Museum of American History, the National Mu-
seum of Natural History, and the National Air and Space
Museum—to accommodate an experiment with 9:30 a.m.
openings during the summer. Volunteer information special-
ists also assisted with the Hispanic Festival on the Washing-
ton Monument grounds, with Caribbean Festival Family
Days, and, during extended evening hours, for Inauguration
Day and the Lunar Landing celebration.

Some 1,700 behind-the-scenes volunteers were active
during the year providing short- and long-term assistance on
special projects, including the translation of 168 documents
for Smithsonian departments and divisions. Owing to the
lack of staff space, several VIARC programs—the Special
Magazine Files and Intern Services—were transferred to other
Smithsonian offices, and the 1989 summer Mobile Informa-
tion Program was canceled.

The Information Resource Division completed thirty-
seven printed pieces, produced Institution-wide exhibition
directories and calendars, and, along with the Office of
Public Affairs, reviewed the visitor-oriented publications of
other Smithsonian bureaus. A major publication, Guide to
the Nation’s Capital and the Smithsonian Institution, was
updated and now includes a newly scribed map of the
Washington area.

VIARC’s annual Institution-wide volunteer survey docu-
mented that 5,252 volunteers contributed 468,099 hours of
service during 1989.

University of the Air

Smithsonian University of the Air (formerly Project Discov-
ery) was established in 1986 by the Smithsonian Institution
and television producer Adrian Malone to create a new,
integrated, multimedia curriculum on the history of ideas of
the twentieth century. The goal of the project is to have a
positive influence on the quality of education in the United
States by integrating high-caliber broadcast television dramas
and documentaries, books, and interactive multimedia com-
puter programs and videodiscs.

The television programs will dramatize the lives of
twentieth-century intellectual and cultural leaders and link

_ those lives by documentary series hosted by the great
teachers of our time. Together, the dramas and documenta-
ries will offer viewers the best attributes of each: dramatic
and vital people, and ideas brought to life by artifacts, place,
and time. Smithsonian’s University of the Air will use books,
learning guides, and the latest technology—interactive
videodiscs—to encourage each student to take his or her own
path. Students will be able to experience the excitement of
discovery, the drama of human stories, the context of time
and place, and that old-fashioned aim of classical education—
synthesis.

By 1991, Smithsonian’s University of the Air intends to
have completed four dramas (on Albert Einstein, Werner
Heisenberg, Nadia Boulanger, and John Maynard Keynes)
that will make up one eight-part documentary series and will
be accompanied by computer programs, videodiscs, and
books.

University of the Air has established cooperative relation-
ships with Apple Computer to complete the prototype
interactive multimedia disc and is seeking a broadcast or
computer industry partner for other support. The project is
also working with other offices at the Institution, including
the Resident Associate Program, Smithsonian Institution
Press, and the National Demonstration Laboratory.

161
Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for External Affairs

Office of Membership and
Development

This has been a year of planning and reorganization for the
Office of Membership and Development, which is charged
with the task of carrying out fund-raising activities and
assisting individual bureaus in their development projects.
The arrival of Thomas McCance, Jr., as deputy assistant
secretary for external affairs/director of membership and
development coincided with the beginning of the fiscal year.
Shortly afterward, the office began an extensive study geared
toward both improving its capacity and efficiency through
internal expansion and selecting a new information manage-
ment system to support research, communications, and
record-keeping.

The reorganization creates within the office giving centers
for corporations, foundations, and individuals. Each center is
staffed by teams of people who specialize in that area of
philanthropic activity. A development services center will
focus on providing support to each bureau and office in the
Institution. These changes will enable the office to better
address both Institution-wide priorities and bureau funding
needs. A comprehensive plan for producing development-
related publications, including a Smithsonian-wide case
statement, fund-raising brochures, and newsletters was also
initiated.

A number of new membership initiatives have also been
started. Many friends of the Institution agreed to join the
Secretary’s Circle, which is working to expand the James
Smithson Society, the highest level of the Contributing
Membership Program. A new membership group for people
interested in supporting the Smithsonian at levels above the
Smithson Society also is being planned. In addition, the
office has joined with the National Associate Program in
planning a corporate membership program and is exploring
still other vehicles for creating and nourishing relationships
with our national constituencies.

The Institution received more than $5 million in bequests
during 1989, including the major gift of Franz H. Denghausen
of Massachusetts, which will create an endowment fund in
his and Luisita L. Denghausen’s names to support work in
American art. Other major gifts-by-bequest received include
those from the estates of Roy R. Phillips, Laura I. O’Dea,
Dorothy B. Koteen, John S. Thacher, and Charles H. Ettl.
The planned giving program has worked this year to create
new bequest vehicles to fit the interests of Associates and
other friends. For example, the newly established Global
Environmental Endowment Fund will support research, con-
servation, training, and public education in global environ-
mental studies.

164

Global environmental activities were also the focus of the
office’s initial efforts to identify broad, multibureau clusters
of funding needs. It is expected that the combined efforts
of the many Smithsonian researchers active in this field
will continue to attract the support of corporations and
foundations.

This year, the Smithsonian has received a great number of
important gifts and pledges in addition to those bequests
already mentioned. Some of these gifts and pledges are
described below; a more complete list of donors appears in
the “Benefactors” section of Smithsonian Year.

The Pew Charitable Trusts made three grants exceeding
$1 million to be used for planning a major exhibition on
global environmental change; for completing the Philadel-
phia collecting project of the Archives of American Art; and
to the National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural
Property for “Save Our Sculpture!” a national inventory of
American sculpture being carried out in conjunction with the
National Museum of American Art.

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation awarded two grants:
for work on the structure and evolution of terrestrial ecosys-
tems in concert with university researchers and for the
Minimum Critical Size of Ecosystems project in the Amazon
basin. The first project will permit the regular exchange of
scientists between the Smithsonian and American universi-
ties. The second project is a long-term study to determine
the size of undisturbed land areas necessary to preserve
tropical forest animal and plant species from extinction.

The Burch Heart Research and Education Fund has cre-
ated the George E. Burch Fellowships in theoretical medicine
and affiliated theoretical sciences at the Smithsonian. The
fellowships will provide selected scholars access to the many
resources at the Smithsonian and a year to study the theory
and role of medicine and other scientific disciplines in
modern society.

The Columbus Quincentenary programs of the Smith-
sonian received a major boost with the signing in June of an
agreement with Spanish investors under the Sogotel organi-
zation to back the production of the “Buried Mirror” |
television series. Other efforts to organize support for this
massive effort to commemorate the 500 years of interaction
between Old and New Worlds have accelerated during 1989.

Another anniversary—that of the bicentennial of the French
Revolution—was commemorated with major underwriting
from the American Committee on the French Revolution, as
well as from the Grand Marnier Foundation and the Florence
Gould Foundation. Air France made possible a splendid

occasion to celebrate the shared democratic traditions of the
United States and France by flying a joint delegation from
Paris to Washington on a Concorde aircraft, pledging one of
these aircraft to the National Air and Space Museum.

A number of exhibitions received important support dur-
ing the year. The National Air and Space Museum received
funding for its exhibition “Beyond the Limits,” which ex-
plores the applications of computers to flight. The National
Museum of American History has secured funding from
dozens of corporations in the communications industry for
its upcoming treatment of information technology in an
exhibition called “Information Age.” Similarly, the gem and
mineral industry is being approached to underwrite the
planned renovation of the permanent gem and mineral hall at
the National Museum of Natural History.

The art museums also received generous corporate and
foundation support. The Shell Oil Foundation cosponsored
“Courts and Colonies: The William and Mary Style in
Holland, England, and America,” a show about the era of
William and Mary, at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. Tiffany
and Company made possible a major exhibition on Tiffany
masterworks at the Renwick Gallery of the National Mu-
seum of American Art. United Technologies Corporation
made possible an exhibition at the Sackler Gallery of the
works of Chinese artist prodigy Wang Yani. U.S. Air has
agreed to underwrite the upcoming exhibition of Irving
Penn’s works being planned jointly by the National Museum
of American Art and the National Portrait Gallery. The latter
also acquired an important portrait of educator Bishop
George Berkeley with the assistance of the Morris and
Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation.

The Institution was saddened by the death of Mrs. Cafritz
last winter; her generosity both to Smithsonian’s museums
and programs and to the city of Washington, D.C., will be
long remembered.

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

The National Board of the Smithsonian Associates was
established to bring the Institution into closer association
with corporate, professional, community, and cultural lead-
ers from throughout the country. The Institution looks to the
National Board for guidance in stimulating appropriate forms
of cooperation among these sectors and for assistance with
regional Smithsonian activities, educational services, and
private support for these and other programs.

Ata spring meeting in Jackson, Mississippi, Secretary

Adams reviewed his five years on the job and briefed the
board on the latest developments at the Institution. Board
member Charles Kemp was host for the weekend, which
included dinner at the governor’s mansion, a trip to the
Vicksburg battlefields, a tour of antebellum homes in
Natchez, and dinner with some of Jackson’s leading citizens
at the Mississippi Museum of Art.

Seven new members were elected to the National Board:
Charles L. Brown of New Jersey; Ivan Chermayeff of New
York; Thomas G. Cousins of Georgia; Joan Dillon (Mrs.
George C.) of Missouri; Alvin Puryear of New York; Jill
Sackler (Mrs. Arthur M.) of New York; and Dr. Ivan Selin of
Washington, D.C. The three retiring board members were
William W. Boeschenstein of Ohio; James H. Clement of
Texas; and Marshall Field of Illinois.

As part of the Smithsonian’s increased interest in the
environment, several board members joined Thomas E.
Lovejoy, assistant secretary for external affairs and a tropical
biologist, for a two-week spring study tour of the rainforests
of Brazil.

Following custom, the National Board’s autumn meeting
was held in Washington, D.C. At the Friday, September 22,
session, members and their spouses heard the Smithsonian’s
six assistant secretaries discuss their respective areas of
responsibility. In the afternoon, board members were given
an introductory tour of the new Smithsonian Information
Center in the Castle. The annual National Board-James
Smithson Society dinner was held in the National Museum
of African Art and the S. Dillon Ripley Center that evening.
On Saturday, September 23, Secretary Adams and Treasurer
Ann Leven gave the members an update on the Institution
and its finances. Chief Justice William Rehnquist, who is also
chancellor of the Smithsonian, and his wife joined past, ac-
tive, and honorary board members for dinner Saturday eve-
ning in the Arts and Industries Building.

James Smithson Society

The James Smithson Society was founded in 1977 as the
highest level of the Contributing Membership of the Smith-
sonian National Associate Program. Since then, the society
has awarded more than $2,700,000 in support of Smith-
sonian projects and acquisitions. Through the contribution
of the Annual Members, this year the society made grants
totaling $409,460. The many projects benefiting from these
awards are listed below.

The Smithson Society’s Annual Weekend was held Sep-

165
tember 22-23 in conjunction with the fall meeting of the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates. Secretary
Adams welcomed the group at a formal dinner on Friday,
September 22, in the National Museum of African Art and
the S. Dillon Ripley Center. Later the same evening, Gay F.
Wray, chairman of the National Board, announced the
projects receiving 1989 Smithson Society grants and awarded
the society's Founder Medal to Mercer Ellington for his
donation of the Duke Ellington Collection to the National
Museum of American History. Jimmy McPhail, a vocalist
with the Duke Ellington Band, accepted the award on behalf
of Mercer Ellington, who was unable to attend.

Saturday morning at the National Museum of American
Art, society members and spouses of National Board mem-
bers were given a special presentation and tour of “The
Patricia and Phillip Frost Collection: American Abstraction,
1930-1945,” led by Virginia M. Mecklenburg, chief curator.

After the tour, members previewed the museum’s Conser-
vation Laboratory and then proceeded to the Smithsonian
Castle for a luncheon held in the Commons. Members
visited the new Smithsonian Information Center following
lunch.

This year, the James Smithson Society awarded grants to
support the following projects:

National Museum of African Art: To acquire a utilitarian
collection from East and Southern Africa.

National Museum of American Art: To support the exhibi-
tion, “Treasures of American Folk Art from the Abby Aldrich
Rockefeller Folk Art Center.”

National Museum of American History: To acquire and
organize the Zimmerman World’s Fair Collection and staff
research of “An Oral History of Southern Agriculture.”

Cooper-Hewitt Museum: To underwrite the production of
a color brochure about the museum.

National Air and Space Museum: To conserve selected
archival aerospace films and videotapes.

Conservation Analytical Laboratory: To support an autora-
diography facility for art conservation and research.

National Portrait Gallery: To acquire a portfolio of photo-
graphic prints by Richard Avedon.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery: To restore Whistler’s Peacock
Room.

National Museum of Natural History: To support a sympo-
sium in conjunction with the exhibiton, ““Nomads: Masters
of the Eurasian Steppe.”

166

National Zoological Park: To develop and establish a
worldwide electronic bulletin board for international conser-
vation programs at the Zoo’s Conservation and Research
Center.

Office of Public Affairs: To print a new publication on
behind-the-scenes research at the Institution.

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
continued its support and advancement of Smithsonian
interests through fund-raising events and special project
awards. Its sixty-three active members and seventy-five
resource members contributed more than seven thousand
volunteer hours to the Institution. Net proceeds from the
1988 Washington Craft Show and the annual Christmas
Dinner Dance enabled the committee to award forty-four
grants totaling $156,477 to twenty museums and bureaus.
Projects were supported in amounts from $350 to $8,000.
The committee also made an additional commitment of
$20,000 to the Women’s Committee Endowment Fund.

The inherent variety of the Smithsonian Institution is
reflected in even a partial list of the educational and research
projects funded by the Women’s Committee. Awards were
given for workshops titled the “History of the Space Shut-
tle”; scholarships for minority participants in seminars spon-
sored by the Smithsonian Lecture and Seminar Program; a
family- and group-oriented guide to the Hirshhorn Museum;
and the organization and preparation of slides documenting
the history of the Old Patent Office Building and the
National Museum of American Art.

Other grants were awarded for the establishment of a
hands-on collection of Asian art and art materials for the
Sackler Gallery; the preparation of illustrations for a book on
nineteenth-century horticulture; a teachers’ guide for the
traveling exhibition “See You in the Funny Papers: 100 Years
of American Cartoon Art’; the acquisition of a Lyon-Lamb
Animation Controller for the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory; and a video camera to record historical events
at the Anacostia Museum.

The National Museum of American History received
support for a documentary recording of organ music for
broadcast by “Radio Smithsonian”; the purchase of historic
reproductions for use in the National Museum of American
History’s Hands-on History Room; and the design and
fabrication of an exhibition about American bicycles, tricy-
cles, cyclists, and cycling activities. The National Zoological
Park was given funds for botanical shading for the spectacle
bear enclosure; a video support teaching microscope for the
soil arthropod exhibit in the Invertebrate Exhibit, equipment
for a program to train nationals of tropical countries in
wildlife conservation techniques, and stipend support for
graduate students in the reproductive physiology program.

In addition, the National Museum of Natural History
received support for the conservation of specimens from the
Alexander Crane Fly Collection, the production of a hand-

book on plant collection techniques, and the development of
an interactive exhibit module on the study of molluscan shell
structure.

The eighteenth annual Christmas Dinner Dance was held
in the newly completed restaurant facility at the National Air
and Space Museum. Now an established Smithsonian tradi-
tion, this gala evening again proved to be a tremendously
successful fund-raising event.

A careful two-day jurying process selected the one hun-
dred craft artists from thirty-two states who participated in
the seventh annual Washington Craft Show in April. Asa
result of its growing national stature and increased atten-
dance, the show was open to the public for four days, instead
of three. A benefit reception and silent auction were held in
conjunction with the Craft Show to raise additional funds for
the Smithsonian. And the fifth High School Craft Competi-
tion recognized young artisans from the District of Columbia
public schools.
Smithsonian National
Associate Program

Serving more than two million members, the Smithsonian
National Associate Program offers innovative educational
opportunities throughout the nation, expanding the bounda-
ries of the Institution to encompass all fifty states and the
world. The program’s far-flung membership is kept abreast
of the Institution’s activities through Smithsonian magazine
and the newsletter, Smithsonian Traveler. In cooperation
with other Smithsonian bureaus, the program has organized
a diverse range of activities for members. As a result, the
program has, since its beginning in 1970, fostered a strong
national constituency for the Smithsonian’s work while also
establishing itself as an important source of unrestricted trust
fund income.

A sampling of the activities and accomplishments of the
program’s five units is presented below.

Contributing Membership Program

Comprising more than fifty-two thousand households, the
Contributing Members of the National Associate Program
generously provide unrestricted funds in support of Smith-
sonian research, education, collections, and outreach pro-
grams. This support comes from the members’ annual
membership dues and contributions to special fund-raising
appeals, as well as from matching gifts from their employers.

Members may participate at six levels: Supporting ($60),
Donor ($125), Sponsoring ($300), Sustaining ($600), Patron
($1,200), and the James Smithson Society ($2,000).

Established in 1976, the Contributing Membership Pro-
gram enjoys a national membership, with 90 percent of the
constituency residing outside the Washington metropolitan
area. Results of a spring 1988 membership survey confirm
that Contributing Members are well-educated, affluent, and
active participants in their communities. According to the
survey findings, the majority of the membership is involved
with the Smithsonian to support its museums and exhibi-
tions, along with its research activities. In 1989, this support
amounted to approximately $2.8 million in net unrestricted
gain to the Institution.

In appreciation of its members’ loyal commitment to the
Smithsonian, the program offers a variety of benefits and
special programs. This year, members were invited to attend
nine Smithsonian exhibition previews and receptions, in-
cluding “Alberto Giacometti, 1901-1966” at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden; “Beyond the Limits: Flight
Enters the Computer Age” at the National Air and Space
Museum; and “The First Federal Congress, 1789-1791” at

168

the National Portrait Gallery. The members also viewed two
important exhibitions at the National Museum of Natural
History (“Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia and
Alaska” and “Inside Active Volcanoes: Kilauea and Mount
St. Helens”), both of which received Contributing Member-
ship Program support via the Smithsonian Institution Special
Exhibition Fund.

Additional special membership events were held at the
National Museum of African Art, the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, and the National Museum of American History.
James Smithson Society members enjoyed an exclusive tour
of Paul E. Mellon’s estate and private collection of sporting
art, plus a private viewing of “The Art of Paul Manship” at
the National Museum of American Art.

Contributing Members received several complimentary
publications in 1989, including Crossroads of Continents:
Cultures of Siberia and Alaska, A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts
of the Book from the Vever Collection, and Paul Manship. All
members received the Smithsonian Engagement Calendar,
while donor and higher-level members received the poster,
“Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing Treasure.” As a spe-
cial gesture of appreciation, James Smithson Society mem-
bers received the Smithsonian recording, American Musical
Theater: Shows, Songs, and Stars.

As in previous years, Contributing Members in 1989
enthusiastically participated in “Smithsonian Treasures,” a
behind-the-scenes visit to the Institution. The highly popu-
lar, five-day tour currently is offered twice each year. Addi-
tional benefits are offered in conjunction with the Lecture
and Seminar Program, including priority registration, com-
plimentary tickets to one lecture, and often an invitation to
an accompanying informal reception. This year, receptions
were held in eight cities across the country.

Corporate Associate Program

During 1989, extensive planning was undertaken to design a
new membership unit of the National Associate Program, the
Smithsonian Corporate Associate Program. Scheduled to be
operational in early 1990, this program will offer member-
ship in the Smithsonian Institution to corporations across the
country.

The objectives underpinning the program are threefold: to
expand the Institution’s funding base for unrestricted annual
support; to encourage additional restricted underwriting of
special projects and events; and to foster a greater under-
standing by American business of the important role played

by the Smithsonian in the cultural and scientific vitality of
this country.

Lecture and Seminar Program

The Lecture and Seminar Program, now in its fourteenth
year, is dedicated to providing National Associate members
and the public with educational events that highlight the
research and collections of the Smithsonian. In 1989, Smith-
sonian curators, scientists, and research associates presented
lectures, seminars, family programs, and hands-on work-
shops in twenty-one U.S. cities.

The majority of the cities visited this year played host to
Smithsonian events for the first time. These include the
Northwest Chicago suburbs; Jackson, Mississippi; Colorado
Springs, Colorado; Salem, Massachusetts; Harrisburg, Penn-
sylvania; South Bend, Indiana; Davenport, Iowa; Palo Alto,
California; Green Bay, Wisconsin; Wilmington, Delaware;
Pocatello, Idaho; Columbia, South Carolina; Orono, Maine;
and San Jose, California.

Cities to which the Smithsonian returned in 1989 are
Roanoke, Virginia; Seattle, Washington; Oshkosh, Wiscon-
sin; Boone, North Carolina; Charlotte, North Carolina; Port-
land, Oregon; and Los Angeles, California.

This year, Portland collaborated with seven local organiza-
tions and the Lecture and Seminar Program to provide the
Portland area with an exciting six-day program. Approxi-
mately twelve hundred people attended the program’s ten
events, including “Telescopes for Tomorrow” by Frederic
Chaffee, Jr.; “Splendors of Asian Art” by Patrick Sears; and
“Shepard to Shuttle: A Space Workshop for Teachers” by
Kasse Andrews- Weller.

In addition to presenting events across the country, the
Lecture and Seminar Program also coordinates international
series. The American University in Paris, France, was the site
of a program last year.

Six seminars managed by the program were held in
Washington, D.C., presenting topics such as “Crossroads of
Continents: Cultures of Siberia and Alaska” and “Treasures
of 15th Century Persian Art.” Another six seminars were
held at resort locations, including “Salute to American
Popular Song and Jazz” at the Broadmoor in Colorado
Springs, Colorado, and “‘Creation Myths: The Origins of
Reality” at Mohonk Mountain House in New Paltz, New
York. The final seminar held this year, at the Experimental
Aircraft Association Air Adventure Museum in Oskosh,
Wisconsin, highlighted aircraft restoration and technology.

Research Expedition Program

The Smithsonian Research Expedition Program was estab-
lished in 1988 as another important benefit of National
Associate membership. The purpose of the program is to
offer Associate members the opportunity to become person-
ally involved with the Institution by working closely with
Smithsonian professional staff and to provide Smithsonian
scientists with an additional source of field assistance and
funding for their research projects. In the 1989 Research
Expeditions, ninety-four Associate members participated,
contributed more than $100,000, and provided nearly
65,000 hours of volunteer labor.

Last year’s volcano project expedition led by scientist
William Melson of the National Museum of Natural History
is one example. Eleven Associate members monitored and
recorded the activities of Arenal Volcano near San Jose,
Costa Rica, for two weeks. The data they collected is an
integral part of the ongoing research being conducted at the
site.

In addition, eight other expeditions were conducted this
year in England, Montana, Florida, Virginia, and Washing-
ton, D.C. Topics included archaeology, Native American
studies, wildlife ecology, photographic documentation, aero-
space curriculum development, and archival research.

Associates Travel Program

The Associates Travel Program organizes educational tours
that mirror the many and varied interests of the Institution.
In 1989, more than six thousand National Associates partici-
pated in the 142 foreign and domestic tours offered by the
program. And since the program’s inception in 1975, more
than eighty-six thousand Associates have embarked on
program-organized journeys. The educational value of each
outing is enhanced by carefully chosen study leaders. One or
more Smithsonian staff members are present on each trip.

In 1989, nineteen new foreign study tours were offered.
For the first time, Associates visited the national parks of
Zimbabwe and Botswana, toured the gardens of Normandy
and Brittany (France), and visited archaeological sites in
eastern Turkey rarely seen by foreigners. Another new
program, “England for Families,” drew grandparents, par-
ents, and children.

Study voyages continued to be among the most popular
ways to travel and learn. More than 750 Associates boarded
specially chartered vessels bound for diverse areas of the

169
globe. Participants cruised the Red Sea, making inland
journeys to Luxor and Petra. Sixty-three adventurous mem-
bers joined scientists aboard the Society Explorer fora
two-week voyage along the Antarctic coast. Members also
explored the Indonesian islands of Java and Sumatra, traveled
down Siberia’s majestic Lena River, circled the British Isles,
and rounded Cape Horn en route from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
to Santiago, Chile. Experts in regional culture and ecology
accompanied all cruises and offered on-board lectures on
topics ranging from history and current politics to geology
and marine life.

Fourteen tours were offered to Associates wishing to visit
China. They included some old favorites: China Odyssey,
Yangtze Cruise, Silk Route, and History through the Dynas-
ties. New offerings included Mongolia, Across the Heart of
Asia and Seminars in Xian/Beijing, and Qufu/Beijing. Fol-
lowing the political unrest in June, however, the fall 1989
tours were cancelled.

Countryside programs in 1989 offered the opportunity to
live in small towns in Hungary, England, Wales, Italy,
Switzerland, Austria, or France. Foreign residential seminars
were held at Trinity College, Dublin; at the American
University in Cairo; and at the Hotel Villa Carlotta in
Florence. Decorative arts, literature, and ancient history were
among the topics studied in depth during these two-week
learning experiences. Enrollment in the Oxford/Smithsonian
seminar, now in its eleventh year, continued to be strong,
with Associates taking part in courses that included British
literature, gardens, and historic architecture. Beginning this
year, domestic seminars have been incorporated into the
Associates Travel Program, affording members an even wider
choice of seminar options in the United States and abroad.

More than fifty Domestic Study Tours were offered in
1989, providing Associates with numerous opportunities to
experience the natural wonders and regional heritage of
America. Popular hiking programs were planned to Yosemite,
Big Bend, and Bryce and Zion National Parks. Associates
camped in Idaho on a Salmon River rafting trip and floated
through the Grand Canyon on a Colorado River adventure.
Study leaders lectured on the geology and natural history of
these wilderness areas. Mangrove habitats and subtropical
plants were the focus of a week-long study in the Everglades
during a trip to the Ten Thousand Islands area. These active
outdoor programs help to increase understanding and appre-
ciation for conservation of our natural resources.

New excursions in American history and culture included
“Renaissance Miami,” ““The Old West,” and ‘Romance of

170

the Gold Rush.” Participants enrolled in “Take Me Back to
the Ballpark,” a study tour of historic stadiums, and found
themselves the subject of unprecedented media attention in
Chicago, Detroit, and Cleveland. Another new tour, “Detroit
Auto Barons,” focused on the impact of the automobile in
American society.

Special Christmas programs were expanded to Asheville
and Santa Fe while Associates celebrated their seventeenth
annual “Christmas at the Smithsonian Weekend.” Members
continued to participate in the “Washington Anytime Week-
end,” although the smaller numbers this year reflected an
overall decline in Washington, D.C., tourism in 1989.

Of the four cruises offered, three were new. The Sea of
Cortes study tour featured superb viewing of sea lions and
blue whales. Another natural history cruise explored the
remote inlets and fjords of Alaska’s southeastern panhandle.
Herman Viola, director of the Columbus Quincentenary
Program at the National Museum of Natural History, accom-
panied Associates on a fall cruise up the Columbia River and
lectured about the Lewis and Clark and the Wilkes expedi-
tions. The popular Delta Queen, chartered for the fifth time
in six years, steamed from New Orleans to Memphis with
160 Associates aboard.

Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

As the privately supported cultural, continuing education,
membership, and public outreach arm of the Smithsonian
Institution for metropolitan Washington, the Resident Associ-
ate Program (RAP) is a model for museum and university
programs nationally and internationally. RAP engages area
residents directly in the life of the Smithsonian through
activities that enhance and complement the Institution’s
collections, exhibitions, and research, and through programs
consistent with the Smithsonian’s role as the national mu-
seum complex.

In 1989, the program offered 1,938 high-quality and
timely activities, attended by more than 294,000 adults and
young people. Membership in the Resident Associate Pro-
gram numbers 5 8,000, representing about 130,000 persons.

This year, RAP won several special awards and branched
out in new directions. From December 15 through April 25,
sixteen works commissioned by RAP over as many years
were exhibited to critical acclaim in the new, informally
dubbed “Escalator Gallery” in the S. Dillon Ripley Center.
The program won two awards for the editorial and design
excellence of its monthly publication the Smithsonian Asso-
ciate from the National University Continuing Education
Association and the National Association of Government
Communicators. RAP also added three institutions to its
impressive roster of collaborating organizations—the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, Digital Equipment Corporation, and the
Organization of American States Museum of Modern Art of
Latin America.

An impressive number of RAP’s programs received na-
tional and international attention, bringing widespread credit
and recognition to the Institution and to RAP. RAP’s activi-
ties were reviewed in the New York Times, and U.S. News &
World Report, as well as in the Japanese, Chinese, and Soviet
press.

In addition, RAP’s Development Office concluded its first
year of operation and was able to expand RAP’s curriculum
and audience participation to include Afro-American studies
programs that attracted many more African Americans to
RAP events than have attended in the past. RAP also
expanded its certificate course program to include Latin
American studies.

The program continued to commission and sell high-
quality, limited-edition works of art—including many created
by Washington artists—to its membership and the general
public. In recognition of the eightieth birthday of eminent
Washington painter and printmaker Jacob Kainen, RAP
commissioned a vibrant abstract lithograph titled Bright

Surround. Proceeds from this piece by Kainen, along with the
proceeds of its popular semiannual art inventory sales of
previously commissioned works, have brought the program
substantial revenue from art purchases. Net art income for
fiscal year 1989 totaled well over $75,000.

Cooperation with Smithsonian Bureaus and Major Offices

During fiscal year 1989, RAP worked with a wide range of
Smithsonian museums to create exciting and innovative
programs. Notable examples included four chamber music
series cosponsored with the National Museum of American
History; the Twentieth Century Consort music series co-
sponsored with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den; and occasional series of evenings at the National Portrait
Gallery, featuring Eleanor Lansing Dulles and J. William
Fulbright in dialogue with biographer and assistant director
of the National Portrait Gallery, Marc Pachter. Evenings with
major young artists and eminent critics were featured in
collaborative lectures with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden. The National Museum of Natural History
cosponsored a lecture by American explorer Paul Schurke,
who was part of an international team that crossed the Bering
Strait by dogsled and skis in the spring of 1989. Finally, a
concert of Uzbek dance and music was cosponsored with the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery to complement its exhibition,
“Timur and the Princely Vision: Persian Art and Culture in
the Fifteenth Century.”

Other RAP programs for adults and children that show-
cased Smithsonian exhibitions included “From the Fountain
of Freshness: Islamic Arts of the Book,” a seven-session
Campus on the Mall course with a museum tour. This event
was cosponsored with the Sackler Gallery in conjunction
with its exhibition, “A Jeweler’s Eye: Islamic Arts of the
Book from the Vever Collection.” A children’s workshop,
“Chinese Calligraphy: Writing with a Brush,” complemented
the Sackler Gallery exhibition “Yani: The Brush of Inno-
cence.” World-renowned master drummer Baba Olatunji
and Drums of Passion performed as part of RAP’s recogni-
tion of the National Museum of African Art’s exhibition
“Sounding Forms: African Musical Instruments.”

Several programs celebrated the 150th anniversary of
photography and the National Museum of American Art
exhibition “Photography of Invention.” Among these pro-
grams were a lecture by photographer, scholar, and teacher
Beaumont Newhall (cosponsored with the National Gallery
of Art) and a class for Young Associates, ‘*First-Time Photos.”

eG /i
Author Alice Walker spoke to a Resident Associate Program audience
in June. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

To celebrate the centennial of the National Zoological
Park, RAP presented the Washington premiere of the Disney
film Cheetah and a three-part lecture series held at the Zoo
titled ‘“World Wildlife Adventures.” The filled-to-capacity
program was cosponsored with the World Wildlife Fund.

Museum Shops sponsored two Shops parties for RAP
members, as well as book-signing receptions following lec-
tures. RAP program staff continue to meet regularly with the
curatorial staffs of all Smithsonian museums to discuss
program concepts.

Outreach

RAP actively seeks to involve new audiences in its activities
through a variety of initiatives, special-interest projects, and
its Development Office. One such effort is RAP’s Discover
Graphics program, which offers two hundred talented area
public high school students and their art teachers free
etching and lithography training on fine Smithsonian presses
each year. The culmination of the program is a juried
two-month exhibition of student prints in the Rotunda
Gallery of the National Museum of Natural History. The
Gene Davis Printmaking Studio in the Arts and Industries
Building, where the program is established, also serves as a
printmaking and bookbinding complex for RAP members
and Smithsonian staff.

Tuition-free scholarships for Young Associate and adult
courses were awarded through the District of Columbia
public school system. This year, 89 inner-city young people
and 175 adults received scholarships.

The twenty-third annual Kite Festival, cosponsored with
the National Air and Space Museum and open to members
and the general public, attracted more than ten thousand

L7z

persons to the Mall in March and received extensive media
coverage.

RAP’s weekly lecture series, Tuesday Mornings at the
Smithsonian, is designed to appeal to retired persons and
others who prefer participating in daytime programs. The
thirty lectures offered this year were presented by Smith-
sonian scholars on a wide range of topics. The program
includes discussions of exhibitions and research at the
Smithsonian and is preceded by continental breakfast in the
Associates Court. Now in its seventh year, the program
attracted 8,300 people.

Outside Collaboration

RAP cosponsored its sixteenth annual lecture series with the
Audubon Naturalist Society of the Central Atlantic States
and the Friends of the National Zoo. The series attracted
9,600 persons. Throughout the year, RAP also collaborated
with other organizations to produce lectures, seminars, films,
concerts, and courses for young people and adults. Organi-
zations RAP worked with included the American Institute of
Architects, the National Geographic Society, the Textile
Museum, Filmfest D.C., Meridian House International, the
World Wildlife Fund, the Wilderness Society, National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration,the Council for the
Advancement and Support of Education, the Baltimore-
Washington Institute for Psychoanalysis, the Washington
Post, WETA-TV, Washington Independent Writers, the Wash-
ington Project for the Arts, the International Poetry Forum,
District Curators, the Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival, and
major museums in New York, Baltimore, and Philadelphia.

Other unique programs led to still other collaborations.
RAP’s annual metropolitan Washington area symposium
(this year on city infrastructure) was cosponsored with the
National Building Museum, the Federal City Council, the
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, the D.C.
Preservation League, the Washington Chapter of the Ameri-
can Planning Association, the Committee of One Hundred
on the Federal City, and the Greater Washington Board of
Trade. The American Association for the Advancement of
Science continued to collaborate with RAP’s Campus on the
Mall program to produce the popular “Frontiers of Science”
courses. AMTRAK and CSX rail systems cosponsored rail-
road tours that were a highlight of RAP’s spring and fall tour
offerings.

“Speak of Me as I Am,” a stirring salute to Black History
Month, was presented in collaboration with the University of

Alabama at Birmingham’s Town and Gown Theater. Re-
cently instituted collaborations with publishers such as Harry
N. Abrams and Doubleday continued to bring fascinating
authors to Smithsonian platforms to discuss their latest
books. Among these authors were Leon Uris, Margaret
Atwood, and Billy Kluver.

Foreign embassies and international societies have colla-
borated with RAP to produce some of the most popular and
stimulating offerings. In 1989, these included the 28th
International Geological Congress, which cosponsored the
lecture series “Geological Science Today: Planets to Plate
Tectonics”; the Embassy of the German Democratic Repub-
lic, for an all-day seminar; the Embassy of Australia, for a film
series; and the Embassy of Indonesia, for special musical
performances. The Campus on the Mall planned popular
multisession courses cosponsored with the embassies of
Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Turkey, Yugoslavia, Thailand, and New Zealand.

Afro-American Studies

Encouraged by the support of the Institution to build larger
audiences and more membership from Washington’s African
American community, RAP’s Development Office concluded
its first full year of operations in fiscal year 1989. The office
implemented an Afro-American Studies program for which
all RAP programmers, in addition to the office, plan events.
Activities are announced in a quarterly Afro-American bro-
chure, as well as through a direct-mail marketing campaign,
radio advertising, intensive public relations efforts, and grass
roots involvement with churches and organizations in the
African American community. The Development Office has
begun to create new collaborations within the Washington
community and to broaden the program’s African American
participation.

Substantial progress has resulted from these efforts. The
number of events produced was double that for the previous
calendar year; RAP now has one of the most consistent
offerings in liberal arts connected to Afro-American studies
outside of a major college or university. New audiences were
attracted as a result of these efforts; almost ten thousand
people attended the forty programs. Average African Ameri-
can participation in these targeted events was 65 percent
and, in many cases, was over 80 percent. Response from the
community has been favorable, with major African American
media publications, television, and radio devoting special
features to these events. Focus in the next fiscal year will be

on building continued awareness and attracting a larger
African American membership.

Campus on the Mall

Through the Smithsonian Campus on the Mall, RAP pro-
vides the only Institution-wide avenue for continuing stud-
ies, offering six- to eight-week lectures, as well as intensive
weekend courses. In four terms during 1989, the program
offered more than two hundred lecture courses and attracted
approximately seventy thousand students. This year, the
Campus on the Mall concluded its first certificate of partici-
pation program, a seven-course series on Western civilization
offered over a period of one and a half years. The popularity
of this concept led to the creation of a second certificate of
participation program, “The Smithsonian Series on Latin
American Art and Civilization,” in collaboration with the
Organization of American States Museum of Modern Art of
Latin America. The Campus on the Mall also offers a wide
variety of courses for which participants may receive credit
through the University of Maryland University College. The
year’s best-received offerings included media-related studies,
a new lecture series on the Supreme Court, and a wide range
of science courses.

Studio Arts

In 1989, 241 courses and workshops encompassing contem-
porary and traditional arts and including both color and
black-and-white photography were offered to 17,300 partic-
ipants. The courses and workshops are offered in four terms
per year and feature hands-on experience in studio arts, as
well as access to RAP’s state-of-the-art photography labora-
tory. All courses are kept small for optimal benefit.

Notable new programs included a workshop, “Traditions
in Hand-Built Pottery,” featuring techniques of Native Amer-
ican and West African groups; “Fine Handcrafted Furniture:
From Workshop to Marketplace,” an all-day seminar made
possible by a grant from the Hechinger Foundation; and an
all-day seminar cosponsored with the Society of Gilders
titled, “The Art of Framing.”’ Renowned instructors and
lecturers included professional knitting designer Alice Star-
more and painter Benny Andrews.

Lectures, Seminars, and Films
Lectures, symposia, and all-day seminars featuring distin-

173
guished scholars and experts addressed a wide range of
current topics in the arts, humanities, and sciences. Individ-
ual films and film series included many U.S. and Washington
premieres. A total of 28,000 people attended 100 lectures,
and 1,800 people attended 17 seminars; attendance at 66
films exceeded 18,000. The lecturers included novelist Alice
Walker; poet Nikki Giovanni; dance critic Anna Kisselgoff;
Nobel Prize-winning geneticist James D. Watson; jazz musi-
cian and author Milton Hinton; sports figure and author
Arthur Ashe; and journalists James Fallows, Roger Wilkins,
Neil Sheehan, Robert MacNeil, and Stanley Karnow. A
continuing occasional series showcasing local and national
architects included a lecture by Hugh N. Jacobsen.

All-day seminars featured such topics as medieval French
architecture, Hinduism, Central American history and poli-
tics, the art and culture of Dresden, global climate change,
and the history of World War II.

Singles’ Evenings, the widely publicized series featuring
lectures by Smithsonian scholars, were presented four times
this year. Programs took place at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, the National Museum of American His-
tory, and the Renwick Gallery. The series, attended equally
by men and women, attracted capacity registration totaling
4,800, and additional interested people crowded the pro-
gram’s wait list.

Notable film presentations included an eight-part series of
European and American films portraying the French Revolu-
tion during its bicentennial year and a five-part Glasnost
documentary series of films made in the Soviet Union. A
delegation of Soviet filmmakers attended the opening night
of the Glasnost series. The world premiere of the documen-
tary The Wilderness Idea: John Muir, Gifford Pinchot, and the
Battle for Wilderness celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary
of the Wilderness Act. Washington film premieres included
The Navigator, Little Dorrit, For All Mankind, and War
Requiem.

Performing Arts

RAP, in its sixth year of sponsoring ticketed performing arts
events, presented 116 performances that were attended by
30,000 persons. Highlights were colorful presentations of
music and dance from Indonesia, Uzbekistan, and Tibet;
traditional music from South and Central America per-
formed by the ensembles Yolocamba I Ta and Rumillajta; an

174

evening with Broadway star Ruth Brown; the second annual
Thelonious Monk International Jazz Piano Competition; and
five concerts showcasing the best in string quartet perform-
ances today, which were presented in collaboration with the
University of Maryland’s Summer Institute for the Creative
and Performing Arts.

Major series offerings included the famed Emerson String
Quartet, the Twentieth Century Consort, two jazz series, and
a special evening with young jazz star Harry Connick, Jr.
Other popular events included the Pro Musicis Foundation
series spotlighting young musicians and critically acclaimed
performances by the Smithsonian chamber music program’s
artists-in-residence—the Smithson String Quartet, the Smith-
sonian Chamber Players, the Castle Trio in its debut season,
and the Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra. Salutes to National
Dance Week by the Philadelphia Dance Theatre, to National
Women’s History Month by actress Joanne Hamlin, and to
Hispanic Heritage Month by Latin jazz star Hilton Ruiz, as
well as delightful Sunday morning brunch concerts and
popular outdoor courtyard concerts, enhanced the season’s
diverse schedule.

Study Tours

About eighteen thousand people participated in 5 56 events
in the fields of art, architecture, archaeology, history, indus-
try, and science. One- and two-day trips ranged from
excursions to New York City, to study the fashion industry
and view important new art exhibitions, to a two-day
architectural study trip to Cape May, New Jersey. Sailing
trips on Maryland’s historic waterways; day-long birding
excursions; and day tours to many Civil War sites in Mary-
land, Virginia, and Pennsylvania all attracted interested
participants. |

The popular series of railroad tours focusing on rail
technology and history continued, highlighted by the first
official public charter trip on the new Allegheny Central
Railroad between Cumberland and Frostburg, Maryland.
Nearby visits led by experts featured walking tours of
historic neighborhoods, parks, and cemeteries, as well as
behind-the-scenes tours of artists’ studios and museum areas
not usually open to the public. Guided visits to local sites
included the Smithsonian’s Museum Support Center, the
National Museum of Natural History’s Transmission Elec-
tron Microscope Laboratory, various African American
churches, and Washington’s private art galleries.

Participants enjoy the Resident Associate Program’s Halloween party at the National Portrait Gallery. (Photograph by Jeffrey Crespi)

Young Associate and Family Activities

In 1989, several thousand young people, aged four to fifteen,
participated in workshops, classes, monthly free films, tours,
performances, family lecture programs, and a summer camp
sponsored by RAP. Workshops and classes designed for
children accompanied by adults continued to be important
learning tools. A total of 205 Young Associate and Family
activities took place this year, attended by 13,300 individuals.

This year’s family Halloween Party took place at the
National Portrait Gallery with the theme “Picture Perfect
Family Party.” Other annual events were the winter film and
reception in conjunction with the ‘““Trees of Christmas”
display in the National Museum of American History; the
summer “Evening Picnic at the Zoo”; and a Children’s Book
Week family program.

Discovery Theater

Celebrating its eleventh season, Discovery Theater presented
372 performances for 71,700 young people and their fami-

lies. In November, Discovery Theater produced the original
play ‘Rosa Parks: Speaking Out,” with a cast of deaf and
hearing actors and actresses. The play was presented through
a combination of spoken English, American Sign Language,
and gesture. For the first time this year, Discovery Theater
extended its regular October through June season to include
an important summer performance, a five-day event in July
featuring deaf international performers cosponsored by the
Deaf Way, a citywide festival and conference on the lan-
guage, culture, and history of deaf people.

Volunteers

Nearly four hundred volunteers provided invaluable assis-
tance to the RAP program, monitoring activities and per-
forming vital office tasks. Serving well over twenty-five
thousand hours, the volunteers were recognized at a spring
luncheon for office volunteers and at an awards reception

held in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.
Office of Special Events

Special events are essential for developing and maintaining
important constituencies. As the principal office responsible
for organizing Institution-wide events and programs, the
Office of Special Events coordinated several hundred activi-
ties in 1989. Many of these functions were cosponsored by
corporations or other organizations.

Events arranged by the office this year included a Martin
Luther King Day celebration, the Institution’s annual garden
party for members of Congress, a reception highlighting
minority cancer awareness, and a reception honoring the
historic documents, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and
of the Citizen and the Constitution of 1791, in conjunction
with France’s bicentennial of the French Revolution. In
addition, the office answered more than one thousand
telephone requests from outside organizations seeking to
cosponsor an event at the Smithsonian and to use its
facilities.

The Ambassador of France addresses guests as Smithsonian Secretary
Adams looks on at the reception honoring the historic documents
the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and the
Constitution of 1791, which were on display in the Arts and
Industries Building from May through October in conjunction with
France’s bicentennial of the French Revolution.

176

Office of Congressional
Liaison

The Office of Congressional Liaison monitored and advanced
negotiations and legislative activity relating to the establish-
ment of the National Museum of the American Indian. Mea-
sures pertaining to the repatriation of American Indian human
remains and ethnographic materials were closely watched as
well. Administration and congressional initiatives, particularly
those concerning the environment, general government, and
tax-exempt organizations were tracked, and the office assessed
their potential impact on Smithsonian operations and pro-
grams. Expanded liaison activities provided an opportunity

to increase awareness of the Institution’s programs and activ-
ities among members of Congress and to extend Institution
services to their constituencies.
ADMINISTRATION

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

Administrative and
Support Activities

Operating primarily behind the scenes at the Smithsonian, a
network of administrative and technical support offices
provides services essential to the diverse operations of the
Institution. These offices underpin scholarly and public
activities and ensure central oversight of and accountability
for the management and use of financial, human, and
physical resources. Fifteen offices and their divisions serve a
range of functions, from personnel administration to protec-
tion services, from budget to environmental management
and safety. Funding for central services in 1989 amounted to
about 7 percent of the Institution’s total operating expenses,
exclusive of maintenance, operation, and facilities protection
costs.

Office of Planning and Budget

The Office of Planning and Budget (OPB) coordinates long-
range planning for the Institution, develops and assesses
policies and procedures for the formulation and execution of
the Institution’s budgets for appropriated and nonappro-
priated funds and monitors the actual use of financial and
human resources relative to approved plans. In fiscal year
1989, the office explored ways to facilitate an informed
dialogue about Institution-wide strategic planning. Along
with a small group of central and bureau managers, OPB
previewed a series of educational sessions with planning
experts who had worked with a variety of organizations,
including the private sector, governmental agencies, non-
profit organizations, and colleges and universities. One of
the firms is currently working with the Institution to assess
the need for strategic planning.

The office also restructured the Five-Year Prospectus to
highlight programmatic goals and the secretary’s “Areas of
Emphasis.”’ This change followed from other improvements
to the internal planning process that brought greater focus on
broad management and program issues, called for specific
planning objectives, and identified a series of planned action
steps that should be taken over the next five years to achieve
these objectives.

The office also created analytical briefing materials and
distributed them to assistant secretaries to facilitate informed
budget decisions, implemented an effort to encourage bureaus
and offices to assess their programs and to consider the results
of these assessments during budget deliberations, expanded
the use of automation, initiated the development of a new
automated personnel cost projection system, and issued addi-
tional sections to the Smithsonian Institution Budget Manual.

178

Office of Personnel Administration

The Office of Personnel Administration (OPersA) continued
to concentrate its efforts on improving the quality of staff
services provided to Smithsonian bureaus and organizations.
Modernization of the personnel system was begun last year
with conversion to an integrated personnel-payroll system
operated by the Department of Agriculture’s National Fi-
nance Center. This year, that process continued with the
implementation of a special examining office under delega-
tion from the Office of Personnel Management that was
charged with the task of speeding up staffing and recruitment
actions. The office underwent an extensive evaluation by the
National Academy of Public Administration to identify ways
to enhance operational effectiveness and service efficiency.

Office of Equal Opportunity

The Office of Equal Opportunity (OEO) continued to em-
phasize the placement of minorities in senior, professional,
and administrative positions through the Institution-wide
affirmative action plan. The Institution sustained its limited
but steady progress to achieve cultural diversity in key
positions by the appointment of a minority woman as an
assistant secretary and American Indians, Asian Americans,
African Americans, and Hispanics to a variety of research,
and curatorial and program management positions. In con-
junction with the District of Columbia Public Schools and
the Smithsonian Building Managers’ Council, the OEO
began a General Equivalency Diploma program for Smith-
sonian employees. Working with the Office of Personnel
Administration, the OEO inaugurated a training program to
reinforce the equal opportunity responsibilities of managers
and supervisors.

Office of Information Resource Management

The Office of Information Resource Management (OIRM) is
charged with the role of assisting bureaus and offices with
managing information and using information technologies.
These technologies include computers, computer programs,
systems development methods, and communication lines
and networks. During 1989, OIRM focused on providing
services to the Institution, increasing the development of
automation systems, and planning for future initiatives.
OIRM implemented the first phase of an Institution-wide |
electronic mail system, linking more than 3 50 management |

and staff into a central system. An automated staff “locator”
system and a digital paging system linking the Museum
Support Center, the Mall, and the National Zoo were also
implemented. OIRM continued to establish data communi-
cations service between the Mall and the Smithsonian Tropi-
cal Research Institute in Panama.

OIRM implemented new Collections Information System
(CIS) data bases within the National Museum of Natural
History for the mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians, and
botany collections, while CIS work began on data bases for
entomology and anthropology and for the permanent collec-
tions of the National Museum of American Art and the
National Air and Space Museum. OIRM implemented the
first phase of a Generic Report and Search Processor for CIS
that allows users to define and generate their own reports.
An integrated staff identification telephone book and mailing
list system also was implemented. OIRM trained more than
1,100 Smithsonian staff in the use of microcomputer and
mainframe systems and handled more than 3,600 computer-
related inquiries at its “Help” desk.

For the first time at the Smithsonian, managers and users
of information technologies formed partnerships to address
long-term goals. In establishing these partnerships, OIRM
initiated a long-term planning process to provide a compre-
hensive approach to assessing needs and preparing budget
requests for information technologies.

Other Activities

Providing duplicating services to the entire Institution and a
wide variety of photographic services to the principal non-art
museums of the Smithsonian, the Office of Printing and
Photographic Services (OPPS) continued to combine state-
of-the-art technology with traditional documentary tech-
niques. The office’s highly successful cold storage facility
was expanded during 1989 to provide additional space for
the archival protection of its growing photographic collec-
tion. The cold storage room has been in operation for more
than six years and is designed to extend the archival life of
color photographs by at least ten times. The Photographic
Services Collection is growing by approximately 20,000 new
photographs annually. These include both documentation of
the Institution’s artifact collections and documentation of
historic events. A major program to completely document
the inauguration of President Bush was undertaken in De-
cember and January. Working closely with inaugural officials
and local agencies, the office made the most comprehensive

photographic documentation of an inaugural event that has
ever been held in the public domain.

The Management Analysis Office (MAO) continued to
identify and promote actions to strengthen internal controls.
The office conducted several reviews of Institution units and
activities, including those that might reduce costs and im-
prove efficiency by hiring outside contractors to perform
commercial functions traditionally carried out by Smithsonian
staff. MAO publishes a biweekly employee bulletin that
covers timely administrative matters.

The Travel Services Office continued to provide efficient
and economical travel arrangements for Smithsonian em-
ployees and consultants. Arrangements were made to a wide
variety of destinations and from many areas to Washington,
D.C., for seminars, workshops, and other events such as the
Festival of American Folklife.

The Smithsonian Institution ombudsman, a position estab-
lished in 1977, serves as a neutral party to whom employees
can bring work-related problems and concerns. During the
past year, the ombudsman assisted approximately two hun-
dred employees at a variety of levels with problems involving
supervisor-employee conflicts, pay and leave questions, and
career moves.

The Facilities Services Group, guided by the Office of
Facilities Services (OFS), provides facilities planning, design,
and construction; space management and real property
development; physical plant operations, maintenance, and
improvement; mail services; transportation management;
protection services, including physical security and medical
services, safety, fire protection, and occupational health; and
architectural history and historic preservation.

Formal goal-setting allowed OFS to refine program direc-
tion and to provide a framework for strengthening and
improving management service. Major areas of emphasis
included organizational and human resources development
and several management initiatives. Training and profes-
sional development activities continued to be provided to the
nearly 1,250 employees in the Facilities Group. OFS played a
central role in developing the Institution’s first long-range
major construction program. It also assisted senior-level
Smithsonian management on matters associated with the
proposed development of the National Museum of the
American Indian and on the possible future acquisition of a
building for administrative support needs.

Under the direction of the Office of Design and Construc-
tion (ODC), the architectural firm of Hellmuth, Obata, and
Kassabaum began a detailed study of the Baltimore-Washing-

179
ton International Airport and the Dulles International Airport
to determine how well these two sites would serve as a
National Air and Space Museum extension. Construction of
the Freer Gallery of Art improvements and the Sackler Link
project are well under way, with major portions of the work,
including structure underpinning, completed. Additional con-
tract work for renovating major galleries is in the design
development stage. Construction was completed on the
Tupper Research Center at the Tropical Research Institute in
Panama and on the Smithsonian Information Center in the
Castle. Planning, design, and construction of major heating,
ventilating, and air-conditioning improvement programs at
two major museums—the National Museum of American
History and the National Museum of Natural History—
continued during 1989. The program at Natural History will
continue through the decade and possibly into the succeeding
decade. These multimillion dollar programs are critical to the
efficient operation of these two major facilities.

The Office of Plant Services installed a local area computer
network to improve material management and inventory con-
trol support. Energy conservation efforts were strengthened
through continued partnership with local utilities companies.
The Institution received an award from the Potomac Electric
Power Company for in-house energy conservation initiatives.
Facilities maintenance and repair inspections continued, in-
cluding a field inspection of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in
New York City. Automated facilities monitoring continued
to receive national attention as a model program for moni-
toring and controlling lighting, temperature, and humidity
conditions.

Visits by various heads of state and other foreign dignitar-
ies required close cooperative efforts among security staff in
the Office of Protection Services (OPS) and officials of the
Secret Service, the State Department, and other jurisdictions.
A major effort was completed at the National Museum of
Natural History when all the locks (1,800) in the building
were changed. Card access systems were extended to new
sites, including the National Museum of American Art, the
National Portrait Gallery, and the Garber Facility. Some
systems control access between public and nonpublic spaces
and some provide careful control over and an audit trail of
access to collection storage areas. The National Air and
Space Museum became the last major Smithsonian facility to
be converted to the Institution’s own proprietary security
system.

A fiber optic ethernet network was installed between each
of the buildings on the Mall, and several hundred meters of

4
oo
[e)

coaxial cable were placed strategically inside the buildings to
enable OPS to create intercommunication between its vari-
ous security sites. The network enables OPS to communicate
quickly between the offices, to share software resources, to
consolidate computer programs, to standardize reporting
procedures, and to improve monitoring of and response to
electronic security systems. A new automated medical re-
cords system was developed to meet the Office of Personnel
Management requirement to have a medical record on each
employee. The reporting system contains the information
required by various monitoring systems and makes it possi-
ble to perform analyses of the more than twenty-three
thousand visits to the health units each year.

Recognizing that a healthy work force is one of the
Smithsonian’s most valuable assets, OPS expanded the
Institution’s occupational health program by instituting em-
ployee wellness activities. In addition to other support
groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous, an HIV-positive
support group was established as part of the Employee
Assistance Program.

An outgrowth of the twelfth annual National Conference
on Museum Security, sponsored by OPS, was that the office
would make available at cost a set of security documents on
disk to security professionals from other museums. The
documents consist of “‘generic”’ security, fire, and emergency
regulations, procedures, and checklists that security manag-
ers can quickly apply or adapt to their own requirements at
considerable savings in administrative time and work load.

The Office of Environmental Management and Safety
(OEMS) intensified Smithsonian-wide safety training with
courses offered on machine guarding, laboratory and radia-
tion safety, office safety, electrical safety, fire protection, and
other occupational safety health techniques. In conjunction
with the Office of Museum Programs, OEMS conducted its
second annual three-day workshop geared to small museums
and other educational and cultural institutions. Eleven indi-
viduals from the United States and Canada focused on
program development and problem solving in the areas of
fire protection, disaster planning, occupational safety, and
health and environmental management. Participant feedback
was Very positive.

Two professional staff members joined the Office of
Architectural History and Historic Preservation to assist with
research and publication of architectural history. An innova-
tive historic preservation project to record on videotape the
renovation process of the Great Hall of the Smithsonian
Institution Building has proven to be a successful means of

SSaEEEeeeeeee A$ a

documentation that will be used for other such projects. The
Smithsonian Furnishings Collection acquired seventy-nine
new items and introduced a line of reproduction furniture
that included several collection pieces. Restoration efforts
combining preservation and furnishings in public spaces of
the Smithsonian Building were crowned by placing in the
Regents Room the restored portrait of William Jervis Hough,
a regent of the Smithsonian from 1845 to 1847 who served
as temporary secretary of the Institution pending the selec-
tion of Joseph Henry, the first secretary.

The Office of Procurement and Property Management
continued to provide logistical support and acquisition pol-
icy guidance to various areas of the Smithsonian. This
included a contract award for external audit services through
a seven-month competitive process and an award fora
conceptual study of an off-site extension of the National Air
and Space Museum. A contract for the replacement of the
Castle’s windows was substantially completed. Administra-
tion of contracts continued for the Olmsted Walk and
Aquatic Habitat exhibit at the Zoo, alterations and renovations
at the Freer Gallery, and replacement of PCB transformers.

Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

Established in 1972, the Smithsonian Institution Women’s
Council identifies and studies the concerns of employees,
advises management on women’s issues, and strives to
improve working conditions. This year, chairperson Ellen
Sprouls led the twenty-member council through self-
assessment and goal-setting sessions in an effort to focus
energies and limited time resources on specific projects. A
seminar titled “Gender Perspectives in Museums” is being
planned as a follow-up to the successful “Women’s Chang-
ing Roles in Museums” conference held in 1986.

Four standing committees—Benefits, Newsletter, Outreach,
and Programs—carry out most of the council’s tasks. The
Programs Committee cosponsored four training sessions
with the Training Branch of the Office of Personnel Adminis-
tration, focusing on topics such as preventing sexual harass-
ment, communication skills, and managerial organization.
The Four Star newsletter came out with a well-received new
format for each issue, which features a theme developed
through both investigative and editorial articles. An ad hoc
committee developed a brochure on affirmative action that
consolidates information on the Institution’s activities in
this area.

181
UNDER SEPARATE
BOARDS OF TRUSTEES
John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts

Ralph P. Davidson, Chairman

To citizens and government leaders in this country, visitors
from abroad, and members of the largest diplomatic commu-
nity in the world, the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts symbolizes our nation’s high regard for the
performing arts and its dedication to the cultural enrichment
of the United States and its people. Through its presentations
and its nationwide education programs, the center gives
millions of Americans a chance to learn about and enjoy live
performances. It brings to this country the finest interna-
tional ballet and opera companies. The center also recog-
nizes American accomplishments in the performing arts by
bringing programs from all over the country to its stages.

Created by an act of Congress in 1958 as a self-sustaining
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, the Kennedy Center is
both a presidential memorial under the aegis of the Depart-
ment of the Interior and a privately supported performing
arts center directed by a board of trustees whose thirty
citizen members are appointed by the president of the United
States. Six congressional representatives and nine designated
ex officio representatives of the executive branch complete
the membership. This annual report covers the activities and
programming presented by the performing arts center in
Washington and around the country through its touring and
education programs.

Performing Arts Programming

The 1988-1989 season at the Kennedy Center was attended
by 22.9 million people in the Opera House, Concert Hall,
Theater Lab, and Eisenhower and Terrace theaters. Another
197,550 people attended the free performances presented by
the Kennedy Center through its Education Department,
Holiday Festival, Cultural Diversity Festival, and Kennedy
Center Open House Arts Festival. Also, 70,000 people
attended the films presented by the American Film Institute
in the AFI Theater.

Opera

In celebration of the fortieth anniversary of the founding of
the Federal Republic of Germany, the Deutsche Oper Berlin
presented the exclusive American engagement of two com-
plete cycles of Richard Wagner’s monumental Der Ring des
Nibelungen. Audiences came from around the world for
these celebrated performances that completely sold out
months in advance.

184

Dance

The 1988-1989 ballet season was also highlighted by for-
eign visitors, including first-time Kennedy Center perform-
ances by Leningrad’s legendary Kirov Ballet. The company
presented four different programs, including two newly
acquired Balanchine ballets. From Europe came the London
Festival Ballet with full-length productions of La Sylphide
and the rarely seen Ashton Romeo and Juliet. Five American
companies rounded out the season. American Ballet Theatre
performed two weeks in April; the San Francisco Ballet
brought a new, highly praised Swan Lake; the Joffrey sold
out two weeks with its delightful Nutcracker, Robert Weiss’s
Pennsylvania and Milwaukee Ballet danced in Washington
for the first time after its landmark merger; and the Dance
Theatre of Harlem returned for its customary spring season.

Dance America, sponsored by the Washington Performing
Arts Society and the Kennedy Center, brought some of the
country’s most celebrated modern dance ensembles, includ-
ing Liz Lerman’s Dance Exchange, Anna Sokolow’s Players’
Project, and the Paul Taylor and Merce Cunningham Dance
companies. In addition, the center presented a full week of
the Martha Graham Dance Company.

Drama and Musical Theater

The 1988-1989 theater season was evenly divided among
dramas, comedies, and musicals. Alfred Uhry’s touching
off-Broadway drama Driving Miss Daisy, with Julie Harris
and Brock Peters, began the season, followed by Bill Irwin’s
hugely innovative and funny Largely New York, which
continued its Washington success with seven Tony Award
nominations in New York and a national tour. Barbara Rush
headed the fine comedy drama Steel Magnolias, and Avery
Brooks brought the probing biographical drama Paul Robeson
to the Eisenhower stage.

Mamet’s biting Speed-the-Plow made audiences laugh even
as they cringed at the dark side of human nature, and Jackie
Mason’s The World According to Me offered pure comedy.
The season came to a sobering finale with the Ezra Pound
biographical drama Incommunicado and a superb production
of Athol Fugard’s recent Road to Mecca, with a cast that
included the author, Nan Martin, and Kathy Bates.

On the musical front, the Opera House played host to
three spectacular but very different shows that illustrate the
incredible scope of the American musical theater— Gypsy
starring Tyne Daly, Sophisticated Ladies, and Into the Woods.

Music

The National Symphony Orchestra had a busy season this
year, playing twenty-eight weeks at home in the Kennedy
Center Concert Hall and a week at the annual Casals Festival
in Puerto Rico. The orchestra also completed a two-week
American tour to Florida, Arizona, and California; three
holiday concerts on the lawn of the U.S. Capitol; and a
summer series at Wolf Trap Farm Park. In addition, the
orchestra attracted a great deal of international attention
when it was announced that Music Director Mstislav Rostro-
povich would return in February of 1990 to the Soviet Union
for the first time since his exile and take the orchestra for
concerts in Moscow and Leningrad.

The Terrace Concerts—highlighting piano and vocal recit-
als, chamber ensembles and orchestras, the International
Series, the United States Information Agency’s Artistic Am-
bassadors series, and the Young Concert Artists series—
presented a roster of international stars and up-and-coming
young artists. These included pianist Helge Antoni, the
Emerson String Quartet, three evenings of Music from
Marlboro, a program devoted to the music of American
composer Charles Ives, and the Brandenburg Ensemble.

The annual Kennedy Center Friedheim Award, designed to
recognize and encourage the creation of new American music,
was awarded to two first-prize winners—George Tsontakis
for his fourth String Quartet and Chinary Ung for Spiral.

Theater Chamber Players of Kennedy Center, the Choral
Arts Society and Oratorio Society of Washington, and the
Paul Hill Chorale returned for their annual concerts, as did
the Lincoln Center Mostly Mozart Festival.

As always, a multitude of free events, many featuring
performers from the Washington metropolitan area, took
place in conjunction with the Holiday Festival in December
and the Kennedy Center Open House Arts Festival in the fall.

Kennedy Center Associate Organizations

Many events at the Kennedy Center are produced by the
center’s artistic associates: the American Film Institute, which
presents classic films, independent features, foreign films,
and contemporary video works in its 22 4-seat theater, and
the Washington Opera, which presented Tosca, La Traviata,
La Forza del Destino, and Pique Dame in the Opera House
and The Postman Always Rings Twice, The Barber of Seville,
and a double bill of Abu Hassan and The Impresario in the
Eisenhower Theater.

Susan Hogard and Peter Schaufuss performed in the London Festival
Ballet production of Frederick Ashton’s Romeo and Juliet at the
Kennedy Center. (Photograph by Catherine Ashmore)
Educational and Public Service Programming

The Kennedy Center has a unique responsibility for advanc-
ing all the arts as part of the education of our nation’s youth.
In 1989, the center’s Education Department sponsored
performances and related events to more than six million
people nationwide through four programs: the Alliance for
Arts Education, American College Theater Festival, the
National Symphony Orchestra Education Program, and Pro-
grams for Children and Youth (now called Theater for Young
People).

The number of people directly served by the network of
Alliance organizations in the states and special jurisdictions
increased to an unprecedented 4.6 million in 1989, more
than double that of the previous year. Four arts educators
were awarded 1989 Kennedy Center Fellowships for Teach-
ers of the Arts, and twenty-three school principals and
superintendents were cited for fostering the arts in their
schools. The Kennedy Center/National School Boards Asso-
ciation Award and two Citations of Excellence were given to
school boards for their support of arts education. The
Alliance sponsored a cultural exchange to Hong Kong and
the People’s Republic of China, with actor Richard Thomas
as a performer with the U.S. contingent. The Alliance also
produced the Concert Hall presentation and performance of
twenty Presidential Scholars in the Arts.

More than 750,000 young people, teachers, and other
adults participated in the Kennedy Center Imagination Cele-
bration, the national children’s arts festival program, in
thirteen U.S. cities, Australia, and the People’s Republic of
China.

The American College Theater Festival (ACTF) presented
its twenty-first year of programs in its goal to advance the
finest work produced by college theater programs. More
than 18,000 students and 2,200 faculty members represent-
ing 550 schools presented more than eight hundred college
theater productions in 1989. Eighty productions were stu-
dent written, and sixty-nine productions were mounted at
twelve regional festivals. Five productions were brought to
the national festival at the Kennedy Center in April, two of
which were student originals. For the first time, the College
of Fellows of the American Theatre invested four new
fellows, and student acting finalists were trained in promot-
ing their careers during the national festival. Audiences
across the country exceeded one million. ACTF also spon-
sored numerous awards programs in playwriting, design,
criticism, and acting, as well as cosponsored the Shenandoah

186

Playwrights Retreat.

The National Symphony Orchestra continued to present
concerts and other events to further the music education of
young and old in the nation’s capital. The orchestra pre-
sented eighteen Young People’s Concerts and “Meet the
Orchestra” Concerts to 45,300 students, seven of whom
shared the President’s Box with Mrs. George Bush for one
concert. For the general public, there were four Encore
Concerts for Families and the Young Soloists’ Competition
for high school and college musicians, with the finals pre-
sented as free concerts.

Programs for Children and Youth, now called the Kennedy
Center Theater for Young People, provided two hundred
free or low-cost performances and events to audiences of
more than 90,000. It offered classes in acting to approxi-
mately 750 Washington-area young people; some advanced
students were also offered performance opportunities at the
center. About 150 young people participated in playwriting
workshops in the schools prior to the second Young Play-
wrights’ Roundtable, which resulted in professional staged
readings of four original scripts.

Educational Services used the performing arts resources at
the center as a basis for workshops and other educational
events for 7,000 secondary students, 1,000 teachers, and
2,600 other adults in fiscal year 1989.

The Education Department also commissioned three new
works in 1989: Chewin the Blues, a Piedmont blues-style
musical play featuring John Cephas and Phil Wiggins; Jour-
ney, a play by Jeff Church and Frederic Lee; and the play
Amber Waves, by James Still. This brings the total number of
commissions to thirty-five. In addition, it sponsored concerts
by the Helsinki Children’s Choir and Rong-Shing Children’s
Choir as part of its long tradition of showcasing young
choristers of international acclaim.

Very Special Arts (VSA), an educational affiliate of the
Kennedy Center, presented its first Very Special Arts Festival,
drawing more than a thousand delegates from across the
country and from fifty nations to the center and to other
Washington locations for a week in June. At the heart of the
festival was growing evidence that disability appears to
increase creative potential rather than limit it. Such world-
class artists as Michael Douglas, Marsha Mason, Barry
Morrow, Jim Henson, Kenny Rogers, and Pearl Bailey joined
volunteers, teachers, and others in this landmark showcase
of model programs and innovative educational techniques
designed for people with special needs. A culminating gala in
the Concert Hall was broadcast nationwide in a prime time

!

|
|

;

Bill Irwin was a one-man show in Largely/New York (The Further
Adventures of a Post-Modem Hoofer) at the Kennedy Center
Eisenhower Theater. (Photograph by Chris Bennon)

television program, “From the Heart,” on September ro.

The Kennedy Center Education Department also carries
out a broad range of activities aimed at promoting cultural
diversity. These include the National Program for Cultural
Diversity, which encourages artistic activities that reflect
our nation’s cultural and ethnic variety through its sponsor-
ship of performances, commissions, workshops, confer-
ences, internships, and advisory and technical services in arts
administration. These programs are supported by the U.S.
Department of Education and by private funds raised by the
Kennedy Center.

Subsidies from the Kennedy Center support many free and
low-priced performances and events that were enjoyed in
1988 by more than a million people in Washington, D.C.,
and around the country. Since it opened in September 1971,
the Kennedy Center has maintained a Specially Priced Ticket
program in conjunction with performances produced and
presented at the center. The largest of its kind in the nation,
the program makes half-price tickets available to students,
persons with permanent disabilities, senior citizens, military
personnel (grades E-1 to E-4), and others on low, fixed
incomes. The Kennedy Center bears the attendant costs.

In addition, eighteen thousand people visited and used the
Performing Arts Library, which is a joint project of the
Kennedy Center and the Library of Congress.

Funding

The Kennedy Center is unique in its operation as botha
performing arts center and a presidential memorial. The
National Park Service provides nearly $5 million in funding
through annual appropriations to maintain and secure the
buildings as a presidential memorial; the performing arts
operation is charged its pro rata share of such costs, which
totals more than $1 million annually. The Kennedy Center’s
Board of Trustees is wholly responsible for the cost of
maintaining and improving the theaters, backstage, and
office facilities.

Artistic programming at the Kennedy Center and its
day-to-day performing arts operations are largely privately
supported. The Kennedy Center also raises private funds for
its wide range of free or modestly priced educational and
public service activities. The nation’s business community
has made important contributions through the Corporate
Fund, established in 1977 by a group of nation! corporate
leaders. Under the leadership of Corporate Fund chairman
Daivd T. Kearns, chairman of Xerox Corporation, the 1989
Corporate Fund contributed approximately $3 million from
nearly three hundred corporations.

The Kennedy Center’s private campaign to build a perma-
nent endowment to help achieve the financial stability needed
to sustain and increase the quality and variety of program-
ming continued in 1989. Asa result of the center’s 1986
administrative affiliation with the National Symphony Or-
chestra, a joint campaign is now under way to build an
endowment for the two institutions.

Kennedy Center Honors

The Kennedy Center Honors were first awarded by the
Board of Trustees in 1978 to recognize individuals who have
made outstanding cultural contributions to our nation. An
annual event, the Honors Gala is the Kennedy Center’s most
important fund-raising benefit; the 1988 Honors Gala eve-
ning raised more than $1.25 million in net proceeds to
support programming. The artists honored were Alvin Ailey,
George Burns, Myrna Loy, Alexander Schneider, and Roger
L. Stevens.

187
Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center was founded in 1966 to
foster public involvement in the center and obtain individual
support through financial contributions and volunteer partic-
ipation. Today, more than 41,000 members of the Friends
and the National Symphony Orchestra Association provide
much needed support for the overall operations of the
Kennedy Center. Although a majority of members are drawn
from the Washington, D.C., area, there are members 1n all
fifty states, with Texas established as the first state chapter of
the Friends.

Events produced by the Friends this year include the
annual Radiothon to benefit the National Symphony Orches-
tra and the fifth annual Kennedy Center Open House Arts
Festival, a free, day-long festival of performances by some of
the best artists in the Washington area.

The Friends also administers a volunteer program with five
hundred participants who provide free guided tours, staff the
Information Center and gift shops, work in the administra-
tive offices, and administer the Specially Priced Ticket pro-
gram. In addition, Friends Assisting the National Symphony
volunteers organize special events to develop new audiences
for the National Symphony.

Operated by the Friends, the gift shops at the Kennedy
Center house a collection of items related to the performing
arts and to the Kennedy Center. Staffed by volunteer sales-
people, the gift shops generated more than $1 million in
sales in 1989.

188

National Gallery of Art

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art, although formally established as
a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous
and separately administered organization. It is governed by
its own Board of Trustees, the ex officio members of which
are the chief justice of the United States, the secretary of
state, the secretary of the treasury, and the secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution. Of the five general trustees, Franklin
D. Murphy continued to serve as chairman of the board, with
John R. Stevenson as the gallery’s president. Also continuing
on the board were Ruth Carter Stevenson, Robert H. Smith,
and Alexander M. Laughlin. Paul Mellon is honorary trustee.

During the year, visitors entering both of the gallery
buildings numbered 6,221,682.

Exhibitions

One of the largest exhibitions of the year—‘‘Japan: The
Shaping of Daimyo Culture, 1185-1868”’—opened in Octo-
ber with more than five hundred treasured works of art from
Japanese collections. The exhibition included an unprece-
dented number of loans designated as national treasures,
important cultural properties, and important art objects.
Representing the great contributions to Japan’s artistic herit-
age by the families of the feudal lords who ruled Japan’s
provinces under the shoguns were portrait paintings and
sculptures, screens, calligraphy, swords and armor, lacquer,
ceramics, domestic textiles, NO masks, musical instruments
and robes, and tea utensils. An authentic No stage was
constructed for the presentation of a festival of No drama that
featured two of Japan’s most distinguished master players
performing in the United States for the first time. In addition,
daily tea ceremonies were performed by Japanese tea masters
ina gallery adjacent to a replica of a sixteenth-century Kyoto
teahouse and garden that was constructed in the East
Building with traditional ceremony by carpenters brought
from Japan.

Also opening in October were a small exhibition of
thirty-two of the most important still lifes of nineteenth-
century American artist Raphaelle Peale and an exhibition of
Michelangelo drawings illustrating the artist’s particular in-
terests in the human form and in architecture.

Several important exhibitions opened in November, begin-
ning with “The Pastoral Landscape: The Legacy of Venice,”
which traced the origin of the pastoral landscape tradition in
sixteenth-century Venice through the European artists of the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. The exhibition in-
cluded works by Giorgione, Titian, Rembrandt, Claude

Lorrain, and Watteau, among other artists. A second part of
the exhibition, “The Modern Vision,” shown at the Phillips
Gallery, traced the theme to the present day.

“The Art of Paolo Veronese, 1528-1588,” commemo-
rated the 400th anniversary of the death of one of the most
important artists of the sixteenth century. Fifty paintings and
fifty-four drawings on loan from public and private collec-
tions worldwide illustrated every aspect of one of the
greatest colorists of all time.

In March, to celebrate the completion of two major
Canadian architectural projects—the new National Gallery of
Canada (NGC) in Ottawa and the Canadian Chancery in
Washington, D.C.—the NGC lent ninety master drawings
from the fifteenth to the nineteenth centuries, including
works by Durer, Rubens, Fragonard, Goya, Ingres, Constable,
Cézanne, and Van Gogh. Also opening in March was an
exhibition of ‘“Treasures from the Fitzwilliam Museum,” a
selection of more than 160 objects from the Cambridge
museum considered to be one of Europe’s preeminent small
museums. In addition to paintings by Titian, Hogarth,
Delacroix, Rubens, Hals, Van Dyck, Renoir, and Degas, the
exhibition included illuminated manuscripts, porcelains,
coins and medals, bronzes, and decorative arts.

With nearly four hundred original black-and-white and
color photographs from public and private collections world-
wide, the exhibition “On the Art of Fixing a Shadow: 150
Years of Photography” traced the history of photography as
a fine art. The exhibition was organized chronologically and
was divided into four sections—The Pencil of Nature (183 9-
1879), The Curious Contagion of the Camera (1880-1918),
Ephemeral Truths (1919-1945), and Beyond the Photo-
graphic Frame (1946-present).

Two great American private collections were shown dur-
ing the summer. “‘Still Lifes of the Golden Age: Northern
European Paintings from the Heinz Family Collection” in-
cluded forty-four Dutch, Flemish, and German still lifes from
the late sixteenth century to the early eighteenth century.
The paintings are characterized by lavish trompe l'oeil depic-
tions of flowers and unfinished meals that convey moral and
religious messages through the vanitas symbolism of the
transience of life. An exhibition of sixty-three paintings by
nineteenth-century American artists lent by Mr. and Mrs.
Richard A. Manoogian contained an impressive range of
American art, including Hudson River landscapes, trompe
Voeil still lifes, genre scenes, impressionist landscapes, and
figure paintings by Cole, Church, Bingham, Bierstadt, Heade,
Harnett, Eakins, Cassatt, and Chase, among others.

A small exhibition was devoted to the development of the
color prints of Mary Cassatt, illustrating in 120 works the
artistic process through preparatory drawings, rare and some-
times unique black-and-white or color trial states, and color
variations of the final prints.

Through 130 prints, ro drawings, and 10 illustrated
books, “Italian Etchers of the Renaissance and Baroque”
explored the development of the etching medium in Italy
from the beginning of the sixteenth century to the end of the
seventeenth century. The show featured such well-known
Italian artists as Parmigianino, Federico Barocci, Annibale
Carracci, Stefano della Bella, and Salvator Rosa, as well as
important foreign artists who worked in Italy, such as Jusepe
de Ribera, Jacques Callot, and Claude Lorrain. To celebrate
the tenth anniversary of the opening of the East Building, the
reinstallation of the National Gallery’s twentieth-century
collections continued. The installation, containing more than
two hundred paintings, sculptures, and works on paper,
includes many recent acquisitions never before exhibited at
the gallery and special loans of related works of art. Occupy-
ing 30,000 square feet on three of the five levels in the East
Building, it will remain on view for two years.

Education Programs

The Department of Public Programs in the Education Divi-
sion offered a variety of services to local, national, and
international audiences. The Art Information Service, unique
among American museums, answered a total of 1,611
telephone and written inquiries of which 87 were from
abroad.

In addition to the five regularly scheduled daily tours of
the collection, the department presented a fourteen-session
history of art slide lecture course. Special topic tours on
“The Elements of Design,” “Renaissance Art,” and “Castles”
were offered to children in kindergarten through grade six by
more than 240 volunteer docents who are trained by the
professional staff. A children’s self-guided tour of the exhibi-
tion of daimyo art from Japan was also produced. Programs
lasting an hour and a half were held on Saturday morning
during the school year for children aged six through twelve
accompanied by their parents. During the “Japan” exhibi-
tion, there were demonstrations of Japanese calligraphy and
the use of masks in the No drama.

In April, to celebrate the exhibition marking the tenth
anniversary of the East Building, there were two perform-
ances by the Amherst Ballet Theater Company of a ballet

189
based on the circus themes from Henri Matisse’s Jazz, a
series of prints and paper cutouts.

In response to a growing interest in the inclusion of art in
the school curricula, staff developed six Saturday teacher
workshops that included specially prepared written materials
as part of an ongoing series. A packet of materials for use in
the classroom was produced for sixteen exhibitions, with
emphasis on the Japan exhibition and American and Renais-
sance art. A summer institute on American art was offered
for the first time to teachers from across the nation. Three
week-long sessions included slide lectures, gallery talks, and
visits to other galleries and historic sites in the Washington,
D.C., area.

Three special four-part courses by guest lecturers comple-
mented the “Michelangelo Drawings,” “Japan,” and “150
Years of Photography” exhibitions. Also, a two-day weekend
program with eleven guest speakers was offered in conjunc-
tion with the “Japan” exhibition.

Two graduate lecturing fellows each gave twenty-four
gallery talks in the first year of this program. The fellowship
program has been renewed for fiscal year 1990.

The A. W. Mellon Lecture Series was given by Oleg
Grabar, the Aga Khan professor of Islamic art and architec-
ture at Harvard University’s Department of Fine Arts. Profes-
sor Grabar delivered six lectures titled “Intermediary
Demons: Ornament as Mediation.”

Acquisitions

This year the gallery received new acquisitions for a wide
range of collections. Several major works were added to the
twentieth-century collection: a bequest of two paintings, the
synthetic-cubist style Harlequin Musician (192.4) by Picasso
and the hauntingly somber Woman Seated in an Armchair
(1940) by Matisse, as well as the polished bronze Bird in
Space (1927) by Brancusi. The gallery purchased its first
painting by dada artist Francis Picabia, Machine Turn Quickly.
One of the artist’s most beautiful works, it depicts machine
imagery with a subtle delicacy using gouache and metallic
paint.

Other additions to the twentieth-century collection were
five paintings by Barnett Newman, gifts of the artist’s widow;
two Rock Settees, sculpted by Scott Burton from mottled
pink granite and mottled green granite; the wooden Brush-
stroke Chair and Brushstroke Ottoman by Roy Lichtenstein;
and an untitled painting by Ad Reinhardt, an unusual exam-
ple of his work immediately prior to his “‘color-brick”

190

paintings of the late r940s.

A gift of a sumptuous seventeenth-century still life by
Dutch artist Abraham Mignon was a welcome addition to the
gallery’s small collection of still lifes. An imposing canvas by
Benjamin West titled The Expulsion of Adam and Eve from
Paradise (1791) is a recently rediscovered major representa-
tion of the artist’s later romantic phase. The painting is of
particular historical significance because it is the first of his
series of paintings on the theme of Revealed Religion
commissioned by King George III for the Royal Chapel at
Windsor Castle. The work was never delivered and, after the
deaths of both George III and the artist, ownership was
returned to West’s sons by George IV. The sculpture collec-
tion was enhanced by a bequest from Mrs. Lessing Rosenwald
of two bronze horses by Degas, Study of a Mustang and
Horse Walking. Posthumously cast from wax studies found
in the artist’s studio at his death in 1917, they demonstrate
his interest in antique and Renaissance art.

A further addition to the sculpture collection was a fine
bronze by seventeenth-century French baroque artist Mi-
chael Anguier titled Ceres Searching for Persephone.

Several groups of prints and drawings were added to the
graphics collection. The Gemini Archive was increased by
155 prints of the 1980s done by eighteen artists. A fine
Hirschvogel landscape and three color aquatints by Mary
Cassatt were among items in the bequest from Edith Rosen-
wald. The photography collection was expanded by a gift of
fifty-seven of Walker Evans’s subway photographs from
1939-1941.

The Circle of the National Gallery made possible the
purchase of a beautiful Parmigianino sanguine of Three
Feminine Heads and a Perino del Vaga study for an altarpiece.
Other support was found for the purchase of a newly
discovered early Watteau fan design, A Féte Galante with
Falconers, and two nineteenth-century drawings, a water-
color by David Cox titled Mountain Heights, Cader Idris, and
Edward Coley Burne-Jones’s sepia study of Ariadne, in-
tended for the decoration of John Ruskin’s house. Other
outstanding purchases of drawings included a large Goltzius
from 1595 of The Holy Family with Saint Elizabeth and Saint
John the Baptist and two fine Guercinos, a red chalk study for
the gallery’s painting Amnon and Tamar and a Landscape
with a Large Waterfall.

Especially rare and beautiful prints purchased during the
year were a particularly fine impression of Saint Jerome
working hard at his desk, by the Renaissance Italian artist
Barbari; an excellent impression of Bellange’s Blind Hurdy

—

Stull Life with Fruit, Fish, and a Nest (ca. 1675), by Abraham Mignon, German, 1640-1679, was a gift (partial and promised) of H. John Heinz III.
National Gallery of Art.

Gurdy Player; and a special proof of Mother and Child by
Kollwitz, overworked by the artist with graphite, black chalk,
and gold paint. Purchases of illustrated books included an
extremely rare complete set of eighteen volumes of Cochin
and Gravelot’s Almanach iconologique in contemporary red
Morocco, a sketchbook by Eugene Burnand, also bound in
Morocco, including a series of wry drawings about the
vagaries of plein-air painting.

A highlight of the year was the announcement of a pledge
of a gift of an outstanding Van Gogh still life of white roses
from Pamela Harriman, widow of statesman W. Averell
Harriman. The gift will be in honor of the gallery’s celebra-
tion of its fiftieth anniversary in 1991. An exhibition devoted
to such gifts is in the planning stages, and it is hoped that the
example of Mrs. Harriman’s great generosity will inspire
further donations of works of art in honor of this milestone
in the gallery’s history.

Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts

During its ninth year, the Center for Advanced Study in the
Visual Arts continued its programs of fellowships, meetings,
publications, and research. There were six senior fellows,
twelve visiting senior fellows, one associate, a gallery
curatorial fellow, two postdoctoral curatorial fellows, and
twelve predoctoral fellows for the 1988-1989 academic
year. The Kress professor for the academic year was the
distinguished French scholar, Sylvie Beguin.

The center convened seminars, symposia, colloquia, and
lectures on various themes in the history, theory, and
criticism of art, architecture, and urbanism. Three symposia
were held this year in conjunction with exhibitions at the
gallery: “Michelangelo Drawings,” Art and Power in
Seventeenth-Century Sweden,” and “The Pastoral Land-
scape.’ Other symposia included “The Architectural Histo-
rian in America,” “The Artist’s Workshop,” and “The
Middle Atlantic Symposium in the History of Art.” The
center also held a program of lectures titled “American Art
around 1900: Lectures in Memory of Daniel Fraad, Jr.”
Many of these gatherings were cosponsored with other
institutions in the Washington, D.C., area and elsewhere.

A series of seminars was presented: “Veronese Reconsid-
ered”; “Cézanne: The Early Years, 1859-1872”; and
“Medieval Ornament.” Eight colloquia were presented by
resident senior fellows over the year. In addition, the center
sponsored two lectures by distinguished art historians Emily

192

Vermeule (Harvard University) and Terisio Pignatti (Civici
Museum Veneziani d’Arte e di Storia).

As part of the publications program, this year saw the
appearance of Center 8, the annual record of the scholarly
events and research of the preceding year, and Sponsored

Research in the History of Art 8, 1987-1988 and 1988-1989,

a directory of art history research projects supported by

granting institutions in the United States and abroad. Publica-

tion of the proceedings of center symposia in the gallery’s
Studies in the History of Art continued with volume 22,
Italian Plaquettes.

In addition to these ongoing activities, the center contin-

ued to develop relations with other scholarly institutions and

to strengthen communication with kindred organizations,

both locally and nationally, through periodic meetings of the

Association of Research Institutes in Art History, the Wash-

ington Collegium for the Humanities, and the Consortium of

Washington Area Universities.

Special Exhibitions

“Gauguin Drawings from the Armand Hammer Collection.”

Continued from the previous fiscal year to October 23,
1989. Coordinated by Andrew Robison.

“Michelangelo: Draftsman/Architect [Part I and II].”" October

8, 1988, to December 11, 1988. Coordinated by David Alan
Brown. Supported by Olivetti Company and the Federal
Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Raphaelle Peale Still Lifes.” October 16, 1988, to January
29, 1989. Coordinated by Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr. Supported
by the Pew Charitable Trusts and the Circle of the National
Gallery of Art.

“Japan: The Shaping of Daimyo Culture, 1185-1868.”
October 30, 1988, to January 23, 1989. Coordinated by D.
Dodge Thompson. Supported by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco
Company, the Yomiuri Shimbun, Nomura Securities Com-
pany, Ltd., and the Federal Council on the Arts and the
Humanities.

“The Art of the Tea Ceremony.” October 30, 1988, to
January 23, 1989. Coordinated by D. Dodge Thompson.
Supported by the Asahi Shimbun, the Yabunouchi School of
Tea, the Nomura Securities Company, Ltd., and All Nippon
Airways.

f

“The Pastoral Landscape: The Legacy of Venice.”” November
6, 1988, to January 22, 1989. Coordinated by Beverly Louise
Brown. Supported by Ford Motor Company, the Morris and
Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, and the Federal Council on
the Arts and the Humanities.

“Nineteenth-Century Drawings from the Armand Hammer
Collection.’ November 6, 1988, to April 23, 1989. Coordi-
nated by Judith Brodie.

“The Art of Paolo Veronese, 1528-1588.’ November 13,
1988, to February 20, 1989. Coordinated by Beverly Louise
Brown. Supported by the Ford Motor Company and the
Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Twentieth-Century Art: Selections for the Tenth Anniver-

sary of the East Building.” December 4, 1988, to December
31, 1990. Coordinated by Jack Cowart and Nan Rosenthal.
Supported by the American Express Company.

“Cézanne: The Early Years, 1859-1872.” January 29, 1989,
to April 30, 1989. Coordinated by Charles S. Moffett.
Supported by Gerald D. Hines Interests.

“Master Drawings from the National Gallery of Canada.”
March 5, 1989, to May 21, 1989. Coordinated by Diane De
Grazia. Supported by the Belzberg Family.

“Treasures from the Fitzwilliam Museum: The Increase of
Learning and Other Great Objects.” March 19, 1989, to June
18, 1989. Coordinated by Beverly Louise Brown. Supported
by Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

“On the Art of Fixing a Shadow: 150 Years of Photography.”
May 7, 1989, to July 30, 1989. Coordinated by Sarah
Greenough. Supported by Eastman Kodak Company.

“Still Lifes of the Golden Age: Northern European Paintings
from the Heinz Family Collection.” May 14, 1989, to
September 10, 1989. Coordinated by Arthur K. Wheelock,
Jr.

“Drawings of Landscape and Architecture from the Armand
Hammer Collection.” May 28, 1989, to November 26,
1989. Coordinated by Diane De Grazia.

“American Paintings from the Manoogian Collection.” June
4, 1989, to September 4, 1989. Coordinated by Nicolai
Cikovsky, Jr. Supported by United Technologies Corporation.

“Mary Cassatt: The Color Prints.” June 18, 1989, to August
27, 1989. Coordinated by Margaret Morgan Grasselli.

“Italian Etchers of the Renaissance and Baroque: Parmi-
gianino to Giordano.” September 24, 1989, to November
26, 1989. Coordinated by H. Diane Russell. Supported by
Mellon Bank.
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, Chairman
Ruth Graves, President

For twenty-three years, Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF)
has promoted literacy by giving young people the chance to
have their own books. Since the program began, more than
ninety-three million books have been distributed to children
throughout the nation, and the number is expected to reach a
hundred million by the end of 1989.

Through the efforts of more than 96,000 volunteers, RIF
reached 2.3 million young people last year in all fifty states,
the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and
Guam. RIF programs can be found in more than 11,000
locations—including schools, migrant worker camps, libra-
ries, housing projects, day-care programs, juvenile detention
centers, Indian reservations, shelters for the homeless, hospi-
tals, and community centers.

Part of RIF’s mandate is to work with parents to encourage
reading in the home. Since its Parents Services Program was
inaugurated in 1984, RIF has distributed nearly a million
copies of its publications for parents and has held infor-
mational “Growing Up Reading” workshops for parents in
thirty-four cities.

As anonprofit literacy organization, RIF is supported by
corporations, foundations, private citizens, and a federal
contract.

1989 Programs for Young Readers

The Year of the Young Reader, initiated by outgoing Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan, is dedicated to developing programs for
new groups of young readers. To realize this goal, RIF and
the Chesapeake Regional Association of Booksellers organ-
ized a book drive for homeless children that brought more
than twenty thousand books to children in fifty-six shelters,
soup kitchens, and housing projects in the Washington,
D.C., and northern Virginia area.

Other programs started this year include one sponsored by
J.C. Penney Company, called “Expanding Horizons,” which
helps fund RIF projects in Hispanic communities. The New
York Life Foundation is providing a grant that will enable RIF
to bring books to 30,000 Native American children at 163
sites—from a Sioux community on the Great Plains to a
project in Honolulu serving Native Hawaiians.

Under a new program called RUNNING START funded
by the Chrysler Corporation Fund, RIF will bring reading
activities and books to more than 100,000 first graders over
a three-year period. Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca, who
announced the new program, said that RUNNING START is
the “largest commitment ever made by the fund to a single

194

project.”

The reading needs of children considered at risk are being
addressed through a grant from the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation. Working with eight community
groups, RIF has developed a range of programs, including
book activities for teenage mothers, radio programs and
billboards that advertise reading, lending libraries for textile
workers, and bilingual story hours.

Less than one year ago, RIF and a coalition of civic leaders
in Chattanooga, Tennessee, set out to build a model commu-
nity reading program called “City of Readers.” Today, that
program is flourishing and will continue through 1990.
“City of Reader” initiatives encompass everything from a
Family Reading Fair to an Executive Spelling Bee sponsored
by the Chattanooga Times. The model program has been
promoted throughout southeast Tennessee through televi-
sion, newspapers, and messages distributed by food stores
and fast-food chains.

RIF’s annual winter reading campaign, “In Celebration of
Reading,” offered young people the incentive to become a
“National RIF Reader’ as a way to encourage leisure read-
ing. More than half a million youngsters became active
readers through this program.

Participation in the annual RIF National Poster Contest
was also at an all-time high, with nearly half a million young
artists submitting entries depicting ““The Joy of Reading.”

“Reader Roundup,” a program designed to bring RIF
books and activities to every fifth grader in Anderson
County, South Carolina, was organized last year by the
South Carolina newspaper Independent Mail. Inspired by the
Orlando Sentinel’s Reading Roundup program “Reader
Roundup” is targeted to fifth graders on the theory that this
is a critical age for reinforcing reading habits. The Orlando
program entered its second year, bringing books to twenty
thousand fifth graders in six Florida counties.

1989 Highlights

RIF conducted its thirty-third “Growing Up Reading” work-
shop for parents in Prince George’s County, Maryland,
which featured Walter Dean Myers, author of more than
thirty books for children and young adults. A one-time high
school dropout, Myers told the audience how learning to
read enabled him to reenter school as an adult and pursue a
distinguished writing career. The program was sponsored by
the Hitachi Foundation.

First Lady Barbara Bush joined in celebrations for RIF
Mrs. George Bush reads to children from Reading Is Fundamental projects. (Photograph by Rick Reinhard)

Week by hosting a special event in honor of RIF at the White
House on April 27, which was attended by more than two
hundred children from area RIF projects and homeless
shelters. In addition to the annual ceremony honoring the
RIF Poster Contest winner and the National RIF Reader,
there were also performances by Ringling Bros. and Barnum
& Bailey acrobats, jugglers, and clowns.

The International Reading Association (IRA) paid special
tribute to RIF when it presented its International Reading
Association Literacy Award to RIF President Ruth Graves
during the IRA annual conference in New Orleans in May.
RIF book activities also attracted several visitors from abroad,
including Queen Noor of Jordan and Mrs. Hosni Mubarak,
wife of the president of Egypt.

RIF and the Private Sector

The Year of the Young Reader ushered in a variety of
initiatives on behalf of RIF, including a See and Read month
sponsored by LensCrafters, a Jimmy Dean Book Drive for
RIF, a Clorox RIF Sweepstakes, and a General Electric Learn
about America Contest.

Other RIF benefits included a bridge tournament spon-
sored by Epson America that lined up U.S. congressmen
against corporate executives; a concert featuring renowned
violinist Itzhak Perlman and sponsored by Paine Webber; an
exhibition of animated art from the film “Who Killed Roger
Rabbit?” sponsored by Sotheby’s and Walt Disney; and an

authors’ auction sponsored by the Capital Press Women’s
Club. To focus public attention on reading, the Texas
Rangers declared its May 4 game with the New York
Yankees as RIF Night at Arlington Field.

In the past, people from the publishing community con-
fined their involvement with RIF to providing discounted
books and services to projects. But in recent years, many
publishers have extended that support to include a variety of
promotions on behalf of RIF. This year, Waldenbooks spon-
sored a summer readathon to benefit RIF, in addition to
continuing with its other RIF promotions, including in-store
canister collections, the sale of a poster by Muppets creator
Jim Henson, and the annual Waldenbooks RIF sports tourna-
ment in September, for which members of the book commu-
nity pay to play golf, tennis, and other sports.

A number of other publishers and bookstores made dona-
tions to RIF based on sales, including Antioch Publishing
Company in Yellow Springs, Ohio; the New York City
bookstore Books of Wonder; Simon & Schuster/Prentice-
Hall; Bantam Doubleday Dell; Cambridge University Press;
and Oxford University Press.

Four new brochures—**Summertime Reading,” “Encourag-
ing Young Writers,” “Family Storytelling,” and “Starting a
Family Library” —were produced for RIF’s Parent series,
bringing the total to twelve. The series, which is underwrit-
ten by private grants, contains tips for parents on everything
from how to introduce a preschooler to books to how to
turn teenagers into readers.

195
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

Charles Blitzer, Director

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
commemorated its twentieth anniversary this year as a
presidential monument that fosters scholarship in the human-
ities and the social sciences with a formal dinner at the
Department of State. President Bush, who was introduced by
Secretary of State James Baker, spoke of the value of
nonpartisan collaboration between academics and policy-
makers and honored the Wilson Center’s commitment to
serious scholarship in the nation’s capital. Senator Daniel
Patrick Moynihan spoke about President Wilson’s quest for
legitimacy in the world order, which is a cornerstone of the
center’s mission. The evening exemplified the center’s man-
date to be a bridge between the world of learning and the
world of affairs. Guests included members of Congress,
leaders of the business community, presidents of area univer-
sities, and current Wilson Center fellows.

The center’s Board of Trustees was pleased to welcome
James Baker back for his twelfth year as a member of the
board, this time in his ex officio position as secretary of state.
William J. Baroody was appointed to another term as board
chairman, and Dwayne Andreas, a friend of the center since
its founding and a member of the board since 1987, was
appointed vice chairman. Secretary of Health and Human
Services Louis Sullivan joined the board as an ex officio
trustee. Anew member from the private sector, Robert Tuttle
of California, was appointed by President Reagan. The
government service of two ex officio trustees, George Shultz
and Otis Bowen, ended this year, and the six-year term of
Vice Chairman Robert Mosbacher ended just before he
became secretary of commerce.

Throughout the year, the Wilson Center’s advisory body
of distinguished private citizens, The Wilson Council, sup-
plied invaluable guidance and support. John J. Powers retired
as chairman of the Wilson Council after nine years of
exemplary service. He was succeeded by Vice Chairman
Stanley Klion, who brings outstanding enthusiasm, experi-
ence, and ability to the position.

The Board of Trustees, the director, and staff addressed
major issues concerning the intellectual and organizational
structure of the center this year. In October, the trustees
approved major changes in the fellowship selection process
that will extend the normal term of fellowship appointments
and time them to coincide more directly with the academic
year. With the encouragement of Director Charles Blitzer,
the center’s programs placed increased emphasis on issues
that cut across regional boundaries.

The complicated process of selecting a permanent site for

196

the center continued during the year; the most promising
potential site is the International Cultural and Trade Center
complex scheduled to be built on Pennsylvania Avenue.
Discussions concerning specific architectural plans are cur-
rently under way.

Fellows

The Woodrow Wilson Center’s quest for knowledge begins
with its fellows, who are chosen through a rigorous interna-
tional competition. Fellows’ research represents the world’s
best thinking on subjects ranging from international security
to American culture, Russian studies to Pacific Rim con-
cerns. Among the topics fellows studied this year were the
legacy of Vietnam during the Reagan years, the changing
Soviet citizen, the new city of the twentieth century, a history
of Russian literature, the American perception of the Japa-
nese aesthetic, the external dimension of ethnic conflict and
its control, East-West relations in the global system, and
Prague between the wars.

Programs and Meetings

The programs of the Woodrow Wilson Center sponsored an
ambitious series of meetings and research in 1989. One
highlight of the year was the October visit by Soviet physicist
and Nobel Prize-winner Andrei Sakharov, who met with a
small group of fellows, journalists, and government officials
to discuss Soviet leadership and policies. In May, former
fellow Bronislaw Geremek previewed the Polish elections
before a center audience. A specialist on medieval peasant
life, Dr. Geremek became Solidarity’s floor leader in the
Polish Parliament.

Major international conferences and special events held at
the center during the year included programs on criticism of
American culture, the Middle East in the mind of America,
the politics of the environment in Eastern Europe, govern-
ment and the growth of economic knowledge, Congress and
the courts, the connection between literature and political
understanding in Latin America, Chinese intellectuals and
the prospects for political reform, and the making of U.S.
foreign and defense policies.

Three of the center’s programs came under new leadership
this year. Mary Brown Bullock, now heading the Asia
Program, is a China expert who formerly directed the
Committee on Scholarly Communication with the People’s
Republic of China of the National Academy of Sciences.
Blair Ruble, formerly of the Social Science Research Council
and an expert on Soviet research institutes, was chosen to
direct the Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian Studies.
Joseph S. Tulchin, a senior scholar in the field of Argentine
history and politics, came from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill to head the Latin American Program.
He succeeds William Glade, who has been named associate
director of the U.S. Information Agency in charge of educa-
tional and cultural affairs.

Publishing and Outreach

Through publications and a nationally distributed radio
program, the ideas generated at center meetings and by
fellows’ research are made accessible to both specialists and
the general public. The center’s outreach activities continued
to provide bridges between the world of scholarship and the
world of public affairs.

In 1989, the Wilson Center inaugurated the Woodrow
Wilson Center Series, a group of books published in collabo-
ration with Cambridge University Press. Two volumes, Reli-
gion and Twentieth-Century American Intellectual Life and
The Truman Presidency, both edited by Michael J. Lacey,
were published in late summer.

In its second year of operation, the Wilson Center Press
published two important volumes. American Media: The
Wilson Ouarterly Reader, edited by Philip S. Cook, Douglas
Gomery, and Lawrence W. Lichty, is a collection of essays
examining literacy, newspapers, movies, television, and ad-
vertising to assess the effects of the media on life in the
United States. The Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C., for
Southwest European Studies, by Joan F. Higbee, is the
thirteenth book in the series of guides of the city’s resources.

In June, the center launched an expanded newsletter that is
designed to provide more information about center activities
to friends and supporters. A monthly “Calendar” highlight-
ing events continued to alert more than five thousand readers
to the wide range of scholarly meetings held at the center.

Under the direction of George Seay, the Wilson Center’s
“Radio Dialogue” aired a full schedule of programs during the
year. Broadcast through National Public Radio satellite and
the Longhorn Radio Network, “Radio Dialogue” brings week-
ly interviews with center Fellows and staff to a broad national
audience. With a new production studio and enhanced distri-
bution capabilities, “Radio Dialogue” can now be heard from
Cape Cod, Massachusetts, to Honolulu, Hawaii.

The fruits of research by the center’s fellows were appar-

Director Charles Blitzer welcomes President Bush to the Woodrow
Wilson Center’s Twentieth Anniversary Dinner. Mrs. James A. Baker
II] and Board Vice Chairman Dwayne Andreas look on.

ent in awards and publications in 1989. A Bright Shining Lie:
Jobn Paul Vann and Vietnam, written by Neil Sheehan, was
awarded the Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction. Mr. Sheehan
conducted the research for his book while he was a fellow at
the center in 1979-1980. Other books published in 1989 by
fellows and guest scholars during the year resulting from their
work at the center include the first volume of the biography
Harold MacMillan, by Alistair Horne; The Pure Concept of Di-
plomacy, by Jose Calvet De Magalhaes; A Call to Civic Service:
National Service for Country and Community, by Charles C.
Moskos; and From Beirut to Jerusalem, by Thomas Friedman.

Peter Braestrup, the founder of the Wilson Quarterly, left
the magazine this year to assume new duties at the Library of
Congress. Under his leadership, the Wilson Quarterly became
the most widely read quarterly magazine in the country. He was
succeeded by Jay Tolson, the magazine’s literary editor. Warren
Syer was named the new publisher; his outstanding expenence
and business acumen have already produced dramatic results.

In his salute to the Woodrow Wilson Center last March,
President Bush said: ‘“The Wilson Center is known as a vital
point of contact between the thinkers and the doers of this
country. We’re going to depend more than ever on the
counsel of learned men and women in a world that is
changing rapidly, a world interconnected as never before in
history.” The Woodrow Wilson Center’s activities in this
twentieth anniversary year represented its best effort to meet
the president’s challenge.

197
198

Under Separate Boards of Trustees

John F. Kennedy Center
| forthe Performing Arts

SMITHSONIAN

BOARD OF REGENTS

SECRETARIAT‘ —— [HE SECRETARY*

National Gallery of Art Office of UNDER SECRETARY*
INSPECTOR
Woodrow Wilson GENERAL
| International Center
for Scholars |
TREASURER* GENERAL COUNSEL* Assistant Secretary for

Business Management Office
Concessions
Mail Order Division
Office of Product Licensing
Smithsonian Museum Shops
Office of Accounting and
Financial Services
Office of Financial Management
and Planning
Office of Risk Management
Office of Sponsored Projects

Assistant Secretary for
RESEARCH*

International Environmental Science
Program

Joseph Henry Papers

National Zoological Park**

Office of American Studies

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of Quincentenary Programs

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

“Secretary's Management Committee

Assistant Secretary for
MUSEUMS*

Anacostia Museum**

Archives of American Art**

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Freer Gallery of Art**

Conservation Analytical Laboratory**

Cooper-Hewitt Museum**

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden**

International Gallery**

National Air and Space Museum**

National Museum of African Art**

National Museum of American Art**
Renwick Gallery**

National Museum of American History

National Museum of Natural History/
National Museum of Man**
Museum Support Center**

**“The assistant secretaries for research and museums collaborate in the
oversight of scholarly and presentational activities in these bureaus and offices

July 1989

INSTITUTION INITIATIVES*

National Portrait Gallery**

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museums Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Travel
Exhibition Service

INSTITUTION

BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden
Board of Trustees

Advisory Council on Education

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Horticultural Advisory Committee

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Visiting Committee Joint Sponsoring Committee for
the Papers of Joseph Henry
Board of Fellowships and Grants

National Air and Space Museum
Committee for a Wider Audience Advisory Board
National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Advisory Council

National Museum of African Art
Commission

Cultural Education Committee

Folklife Advisory Council

National Museum of American Art
Commission

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

National Science Resources Center
Advisory Board

Smithsonian Council

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Assistant Secretary for
ADMINISTRATION*

Management Analysis Office

Office of Equal Opportunity

Office of Facilities Services

Office of Architectural History
and Historic Preservation

Office of Design and Construction

Office of Environmental Management
and Safety

Office of Plant Services

Office of Protection Services

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SERVICE*

National Science Resources Center
Office of Wider Audience
Development
Office of Conference Services
Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education
Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies
Office of Public Affairs
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Air & Space/ Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

Office of Information Resource |
Management

Office of Personnel Administration

Office of Planning and Budget

Office of Printing and Photographic
Services

Office of Procurement and Property
Management

Travel Services Office

Assistant Secretary for
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS*

Office of Membership and Development*
Smithsonian National Associate
Program
Office of Congressional Liaison*
Office of International Relations
Office of Special Events
Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program

199
Cover: This five-month-old golden lion tamarin, Z, is one of twins
born in the wild of a female tamarin named Vera, who was raised at
the National Zoological Park. Vera was reintroduced into the wild in
Brazil as part of the Zoo’s ongoing reestablishment program for the
endangered golden lion tamarin. Z herself has since had four
offspring born in the wild. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

Frontispiece: The “Boy with Sword” fountain from the Office of
Horticulture Garden furniture collection was installed in the Arts
and Industries Building Rotunda during 1989. (Photograph by Dane
Penland)

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents,

U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
(paper cover)

Stock number: 047-000-00409-8

°° The paper used in this publication meets the minimum
requirements of the American National Standard for Permanence
of Paper for Printed Library Materials Z39.48-1984.
Smithsonian Year —

SI 1.1:990

Smithsonian Year 1990, S/N ...

- Smithsonian Year 1990
ee . -

MAY 7 1991 7

Be; AY
AEA

Smithsonian Year
1990

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution for the Year Ended
September 30, 1990

Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C. 1991
a. rT oy

The ROSAT satellite, a joint FRG-UK-US space observatory for X-ray astronomy, was launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida,
on June 1, 1990. The satellite is equipped with a high-resolution imaging camera built at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory. (National Aeronautics and Space Administration photograph) Inset: Stephen Murray (left), head of the Harvard-Smithson-
ian Center for Astrophysics ROSAT science data center, and Martin Zombeck, project scientist, demonstrate a computer program

that will give scientists the sharpest images of X-ray sources available to date. (Photograph by Joe Wrinn, courtesy of Harvard
Gazette)

Contents

Smithsonian Institution 7
Statement by the Secretary 9
Report of the Board of Regents
Benefactors 37
Financial Report 45

Qe
nA

Research 73
International Center 74
Joseph Henry Papers 78
National Zoological Park 79
Office of American Studies 84
Office of Fellowships and Grants 85
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies 87
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory 89
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center 92
Smithsonian Institution Archives 94
Smithsonian Institution Libraries 96
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute ror

Museums 107

Anacostia Museum 109

Archives of American Art 110

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 111

Conservation Analytical Laboratory 113

Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design 115

Freer Gallery of Art 116

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 118

National Air and Space Museum 119

National Museum of African Art 123

National Museum of American Art 125

National Museum of American History 128

National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man 134

National Museum of the American Indian 140

National Portrait Gallery 142

Office of Exhibits Central 144

Office of Horticulture 145

Office of Museum Programs 147

Office of the Registrar 148

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service 148

Smithsonian Internship Council 150

Public Service 151

National Science Resources Center 153

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 155

Office of Folklife Programs 156

Office of Public Affairs 159

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center 161

External Affairs 163

Media Projects 165

National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies 165

Office of Membership and Development 166

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Associates 169

Smithsonian National Associate Program 170

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program 174

Office of Congressional Liaison 178

Office of Special Events 179

Office of Telecommunications 179

Smithsonian Institution Press 181

Smithsonian Magazine 182

Air c& Space/Smithsonian Magazine 183

“Smithsonian World” 184

Institutional Initiatives 185

Administration 187

Administrative and Support Activities 188
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council 192

Under Separate Boards of Trustees 193

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts 194

National Gallery of Art 198

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 204

Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars 207

Organization Chart 210
Smithsonian Year 1990 Supplement, containing the Chronology and Appendixes
1—8, is published in a microfiche edition of photomechanically reproduced
typescript provided by the individual bureaus and offices of the Smithsonian
Institution. The appendix contents are as follows:

Appendix 1. Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards, and Commissions
Appendix 2. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums

Appendix 3. Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments
Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press

Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution

Appendix 6. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries (staff lists)
Appendix 7. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution

Appendix 8. Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Institution

Please address requests for copies of the microfiche edition of the Supplement to
Alan Burchell, Production Coordinator

Smithsonian Institution Press

470 L’Enfant Plaza, Suite 7100

Washington, D.C. 20560/202-287-3738, Ext. 326
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Con-
gress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the will
of James Smithson of England, who in 1826 be-
queathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men.”’ After
receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress
incorporated the Institution in an “establishment,”
whose statutory members are the president, the vice
president, the chief justice, and the heads of the execu-
tive departments, and vested responsibility for adminis-
tering the trust in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

The Establishment,
September 30, 1990

George H. W. Bush, President of the United States

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United States

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United
States

James A. Baker III, Secretary of State

Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury

Richard B. Cheney, Secretary of Defense

Richard L. Thornburgh, Attorney General

Manuel Lujan, Jr., Secretary of Interior

Clayton K. Yeutter, Secretary of Agriculture

Robert A. Mosbacher, Secretary of Commerce

Elizabeth H. Dole, Secretary of Labor

Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services

Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development

Samuel K. Skinner, Secretary of Transportation

Lauro Cavazos, Secretary of Education

James D. Watkins, Secretary of Energy

Edward J. Derwinski, Secretary of Veteran Affairs
Board of Regents and
Secretary
September 30, 1990

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United
States, ex officio

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United States,
ex officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Jamie L. Whitten, Representative from Mississippi

David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey

Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Citizen of Pennsylvania

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Barnabas McHenry, Citizen of New York

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

R. James Woolsey, Citizen of Maryland

The Secretary
Robert McCormick Adams

Dean W. Anderson, Under Secretary (through Septem-
ber 1, 1990)

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for Institu-
tional Initiatives

James C. Early, Acting Assistant Secretary for Public
Service (from February 5, 1990)

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums

Margaret C. Gaynor, Congressional Liaison

Martin Harwit, Chairman, Council of Bureau Directors

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary

Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for Research

Madeleine Jacobs, Chairman, Council of Information
and Education Directors

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for External Affairs

Marie Mattson, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Thomas McCanee, Jr., Director of Membership and
Development

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Ralph C. Rinzler, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
(through February 5, 1990)

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Acting Under Secretary (from
September 2, 1990)
Statement by the Secretary

Robert McC. Adams

Now, as at all times in the past, we at the Smithsonian
face an array of compelling, but to some degree con-
flicting, programmatic alternatives. As we weigh
choices among them, their potential impact is a major
consideration. But impact on what, on whom? On our
national well-being? On the worldwide advancement of
knowledge or human welfare? On tolerance and mu-
tual respect among nations and peoples? Or to gain
greater confidence in what we are measuring, should
our concern for impact be focused closer to home—on
improving the understanding and participation of our
immediate audiences, and on diversifying our staff and
programs better to reach those audiences?

Whichever of these directions we choose, there are in
any case good arguments for focusing on the impacts
of our programs. An emphasis on impact highlights the
important qualities of accountability and immediacy. It
avoids seeking refuge in received wisdom in order to

shield a program from the open marketplace of debate
and criticism. And it places a premium on new under-
takings that respond to current opportunities, prob-
lems, demands, or methodologies.

Yet impact cannot serve alone as the determinant of
what the Smithsonian must do. Who can say with con-
fidence how much of whatever is today viewed with great
hope and excitement will be so viewed tomorrow?

We must not forget that the Institution’s well-
established strengths and areas of programmatic re-
sponsibility have withstood the demanding test of time.

There is no simple balance to be struck between
these seemingly opposing considerations of tradition
and modernity. Neither is quite so unambiguous and
clear-cut a programmatic choice as it may seem. There
is nothing inexorable about the way the future develops
out of the past. The dominant direction of movement
can double back upon itself or enter blind alleys and

Pina Lopez-Gay, vice president of the Spanish National Quincentenary Commission, joins Secretary Robert McC. Adams in field-
ing questions at the signing of a Columbus Quincentenary accord with Spain on February 13 in Madrid. (Photograph by Santos
Cirilo, courtesy of El Pais)

9
with

The American Indian
Theatre Company of _ inyttn
; j Hatt
Oklahoma performed at} } yuh
the January Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr., Holiday
Celebration. The event
is sponsored annually
by the Smithsonian’s
Cultural Education
Committee. (Photo-
graph by Rick Vargas)

have to be abandoned. As we all know, most predic-
tions are flawed. Yet it is no more credible merely to
resist or deny change. The old criticism of the Bour-
bons still has fire, that in forgetting nothing they en-
sured that they would also learn nothing. All we can
do is to carefully weigh the continuing contribution of
what is old and the risk, as well as the promise, of
what is new—and then resolutely move ahead. To echo
the old rabbinical text, it is not our Part to finish the
task, but neither are we free to desist from it.

I would like to share with you a splendid example of
how the traditional and the modern often unexpectedly
come together in our business. The noted biologist
Jared Diamond gives heartening support in a recent ar-
ticle in the journal Nature to a contribution that only
museum collections like many of ours can make. For
an unappetizing but systematic collection of dead rats
in particular, he observes that

[o|ld specimens constitute a vast, irreplaceable source of material for
directly determining historical changes in gene frequencies. Until [the
polymerase chain reaction] became available, those data were lost
forever as soon as the gene-bearing individual died. Now, however,
museums with large, well-run collections of specimen series large
enough for statistical analysis will be at the forefront of research in

molecular evolution.

In addition, lying in wait just beyond the confines of
our own, intramural field of discussion of options are
choices that others may percelve—and sometimes may
indeed have some influence in making for us. Harsh

budgetary reductions, not to be confused with the sof-
ter and subtler influences of an atmosphere of con-
straint on growth, are one example. But it is notewor-
thy that the threat of these reductions sharply receded
after seeming very large for a time during the difficult
congressional debates in the summer of 1990.

Hence competing prospects for new museums may
provide an example that is more useful in thinking
about our choices. Numerous ideas for such projects,
apart from those we have generated internally, have re-
peatedly been put forward as not only plausible but
compelling. Advocating them have often been signifi-
cant groups of scholars, donors, communities, activists,
and politicians. During my term of office alone, at least
a score of serious proposals that could be so character-
ized have crossed my desk.

Of all of these, as I am sure you are aware, only the
National Museum of the American Indian has at this
point received formal congressional authorization and
appropriations. It is a pleasure to take note of the con-
vening of its Board of Trustees, broadly representative
of Indian people and including other prominent Ameri-
cans in its membership, and of the appointment of Ri-
chard West as its first director. To be sure, we are still
at a very early stage in developing this ambitious com-
plex of new museums, collection facilities, and outreach
activities. It has only begun to thread its way through
the lengthy process of successive appropriations and
private fund raising that will be needed for the heart of
the whole, unprecedented undertaking to open its doors
on the National Mall by the new millennium.

On further reflection, however, the implied ratio of
20 or more serious proposals for every 1 finally
adopted is misleading. Almost a quarter of a century
elapsed between the formal authorization of the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum and the first appropria-
tion for its construction. In this light, the building of a
great museum might better be described as only the
final step, usually preceded by years of efforts to refine
and make persuasive the case for it. Planning for the
Old General Post Office, across Gallery Place from the
National Portrait Gallery, will just begin in fiscal 1991,
after the major renovation of that grand but almost
derelict building has remained for several years in a
similar, unfunded limbo. A major new facility for the
National Air and Space Museum, repeatedly approved
by our regents for construction at Washington-Dulles
International Airport, has yet to advance to the stage of
having been authorized. Years of careful negotiations
with the U.S. Postal Service preceded the recently an-
nounced formal agreement under which the Smithson-
ian and the Postal Service will collaborate on a new
museum that will house our priceless collections in this
field.

Taken together, these examples suggest that our cu-
mulative success rate in transforming new ideas into
permanent, architecturally embodied realities is better
judged on the basis of what is in the whole length of
the pipeline than on what is just emerging successfully
from the end of it. We need to be mindful, moreover,
that many of the best and most interesting suggestions,
especially in fields of concern such as cultural diversity,
may not involve architectural expression at all. The les-
son is simply that the flow of good ideas shows no sign
of diminishing. After more or less prolonged study and
discussion, an appreciable number continue to find a
positive reception. Yet, in aggregate, they will, of
course, always far exceed our available resources.

Some degree of tension, therefore, almost always ac-
companies the choices that must be made. This tension
can perhaps be reduced, or at least made more manage-
able, by delaying expenditures on newer programs. But
in the end, decisions on the rate of change and replace-
ment—the rate at which the Smithsonian renews it-
self—cannot be left entirely dependent on the rate at
which programs of relatively declining quality and im-
portance are voluntarily abandoned by their partici-
pants. The continued vitality of the Smithsonian, its ca-

pacity to respond to the trust for which it was created,
instead requires a conscious, directed, and continuous
readiness to weigh and implement priorities.

Particularly in these difficult times, old and new
needs and opportunities must be viewed against a com-
mon background of difficult and uncertain budgetary
prospects. Both our federal appropriations, surely af-
fected by the general consensus that has emerged be-
tween Congress and the president regarding future an-
nual reductions in the deficit, and our trust funds,

In June, the National Air and Space Museum acquired two of
the 2,500 nuclear missiles eliminated by the Intermediate
Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. On the left is a Soviet SS-20,
on the right an American Pershing II. Both missiles are dis-

armed training versions.
closely tied to the general state of the U.S. economy,
will almost certainly not maintain the same rate of
growth they have enjoyed in the past. Clearly, our best
response to these somber prospects is to put forward a
vision of the Smithsonian’s future so compelling to ex-
ternal funders that it enables us at least partly to with-
stand these negative pressures.

Succeeding in this, however, largely depends on
achieving an internal consensus that reaches beyond the
separate interests of our component parts and articu-
lates a common vision. Projecting such a vision is the
best, if not the only, way to ensure the sustaining
breadth and depth of national support that we should
never simply take for granted. I am not speaking of a
leveling, least-common-denominator consensus, but of
an energizing, enabling one that stimulates the creative
vitality of the Smithsonian staff and so enhances our
national appeal.

We properly take pride in, and feel a responsibility
to preserve, the great diversity of things the Institution
does and stands for. Each of our museums, for exam-
ple, maintains a focus and integrity—almost a cul-
ture—of its own. Each is largely responsible for prepar-
ing the annual budgets that incrementally shape its
programs by taking on new initiatives at the expense of
existing ones. New interconnections among our mu-
seums are surely being found all the time by anyone
who views a succession of them from his or her own
perspective. But there is no Institutional effort, nor do I
feel there should be, to force our bureaus into a com-
mon mold. There is no objective, however remote, that
the domains in which each museum has developed its
staff, collections, and circle of support should somehow
be made to intersect so as to provide a smoothly con-
tinuous web of coverage. All myths of our universality
to the contrary, there are many, many things under the
sun that the Smithsonian will never find the means to
deal with.

Having conceded that, however, I also have a duty to
affirm that the Institution is, and shall remain, more
than a loose and undirected clustering of autonomous
organisms. Our public, our governing and advisory
bodies, and all our sources of support expect that we
will articulate a well-coordinated effort that maintains
a single and consistent set of priorities. Given budget-
ary realities, it is only in this way that we can preserve
the Smithsonian’s strengths, while also rising to the

TZ

challenge of an ever-changing mix of new needs and
opportunities.

It is always somewhat threatening to hear of the
need for establishing priorities in a cultural or intellec-
tual enterprise. Freedom involves not only recognizing
alternatives but having realistic opportunities to pursue
some and reject others. An unusual degree of freedom
of thought and action is a hallmark of the Smithsonian,
one that helps to attract a strong and devoted staff in
spite of discouraging pay differentials and other deter-
rents that we are striving to eliminate. Yet in an institu-
tional framework, with the fierce competition for lim-
ited resources that always implies, degrees of freedom
cannot be endlessly multiplied to meet all expectations.
Any setting of priorities implies a system of incentives
and constraints that is inherently unsettling because it
is both unequal and dynamic in its application.

As a credible step toward setting priorities, it is ap-
propriate to begin by identifying the traditional, cen-
tral, incontrovertible core of the Institution’s responsi-
bilities. It grows directly out of our chartered
responsibility for “the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge.”’ No less importantly, it is, by dint of the annual
recycling of the appropriations process, by now more
or less permanently emplaced among the major line
items in our budget. But I doubt whether there would,
in any case, be much dispute about a basic definition of
what these basic responsibilities are:

To maintain the condition of our collections and facilities while deep-
ening the public’s appreciation and understanding of them through
exhibits, research, and publications.

To advance research in those areas—the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory, which has recently celebrated its centennial, is one—
where the Institution has a special position of leadership and respon-
sibility.

To respect and justify the national support on which we depend by
effectively reaching out to increasingly diverse, geographically dis-
persed audiences.

I must emphasize once again that acknowledgment

of this core is not a rationale for persisting in all
present activities. Maintenance of continuity is an 1m-
portant principle, but so also is a readiness to differen-
tiate between areas of real strength and significance,
whether continuing, new, or emergent, and other areas
that have ceased to offer challenges and slipped into
routine. So let me now turn to programmatic objectives
that, if in no case entirely new, we are giving renewed
emphasis and actively seeking new ways to pursue
more effectively.

Paramount among these is a broadening and
strengthening of the Institution’s outreach to all the
varied cultural and ethnic groups making up this na-
tion. Having extensively discussed the issue in this set-
ting a year ago, and on many other occasions since
then, I will limit my discussion here. I have urged every
office and bureau of the Smithsonian to take this objec-
tive with utmost seriousness, as | do myself. In fact, on
my agenda for early consideration with our new under
secretary is the question of establishing an Office of
Cultural Education. It would monitor and be able to
take initiatives of its own within this area, while being
responsible directly to senior management.

The most basic steps to be taken, since they address
deficiencies still far short of being fully corrected, in-
volve equality of staff employment at all levels, inde-
pendent of color, creed, or gender. Significant aspects

of this are, in fact, mandated by law. But the Smithson-
ian’s own tradition of respect for and commitment to
cultural conservation requires that our own measures in
this direction go beyond merely responding to narrow
legal requirements.

Additional responsibilities are imposed by our char-
acter as a national institution, dependent on tax re-
sources appropriated in the name of all the people. We
cannot lose sight of the importance to those affected of
the kind of cultural representation that can be provided
in the heart of the nation’s capital by our exhibits and
educational programs. Accordingly, the inclusive
breadth and sensitivity of those programs is a matter of
prime importance. Particularly to be commended in this
respect is the Sackler Gallery’s work with Asian audi-
ences, confronting and learning to overcome the prob-
lem of simultaneously improving its relations with very
diverse cultural communities.

The annual total of visitors who presumably acquire
some familiarity with the Smithsonian is impressively

Glenn Tupper cuts the
ribbon at the dedication
ceremony in late March
of the Earl S$. Tupper
Research and Confer-
ence Center, Smithson-
ian Tropical Research
Institute. Panama’s
President Guillermo En-
dara and STRI Director
Ira Rubinoff view the
ribbon cutting, while
STRI employee Monica
Alvarado, in traditional
Panamanian dress,
holds the ribbon. (Pho-
tograph by Marcos
Guerra)
large. But as our own surveys have shown conclusively,
it is a preponderantly white, middle-class, college-edu-

cated audience. Minority participation is discouragingly

limited. We are unlikely to be more successful in at-
tracting underserved groups unless we recognize our
own limitations in conceptualizing as well as imple-
menting programming on their behalf. Our best means
of moving forward would seem to be through intensi-
fied dialogue with fellow scholars and museum profes-
sionals working elsewhere with the same interests. Per-
haps equally important are greater, more consistent
efforts at networking that establish a durable basis of
understanding and cooperation with schools, church
groups, community organizations, and the media. An
exemplary effort along these lines is the advisory com-

New acquisitions by the National Museum of American Art
in 1990 included Washington Allston’s Hermia and Helena,
painted before 1818. This oil on canvas was purchased
through the Smithsonian Institution Collections Acquisition
Program and made possible by Ralph Cross Johnson, Cather-
ine W. Myer, and the National Institute Gift.

14

mittee that has been meeting under the leadership of
Claudine Brown to consider the nature of a proposed
African American presence on the National Mall. I
look forward to the early completion of this commit-
tee’s report, which will then receive careful considera-
tion by the Smithsonian’s Board of Regents in the
spring of 1991.

Also needed is a readiness to develop and experiment
with a wider range of themes for new exhibitions,
drawing upon external as well as internal suggestions.
Our new Experimental Gallery in the Arts and Indus-
tries building, opening in January 1991 under the direc-
torship of Kimberly Camp, boldly makes this its organ-
izing principle. An experimental exhibition on looking
at art is also scheduled at the Hirshhorn Museum. This
greater Openness to innovation will require, once again,
that we maintain channels of communication and coop-
eration that extend beyond museum walls and embrace
not only professionals elsewhere but community groups
and volunteers. Apart from aiming at greater breadth
and diversity, | would hope that these outside discus-
sions will establish the atmosphere of informal, candid,
and continuing exchange that is based on mutual trust.
There simply is no better way to identify overlooked is-
sues and unsuspected racial, ethnic, and other stereo-
types that to underrepresented groups may be symbolic
and fundamental.

The Smithsonian’s second major programmatic prior-
ity involves its commitment to the conservation of a
worldwide habitable environment. Environmental deg-
radation is proceeding at a frightening rate, in benign,
man-altered ecosystems and noxious urban settings, as
well as rapidly dwindling natural habitats. Prospects of
climatic change at a global scale remain gravely uncer-
tain. Many public and private bodies are acting in con-
cert on these issues, here and abroad. But the Institu-
tion’s stake is older and more central.

The unparalleled, systematic collections in our Na-
tional Museum of Natural History are, to begin with, a
fundamental tool for all to use in carrying on primary
studies both of ecosystemic destruction and of loss of
biodiversity. Our Tropical Research Institute in Panama
has developed perhaps the longest and most compre-
hensive record available anywhere of the most actively
endangered of all biotas, the neotropical forests. Our
major Amazonian project on the biodynamics of forest
fragments constitutes perhaps the most direct assess-
ment of the key parameters of destruction. Smithsonian
scientists are also engaged in important comparative
studies of tropical forests in other world regions. Nor
have we ignored the related problems of atmospheric
and water-body pollution that are more characteristic
of our temperate latitudes, as all the work at our Envi-
ronmental Research Center on the Chesapeake Bay at-
tests.

These measures and investments all can be assigned
to the increase-of-knowledge component of the Institu-
tion’s mandate, but there is similar activity and com-
mitment under the heading of diffusion. Epitomizing
that set of responsibilities is an active, newly estab-
lished Smithsonian Office of Environmental Awareness.
To continue with a very selective listing, there has been
a series of conferences, symposia, and media briefings,
as well as presentations to members of Congress and
federal science administrators by Smithsonian scientists.
Work is under way to make our very successful travel-
ing exhibition on tropical rainforests available for mu-
seums and educational institutions in Latin America.
Honoring the 20th anniversary of Earth Day and its
own, more or less simultaneous birth, the Smithsonian
Magazine devoted a special issue to this subject. The
National Zoological Park continues its difficult and
valuable program for preserving endangered species,
breeding them in captivity, and then, when appropriate,
successfully reintroducing them into the wild. In an al-
most single-handed effort of great effectiveness, Tom
Lovejoy has directly introduced a number of key
congressional and corporate decision makers to the
beauty and fragility of the Amazonian rainforest.

Sull to be fully developed in our otherwise very im-

pressive commitment to the conservation of biodiversity

and a habitable world is adequate attention to the
human dimensions of the problem. Poachers, poor
farmers, landless and unemployed city-dwellers, forest
products companies, and big ranchers all are agents of
destruction in the tropics and elsewhere who respond
in their own ways to the inducements and pressures
confronting them. Commodity markets, debt, credit,
fuel costs, and technology transfer figure in the range
of options among which political elites governing those
direct agents must choose. National and even interna-
tional economies in each case generate many of the
larger imperatives of their lives. An exploding world of
rapid, cheap communications continuously creates new

tet |

6 fiom.

B SgRO EE

il tt

5
?

A student in the summer high school internship program con-
ducted by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
helps prepare artifacts for display. (Photograph by Jonathan
Barth)

wants, styles, and obsolescences. How can at least the
lowest level of all these complex processes, the interface
between the tree and the human agent of its destruc-
tion, not be a subject just as needful of intensive study
and understanding as the natural ecosystem?

However, this theme is also one with which I and
other Smithsonian spokespersons have dealt previously.
It remains as important as ever for us, but | must now
turn to an additional priority area. This is an area of
opportunity as well as challenge. I speak of our respon-
sibilities for education, surely the central charge in the
“diffusion of knowledge” part of our charter.

The Smithsonian’s role obviously must be carefully
circumscribed, in order for it not to overwhelm our ca-
pabilities. This role is one of making a specialized, but
by no means unimportant contribution to a huge, de-
centralized, and frankly rather chaotic undertaking.
Properly deployed, our human, exhibition, and collec-
tions resources have the potential of improving, supple-
menting, and perhaps to some extent even redirecting,
school-based programs. Our own programmatic em-
phasis on enhancing the appeal and outreach of mu-
seums to more diverse audiences—on broadly embody-
ing and representing America’s cultural diversity—leads
to a corresponding emphasis in our educational pro-
grams on underserved school populations. What is
needed is a carefully phased, deliberate approach that
will stay the course without quickly becoming discour-
aged by the magnitude of the problem. James Early has
been charged with developing this approach, while not
losing sight of the programmatic strengths and limita-
tions that set the parameters of our own involvement.

The crisis in American schooling has been widely
noted, but its seriousness warrants further discussion.
According to the National Assessment of Educational
Progress, “only seven percent of the nation’s 17-year-
olds have the prerequisite knowledge and skills to per-
form well in college-level science courses.’ Combined
verbal-math scores are significantly lower today than
they were a generation ago, and the absolute number
of students scoring above the fairly mediocre level of
800 is 30 percent below where it was in 1972. The av-
erage Japanese 12th grader has a better command of
mathematics than the top 5 percent of his or her Amer-
ican counterparts. Typically, American students rank at
or very nearly at the bottom of ranked performances
covering most subject matters of students from compar-
ably advanced, industrialized countries. Some 27 mil-
lion adult Americans are functionally illiterate, and I
need not tell you standards of so-called literacy prevail-
ingly are set well below the levels of reading and writ-
ing proficiency needed for continued personal and vo-
cational growth in later life.

But we need to look deeper than aggregate statistics.
The gulf between per-pupil levels of spending is higher
than it has been in 20 years. New York State, for ex-
ample, spends eight times as much per pupil in some

16

districts as it does in others. Ten states are under court
order to develop more equitable funding formulas, and
litigation is under way in ro others. The gulf in quality
is even greater than the gulf in dollars, with inner-city
schools typically suffering most in the availability of
laboratory, art, and other facilities; supplemental, ad-
vanced-level programs; and specialized teaching staff. It
is evident that there is a prevailing assumption that en-
riched programmatic content will be essentially wasted
on average or underperforming students. That disparity
is then further increased by the differential access of
students who have been the beneficiaries of enriched
programs to higher education.

Widely characteristic of the American public educa-
tion system, in other words, is a philosophy of “‘track-
ing” that has provided, in effect, a mask if not a ra-
tionale for systematic deprivation. A recent Rand Cor-
poration study, commissioned by the National Science
Foundation, offers a sweeping indictment of tracking
that goes to the heart of the equality issue as it affects
our whole educational enterprise:

Although the decisions are usually well-intentioned, considerable evi-
dence suggests that tracking, especially at secondary schools, fails to
increase learning generally and has the unfortunate consequence of
widening the achievement gaps between students judged to be more
and less able.

Although schools may think that they ration good teaching to
those students who can most profit from it, we find no empirical evi-
dence to justify unequal access to valued science and mathematics
curriculum, instruction, and teachers.” (Jennie Oakes, “Multiplying
Inequalities: The Effects of Race, Social Class, and Tracking on Op-
portunities to Learn Mathematics and Science,”’ 1990)

In general, I think there is little disagreement on the
areas within which the crisis in our national school sys-
tem is either most concentrated or can best be ad-
dressed. Subjects of most critical priority include sci-
ence and mathematics literacy, especially among minor-
ities and females; environmental education and
awareness; knowledge of the diverse cultures of the
world; and geography. There is also a fairly wide con-
sensus that an emphasis is needed, and that improve-
ments can be made most readily, at the lower grades of
the educational system, and in teacher training.

What special contribution can the Smithsonian make
not only to reducing our gross educational inadequacies
but to overcoming disparities within the system? These
two problems together constitute what may well be the
Smithsonian astrophysicist Margaret Geller was one of 36
people nationwide in 1990 to be awarded a fellowship by the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. The award
was given for her work with colleague John Huchra on the
distribution of galaxies in space. (Photograph courtesy of

Margaret Geller)

most serious social and economic challenge facing us as
a nation as we prepare to enter the 21st century. Sub-
stantial and fruitful discussions of the Smithsonian’s
role in education questions have been going on within
the Institution during the past year. It may be prema-
ture to suggest that a full consensus has been reached,
but I believe I can outline tentatively what at least a
few elements of such a consensus are likely to be:

t. Museums traditionally highlight static objects, but
are mastering the arts of dynamic display that permit
them to portray interrelationships, change, and process
with almost equal vividness and explanatory power.
The National Portrait Gallery, for example, is planning
to incorporate biographical materials in zoth-century
media such as radio and television in its exhibits, as
well as in its study collections. Museums will increas-
ingly teach and communicate, in other words, across
virtually the entire range of visual and oral experience.
They can call into question arbitrary definitions and
force a broadening of traditional categories, as does the
newly acquired Hemphill Collection at the National
Museum of American Art for the whole field of Ameri-
can art. Thus they can provide an enormously powerful
supplement and corrective to classroom and textbook
learning. They have special advantages in making intel-
ligible the many complex systems that students must
learn to move through and manipulate in the course of
their lives.

Global environmental change illustrates the need in
this area that we should try to fill. It is characterized
by many interdependent variables and grave uncertain-
ties, especially about diverse regional outcomes that
may range from benign to catastrophic. Only displays
that permit these challenges to be viewed across time,
at different geographical scales, and on the basis of di-
verse bodies of data can truly communicate them.

Last spring saw the opening at the National Museum
of American History of a permanent, brilliantly de-
tailed and enormously thought-provoking exhibition on
the Information Age. This is a pioneering exposition of
the growth of a complex system of an entirely different
kind, with enormous educational potential. Our many
contributions to the forthcoming Columbus Quincen-
tenary represent another ambitious effort to convey a
complex, multidimensional message. In this case, major
exhibitions in a number of our museums and a televi-
sion series will view the five-century encounter of dif-
ferent cultural traditions, and the emergence of entirely
new ones as a result, through entirely different media
and from highly contrastive perspectives. I doubt that
the richness of texture we invite our visitors to see in
the process could be as persuasively conveyed in any
other way. For the same reason, the entire ensemble
will offer an unparalleled learning experience in the
highly diverse and pluralistic character of a hemispheric
experience that finds no serious reflection in current
school textbooks.

2. Distinguishing the Smithsonian is an ongoing
combination, a happy marriage, between research and
exhibition and other forms of outreach to a vast audi-
ence. Many individuals on our staff are concurrently
involved in both. This encourages a linkage of living
processes of scholarly and scientific discovery with the
products of such discoveries. It directly inculcates the
attitudes of identifying researchable problems, of fram-
ing open-minded and orderly procedures of analysis, of
following new findings wherever they may lead. We
would appear to have much to offer as a setting in
which to establish and illustrate learning as an attitude
rather than a barrier. This suggests that we assume a
responsibility to develop institutional mechanisms that
encourage some form of direct access between young
people and ongoing scientific and scholarly work.
Hands-on experience with collections and exhibit
preparation form a considerable part of that arena of
the Institution’s work, and should be especially amena-
ble to a mentoring approach.

3. The stance of the Smithsonian with regard to the
educational part of its chartered responsibility for the
“increase and diffusion of knowledge” must be to en-
hance educational opportunities for all. Certainly it
should not be to reinforce prevailing practices that have
long tended to “track” and thus constrain the access of
young people to the better and fuller life that only edu-
cation can offer. It is a broad and diverse spectrum of
young people that this Institution is best qualified to at-
tract and work with, not merely a selection who come
to us already designated as high performers.

4. It is always a surprise to find that there are al-
ready numerous initiatives at the Smithsonian in a field
such as educational outreach, frequently failing to pool
their knowledge and efforts and often in ignorance of
one another. With this in mind, Ann Bay and Zahava
Doering are developing a comprehensive Educational
Programs Inventory on the basis of questionnaires that
will help provide a framework for sharing information.

5. A troubling feature of our existing Institutional
arrangements is that they seldom permit an evaluation
of our effectiveness in reaching young people or any
long-term contact with the same individuals. Real
teaching involves iteration, reinforcement, dialogue.
“Longitudinal” contact, not in chance one-day visits to

18

our museums but in long-term interaction, affords the
best, self-correcting measures of our effectiveness. Some
may argue that the Smithsonian should presently act
upon this understanding by developing its own version
of a comprehensive educational program, possibly even
in its own classrooms. The Resident Associate Program
has, after all, succeeded on that basis in developing an
enormously successful “open university’? whose pro-
grams in some instances are directed to students at the
primary and secondary levels. Doing so more directly
and extensively might be unwise, however, since our
basic stance should be to cooperate rather than com-
pete with existing school systems.

6. As this suggests, the Smithsonian’s efforts in edu-
cation should continue to rely heavily on the principle
of collaboration with other institutions and organiza-
tions. It has already served us well in our joint sponsor-
ship with the National Academy of Sciences of the Na-
tional Science Resources Center (NSRC). Since opening
its doors in the Arts and Industries Building four years
ago, the NSRC has come to occupy a position of lead-
ership as a national information clearinghouse on sci-
ence teaching resources. Through the field testing of its
Science and Technology for Children curriculum units,
the center is developing a close working relationship
with a broad range of school systems serving approxi-
mately one million children—about 5 percent of the
children in the nation’s elementary schools. Its informa-
tion data base of science teaching materials is being ex-
panded to include resources for middle schools, and the
prospective publication of a resource guide for middle
school science teachers will signal the expansion of the
NSRC program to secondary school levels.

More recently, we have also joined in sponsorship of
an innovative series of enrichment programs. Entitled
the District of Columbia Science and Engineering Re-
gional Center, this new consortium is headed by How-
ard University and funded by the National Science
Foundation. With promising efforts like these already
under way, we may want to move on to more direct
modes of cooperation with individual schools or school
districts.

All the areas and programs whose high priority I
have reviewed involve concerns and actions that are
widely distributed in the Institution. In closing, how-
ever, I want to deal with the goals of an ongoing man-
A group takes notes during
one of the science workshops
being conducted for young
people at the Anacostia Mu-
seum. (Photograph by Harold
Dorwin)

‘ x i 2 .

i,

Students from the Jelleff Boys
and Girls Clubs of Washing-
ton, D.C., find Yokohama on
an illuminated map of Japan
in the Sackler Gallery Learn-
ing Center as docent Chris-
tine Lee (right) looks on.
(Photograph by Jeffrey
Cresp1)

19
agement reorganization during the past year that is
concentrated in the Castle. This should be thought of
as a response, overdue but still unfolding, to bureau-
cratic problems of delay, nonresponsiveness, and inef-
fectiveness. Typically, these problems grow in small, al-
most unnoticed increments. Those of us in senior
management have too easily dismissed this trend as
part of a general drift toward the increasing cost and
complexity of running almost any kind of organization
or business. But the time is at hand to see it as a symp-
tom of a pervasive, systemic illness, and to correct it.

As we are all aware, the Smithsonian has grown
enormously over the past generation or so. That
growth is a measure of the successful adaptation of the
Smithsonian’s mandate to new needs and opportunities.
Impressive new museums welcome an unparalleled flow
of visitors to Washington. The rate of growth has been
even greater in other public programming, and in the
scope and diversity of our research. Yet the painful side
effect is that traditional modes of management no
longer are well suited to the Institution’s changing set
of programmatic priorities. A service orientation is less
and less evident in essential, and what should be fairly
well-established service functions, including but not
limited to some of those concerned with personnel,
payroll, accounting, procurement, and development.
Tending to replace it—not uniformly but too fre-
quently—is a focus primarily on internally generated
goals and standards of performance. When that hap-
pens, individuals and whole offices can become impedi-
ments rather than facilitators of the prompt and re-
sponsive actions that not only our operating units but
our public and our oversight bodies expect of them.

A service orientation must extend to the highest lev-
els of the Smithsonian. To be sure, there are increasing
numbers of demands to distract us. Fiduciary accounta-
bility is the most familiar one, but to it now are added
compliance with environmental safety, public access,
equal employment opportunity, and many other bodies
of regulations. Our very success, the centrality the
Smithsonian has achieved as a national cultural institu-
tion, makes the actions we take or fail to take more
consequential for our many public constituencies.
Moreover, in the public arena there are no crisp for-
mats for decision making. Dialogue and diffuse consen-
sus building are the order of the day. All of this unden-
iably presents new and unprecedented challenges to

20

management. But we must never lose sight of the fact
that a service orientation is fundamental.

Nancy Suttenfield has rendered a signal service to the
Smithsonian in the months since Dean Anderson’s de-
parture in the summer of 1990. Under her direction,
plans are moving forward to streamline our administra-
tive structures, not only to improve our overall effi-
ciency but to capture additional resources for the oper-
ations for which we exist. In December, she assumed
the permanent position of assistant secretary for fi-
nance and administration. John Jameson, who has long
rendered exemplary service as assistant secretary for
administration, has accepted an assignment as senior
adviser to the Secretary with primary responsibilities
for many important aspects of long-range facilities
planning.

It is with great pleasure that I also welcomed Car-
men Turner as the Institution’s under secretary in mid-
December. Hers is an extraordinary record of dedicated
public service, culminating in her leadership of Wash-
ington Metro as its chief executive officer. She is a self-
described “‘people person,” and the Smithsonian is peo-
ple. We could not have found someone more marvel-
ously qualified than she to address these management
challenges—nor someone more deeply sympathetic
with the priorities the Smithsonian has set for itself.

As she has said to me before, she views the Smith-
sonian as a new hill to climb. It is a steep but very re-
warding hill. As our activities are geographically so dis-
persed, I might be tempted to say that she will find this
a hill from which one sees far afield. But I know she al-
ready does that. The more vital point is that this great
Institution will call upon her for all the powerful guid-
ance in management she can provide, as we take steps
to ensure that it attains the full potential, quality, and
range of its influence.

The Year in Review

The Smithsonian entered the last decade of the twen-
tieth century with a heightened commitment to remain-
ing at the forefront of today’s complex issues and pre-
paring for a future of continued social, economic, and
environmental challenges. By acquiring and transmit-
ting knowledge about our diverse material and natural
heritage through its collections, research, exhibition,
ET

A Her W eS

A child in a North Carolina cotton mill (1908) turns her back on her work in this photograph from the exhibition ‘“‘From Parlor
to Politics: Women and Reform in America, 1890-1925” at the National Museum of American History. The struggle to end
child labor in the United States is part of the history of the exhibition.
and education programs, the Smithsonian provides a
touchstone for Americans living in an increasingly tran-
sitory age. As the scope and rapidity of global change
transforms our world into a global community, the
Smithsonian’s service reaches even further, and its im-
pact will be even more significant. Through the multi-
faceted activities of its bureaus and offices, the Smith-
sonian contributes to people’s understanding of the
historical and scientific foundations of today’s world,
increases their sensitivity to our society’s diversity, and
stimulates their concern for the fragility of the global
environment. These are all qualities that an informed
citizenry needs to meet the challenges of the coming
century.

Throughout the Smithsonian in 1990, programs, ex-
hibitions, research, and other activities reflected the In-
stitution’s ongoing commitment to preserving, stimulat-
ing, and presenting cultural and biological diversity.
Earth Day 1990 was observed with symposia, confer-
ences, and a special anniversary issue of Smithsonian
magazine. “The Global Environment: Are We Overre-
acting?”’ a two-day conference sponsored by the Office
of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs and at-
tended by about 150 leading environmental scientists
and members of the media, pointed to the need for ur-
gent action on environmental problems during the next
decade. National Museum of Natural History research-
ers presented a series of briefings on the history of
global change to members of Congress, science admin-
istrators, media representatives, and the public. The
museum also organized a day-long forum, “Earth Day
1990: Shaping a New Environmental Agenda.” Re-
newed public interest in environmental issues prompted
the creation of the Smithsonian’s Office of Environ-
mental Awareness, with the mandate to increase under-
standing of the critical problems facing our planet.
Smithsonian magazine, which was founded 20 years
ago at the time of the first Earth Day, devoted its April
issue to the state of the environment.

One of the year’s most significant events pointed to
new horizons for the Institution: the establishment of
the National Museum of the American Indian, the 15th
museum in the Smithsonian complex. Legislation estab-
lishing the museum, which President George Bush
signed into law on November 28, 1989, calls it a “‘liv-
ing memorial to Native Americans and their tradi-
tions.” This year, plans for the museum were set into

tr

tr

Inspecting a model of the innovative Experimental Gallery
space are Kimberly Camp (right), gallery director, along with
(left to right): Freida Austin, gallery assistant; Walter Sorrell,
assistant director, Office of Exhibits Central; George Quist,
OEC modelmaker; Ken Young, OEC, Experimental Gallery
project designer; and David Hay, architect, Office of Design
and Construction. (Photograph by Laurie Minor)

motion, beginning with the appointment of a board of
trustees and a director, W. Richard West, Jr. In June,

the collections of the Museum of the American Indian,
Heye Foundation, were transferred to the Smithsonian.

From its beginning, the museum is setting out to
change the traditional approach to presenting the cul-
ture, traditions, and values of Native American people.
With its collections as the centerpiece, the museum will
develop interdisciplinary programs that explore Indian
culture from the perspectives of history, art, music,
dance, and drama. The planning process involves ex-
tensive formal consultation with Indian tribes from
throughout the country.

The first of three components of the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian, the George Gustav Heye
Center, is scheduled to open in late 1992 in the old
U.S. Custom House in lower Manhattan. Construction
of the Mall museum, next to the National Air and
Space Museum, is slated to begin in the mid-1rg990s. A
storage, research, and conservation facility will be lo-
cated at the Museum Support Center in Suitland,
Maryland.
Smithsonian museums traditionally have developed
their own African American research, exhibition, and
education programs, but this year the Institution began
to assess potential new directions. In an important initi-
ative launched during fiscal year 1990, the form and
content of an African American “‘presence” on the Na-
tional Mall is being considered. An advisory committee
of scholars and authorities on African American art,
history, and culture is studying various options for es-
tablishing a new African American presence, which in-
clude but are not limited to a new museum, a research
center, and a trust for existing African American mu-
seums. The committee’s final report is expected in early
1991.

The Smithsonian marked three anniversaries this
year, beginning with the centennial of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, the internationally recog-
nized research center established by aeronautical pi-
oneer and Smithsonian Secretary Samuel Pierpont Lan-
gley in a modest observatory behind the Castle. The
National Museum of American History celebrated its
25th anniversary with the opening of its largest perma-
nent exhibition ever, “Information Age: People, Infor-
mation, & Technology.” In honor of Smithsonian ma-
gazine’s 2oth anniversary, the Smithsonian Institution
Press published Editor’s Choice, an anthology of the
best of the magazine’s first two decades.

Looking ahead to the observance of the sooth anni-
versary of Columbus’s landfall in the Americas, Smith-
sonian bureaus and offices continued planning for more
than roo programs, including exhibitions, conferences,
and television and radio series. Quincentenary pro-
grams announced this year include a 13-part radio se-
ries about the Columbus encounter from the Native
American perspective, to be produced by the Office of
Telecommunications in collaboration with the Native
American Public Broadcasting Consortium. The Corpo-
ration for Public Broadcasting has contributed
$224,000 toward production and distribution of the se-
ries.

Visitors this year to the Smithsonian’s 14 museums
numbered 25 million, a slight increase over last year’s
total. Earth Day, April 22, was an especially busy day
for Mall museums. The new Smithsonian Information
Center was a popular drawing card for Mall visitors
throughout the year. In its first ro months of opera-
tion, the center served more than 1.5 million people,

making it the fourth busiest Smithsonian facility. Exhi-
bitions and public programs also attracted large num-
bers. More than 750,000 people visited the National
Museum of American History’s “Information Age” ex-
hibition from its opening in May through September
30. “Masterworks of Louis Comfort Tiffany” drew
230,000 visitors to the Renwick Gallery of the Na-
tional Museum of American Art, a record number for
the gallery. Exhibitions circulated by the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition service took the Smith-
sonian beyond the National Mall to approximately 11
million people in 42 states and the District of Colum-
bia plus Africa, Canada, and India. In 1990, more than
323,000 people of all ages enjoyed nearly 2,000 activi-
ties offered by the Resident Associate Program.

Visitors to the National Mall can now begin their
tours at the new, state-of-the-art Smithsonian Informa-
tion Center, which opened in the Great Hall of the
Castle in November. Volunteer information specialists
have multimedia assistance in the form of interactive
videodisc programs in seven languages, an orientation
video shown in twin theaters, electronic wall maps, and
monitors describing daily activities at the Smithsonian.
The new facility is the centerpiece of the six-year effort
of the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center (VIARC) to improve visitor information and
orientation services.

A dedicated corps of volunteers provides invaluable
service to the Smithsonian each year. Whether conduct-
ing tours of exhibitions, staffing visitor information
desks, or working behind the scenes, volunteers bring
enthusiasm, experience, and versatility to the task of
helping the Institution serve the public. This year,
VIARC’s 650 information specialists carried out a vari-
ety of public information duties, and 1,200 volunteers
provided short- and long-term assistance through the
VIARC Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Program. More
than 400 volunteers contributed 26,000 hours to the
Resident Associate Program’s activities. Members of the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
gave more than 7,000 hours of service to the Smithson-
ian. At the National Zoological Park, a record 750
Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) volunteers
worked 67,000 hours.

Efforts to attract a more culturally diverse group of
volunteers brought success this year. Nineteen percent
of those who participated in VIARC’s training classes

Pp
ws)
"

u

Museum technician Daniel Chaney is seen here preparing a fossil whale, one of the specimens on view in the new Natural His-
tory permanent hall, “Life in the Ancient Seas,” which opened in May. (Photograph by Chip Clark)

represented minority constituencies, while the National
Museum of American Art’s new docent recruitment
program also attracted more minority volunteers.

The foundation of the public service the Smithsonian
provides are its exhibitions, public programs, research
activities, and collections.

Exhibitions

The exhibitions mounted each year in the Smithsoni-
an’s museums are one of the most important links be-
tween the public and the Institution’s multifaceted col-
lections. By joining objects with ideas and information,
Smithsonian curators, educators, and exhibit designers
create settings that recount aspects of history, explain
scientific principles or technological developments, or
trace the evolution of an artistic style or movement.
Exhibitions at the Smithsonian both enlighten and en-
tertain, and they are designed to appeal to people of all

ages, interests, and backgrounds. A Smithsonian exhibi-
tion can be a large-scale overview of a complex topic
or an intimate glimpse of objects or ideas. The perma-
nent and temporary exhibitions presented in the past
year represent the full gamut.

The largest permanent exhibition ever organized by
the National Museum of American History opened in
1990. “Information Age: People, Information, & Tech-
nology” explores the evolution of information-pro-
cessing and communications technologies and the im-
pact of technology on our society. The 14,000-square-
foot exhibition is a technological innovation in itself.
An impressive number of sophisticated interactive de-
vices stimulate visitor involvement, including computer-
driven video stations and a bar-coded brochure that en-
ables visitors to print out a computerized record of
their activities.

Another large-scale exhibition opened in 1990: the
National Museum of Natural History’s “Life in the An-
cient Seas.” The new hall is the first permanent exhibi-
tion focusing on prehistoric marine life ever constructed
by a major U.S. museum. Its opening marked the com-
pletion of a 15-year project to renovate the museum’s
paleontological exhibits.

An eclectic assortment of art forms—from American
paintings to the decorative arts to doghouse architec-
ture—was represented in the galleries of the Smithsoni-
an’s art museums this year. The Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden organized a major retrospective
of the British painter Francis Bacon to coincide with
the artist’s 8oth birthday. The well-received exhibition
went on national tour following its showing at the
Hirshhorn. The largest and most complete exhibition of
the work of nineteenth-century painter Albert Pinkham
Ryder was held at the National Museum of American
Art. In addition to nearly 80 paintings, the exhibition
displayed a dozen of the more than roo forgeries of
Ryder’s work and included a special technical section,
organized in collaboration with the Smithsonian’s Con-
servation Analytical Laboratory, explaining why many
of the artist’s paintings have deteriorated.

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, a museum of Asian
art and one of newest in the Smithsonian family,
mounted its first exhibition of Japanese art. ““Yoko-
hama: Prints from Nineteenth-Century Japan” included
85 color woodblock prints depicting scenes of this
trade city and its residents’ first views of Westerners
following Commodore Perry’s mission in 1853. A
major loan exhibition organized by the National Mu-
seum of African Art, ‘“‘Icons: Ideals and Power in the
Art of Africa,” explored varied interpretations of five
traditional iconic themes by different African peoples.

“Irving Penn Master Images,” a collaborative effort
of the National Portrait Gallery and the National Mu-
seum of American Art, included the 120 master photo-
graphs that the noted photographer gave to the two
museums. The Anacostia Museum’s summer exhibition
“Whose Art Is It, Anyway? The Arts in Public Places”
explored the many forms that public art takes, from
sculpture to clothing and hair styles. “Masterworks of
Louis Comfort Tiffany,” the highlight of the year’s ex-
hibitions at the Renwick Gallery of the National Mu-
seum of American Art, featured 65 examples of the ar-
tist’s genius; some of the objects had never been lent to
a museum exhibition. Cartoonist Pat Oliphant’s carica-
tures, sketches, and sculpture were the focus of “‘Oli-
phant’s Presidents: Twenty-Five Years of Caricature,”

one of the most popular exhibitions ever held at the
National Portrait Gallery. The whimsical exhibition
“The Doghouse” at the Cooper-Hewitt National Mu-
seum of Design was a flight of fancy for the architects
and designers who were invited to create their visions
of the ideal canine residence.

The complex vitality of American society was evident
in the themes of a number of exhibitions this year. “To
Color America: Portraits by Winold Reiss,” a group of
images of the nation’s many ethnic groups created by a
German-born artist, brought new audiences to the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery. The National Museum of Amer-
ican History presented “From Parlor to Politics,” an
exhibition about women’s emerging social conscious-
ness during the Progressive Era, 1890-1925. Contem-
porary life in a Hispanic neighborhood in Albuquerque,
New Mexico, as shown in photographs by Miguel
Gandert, ‘““VSJ—Varrio San José: Scenes from an
Urban Chicano Experience,” was the theme of another
exhibition at the National Museum of American His-
tory.

Even permanent exhibitions are subject to change to
ensure that they are based on the most up-to-date
thinking and are accessible to visitors with a variety of
interests and learning styles. Museum staff at the
Smithsonian regularly evaluate the content and effec-
tiveness of exhibitions and make revisions based on the
results. At the National Museum of American History
this year, “After the Revolution: Everyday Life in
America, 1780—1800” has been temporarily closed
while curators, educators, and designers revise its con-
tent and design. For “Field to Factory: Afro-American
Migration 1915—1940,” new interpretive material is
being developed for younger visitors. The Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service is working with
the Office of Exhibits Central to reconfigure the popu-
lar environmental exhibition “Tropical Rainforests: A
Disappearing Treasure” for museums and educational
groups in Latin America. At the National Air and
Space Museum, new images of Neptune and Triton ob-
tained by Voyager I in 1989, along with a meteorite
believed to have come from Mars, were added to the
Exploring the Planets gallery. Following the opening of
“Life in the Ancient Seas,’ next on the agenda at the
National Museum of Natural History is the replace-
ment of its outdated geology exhibits with an innova-
tive new hall, “Geology, Gems, and Minerals.”

we
“
In the future, museum staff will be able to test exhi-
bition techniques before they are actually installed.
Work was almost completed in 1990 on the Smithsoni-
an’s new Experimental Gallery, a laboratory setting in
which both fully realized exhibitions and exhibitions-
in-progress can be tried out on visitors. This year, the
National Museum of American History inaugurated an
Exhibition Preview Area in which staff can test visitors’
reactions to concepts and techniques being considered
for future exhibitions.

Public Programs

The Smithsonian is not just a complex of museums and
research entities, but a gathering place for a “commu-
nity” that extends throughout the nation and the
world. The millions who visit the Smithsonian each
year—and millions of others who experience the Insti-
tution through television, radio, and the printed
word—enjoy it as a place to learn, be entertained, and
engage in dialogue with others. Public programs and
events for a variety of audiences give greater dimension
to the Smithsonian’s other activities, from the exhibi-
tions presented in its museums to the efforts to preserve
and document tropical biodiversity.

The Institution’s mandate for serving a diverse public
was evident this year in public programs that reflect the
variety of our cultural heritage. Highlights included
“African American Dance: Beauty, Rhythm, and
Power,” presented by the Program in African American
Culture at the National Museum of American History,
which explored the roots of African American dance
and its impact on American dance forms. Other pro-
grams at the museum focused on the genius of Duke
Ellington and the influence of gospel music on the de-
velopment of jazz.

Nineteen weekend presentations of Native American
crafts drew up to 1,500 people a day to the National
Museum of Natural History. The museum also hosted
the American Indian Theatre Company of Oklahoma,
which attracted standing-room-only crowds.

At the National Portrait Gallery, the popular Cul-
tures in Motion program continued to present a multi-
cultural view of American history through lectures,
symposia, one-person biographical plays, recitals, con-
certs, and storytelling. The gallery also organized “The

26

Politics of Portraiture,” a symposium accompanying the
Winold Reiss exhibition that considered the approaches
artists take to creating images of our multicultural soci-
ety.

The local community is a resource for Smithsonian
museums as they develop programs for multicultural
audiences. The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery worked with
Asian communities in the Washington, D.C., area to
develop learning centers featuring books, films and vi-
deos, maps, photomurals, and hands-on objects to en-
hance its exhibitions of Asian art. A comfortable ‘‘read-
ing corner” for ““Yokohama: Prints from Nineteenth-
Century Japan” contained traditional Japanese furnish-
ings and books about Japanese history and culture.

Celebrations of the nation’s diverse heritage take
place year-round through observances of Asian/Pacific
American Heritage Week, Black History Month, His-
panic Heritage Month, and Native American Week.
Lively performances of music, dance, and theater, crafts
demonstrations, and lectures and seminars illuminate
the traditions that together shape a uniquely American
culture. The annual Festival of American Folklife
brought living exhibitions of diversity to the National
Mall again this summer. This year’s festival featured
the cultures of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Senegal and
highlighted the musical expressions of contemporary
protest movements in “‘Musics of Struggle.”

The Institution-wide commitment to presenting cul-
tural diversity was reflected in the Office of Public Af-
fairs’ outreach and collaborative efforts with diverse
communities. A new bimonthly newsletter, Smithsonian
Runner, brings information about the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian and other Smithsonian
programs of interest to Native Americans to a nation-
wide readership. Through its Black Media Outreach
Program and Hispanic Media Outreach Program, the
office fosters communication with the media about the
Smithsonian’s many programs for African American
and Hispanic audiences. This year’s activities included
the development of a media plan to increase the cover-
age of programs, activities, and resources of interest to
African Americans and an exhibition promoting the
Smithsonian at the National Hispanic Media Confer-
ence.

A number of Smithsonian programs and events are
eagerly anticipated annual traditions. A sure sign of
spring is the Resident Associate Program’s kite festival
on the grounds of the Washington Monument. The
24th festival, held in March 1990, attracted 5,000 peo-
ple. Crafts artists from around the country are in the
spotlight at the Washington Craft Show, sponsored
each April by the Women’s Committee of the Smith-
sonian Associates. A Smithsonian holiday tradition is
the Office of Horticulture’s “Trees of Christmas”’ exhi-
bition at the National Museum of American History.
At the Anacostia Museum, a community celebration of
Kwanzaa marks this African American holiday each
December. Every April, the National Air and Space
Museum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restoration,
and Storage Facility opens its doors to thousands of
visitors for a behind-the-scenes look at the intricate
work of preserving and restoring historic aircraft and
spacecraft.

Whether on a summer vacation trip or a Saturday
morning outing, the Smithsonian is a popular site for a
family visit. This year, most of the museums offered
programs especially designed for families to enjoy to-
gether. Nomad Family Day at the National Museum of
Natural History, held in conjunction with the exhibi-
tion “Nomads: Masters of the Eurasian Steppe,” fea-
tured a riding demonstration, costumes, crafts, and
folklore. A Family Day celebration during the National
Museum of American Art’s exhibition “Treasures of
American Folk Art from the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller
Folk Art Center” featured music, dancing, workshops,
and a magic show and attracted 2,000 people. New in-
terpretive programs for families and children were pre-
sented during Super Week at the National Museum of
American History in an effort to expand visitor in-
volvement in exhibitions.

Through teacher training workshops, museum pro-
grams for students, publications, and curriculum mate-
rials, the Smithsonian brings its rich resources into
classrooms across the nation. A central point of contact
for teachers is the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education (OESE), which helps teachers—and ulti-
mately their students—make the most of what the
Smithsonian has to offer. Among OESE’s innovative
programs this year was “Word of Mouth,” a sympo-
sium for Washington, D.C.—area teachers on incorpo-
rating multicultural oral traditions—such as oral his-
tory and theater—into conventional classroom
activities. The weekend event was cosponsored with the
National Museum of American History.

The National Museum of Natural History held the
Natural Science Institute for Teachers of Minority Stu-
dents, designed to help teachers of grades 4 through 12
understand and interpret natural history objects. The
National Science Resources Center brought together
teachers, school administrators, and scientists from
around the country for the second Elementary Science
Leadership Institute to stimulate the implementation of
effective elementary science programs.

Programs in Smithsonian museums and bureaus nur-
ture young people’s interest in choosing museum work
as a career. The National Museum of American Art
held a Career Awareness Program this year for area
high school students. Under the auspices of the Office
of Elementary and Secondary Education, recent gradu-
ates of urban high schools experienced the Smithsonian
behind the scenes through eight-week internships.

Ensuring access to Smithsonian activities for visitors
with special needs continues to be a priority of several
museums. With its exhibition “The Doghouse,” the
Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design launched a
major effort to make its buildings and programs acces-
sible to visually impaired visitors, an audience not usu-
ally served by art museums. Changes suggested by the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Accessibility Council, which
reviews every new exhibition at the museum from the
perspective of the disabled visitor, have been incorpo-
rated into exhibit design at the museum. The National
Museum of African Art received a grant from the
Smithsonian Women’s Committee to fund educational
materials and programs—including open-captioned
films and a telecommunications device—for deaf and
hearing-impaired visitors.

In keeping with the biological park, or biopark, con-
cept, every aspect of the National Zoological Park—
from public programs to animal exhibits—transmits a
critical educational message about threats to global bio-
diversity and environmental quality. Visitors were able
to engage in many activities this year, from observing
the complex world of a drop of water through a micro-
scope equipped with a video camera to watching ani-
mals through binoculars and participating in hands-on
demonstrations led by volunteers.

Again this year, the Smithsonian offered a full sched-
ule of live performances and films. Star-studded film
premieres—which included the first Washington, D.C.,
showings of Glory, Henry V, and The First Emperor of
China, are a hallmark of the Resident Associate Pro-
gram (RAP). RAP also presented performances by such
artists as Brazilian guitarist Toninho Horta, the Twen-
tieth Century Consort, and the Institution’s own Smith-
son String Quartet, Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra,
Smithsonian Chamber Players, and the Castle Trio. The
National Zoological Park added theater to its reper-
toire of education programs with a production of
Young Charles Darwin and a musical comedy about di-
nosaurs.

Through radio, television, and the printed word, the
Smithsonian extends its impact to a wider public and
disseminates the results of research conducted by
Smithsonian scholars. More than roo radio stations
across the country broadcast a series on the intellectual
life, politics, and natural resources of the Caribbean,
featuring prominent Caribbean scholars and political
leaders and held in conjunction with the “Caribbean
Festival Arts” exhibition that was on view until Febru-
ary in the International Gallery. “Smithsonian World,”
which launched its fifth season on public television this

Smithsonian Research Expedition volunteers monitor Arenal
Volcano in Costa Rica. (Photograph by Juliana Lacey)

28

year, won national recognition this year when it re-
ceived the prestigious Emmy Award for Outstanding
Informational Series. “Invention,” the Institution’s first
venture into cable television, was produced during the
year for an October 1990 premiere. Produced by the
Discovery Channel in cooperation with the Smithson-
ian, the series salutes human ingenuity and features the
collections of the National Museum of American His-
tory.

Smithsonian Institution Press continued its tradition
of excellence in scholarly and trade publishing through
its University Press and Smithsonian Books. A new ven-
ture this year was children’s book publishing, as the
Press published The Dream Is Alive, based on the pop-
ular IMAX film shown at the National Air and Space
Museum. Smithsonian and Air c& Space/Smithsonian
magazines continued to reach wide and enthusiastic
readerships with articles on topics as multifaceted as
the Institution itself. The Smithsonian News Service,
which serves 1,000 daily and weekly newspapers na-
tionwide with feature stories, signed an agreement with
the New York Times Syndication Sales Corp. to dis-
tribute the news service overseas.

Research

Scholarly research has been a hallmark of the Institu-
tion since its beginning, and it is becoming an even
more critical element of the Smithsonian’s public ser-
vice. The wide-ranging research of Smithsonian staff,
fellows, and visiting scholars contributes to an under-
standing of the natural world, diverse cultures, technol-
ogy, and human creativity and provides important new
insights that will help in addressing the challenges of
the years ahead. Smithsonian researchers discover new
galactic structures, study the interdependence of tropi-
cal insect and plant species, document the history of
advertising in the United States, and explore the com-
plex themes in an artist’s prolific body of work.

Global environmental research continued to be the
focal point of the Smithsonian’s research efforts. At the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) in Pan-
ama, extensive studies continued on the nature and re-
lationships of tropical organisms and their role in the
biology of the planet. STRI’s new Center for Paleoecol-
ogy, established this year, will contribute to scientists’
understanding of the origins of man and changes in the
natural world and their impact on the dynamics of
global climatic change.

Scientists at the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center (SERC) in Edgewater, Maryland, are also pro-
viding insights into the nature of global climatic change
through continuing long-term interdisciplinary studies
of environmental problems. SERC studies address such
questions as the “greenhouse effect” in tidal marshes
and the interaction between the forest canopy and the
atmosphere. Protecting the diversity of global ecosys-
tems 1s also the concern of the Smithsonian Institution
Man and the Biosphere Biological Diversity Program,
which establishes collaborative efforts with developing
countries to design and implement conservation train-
ing programs.

Under the auspices of the National Museum of Natu-
ral History, scientists conduct wide-ranging research in
global change, human ecological history, biodiversity,
Arctic studies, and other areas. The museum’s Biodiv-
ersity Program expanded in 1990 In response to the ac-
celerating destruction of tropical habitats. Museum sci-
entists are at work in Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, the
Guianas, Brazil, and other parts of Amazonia. This
year marked the inauguration of a multiyear archaeo-
logical study of sixteenth-century English explorer Mar-
tin Frobisher’s base camp in the Canadian Arctic, the
first English establishment on New World soil. Anthro-
pological work continued at Olorgesaili in Kenya,
where researchers hope to learn more about early
human behavioral patterns by studying this site from
the mid-Pleistocene era.

In its centennial year, the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory (SAO) continued its tradition as a leader
in astronomy, astrophysics, and the space sciences. This
year, two SAO astronomers identified the largest single
coherent structure ever seen in nature, a “wall of galax-
ies” more than half a billion light-years long. SAO as-
tronomers also obtained radar images of a small aster-
oid approaching the Earth, were selected as guest
observers to use the Hubble Space Telescope, began the
development of innovative telescopes for ground-based
use, and engaged in numerous other research activities
that carry on Samuel Pierpont Langley’s vision for SAO
when he founded it 100 years ago.

Insights into the history, science, and technology of

aviation and spaceflight emerge from the work of scien-
tists and historians at the National Air and Space Mu-
seum. Highlights of this year’s research included the
first measurement of absolute wind velocities above the
cloudtops on Venus, which resulted in new findings
that the direction of atmospheric circulation at that al-
titude is opposite to that of the planet’s rotation.
World War | aviation, the history of hypersonic flight,
African Americans in aviation, and pioneering aircraft
designer Igor Sikorsky were the topics of research by
scholars in the museum’s Department of Aeronautics.

The vital work of scientists at the National Zoologi-
cal Park is dedicated to preserving endangered species
whose existence is critical to global biodiversity. This
year, the Zoo continued its pioneering research in cat
reproduction, a program that has gained international
recognition. A Sumatran tiger representing a valuable
genetic lineage was brought to the Zoo from Indonesia
for propagation and study under the Species Survival
Plan, a cooperative effort of North American zoos.
Work continued in artificial reproduction of cats with
the first successful in vitro fertilization of tigers using
methods developed with domestic cats. The painstaking
process of breeding animals in captivity and then rein-
troducing them to the wild is another focus of Zoo re-
search. This year, scientists made strides in the breeding
and reintroduction of black-footed ferrets and Guam
rails—both species that are extinct in the wild. Under
the continuing Species Survival Plan program for
golden lion tamarins, more than 80 zoo-born tamarins
have been reintroduced since 1984.

Cultural diversity, as well as biological diversity, is
an important scholarly concern of the Institution. Re-
search related to the many human cultural systems that
form the global community—past and present—is con-
ducted under the auspices of a number of Smithsonian
offices and bureaus.

Traditional ethnic, tribal, regional, minority, and
working-class cultures in the United States and abroad
are the focus of the Office of Folklife Programs, which
this year began an exchange project with the Soviet
Union. Soviet and U.S. scholars will study continuity
and change in cultural traditions by conducting field-
work among Soviet immigrant groups in this country
and related groups in the Soviet Union.

The twentieth century was the focus this year of the
National Museum of American History’s Department
of Social and Cultural History, which focused on ex-
panding its research in contemporary American social
and cultural history. Bernice Johnson Reagon, who re-
ceived a prestigious MacArthur Foundation fellowship,
has been using a case study approach to document the
history of African American communities in Southwest
Georgia and the Washington, D.C., area and to collect
objects that help portray life in those communities. Her
research techniques have led the museum to consider
similar methods of collecting other culturally diverse
twentieth-century material.

Research by Smithsonian scholars expands knowl-
edge and understanding of visual arts traditions and
techniques spanning many centuries. In the field of art
history, research is sometimes dedicated to gaining a
better understanding of objects in museum collections.
Art historians and art conservators worked together on
a multidisciplinary project conducted by the Freer Gal-
lery of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery to com-
pare objects in the two museums’ collections of ancient

Tropical Research Insti-
tute Assistant Director
for Terrestrial Research
Alan Smith shows
Prince Joachim of Den-
mark how ants patrol
wild ginger in the forest
on STRI’s Barro Colo-
rado Island. (Photo-
graph by Carl Hansen)

Iranian metalwork with similar objects from institu-
tions in North America, Japan, Great Britain, Europe,
and the Soviet Union. Although the Freer is closed to
visitors during its major renovation project, researchers
still have access to the collections and library when
possible.

Museum exhibitions also involve a strong research
component, which provides a foundation for visitors’
education and enjoyment. Extensive research was evi-
dent, for example, in the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art’s comprehensive exhibition ‘Albert Pinkham
Ryder.”’ Little information exists about the eccentric
nineteenth-century artist, so the exhibition’s organizer
and museum Director Elizabeth Broun had to uncover
many additional resources to construct an overview of
Ryder’s career and cast new light on his materials,
methods, and subject matter.

Invaluable research for the Ryder exhibition was
conducted in the Archives of American Art, which this
year began to focus efforts on improving access to its

collections and services to researchers. The research
portion of the Archives’ automated data base is near
completion, and next year the Archives catalogue will
be available in libraries throughout the country as part
of the Research Libraries Information Network.

Several Smithsonian-based projects are devoted to or-
ganizing, documenting, and publishing the papers of
noted Americans. This year, the Joseph Henry Papers
achieved a major goal: the development of an improved
automated index to the papers of this respected scien-
tist and first secretary of the Smithsonian. The Peale
Family Papers project, administered by the National
Portrait Gallery, continued work on volume 4 of the
papers of this well-known family of artists. Volume 5,
Charles Willson Peale’s autobiography, is also in
progress.

Each year, the rich resources of Smithsonian collections
are fertile ground for research by hundreds of scholars
and students in art, history, and science. The Institu-
tion’s research support programs, administered by the
Office of Fellowships and Grants, assist researchers
from this country and abroad who want to use Smith-
sonian facilities in conjunction with staff members. In
1990, nearly 950 graduate and undergraduate students
and scholars received awards from the Smithsonian.
These short- and long-term appointments range from
to-week fellowships for students in the early stages of
their graduate training to Regents Fellowships for dis-
tinguished scholars who are in residence at the Institu-
tion.

Institution-wide programs include the Smithsonian
Fellowship Program, which marked its 25th anniver-
sary this year. Postdoctoral, doctoral, and senior post-
doctoral Smithsonian fellows conducted independent
studies at the Institution on such topics as African
American seamen in the Atlantic World from 1750 to
1885 and representation of domestic servants in nine-
teenth-century painting. The Faculty Fellowship Pro-
gram supports research by minority faculty members,
while undergraduate and graduate internships stimulate
research by minorities in Smithsonian fields of interest.
Nineteen Native American students and scholars re-
ceived awards for the use of Native American collec-
tions at the Smithsonian.

Awards from Smithsonian bureaus included research
fellowships at the National Air and Space Museum, the

Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of American
Art, and the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.
Conservation interns were in residence at five Smith-
sonian museums and the Conservation Analytical Labo-
ratory.

Workshops and training programs offered by the
Smithsonian brought museum professionals and schol-
ars in related fields to the Institution this year. In
“Building Partnerships: Museums and Their Communi-
ties,’ the first training congress sponsored by the Office
of Museum Programs, 85 museum leaders from across
the country assembled for discussions of the relation-
ship between museums and their diverse constituencies.
Fifty participants from the United States and France
shared common concerns on issues of science and
human rights at the international symposium ‘‘Les
Droits de ! Homme and Scientific Progress,’ cospon-
sored by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies and the
National Academy of Sciences.

Members of the public, scholars, students, and others
can gain informal access to Smithsonian resources with
the assistance of staff in various offices. In the 14
branches of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, staff
answered 61,000 reference questions this year. The Vis-
itor Information and Associates’ Reception Center pro-
cessed about 47,000 pieces of mail and responded to
more than 337,000 calls for information about Smith-
sonian programs and events; more than 24,000 calls
were received in April alone.

Collections

The 137 million objects and specimens that the Smith-
sonian holds in trust for the American public form a
comprehensive record of human creativity, scientific
and technological innovation, and the wonders of the
natural world. As these collections are enriched each
year by the acquisition of thousands of objects, they
present an increasingly diverse picture of our cultural
and natural heritage.

By far the high point of the year was the transfer to
the Smithsonian of the collection of the Museum of the
American Indian, Heye Foundation. This magnificent
assemblage of more than 1 million artifacts—consid-
ered one of the finest Native American collections ever
accumulated—will be the centerpiece of the National
Museum of the American Indian. In addition to arti-
facts, the collection includes a library, photo archives,
and other resource materials.

The holdings of the Smithsonian’s art museums grew
with the addition of works of art spanning many centu-
ries and representing many cultures and styles. The
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden added to its
collection an important work by sculptor Henry
Moore, Stringed Figure No. rt (1937), and major works
by Edward Ruscha, Five Past Eleven (1989), and Ri-
chard Artschwager, Two Indentations (1967). The Na-
tional Museum of American Art acquired three impor-
tant American sculptures this year: Louis Jimenez’s
Vaquero, Elizabeth Catlett’s Singing Head, and Ernest
Tino Trova’s FM/s;’ AWF #3. The museum also en-
riched its strong collection of African American art
with paintings by Mailou Jones, Romare Bearden,
Jacob Lawrence, and Frederick Brown. At the Renwick
Gallery, works by such artists as Jere Osgood, Daniel
Jackson, and Robert Arneson were added to the collec-
tion of contemporary crafts.

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery acquired a number of
examples of twentieth-century Asian art for its collec-
tion, along with a group of photographs by Raghubir
Singh. To the collection of the Freer Gallery of Art
were added a hanging calligraphy scroll by the Chinese
Emperor Ch’ien-lung (reigned 1736-95), a silver rose-
water bottle made in India around 1700, and two fine
examples of nineteenth-century Indian gold jewelry.

Notable additions to the collection of the National
Museum of African Art were a wood protective figure
by the Teke peoples of the Republic of the Congo and
a nineteenth-century throne of the Hehe peoples of
Tanzania, carved in the form of a female torso.

Significant acquisitions by the National Portrait Gal-
lery included a 1792 life portrait of Thomas Paine; a
1910 poster of the first black heavyweight champion,
Jack Johnson; and an extremely rare Man Ray photo-
graph (ca. 1922) of Gertrude Stein posing for the Jo
Davidson portrait sculpture that is one of the best-
known objects in the museum’s collection.

The Archives of American Art acquired more than
121 collections this year, including the papers of cera-
mist and teacher Frans R. Wildenhain, sculptor Dimitri
Hadzi, and painter and educator Edmund C. Tarbell,
as well as a select group of Winslow Homer letters.

The National Air and Space Museum made two his-

toric acquisitions: A Soviet SS-20 and an American
Pershing II nuclear missile, both banned by the 1987
Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty be-
tween the United States and the Soviet Union, were
placed on display together, symbolic of the effort to
end the nuclear arms race. Other significant additions
to the museum’s collection were the Cliff Krainik bal-
looning collection of nineteenth- and twentieth-century
photographs and memorabilia and an SR-71 reconnais-
sance aircraft, delivered to Washington-Dulles Interna-
tional Airport by the U.S. Air Force in a record-break-
ing 68-minute cross-country flight.

The extensive collections of the National Museum of
American History grew larger and more diverse this
year with the addition of thousands of objects. Arti-
facts and archival material in the Edward Orth World’s
Fair Collection give the museum one of the world’s
most comprehensive collections of materials on the
1939 New York World’s Fair. Other acquisitions in-
cluded Benny Goodman’s clarinet, the first computer-
driven piano, a ‘Funny Car’’ dragster, and the Eubanks
Collection of photographs documenting the origin and
evolution of the Black Panther Party.

Additions to the 120 million items in the collections
of the National Museum of Natural History included a
396.30-carat kunzite necklace and a nearly flawless
120-pound specimen of Brazilian, transparent smoky
citrine (yellow quartz), both gifts to the gem and min-
eral collection. The museum acquired a significant col-
lection of neotropical mosquitos numbering 14,000
specimens, as well as the Horton Collection of Guate-
malan-Mayan textiles, which contains fine examples of
Guatemalan costumes.

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries enhanced its
holdings with the Lewis and Valentine collection,
which is noted for its books on Japanese gardens and
practical horticultural topics. The Libraries’ Special
Collections added an important 1712 document to its
extensive collection of Isaac Newton materials, and the
Libraries purchased the Robert D. Mussey, Jr., collec-
tion on varnishes and furniture finishes, which will sup-
port the research and work of furniture conservators.
The Smithsonian Institution Archives accessioned 700
cubic feet of records and other historical material, in-
cluding Hornblower and Marshall drawings for the
Natural History Building.

The care and management of the nation’s collections
In one of the Smithsonian’s cooperative programs in the Washington metropolitan area, Carmel Ervin, education specialist at the
National Museum of Natural History, conducts an education workshop for science teachers. (Photograph by Eric Long)

is a complex and critical endeavor that goes on largely
behind the scenes in Smithsonian museums and at the
Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland. Cata-
loguing and recordkeeping, storage, preservation and
conservation, and protection are all tasks that fall
under the general rubric of collections care and man-
agement.

The Smithsonian’s official overall collections manage-
ment policy was updated and officially approved by
Secretary McC. Adams in 1990. Developed under the
auspices of the Office of the Registrar, the policy di-
rects collecting units of the Institution to revise their in-
dividual collections policies and develop formal collect-
ing plans.

One-third of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries’
collections are at risk of disintegration, and this year
the Libraries began an ambitious effort to rescue them.
Under the Brittle Books Program, conservators will re-
store selected deteriorated materials or replace them
with reprints, microfilm, or photocopies.

A special technical section of the National Museum
of American Art’s exhibition “Albert Pinkham Ryder,”
created in collaboration with the Conservation Analyt-
ical Laboratory (CAL), gave visitors a glimpse of the

challenges of art conservation. A highlight of the year
at CAL was the graduation of the first class in the Fur-
niture Conservation Training Program.

The labor-intensive process of restoring historic air-
craft and spacecraft takes place at the National Air and
Space Museum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restora-
tion, and Storage Facility. This year, work continued
on engines that will enhance the interpretation of
World War | in a new gallery scheduled to open in
1992 and on the Enola Gay, the aircraft that dropped
the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. At the National Mu-
seum of American History, the Division of Conserva-
tion provided specialized laboratory treatment for
2,250 objects. Among them were George Washington’s
tent, which required 450 hours of painstaking cleaning,
and the historic ENIAC computer, which needed 530
hours of work to prepare it for display in the “Infor-
mation Age” exhibition.

Behind the scenes, a network of administrative offices
supports the smooth operations of Smithsonian bureaus
and offices. Among the varied services this central sup-
port system provides are security for the nation’s col-
lections, management of design and construction

Ss)
iss)
projects in Smithsonian facilities, personnel administra-
tion, and oversight of the historic preservation of
Smithsonian buildings.

This year, several administrative offices undertook
activities designed to improve their service to bureaus
and offices throughout the Institution. The Office of
Design and Construction, which managed 40 construc-
tion projects this year, instituted a more efficient
project management structure. The Office of Informa-
tion Resource Management developed an information
resource management plan and completed a five-year
study in preparation for the creation of an integrated
communications network. A comprehensive review of
the Office of Personnel Administration also began this
year.

Preparing to meet the challenges of the future requires
physical changes to ensure that Smithsonian facilities
serve the needs of the collections, the public, staff, and
visiting scholars. The Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (STRI) completed major additions to its physi-
cal facility during 1990, while the Freer Gallery of Art
and the National Museum of American History contin-
ued building renovation projects. Plans were also under
way for an extension of the National Air and Space
Museum.

In March, STRI dedicated its new Earl Silas Tupper
Research and Conference Center in Panama City,
which houses offices and state-of-the-art laboratories.
At STRI’s Barro Colorado Island site, new housing,
dining, and conference facilities also opened in March.
Work progressed on the Freer Gallery of Art’s four-
year architectural renovation, which will result in
much-needed new space for collections storage, conser-
vation, and research; will link the Freer with its sister
institution, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery; and will im-
prove exhibition space and visitor facilities. A team of
paintings conservators began a painstaking two-year re-
search and conservation project to restore James Mc-
Neill Whistler’s Peacock Room, which is permanently
installed in the Freer and considered the most impor-
tant nineteenth-century interior in an American mu-
seum. In its 25th anniversary year, the National Museum
of American History continued the section-by-section
renovation of its building, which has been accom-
plished without closing the museum to the public. Plans

34

progressed for the National Air and Space Museum ex-
tension, as the Board of Regents approved Washington-
Dulles International Airport as the site for the new fa-
cility.

Staff Changes

This year, the Smithsonian sustained a number of
changes in its top management. In July, Dean W. An-
derson announced his resignation from the position of
under secretary, where he had served for over five
years; in September, he left the Smithsonian to join the
staff of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars. Nancy D. Suttenfield, director of the Office of
Planning and Budget, assumed the position of acting
under secretary while a search for a permanent succes-
sor was conducted, and Mary J. Rodriguez was ap-
pointed the acting director of the Office of Planning
and Budget. Just as the fiscal year drew to a close, Sec-
retary Adams announced the appointment of Carmen
E. Turner, then general manager of the Washington
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, as the next under
secretary.

Ralph Rinzler, who had served as the assistant secre-
tary for public service since 1983, retired from that po-
sition to become an adviser to the secretary in early
February. James C. Early, who had been deputy assis-
tant secretary, served for the remainder of the year as
the acting assistant secretary for public service. And
Wilton S. Dillon, formerly director of the Office of In-
terdisciplinary Studies, assumed the new position of
senior scholar in residence.

In the last year, several new outstanding staff were
appointed to senior management positions. These in-
cluded W. Richard West, Jr., as the director of the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian; Richard J.
Wattenmaker as the director of the Archives of Ameri-
can Art; Thomas D. Blair as the inspector general;
Marilyn S. Marton as director of the newly configured
Office of Human Resources; Claudine K. Brown as in-
terim director of the African American International
Study; Marshall J. Wong as director of the Smithsonian
Office of Wider Audience Development; and Robert P.
Dillman as the director of the Office of Design and
Construction.
Report of the Board of Regents

At their meeting on January 29, 1990, the Board of Re-
gents voted to accept from the Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian, Heye Foundation, its collection of books,
objects, works of art, endowment, and certain proper-
ties for the purpose of establishing the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian as authorized by Public
Law 1o1-185. The regents’ acceptance was conditioned
upon the receipt of New York court rulings consistent
with the May 8, 1989, memorandum of understanding
between the Smithsonian and the Heye Foundation. At
the same time, the regents appointed members of the
first Board of Trustees of the National Museum of the
American Indian. They included Ernest Leroy Boyer,
W. Roger Buffalohead, Barber B. Conable, Jr., Vine
Deloria, Jr., Suzan Shown Harjo, Norbert Hill, Freder-
ick E. Hoxie, Daniel K. Inouye, Jennie Joe, Alvin Jose-
phy, Julie Johnson Kidd, Clara Sue Kidwell, Navarre
Scott Momaday, Curt Muser, Waldemar A. Nielson,
Alfonso Ortiz, Janine Pease-Windy Boy, David Rocke-
feller, Helen M. Scheirbeck, David Hurst Thomas, Ar-
turo Warman, Thomas R. White, Rosita Worl, and ex
officio, the secretary and one assistant secretary.

The regents considered “‘best and final” offers from
the governors of Virginia and Maryland, as well as a
generous proposal from the City of Denver, and reaf-
firmed their preference for Washington-Dulles Interna-
tional Airport as the site for the proposed extension of
the National Air and Space Museum. The board en-
couraged the secretary to undertake further studies and
planning to ensure a viable legislative proposal for
congressional authorization of the project.

Among other actions, the regents discussed matters
of organization and management, approved the publi-
cation of the Five-Year Prospectus, 1991-1995; ac-
cepted in principle a proposed four-year fund-raising
effort and established an ad hoc Advisory Committee
on Planning and Development; incorporated into the
endowment funds certain restricted, quasi-unrestricted,
and other unrestricted funds; nominated Anne L. Arm-
strong to serve an additional term as regent; appointed
Thomas M. Keresey to the Investment Policy Commit-
tee; awarded the Henry Medal to August Heckscher;
adopted a policy statement on senior-level compensa-
tion and authorized the secretary to implement adjust-
ments to trust fund salaries in January 1991; and ap-
proved the planned renovation of the National
Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man

and construction of additional space in the museum’s
East Court. The regents also appointed or reappointed
John A. Friede, James L. Hudson, Frieda Rosenthal,
Brian C. Leyden, and Michael L. Lomax to the Com-
mission of the National Museum of African Art; Frank
Stanton to the Commission of the National Portrait
Gallery; and Margaret Dodge Garrett, Wilbur L. Ross,
Jr., Edwin I. Colodny, Rita R. Fraad, and Richard J.
Schwartz to the Commission of the National Museum
of American Art.

In a variety of committee reports, it was indicated
that the Audit and Review Committee had examined
corrective measures taken to stem inventory losses and
enhance cash management in the museum shops, dis-
cussed the inspector general’s first semiannual report,
and reviewed the complexities of renovating the Natu-
ral History Building. Reports also revealed that the Per-
sonnel Committee found no evidence of conflict of in-
terest in managements’ statements of personal financial
interests and that the Investment Policy Committee
amended its investment guidelines. In his report, the
secretary described the conditions under which the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute had been oper-
ating amidst strife in Panama, the status of Air &
Space/Smithsonian magazine, and the prospect of
charging for admission to an unusual exhibition of life-
like mechanical dinosaurs at the Natural History Mu-
seum. The Financial Report detailed the status of the
Institution’s funds, noting particularly the effects of
Gramm-Rudman-Hollings sequestration and other
budget cuts. Additional status reports were given on af-
firmative action, the African American Institutional
Study, construction and renovation, litigation, refine-
ments to planning and budget processes, media devel-
opments, and the activities of the Smithsonian Council.

The traditional regents’ dinner had been held on the
preceding evening, January 28, in the Arts and Indus-
tries Building in honor of the prospective members of
the Board of Trustees of the National Museum of the
American Indian. Speakers included the chancellor, the
secretary, Julie Kidd (chair of the Heye Foundation
Board of Trustees), and Alan Parker, who spoke on be-
half of Senator Inouye.

The regents’ second meeting of the year took place
on May 7, 1990. At this meeting the regents requested
their congressional members to introduce and support
legislation authorizing the board to plan and design an

ww
“1
extension of the National Air and Space Museum at
Dulles Airport. The regents nominated I. Michael Hey-
man to the board, effective upon the expiration of the
term of A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., in October 1990.
The regents also discussed a report on equal employ-
ment opportunity over the last five years; they noted
that the report reflected more progress and effort than
is generally recognized and urged management’s contin-
ued vigilance and effort toward expanded opportunities
for minorities.

Among other actions, the regents amended their by-
laws to assist in handling essentially routine adminis-
trative responsibilities under secretarial authority,
agreed on a total return payout rate for fiscal year
1991, approved adjustments to the budgets of appro-
priated and nonappropriated trust funds to enable
management to achieve balanced budgets by year’s end,
incorporated two quasi-unrestricted funds into the en-
dowment, accepted a plan for preparing for an endow-
ment campaign with the assistance of unrestricted trust
funds, accepted the annual report for fiscal 1989, and
approved changes to the bylaws of the Advisory Coun-
cil of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and reappointed
Donald Bruckmann, Marietta Tree, Karen Johnson
Boyd, Joan K. Davidson, Joanne Du Pont, Harmon
Goldstone, August Heckscher, Kenneth Miller, Arthur
Ross, and Robert Sarnoff to membership thereon.

In its report, the Investment Policy Committee noted
its endorsement of an endowment goal of $500 million
by 1995. The Audit and Review Committee noted that
Coopers & Lybrand had given the Institution’s finan-
cial statements for fiscal 1989 a clean opinion and had
recommended that steps be taken to increase central
controls as the Institution implements increasingly de-
centralized entrepreneurial and development activities.
The Audit and Review Committee also noted that the
inspector gneral had reported on weaknesses in the ac-
cessibility program for the handicapped, in selected
areas of collections management, and in certain aspects
of construction and safety management.

In his report, the secretary noted progress toward a
management study, the potential sale of real estate, and
the controversy surrounding the Smithsonian’s consid-
eration of locating the submillimeter telescope array
atop Mount Graham in Arizona. The secretary also re-
ported on activities leading toward a smooth transition
of the Museum of the American Indian, Heye Founda-

tion, to the National Museum of the American Indian;
he noted, too, the preliminary work on fund-raising for
the new museum and the trustees’ consideration of
space within the Custom House in New York City. Ad-
ditional reports were given on the African American In-
stitutional Study, the need for administrative and pro-
grammatic space in proximity to the National Mall,
recent limitations to museum security and public acces-
sibility, major recruitments, construction and renova-
tion, the recommendations of the secretary’s Planning
Advisory Group, litigation, and Smithsonian interest in
a potential research site in Kenya.

The traditional regents’ dinner was held on the pre-
ceding evening, May 6, in the National Museum of
American History, where the regents and their guests
attended the opening reception for the “Information
Age” exhibition. The speakers included David Acheson,
Secretary Adams, and Roger Kennedy.

The third and final meeting of the year was held on
September 17, 1990. At this meeting the secretary dis-
cussed with the regents his plan to appoint Mrs. Car-
men Turner as under secretary in place of Dean Ander-
son, who had resigned over the summer. The secretary
also alluded to other potential changes in the top man-
agement of the Institution.

In a wide variety of actions, the regents conferred
upon A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., the title of regent
emeritus upon the expiration of his term of service on
the board; approved budgets for fiscal 1991 and the
federal budget request for fiscal year 1992; accepted
into the endowment restricted funds provided from the
Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation; au-
thorized the secretary to implement new pay systems
for the senior federal and trust staff, approved funding
for the support of a fund-raising campaign for the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian; encouraged the
secretary to explore private sector funding for the ex-
tension of the National Air and Space Museum; and
authorized the secretary to negotiate most favorable
terms for the lease or lease/purchase of an administra-
tive service center. The regents also authorized the sec-
retary to arrange for the sale of excess property at the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, awarded
the Henry Medal to Eloise Spaeth, and approved the
naming of a gallery in the National Museum of Natu-
ral History in honor of Harry Winston.

The Audit and Review Committee reported that
work on the implementation of the new general ledger
system has been progressing, but complexities have
made progress slower and more difficult than desired.
The committee also noted that changes in audit find-
ings and follow-up procedures will give selective em-
phasis to the most significant issues. The Investment
Policy Committee reported on the status of the endow-
ment and noted that its composition falls within the
committee’s guidelines.

The regents appointed Juanita P. Baranco, Paul R.
Ehrlich, Henry Loomis, Robert H. Malott, Jeffery W.
Meyer, Homer A. Neal, David R. Pilbeam, S. Dillon
Ripley, Il, Nicholas M. Salgo, James W. Valentine,
Warren Herbert Wagner, Jr., David B. Wake, Milton
H. Ward, Ronald H. Winston, and E-An Zen to the
National Council of the National Museum of Natural
History/National Museum of Man. They also ap-
pointed Frederick Brown to the Commission of the Na-
tional Museum of American Art.

Among other actions, the regents gave preliminary
consideration to the draft Five-Year Prospectus, 1992—
1996, and discussed the redirection of earlier fund-rais-
ing goals toward those that will bring relief to current
budget strains or respond to a statutory mandate. The
board also received reports on the African American
Institutional Study, equal opportunity advances over a
six-month period, and Quincentenary programs, as well
as a host of status of reports on various Smithsonian
activities.

A reception for the regents and their guests was held
at the home of Vice President and Mrs. Danforth
Quayle on the evening of September 16. It was fol-
lowed by a dinner in the Milestones of Flight gallery of
the National Air and Space Museum. Introduced by the
chancellor, Secretary Adams touched briefly on the im-
portance of the Institution’s partnership with corporate
America. He also recognized two special guests, Regent
Emeritus Lindy Boggs and Senator James McClure,
whose dedication to and support of the Smithsonian
will be sorely missed on Capitol Hill upon their retire-
ment from the Congress.

Benefactors

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the support
of the individuals, foundations, and corporations whose
gifts, bequests, and contributing memberships aided the
work of the Institution during the past fiscal year, Oc-
tober 1, 1989, through September 30, 1990.

The Smithsonian owes its founding to the generosity
of one individual. During most of its history since
1846, the Institution has relied on a combination of
both federal and private funding to carry out the terms
of James Smithson’s will. As a trust instrumentality of
the United States, the Smithsonian has received federal
appropriations to support its basic operations and se-
lected initiatives.

The trust funds play a vital role in providing the In-
stitution with the flexibility and independence essential
to its creative growth. The national and international
reputation for excellence held by the Smithsonian is in
large part a result of the innovative, imaginative, and
special activities underwritten by public-spirited private
citizens. Of particular importance are gifts that have
supported the Smithsonian’s core functions—exhibi-
tions, collections acquisition, research, and public edu-
cation—that are central to its achievements.

Certain donors have requested anonymity. If the
name of any other donor has been omitted, it is unin-
tentional and in no way lessens the Smithsonian’s ap-
preciation.

Donors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts of $1,000 or
more to the Smithsonian.

$500,000 or more

The Boeing Co.

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Space Biospheres Venture

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

$100,000 or more

American Committee on the French
Revolution

American Chemical Society

BASF Corporation

BellSouth Corporation

Emil Buehler Trust

Chesapeake Research Consortium,
Inc.

Chevron U.S.A. Inc.

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards Foundation

Digital Equipment Corporation

Mrs. Charles G. Dodge

Ethyl Corp.

J. Paul Getty Trust

Hewlett-Packard Co.

IBM Corporation

W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc.

J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Les Dames De Champagne of Los
Angeles

Lotus Development Corporation

The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation
Maryland Department of the
Environment

Microsoft Corporation

Overbrook Foundation

The Pew Charitable Trusts

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

Sears, Roebuck and Co.

Seattle Organizing Committee

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

The Tennessee State Museum

U.S. Constitution Bicentennial
Committee

Unisys Corporation

United Media

World Wildlife Fund

Xerox Corp.

Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co.

$50,000 or more

ADAPSO

Ameritech Foundation

Mrs. Helen W. Buckner

Consolidated Natural Gas Co.

Al & Peggy DeSalle Charitable Trust

Electronic Data Systems Corp.

Ms. Kitty Fassett

Fokker Aircraft U.S.A., Inc.

Ford Foundation

Foundation for a Creative America

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

Intel Corp.

Kajima Corporation

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Sydney & Francis Lewis Foundation

Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

McDonald’s Corp.

Mobil Oil Corporation

The E. Nakamichi Foundation

National Geographic Society

NCR Corp.

Government of the Netherlands

NeXT, Inc.

NIKE, Inc.

Novell Inc.

NYNEX Corporation

Pacific Telesis Group

PepsiCo, Inc.

James Renwick Alliance

Riggs National Bank of Washington,
Dies

Rockefeller Foundation

Rockwell International Corp.

Mrs. Else Sackler

Mrs. Jean D. Shehan

Southwestern Bell Corp.

US West, Inc.

USAir Group Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Weinstein

$10,000 or more

Abramson Family Foundation, Inc.
Aerospatiale, Inc.
Air Line Pilots Association

Mr. and Mrs. Michael P. Alessio

American Association of Zoological
Parks and Aquariums

American Pharmaceutical
Association

Apple Computer, Inc.

Arts International

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Association of Research Directors,
Inc.

AT&T

Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry

Mr. and Mrs. George B. Bingham, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Bower

British Aerospace, Inc.

Ms. Margarat Martin Brock

Brother International Corp.

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Carnegie Corporation of New York

Edward Lee Cave, Inc.

CBS Records Inc.

Mr. Herman Chanen

Chase Manhattan Corporation/
Chase Manhattan Bank N.A.

Tom Chauncey’s Desert Arabians

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

Cousins Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Betty Crawford

Mrs. Katharine G. Deskey

The Dietrich Foundation

The Walt Disney Company

Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

Max & Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation

Lyda Ebert Family Foundation

The Educational Foundation of
America

Mr. and Mrs. J.A. Elkins, Jr.

FiberWeb North America, Inc.

Mrs. Paul F. Finstad

Roger S. Firestone Foundation

First City, Texas

Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish
Commission

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Fundacion Luis Munoz Marin, Inc.

Gardiner-Caldwell SynerMed

General Electric Company

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher

Mr. Arvin Gottlieb

The Phil Hardin Foundation

John R. & Dora Haynes Foundation

State of Hawaii

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Herzman

Hitachi Foundation

The Homeland Foundation

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems

Jaquelin Hume Foundation

LE-O:E:

Independent Jewelers Organization,
Inc.

International Life Sciences
Institute—Nutrition Foundation

International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources

Mr. and Mrs. Terry W. Johnson

The Greater Kansas City
Community Foundation and
Affiliated Trusts

Ms. Narinder K. Keith and Ms.
Rajinder K. Keith

Enid & Crosby Kemper Foundation

Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Lawrence Foundation

LEA Group

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin

Lewis Unitrust

Mr. and Mrs. Meredith J. Long

Mrs. Monroe M. Luther

M&M/Mars

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney

Mars Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

The German Marshall Fund of the
United States

Masco Corp.

Max Planck Institut

MCI Communications Corp.

Merck Company Foundation

Merck Family Foundation

Mill Pond Press, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. David L. Moore

Ruth Mott Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Roy E. Naftzger, Jr.

National Broadcasting Co., Inc.

National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation

National Wholesale Druggists
Association

Ms. Ann Navarra-Greenberg

New York State Council for the
Arts

The New York Times Company
Foundation

Orkin Exterminating Co., Inc.

Phelps Dodge Corporation

The Philecology Trust

Ms. Anne B. Pinstad

Prime Computer, Inc.

Rhythm and Blues Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. and Mrs. Johnathan S. Ritter

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

The Arthur Ross Foundation

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Salomon Inc.

David Schwartz Foundation Inc.

Shell Oil Company Foundation

Ms. Dorothy M. Shelton

Shelton Foundation

L. J. & Mary C. Skaggs Foundation

SNECMA, Inc.

Sotheby’s

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

The Stroud Foundation

Mr. W. B. Dixon Stroud

Summers Group

The Surdna Foundation

System Planning Corporation

TAPPI

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

TRW Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Turner

U.S. Borax & Chemical Corp.

U.S. Man & the Biosphere Program

UNESCO

Bill Usery Labor Management
Relation Foundation

Victor Company of Japan, Ltd.

Vision 300 Committee

Dr. George B. Vogt

Warner Communications Inc.

Waste Management, Inc.

Ms. Virginia Collins Weart

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Mrs. James O. Welch

Western Development Corporation

WETA-FM

Mrs. Harold B. Williams

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Leonard C. Yaseen Foundation, Inc.

$5,000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Giovanni Agnelli

Alexander Gallery

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul

Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.

Backer Spielvogel Bates, Inc.

Ms. Cheri Barstow

Dr. and Mrs. Richard H. Benson

Mr. Don H. Berkebile

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

Berry Hill Galleries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Biggs

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph E. Bodine

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust

Mr. and Mrs. H.L. Brewer

Bristol-Myers Squibb Fund

The Eli & Edythe Broad Foundation

CAE-Link Corporation

CFM International, Inc.

The Christensen Fund

Christie’s

Cleveland-Cliffs, Inc.

Manny & Ruth Cohen Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Cosby, Jr.

Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance
Association

The Cowles Charitable Trust

Crain Communications, Inc.

Crown Books Foundation

Ms. Florence D’Urso

Ms. Susanne F. Donnelly

Eastman Kodak Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Barney A. Ebsworth

Exxon Corporation

Fairchild Industries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Gannett Foundation

Mrs. Thomas Edward Garrard

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mrs. Martha Watson Griffin

Lady Mary-Louise Grundy

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Halff, Jr.

Evelyn A. J. Hall Charitable Trust

Hard Rock Cafe

H. J. Heinz Company

Clarence and Jack Himmel
Foundation

Ms. Barbara M. Huntington

Indal Technologies Inc.

Johnson & Higgins

Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Johnson III

Kahala Travel

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney

Ms. Susan Jean Kreski

Peter Krueger-Christie’s Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Eugenio Garza
Laguera

Mr. and Mrs. Alan D. Levy

Mrs. Oren R. Lewis, Jr.

William & Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation

Lowe Foundation, Inc.

Martin Marietta Corp.

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Metropolitan Toronto Zoo

Ms. Julienne M. Michel

Mr. Mayer Mitchell

The Mobile Community Foundation

Ms. Jeannette D. Naman

National Solid Waste Management
Association

The Nature Conservancy of Hawaii

Nebraska State Historical Society

New York Zoological Society

North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO)

PacifiCorp Foundation/NERCO
Fund

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Phillips Petroleum Company

Mr. John J. Pomerantz

Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin

Pratt & Whitney Canada, Inc.

Research Publication, Inc.

The Rex Foundation

Mrs. Mary Livingston Ripley

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

Mr. Steven Ross

Helena Rubinstein Foundation

Mr. Billings K. Ruddock

Ms. Mary E. Ruffner

Safari Club International—The
National Capital Chapter

Charles E. Sampson Memorial Fund

Ms. Leidy Samson and Ms. Kathy
Kempa

Mr. and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz

Robert & Anna Shapiro Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jon A. Shirley

John Sloan Memorial Foundation,
Inc.

Spanierman Gallery

Mr. Howard Stein

Hattie M. Strong Foundation

The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.

Union Pacific Foundation

Stevie R. Vaughan & Double
Trouble

Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust

Mrs. Alexander Wetmore

Winston-Salem Foundation, Inc.

Young & Rubicam Inc.

Ms. Stefanie Zable

Mrs. Walter J. Zable

$1,000 or more

Mr. Herve Aaron

Harry N. Abrams Incorporated

Mr. Alexander Acevedo

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Acquavella

AFL-CIO

African-American Institute

The Honorable and Mrs. James E.
Akins

Alitalia

Mr. William G. Allen

Allied Foundation

Ally & Gargano, Inc.

American Committee on South
Asian Art

The American Legion, Post #91

American List Counsel, Inc.

Arabian American Oil Company
(ARAMCO)

ARCO

Mr. Placido Arango Arias

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Association of National Advertisers,
Inc.

Atomic Library & Technology
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. John P. Axelrod

Government of The Bahamas

Mr. and Mrs. David Bakalar

Mr. Louis C. Baker

Mr. William N. Banks

The Barra Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Sid R. Bass

Ms. Donna Bayles

BBDO Worldwide

Mr. and Mrs. C. Victor Beadles

William Beadleston, Inc.

Beazer Materials & Services,
Incorporated

The Bee Publishing Company, Inc.

Michele Beiny, Inc.

Bellcore

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman

Ms. Ruth M. Berlin

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Berman

Mr. Robert Glenn Bernbaum

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Bertero

Bill Blass, Ltd.

Binder Park Zoological Society

Dr. and Mrs. Peter S. Bing

Mr. James G. Blaine

Mr. John D. Block

Mr. John Bloom

Charles & Yvette Bluhdorn
Charitable Trust

Mrs. Esther S. Bondareft

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Bowen

BP America

The British Embassy

William & Virginia Brody
Foundation

Dr. Annella Brown

Mr. Frederic Buchner

Bulgari Coporation of America

Ms. Alice Green Burnette

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mr. Preston Butcher

Mrs. Charles M. Butler

Mr. Charles C. Butt

State of California

Major General and Mrs. Daniel S.
Campbell

Miss Helen R. Cannon

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Caswell Caplan

Caskey & Lees

Caterpillar Foundation

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Ms. Patricia Chamblin

Chevy Chase Federal Savings Bank

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Cigna

Citicorp/Citibank N. A.

Claneil Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Willard G. Clark

Dr. Roy S. Clarke, Jr.

Cleveland Zoological Society

Saul & Amy Cohen Family
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen

Colgate-Palmolive Company

Columbus Zoological Park
Association

Conde Nast Publications, Inc.

Consolidated Edison Co. of NY

Ms. Edith Bently Cook

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mr. and Mrs. John Corroon

Ms. Margaret A. Coryell

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cousins

Mr. Raymond M. Cracchiolo

Mr. and Mrs. Earle M. Craig, Jr.

Cross Pacific Pearls, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Cullen

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Mr. Wellington W. Cummer

Dallas Market Center Company

Davies/Weeden Fund

Mr. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

DDB Needham Worldwide, Inc.

DeLuxe Check Printers

Mr. Robert F. Dennis

Mr. N.L. Doligalski

Dover Fund, Incorporated

The Downe Foundation

DOWTY Aerospace Corporation

The Dreyfus Corporation

Ms. Virginia Dwan

Eaton Corp.

Mr. John M. Eaton

The Ebsworth Foundation

Mrs. Patricia Jones Edgerton

The Eli Lilly Company

R.H. Ellsworth, Limited

Equitable Life Assurance Society

Equitable Investment Corp.

Armand G. Erpf Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun

Mr. Ralph O. Esmerian

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Farquhar

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder

Mr. Stuart Feld

Field Museum of Natural History

Harvey S. Firestone Foundation

First American Bankshares, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Aiken W. Fisher

Mr. Max M. Fisher

Robert H. & Janet S. Fleisher
Foundation

John J. Flemm Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Joseph F. Fletcher

Mr. and Mrs. James P. Flowers

Mr. John Gilmore Ford

Walter & Josephine Ford Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Ben J. Fortson

Rita & Daniel Fraad Foundation,
Inc.

Mr. George S. Franklin

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

Friends of NMAfA

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

The JoAnn and Julian Ganz, Jr.,
Foundation

Garchik Family Foundation

Georgia-Pacific

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Ms. Bernice Gershenson

Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty

Gettysburg College

Gilman Paper Company

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Girwin

Mr. Arnold B. Glimcher

Mr. Harmon H. Goldstone

Good Neighbor Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Baron Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. Maitland Gordon

Gordon/Rousmaniere/Roberts Fund

Mr. David S. Gottesman

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

The Griffis Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Tom Guinzburg

Joseph Gurwin Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. David L. Guyer

Mr. Jack Haas

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas

Mr. Albert Hadley

Mr. C. W. Hart, Jr.

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Ms. Theo T. Hayes

The Hearst Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton
Henry J. and Drue Heinz
Foundation

Hellmuth, Obata, & Kassabaum,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Marshall Hemphill

Mrs. Virginia Y. Hendry

Henri Bendel

Ms. Marife Hernandez

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

Ms. Emma G. Holmes

Vivian Horan Fine Art, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Mr. Frederick W. Hughes

Mr. and Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume

Mrs. Lee Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Imberman

International Ladies’ Garment
Workers’ Union

International Brotherhood of
Painters & Allied Trades

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Israel

Mr. Richard J. Janes

Dr. Helen I. Jessup and Mr. Philip
C. Jessup

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Ms. Barbara Johnson

Johnson & Johnson

Mr. Woodrow C. Johnson

Mr. Robert M. Joyce

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey A. Kahn

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly Ill

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Ketchum Communications, Inc.

Mr. Hashem Khosrovani

Hon. Randolph A. Kidder

Phyllis Kind Gallery NY, Inc.

Mrs. F. G. Kingsley

F.M. Kirby Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Sally A. Klingbeil

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick A.
Klingenstein

Hon. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Kolla-Landwehr Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry R. Kravis

Dr. Karl V. Krombein

Mr. Richard P. Kughn

E.J. Landrigan, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Landry

Mr. Chester H. Lasell

L. S. B. Leakey Foundation

Mr. Herbert Lee

Mrs. Sharon LeeMaster

Jacob & Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

Ms. Yvonne Lenart

Mr. Jacques E. Lennon

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mrs. Scott L. Libby, Jr.

Ms. Elizabeth Lugar and Mr. David
Schafer

James A. Macdonald Foundation

40

Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr.

Mr. Peter L. Malkin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Malott

Alex and Marie Manoogian
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Marion

Mr. and Mrs. Donald B. Marron

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Marx

Maryland Department of Natural
Resources

George S. May International Co.

Mrs. Beatrice C. Mayer

Mr. Joseph McEwen

McGraw Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K.
McLanahan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Ms. Cynthia R. Mead

Mr. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. John C. Meeker

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Mr. Vincent Mercurio

Miss Ida C. Merriam

Metropolitan Life Foundation

Metropolitan Atlanta Community
Foundation, Inc.

Mettler Family Charitable
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. George Meyer

Mr. and Mrs. Damon Mezzacappa

Mitch Miller Foundation

Ms. Janice W. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. James Mitchell

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Moncrief

R. H. Monroe

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose, Jr.

Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Morrill

Mr. and Mrs. Lester $. Morse, Jr.

Mr. Jack Nash

National Business Aircraft
Association

National Bank of Detroit

Navy Mail Service Veterans
Association

The New England

New York Telephone

New York University

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Niven

Norfolk Southern

Northern Telecom, Incorporated

Noxell Corporation

Oklahoma City Zoological Park

Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co.

Elis Olsson Memorial Foundation

Mrs. Gloria R. Oppenheimer

Oscar de la Renta, Ltd.

Ms. Patricia O’Toole

Mrs. Douglas K. Pay

Mr.and Mrs. John W. Payson

Judge and Mrs. Burton Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Steven Pegalis

The Peters Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald P. Peters

Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph A. Peterson

The Petrie Foundation

Philip Morris Companies Inc.

Physical Electronics Conference

Mr. Neal A. Prince

Progressive Alliance of Filipinos and
Americans, Inc.

The Reverend Sally Purvis and Mr.
David S. Purvis

Mr. Leo Rabkin and Ms. Dorothy
Rabkin

Ralston Purina Company

Dr. Nathan Reingold

Ms. Lola Reinsch

Reuters Corporation

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Mr. and Mrs. John Robinson

Senator and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller IV

Rodier Corporation

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Rolls Royce, Inc.

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams

Mr. and Mrs. Julio Mario Santo
Domingo

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul

Sunne Savage Gallery, Inc.

Mr. David K. Schafer

Ms. Sandra L. Schafer

S. H. & Helen R. Scheuer Family
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain

Wertheim Schroder & Co.

Ms. Elizabeth Scott

John L. and Gloria P. Scott

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

Dr. Robert C. Seamans, Jr.

Mrs. Carl L. Selden

Mr. and Mrs. Alan Sellars

The Honorable and Mrs. Oliver
Seth

Jean S. & Frederick A. Sharf

Mr. and Mrs. Virgil Sherrill

Shorts Brothers (USA) Ine.

S. J. Shrubsole Corporation

Ms. Annemon Sidamon-Eristoff

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Silver

Mr. and Mrs. Joel A. Silverman

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mr. Joel Simon

Ms. Louise Manoogian Simone

Sky-Skan Incorporated

Mr. H. R. Slack

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Smither

Ms. Frances D. Smyth

Sons of the American Revolution

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome S. Sowalsky

Mr. Maury L. Spanier

Mr. Jerry I. Speyer

Mr. Joseph R. Spies

St. Louis Zoological Park

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Stahl, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Frank Stanton

Mr. Gary J. Stass

Mr. Garrick C. Stephenson

Mr. Alan D. Stone

Ms. Mary H. Storer

Mr. and Mrs. George Strumbos

Mr. Stephen C. Swid

Taubman Endowment for the Arts

Mr. and Mrs. William S$. Taubman

Mrs. Robert M. Thomas

Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian
Thompson

Baron H. H. Thyssen-Bornemisza

Dr. Wellington S. Tichenor

Tiffany & Company

Time, Inc.

Toledo Zoological Society

Mrs. Constantine T. Tsitsera

Mrs. Milton Turner

Mr. and Mrs. Senen Ubina

United Technologies

Urban National Bank

Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Guy E. Walton

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Warner

Washington Convention and
Visitors Association

The Washington Post Company

Weil, Gotshal & Manges

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin

Westinghouse

Mrs. John Hay Whitney

John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Dr. Austin B. Williams

Bunny Williams Incorporated

The Honorable and Mrs. Edward F.
Wilson

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.

Mr. Stephen V. Winthrop

Mr. R. Frederick Woolworth

World Gold Council

Mr. and Mrs. Norman E. Wymbs

Mr. Benjamin Zucker
Smithsonian Corporate Associate Program

The Corporate Associate Program was launched in Jan-
uary 1990 to foster greater corporate involvement and
support for the Smithsonian Institution. Through gener-
ous annual contributions, these companies have demon-
strated the critical role an enlightened private sector
can play on a national level in advancing the public

good.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the follow-
ing founding members of the Corporate Associate Pro-

gram.

Vice Chairmen

August A. Busch III (1)
Chairman

Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.
Richard J. Mahoney (1)
Chairman

Monsanto Company

Harold A. Poling (1)

Chairman

Member Companies

BellSouth Corporation (2)

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (1)

The Coca-Cola Company (1)

The Dow Chemical Company (1)

D’Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles,
Inc. (2)

DDB Needham Worldwide (1)

Eaton Corporation (1)

Barry Bingham, Jr.
William W. Boeschenstein
Dan W. Burns

Susan Catherwood
Jeffrey Cole

Frances Cornell

Kent T. Cushenberry
Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Joan Donner
Margaret and J. A. Elkins, Jr.
James H. Evans
Dielle Fleischmann
Carol Fullinwider
Lawrence A, Funt
Alfred G. Glassell, Jr.
Robert Reed Gray

W. L. Hadley Griffin
Peter E. Haas

Alison Halaby

Frank W. Hoch

John N. Irwin II

S. Charles Kemp

Donors of In-Kind Support

James M. Kemper, Jr.
Thomas Keresey
Seymour H. Knox III
Robert V. Lindsay
Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.
Henry W. Meers
Antony Merck

John W. Morrison
Charles H. Murphy, Jr.
Elizabeth Olds

Jack S. Parker
Thomas J. Pritzker
Jill Sackler

Lloyd G. Schermer
Charles W. Schmidt
Malcolm Stamper

A. Alfred Taubman
Vernon Taylor

Ellen Walton

Gay F. Wray

T. Evans Wyckoff

In addition to the financial support of individuals,

Emerson Electric Company (2)
General Electric Company (2)
Lee Enterprises, Inc. (2)
McDonald’s Corporation (1)
The Walt Disney Company (1)
Key:

(x) Partner—$25,000 +

(2) Associate—$10,000 +

Ford Motor Company

The Secretary’s Circle

The Secretary’s Circle, founded in 1989, is a volunteer
organization consisting of 49 James Smithson Society
members, many of whom are members of the Smith-
sonian National Board. The purpose of the Secretary’s
Circle is to create a national network of knowledgeable
and motivated volunteers who will fulfill the Institu-
tion’s mandate to serve as a national museum by in-
creasing the number of supporters of the Smithsonian
throughout the United States.

The Smithsonian wishes to recognize the efforts of

foundations, and corporations listed above, the Smith-
sonian Institution acknowledges in the following list
donors of in-kind gifts. Ranging from equipment for
office or program use to pro bono professional consult-
ing services, such in-kind gifts contribute greatly to the
success of research and educational programs as well as
to efficient administration of the Institution.

Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smith-
sonian to accomplish a variety of programs and to
offer expanded services to the public. The names of our
docents and behind-the-scenes volunteers are listed an-
nually in The Torch. In fiscal 1990, 5,159 volunteers
gave 529,782 hours of their time, which is conserva-
tively estimated at a value of more than $6 million.
This invaluable corps of volunteers brings expertise, ex-
perience, and enthusiasm to their work here, and we
express to them collectively our great appreciation for
their dedication to the Smithsonian Institution.

the members of the Secretary’s Circle, listed below.

Alexander K. McLanahan,
Chairman, Secretary’s Circle
Barbara Allbritton

William S. Anderson
Philip F. Anschutz
Perry Bass

Adams & Rinehart, Inc.

American Airlines, Inc.

American Cultural Center in Senegal
American Express Company

Arab American Cultural Foundation
Art n America (Brant Publications)
Balair Switzerland

Cheri Barstow

Bas Trade Inc.

Brora Imports

Carambola Beach Resort
Conway and Company

The Crane Club

Dragon Systems Incorporated
ECC International Corp.
Eastern Air Lines, Inc.
Electronic Data Systems
Corporation

F & H Travel Consulting

Frederiksted Fort

Frenchman’s Reef Beach Resort

Eric Harnden

Hewlett-Packard Co.

Elton Howe

IBM Corp.

Innovative Electronic Designs Inc.

Hewlett Withington Lewis

Ronaldo Maia Ltd.

Manhattan Inc.

Mass Microsystems, Inc.

Miller Manor

NCR Corp.

National Arboretum

Omega Fashions

Our Town Frederiksted

Pan American World Airways, Inc.

Pindar Vineyards

Pink Fancy Hotel

Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc.

Point Pleasant Resort

Polaroid Foundation, Inc.

Publicity Inc.

Qantas Airways Ltd.

Royal Copenhagen

Saks Fifth Avenue

Senegal Ministry of Culture and
Communication

Bequests

Senegal Ministry of Tourism and
Environment

Office of the President of the
Republic of Senegal

Niki Singer Inc.

Smithsonian Magazine

Sony Corporation of America

Southern Tropical

Stamford Tent and Equipment
Company

Stouffer Grand Beach Resort

Sun Microsystems, Inc.

W.A. Taylor & Company

TransMedia Inc.

Ungermann-Bass, Inc.

United Airlines, Inc.

Universite Cheikh Anta Diop de
Dakar—Institut Fondamental de
l'Afrique Noire

V.I. Corporation

Varig Brazilian Airlines

Villa Morales Restaurant

Virgin Islands Council on the Arts

Winebow Inc.

Wolf Medical Instruments
Corporation

Cecily & John S. Wood, Jr.

Yona Microscope & Instrument
Company

It is with special appreciation that we remember and

acknowledge those friends who made gifts by will and
thus continue the legacy of James Smithson, our foun-

der.

Unrestricted gifts become part of the Bequest Endow-
ment Fund. The principal of this fund is maintained in
perpetuity, while the income supports acquisitions, ex-

hibitions, scholarly studies, educational outreach, and

other functions of the Smithsonian. Some gifts are des-

ignated for a special purpose by the donors.

Evelyn Combes
Mildred Dassett

Franz H. & Luisita L. Denghausen

Frances B. Ferguson
Bess L. Harper

John K. Havemeyer
Marguerite Kellogg
Dorothy B. Koteen
Vassilios T. Pagonis
Roy Rogers Phillips
S. Fred Smilow

James Smithson Society Life

Memorial and Tribute Gifts

A gift to the Smithsonian is a wonderful way to recog-
nize or remember a family member, friend, or special
occasion. Memorial and tribute gifts were made in
honor of the following persons:

Phil Desind

Bernard Farnen

Mildred Lane Kemper
John L. Marion

Adrian & Robert Miller
Ida Hornstein Reingold
Merritt K. Ruddock
Dorothy S. Teegen

These gifts were made to funds that will perpetuate
the Smithsonian’s work in the areas most important to
the persons honored.

Gifts by will and memorial and tribute gifts of all
levels are important to the Smithsonian. Persons inter-
ested in learning about such gifts can talk with our
planned giving officer at (202) 357-4006.

Smithsonian Contributing Members

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Na-
tional Associates support the Institution’s work through
generous annual contributions.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to
encourage and recognize major gifts to the Institution.
The Society, which is the highest level of Contributing
Membership, is comprised of Annual ($2,000) and Life
membership categories. Extraordinary contributions to
the Smithsonian are recognized through the Society’s
Founder Medal award and Life membership.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges here the
generous support of the James Smithson Society and
the Patron Members ($1,200) of the Contributing
Membership.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains
Members Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett
Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Mr. David K. Anderson Honorable and Mrs. Ralph E.
Mr. and Mrs. William S$. Anderson Beclee

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin
Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod Mrs. John A. Benton
Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth D. Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Barnet Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell, Jr.

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S.
Campbell

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell,
Jr.

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland

Mr. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton

Mrs. Howard F. Cook

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II

Mr. Sam Devincent

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover

Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont

Mr. Mercer Ellington

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew
Funt

Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mrs. Doris Stack Greene

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Dr. Armand Hammer

Mrs. Richard Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

Mrs. E. W. Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mrs. David Landau

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Manoogian

Mr. John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H.
Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Mrs. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John A. Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. John P. Remensnyder

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts

Honorable Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz

Honorable Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery

Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith

Mrs. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Dr. Yen Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis $. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

James Smithson Society Annual
Members

Mr. W. Mike Adams

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul

Colonel John S. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Philip F. Anschutz

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Mr. Edward P. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth W. Beckman

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Berkey

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William Blackie

Mr. John L. Black

Honorable and Mrs. Robert O.
Blake

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Boeschenstein

Dr. and Mrs. Harold M. Boslow

Mr. and Mrs. W.J. Bowen

Colonel Donald $. Bowman

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lee Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Owsley Brown

Mr. Warren Brule

Mr. and Mrs. I. Townsend Burden
Ill

Mr. Edward A. Burka

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Burlingame

Mr. Dan Burns

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner

Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher L. Byrom

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. Milton Cades

Mr. and Mrs. John Otis Carney

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.

Ms. Lily Marie Carter

Mrs. Winifred Carter

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins
Catherwood, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Henry E.
Catto, Jr.

Dr. David Challinor

Dr. William M. Chardack

Honorable and Mrs. Robert Horne
Charles

Mr. Walter J. Coakley

Captain and Mrs. Richard Cobb

Mr. and Mrs. David L. Coffin

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Mr. Marshall A. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin S. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey A. Cole

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Coleman

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Colonele

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Consolvo

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mr. Thomas G. Cousins

Mr. and Mrs. David Crow

Mr. John D. Crow

Mr. and Mrs. Lester Crown

Dr. and Mrs. James H. Curl

Mr. Dan J. Daly, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George A. Davidson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George L. Davis, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph N. Deblinger

Ms. Lois M. Delaney

Mr. Lowell Deyoung

Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Dibona

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Donner

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas

Mrs. Fleur K. Dudman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Duemling

Mr. Charles H. Dyson

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Mr. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr.

Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. Stephen L. Feinberg

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Field

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Fields

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone
Honorable and Mrs. William H.
Fitzgerald

Mr. and Mrs. Owsley Brown Frazier

Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

Dr. William H. Gerber

Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mrs. Elizabeth W. Glascock

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joel Glick

Mr. and Mrs. Avram J. Goldberg,

Mr. and Mrs. S$. Howard Goldman

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. Albert H. Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Dr. and Mrs. Henry D. Green

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas

Honorable and Mrs. Najeeb Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Harbert III

Mrs. W. Averell Harriman

Mr. and Mrs. J. Warren Harris

Honorable and Mrs. Parker T. Hart

Dr. and Mrs. John T. Hayes

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. John Heard

Honorable and Mrs. John Heinz

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler

Honorable William A. Hewitt

Mr. James T. Hines, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

Mr. Steven Hoffenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

Mrs. Lee Hunter

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. John Ippolito

Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin Il

Mr. Eli S. Jacobs

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. E. Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Kaplan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Mrs. Nancy Berry Keeran

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Keresey

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

Honorable Randolph A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Honorable and Mrs. Philip M.
Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Knight Il

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III

Mr. David Hamilton Koch

Ms. Jane E. Kosa

44

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Honorable and Mrs. William
Leonhart

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mr. Gayle W. Lichtenstein

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Lindsey

Rear Adm. and Mr. Walter M.
Locke, USN (Ret.)

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Long

Ms. Doris J. Lothrop

Dr. Steven Lunzer

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Mahoney III

Mr. Michael Maloney

Mr. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mrs. Virginia Mars

Ms. Mary Martell

Honorable and Mrs. William M.
Martin, Jr.

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Maj. Gen. Raymond E. Mason, Jr.

Colonel Billie G. Matheson, (Ret.)

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Mr. and Mrs. James W.
McCutcheon

Mr. and Mrs. David E. McGiffert

Honorable and Mrs. Robert M.
McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K.
McLanahan

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Melrod

Mr. and Mrs. Antony Merck

Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. David R. Montz

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Mr. John W. Morrison

Mr. Furman C. Moseley

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Moser

Dr. W. Dickson Moss III

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H.
Murphy, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. William M. North

Dr. Anthony J. F. O'Reilly

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. Steve Ott

Mr. George M. Page

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Honorable Daniel Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Phillips

Mr. Howard Phipps, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Allan R. Phipps

Mr. and Mrs. J. Michael Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B. Pike

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. Zigmund J. Podell

Mrs. Kazuko K. Price

Dr. Don W. Printz

Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin N. Puryear

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Russell S.
Reynolds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Carlyn Ring

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Honorable and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller IV

Dr. Milton L. Rock

Mr. and Mrs, Thomas D. Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rose

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal

Mrs. Lois B. Rowland

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells

Mr. Arthur N. Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Ms. Leidy Samson

Mr. and Mrs. Leveo V. Sanchez

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul

Mr. and Mrs, Lloyd G. Schermer

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R.
Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schmidt

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Schreyer

Reverend and Mrs. Alfred R. Shands

Dr. and Mrs. Richard C. Shaw

Mr. and Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Sanford Slavin

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Mrs. Bernice Roe Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R.
Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper

Mr. Sydney Stein, Jr.

Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright

Mr. and Mrs, Ellis M. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart

Honorable Robert D. Stuart

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

Mr. Vincent E. Teti

Dr. Joan E. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. James B. Tito

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. Samuel D. Turner

Mrs. Gordon B. Tweedy

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von
Hoffmann

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton

Honorable and Mrs. Thomas J.
Watson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Wellin

Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan

Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

Mr. John C. Whitehead

Mrs. Betty W. Whiting

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence F.
Whittemore

Mr. David R. Williams

Ms. Pauline E. Williman

Mr. John W. Winn

Dr. Sheila Z. Wood

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Wray

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff

Mr. and Mrs. Norman E. Wymbs

Mr. and Mrs. Barney Young

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Patron Members

Mr. Terry L. Albertson

Mr. Walter Alber

Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld

Mr. John Baum

Miss Eliza H. Bishop

Dr. Antonio Bosch

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Bricker
Mr. Keith S. Brown

Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. J.M. Carroll

Mr. S. Harold Cohen

Ms. Mae E. Dahl

Mr. Joseph Decaminada

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr.
Mr. N.L. Doligalski

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Drummeter, Jr.
Miss Babs Eisman

Colonel Charles O. Eshelman
Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Ms. Ellen L. Fogle

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. and Mrs. Gary Geston

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Gilbert
Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mrs. Florence L. Gussman

Dr. Lee P. Haacker

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. Harold Haverty

Mr. Frederick H. Heierding
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Henry
Mrs. Ruth Housek

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip $. Hughes
Dr. and Mrs. N. S. Irey

Dr. Charles Joseph

Mr. Robert M. Joyce

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Kayatta
Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M.
Kirchheimer

Mr. Otto Kruse

Dr. M. Kuppusami

Mr. and Mrs. John Laguardia

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Lando

Mrs. Jacques Leslie

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Levan

Mr. Edmund W., Littlefield

Mr. and Mrs. Terence McAuliffe

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose, Jr.

Mr. W.T. Moran III

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Nickel
Ms. R. Ohara

Mr. James Pastore

Mrs. John N. Plakias

Mr. Paul E. Pontius

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Mrs. Helen G. Price

Ms. Mary Pigott Riggle

Mr. and Mrs. L. Rothschild
Mr. C. W. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers
Mrs. W. Mason Shehan

Mr. and Mrs. Clyde E. Shorey
Mr. Marty Silverman
Mr. William C. Sterling, Jr.
Mr. W. K. Straley, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey C. Thomas
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Tishman

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Underwood
Mrs. Maria C. Volpe

Ms. Patricia F. Wheeler

Ms. Mary Wibel

Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox
Dr. and Mrs. M. L. Zeigler, Jr.

Financial Report

Ann R. Leven, Treasurer

The Smithsonian concluded 1990 under the threat of
sequestration to meet Gramm-Rudman targets, an ac-
tion that would have necessitated the furloughing of
both federal and trust personnel and related cutbacks
in service to the public. A slowing economy com-
pounded by international concerns and continuing un-
favorable publicity about Washington, D.C., as a tour-
ist center dampened private-side revenues; these factors
are likely to have a protracted effect.

Amidst all the doom and gloom, the year ended on a
bright note as the regents accepted into the endowment
at their September 17 meeting certain restricted funds
for the National Museum of the American Indian.
Thus, the Institution’s financial statements for 1990 for
the first time fully reflect the incorporation into the
Smithsonian of this significant addition.

Operations

Federal appropriations provided $225,479,000 to fund
ongoing operations, almost a 7 percent increase over
fiscal 1989. New support was included for initial oper-
ating costs of the National Museum of the American
Indian, a variety of cultural diversity programs, includ-
ing the Columbus Quincentenary, and global change
research projects.

Government agencies provided project grants and

FEDERAL S & E FUNDS

(Millions)
Kx
aw
°
4

70 S12 427 Ge a78) 180) 82) 1845 /86)) 88— 90
FISCAL YEAR

CONSTANT DOLLAR [MJ CURRENT DOLLAR
contracts to fund research at the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, the National Museum of Natural
History/National Museum of Man, and the Smithson-
ian Tropical Research Institute. Funded projects in-
cluded a study of the ecological effects of an oil spill,
research into the condition of the upper atmosphere,
investigation of the geologic and tectonic activity of the
southwest, and a series of conservation workshops.

Nonappropriated income from gifts, grants, endow-
ments, Current investments, and revenue-producing ac-
tivities supplemented federal funds. Unrestricted trust
funds were allocated to base support and Institution-
wide priorities. Allocations were made, as in the past,
to fund internal award programs for acquisitions, spe-
cial exhibitions, fellowships, scholarly studies, and edu-
cational outreach.

In addition, $3 million in revenue generated from
auxiliary enterprises was transferred to endowment fol-
lowing past practice to strengthen this important asset.
The 1990 operating surplus was added to the unre-
stricted trust fund balance, which serves as working
capital.

The Smithsonian is especially grateful to its many
friends in the private sector, whose generosity contrib-
uted vitally to its work. Individuals, foundations, and
corporations are listed in the ‘‘Benefactors”’ section of
this annual report. Private funding helped support such
activities as the Minimum Critical Size Ecosystem
Project, the traveling exhibition “Moscow Treasures,”
international conservation training, and the Philadel-
phia Arts Documentation Project.

Gross Net Net
Revenue Income Income
Source of Funds ($1,000s) ($1,000s) (%)
Federal Appropriation 225,479 225,479 69
Government Grants 29,089 29,089 9
and Contracts

All Trust Sources 243,570 70,205 22
Total Available for 498,138 324,773 100

Operations

Financial Management Activities

The ongoing effort to improve the automated financial
systems of the Treasurer’s Office progressed in a timely

46

TOTAL OPERATING FUNDS

i a T T T
10 72" 74716; 77:8) 80) 182) 84S omc)
FISCAL YEAR

|—m™— CONSTANT DOLLAR -+- CURRENT DOLLAR |

fashion. General ledger and funds control software
were installed on the Institution’s mainframe computer.
The system will go “live” after a period of parallel test-
ing early in the new fiscal year. Further refinements
and upgrades to the labor accounting system and the
personnel cost projection system have already been
made.

The Office of Sponsored Projects expanded its data
base, with resulting efficiencies in seeking and adminis-
tering external funds. Similarly, the Office of Risk
Management made significant strides in the Institu-
tion’s computerized disaster preparedness system.

The treasurer oversees four revenue-producing activi-
ties through the Business Management Office: Museum
Shops, Mail Order, Product Development and Licen-
sing, and Concessions. Here, too, substantive effort was
expended on improving support systems, most notably
in the Museum Shops and in Mail Order. Although vis-
itation on the National Mall was down for the second
straight year, posing significant challenges to sales
growth, these activities contributed more to operations
in 1990 than in 1989.

Endowment

The Smithsonian endowment fund reached an all-time
high of $283.2 million during July of the fiscal year.
However, the Mideast crisis combined with the federal
budget deliberations drove the securities markets down
thereafter. By September 30, 1990, the market value of
the fund had dropped to $254.5 million, down 9 per-
cent for the year. The Smithsonian was not as adversely
hurt as it might have been. Over the course of the year,
the investment guidelines had been modified to increase
the minimum requirement for investments in nonequity
issues. At year end, the Institution had 30 percent of its
portfolio in bonds, 14 percent in cash and cash equiva-
lents, and 56 percent in equities.

TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS

$300 7—

$250-

$200 -

$150 -

(Millions)

$100 +
$50 -

$0

ONT 2 Soo Gee SO 6264) 986988) 90
Fiscal Year

aS Market Value |

The Institution continues to utilize its two balanced
managers: Fiduciary Trust Company of New York, and
Miller, Anderson and Sherrerd. During the year, $1o
million was invested with Wellington Management
Company in over-the-counter stocks. Following the
close of the fiscal year, the Smithsonian’s Investment
Policy Committee redeployed $45 million previously
handled by an equity manager. In a separate move, two
minority investment managers were hired: Calvert-Ariel
and the Minority Equity Trust Company.

Regent Barnabas McHenry chairs the Investment Pol-
icy Committee of the Board of Regents. During the
year, Thomas J. Watson, Jr., resigned from the commit-
tee after more than ro years of dedicated and insightful
service, for which the Institution is most grateful. Re-

placing Mr. Watson is Thomas J. Keresey, chairman,
Palm Beach Capital Management, and a member of the
National Board of the Smithsonian Institution. The In-
stitution remains indebted to Donald Moriarty, Charles
H. Mott, Jane Mack Gould, John W. English, and Re-
gent Norman Mineta for their continuing service.

Construction and Plant Funds

In addition to its appropriation for salaries and other
operating expenses, the Institution receives federal sup-
port for the repair and restoration of its facilities. In
fiscal 1990, $26,468,000 was appropriated for work
on fire detection and suppression systems, utilities, fa-
cade restoration and replacement, and routine repairs.
Appropriations for other construction activities in-
cluded $4,040,000 for major alterations and modifica-
tions, as well as $730,000 for construction planning.

Also, $1,930,000 was provided for new Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute research facilities;

R & R APPROPRIATIONS

$30

$25 -
$20 -

$15-

(Millions)

$10-

$5 -

a ee il
70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90
Fiscal Year
BRE R «= BBR Zo RAR |

$1,620,000 was provided for the planned Museum of
the American Indian. A separate appropriation of
$6,423,000 allowed the National Zoological Park to
continue a repair program and other projects in its
master construction plan.
Audit Activities

The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated,
are audited annually by an independent public account-
ing firm, currently Coopers & Lybrand. Coopers & Ly-
brand’s unqualified report for fiscal 1990 is reprinted
on the following pages. During the year, consultants
from Coopers & Lybrand completed an analysis of the
Institution’s overhead system, in addition to the annual
audit, and provided support for the financial systems
improvement project.

The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff, part of the
Office of the Inspector General, regularly reviews the
Institution’s financial activities and fiscal systems, as-
sists the outside auditors, and undertakes special
projects, as required. Mr. Thomas D. Blair joined that
office as the Institution’s first Inspector General in June
1990. He comes to the Institution after a distinguished
career, most recently as Regional Manager of the Of-
fice of the Inspector General of the Veterans Adminis-
tration.

The Defense Contract Audit Agency audits grants
and contracts received from federal agencies and moni-
tors allocated administrative costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of
Regents, chaired by Regent David C. Acheson, met
three times during the fiscal year pursuant to its fidu-
ciary responsibilities under legislation pertinent to the
Institution and the bylaws of the Board of Regents. The
committee reviewed the 1989 audit performed by Coo-
pers & Lybrand and the 1990 audit plan. It also re-
ceived reports from the Office of the Inspector General
on a wide variety of institutional programs and proce-
dures. Other items on the committee’s agenda included
auxiliary internal controls and the implementation of
the new financial systems.

Related Organizations

The National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Cen-
ter for the Performing Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars were established by
Congress within the Institution. Each organization is
administered by its own board of trustees and reports
independently on its financial status. The Smithsonian
provides the Woodrow Wilson International Center for

48

Scholars with certain fiscal, administrative, and support
services plus office space on a reimbursement basis.

Administrative services are provided by the Institu-
tion on a contract basis for Reading is Fundamental.
The Friends of the National Zoo, an independent non-
profit organization, operates under a concessions con-
tract; proceeds from Friends activities accrue to the
Zoo.

Postscript

On October 1, 1990, Ann R. Leven tendered her resig-
nation as Treasurer of the Institution to accept a newly
created position at the National Gallery of Art. Ms.
Leven’s six years at the Institution were ones of signifi-
cant accomplishment, most notably the strengthening
of the Institution’s trust fund base. Adequate working
capital and reserves are now in place. Museum shops,
Mail Order, Product Development and Licensing, and
concession revenues have grown dramatically since she
arrived in 1984. The endowment nearly doubled with
solid investment performance and careful monitoring.

The new restaurant facility at the National Air and
Space Museum stands as a tribute to Ms. Leven’s fi-
nancial creativity and tenacity, as do considerable im-
provements to the Institution’s financial systems, both
in place and planned. In a departing statement, Ms.
Leven said, “I applaud the Treasurer’s Office staff.
Their loyalty and dedication has made an impossible
job possible. We have learned from each other and seen
the fruits of our joint accomplishments.”
Smithsonian Institution Operating Funds
FISCAL YEARS 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990
(In $1,000,000s

FUNDS PROVIDED

FUNDS APPLIED

Table 1. Financial Summary (in $1,000s)

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS

FUNDS PROVIDED:

HederalwAlp pro pilatlons—Salamesy Ges XpeMmSeSmaetetsilaienverteriictelectiere ie siesicietisteherereicrelerers
Governments GrantssGaiGontracts: Saeco micas citer cise cloiolercinrs ale asieroesra tera ieee

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:

RomRestricteds Punposesasycten-tocttaemiecraere nice ioc eer tesoeronieesiaaietopte er aisierneiegers

For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:

Auxiliary 6c Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross seems eee = ei seleeesciele eet
Wessm Related xp @msese y.:jeteceapevsterscovors etal ststes sis: ofeue eieVseysioversvesols aisieyers: scoters steeiete)etetess

Auxiliary Ge Bureau Activities Net Revenuemnreaa-ecresereaceeece eater
Jnvestinent Gittsct Othertncomemn se eis: etc cisteies tere nieieierslelcleteeiereieisteereeie'=

MotalyNet Unrestricted Se Special Purpose Revenue jo-erien sence ee eerie
Tiotal@Nonappropnated Minuse Runds—= Grosse. n-ne eriteisre eerie ee ce
=INGilioe cmp ecahoosoo.caopn eee renprarcucaaon ped

IN [co na abioo eb GC obED 6 TIGL Cpa cteeeeanes ne be noted ae

FUNDS APPLIED:

Een Ne Aca neuen Of > Ca AEE E DROSS Ob OSU CO RAD Hoa ca cWo CREE Seino SacOe ee
Messin A @uOverheadsRecovery, s-ce4 ee eee ae leet «= ieee.
IA RSCTELD TT TS tres ae OIA RIOISICT Oe ETAICISRS occ] c.0 cic o GEER SEND ob 600 0 TOC GARE C OOS cooler

Institutronal Mini trativies: cadets secccc sister Cie lee =o. o:0 see cave c.cle ReReeeeeite.s
Exterrva Atta irs eter sien oes croak are METRE ors fo a Eo RT EE sd cle i

Special Pro pralrarS ya asapees teytrove are sieeve ons tate TSA ooo 1 ns oy ol Stee E 2 wish oto Aen pe ieetiecs
INFZOTENES (CG IDUSMESS IMMEMETSTMNENE ssn coossesousegonbescocosaécanapogoucsnoos0neKe
Adiministration—kederala(see Note) |) meeeneneeee oan. ceeeereee cece eecenenenener
Nonappropulatedh Mrustyhundsisaeeeemeerei-bite- creer clei eater:
Wessesmuthsoniana@Overheaderecovenyarerreccereete cece ckoce cee enecteeer cs
Batcilitiesg Servi ese ysie aa)cteteevsiewevoterersvei ales sterstetorey sore <toteiaare eave siayerays eres eistcta meverentoreveren ec

Horalt@peratineshundseApplicdaeneree terrae Ceara eee eet

Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)

Wirrestnictedskunds=lonllantassneeeereee teeter nici iseieen ene eee

CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES:
Nonappropriated Trust—Restricted Purpose

Wnrestricted=Generaliurposeeresccemaeccianee nace cnn
= Special RurpOse: prcraceritas as este eee
JN opsrojydattasl (GAS INKS) Sosgnacaseodosanecd GngunddesacgoonasooepoveDssHaqaoBEcds

(116) 7-1 lie tae ny oe en I Re DRI as rors a pee AERTS oe cian oA REE ee ae era a

YEAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:

Restricted #Purposestacccc eat ecn teeta ete eee os oral ncaa tee een
Unrestricted=CGeneralsPurposessqas eee ee roeeenaee er eaeee ec crtinacceeeeeeeeee cnr
=Speciall PUrpOse) ar :staseretac corse cia stots io's (as) SOROS E IANS: «aie nie CeO?

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS (see Note 3)

@analbZonemBiologicallAreatkund i ere che ere recone ceer eerie ec ona eee eee eres
COMStMGH Onis 2s .ckeys oj crete ores, 1s sicis ae Se else Ta Tee eae Acces eee

FY 1989 FY 1990
$ 211, 240 $ 225,479
20,977 29,089
30,412 27,672
195,786 201,347
(169,142) (173,365)
26,644 27,982
13,771 14,551
40,415 42,533
239,969 243,570
70,827 70,205
472,186 498,138
303,044 324,773
67,419 79,641
(3,807) (4,429)
111,020 121,454
7,104 6,189

8 376
2,347 2,974
2,094 1,874
12,748 15,456
525 443
17,497 19,690
12,444 14,656
(10,825) (11,945)
63,228 67,003
281,794 313,379
— (5)
6,189 5.502
6,641 2,164
294,624 321,050
4,371 4,028
4,265 468
(586) 1,504

370 (2,277)

$__ 8,420 $3,723
$ 20,948 $ 24,975
13,300 13,769
33,808 Beai2

$ 68,056 $ _74,056
© or $ | Bz
34,695 41,211

$ 246,036

Note 1: Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1989—$89 thousand; FY 1990-$89 thousand.
Note 2: The fund balance represents multiple-year funding for instrumentation, and includes an obligation that will be covered

by a future year’s appropriation.

$ 266,827

Note 3: Excludes $1,992 thousand received in FY 1989 and $2,001 thousand received in FY 1990 from the Department of State

for research projects in India.
Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1990
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $1,000s)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total
Non- Government
Federal = Appropriated Auxiliary — Special Grants and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
FUND BALANCES-—Beginning of Year 370 $ 68,056 $13,301 §$ — $33,808 $20,947 $ —
FUNDS PROVIDED:
ederallAppropulations ..qec<.- 10a 225,479 — — -- _ — —
InIVEStIMeMtUMcOMe Ascks..seeeese «ciclo osslen = 17,870 7,840 — 1,483 8,547 —
Government Grants and Contracts ......... — 29,089 = — — — 29,089
GUNS oo Sc0n0 Se nee — 21,615 206 7,285 710 13,414 —
Sales and Membership Revenue ............ — 194,062 — 185,048 9.014 = —
CUE? scannsGgeeeaeeeageseoseaenaneaennneate — 10,023 1,187 — B5125 Se7 il —_
MotalWProvidediere..ccct cds s scence 225,479 MLAS) O35 1925383) 14,332 27,672 29,089
T@iall ANalelole geseshocenpeeasaasaosoe 225,849 340,715 22,534 192,333 48,140 48,619 29,089
FUNDS APPLIED:
Research:
AcuIS@inie SECRaBINy Soosvsecogodusosueeouner 1,046 824 328 — 38 186 272
Astrophysical @bservatory, sac... 0+ see. ee 12,313 31,651 4,420 = 2,392 130 24,709

Wesss@verheadiRecovecy:, see) sesso = (4,429) (4,429) = — = =
Tropical Research Institute ................ 5,871 2,628 413 — 899 129 1,187
Environmental Research Center ............ 1,912 912 96 — 289 56 471
INationallbZoologicalliPark 225.6... cer esse. 14,373 1,933 140 — 75a 470 S72.
Sand eorarein JAelnihves. Geaneoocoonnasaeaobess 611 225 25 — 10 = —_
Smrdigonein Islomimtes sseoconuscasosncansecs 5,547 721 536 — 172 13 =

Moralukesearchinn acces cacti cincts 41,673 34,465 Al) — 4,551 984 API
Museums:
INSSISEAN THO CCEECANVAN ee hereerioniatie Seieieisiare 6 a 806 Hie 418 — 241 99 14
MiNKeuin ROMeITS: sossnoosusobdebaodocbdoo 499 106 21 — 71 14 —
National Museum of Natural History/

NitiseumyOteManternee eine aacee 27,475 7,002 408 — 2,988 2,716 890
National Air & Space Museum ............ 10,100 6,618 307 — 4,764 1,159 388
National Museum of American History .... 15,160 6,423 146 — 2,015 4,262 —
National Museum of American Art ........ 5,089 2,840 209 — 1,877 754 —
National Portrait Gallery; qesaasee- ececeeeee 4,653 520 36 — 27D 200 12
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 3,442 3,904 66 — 1,190 2,648 =
GententonmASIanvArt seessreerecccee ce 4,280 4,179 93 = 419 3,667 —
Archives of American Art ....4<..........- 1,012 1,334 96 — 33 1,205 =
Coopershewitt Museum see-merrcscceicen e- lesyill 8.1382) 913 — 1,520 689 10
National Museum of African Art .......... 3,473 452 44 = 385 23 —
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum ......... 960 76 43 _— 32 1 _
INatronaleMilusemmeAct.1).11eie seiidsceeel acre 2,530 — — — — — —
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ....... 1,908 LOS — — 37 18 —
Office/of Exhibits:Gentrall e.5..00.24.2--.- 790 24 — a 24 —— —
Traveling Exhibition Service ............... 2,841 2,810 329 = 1,892 575 14

Mota leiseumsuscsesne eee e ie: 86,529 40,297 3,129 — 17,810 18,030 1,328
Public Service:
INGSIStAN TES ECLELALV mer eeriieeeitre eerie ier 263 647 540 — 92 13) Z
MelecommuUnications’ se. -esscde seas seen eee 316 579 594 — (117) 93 9
Vistor Information and Associates’

Receptions Gentegmerrnrrr rinse stern 150 92: 1,136 —_ 49 i —
OfficevofPublickAtitairsim-sessedeeneeeeee ee 688 803 781 — 22 — —
Sniithsoniangeressmer rere crs acer ec eeeee 1,238 18,607 18,403 49 155 —

Motalwbublicisenvicemernseeeecneesoees 2,655 21,828 3,051 18,403 95 268 11
Institutional Initiatives: — 376 362 — — 14 —

51
Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1990
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $1,000s) (continued)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total —
Non- Government
Federal | Appropriated Auxiliary — Special Grants and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
External Affairs:
AGISINE SECIEBIRY oocasdpocdodaccoosnccnoc 3)5) 705 530 _— 8 161 6
Developments Ofice mere pereeeeceerercee = 1,981 1,893 = 42 46 =
OfiiccroisSpecialvents s-ereereeaeseeeer en 64 189 189 — — — a
INediamAtchivinestmanenniisseiticcisoccitce tte — 11 _ 11 — — —
MotalwexternalwAvifains peeeces eee ees 99 2,886 2,612 11 50 207 6
InternatronaleActivitiesiersccmsescesiiee cee: 853 1,018 598 — 247 66 107
Special Programs:
American Studies & Folklife Program ...... 1,118 1,890 851 — 424 202 413
International Environmental Science Program 765 _ — = — — —
Academic & Educational Program ......... 1,218 3,269 S85 — 2,483 199 2
Museum Support Center (see Note 3) ...... 7,271 — — — — _ =
MotalfSpeciall/Programs)s-cem cases eee 10,372 Sally) 1,436 —_ 2907, 401 415
Associateshrogramsy sere sence erence rier — 97,878 288 97,423 Tih 90 -=
BusinesswVianagement  eree sees seers — 49,728 = 49,728 — —_ —
AGHMNCTNHON codopeanondséccanecooannocce 19,601 Soli 11,984 — 2,793 1123} 11
Mess Overhead Recovery ess-easeese ene — (11,945) (11,945) — — — —
JReelhties SORES .occosncacoseuasucuocconae 65,885 1,387 1,189 — 197 1 —
Transfers Out/(In):
ilireastinva(SeeuNotenl)peeaceeeeeecoeeecieces 89 = = — — — —
lMrOeIS (GE INGO DZ) aococbsussossonpococe — — 6,358 — (6,358) — a
INetAuxilianyeActivities!sseeeeerscermercns — — (25,147) 25,147 — — —
Other Designated Purposes ...............: — — 8,390 1,621 (10,307) 296 —
Bian teenie We eats te) Oe eran ee = (5) _ — (5) = =
Endowment — 7,676 4,741 — WHA 2,164 —
Total Transfers (see Note 1) .......... 89 7,671 (5,658) 26,768 (15,899) 2,460 —
WoralbundssA\p plied eepsceeecceeeemere POUT SG 266,659 8,765 12S Soules s28 23,644 29,089
FUND BALANCES—End of Year
(aa INES 3) Sh) Bo oagacncconbaddoosoobe $ (1,907) $ 74,056 $13,769 $ O $35,312 $24,975 $ 0

Note 1: For Federal funds represents unobligated funds returned to Treasury.

Note 2: Includes Collection Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.

Note 3: Funds applied to Museum Support Center includes an obligation of $3,023 thousand that will be covered by future year
appropriations.

Note 4: The fund balance for federal funds represents $1,116 thousand in multiple-year funding for instrumentation, and the
MSC obligation of $(3,023) thousand to be covered by future year appropriations.

an
tr
Table 3. Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(in $1,000s) Fiscal Years 1989 and 1990

Government Agencies

DeRArAGME OF IDSETEGS cacacpsansoosocAcnasoacancscusooenqoad acononend acon adopabeSpoooosuooedon
Wepautmenmotme nel oveerrcriaccreitecasreiriee loceeree merase tetis carters creer
Depactmentiofldealthpandellumem Servicesy creycrewtayetorstateretye = cis oleleleielotolsleieioleisteislelefoleielolele creievole/aiersl elo
Deparcimaante Or lho! Gooscuopnegoos conwoccDdonanUBbsoOsoosuaboOGoUaEHboGoEnbHScUdGCoDESG000000r
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (see Note 1) ........... 00. cece cence teen eens
NationalaScienceshoundation (Seem Note imrearerrieciesicrererecictelers eisieraleneterelorelclelelereicielele eleleletotelsietelelelelolelete
ONE INC ra rere eee area ac aa saad eae ove lee foors ete bafs yaar roseiors oul siufessVetwOe/ata olalee-ovectterstelsyejelararerowsle elersfosie ete

FY 1989
$ 966

FY 1990

Note 1: Includes $712 thousand (FY 1989) and $760 thousand (FY 1990) in subcontracts from other organizations receiving

prime contract funding from NASA.

Note 2: Includes $187 thousand (FY 1989) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesapeake Research Consortium.

Table 4. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Years 1989 and 1990 (in $1,000s)

Sales and
Membership Less Cost Gross
Revenue Gifts of Sales Revenue Expenses
EDV MIN DS Dieser sepecororarste crc ieveretere evoke erat varormesicrete were $181,720 $5,391 $ 99,965 $87,146 $61,946
FY 1990:
INGSOCIATES) RLO PLAS) ereterep-v-)aletelercieiers ereterelore $107,051 $7,284 $ 71,379 $42,956 $26,044
Business Management: (see Note 1)
—Museum Shops/Mail Order ......... $2,803 — 22,918 29,885 23,081
== CONCESSIONS! te visier\acre nieateroe seieererieveyo © 3,343 — — 3,343 2,792
== OGM eliaape ice serine ie metal a icieiseteerateistess 960 _ —_— 960 937
Smithsonianebresse peceeeceaccee nee ee 20,792 — eS: 15,019 12,630
Miseler INGIMGES Geaseuabonennbaogoosauenn 100 — —_ 100 rll
Towel ENC WON) Sooooccccoscnnoac00 $185,049 $7,284 $100,070 $92,263 $65,495

Note 1: Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $1,460 thousand (FY 1989) and $1,621 thou-

sand (FY 1990).

wa
ww
Table 5. Endowment and Similar Funds, September 30, 1990 (in $1,000s)

ASSETS:

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:

@ashsandsEquivalentsieree sae seee oie
Mitiimall [RUmMGS seocoaceccaconoedssub0n000000000
Intentundeneccivablewaacaesenecciceeeercncnes

U.S. Government and Government Obligations

RONG Sbocas coos eo ee aoe na eae nEaaereaenad
@onventiblesBondstescrrenerenie cticesciecieties
Siatel KS" BS oGanacan ond oaOne oon nae BO Op enecoioeaes

Nonpooled Endowment Funds:

Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity ...........
IRGCELV AD She eteyeyeic eis. store estes ratevees ci steteisreserslsleselcistar tins

itotal§Nonpooled#kundsmeseeeesesceieaecee

MotaleAssetsimeriw scenester re eeciions

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:

LIABILITIES:

Payables for Securities Purchased .............
Deferred Revenue—Charitable Trusts .........

TCA IWAISINGES Sooccqopocosccppeopoonaeut

FUND BALANCE:

Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment .......
Quasi Endowment ......

Total Unrestricted Purpose ............-..

Restricted Purpose: True Endowment .........
Quasi Endowment ........

MotalliRestricted Purposes. as-e426 4-0 oee

MotalabundeBalancespesseereaceeeeee eee

Book Market
Value Value
Sy l/l) SS sh7ils

43,839 41,267
2,568 2,568
52,67 52,537
24,840 24,442
1,695 1,663
122,802 128,176
2A 1,721
253,858 256,089
ils} 1S)

28 28

S95 701
1,760 1,888
$255,618 $257,977
$ 2,760 $ 2,760
SIS 701
3,355 3,461
6,940 7,668
111,590 109,455
118,530 ile)
89,222 92,558
44,511 44.835
133,733 137,393
252,263 254,516
$255,618 $257,977

Table 5A. Market Values

of Endowment and Similar Funds (in $1,000s)

Fund

9/30/86 9/30/87 9/30/88 9/30/89 9/30/90
(Uinirestar cial: hee petcutees Son a eeeHeee $ 83,209 $108,925 $101,432 $127,394 $117,123
ISRGEI? oo coo colo HOCRTaNE Se Cerrar eee 39,570 50,380 44,228 53,731 47,963
@thersRestricted saci tescinciess os eleie 58,382 74,816 75,169 98,540 89,430
Mottaret aaresare ene ce on $181,161 $234,121 $220,829 $279,665 $254,516
Table 6. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment-Fund Balances at Market (in $1,000s)
Restricted
Unrestricted Freer Other Total
Mad kee Walkie OAWROr Sea aaaceaosedecssdcosde se $126,120 $53,731 $96,762 $276,613
Changes:
Git covosgasseneee saa O STR REBECA eae one 0 0) 1,774 1,774
Transfers of Excess Yield (Net of Below)
Interest and Dividends (see Note 1) ............ 5,648 2,397 4,401 12,446
lnaorme Paral OMiiess detec coon ane dbeadsaobeopedese (3,715) (GLSS7)) (2,855) (8,127)
Mranstersrot Other Income! aaaaeceen eee BN/BD) 0 1,427 5,159
MarkemiValuemDepreciationl se-mecenmetoureet era: (15,710) (6,608) (12,218) (34,536)
Market Value—9/30/90 (see Note 2) ............-. $116,075 $47,963 $89,291 $253,329

Note 1: Income earned, less managers’ fees of $1,100 thousand.
Note 2: Nonpooled Endowment Funds have a market value of $1,187 thousand for a total endowment market value of

$254,516 thousand.

wal
al
Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1990

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

Axugiay lise! (S32 INOW 1) coo¢anosoaococcssesoo0codounde
lic beewidartyae Memorials seisteiiererceicceiesiecaree es
lodekinsshunds(SeesNotel i) ieee aesecicstectesterirrier
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J. Memorial Fund ......
IMioranoyi, IDNR NS Sacoongongaocacdas ssenosaadoueder
iIMiMesingmy, JNIial srocgannnooopesppcessouasaunocesennodc
Olimswacl, Jk GlentAG Saegonponedeooos roo atocconunse sete
Poore, Lucy T. and George W. (see Note 1) ..........
Rorterprdl eninyakinkes Wem ortal eeeey rete sister steisteicie sieterels
Saintoraal, Georges ISL (Gee ING Il) sosconsqoouscoccenbor
SmithsonssJamesi (See Note wi)ererecemeceninaccsete sec.

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,

Researchn (Desionated) ierrncreererceccececicacirelctr

Subtotaliee er cee eee eer reece ciisicrinin ation

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Rial, Clrardles IRC Rumal! oooonscsvocces00ccccn0cn0ga0oper
Hereusonsshrancesub sEndowinen taetricriecey ticles
RorresteRobertalecimcenncre et ectre ion sane nisisosienielaire
General Endowment (see Note 1) ................0+00-
Goalatamal: Iola iS sasoos sadavassdonsmesosocuneneson
Inkaloyel, IDyes Seas ING) Goas soocoppecossagnodeadeoee
Inert, (GUIRIIES Sado osaauecessoanenassoocoluuences
lola (Geico) lied ananondscs SomodpoomamadacesdnTceaten
Flennyan)| osepheand| larnieteAcs epee ace esereee erie ses
la G) IMIG ISI Ca codnapocescsucuocaosacuecosicnceno one
Fintona Carrey Susanuerpreseins cece eciieccie ierie
Koteens!DorothyaBaetaeaceaaceceaceceaeeecenene
lLermloede, HAA CG cs padosnsanougosennonepaonoananooeGs
IMedinusGrace doa ey mreacecene aaNet eee eee ee
(0) Dyan. Ieee; scasenoctosHeaeneoucesanamoowecepooras
RhillipswRoyakesestatemncrereererercerocrrrrrrie cater
Rhees, William Jones (see Note 1) ............-.0--+05
Santionel, Clare LOUIS? coocscucacaosononnssoacouddaodeur
Smithsonian Bequest Fund (see Note 1) ............++-
Sultner, Donald Endowment =sscs.s she ascceee eee
ag oartlGanSomipsrerssce accor ierforcicrare-« apehentersrersie erase seavaveto re
Abbott, William L. (Designated) ..:..........0.-+--..-
Barstow,sbrederic Ds (Designated) macneeeemaerio acetic
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) ...
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History

(Designated Pees yasec eee noee eerie ceeecraielseiceere
lindberehy Charles As (Designated)| 04.4. --eaeee-eer
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) .................
Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) ............

Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated)

56

Principal Income

Book Market Net Unexpended

Value Value Income Balance
234,139 261,719 $ 9,649 0
84,178 90,784 2,947 0
347,887 356,287 DA MAW (0)
37,704 35,852 1,164 0
419,409 473,678 15,376 (0)
128,250 138,524 4,496 0
4,350 4,835 157 0
928,937 1,048,003 36,217 (0)
1,550,066 1,749,119 $6,777 0)
6,395 7,009 318 0
TIS: 776,454 69,828 0
2,421,778 2,726,049 88,489 94,734
6,940,471 7,668,313 306,545 94,734
1,088,997 1,046,285 33,963 0
508,473 475,248 7,290 0
5,534,752 S27 128 171,103 0)
88,661,142 87,133,591 2,799,819 0
43,812 41,744 1,355 0
718 TAG, 65 0
2,963 3,124 101 0
7,324 7,705 250 0
293,993 308,159 10,003 0)
$33,561 $12,909 16,649 0
147,515 150,043 4,870 0
198,962 178,980 5,736 0)
267,423 DiS Qe: 8,935 0)
S292, Sell05 166 0
178,118 175,268 5,689 0
746,753 706,165 22,908 0)
3,694 3,834 173 0
245,580 2392575) WSL. 0)
1,167,191 853,302 24,693 0
423,252 642,814 25,276 0
2,608 ALM) 95 0
689,410 724,340 23,512 57,421
5,768 6,054 NSY7/ 5,676

3,847,921 3,734,900 PN PS

2,558,459 2,508,708 81,434 138,519
41,885 40,390 1,311 7,453
22,100 21,584 701 7,768
35,592 33,061 1,059 0)
1,676,459 1,758,005 57,066 115,746
Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1990 (continued )

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Endowment Fund) (Designated) S:.2..2.0+--+«2ses2ssees esse - 1,464,107 1,535,324 49,837 39,750
Webb5sJames E.) Kellowship (Designated) <.......-.0-0--2--+-- 1,185,698 1,058,223 34,350 115,026
SNA. soddabsade atin BOOcoED OSES Coe E Ee Eee D oomEe OE 111,589,522 109,454,476 3,517,620 487,359
otal sUnnrestricted sBUEPOSE we. seine ise ae eile seers ern deslocrecie $118,529,993 $117,122,789 $3,824,165 $ 582,093
RESTRICTED PURPOSE-TRUE:
Aitken, Annie Laurie, Endowment Fund ....................: $ 279,072 $ 294,037 $ 9,545 S27-998
PTE UIt I] ATTICS aA ecscted stove eve! ec siaicte/sibve eiaia g. sioveicisis ord nresMaleemicreinavee aie 208,930 237,250 7,701 9,765
anal, Spremacie Jiulllenieyn ogsopopagsosdbodooovonedooabnaapoucdc 188,260 POOL 6,884 16,160
BarneyapAlicerbikes Memorial Ssrya iets ac cise «swiss elereie- c= 149,756 170,015 5,519 S/H)
Lancloclive, IEW 1 pee tant ies. ke te Sie Pee ne ra ea 175,962 175,862 5,709 135,633
Beauresardai Catherines Memorial ccmacacme- sisi <a aciei-yee > - 226,277 237,581 Te 97,972.
Becremm Ghar Otte mV ctv etcer<-s cinaletslelsieieieroisis aiars, clo Nam eials stetsietec 18,636 17,559 570 3,916
BrOcc, Rola! We. scaradooote spores p be SS oUE IG UR CUBR OEEoe 166,826 176,272 Sa 11,227
Burch, George, Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and
Affiliated Theoretic Sciences Fund ................--.eseeee- 1,734,256 1,595,587 70,638 59,901
Carmiiglal, Tthaclie: As aeaonsoadcces cance stone penncaaoauoneeeee 220,660 261,396 8,485 176
GaseyamUhomaspeinco liners nrrsctelsiovnicte eisiec eeeee eee eeee cis 72,503 76,168 2,472 8,282
(Ghamberlainsbranceselbeae45.chte eat lec ae ee aioe 147,040 166,933 5,419 34,872
Cooper Fund! tom Paleobiology «.2-me.0--6 oaciee see eee een se rs 195,833 185,080 Sila 172
Divisionlof Mammals Curators Pund........:2...eees eae - 10,508 10,757 349 6,775
IDyralke [eter Birra: Ks Gate mee nice Sa eee Ee nese 961,824 CWA ITE) 31,416 200,182
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund ............. 299,509 283,499 9,202 62,904
Dy kesty CharlestuBequestiecrery-rerctsrercie «octets ie crereiocins ares ore terorersteiers 279,086 288,648 9,370 57,302
Patonmilarcietabhillips aoasts cictocrcncmc acne cremations ie ecioe 64,172 58,238 1,564 1,564
Bickemeyer Florence Brevooftescse. s+ eases se ciscsceeeeses 56,741 64,410 2,091 10,183
Eppleymviemorialle dt ycuteecere stcreeciec a cteisieseeeisw@aeareieisisleatcios 30,105 DUESOD: 734 734
Ropaesy schwatdali\ Wellaloy Sanaabasonoaaadoosnooanne sabouaanascaee 878,424 820,593 26,637 105,117
finer, (Clavie (as, LAM Senos ae cao et aaReae raROnDHoee Coad penan Ge atene 45,721,490 47,962,951 1,556,899 2,668,407
Global Environmental Endowment Fund ...................-- 3,006 DTT 66 66
Gittinny Sagal aeeeeomerecdcccoche or ereroneoudeandacscecmter IS FG7/9) 150,271 4,878 48,432
(Groom, seal WE: ane eaneodesaude ananmpobooned anGcon aameeta 160,721 151,268 4,910 20,988
Guegenheimn-)Dantel/anduElorencesscreeossescesccee sete: 624,351 613,693 19,921 94,911
Fiariiitonsjamess(SeeuNote))) aasase-eectiescisc rete eonerriicrsres 5,800 6,151 406 3,829
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ......................- 123,657 106,028 3,442 4,714
ewittes eleanor GeuRepainbundierepereee se eooreree ec 38,147 38,584 125, 2,182
Flewittroaralk COOper jeae.5 sce ed carers cree cle Ay eree« eisiers 225,409 227,745 7,325 11,240
lelilkiie,, Witceall we ose donne ceo mnancnc dln ao nenncnceroscccoSaneere 38,020 39,943 1297, 17,017
BNE CHCOCKABAIDeRinOh, Snes ins ot ceo ties SE ees 8,330 9.504 308 1,108
odekinsshundi(seeuNotel)jeaacacecniecmcen cornice nee eee 143,480 143,321 12,895 23,251
EindlickawAlessanduMarie ma-cineseemeistctoce ra ciechecen orice: 278,084 295,367 9,588 17,774
lator NaS, Baltsen co oppo ascoquecedno Cocoon no Se paEn To conncdeos Haar 100,025 113,600 3,687 18,214
Eiontinetons hublicationgbundsjassseperecececesccerieccerenicns a: 250,613 227,439 6,107 6,122
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography .............. 18,955,725 19,948,501 647,537 163,771
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial ............... 297,302 290,605 8,638 15,805
IX Rs INEGE: soosdaobeooaahanopoded cHbRs oa tbal Gob ooaeOeDRoe 15,056 15,528 504 7,382
Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1990 (continued )

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
IMiaxcwellb Mia reyvEss tetepesece ee scitie avevoretereteic eeteteieis/e sie ss slate meters: otei< Beye 102,490 116,393 3,778 57,443
Mellon Publications Endowment Fund ................0.00008: 384,113 350,099 7,602 7,812
MillikensinieaOothoute Memorialmen eee ecceaescteesen eerie 1,123 1,134 37 221
INsionverrall Bint onnmmniey Bao eh canocsode snausn ee mounac duo AeatnonS $14,312 523,827 17,004 524
Miierallk Willian ty. ccooseapsacnnadsndoondonnaeacboniGadoobes 70,026 71,508 Dayal 2,993
Museum of the American Indian—Heye Foundation .......... ONT PST 832,465 DV BSI) 22,409
Nelmssidlennines Endowment Hund! aces rcreicerrilerieliest-trrrerle 220,336 189,774 6,148 15,304
Nelsonsedwandawilliambpreeeencantiteeceeticn iecsentickie cerie 118,667 131,806 4,278 3,671
Retrocellisg|osephyp Memorials -n-emiececiiecerss sere seeeriee 38,831 44,149 1,433 16,505
RerdsyAddisonbilien Seem NOfenll)) mncminiserinciecsieieirereereoisiciecare siete 118,622 123,784 4,925 14,232
RupleyassDillonvandi Many WMlivingstonl ee ecickiteteeease lise: 178,585 174,869 S551 24
Roebling alkane 7p rete, qereegssoneis cleo ne acta siascioie/acgin sreeiaemaesiacemyers 628,266 712,007 DBD 977
Rollinss Mntamband a walliamicerepecretereriticc: ccc ticiecern cies 1,298,876 1,378,746 44,390 36,791
Schimittsp) Ohne semeereee ccc emsctoreteecriogasciscetem cece er 18,750 17,016 457 457
Simssk GEOLZERWiterrse rte e cic serreie einen sistioves furevoeateleye evnysierehs 143,779 lS S72. 4,407 13,454
S Dra CUEMEUIVG ls tes seccreiass) se ates ce eiteieeerciaie iis easaienectemrsaio mies fe 8,189,551 8,242,865 265,389 236,128
Springer: dram ijecxs ore crctaterssove) foteteresstese erste syoisiors ares sieistslevayateteiereisiars 93,879 106,247 3,449 33,831
Siem, lnlerolal IP. Miemortall ooaoceasooocnnbaboooobabpuooboDboer 1,013,465 1,014,595 3229311 263,531
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library —..--21....--0.-00-- D122. 29,028 942 4,704
Stuarts Mary (Homme ts cysccmvsn oh atsiaretar arte cara). crests esjaye serarele 403,631 368,809 11,972 22:
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ............... 849,943 889,480 28,570 26,618
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ............... 305,043 359,367 11,665 23,689
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research .................. 28,746 27,990 924 7,874
Wailbaris. dane Se abe cpoccoostossdooocpuennoussensncooosenono 39,480 35,829 962 962
enyaes ames Brindle soseosecnceavcdsonoodoucctonbecusbece 4,933 5,587 181 7,821
Subtotallp per tee ce eer cc eae CITE en eerie 89,221,631 92,557,425 3,018,158 4,831,267
RESTRICTED PURPOSE— QUASI:
Amin ETON TS Jeehpin JeleNES: nondacoondacengoconseaduooconcoooacoN 20,632 20,456 653 0
PATIPPATIICI ELCUEI & RSA os meal airlines Sista OEE Ses 103,011 98,312 Sila 2,549
BeGom, WiteabovEl IMR? pocccsonoopsueaspooobuDBoUOSOOKOHadDOUCE 489,414 493,433 16,017 79,679
Beckers Georpelesecsmcces cn sce seen ern Sener te ee ee 844,755 854,040 27,722 20,144
Denghansen, Duisitaljand|Pranz i. Fund!) s).5.s2ss6 cece cee se ANA MN2: 4,157,011 134,925 240,748
DesautelssPaulMBee nae yrs Neco mere eras yee te ge estas 39,873 44,992 1,782 19,138
Gaver KGordo nervy os oe ae eee Peat ae A ee 9388 9338 303 2,029
Iachenberes Georges bands G@aroline sspereneenecer eco reeree 24,227 25,960 843 7,545
Hammond, John, Performance Series Fund ................... 267,531 230,280 7,309 8,249
Hanson, Martin Gustav and!GarolinevRe -....--ssessce eee nee 51,403 53,992 L753} 16,680
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ..................-0- 5,178,210 4,756,417 154,395 390,619
Elirshhornss|osephili-s Bequestehund ssna-aeeceeoreeeteeciion ec: 2,113,184 2,053,242 116,792 555,689
ihe oleniashristehundererern ee eeeeee eee ee een eee ne eree 4,972,236 5,024,883 163,110 186,720
leuraaeyasloya. leavelonmonte, oononopooaunadacdooananaooodopanaonegee 17,054,411 17,741,223 575,888 277,497
ICBRIJEndowimenteaaeern. sere s eee oe eae eee oe 1,086,532 1,050,298 34,039 45,687
I@BPAGonsenvationsendowmente-ee eee een ee eee eee ee 233,080 223,298 7,188 21,408
Jago, 1B, IRS IRMA sooancoonancesqoonnpaonvoocesaoooc0s 41,035 39,976 1,298 7,587
Toe ba NIOnniSsesce epee eo eect aaa EE Cee 508,138 535,482 17.382 41,351
Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1990 (continued )

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance

MongapAninettesewandubdithiG.) Saas. -cnaceeterasciyderr-rere sii 2,889 3,307 107 854
INiverm@atherime Walden cz,cesc serjeracepsse acreererosisnreius wre) sisrsierereevers 116,834 122,725 3,984 35,835
IN Oy Comma Keg B ourncyesaieiscrsiate ssa ieie avis oye alelerctererere te sislaie:s/<jaceis ais evades steve 5,794 6,186 201 5,007
IN@ves, aniline iag5 coueedoeeracotondocpccuemecoodaderaaentc 48,522 46,326 1,504 5,414
Rall, Coma la Iles on peasepoocodsadsodoosoudesoube sesodon 43,056 45,306 1,471 9,459
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton (see Note 1) ......... 1,026,211 1,081,506 34,641 34,989
Rano, RviGnemel MiGaedell .oossocsononpscoodecbnnooccnconun 61,716 64,916 2,107 25,364
IRoelollins Cola NESE Socosuncocsnpacoono sound DOodauaRODSC 136,311 139,571 4,531 16,909
iwi, Ibert nah Wi eons detente tance er omeine mci ater aortas 159,962 155,788 057 4,720
Sdinllzz, Ibeomarcll IR, "sossos assaouana scum paces snacaaonoeennec 97,016 95,348 3,094 31,153
S@ulall, Audnantion "sasaescoccossaseoe osnEAnABoAGEpapnaocouderTses 3,345,559 3,374,159 109,527 560,971
Suuthsonanwa sen CywACCOUNT sere seriisaeeeiceeae srs eeisciss-)e1- 1,449,930 1,443,834 47,628 254
Sionys, |nTEWID, Ssgamadsacoodeorotosucestdocorcneearootorunts 58,000 61,000 1,980 12,249
Witherspoon wihomas Ac-yViemortiall saeaaccce ses a- secs eccscne 745,452 782,709 25,407 169,002
St te tall Meerete ro ovat crore peters einer la elon 6d: yale cs, cudko nV SRTIO INS 44,511,484 44,835,314 1,505,829 2,835,499
Motalevestnictedseunpose) sees ceeeeetacraticscieesiecea sleet NS FOS ils 13723922789) 4,523,987 7,666,766
TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS (see Note 2) ...............- $252,263,108 $254,515,528 $8,348,152 $8,248,859

Note 1: Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

Note 2: Income on Investments; does not include $460,515.67 of interest income which is included in unexpended balances.

59
Table 8. Construction and Plant Funds,
Fiscal Years 1989 and 1990 (in $1,000s)

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations:

National’ ZoologicallParke ijaecaretiejsle covouess «diss oases eis ata diaie sists oiets wis: svls ger tereetsleeeiene rasieeryerers
RestoratiouranduenovationtotBuilldingsierraceerrteretnca teehee cece eerlet eaters
Construction! Planning and’Minor’ onstruction! -a--ceee saci aeciserisieeiseeeeeietaeisieer eset
firopicalbWesearchilustitute Research Hai itlesy oer ctel-tatetefetorels ste) sforsisietalclsisieisteloreieistersisiarsieieretsioteioterestctel=
Astrophysicall® bservatory—WhipplesBase @amap! crrerleler(erercieieleretate l= elele oieia-letercteteretesetavo ete yole oletarete iets
NationalliMuseumkofeAmertcani Indian) tae sp-eieeace ecole sievocinsltareriesietersyereieter as stele

MotalkederalpAp pro pri ation speperrsererts- stele c sd -yorsietstefertecetetckele eiaiercrelerasetcteteteeeraaeetelstateustoisyelotel exer Tarctets

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:

Income-Gift and Other
EnvironmentalResearchi Center— Wand Acquisittoms) yey elrasoete a lelolese)-retallalelaterealstolel-leralaroretetotarsteleks
MiropicaljResearchyInstitute—ResearchRacilities) ccrrj-clscciecielalsteierlelsieteiete creeieieisieisteeteleteeoierereiele
Coopersblewitt MiMSevimy c.<. sro cress cigeieis sreio.c. cinta. eve oloyots «(eiaPs sinus ov siei aie olel als oh arss/o)e aisloveresaioleisravaeiayeloiersovare
@uadranglevand Related! ecpccecetercvesracos aeieisio ae nraareeaeieislersislers crease ispacimaerereemaaeselasetemiec rae
MisitorlntormationsandsReceptions Gentemeereer cetera eesti reer eet
@thera(SeeyNote gl meycre rcs yee covers orcce vase cre ievcs are sie Bia ersea ake tare ROSE Oran ER OEE

Mota CO mie acre: oierecors creo rane eres ceicisie oie vl Sinle We ctals ene erSYelese avo tere Tas o1Sigte ions hes oo ae te tere obeteevetsintavete erations

Transfers from Other Funds:
VisitorsiIntormationrand)Receptioni@enter (seeyNotewl) icaaseseieeeeeceeee eee eerie

TIGA IG EMG Sh anton coco und aooecnrcernae ancodone Coc an tae an ddoe otra nem anoocdenen len aod

FY 1989

$39,541

FY 1990

Note 1: Funds reclassified to current operating funds.

60
Dr. Robert Dudley, STRI posdoctoral fellow, uses a hand-held anemometer to measure the flight speed of a butterfly. Dr. Dudley
and Robert Srigley, NSF predoctoral fellow from the University of Texas, are studying the correlation between the palatability of
butterflies and their flight velocity, morphology, and body temperature. (Photo by Carl Hansen)

61
62

Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have audited the accompanying statement of finan-
cial condition of the Smithsonian Institution as of Sep-
tember 30, 1990, and the related statement of financial
activity for the year then ended. These financial state-
ments are the responsibility of the Institution’s manage-
ment. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audit. We pre-
viously audited and reported upon the financial state-
ments of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended
September 30, 1989, totals of which are included in the
accompanying financial statements for comparative
purposes only.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards. Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasona-
ble assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes ex-
amining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement pre-
sentation. We believe that our audit provides a reason-
able basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the finan-
cial position of the Smithsonian Institution as of Sep-
tember 30, 1990, and the results of its operations for
the year then ended, in conformity with generally ac-
cepted accounting principles.

Comm ¥

Washington, D.C.
December 28, 1990
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition, September 30, 1990
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1989) (thousands of dollars)

Trust
funds
ASSETS:
Runcubalances) with) WES. dreasuryand cash on hand 5.2... .-2..4---2-- += $ 1,143
WraeS tENTE DN GSe IN OLED) lerrerters late eccte reco c clereicie sie Gia vove ian srevarnsate levee wGelals (aa sievereteraicislevepavere 323,863
RECEIVAblesmlNOteHs) iments toccitaer eciehersiteecisiceeisie chs oisiciseoimeee steielnies Geveicisiee 48335
PN van GenpayIMeMtsaINOLENG)) crtererspssstetesete/assterelereteereterovel e/a eievotelerels ere¥-1=10!aNelevafoleroiers Var= =
MEMOS: Soovetmandooomean no ad asc NUCnOco aS pEiaO non Con ach ane memo oc 16,491
Preparderdcrerreduexpenserancd other err aciercits-e ci elo sisertetetorstls ciejale steers eselet> 18,151
Proyneniny ainrel (Geto (INKS 7) gaoooaonenonocodsndacononesaeseneesesosueTne T3270.
WOWAl AOSHB aiding bao edo d OHOE BER GAR OO SOE BORO SO TERR COC OS ARERR crOne Ent $483,254
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable:
Wecountsipayablesand accrued expenses empyrecacr-iaicislere stercterelsteleteioveteleis e)a]stereterst= 24,856
Voor eorshearn cd yp aya] © aire rerearevev.vevcya reverse sreversserave ce crare-erecakecovsns efciciele ssore oislosevererrioseisseletelere D929
Rayablestominyestmient SeCULItesTpPULCMASE ers aals lel siee sleleroteler-sa)a1e -/sletoret sie ole\l= 2,760
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) ................000% 3,532
Agemeacl anmvell IGA ses poaqooneeescnes 76 fonne sa eOC Tecra ec an aOsAnCrIs tones —
Dsiernecl muGNTE 5 ssdenddonomannonADeSenead oo oOnSEDR Sac CSN BED eEamepeeacnc 43,286
ILomee(enin Gleb: (INGO) Sogach coma sos Coroner ootcecsemote amen nada aceate 11,101
Thovall Relies acavecsaauseapecosnde heccon coco Ln sen ase nooo CooUaeOSeenans 95,464
Utnalettinanach omaliss..s 855 no badoae don onpneadte ton aan aoc Uconr mba cod aoTaneeer amuses _
Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)
FUND BALANCES (deficit):
Trust Current:
Wes tri ctedgeencralepinposel see rcemcmiseriecisieiciecincie ee serie eteciemcie ete ieee 13,769
Speciale punposempeaatiscoa. cca saree eiccta taen oa skorts Glawimasesuieiellaaarevese Sp yqsuls)
[NESTA LCG areata o ean gm ameen Ge So coer menntiD EOE nA CEIO GON toe Onan GEREN 24,975
irust Endowment and similar funds (Noter4)) 2s cc criti clacries sisicie aelelete <icisieicine 252,263
‘Tinos [Mlenaie fimearaly (IN fortes 7) doo oeoatoods abamsacdecuaeocsponebscencundoodorocrc 61,470
Hederala@ peratinestundss (Noted )) seem acer ceiisecemcrictieercrrseirleraerictelssiercrers —
ec erala@ons tii ctlomenundse amcor scrstceic acces titer sieine wislaineiersiereisicisie esieiers aistereeere —
Rederallk@ap ital Mfuinds tt cpcisecis nie srarste siessieresore eva: sieicrssuntstelsiutalerecar ioe cereioioie elalolsie isietees —
motaleundubalanceswpesencirtacsestec sets ciereoeeclenr nicer ret ieee eiesie ese 387,790
Total liabilities, undelivered orders, and fund balances ............-..-+.- $483,254

Federal Totals, Totals,
funds all funds 1989
$111,916 $113,059 $100,891

— 323,863 303,899
9,746 58,081 54,874
18,606 18,606 21,743
1,805 18,296 17,037

25 ishiGt ees 24
261,847 337,118 323,606
$403,920 $887,174 $838,374
22,838 47,694 38,194
= 9,929 9,764

— 2,760 10,070

— 3,532 3,148
9.584 9.584 158i
— 43,286 37,653

— 11,101 11,313
32,422 127,886 121,673
71,688 71,688 67,489
— 13,769 13,300

— Sis)59) 113) 33,808

— 24,975 20,948

— 252,263 237,788

— 61,470 62,025
(531) (S31) ASH:
36,689 36,689 32,189
263,652 263,652 247,842
299,810 687,600 649,212
$403,920 $887,174 $838,374

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for theyear ended September 30, 1990
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1989) (thousands of dollars)

REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:

JN NOISES, pooodagsHasnnododoaeneacnoT
Government grants and contracts .........
IniVvestimentsincomerceserteciriiertsletsieserer
Net gain on sale of securities .............

Gifts, bequests, and foundation

PLANS e sieieic mee cece ciar:saths cerane a aiias sess
Additionsitonplantemycricemcrrcccceeaccac

Rentals, fees, commissions, and

Gia? aonainqoccars one cae R io OOCREMOn OMe

Total revenue and

other additions)......+-.c0..««

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:

Research, educational, and collection

acquisitions) (Note! 1) seecr-ciecmelere
NGiministrattonmpeenee eerie
RactlitiestsenviceSen-wrcriec acs eeoscemeerine
Acquisitionvofiplant: oe eeceeece eee

Property use and depreciation

(In o(rer Ali oauoadosueneaneutosonaccntase
Auxiliagyeactivitiessarrenseteceereeeeets

Total expenditures and other

dedlctionsieeeereeeerreenerene

Excess of revenue and
other additions over
(under) expenditures and

other deductions! 5............-

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) (Note 12)

Net increase for the year .............
ReturnstowUrsy MireaSlicyaeeeesecetecetee
Fund balances at beginning of year .......

FUND BALANCES AT END OF YEAR

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

64

Trust funds

Totals, Endowment Totals,
trust Current and similar Plant federal
funds funds funds funds funds

$ — $ a $ — $ — $266,690
29,089 29,089 — = —
18,447 17,870 a 577 eS
5,025 — 5,025 = =
24,485 21,616 1,774 1,095 =
2,719 = — APP) 42,287
10,027 10,024 = 3 2,097
194,062 194,062 — _— —_
283,854 272,661 6,799 4,394 311,074
7AGO21 TARO2A = — 143,747
20,878 20,878 —_— — 19,699
1,388 1,388 _ — 65,884
2,429 1 — 2,428 36,711
DESI — — 22515: 26,477
164,802 164,802 — ao os
263,933 258,990 — 4,943 292,518
19,921 13,671 6,799 (S49) 18,556
aS 2870) STS, AC) ies
SEO 2A 6,001 14,475 (555) 18,556
— — — = (89)

367,869 68,056 237,788 62,025 281,343

$387,790 $ 74,057 $252,263 $61,470 $299,810
Federal funds

Operating Construction —- Capital Totals, Totals,
funds funds funds all funds 1989

$225,479 $41,211 $ — $266,690 $245,935
= = — 29,089 20,977
= = = 18,447 17,747
— a _ 5,025 9,428
== = = 24,485 28,353
— — 42,287 45,006 55,283
2,097 — — 12,124 10,134
— — _ 194,062 190,395
227,576 41,211 42,287 594,928 578,252
143,747 — — 215,668 191,656
19,699 —_ — 40,577 35,878
65,884 — —_— 67E272: 63,474
— 36,711 _ 39,140 33,204
— _ 26,477 285992: 26,943
= —_ — 164,802 161,363
229,330 36,711 26,477 556,451 $12,518
(1,754) 4,500 15,810 38,477 65,734
(1,754) 4,500 15,810 38,477 65,734
(89) = = (89) (89)
ils 32,189 247,842 649,212 583,567
$ (531) $36,689 $263,652 $687,600 $649,212

65
Smithsonian Institution Notes to Financial Statements
1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation

These financial statements do not include the accounts
of the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts, or the Woodrow Wil-
son International Center for Scholars, which were es-
tablished by Congress within the Smithsonian Institu-
tion (the Institution) but are adminsitered under
separate boards of trustees.

The financial statements of the Institution with re-
spect to Federal Appropriations have been prepared on
the obligation basis of accounting, which is in accord-
ance with accounting principles prescribed by the
Comptroller General of the United States as set forth in
the Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of
Federal Agencies. The obligation basis of accounting
differs in some respects from generally accepted ac-
counting principles. Under this method of accounting,
approximately $44,926,000 of commitments of the op-
erating fund, such as purchase orders and contracts,
have been recognized as expenditures, and the related
obligations have been reported on the Statement of Fi-
nancial Condition at September 30, 1990, even though
the goods and services have not been received. Approx-
imately $13,242,000 of these commitments are for
grants under the foreign currency program. Approxi-
mately $14,416,000 of these commitments are for in-
ternal storage facilities and equipment at the Museum
Support Center. In addition, construction fund commit-
ments for other projects amounted to approximately
$26,762,000 at September 30, 1990.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of
funds obtained from private sources, government grants
and contracts, investment income, and certain business
activities related to the operations of the Institution.

Fund Accounting
To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions

placed on the use of resources available to the Institu-
tlon, accounts are maintained in accordance with the

66

principles of fund accounting. This procedure classifies
resources for control, accounting, and reporting pur-
poses into distinct funds established according to their
appropriation, nature, and purposes. Funds that have
similar characteristics have been combined into fund
groups in the accompanying financial statements. Ac-
cordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded
and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Insti-
tution are self-balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of ap-
propriated funds available for support of Institution
operations.

Federal constructions funds represent that portion of
appropriated funds available for building and facility
construction, restoration, renovation, and repair. Sepa-
rate subfund groups are maintained for each appropria-
tion—Construction and Improvements, National Zoo-
logical Park, Resotration and Renovation of Buildings,
Museum Support Center, and the Center for African,
Near Eastern, and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the value of those as-
sets of the Institution acquired with federal funds and
nonexpendable property transfers from government
agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and
restricted resources, represent the portion of nonappro-
priated funds available for the support of Institution
operations. Amounts restricted by the donor for spe-
cific purposes are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds
that are subject to restrictions of gift instruments re-
quiring in perpetuity that the principal be invested and
the income only be used. Also classified as endowment
and similar funds are gifts that allow the expenditure
of principal but only under certain specified conditions.
Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the
governing board for the same purposes as endowment
funds; however, any portion of such funds may be ex-
pended with board approval. Restricted quasi-endow-
ment funds represent gifts for restricted purposes where
there is no stipulation that the principal be maintained
in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the governing
board has elected to invest the principal and expend
only the income for the purpose stipulated by the
donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for
future plant acquisitions and funds expended for plant.

Investments

All investment income, except that of endowment and
similar funds, and gains and losses arising from the sale
of investments and property, are accounted for in the
fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income
of endowment and similar funds is accounted for in the
fund to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, as reve-
nue in unrestricted current funds. Gains and losses on
the sale of investments are recognized on the trade date
basis using the average cost method.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO)
method or retail cost method (for those inventories
held for resale). Merchandise inventory approximated
$16,491,000 and materials and supplied inventory ap-
proximated $1,805,000 at September 30, 1990.

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and
Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine is recorded as in-
come over the period of the related subscription, which
is generally one year. Costs related to obtaining sub-
scriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/
Smithsonian magazine are charged against income over
the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges ex-
penses of other auxiliary activities during the period in
which the activity is conducted.

Works of Art, Living or Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include
works of art, library books, photographic archives, ob-

jects, and specimens, through purchase by federal or
private funds or by donation. In accordance with poli-
cies generally followed by museums, no value is as-
signed to the collections on the statement of financial
condition. Purchases for the collections are expensed
currently.

Property and Equipment—Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds
are recorded in the capital funds at cost and depre-
ciated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives as
follows:

Buildings
Major renovations
Nonexpendable equipment

30 years
1S years
10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings
were appropriated and reserved by Congress for the In-
stitution and are not reflected in the accompanying fi-
nancial statements. Property and nonexpendable equip-
ment acquired through transfer from government
agencies are capitalized at the transfer price or at esti-
mated amounts, taking into consideration usefulness,
condition, and market value.

Property and Equipment—Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for
use by nonincome-producing activities are recorded at
cost, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts
of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Car-
negie Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal
values. Property and equipment are treated as a deduc-
tion of the current fund and as a capitalized cost of the
plant fund.

Property and equipment for use by nonincome-pro-
ducing activities are depreciated on the straight-line
basis over their useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 10 years

Depreciation is recorded in the plant fund as a de-
duction to the investment in plant.

67
Capital improvements and equipment purchased with
trust funds and utilized in income-producing activities
are capitalized at cost and are depreciated on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 3
to ro years.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts
with the U.S. Government, which primarily provide for
cost reimbursement to the Institution. Grant and con-
tract revenue is recognized within trust funds as expen-
ditures are incurred.

Pledges and Donations

The Institution records significant pledges based upon
letters signed by donors. Pledges are recorded at net re-
alizable value as a receivable and as-deferred revenue
on the statement of financial condition. Revenue from
pledges is recognized in the year the pledged funds are
collected.

Donations are recognized as revenue in the year the
cash is received.

Contributed Services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance
of the Institution’s programs. The value of this contrib-
uted time is not reflected in these statements in accord-
ance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual
leave in accordance with federal law and regulations.
However, only the cost of leave taken as salaries is
funded and recorded as an expense. The cost of unused
annual leave at year-end is reflected in the accompany-
ing financial statements as an asset and an accrued lia-
bility in the federal funds.

68

Annual leave is expensed for trust employees in the
trust fund as earned.

2. Related Activities

The Institution provides certain fiscal and administra-
tive services to several separately incorporated organi-
zations in which certain officials of the Institution serve
on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the In-
stitution by these organizations for the aforementioned
Services, together with rent for Institution facilities oc-
cupied, totaled $293,000 ($214,000 for the trust funds
and $79,000 for the federal funds) for the year ended
September 30, 1990. Deposits held in custody for these
organizations were $8,138,000 as of September 30,
1990.

The following summarizes the unaudited expendi-
tures of these organizations for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 1990, as reflected in their individual fi-
nancial statements, which are not included in the ac-
companying financial statements of the Institution:

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. $8,396,000
Woodrow Wilson International

Center for Scholars:

Federal appropriations $4,638,000

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a trade date basis,
if purchased, or estimated fair market value at date of
acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1990,
investments were composed of the following:
Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)

Current funds:

Short-term investments S TAA87 SS 72530

Endowment and similar funds:

Short-term cash equivalents 47,555 44,982
Deposit with U.S. Treasury Natl 37/ ESD
U.S. Government and quasi-
government obligations 52,678 S2E53i7
Corporate bonds and
other obligations 26,535 26,105
Common and preferred stock 122,802 12 SEa7,
Charitable trusts 595 701
251,302 253,661
Plant funds:
Common stock 125 183
Total investments $323,864 $324,374

The deposit with the U.S. Treasury is invested in U.S.
Government securities at a variable yield based on mar-
ket rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment
and similar funds are pooled on a market value basis
(consolidated fund) with each individual fund subscrib-
ing to or disposing of units on the basis of the per unit
market value at the beginning of the month within
which the transaction takes place. As of September 30,
1990, 315,961 units were owned by endowment funds,
and 490,262 units were owned by quasi-endowment
funds.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in rela-
tionships between cost and market values of the pooled
investments:

($000s)
Market Cost
$253,329 $251,098 $ 2,231

Change

End of year

Beginning of year 276,613 234,799 41,814
Decrease in unrealized

net gain for the year (39,583)
Realized net gain for

the year 5,045
Net change $(34,538)

4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution utilizes the “total return’’ approach to
investment management of endowment funds and
quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach, an
amount equal to the difference between actual interest
and dividends earned during the year and the amount
computed under the total return formula is transferred
to or from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s pol-
icy to provide, as being available for current expendi-
tures, an amount taking into consideration such factors
as, but not limited to: (1) 4%.% of the five-year average
of the market value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and
transfers during this period), (2) current dividend and
interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien-
tists, and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the
Consumer Price Index. However, where the market
value of the assets of any endowment fund is less than
110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date
of donation), the amount provided is limited to only in-
terest and dividends received.

The total return factor for 1990 was $10.20 per unit,
equivalent to 4% of the five-year average of the Mar-
ket Value of each participating fund. Actual dividends
and interest earned exceeded the total return for the
year, and this excess was transferred from the current
funds to the endowment funds (see Note 12).

69
5. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1990, include the follow-
ing:

($000s)
Trust Federal Totals,
funds _funds all funds

Auxiliary activities and

other accounts receiv-

able, net of

$6,365,000 allowance

for doubtful accounts $20,662 $ — $20,662
Receivables for invest-

ment securities sold IRA — iL 7/2
Pledges receivable 7,827 —- 7,827
Endowment notes re-

ceivable 28 —_ 28
Reimbursements due

from grants and con-

tracts 4,171 — 4,171
Interest and dividends

receivable SMV — 3,997
Interfund receivables 9,929 — Yo)
Value of accrued annual

leave — 9,584 9,584
Other — 162 162

$48,335 $9,746 $58,081

6. Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to
government agencies, educational institutions, firms,
and individuals for services to be rendered, or property
or materials to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1990, the Institution had ad-
vances outstanding to the General Services Administra-
tion of $14,313,000, principally for construction ser-
vices including the Museum Support Center and other
projects to be completed in future fiscal years. The In-
stitution at that date also had advances outstanding to
educational institutions amounting to approximately
$1,902,000, principally under the Special Foreign Cur-
rency Program.

7O

7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1990, property and equipment com-
prised the following:

($000s) — ($000s)
Trust
Current funds
Capital improvements $ 23,412
Equipment 9,186
Leasehold improvements 1,620
Less: accumulated depre-
ciation and amortization (13,158)
21,060
Plant funds
Land and buildings 63,027
Equipment 6,750
Less: accumulated depreciation (15,566)
__ 54,211
Total, trust funds S271
Federal
Capital funds
Property 419,088
Equipment 44,550
Less: accumulated depreciation (201,791)
Total, federal funds 261,847
Total, all funds $337,118

Included in this accumulated depreciation of the fed-
eral capital funds is $20,947,000 of depreciation ex-
pense for 1990.

Depreciation and amortization expense in the trust
funds for fiscal 1990 for income-producing assets
amounted to $3,061,217 and is included in the current
funds. Depreciation of nonincome-producing equipment
and buildings for 1990 amounted to $2,627,985 and is
included in the plant fund. The balance of the plant
fund at September 30, 1990, included $7,260,000 of
unexpended funds for future plant acquisitions.

8. Commitments and Contingencies

Leases for various Smithsonian warehouse and office
spaces provide for escalation of rents to coincide with
increases in property taxes, operating expenses attribut-
able to the leased property, and the Consumer Price
Index.

The Institution’s operating leases require future mini-
mum lease payments as follows:

Lease payments ($000s)
OST $ 5,463
1992: 52335)
1993 3,800
1994 3 28)3}
1995 2,968

Thereafter 649
$21,508

Rental expense for office facilities aggregated ap-
proximately $4,561,000 in 1990.

9. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1990 consists of
the following:

($000s)

9% note payable to The Riggs National
Bank, interest only payable quarterly
commencing December 31, 1986; in-
terest and principal payable quarterly
commencing September 30, 1991, and

ending on June 30, 1998 $11,000,000

9% note payable for purchase of Folk-
ways Records and Service Corpora-
tion, due in four annual installments,

commencing December 31, 1987 100,000

$11,100,000

The aggregate amoung due for all borrowings for the
years ending September 30 are as follows: $386,000 in
1991; $1,211,000 in 1992; $1,324,000 in 1993;
$1,447,000 in 1994; $1,582,000 in 1995; and
$5,150,000 in years thereafter.

The proceeds of the note with The Riggs National
Bank were used to fund construction of a restaurant
addition to the National Air and Space Museum. Ap-
proximately $990,000 was recorded as interest expense

and was paid by Auxiliary Activities funds for fiscal
year 1990.

to. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for
salaries and expenses that are expended in the year re-
ceived. Also included are amounts received with the
provision that such amounts can be expended over a
period greater than one year.

The federal operating funds for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1990, included the following:

($000s)

Fund balance

Revenues and (deficit) at

other additions

September
Appropriations Other 30, 1990

Salaries and ex-
penses $225,479 $$ —  $(1,907)

Special Foreign

Currency Pro-

gram a -— 77
U.S. India Fund

(transfers from

Department of

State) — 2,001 1,258
Smithsonian
Tropical Re-
search Insti-
tute — 1337/ 39
$225,479 $2,138 hy (Sai)

On July 11, 1990, a settlement was awarded in the
amount of $3,022,350 arising out of a suit against the
United States by a contractor who was defaulted by the
General Services Administration for failure to complete
a project for the Museum Support Center in a timely
fashion. This mandatory obligation falls outside the
provisions of the Antideficiency Act. According to ac-
counting principles prescribed by the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States, the Institution has recognized
this expense, in the year of settlement by the United
States, which results in an operating fund deficit. The
Institution will request a supplemental appropriation in
order to restore the operating fund deficit.
rt. Collections Acquisitions

In accordance with policies generally followed by mu-
seums, the Institution records the acquisition of collec-
tions as an expense in the year of purchase. For fiscal
year 1990, $5,702,315 was expensed to trust funds and
$1,179,118 to federal funds for the acquisition of col-
lections.

12. Transfers among Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) respective
fund balances for the year ended September 30, 1990:

($000s)

Current funds Endowment and Plant

Unrestricted Restricted similiar funds — funds

Total return in-
come reinvested

$(1,988) $(2,630) $4,618 $—
Income reallocated

for special pur-

poses 140 (134) — (6)
Endowment reallo-

cated to re-

stricted funds = 526 (526) =
Designated as

quasi-endow-

ment (3,524) (60) 3,584 —
Other 162 (162) = —=
Total transfers

among funds $(5,210) $(2,460) $7,676 $(6)

13. Retirement Plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by
either the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or
the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The
features of both of these systems are defined in pub-
lished government documents. Under both systems, the
Institution withholds from the salary of each federal
employee the percentage of salary required; the Institu-
tion also contributes specified percentages. The cost of
the programs for the year ended September 30, 1990,
was $10,612,000.

The Institution has a separate retirement plan for
trust employees. Under the plan, both the Institution
and the employees contribute stipulated percentages of

salary, which are used to purchase individual annuities,
the rights to which are immediately vested with the em-
ployees. The Institution’s cost of the plan for the year
ended September 30, 1990, was $5,643,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to fund the accrued
costs of all plans currently. There are no unfunded
prior service costs under the plans.

14. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under
the provisions of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Reve-
nue Code. Organizations described in that section are
taxable only on their unrelated business income. No
provision for income taxes is required for the year
ended September 30, 1990, since the Institution had a
net loss from unrelated business activity.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also ex-
empt from taxation as an instrumentality of the United
States as defined in Section 5o1(c)(1) of the Code. Or-
ganizations described in that section are exempt from
all income taxation. The Institution has not as yet for-
mally sought such dual status.

15. Museum of the American Indian

On November 28, 1989, the president of the United
States approved legislation to establish the National
Museum of the American Indian within the Smithson-
ian Institution. The legislation gave authority to the
Board of Regents to enter into an agreement to transfer
certain assets, works of art, and the endowment of the
Museum of the American Indian, located in New York
City, to the Institution. The transfer took place effec-
tive June 21, 1990. On that date certain assets includ-
ing cash, inventory, other assets, trade accounts paya-
ble and other liabilities of $495,000, and the
permanent endowment of $1,327,000 were transferred
to the Institution Trust funds. In addition, on that date
the Museum of the American Indian transferred and
conveyed its entire collection to the Institution. The leg-
islation authorized federal appropriations for the con-
struction of the National Musuem of the American In-
dian, for administration and planning expenses, and for
care and custody of the collection.
RESEARCH

Robert Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for Research
Since its inception, the Smithsonian Institution has
nourished a commitment to scholarly research through
programs characterized by breadth, depth, and out-
reach. The Institution is well known for studies that
benefit the entire scholarly community, from long-term
baseline monitoring of ultraviolet radiation on the
Earth to inventories of American painting and sculp-
ture. Research is carried on worldwide by specialized
institutes such as the Smithsonian Tropical Research In-
stitute and the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory,
as well as by museums and central support units such
as the National Museum of Natural History, the art
museums, and the Smithsonian Institution Archives.

The Institution continues to emphasize global envi-
ronmental research. Smithsonian researchers are study-
ing the function of natural and disturbed ecosystems
and the dynamic role of the Sun and the atmosphere in
the observed warming of the Earth’s temperature. They
are also seeking greater understanding of the structure
and composition of natural communities and ecosys-
tems so that the richness and stability of these systems
may be maintained or restored in the face of increasing
human pressures. An example of such fundamental re-
search is the work being done by the systematic biolo-
gists in the Institution, on whose shoulders rests the re-
sponsibility for inventorying and describing the species
richness of the biosphere.

Smithsonian research also focuses on understanding
human social and cultural systems and maintaining
their stability in the face of factors leading to social
fragmentation and cultural breakdown. The Smithsoni-
an’s history and art museums examine the nature of
changing cultures throughout the world, ranging from
Japanese views of Westerners following the opening of
Japan to contemporary West African art and culture,
the influence on the Caribbean of the importation of
peoples and their cultures during the slave trade, and
the role of African American inventors in nineteenth-
century America.

Scholarly research is by its very nature an individual-
istic enterprise, although like-minded scholars may
band together to carry out team projects. The Smith-
sonian strives to maintain an institutional atmosphere
that enhances creativity and leads to new insights about
the natural and human worlds, thus enabling us to deal
more successfully with the challenges we face now and
in the future.

74

International Center

The International Center, established in 1983, is a
point of convergence for the complex worldwide activi-
ties of the Institution. At the center, a global perspec-
tive on history, culture, and science is pursued in dis-
cussions, lectures, exhibitions, and performances, and
the international programs of Smithsonian bureaus and
offices are fostered. Its five divisions are the Office of
International Relations, the International Gallery, the
Office of Quincentenary Programs, the Office of Con-
ference Services, the Office of Environmental Aware-
ness, and the Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Diversity Program. The Interna-
tional Center also houses the Council of American
Overseas Research Centers.

Office of International Relations

The Office of International Relations supports Smith-
sonian activities abroad and coordinates the Institu-
tion’s international interests through information gath-
ering, logistical assistance, and diplomatic support. As
the Institution’s formal liaison branch, the office deals
with international organizations, foreign affairs agen-
cies, and institutions or individuals abroad seeking to
establish cooperative relationships with the Smithson-
ian.

In 1990, the Office of International Relations coordi-
nated visits to the Institution by Corazon Aquino, pres-
ident of the Philippines, and Abdou Diouf, president of
the Republic of Senegal, to formalize cooperative re-
search and museum programs. As part of the develop-
ment of joint research and training activities, the office
organized meetings with the deputy director of the Na-
tional Museums of Kenya; the minister of water, for-
ests, and animal husbandry of Madagascar; representa-
tives of the Central Region of Ghana; and officials of
the Chinese Academy of Sciences. The office arranged
for Alpha Oumar Konare of Mali, new president of the
International Council of Museums, to attend a series of
meetings with Smithsonian officials and to address the
International Cultural Affairs Network, an organization
of individuals involved in cultural exchange, for which
the office acts as secretariat.

Among the many meetings that the office coordi-
nated in 1990 were “‘U.S.-Soviet Exchange on Large
Water Projects,” a symposium sponsored in conjunc-
After discussions about opportunities for cooperative interna-
tional research and museum programs, participants leave the
S. Dillon Ripley Center. (Left to right: His Excellency Abdou
Diouf, president of the Republic of Senegal; George E.
Moose, U.S. Ambassador to Senegal; interpreter; and Robert
S. Hoffmann, Smithsonian assistant secretary for research.)

tion with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Re-
search, Friends of the Earth, the Washington-Moscow
Exchange, and the Organization of American-Soviet
Exchanges; the sixth meeting of the U.S.-Pakistan Sub-
commission on Education and Culture; a meeting of
the Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Cul-
ture; and a seminar on museum management and out-
reach for a multicultural group of museum curators
and administrators on a study tour of the United States
sponsored by the U.S. Information Agency.

As part of its administrative services, the Office of
International Relations oversees three funding programs
designed to encourage international cooperation in
scholarly activities: the Smithsonian Foreign Currency
Program, the Smithsonian International Exchange Pro-
gram, and the Suzanne Liebers Erickson Memorial
Fund. The office obtains U.S. passports and foreign
visas for travel abroad by staff and grant recipients,
and it provides visa documentation for foreign re-
searchers and museum professionals traveling to the
Smithsonian, the National Gallery of Art, and a num-
ber of collaborating U.S. museums and zoos.

International Gallery

The “Caribbean Festival Arts” exhibition, organized by
the St. Louis Art Museum, ended its nine-month run at
the Smithsonian’s International Gallery on February 15,
1990. The exhibition, which presented the carnival cos-
tumes of the Caribbean as an art form, was supported
in its Smithsonian presentation by ancillary public pro-
grams that took a holistic look at the region and at-
tracted a large, culturally diverse audience.

Among the programs was a series of scholarly dia-
logues, developed in collaboration with the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars, that focused
on the rich culture of the Caribbean, its intellectual life,
its politics, and its natural resources. The series, which
was edited for broadcast by more than 100 radio sta-
tions nationwide, covered such topics as ‘Caribbean
Politics: 500 Years after Columbus” and “The Role of
the Artist in an Evolving Nationalist Society.’” Among
the distinguished Caribbean political leaders and schol-
ars who participated were P. J. Patterson, deputy prime
minister of Jamaica; Leslie Manigat, former president
of Haiti; Rex Nettleford, pro-vice-chancellor, Univer-
sity of the West Indies; Sylvia Wynter, Stanford Univer-
sity; and George Lamming, Caribbean writer.

Office of Quincentenary Programs

The Office of Quincentenary Programs coordinates
Smithsonian programs leading to the commemoration
of the sooth anniversary of Columbus’s landfall in the
Americas. In 1990, the office’s newsletter The New
World was distributed to more than 9,000 individuals,
organizations, and educational institutions throughout
this hemisphere to promote public understanding of the
consequences of the 1492 event. Future issues are
planned.

In the course of the quincentenary commemoration,
the Smithsonian will present more than 100 programs
related to the cultural, historical, and scientific implica-
tions of the encounter between the original inhabitants
of the Americas and Europeans, Africans, Asians, and
other peoples. Exhibitions, public programs, symposia,
publications, and television and radio programs are
planned for audiences in the United States and through-
out the world. An example is the five-part bilingual
television series “The Buried Mirror: Reflections on the
New World by Carlos Fuentes,” written and narrated
by the internationally acclaimed Mexican writer and
scheduled for broadcast in 1992. The series explores
Latin America, past and present, focusing on themes,
institutions, beliefs, and symbols that have endured or
changed during the past 500 years.

In 1990, the Office of Quincentenary Programs and
the Mexican Cultural Institute, through the Embassy of
Mexico, cosponsored a photographic exhibition, ‘‘Pre-
Hispanic Foods of Mexico.” The exhibition told the
story of foods derived from the animal, plant, and min-
eral kingdoms, described the foods of pre-Columbian
Mexico, and explained the survival, change, or disap-
pearance of these foods. The exhibition, displayed in
the International Center, featured more than 40 color
photographs by Michel Zabé with Spanish-language
text by Teresa Castellé of the Universidad Autonoma
de México. The Office of Quincentenary Programs pro-
duced an English-language guide to the exhibition.

Planning meetings were held this year to develop a
proposal for a Smithsonian Institute of the Americas.
The proposed new institute—not a museum, but a dy-

76

namic operating entity—will facilitate interdisciplinary
research on issues of high priority for the hemisphere
by fostering scholarship, promoting the exchange of
knowledge among experts in different disciplines and
different countries who are concerned with similar is-
sues, disseminating its findings, providing technical as-
sistance to institutions with common interests, and of-
fering training for the staffs of such institutions. The
Office of Quincentenary Programs continues to work
closely with the Association of Ibero-American Cultural
Attachés and Ambassadors. The association has been
especially helpful and enthusiastic in cosponsoring the
Symposium of the Americas, to be held in May 1991.

Office of Conference Services

In 1990, the Office of Conference Services managed a
record number of conferences, ranging from small sem-
inars to large international congresses. Produced in col-
laboration with museums and offices throughout the
Institution, these gatherings afforded Smithsonian
scholars and professional staff rich opportunities for
the exchange of information, ideas, and experiences
with their colleagues and with public audiences. Many
of the conferences and symposia were direct out-
growths of research and exhibition projects of Smith-
sonian curators. The office’s logistical assistance further
allowed the Institution to play host to diverse cultural
and scientific associations whose activities are related
to Smithsonian research interests.

Two November conferences were representative of
those initiated by Smithsonian scholars. “Disease and
Demography in the Americas: Changing Patterns before
and after 1492,” grew out of research for the National
Museum of Natural History’s upcoming “Seeds of
Change” exhibition. Produced in collaboration with the
museum’s Office of Quincentenary Programs, this sym-
posium examined the dynamics of health and disease in
human populations of the Old and New Worlds before
and after the 1492 encounter. It involved approxi-
mately 200 scholars in anthropology, archaeology, de-
mography, history, and health.

Also in November, the office worked with the Glen-
nan-Webb-Seamans Project for Research in Space His-
tory, National Air and Space Museum, to produce an
applied research conference titled “Preserving the His-
tory of the Aerospace Industry.” This conference pro-
vided a forum for archivists and historians to exchange
information with industry professionals on establishing
and maintaining corporate archives.

Among the organizations that the Smithsonian
hosted during the year were the International Council
for Archaeozoology, for its sixth international confer-
ence; the Textile Society of America, for its second
biennial symposium; and the Scientific Instrument
Commission of the International Union of the Histori-
cal Philosophy of Science, for its roth scientific instru-
ments symposium.

Smithsonian Institution Man and the Biosphere
Biological Diversity Program

The protection of biological diversity is one of the
greatest challenges today. Biological diversity is inex-
tricably linked to human welfare because it provides all
essential life-support services. Never before have so
many different ecosystems, especially in developing
countries, been so threatened.

The Smithsonian Institution Man and the Biosphere
Biological Diversity Program (SI/MAB) addresses the
challenge of protecting the biological and cultural di-
versity of developing countries. In the field, classrooms,
and museums, the program conducts training in conser-

His Excellency Gustavo Petricioli, Ambas-
sador of Mexico, and Secretary Adams at-
tend the opening reception for the exhibi-
tion “Pre-Hispanic Foods of Mexico” in
the International Gallery.

vation biology, natural resource management, wildlife
and wildland management, and research methods.

Programs are carried out in developing countries
where host-country resource managers have identified
environmental problems. Program scientists from SI
MAB design and implement training programs in con-
cert with host-country and international organizations
and experts to help ensure that each nation’s conserva-
tion priorities are addressed. The program has estab-
lished contacts within the conservation community in
most Latin American countries and working partner-
ships with counterparts in Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador,
Guatemala, Panama, Nicaragua, Mexico, Belize, and
Puerto Rico. Since 1987, nearly 140 participants from
15 Latin American countries have been trained, and an
additional 120 will be trained by the spring of 1991.
Similar initiatives have been put forward in Southeast
Asia and in Madagascar and other parts of Africa. In-
country training programs will be expanded in the
American tropics and will be started in the African and
Asian tropics by the end of 1992.

The SI/MAB program has experienced substantial
success and cooperation because it responds to the con-
cerns and needs of the countries with which it collabo-
rates and because it has the support of many interna-
tional organizations. The UNESCO Man and the
Biosphere Program, the U.S. Agency for International
Development, the World Wildlife Fund, the World Her-
itage Program, and other international and host-coun-
try organizations have cosponsored SI/MAB activities.
The Smithsonian views the program as an important
opportunity to produce an educational multiplier effect
involving a large number of potential collaborators
who are—or will be—the decision makers in their
countries.

Office of Environmental Awareness

In response to the wave of public interest in environ-
mental issues during preparations for Earth Day 1990,
the Smithsonian Institution established the Office of
Environmental Awareness in April. The office is dedi-
cated to increasing public awareness and understanding
of environmental issues. Office of Environmental
Awareness staff work with experts within and outside
the Smithsonian to disseminate information through ex-
hibitions, publications, workshops, and public pro-
grams.

The office’s first publication—the poster ‘A Better
World Starts at Home’’—offers suggestions for running
an environmentally responsible household. Designed to
fit on a refrigerator and distributed free, the poster was
featured in a number of publications, including USA
Today. Nearly 20,000 copies were distributed in the
first five months; about 2,000 requests came from indi-
viduals in 47 states and several foreign countries.

The Arts and Humanities Division of the Rockefeller
Foundation contracted with the Office of Environmen-
tal Awareness to conduct a study of current environ-
mental activities in American museums, zoos, botanic
gardens, and aquariums. With the aid of the Associa-
tion of Science-Technology Centers, the office polled
more than 160 institutions. The report will be pub-
lished to make the information available to the Ameri-
can museum community.

In cooperation with Island Press and the Los Angeles
Times, the office carried out planning for a two-day
workshop for journalists in Los Angeles on October 5
and 6, 1990. It is the pilot program in a series of re-
gional workshops to promote thoughtful media cover-
age of environmental issues.

The office plans to make oceans and marine-related
issues the focus of its first educational campaign. A
major symposium to be held in the fall of r991 and a
symposium volume, exhibition, and other related pro-
grams are the subjects of long-term planning.

78

Joseph Henry Papers

During 1990, the Joseph Henry Papers achieved one of
its primary objectives for the last five years: the im-
provement and reautomation of the index to Joseph
Henry documents. Inaugurated 20 years ago when the
Henry Papers project began, the computerized index is
the main point of access to some 60,000 documents by,
to, or about Joseph Henry (1797-1878), premier
American scientist and the first secretary of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

The index is indispensable to research on the docu-
ments for the selective letterpress edition of the Henry
Papers, and it will become the basis for the guide to the
complete microform edition. In addition, scholars in
the history of American science, the history of the
physical sciences, and American history regularly rely
on the index to locate manuscript material pertinent to
their research.

The original computer system could no longer meet
the project’s demands for speed in entering new mate-
rial and editing and retrieving existing entries. The new
system, which runs on the project’s local area network
and is consulted through personal computers, is self-
contained within the Henry Papers and offers almost
instantaneous on-line response to various types of in-
quiry. This system will greatly facilitate the editing of
the letterpress edition and ease the task of indexing the
remaining Henry documents. The new document index
program has already allowed the project to respond
more quickly and completely to information requests.

The Joseph Henry Papers supplied research assistance
to a number of other Smithsonian bureaus and offices,
including the National Museum of American History,
the Smithsonian Institution Archives, the Office of Ar-
chitectural History and Historic Preservation, and the
National Science Resources Center. Other users of the
Joseph Henry Papers resources ranged from a junior
high school student preparing a project on Joseph
Henry for National History Day to a representative
from the Alexander-von-Humboldt-Forschungsstelle in
Berlin interested in American-German scientific interac-
tion during the nineteenth century.

Staff of the Joseph Henry Papers complemented their
work on the life of Henry with research on other as-
pects of nineteenth-century science. Paul Theerman pre-
sented a paper on James David Forbes’s biographical
approach to the history of science at the annual meet-
ing of the History of Science Society. The paper was

given at a session on science biography, which Theer-
man also organized. Marc Rothenberg, director of the
Joseph Henry Papers, spoke at the same meeting on the
relationship between the Smithsonian and the federal
government during the antebellum period.

National Zoological Park

The National Zoological Park entered its second cen-
tury in 1990 with a greatly strengthened emphasis on
education. An increase in scientific literacy among the
public is urgently needed to combat the worldwide deg-
radation of environmental quality and loss of biodivers-
ity. With its collections of animals and plants, its
trained professional staff, and its membership in the
Smithsonian family, the Zoo has a unique capacity to
educate more than 3 million visitors annually. The
Zoo’s continued transformation to a biological park, or
biopark, expands its educational message beyond living
animals. Visitors are introduced to the intricacy of rela-
tionships between plants and animals by learning about
pollination and seed dispersal, between past and
present by observing the commonalities of large dino-
saurs and elephants, between invertebrates and verte-
brates by noticing the superficially similar eyes of cut-
tlefish and humans, and between animals and culture
by seeing examples of animals in art. Physics, chemis-
try, and mathematics are incorporated into biological
messages as visitors learn about the mechanics of flight,
the fundamentals of nutrition, and the measurement of
body mass. The vital work of the Zoo’s scientists is it-
self exhibited: A group of golden lion tamarins living
free in an urban park highlights staff efforts to rein-
troduce zoo-born tamarins to the wild in Brazil.

Modernization

Construction continues on the exhibit “Aquatic Ama-
zonia,’’ a major new development in tropical biology
and conservation education. The first phase, scheduled
to open in 1992, re-creates the edge of a tropical river,
immersing the visitor in a moist, teeming forest. Heat,
humidity, and a medley of sound and movement will
contrast with cool, quiet underwater views of fish and
caiman. The forest will prepare the visitor to enter an
adjacent gallery, a new kind of zoo experience that will
focus on the intricate details of the complex and endan-
gered tropical forest ecosystem. The gallery will also
feature the work of Smithsonian scientists in tropical
biology, showing how they wrest secrets from nature
and how valuable their research is. It will also provide
a continuously updated multimedia briefing on global
environmental events.

In the summer of 1990, final touches were added to

59
Lil
i

hy

>

vi wild ‘ : a ha

> oe. oF i diy |

A mother serval rests with one of her three cubs born March 16, 1990, the first servals born at the National Zoo since 1970.
(Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

80

Olmsted Walk, the Zoo’s main thoroughfare. Zoo gar-
deners planted thousands of flowering plants, shrubs,
and trees for beauty and shade. Plants were chosen to
illustrate the biological significance of interaction be-
tween flowers and pollinators and fruits and fruit-eat-
ers. Zoo craftspeople built a system of attractive rail-
ings along the length of the walkway to protect
maturing plants. Two large restrooms on Olmsted
Walk were renovated to enhance comfort, utility, and
access for disabled visitors.

Other improvements included the restoration of a
large yard for Asian one-horned rhinoceros. Adding
plants to the enclosure of a voracious plant eater was a
challenge to gardeners and keepers, but the rhinos
enjoy the more naturalistic setting in which they now
appear. In the Zoo’s pioneering large outdoor flight
cage, the deteriorating mesh dome was replaced, the
metal support structure was repainted, and the interior
was newly landscaped. The renovated exhibit will be a
new multispecies experience embodying the themes of
the biopark. The Australia Pavilion’s roof, which also
serves as an overlook, was replaced. Wallabies, gray
kangaroos, and emus (large flightless birds) were added
in replanted yards below. Inside the pavilion, the new
2,500-gallon Great Barrier Reef tank provides a
glimpse of the intricate coral ecosystem.

Lighting was added to parking lots and walkways to
provide additional safety for winter visitors and eve-
ning lecture- and concertgoers. Fire alarm systems were
upgraded in several major animal buildings. Entrance
doors were replaced on the Education Building and the
Monkey House for greater security and easier access
for mobility-impaired visitors.

Animal Programs

Servals are small cats of the African savanna with nota-
bly large ears adapted to detecting rodent prey in dense
grass. The first serval breeding in a North American
zoo took place at the National Zoo in 1961. But none
have bred at the Zoo since 1967, and there has been
little reproduction in other zoos. Curator John Seiden-
sticker recently naturalized the outdoor serval enclosure
with clumps of long grasses. The resultant seclusion
may have contributed to the birth and successful
mother-rearing of three serval kittens in March.

This year, the Zoo also acquired a male Sumatran
tiger from the Djakarta Zoo. Sumatran tigers are an
endangered subspecies and one of the 60 species whose
propagation and study are coordinated cooperatively
by North American zoos in Species Survival Plans
(SSPs). The Djakarta male, which represents a valuable
new genetic lineage, was entrusted by the tiger SSP to
the Zoo because of its proven expertise 1n cat repro-
duction. The male is being introduced patiently to a
potential mate. The tigers are showing friendly interest
in each other, so keepers are optimistic that they will
be compatible and reproduce.

Bringing cats from Djakarta to Washington is diffi-
cult and may not always be possible. Moreover, some
cats may be incompatible and may never breed. The
Zoo’s reproductive physiology program under David
Wildt is pioneering new techniques for artificial repro-
duction in cats. Using methods painstakingly developed
with domestic cats, Wildt’s lab recently succeeded in
the first in vitro fertilization of tigers. In a process com-
monly known as test-tube fertilization, eggs were re-
moved from a lightly anesthetized female and mixed
with the semen from a male. The developing embryos
were then placed in a different female, and cubs were
born after a normal pregnancy. Placing the embryos in
another female is a useful step when the genetic mother
is for some reason unable to bear or raise young nor-
mally. Bringing the semen from a distant zoo would
have required much less effort than transporting the
male tiger. New freezing techniques may make it possi-
ble to use eggs and sperm even after the death of do-
nors. These measures may also be valuable in the con-
servation of wild mammals. Inbreeding increases as
wildlife reserves become more fragmented by human
encroachment, but genetic diversity can be increased by
using semen from a male in one reserve to fertilize eggs
of a female in another.

Reintroduction

Sixteen black-footed ferrets were born this year at the
Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center in Front
Royal, Virginia; 12 survived. Black-footed ferrets are
extinct in the wild, but the captive population, man-
aged by the Wyoming Game and Fish Department and
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, has grown from 15

81
to more than 200. Jon Ballou, the Zoo’s population
manager, has been selecting the mating pairs that will
best maintain genetic variability. Assistant Director for
Animal Health Mitchell Bush, David Wildt, and Re-
search Associate JoGayle Howard have been working
with individual ferrets that have failed to reproduce.
They have also developed measures to pinpoint the oc-
currence of ovulation and thus time the introduction of
males to females for mating.

If the captive population continues to grow, black-
footed ferrets will be reintroduced to the wild in 1991.
Brian Miller, a postdoctoral fellow at the Conservation
and Research Center, is conducting research to guide
the reintroduction. To avoid any harm to the black-
footed ferrets or any interruption in their breeding,
Miller is using the closely related Siberian polecat as a
surrogate. He is studying how zoo-born polecats recog-
nize and avoid predators and how they learn to hunt
prairie dogs. Polecats that had been trained to avoid a
mechanized stuffed badger were killed by predators
shortly after a trial reintroduction last year. Miller con-
tinues to seek the right kinds of experience and timing
that will enable polecats, and later black-footed ferrets,
to survive in the wild. The polecats were also used to
solve a pest problem at the Zoo this year. When rats
invaded the prairie dog exhibit, two of Miller’s polecats
were turned loose to rid the burrow network of rats
and prepare it for the return of prairie dogs.

Curator of Birds Scott Derrickson heads the Zoo’s
participation in the U.S. breeding and reintroduction
program for the Guam rail, another species extinct in
the wild. The brown tree snake, accidentally brought to
Guam, decimated the rails and other bird species not
adapted to predatory snakes. Ornithologist Eugene
Morton rescued the last rails from Guam in the 1980s,
and several zoos have cooperated to build a captive
population. In January and February, zoo-born rails
were released on Rota, a snake-free island near Guam.

Medical issues are becoming prominent in the rein-
troduction of golden lion tamarins. Assistant Director
for Research Devra Kleiman has directed the U.S. pro-
gram for this species since the late 1970s. The coopera-
tive breeding program has seen the captive population
grow to more than 550. Jon Ballou orchestrates the
pairings for genetic health. Benjamin Beck, associate di-
rector for biological programs, has reintroduced more
than 80 zoo-born tamarins to Brazil since 1984. About

82

40 percent of the reintroduced tamarins survive, and 21
offspring have been born to them. All tamarins bound
for Brazil are quarantined at the Zoo, where endopara-
sitism and other minor illnesses are successfully treated.
But Mitchell Bush and Zoo pathologist Richard Mon-
tali have recently shown that a thinning of the dia-
phragm (the membrane in the chest that facilitates
breathing) is more common and more extreme in tama-
rins than scientists previously thought. Since the tama-
rins do not seem adversely affected by this condition,
Bush and Montali question whether the thinning is a
real defect or simply an unusual feature typical of the
species. When Bush examined about 50 of the 400 wild
tamarins surviving in Brazil, he found thinning, but it
was not as frequent or as extreme as in zoo tamarins.
He will return to Brazil this year to reexamine reintro-
duced, zoo-born tamarins to test the unlikely possibility
that the diaphragm will thicken with the physical activ-
ity demanded by life in the wild. A more likely possibil-
ity is that extreme thinning is a genetic defect. Until
more is known, reintroduced tamarins must be
screened carefully to prevent introduction of a poten-
tially deleterious gene into the already fragile wild pop-
ulation.

Education

With each zoo birth, scientific breakthrough, or suc-
cessful reintroduction, it becomes clearer that the cru-
cial gains in conservation will derive from education.
The threat to biodiversity stems from an expanding
human population and from pressures for a greatly in-
creased standard of living that consumes growing
amounts of natural resources. This problem does not
just exist in the “developing world.” The deterioration
of the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem and the recent extinc-
tion of the California condor and the black-footed fer-
ret are reminders that environmental degradation oc-
curs in our country, too. National Zoo visitors are thus
a prime target audience for conservation information.
Education at the Zoo takes many forms. Volunteer
teachers in the exhibit “Quick Stop” use feathers and
eggs to engage visitors in the Bird House. Demonstra-
tions throughout the Zoo feature elephants, seals and
sea lions, a hawk, and an octopus, exploiting the pub-
lic’s fascination with animals to good effect. A micro-
scope equipped with a video camera allows visitors to
explore a drop of water and delight in the microscopic
world of beautiful and fast-moving plants and animals.
Plans for expanding the highly successful HERPLab
are well advanced. This year, the Zoo introduced the-
ater (Young Charles Darwin) and began informal parti-
cipatory activities on animal locomotion, bat naviga-
tion, and elephant biology. Binoculars were provided

Kenneth C. Jackson, Jr., dressed as a Styracosaurus, enter-
tained and taught children young and old in Dinamation’s
show, ‘Dinosaurs, Dinosaurs . . . A Mesozoic Musical,” in
the National Zoo’s auditorium. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

for spontaneous close-up looks at especially interesting
animal events. A musical comedy on dinosaurs ran in
the Zoo auditorium in the summer months. New signs
helped orient visitors to events and exhibits in the
Zoo’s 160 wooded acres. An orientation brochure and
volunteers trained in sign language helped impaired vis-
itors learn about and enjoy the Zoo’s collections.

Zoo educators collaborating with staff of the Friends
of the National Zoo (FONZ) served thousands of
schoolchildren and their teachers with special school
programs, educational materials, and training work-
shops. The Zoo, the National Museum of Natural His-
tory, and the National Portrait Gallery collaborated on
“Bison, Butterflies, and Naturalists,” a conservation
program for junior high school students. The program
culminated in a conservation summit at the Zoo, dur-
ing which 200 students shared the successes of their
community conservation projects.

Media efforts reached wider audiences. The “Smith-
sonian World” program “Zoo,” filmed entirely at the
National Zoo, provided a frank and intimate view of
the emotional and intellectual challenges of modern zoo
work. “Keepers of Eden,” a program in the “‘Infinite
Voyage”’ series, looked at the vital role played by zoos
in conservation and featured the Zoo’s reproductive
physiology and reintroduction programs. FONZ pro-
duced and distributed “‘to Ways You Can Help Your
Habitat,” a brochure with practical conservation tips
for the urban American. FONZ’s educational magazine
ZooGoer published a special issue on rainforest ecol-
ogy and conservation.

Rasanayagam Rudran’s Wildlife Conservation and
Management Program involved 60 participants from 25
countries in intensive courses in environmental manage-
ment. Christen Wemmer, associate director for conser-
vation, organized the Zoo Biology Training Course for
50 midlevel zoo employees in China and Indonesia.

Friends of the National Zoo

A nonprofit organization with more than 55,000 mem-
bers, FONZ contributes in many ways to the Zoo’s ac-
complishments. A record 750 FONZ volunteers
worked 67,000 hours, narrating demonstrations, col-
lecting behavioral research data, harvesting plants for
the elephants, apes, and monkeys to eat, serving as in-
formation guides and learning lab teachers, planting
flowers, and providing clerical assistance.

FONZ’s major fund-raising effort, National ZooFari,
took the Amazon rainforest as its theme and raised
$105,000 for the Theodore H. Reed Fund. FONZ’s
food, merchandising, and parking concessions provided
$550,000 for Zoo education and research programs
and $526,900 in contract fees to the Smithsonian Inst-
tution.

FONZ expanded its recycling program to include of-
fice paper and aluminum. Paper bags and recycled
paper products are offered in the gift shops and the
bookstore, and packaging, especially plastics, is being
minimized in food service. In 1990, FONZ switched to
recycled paper for its stationery and for much of its
other printed material.

co
=

Office of American Studies

Since its founding in 1967, the program in graduate
education sponsored by the Office of American Studies
has encouraged research in the field of material culture,
utilizing the collections and personnel of the Smithson-
ian Institution’s many museums. An additional purpose
was to overcome the separation then existing between
university and museum scholars. Through formal
courses conducted at the Institution, graduate students
from cooperating universities are encouraged to take
advantage of the opportunities offered by the national
museums. Courses have covered art, technology, and
social, cultural, and political history. The research in-
terests of participating students have ranged from art to
anthropology.

The 1989 fall semester seminar, “Material Aspects of
American Civilization,” focused on material culture
and the environment. The seminar was taught by Wil-
comb E. Washburn, director of the program, and Ber-
nard Mergen of George Washington University. Twelve
students participated—ro from George Washington
University and 2 from the University of Maryland.

Other seminars taught during the past year included
“The Decorative Arts in America,” taught by Barbara
G. Carson of George Washington University, and
“Technology, Labor, and American Society,” taught by
Gary Kulik of the Smithsonian Institution. Thirty-three
students participated in these seminars.
Office of Fellowships and
Grants

The Smithsonian Institution offers scholars and stu-
dents unparalleled opportunities to conduct research in
subjects ranging from original works of art to historical
and anthropological objects, from complex ecosystems
on Earth to distant galaxies. To help researchers take
advantage of these vast resources, the Smithsonian has
developed research support programs that enable re-
searchers of art, history, and science from the United
States and abroad to use the Institution’s facilities in
conjunction with staff members. The Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants (OFG) administers these programs
and serves as an institutional link with scholars
throughout the world. In 1990, nearly 950 undergradu-
ate and graduate students and scholars received awards
administered by OFG. These awards included both
long- and short-term residential appointments.

Programs for Visiting Students and Scholars

The office awarded 93 predoctoral, postdoctoral, and
senior postdoctoral Smithsonian Fellowships in 1990.
Twenty-four of these awards went to foreign students
and scholars from 17 countries. This year marked the
25th anniversary of the program, which enables partici-
pants to conduct independent studies under the guid-
ance of staff. Research is carried out in the Institution’s
bureaus or at field sites, usually for a period of 6 to 12
months. Topics included gender and activity patterns in
prehistoric populations of the Northern Plains, the sig-
nificance of leaf arrangement in tropical trees, African
American seamen in the Atlantic World from 1750 to
1885, bright coloration and status signaling in female
warblers, and the representation of domestic servants in
nineteenth-century American painting.

Twenty-five U.S. and four foreign graduate students
in the early stages of their graduate training received
1o-week fellowships in 1990. These awards allow stu-
dents to explore areas as potential subjects for disserta-
tion or thesis research. This year, fellows studied such
topics as golden lion tamarin behavior in two zoo habi-
tats, African American artists in Paris from 1922 to
1932, and mineralogy of Mexican shield volcanoes and
cinder cones.

Four Smithsonian Institution Regents Fellows—all
distinguished scholars—were in residence in 1990. Jack
Goody of St. John’s College, Cambridge, examined dif-

ferences in social organization and patterns of cogni-
tion in comparative and historical perspectives at the
National Museum of Natural History. Michael Kam-
men of Cornell University worked at the National Por-
trait Gallery on American culture since 1870, empha-
sizing the increasing role of tradition and social
memory in a society with a democratic ethos. Malcolm
Longair of the Royal Observatory and University of
Edinburgh conducted research at the Smithsonian As-
trophysical Observatory on topics including theoretical
astrophysics, cosmology, and extragalactic X-ray
sources, and infrared, submillimeter, and radio astron-
omy. Robert Ricklefs of the University of Pennsylvania
began his research at the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute on the ecological and evolutionary in-
terpretations of the life history of birds.

The Faculty Fellowship Program encourages minority
faculty members to conduct research at the Institution
for two- to four-month periods. In 1990, two awards
were granted. Glenda Gill’s research at the National
Portrait Gallery focused on the factor of class in the ca-
reer of Ethel Waters, and Marcia Battle studied Ameri-
ca’s post-World War II minority photographers at the
National Museum of American Art.

The postdoctoral fellowship program in molecular
evolution and plant physiology entered its second year
in 1990. A two-year award enabled Thomas Parsons to
conduct research on the molecular phylogeny of the ex-
tinct birds at the National Museum of Natural History.

The office developed a new fellowship program to
promote research cooperation in selected studies of bo-
tany between Smithsonian scientists and their university
colleagues. Funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Founda-
tion, the program encourages work between teams of
junior and senior scientists and fosters closer ties be-
tween Smithsonian research programs and those of
other institutions. One award was made this year to
conduct research on the ecological relationships of the
Brazil nut family (Lecythidaceae) at the National Mu-
seum of Natural History. Two awards were offered to
fellows at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
who studied the causes of genetic structure in tropical
tree populations and the hydraulic architecture and vul-
nerability of xylem to cavitation events in evergreen
and deciduous tropical trees.

In addition to the Institution-wide programs, the
OFG administers fellowships and other awards sup-

85
ported with funds from bureau sources. At the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, 1990 awards included
appointments to the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim,
A. Verville, and International fellowships. Two fellow-
ships were awarded under the James Renwick Fellow-
ship Program in American Crafts, which encourages re-
search in the history of twentieth-century American art,
craft, or design. In addition, the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory offered four postdoctoral and
seven predoctoral fellowships. The OFG administered
135 awards with bureau funding for visitors to come to
the Institution for varying periods.

Seven postgraduate internships for research and
training in subjects ranging from art conservation to
paper conservation were awarded by the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory (CAL). These interns were in res-
idence at CAL, the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum
of Design, the National Museum of American Art, the
National Museum of African Art, the National Mu-
seum of American History, and the National Museum
of Natural History.

OFG continued to sponsor its popular Short-Term
Visitor Program, which allows scholars to conduct re-
search at the Institution and to collaborate and interact
with Smithsonian staff. In r990, the program provided
142 short-term travel grants, including 97 to interna-
tional visitors from 31 countries.

The successful OFG workshop program again sup-
ported groups of scholars in research, education, and
museological fields to discuss issues of mutual or com-
plementary interest. Last year, 13 workshops were or-
ganized by Smithsonian staff members. The topics in-
cluded Uto-Aztecan religion and cosmology; the
construction of the ancient Near East; the history of
science, technology, and medicine in the Western Hemi-
sphere and the Iberian Peninsula; the utility of con-
trolled feeding experiments in interpreting stable iso-
tope values; and digestive strategies of animals.

Internships and Other Programs

Internships are often an integral part of college and
university undergraduate and graduate programs be-
cause they provide valuable learning experiences. The
Office of Fellowships and Grants administers all intern-
ship appointments at the Institution that are supported

86

with stipends. In 1990, these included 22 at the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, 4 at the National Mu-
seum of American Art, and 14 in the Smithsonian Envi-
ronmental Research Center’s work-learn program. The
Departments of Botany and Vertebrate Zoology at the
National Museum of Natural History supported 31 in-
terns. Fifty-two interns received stipends with funding
from other bureaus.

Nine students participated in the Smith College—
Smithsonian Program in American Studies. This pro-
gram offers a seminar course and research projects con-
ducted under the supervision of staff members.

High school students took advantage of the Institu-
tion’s internship opportunities through programs of-
fered by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation. Forty-three students participated in five-week
sessions at the Smithsonian designed to broaden an ex-
isting academic or vocational skill.

Applications increased this year for OFG’s intern-
ships aimed at increasing the participation of minorities
in Smithsonian research activities and fields of interest.
Forty-two undergraduate and graduate students from
across the country came to work at a variety of bu-
reaus and offices. Research topics included a study of
stress in large cats and bears at the National Zoological
Park, the design of aspects of the Smithsonian’s new
Experimental Gallery, research for the Duke Ellington
Collection at the National Museum of American His-
tory, and a study of relations between African Ameri-
cans and Native Americans at the National Museum of
American History.

During the past year, OFG continued a program for
Native American students and scholars to utilize Native
American collections at the Institution. Under this pro-
gram, 19 awards were made.

One student received an appointment through the
Cooperative Education Program, which is aimed at mi-
nority graduate students whose research interests coin-
cide with those of the Institution. Students in this pro-
gram work in professional research-related jobs at the
Smithsonian while continuing their university educa-
tions. The appointments hold the potential for perma-
nent employment at the Smithsonian.

The Education Fellowship Program also is intended
to encourage the participation of minority students in
the Institution’s fields of interest by offering support
for graduate study and research training. One fellow

completed his master’s degree in anthropology at the
University of Massachusetts and is continuing his fel-
lowship by working on his doctoral degree at the Uni-
versity of Florida.

The Webb Fellowship Program, named in honor of
Regent Emeritus James E. Webb, promotes excellence
in the management of cultural and scientific nonprofit
organizations. This year, three professional staff mem-
bers from the Smithsonian received fellowships to en-
hance their administrative abilities. The recipients came
from the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the
National Museum of American Art, and the Smithson-
ian National Associate Program.

The Scholarly Studies Program makes competitive
grants for research by Smithsonian staff and outside
collaborators that does not fall within the purview of
traditional funding sources. A review committee of
scholars from outside the Institution met twice in 1990
and awarded 39 one- and two-year grants.

The Research Resources Program supports archival
projects that arrange, describe, preserve, and make
more widely available to the public selected archival
materials and document collections of major impor-
tance to research. In 1990, a review committee of ar-
chivists from outside the Institution recommended that
It grants be awarded.

Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies

The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies (OIS) found a
new administrative home in the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Research, where its scholarly and educa-
tional programs are being pursued with fresh purpose
and direction. Director Wilton S. Dillon assumed new
responsibilities as a senior scholar in residence in the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research.

International Symposia Series

The Smithsonian’s roth international symposium took
place October 25-28, 1989, in Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia, and Washington, D.C. “‘Les Droits de ! Homme
and Scientific Progress,”’ cosponsored by the National
Academy of Sciences, commemorated the bicentennial
of the French Revolution, the U.S. Bill of Rights, and
the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the
Citizen. Nearly 50 essayists and commentators from
the United States and France reexamined the ideas and
institutions of the eighteenth-century Enlightenment; its
influence on science, education, and human rights; and
the relationship in contemporary life between science
and human rights. The University of Virginia and the
Virginia Commission on the Bicentennial of the U.S.
Constitution were pivotal in organizing the symposium.

Few programs in the international series have re-
ceived as much praise from participants. Many of them
had never met or shared their common concerns on is-
sues of science and human rights; they have made plans
to gather again in Paris to continue their dialogue and
collaboration. Another consequence of the symposium
is a plan to convene a sequel, “Human Rights and So-
cial Change,” at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences,
Budapest, in April 1991 under the sponsorship of the
Friends of Raoul Wallenberg Foundation.

Wilton Dillon, director of “Les Droits de 1 Homme
and Scientific Progress,” is editing the symposium vol-
ume with Craig A. Reynolds for publication in the
United States and France. A comprehensive symposium
summary is available upon request.

World Food and Agriculture Series

The Smithsonian served as host in October to the third
annual presentation of the World Food Prize, the fore-

Sa
most international prize recognizing an individual’s
achievements leading to significant improvements in the
quantity, quality, and availability of food in the world.
Verghese Kurien, chairman of the National Dairy De-
velopment Board of India, was the 1989 prize laureate.
Kurien has built and managed the world’s largest agri-
cultural development program, a cooperative-based in-
dustry of milk and dairy products that serves more
than 170 million consumers. In conjunction with the
award ceremonies, OJS organized an international col-
loquium titled ‘‘Sharing Innovation: Global Perspectives
on Food, Agriculture, and Rural Development.” Speak-
ers from India, the People’s Republic of China, Indone-
sia, Nigeria, and Chile discussed a variety of cutting-
edge issues in food and agriculture: rainfed agricultural
technologies; integrated, community-based farming sys-
tems in Africa; the role of agricultural science and re-
search in spurring rice production in Indonesia; China’s
adoption of market prices and other agricultural re-
forms; and the development of Chile’s highly successful
export industry in fruits and vegetables.

Intramural Seminars

“Ways of Knowing,” begun in 1987 to offer Smithson-
ian staff a forum to probe broad questions of philo-
sophical interest that also have practical implications
for the Institution’s work, meets quarterly. The May 14

88

Participants taking a
break at the interna-
tional symposium, “Les
Droits de Homme and
Scientific Progress,” at
the National Academy
of Sciences, included
(left to right): Frank
Press, president, NAS;
Charles McC. Mathias,
chairman, American
Committee on the
French Revolution; and
Wilton S. Dillon, sym-
posium director. In the
background is principal
adviser Walter A. Ro-
senblith, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

gathering focused on the meanings of health and illness
as affected by culture and gender; ‘‘Exploring Large
Questions in Small Places,” held on July 12, investi-
gated the relations between the broad and the particu-
lar in the context of acquiring and interpreting knowl-
edge in the sciences, social sciences, and humanities.
To further foster the generation and communication
of new ideas—OIS’s stock-in-trade—and to promote
integration among individuals and programmatic units
in a large and diverse organizational structure, OIS ini-
tiated two seminar series in the fall of r990. “Research
at the Smithsonian” is designed to expand exchange
among scholars in all Smithsonian research centers and
to explore research itself from a variety of disciplinary
perspectives. Another bimonthly series will address cul-
tural diversity—an often-heard term and a high Smith-
sonian priority that needs clarification and discussion.

Curriculum Materials

The office’s first educational video for high schools,
“Democracy and Rights: One Citizen’s Challenge,”
won several awards for its portrayal of an individual’s
struggle for the right to equal educational opportunity.
A second video titled “Citizen Stories” is in produc-
tion; it examines the reciprocal relationship of rights
and responsibilities in American democracy. Citizen
participation, responsibility, and service are illustrated
through four case studies of young Americans who
have taken the initiative to improve the well-being of
their communities. Produced jointly with the Close Up
Foundation, both videos have adapted scholarly materi-
als generated at OIS’s 1987 international symposium,
“Constitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities.”
On July 26, 1990, OIS convened a workshop at the
National Air and Space Museum to introduce science
educators to a variety of models for space science in-
struction and curricula in elementary and middle
schools. One model that was demonstrated, ‘“‘The Cul-
tures of the Imagination” (COTI jr.), has been tested in
several Fairfax County, Virginia, public schools. Jeffrey
Goldstein, an astrophysicist at the museum, spoke
about the scale of time and space in the universe and
gave the educators a range of concepts and methodolo-
gies for adopting space science in the classroom. Sixty
science teachers, curriculum specialists, and scientists
from the National Science Foundation, the National
Science Teachers Association, and the Smithsonian fo-
cused productively on the value of space science in mo-
tivating young people to study science and math.

Publications

A fundamental component of OIS’s function is to dis-
seminate the findings of its intellectual and scholarly in-
vestigations to a wide audience. The office’s programs
are the source of 15 books and several special issues of
journals to date. Published this year were Sharing Inno-
vation: Global Perspectives on Food, Agriculture, and
Rural Development, edited by Neil G. Kotler, and
Governing a Changing Society: Constitutionalism and
the Challenges of New Technology, edited by Robert S.
Peck. Man and Beast Revisited, edited by Michael H.
Robinson and Lionel Tiger, is in press; the manuscript
for Constitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities,
edited by A. E. Dick Howard, has been completed.
Contemporary Indian Tradition, edited by Carla M.
Borden of OIS, was copublished by Oxford University
Press in New Delhi and has been reviewed in many
journals and newspapers.

To propagate information not only on OIS’s activi-
ties but on interdisciplinary programs elsewhere at the
Institution and to spark curiosity about current ques-
tions facing scholars and administrators, OIS now is-
sues a newsletter twice a year.

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

A century ago this year, Samuel Pierpont Langley—
physicist, aeronautical pioneer, scientific visionary, and
the Institution’s third secretary —founded the Smithson-
ian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) for studies of
what he called “the new astronomy.” Langley’s pri-
mary interest was the Sun, but his persistent probing of
the complex interrelationship of solar and terrestrial
phenomena was the basis for modern astrophysics.

Today, the unusual observatory he established in a
modest wooden structure behind the Castle on the Na-
tional Mall has evolved into a multidisciplinary re-
search center headquartered in Cambridge, Massachu-
setts, and is internationally recognized as a leader in
astronomy, astrophysics, and the space sciences.

In partnership with the Harvard College Observa-
tory, SAO now forms the Center for Astrophysics,
which is organized by divisions representing the diverse
interests of its joint scientific staff: atomic and molecu-
lar physics, high-energy astrophysics, optical and in-
frared astronomy, planetary sciences, radio and geoas-
tronomy, solar and stellar physics, and theoretical
astrophysics. The Institute for Theoretical Atomic and
Molecular Physics, located at the center, annually hosts
some 50 visiting scientists and graduate students who
work and study with SAO staff members. The Central
Telegram Bureau and the Minor Planet Center operated
for the International Astronomical Union provide rapid
dissemination of astronomical discoveries for the entire
world. SAO also participates in Project STAR, a curric-
ulum development program designed to improve the
teaching of secondary school science and mathematics
through examples from astronomy. In addition to de-
veloping and testing educational materials, STAR holds
summer training institutes for secondary school teach-
ers.

Data-gathering facilities include the Fred Lawrence
Whipple Observatory in Arizona, site of the Multiple
Mirror Telescope operated jointly with the University
of Arizona; the Oak Ridge Observatory in Massachu-
setts; the George R. Agassiz Radio Astronomy Station
in Texas; and a millimeter-wave radio astronomy facil-
ity in Cambridge. SAO scientists also have access to
ground-based facilities elsewhere, and they conduct sat-
ellite, rocket, and balloon experiments.
Tradition, Continuity, and Imagination

Despite its extraordinary growth and diversification in
the past century, SAO remains faithful to Langley’s
original vision: to understand the physical processes
that determine the nature and evolution of the universe.
In fact, the eclectic and multifaceted Langley probably
would be delighted by the scope and variety of SAO’s
current research, as exemplified by the following se-
lected results from the past year.

The largest single coherent structure ever seen in na-
ture—a “great wall” of galaxies stretching more than a
half-billion light-years over space—was identified by
two SAO astronomers as part of their long-term project
to construct a three-dimensional map of the universe
based on galactic redshifts. (One of those researchers
was awarded a coveted John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation “genius grant” fellowship for
her contributions to this effort.)

Two other SAO scientists made the first astronomical
detection of submillimeter-wave radiation from “hot”
water masers in star-forming regions of our galaxy; the
temperature of this water vapor is nearly 2,000° K.
Made with the Caltech Submillimeter Observatory on
Mauna Kea in Hawaii, these observations of ‘thot’
water bode well for SAO’s proposed high-angular-reso-
lution investigations of star-forming regions.

Radar images of a small Earth-approaching asteroid
obtained by SAO scientists and colleagues at the Jet
Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, and the
Arecibo Observatory in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, show it
to be dumbbell-shaped, perhaps resulting from the col-
lision of two separate objects, each about one-half mile
long. The images, the first to provide direct evidence
for a strongly bifurcated distribution of mass in such
objects, were obtained with the 1,000-foot-diameter
radar telescope at Arecibo in 1989 when this asteroid
passed within 4 million miles of Earth.

A Delta rocket carrying Roentgensatellit (ROSAT), a
joint project of the Federal Republic of Germany, the
United Kingdom, and the United States, soared into
space at 5:48 p.M. EDT on June 1, 1990, from Cape
Canaveral, Florida. The largest X-ray telescope ever
flown, ROSAT is equipped with a High Resolution Im-
ager built by SAO to provide clear pictures of cosmic
X-ray sources. The ROSAT mission, which will last
more than 18 months, will first map the entire sky in

90

X-rays and then make a detailed study of selected ob-
jects. ROSAT’s sensitivity is several times greater than
that of the Einstein (HEAO-2z) Observatory launched in
1978 and designed in part by SAO scientists. Test im-
ages taken in early July, including one of the compact
binary source Cygnus X-2 and several supernova rem-
nants, proved letter-perfect. SAO also operates one of
two U.S. data analysis centers for ROSAT.

Using a special 10-meter-diameter Cherenkov light
detector at the Whipple Observatory, a team of SAO
astronomers conclusively identified the Crab Nebula as
the strongest source of cosmic gamma-rays. The detec-
tion thus establishes that object—a star that exploded
900 years ago—as a benchmark for pinpointing other
sources of the universe’s most energetic radiation.

The successful flight in June of a balloon-borne far-
infrared spectrometer made additional measurements of
the molecular constituents of the Earth’s upper atmo-
sphere. As part of a continuing effort to understand the
complex interaction between solar radiation and atmo-
spheric particles and its effect on global change, this re-
search represents a modern extension of one of Lan-
gley’s most cherished scientific goals.

Innovation, Invention, and Instrumentation

Among the many other institutional philosophies Lan-
gley established was a willingness to experiment with
new technologies and innovative procedures intended
to expand the frontiers of science. Langley himself
made ventures into manned flight and invented several
astronomical instruments, including the bolometer,
which made possible the first observations at infrared
wavelengths. A half-century later, another SAO direc-
tor, Fred Whipple, inspired the creation of two innova-
tive instruments: the Baker-Nunn camera, which pro-
vided optical tracking of early artificial satellites, and
the Multiple Mirror Telescope, which revolutionized
modern concepts of how to build large optical instru-
ments. In the past two decades, SAO scientists have
contributed to a host of new developments, including
electronic detectors, computer-based data processing
and analysis, X-ray space observatories, remote tele-
scopic operations, atomic clocks, tethered satellite sys-
tems, and balloon-borne telescopes, as well as advanced
laboratory techniques for simulating basic atomic and
molecular processes in space.

As SAO enters its second century, this spirit of inven-
tion, innovation, and imagination continues, with sevy-
eral major initiatives in the past year. A dozen SAO as-
tronomers were selected as guest observers to use the
Hubble Space Telescope (HST), the first in the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NA-
SA’s) series of “Great Observatories” planned for
launch during this decade. (When problems developed
with HST’s optics, NASA sought advice from SAO spe-
cialists on image improvement using computer-enhance-
ment techniques.) For the second project in this se-
ries—the Gamma-Ray Observatory (GRO) satellite—
SAO will coordinate ground-based observations in sup-
port of the space studies. The lead instrument in this
three-year international collaborative effort will be the
ro-meter gamma-ray telescope operated at SAO’s
Whipple Observatory.

This year, SAO was awarded a $26.7 million con-
tract from NASA to design and construct a High Reso-
lution Camera for the Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics
Facility (AXAF), now expected to be the third “Great
Observatory.” At the same time, SAO has embarked on
an ambitious program to create innovative telescopes
for ground-based use. For example, a 0.75-meter-diam-
eter Automated Photoelectric Telescope installed at the
Whipple Observatory took its “‘first light” on the eve-
ning of October 15-16, 1989, marking a milestone in
the development of robotic observatories. The small,
relatively inexpensive, and totally automatic telescope is
the prototype for similar instruments in SAO’s pro-
posed world network devoted to long-term monitoring
of cyclic celestial phenomena.

Also at the Whipple Observatory, plans for convert-
ing the six-element Multiple Mirror Telescope to an in-
strument with a single mirror 6.5 meters in diameter
continued. Engineering designs were completed and the
raw glass obtained in preparation for spin-casting this
giant primary mirror in 1991.

SAO’s major instrument for the future is the Submil-
limeter Wavelength Array, six submillimeter-wave tele-
scopes designed to make high-resolution observations
in the last band of the electromagnetic spectrum to be
explored from Earth. This wavelength is ideal for ob-
serving a host of “cool” objects, ranging from comets
to newborn stars, as well as for detecting nonthermal

The Fred L. Whipple Observatory, principal observing site of
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory, is located on Mt.
Hopkins, Arizona, 35 miles south of Tucson. This aerial view
to the north shows the Multiple Mirror Telescope at the
upper left center, atop the 8,500-foot-high summit; other ob-
serving facilities are arrayed along a ridge 1,000 feet below.
(Photograph courtesy of Whipple Observatory)

radiation from quasars. The potential for making unex-
pected discoveries and for gaining new insight into the
nature of the universe is immense.

Appropriately, the sensitive detectors being designed
for this array and intended to capture radiation in the
band lying between infrared light and radio waves are
direct descendants of the bolometer created by Samuel
Pierpont Langley at the time of SAO’s birth.

9gI
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Scientists at the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center (SERC) are on the cutting edge of studies con-
tributing to a better understanding of complex environ-
mental phenomena and problems, including many as-
pects of global environmental change. In Edgewater,
Maryland, on 2,600 acres bordering the Rhode River, a
tributary of the Chesapeake Bay, SERC researchers are
conducting long-term interdisciplinary studies in the
field and in the laboratory.

The center complements its research activities with
educational programs for students—from undergradu-
ates to postdoctoral fellows—and for the public.
Teacher- and docent-led tours acquaint the public with
the center’s mission and facilities. Hikes along the two-
mile Discovery Trail and center-organized canoe out-
ings on the tidal river introduce visitors to the wonders
and fragility of the coastal environment.

Through regular seminars, center researchers and
their counterparts from universities and governmental
laboratories keep each other abreast of work and issues
in areas of mutual interest. In addition, the center or-
ganizes and hosts scientific workshops on a variety of
topics.

The following examples of 1990 research activities
show how SERC studies help to unravel the complex
web of factors that influence the environment’s well-
being. Research is conducted by staff scientists, who
represent diverse disciplines, and by visiting scientists
and students.

Population Dynamics of Woodland Herbs

SERC scientists have been studying 34 populations of
the cranefly orchid for 13 years at the Smithsonian’s
Edgewater research site. During this time, the total
number of individual orchids has declined by 65 per-
cent. Most of this decline is the result of high mortality
in the larger populations; 12 of the original popula-
tions were completely lost. Through observations and
experiments, scientists learned that increases in deer or
rodent populations were responsible for decreases in
cranefly orchid populations.

9 2:

Declines in Migratory Birds

During the last 40 years, there have been well-docu-
mented severe decreases in the populations of many
woodland birds in eastern North America. Most of
these species are neotropical migrants that winter in the
tropics and inhabit the eastern forests only during the
breeding season. These species usually make up 65 to
85 percent of the individual breeding birds in these for-
ests. The population declines seem to be largely due to
forest fragmentation in both the breeding and the win-
tering grounds. In a few well-studied large, undisturbed
forest tracts, breeding bird populations have increased
significantly, but in the more common smaller forest
fragments, the populations have fallen dramatically. In
the breeding areas, this situation is attributed to the
preference of many species for a forest interior habitat.
These species do not nest or feed in forest edges.

Wintering migrant birds make up 40 to 50 percent of
the individual birds in Mexico, the Bahamas, and the
Greater Antilles. For some years, SERC scientists have
been studying the effects of forest disturbance in the
Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico on these wintering bird
populations. Forty-two species of migrants are regularly
found in the Yucatan. Most of these species prefer
tropical forest for their wintering habitat. Although
most species tend to avoid highly disturbed vegetation,
none are restricted to mature tropical forest. Newer
Mexican land use practices, such as mechanized row
cropping and large-scale cattle ranching, are harmful to
most species of migrants.

Forest Canopy Atmospheric Interactions

SERC is conducting global change research on the rates
of exchange of gases between hardwood deciduous for-
ests and the atmosphere. A 160-foot-high walk-up re-
search tower is used as an instrument platform. The va-
lidity and generality of the research findings depend on
a detailed understanding of the forest surrounding the
instrument tower. The forest stand originated from for-
est regrowth on farmlands abandoned in the early
1800s. SERC scientists mapped, measured, and identi-
fied the trees within a 5,000-square-meter area around
the tower. The stand is dominated by tulip poplar but
includes 17 species of trees. Scientists characterized the
canopy with respect to leaf area, mass, and number for
each of these species. Intensive studies already under
way are investigating the entire adjacent forest area and
its effects on the meteorological mixing rates between
the forest and the atmosphere.

Greenhouse Effects on Tidal Marshes

SERC research on the effects of increasing concentra-
tions of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere on brackish
tidal marsh plant communities was extended this year.
Experimental chambers have been enriched continu-
ously with carbon dioxide for three growing seasons.
Data from these enriched chambers are compared with
control chambers and with control plots outside the
chambers. The results help SERC scientists predict the
effects of rising levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide,
which cause the ‘“‘greenhouse effect.”

Previous results included large positive effects on
above-ground growth, increased water-use efficiency,
increased photosynthetic rates, and delayed dormancy
in the fall. New results focus on below-ground effects.
The biomass of tidal marsh plants is located predomi-
nantly in below-ground organs such as roots, rhizomes,
and tubers. Elevated carbon dioxide caused an 83 per-
cent increase in root mass in a sedge community. These
roots also contained less nitrogen. However, elevated
carbon dioxide had no effect on root mass or nitrogen
content for a grass species, Spartina patens. Thus, the
effects of elevated carbon dioxide are species specific.
The large below-ground effects reinforce the signifi-
cance of the previous above-ground findings. These
plant communities will increase their mass and help re-
duce atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide as
the atmospheric gas composition changes.

Dynamics of Cattails in a Chesapeake Bay Marsh

The narrow-leaved cattail, Typha angustifolia, occurs
widely in the lower-salinity tidal marshes of the Chesa-
peake. SERC has conducted a long-term study of the
effects of seasonal and interannual variations of salinity
on the growth and resource allocation of this species.
In a typical year, watershed discharges peak in late
winter and spring, flushing most of the salt from these

habitats. Then tidal action gradually increases the salin-
ity during the summer and fall, placing physiological
stress on the plants. During drought years or series of
drought years, as in much of the 1980s, the salinity in-
creases earlier and reaches higher maximum levels.
During years of high salinity, flowering was reduced
tenfold, shoot density by 50 percent, shoot height by
30 percent, and overall above-ground mass threefold.
Roots and rhizomes were also restricted to shallower
depths in high-salinity conditions.

In a field experiment, plots of cattail were manipu-
lated to measure the effects of nutrient fertilization and
recycling by litter decomposition. Peak above-ground
plant mass was increased by nitrogen and phosphorus
fertilization except in years of high salinity. Nutrient
addition also increased flowering and increased the ni-
trogen and phosphorus content of the plant tissues.
However, nutrient addition also resulted in higher in-
festations by shoot-boring moth larvae. Manipulations
of the litter amount seemed to have effects attributable
to the physical structure of the litter rather than its nu-
trient content. The decomposing litter takes up nu-
trients. Thus, those plots with increased litter removed
more nutrients from the tidal water, but the nutrient
content of the soils was unaffected.

Ultrasonic Telemetry of Blue Crab Ecology

SERC has been a pioneer in the development of under-
water biotelemetry and its application in studies of the
blue crab in the Chesapeake Bay. Since the bay is usu-
ally very turbid, free-ranging crab behavior is difficult
to observe, even by scuba divers. A small, lightweight
ultrasonic transmitter was developed that can operate
on one set of batteries for up to eight weeks. The trans-
mitter emits regularly recurring short pulses of sound
for tracking and long pulses when triggered by crab ac-
tivity. In some cases, the transmitters were triggered by
the action potentials of crabs’ jaw muscles. These mus-
cles are used only when the crab is eating, so these sig-
nals, monitored on hydrophones, can be used to mea-
sure the number of bites needed to consume a food
item. Number of bites and length of feeding time are
both correlated with the size of the prey specimen. In
one study, a crab was tracked continuously for 96
hours. It traveled more than 2 miles at an average
speed of 38 feet per hour but showed periods of rapid
movement of up to 1,000 feet per hour. The crab fed 2
to 7 times per day, with feeding bouts consisting of 15
to 2,750 bites. No evidence was found for diurnal or
tidal feeding cycles.

Telemetry was also used to measure crab habitat
preference for molting. All crabs studied selected very
shallow marsh-lined tidal creek banks for molting.

94

Smithsonian Institution Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) accessions,
preserves, and provides research service on permanently
useful official records of the Institution. The Archives
collects personal records of Smithsonian scholars, rec-
ords of professional societies associated with the Smith-
sonian Institution, and audio and video recorded inter-
views with principal figures in the history and
development of the Institution. The Archives staff pro-
vides professional outreach services to archives in
Smithsonian offices and bureaus and to museum archi-
vists throughout the United States.

Highlights of the Year

During the past year, the Archives accessioned about
700 cubic feet of records and other historical materials,
bringing the total holdings to 16,000 cubic feet. Signifi-
cant accessions included Hornblower and Marshall
drawings for the Natural History Building and a set of
competition drawings, including winning entries by
Eliel and Eero Saarinen, for the Smithsonian Gallery of
Art. The Oral History Collection now totals nearly 380
hours of tape recordings and 5,800 pages of transcript.
Both audio and video interviewing concentrated on
Smithsonian work in conservation of endangered spe-
cies and the history of the National Zoological Park
and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

The records center resumed full-scale operation after
a three-year hiatus due to lack of space. More than 300
cubic feet of inactive records were received into the
center pending disposal, while close to 300 cubic feet
of records were destroyed according to authorized
schedules.

In May 1990, a committee of archivists and histori-
ans from outside the Institution, appointed and charged
by the assistant secretary for research, reviewed the op-
erations of the Smithsonian Archives. The committee
found the mission and the archival planning program
to be sound and urged their more systematic implemen-
tation. Not surprisingly, the committee found the Ar-
chives’ mission and objectives ambitious beyond avail-
able resources.

Other accomplishments during the year included the
development of a formal records disposition plan for
the Archives of American Art and a records survey of
the Museum of the American Indian in New York. The
U.S. Department of Agriculture entomologist Eugene Aman-
dus Schwarz, ca. 1915, empties a bag of insects onto a table
for study at Plummer’s Island, Maryland. This photograph
was part of a collection of photographs of entomologists pro-
cessed by the Archives this year.

Archives published a Guide to the Papers of Alexander
Wetmore, sixth secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, written by William E. Cox, and volume 1 (Na-
tional Museum of American History) of Guide to Pho-
tographic Collections at the Smithsonian, by Diane L.
Vogt-O’Connor and the staff of the photographic col-
lections survey project. Preservation and conservation
activities included the conservation of 90 historic draw-
ings of Smithsonian buildings and the photographic du-
plication onto mylar and retirement to the Archives of
another 200 architectural drawings; the copying onto

safety film of 2,000 nitrate negatives; and a survey of
oversized materials that revealed some 38,000 items al-
ready in the Archives in need of preservation or conser-
vation treatment.

Projects

The Smithsonian Videohistory Program, in its fourth
year of experimental work under a grant from the
Sloan Foundation, continued to support research work
of Smithsonian historians. Projects included black avia-
tion pioneers, robotics, the Manhattan Project, astro-
nomical satellites, medical technology, the RAND Cor-
poration, Soviet space medicine, chronometer
manufacturing, and the technology of modern infantry
weapons.

The photographic collections survey project sent vol-
ume 2, a guide to photographic collections in science
bureaus, to press for publication next year and contin-
ued work on volume 3, devoted to art museums.

William A. Deiss provided archival support to the
National Zoological Park for the centennial celebration
in the fall of 1989. Alan L. Bain assumed responsibility
for publishing and distributing Museum Archivist, the
newsletter of the Museum Archives Section of the Soci-
ety of American Archivists. Diane L. Vogt-O’Connor
continued work with Richard Pearce-Moses of Arizona
State University on a thesaurus of photographic termi-
nology and wrote an introductory chapter to Images of
America, a volume of photographs and text tracing the
history of American photography published by Smith-
sonian Institution Press. Pamela M. Henson completed
and successfully defended a doctoral dissertation on the
work and influence of entomologist John Henry Com-
stock.

Research and Publications

Publications based in part on research in the Smithson-
ian Archives included Stephen Jay Gould’s Wonderful
Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History
(New York and London: W. W. Norton, 1989); an ar-
ticle by Ellis L. Yochelson of the U.S. Geological Sur-
vey titled “Geological Time as Calculated by C. D.
Walcott,” in Earth Sciences History 8, no. 2
(1989):150—58; and three articles by Edward F. Rivi-
nus on Spencer Fullerton Baird in scholarly publica-
tions. Pertinent doctoral dissertations published in-
cluded Debra J. Lindsay’s “Science in the Sub-Arctic:
Traders, Trappers, and the Smithsonian, 1859-1870,”
University of Manitoba, 1989; and Margaret D. Cham-
plin’s “Raphael Pumpelly and American Geology in the
Gilded Age,” University of California, Los Angeles,
1989.

The Archives Research in Progress lecture series con-
tinued with talks that included “Building a Research
Center in Tropical America: The Origins of the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute,” by Joel B. Hagen
of Radford University; “Ferdinand V. Hayden, Geolo-
gist-in-Charge,” by James Cassidy, a doctoral candidate
at the University of Pennsylvania; and “The Origins of
the Technology Collection in the National Museum:
George Colton Maynard, 1896-1918,” by Richard
Loomis, consultant in the Division of Electricity, Na-
tional Museum of American History.

Archives Council

The Smithsonian Archives and Special Collections
Council issued a manual of standards for archival ma-
terials and storage conditions, an office memorandum
on the use of permanent paper for official Smithsonian
records, and an office memorandum on management of
archives and special document collections of the Smith-
sonian Institution. The council represents a score of ar-
chives and documentation units that hold more than
54,000 cubic feet of textual material, close to 5 million
still photo images, nearly a billion running feet of mo-
tion picture film, almost 100,000 sound recordings,
and some 6,000 video recordings. Although adminis-
tered by different bureaus, together the units require
staffing in excess of 130 positions and funding of
nearly $6 million per year in operating costs. These
units range in size from some so small they have only
one staff member to a Smithsonian bureau (the Ar-
chives of American Art). They perform vital research
support functions by acquiring, preserving, and provid-
ing a rich social historical context of original documen-
tation that is primary evidence for better understanding
the significance of the national collections of scientific
specimens, technological artifacts, and objects of art.

96

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) builds
bridges to the future and to the past, offering its users
technologically advanced information services as well
as innovative programs ensuring that the Libraries’
irreplaceable collections will not be lost. Accomplish-
ments in both areas marked this fiscal year.

Moving toward the future, 12 locations in the
branch library system received improved access to the
library catalogue in SIBIS, the Smithsonian Institution
Bibliographic Information System data base. Users and
staff in the branch libraries who had unreliable “dial-
up” access now have assured dedicated telecommunica-
tions linkages to the on-line catalogue. The Libraries
uses SIBIS for acquisitions, cataloguing, and increas-
ingly for circulation and inventory control. This year,
four more branch libraries automated their circulation
records—the National Air and Space Museum, the An-
thropology Library of the National Museum of Natural
History, the Museum Reference Center, and the Office
of Horticulture—bringing to eight the number of loca-
tions now using the automated circulation system. Au-
tomated circulation greatly facilitates the tracking and
location of items in the collections. Approximately
20,000 new items were added to the SIBIS data base
this fiscal year. SIL’s staff uses computer-supported sys-
tems for most internal library operations and for re-
source sharing and communication with other libraries.
To answer user inquiries, Central Reference Branch
staff conducted more than 600 on-line searches of re-
mote data bases.

Preserving the past, SIL received special funding to
establish a Brittle Books Program to rescue the endan-
gered one-third of the Libraries’ collections that other-
wise would crumble and literally turn to dust. Materi-
als heavily used by researchers and published after
1860, when wood pulp and acidic chemicals were in-
troduced in paper manufacture, will be lost from the
collection unless their contents are preserved. Under the
Brittle Books Program, SIL staff will begin the labor-in-
tensive process of reviewing and selecting deteriorated
materials and then restoring them or replacing them
with reprints, microfilm, or photocopies. These ambi-
tious efforts began this year with the hiring of preserva-
tion staff and the construction of work space to consol-
idate all preservation-related units, including the
commercial binding and preparation section and the
Book Conservation Laboratory.
asi \| : :
ene A eae!
" \ }

In another major preservation project—now nearly
completed—a commercial publisher microfilmed more
than 1,500 deteriorating publications in the SIL collec-
tions that relate to the international expositions and
fairs held between 1834 and 1915. Three of the four
units of microfilm in the Books of the Fairs project are
now available for purchase by libraries and scholars,
and SIL staff continued work on an illustrated guide to
the SIL collection of books on fairs.

Reference Services for Library Users

SIL strengthened its support of the Institution’s re-
search programs with the addition to the staff of Bon-
ita Perry as assistant director, Research Services Divi-
sion. SIL hired two new chief librarians this year as
well: Vielka Chang-Yau at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (STRI) branch library and Kim Kel-

lett W. Lewis (seated)
books to the Office of

brary, accepted by

Libraries Director Dr.

right). (Photograph by
Rick Vargas)

ley at the Museum Support Center branch library. Syl-
via Churgin was appointed chief librarian of the Mu-
seum Reference Center upon her return from four and
a half years of service as chief librarian at the STRI
branch.

SIL’s services to library users in the Institution’s mu-
seums, research facilities, and offices include direct
daily support in 14 branch libraries. While most are on
or near the National Mall, SIL has branch libraries in
New York City, on Chesapeake Bav, in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and in the Republic of Panama. In Pan-
ama at the STRI branch library, despite dangerous dis-
ruptions to civil order and a U.S. military invasion, SIL
staff dispensed professional services as usual. Tina Les-
nik, detailed from her position as chief of Acquisitions
Services at SIL in Washington, was acting librarian for
six months until the new chief librarian arrived. The li-
brary provided quality services to 8,470 users, estab-
lished a Library Advisory Committee, continued work

On June 13, 1990, do-
nors Mr. and Mrs. Hew-

presented a collection of
Horticulture Branch Li-

Branch Chief Susan Gur-
ney, Reference Librarian
Marca Woodhams, and
Smithsonain Institution

Barbara J. Smith (left to
on the Panama Bibliography, and hosted a visit from
Guillermo Endara, president of Panama. As members
of a committee for the reconstruction of Panama, STRI
branch library staff are addressing issues of the legal
deposit of Panamanian publications and the conserva-
tion and dissemination of national literature.

The National Museum of Natural History’s Anthro-
pology Library merged its collections from the Bureau
of American Ethnology and the Smithsonian Office of
Anthropology, shifting 17,255 linear feet of books and
relabeling 21,224 volumes. The collection is remarkable
for its early studies of Native Americans, particularly
their languages. SIL staff in nine branch libraries pre-
pared and distributed new-title lists and bibliographies
to Institution staff, the public, and libraries in the
United States and abroad. Bibliography topics ranged
from “AIDS Information” to “Xeriscaping,” the use of
drought-tolerant plants and landscaping techniques that
conserve water. Staff of the 14 branches answered
61,000 reference questions, borrowed 9,500 books or
articles from outside libraries, and loaned 4,800 items
to outside libraries. The number of items circulated
both inside and outside the system was 48,400.

Notable activities in branch libraries this year in-
cluded the establishment of a rare book room for the
mollusk literature and completion of the renovation of
the Entomology Library at the National Museum of
Natural History. A new storage area with compact
shelving was constructed for portions of the National
Museum of American History branch library’s collec-
tion, including its unique collection of trade catalogues.
The Libraries’ planning officer has served on the com-
mittee designing the master plan for the Institution’s
Collections Research Center in Suitland, Maryland, is
working with the National Museum of Natural History
administration to design a rare book library, and 1s as-
sisting the National Museum of American History ad-
ministration with plans for the eventual renovation of
that museum’s branch library.

Collections Management

For several years, SIL has been struggling to meet the
rising cost of journals and books, which continues to
increase much more rapidly than most other consumer

prices. Between 1987 and 1989, academic book prices

98

rose by as much as 30 percent in such subjects as zool-
ogy and history. Subscriptions to foreign journals,
which make up about half of SIL’s purchased journal
collections, will increase by an average of 20 percent in
1991, and subscriptions to U.S. journals will rise by 9
to 12 percent. The Libraries has reviewed its entire list
for possible cancellations and placed a moratorium on
adding new journal titles. Postal rate increases, the con-
tinuing weakness of the dollar, and political changes in
Europe all contribute to the problem.

Special Collections was transferred to the Collections
Management Division this year, and Chief Librarian
Ellen B. Wells assumed the additional responsibility for
managing the Libraries’ ongoing exhibition program
and its new exhibition gallery in the National Museum
of American History. SIL’s Book Conservation Labora-
tory monitors the SIL exhibit sites for environmental
soundness, and its staff ensures that materials can be
safely exhibited. The laboratory staff also repairs and
maintains the rare and valuable collections of the Li-
braries, monitors book storage areas for environmental
stability, and salvages materials damaged by water,
mold, and insect infestation.

Gifts and Major Acquisitions

In December 1989, SIL received a gift of 186 volumes
of books and journals, some trade catalogues, and busi-
ness files on horticulture from the nursery firm of
Lewis and Valentine of Long Island, New York. The
firm’s former owner, Hewlett W. Lewis, generously do-
nated this collection, which is distinguished by its
books on Japanese gardens and practical horticultural
topics. Other donors presented the Office of Horticul-
ture branch library with four nineteenth-century trade
catalogues; one titled Maples of Japan, with color illus-
trations, is of great research value. The branch library
at the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design was
awarded $4,000 by the Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates to purchase volume 3 of Le
Garde Meuble, completing this rare set of nineteenth-
century French furniture and drapery designs.

The David Dibner Fund made possible a major pur-
chase for SIL Special Collections, John Collins’s Com-
mercium epistolicum d. Johannis Collins: et aliorum de
analysi promota jussa Societatis Regiae in lucum edi-
tum (London, 1712), an important document in the
Newton-Leibnitz controversy over the discovery of the
infinitesimal methods of calculus. The purchase adds to
the extensive collection of Isaac Newton materials,
most of which were collected by Dibner’s father, the
late Dr. Bern Dibner, and donated to the Institution in
1974 by the Burndy Corporation. James Ross presented
the National Museum of African Art branch library
with Charles Ratton’s Masques africains (Paris, 1931),
a rare portfolio of plates of African masks.

SIL acquires most of its materials through purchase
and through an active gift and exchange program with
more than 3,900 partners worldwide. In 1990, the Li-
braries purchased the Robert D. Mussey, Jr., collection
on varnishes and furniture finishes, 70 items ranging in
date from 1702 to 1930. The collection, which will
support the research and work of furniture conserva-
tors, includes many standard nineteenth- and twentieth-
century works as well as some rare titles. Also this
year, the Smithsonian Regents’ Collections Acquisitions
Fund supported the purchase of a large portion of a
56,500-item trade catalogue collection once held by the
Franklin Institute. The catalogues range in date from
the mid-nineteenth to the mid-twentieth centuries and
cover a full range of developments in American manu-
facturing, agriculture, and technology. SIL’s Special
Collections purchased Levinus Vincent’s Elenchus tabu-
larum, pinacothecarum, atque nonnullorum cineiorum,
in gazophylacio Levini Vincent (1719). A description of
the author’s private museum with illustrations showing
rooms, cabinets, and the layout of specimens in the
drawers, it is one of the most beautifully illustrated
museum books ever published.

Library Automation

As SIL staff enter bibliographic records into the Librar-
ies’ own on-line catalogue, they simultaneously enter
them into a national bibliographic utility, the On-line
Computer Library Center (OCLC). Some 10,000 librar-
ies are members of OCLC, and all contributing mem-
bers share the 20 million records for purposes of cata-
loguing, reference, and interlibrary loan. This year, a
project to catalogue the journals and other periodic
publications at the STRI branch library was completed,
and work continued on a bibliography of scientific

publications on Panama. SIL staff began entering rec-
ords into OCLC for the Libraries’ world-class collec-
tion of trade catalogues, now numbering an estimated
234,500 items. Staff of the Original Cataloging and
Automated Bibliographic Control units have begun to
design cataloguing procedures for maps and for the
Brittle Books Program and to provide early notice on
OCLC of titles being microfilmed.

Staff also worked on a study to track materials
through the system from the time of request through
receipt, labeling, and return from a bindery, to locate
the materials needed by researchers more efficiently.
Cataloguing of rare materials in botany, invertebrate
zoology, furniture and design, and the history of tech-
nology was completed. SIL cataloguers have consulted
by invitation with other Smithsonian bureaus about
methods of bringing materials under bibliographic con-
trol. A task force reviewed and prepared a detailed re-
port on SIBIS, now in its sixth year of operation, ana-
lyzing its capabilities with respect to the anticipated
needs of the Libraries and its users and in relation to
state-of-the-art systems available to research libraries.

In April, Ellen B. Wells, Smithsonian Institution Libraries spe-
cial collections chief librarian and exhibition officer, delivered
a public lecture titled ““Black Beauty: From Humane Tract to
Children’s Classic” for the American Library Association Na-
tional Library Week “Night of a Thousand Stars.” (Photo-
graph by Melissa Johnson)

hy)
Public Programs

SIL serves the wider scholarly community and the pub-
lic through outreach programs that include publica-
tions, lectures, and exhibitions. The SIL exhibition
“Science and the French Revolutionaries” was part of
the Smithsonian’s roth international symposium, “Les
Droits de Homme and Scientific Progress.” The guest
curator was Jack R. Censer of George Mason Univer-
sity. SIL cosponsored Censer’s public lecture, “Jean
Paul Marat,” with the Women’s National Book Associ-
ation (Washington chapter) and the District of Colum-
bia Library Association. In April, SIL participated in
the American Library Association’s National Library
Week celebration, “Night of a Thousand Stars,” by
presenting “Black Beauty: From Humane Tract to
Children’s Classic,’ a lecture delivered by SIL librarian
Ellen B. Wells, coauthor of the recently published and
well-received The Annotated Black Beauty. From No-
vember 1989 to July 1990, SIL exhibited artifacts re-
lated to “Library Preservation: Problems and Solu-
tions,” featuring examples of brittle books,
environmental damage, and alternate formats such as
microfilm and videodisc. In September, Carol J. Barton
gave an illustrated talk titled “Playful Readings: A His-
tory of Children’s Movable Books,” SIL’s public lecture
for the Washington Collegium for the Humanities lec-
ture series ‘““The World of the Child.” At that time, SIL
mounted an exhibition, “Magical Pages,”’ from its col-
lection of pop-up books in the branch library at the
Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design. The Li-
braries published Alchemical Death and Resurrection:
The Significance of Alchemy in the Age of Newton, by
B. J. T. Dobbs of Northwestern University, an illus-
trated lecture based on an Isaac Newton manuscript in
the collections and delivered for the 1988 Washington
Collegium for the Humanities lecture series titled
“Death and the Afterlife in Art and Literature.”

With funding from the Smithsonian Foreign Cur-
rency Program, SIL administers a translation program;
262 titles have already been published, and 30 more
are in various stages of production. This year’s publica-
tions were Blood-Sucking Mosquitoes of the Sub-Tribe
Culisetina and The Role of Scent Glands in Pollination.
The Smithsonian International Exchange Service assists
nonprofit institutions in the United States in the distri-
bution of preaddressed educational and research publi-

IO0O

cations to interested foreign institutions, many in devel-
oping countries. The service mailed more than 43,200
packages in 1990.

Libraries Staff

Libraries staff participated in a variety of professional
activities this year, presenting papers and talks at meet-
ings and symposia here and abroad, serving as officers
and chairing committees of professional organizations,
editing and contributing to publications, and planning
for the second White House Conference on Libraries
and Information Science scheduled for 1991. This year,
SIL staff published three books, three articles, one re-
port, and seven reviews in professional journals.
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute

In the presence of Secretary Adams, members of the
Board of Regents, and President Guillermo Endara of
Panama, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(STRI) dedicated its new Earl Silas Tupper Research
and Conference Center in Panama City in March. The
center, with modern offices and state-of-the-art labora-
tories, represents a major addition to STRI facilities.
The following day, STRI inaugurated new housing and
a dining room and conference hall on Barro Colorado
Island. Also this year, a new Center for Paleoecology
was established with the support of the Andrew Mellon
Foundation to improve our understanding of past an-
thropogenic and natural changes in order to set the dy-
namics of global climatic change in clearer perspective.

These highlights of the year at STRI underline the
importance of the institute’s mission: to study tropical
organisms and communities and their role in the biol-
ogy of the planet; to train students in tropical research;
to increase public awareness of the beauty and impor-
tance of tropical nature before it is destroyed; and to
promote the conservation of tropical habitats.

STRI offers unparalleled opportunities for tropical
biologists. The institute administers the Barro Colorado
Nature Monument, where students can draw on 70
years of intense research. The monument includes
Barro Colorado Island—3,700 acres of tropical forest
declared a reserve in 1923—and nearly 10,000 acres of
surrounding mainland forest protected since 1979.
STRIs location on the Isthmus of Panama gives scien-
tists access to two oceans with very different biologies
only 50 miles apart, separated 3 million years ago by
the isthmus, thereby creating a superb “natural experi-
ment” in evolution.

To advance tropical research, STRI maintains a sci-
entific staff of 27, provides financial support for pre-
doctoral and postdoctoral students, and offers living
and working facilities for resident staff and visiting re-
searchers. These facilities include marine laboratories
on both coasts with equipment for studies in molecular
evolution; a field station in the San Blas Islands off
Panama’s coast; a well-equipped field station on Barro
Colorado Island; and a campuslike facility in Panama
City consisting of the new Tupper Research and Con-
ference Center, a library, and offices.

The events of late 1989 were a reminder of the risks
that can threaten STRI’s research efforts. On December
20 at 1 A.M., the United States sent troops into Pan-

ama. During the ensuing disorder, the entire population
of the San Blas marine station, including a four-year-
old girl, was taken hostage; they were released un-
harmed 30 hours later. STRI installations were not
damaged during the invasion, and no STRI personnel
were hurt, although some property was lost. STRI was
fortunate to escape so lightly both in December and
during the preceding two and a half difficult years. The
apolitical nature of the Smithsonian’s mission has en-
abled it to enjoy Panama’s goodwill and cooperation
for more than four decades.

Research highlights from the past year exemplify the
important work in which STRI scientists are engaged.

Distinguishing the Organisms

The most basic step toward understanding the natural
world is to learn what organisms inhabit it. D. Ross
Robertson of the STRI staff and Gerald Allen of the
West Australia Museum are preparing a guide to the
fishes of the eastern Pacific from Mexico to the Gala-
pagos. To date, they have photographed live or freshly
dead specimens of 550 among the 750 species.

Are the species described by taxonomists actually the
interbreeding populations envisaged by evolutionary bi-
ologists? Nancy Knowlton of the STRI staff has been
studying the molecular genetics and incidence of mu-
tual aggression in Montastrea annularis, the best-stud-
ied coral in the Caribbean. She has shown that what
were thought to be environmental variants of this one
species are actually distinct species. Interbreeding ex-
periments on shrimps belonging to the diverse genus
Alpheus involving populations that supposedly belong
to the same species show that these species, too, are
not what they seem. In all three “species” studied, Car-
ibbean and Pacific populations are reproductively iso-
lated; in two of these three species, coexisting Carib-
bean color morphs are also reproductively isolated.

Jeremy B. C. Jackson of the STRI staff and Alan
Cheetham of the National Museum of Natural History
are extending their genetic studies of bryozoan popula-
tions over a wider geographic range to confirm their
finding that, among one group of bryozoans, the spe-
cies described by morphologists are true biological spe-
cies. If their finding is correct, then the fossil record’s
testimony is accurate concerning speciation, extinction,

IOI
and changes of diversity in this group of bryozoans.

Noris Salazar, who joined the STRI staff this year, is
completing a study of the flora of the bryophytes of
Barro Colorado Island, and thereby paving the way for
the first ecological studies of this important group.

What Organisms Do

Kaoru Kitajima, a STRI predoctoral fellow from the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, has just
completed a study of how plants of different species al-
locate seed resources among height growth, leafmaking,
and energy storage as seedlings germinate and become
established. Seedlings from large seeds are more likely
to use their seed-leaves primarily as storage organs,
which enable these seedlings to survive in the shade
until a tree overhead dies and allows abundant light to
reach them. Some large-seeded species, however, use

their seed reserves to produce fast-growing seedlings
designed to grow above their competition in well-lit
gaps.

To address the question of how fast butterflies fly,
Robert Srygley of the University of Texas and Robert
Dudley, a STRI three-year postdoctoral fellow, have
measured flight speeds in the wild for more than roo
butterflies representing 25 species. They followed each
butterfly over Gatun Lake in a motorboat, measuring
the insect’s air speed with an anemometer. After cap-
turing the butterfly and taking its temperature, they as-
sessed thermoregulation from the way body tempera-
ture depends on flight speed and weather conditions.
Butterflies that birds find tastier fly faster. Some of
these butterflies were migratory; their measurements
will help in estimating the energetic costs of migration.
Dudley has also visited Wau, New Guinea, to study the
flight mechanics of birdwings, the largest butterflies in
the world.

Children from the El Chorillo ref-
ugee camp examine a live sea ur-
chin during their visit to the Naos
Marine Laboratories. The Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute
organized an educational program
for nine groups of children whose
homes were destroyed during the
December invasion. (Photograph
by Marcos Guerra)
This year, Alan Smith of the STRI staff finished a
nine-year study of understory rosette herbs of the gen-
era Calathea and Pleiostachya on Barro Colorado Is-
land. Both must be lit by gaps in the canopy overhead
in order to reproduce. In deep shade, Pleiostachya dies
more quickly, but it leaves dormant seeds in the soil
that sprout when light becomes available. In the shade,
Calathea plants shrink, but they usually survive until a
new gap opens overhead. They depend more on vegeta-
tive reproduction than on seeds.

To find out how a plant’s physiology changes as it
grows from a seedling to a canopy species, Alan Smith
is seeking access, with the help of a tower crane, to the
crowns of several tree species. During the year, he
began a trial run with a rented crane in Panama City’s
Metropolitan Nature Park. Since most of the exchange
of gases between the forest and the atmosphere takes
place in the forest canopy, access to the canopy via the
tower crane may greatly expand scientists’ understand-
ing of tropical forests.

Interdependence

The role of insects in tropical forests is one of the least-
explored frontiers in tropical biology. Plants in tropical
forests depend on pollinators in order to outbreed;
wind is too indiscriminate a vector. An important ques-
tion is how much it costs the plants to maintain their
pollinators. Bees are among the principal plant pollina-
tors. David Roubik of the STRI staff finds that Barro
Colorado Island has 200 to 300 species of bees. The is-
land averages six nests totaling 145,000 highly social
bees and their brood and 75,000 solitary bees and their
brood per hectare (a hectare is about 2.5 acres). Plant
resins are used for nest building. The energy of nectar
and pollen and of plant resins used by bees on a hec-
tare amounts to one-third or one-half of the energy a
forest loses to leaf-eaters and 4 percent of the energy
content of a forest’s leaf production. Roubik’s research
has yielded one of the first estimates of the numbers
and the energy consumption of a guild of tropical in-
sects.

Pierre-Michel Forget, a STRI postdoctoral fellow, is
studying the role of agoutis, eight-pound rodents re-
sembling the miniature forest antelopes of West Africa,
in tree reproduction. Agoutis bury seeds, “scatterhoard-

ing” them over their territories against future food
shortage. The probability that a seed of wild nutmeg,
Virola surinamensis, survives to become a six-week-old
seedling increases 44-fold if a toucan or a monkey dis-
perses it well away from the parent tree. Forget finds,
however, that weevils destroy the dispersed seeds that
agoutis do not bury. Virola seeds are dispersed when
fruit is abundant, a time when agoutis need not venture
far from the centers of their territories. Thus the Virola
seeds that are dispersed to the center of an agouti’s ter-
ritory are much more likely to be buried and to become
established seedlings. Similarly, seeds of the canopy tree
Dipteryx panamensis apparently must be both dis-
persed by bats and buried by agoutis in order to be-
come established seedlings. Dipteryx seeds, however,
fall near the end of the season of fruit shortage, when
agoutis, which relish them, are searching everywhere
for food. The Dipteryx seeds that are most likely to
succeed are those that fall latest and are buried at the
edge of an agouti territory whose interior holds other
kinds of trees that are beginning to drop desirable fruit.
Thus agoutis may enforce a habitat segregation be-
tween Dipteryx and Virola seedlings by favoring Virola
at the centers and Dipteryx at the edges of their territo-
ries.

Forest Dynamics and Tree Diversity

To find out why there are so many kinds of tropical
trees and what factors influence forest diversity, Ste-
phen P. Hubbell, now of Princeton University, and
STRI scientist Robin Foster arranged for the mapping
and tagging between 1980 and 1982 of every stem one
centimeter or more in diameter at breast height (DBH)
on a 125-acre plot of old forest on Barro Colorado Is-
land. In 1985, the plot was recensused, new stems were
mapped, and growth and mortality recorded in old
ones; this census recorded the abnormally high mortal-
ity imposed by the El Nino dry season of 1985. Foster
is currently supervising the third census, which may re-
veal the dynamics of Barro Colorado’s forest under less
extreme climatic conditions.

In Peru’s Parque Nacional Manu, Foster has been as-
sessing how seed dispersal may contribute to plant di-
versity. How do plants with “explosively dispersed”
seeds—seeds that are flung into the air when their cap-

103
sule bursts open and that do not travel far—compare
in their contribution to forest diversity with plants
whose seeds are dispersed by animals or wind and that
usually travel much further? Foster censused several
sites, each consisting of roo stems over I centimeter
DBH, on dry slopes of hills or old terraces near the
Manu River. On the average, 50 of the roo stems, rep-
resenting 11 species, were plants that disperse their
seeds explosively. The remaining 50 stems, representing
44 species, were plants that disperse their seeds by
other means.

In Manu Park, explosively dispersed species are con-
centrated in three families: Rutaceae (citrus), Euphorbi-
aceae (spurge), and Violaceae (violet). These three fami-
lies dominate the forest understory on dry ridges but
are also abundant on old landslides and alluvial fans,
as if their seeds were lying dormant in the soil when it
moved down from the ridges. This situation may sug-
gest that plants living on such poor soils may use
chemical defenses more than dispersal to escape from
herbivores.

Sexual Selection

Darwin thought that speciation often reflects the acci-
dental divergence of sexual selection in isolated popula-
tions, causing members of each population not to rec-
ognize the others’ members as suitable mates. The
criteria by which females prefer some males over others
as mates—which differ in different populations—play
an essential role in driving sexual selection.

How do females choose their mates? Do their criteria
favor “‘better” males? Calls of the Panamanian frog,
Physalaemus pustulosus, include a “whine” and, if
other males are calling, one or more “chucks,”’ which
enhance the calls’ attractiveness to females. With Wal-
ter Wilzynski of the University of Texas, Stanley Rand
of the STRI staff is trying to discover what aspects of
the whine are needed to attract females. Synthesized
calls omitting the first, middle, or last third of the
whine are as attractive to females as “whole” whines.

In Ecuador, the calls of Physalaemus coloradorum
males lack chucks. Reversing an earlier conclusion,
Rand and Michael Ryan of the University of Texas
have discovered that synthesized calls with pustulosus
chucks adjoined to coloradorum whines attract colora-

104

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute scientist Dr. John
Christy uses a video camera to track mating behavior of fid-
dler crabs. His assistant Todd Underwood uses a blow gun to
mark each burrow the receptive female enters while collabo-
rator Dr. Ursula Shober makes observations. (Photograph by
Carl Hansen)

dorum females more effectively than normal colorado-
rum whines.

STRI biologist John Christy has been studying how
female fiddler crabs, Uca beebei, choose mates. He
finds that females visit and reject several males’ bur-
rows before choosing a mate. Yet detailed study sug-
gests that they do not choose a male by its burrow.
This finding overturns an earlier conclusion that they
choose to mate with males possessing larger or deeper
burrows. Christy thinks that the females are influenced
primarily by courtship inside the burrows.

In Costa Rica, STRI biologist William Eberhard is
comparing the courtship and mating behavior of three
species of rose-chafer beetles. Two of these coexist on
many species of plants; all three coexist on some. The
mating behaviors of these three species are all different.
Did they diverge to ensure that beetles mate only with
members of their own species, or are these differences
the accidental outcome of divergence under sexual se-
lection? Their copulation behavior is complex, and
some pairings last several days. Males rarely mount fe-
males of the wrong species. In at least two of these
three species, however, males often abandon copula-
tions with females of their species less than two min-
utes after mounting, long before they could have trans-
ferred sperm. Aborted matings with females of the
same species are 10 to 100 times more common than
attempts to mate with females of different species, sug-
gesting that the driving force in the evolution of these
beetles’ mating behavior is sexual selection by female
choice.

Most bluehead wrasses (a Caribbean coral reef fish)
are born female and transform into “gaudy” males
when large enough to attract females and defend terri-
tories against other males. Large patch reefs also have
“drab” males, blueheads that are born male but retain
female coloration until big enough to play the role of
gaudy males. Females prefer to mate with gaudy males,
but on large patch reefs only a few gaudies can coexist,
and females often have to wait for matings, allowing
drab males to reproduce as successfully as females by
“alternative”? mating strategies that do not require large
size and social dominance. Fertilized eggs from reefs of
all sizes, however, develop into fish larvae in the plank-
ton where they are all mixed together. To learn how a
patch reef receives its appropriate complement of drab
males, D. Ross Robertson of the STRI staff has been
rearing bluehead larvae derived from reefs of different
sizes, in groups of different sizes.

Speciation and Evolutionary Divergence

How do new species form, and what leads a species to
divide into two reproductively isolated populations?
STRI scientist Nancy Knowlton studied what was sup-
posedly a single species of alpheid shrimp that lives on
anemones: the shrimp and its host anemone help de-
fend each other. This shrimp “‘species” actually in-
cludes four noninterbreeding “‘sibling species,” three of

which live on one species of anemone. One of the four
noninterbreeding populations that make up this species
lives on a species of anemone different from the one
used by the other three. This population has very little
genetic variation, as if it descended from a very few
founders who “accidentally” colonized a different spe-
cies of anemone and whose descendants stuck with it.

Three million years ago, the Isthmus of Panama si-
multaneously divided many marine populations into
geminate pairs, allowing a test of the “molecular
clock.” Eldredge Bermingham and Haris Lessios of the
STRI staff found that among three geminate pairs of
sea urchins, levels of protein divergence vary 20-fold,
with Diadema diverging least and Echinometra most.
The degree of divergence in the DNA of mitochondria
from populations on the two sides of the isthmus, on
the other hand, are very similar for the three pairs,
with Diadema diverging least—5 percent—and Euci-
daris most—7.5 percent. For several geminate pairs of
fish, including two pairs of sergeant-major (such as
Abudefduf, a pair of snappers, Lutjanus, or a pair of
Chromis) Bermingham finds that divergence in mito-
chondrial DNA ranges from 4 to 6 percent. Timothy
Collins, a STRI postdoctoral fellow, had found that
among geminate pairs of the marine snails Vasum, Pla-
copurpura, and Thais, mitochondrial DNA divergence
ranges from 8 to 12 percent.

Collins compared the DNA sequences of a 300-base-
pair length from the gene for cytochrome B from gemi-
nate populations of species split by the isthmus. Gemi-
nate populations of Diadema differ at 38 base pairs,
the two pairs of Abudefduf differ at 4 and 13, respec-
tively, two pairs of porkfish, Anisotremus, differ at 4
and 9, respectively. These differences are far greater
than chance can account for. However, longer se-
quences might offer a more reliable molecular clock;
that is, the number of base pairs in which longer se-
quences differ may be more nearly proportional to the
time since their population diverged.

Coevolution

Each species of fig tree has its own species of wasp as
pollinator, whose life cycle is bound to that of the fig.
In turn, the wasps carry parasitic nematodes. One in-
teresting question is, have the wasps and nematodes
speciated in step with the figs, or have wasps or nema-
todes of one host species occasionally invaded and
taken over another? Allen Herre, a STRI postdoctoral
fellow, is comparing the phylogenies of figs, their
wasps, and the wasps’ nematodes. He is inferring the
evolutionary trees of figs and wasps from sequenced
fragments of mitochondrial DNA and fig phylogenies
from chloroplast DNA. If, as is probable, the phyloge-
nies of figs, wasps, and nematodes coincide, Herre will
test the “‘molecular clock.” Is genetic divergence be-
tween a pair of figs proportional to that between their
wasps and to that between the wasps’ nematodes? Does
the molecular clock tick in years or in generations,
elapsed since speciation? Generation times of wasps
and their nematodes are identical, while fig trees have
vastly longer generations. Herre will try to answer this
question.

Alternatives to Deforestation

Pacas are large (25-pound) forest rodents that are con-
sidered the best-tasting game animal in Panama. STRI
biologist Nicholas Smythe has succeeded in domesticat-
ing this species so that they can live amicably in social
groups. He is now distributing groups of tame, easily
handled pacas to Panamanian farmers so that they can
start breeding them for market. Some of these pacas
have already started breeding for their new owners.

In October 1984, STRI scientist Gilberto Ocana ar-
ranged the planting of a forest garden of Acacia man-
gium trees, interplanted with various root crops, in de-
graded pastureland near Gatun Lake. He sought to
demonstrate a profitable, ecologically sound way of
farming a plot on a sustainable basis, avoiding the need
to shift to new land when the soil wears out. Beginning
in December 1988, eight goats were acquired, stabled,
and fed with leaves from this forest garden. Twenty
months later, they had become 24. The oldest are now
past their peak, and others are too young to attain full
yield, but eight have attained the weight gain, breeding
rate, and milk production reported from the Centro
Agronomico Tropical de Investigacion y Ensenanza in
Turrialba, Costa Rica, after long-term experimentation.
Extensions of this experiment are being planned in
close collaboration with six Panamanian government

106

institutions concerned with conservation and with the
restoration of degraded lands.

Outreach

To mark the inauguration of the Tupper Center, STRI
opened the exhibition ‘Parting the Green Curtain: The
Evolution of Tropical Biology.”’ With the aid of volun-
teer docents, the Education Office has guided visits for
organized school groups to the exhibition and to the
center. In August, STRI hosted its first international
symposium in the Tupper Conference Center. Sup-
ported by the Social Science Research Council and the
Smithsonian as part of its Quincentenary Program, the
conference brought together more than 4o international
specialists interested in cultural systems and environ-
ments in the lands visited by Christopher Columbus on
his four voyages to the New World.

The Spanish edition of Ecology of a Tropical Forest
was published this year. This book, which demon-
strated the fundamental role of the seasonal and annual
variation of fruit and leaf production in maintaining
the “balance of nature” in tropical forests, will now be
accessible to Spanish-speaking readers in Latin Amer-
ica. Published with support from the Smithsonian’s
Atherton Seidell Fund, the Spanish version includes 2
new articles and ro articles that were updated or re-
vised.

Elena Lombardo was appointed assistant director in
charge of the new office of external affairs, which will
work to expand STRI’s international activities. Because
of STRI’s recent expansion, a new Visitors Services Of-
fice to assist visiting researchers was established at the
Tupper Center under the direction of Gloria Maggiori.

STRI continued to support international and local
conservation efforts. The depressed local economic situ-
ation increased poaching in the Barro Colorado Nature
Monument and other parks and reserves. To supervise
the protection of the monument and security of all fa-
cilities, the Office of Protection Services appointed Ale-
jandro Arze as STRI’s first security officer.

Eric Fischer, deputy director since 1988, announced
his resignation to become vice-president for science and
sanctuaries of the National Audubon Society.
\ a : ’ io -

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for Museums

=

107 |
The development of an Experimental Gallery and the
creation of a new African American initiative were the
highlights of the year for the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Museums.

The Experimental Gallery, which will open in the
Arts and Industries Building in January 1991, will offer
opportunities for exploring exhibition technique and
style, audience and access, and the exhibition develop-
ment process and exhibition context. In a workshop
setting, Smithsonian museum staff will be able to ex-
periment with exhibition components and revise them
before they are installed in fully realized exhibitions.
They will also be able to reinstall successful exhibition
experiments and mount original experiments developed
by museums within and outside the Smithsonian. Al-
though the gallery will eventually cover many subjects,
its initial emphasis is multicultural exhibitions in the
arts, humanities, and sciences and interactive exhibi-
tions in the physical and natural sciences. Directed by
Kimberly Camp, the Experimental Gallery was initially
funded by the Cafritz and Rockefeller foundations and
recently received a major grant from the Pew Charita-
ble Trusts.

African American initiatives at the Smithsonian have
been of wide interest in recent years. In the past, indi-
vidual museums have developed their own collections
and research interests in this area, but the growing
public interest in African American history and culture
has prompted the Institution to take a closer look at its
programming.

In late 1989, the Smithsonian appointed Claudine K.
Brown interim director of a new project that will ex-
amine the form and content of an African American
presence on the National Mall. A 22-member commit-
tee is working to identify and review the options,
which include a new museum, a research center, and a
trust for existing African American museums through-
out the nation. The options will be studied and dis-
cussed and a recommendation will be presented in early
1991.

The Assistant Secretary for Museums administers
two internal grant programs, the Special Exhibition
Fund and the Collections Acquisition Program. Both
programs receive annual trust fund allotments from the
Board of Regents. For the first time this year, these and
other funds affecting research, fellowships, and educa-

108

tional outreach were cut significantly from projected
levels because of overall institutional budget cuts.

The Special Exhibition Fund was established to sup-
port exhibitions at the Smithsonian resulting from
scholarly research in any areas represented throughout
the Institution. In recent years, the purpose was broad-
ened to supplement federal appropriations for perma-
nent and temporary exhibitions and to encourage ex-
perimentation in communicating with the broadest
possible range of visitors. This year, 22 awards were
given for upcoming exhibitions including “Global
Image: The Process of Mapping” at the Cooper-Hewitt
National Museum of Design, “Chicano Art: Resistance
and Affirmation” at the National Museum of American
Art, “Court Arts of Indonesia” at the Arthur M. Sack-
ler Gallery, “Principles of Flight” at the National Air
and Space Museum, and “Good, Bad, and Cuddly” at
the National Zoological Park. Funding was also made
available for several exhibitions related to the Colum-
bus Quincentenary commemoration in 1992.

The Collections Acquisition Program disbursed more
than $1.7 million this year for more than 20 requests.
Among the major acquisitions were Trial of Red Jacket
by John Mix Stanley, by the National Museum of
American Art; a South Carolina Revolutionary War
flag, a joint purchase by the National Museum of
American History and the state of South Carolina; the
José Duret Mosquito Collection and a Guatemalan
Mayan costume collection, by the National Museum of
Natural History; and a photographic atlas of the
Northern Sky, by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-
servatory.

In July, the Office of Institutional Studies (OIS)
joined the program of the Assistant Secretary for Mu-
seums. The OIS conducts studies and evaluations of ex-
hibitions, programs, and operations throughout the
Smithsonian.
Anacostia Museum

During the Anacostia Museum’s 23-year history, it has
grown from an experiential hands-on museum to an in-
fluential museum of African American history and cul-
ture. As the museum enters the 1990s, it continues to
review, consolidate, and strengthen its focus while be-
ginning to plan for further development at the possible
site of Poplar Point in Anacostia. To this end, the mu-
seum is conducting a series of roundtable discussions
on its relationship to the community and its exhibition,
education, and research programs. The museum has a
revised mission statement and looks forward to com-
pleting the review of its collections management policy
and beginning a collection program.

The Anacostia Museum’s mission is stated as fol-
lows: “The museum will continue to serve as a national
resource for exhibitions, scholarly and applied research,
historical documentation, and interpretive and educa-
tional programs relating to African American history
and culture.

“The museum will continue to look to new ways to
forge strong ties with the communities it serves and ex-
plore urban issues which affect everyday lives.”

Exhibitions

The summer exhibition “Whose Art Is It, Anyway? The
Arts in Public Places” explored the processes and issues
surrounding the arts found in public places, including
sculpture, murals, dance, song, and artistic clothing and
hair styles. This year also marked the extension of the
highly successful major exhibition ““The Real McCoy:
African American Invention and Innovation 1619—
1930.” In anticipation of the District of Columbia bi-
centennial celebration in 1991, historian Edward Smith
is conducting research for an exhibition on the 200-
year struggle by African Americans to secure equal
rights in the nation’s capital. ““To Achieve These
Rights” will open in October 1991.

Public Programs

The Education Department developed a full range of
programs to support “The Real McCoy,” including
“Inventor for a Day,” seminars by experts on the pro-
cess of securing patents. The African American holiday

Se kia

*
oe )

Children participate in the opening activities for the Anacos-
tia Museum exhibition “Whose Art Is It Anyway? The Arts
in Public Places.” (Photograph by Richard Strauss)

Kwanzaa was celebrated during December with drum-
ming and dancing, lectures, storytelling, and a family
workshop. The department also conducted its annual
Black History Month Planning Clinic and offered a
course to area teachers for academic credit, “African
American Visual Arts in Washington, D.C.” The sum-
mer science camp utilized the new George Washington
Carver Nature Trail in the wooded area surrounding

109
In 1990, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service reconfigured ‘“The Real McCoy: African American In-
vention and Innovation, 1619-1930,” organized by the Ana-
costia Museum, for national travel. This installation photo-
graph shows a model of inventor Lewis Latimer at his
drafting table. (Photograph by Harold Dorwin)

the museum to teach urban children environmental sci-
ence, as well as African American history and culture.
A continuing program is the Friends for the Preserva-
tion of Afro-American Culture, which holds discussions
of collecting issues.

New initiatives this year included the establishment
of the museum’s first gift shop; publication in spring
1990 of the first Anacostia Museum newsletter; script-
ing and design for a small traveling exhibition, ‘“The
Renaissance: Black Arts of the Twenties”; and produc-
tion of the museum’s first interactive video, “Are You
an Inventor?” As the fiscal year came to a close, the
museum launched a project to observe the Columbus
Quincentenary that will include programs and an exhi-
bition exploring the different African American com-
munities in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area.

[10

Archives of American Art

The Archives of American Art, a national research bu-
reau of the Smithsonian Institution, is dedicated to en-
couraging the study of American art and cultural his-
tory. During fiscal 1990, the Archives focused
particular energy on preparing for increased access to
its collections, which number more than ro million
items, and on enhancing its services to researchers.

The conversion of the Archives’ manual catalogue to
an automated data base was a major project this year.
During the conversion, the information available in
each catalogue entry was refined, verified, and in-
creased. A related activity was the entry of condition,
location, and accession data that give the Archives in-
creased control of its collections. The research portion
of the automated data base, now nearing completion,
will be entered next year into the Research Libraries In-
formation Network and make the Archives catalogue
available to researchers in libraries all over the country.

Concurrently, the Archives began to review and up-
date its reference services and its lending policies and
procedures in preparation for serving a larger and more
active national constituency. It also initiated an out-
reach program to midwestern colleges and universities,
presenting Archives programs and services to students,
instructors, and librarians.

Richard Manney (left), co-chairman of the Archives of Amer-
ican Art tribute to Richard A. Manoogian, long-time trustee,
poses with Mr. and Mrs. Manoogian and Mrs. Manney prior
to the Archives benefit dinner in New York’s Metropolitan
Club. (Photograph by Steven Tucker)
Collections

More than 121 collections containing some 275,000
items were acquired during this fiscal year. In addition,
the Archives borrowed another 28 collections for mi-
crofilming. Among materials received were the papers
of ceramist and teacher Frans R. Wildenhain and sculp-
tor Dimitri Hadzi, as well as those of Edmund C. Tar-
bell, painter and former director of the Corcoran
School of Art in Washington, D.C. A select group of
Winslow Homer letters was acquired, as were the pa-
pers of African American sculptor James W. Washing-
ton and California painter Francis de Erdely.

The Archives conducted 37 oral history interviews
and acquired another 93 interviews through gifts.
Among the most significant are interviews with Faith
Ringgold, Joel Shapiro, Duane Hanson, Miriam Schap-
iro, Ellsworth Kelly, Sam Gilliam, Carlos Villa, Mas-
ami Teraoka, and Agnes Martin.

Public Programs

The Archives sponsored two major symposia this year:
one in San Francisco titled ‘“‘Art, Politics, and Democ-
racy” and one in Detroit titled “Roses, Too: Sixty
Years of Labor Art Programs.” An Archives guide to
“Art-Related Archival Materials in the Philadelphia Re-
gion” was published, a product of the first part (1984—
89) of the Philadelphia Documentation Project, a col-
lecting and microfilming project. Booklets on the Wal-
ter Pach Papers and the Niles Spencer Papers were pub-
lished to accompany exhibitions in the Archives gallery
at the Equitable Center in New York. The latter exhibi-
tion was a joint effort with the Whitney Museum of
American Art, which organized a retrospective showing
of Spencer’s work.

Staff

Richard J. Wattenmaker joined the Archives staff as
national director in September. Susan Hamilton served
as acting director during the year.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, like the neighboring
Freer Gallery of Art, is a national museum of Asian
arts at the Smithsonian, and the two museums share a
single staff. This year, the three-year-old Sackler Gal-
lery continued to expand its holdings through purchase
and gift, particularly in the twentieth-century arts of
Asia—from Japanese ceramics and Chinese painting to
the folk arts of India. The museum also added a large
group of photographs by Raghubir Singh in connection
with its exhibition of Singh’s work.

Exhibitions

The year opened with ““The Noble Path: Buddhist Art
from South Asia and Tibet,” an exhibition of sculp-
tures, paintings, and ritual objects from the collections
of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art that range
in date from the first century B.c. to the eighteenth cen-
tury. The series of free public education programs ac-
companying the exhibition included weekly presenta-
tions by Buddhist monks from Washington-area
temples; films and videos on contemporary Buddhist
beliefs, teachings, and practices; and lectures on Bud-
dhist history, pilgrimage sites, and architecture. With
funding from the Washington Post, the museum bused
900 area schoolchildren to the exhibition.

“Yokohama: Prints from Nineteenth-Century
Japan,” the museum’s first exhibition of Japanese art,
featured 85 color woodblock prints depicting the city
of Yokohama, its burgeoning trade industry, and the
Japanese view of the first foreign residents after 250
years of national seclusion. Prints in the exhibition
were lent from the collection of William and Florence
Leonhart of Washington, D.C., with the participation
of the Daval Foundation. The exhibition was made
possible by the Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
A full-color catalogue by exhibition organizer Ann
Yonemura, assistant curator of Japanese art, comple-
mented the exhibition.

Research and Publications

Museum scholars received grants for research and exhi-
bition projects in each of the museum’s geographic spe-
cialties. Senior research scholar Thomas Lawton organ-

Tit
This detail of the painting Red Plum Blos-
soms is from a handscroll by the Chinese
painter of the Ming dynasty Yao Shou
(1423-1495). The scroll was transferred to
the Sackler Gallery from the collections of
the National Museum of Natural History.

ized a symposium titled “New Perspectives on Chu
Culture during the Eastern Zhou Period,” which fea-
tured lectures by four internationally known scholars.
Distinguished collector Paul Singer lent some choice
works for a small concurrent exhibition, “The Art of
the Chu.’ The symposium was made possible through
the generosity of Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler.

Louise Cort, assistant curator for ceramics, com-
pleted a year’s leave of absence studying ancient kilns,
historical sites, and contemporary ceramic production
in northeast Thailand, Laos, and southwest China.

A workshop titled “The Construction of the Ancient
Near East” was organized by Ann Gunter, assistant cu-
rator of ancient Near Eastern art, and Mogens Trolle
Larsen, director of the Center for Research in the Hu-
manities, Copenhagen University. Thirteen scholars
from universities and museums in North America, Eu-
rope, and Great Britain presented papers on the history
of the field of ancient Near Eastern studies; these pa-
pers will be published in a forthcoming volume. The
workshop was funded through the Smithsonian’s Office
of Fellowships and Grants.

The reference library, which is open to the public
without appointment, responded to 5,230 requests for
materials and information, an increase of 45 percent
from 1989. The library expanded its collection by
2,666 volumes; the preponderance of acquisitions con-
sisted of material on South and Southeast Asian art and
archaeology and on the Japanese and Chinese lan-
guages.

Public Education and Outreach

Museum staff directed their efforts at evaluating new
audience needs. The Sackler Gallery Accessibility Coun-
cil, founded in 1987 and chaired by Sarah Ridley, met
with specialists throughout the year who suggested
ways for the museum’s programs and activities to serve
visitors with disabilities. Council members review each
new exhibition from the perspective of such visitors,
and many of their comments have been incorporated
into the design of subsequent exhibitions. In several
galleries, for example, walls have been repainted and
labels rescreened to increase readability.
The museum mailed its bimonthly Sackler Gallery
Calendar to some 15,000 subscribers. Thanks in large
part to a generous donation from Mrs. Else Sackler, the
museum redesigned and enlarged the calendar to in-
clude more information on exhibitions and programs.

Staff Changes

To better reflect the breadth of the Freer and Sackler
collections, two new scholarly posts were added. Carol
Bolon was named assistant curator of South and South-
east Asian art, and Jenny So became associate curator
of ancient Chinese art. In recognition of the growing
need for financial support for exhibitions, research, and
public programs, the Sackler and Freer galleries added
a Development Office headed by Laurel Muro, for-
merly of Seattle University.

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) con-
ducts technical and scientific research on museum ob-
jects and related materials for the purposes of improv-
ing the preservation of Smithsonian museum collections
and gaining a fuller understanding of their historical
context. CAL’s training program offers unique educa-
tional opportunities for students in conservation, mate-
rials science, archaeology, and art history. This year
saw progress in existing research programs and the ini-
tiation of several new efforts. The training program
also had a successful year, with the graduation of the
first class in the Furniture Conservation Training Pro-
gram.

Archaeometry

Physical and natural scientists conducting archaeome-
tric research at CAL collaborate with scholars from the
arts and the humanities to address questions pertaining
to archaeology or art history by technical means. Some
of these studies require highly specialized technical fa-
cilities, which CAL operates at the National Institute
for Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, Mary-
land, under collaborative agreements with that organi-
zation (formerly the National Bureau of Standards).

This year, CAL completed the installation of a dedi-
cated laboratory for its biogeochemistry program, in
which scientists study minute amounts of proteins ex-
tracted from calcified tissues from paleontological or
archaeological skeletal material. CAL scientists suc-
ceeded in isolating immunoglobulins and DNA from
ancient bone, opening the way to studies that may re-
veal exposures to specific diseases, as well as genetic in-
formation from skeletal material.

The technical studies of paintings by Albert Pinkham
Ryder, a program conducted in collaboration with staff
of the National Museum of American Art (NMAA),
culminated in the preparation of a special technical sec-
tion for a major exhibition of Ryder’s works that
opened at NMAA in April. Also in collaboration with
the NMAA staff, CAL researchers organized a special
symposium, ‘“Technical Studies in American Painting,”
which attracted more than 200 scholars from across
the country.

113
Conservation Research

In this CAL program, researchers, typically working in
teams of scientists and conservators, identify and char-
acterize the chemical and physical processes involved in
the deterioration of museum objects or develop and
evaluate treatment technology for unstable objects.

CAL’s project on the evaluation of the risks of art in
transit, performed in collaboration with the Canadian
Conservation Institute and the National Gallery of Art,
made great progress. CAL researchers are now able, for
example, to produce reliable predictions of the effects
of shocks, vibrations, and changes in environmental
conditions on a given painting.

In a multiyear project, CAL researchers studied the
effects that the solvents used for the removal of deterio-
rated varnish from oil paintings may have on the un-
derlying paint layers. The researchers have made a
number of unexpected observations, including the oc-
currence of mechanical stresses induced by the fast
cooling of the paint layers due to evaporation of the
solvents.

CAL initiated new pilot projects to study the deterio-
ration of modern synthetic materials, such as the elas-
tomers used in the fabrication of spacesuits on exhibit
at the National Air and Space Museum and the effects
of commonly used liquid storage media on the preser-
vation of molecular information in natural history spec-
imens.

In keeping with CAL’s intention to expand its pro-
grams in archaeological conservation, a staff conserva-
tor collaborated with archaeologists involved in the ex-
cayations of a classical period Mayan site at Joya de
Ceren, El Salvador. She assisted in the excavation and
lifting of the severely deteriorated remains of a rare
Mayan codex, which then were brought to the CAL fa-
cilities for further technical study and, if possible, par-
tial recovery.

Training
The major event of the year was the graduation of the
six students in the first class of the Furniture Conserva-

tion Training Program. These students, as well as sev-
eral members of the second class, which finished its

114

Photographic materials research scientist Mark McCormick-
Goodhart pours collodion onto a glass plate in the re-crea-
tion of a historic photographic process at the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory. (Photograph by Doc Dougherty)

first year of course work, have already found employ-
ment in major museum conservation departments.

CAL organized eight advanced courses for practicing
conservators on such topics as on-site archaeological
conservation techniques, use of the suction table in
paper conservation, color theory and measurement, dis-
play materials, mechanical properties of materials and
objects, and analysis of historic textile dyes. CAL con-
servators and scientists also taught specialized courses
in the joint CAL—Johns Hopkins University graduate
program in conservation science and supervised the re-
search performed by students in this program as part of
their degree requirements. Interns at various levels of
training and experience worked under the guidance of
CAL specialists.

In collaboration with the United States Information
Agency and the Latin American Scholarship Program of
American Universities, CAL organized a week-long
seminar for Latin American Fulbright Fellows studying
in archaeological programs at U.S. academic institu-
tions. The seminar addressed issues concerning the ap-
plication of scientific analytical methodologies in ar-
chaeological research.
Cooper-Hewitt National
Museum of Design

Encouraging good design and fostering an improved
understanding of the design process, raising the level of
discussion in related fields, and improving the dialogue
between audience and designer are the goals of the
Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design. The mu-
seum pursues these goals through a variety of pro-
grams, including provisions for making the collections
available for study, research, and display; educational
programs; exhibitions; publications; and conferences
keyed to significant design issues.

Two of the museum’s major concerns this year were
developing methods to educate visitors, particularly
children, about design and improving the museum’s ac-
cessibility to a diverse audience. These concerns are
now emphasized in planning the museum’s exhibitions
and educational programs.

Exhibitions and Programs

Design and its varying forms of expression defined the
scope of the museum’s principal exhibitions in fiscal

A blind visitor reads braille labels
accompanying “The Doghouse” ex-
hibition at the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum. The museum encouraged
those with a sight impairment to
bring their guide dogs to the exhibi-
tion.

1990. Alexander Calder’s unique creations of teacups,
toys, and jewelry were featured in “The Intimate World
of Alexander Calder.” “Flora Danica and the Heritage
of Danish Porcelain” surveyed the forms, techniques,
and decoration of Danish porcelain. In the major exhi-
bition “Color, Light, Surface: Contemporary Fabrics,”
the museum presented fabrics manufactured in the
United States, Europe, and Asia. Architects’ and design-
ers’ whimsical visions for doghouses were shown in
“The Doghouse.”

For each exhibition, particular emphasis was placed
on providing cogent, imaginative, and accessible educa-
tional programming. In the museum’s first experiment
with education for children in many years, classes for
schoolchildren were created for the Calder exhibition
using an artist-educator for classroom and gallery vis-
its. A study funded by the New York State Council on
the Arts has enabled the museum to work with educa-
tion professionals with the goal of establishing a full
Education Department to supplement the successful
Public Programs Department.

The museum’s dedication to serving a diverse public

115
is now integrated into its exhibitions and programs.
The exhibition “The Doghouse”’ not only showcased
unique and innovative structures but highlighted the
museum’s desire to make its building and exhibitions
accessible to a wider audience. In collaboration with
Guiding Eyes for the Blind, Inc., a local guide-dog
school, the museum made the exhibition physically ac-
cessible to the blind and visually impaired, a popula-
tion not usually served by a visual arts museum. As-
sisted by experts on blindness, the museum has begun
to assert a new awareness of the needs of special audi-
ences who may never have considered the value of a
design museum to their lives. Exhibitions at Cooper-
Hewitt now feature some works that can be touched,
as well as large-print and braille descriptive labels or
brochures and tours designed for special audiences. For
the exhibition “‘Color, Light, Surface: Contemporary
Fabrics,” for example, manufacturers supplied fabric
samples for the public to touch. In addition, plans are
well under way to make the historic Andrew Carnegie
Mansion more physically accessible to disabled visitors.

The museum continues striving to attract a more cul-
turally diverse audience that mirrors the population of
New York City and the United States. To this end, the
museum has made serious efforts to work with the His-
panic communities of New York to create programs
such as ““Nueva York Tropical,” a successful summer
lecture and concert series attended by more than 1,000
people. These programs continue to draw new and
more diverse constituencies to Cooper-Hewitt as it
works to fulfill its purpose as the National Museum of
Design.

L16

Freer Gallery of Art

The Freer Gallery of Art was closed for a second year
in a multimillion-dollar project to expand and improve
space for art conservation, research, collection storage,
and visitor facilities. The project is the first complete
refurbishment in the Freer’s nearly 70-year history.
When possible, the Freer Gallery staff has arranged ac-
cess for members of the public who need to study or
conduct research on the museum’s world-renowned col-
lections of Asian and nineteenth- and early twentieth-
century American art.

Major work was completed this year on the central
courtyard, which provides abundant natural light and a
pleasant backdrop to the Freer’s corridors and galleries.
The Freer requires space to house its growing art col-
lection safely, and the area beneath the courtyard
proved indispensable for this purpose. Miniature earth-
moving equipment carved out earth up to 22 feet below
ground. A crane lifted the soil over the Freer, and a
conveyor belt carried it through the building. The re-
sulting space will provide for storage and study of
Asian ceramics, furniture, textiles, and sculpture. Above
the new facility, the courtyard will be reinstalled ac-
cording to the original architect’s design.

Other important aspects of the project are well under
way. Among them are construction of an exhibition
space linking the Freer with the neighboring Sackler
Gallery and expansion of space for the art conservation
laboratory, which will include studios specializing in
Japanese and Chinese painting restoration. A new ele-
vator linking all three public levels will improve access
to the museum, especially for visitors with mobility im-
pairments.

As the architectural work proceeded, a two-year re-
search and conservation effort to restore “‘Harmony in
Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room” began in Novem-
ber with $150,000 in matching funds from the Getty
Grant Program of the J. Paul Getty Trust and $50,000
from the James Smithson Society. The Peacock Room,
an icon of the Freer collection, is the only surviving in-
terior design scheme by American expatriate artist
James McNeill Whistler. Generally acknowledged to be
the most important nineteenth-century interior in an
American museum, the room is permanently installed
as one of the Freer’s exhibition galleries. A team of
painting conservators from the University of Delaware/
Winterthur Art Conservation Program is carrying out
Conservator Wendy Samet (left) takes paint samples from the
north shutter in the Peacock Room, which is undergoing
major conservation in the Freer Gallery of Art. Conservation
intern Nancy Pollak is making a record of each sample as it
is removed. (Photograph by John Tsantes)

the renovation in association with the Freer’s curatorial
and conservation departments.

Research and Public Education

Research was initiated and completed for a multidisci-
plinary project to compare the Freer and Sackler galler-
ies’ ancient Iranian metalwork with similar pieces from
institutions in North America, Japan, Great Britain,
Europe, and the Soviet Union. A Smithsonian Scholarly
Studies grant was instrumental to this project. Ann
Gunter, assistant curator of ancient Near Eastern art,
was the principal investigator for the research team,
which also included W. Thomas Chase and Paul Jett,
head and senior conservator of conservation and scien-
tific research, respectively. Pieter Meyers, head of con-
servation, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, served
as consultant. A detailed catalogue of the ancient Ira-
nian metalwork in the Freer and Sackler collections is
planned for publication in 1992.

Acquisitions

Among the exceptional additions to the collection this
year were a hanging scroll of calligraphy by the
Chinese Emperor Ch’ien-lung (reigned 1736-95),
which was a gift from Mrs. John A. Pope, and a silver
rosewater bottle made in India around 1700. Other ac-
quisitions included a necklace and two pairs of ear or-
naments, outstanding examples of nineteenth-century
Indian gold jewelry. Purchase of the necklace was made
possible in part by the Misses Rajinder and Najinder

Keith.

DE.
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the
Smithsonian Institution’s museum of modern and con-
temporary art, is committed to increasing the aware-
ness and understanding of art through exhibitions and
related publications, acquisitions, and public programs.

Exhibitions

Coinciding with the 8oth birthday of the British painter
Francis Bacon, the museum presented an overview of
his far-reaching achievement. “Francis Bacon,”’ curated
by Director James T. Demetrion, drew high attendance
at the Hirshhorn and a steady stream of international
press coverage during its national tour. “Culture and
Commentary: An Eighties Perspective,” organized by
guest curator Kathy Halbreich of the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, featured the work of r5 international art-
ists who responded to some of society’s most signifi-
cant changes during the past decade. Other exhibitions
included “Bay Area Figurative Art, 1950-1965,” or-
ganized by and first shown at the San Francisco Mu-
seum of Modern Art, to which the Hirshhorn lent nine
works.

The “Directions” series, which focuses on small-scale
solo shows, highlighted the work of the Russian artist
Ilya Kabakov, Swiss-born Christian Marclay, and the
Spanish sculptor Susana Solano. ““WORKS,” which fea-
tures temporary installations created for the museum’s
building and grounds, offered site-specific pieces by the
American artists Dennis Adams, David Ireland, and
Matt Mullican. The LEF Foundation provided the
funding for the publication of Hirshhorn WORKS
1989, the series’ second yearbook.

Loans

The Hirshhorn lent 113 objects to museums in the
United States and abroad. Five paintings and drawings
by Yasuo Kuniyoshi were included in a large retrospec-
tive shown in Tokyo, Okayama, and Kyoto. Edouard
Vuillard’s Portrait of the Artist’s Grandmother toured
with “The Intimate Interiors of Edouard Vuillard,” an
exhibition organized by the Museum of Fine Arts,
Houston, with venues that included the Phillips Collec-
tion in Washington, D.C., and the Brooklyn Museum

118

in New York. The painting then went to Europe for a
traveling retrospective there. The Hirshhorn lent its
newly acquired work by Edward Ruscha to a large ex-
hibition of the artist’s work organized by the Museum
Boymans in Rotterdam that was also on view in Paris,
Barcelona, London, and Los Angeles. Maurice Prender-
gast was the subject of an exhibition mounted by the
Williams College Museum of Art. The Hirshhorn lent
two works to the show, which traveled to New York,
Los Angeles, and Washington, D.C.

Acquisitions

The museum’s permanent collection was enriched by
18 purchases and 13 gifts. Among the acquisitions were
Stringed Figure No. 1 (1937) by Henry Moore, a sem-
inal abstraction of carved wood with rows of string;
Five Past Eleven (1989), by Edward Ruscha; and Two
Indentations (1967), by Richard Artschwager. New
works by European artists also entered the collection,
among them Mario Merz’s From Continent to Contt-
nent (1985) and Georg Baselitz’s Ciao America I
(1988). The museum has continued to acquire impor-
tant paintings and sculptures by other artists, including
Eric Fischl, Luis Jimenez, and Paul Thek. Notable gifts
include a sculpture by Michael Singer, from Mrs. Vera
List, and a sculpture by Athena Tacha, from Dr. Ellen
H. Johnson. While federal funds supported a portion of
this fiscal year’s acquisitions, the majority of works
were acquired with the support of such private funding
sources as the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund, the
Estate of Joseph H. Hirshhorn, the Regents’ Collections
Acquisition Fund, the Holenia Trust, and the Lannan
Foundation.

Education and Public Programs

To help bring the exhibitions and permanent collection
alive for the Hirshhorn’s 20,000 group-tour partici-
pants—who range from schoolchildren to senior citi-
zens—30 new docents were recruited and trained. The
museum’s roster of active docents now numbers well
over roo, and because many are fluent in languages
other than English, the Hirshhorn now offers tours in
French, Spanish, German, Russian, and American sign

»

Stringed Figure No. 1 (1937), an early masterwork of wood
and string by British sculptor Henry Moore (1898—1986),
was acquired through the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase
Fund.

language. Among scheduled lectures were the monthly
“Focus” talks, which featured an artist or curator par-
ticipating in a Hirshhorn exhibition. Regularly sched-
uled free films about artists, films by artist-filmmakers,
and matinees for young people continued to be popular
and significant aspects of the museum’s outreach to the
public.

National Air and Space
Museum

The National Air and Space Museum maintains the
largest collection of historic air and spacecraft in the
world. It is also a vital center for research in the
history, science, and technology of aviation and space-
flight. The museum continues to develop new exhibi-
tions to examine the impact of air and space technol-
ogy on science and society. Two exhibitions now in the
planning stages will focus on the future of space explo-
ration and on the underlying scientific principles of
flight.

On January 29, 1990, Secretary Adams announced
the Smithsonian Board of Regents’ reaffirmation of a
previously stated preference for Washington-Dulles In-
ternational Airport as the site for the proposed exten-
sion of the National Air and Space Museum. The mu-
seum’s staff has begun detailed planning for the
extension.

Research and Publications

The museum has four research departments. The De-
partment of Aeronautics is concerned with the history
of aviation. The Department of Space History studies
the history of rocketry and spaceflight. Scientists in the
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies use data from
satellites and planetary probes in research on problems
of geomorphology and comparative planetology. And
the Laboratory for Astrophysics conducts basic re-
search in infrared spectroscopy of planets, stars, and
galaxies and has an active program in the development
of infrared instruments to be flown on spacecraft.

In the Department of Aeronautics, Peter Jakab’s Vi-
sions of a Flying Machine: The Wright Brothers and
the Process of Invention was published by Smithsonian
Institution Press. The Aviation Careers of Igor Sikorsky
by Dorothy Cochrane, Von Hardesty, and Russell Lee
was published to accompany the museum’s exhibition
marking the centennial of the great Russian American
aircraft designer’s birth. The Aeronautics Department
welcomed several visiting scholars this year. Lee Ken-
nett, professor of history at the University of Georgia,
was Lindbergh Professor and conducted research on
World War I aviation. He was succeeded as Lindbergh
Professor by Richard P. Hallion from the U.S. Air
Force Systems Command, who began a year of study of
the history of hypersonic flight. Theodore Robinson, on

119
detail from the Federal Aviation Administration, con-
tinued his work on African Americans in aviation. Re-
tired Air Vice-Marshal Ron Dick of the Royal Air
Force focused his research on the Battle of Britain. Two
visiting scholars from the Soviet Union, Dmitri Sobolev
and Elena Zheltova, shared the International Fellow-
ship.

In the Department of Space History, Frank Winter
published The First Golden Age of Rocketry: Congreve
and Hale Rockets of the Nineteenth Century. Gregg
Herken’s book Cardinal Choices: The President’s Sct-
ence Advisors from Roosevelt to Reagan was finished
and submitted to publishers. Tami Davis Biddle has
begun to prepare for publication the proceedings of the
museum’s ongoing series of lectures and symposia on
“The Legacy of Strategic Bombing.” David DeVorkin is
working on a new book, Science with a Vengeance:
The Origins of Space Science in America, and Allan
Needell has nearly completed a book on Lloyd Berkner
and the development of American science in the post-
war period.

Research in the Center for Earth and Planetary Stud-
ies (CEPS) has focused on surface changes due to deser-
tification and other arid zone processes in Africa, struc-
tural deformation on the Earth and the terrestrial
planets, and the evolution of planetary surfaces. James
Zimbelman and Robert Craddock are using high-reso-
lution visible and thermal infrared images to evaluate
the abundance and distribution of bedrock exposures in
the highlands of Mars. Based on a statistical analysis of
crater populations, Craddock and Ted Maxwell have
found evidence of a planetwide resurfacing event that
occurred early in the history of Mars. Thomas Watters
discovered that the type of deformation found in the
flood basalts of the Columbia Plateau on Earth are
common to deformed volcanic plains on Mars and
Venus. Scientists at CEPS continued working on the de-
tailed geologic mapping of parts of Mars to be used in
the selection of potential landing sites for a future mis-
sion. James Zimbelman, with Steven Williams of the
Lunar and Planetary Institute, conducted fieldwork and
remote sensing studies of the Mojave Desert of Califor-
nia and found that sand transported across drainage
barriers along a path more than roo kilometers in
length may be related to climate change.

Scientists in the museum’s Laboratory for Astrophys-
ics have installed carbon dioxide and far-infrared la-

sers, cryogenic detectors, and a variety of other test and
measurement equipment. They are developing new pho-
tolithographic and microelectronic techniques to fabri-
cate high-precision metal mesh reflectors for use in far-
infrared space instruments, in a collaboration with the
Naval Research Laboratory.

Jeffrey Goldstein is using a laser heterodyne system
in an observing program at the Infrared Telescope Fa-
cility on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, and at the Kitt Peak Na-
tional Observatory in Arizona. The system is designed
to measure wind velocities on Mars, Venus, and Jupiter
to an accuracy of 1 meter per second. In collaboration
with the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion’s Goddard Space Flight Center, Goldstein recently
made the only absolute wind velocity measurements
above the Venus cloud-tops to date and discovered that
at those altitudes atmospheric circulation moves in a
direction opposite to that of the planet’s rotation.

Matthew Greenhouse, in collaboration with the
Naval Research Laboratory (NRL), has developed a
near-infrared Fabry-Perot spectrometer to image and
study supernovas (exploding stars) in galaxies as part
of a program to model the energetics of galaxies and
the energy emission by galactic gas and dust. He has
observed ionized iron and other atomic species in gal-
axles using new spectrometers at Kitt Peak and at the
Wyoming Infrared Observatory, confirming his model
of supernovas as the source for the energy emitted by
galactic gas.

Museum Director Martin Harwit is a facility scientist
for the Infrared Space Observatory (ISO), to be
launched by the European Space Agency in 1993. He is
also a coinvestigator on the Submillimeter Wave As-
tronomy Satellite, a joint program with the Smithson-
ian Astrophysical Observatory, also scheduled to begin
in 1993.

Howard Smith, chairman of the Laboratory for As-
trophysics, is a coinvestigator on ISO. He is studying
the strong outflows of mass in symmetrically opposite
directions associated with very young stars and, in col-
laboration with NRL, has observed a variety of these
sources with new imaging infrared arrays coupled to
Fabry-Perot spectrometers. He has discovered an ex-
tended region of molecular hydrogen affected by shock
waves in a ring around one new source and has devel-
oped a theoretical model for the ionized gas in these
sources.
On March 6, 1990, at Washington-Dulles International Airport, the National Air and Space Museum received one of the U.S.
Air Force’s newly retired SR-71 supersonic reconnaissance aircraft. The SR-71 made a final record-breaking 68-minute flight
from Palmdale, California, to Dulles Airport. (Photograph by Carolyn Russo Nash)

During 1990, three visiting scientists worked at the Exhibitions
Laboratory for Astrophysics. David Naylor of the Uni-
versity of Lethbridge, Canada, developed new tech- The big event of the year was the acquisition by the
niques for maximum entropy deconvolution of Fabry- museum in June of a Soviet SS-20 and an American
Perot spectra. Sara Beck of the University of Tel-Aviv Pershing II nuclear missile. These two weapons, re-
analyzed infrared spectra of winds from young stars in garded as the most accurate and hence most threaten-
the Southern Galactic Plane. Lawrence Cassar of the ing of nuclear missiles, were banned by the Intermedi-
U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, New York, developed ate Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, signed by the
computer models for line emission from ionized gas United States and the Soviet Union in December 1987.
spectra in outflows. The treaty, the first agreement to ban an entire class of
nuclear weapons, was a milestone in the effort to re-
verse the nuclear arms race. Only three years ago, mis-
siles of this type were targeted against each other
across a divided Europe, but today training versions of
the same missiles stand side by side as harmless mu-
seum pieces in the Milestones of Flight gallery. The SS-
20 was acquired from the Soviet Union in trade for a
second Pershing II missile after long and complex nego-
tiations with the Soviet Union, initiated in 1988 when
the museum learned that the INF Treaty permitted
both nations to retain several disarmed missiles for
static display. An accompanying exhibition, ‘“Trust but
Verify: The Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces
Treaty,” opened in June in Space Hall.

A new exhibition in the Air Transportation gallery,
titled “Commuting in the Modern Manner: The Grum-
man Goose Amphibian,” features the colorful yellow-
and-black airplane designed in the ‘“‘airminded” 1930s
for personal transport. While the vision of “an airplane
in every garage’ never quite materialized, the Goose
did become a stylish means of transportation for the
well-heeled commuter and eventually filled many other
roles worldwide. Some of them are still flying today.

The museum also opened an exhibition titled “The
Aviation Careers of Igor Sikorsky” to mark the centen-

Paul E. Garber (right), historian emeritus of the Smithsonian
Institution, explains how kites were used as experimental de-
vices by early aviation pioneers. This photograph was taken
at the ninth annual Open House at the National Air and
Space Museum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation, Restoration
and Storage Facility in Suitland, Maryland, which drew about
15,000 visitors during the last weekend in April.

I22

nial of the birth of the famed aircraft designer. In Rus-
sia before the Revolution, Sikorsky created the first
four-engine airplanes. Later, in the United States, he de-
veloped flying boats (including the famous Pan Am
“Clippers”’) and in 1939 the first practical single-rotor
helicopter, the VS-300. One of these machines, lent by
the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, is cen-
tral to the exhibition.

British artist Rowland Emett’s whimsical flying ma-
chine, Pussiewillow II, has long been a favorite of mu-
seum visitors. Aficionados of Emett’s contraptions had
particular reason to rejoice when the museum opened
“Too Late for the Past, Too Early for the Future:
Drawings and Things by Rowland Emett” in the Flight
and the Arts gallery.

“Modern Carrier Aviation: Seapower in a Changing
World,” which opened in the Sea-Air Operations gal-
lery, traces the development of the aircraft carrier and
the role it plays in maintaining the balance of power in
the modern world. It is part of a major upgrading of
the simulated carrier ready room, navigation bridge,
and air traffic control center.

New information on Venus, Mars, and Neptune was
added to the Exploring the Planets gallery. Notable ad-
ditions include spectacular images of Neptune and Tri-
ton returned by Voyager I in 1989 and a specimen of a
so-called SNC meteorite, recovered in Antarctica and
believed to have come from Mars. In September, the
exhibition ““Modern Turbine Engines” was added to
the Jet Aviation gallery. It features a CFM International
CFM 56-2 turbofan engine and a Pratt & Whitney Can-
ada PW123 turboprop engine. In November, the ex-
hibit of the German V-2 missile was updated and ex-
panded in Space Hall.

Work is continuing on the Visitor Information Cen-
ter in the South Lobby. Visitors can now obtain cas-
sette tours of the museum in foreign languages. New
interactive computers provide information on the mu-
seum, its galleries, and special events, as well as pre-
views of IMAX films, and information on other Smith-
sonian museums and Washington attractions.

Collections

During 1990, the museum’s staff at the Paul E. Garber
Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Facility restored
three significant engines that will contribute to the in-
terpretation of World War I aviation. A British Bentley
BR I, a German BMW III A, and an American Liberty
V-8 will be exhibited in the new World War I gallery
when it opens in 1992, along with a French Voisin
Model 8 bomber, which is being restored by two mu-
seum specialists. A Pfalz D-XII is also being refurbished
for this gallery.

Work continues on the restoration of the Enola Gay,
the B-29 that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima.
The rear fuselage is near completion, alongside the fully
restored forward fuselage. Two of the four engines are
completed, with one being treated for the Smithsonian
by colleagues at the San Diego Aerospace Museum.
Restoration continues on two other World War II air-
craft: an Aichi Seiran Japanese submarine-borne sea-
plane that was designed to bomb the Panama Canal,
and a British Hawker Hurricane. The Hurricane’s Rolls
Royce engine has been refinished and awaits installa-
tion.

The museum’s archives acquired 75 collections, in-
cluding the significant Cliff Krainik ballooning collec-
tion of nineteenth- and twentieth-century photographs
and memorabilia. The archives also received the per-
sonal papers of barnstormer and aviation administrator
Alexis McMullen. The film archives acquired 100 new
items. Side one of the museum’s seventh archival video-
disc, containing 50,000 photographs of aircraft, lighter-
than-air vehicles, and aircraft restored by the Smithson-
ian, was readied for release.

The Air Force delivered an SR-71 reconnaissance air-
craft to Washington-Dulles International Airport for
the museum in a record-breaking 68-minute cross-
country flight. Other significant additions to the collec-
tions included a Piper Apache aircraft and a set of
chromolithographs titled ““The Trouvelot Astronomical
Drawings.”

National Museum of
African Art

The National Museum of African Art, the only mu-
seum in the United States devoted to the collection,
study, and exhibition of African art south of the Sa-
hara, maintained an active exhibition schedule and ac-
quisition program this year.

Exhibitions

A major loan exhibition, “Icons: Ideals and Power in
the Art of Africa,’ explored the ways African peoples
have depicted and interpreted 5 iconic representations
and included 125 outstanding works dating from the
eleventh to the late twentieth century. The museum
produced a 25-minute film that explores two dynamic
forms of art in Mali. An illustrated catalogue, written
by guest curator Herbert M. Cole of the University of
California at Santa Barbara and published by Smith-
sonian Institution Press, accompanied the exhibition.

In May, “Yoruba: Nine Centuries of African Art and
Thought” went on view. This exhibition of roo exqui-
site Yoruba objects was organized by the Center for
African Art in New York. Archaeological loans, some
of which had never been seen outside of Nigeria, were
made possible by Nigeria’s National Commission for
Museums and Monuments. Henry Drewal of Cleveland
State University and John Pemberton III of Amherst
College were the exhibition curators.

“The African Desert, 1975—1977: Photographs by
Bernard Plossu” featured black-and-white and color
photographs of the Sahara. ‘“The Essential Gourd,” a
selection of 75 decorated gourds from northeastern Ni-
geria, was organized by the Museum of Cultural His-
tory at the University of California at Los Angeles.
These exhibitions complemented the “Permanent Col-
lection of the National Museum of African Art” and
“Royal Benin Art in the Collection of the National
Museum of African Art.”

Acquisitions

One of the museum’s most significant acquisitions, a
wood protective figure by the Teke peoples of the Re-
public of the Congo, was made possible through a
grant from the James Smithson Society. A nineteenth-
century throne of the Hehe peoples of Tanzania, carved

I23
in the form of a female torso, was a major gift to the
museum.

Education

The museum’s educational programs reach thousands
of adults and children each year. Programs ranged from
courses taught by scholars of African art to film series.
The U.S. premiere of the film series, “Things Fall
Apart,” based on the highly acclaimed novel by Niger-
ian author Chirua Achebe, reached its conclusion in
December 1989. ‘“‘African Reverberations: Films about
Africa and the New World” explored the complex ties
that bind African and African American creativity and
cultures.

A grant from the Smithsonian Women’s Committee
funded the development of educational materials and
programs for deaf and hearing-impaired visitors. The
installation of a telecommunications device for the deaf
and the production of several open-captioned films are
part of the museum’s continuing commitment to make
the museum accessible to all visitors.

Research

The Eliot Elisofon Archives, a major research resource
in African art, history, and culture, strengthened its his-
torical holdings. The most important acquisition was a
collection of more than 400 vintage postcards of Africa
documenting costume, architecture, and celebrations.
This year, the museum appointed Christraud M. Geary
as research curator of the archives. A former Rockefel-
ler Fellow in the Humanities at the museum, Geary
came to the archives from Boston University.

Among the topics being researched by curatorial staff
are Central African pottery and African utilitarian ob-
jects, subjects of forthcoming permanent installations.
Continuing research on the Nigerian master carver,
Olowe of Ise, will result in the first monograph devoted
to a traditional African artist. Museum research in
progress this year also focused on the development of a
film on the art and architecture of an African nomadic
people, the Gabra of Kenya.

A volume published this year is the result of a schol-
arly symposium organized by the museum in 1987. Af-

124

rican Art Studies: The State of the Discipline includes
revised and expanded research papers on the history
and future of African art studies.

Conservation

The museum’s conservation department completed its
study of West African iron objects. Research by post-
doctoral fellow Janet Schrenk continued the technical
analysis of the museum’s famous Benin bronze collec-
tion.
National Museum of
American Art

The National Museum of American Art (NMAA) is
committed to the acquisition, preservation, study, and
exhibition of American painting, sculpture, graphic
arts, photography, and folk art. As the largest museum
of American art in the world, NMAA houses almost
35,000 objects. The Renwick Gallery, a curatorial de-
partment of the museum, collects and exhibits Ameri-
can crafts and decorative arts. The museum also main-
tains Barney Studio House as a period home open for
tours by appointment.

Through its collections, the museum is redefining
American art to include those cultural traditions that
have been excluded in the past, such as the work of mi-
nority and self-taught artists. The museum and the
Renwick Gallery now have the finest collections of mi-
nority artists of any general museum, exemplified by a
growing African American collection, Hispanic Ameri-
can art, the extensive Hemphill collection of historic
and contemporary folk art, and other recent acquisi-
tions.

Exhibitions

Outstanding among the 18 special exhibitions mounted
during this fiscal year was “Albert Pinkham Ryder,”
the largest and most complete review ever assembled of
work by this nineteenth-century artist, who has been
called America’s “greatest painter of the imagination.”
The exhibition included a section on Ryder forgeries
and another section that explored the problems of con-
serving the artist’s many-layered, imaginative, gemlike
paintings. A definitive 344-page book by Elizabeth
Broun, director of the museum and organizer of the ex-
hibition, explored Ryder’s often misunderstood literary
themes, clarified many little-known aspects of his ca-
reer, and created a new list of accepted authentic
works. To celebrate the opening of the Ryder exhibi-
tion, four artists participated in a symposium on the
tradition of personal expression in American painting.
“Made with Passion: The Hemphill Folk Art Collec-
tion of the National Museum of American Art” pro-
vided a showcase for 199 objects, nearly half of the
Hemphill collection recently acquired by NMAA. The
collection includes both nineteenth- and twentieth-cen-
tury objects created by people of many ethnic back-
grounds and from all parts of the nation. The exhibi-

Taxis line up at the 8th and G Streets entrance of the Na-
tional Museum of American Art on September 14 for a re-
ception that introduced 400 of the Washington area cab driv-
ers to the museum. (Photograph by Gene Young)

tion was a tribute to the American ability to take what
is at hand and create delightful, personal, and often
profound visual statements. It was also a manifestation
of NMAA’s expanded commitment to all forms of vis-
ual expression, including those perceived as outside the
mainstream of American art. An extensive interpretive
program helped visitors understand the motives and
ideas of folk artists.

Another distinguished exhibition was that of 120
works by photographer Irving Penn, coorganized by
NMAA and the National Portrait Gallery and shown in
both museums. The NMAA portion featured new ac-
quisitions that included portraits, fashion photography,
still lifes, nudes, ethnographic portraits, and recent
photographs of animal skulls. The exhibition and ac-
companying illustrated catalogue were supported by
USAir.

Two exhibitions of drawings highlighted the work of
Joseph Stella and George Caleb Bingham, artists widely
divergent in time, subject, and technique. In addition to
special exhibitions, the museum opened two new galler-
ies devoted to African American art of the nineteenth
and twentieth centuries. The museum frequently shares
its exhibitions with other museums and university gal-
leries in the United States and abroad. In fiscal 1990,
as many as six exhibitions traveled at one time in
places as diverse as Iowa, Florida, Maine, Minnesota,
and the Netherlands.

Renwick Gallery

The highlight of the Renwick Gallery’s exhibition pro-
gram this year was “‘Masterworks of Louis Comfort
Tiffany.” Organized by NMAA for the Renwick Gal-
lery, it was generously supported by Tiffany & Co. and
attracted more than 230,000 visitors—a record num-
ber. The 65 works, many lent for the first time by pri-
vate collectors, included leaded glass windows, ceramic
vases, lamps and chandeliers, enameled and jeweled ob-
jects, mosaic works, wood containers, paintings, and
watercolors. The exhibition underscored Tiffany’s ex-
traordinary talents as a colorist and naturalist and his
spectacular innovations as a glassmaker. In conjunction
with the exhibition, the Renwick organized a sympo-
sium that explored aspects of Tiffany’s decorative art
and also presented a series of public lectures. The exhi-
bition later traveled to the Metropolitan Museum of
Art in New York City.

“Slave Quilts from the Ante-Bellum South,” an exhi-
bition organized by the Museum of American Folk Art
in New York City, featured 25 quilts and five related
pieces of furniture that demonstrated the skill, creativ-
ity, and imagination of slaves and documented their
contribution to American folk art. A series of craft
demonstrations on succeeding weekends accompanied
the exhibition. Another outstanding exhibit at the Ren-
wick was the pottery of George Ohr, a nontraditional
potter at the turn of the century. Ohr’s work is popular
with contemporary collectors because it combines bold-
ness and whimsy.

In an ongoing effort to encourage scholarly activities
at the Renwick, two scholars were awarded the third
annual James Renwick Fellowships in American Crafts.
These in-residence fellows conducted research on as-
pects of contemporary American ceramics and their his-
torical antecedents.

With the assistance of the Smithsonian’s Collections
Acquisition Program, the James Renwick Alliance (the
Renwick’s support group), and other sources, the gal-

126

lery expanded its burgeoning collection of contempo-
rary crafts. The new acquisitions include works by such
outstanding artists as Jere Osgood, Daniel Jackson, and
Robert Arneson.

Acquisitions

Several significant acquisitions augmented the mu-
seum’s collection of more than 35,000 objects during
1990. Three important additions are outstanding exam-
ples of American sculpture. Louis Jimenez’s Vaquero,
installed at the entrance to the museum, displays all the
excitement of bronco busting and unites the Mexican
origins of the cowboy persona with a glittering con-
sumer culture. Vaquero was a gift of Judith and Wilbur
L. Ross, Jr., Anne and Ronald Abramson, and Thelma
and Melvin Lenkin.

In March, the museum unveiled Singing Head by
Elizabeth Catlett, one of the country’s foremost black
sculptors and an outspoken advocate of popular taste
and needs in aesthetic matters. A small, representative
selection of Catlett’s sculpture from Washington, D.C.
area collections was on view in the museum lobby
through March along with Singing Head.

Ernest Tino Trova’s FM/5’ AWF #3 represents the
artist’s recapitulation of his “Falling Man” sculpture
series, with its title an abbreviated reference to that se-
ries and to a subgroup devoted to “A Walking Figure.”
Trova’s work reflects his interest in the dream-inspired
images of surrealism and corresponds both to pop art’s
simplified surfaces and to industrial design.

A special strength of the museum is its collection of
African American art from the nineteenth century
through the present, which was dramatically enhanced
during 1990 by the acquisition of paintings by Lois
Mailou Jones, Romare Bearden, Jacob Lawrence, and
Frederick Brown. Other acquisitions include works by
twentieth-century artists Arthur Dove and George Le-
Grady and photographer Mark Klett. In honor of
NMAA’s exhibition of the work of Man Ray, Paysage
Mauve—an early watercolor by the artist—was do-
nated to the museum by the Man Ray Trust. Also of
significance were the acquisitions of two rare examples
of nineteenth-century painting: The Trial of Red Jacket
by John Mix Stanley and Washington Allston’s Hermia
and Helen (1818).
Research Resources and Activities

The museum continues to develop new and unique data
bases that are made available to researchers from a va-
riety of disciplines. The Inventory of American Sculp-
ture continues to grow, with 5,000 records added dur-
ing 1990. A mailing to 1,000 corporate collectors
continued solicitation of new information on outdoor
sculpture throughout the United States. Extensive
preparation culminated in the transfer of the first of
260,000 records of the Inventory of American Paintings
into the Smithsonian Bibliographic Information System
(SIBIS).

The museum’s Photograph Archives received approx-
imately 10,000 new prints from the Peter A. Juley and
Son Collection. With assistance from the Research Re-
sources Program, the museum began printing images
from its Walter Rosenblum Collection. The negatives
were produced by Rosenblum, a freelance photogra-
pher whose clientele included galleries, artists, and col-
lectors in New York from the postwar period through
the early 1960s.

To celebrate the 2oth anniversary of NMAA’s schol-
ars program, a symposium—“‘Hindsights and Insights:
Scholarship in American Art, 1970—1990”’—focused on
new methodologies and cultural perspectives that have
developed over the past two decades. Thirty Smithson-
ian fellows and visiting scholars were present, repre-
senting universities across the United States, as well as
France and Australia.

Twenty-four students representing 17 states and the
District of Columbia participated in this year’s Intern
Program. An increasing number of students from
abroad are applying for internships; this year, two in-
terns came from Japan, two from Germany, and one
from Italy.

The annual Charles C. Eldredge Prize for outstanding
scholarship in the history of American art was estab-
lished by the American Art Forum, a patrons’ support
organization of NMAA, in honor of the former direc-
tor of the museum. This year’s joint recipients of the
$2,000 prize were Alan Trachtenberg, professor of
American studies and English at Yale University, and
Michael Fried, professor of the history of art and direc-
tor of the Humanities Center at the John Hopkins Uni-
versity.

Outstanding works from the museum’s wide-ranging

publications program included Photography of Inven-
tion: American Pictures of the 1980s (copublished with
MIT Press) and an NMAA brochure on the work of
sculptor Paul Manship. Both received awards of excel-
lence from the American Federation of Arts. Receiving
an Award of Distinction from the American Associa-
tion of Museums was the museum’s scholarly journal
Smithsonian Studies in American Art, copublished
quarterly with Oxford University Press. Copublished
with Smithsonian Institution Press was Made with Pas-
sion: The Hemphill Folk Art Collection in the National
Museum of American Art, which appeared in conjunc-
tion with the Hemphill collection exhibition. Visual Po-
etry: The Drawings of Joseph Stella was also published
by Smithsonian Institution Press for the exhibition of
the artist’s work.

Collections Management

More than 36,000 records of the museum’s permanent
collection were transferred into a new multifile data
base. Staff efforts were devoted to defining standards
for recording information, converting text from upper
to mixed case, resolving problems caused by ambiguous
and incomplete data, and consolidating variant artist
names.

Education and Public Programs

The Office of Educational Programs continued to ex-
pand its public programs and educational endeavors,
especially in the area of wider audience development.
For Black History Month, NMAA presented “The Sto-
ryteller,” a performance that examined the morals, val-
ues, and survival techniques of African Americans dur-
ing the colonial period; an illustrated lecture, “The
Inspirational Sculpture of William Edmondson,” and a
program of poetry, stories, and song about Martin Lu-
ther King Jr., Harriet Tubman, Malcolm X, and other
black leaders called ‘““Wake ’em ’n’ tell °em.”’ Asian/Pa-
cific American Heritage Week was celebrated by a
demonstration of Japanese brush and wood block
painting. For Hispanic Heritage Month, NMAA offered
folk art demonstrations by two Hispanic American art-
ists and a lecture on Hispanic art by Luis Cancel, direc-
tor of the Bronx Museum, New York.
Outreach activities included participation in the D.C.
Cultural Consortium collaboration with the Martin Lu-
ther King Library for the Blind and Physically Handi-
capped and design of an intergenerational art program
for lona House Health Center and the Mater Amoris
Montessori School. A new docent recruitment program
attracted many minority candidates.

In conjunction with the special exhibition “The Patri-
cia and Phillip Frost Collection: American Abstraction
1930-1945," NMAA presented a panel discussion, lec-
tures, a family mask-making workshop, and a ballet
performance by the Amherst Ballet Theater. Two thou-
sand people attended a Family Day celebration held for
the exhibition ‘Treasures of American Folk Art from
the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Center,” featur-
ing music, dancing, workshops, and a magic show.

A symposium organized by the museum and the
Smithsonian Conservation Analytical Laboratory ex-
plored conservation issues and technical studies related
to the Albert Pinkham Ryder exhibition. Educational
resource materials developed in 1990 included a tour
booklet, a teacher guide to the Irving Penn exhibition,
a family activity guide for the Rockefeller folk art exhi-
bition, an art quiz to be sold in the museum shops, a
student handbook for the Hemphill folk art exhibition,
and slides and text for art curricula in the Fairfax
County, Virginia, and Prince George’s County, Mary-
land, school districts. A two-month Career Awareness
Program was developed for 15 high school students
from the District of Columbia public school system,
and special activities were inaugurated for four D.C.
inner-city schools.

National Museum of
American History

In 1989-90, the National Museum of American His-
tory (NMAH) celebrated 25 years of bringing Ameri-
can history to the American people. In this silver anni-
versary year, the museum opened its largest exhibition
to date, “Information Age: People, Information, &
Technology.” As it has for the past six years, the mu-
seum continued rebuilding itself from the inside out,
closing sections of the building in succession for a com-
plete renovation of the heating, ventilating, air condi-
tioning, and fire-protection systems—without closing
its doors to the public. In October, Roger G. Kennedy
celebrated his roth anniversary as director.

Exhibitions

“Information Age,” a 14,000-square-foot exhibition
that traces the evolution of information-processing and
communications technologies from the 1830s to the
present, opened on May 9, 1990. Through the presen-
tation of more than 7oo artifacts, nearly as many
graphics, films, radio recordings, more than 40 com-
puter-driven video stations, and a 12-screen ‘‘video-
wall,” the exhibition helps visitors explore how infor-
mation technology has changed our society during the
past 150 years. The objects on display range from one
of Samuel F. B. Morse’s earliest telegraphs and a piece
of the first transatlantic telegraph cable to modern per-
sonal computers and an industrial robot. In its use of
sophisticated state-of-the-art technology, “Information
Age”’ is the most ambitious interactive show the Smith-
sonian has ever done and a revolutionary approach to
alternative learning in museum exhibitions. Visitors can
talk over a telephone wire used by Alexander Graham
Bell, analyze their fingerprints with computers, and
touch a video screen to ask questions of famous inven-
tors. At the entrance to the exhibition, visitors pick up
brochures bearing individual bar codes. The brochures
let visitors choose among interactive workstations
throughout the exhibition and print out a personalized
record of their visits and their activities as they leave.

“Information Age” received approximately $10 mil-
lion in financial support and equipment from a consor-
tium of corporations. More than 500,000 people vis-
ited the exhibition in its first four months.

The museum opened 16 other exhibitions this year,
including “From Parlor to Politics: Women and Reform
in America, 1890-1925,” which explored how women
of the Progressive Era led the fight against overcrowded
cities, poverty, alcoholism, child labor, public health
hazards, poor working conditions, and other emerging
social problems. “Quilts: A Selection from the National
Collection” displayed 28 quilts made of silk, velvet,
wool, satin, and even bits of old military uniforms and
described the lives and talents of the people who made
them, from young girls and grandmothers to a soldier
stationed in Alaska and a British seaman. “‘Go Forth
and Serve: Black Land Grant Colleges Entering a Sec-
ond Century” examined the long history and contribu-
tions of black land grant colleges, and ““VSJ—Varrio
San José: Scenes from an Urban Chicano Experience,”
an exhibition of photographs by Miguel Gandert, de-
picted contemporary Hispanic life in an Albuquerque,
New Mexico, neighborhood. “Icons of Invention,” an
exhibition of American patent models, was organized
by NMAH and displayed at the National Portrait Gal-
lery, which is located in the Old Patent Office Building.
The exhibition marked the zooth anniversary of the es-
tablishment of the U.S. Patent Office and was sup-
ported by grants from the Foundation for a Creative
America and the Association for Japan—U.S. Commu-
nity Exchange.

Collections

From a dragster to a silver tea service, the museum this
year added thousands of objects to its collections.
Among these are the Edward Orth World’s Fair Collec-
tion, which includes more than 3,000 objects from the
1939 fair in New York City and a large quantity of ar-
chival material. The addition of these artifacts gives the
museum one of the world’s most comprehensive hold-
ings of materials on this fair. Benny Goodman’s clari-
net; a Yamaha computer-driven piano, one of the first
of its kind; and the Eubanks Collection of 150 photo-
graphs documenting the origin and evolution of the
Black Panther Party in Oakland, California, also joined
the collections. Other acquisitions include the Sentry
Tachs & Gauges Olds Cutlass Funny Car, winner of
the 1988 National Hot Rod Association Funny Car
Class championship, donated by Bruce Larson; the flag
of the Second South Carolina Regiment, made in 1776,
captured by the British in 1779, and purchased from

England jointly by the Smithsonian and the state of
South Carolina; a 1963 prototype computerized axial
tomography (CAT) scanner, developed by A. M. Cor-
mack and donated by Tufts University; and a 1921
Ford Model T mail car equipped with skis and tanklike
treads for mail service in the winter, used in Central
Square, New York, between 1921 and 1930.

Part of the responsibility of collecting and exhibiting
the material heritage of the American people is the
work of collections management and preservation. Cat-
aloguing, insuring, moving, lending, shipping, storing,
and tracking objects all fall under the purview of the
Office of the Registrar. Appropriate facilities are the
first step in preserving collections. In fiscal r989—90,
teams of staff from the registrar’s office, curatorial de-
partments, the Division of Conservation, and the Office
of the Building Manager removed more than 70,000
objects from storage and display as part of the mu-
seum’s master plan for the reinstallation of exhibitions
and the renovation of the building.

To make way for the new Experimental Gallery in
the Arts and Industries Building, several thousand ob-
jects in the 1876 Centennial exhibition were returned
to lenders or to storage or placed on exhibit in
NMAH. Other members of the registrar’s staff concen-
trated on preparing and filling an additional 12,000
square feet of leased warehouse space for objects dis-
placed by renovations at the museum. Financial re-
straints slowed asbestos removal and renovations of
other storage facilities, although even in these buildings
objects needed for exhibitions or loans were cleaned
and transferred. The Office of the Registrar also sup-
ported the processing of 28,850 acquisitions and more
than 5,600 loans to 4o states and 3 foreign nations;
supported 8 exhibitions of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service; prepared and packed
toys, dolls, textiles, patent models, and other objects
for the move to the Museum Support Center in Suit-
land, Maryland; and completed work on separating
and rehousing files held by the Smithsonian Archives to
make original collections documentation readily avail-
able to the museum. A new Master Plan for Accounta-
bility provides detailed timelines and resource alloca-
tions for reducing backlogs in registration and
cataloguing, as well as for improving collections stor-
age and accessibility.

In addition to the everyday work of keeping the mu-

129
C-3PO and R2-D2, characters from the film Star Wars, stand with a robot
used to manufacture automobiles. All three are on display in “‘Information
Age: People, Information & Technology” at the National Museum of Ameri-
can History. (Photograph by Laurie Minor)

seum’s computers up and running, the Computer Ser-
vices Center (CSC) is an indispensable partner in collec-
tions management. CSC and the registrar’s office
jointly designed and produced the museum’s in-house
data base, called the Local Collections Information Sys-
tem. New features added this year include computer-
ized accession memoranda and catalogue cards, as well
as improvements in security. The portable system is es-
pecially useful for work away from the museum and
for tracking the movement of collections. CSC also
completed its initial work on the museum’s Information
Architecture Project, a detailed, multiyear study of in-
terrelated functions within the museum, and began
using the results to develop software for a comprehen-
sive data base for collections research and management,
the Collections Information System. CSC also com-
pleted development of a computer system to process

older Smithsonian inventory files on-line on the mu-
seum’s central minicomputer. The new system increases
accessibility of the records by allowing the museum to
withdraw files from the Smithsonian central computer
system. The work began with the transfer of records of
30,000 objects in the textiles collection.

Exhibitions, the movement of collections, and time
itself take a toll on every museum object. Counteract-
ing the wear and tear on artifacts is the work of the
museum’s conservators. The Division of Conservation
completed preparations for a new laboratory to provide
for the needs of more than 40,000 textile and costume
objects, including historic flags, uniforms, and the first
ladies’ gowns. Construction is scheduled to begin in

January 1991. The new laboratory will allow some ac-

celeration of a pilot project for the rehousing and stabi-
lization of more than 400,000 objects in the graphic,
archival, and photographic collections, an effort that
will extend well into the next century. More than 7,700
documents, maps, and World War II posters and 4,500
ship plans and drawings were surveyed, rehoused, and
stabilized by conservation and curatorial division staff.
Some 2,250 objects required intensive or specialized
treatment in the laboratories of the division, including
George Washington’s tent, which needed 450 hours of
painstaking cleaning using custom-fabricated rollers
and a vacuum suction table, and the massive early
computer ENIAC, which required 530 hours of prepa-
ration for the “Information Age”’ exhibition.

The museum’s Archives Center catalogues and cares
for large collections of photographic and paper artifacts
and develops new resources for scholars and research-
ers. Two important collections on the history of the
piano in America were prepared for research use this
year: the photographs, manufacturing records, and re-
lated artifacts of Sohmer & Company, a New York
City piano manufacturer, and of the Pratt-Read Corpo-
ration, a Connecticut manufacturer of ivory keys and
piano actions, span the years 1839 to 1989 and docu-
ment the technical and social history of this industry.
With funds from the Smithsonian’s Research Resources
Program, the center began organizing the Underwood
& Underwood collection of 28,000 glass-plate photo-
graphs and preparing them for reproduction on video-
disc. The Center for Advertising History, part of the
Archives Center, completed documentation projects on
Campbell’s Soup and Cover Girl advertising and began
a similar project on Nike advertising. A new corporate
sponsorship program has brought additional resources
for this unit’s research, documentation, and interpreta-
tion of advertising history. The Archives Center hosted
an oral history conference of 25 engineers, program-
mers, and marketing representatives for the UNIVAC
computer, one of the most significant information pro-
cessing innovations of the 1950s. The recorded recol-
lections of these computer pioneers will be available for
researchers, adding substantially to the museum’s
strong collections in this field. Funding from the Unisys
Corporation and support by the Charles Babbage Insti-
tute at the University of Minnesota made the confer-
ence possible.

In the work of relocating collections, installing exhi-
bitions, and renovating the museum, the Office of the
Building Manager always plays a part. The office bears

the major responsibility for planning and overseeing the
museum’s master renovation plan, as well as for sched-
uling and coordinating lengthy projects such as the re-
moval of asbestos and the replacement of transformers
containing PCBs. As a measure of distinction and grati-
tude for their service and support, the rigging workers
in the building manager’s office this year received the
first annual Director’s Award.

Research and Scholarship

The research of curators and other staff members lays
the groundwork for the museum’s exhibitions, publica-
tions, and other programs. Books published this year
by museum staff include Greek Revival America by
Roger G. Kennedy, museum director; Men and
Women: A History of Costume, Gender, and Power by
Barbara Clark Smith and Kathy Peiss; Street Railways
and the Growth of Los Angeles by Robert Post; and
Icons of Invention: American Patent Models edited by
Barbara Janssen.

In December 1990, the Department of the History of
Science and Technology received a $4 million grant
from the American Chemical Society for “Science in
American Life,” a major exhibition on the historical re-
lationship between science and society to open in 1993.
Research and planning for that exhibition are under
way. A four-person team traveled to Guyana, South
America, on a goodwill mission for the Smithsonian’s
Office of International Relations and the U.S. Informa-
tion Agency. The trip involved surveying—and repair-
ing where possible—that country’s tower clocks, rare
survivors in this hemisphere of nineteenth-century
“public” clock technology. The department’s American
Indian Program collaborated with Hampton University
in Hampton, Virginia, on an exhibition, publication,
and symposium titled ‘“To Live and to Learn: Indian
Education at Hampton Institute, 1870-1923.” As part
of the Smithsonian Videohistory Program, department
staff produced a video interview with two of the lead-
ing twentieth-century manufacturers of small arms, Eu-
gene Stoner of the United States and Mikhail Timofey-
evich Kalashnikov of the Soviet Union.

Here and abroad, scholars in the department delivy-
ered lectures and papers that reflect the breadth of their
continuing research. Ramunas A. Kondratas traveled to

131
Moscow in March to deliver a lecture on “The Medical
Collections of the Smithsonian Institution.” Audrey
Davis spoke on “Medical Historical Museums” at the
Johns Hopkins History of Medicine Colloquium. G.
Terry Sharrer gave the keynote address, ‘‘Virginia Agri-
culture, A.D. 2020,” at a conference organized by Vir-
ginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, and
Paul F. Johnston spoke at the Explorers Club in New
York City on “Treasure Diving: Nautical Archaeology
and the Sale of Artifacts.”

The Department of Social and Cultural History this
year focused its efforts on broadening the audience it
serves and expanding twentieth-century holdings and
research activities. The accomplishments of Bernice
Johnson Reagon, who received a John D. and Cather-
ine T. MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, epitomized
these activities. With the added flexibility the award
provided, she intensified her documentation and collec-
tion project, which centers on African American com-
munities in Southwest Georgia and the Washington,
D.C., metropolitan area. Her approach to collecting
through case studies prompted the department to study
this technique as a model for cooperative collecting of
culturally diverse twentieth-century artifacts. The Divi-
sion of Musical History echoed this twentieth-century
orientation by sponsoring and developing a working
agreement with the Rhythm and Blues Foundation,
which publicly recognizes the contributions of older
performers and seeks to collect related artifacts. The
Chamber Music Program released a new set of record-
ings of the music of J. S. Bach, performed on original
instruments and published to critical acclaim both in
the United States and Europe. In May, the Division of
Costume hosted the annual meeting and symposium of
the Costume Society of America.

As a result of critical evaluations of the effectiveness
of older exhibitions, “‘After the Revolution: Everyday
Life in America, 1780-1800” has been temporarily
closed for content and design revisions. A special ‘‘chil-
dren’s track” for younger visitors is under development
for “Field to Factory: Afro-American Migration 1915—
1940.” The lessons learned from these exhibitions will
be incorporated into future efforts, including a reinter-
pretation of the first ladies exhibition, which will place
the lives of these important women in a broader social
and political context, and a large permanent exhibition,
“Land of Promise: America in the Nineteenth Cen-

tury.”’ Staff members from both of the museums’ cura-
torial departments and the Department of Public Pro-
grams continued work on “‘American Encounters,” an
exhibition being readied for the Columbus Quincenten-
ary.

The National Philatelic Collection organized several
exhibitions this year, including the largest display of
philatelic rarities ever presented outside the museum,
for the World Stamp Expo held in late 1989. For the
International Congress of the Universal Postal Union,
staff prepared a 24-case exhibition that also featured
six historic vehicles from the museum’s collection. “A
Plate Proof Premier’’ treated the evolution of the collec-
tion’s unique holdings of certified plate proofs used in
the creation of U.S. postage stamps since 1894, and “A
Black Contribution to Postal History” highlighted the
service of John T. Jackson, Sr., the oldest black post-
master in the United States in the 1940s. In the area of
public programs, more than 30 different slide-lectures
produced by the collection were lent free of charge to
more than 500 civic groups, philatelic organizations,
and postal employee groups this year.

The past year was difficult for the National Numis-
matic Collection (NNC), with the death of Curator
Raymond Joseph Hebert, who since 1971 had devel-
oped the Oriental section into one of the world’s lead-
ing collections. This loss and the departure of two
collections managers brought to a halt planned
international projects on Russian and Japanese coins.
The executive director of the collection, Elvira Clain-
Stefanelli, compiled a two-volume catalogue of the ex-
hibition ““Rome at War” and started “From the Smith-
sonian,”’ a column on the NNC that appears in Coin
World, the world’s largest numismatic tabloid. Curator
Cory Gillilland completed the manuscript for the first
volume in a series on the holdings of the NNC, to be
published in 1991. Three traveling exhibitions were ar-
ranged with numismatic materials from the NNC, and
Gillilland brought to the museum a traveling show ti-
tled “Teaching Medallic Art.”

Among the four issues of American Quarterly pub-
lished by the Office of Academic Programs was a spe-
cial issue, “Cultural Criticism in America,” which
emerged from a joint conference held by the office and
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
in June 1988. This year, the office coorganized and
produced the conference ‘““Key to Empowerment? The
Voting Rights Act of 1965” with the museum’s Pro-
gram in African American Culture and the Department
of History at American University, Washington, D.C.
Assistant Director for Academic Programs Gary Kulik
served on the U.S.-Mexico Commission on Cultural
Cooperation.

During the past year, the Afro-American Communi-
ties Project has conducted research into the relationship
between African Americans and the immigrant German
and Irish populations during the nineteenth century in
Chicago and Buffalo, New York. Project Director
James O. Horton and Harmut Keil of the University of
Munich delivered a paper on the topic at the March
1990 meeting of the Organization of American Histori-
ans in Washington, D.C. The project is also conducting
research into the family lives of black seamen in New
Bedford, Massachusetts, and Philadelphia during the
antebellum years.

The April 1990 publication by Scholarly Resources,
Inc., of the 15-reel microfilm set of the Papers of Rob-
ert Mills culminated the museum’s five-year program to
make the writings of the architect of the Washington
Monument and other important buildings available for
scholarly research. The project involved collaboration
with the Universities of lowa and South Carolina and
support from the National Endowment for the Human-
ities, the National Historical Publications and Records
Commission, and other organizations.

Public Programs

In addition to collecting, preserving, investigating, and
exhibiting the material heritage of the American people,
the museum also seeks to reconstruct more elusive
pieces of the past through music, drama, and oral heri-
tage. Highlights of the year’s activities in the Depart-
ment of Public Programs included the Program in Afri-
can American Culture’s presentation of “‘African
American Dance: Beauty, Rhythm, and Power,” dedi-
cated to the late Alvin Ailey. The program examined
the roots and development of African American dance,
its impact on contemporary American dance forms, and
the social, psychological, and political basis of popular
dance. In celebration of International Women’s Month,
“No Crystal Stair: African American Women at Work”
reviewed the history and status of African American

women in the work force. ‘““Deep River: Praise Songs
from My People,” held in May, traced the influence of
gospel music on the development of jazz and included
performances by the David Murray Quartet and the
Wesley Boyd Gospel Choir. The Jazz in the Palm Court
series this year offered performances that focused on
the music of Duke Ellington, ranging from a study of
Ellington’s solo piano work to the influence of his
music on tap dancing.

The department’s Division of Museum Programs pre-
sented more than roo performances of music, dance,
storytelling, films, and evening discussions with Wash-
ington, D.C.—area authors. The programs included a
two-week series on country dance and song in America
celebrating the legacy of English folklorist Cecil Sharp;
music of contemporary American classical composers
performed by the Twentieth-Century Consort; a tribute
to Mabel Mercer and cabaret music featuring singer
Margaret Whiting; and a celebration of rhythm and
blues music with a performance by Sam Moore of the
renowned duo Sam and Dave.

During Super Week, a project funded by the Smith-
sonian Special Exhibition Fund for expanding visitor
involvement with museum exhibitions, the Education
Division produced three new interpretive programs, in-
cluding live drama, demonstration carts, and self-guides
for children and families. The division also inaugurated
an Exhibition Preview Area to test visitors’ reactions to
the ideas and display techniques of upcoming exhibi-
tions. Another new effort of the division is an eight-
week training program for its too weekday volunteers.
Through workshops, lectures, and a comprehensive in-
terpreter’s manual, the program is aimed at strengthen-
ing daily tour and demonstration programs and enlarg-
ing the audience they serve. New methods for
captioning the audiovisual programs for hearing-im-
paired visitors were implemented with a grant from the
Smithsonian’s Special Exhibition Fund. The division
also produced public programs on former First Lady
Lou Henry Hoover, documentary photography, new
trends in manufacturing, and freedom of the press, as
well as a week-long Holiday Celebration and a 25th
anniversary celebration featuring presentations by mu-
seum staff on behind-the-scenes operations.

In times of shrinking federal resources, the museum
depends ever more heavily on support from outside the
Institution. The Office of External Affairs, which en-

cae)
compasses public affairs, special events, and develop-
ment activities, is charged with attracting financial sup-
port for the museum’s projects and bringing word of
the museum’s work to the public. This year proved to
be extremely productive with more than go press con-
ferences, special fund-raising projects, exhibition open-
ings, and receptions. The Friends of first ladies was cre-
ated as a support group to raise $2 million for the first
ladies exhibition and has been endorsed by each of the
living first ladies. The highlight of the group’s first
event was a visit with Barbara Bush at the White
House. The office also organized an event at the Hard
Rock Cafe in New York City to announce the creation
of the John Hammond Fund for the Performance of
American Music. This permanent endowment fund will
enable the museum to offer free public performances of
a wide variety of American music. Early contributors to
the fund, which has an initial goal of $5 million, in-
clude Bruce Springsteen and Stevie Ray Vaughan.

Singer Michael Jackson toured the museum this year.
Former Prime Minister Takeshita of Japan also paid a
special visit, as did dignitaries from Mexico and Gam-
bia. The museum once again hosted the National En-
dowment for the Humanities Jefferson Lecture recep-
tion, as well as a reception inaugurating the premiere
season of “Invention,” a television series produced by
the Discovery Channel in cooperation with the Smith-
sonian.

National Museum of
Natural History/National
Museum of Man

The National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man (NMNH) is the nation’s major re-
search museum, supporting scholarly investigations in
anthropology and the natural sciences by 118 staff sci-
entists, by visiting scholars and students from all over
the world, and by 31 resident scientists from affiliated
agencies with closely related functions (U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, National Marine Fisheries Service,
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Survey, U.S. Geological Service,
and National Institutes of Health). The extensive re-
search program, conducted in the field and laboratory,
depends heavily on the museum’s collection of docu-
mented artifacts and specimens of plants, animals, fos-
sils, rocks, and minerals—the largest and most valuable
natural history and anthropological collections in the
world. The collection now numbers more than 120 mil-
lion items.

The museum shares its work with the scholarly com-
munity through publications, symposia, and scholarly
exchanges and with the public through exhibitions,
popular publications, public forums, and educational
programs. Testifying to the success of the public pro-
grams were the approximately 6 million visitors to the
museum in 1990, making NMNH by far the most fre-
quently visited natural history museum in the world.

Research
Global Change in Earth History

In conjunction with Earth Day 1990, the museum pre-
sented a series of briefings on the history of global
change to members of Congress, science administrators,
the press, and the public. The talks were organized by
a museum research team that is determining the kinds
of disruptions terrestrial ecosystems have experienced
during the Earth’s history. Their data, gathered from
the fossil record in museums and research institutes
throughout the world, establish that in 400 millon
years the Earth has experienced repeated episodes of
global warming and cooling, with such consequences as
extinction and deforestation.

Leading the team’s presentations were anthropologist
Richard Potts and paleobiologists Kay Behrensmeyer,
William DiMichele, Brian Huber, and Scott Wing.
Other museum researchers added perspectives on past
and possible future changes in ocean circulation, ocean
productivity, sea level, paleoclimatic influences, and the
impact of early humans on terrestrial and marine eco-
systems.

Museum volcanologist Tom Simkin is the senior au-
thor of “This Dynamic Planet,” a five-foot-wide color
wall map that shows the Earth’s volcanoes, earthquake
epicenters, and boundaries and movements of the large
tectonic plates that make up the Earth’s crust. Pub-
lished in 1990 by the U.S. Geological Survey in collab-
oration with the museum, the map is intended as a gen-
eral reference and as a teaching aid for classroom use.
The map and its explanatory text pinpoint nearly 1,450
volcanoes active during the past 10,000 years along
with 141,300 earthquakes from as far back as 1897.

The map was generated by computer from data col-
lected by the museum’s Global Volcanism Program
(GVP), the leading source of information in the world
on volcanism. GVP operates the Global Volcanism Net-
work (GVN, formerly SEAN), a unique worldwide re-
porting network that now includes more than 550 for-
eign correspondents. GVN reports on eruptions, large
and small, are read by tens of thousands of people each
month.

Philippine Research

In April and May of 1990, Ernani Menez, director of
the museum-administered Smithsonian Oceanographic
Sorting Center, in collaboration with four scientists
from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and the
University of Utah, collected deep-sea benthic (floor-
dwelling) marine plants and invertebrate animals in the
Philippines that will be screened for naturally occurring
anticancer substances. This work, which was supported
by the Smithsonian and the National Cancer Institute,
followed the signing of a memorandum of understand-
ing between the Philippine government and the Smith-
sonian in November 1989, reaffirming past cooperative
efforts and promising new collaboration.

Human Ecological History

The museum’s Human Ecological History Program
seeks to document and place in perspective the turning
points in humankind’s long history of changing the

Earth’s environment, from the origin of humans
through the agricultural revolution to the development
of modern urban life. Highlights of the program in-
clude Richard Potts’s important research at Olorgesaili
in Kenya’s Great Rift Valley, which was featured in a
March 1990 Science article. The site sheds light on one
of the most interesting and least understood periods of
human evolution—the mid-Pleistocene—when Homo
erectus, a large-brained hominid species that lived
300,000 to 1.7 million years ago, roamed the region
and probably had begun its expansion into Asia and
other parts of the world. Potts and his colleagues are in
the vanguard of paleoanthropologists who are inter-
ested in doing more than just excavating isolated sites
of bones and artifacts. His team is digging trenches the
entire three-mile length of the site to reconstruct the
context of the landscape—climate, plants, and wild-
life—in which the hominids lived in an effort to figure
out patterns of early human behavior.

In another research finding from the program, Bruce
Smith reported in a December 1989 Science article that
the prehistoric Indians of eastern North America began
growing several types of wild plants for food as early
aS 4,000 years ago and were farming their own native
crops for hundreds of years before maize (corn) was
first brought here from Central America. This new evi-
dence establishes the region as one of the half-dozen
areas of the world where agriculture is now thought to
have originated independently and challenges the long-
standing belief that North Americans learned farming
techniques from their more technologically advanced
southern neighbors, who are known to have domesti-
cated corn and squash.

Biodiversity Studies

The museum’s Biodiversity Program in Amazonia and
other regions of the New World tropics expanded in
1989—90 in response to growing concern about the ac-
celerating destruction of forests and other habitats. A
new director, Don Wilson of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, was appointed.

The Biological Diversity of Tropical Latin America
(BIOLAT) program, now in its fourth year, is con-
cerned with inventorying, understanding and preserving
the species richness of tropical rainforests. Long-term
This team of global change ex-
perts at the National Museum of
Natural History is working on a
project of breathtaking immens-
ity: reconstructing the entire his-
tory of plant and animal life on
land over the last 400 million
years. Kay Behrensmeyer and
Martin Buzas are seated at the
table. Behind them are, from
left, Rick Potts, Dennis Stanford,
William DiMichele, Ian Macin-
tyre, Tom Simkin, Brian Huber,
and Scott Wing. (Photo by Eric
Long)

surveys, in progress in Bolivia and Peru, were extended
to Ecuador in 1990. A training workshop in Biological
Collecting and Systematics was held in Lima, Peru, in
1990 for 150 Peruvians and Bolivians.

The Biological Diversity of the Guianas (BDG) pro-
gram, directed by botanist Vicki Funk, completed a se-
ries of plant collecting trips in Guiana in 1989-90, in-
cluding excursions up the Cuyuni and Canje rivers, to
the town of Ituny, and to the Rupununi savanna.

The Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments (BDFF)
project, transferred to the Smithsonian from the World
Wildlife Fund in 1989, is located at sites near Manaus,
Brazil. For a decade, scientists there have studied the
changes that occur in the Amazonian rainforest ecosys-
tems of Brazil as human development encroaches. This
project is now recognized for its major contributions to
the relatively new field of conservation biology. The
known history of the forest-clearing and the secondary
growth at BDFF sites offer an unequaled opportunity
to study the processes involved in habitat fragmenta-
tion and forest regeneration.

Arctic Studies Center

The museum’s Arctic Studies Center, established in
1988, is dedicated to the study of arctic and subarctic
people, cultures, and environments. It serves scholars,
the public, and northern peoples and communities
throughout the circumpolar world.

In July 1990, the center organized an expedition by a
joint U.S.-Canadian survey team, led by museum ar-
chaeologist William Fitzhugh, to begin the first stage of
a multiyear archaeological study of Martin Frobisher’s

base camp at Kodlunarn Island, Frobisher Bay, off
southeastern Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic.
Frobisher, an Elizabethan explorer, made three voyages
to the Arctic between 1576 and 1578 in search of the
Northwest Passage and gold, finding neither. As the
first English establishment on the soil of the New
World and the most significant documented early con-
tact between Europeans and the Inuit, Kodlunarn Is-
land is a site of international historical importance. In
addition to investigating the remains of the Frobisher
mines and camps, the project will study the impact of
early European contact on sixteenth-century Inuit (Es-
kimo) culture of southeast Baffin Island. Preliminary re-
sults from the 1990 fieldwork reveal that many Inuit
archaeological sites of this period contain extensive evi-
dence of European material goods dating to the Fro-
bisher expeditions.

Other Expeditions and Research Activities

Oceanographer Daniel Stanley continued his long-term
investigation of coastal plain subsidence, sea-level rise,
coastal retreat, and saline groundwater intrusion in the
Nile Delta. He reported in 1990 that the delta is
undergoing substantial sinking—as much as one-fifth
of an inch per year in the Port-Said region near the
Suez Canal—causing serious erosion and invasion of
salt water, which is already severely limiting agricul-
ture. This area is Egypt’s major agricultural breadbas-
ket for its rapidly growing population, which exceeds
55 million people. Stanley’s program, now in its sixth
year, is a collaborative effort with 12 other laboratories
in North America, Europe, and Egypt to identify those
sectors of the delta that can still reasonably be pro-
tected as the changes occur.

In May, the museum made its sixth expedition to Al-
dabra Island, a remote atoll in the western Indian
Ocean accessible only by ship. Considered one of the
world’s great natural wonders, it harbors the only sur-
viving colonies of the Indian Ocean giant tortoise—a
population that has now grown to 160,0o00—as well as
large numbers of other unique plant and animal spe-
cies. Among the seven scientists on the trip were
George Zug and lan Swingland, who have begun a
multiyear study of the tortoise’s nesting behavior and
rates of growth.

In the Bocas Del Toro Archipelago, a maze of
hundreds of biologically unexplored islands, reefs, and
mangrove swamps off Panama’s northwestern Carib-
bean coast, museum scientists are discovering extraor-
dinary numbers of relatively newly evolved birds, mam-
mals, reptiles, and amphibians. In the spring,
mammalogist Charles Handley led the museum’s fourth
expedition to this archipelago, including ornithologists,
herpetologists, a botanist, and mammalogists.

Notable Publications

Northwest Coast (Smithsonian Institution Press), the
ninth in the museum’s projected 20-volume ency-
clopedic Handbook of North American Indians, was
published in September 1990. The 58 chapters were
written by 59 anthropologists and historians. The vol-
ume, edited by Wayne Suttles of Portland State Univer-
sity in Oregon, summarizes present knowledge of the
environment, prehistory, languages, and environmental
relations of the native peoples of coastal Oregon,
Washington, British Columbia, and southeast Alaska.

Museum botanist Warren Wagner is the senior au-
thor of the two-volume Manual of the Flowering Plants
of Hawaii (University of Hawaii and Bishop Museum
Press). The first such treatise in 100 years, it is a cru-
cial reference work on an island ecosystem in which
many of the plant species are becoming extinct.

Guide to the Marine Isopod Crustaceans of the Ca-
ribbean (Smithsonian Institution Press), was written by
marine zoologist Brian Kensley with illustrations by the
museum’s Marilyn Schotte.

Creativity of Power: Cosmology and Action in Afri-

can Societies (Smithsonian Institution Press) contains
12 essays that explore the concepts of power, action,
and human agency in African social systems and cos-
mologies. The volume is coedited by ethnologist Ivan
Karp.

Marine zoologist M. G. Harasewych is the author of
Shells from the Sea (Rizzoli International), which dis-
cusses the origin, evolution, and diversity of 600 se-
lected sea shells drawn from the spectacular William D.
Bledsoe Shell Collection, donated to the museum in
1988.

Museum mammalogist Louise Emmons wrote the
text for Neotropical Rainforest Mammals: A Field
Guide (University of Chicago Press), the first color-il-
lustrated guide of its kind.

The Mississippian Emergence, edited by archaeologist
Bruce Smith, is a collection of essays by rx leading
scholars on the development of the Mississippi Valley
Indian cultures in the Midwest and Southeast during
the period A.D. 700-1200.

Conferences and Workshops

Museum scholars played a major role in organizing and
hosting the Sixth International Conference of the Inter-
national Council for Archaeozoology, which was at-
tended by 250 scientists from around the world in May
1990.

Fifteen hundred scientists from 39 countries attended
the Fourth International Congress of Systematic and
Evolutionary Biology in July 1990, cosponsored by the
Smithsonian Institution and the University of Mary-
land. Museum botanists Stanwyn Shetler and Vicki
Funk served on the local organizing committee and ar-
ranged a symposium on biodiversity.

The second Mexican Bee Workshop was held in
April 1990 in Hermosillo, Mexico. Organized by Mexi-
can and U.S. scientists with funding provided by the
Smithsonian, the workshops are an outgrowth of a co-
operative program on the bees of Mexico started in
1985 with museum entomologist Ronald McGinley as
one of the organizers. The 1990 gathering emphasized
biological studies, including pollination ecology and
nesting biology.

Following a 1989 joint U.S.S.R.-U.S. expedition on a
Russian research vessel to unexplored tropical reefs of
the Seychelle Islands in the Indian Ocean, collaborative
Soviet-Smithsonian research on marine plants and cor-
als continued. In July 1990, botanists Mark and Diane
Littler, who had participated in the Seychelle cruise,
hosted a workshop on marine systematics at the mu-
seum for four Soviet colleagues. The Soviet group then
accompanied the Littlers to the Smithsonian Marine
Station at Link Port in Fort Pierce, Florida. The goal of
this visit was to survey the unique tropical marine reefs
of the Florida Keys, a region particularly important to
scientists because of the pioneering work in marine sys-
tematics conducted in these environmentally threatened
reef areas.

Smithsonian Marine Station

The Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port, Fort
Pierce, Florida, which is administered by the museum,
provides a unique opportunity for scientists to study
marine organisms. Local marine habitats include man-
groves, seagrass beds, mud and sand flats, coral reefs,
shallow- to deep-water sandy plains, and the Florida
current with its myriad tropical plankton and larvae.
These environments enable Smithsonian scientists to
conduct systematic, ecological, reproductive, and be-
havioral studies. In 1990, a five-member scientific com-
mittee from outside the Institution reviewed the pro-
gram of the research station and issued an extremely
favorable report.

In one current study at the Marine Station, the mu-
seum’s Clyde Roper heads a team conducting a long-
term investigation of the ecology and diversity of
squids, octopuses, and other cephalopods from the near
shore to the Gulf Stream waters. This seasonal sam-
pling is examining the distribution and abundance of
squid and octopod larvae in relation to temperature,
salinity, depth, and oxygen content of oceanic waters,
as well as to daily and seasonal variation.

Native American Relations

In July and August 1990, at the annual Comanche
Homecoming Powwow in Walters, Oklahoma, and at
the Crow Fair Celebration in Crow Agency, Montana,
JoAllyn Archambault, director of the museum’s Ameri-
can Indian Program, presented to tribal officials photo-

138

Powwow Committee Chairman Raymond Nauni, Sr., accepts
a historic photograph on behalf of the Comanche tribe from
JoAllyn Archambault, director of the American Indian Pro-
gram at the National Museum of Natural History. The pre-
sentation, made at the tribe’s annual Homecoming Powwow
in Walters, Oklahoma, in July, was part of an ongoing
project called the Tribal Catalog Series. The project involves
tribe members in research efforts on objects, photographs,
and paintings at the Smithsonian that are associated with that
tribe. (Photograph by Walter Bigbee)

graphs of Comanche and Crow cultural objects, as well
as copies of all historical photographs of their people in
the museum’s National Anthropological Archives.

The photo documentation is part of the museum’s
ongoing Tribal Catalog project. Comanche and Crow
tribal members have been of valuable assistance in ac-
complishing the research and photography. Eventually
copies of historical photographs will be provided for all
major U.S. tribes represented in the archives.

The passage of the National Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian Act in November 1989 provided for the
“Inventory, Identification, and Return of Indian
Human Remains and Indian Funerary Objects in Pos-
session of the Smithsonian.” As early as 1984, the
museum had begun to return objects and human re-
mains for reburial. The largest of these earlier transfers
was in 1988 when human remains removed from a ceme-
tery in 1892 by a surgeon collecting for the Army Med-
ical Museum were returned to the Blackfeet of Mon-
tana for reburial. The museum, in compliance with the
new law, is responding to other reburial requests as re-
ceived. On July 17, 1990, the remains of 81 Native
Hawaiians, identified as coming from the islands of
O’ahu, Maui, Lana’i, and Hawai’i, and unknown sites,
were turned over to the Native Hawaiian organization
Hui Malama I Na Kupuna O Hawai’i Nei. Remains
from another 133 humans from mainland Hawaii are
to be returned to a different Hawaiian organization at
a future date.

Exhibitions

“Nomads: Masters of the Eurasian Steppe”’ featured
1,400 objects from nine leading Soviet museums, illus-
trating the cultures of the nomadic people of the
steppes over a period of 3,000 years. The exhibition,
organized by the Natural History Museum of Los An-
geles County, highlighted gold treasures from fifth- to
fourth-century Scythian tombs, colorful costumes, sad-
dles, weapons, and armor.

The customs and everyday life of early Egyptian soci-
ety between about 4000 B.c. and 2700 B.c. were the
focus of “The First Egyptians.” Organized by the Uni-
versity of South Carolina’s McKissick Museum, Colum-
bia, South Carolina, the exhibition was the most com-
prehensive exposition of predynastic Egypt to date.

“Life in the Ancient Seas,”’ the first permanent exhi-
bition to focus on prehistoric marine life ever con-
structed by a major U.S. museum, opened to critical ac-
claim in May. The hall completes the 15-year
renovation of the paleontological exhibits. Among the
highlights are an 11-foot walk-around diorama of a Pa-
leozoic Era reef, 2,000 fossil specimens, and a spectacu-
lar mural (16 by 120 feet) by the noted artist Ely Kish.
Many of the creatures exhibited vanished as a conse-
quence of global change at the close of the Paleozoic
and Mesozoic eras.

In “Dinamation: Dinosaurs Alive and in Color,” an
exhibition that has captivated the younger generation
in museums around the world, visitors encountered a
variety of animated dinosaurs and other prehistoric
creatures in reconstructed natural settings and with
sound effects. The exhibition offered a glimpse of 185
million years of evolutionary history from the dawn of
the Dinosaur Age to its last days.

As part of a spring-summer dinosaur-fest, the mu-
seum presented Jim Gary’s whimsical ““Twentieth-Cen-
tury Dinosaurs.” Gary uses a welder’s torch to trans-
form parts of old automobiles into metallic, brightly
colored creatures that resemble prehistoric beasts.

“A Jeweler’s Art: Masterpieces from Van Cleef &
Arpels,” showcased 100 examples of the historical art
deco creations of the famed jewelry company. Among
the highlights were brooches, bracelets, necklaces, ear-
rings, vanity and powder boxes, watches, evening bags,
and special commissions dating from the 1920s
through the 1960s.

Two extraordinary gifts were placed on exhibition in
the Gem and Mineral Hall. A 396.30-carat kunzite
necklace, designed by Paloma Picasso, was a gift from
Tiffany & Co., and the Independent Jewelers Associa-
tion donated an almost flawless 120-pound specimen of
Brazilian, transparent smoky citrine (yellow quartz), of
extraordinary form, size, and quality.

“Native American Basket Masterpieces,” featuring
14 pieces collected by the museum before 1920, as well
as 13 contemporary masterworks, is part of the mod-
ernization of the Native American halls. Twenty-one
tribes are represented by baskets ranging from the sim-
ple and utilitarian to exquisitely decorated works de-
signed for ceremonial purposes.

In January 1990, the museum announced a $6 mil-
lion fund-raising campaign to support the construction
of “Geology, Gems, and Minerals,” a new hall that
will open in 1995. The museum’s current geology hall
is so outdated that it fails to portray plate tectonics and
continental drift, concepts that have revolutionized
Earth science. An innovative new design will integrate
specimens and processes into a single dynamic educa-
tional experience.

Education

Nineteen special weekend presentations of Native
American arts and crafts, organized by Aleta Ringlero
of the Office of Education, drew up to 1,500 visitors a
day. The artists, selected for their excellence in design
and execution and their ability to communicate with
the public, demonstrated skills reflecting their tribal
traditions. Carved Plains-style flutes, beaded dolls,
woven baskets, and carved Northwest Coast masks
were among the crafts featured.

In January 1990, the American Indian Theatre Com-
pany of Tulsa, Oklahoma, came to the museum to
present “Legends from the Fire.” The troupe’s eight ac-
tors were students from the fifth grade through junior
college and represented different Oklahoma tribes. Five

139
performances over three days drew standing-room-only
audiences of children to Baird Auditorium.

In cooperation with the Global Tomorrow Coalition
and the American Institute of Biological Sciences, the
Office of Education organized a panel of experts for
the day-long forum “Earth Day 1990: Shaping a New
Environmental Agenda.” Leading experts, including
Paul Ehrlich of Stanford University, John Holdren of
the University of California, and Smithsonian Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs Thomas E. Lovejoy, dis-
cussed how problems such as tropical deforestation and
climatic change are demanding a reordering of environ-
mental priorities. The event was coordinated by Debo-
rah Rothberg.

The Natural Science Institute for Teachers of Minor-
ity Students, a three-week summer program organized
by Carmel Ervin, was held in July r990. Funded by the
District of Columbia school system through the Dwight
D. Eisenhower Act, this program for teachers of grades
4 through 12 featured instruction on “reading” natural
history objects. Twenty-four teachers enrolled in the
course, which took them beyond the museum to the
Smithsonian’s Environmental Research Center and Na-
tional Zoo, the National Aquarium in Baltimore, and
the U.S. Geological Survey.

Nine Siberian musicians and dancers from Sakhalin
Island in the Soviet Far East performed in March in
Baird Auditorium, entertaining their audience with sto-
ries, songs, ritual dances, games, and acrobatics of the
Nanai, Orok, and Nivkh peoples. The event, coordi-
nated by Carolyn Sadler, was sponsored in collabora-
tion with the Asia Society, New York.

A “Nomad Family Day” in January, organized by
the Office of Education to accompany the exhibition
“Nomads: Masters of the Eurasian Steppe,” featured
the Office of Education’s Deb Bennett and her horse
Sadie, who demonstrated the ancient riding styles and
costumes of the Nomadic tribes of the first century A.D.
The Dark Horde, a group of “Mongol” hobbyists
dressed in Nomadic costumes, demonstrated Nomadic
crafts and read folktales to children and their parents.

Staff Changes

Robert Sullivan was appointed the museum’s associate
director for public programs.

[40

National Museum of
the American Indian

On November 28, 1989, the National Museum of the
American Indian was established with the signing of
Public Law ror1—185. It is the 15th museum in the
Smithsonian’s family of museums and galleries. The
formal transfer of the collections and assets of the Mu-
seum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, to the
Smithsonian Institution took effect on June 24.

Considered a “‘living memorial to Native Americans
and their traditions,” the museum will embody the
highest aspirations of American Indians. The center-
piece of the new museum will be the collection of more
than 1 million artifacts from the Museum of the Ameri-
can, Heye Foundation, in New York City. The collec-
tion also includes a photo archives and other resource
materials. The National Museum of the American In-
dian will have three components: the George Gustav
Heye Center, located in the old U.S. Custom House in
lower Manhattan; a storage, research, and conservation
facility at the Smithsonian’s Museum Support Center in
Suitland, Maryland; and a museum in Washington,
D.C., located on the National Mall next to the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum. The Heye Center is
scheduled to open in the summer of 1992; construction
of the Mall facility is expected to begin in fiscal 1994.
The museum will continue to operate its facility at Au-
dubon Terrace in New York until the Heye Center
opens.

Construction costs for the three facilities will total
approximately $175 million, with funding to be ob-
tained from private and government sources. Alice
Green Burnette, Smithsonian assistant secretary for in-
stitutional initiatives, has completed the planning of a
fund-raising campaign.

On June 1, 1990, after a nationwide search, W. Ri-
chard West, Jr., became the first director of the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian. A member of
the Cheyenne-Arapaho Tribe of Oklahoma, West has
had a distinguished career as a lawyer. He brings to the
directorship considerable experience in Indian cultural,
educational, legal, and governmental issues.

The goal of the museum is to recast traditional ele-
ments of museum organization and programs to dem-
onstrate a historic and fundamental change in the rela-
tionship with the American Indian community. The
interdisciplinary programs will explore Indian culture
as reflected in history, music, painting, sculpture,
dance, and drama. The museum will be a place where
At a May 21 press conference, Secretary Adams announced
the appointment of W. Richard West, Jr., as director of the
National Museum of the American Indian. West spoke at the
press conference, standing in front of Bear-Catcher, a Cele-
brated Warrior, a portrait painted by George Catlin in Kan-
sas in 1832. (Photograph by Dane Penland)

Indian culture is represented as a continuum, not, as
the director has said, as a “mere snapshot of the pris-
tine and often romanticized past” too often presented
in traditional museums. Outreach programs will make
the collections and other resources accessible to the In-
dian community. The museum will also seek ways to
support the Indian community’s own initiatives in cul-
tural development.

Planning for the museum began early this year with
the formation of 11 groups that addressed needs and
concerns in the areas of public programs, facilities and
construction, collections, training and outreach, tech-
nology applications, budget and administration, devel-
opment and public relations, research, governmental re-
lations, international relations, and the opening
exhibition at the Custom House. In addition, formal
consultation with the Indian community began in the
spring. Meetings were held in Oklahoma with represen-
tatives from tribes of Oklahoma, Kansas, and Texas
and in Cody, Wyoming, with representatives of several
Plains Indian tribes. Additional meetings are scheduled
throughout the country in 1991.

Architectural planning for the Mall museum and the
Suitland research facility began with the search for a
firm to develop program specifications for architectural
planning and design. The firm will work closely with
museum staff and American Indian consultants in de-
termining the program requirements for the new mu-
seum.

A major thrust of the legislation that established the
museum concerned the repatriation of human remains
and associated funerary objects to Indian individuals
and tribes. Under the legislation, the National Museum
of Natural History has appointed a five-member review
committee to assist staff in the repatriation process. In
August, Secretary Adams, West, and other representa-
tives from the Smithsonian met in Albuquerque, New
Mexico, with representatives of tribal museums, cul-
tural centers, the Indian community, and state and pri-
vate museums. Pending legislation on repatriation and
future courses of action were discussed, and continuing
dialogue and cooperation in dealing with repatriation
issues and responsibilities were ensured.

[41
National Portrait Gallery

The National Portrait Gallery (NPG) chronicles Ameri-
ca’s past by exhibiting and studying portraits of those
who have left an imprint on U.S. history and contrib-
utes to American art history through the study of the
artists who have created this portraiture. Using both its
permanent collection and special exhibitions, the gal-
lery encourages the public to contemplate leaders in
politics, the arts and letters, business, science, sports,
and other areas who have shaped American culture.

Exhibitions

To commemorate the bicentennial of the Federal Judici-
ary Act and highlight the pivotal interpreters and shap-
ers of our legal system, the gallery mounted ‘Portraits
of the American Law” in October 1989. This exhibi-
tion featured images of distinguished American judges,
lawyers, and legal theorists from the years of the early
Republic to the late twentieth century. Support for the
exhibition was provided by three national law firms:
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius; Vinson and Elkins; and
Kirkland and Ellis.

“To Color America: Portraits by Winold Reiss”
brought together images of various ethnic groups, par-
ticularly African Americans and Native Americans,
made by the German-born artist Winold Reiss. From
the moment of its opening in October 1989, the exhibi-
tion brought new audiences to the gallery. Support was
received from Burlington Northern Foundation, the An-
schutz Foundation, and the Smithsonian Special Exhibi-
tions Fund. A panel version of this exhibition will
travel beginning in 1991 under the auspices of the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

“Irving Penn Master Images,” organized with the
National Museum of American Art and sponsored by
USAir, included the 120 master photographs Penn gave
to the two museums. The exhibition went on national
tour after it closed in August. A selection of master-
works from NPG’s photograph collections, ranging
from daguerreotypes of the 1840s to a giant Polaroid
print of the 1980s, was shown simultaneously.

Among the most popular exhibitions ever held at the
gallery was “Oliphant’s Presidents: Twenty-Five Years
of Caricatures,” which opened in April for a seven-
month run. The caricatures, sketches, and sculpture by
political cartoonist Pat Oliphant of the last six presi-

142

Pat Oliphant’s bronze of Lyndon Johnson as a centaur with a
western hat focuses on the unpredictable and mythic element
of this enigmatic man by merging ancient traditions of classi-
cal mythology and equestrian portraiture with the indigenous
American cowboy theme. This piece was included in the Por-
trait Gallery’s exhibition, “Oliphant’s Presidents: Twenty-Five
Years of Caricature.” The sculpture was on loan by Pat Oli-
phant, courtesy of the Susan Conway Carroll Gallery.

dents—from Lyndon Johnson to George Bush—went
on national tour under the auspices of Art Services In-
ternational.

Another popular success was “The Five of Hearts:
Henry Adams and His Washington Circle,” which
Political cartoonist Pat Oliphant, Susan Conway Carroll, and
photographer Irving Penn (left to right) meet at the opening
reception of “Irving Penn Master Images,” cosponsored by
the Portrait Gallery and the Museum of American Art.

opened in June 1990 and included portraits and me-
morabilia of the friends who came together in the
Adams and Hay homes on Lafayette Square beginning
in 1880. The “hearts” were historian and writer Henry
Adams, grandson and great-grandson of presidents; his
wife Clover, hostess of Washington’s most exclusive
salon and a gifted photographer; John Hay, author and
statesman; his wife Clara, heiress to an industrial for-
tune; and Clarence King, brilliant geologist and failed
entrepreneur.

The National Portrait Gallery is housed in the old
U.S. Patent Office building, so it was fitting that the
gallery commemorate the 200th anniversary of the es-
tablishment of the patent system with “Icons of Inven-
tion: American Patent Models.”” Twenty-eight models
selected from the Smithsonian’s collection were dis-
played in the original Model Hall. Sponsored by the
Foundation for a Creative America and the Association
for Japan—U.S. Community Exchange, the exhibition
was jointly organized with the National Museum of
American History.

Acquisitions

During 1990, approximately 191 acquisitions enhanced
NPG’s collections. Among the most important were a
1792 life portrait of Thomas Paine; a self-portrait of
Charles Willson Peale; a 1910 poster of the first black
heavyweight champion, Jack Johnson; eight pastel por-
traits by Will Cotton; more than 50 drawings by Wil-
liam Auerbach-Levy; and portraits of Helen Keller and
the noted bridge authority Ely Culbertson. A painting

of President Ronald Reagan by Henry Casselli was pur-
chased for the gallery’s Hall of Presidents by several
friends of former President and Mrs. Reagan. The gal-
lery acquired a rare vintage 1926 portrait photograph
of Solomon R. Guggenheim by Lazlo Moholy-Nagy, as
well as a fine, previously unknown daguerreotype (ca.
1851) of Henry Clay by Frederick de Bourg Richards
of Philadelphia and an extremely rare Man Ray photo-
graph (ca. 1922) that depicts Gertrude Stein posing for
the Jo Davidson portrait sculpture that is one of the
icons of the NPG collection. During the year, an addi-
tional 126 Time covers were transferred to the gallery.

Publications

In 1990, NPG published Irving Penn Master Images,
with essays by the gallery’s Will Stapp and the Na-
tional Museum of American Art’s Merry Foresta, and
an exhibition catalogue on Winold Reiss along with an
illustrated checklist of all known portraits by Reiss,
both by guest curator Jeffrey Stewart. The University of
Washington Press is distributing Frederick Voss’s cata-
logue, Portraits of the American Law. Oliphant’s Presi-
dents by Wendy Reaves was published by Andrews and
McMeel.

The University of Delaware Press is publishing the
papers from the 1987 conference on “The Portrait in
Eighteenth-Century America”; the Barra Foundation
has agreed to sponsor publication of Ellen Miles’s cata-
logue of the work of profilist C. B. J. Fevret de Saint-
Memin (1770-1852). The University of Pittsburgh
Press is publishing a volume of critical essays, New
Perspectives on Charles Willson Peale, celebrating the
250th anniversary of the artist’s birth. Volume 3 of the
Selected Papers of Charles Willson Peale and His Fam-
ily: The Belfield Farm Years, 1810—1820, was issued
by the Yale University Press. Patricia O’Toole, guest
curator of “The Five of Hearts” exhibition, is the au-
thor of a book on the group published by Crown Pub-
lishers.

Education

The Education Department interprets the gallery’s col-
lection for its visitors through daily tours, elementary

143
and secondary school programs, and senior citizen out-
reach programs. In conjunction with the Winold Reiss
exhibition, the department conducted a symposium,
“The Politics of Portraiture: Icons, Stereotypes, and
Other Approaches to Multicultural Imaging,” and a
portrait-drawing workshop, “Diversity in Portraiture,”
targeted for culturally diverse high school art students.
The department also held a series of caricature-drawing
workshops in conjunction with “‘Oliphant’s Presi-
dents.” A multicultural view of American history was
provided visitors through the lectures, symposia, one-
person biographical plays, recitals, concerts, storytell-
ing, and other events in the ongoing “Cultures in Mo-
tion” program.

Research

The Catalog of American Portraits (CAP) continued to
expand its service to researchers of American history
and American art history. In addition to several local
collections, major portrait collections in Missouri were
surveyed and photographed for the CAP research files.
With the aid of a research grant, significant portraits of
or by Hispanics were surveyed in Puerto Rico and var-
ious areas of the mainland United States. More than
2,000 portrait records, mostly from the southwestern
United States, were added to the CAP data base.

The gallery’s Peale Family Papers project continued
its work on volume 4 of the selected papers of this fa-
mous artistic family and on Charles Willson Peale’s au-
tobiography (volume 5). The staff edited a volume of
critical essays on Peale’s work and, with the aid of a
research grant, continues research for the catalogue rai-
sonné of Rembrandt Peale’s work.

A Research Resources Grant funded the creation of a
data base finding aid to the Meserve Collection of Ma-
thew Brady negatives, the rehousing of those negatives
in archival materials, and the making of preservation
prints and facsimile negatives from the Mathew Brady
imperial format glass-plate negatives of Edwin Forrest
donated to the NPG by the Edwin Forrest Home for
Retired Actors.

144

Office of Exhibits Central

The Office of Exhibits Central (OEC) provides exhibit-
related services throughout the Institution in the areas
of exhibit design, exhibit script writing and editing, fine
cabinetry, sheet plastics, packing and shipping artifacts,
modelmaking, taxidermy, matting and framing, and
silkscreening.

The year 1990 was one of diversity for OEC, both in
the kinds of projects undertaken and the number of
clients served. The following are highlights from more
than 200 projects undertaken by OEC.

National Air and Space Museum. Working from
scanty documentation, the OEC Model Shop made a
1/16-scale model of a Staaken R-IV, a World War I
German biplane.

National Museum of American Art. The OEC
Graphics Unit produced period stenciling for the exhi-
bition ““Treasures of American Folk Art.”

National Museum of American History. OEC de-
signed, edited, and produced the exhibition ‘Go Forth
and Serve: Black Land Grant Colleges Entering Their
Second Century” and edited the accompanying bro-
chure.

Experimental Gallery. The Model Shop built a scale
model of the gallery for planning. OEC designers are
advising on transforming the existing space in the Arts
and Industries Building into one suitable for a changing
exhibition gallery.

National Museum of Natural History. The OEC Fab-
rication Unit produced 21 large wall cases to display
Chinese hell scrolls. For the upcoming exhibition “Be-
yond the Java Sea: Art of Indonesia’s Outer Islands,”
the OEC editor worked with curators to edit the ex-
hibit script and write the gallery brochure. The Fabrica-
tion Unit built more than 50 custom exhibit cases and
shipping containers for the artifacts. The Graphics Unit
mounted photographs and silkscreened interpretive text
and labels.

National Zoological Park.OEC illustrator Chris Re-
inecke painted two murals: a background for the rhi-
noceros iguana in the Reptile House and a 12-foot by
6-foot background painting for the Great Barrier Reef
aquarium in the Australia Pavilion. OEC designed a
new entrance and introductory area to the bat cave and
produced life-size models of bats for the entrance. The
office also prepared a preliminary design and scale
model for a new exhibit about bats.
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES). In addition to 15 new exhibitions that OEC
designed and/or produced for SITES, exhibits that
ended their tour came to OEC for dispersal, and others
came in to be refurbished before continuing their tours.
Among the new exhibitions were two copies of
“Climbing Jacob’s Ladder: The Rise of the Black
Churches in Eastern American Cities, 1740-1877,”
adapted from the Anacostia Museum exhibit of the
same title; ““The Road to Heaven Is Paved by Good
Works: The Art of Reverend Howard Finster,” which
includes 40 pieces of folk art; and ‘Frank Lloyd
Wright: Preserving an Architectural Heritage,” from
the Domino’s Pizza Collection.

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Cen-
ter. The new Smithsonian Information Center was a
showcase for the skills of OEC’s Fabrication Unit,
which built most of the cherry wood furnishings. OEC
also designed and produced the graphics and direc-
tional signage.

Office of Horticulture

The Office of Horticulture (OH) manages more than
80 acres of gardens and grounds, rotates horticultural
displays in interior public spaces in the museums, and
provides flowering and foliage plants for Smithsonian
Institution special events and exhibitions. Floral designs
and specially grown plants are made available on a
limited basis. In addition to this full range of horticul-
tural services, the office has developed educational ac-
tivities and exhibitions using collections of living
plants, garden furniture, and images of contemporary
and historic horticulture.

Program Highlights

The office concentrated this year on the maintenance of
older trees and shrubs on the Smithsonian grounds by
instituting spraying, cabling, pruning, and replacement
programs. Safety issues were addressed by elevating
limbs and pruning for better illumination of the
grounds. The office also continued to improve the soil
in the Enid A. Haupt Garden. The research, design,
and installation of a computerized irrigation system for
better control of watering was initiated. Walter Howell
of the Grounds Management Division designed and
created a topiary dinosaur, 18 feet long and ro feet
tall, for the grounds of the National Museum of Natu-
ral History. The steel framework, which was a team ef-
fort with Reed Martin of the Office of Exhibits Cen-
tral, was filled with soil and covered with four varieties
of English ivy.

The office’s Greenhouse-Nursery Division (GND)
continued to produce exhibition-quality plants for the
gardens and grounds, including colorful annuals for
180 decorative hanging baskets, 35 antique cast-iron
urns, and seasonal plantings around the museums. To-
tals included 8,740 pot plants and 3,800 forced bulbs
for interior displays, 35,800 pansies, 3,200 ornamental
cabbage and kale plants, 700 garden chrysanthemums,
43,000 annuals, and 23,000 alternanthera. In addition,
the division provided more than 16,600 plants and
about 300 floral arrangements for more than 820 spe-
cial events. Division staff rotate about 3,000 foliage
and flowering plants a year, on a biweekly schedule, to
complement the interiors of the museums. For the De-
cember holidays, the office produced 1,300 poinsettias

145
and decorated the museums and gardens, bringing a
festive atmosphere to the Smithsonian.

Exhibitions and Collections

The 13th annual ““Trees of Christmas” exhibition was
held in the National Museum of American History. Of
the ri trees on display, seven were new to the exhibi-
tion. Crafts artists across the United States created
2,762 handmade ceramic, corn-husk, paper, tole, brass,
hand-painted wood, quilted, and lace ornaments, which
they donated to the office’s collection.

Throughout the year, the office continued to stage
exhibitions in the North Foyer of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History. Ornamental grasses, cymbid-
ium orchids, ferns, ivies, and poinsettias were among
the featured collections.

The popular traveling exhibition “Victorian Gar-
dens,” developed by the Office of Horticulture and the
Office of Exhibits Central in conjunction with the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, is
now in its third year of touring the United States.

Four specimen orchid species, selected and cultured
by Cheyenne Kim of the Greenhouse-Nursery Division,
received special awards from the National Orchid Soci-
ety. Kim also designed the Smithsonian’s award-win-
ning entry in the Institutional Division of the National
Orchid Society’s exhibition in October 1989. Ted Villa-
pando, also a GND orchid specialist, gave a lecture il-
lustrated with images of the OH orchid collection to
the Orchid Society of Charlottesville, Virginia.

The office has begun cataloging the Archives of
American Gardens (AAG) collection of contemporary
and historic landscapes. Additions to the archives this
year were the Lewis and Valentine and Lane Weems
collections. Lewis and Valentine, one of the country’s
oldest landscape firms, became famous for moving ma-
ture tree specimens on large estates. This collection in-
cludes photographs and nursery documents related to
gardens featured in the AAG. The Lane Weems Collec-
tion documents the estate of Katharine Lane Weems,
noted American sculptor.

In conjunction with the Office of Product Develop-
ment and Licensing, the office completed another suc-
cessful year of a collections reproduction program with
Garden Source, introducing several wirework and steel

146

spring chairs. In addition, the office coordinated the re-
production by Garden Source of an antique J. L. Fiske
fountain in its collections for the garden at Blair
House. The original will be returned to the Smithson-
ian collections.
Office of Museum Programs

The preservation, interpretation, and accessibility of
cultural patrimony is the public service that all mu-
seums provide. An urgent concern for museums today
is achieving cultural equity in this public service by re-
flecting and serving our diverse society. Cultural equity
can best be attained by a multicultural museum profes-
sion that understands its responsibilities to its public.
Providing leadership in addressing these important is-
sues is the principal focus of the Office of Museum
Programs, the center of museum studies at the Smith-
sonian.

Following on a redefinition of mission and a reallo-
cation of staff resources in 1989, the office developed
pilot programs for a new curriculum in 1990. Experi-
mental programs in career counseling, Smithsonian
staff training, national in-career development, and in-
ternational exchange laid the foundation for planning a
full national curriculum in museum studies.

The office serves four major constituencies: students,
Smithsonian museum staff, and national and interna-
tional colleagues. Four programs were produced for
these constituencies. Students considering museum ca-
reers were served by a new intern placement service
and an intensive on-site seminar focusing on the re-
sponsibilities of museum work and the training neces-
sary to enter the museum profession. In several work-
shop sessions, Smithsonian museum staff studied
diverse ways people learn, applying a new appreciation
of learning styles to the planning of museum exhibi-
tions and public programs.

Museum colleagues representing communities across
the country came to Washington in June for the office’s
first annual Training Congress, ‘‘Building Partnerships:
Museums and Their Communities.” Twenty of the 85
museum leaders who attended received the office’s
award for minority museum professionals. This group
came to the Smithsonian for a week of independent
study before the congress. As a group of leaders articu-
late in their concern for building cultural equity in the
museum profession, they are important members of a
new group of advisers, planners, and teachers for fu-
ture training programs at the Smithsonian. They will
continue to be included in the program planning pro-
cess, linked by a newsletter published three times a
year.

International colleagues were partners in “Making
Exhibitions, Constructing Realities,” a conference held

at the Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi in Belém, Brazil,
in November. A faculty of six U.S. and six Brazilian
museum leaders headed discussions and workshops on
the theory and practice of interpretive exhibitions. This
conference achieved a balance of conceptual inquiry
and practical application in the context of cultural di-
versity, a goal for all of the office’s instructional pro-
grams.

The office began a new initiative to serve Native
American communities in 1990. In developing intern-
ships, resident study, and instructional courses in coop-
eration with tribal museums and colleges, the office is
working closely with the National Museum of the
American Indian. Using a national network of commu-
nity sites, the office is creating a new program of
American Indian museum studies based on the ethical,
conceptual, and technical environment that Native
Americans are articulating for public institutions. The
work of this program will in turn shape the office’s na-
tional curriculum.

As 1990 concludes, the constituencies of the office
have been defined, the structure of a national curricu-
lum has emerged, staff priorities have been articulated,
and a new planning and budget process is in place.
Deputy Director Teresa LaMaster joined Acting Direc-
tor James Sims in March to help lead the redefinition
process. Sylvia Churgin, head librarian, began reorgani-
zation of the Museum Reference Center in December,
refining the national inquiry service and planning for
redefined collections for museology research.

147
Office of the Registrar

The Office of the Registrar (OR) supervises the man-
agement of the Institution’s vast collection of 137 mil-
lion objects and specimens. Monitoring Institution-wide
collections management policies and procedures, the of-
fice is an advocate and catalyst for bureau initiatives
and programs that ensure increased access to and con-
tinued accountability for the national collections.

The principal Smithsonian policy document guiding
collections management, Office Memorandum 808:
Collections Management Policy, was updated and offi-
cially approved by the secretary during 1990. The pol-
icy places renewed focus on maintaining internal con-
trols, developing collecting plans, managing collections
information, balancing the goals of access and account-
ability, and representing cultural and biological diver-
sity. The policy directs collecting units to redraft indi-
vidual policies and formalize collecting plans to assist
in resource and facility management.

Beyond the physical care of the national collections,
the Office of the Registrar is responsible for the man-
agement and accessibility of information about them.
In 1990, the Collections Information System (CIS), a
multiyear, pan-Institutional project, implemented data
base systems at the National Air and Space Museum
and the National Museum of American Art and in the
Departments of Anthropology and Botany at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

Other activities of the Office of the Registrar include
helping staff identify appropriate technologies, training
needs, and resources crucial to cross-disciplinary activi-
ties. The office advocates the use of new technologies
to streamline the daily work of collections management
staff and improve recordkeeping by connecting collec-
tions, research, and administrative activities. The Office
of the Registrar also promotes research in the standard-
ization of Smithsonian data to facilitate information
sharing within and outside the Institution.

In the international sphere, the office presented the
latest findings of its worldwide survey of computerized
collection documentation to the International Council
of Museums. The office coordinated a collaborative
program between the Smithsonian and the Museo de la
Nacion in Lima, Peru, which involved the exchange of
museum personnel and the sharing of collections man-
agement and conservation techniques and museum
ideologies.

148

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

America’s changing cultural landscape brought new
and invigorating challenges to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES) in 1990. Ef-
forts to expand the reach of Smithsonian exhibitions to
11 million museumgoers beyond Washington, D.C., re-
placed SITES’s recent emphasis on international art ex-
hibitions. SITES also made a new commitment to serve
museums, educational institutions, and community
groups that have not benefited fully from the Smithson-
ian’s presence outside the nation’s capital.

SITES’s broadened program services demanded fresh,
innovative approaches to exhibition development, mar-
keting, and affirmative action hiring. SITES worked to-
ward these goals throughout 1990, bolstering its roster
of minority staff and advisory committees, strengthen-
ing its alliances with culturally diverse professional as-
sociations and community organizations, and establish-
ing interdisciplinary staff teams to carry out exhibition
projects. Such measures supported SITES’s determina-
tion to circulate exhibitions that not only incorporate
diverse viewpoints and educational methods, but also
respond to the broadest possible spectrum of program
interests, technical needs, and financial capabilities in
communities across the nation.

Preparatory exhibition workshops became a key ve-
hicle through which SITES accomplished its mission. In
a new approach to initiating exhibition tours, SITES
advertised to potential host museums only a program’s
core subject matter and probable cost. Interested par-
ties responded by reserving a slot on the exhibition’s
itinerary and attending a workshop with SITES’s staff
team, curatorial scholars, advisory committee members,
educators, designers, and host museum representatives
and civic leaders from communities in which the exhi-
bition would be featured. Together the workshop par-
ticipants reviewed exhibition content, educational
goals, design formats, public program possibilities,
fund-raising strategies, and community needs. The
ideas, aspirations, and concerns expressed by potential
exhibitors and local sponsors thus became the focus
around which SITES developed, packaged, and pro-
moted the actual exhibition.

SITES’s 1990 workshop for “Climbing Jacob’s Lad-
der: The Rise of the Black Churches in Eastern Ameri-
can Cities, 1740-1877” illustrates how grassroots par-
ticipation shaped the traveling version of an exhibition
created by the Smithsonian’s Anacostia Museum. The
host museums expressed concern that the museum’s
original artifact-intensive presentation might undercut
available public program funds by requiring expensive
crating, shipping, insurance, installation, and security
measures. In response, SITES produced a simpler panel
version that surveyed key exhibit subjects but left room
for communities to include information and artifacts
pertinent to local history. Workshop participants who
were interested in featuring “Climbing Jacob’s Ladder”
in churches or community centers encouraged an easy-
to-install design format that could be handled without
expert assistance, could be accommodated in large or
small spaces, and did not require wall space or profes-
sional gallery lighting. Perhaps most important, the
“Climbing Jacob’s Ladder” workshop generated public
programs that related exhibition content to contempo-
rary concerns, stimulating heightened dialogue among
interfaith community groups.

The workshop model enhanced another Anacostia
Museum exhibition that SITES reconfigured in 1990,
“The Real McCoy: African American Invention and In-
novation, 1619-1930,” as well as “Contrasts: 40 Years
of Change and Continuity in Puerto Rico. Photographs
by Jack Delano,” an exhibition that SITES developed in
partnership with the Institute for Puerto Rican Affairs,
the National Museum of American History, Smithson-
ian Institution Press, the Smithsonian Educational Out-
reach Program, and Alan Fern, director of the National
Portrait Gallery.

Working to ensure that the largest percentage of its
program offerings would come from Smithsonian re-
sources, SITES took on seven new Smithsonian exhibi-
tions in 1990. These projects will supplement 30 al-
ready in circulation. The exhibitions in SITES’s 1990
schedule represent not only the Institution’s museums,
but new research from the National Zoo, the Smithson-
ian Tropical Research Institute, and the offices of Folk-
life Programs, Institutional Studies, and Environmental
Awareness. This range of offerings gives audiences
across the nation a fuller picture of the Smithsonian’s
scope and programmatic vitality.

The Smithsonian’s international profile as the central
cultural address in the United States continued to place
SITES at the forefront of certain pan-Institutional inter-
national projects. In 1990, two exhibitions highlighting
Soviet-American cultural exchange and shared re-
search—‘“‘Crossroads of Continents: Cultures of Siberia

and Alaska” and “Moscow: Treasures and Tradi-
tions” —traveled under SITES’s auspices. Announce-
ment of the new National Museum of the American
Indian generated many exhibition requests from institu-
tions abroad, leading SITES to investigate a wide range
of traveling exhibition opportunities that could tour
both foreign and U.S. museums. As the year drew to a
close, SITES completed workshop plans to reconfigure
its leading environmental exhibition, “Tropical Rain-
forests: A Disappearing Treasure,” for museums and
educational groups in Latin America.

Exhibition Summary

During the past year, SITES exhibitions traveled to 217
cities in 42 states, the District of Columbia, and coun-
tries abroad and were viewed by more than 11 million
people. A total of 319 exhibition tours were scheduled
between October 1, 1989, and September 30, 1990.
Fifteen new exhibitions were introduced in 1990.

New Exhibitions, October 1, 1989, to September 30,
1990:

All Systems Go: America’s Transportation System for
the 1990's

Architectural Drawings and Watercolors of Paris and
Rome by Jakob Ignaz Hittorff (1792—1876)

Climbing Jacob’s Ladder: The Rise of Black Churches
in Eastern American Cities, 1740-1877

Constance Stuart Larrabee: WW II Photo Journal

Contrasts: 40 Years of Change and Continuity in
Puerto Rico. Photographs by Jack Delano/Contrastes:
40 Anos de Cambio y Continuidad en Puerto Rico.
Fotografias de Jack Delano

A Day in the Warsaw Ghetto: A Birthday Trip in Hell

Frank Lloyd Wright: Preserving an Architectural Heri-
tage, Decorative Designs from The Domino’s Pizza
Collection

Great American Comics: 100 Years of Cartoon Art

India Along the Ganges: Photographs by Raghubir
Singh

Irish Decorative Arts of the 18th and roth Centuries
from the Collections of the National Museum of Ire-
land, Dublin

149
Moscow: Treasures and Traditions

Paintbrush Diplomacy: Children’s Art from the Ameri-
cas

Provincetown and the Art of Printmaking

The Road to Heaven Is Paved by Good Works: The
Art of Rev. Howard Finster

Secessionism and Austrian Graphic Arts (1900-1920)
from the Collection of Neue Galerie der Stadt, Linz

Exhibition Tours, October 1, 1989, to September 30,
1990

Number of Bookings 319
Number of States served 2
(including District of Columbia)
Estimated Audience ri million
Exhibitions listed in 1989 108
Update (catalogue of SITES
exhibitions)
New exhibitions produced
this year 15

Smithsonian Internship Council

The Smithsonian Internship Council, which monitors
internship programs throughout the Institution, served
650 interns during this fiscal year, an increase of 43
from fiscal 1989. This year, the council’s activities were
both internal and external. Within the Smithsonian, the
council shared information with other groups about the
Internship Council and intern-related matters. Activities
outside the Smithsonian included outreach to organiza-
tions—including colleges and universities—that have
mutual interests and concerns.

Among the council’s internal activities were presenta-
tions by the Office of Personnel Administration on the
Federal Junior Fellowship and the Stay-in-School Pro-
gram and by the Office of Museum Programs on the
office’s role in providing registration, orientation, and
counseling services for all Smithsonian interns. Council
members briefed the Smithsonian’s Latino Working
Committee on the Internship Council’s activities, poli-
cies, and procedures. The committee expressed interest
in hosting interns, providing contacts with Smithsonian
offices and bureaus, and working with the council to
identify sources of funding for stipends. The Smithson-
ian African American Association suggested that the
council look at ways to encourage black colleges to
participate in internship programs and recommended
that the council be represented on the association’s
Human Resources Committee. The Asian/Pacific Amer-
ican Heritage Committee raised the issue of the public’s
failure to perceive Asian Americans as a minority and
noted the lack of information throughout the Smithson-
ian on the Asian American experience.

In outreach efforts, the council met with representa-
tives of two organizations to discuss ways to increase
communication and cooperation: the National Capital
Association for Cooperative Education, which is com-
posed of members from 20 universities and colleges in
the Washington, D.C., area, and the Council for Inter-
national Exchange of Scholars, which administers post-
doctoral Fulbright scholarships in the United States.
The council also hosted the director of internships from
Wake Forest University for an exchange of informa-
tion.
PUBLIG SERVICE

James Early, Acting Assistant Secretary

net

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service
and the units it oversees serve as channels for the diffu-
sion of information and assistance inside and outside
the Institution. These offices plan and execute educa-
tional programs through museum and school-based
education projects, disseminate information on the
Smithsonian to broad national audiences, and engage in
research and the documentation of living cultures. In
view of the nation’s rapidly changing demographics
and the implications these factors have for museums
and public education, the Office of Public Service is
also mandated to facilitate and advance issues of cul-
tural pluralism and cultural equity.

The Smithsonian’s Cultural Education Committee,
which advises the secretary on ways to expand multi-
culturalism among professional and administrative staff
in the Institution’s research and exhibition programs,
sponsored the annual Martin Luther King, Jr., birthday
celebration. Vine Deloria, Jr., noted author and former
executive director of the National Congress of Ameri-
can Indians, spoke on “Clarity Begins at Home: Re-
thinking the Human Rights Question.” The celebration
also featured a performance by the American Indian
Theatre Company of Oklahoma.

During the year, the office sponsored pan-Institu-
tional ethnic celebrations for Black History Month,
Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week, and Hispanic
Heritage Month. Timed to coincide with the Smithsoni-
an’s observance of Women’s History Month, the office
cosponsored with the Ford Foundation and the Smith-
sonian Women’s Council the seminar “‘Gender Perspec-
tives: The Impact of Women on Museums.”

Forty-nine innovative projects were awarded grants
by the Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach Fund in
1990. Administered by the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for Public Service, the fund supports bureau- and
office-based initiatives in public outreach and educa-
tion.

Other activities of the office included support for the
Latino Working Committee’s request to bring a Puerto
Rican musical group, Los Pleneros de la 21, to the
Washington, D.C., Latino Festival. With the National
Council of Negro Women, the office cohosted a recep-
tion honoring the annual Black Family Reunion cele-
bration in September. A working seminar for Smithson-
ian staff, “Cultural Equity and the Humanities,” was
organized in collaboration with the Federation of State

Humanities Councils to explore program partnerships
with council representatives. The office also organized
a session on “‘The Smithsonian Institution’s Multicul-
tural Agenda for the 1990s” at the biennial symposium
of the Association of American Cultures.

Marshall J. Wong was appointed director of the
Smithsonian’s Office of Wider Audience Development
to coordinate ethnic celebrations and to further develop
collaborative relationships with museums, organiza-
tions, and individuals to promote cultural diversity and
equity.
National Science Resources
Center

In the years before children begin school, they exercise
their limitless curiosity daily. When they enter the class-
room, their universe can be expanded and new areas of
inquiry can be opened, or their search for knowledge
can be stifled by endless memorization from the pages
of a textbook. Too often, this is the way science is
taught. As a result, the curious child eager to find out
what makes a plant grow, how electric bulbs light, and
what happens to caterpillars inside the chrysalis be-
comes a student who dreads the next science class.

The National Science Resources Center (NSRC) is
committed to changing this situation. Established in
1985 as a joint initiative of the National Academy of
Sciences and the Smithsonian Institution, the NSRC is
working with scientists and educators across the coun-
try to reform science instruction and bring students
closer to real science through hands-on exploration.

Research shows that children, especially young chil-
dren, learn science best when they have a concrete
body of experience on which to base abstract concepts.
For this reason, a common element in most of the
NSRC’s programs is the introduction of hands-on sci-
ence activities into the schools.

The NSRC’s programs, which are conducted nation-
wide, encompass three related categories: the develop-
ment of new and innovative science teaching materials,
the dissemination of information about effective hands-
on science teaching resources, and the sponsorship of
outreach activities to help school districts improve their
science programs. The past year was marked by
achievements in all three areas.

Development of Science Teaching Resources

Science instruction units for grades one through six
from the NSRC’s Science and Technology for Children
(STC) curriculum project will be ready for national
marketing and distribution beginning in the spring of
1991. During the next four years, 24 STC units will be
developed and published on a variety of topics in the
life, physical, and earth sciences and technology. Each
STC unit consists of a teacher’s guide with 16 lessons
that emphasize observation, experimentation, and anal-
ysis; a set of reusable student activity books; and a
classroom kit of inexpensive and easily maintained ma-
terials.

The bulb lights for Ardesa Robinson as she uses a small
motor and a rubber band to generate electricity as part of the
National Science Resource Center’s Magnets and Motors sci-
ence unit. The setting is Ardesa’s sixth-grade classroom at the
Stuart-Hobson School of the District of Columbia Public
School system, where the Magnets and Motors unit was trial-
taught. (Photograph by Dane Penland)
All STC units are trial-taught in urban classrooms in
the Washington, D.C., area and then field-tested na-
tionwide. The first units were field-tested in some 55
schools in cities, suburbs, and rural areas, reflecting a
cross-section of teachers and students. The results of
this evaluation effort indicated that the units can be
taught successfully by experienced and inexperienced
teachers alike and are appropriate for students with dif-
fering abilities, skills, and backgrounds.

Information Dissemination

This year, the NSRC catalogued its growing library of
5,000 volumes of elementary, middle school, and high
school science teaching materials and developed a new
data base for the collection that will enable easier ac-
cess by visiting teachers. This data base will support re-
vision of the NSRC’s popular publication, Science for
Children: Resources for Teachers. Published by the Na-
tional Academy Press, this guide to-science curriculum
materials and sources of assistance for elementary
school teachers who want to teach hands-on science
has sold 20,000 copies and recently received the Out-
standing Academic Book Award from the American Li-
brary Association. An additional 20,000 copies have
been distributed free to the nation’s science supervisors
and superintendents of schools. Work has now begun
on a new NSRC resource guide, Science Teaching Re-
sources for Middle Schools.

The NSRC maintains a growing network of individu-
als working to improve science teaching, including su-
perintendents of schools, teachers, scientists, science
museum educators, and officials from professional edu-
cational and scientific organizations. The 31,000 mem-
bers of this network receive the semiannual NSRC
Newsletter and information about other NSRC pro-
grams.

Outreach

During each of the past two summers, the NSRC has
held an Elementary Science Leadership Institute at the
Smithsonian. These institutes bring together teams of
teachers, school administrators, and scientists for work-
shops and discussions on strategies for implementing

154

effective elementary science programs. To date, the in-
stitutes have involved 32 school districts from 25
states, representing some 1 million school children. The
institutes are proving to be effective; after sending rep-
resentatives to the first institute, for example, the Mid-
land, Michigan, public school system received a large
grant from a local foundation to convert an old school
into a new science materials center to support Mid-
land’s hands-on science program.

The NSRC is planning a larger national outreach
project, the National Elementary Science Leadership In-
itiative, which will link local and state leaders in a
massive effort to improve science education in their
schools. The support of community leaders and parents
for improved science programs will be stimulated
through the production and distribution of multimedia
information packets about the importance of hands-on
elementary science education and the elements of an ef-
fective school science program. The project also will
expand the Elementary Science Leadership Institutes
and provide follow-up support and technical assistance
to school districts working to reform their science pro-
grams.
Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

How can teachers and their students derive maximum
benefit from the Smithsonian and other community and
museum resources? The Office of Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education (OESE) provides answers to this
question through its innovative educational materials
and programs.

This year, the OESE’s local programs spoke to the
culturally diverse traditions of the Washington, D.C.,
metropolitan area. “Word of Mouth,” a weekend sym-
posium cosponsored with the Division of Public Pro-
grams, National Museum of American History, gave
teachers new ways to incorporate the multicultural per-
spective into academic lessons. More than 200 local
teachers learned how to use oral traditions in the class-
room. Workshops showed participants how to avoid
stereotypes, how to set up oral history projects in the
classroom, and how to use theater techniques to teach
language arts. Performers introduced Native American,
Hispanic, and African American narratives. Planning
for a second symposium on folk narratives in contem-
porary and urban environments is under way.

Another new local program brought recent urban
high school graduates to the Institution for eight-week
internships. The pilot SOL ’90 (Smithsonian Opportu-
nities for Learning) program was modeled on the
OESE’s 15-year-old national Summer High School In-
ternship Program. Together these programs gave 45
graduating high school seniors experience working in
Smithsonian offices and behind the scenes in museums
and the Zoo.

Santillana, a leading educational publisher of bilin-
gual and English-as-a-second-language materials, con-
tracted with the OESE to publish the office’s preschool
program, being prepared as part of the Smithsonian’s
Columbus Quincentenary commemoration. Introducing
the people and cultures of the Americas, these teaching
kits in English and Spanish will include educational
games, books, and hands-on activities.

The office’s Jackdaws series of classroom materials
received major funding from the Phil Hardin Founda-
tion. This grant will add publications on the blues tra-
dition and the social history of rock and roll to the
OESE’s ongoing series on American music. The Jack-
daws series, which will begin publication in 1991,
draws on a range of Smithsonian resources, such as the
Folkways Archives and several photographic collec-
tions, as well as on outside organizations such as the

Mississippi State Historical Museum and the University
of Mississippi.

This year, OESE’s popular newsletter Art to Zoo
reached a record number of educators and students.
Each issue of the quarterly publication provides a com-
plete lesson plan and bilingual student activity page in
English and Spanish on subjects related to the Institu-
tion’s holdings or research interests. The timely “200
Years and Counting: How the U.S. Census Tracks So-
cial Trends” was the most popular issue of the year.

Part of Your General Public Is Disabled, published
in 1987, had record sales, with orders from as far away
as Australia and Hong Kong. Revenue from the project
will support a second edition of this popular book and
videotape. Requests for interpreter services for hearing-
impaired people also exceeded requests in all previous
years.

Following the success of a project funded in 1989,
Brother International Corporation awarded OESE a
second grant to publish Image and Identity: Clothing
and Adolescence in the 1990s for use in the 1990-91
school year. Developed in collaboration with the Divi-
sion of Costume, National Museum of American His-
tory, this curriculum supplement involves adolescents in
original research that may add to the Institution’s hold-
ings of the clothing of today’s young people.
Office of Folklife Programs

The Office of Folklife Programs researches, presents,
and helps conserve traditional ethnic, tribal, regional,
minority, and working-class cultures in the United
States and abroad through scholarly research, profes-
sional advocacy, and public programs. Highlights of
the year included the presentation of three highly ac-
claimed programs at the Festival of American Folklife,
the mounting of an important photodocumentary exhi-
bition on African American culture, the initiation of a
Soviet-American folklife research project, and the ongo-
ing activities of Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings.

Festival of American Folklife

The 24th annual Festival of American Folklife cele-
brated the continuity and diversity of cultures in the
United States and around the world. Held on the Na-
tional Mall June 27 to July 1 and July 4—8, the festival
featured living exhibition programs highlighting the
cultures of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Senegal and the
“Musics of Struggle.”

More than 70 Virgin Islanders demonstrated their
domestic, occupational, and celebratory traditions, in-
cluding kallaloo cooking, herbal medicine practices, an-
ansi stories, net making, charcoal making, calypso
music, scratch bands, and quadrille dancing. The Sene-
gal program featured representatives of the Wolof,
Serer, Toucouleur, Peul, and Manding peoples who
presented the importance of social relationships and
personal integrity at home, in the market, and in public
performances with cooking, griot praise singing, sabar
dancing, lambe wrestling, hair braiding, weaving, jew-
elry making, and discussions about personal adornment
and comportment. “Musics of Struggle” showed how
traditional forms of music, song, chant, and movement
are used with new lyrics or in new contexts to express
a sense of purpose and motivate groups to address con-
temporary circumstances. The musical expressions pre-
sented were associated with the U.S. civil rights move-
ment, Gallaudet University’s “Deaf President Now”
movement, the farmworkers’ movement, and the strug-
gles of Appalachian coal miners, Quichua Indians from
Ecuador, and South Africans in the antiapartheid
movement. Israeli, Palestinian, Kurdish, and Irish sing-
ers were also featured.

The success of the festival generated the Virgin Is-

156

piel 3 es A

Near the dance hall in the U.S. Virgin Islands program, a
moko jumbie towers over a spectator during the 1990 Festi-
val of American Folklife. Brought from other islands in the
Caribbean, the stiltwalking tradition is now part of the U.S.
Virgin Islands culture. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)
At the 1990 Festival of American Folklife, Mamadou M’Baye Diouf and Sidy Sary wrestle in a lambe, a tournament game associ-
ated with harvest celebrations throughout Senegal.

lands Cultural Preservation Act and the establishment
of a Virgin Islands Cultural Institute. It also provided
the impetus for Senegal’s President Abdou Diouf to
pledge a building for the developing West African Re-
search Center.

The office is working closely with the Hawaii State
Foundation on Culture and the Arts to remount that
portion of the 1989 festival in Honolulu and with
Michigan State University to produce its annual folklife
festival, modeled after the Michigan program at the
1987 Festival of American Folklife.

Folklife Research and Publications

During 1990, scholars conducted studies on the tradi-
tions of Senegal, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Soviet and So-
viet American music and folklore, Vietnamese and In-
donesian folklife, immigrant cultures from Latin
America and Southeast Asia, and African epics.

The Folklore Summer Institute for community-based
researchers was held for the second year. Twelve schol-
ars met with distinguished folklore faculty from the

Washington, D.C., area and other parts of the nation,
gaining an opportunity for training and information ex-
change.

A U.S.-U.S.S.R. exchange project was initiated this
year in collaboration with the Soviet Ministry of Cul-
ture, the Soviet Folklore Commission, Melodiya Rec-
ords, scholars of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, and
several U.S. and Soviet universities. The project joins
American and Soviet scholars to study traditional cul-
ture and its transformations by carrying out fieldwork
in both Soviet and Soviet American communities. Stud-
ies will examine continuity and change in verbal art,
song, ritual, crafts, and foodways among Russian, Ar-
menian, Bukharin, Ukrainian, and other immigrants to
the United States and their related populations in the
Soviet Union.

Research began for a Smithsonian Folklife Studies
monograph and film on Persian, Indian, and Caribbean
variants of Muharram, an annual religious ritual ob-
served by millions of believers throughout the Islamic
world. A volume on occupational cultures has also
been initiated with potential for a television series.
“Kathputli: The Art of Rajasthani Puppeteers”’ was a

I§
finalist in the American Film and Video Awards for
1990, and the monograph and film by Thomas Ven-
num, Jr., on the Ojibwa dance drum was awarded the
Society for Ethnomusicology’s Klaus Wachsmann Prize
for best scholarship in organology.

The first edition of the Directory of African Ameri-
can Folklorists was compiled and includes nearly 100
individuals and 30 organizations around the country
with an indication of their scholarly interests and back-
grounds.

Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings and Archives

Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings has released many
new publications and reissues and is continuously ex-
panding its archival holdings. Publications this year in-
clude the new compilations “Tuva: Voices from the
Center of Asia,” “Don’t Mourn—Organize! Songs of
Labor Songwriter Joe Hill,” “Been in the Storm So
Long: Spirituals, Folk Tales and Children’s Games
from John’s Island, South Carolina,” “Sing for Free-
dom: The Story of the Civil Rights Movement through
Its Songs,” and “A Fish That’s a Song,” a recording for
children produced in cooperation with the National
Museum of American Art. Reissues of children’s re-
leases include three recordings by Pete Seeger and 12
by Ella Jenkins.

Negotiations continue on the acquisition of several
collections for the archives: the Woody Guthrie ar-
chives, which contains papers, recordings, and artwork
from this prolific singer-songwriter; the Cook collec-
tion, a small record company’s collection that includes
140 master recordings, several hundred hours of re-
cordings, and artifacts of the record industry of the
1950s; and Pete Seeger’s recordings, films, and papers.
A computerized data base for the archives is in opera-
tion that will hold all audio, visual, and documentary
information on Festival of American Folklife partici-
pants, Folkways records, and archival materials.

Columbus Quincentenary Programs

The last of the symposia in the Columbus Quincenten-
ary series examining the relationship between expres-
sive culture and economic systems in the New World

158

was held in Oaxtepec, Mexico. “Seeds of Industry:
Transformations of Indigenous Technology in the
Americas” was cosponsored with the Centro de Investi-
gacion y Estudios Superiores en Antropologia Social
(CIESAS), Secretaria de Educacion Publica (SEP), and
Instituto Nacional Indigenista. The symposium exam-
ined divergent local and European understandings of
demographic, societal, and environmental resources in
the Americas at the time of interhemispheric contact.
Two volumes of papers from previous symposia are
being prepared for publication in Spanish and English,
Seeds of the Past and Seeds of Commerce.

Special Projects

Two lectures cosponsored with Howard University
completed the scholarly series “South Africa Today:
Living in a Divided Society.” Fatima Meer, Nelson
Mandela’s biographer and professor at the University
of Natal, addressed the issue of apartheid in South Af-
rica after Mandela’s release from prison. Cyril Rama-
phosa, secretary general of the National Union of Mine
Workers, spoke on his assessment of current develop-
ments in South Africa.

Research conducted by photographer Roland Free-
man and folklorists Glenn Hinson and Jerrilyn Me-
Gregory culminated in the successful photodocumen-
tary exhibition “Stand by Me: African American
Expressive Culture in Philadelphia,’ which opened at
the Afro-American Historical and Cultural Museum in
Philadelphia in October. The research project on which
the exhibition is based was sponsored by the Office of
Folklife Programs and supported by an editorial grant
from National Geographic magazine and in-kind ser-
vices from the Philadelphia Folklore Project. The exhi-
bition, which will tour the country, was supported by a
grant from the Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund. A
photo essay based on the exhibition was featured in the
August issue of National Geographic.
Office of Public Affairs

The first Americans and efforts to tell their story
through the establishment of the National Museum of
the American Indian took center stage this year at the
Smithsonian. Through publicity and publications, the
Office of Public Affairs helped bring the Smithsonian’s
Native American programs, as well as African Ameri-
can, Latino, and Asian American programs, to national
attention. Helping the Institution reach diverse cultural
communities is a major focus of the office, which helps
print and broadcast journalists from many backgrounds
share the Smithsonian story with tens of millions of
people worldwide through news releases, background-
ers, press conferences, publications, photographs, video-
tapes, logistical support, public service announce-
ments, and advertisements. The office also coordinates
Institution-wide information and advertising programs.
In January, the office launched a bimonthly newslet-
ter, Smithsonian Runner, which describes activities of
the National Museum of the American Indian and
other programs of interest to Native Americans. The

publication’s editor, a Laguna Pueblo Indian, was sup-
ported in part by the Smithsonian Educational Out-
reach Program. Runner goes to more than 400 publica-
tions and a network of Native American media
professionals and others from tribes across the country.
The office held a news conference on May 21 to intro-
duce W. Richard West, Jr., as the National Museum of
the American Indian’s founding director. Major articles
on West and the new museum appeared on radio and
in the Associated Press, the Washington Post, the New
York Times, the Los Angeles Times, and other media.
The office also updated and produced a flyer on “‘Re-
sources at the Smithsonian for Native Americans.”
The office’s Black Media Outreach Program con-
vened two meetings of its Ad Hoc African American
Media Advisory Committee, which is composed of to
outstanding African American journalists. The commit-
tee reviewed a selection of the Smithsonian’s programs
and suggested ways to improve communication with
the media. In response, the office prepared an extensive

Office of Public Affairs
staffers, from left, Jo
Ann Webb, executive
editor; Robert Tene-
quer, editor; and Peggy
Langrall, assistant edi-
tor, work on an issue
of the new publication
Smithsonian Runner.
(Photograph by Dane
Penland)
media plan to increase the coverage of Smithsonian
programs, activities, and resources of interest to Afri-
can Americans. The office wrote and produced two 60-
second advertisements incorporating comments by
Smithsonian visitors, which were aired during Black
History Month on Washington, D.C., radio stations
WHUR and WKYS. Some 1,400 listeners called for in-
formation. Other radio advertisements prepared by the
office included those promoting the Anacostia Mu-
seum’s summer exhibition, “Whose Art Is It, Anyway?
The Arts in Public Places.”

As part of its Hispanic Media Outreach Program, the
office coordinated an exhibit and full-page conference
booklet advertisement for the eighth annual National
Hispanic Media Conference in San Francisco. About
1,000 reporters attended the conference. The office also
organized a briefing on the Columbus Quincentenary
for the National Association of Hispanic Publications,
which pledged its support for publicizing the Smithson-
ian’s impressive array of programs. For Hispanic Heri-
tage Month, the office carried out an extensive public-
ity campaign, including newspaper and radio
advertisements.

The office produced a number of special publications
this year, including two supplements in the employee
newspaper, the Torch, on the Smithsonian’s volunteers
and on the National Zoo’s centennial. The office intro-
duced the newly designed and expanded Research Re-
ports, a quarterly newsletter that reports on ongoing
research. Brochures for the Smithsonian Marine Station
at Link Port and the Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory were also produced.

The Smithsonian News Service, a free, syndicated
feature story service for daily and weekly newspapers,
swept the top four awards in the writing competition
sponsored by the National Association of Government
Communicators. A subscriber survey completed this
year indicated extremely high satisfaction by the ser-
vice’s 900 subscribers.

During the year, the office edited and distributed
more than 550 news releases, and office staff re-
sponded to about 750 inquiries from reporters. Staff
members also initiated dozens of media proposals and
coordinated media relations on a number of complex
stories. For several tense days in December, the office
worked with others at the Smithsonian to respond to
media inquiries on the fate of a group of Smithsonian

160

employees who were briefly taken hostage in Panama
during the U.S. invasion and later released unharmed.
The media also focused unprecedented attention on the
challenges facing the Smithsonian as it moves into the
twenty-first century, and the office responded by coor-
dinating dozens of interviews with Smithsonian offi-
cials. Major articles appeared in the New York Times,
the Christian Science Monitor, the Washington Post,
U.S. News and World Report, and other outlets.

The office organized major publicity campaigns for
the “Information Age” exhibition at the National Mu-
seum of American History, the launch of the Corporate
Associate Program, the initiation of the African Ameri-
can Institutional Study, and the opening of the Smith-
sonian Information Center.
Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

The new Smithsonian Information Center, the keystone
of the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center’s (VIARC) six-year plan to improve information
and orientation services for visitors, opened to rave re-
views on November 15, 1989. This event also heralded
the introduction of computerized reference systems for
volunteer information specialists assigned to the center
and the acquisition of specially designed office space
for VIARC’s Public Inquiry Mail and Telephone Ser-
vices.

The Smithsonian Information Center, located in the
Great Hall of the Castle, was funded by leadership
grants from the Pew Memorial Trust, the Kresge Foun-
dation, and the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foun-
dation and through the generous support of the Con-
tributing Membership of the National Associates, the
National Board, and others. Operating from 9 A.M. to
5:30 P.M. daily, the center is a multifaceted information
and orientation source for visitors to the Smithsonian
and provides a wealth of assistance on other popular
attractions in the nation’s capital.

Award-winning information components include an
orientation video shown in twin theaters on a staggered
schedule throughout the day and an interactive touch-
screen program on the Smithsonian in seven languages.
Other components include two scale models of Wash-
ington’s monumental core, two electronic wall maps
and interactive touch-screen programs highlighting pop-
ular capital attractions, backlit panels featuring Smith-
sonian facilities, rolling-screen monitors listing daily ac-
tivities, an Associates’ lounge, a central information
desk, and an Associates’ reception desk. Volunteer in-
formation specialists provide direction and assistance
throughout the Great Hall.

Access to the center’s information components and
services was planned to ensure maximum ease of use
by the widest possible audience. Visitor traffic flow and
building access and egress were improved with the
opening of three additional doors, including the South
Tower door from the Enid A. Haupt Garden. This en-
trance was further enhanced by the decorative restora-
tion of the South Tower Room to the ambiance it en-
joyed as the 1902 Children’s Room.

In its first to months of operation, the center was
the fourth busiest Smithsonian facility, serving
1,507,351 visitors. Membership sales also increased to
an average of 500 a month.

To accommodate expanded public information ac-
tivities, VIARC’s Seven-Day Information Service Unit
increased the volunteer information specialist corps to
well over 650. As a result of efforts to attract culturally
diverse volunteers, 19 percent of the participants in fis-
cal 1990 training classes represented minority consti-
tuencies. Additional volunteer staffing and training
were provided for the “Caribbean Festival Arts,”
“Masterworks of Louis Comfort Tiffany,” and “Dina-
mation: Dinosaurs Alive and in Color” exhibitions, as
well as for the Paul E. Garber Facility Open House.
With the reopening of the Smithsonian Institution
Building, the Castle Docent Program resumed public
walk-in tours in the spring.

The Public Inquiry Mail Service received and pro-
cessed some 47,000 pieces of mail during the year. In
addition, some 1,200 information packets were mailed
in conjunction with the Smithsonian’s efforts to
broaden the cultural diversity of its audience. The Tele-
phone Information Service handled in excess of

LS Pee Ad ‘
Pleat ey py an! bet

VIARC staffers Bruce Kirby and Grace Tull try out an inter-
active video terminal designed for visitors to the new Infor-
mation Center. (Photograph by Eric Long)

161
337,000 calls from the public during the year. The vol-
ume of calls received in April was the highest ever ex-
perienced in one month. The Washington Craft Show,
Paul E. Garber Facility Open House, Cherry Blossom
Festival, the opening of the National Museum of Natu-
ral History’s ““Dinamation: Dinosaurs Alive and in
Color” exhibition, the Hirshhorn’s film showing of
Twin Peaks, and Earth Day together generated 24,343
calls. Throughout the year, comprehensive recorded in-
formation was provided on Smithsonian activities for
Black History Month, Women’s History Month, ‘“‘Din-
amation,” Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week, the
Festival of American Folklife, and Hispanic Heritage
Month. Dial-a-Phenomenon, the popular sky watcher’s
report, attracted some 39,000 calls.

The Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Program continued
to provide valuable support to the Institution’s offices
and bureaus, including special translation services.
Some 1,213 volunteers provided assistance on both
short- and long-term special projects. Minority partici-
pation in the total corps of registered and placed volun-
teers increased from 12.1 percent to 15 percent.
VIARC’s annual Institution-wide volunteer survey doc-
umented that 5,159 volunteers contributed 529,782
hours of service during 1990.

The Information Resources Division absorbed the
added responsibility of updating and maintaining all
automated information systems in the Smithsonian In-
formation Center and continued to produce in a timely
manner its monthly Institution-wide exhibitions direc-
tory and calendar of events. The use of a desktop pub-
lishing program greatly improved the appearance of
these essential in-house resources, as well as that of key
VIARC publications. Forty-nine VIARC publications
were produced and 15 public information pieces were
reviewed for other organizations.

162
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for External
Affairs

163
The Smithsonian Institution’s response to the needs and
concerns of its many external constituencies is the pri-
mary responsibility of the Office of the Assistant Secre-
tary for External Affairs. The office frames the Institu-
tion’s goals and impact beyond the National Mall
through the supervision of its component units (which
included for the first time the media group), through
the hosting of diplomatic events and events in honor of
the friends of the Institution, and through addressing

Assistant Secretary for External Affairs Thomas E. Lovejoy
and screen actor Tom Cruise join forces for the protection of
the environment at Earth Day festivities on the National Mall
in April 1990. (Photograph by Eric Long)

164

the role of the Smithsonian in national and interna-
tional affairs.

The office has directly undertaken a number of initi-
atives this year. Responding to emerging global change
issues, it has linked the Institution’s research and edu-
cation projects to efforts by the Congress, the adminis-
tration, various federal agencies, nongovernmental or-
ganizations, academic institutions, and industry to
address impending global change problems.

Of particular importance this year was the appoint-
ment of Assistant Secretary Thomas E. Lovejoy to the
13-member President’s Council of Advisors on Science
and Technology. Other activities of the office included
the joint effort with the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute to facilitate a $10 million debt-for-nature
swap between the United States and Panama; the pur-
suit of an initiative with the government of Japan to es-
tablish a Tropical Forest Management Information
Center; cooperation in organizing several Earth Day
events on the National Mall with the National Mu-
seum of Natural History/National Museum of Man,
Congress, and the American Institute of Biological Sci-
ences; and a series of events, with the World Wildlife
Fund, for members of Congress and federal agency ad-
ministrators to address issues such as U.S. energy pol-
icy and environmental degradation in Eastern Europe.

Consonant with the Smithsonian’s commitment to
cultural diversity in the Institution and the world at
large, the office organized and presented a session on
the environment and human rights of indigenous peo-
ples through the Society for Applied Anthropology at a
conference in England. In addition, W. Richard West,
Jr., director of the National Museum of the American
Indian, has asked Deputy Assistant Secretary for Exter-
nal Affairs Marc Pachter to undertake international
planning for the museum, focusing on the presentation
of non-U.S. indigenous cultures and the relevance of
the museum to indigenous communities throughout the
world.
Media Projects National Demonstration
Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies

“Invention,” the Institution’s first major cable televi- Visitors to the National Demonstration Laboratory
sion initiative, produced by the Discovery Channel in (NDL) can learn about interactive educational technol-
cooperation with the Smithsonian for a worldwide au- ogies in an environment that permits hands-on access
dience, was in production during the year for an Octo- and encourages discussion and questions. At 17 work
ber 2, 1990, premiere. Endorsed by the National Edu- stations, visitors are introduced to a wide range of edu-
cation Association and intended for classroom use, as cation and training programs that combine computers
well as for prime-time cable television broadcast, this and multimedia materials, including foreign language,
13-program series celebrates humanity’s ingenuity and math, medical ethics, art appreciation, substance abuse
creativity. Programs in the inaugural season of ‘‘Inven- awareness, nursing care, science, industrial safety, cur-
tion” primarily feature the collections of the National rent events, and recent history.

Museum of American History, but in future years the
series may also include other Smithsonian and non-
Smithsonian segments.

In keeping with the Institution’s goal of cultivating
corporate support for media projects, “Invention” is
funded entirely by outside sources. Moreover, it 1s ex-
pected to generate significant royalty revenue as it re-
veals the national collections to more and more of the
world.

Also generating revenue to support institutional pro-
grams and objectives are the Smithsonian Video Collec-
tion; the Smithsonian Laserdisc Collection; the Smith-
sonian Interactive Compact Disc Series (a collaboration
with Phillips N.V.); “Smithsonian World”; ‘‘Perspec-
tives on the Twentieth Century with Walter Cronkite,”
a collaboration with Media Access Corporation; the
Smithsonian/Discovery series of interactive educational
software; and the Smithsonian/Creative Media Associ-
ates collaboration to produce an educational Nintendo
cartridge. Efforts to develop a fully coordinated multi-
media capability continue under the direction of the
deputy assistant secretary for media.

William Lord, vice president of ABC News Interactive, dem-
onstrates the interactive videodisc program about Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., introduced by his group in January 1990 at
the National Demonstration Laboratory.

165
The demonstrations incorporate discussions of in-
structional design, reutilization of existing video materi-
als, the educational benefits of interactivity, and the
status of the interactive educational technologies field.
Sessions are keyed to the visitor’s level of understand-
ing of both technical and instructional issues.

As a national clearinghouse, the NDL has a library
of materials about interactive educational technologies.
Visitors are welcome to study the collection of books,
journals, government and academic reports, and cata-
logues.

The lab is the only site in the United States at which
European PALS-standard disks are available for dem-
onstration. These programs include the British Domes-
day program and North Polar Expedition. Several in-
teractive programs are on long-term loan from the
Department of Defense, including Spanish, Hebrew,
and Korean language training.

Representatives of educational organizations are in-
vited to join the NDL’s Research Consortium, which is
composed of universities and other educational institu-
tions that are leading the way in the field of interactive
technologies.

166

Office of Membership
and Development

The Office of Membership and Development signifi-
cantly enhanced its fund-raising capabilities during
1990. Completion of the reorganization begun in 1989
increased efficiency and enabled the office to respond
to the growing institutional need for private support.
The office has been divided into four units: Individual
Giving, Corporate and Foundation Giving, Develop-
ment Services, and Information. Improvements in infor-
mation handling, prospect identification and research,
and national outreach activities, along with service
agreements with each bureau, have boosted fund-rais-
ing activity throughout the Institution.

This year, the office has put primary emphasis on
planning and initiating a major gifts fund-raising effort
to secure annual and long-term support for both unre-
stricted and restricted purposes, according to the secre-
tary’s stated fund-raising priorities. As part of that ef-
fort, the National Board is committed to canvassing its
membership for major contributions to priority institu-
tional programs. The Regent’s Advisory Committee on
Planning and Development was also created in 1990.

Another significant new activity undertaken in 1990
was the inauguration of the Smithsonian Salutes! series
of national outreach events. In cooperation with the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates and the
Contributing Membership Program of the Smithsonian
National Associate Program, the office hosted events in
Houston, Los Angeles, Palm Beach, and Minneapolis
that included area donors, Contributing Members and
their friends, and corporate representatives. The events
introduced today’s Smithsonian and thanked the com-
munities for their past and present support. Additional
events are being planned for other locations across the
country. In Washington, the office hosted a reception
for major donors at the official dedication of the new
Smithsonian Information Center in the Castle in con-
junction with the Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center.

The office worked closely with the National Associ-
ate Program to further a number of new membership
activities begun in 1989 and 1990. Members of the In-
dividual Giving unit and the Contributing Membership
Program are collaborating on efforts to increase mem-
bership in the James Smithson Society, the highest level
of Contributing Membership, through the Secretary’s
Circle, a volunteer network led by National Board
member Alexander McLanahan. The Corporate Associ-
ate Program, spearheaded by founding chairman Rob-
erto C. Goizueta of the Coca-Cola Company, garnered
14 members in 1990, including three vice-chairmen.
The office also helped the National Associate Program
produce a poster promoting private gifts to the Institu-
tion for display in the Smithsonian Information Center
and other public areas. Other vehicles to raise public
awareness of the public-private partnership have been
created, including a full-color brochure about the need
for private support at the Smithsonian.

During 1990, the Institution received many signifi-
cant gifts and bequests to further its research and edu-
cational goals. This support is continued evidence of
the high regard in which the Smithsonian is held by the
nation’s individuals, foundations, and corporations.

Among the Institution’s highest priorities is monitor-

ing, understanding, and arresting deterioration of the
global environment, with emphasis on research, conser-
vation, training, and public education related to tropi-
cal rainforests. To support this work, the Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation gave $250,000 to the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute for its tropical paleoecology
project and $170,000 to the National Museum of Nat-
ural History for the Biological Dynamics of Forest
Fragments program (formerly Minimum Critical Size of
Ecosystems). The Pew Charitable Trusts gave $150,000
toward a $300,000 pledge to the National Zoological
Park for its training program in wildlife conservation
and management. The Ethyl Corporation made a
pledge of $300,000 to support the National Museum of
Natural History’s ‘“‘Chesapeake Bay Mesocosm” exhibi-
tion. The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition

Craft show volunteers
having an old-fashioned
slide-project bee on an
Arts and Industries
Building balcony. (Pho-
tograph by Eric Long)

167
Service received $100,000 from the John D. and Cath-
erine T. MacArthur Foundation for a Latin American
version of the popular exhibition ‘“Tropical Rainfor-
ests: A Disappearing Treasure.”

The arts at the Smithsonian were also well supported
this year by private donors. The J. Paul Getty Trust has
provided $150,000 for the conservation of James Mc-
Neill Whistler’s Peacock Room at the Freer Gallery of
Art. The Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design
received $100,000 from the J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.,
for the Cooper Union Legacy Exhibition. The Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery received support from the Arthur
M. Sackler Foundation for the quarterly journal Asian
Art and from Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler for a symposium
titled “New Perspectives on Chu Culture during the
Eastern Zhou Period.”” Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd., provided major underwriting for the Sack-
ler’s exhibition “Yokohama: Prints from Nineteenth-
Century Japan.”

The National Museum of American History received
unprecedented contributions from more than 20 major
communications industry corporations for its new per-
manent exhibition “Information Age: People, Informa-
tion, & Technology.” In 1990, the exhibition received
$250,000 from IBM Corporation, $100,000 from
Hewlett-Packard, and $100,000 from the Xerox Foun-
dation. The museum also received a major pledge of $4
million from the American Chemical Society to under-
write the upcoming exhibition “Science in American
Life.”

Several of the Columbus Quincentenary programs at
the Smithsonian benefited from private philanthropy
during 1990. Chief among these is the major exhibition
“Seeds of Change” at the National Museum of Natural
History, which received a pledge of more than $1 mil-
lion from the Xerox Corporation.

Other major gifts received this year include two large
bequests: $509,478 from the estate of Frances B. Fer-
guson for the Ferguson Endowment and $100,000 from
the estate of Mildred Dassett for the Cooper-Hewitt
National Museum of Design. Corporate and founda-
tion gifts included $260,000 of a $400,000 pledge from
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., to the National Museum of Nat-
ural History for the exhibition “Beyond the Java Sea.”
Lotus Development Corporation gave $103,000 for the
Starlit Symphony film in the ‘Beyond the Limits” exhi-
bition at the National Air and Space Museum. The

168

American Committee on the French Revolution con-
tributed $150,000 toward the French portion of the
Festival of American Folklife. Boeing Company
(through the Seattle Organizing Committee of the
Goodwill Games) gave $137,763 to underwrite ‘‘Mos-
cow: Treasures and Traditions,” an exhibition being
circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service. From the Pew Charitable Trusts came
$150,000 for an exhibition in the Experimental Gal-
lery, scheduled to open in early 1991. The Alfred P.
Sloan Foundation gave $122,355 for the conclusion of
the Video History Program at the National Air and
Space Museum. The Institution was delighted to receive
a pledge from the Kajima Corporation, which, together
with Hitachi Ltd. and the American Family Life Assur-
ance Company, is underwriting a film on Japanese gar-
dens for American and other audiences.

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

The National Board of the Smithsonian Associates was
established in 1971 to bring the Institution into closer
association with corporate, professional, community,
and cultural leaders from throughout the country. The
Institution looks to the National Board for guidance in
stimulating appropriate forms of cooperation among
these sectors, for assistance with regional Smithsonian
activities and educational services, and for private sup-
port for these and other programs.

At the board’s annual spring meeting, held in the
Transco Energy Tower Building in Houston, Texas,
Secretary Adams, Assistant Secretary for External Af-
fairs Thomas E. Lovejoy, and Director of Membership
and Development Thomas McCance, Jr., reported on
institutional activities. Six new board members were
elected: Anne Bass of Texas, Fletcher Byrom of Ari-
zona, John Harbert of Alabama, George Mueller of
California, Leveo Sanchez of Virginia, and Holley
Smith of Montana. Chairman Gay Wray thanked retir-
ing members Alexander McLanahan of Texas, Charley
Dickey of Pennsylvania, Joan Donner of Colorado,
Howard Love of Pennsylvania, and Charlie Murphy of
Arkansas for their service to the board and the Institu-
tion. The weekend was hosted by current and former
board members Mr. and Mrs. Jack Bowen, Mr. and
Mrs. Alfred Glassell, Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Hines, and
Mr. and Mrs. Alexander McLanahan, who arranged
visits to several local museums and the Johnson Space
Center. Two dinners were held for the board; one at
the Houston Museum of Fine Arts included local civic
leaders. Former board member James Elkins also
hosted a luncheon at his home.

Twenty-nine board members (past and present) and
spouses journeyed to the Soviet Union in May. The
study trip was led by Assistant Secretary for Research
Robert S$. Hoffmann and Mrs. Hoffmann, who with
their knowledge of Russia helped to make the trip
more meaningful.

The board’s annual meeting was held in Washington,
D.C., September 21-23, 1990. An orientation session
on September 21 acquainted old and new members
with the workings and breadth of the Smithsonian.
That evening the joint National Board—James Smithson
Society dinner was held at the National Museum of
American Art and the National Portrait Gallery. The
collection of American folk art given by Smithson med-
alist Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr., to the National Mu-
seum of American Art was on display. At the dinner,
Sam DeVincent of Fort Wayne, Indiana, received the
James Smithson Society Founder Medal for his signifi-
cant contribution of sheet music to the collections in
the history of American music at the National Museum
of American History. At the September 22 meeting,
members and spouses heard about the Institution’s na-
tional and international outreach from Deputy Assis-
tant Secretary for External Affairs Marc Pachter,
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Director Anna Cohn, and Smithsonian National Associ-
ate Program Assistant Director Stephen Pike. A dinner
for present, past, and honorary board members was
held at the National Air and Space Museum and hon-
ored the founding members of the board. On Septem-
ber 23, Secretary Adams, Treasurer Ann Leven, and
Acting Under Secretary Nancy Suttenfield covered cur-
rent areas of major concern to the Smithsonian.

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

The 63 active members, 50 resource members, and 28
sustaining members of the Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates continued to support and ad-
vance Smithsonian interests through fund-raising events
and project awards. Committee members contributed
more than 7,000 volunteer hours to the Institution this
year. Net proceeds from the 1989 Washington Craft
Show and the annual Christmas Dinner Dance enabled
the committee to fund 48 projects in 19 Smithsonian
bureaus for a total of $192,099. Projects were sup-
ported in amounts from $900 to $12,000. An addi-
tional $40,000 was earmarked for the Women’s Com-
mittee Endowment Fund.

The projects supported reflected the committee’s
commitment to education, outreach, and research at
the Smithsonian. Awards supported speakers for a do-
cent training program at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, revision of the “Shapes and Colors”
tour for the mentally disabled at the National Air and
Space Museum, and the addition of open captions for
deaf visitors to educational videos at the National Mu-
seum of African Art. The National Museum of Ameri-
can History received funding for a conservation assess-
ment study of objects in the Duke Ellington Collection;
the transcription of tape recordings for “An Oral His-
tory of Southern Agriculture”; and the identification,
arrangement, and housing of photographs of foreign
gold coins in the J. K. Lilly, Jr., Collection.

Awards to the National Museum of Natural History
supported the production of a videotape on geologic
time and the collection of rock sections for the “Tower
of Time” exhibit; the development, production, and
distribution of an instruction kit on Southeast Asian
cultures; and the curation of Lepidoptera slides. The
National Zoo was given support to purchase three
spotting scopes that enable visitors to view a newborn
gazelle, bear cubs, and free-ranging monkeys; create
new school loan kits for elementary school teachers;
and develop a teaching guide on the contribution of the
Algonquian Indians to modern-day use of plants for
food and medicine.

Other grants were made for the preparation of a cat-
alogue raisonné of the works of Rembrandt Peale; the
duplication and preservation of Antoine Seyruguin pho-
tographs in the Freer Gallery of Art/Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery archives; the purchase of volume 3 of a rare set
of nineteenth-century furniture and drapery designs by

169
the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design branch
library; and the creation of facsimile mylar copies of
deteriorating architectural drawings and plans. In addi-
tion, support was given for the construction of the Java
History Trail at the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center and the development of an outdoor liv-
ing marine exhibition at the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute. The Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory received funding for educational informa-
tion sheets on astronomy, and funding was provided
for instructional literature and supplies for workshops
held in conjunction with the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service’s exhibition “Climbing Ja-
cob’s Ladder.”

The roth annual Christmas Dinner Dance was held
in the rotunda of the National Museum of Natural
History. This gala evening and established Smithsonian
tradition was again a highly successful fund-raising
event.

The 1990 Washington Craft Show featured 100 out-
standing crafts artists from 29 states who were selected
by a distinguished panel of jurors from more than
1,200 applicants. A preview reception and silent auc-
tion held in conjunction with the craft show raised ad-
ditional funds for the Smithsonian.

Smithsonian National
Associate Program

Serving more than 2 million members, the Smithsonian
National Associate Program offers innovative educa-
tional opportunities throughout the nation, expanding
the boundaries of the Institution to encompass all 50
states. The program’s far-flung membership is kept
abreast of the Institution’s activities through Smithson-
ian magazine and the newsletter Smithsonian Traveler.
In cooperation with other Smithsonian bureaus, the
program has organized a diverse range of activities for
members. As a result, the program has, since its begin-
ning in 1970, fostered a strong national constituency
for the Smithsonian’s work while establishing itself as
an important source of unrestricted trust fund income.

A sampling of the activities and accomplishments of
the program’s six units follows.

Contributing Membership

Contributing Membership grew significantly in fiscal
1990, from 52,000 to 62,000 member households.
Contributing Members help support the Institution’s
work with annual dues and gifts in response to special
fund-raising appeals, as well as with matching contri-
butions from their employers. This year, Contributing
Membership net income reached $4 million, a 40 per-
cent increase over fiscal 1989.

Members participate at one of six membership levels:
Supporting ($600), Donor ($125), Sponsoring ($300),
Sustaining ($600), Patron ($1,200), or the James Smith-
son Society ($2,000). In return, they receive a charita-
ble tax deduction and a range of tangible benefits. For
the first time in 1990, all members received the quar-
terly publication Smithsonian Institution Research Re-
ports.

Contributing Members participate annually in a vari-
ety of exclusive Smithsonian programs. In October
1989, 110 members journeyed to South America with
Thomas E. Lovejoy, assistant secretary for external af-
fairs, Michael H. Robinson, director of the National
Zoological Park, and other renowned scholars on a
three-week study tour of the Amazon and Orinoco riv-
ers. During the fall 1989 and spring 1990 sessions of
the Contributing Membership office’s popular ‘‘Smith-
sonian Treasures” program, 180 members from across
the United States toured behind the scenes in many of
the Institution’s museums and research facilities. In
spring 1990, members studied American art at the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery, National Museum of American
Art, and National Museum of American History during
the first Contributing Membership “Smithsonian
Focus” study program.

The Contributing Membership office also launched a
new organization of fund-raising volunteers in fiscal
1990. The Young Benefactors of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution was created to involve individuals between the
ages of 25 and 45 in raising unrestricted funds for the
Institution, increasing awareness among young profes-
sionals of the Smithsonian’s goals, and building a foun-
dation for future Smithsonian support.

James Smithson Society

Members of the James Smithson Society again partici-
pated in a special weekend of activities held in late Sep-
tember in conjunction with the fall meeting of the Na-
tional Board of the Smithsonian Associates. During the
weekend, the society’s Founder Medal was presented to
Sam DeVincent in recognition of his extraordinary con-
tributions to the collections and programs in the his-
tory of American music at the National Museum of
American History.

The Smithson Society awarded grants totaling
$444,015 this year to support the following Smithson-
ian projects and acquisitions:

National Museum of African Art: To acquire a Teke
sculpture from the Republic of Congo.

National Air and Space Museum: To produce a doc-
umentary film showing the benefits of scientific educa-
tion for young women.

National Museum of American Art: To research, de-
velop, and produce an introductory audiovisual presen-
tation for the exhibition ““The West as America, 1820—
1920.”

National Museum of American History: To purchase
a typesetting system for the exhibition and publication
divisions; to publish an exhibition booklet, From Par-
lor to Politics; and to produce an informational fund-
raising video on the history of jazz programs.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden: To pro-
duce an audiovisual visitor orientation program for the
collection of nineteenth- and twentieth-century sculp-
ture.

Henry Elliot, curator at the National Museum of African Art,
narrates the Yoruba tale of ‘“‘shango” (the god of thunder)
while Smithsonian Contributing Members observe the cen-
tury-old wood dance wand on view in the “Yoruba: Nine
Centuries of African Art and Thought” exhibition. (Photo-
graph by Richard Strauss)

Associates attend a 2oth-century furniture design seminar of
the Smithsonian National Associate Program at the ‘Out on
a Limb” workshop in Arlington, Virginia.
National Museum of Natural History: To produce a
press resource guide and to support the 1991 under-
graduate summer intern program.

National Zoological Park: To produce a migratory
bird information kit to facilitate formation of a conser-
vation network.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory: To distrib-
ute the movie Mapping the Universe to students and
the general public.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries: To support the ex-
hibition ““Nusantara: Lands and Peoples of Indonesia.”

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute: To improve
and manage the Fish Skeletal Reference Collection in
the Archaeozoology Laboratory.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service:
To subsidize production and transportation costs for
the exhibition ‘Plains Indian Art.”

Office of Folklife Programs: To support research and
preparation of Smithsonian Cookbook Sampler: Reci-
pes from the Festival of American Folklife.

Office of Public Affairs: To publish a new booklet
describing Smithsonian research behind the scenes.

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Museums: To
research a new book, Museum Careers, for students,
counselors, and museum professionals.

Office of Exhibits Central: To purchase production
software for the fabrication unit.

Office of Telecommunications: To produce a new
national radio series, “Rediscovering America.”

Corporate Associate Program

The Smithsonian Corporate Associate Program was
launched in January 1990 with the announcement that
Roberto C. Goizueta, the chairman and chief executive
officer of the Coca-Cola Company, would serve as the
program’s founding chairman. Goizeuta subsequently
recruited three other chief executives as vice-chairmen:
August A. Busch IIl, Anheuser-Busch Companies; Har-
old A. Poling, Ford Motor Company; and Richard J.
Mahoney, Monsanto Company.

Corporations are invited to become members at two
levels, $25,000 or $10,000. Among the 1990 founding
members were the General Electric Company, Walt
Disney Company, Dow Chemical Company, Bell South
Corporation, Capital Cities/ABC, McDonald’s Corpo-

ration, Lee Enterprises, Eaton Corporation, D’Arcy MB
& B, and Needham DDB. Through their investment in
the Smithsonian, these and other companies demon-
strate the critical role an enlightened private sector can
play in advancing public good.

U.S. and International Events

U.S. and International Events, now in its 15th year,
provides educational events that highlight the research
and collections of the Smithsonian for National Associ-
ate members and the general public nationwide. Each
year, Smithsonian curators, scientists, and research as-
sociates present lectures, seminars, hands-on work-
shops, and concerts in approximately 25 U.S. cities.

Grand Junction, Colorado, was one of the cities that
presented Smithsonian events during the past year. The
series highlighted Native American culture and inspired
the cosponsoring organizations to develop a four-week
festival of Hispanic art, history, and culture. This series
of events marked the program’s first visit to Grand
Junction. Other cities visited for the first time in 1990
were Albany, New York; Norfolk, Virginia; Fullerton
and Santa Ana, California; Fort Collins, Colorado;
Burlington, Vermont; Salina, Kansas; Concord and
Manchester, New Hampshire; and Toledo, Ohio.

The success of activities organized by U.S. and Inter-
national Events depends in part on collaborations with
local and national organizations. During 1990, the pro-
gram collaborated with 75 local organizations through-
out the country, including museums, universities, Zoo-
logical parks, and botanical gardens.

Twenty-six new programs were developed this year.
Among them were “Inside Active Volcanoes,” by Ri-
chard Fiske and Mary Dillon; “Birdlife in the Yuca-
tan,” by Russell Greenberg; “Feminine Image in Afri-
can Art,” by Roslyn Walker; and ‘Concepts of Beauty
in the Arts of Sub-Saharan Africa,’ by Christine Mul-
len Kreamer.

In addition to presenting programs around the coun-
try, U.S. and International Events coordinates interna-
tional series. During 1990, the program visited Pontifi-
cia Universidad Catolica in Santiago, Chile, five times
with 14 events.
Smithsonian Research Expeditions

The purpose of the Smithsonian Research Expeditions
is twofold: to offer Associate members the opportunity
to become personally involved with the Institution by
working closely with Smithsonian professionals and to
provide Smithsonian scientists with an additional
source of field assistance and funding for their research
projects. One hundred sixty Associate members partici-
pated in the 1990 Research Expeditions, contributing
more than $200,000 and providing more than 100,000
volunteer hours.

One expedition held this year was part of the Yuca-
tan project led by James Lynch and Dennis Whigham
from the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center.
Two teams accompanied Lynch and Whigham to the
Yucatan Peninsula to assist in the study of bird life and
vegetation and to examine the effects of Hurricane Gil-
bert on these populations.

Smithsonian Study Tours and Seminars

Smithsonian Study Tours and Seminars organizes edu-
cational programs that mirror the many and varied in-
terests of the Institution. In 1990, more than 6,000 Na-
tional Associates participated in 175 foreign and
domestic tours and seminars.

Several new foreign study tours were offered this
year. For the first time, Associates visited Trinidad and
Tobago, focusing on the area’s rich bird life. Associates
also traveled by rail on the Far East Express from Sin-
gapore through the Malay Peninsula to Southern Thai-
land. Two important anniversaries were observed. As-
sociates toured special museum exhibitions and visited
sites in the Netherlands and France related to the life
and work of Vincent Van Gogh on the centennial of his
death. Seventy Associates attended activities in England
commemorating the soth anniversary of the Battle of
Britain.

More than 900 Associates boarded specially char-
tered river and ocean vessels in various parts of the
world. Participants again cruised the Red Sea, making
inland journeys to Luxor and Petra. One hundred
thirty-six Associates journeyed on the luxurious new
Seabourn Spirit around Cape Horn. Other groups ex-
plored the coast of Turkey aboard the tall ship Sea

Cloud, saw the beautiful banks of the Upper Volga,
newly opened to foreigners, and discussed historic
changes in Eastern Europe on a Danube cruise from
Romania to Germany.

Foreign residential seminars were held at Trinity Col-
lege, Dublin, at the American University in Cairo, and
in Florence. Domestic seminar programs in 1990 fea-
tured an impressive, hand-picked faculty and offered
special access to Smithsonian collections, major exhibi-
tions, research facilities, and skilled curatorial staff.
Eight seminars were held in Washington, D.C., includ-
ing “America’s Future in Space,” “American Coins and
Currency,” “150 Years of American Art,” ““Twentieth-
Century Furniture” and “Animal Communications.”

Beyond Washington, 60 Associates visited the Smith-
sonian’s Whipple Observatory in Arizona for the semi-
nar “The New Astronomies.”’ Marine scientists wel-
comed Associates for the first time to the Smithsonian
Marine Station at Link Port in Florida for studies in
marine biology. Santa Fe, New Mexico, offered a
unique setting for the study of Southwestern art and ar-
chaeology.

More than 60 Domestic Study Tours in 1990 pro-
vided Associates with a variety of opportunities to ex-
perience the natural wonders and regional heritage of
America. Active outdoor tours help to increase under-
standing and appreciation for conservation of natural
resources. Popular hiking programs were repeated to
Yosemite, Big Bend, Bryce Canyon, and Zion National
Parks. Associates camped in Idaho while rafting the
Salmon River and explored the Grand Canyon while
running the rapids on the Colorado River. A trip to
wildlife refuges in South Texas included a side trip to
Arkansas where the endangered whooping crane spends
the winter. Learning techniques for using binoculars
and for locating and identifying birds introduced many
Associates to a lifelong hobby. A new family-oriented
nature program in the Colorado Rockies was enthusias-
tically received by a group ranging in age from 7 to 7o.

Weekend programs continue to be popular with As-
sociates interested in a shorter, less expensive study
tour. In addition to art and architecture programs in
New York, Chicago, and Philadelphia, four new tours
to the South Rim of the Grand Canyon were offered,
featuring nature walks and lectures.
Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

The Smithsonian Institution’s privately supported cul-
tural, continuing education, membership, and public
outreach arm for metropolitan Washington, D.C., is
the Resident Associate Program (RAP). This year, RAP
continued to build on its tradition of bringing to its
constituencies a rich mix of cultural and educational
programs, while increasing its emphasis on multicul-
tural diversity and worldwide environmental concerns
consonant with the interests of the Institution.

In 1990, audiences could choose from programs as
diverse as the electrifying music of Brazilian guitarist
Toninho Horta; a stirring performance of Audience, a
play written by Czechoslovakian President Vaclav
Havel; and a historic dialogue between curator extraor-
dinaire Walter Hopps and premier art dealer Leo Cas-
telli. The program offered 1,928 high-quality activities,
attended by more than 323,000 adults and young peo-
ple. Membership in the Resident Associate Program
numbers 56,000, representing 106,000 persons, in ad-
dition to area contributing members who participate
avidly.

During this fiscal year, RAP began to lay the ground-
work for the fall 1990 celebration of its 25th anniver-
sary, planning more than 25 programs that brought a
dazzling array of luminaries to Washington. The cele-
bration got off to a grand start with a generous gift
from Riggs National Bank, quickly matched and sur-
passed by contributions from RAP members, Contrib-
uting Members, and corporate donors.

As part of its 25th anniversary celebration, RAP
commissioned internationally acclaimed artist Jacob
Lawrence to create On the Way, a 12-color lithograph
in a signed and numbered edition of roo. Well-known
children’s book illustrator Tomie dePaola was also
commissioned to create a festive watercolor-and-pencil
poster in a signed and numbered edition of soo.

RAP’s extraordinary combination of program excel-
lence and community outreach continued to attract the
attention of both local and national media. Its monthly
publication, the Smithsonian Associate, won first prize
for newsletters in the Blue Pencil Awards of the Na-
tional Association of Government Communicators. The
24th annual Smithsonian Kite Festival, cosponsored by
RAP and open to members and the general public,
brought 5,000 people to the National Mall to fly their
colorful creations and received major local and national
media attention. RAP’s premiere of the Oscar-winning

174

Se" Pes a) ee:
: Let # we “ 0 ) i

Smithsonian photographer Eric Long captured his daughters
Jeannie (foreground) and Meghan on film during the Kite
Festival in April.

film Glory, enlivened by the attendance of actors in
Civil War regalia, drew national television coverage.

Cooperation with Smithsonian Bureaus and Offices

RAP joined forces with Smithsonian museums to
present programs tied to major exhibitions. Among the
cosponsorships were an adult course in Buddhist art
with the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, complementing the
exhibition ““The Noble Path: Buddhist Art from South
Asia and Tibet’’; discussions with actor Douglas Fair-

banks, Jr., and veteran journalist Edward P. Morgan
conducted by Mare Pachter, biographer and assistant
director of the National Portrait Gallery; and a four-
part lecture series, Talks on the Wild Side, with the

World Wildlife Fund and the National Zoological Park.

An adult course on the exhibition “Icons: Ideals and
Power in the Art of Africa” and a lecture by Rowland
Abiodun, both sponsored with the National Museum
of African Art, enhanced the exhibition “Yoruba: Nine
Centuries of African Art and Thought.” A course com-
plemented the Renwick Gallery’s exhibition ‘‘Master-
works of Louis Comfort Tiffany.” An all-day seminar
with the National Museum of Natural History on the
secrets of ancient Egypt was based on the exhibition
“The First Egyptians.” With the National Museum of
American Art, a studio arts workshop on painted furni-
ture was held in coordination with ‘“Treasures of
American Folk Art.” Evenings with contemporary art-
ists Donald Sultan and Jeff Koons and museum direc-
tor, author, and lecturer Henry T. Hopkins were co-
sponsored with the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. Alternative strategies for political and social
reform were the focus of a powerful all-day seminar in
conjunction with the Kennan Institute for Advanced
Russian Studies, Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars. Brian Duff, special assistant to the direc-
tor of the National Air and Space Museum, dazzled
RAP audiences with a preview of the museum’s ambi-
tious new film, The Blue Planet.

RAP made beautiful music with the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden’s Twentieth-Century Con-
sort series. The Smithson String Quartet, the Smithson-
ian Chamber Orchestra, the Smithsonian Chamber
Players, and the Castle Trio performed again under Na-
tional Museum of American History and RAP auspices.

Outreach

Service to the community is a RAP hallmark. RAP’s
Afro-American Studies Department, with the assistance
of grants from the Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach
Program and the Hattie M. Strong Foundation, began a
pilot program, ‘Project Excellence in Afro-American
Studies,” to encourage African American high school
students to explore their heritage as reflected in the
arts, humanities, and sciences. The pilot project offers

26 selected at-risk high school students in the Washing-
ton metropolitan area an opportunity to undertake in-
tensive summer study of the comprehension and criti-
cism of African American literature under the tutelage
of a college-level instructor.

Each year, RAP’s Discover Graphics program in-
volves 200 area public high school students and their
teachers in the art of printmaking, with free instruction
on fine Smithsonian presses. The annual juried exhibi-
tion of student prints was mounted this past year in the
Escalator Gallery of the S$. Dillon Ripley Center.

Another annual outreach effort is the tuition-free
scholarship program for Young Associate and adult
courses, awarded through the D.C. public school sys-
tem. In fiscal 1990, ror inner-city young people and
220 adults received scholarships.

Outside Collaboration

Prestigious organizations that worked with RAP to cre-
ate exciting programs in fiscal 1990 included the Amer-
ican Institute of Architects, National Trust for Historic
Preservation, American Chemical Society, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, National Learn-
ing Center of the Capital Children’s Museum, Meridian
House International, and the publishing house Farrar,
Straus, and Giroux. An impressive lineup of legal ex-
perts took part in a course cosponsored by the Courts,
Lawyers, and the Administration of Justice Section of
the District of Columbia Bar, which gave a behind-the-
scenes look at the practice of law in Washington. The
trade secrets of 25 famous interior designers were re-
vealed in an unprecedented six-session course presented
in conjunction with Architectural Digest magazine,
moderated by Editor-in-Chief Paige Rense.

The Asia Society of New York cosponsored
“Shomyo,” an unforgettable performance of sacred rit-
ual chants of Japanese Buddhism. RAP and District Cu-
rators presented the Washington, D.C., debut of the
contemporary jazz octet Eight Bold Souls. For the third
year, the Beethoven Society of Washington, the Duke
University—affiliated Thelonius Monk Institute of Jazz,
and RAP cosponsored the popular Thelonius Monk In-
ternational Jazz Piano Competition.

In an innovative move, RAP joined forces with the
Teaching Company to initiate Learning with Superstars

175
of the College Classroom. The four intensive weekend
seminars, conducted by outstanding professors from
leading universities, are videotaped for distribution to
schools and colleges nationwide.

Afro-American Studies

RAP continued to focus educational and membership
efforts on Washington’s African American community,
with each RAP department presenting programs that
brought the African American experience to life. The
Afro-American Studies Department made great strides
in fiscal 1990 toward realizing its goal of increasing Af-
rican American participation. With a new structure and
staff, it expanded its curriculum significantly and pro-
duced more varied programs. Attendance at Afro-
American programs was approximately 50 percent
higher than in fiscal 1989. Adult courses included
“Buried Heritage: The Archaeology of African Ameri-
can Life” and “New Roots: The What and How of Af-
rican American Genealogy Today.” Headliners included
Billy Taylor, Damon Evans, Kent Jordan, Nancy Wiil-
son, the Louisiana Repertory Jazz Ensemble, the Keter
Betts Trio, the Georgia Sea Island Singers, the Peabody
Ragtime Ensemble, and actor John Amos. Memorable
lectures were given by U.S. Representative Major
Owens (D—N.Y.) and by well-known writers Itabari
Njeri, Carlos Moore, Ntozake Shange, John Wideman,
and Ishmael Reed.

Campus on the Mall

Through the Smithsonian Campus on the Mall, RAP
provides the only Institution-wide avenue for continu-
ing education in the arts, humanities, and sciences. Six-
to eight-week lecture series and intensive weekend
courses are offered in four terms each year. In 1990,
RAP expanded and enriched this program, attracting
an average of 5,000 participants per term to 185 pro-
grams and many more to individual sessions. The pro-
gram’s gross income surpassed $1 million for the first
time.

Capitalizing on the success of the Western civiliza-
tion and Latin American certificate of participation
programs held during the past three years, RAP

176

launched a new certificate series this year on music
connoisseurship. The certificate is awarded to partici-
pants who take the required five- to seven-course cur-
riculum within a four-year period. The University of
Maryland’s University College awarded academic credit
for several Campus on the Mall courses.

RAP’s continuing collaborations with embassies re-
sulted in such well-attended programs as ‘“‘Denmark in
Perspective: Great Danes and Their Great Friends,”
which included appearances by the inimitable Victor
Borge, Garrison Keillor, and the world-famous Kontra
Quartet.

Studio Arts

The Studio Arts Department presented 222 classes and
workshops in 1990, attended by nearly 18,000 partici-
pants. The programs, offered in four terms, are taught
by professional artists and other experts and feature
hands-on experience. The photography program, based
in RAP’s state-of-the-art photography laboratory, con-
tinued to be a favorite. A significant computer graphics
symposium, “Infinite Illusions: The World of Electroni-
cally Created Imagery,” was the highlight of the year.
Classes in wearable art, neon art, trompe l'oeil, and
stone carving were well received.

Lectures, Seminars, and Films

Lectures, weekend seminars, and premieres of major
films filled Smithsonian auditoriums to capacity
throughout the year, as RAP invited distinguished
scholars and experts to speak on a range of current
topics from arts to zoology. A total of 35,000 people
attended 124 lectures; 3,200 attended 21 seminars; and
13,800 attended 46 films. Lecturers included China his-
torian Jonathan Spence, Pulitzer Prize winner Stanley
Karnow, anthropologist Donald Johanson, art historian
and curator Kirk Varnedoe, mystery writer Margaret
Truman, poet Lawrence Ferlinghetti, novelist Alex
Haley, Judge Robert Bork, and cartoonists Pat Oli-
phant and Jules Feiffer. Assistant Secretary for External
Affairs Thomas E. Lovejoy led a symposium on global
conservation; the National Geographic Society cospon-
sored a series on recent changes in Eastern Europe; and
the World Wildlife Fund and the Audubon Naturalist
Society joined to sponsor an animal conservation series.

Four Singles’ Evenings lecture series attracted nearly
5,000 participants in equal numbers of women and
men. The Tuesday Mornings series for retirees averaged
more than 300 persons in each of three series of six
lectures.

RAP presented spectacular Washington premieres of
the films Glory, Henry V, and The First Emperor of
China. In addition, Liv Ullman charmed her RAP audi-
ence at the Washington premiere of her latest film, The
Rose Garden. RAP offered myriad international films
throughout the year, including classics like Nosferatu
and Wings (with organ music by Radio City Music
Hall organist Lee Erwin), and multicultural offerings,
including a film series on Native Americans.

Performing Arts

More than 30,000 people attended 115 RAP perform-
ances this year. They enjoyed the Smithsonian debut of
the Washington Guitar Quintet and laughed at Joan
Cushing’s musical revue, Mrs. Foggybottom and
Friends, which skewered the body politic with outra-
geously sharp and witty lyrics.

RAP’s international offerings included Sukay, a
group of musicians from South America, performing
traditional music from Bolivia, Peru, and Ecuador; an
ensemble of performers from the city of Sunda in Indo-
nesia; the Women of the Calabash, saluting Black His-
tory Month with a performance of traditional African
American music with a contemporary twist; the daz-
zling Spanish Dance Society USA; and the Jiving Lindy
Hoppers from England, unique masters of the lindy
hop and the jitterbug.

RAP continued to present great classical music per-
formed by such impeccable artists as Menachem Pres-
sler, the Grammy award-winning Emerson String Quar-
tet; the Twentieth-Century Consort; the Pro Musicis
Foundation Series featuring young artists; and the In-
ternational Poetry Forum. Jazz was well represented by
the Warren Vache Quintet and Ken Peplowski, while
bluesman and songwriter Henry Townsend had the
“Tears Come Rollin’ Down” in a program of country
blues cosponsored with the D.C. Blues Society.

Study Tours

In 1990, some 16,000 people participated in 525 study
tours. From Smithsonian exhibitions to historic sites,
nature preserves, Broadway, and beyond, RAP partici-
pants traveled in search of new experiences expertly
presented. Events ranged in length from local walking
tours to out-of-town overnight trips. Some of the most
popular programs included RAP’s in-depth study tours
of Civil War battlefields; a trip to historic Beaufort,
South Carolina; and excursions to New York to see
major museum exhibitions and Broadway hits. Free
tours were also offered to RAP members each month.

Tours of Washington artists’ studios and galleries,
visits to historic African American churches, boat trips
on the Chesapeake Bay, birding excursions, star-gazing
in the Blue Ridge mountains, spelunking in the Shenan-
doah, and bus trips to craft fairs and historic houses in
nearby states all attracted enthusiastic participants, as
did RAP’s popular excursions along the Chesapeake
and Ohio Canal and local rail lines.

Young Associates and Family Activities

More than 13,000 young people aged 4 to 15, along
with parents and other family members, participated in
a total of 209 activities. Such perennial favorites as the
Halloween costume party, the winter holiday film and
party, and the summer “Evening Picnic at the Zoo” at-
tracted enthusiastic participants of all ages. The Kite
Festival drew visitors from 33 states. RAP celebrated
Children’s Book Week with the world premiere of the
film Ashpet: An American Cinderella by noted film-
maker Tom Davenport. And the spirit of glasnost be-
came a reality for young people who spent a day with
children of the Soviet Embassy, met cosmonaut Valeriy
Kubasoy at the Apollo-Soyuz exhibit, or celebrated—
UNICEF’s International Children’s Day at the Czecho-
slovakian Embassy. The highly successful Smithsonian
Summer Camp sizzled with 28 sessions of such fun-
filled learning experiences as ““Moon Travelers,”
“Super Sleuths,” and “Mountain Music, Mountain
Crafts.”
Discovery Theater

During its r2th season, Discovery Theater offered 400
performances for 71,751 young people and their fami-
lies. Ten productions were presented, all with learning
guides. In February, to celebrate Black History Month,
Discovery Theater produced ‘‘We the People,” a dra-
matic reenactment of the historic debate between black
abolitionists Frederick Douglass and Charles Lenox Re-
mond. The production was mounted in collaboration
with the National Park Service, Howard University,
and the Duke Ellington School of the Arts. Discovery
Theater expanded its season by offering well-attended
and well-received summer performances during July.

Volunteers

RAP’s more than 400 volunteers were recognized for
their significant contribution of time, talent, and energy
at a reception held at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
last fall. Assisting as monitors for programs, as well as
providing essential office support, RAP volunteers per-
formed well over 26,000 hours of invaluable service
last year.

Office of Congressional Liaison

Reflecting the diversity of disciplines represented at the
Smithsonian, legislation monitored by the Office of
Congressional Liaison covered several broad issues.
Foremost among the legislative efforts initiated by the
Board of Regents during 1990 was the bill to create a
Smithsonian Institution Senior Service, authorizing par-
allel procedures and incentives for all Smithsonian sen-
ior-level executives, managers, scholars, and research-
ers. The office continued to represent Smithsonian
priorities in museum collections care through such fa-
cilities expansion as the extension to the National Air
and Space Museum at Washington-Dulles International
Airport. Ongoing issues related to the establishment of
the National Museum of the American Indian, and ini-
tiatives in biological diversity also required institutional
communication with Congress.
Office of Special Events

The Office of Special Events organizes events and pro-
grams throughout the Smithsonian that are instrumen-
tal in developing and maintaining relationships with
constituencies and support groups. In 1990, the office
coordinated several hundred activities with other
Smithsonian offices, corporations, and outside groups
whose missions coincide with those of the Institution.

The events and programs were diverse. They in-
cluded involvement in the annual Martin Luther King,
Jr., Day observation, Earth Day, the secretary’s staff
holiday party, the | Have A Dream Foundation awards,
the unveiling of a bust of Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon
Ripley, the Marconi International awards dinner, and
the World Economic Forum reception and dinner for
donors and lenders preceding the opening of “Yoko-
hama: Nineteenth-Century Prints from Japan” at the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.

The office has advised and assisted staff members
working on new development and membership initia-
tives, such as Smithsonian Salutes! receptions in Hous-
ton, Los Angeles, Palm Beach, and Minneapolis for do-
nors, Contributing Members, and their guests, as well
as a reception for Native Americans in Santa Fe.

The office also served as a clearinghouse for more
than 1,000 telephone requests from outside groups that
wished to cosponsor an event at the Smithsonian and
use the Institution’s facilities.

Office of Telecommunications

During 1990, the Office of Telecommunications (OTC)
continued to extend the Smithsonian’s reach through
electronic media. Produced in close cooperation with
curators, historians, and scientists, the office’s pro-
grams explored a range of Smithsonian interests and
captured many top awards. The office produced or de-
veloped programs focusing on the importance of bio-
logical diversity and the richness of the nation’s multi-
cultural heritage. New productions also included the
Institution’s first “videowall,” state-of-the-art interac-
tive videodiscs, and numerous programs for exhibitions
and broadcast.

The Smithsonian’s first multiscreen videowall, The New Age,
created under the supervision of the Office of Telecommuni-
cations, premiered in May in a new exhibition at the Mu-
seum of Natural History. (Photograph by Eric Long and Jef-
frey Tinsley)
Program Production

The office produced the Smithsonian’s first ‘‘videowall”
presentation, providing a fitting close for the exhibition
“Information Age: People, Information, & Technol-
ogy” at the National Museum of American History.
Presented on 12 screens, the program repeats the main
themes of the exhibition, stressing that computers and
information-age machines are tools for human use.

Working with the International Center, the office
created a video based on the conference “The Global
Environment: Are We Overreacting?”’ The program,
narrated by John Chancellor of NBC News, was dis-
tributed to newspaper editors and television news direc-
tors around the country, reinforcing the need to focus
attention on crucial environmental issues.

In collaboration with the National Museum of Natu-
ral History, the office produced four pilot segments for
“Natural History Update,” a series of short features
conceived by museum Director Frank Talbot. Topics in
this pilot series included the discovery of a mosasaur
fossil in Oxon Hill, Maryland, and the damage that
Hurricane Hugo caused to Puerto Rican forests. The
museum is actively seeking funds to continue the series
in cooperation with other museums around the coun-
try.

New Smithsonian interactive videos and an orienta-
tion video, produced by the office for the Visitor Infor-
mation and Associates’ Reception Center (VIARC), pre-
miered in November 1989 with the opening of the
Smithsonian Information Center in the Castle. Designed
to help visitors plan their museum tours, the programs
have won a number of awards. With VIARC, the office
launched an effort to market the 20-minute orientation
film as a home video beginning in fiscal r991.

The weekly “Radio Smithsonian” series now airs on
go radio stations nationally, reaching a potential
weekly audience of 4 million people. Its programs focus
on exhibitions, research, and performance activities
throughout the Institution and continue to garner im-
portant awards.

Program Development

The office developed plans for a major film to acquaint
American audiences with the historical and cultural sig-

180

nificance of Japanese gardens and their importance in
Japan’s landscape. Funded by the Kajima Corporation,
Hitachi Ltd., and the American Family Life Assurance
Company, this one-hour film is being produced in con-
junction with the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. It is in-
tended for both broadcast and educational use. Shoot-
ing began in the fall of 1990, with completion targeted
for late 1991.

The office has joined with the Native American Pub-
lic Broadcasting Consortium to produce a 13-part radio
series looking at the Columbus encounter and its after-
math from the Native American perspective. The Cor-
poration for Public Broadcasting has awarded
$224,000 toward production and distribution of this
special Quincentenary series. Noted Native American
producer Peggy Berryhill is the coordinating producer,
working with OTC staff. The series will air on public
radio starting in early 1992.

Working with the deputy assistant secretary for
media, the office developed production, financial, and
marketing plans for new programs in the Smithsonian
Video Collection. Future programs will be targeted for
broadcast, as well as for the home video market. The
Smithsonian obtained all rights to the first five pro-
grams in the series from Eastman Kodak, the original
distributor, and early sales results were promising.

Marketing

The office placed increased emphasis on marketing and
promotion in 1990. The staff began implementing a
broad plan for the sale of an earlier OTC film, ““The
Movie Palaces,” to Smithsonian audiences through the
Museum Shops and to a general audience through
mail-order catalogues and historic preservation groups.
Detailed strategies were completed for the marketing
and promotion of the entire Smithsonian Video Collec-
tion, as well as for the one-hour environmental pro-
gram “The Earth in Our Hands.” These efforts will
help ensure greater visibility and maximum revenues
for Smithsonian programs and help support future pro-
ductions.
Smithsonian Institution Press

As recently as the 1970s, the Smithsonian Institution
Press was, as it had been for its first century and a
quarter, a small office publishing a handful of books,
each reflecting the work of a few of the Institution’s
scholars and having little impact on the academic
world or among the wider public. Today the Press,
with an active list of 500 titles, is a full-fledged pub-
lishing house competitive with the top university
presses worldwide. Reviews of its books and recordings
confirm the Press as an important contributor to the
world of academic publishing, as well as to a wider
group of sophisticated readers attracted by serious
thought and scholarship. Although the Press cannot
reach all audiences, it does act on its responsibility to
fulfill the Institution’s goal of diffusing knowledge
among as broad a spectrum of the public as possible.
At the same time, it maintains standards of excellence
that give its books and recordings the right to bear the
Smithsonian name.

The Press is composed of the University Press, Smith-
sonian Books, the Smithsonian Collection of Record-
ings, and the Book Development Program. In addition
to the 120 books and recordings issued this year, an-
other 250 publications were produced as part of the
Press’s ongoing service to Smithsonian bureaus and of-
fices. Press publications thus include research mono-
graphs, technical and scientific series, exhibition cata-
logues, trade books, sound recordings, archival
videodiscs, videotapes, and more. In the process, the
Press provides a full range of publishing functions, in-
cluding editing, design, proofreading, production, mar-
keting, distribution, and promotion.

University Press

The University Press acquires, publishes, and markets
trade books for the scholarly reader and for the serious
but less specialized reader on subjects related to Smith-
sonian activities and interests. It also carries out a num-
ber of publishing functions for the Institution at large,
including the federally funded Contributions and Stud-
ies series in nine disciplines, Smithsonian Year, Smith-
sonian Year Supplement, the American Historical Asso-
ciation Annual Report, and booklets, invitations,
newsletters, brochures, and posters for Smithsonian bu-
reaus and offices.

During the past several years, the University Press
has concentrated its efforts on expanding and refining
the focus of its seasonal lists and increasing the quality
and quantity of the books produced. New series with
distinguished scholarly boards have been established in
ethnology, archaeology, evolutionary biology, and avia-
tion history. Among the titles published in fiscal 1990
are Smithsonian’s New Zoo, Puerto Rico Mio: Four
Decades of Change in Photographs by Jack Delano,
The Art of Exclusion: Representing Blacks in the Nine-
teenth Century, The Exploratorium: The Museum as
Laboratory, The Real McCoy: African-American Inven-
tion and Innovation, 1619—1930, and Cloth and
Human Experience.

Smithsonian Books

Smithsonian Books publishes books for a general audi-
ence on subjects that relate to Smithsonian collections
and research interests. Marketed primarily by direct-
mail promotion to Smithsonian Associates and other
mailing lists, these highly informative, visually attrac-
tive books are also available to the general public
through licensing arrangements with several trade pub-
lishers and through the 20-person sales force of the
Smithsonian Institution Press.

In fiscal 1990, Smithsonian Books published Editor’s
Choice, an anthology of selected Smithsonian articles to
commemorate the magazine’s 20th anniversary, and a
sequel to the best-selling Smithsonian Book of North
American Indians titled After Columbus: The Smith-
sonian Chronicle of the North American Indians.

Smithsonian Collection of Recordings

The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings produces
original and archival sound recordings ranging from
classical to country, from American musical theater to
classics of American jazz. Boxed sets, usually consisting
of four compact discs, six vinyl records, or four cas-
sette tapes and accompanied by liner notes in paper-
back book form, are sold to various audiences primar-
ily through direct mail. Recently, the division has
pursued coproductions with domestic and foreign affili-
ates. Since the first of these releases in 1989, five co-

=
o
i
productions have been issued, with more planned dur-
ing the next three years. A series of recordings by the
Smithsonian Chamber Players is being produced in as-
sociation with the German record company deutsche
harmonia mundi. This series is now distributed world-
wide by BMG Classics. Other international agreements
include coproductions with the French record company
ADDA. The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings also
collaborates with the National Museum of American
History’s Division of Musical History and other music
history institutions in the United States. An important
1990 release is J. S. Bach, which features the St. John
Passion performed by the Smithsonian Chamber Cho-
rus and Players, along with works for solo violin and
solo harpsichord.

Book Development Program

Now in its third year, the Book Development Program
continued to expand its list of general titles for the mu-
seum visitor. The latest entries in its popular series of
postcard books feature highlights of the collections of
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Na-
tional Museum of American Art, and the National Mu-
seum of American History and its Warshaw Collection
of Business Americana. A Smithsonian Picture Tour
was added to the recently launched series of large-for-
mat pictorial overviews of Smithsonian museums. The
major project for the year was the revision of the Offi-
cial Guide to the Smithsonian, published simultane-
ously in English, German, French, Spanish, and Japa-
nese. The Book Development Program also broke new
ground in 1990 with its first nonfiction children’s trade
book. The Dream Is Alive is based on the popular
movie shown to visitors at the National Air and Space
Museum. The program is developing several other initia-
tives in publishing for children, a long-standing Press
objective.

182

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian magazine celebrated its 20th anniversary
in April 1990. Since that month was also the 2oth an-
niversary of Earth Day, the magazine appropriately
published a special issue on the environment. Essays by
Wallace Stegner, Bil Gilbert, and William MacLeish on
the past, present, and future of the environmental
movement led off the issue; they were followed by sto-
ries covering everything from garbage to the cleanup of
the Connecticut River. Response to the issue was excel-
lent. A number of newspaper reviewers praised it, and
a poster based on the lead story artwork has sold
40,000 copies.

Other articles on environmental topics published dur-
ing the year dealt with the decommissioning of nuclear
power plants and the impact of shrimp fishing on sea
turtles. In November, the magazine again addressed
tropical deforestation with a major article on the rub-
ber tappers and Indians of the Brazilian rainforest.
Flying his small airplane to remote Amazonian villages,
author Michael Parfit provided in-depth reporting and
a fresh perspective on the situation there.

In October, in recognition of the agreement between
the Smithsonian and the Museum of the American In-
dian, Heye Foundation, the magazine ran a cover pho-
tograph and a photo essay on objects from the Heye
collection. Feature stories on Smithsonian exhibitions
included those on Winold Reiss, Albert Pinkham
Ryder, and the ‘‘Five of Hearts.” Other Institution ac-
tivities received regular coverage in three of the maga-
zine’s departments: “Around the Mall,” ‘Smithsonian
Highlights,” and ‘The Object at Hand.” Contributions
to the magazine from Institution staff included the se-
cretary’s column, columns by National Zoological Park
Director Michael H. Robinson, an article by National
Museum of American History Director Roger Kennedy
on the Greek Revival, and a story by Zoo Curator
John Seidensticker and Susan Lumpkin on opossums.

Major science stories during the last year included
those on James Watson and the human genome project
and on the solar maximum. In the arts, stories covered
an array of subjects, from Jasper Johns to Frederic
Church to dancer Jacques d’Amboise and his work
with inner-city children.

Other articles were wide ranging, both geographi-
cally and culturally. There were stories on the restora-
tion of Angkor Wat, African wall paintings, recent
Mayan discoveries in Belize, and Canada’s Museum of
Civilization. Other articles dealt with Turkey’s new
dams and their impact on archaeological relics, the new
generation of jazz musicians, the black sculptor Ri-
chard Hunt, the Brazilian landscape architect Roberto
Burle Marx, and the retracing of Coronado’s explora-
tions.

While Smithsonian may properly be regarded as a
benefit of membership in the Smithsonian Associates, it
is also a product that must stand on its own. The mag-
azine is subject to the nationwide economic conditions
that affect all magazines; good years for magazines in
general are also good years for Smithsonian. A cyclical
softness in the economy during 1990 has caused a
downturn in magazine advertising and an increased re-
sistance to direct-mail promotion. Steeply increased
postal costs in early 1991 will be difficult to deal with,
since they will increase at a rate higher than the infla-
tion rate of the rest of the economy and cannot be off-
set by an increase in subscription prices.

Advertising and circulation have been on a plateau
for several years; the magazine carries approximately
1,000 pages of advertising annually. An important indi-
cator of the magazine’s stability has been its healthy,
steady renewal rate. Circulation continues to hold at
2.3 million.

Smithsonian has for many years delivered a substan-
tial surplus to the unrestricted funds of the Institution
and will continue to do so. The amount of surplus will
depend partly on general economic conditions, but also
on the ingenuity and creativity of the magazine’s staff.

The magazine’s effort to improve minority participa-
tion in the magazine publishing industry entered a sec-
ond phase this year. Last year, in concert with the
Howard University School of Continuing Education,
Smithsonian founded the Howard University Magazine
Publishing Procedures Course, which brought together
experts from the magazine community and participants
from the publishing field interested in enhancing their
careers. This year, with Smithsonian participation, re-
sponsibility for the course was assumed by the Maga-
zine Publishers of America.

Air & SpacelSmithsonian
Magazine

Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine sustained its circu-
lation in a year when many magazines were retrench-
ing. Audience response continues to reflect approval of
the material the magazine provides, and there is grow-
ing acceptance of the publication as one of the most
widely read magazines in the field of aerospace and its
applied sciences. Newsstand sales showed strong
growth, and early returns indicate that a redesign of
the magazine’s cover was successful in strengthening
newsstand sales.

Air & Space/Smithsonian embarked on two definitive
series during the year: ‘““A Permanent Presence,” exam-
ining the issues surrounding a human presence in Earth
orbit and beyond, and a three-part history series recall-
ing “The Battle of Britain/50 Years Later.”

The February/March 1990 edition carried an educa-
tion insert provided by the Boeing Company. The June/
July edition included a supplement titled ‘‘Photos of
Flight,” featuring many images from the National Air
and Space Museum’s photographic collection.

=
Co
We
“Smithsonian World”

“Smithsonian World,” the prime-time television series
coproduced by the Institution and public television sta-
tion WETA-TV, Washington, D.C., launched its fifth
season in the winter of 1990. A reception hosted by the
sole corporate underwriter of the series, Southwestern
Bell Corporation, was held in the newly renovated
Great Hall in the Smithsonian Castle. The fifth season’s
critically acclaimed one-hour specials—‘‘Zoo,” “A
Moveable Feast,” ‘“Tales of the Human Dawn,” “‘Ni-
gerian Art—Kindred Spirits,” and “The Quantum Uni-
verse’ —were broadcast nationally from January
through June 1990 on PBS. In September, “Smithson-
ian World” won the prestigious Emmy Award for Out-
standing Informational Series.

In tandem with these original broadcasts, Southwest-
ern Bell Corporation underwrote a major advertising
and promotion campaign, with award-winning four-
color one-page advertisements featured in such national
magazines as Atlantic, TV Guide, Scientific American,
and the New York Times Magazine. As part of “Smith-
sonian World’s” Summer Encore Season, the 10 pro-
grams from its fourth and fifth seasons were aired na-
tionally from July through September 1990 on PBS.

Additional awards this year for fourth-season pro-
grams included a Bronze Medal for “American Dream
at Groton” and a Silver Medal for ‘‘Web of Life,’ both
from the International Film and Television Festival of
New York; Bronze Plaques for “Web of Life” and
“American Dream at Groton” from the Columbus In-
ternational Film and Video Festival; and Cine Golden
Eagle Awards for “The Living Smithsonian,” “Web of
Life,” and ‘‘The Vever Affair.”

Under newly appointed Executive Producer Sandra
Wentworth Bradley, production for season six began in
the spring of 1990. Scheduled to air in 1991 are ““Gen-
der: The Enduring Paradox,” “Selling the Dream,”
“From Information to Wisdom,” “A Certain Age,” and
“The Doors of Perception.” These programs will bring
to 32 hours the amount of original programming
“Smithsonian World” has produced that examines
unique concepts and ideas based on the broad-ranging
disciplines within the Institution.
INSTITUTIONAL
INITIATIVES

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for Institutional
Initiatives

185
Secretary Adams created the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Institutional Initiatives in July 1989 to un-
dertake new and long-range projects and monitor their
development until they can become fully incorporated
into the Institution. To lead these initiatives, the secre-
tary appointed Alice Green Burnette as assistant secre-
tary. By focusing on the advancement of a few projects,
the office can ensure that initiatives of high priority to
the Institution become realities.

One significant new program is the development of
the National Museum of the American Indian. The Of-
fice of Institutional Initiatives has been charged with a
lead role in planning for the new museum and is work-
ing closely with its founding director, W. Richard
West, Jr. Legislation creating the museum requires the
Institution to provide, from its own resources, one-
third of the construction costs for the museum facility
to be built on the National Mall. To meet this require-
ment, the office will spearhead a national fund-raising
campaign. To initiate planning for the campaign, the
office solicited the counsel of the J. Richard Taft Orga-
nization, which prepared a report that was approved
by the Board of Regents in September 1990. The cam-
paign will begin working in the fall of 1990 in donated
office space and will continue through 1996. In addi-
tion to raising funds, the campaign will provide an op-
portunity for individuals of Native American heritage
to train as fund-raisers in order to generate resources
for other causes benefiting their communities.

The Office of Institutional Initiatives is also pursuing
other programs that advance the Institution’s aims. Of
special note is the encouragement of an expanding rela-
tionship between the Smithsonian and institutions of
higher education. While exploring ways to achieve this
goal, the office has sponsored seminars at Spelman Col-
lege in Atlanta, Georgia. The “Smithsonian at Spel-
man” series provided an opportunity for Spelman stu-
dents to meet in an intimate setting with Smithsonian
staff and management. These seminars expanded the
career horizons of minority students by exposing them
to new and dynamic opportunities. The Office of Fel-
lowships and Grants maintains a continuing relation-
ship with Spelman students who expressed an interest
in pursuing internships and careers in fields related to
Smithsonian programs.

186
ADMINISTRATION

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Administrative and
Support Activities

Operating primarily behind the scenes at the Smithson-
ian, a network of administrative and technical support
offices serves the diverse operations of the Institution.
These offices underpin scholarly and public activities
and ensure central oversight of and accountability for
the management and use of financial, human, and
physical resources. Fourteen offices and their divisions
serve a range of functions from protection services to
facilities construction, from duplicating to information
resource management. Funding for central services in
1990 amounted to about 7 percent of the Institution’s
total operating expenses, exclusive of maintenance, op-
eration, and facilities protection costs.

Office of Design and Construction

To improve its service to the Smithsonian bureaus, the
Office of Design and Construction (ODC) was reorga-
nized to permit improved coordination and control of
its activities using structured project management tech-
niques. Positions for nine Project managers, each re-
sponsible for a discrete group of facilities, have been
created. The new managers will coordinate projects
from inception to completion, drawing on the profes-
sional and technical staff of the office for support as
needed. Communications with project sponsors and fa-
cility staff will improve with the designation of a single
ODC staff contact for each facility, and the overall
planning and coordination of projects within facilities
will improve as one manager becomes responsible for
all construction. The reorganization was accomplished
largely through reassignment and reclassification of
current employees.

With the assistance of a contractor and a steering
committee of representatives from the major bureaus,
ODC began to create a facilities inventory and strategic
plan for the Smithsonian. During the coming year, the
project will include development of a computer-aided
design (CAD)—based space inventory that will help
planners and facility managers predict and plan for
their space requirements. Before it is extended through-
out the Institution, the system will be tested at the
Freer Gallery of Art. A master plan for all Smithsonian-
owned and leased facilities will also be developed. This
plan will describe the composition of each facility,
identify each bureau’s need for space, and present op-

188

tions for meeting those needs on the basis of cost,
availability, and suitability.

ODC managed about 40 construction projects during
the past year and had more than 100 other projects in
the planning or design phases. Significant planning
projects included comprehensive site evaluation for an
extension of the National Air and Space Museum and a
massing study and estimate for a collections storage
and research center in Suitland, Maryland. Major con-
struction, repair, and renovation projects have included
a link to the Quadrangle and other additions and alter-
ations for the Freer Gallery of Art; construction of a
laboratory and conference center at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute in Panama; construction of
the base camp for the Whipple Observatory in Arizona;
and replacement of the terrace at the National Air and
Space Museum.

Office of Environmental Management and Safety

The Office of Environmental Management and Safety
(OEMS), in conjunction with the Office of Design and
Construction, developed and conducted an intensive
construction safety training program for construction
representatives. Nine ODC staff have completed the
12-module course, which is based on Occupational
Safety and Health Administration construction stan-
dards. Several nationally recognized safety-related
weeks were observed throughout the year at the Smith-
sonian. An OEMS staff member was chosen to repre-
sent the United States and to present a Paper at an in-
ternational symposium, “Fire Protection for Historic
Buildings and Towns,” held in Norway. Another staff
member represented the Smithsonian at the Eighth In-
ternational Conference on Fire Protection, held in Ger-
many.

Office of Plant Services

The Office of Plant Services installed a wide-area com-
puter network to support the newly developed inte-
grated stock inventory control and purchasing system.
Partnerships with local utilities companies continue,
and the Institution was recognized by the Potomac
Electric Power Company for ongoing energy conserva-
tion initiatives. Facilities maintenance and repair in-
spections also continue; the automated facilities moni-
toring program is a model program for monitoring and
controlling lighting, temperature, and humidity condi-
tions. Facilities in New York City related to the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian were inspected,
and corrective actions were undertaken to bring it in
compliance with Smithsonian standards. Staff worked
closely with the Heye Foundation to ensure a smooth
transition of existing Museum of the American Indian
facilities to the Smithsonian. In addition, staff partici-
pated in a number of planning and design initiatives for
the Custom House in New York City and the construc-
tion of an addition to the NMAI Research Branch that
will facilitate the move of objects to Washington.

Office of Protection Services

Visits by heads of state and other dignitaries required
close cooperative efforts between Office of Protection
Services (OPS) security staff and officials of the Secret
Service, State Department, and other jurisdictions. In
October, the Protection Division’s K-9 Unit received fa-
vorable coverage in the Washington Post. Security staff
were recognized for their quick response in the appre-
hension of an assailant of U.S. Senator John Glenn
while the senator was attending an event held at the
National Air and Space Museum.

OPS also provided security escorts and made signifi-
cant recoveries of collection items as a result of investi-
gations. The occupational health program was ex-
panded in the New York area to include hearing
conservation audiograms and asbestos medical surveil-
lance exams. As a result of a favorable evaluation of a
new hyperbaric treatment chamber in Belize, Central
America, Smithsonian divers at the marine station in
Carrie Bow Cay may receive emergency care for under-
water accidents.

In an effort to assist smaller museums and galleries
that have limited training and travel budgets, the 13th
annual National Conference on Museum Security was
held in Chicago in concert with the Art Institute of
Chicago. Speakers at the conference addressed topics
ranging from art theft to construction security. Smaller
museums and galleries continue to look to the Smith-
sonian as a preeminent training source and often refer

their security personnel for specialized instruction pro-
vided by headquarters staff. Long recognized as the
foremost authority on museum security, the OPS pro-
vided consultative services to Isabella Stewart Gardner
Museum officials and French museum officials after
collection thefts.

With the transfer of the Museum of the American In-
dian, Heye Foundation collection and other assets to
the Smithsonian Institution, the Office of Protection
Services’ security responsibility now extends to multiple
locations in metropolitan New York City.

Office of Architectural History and Historic
Preservation

Development of a program for historic preservation
characterized the year for the Office of Architectural
History and Historic Preservation. Training sessions
and an in-house newsletter helped to integrate the pres-
ervation concerns of the office into the work of the Fa-
cilities Services Group. The office reviewed and offered
advice on an increased number of design projects of all
magnitudes this year. Major research projects on the
architectural history of Smithsonian buildings provided
a firm base in fact for historic preservation decisions
recommended by the office. An intensive year-long
study of reconstruction at the Patent Office Building
after an earlier fire enabled the office to provide sound
and accurate information on a window replacement
project for the National Museum of American Art and
the National Portrait Gallery.

Office of Planning and Budget

The Office of Planning and Budget (OPB) coordinates,
develops, and assesses policies and procedures for the
formulation and execution of the Institution’s budgets.
OPB assembles an annual report of Smithsonian federal
and unrestricted Trust expenditures and employment
trends, updating spending, employment, and opera-
tional tendencies that provide insight into frequently
asked management and budget questions. OPB pro-
vided the Smithsonian’s Management Committee with
an overview of base funding on unrestricted Trust
funds to facilitate the possible redirection of funding.

189
This year’s Five-Year Prospectus, Choosing the Future,
published as a shorter, more informative publication, is
reaching legislators and giving prospective individual,
corporate, and foundation contributors a broader con-
text for their support of specific programs or projects.
In collaboration with the Office of Financial Man-
agement and Planning, OPB has developed and imple-
mented the personnel cost projection system (PCPS),
This new system, which utilizes the Office of Informa-
tion and Resource Management’s IBM 4381 computer
for central processing, allows OPB and all bureaus and
offices access to appropriate personnel and payroll data
through the use of personal computers and will serve as
the basis for a comprehensive total cost projection sys-
tem for all institutional funds. PCPS will interface with
the new accounting system to be installed next year.

Office of Printing and Photographic Services

The Office of Printing and Photographic Services con-
tinued to provide photographic and duplicating services
throughout the Smithsonian organizations. In addition,
it undertook long-range planning to position itself more
effectively for future service. In the Duplicating Branch,
a long-range plan was developed and implemented to
help that unit better serve the Institution. By upgrading
equipment and services in phases, the branch will in-
crease efficiency and ensure compatibility with a broad
range of electronic and photomechanical printing meth-
ods. These improvements will result in greater capabili-
ties and improved speed and quality.

The Electronic Imaging Branch was established to
combine videodisc reference materials with state-of-the
art image processing and transmission capabilities. The
branch converts photographs to electronic forms and
transmits them to remote locations; the resultant im-
ages have resolution qualities at the level of facsimile,
news wire photo, and four-color separation. This capa-
bility will allow the office to make its images available
to a far broader audience while preserving the originals
in its archival cold storage facilities.

190

Office of Information Resource Management

The Office of Information Resource Management
(OIRM) provides leadership in information technology
throughout the Institution in planning, systems devel-
opment, and support activities. This year, OIRM coor-
dinated offices and bureaus in developing the Institu-
tion’s first information resource management plan and
completed a five-year communications study that will
lead to the development of an integrated modern com-
munications network. In conjunction with pan-Institu-
tional groups, OIRM began working to define standard
terminology and methods for automation of office and
bureau functions. In the systems development arena,
OIRM added new Collections Information Systems
(CIS) data bases in the National Museum of Natural
History, the National Museum of American Art, and
the National Air and Space Museum. These efforts au-
tomated an additional 988,500 collections-related rec-
ords. OIRM also expanded the functions and data
bases of the Smithsonian Institution Bibliographic In-
formation System (SIBIS), which now supports more
than 3,000 on-line inquiries per day. In the support
arena, computing capacity was increased by approxi-
mately 300 percent and communications access to dis-
tant units, including the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute in Panama, was expanded; OIRM extended
electronic mail to more than 1,000 staff and added
connections to the international academic community;
and more than 1,100 staff were trained through the In-
formation Resource Center.

Office of Procurement and Property Management

As the principal acquisition office for the Smithsonian
Institution, the Office of Procurement and Property
Management (OPPM) contracts for the majority of
goods and services used in support of Smithsonian pro-
grams, projects, and facilities. In addition, the office
coordinates major projects that benefit Smithsonian
programs. Goods and services contracted during 1990
included architectural services for the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian, construction services for
the infant care center in the Arts and Industries Build-
ing, and concept and design services for a research ves-
sel at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(STRI). Several notable contracts were completed, in-
cluding the Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference
Center at STRI, the Smithsonian Visitor Information
Center, the Life in the Ancient Seas mural in the Paleo-
biology Hall, National Museum of Natural History,
and an analysis of proposed sites for the National Air
and Space Museum extension.

Office of Equal Opportunity

The Office of Equal Opportunity (OEO) worked with
the Office of Planning and Budget to incorporate af-
firmative action into the overall planning and budget
process. The Institution-wide affirmative action plan
continued to stress the placement of African Americans,
Native Americans, Asian American/Pacific Islanders,
Hispanics, and women in senior and professional posi-
tions. Progress to achieve cultural diversity in key posi-
tions was reflected in the appointments of an African
American man as an acting assistant secretary and an
African American man as inspector general. The OEO
collaborated with the Management Committee and the
Office of Personnel Administration in the initial phases
of the Step Up ’90 program, which identifies Smithson-
ian employees who have promotion potential for
higher-graded positions. The Smithsonian Deaf and
Hard-of-Hearing Advocates Group—established in co-
operation with the OEO, the Smithsonian Women’s
Council, and hearing-impaired employees—met regu-
larly to address work-related issues. In conjunction
with the District of Columbia Public Schools, the OEO
continued to sponsor the General Equivalency Diploma
program for Smithsonian employees.

Office of Personnel Administration

Based on last year’s study conducted by the National
Academy of Public Administration, the Smithsonian has
begun a comprehensive program review of its Office of
Personnel Administration. This evaluation will address
not only the current management philosophy of the
central personnel office, but also the nature of its ser-
vice operations and support systems. Under the guid-
ance of Director Marilyn Marton, who was appointed
in September, the office will be modernized and

strengthened to respond more effectively to the needs of
the Smithsonian’s diverse work force. In recognition of
this commitment to building an improved service entity
capable of providing leadership in managing the Insti-
tution’s human resources, the office will be renamed
the Office of Human Resources.

Management Analysis Office

The Management Analysis Office (MAO) continued to
identify and promote actions to strengthen internal
controls. The office conducted several reviews of Insti-
tution units and activities, including those that might
reduce costs and improve efficiency by hiring outside
contractors to perform commercial functions tradition-
ally carried out by Smithsonian staff. MAO publishes a
biweekly employee bulletin on timely administrative
matters.

Travel Services

The Travel Services Office continued to provide effi-
cient and economical travel services to Smithsonian em-
ployees and consultants. More than $2.5 million in air
and train tickets were issued in support of a range of
Smithsonian programs and activities. These included
activities associated with the National Museum of the
American Indian, extensive research trips both in the
United States and abroad, and a growing number of
conferences and workshops held in the United States,
Malaysia, Mexico, and throughout South America.

Ombudsman

The Smithsonian ombudsman, a neutral party to whom
staff can bring work-related problems, assisted approxt-
mately 200 employees with a variety of concerns. Based
on an employee suggestion to the ombudsman, an alu-
minum can recycling program, with proceeds being do-
nated to the National Children’s Medical Center, was
started for most of the Washington-area employees.

191
Smithsonian Institution
Women’s Council

Established in 1972, the Smithsonian Institution Wom-
en’s Council identifies and studies the concerns of em-
ployees, advises management on women’s issues, and
strives to improve working conditions. This year the
council cosponsored a two-and-one-half-day confer-
ence, “Gender Perspectives: The Impact of Women on
Museums.” The council also published an affirmative
action brochure for employees to provide information
on these activities at the Institution. Four standing
committees—Benefits, Newsletter, Outreach, and Pro-
grams—carry out most of the council’s tasks.

192
UNDER SEPARATE
BOARDS OF, TRUSTEES
John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts

James D. Wolfensohn, Chairman

Since the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts opened in 1971, it has transformed the cultural
life of the nation’s capital. It is both the showcase for
America’s finest performing artists and the place where
our nation receives outstanding artists from around the
world. Through its presentations and its nationwide
education programs, the center gives people of all ages
the opportunity to enjoy the best of this country’s per-
forming arts.

The Kennedy Center was created by an Act of Con-
gress in 1958 as a self-sustaining bureau of the Smith-
sonian Institution. As a living presidential memorial
under the aegis of the Department of the Interior, the
national center for the performing arts is directed by a
board of trustees whose 30 citizen members are ap-
pointed by the president of the United States. Six
congressional representatives and nine designated ex of-
ficio representatives of the executive branch complete
the membership. In March 1990, the center’s board
elected James D. Wolfensohn as its new chairman.

Performing Arts Programming

The 1989-90 season at the Kennedy Center was at-
tended by 1,381,334 people in the Opera House, Con-
cert Hall, Theater Lab, and Eisenhower and Terrace
theaters. Another 46,823 people attended the free per-
formances presented by the Kennedy Center through its
Education Department, Holiday Festival, Cultural Di-
versity programs, and Kennedy Center Open House
Arts Festival. More than 96,000 people attended the
films presented by the American Film Institute in the
AFI Theater.

Several developments during 1989—90 will affect
programming for the next several years. A $450,000
National Endowment for the Arts Challenge III grant
will help make possible six new ballets by American
choreographers to be premiered at the Opera House by
six American ballet companies during the next four
years. James Wolfensohn created a new division, Tele-
vision and Special Projects, to develop television into
the center’s “seventh stage,” a plan that will add dra-
matically to the center’s standing as a national institu-
tion. Major thematic performing arts festivals will be
more prominent in the Kennedy Center’s future with

194

the announcement of the 1991 Texas Festival at the
Kennedy Center and the 1992 Festival of the Americas.

Dance

The 1989-90 ballet season was one of rediscovery, as
the Joffrey Ballet brought back to life two long-lost
classics—Nijinsky’s The Rite of Spring and Balan-
chine’s Cotillon—and the American Ballet Theatre cele-
brated its soth anniversary with a spectacular gala trib-
ute to its magnificent history. Ballet National de
Marseille Roland Petit and the Australian Ballet both
returned from distant shores for their second Kennedy
Center appearances, and Dance Theatre of Harlem and
the Boston Ballet, in its Kennedy Center debut,
rounded out the season.

Dance America, sponsored by the Washington Per-
forming Arts Society and the Kennedy Center, pre-
sented some of the country’s most celebrated modern
dance ensembles, including Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane
Co., the Feld Ballet, Paul Taylor Dance Company, and
Urban Bush Women.

Music

An exciting and historic cultural event took place this
season when the National Symphony Orchestra em-
barked on its first tour to the Soviet Union, led by
Music Director Mstislav Rostropovich, who returned to
his homeland for the first time since 1978 when the So-
viet government stripped him of his citizenship. The
trip, which included concerts in Japan and perform-
ances in Moscow and Leningrad, was a worldwide
news event and earned the orchestra some of the finest
reviews in its history.

At home, the orchestra played 28 weeks in the Ken-
nedy Center Concert Hall and a week at the annual
Casals Festival in Puerto Rico, where it was named the
official orchestra of the festival.

This year, the popular Terrace Concerts—highlight-
ing piano and vocal recitals, chamber ensembles, and
orchestras—added the Family Concerts, which are ideal
opportunities for parents to introduce their children to
the joys of music. The performers are not only top-
National Symphony Orchestra Affiliate Artist Conductor Randall Craig Fleischer led Music Director Mstislav Rostropovich and
the orchestra in Dvyorak’s Cello Concerto during the symphony’s historic tour of the Soviet Union. (Photograph by Joan Marcus)

notch musicians, but also have the ability to communi-
cate about their art and their instruments.

The annual Kennedy Center Friedheim Award, de-
scribed by the New York Times as “‘one of the most
prestigious prizes an American composer can win,” was
awarded to William Kraft and Ralph Shapey, who tied
for first place. Lincoln Center’s Mostly Mozart Festival
and Chamber Music Society returned for their annual
performances.

As always, a multitude of free events, many featuring
performers from the Washington metropolitan area,

took place in conjunction with the Holiday Festival in
December and the Kennedy Center Open House Arts
Festival in the fall.

Opera
The Kennedy Center Holiday Festival added a defini-
tive production of the Christmas classic Amahl and the

Night Visitors by Gian Carlo Menotti to its roster of
seasonal traditions. Staged by Menotti in the Eisen-

195

hower Theater and designed by Zack Brown, the highly
praised production is destined to become a perennial
favorite.

The Washington Opera, under the direction of Mar-
tin Feinstein, presented seven productions from Octo-
ber through March: Lucia di Lammermoor; Cosi fan
tutte; Werther; Die Fledermaus; the rarely seen Ger-
man romp, Merry Wives of Windsor; the Washington
premiere of the new American opera, The Aspern Pa-
pers; and a landmark for the company, its first-ever
Aida.

Theater

Two Broadway-bound plays that have become New
York hits launched the 1989—90 theater season: the
suspenseful courtroom drama A Few Good Men and
August Wilson’s acclaimed The Piano Lesson. In De-
cember, the wacky characters from Tuna, Texas, re-
turned for A Tuna Christmas, while the Opera House
hosted Annie IT. More musicals were in order for the
rest of the year with the nostalgic Stardust; the ener-
getic musical from South Africa, Sarafina; the spectacu-
lar Andrew Lloyd Webber production, Starlight Ex-
press; and the urban musical from Chicago, Project! In
a category all its own was Frank Galati’s orchestration
of word, image, and music, She Always Said, Pablo.

Kennedy Center Associate Organizations

Many events at the Kennedy Center are produced by
the center’s artistic associates. The American Film In-
stitute celebrated its theater’s 2oth anniversary with
showings of some of its most popular programs from
the past and an ongoing series of American Indepen-
dent Films. The Washington Performing Arts Society
presented an array of musicians and dancers from
around the world in its diverse series.

Educational and Public Service Programming
The Kennedy Center has a unique responsibility for ad-
vancing all the arts as part of the education of our na-

tion’s youth. In 1990, the center’s Education Depart-

196

ment sponsored performances and related events for
more than six million people nationwide through six
component programs: the Alliance for Arts Education,
American College Theater Festival, the National Sym-
phony Orchestra Education Program, Theater for
Young People, Educational Services, and Imagination
Celebration.

The network of state Alliance for Arts Education or-
ganizations reached more than five million people in
1990 through programs and activities that focused on
arts education policy development, educational services
for teachers and administrators, information and re-
source development, awards and recognition projects,
advocacy and awareness, and programs for young peo-
ple. The alliance hosted the National Summit on the
Arts and Education, which brought more than 350 art-
ists and arts educators to Washington. Guests included
Gian Carlo Menotti, Edward Villella, and Richard
Thomas. The alliance also initiated a cultural exchange
with Finland and the Soviet Union.

More than 500,000 young people and adults partici-
pated in the Kennedy Center Imagination Celebration,
the national children’s arts festival program held in 12
U.S. cities and Australia. Performances were given by
the Acting Company, the Nikolais Imagination Dance,
and many others.

The American College Theater Festival (ACTF) pre-
sented its 22nd year of programs as part of its goal to
advance the finest work produced by college and uni-
versity theater programs. More than 18,000 students
and 2,200 faculty members representing 550 schools
presented more than 850 college theater productions in
1990. ACTF also sponsored numerous awards pro-
grams in playwriting, design, criticism, and acting and
cosponsored the Shenandoah Valley Playwrights Re-
treat.

The Kennedy Center Theater for Young People pro-
vided 200 free or low-cost performances and events to
audiences of more than 90,000, acting classes to ap-
proximately 750 Washington-area young people, and
playwriting workshops to 150 students.

Educational Services used the performing arts re-
sources at the center as a basis for workshops and
other educational events for 7,600 secondary school
students, 1,400 teachers, and 11,000 other adults in fis-
cal 1990.

The Education Department commissioned new works
in 1990 from choreographer Alwin Nikolais and play-
wrights Jeff Church and Mary Hall Surface, which
brought the total number of commissions to 38 since
1977.

The Kennedy Center sponsors a range of activities
that reflect our nation’s cultural and ethnic diversity,
including performances, commissions, workshops, con-
ferences, internships, and advisory and technical ser-
vices in arts administration. New this year is the Young
Performers Series, which presents talented musicians
from Washington, D.C., schools in free lunchtime con-
certs, and the Cultural Passport Program, through
which Washington young people who have had intern-
ships with the center and the city’s other major cultural
institutions will be able to attend performances
throughout the year with their families. These pro-
grams are supported by the U.S. Department of Educa-
tion and by private sources.

The Kennedy Center supports many free and low-
priced performances and events that are enjoyed an-
nually by more than a million people in Washington,
D.C., and around the country. The Specially Priced
Ticket program, the largest of its kind in the nation,
makes half-price tickets to performances produced and
presented at the center available to students, people
with permanent disabilities, senior citizens, military
personnel (grades Er—E4), and people on fixed low in-
comes. During the last 19 years, nearly 1.9 million
half-price tickets in all seating categories have been
purchased by eligible individuals. The Kennedy Center
and outside producers bear the costs of the program.

In addition, 18,000 people visited and used the Per-
forming Arts Library, which is a joint project of the
Kennedy Center and the Library of Congress.

Funding

The Kennedy Center is a unique institution—a living
presidential memorial devoted to the performing arts.
In fiscal 1990, the National Park Service provided $8
million in funding through annual appropriations to
maintain, repair, and secure the building as a presiden-
tial memorial. The Kennedy Center Board of Trustees
contributes a pro rata share of certain of these costs,
which totaled more than $1 million in 1990.

Artistic programming and day-to-day performing arts

operations for the center and the National Symphony
Orchestra are largely supported by box office revenues
and private gifts. The center and the orchestra also seek
funds for their wide range of free or modestly priced
educational and public service activities. The $r5 mil-
lion in funds raised in fiscal 1990 represents 29 percent
of the center’s total operating budget. Of the total op-
erating revenues, 23 percent comes from private gifts
and grants and 4 percent from government sources.
General membership programs of the center and the or-
chestra include 40,000 donors.

In its 13th year, the Kennedy Center’s Corporate
Fund received contributions totaling nearly $3 million
from more than 350 national and international compa-
nies. John L. Clendenin of BellSouth Corporation
headed this effort. Total corporate support of the cen-
ter and National Symphony Orchestra’s activities came
to more than $3.5 million.

The Kennedy Center and the National Symphony
Orchestra’s joint endowment campaign to build a per-
manent base of financial support reached more than
$37 million by the close of the fiscal year.

The Kennedy Center Honors Gala is the center’s
most important fund-raising event. The 1989 gala eve-
ning, which honored Harry Belafonte, Claudette Col-
bert, Alexandra Danilova, Mary Martin, and William
Schuman, raised more than $1.4 million to support
programming.

Friends of the Kennedy Center

The Friends of the Kennedy Center was founded in
1966 to foster public involvement in the center and ob-
tain individual support through financial contributions
and volunteer participation. Today, more than 40,000
members of the Friends and the National Symphony
Orchestra Association provide much-needed support
for the overall operations of the Kennedy Center. Al-
though most members are drawn from the Washington,
D.C., area, there are members in all 50 states.

The diversity of Friends programs opens doors to a
cross section of the community, encouraging involve-
ment in the center in a variety of ways. The Friends ad-
ministers a volunteer program with more than 500 par-
ticipants who work throughout the building. Volun-
teers provided free guided tours to more than 102,000

197
visitors this year and assisted more than 240,000 visI-
tors at the Information Center. Volunteers also staff the
Public Service Desk, administer the Specially Priced
Ticket program, and assist with the annual Open
House Arts Festival. The 4-H program, organized and
managed by volunteers, makes it possible for more
than 6,000 students from all over the country to visit
the Kennedy Center each summer and learn more
about the performing arts. The Friends also administer
and staff the Kennedy Center gift shops, which gener-
ated almost $1 million in sales this year. In addition,
Friends Assisting the National Symphony (FANS) vol-
unteers organize special events to develop new audi-
ences for the National Symphony Orchestra.

Events produced by the Friends of the Kennedy Cen-
ter this year included the annual Radiothon to benefit
the orchestra and the sixth annual Kennedy Center
Open House Arts Festival, a day-long festival of free
performances by more than 50 of the finest performing
artists in the greater Washington area.

198

National Gallery of Art

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art, although formally estab-
lished as a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an
autonomous and separately administered organization.
It is governed by its own board of trustees, the ex offi-
cio members of which are the chief justice of the
United States, the secretary of state, the secretary of the
treasury, and the secretary of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. Of the five general trustees, Franklin D. Murphy
continued to serve as chairman of the board, with John
R. Stevenson as the gallery’s president. Also continuing
on the board were Ruth Carter Stevenson, Robert H.
Smith, and Alexander M. Laughlin. Paul Mellon is
honorary trustee.

During the year, visitors entering both of the gallery
buildings numbered 5,580,005.

Exhibitions

Ten of the 21 temporary exhibitions presented during
the year provided opportunities to study the work of
single artists. The first major showing outside the Neth-
erlands of the work of Frans Hals included, among the
60 paintings and small oil sketches, his earliest known
work. Fifty landscapes by Frederic Edwin Church in-
cluded his large-scale panoramic paintings Morning in
the Tropics, Niagara, Heart of the Andes, and The Ice-
bergs. “John Twachtman: Connecticut Landscapes”
was the third in a series of exhibitions of American
impressionists (William Merritt Chase and Childe Has-
sam were previously spotlighted). Twenty-six land-
scapes done by Twachtman between 1889 and rgor on
his Greenwich, Connecticut, farm and at other nearby
locations explore the effects of seasons and light in sev-
eral versions of the same scenes. A comprehensive sur-
vey of 125 works of another American artist, John
Marin, illuminated in oils, watercolors, drawings, and
etchings the artist’s method of transforming images
from nature. Twenty-nine genre and landscape paint-
ings by the nineteenth-century American artist George
Caleb Bingham included several of his paintings depict-
ing life on the great rivers of the Midwest and images
of rural political campaigns.

“The Drawings of Jasper Johns,” 117 works span-
ning the artist’s 35-year career, revealed in Johns’s fa-
miliar images—flags, targets, numbers and optical illu-
sions—his virtuosic draftsmanship in a wide range of
techniques and media. ““Rembrandt’s Landscapes” was
the first major exhibition devoted to this great artist’s
depictions in drawings and prints of the simple cottages
of the Dutch countryside. ““Edvard Munch: Master
Prints from the Epstein Family Collection”’ exhibited 94
prints on loan from one of the world’s largest and fin-
est private collections of Munch prints.

“Matisse in Morocco: The Paintings and Drawings,
1912-1913” was jointly organized with the Museum
of Modern Art, New York, and, in the Soviet Union,
the State Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts and the State
Hermitage Museum. The motifs developed around the
landscape and gardens of Tangier and the still lifes and
people of Morocco inspired the artist during the rest of
his career. Twelve of the 23 paintings had never been
shown in the United States, and a number of the draw-
ings were discovered during research for the exhibition.

“Kazimir Malevich 1878—1935”’ was the largest and
most comprehensive retrospective ever held in America
of the work of the Russian artist whose best-known
works are abstract ““Suprematist” compositions. The
175 paintings, works on paper, and architectural
models, which also embraced such movements as
impressionism, symbolism, neo-primitivism, and cubo-
futurism, were borrowed from the Soviet Union, the
Netherlands, France, and the United States.

Impressionist and postimpressionist works borrowed
from two great private collections were shown during
the summer months. Fifty-four paintings, watercolors,
and drawings by Cézanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin, and
others were lent from the collection of Walter H. An-
nenberg and Mrs. Annenberg. A recent acquisition, Au
Lapin Agile, an early important painting by Picasso,
was added to the exhibition in time for the opening.

“The Passionate Eye: Impressionist and Other Mas-
ter Paintings from the Collection of Emil G. Buhrle” in-
cluded among 85 old master, impressionist, postimpres-
sionist, and early modern works six paintings by Van
Gogh and seven paintings by Cézanne. “Expressionism
and Modern German Painting from the Thyssen-Bor-
nemisza Collection” presented 34 paintings by rg art-
ists selected from this great collection of modern and
old master paintings. A survey of recent international
printmaking—more than roo prints and illustrated
books by more than 90 American and European art-
ists—could be seen in “The r980os: Prints from the
Collection of Joshua P. Smith.”

“The Sculpture of Indonesia,” the first major exhibi-
tion of ancient Indonesian art in this country, inaugu-
rated an 18-month nationwide celebration of Indone-
sian culture. The exhibition included more than 135
Buddhist and Hindu bronzes, life-size stone sculptures,
delicate gold and silver figures, and ceremonial objects
dating from the eighth through the fifteenth centuries.
Among the highlights was a perfectly preserved thir-
teenth-century sculpture of the Goddess of Transcen-
dental Wisdom, thought to be a portrait of the first
queen of the Eastern Javanese dynasty of Singasari, and
the only surviving example of a ninth-century bronze of
the four-armed Siva with precious metal inlay. A spe-
cial ancillary installation presented three life-size paint-
ings by John Singer Sargent of members of a famous
Javanese dance troupe he saw perform at the 1889 Ex-
position Universelle in Paris. The paintings remained in
the artist’s studio until his death in 1925 and were
reassembled from private collections to be shown to-
gether for the first time in 65 years.

An exhibition of old master drawings was borrowed
from the National Gallery of Scotland. The selection of
96 works created between the fourteenth and eigh-
teenth centuries, primarily Italian and Netherlandish,
included drawings by Raphael, Piranesi, Rembrandt,
and Van Dyck, as well as by such French masters as
Bellange, Poussin, and Fragonard.

The newly restored Bellini and Titian painting The
Feast of the Gods was installed with color photographs
showing the painting before restoration, a full-scale ra-
diograph, and an infrared reflectogram. An accompany-
ing half-hour film discusses the restoration of the paint-
ing. The portrayal of gods, goddesses, and satyrs
enjoying a bacchanal was originally painted by Bellini
in 1514, with a background landscape that was later
transformed by Titian.

Education Programs

The Division of Education underwent a major reorgani-
zation to permit the development of model programs
that promote communication with national and inter-
national colleagues and support major programmatic
functions within the division.

The Department of Adult Programs presented talks
on 13 special exhibitions and tours that examined as-

199
pects of the permanent collection such as decorative
arts, still life painting, and depictions of weather. The
department also offered a 14-week survey course titled
“Art of the Western World” and a five-week course,
“Masters of Nineteenth-Century Painting,” in conjunc-
tion with the Annenberg and Bihrle exhibitions. The
department also oversaw internship programs such as
the summer graduate student program, a new intern-
ship for minorities interested in the museum profession,
a graduate lecturing fellowship, and a new program for
Spanish curatorial fellows.

Special lectures and tours enhanced the temporary
exhibitions. Seminars were offered on the expressionist
paintings in the Thyssen-Bornemisza collection. A pub-
lic symposium with four guest lecturers marked the
opening of the Annenberg and Biihrle exhibitions. In
conjunction with the Malevich exhibition, a four-part
lecture course on the Russian avant-garde was given.
The fifth in the series of programs, ‘‘Conversations
with Artists,” gave visitors a chance to talk with a
printmaker and a print publisher whose prints were
represented in the Joshua Smith collection.

The department also oversees the gallery’s film pro-
gram, which offers, in addition to documentary and
educational films, the work of various filmmakers in
association with temporary exhibitions. A number of
rarely screened German films were shown at the time
of the Thyssen-Bornemisza exhibition, and a series of
French films titled ‘““The French New Wave Revisited”
was shown during the Annenberg and Biihrle exhibi-
tions. In conjunction with the prints of Edvard Munch
from the Epstein family collection, a series titled “A
Cinema of Madness and Melancholy” and Kenneth
Clark’s film on Munch were shown.

The Department of Exhibition Programs produced a
variety of interpretive materials for 20 special exhibi-
tions. The staff wrote brochures for the Twachtman,
Matisse, Johns, Indonesian sculpture, and Bingham ex-
hibitions and the Annenberg and Biihrle collections and
a leaflet on printmaking techniques for “The 1980s:
Prints from the Collection of Joshua P. Smith.” The de-
partment produced six recorded tours and wrote wall
texts for all exhibitions. Special programs in conjunc-
tion with the exhibitions included two performance-lec-
tures of nineteenth-century song, legend, and music
based on the moralizing Victorian parlor ballads found
in the music collection of Frederic Church’s home,

200

Olana. A series of concerts presented the distinctive
music of the drums, metallophones, and other gong
chime instruments of the Javanese gamelan orchestra
during the Indonesian sculpture exhibition.

The Department of Educational Media produced var-
ied programming during the year. Television public ser-
vice announcements were produced for the exhibitions
of the Annenberg and Bihrle collections and the Hals
exhibition. Films and videos were produced on such
varied subjects as the pilot program of the National
Teacher Institute on American Art, the findings of the
Visitor Study Focus Group, and the exhibition of The
Feast of the Gods. The department also produced a 23-
minute program showing representative segments of the
gallery’s videos and films for use by the Publications
Sales Office at the Frankfurt Book Fair and prepared
37 talks and interviews to accompany the Sunday
broadcast of gallery concerts on local radio station
WGMS.

As part of the gallery’s membership in the Museum
Education Consortium, the department works with
other museums to develop state-of-the-art interactive
computer technologies to enhance public art instruc-
tion, classroom teaching, and self-directed learning.

The Department of Education Publications provides
editorial and production support to all other education
departments and produces educational publications on
the gallery’s permanent collections. The department’s
responsibilities include the revision and expansion of
the gallery leaflet program. During the year, the depart-
ment assembled, edited, and prepared for publication
National Gallery of Art: Guide to Resources and Pro-
grams.

The new Department of Education Resources com-
bines the former Extension Programs and Art Informa-
tion. The Art Information staff answers written and
telephone inquiries from the public and trains and su-
pervises the more than 130 volunteers who staff the
five information desks. During one period of high visit-
ation, information desk volunteers responded to more
than 7,500 questions a week, 90 percent of which con-
cerned the gallery. Approximately 700 telephone ingui-
ries a week were answered, and an average of 140
questions per month required special research.

Presentations of extension programs reached an all-
time high of 203,424, over half of which were broad-
cast on network and public television. Twelve pro-
grams were transmitted by the U.S. Information Agen-
cy’s WORLDNET satellite to U.S. embassies and posts
in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and South
Asia. “The Landscapes of Frederic Edwin Church,”
produced by the department in connection with the
Church exhibition, won a 1990 CINE Golden Eagle
Award.

In November, the docents of the Department of
Teacher and School Programs hosted the National Do-
cent Symposium and participated in a peer review of
the docent and school tour program along with profes-
sional staff from several major museums. Teacher pro-
grams included an ongoing series of workshops that
served more than 750 teachers and a National Teacher
Institute on American Art that was offered three times
during the summer of 1990 to 165 teachers from more
than 30 states and Mexico. The department formed a
local and national advisory panel of education experts
to advise the staff on the content of teacher programs
and school publications. Teaching packets were pre-
pared on the Church, Rembrandt, Matisse, and Annen-
berg collection exhibitions. A teaching packet on
impressionism and postimpressionism, using the gal-
lery’s permanent collection, was prepared for the 1990
teacher institute and tested by 16 teachers from the
Washington, D.C., area. In addition, the department
prepared family guides on the permanent collection and
the Indonesian sculpture exhibition. A family program

In 1990, the National Gal-
lery of Art purchased The
Fall of Phaeton, by Sir
Peter Paul Rubens (Flem-
ish, 1577-1640) through
the support of the Patrons’
Permanent Fund.

for the Bingham exhibition titled ““Colorful Characters”
focused on the people and pastimes represented in the
paintings and included storytelling and a take-home art
activity.

Acquisitions

Outstanding among the paintings acquired during the
year were three disparate works. The dramatic and
powerful mythological subject of The Fall of Phaeton is
brilliantly illustrated in an early painting by the seven-
teenth-century Flemish master Peter Paul Rubens. The
work depicts the moment when the son of Apollo is
thrown from his chariot by Jupiter’s thunderbolt, while
winged female figures try to control the bolting horses.
The gallery’s first work by another seventeenth-century
artist, the Dutch master of the nocturnal landscape,
Aert van der Neer, also entered the collection. The
large composition conveys with great skill the effect of
the moon shining through the clouds and its reflection
in a stream crossed by a bridge. A serenely beautiful
Fruit Still Life with Chinese Export Basket, painted in
1824, is the gallery’s first work by the American artist
James Peale.

A number of works were added to the modern and
contemporary collections. Two remarkable paintings
were by the German expressionist Ernst Kirchner: the

strong and colorful Green House in Dresden, painted
in 1909-1910, and The Visit: Couple and Newcomer,
painted in 1922. A rare and unusual painting by Felix
Vallotton, The Church of Souain, is one work in the
artist’s frequently ignored cycle of major World War I
paintings. The silhouette of a ruined church against a
violent yellow sky portrays the aftermath of the conflict
both symbolically and realistically.

The first work by the important American abstract
expressionist Clyfford Still was acquired this year.
1951—N 1s a large canvas thickly painted with several
layers of dark burgundy reds cut through with a cas-
cade of bright red, with a flash of yellow at the top.
Other gifts to the contemporary collection included
Look Mickey, a work given by American Pop artist
Roy Lichtenstein. Ellsworth Kelly contributed one of
his beautiful bronze free-standing steles, an arc rising
nearly ro feet. A large painted aluminum sculpture,
Wall, by Adolph Gottlieb, was given through the aus-
pices of the artist’s widow. Finally, the Collectors Com-
mittee contributed works by three notable contempo-
rary artists: two important sculptures and a fascinating
sculptural-art environment. Joel Shapiro’s large bronze
composition of cast bronze blocks cantilevered over the
floor surface evokes a playful, dancing human figure.
Martin Puryear’s 14-foot long Lever No. 3, done in
laminated, carved, and painted pine, suggests mechani-
cal, animal, and vegetable forms. Mirrored Cell, by
Lucas Samaras, is the largest and most complex of six
such mirrored spaces the artist has created. The viewer
can enter this room-sized sculpture with completely
mirrored surfaces. Inside, the cell is furnished with a
mirrored bed, desk and chair, toilet, and bedroom
chest.

Foremost among the additions to the graphics collec-
tions were two sixteenth-century drawings, a very rare
drawing from the 1550s by Antoine Caron, titled A
Cavalry Battle in Roman Dress, and a double-sided
drawing by Parmigianino. Other outstanding acquisi-
tions were a fine red chalk drawing by Taddeo Zuccari
and a double-sided sheet of figure studies by Domenico
Tintoretto, the gallery’s first by that artist.

Some 50 works were added through gifts and pur-
chases to the collection of old master prints. Of partic-
ular importance are a rare fifteenth-century woodcut,
Christ on the Cross, with gold leaf background; a com-
plete set of 12 etched Landscapes Dedicated to the

202

Grand Duke of Tuscany (1638) by Ercole Bazicaluva;
and a very rare print by the British artist Paul Sandby,
Mountainous Coast with Travelers, one of the earliest
known examples of the aquatint process.

Additions to the modern prints and drawings collec-
tion included gifts of drawings by Jasper Johns, Red
Grooms (Self portrait with extra large paper hat), and
Jacob Kainen. The Gemini G.E.L. Archive was enriched
by the addition of 133 works by 26 artists, and the
Graphicstudio Archive was increased by 20 works by
five artists. Purchases of drawings included Schehera-
zade by Jacob Kainen, Dodo and an Older Woman Re-
clining before a Mirror by Ernst Kirchner, and a Por-
trait of Woman by Paula Modersohn-Becker.

Six vintage Paul Strand photographs were added to
the gallery’s growing photography collection. Twenty-
nine photographs by Walker Evans were acquired by
gift and purchase. A major archive of his work was do-
nated by Robert Frank, one of the most important pho-
tographers to emerge since World War II. The collec-
tion of 61 rare vintage photographs, 2,300 contact
sheets, 1,000 work prints, and approximately 2,400
rolls of film constitute the major repository of Frank’s
art.

Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts

In its roth year, the center continued its program of
fellowships, meetings, publications, and research. In ad-
dition, the center continued to meet with the Associa-
tion of Research Institutes in Art History (ARIAH), a
union of 12 North American institutions that support
advanced research. ARIAH enables member institutions
as a group to develop and seek funding for jointly
sponsored programs and projects and to share visiting
scholars. The center also took part in meetings of the
Washington Collegium for the Humanities, made up of
nine research institutions.

This year, the Samuel H. Kress Foundation sup-
ported a symposium, “‘Eius Virtutis Studiosi: Classical
and Postclassical Studies in Memory of Frank Edward
Brown (1908—1988),” and the Banca Commerciale Ital-
iana and Alitalia supported a symposium, “Intellectual
Life at the Court of Frederick II Hohenstaufen.’ The
center cosponsored a symposium with the American
Academy in Rome and cosponsored the Twentieth An-
nual Sessions of the Middle Atlantic Symposium in the
History of Art with the University of Maryland Depart-
ment of Art History. A seminar on Prints and Proto-
types was also presented.

The Kress Professor for the academic year was the
distinguished scholar Milton W. Brown, who has been
a resident professor at the Graduate School and Univer-
sity Center of the City University of New York since
1979.

Publications in the series Studies in the History of
Art included volume 20, Retaining the Original: Multi-
ple Originals, Copies and Reproductions; volume 22,
Italian Plaquettes; volume 25, The Fashioning and
Functioning of the British Country House; volume 26,
Winslow Homer; volume 27, Cultural Differentiation
and Cultural Identity in the Visual Arts; and volume
35, [he Architectural Historian in America.

Regular publications included Center ro, an annual
record of the scholarly events and research of the pre-
ceding year, and Sponsored Research in the History of
Art 9, a directory of art history research projects sup-
ported by granting institutions in the United States and
abroad for 1988—89 and 1989-90.

Departments throughout the gallery are preparing for
soth anniversary activities in 1991. The permanent col-
lection is being reinstalled with new lighting and new
labels, many works are being reframed with appropri-
ate period frames, a new system of supplying informa-
tion on the works of art to the public is being designed,
fund raising has gone forward to establish a fund to
purchase a special work of art, and donors are being
encouraged to give works of art suitable to this land-
mark in the gallery’s history.

Special Exhibitions

“Twentieth-Century Art: Selections for the Tenth Anni-
versary of the East Building.”’ Continued from the pre-
vious fiscal year to December 31, 1990. Coordinated
by Jack Cowart and Nan Rosenthal.

“Frans Hals.”’ October 1 to December 31, 1989. Coor-
dinated by Arthur K. Wheelock. Supported by Republic
National Bank and Safra Republic Holdings, S.A.,
Banco Sofia, $.A., and the Federal Council on the Arts
and the Humanities.

“Frederic Edwin Church.” October 8, 1989, to March
18, 1990. Coordinated by Franklin Kelly.

“John Twachtman: Connecticut Landscapes.” October
15, 1989, to February 11, 1990. Coordinated by Debo-
rah Chotner. Supported by Bell Atlantic.

“Expressionism and Modern German Painting from the
Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection.”” November 19, 1989,
to January 14, 1990. Coordinated by Charles $. Mof-
fett. Supported by the Federal Council on the Arts and
the Humanities.

“The 1980s: Prints from the Collection of Joshua P.
Smith.” December 17, 1989, to April 8, 1990. Coordi-
nated by Ruth E. Fine.

“Reinstallation of Bellini/Titian Feast of the Gods.”
January 14 to April 29, 1990. Coordinated by David
Alan Brown.

“Selections and Transformations: The Art of John
Marin.” January 28 to April 15, 1990. Coordinated by
Ruth E. Fine.

“Matisse: Jazz and Other Works on Paper from the
National Gallery Collection and Promised Gifts.” Feb-
ruary 25 to June 3, 1990. Coordinated by Ruth E.
Fine.

“Rembrandt’s Landscapes: Drawings and Prints.”
March 11 to May 20, 1990. Coordinated by Margaret
Morgan Grasselli. Supported by the Federal Council on
the Arts and the Humanities.

“Matisse in Morocco: The Paintings and Drawings,
1912-1913.” March 18 to June 3, 1990. Coordinated
by Jack Cowart. Supported by the Richard King Mel-
lon Foundation and the Federal Council on the Arts
and the Humanities.

“Gardens on Paper: Prints and Drawings 1200-1900.”
April 1 to July 22, 1990. Coordinated by Virginia

Clayton. Supported by Estee Lauder, Inc.

“The Passionate Eye: Impressionist and Other Master
Paintings from the Collection of Emil G. Bihrle.”” May

203
6 to July 15, 1990. Coordinated by Charles $. Moffett.
Supported by Martin Marietta Corporation and the
Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

‘Masterpieces of Impressionism and Post-Impression-
ism: The Annenberg Collection.” May 6 to August 5,
1990. Coordinated by Charles $. Moffett.

“The Drawings of Jasper Johns.” May 20 to July 29,
1990. Coordinated by Ruth E. Fine and Nan Rosen-
thal. Supported by Ford Motor Company and the Fed-
eral Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Edvard Munch: Master Prints from the Epstein Fam-
ily Collection.” May 27 to September 3, 1990. Coordi-
nated by Andrew Robison. Supported by Statoil.

“Old Master Drawings from the National Gallery of
Scotland.” June 24 to September 23, 1990. Coordi-
nated by Andrew Robison. Supported by the Federal
Council on the Arts and the Humanities.

“Sargent’s Javanese Dancers.” July 1 to September 30,
1990. Coordinated by D. Dodge Thompson.

“The Sculpture of Indonesia.” July 1 to November 4,
1990. Coordinated by D. Dodge Thompson. Supported
by Mobil Corporation and the Federal Council on the
Arts and the Humanities.

“George Caleb Bingham.” July 15 to September 30,
1990. Coordinated by Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr. Supported
by Hecht’s, a division of the May Company Depart-
ment Stores, and Monsanto Company.

“Kazimir Malevich 1878-1935.” September 16 to No-
vember 4, 1990. Coordinated by Marla Prather. Sup-
ported by Philip Morris Companies, Inc., and the Fed-
eral Council on the Arts and on the Humanities.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Mrs. Elliot Richardson, Chairman
Ruth Graves, President

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) marked a milestone
in fiscal 1990: the roo millionth book chosen by a
child since the program was founded in 1966. This na-
tional, nonprofit literacy organization, which is sup-
ported by corporations, foundations, private citizens,
and a federal contract, brings books and reading activi-
ties to young people and involves parents in their chil-
dren’s reading.

Thousands of communities have looked to RIF for
help in turning children into lifetime readers. RIF’s
grassroots network of 3,600 projects is operated by
112,000 volunteers and spans 50 states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam.
This year, the RIF program brought 7.5 million books
to 2.4 million children at more than 12,000 sites, in-
cluding schools, migrant worker camps, Indian reserva-
tions, libraries, housing projects, Head Start and other
preschool programs, centers for children with disabili-
ties, hospitals, clinics, and juvenile detention centers.

Volunteers who work in the program say that RIF
dramatically changes children’s book reading habits
and that young people are reading more in their leisure
time, becoming more knowledgeable about books and
authors, and improving their reading scores. RIF also
gets parents involved in their children’s reading, in part
because more than a third of RIF’s volunteers are par-
ents, but also as a result of RIF’s Parent Services pro-
gram. Established in 1984 through a grant from the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, this
program encompasses Growing Up Reading workshops
for parents, RIF’s Parent Guide publications, and a va-
riety of family literacy initiatives targeted to high-risk
groups.

Studies continue to underscore the good sense of the
RIF approach of motivating children to read. The Na-
tion’s Reading Report Card, a study conducted by the
National Assessment of Educational Progress, noted the
importance of having reading materials in the home
and indicated that across all age groups “‘students who
frequently read for fun were likely to have the highest
[reading] proficiency.”

New Programs for Special Groups

This year, the number of RIF projects multiplied as
more and more communities looked to RIF to address
2 Sas) : Ds 7-2

First Lady Barbara Bush and children from Reading Is Fundamental projects plant a Children’s Reading Tree on the U.S. Na-

elicit rn &

tional Arboretum grounds, during the annual celebration of Reading Is Fun Week. (Photograph by Rick Reinhard)

their literacy needs. About 15,000 youngsters were
added to the program, including Native American chil-
dren of the Apache, Blackfeet, Cherokee, Choctaw, Ha-
vasupai, Hopi, Hualapai, Sioux, and Yaqui tribes; pre-
schoolers in Head Start, Even Start, and other early
childhood programs; and teenagers in Boys and Girls
Clubs. Altogether, RIF launched 505 new projects,
most of which are funded by the private sector.

In an effort to bring books to homeless children, RIF
organized an Open Book program and called on pub-
lishers and booksellers to donate children’s books.
Foundations, book suppliers, magazine wholesalers,
and other groups responded with funding and by send-

ing more than 75,000 books and magazines, which RIF
used to set up reading corners in homeless shelters and
other facilities serving at-risk youngsters.

The first statewide RIF program was launched in
April when Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton announced
“Reading Is Fundamental to Arkansas’ Future.” The
goal of the three-year program is to serve every public
school fourth-grader in the state by the end of the third
year. Book costs will be partly funded through a chal-
lenge grant from the Student Loan Marketing Associa-
tion (Sallie Mae). Local businesses are expected to
match these funds on a dollar-for-dollar basis.

In the fall of 1989, RIF, in partnership with the

)
@)
A

Chrysler Corporation Fund, launched RUNNING
START, a three-year program to bring books and read-
ing activities to first-graders and their families in 10 ci-
ties. The 24,384 participating students read 500,000
books, and more than two-thirds of these students each
read 21 books or more. “It was hard,” one child com-
mented. ‘““That’s why I felt so good when I did it.”

Following up on the highly successful citywide read-
ing program in Chattanooga, Tennessee, RIF launched
a second City of Readers program in Louisville, Ken-
tucky. Like the Chattanooga program, Louisville’s City
of Readers will expand the existing RIF program and
will be designed to get the whole community involved
in reading. The program will be housed in the Louis-
ville Free Public Library and has the full backing and
participation of city leaders.

Family Literacy Program

During the last six years, RIF has turned its efforts to
developing programs targeted to families, particularly
those in high-risk groups. Today, according to Publish-
ers Weekly, RIF’s family literacy program is one of
three initiatives with the potential for making ‘an im-
pact on the literacy crisis.”

Since its Family Services program was launched in
1984, RIF has held Growing Up Reading workshops in
dozens of cities; distributed 1.6 million copies of its
Parent Guide series here and abroad; produced The
RIF Guide to Encouraging Young Readers; and,
through a grant from the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation, developed eight experimental
family literacy projects. Last fall, one of these
projects—a program for teenaged mothers in a Chicago
housing project—won a grand prize in the 1989 Family
Circle/CPDA (Council for Periodical Distributors Asso-
ciation) Leaders of Readers program. Another
project—a bilingual storytelling club for Spanish-speak-
ing families in Washington, D.C.—was honored with a
regional award.

In the spring of 1990, RIF announced an innovative
two-year program to meet the reading needs of teen-
aged parents and their children. To signify that teenag-
ers will be involved in their children’s and their own
reading development, the program is called Shared Be-
ginnings. Oprah Winfrey, television show host and a

206

RIF Advisory Council member, has been named honor-
ary chairperson of the program, which is being tested
at ITI sites.

As part of its Growing Up Reading series, RIF con-
ducted three parent workshops last year in Greenville,
South Carolina; Arlington, Virginia; and Chattanooga,
Tennessee. RIF’s Parent Guide publications continued
to be in great demand. Last year, for example, the
Japanese University of Library and Information Science
translated and printed two brochures in the series.

In addition to these efforts, RIF conducted a family
literacy seminar hosted by the Prince of Wales for the
spouses of international business leaders during a busi-
ness forum in Charleston, South Carolina.

Special Events

It was an eventful year for children in RIF projects
across the country. At the United Nations International
Literacy Day in the fall of 1989, RIF Chairman Mrs.
Elliot Richardson and children from RIF programs in
the New York City area joined guest of honor First
Lady Barbara Bush and young people from other coun-
tries for storytelling and a RIF book distribution. In
October, Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis
proclaimed October 20 RIF Day and kicked off a state-
wide “Salute to RIF,” featuring poetry, poster, and
essay contests for children in RIF projects across the
state.

In November, the Duchess of York met with RIF
staff to learn about the RIF program and joined RIF
children for a festive book distribution at the Chil-
dren’s Museum in Manhattan. In December, RIF acted
as go-between in a Books-and-Socks Exchange, in
which the children of North Carolina textile workers
got books and homeless children from Washington,
D.C., shelters got warm socks, courtesy of Mt. Airy,
North Carolina, hosiery mills.

In January, a ceremony at the White House com-
memorated RIF’s distribution of 100 million books
since the program was founded in 1966. Four RIF chil-
dren presented a collection of children’s books to Bar-
bara Bush. About 300,000 children had earlier sent in
the names of the books they would choose as RIF’s 100
millionth book, and the collection reflected their tastes.

During the winter months, RIF’s sixth annual “In
Celebration of Reading,” a nationwide reading cam-
paign, and RIF’s fifth annual National Poster Contest
drew the participation of nearly a million children. This
year, Juan Gonzalez of Alice, Texas, was named Na-
tional RIF Reader, and Kimberly Connett of Indianapo-
lis, Indiana, was declared poster contest winner.

In March, the Santa Fe Pacific Foundation celebrated
a 12-year partnership with RIF in which Santa Fe helps
support needy RIF projects located along the railway
line. The celebration, which included a RIF distribu-
tion, was held in a lounge car, observation car, and
dining car, transported to Washington, D.C.’s Union
Station from Santa Fe headquarters in Chicago.

In April, RIF held the sixth annual celebration of
reading called “Reading Is Fun Week.” RIF projects
nationwide staged reading events and honored local cit-
izens and organizations for promoting literacy. In
Washington, D.C., Barbara Bush joined more than 400
youngsters at the U.S. National Arboretum for RIF
Week festivities, which included an award ceremony
for the National RIF Reader and National Poster Con-
test winner and the planting of a Children’s Reading
Tree on the Arboretum grounds.

The RIF program attracted media attention last year.
New public service announcements appeared in news-
papers and magazines and on radio and television. Sev-
eral spots feature Barbara Bush, who talks about her
longtime support of RIF. The program was also high-
lighted on the CBS ‘‘School’s In” series, designed to in-
form the public about innovative educational programs,
and in a number of national publications, including the
New Yorker, Changing Times, and a new Department
of Education study, “Volunteers in Public Schools.”

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

Charles Blitzer, Director

In the wake of dramatic political and economic devel-
opments that unfolded throughout the world during the
past year, the Woodrow Wilson Center’s role as a
forum for nonpartisan scholarly research and debate
took on growing significance. Since its founding more
than two decades ago, the center has stood for elimi-
nating the barriers to communication among scholarly
disciplines, between scholars and policy makers, and
between Americans and foreigners. As the pace of
global change continues to accelerate and as nations
and individuals orient themselves in a new world order,
the Wilsonian legacy of principled political leadership
and an informed scholarly perspective promises to be-
come even more important.

Governance

A highlight of the past year was the appointment of
White House Chief of Staff John Sununu to the Wood-
row Wilson Center’s board of trustees. The center ac-
cepted with regret the resignation of J. W. Marriott,
who left the board after two and one-half years of ex-
emplary service. In April, Congress amended the
Woodrow Wilson Center’s founding legislation to in-
crease the number of members on its board of trustees.
Two positions were added for private citizens to be ap-
pointed by the president, and the U.S. secretary of edu-
cation is now an ex officio member.

The Woodrow Wilson Center’s advisory body of pri-
vate citizens, the Wilson Council, continued to provide
invaluable guidance on many issues that affect the insti-
tution’s relationship with the private sector. The coun-
cil welcomed three new members: S. Bruce Smart, Jr.,
former undersecretary for international trade at the
U.S. Department of Commerce and chairman and chief
executive officer of the Continental Can Company;
Conrad Cafritz, an active member of the Washington,
D.C., real estate and philanthropic communities; and
Michael DiGiacomo, a New York financier whose field
is international banking.

Program Restructuring

In 1990, the Woodrow Wilson Center undertook a
major administrative restructuring that has been re-
flected in every aspect of the institution’s work. These
organizational changes were implemented to encourage
work on comparative and cross-cutting issues. Before
the reorganization, the center had eight programs, six
of them geographically defined, each of which reported
to the deputy director and director. The reorganization
created three divisions. The first is concerned with the
United States and is essentially a continuation of the
previous American Society and Politics program. The
second is a Division of Regional and Comparative
Studies, which includes the other five geographically
defined programs: Asia, Eastern Europe, Western Eu-
rope, Latin America, and the Soviet Union (the Kennan
Institute). Although this division has an elected chair-
man, each of the programs continues to have its own
director. The third division, International Studies, rep-
resents a significant broadening of the previous Interna-
tional Security Studies program to enable it to address
such global concerns as the environment, communica-
tions, economics, and culture.

Another significant administrative change concerns
the annual international fellowship competition. The
Woodrow Wilson Center has instituted a single appli-
cation and selection process and no longer requires that
applicants apply through one of the programs. Al-
though program directors and members of their advi-
sory councils continue to play a crucial role in the re-
cruitment and selection process, a single review
committee now considers the most competitive applica-
tions regardless of programmatic affiliation and recom-
mends to the fellowship committee of the board a sin-
gle list of proposed fellows and alternates. The purpose
of these changes is to ensure uniform standards of
judgment for all applicants and to provide a fuller op-
portunity to select the best possible fellows, judged
both individually and as a potential community-in-resi-
dence. Changes in the application and selection process
seem already to be bearing fruit, since the number of
applicants in last year’s competition increased 60 per-
cent, from about 400 to 640.

Three major staff changes at the Woodrow Wilson
Center completed the programmatic and administrative
modifications carried out during the year. Milan L.
Hauner, most recently visiting professor of history at
the University of California, Berkeley, was appointed
the new director of East European Studies. He succeeds
John Lampe, who returned to his responsibilities as

208

professor of history at the University of Maryland.
Lawrence Lichty, professor of radio, television and film
at Northwestern University, replaced Phillip Cook as
director of the Media Studies Project. Finally, the Wil-
son Center was pleased to welcome former Smithsonian
Under Secretary Dean Anderson as its new deputy di-
rector for planning and management. He succeeds Jon
Yellin, who in September became vice president for fi-
nance and management at the City College of New
York after five years of service to the Wilson Center.

Conferences and Meetings

The dramatic occurrences that are reshaping Europe
and the Soviet Union set the tone for many of the
meetings and conferences held at the Woodrow Wilson
Center in the past year. Whether planned a year in ad-
vance or quickly organized in response to world events,
the programs all took advantage of the Wilson Center’s
international network of former fellows and were char-
acterized by the historical perspective and intellectual
rigor for which the center is known.

The largest and most formal conference addressing
the state of the post-Cold War world was called “The
Helsinki Process and the Future of Europe.” Scholars
and practitioners from the United States and many
Eastern and Western European nations gathered to ex-
amine European security and alliance politics, Western
European economic integration, Eastern European eco-
nomic restructuring, and legal safeguards for human
and political rights. Woodrow Wilson Center trustee
Ambassador Max Kampelman presided over the meet-
ing, which was organized by Deputy Director Samuel
F. Wells. Participants included U.S. Representative
Steny Hoyer, Polish Solidarity Party leader Bronislaw
Geremek, French ambassador Jacques Andreani, and
Horst Teltschik, foreign affairs and national security
adviser to West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. The
results of the conference were published in August as
the first in a new series of Woodrow Wilson Center
Special Studies.

Other meetings on the changes in Eastern Europe
ranged from noon discussions to formal conferences.
The Woodrow Wilson Center’s Kennan Institute was a
major forum for the wide range of voices emerging
from the various nationalities and ethnic groups in the
Soviet Union. Just after the fall of the Berlin Wall, a
group of fellows from Eastern European countries
spoke to a packed room about the political and eco-
nomic changes sweeping their countries. Soviet emigre
novelist Vladimir Voinovich regaled an Evening Dia-
logue audience with his satirist’s view of Soviet society.
The East European Studies program organized a major
conference on public health and the environment,
which examined the current and potential health haz-
ards posed by the extensive air, ground, and water pol-
lution in that region. A delegation of Cuban scholars
met with U.S. colleagues to discuss the impact on Cuba
of changing superpower relations.

Outreach and Public Affairs

While debate at conferences and meetings is necessarily
limited to event participants, outreach activities ensure
that the results of Woodrow Wilson Center programs
are made available throughout the nation and the
world. The center conducts an active program of pub-
lishing and public affairs to reach a broad, nonscho-
larly audience outside of Washington.

In collaboration with Cambridge University Press,
the center publishes the Woodrow Wilson Center Se-
ries. Two volumes in the series, Origins of Terrorism:
Psychologies, Ideologies, Theologies, and States of
Mind and The State and Economic Knowledge, were is-
sued during the year. The center also publishes books
through its own Wilson Center Press. Volumes pub-
lished in 1990 included Problems of Balkan Security,
Portugal: Ancient Country, Young Democracy, and
Government and Environmental Politics.

To reach the broadest possible audience, the Wood-
row Wilson Center several years ago established Radio
DIALOGUE, a weekly interview program broadcast by
National Public Radio and the Texas Longhorn Radio
Network. With a new production studio and enhanced
distribution capabilities, the program has increased its
national coverage from 58 to r12 stations. During the
past year, 50 fellows and staff members discussed such
diverse topics as Congress and the courts, Eastern Eu-
rope in transition, Caribbean politics and culture, and
the opera and Russian history.

Fellows

At the core of the Woodrow Wilson Center are its fel-
lows, and their accomplishments last year continued to
be impressive. For the second year, the National Book
Award for nonfiction was awarded to a former fellow
for a book written substantially at the Wilson Center—
Thomas Friedman for From Beirut to Jerusalem.

After a year of political upheaval, many of Eastern
Europe’s top intellectuals emerged as leaders in fledg-
ling democratic governments; several of these scholars
were once Woodrow Wilson Center fellows. Bronislaw
Geremek, who studied medieval Polish gypsy life while
a fellow at the Wilson Center, was elected the Solidar-
ity Party’s floor leader in the lower house of the Polish
parliament. Czech economist Karel Dyba became an
economic adviser to the Czechoslovakian vice premier.
Another former fellow, sociologist Balint Magyar, won
a seat in the new Hungarian parliament after partici-
pating in Hungary’s first free elections in more than
four decades, while former guest scholar Geza Jeszen-
sky was appointed Hungary’s minister of foreign af-
fairs.

Also in the past year, two recent fellows were ap-
pointed to important international positions. Geir Lun-
destad was named director of the Nobel Institute and
secretary of the Nobel Peace Prize Committee, while
Ibrahim Gambari was made the Nigerian ambassador
to the United Nations. These fellows represent tangible
evidence of the Woodrow Wilson Center’s success in
linking scholarship with public affairs.

President Wilson once wrote, “The man who has the
time, the discrimination, and the sagacity to collect and
comprehend the principal facts, and the man who must
act upon them, must draw near to one another and feel
that they are engaged in a common enterprise.” The
challenges facing our nation and the world in the com-
ing years are ones that Woodrow Wilson would have
relished, both as scholar and as statesman. During the
past year, the Woodrow Wilson Center continued to
bring together the best of the worlds of learning and
public affairs to explore Wilson’s vision of “continuous
protection of liberty by the concerted powers of all civ-
ilized people.”
SMITHSONIAN

BOARD OF REGENTS

iS Se SS ee ie al

| Under Separate Boards of Trustees |

| ee - |

John F. Kennedy Center SECRETARIAT* THE SECRETARY*
for the Performing Arts

! | Ef) 7 73k

| National Gallery of Art | Ree coer UNDER SECRETARY

| |

Woodrow Wilson I GENERAL
International Center

| for Scholars

SS — =

TREASURER* GENERAL COUNSEL*

Business Management Office
Concessions
Mail Order Division
Office of Product Licensing
Smithsonian Museum Shops
Office of Accounting and
Financial Services
Office of Financial Management
and Planning
Office of Risk Management
Office of Sponsored Projects

Assistant Secretary for
RESEARCH*

International Environmental Science
Program

Joseph Henry Papers

National Zoological Park**

Office of American Studies

Office of Environmental Awareness

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies

Office of Quincentenary Programs

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

“Secretary's Management Committee.

Assistant Secretary for
MUSEUMS*

Anacostia Museum**
Archives of American Art**
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Freer Gallery Art**
Conservation Analytical Laboratory **

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design* *

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden* *
International Gallery
National Air and Space Museum**
National Museum of African Art**
National Museum of American Art**
Renwick Gallery**
National Museum of American History**
National Museum of the American Indian
National Museum of Natural History/
National Museum of Man**
Museum Support Center* *

**The assistant secretaries for research and museums collaborate in the
oversight of scholarly and presentational activities in these bureaus and offices.

July 1990

210

Assistant Secretary for
INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES*

National Portrait Gallery **

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Institutional Studies

Office of Museums Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service
INSTITUTION

Advisory Council on Education

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Visting Committee

Cooper-Hewitt,

National Museum of Design
Advisory Board

Cultural Education Committee

Folklife Advisory Council

Freer Gallery of Art
Visiting Committee

BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden
Board of Trustees

Horticultural Advisory Committee

Joint Sponsoring Committee for
the Papers of Joseph Henry

National Air and Space Museum
Advisory Board

National Board of the
Smithsonian Associates

National Museum of African Art
Commission

National Museum of American Art
Commission

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

National Science Resources Center
Advisory Board

Smithsonian Council

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SERVICE*

Assistant Secretary for
ADMINISTRATION*

Management Analysis Office

Office of Equal Opportunity

Office of Facilities Services

Office of Architectural History
and Historic Preservation

Office of Design and Construction

Office of Environmental Management
and Safety

Office of Plant Services

Office of Protection Services

Office of Information Resource
Management

Office of Personnel Administration

Office of Planning and Budget

Office of Printing and Photographic
Services

Office of Procurement and Property
Management

Travel Services Office

National Science Resources Center

Office of Wider Audience
Development
Office of Conference Services

Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education
Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Public Affairs

Visitor Information and Associates’

Reception Center

Assistant Secretary for
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS*

Office of Membership and Development*
Smithsonian National Associate
Program
Office of Congressional Liaison*
Office of International Relations
Office of Special Events
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Insitution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine
Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program
Cover: Computer graphics are becoming increasingly com-
monplace in today’s society, helping people enhance and ex-
pand their imagination and creativity. These computer-
graphic images by leading graphic artists R.R. Greenberg and
Robert Abel are part of a 12-screen video wall in a new exhi-
bition, “Information Age: People, Information & Technol-
ogy,” at the National Museum of American History. (Photo-
graph by Eric Long)

Frontispiece: Two Public School Teachers was included in the
National Portrait Gallery’s exhibition ‘““To Color America:
Portraits by Winold Reiss.” The German-born artist came to
America in 1913 and over the next 40 years produced nota-
ble portraits of American Indians, African Americans, Asians,
and Mexicans. (Courtesy of Fisk University, Nashville, Ten-
nessee)

2% The paper used in this publication meets the minimum
requirements of the American National Standard for
Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials Z39.48-
1984
i. _ eae »
4 Wo
* ¥
: 2 a ten SAY
: ‘
\
~ = 4
= f .
k
v4 be Ain j
/

oo. < 4 : f ‘ :

6
+
=
a *
, i /
{ 4
; ,
:
- t f
if
‘
ori x R yoocey i
ed
; 5
: C
\
* ; Ki
Me.
uy
vd

~ pa Oe 1 : ' =
; * f
¥ fy
EN ‘ { Ton hey
IGS ae
eat
oa 3
‘
i
5 rey
f PeRALL YR AR ‘
et. a oy ;

oe we i 7 Remihia + ‘ - ot coe cme ee Fe MH : a}
’ i ae y ie | ae ) ti Mie, eC

i
i iy vi

a : wi : a Ma ; cae
. vy | } | iy | Ams i i «

| iv, | ; » i) 4

4 y 4 " Dy
| }

——
‘i othe ue
GURSELES Sab bedte td yak
rriceria MeeaN aL 5
Fi is aT
abe
o A
share ance if

ty B2b SR Pau ANt gh fot
Fatale hehehehe Vane Qads Af hare d Matt te tee i
ioatctn Bulle BALD Ld hedtz Bo Aus Bali? tab i i : ( feeb t
Fa ieba Ge FAC bas fish ‘ , fe et ttcet :
= es ‘i .

frat (36. A he
Ciera iet
One Ba Sole hadi

Cina
¥ foe bin aoe
Tat Desi hcts Saha Cabot hee f in
MilabaBetebals de gelsdctin ji is 4 i ee tak i
is ard Boe Fhe tata fab ; 4h bete PACT REL Ce
Padisbeeh sted i ane
n Se aaa ty
bite e baat hehe Ue ddhster sah
late no het bat esi Fett
fathictatsarel slatted : eee
Beda bate i cai, Hn ah to OLd OG

caecaniaitle arnt

ne a
Fees nazerhs apheteas aera
fiver ued cegbamul Oe
tibia. fesamatat dural tah
pe wa ORIEN Cet

ie t g

mbedihidad t i :
Bb heeded oni hata : a tanta hs
Bohnttc tata fiesta tebedetg nat al ha inte tae sien Tt

mid praing eat bat ; , Tihs Ladue ta
Oey

ah
Seer pied

(ey

Bay
wets
eelgrpd ot

EN Read Robt ten

PORE Set een

ae att
ay
ce
ke he
ats
: Ee bth
pulbtonstaiion pet act vat “ satan
PTET P Ue uterwt arta yicberyee $ Ris ceasureeatarine

yareet
(ee ceg eee rere

ret Se ate S
Beinn wien : ¥ 2 rote tee ee
weer ee sasomurds (hata
ary Ervaattzprenese uty ' . OG
ae ee ches ylenwre yok atau the vitae z : ‘ c
releanee are elfen

int reat
egeterccelatety mance
Lie ce wtpsare

A eae

vererguareree :
eee Sn “ aha vad Mahe ety

: reat ane ee nN Teal
errs easeretutytyureeynte eieta
er cranes wre ce a a

eee

FA Ue at 8
We AEN

Anas ge

weary
Corns
roretay

iy wre wd

seeytectay Seon tacweae meee

es i
Vanes
ewrare
ee

Deiat ute
etn

=

e

a

