ain Lee a nn a a a a ee ae aa a ae ny

ALOU See eee eee ee ey
7 iy a, pe pe Be dh er we by be be be MO
4 Car oa) f] " " * + Tie F 1 ; { “She 4 t - “M, a 5. .s 5 . ae a . 4,
$6) oe ye. M by ra i Pe ® at he hy, a ti eee q i an . i i is, yy 7 iY r

a ¥ 7
% rt i ny Pe gy : Tete Losi Pre eh ‘ ‘See ies Spe be a oe ih “iy rs 7 : "4 4
ey ms me vA yy Pa a wm, Pr. : ie . ti : a Ay ar Gs): & ; uw pe | Me pe a aa 4 ih eZ j We! - AY
RE PP oe BoP eM af i a ae ee eT h
" o woe, : er, 1 * - ve : 4. ey Nea je ae re At fp », eu Bet & ae . a

. 3 wl im in ie R Ps i ee a oa ih Bw PR Re m Bw Ph by be bs &o pe
i AY Mt we By et vi" by a ut Mh i he : yy ht i 4 Pn % J oy any hi } \ . : hi m1 J ai
Je Ba ON oe MN m a ye mn ir Wh BP. “Pp ho
a we Of, a be A oy e me boo bok oko wb pod ew ee
Le x a wR 4" oe Te ee ieee ee ve
| a 4 er ue y

t

Pee |
eos
yo
Se
— z
—

apy RA A vest rn 4 p
oe yf we } fh ¥ i & Lan ae iy i . yy :
A we ye i is ie a es ‘ By oe Ww le ke yp
hi to ow A: Be Be By OR La a) i) i Oe Te ae ee he ee he
Te leet” ty ct Boat a ; a fh, ‘gt. ; am gt Me ; re:
i Oe ue vo w oa Se wat et a beh it br it anos

‘er
© ae
ee
TSE
a
be
—
Fas
—— zz
ee
<
ae
ae
nad
~S
ss

a in, yw " st " BR v4 y HD we rs Po ; ry us By hy i pe oe by, ra 7 a P a
wa a *, ny) an A an » K a ere ’ pI Me ye yb as be” he? ka a

7 ae » * » % * wo RR
# ey on ie a) oe +e lw oe ie Le ra .
. he OE gt oe . M aro | a ‘by ip a ‘i "
ve a By an * “he ae hy _ wh - ye Mh uy aD Me ye Rw ke aR
ahs . <a Pp Pe i iv. ") m2 ane My hh i an a bi -
we Py hk ‘era wo by Le ma Ww tat a ” Yd Xb ua he ¥ bi by: kes
tak ae z _ Pal a te
yet oR yp
a
a8 ;

a ; - wy BY ge ome ts Ee app Ly ee Bow Ba
MP OR RD. ie y rs rie,
a Wes

il
oe

2

* Py Ae AR Ty e.
} jy i ae eet . ¥ * a ie by ye hs "ys on tn}
Lag Hg Ns “e | a Cn ae me 4
f - ite ye Bs rye ‘ie J ye a x ‘ Pb ei ‘ "ya a he f
LL a Be Po Bw Ds ae By & W oa? + ee le ” Goi dae aa tae
fi mt LS a Be tas ye ‘ yi ce a ° Pe } i fy 4 hy » a a vi if 2. oF ! ve ,

‘i hy by Ete Pgh
Bi Ga Bey i ye ene De

oe ae iis 3 ys fy Oe de bY bo MM YBa
Re Pe cA Oe ay Sw be by
ve a Hig fine me * Sys he Ta ye “pe

oy
i
il

vnineenuatt

Ug

Ta fap a

mithsonian Year
1979
Smithsonian Year - 1979
A Bambara antelope headdress from Mali is part of the collection of the Museum
of African Art. The museum officially became a bureau of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion on August 13, 1979. (Photo credit: Eliot Elisofon Photo Archives, Museum of

African Art.)
Smithsonian Year ‘1979

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 1979

Smithsonian Institution Press + City of Washington * 1980
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047-000-00363-6

$4.0
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846
in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson of Eng-
land, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and ac-
cepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an “es-
tablishment,” whose statutory members are the President, the Vice
President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive depart-
ments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust in the
Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Jimmy Carter, President of the United States
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State
G. William Miller, Secretary of the Treasury
Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense
Benjamin R. Civiletti, Attorney General
Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior
Bob S. Bergland, Secretary of Agriculture
Juanita M. Kreps, Secretary of Commerce
F. Ray Marshall, Secretary of Labor
Patricia Roberts Harris, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
Moon Landrieu, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Neil Goldschmidt, Secretary of Transportation
Charles W. Duncan, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and Secretary - September 30, 1979

REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, Chancellor

INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States
Henry M. Jackson, Member of the Senate

Barry Goldwater, Member of the Senate

Robert B. Morgan, Member of the Senate

Norman Y. Mineta, Member of the House of Representatives
Silvio O. Conte, Member of the House of Representatives
Frank Thompson, Jr., Member of the House of Representatives
Anne Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Thomas J. Watson, Jr., citizen of Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
William A. M. Burden

Caryl P. Haskins

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Dorothy Rosenberg, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Michael Collins, Under Secretary

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

James McK. Symington, Director, Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator, Public Information

Vi
page

112
126
130
140
161

175

175
178
183
185
190
phont
194
198
208
212

219

228
232

Smithsonian Year : 1979
CONTENTS

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

FINANCIAL REPORT

SCIENCE

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

Fort Pierce Bureau

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man
National Museum of Natural History

National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Freer Gallery of Art

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers

Museum of African Art

National Collection of Fine Arts

National Museum of History and Technology
National Portrait Gallery

Office of American and Folklife Studies

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum Act Program

Vii
page 235
241
245
247
257,
258
259
264

MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of International Activities

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

PUBLIC SERVICE

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Division of Performing Arts

International Exchange Service

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Exposition Books

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

ADMINISTRATION

Administrative and Support Activities
Financial Management Activities
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

CHRONOLOGY

APPENDICES

Vili
Smithsonian Year . 1979

STATEMENT BY THE:SECKETARY

Over.eAF: The programs and facilities of the Smithsonian Institution are located
in many different parts of this country and the world. Shown here are Smithsonian
buildings situated on or near the Mall in Washington, D.C. From the top: the
Smithsonian Institution “Castle” Building; the National Air and Space Museum;
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden; the National Museum of Natural
History; the National Museum of History and Technology; the Arts and Industries
Building; the Freer Gallery of Art; the Renwick Gallery; the Fine Arts and Portrait
Gallery Building; the Museum of African Art; and the Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum.
EXHIBITS

B ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

In the Nation's Service

Sy IDIELON ‘RIPLEY

BEING HISTORY-MINDED, I tend to believe that time is the only true
touchstone of merit. What merit lay in the enigmatic bequest of
money by James Smithson to the nation in 1826? No one could be
sure. The resulting hubbub in the Congress over whether to accept
the “tainted” British money has long since become part of the
dust of yesteryear. But my own feeling is that the creation of the
Smithsonian started a chain reaction which has since touched every
American.

It would be better to characterize the “diffusion of knowledge
among men,” to quote Smithson’s words describing the purpose of
his bequest, as being in the service of the people rather than in the
nation’s service. “In the nation’s service” bespeaks the many na-
tional service organizations of our government—the Postal Service,
the Health Service, the services for veterans, for unemployment
compensation, Social Security, the Internal Revenue Service, the
Forest Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service. “In the service of the
nation” calls to mind the tremendous body of men and women in
the federal government employed to perform services for us all.
These servants of the people, often maligned by the public and
politicians alike, are devoted, zealous, and conscious of a calling, a
calling of service.

Most of them find a career reward of a genuine and compelling
nature in working for the benefit of us all. We rub elbows with them
every day at the Smithsonian. They are our best audience, for they
live for the most part near Washington. Thousands of them are
Associates of the Institution, and many thousands are our friends,
for they find a host of rewards in the experiences that we have to
offer. We can speak with conviction of those who dedicate their
careers to the civil, military, and kindred services, such as our
great Foreign Service, for these are people, devoted to the cause
of national service, of whom we can all feel proud.

Yet few people realize what the Smithsonian is all about. A
collection of large buildings on or about the Mall in Washington—
it is easy to assume that we are “government” in some way. Our
buildings seem for the most part large, impressive monuments to
the expenditure of taxpayers’ money. (The majority of people may
not realize the amount of nontaxpayer money that has gone into a
number of these buildings and will continue to do so in the future.
The names Smithson, Freer, Mellon, and Hirshhorn all spell dona-
tions for construction, just as more grants in the future will help
defray the costs of new galleries to be built.) Our museums, some
large, some small, consort in procession with the majestic, mono-
lithic array of huge government bureaux on the opposite sides of
Constitution and Independence Avenues. These government build-
ings brood over the scene in the sunlight, like a pride of lions
stretched out, panting in the heat, while their single lordly leader
rears his heavily maned head on Capitol Hill. It is a setting of
sedate splendor, awe-inspiring to some, crushing with monotonous
repetition to others. But within there is a continuing sense of
vitality.

No, we of the Smithsonian are not “feds.” We never “regulate”
anybody. We don’t publish mysterious orders in the Federal
Register. To be sure, we receive appropriated funds each year, but
even though they may represent two-thirds of our annual budget,
the sums keep our buildings and our technical and service staffs in
operation so that we can perform our services for all.

Nor are we an island. People in the government often fancy
themselves isolated, being in Washington. “Oh, it’s so valuable to
get out, to get out into the country,” they say, as if life in Wash-
ington were unreal, perhaps almost un-American. (People in New
York are sometimes thought of as foreigners in a strange way, “not
real Americans,” at any rate.) So people in Washington, in govern-
ment anyway, are always paying lip service to the concept that life
in Washington is different. It is not real America. This is especially
true, perhaps, among politicians, who after all have to pretend at
least not to be dismayed to be “home” with their constituents. From
there the mood is catching. Government servants often complain

4 / Smithsonian Year 1979
about being immured in Washington and not getting to sense the
needs of the people.

In fact, Washington is an immensely popular place to visit, per-
haps ahead of New York these days. Those who live here in service
of one kind or another should take comfort from this. It cannot be
so strange, so un-American, such an island. It is the hub, packed
with bits and pieces and stuff of everyman’s America.

In the Annual Report of the Institution for 1852, six years after
the commencement of operations in 1846, Joseph Henry, the first
Secretary, summed it up:

The prominent idea embraced in the Smithsonian organization,
is that of cooperation and concerted action with all institutions
and individuals engaged in the promotion of knowledge. Its
design is not to monopolize any part of the wide fields of
nature or of art, but to invite all to partake in the pleasure and
honor of their cultivation. It seeks not to encroach upon
ground occupied by other institutions, but to expend the funds
[i.e., the Smithsonian endowment income] in doing that which
cannot be as well done by other means. It gives to the words
of Smithson their most liberal interpretation, and “increases
and diffuses knowledge among men” by promoting the dis-
covery of new truths, and by disseminating these in every part
of the civilized world.

Thus Joseph Henry enunciated the concept of service toward
all people in “every part of the civilized world,” in words which
he constantly strove to impress on the minds of the Congress and
Executive alike: the Smithsonian had a task, a task of original
study and research to promote the dissemination of knowledge for
all mankind. Thinking back over the years, we have seen the
Institution grow to include numerous museums with museum col-
lections, a growth which to many minds tends to obscure the mean-
ing of Henry’s words.

How can one “discover new truths” as the proprietor of a dozen
or more museums? Fortunately, these times have seen a new realiza-
tion of what museums are all about, powerhouses of the mind, not
old dustbins into which is cast the detritus of history. Museums
serve today as educational centers, headquarters from which are
sent out messages, communications of all kinds. As Lewis Thomas

Statement by the Secretary / 5
says in his Lives of a Cell (1974), present genetic theory assumes
that

human beings are all born with a genetic endowment for
recognizing and formulating language. ... As human behavior
derives from the central mechanism of language, the same sets
of genes are, at least indirectly, responsible for governing such
astonishing behavior as in the concert hall, where hundreds of
people crowd together, silent, head-tilted, meditating, listening
to music as though receiving instructions, or in a gallery, mov-
ing along slowly, peering, never looking at each other, con-
centrating as though reading directions. . . . If language is at
the core of our social existence, holding us together, housing
us in meaning, it may also be safe to say that art and music
are functions of the same universal, genetically determined
mechanism.

Beyond these everyday experiences, so concisely delineated by
Thomas, there are all the other outward-flowing connections. Day
by day we communicate without the awareness of it. Often the
question is asked ‘““Why doesn’t the Smithsonian move out into the
country at large? Why is everything all confined here in Washing-
ton?” Almost every year some one of our congressional committees
asks the question during a hearing. This is usually coupled with
two other questions: ““Why don’t we get our products out into the
country at large, show our riches to the world?” and “Why do we
have all these museums?” Is there no way to stop this inexorable,
octopus-like growth?

It is frustrating to realize how general this impression is, how
it persists in spite of all our efforts. We do spread our message
across the country. We do get our message out. Our “riches” tend
to be more in ideas than in things. But we show both to the world.
What are our riches? We have only one of George Washington’s
uniforms, only one desk on which the Declaration of Independence
was drafted, only one flag that flew over Fort McHenry. We do
not have a single Philadelphia Chippendale camelback sofa, or a
Newport Townsend-Goddard lowboy with cabriole legs and relief
scrollwork carving. We do not have ten Remington sculptures or
even Gilbert Stuart portraits of the Founding Fathers! So what are
the riches? They exist in the mind, not in dozens of examples of

6 / Smithsonian Year 1979
-
A
-
e

Flying plastic discs of all sizes and colors filled the sky at the third annual
Smithsonian Frisbee Disc Festival. The September 2 festival, which was sponsored by
the National Air and Space Museum, attracted over 11,000 spectators. Below.
Students from the James Ryder Randall Elementary School’s summer program

toured the Silver Hill Museum in July 1979. To the left is the Curtiss P-40 E War-
hawk, one of the best-known fighters of World War II.

As always, larger than life, Albert Einstein welcomes a group of visitors to his
exhibit at the National Museum of History and Technology. Below. A young visitor
enjoying the ‘Play and Inventiveness” celebration, sponsored by the Office of

Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars. The celebration, which explored the links
between play and creativity, was the Institution’s major contribution to the ob-
servance of the International Year of the Child in 1979.

decorative arts or sculptural objects, except for a few symbolic
collections that have been given us, because our charter calls us,
among other things, the national museum of the United States.

I spend hours explaining to those interested enough to have any
attention span that our seventy-five or eighty million objects have,
to a large extent, intangible value. In this money-oriented culture
of ours, it is harder to understand that a collection of insects, or
fossils, or potsherds, or even portraits of famous people, may be of
great intangible value to us, the keepers of the nation’s collections,
and should be preserved rather than be thrown away or allowed
to deteriorate. But most of these invaluable (without a dollar sign
attached to them) collections of ours could not justify being
“tiches” to be shown across the world. As exhibits “to furnish
dozens of museums” (another stock phrase) they would lay an egg.

No, our service is of a different kind. If we put on an exhibit, we
may draw from the collections, but the very process is an idio-
syncratic one, illustrating some theme, some historical sequence of
events, or some set of ideas which must be thought through sub-
jectively, with an aim to broad public education.

In such service there is fulfillment, just as in the profession of
teaching. There is little money in it, and the objects involved may
have no monetary value in the marketplace, but they become price-
less when placed in juxtaposition because they convey ideas. Emer-
son said in his Lectures: “This time, like all other times, is a very
good one, if we but know what to do with it.” So an exhibit
represents time used in putting thoughts together, thoughts de-
lineated by objects, which in sum convey a message. Such time is
of great value, for we are programmed to receive messages in this
form, and messages may finally teach.

How then do we serve the country? It is relevant to say, first of
all, that enormous numbers of our citizens come to Washington
each year, aside from local residents, and that the combined
museums and exhibits of the Institution attract perhaps a tenth of
our population each year, over twenty-five million annually at last
approximation. Beyond that we do have attractions in other states:
a museum in New York; laboratories in Massachusetts, Florida,
and Arizona; and an environmental study center and a colloquium
center in Maryland. We have laboratories abroad in several
countries, among which the most famous is the biological station

Statement by the Secretary / 9
in Panama. Bui there are others besides, and the respect engendered
by the Smithsonian tradition of service in the search for knowledge
is worldwide, crossing without stress into the Second and Third
Worlds.

We are also mobile. Years ago, in 1951, we started the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (siTEs), with a ven-
ture capital outlay of $100,000. Partially self-liquidating through
the imposition of small transport and rental fees, strEs now has
some 175 exhibitions on the road or being planned or refurbished,
reaching a public of another four to five million viewers a year in
an average of 366 cities in 48 states. A few shows travel abroad
and some come here from overseas, but this part of our outreach,
which should be more actively developed, is much more expensive,
although we could and should coordinate with many more of the
nation’s major art galleries. We do help on occasion, willingly when
asked to do so by a foreign nation, especially when the exhibit
involves a clarification of history rather than a trumpery of
Barnumism. (There is a tendency today to finance “blockbuster”
exhibitions, often from abroad, requiring large expenditures of
money which attract huge crowds, provide immense temporary
occupancy of the museum involved, and which often produce huge
coffee-table catalogues, later advertising the prescience of the owner
in having visited the show, which, in the end, may serve as a status
symbol rather than a lasting residuum in the mind. Often such
exhibitions may be of mixed quality, may be almost impossible to
view, and thus may fail to perform the ultimate transmission of
meaning.)

Fortunately our Traveling Exhibition Service has simpler goals
and a mission of reaching smaller, less “show-biz” institutions.
Low-cost exhibits reaching historical associations, libraries, cultural
centers, high schools, and local galleries and museums, are in the
nation’s service. This is a goal never to be underestimated. In
addition, we have our Associates program, started in 1965, ex-
panded in 1970, now reaching a reading and radio audience of
millions through leaflets, scripts, our Smithsonian magazine, books,
a science service to the news media, and through our folk and per-
forming-arts festivals.

Few people, perhaps, realize the seminal influence of the Smith-
sonian’s Folklife Festival series, begun on the Mall in 1967, now dif-

10 / Smithsonian Year 1979
PARDAALEES
eeaserre

As part of the Festival of American Folklife, Maxwell Tyler, a waterman from the
Chesapeake Bay area, tells visitors in front of the National Museum of Natural
History how he catches soft-shell crabs.
Training time for sea lions: a keeper rewards one of her young charges with a piece
of fish. Such training helps develop a rapport between keeper and animal and pro-
vides stimulating activity for the sea lion or seal. Below. As part of the Smithsonian
Resident Associate Program, Associates of all ages enjoy a guided tour of the new
Beaver Valley installation at the National Zoo with the Zoo’s Kayce Cover, Leader-
Keeper of Aquatic Animals.

fusing an enthusiasm for festivals all over the states and even
abroad. Few realize the enormous influence of our phonographic
recordings of American folk and popular music, documenting a
purely American art form, recordings which are available through
subscription or at our museum shops. This diffusion has been im-
mensely popular, so much so that if it did not exist it would long
since have had to be invented. But who could have invented the
Smithsonian and its services for people?

We live in what appears to be an uncertain age. Many people
foresee the gradual decay of our civilization, forced on us by will-
ful, wasteful ways, and the impression that we are imbued with
sloth in this country. It is a sense of malaise which has become
almost a way of thought among our economists and planners. So-
called liberal thought abounds with it. Conservative thought is
possessed with it. Philosophers are afflicted with a sense of
fatalism. Buddhism prepares us for acceptance of this sort, but it is
a far cry from the exuberance of hope which lies at the heart of
much of Judaeo-Christian inspiration. It is almost as if we were
resigning ourselves to a premature sense of death or encroaching
senility. Can a culture become senile? I am inclined to think not.
The malaise is more apparent than real. Part of the difficulty is that
we have lost touch with history, with our time scale, of which I
have written before. In the pseudo-joyousness of ““now” and of
“me,’’ we are even affronting the precepts of those other, less-
familiar religions, made temporarily popular.

If time is the only true touchstone of merit, then time requires a
communication of history. To achieve this should be our service
to the people. Such understanding involves work. In the Bhagavad
Gita, Krishna explains that work is its own reward. It should thus
be of virtue. As I have quoted before, “From food are all creatures;
from rain is the production of food; rain is produced from sacrifice;
and sacrifice is the outcome of work.’’ Here then lies salvation, and
any reward, if reward is needed, for service.

In this past year it is certainly fair to say that our “diffusion”
has reached a new peak, through visits, the Associates, traveling
exhibitions, the regional events program to a number of cities,
foreign and domestic tours, guidelines and programs for school
teachers, radio and Tv services, books of all sorts published by our-
selves or in conjunction with major publishing houses, reprints of

Statement by the Secretary / 13
classic texts, the Bicentennial project The Handbook of North
American Indians (of which the first two volumes have received
widespread acclaim), phonograph albums—all these offerings
serve to touch the lives of untold millions of people both now and
in the future. Our art museums alone lent more than a thousand
works to museums and galleries throughout the country for special
exhibitions.

A curious example of the present effects of Smithsonian diffusion
was the inclusion of the Smithsonian magazine in a survey of in-
fluential commercial media by The Wall Street Journal. For some
reason, unknown to us, the Journal included our Associates’ official
publication along with a number of prominent newspapers (includ-
ing the Journal, of course), news magazines, and similar widely
read, over-the-counter publications. The Smithsonian was the only
publication included which is available to a membership, in con-
trast to commercial methods of distribution. So startling were the
results of the survey that we understand they had to be repeated by
the researchers. In every area where credibility was a factor (except
where we hardly qualify, in politics or economics), Smithsonian
led the “thunderers” of the world of the news media. Thus, our
kind of diffusion is an intangible, a kind of word-of-mouth dis-
persal, and is accepted as an unspoken certification of authenticity.

When we speak of the effect of the diffusion of information by
the Smithsonian to millions in the future, we can think of two
highly significant events of this past year: the completion and
operation of two new astronomical instruments, the Multiple
Mirror Telescope and the HEAo-2 (Einstein) satellite. Both open
windows on new realms of knowledge of the universe, stages in
Smithsonian research in astronomy and astrophysics which began
over one hundred years ago with the personal research of one of
my predecessors, Samuel P. Langley, and which has been sponsored
by the Institution ever since.

The Multiple Mirror Telescope, first of its kind, developed in
conjunction with the University of Arizona, is the prototype for
optical telescopes of multiple-mirror construction perhaps as large
as 1,000 inches in diameter. The Einstein, developed with nasa, led
by the Center for Astrophysics in conjunction with the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology, Columbia University, and the God-
dard Space Flight Center, is the first true focusing telescope for

14 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The Multiple Mirror Telescope, a joint facility of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory and the University of Arizona, located on the summit of Mt. Hopkins,
Arizona, was Officially dedicated on May 9, 1979. Below. One of the stops on the
twice-weekly guided tours of sao’s Mt. Hopkins Observatory is the ten-meter
gamma-ray reflector. The bus tours are provided free to the public by the
observatory.

x-rays to be flown as a satellite. While already increasing sensitivity
by a factor of ten over the best earlier detectors, this satellite sug-
gests that an instrument even ten times more sensitive is feasible.
The successful completion of both instruments this year marks the
culmination of many years of design, testing, and planning by
teams of Smithsonian scientists working in cooperation with other
scientists around the world. Thus it can be said that new eras have
begun in both optical and x-ray astronomy as a result of these new
inventions. In this way, more millions of people in the future will
receive information diffused through Institution efforts.

Another method of expressing the inexpressible, making the con-
nections and the harmony out of what we do, is indeed solving the
problem of what we collect. As some of our scientists invent
strategies for sensing the phenomena of the universe, others develop
plans for documenting and cataloguing the immense data banks
represented by our collections in the natural sciences. For many
years, I have been at pains to talk and write about the importance
of this service of ours to Americans and to all people. To preserve
fragments at least of the stuff of our world, the materia mundi as
we can know and identify it, is of inestimable importance to our
future and to the future of mankind. At last, after more than ten
years of planning for this need, the Smithsonian has been granted
the right and the funds by the Congress to construct a Museum
Support Center in nearby Maryland, fifteen minutes away from
the Mall. This building, to cost between $20 and $21 million, will
be of the most modern design, incorporating energy-saving and
solar-heating devices appropriate to the Institution’s pioneering
efforts in such matters. (Dr. C. G. Abbot, my predecessor, did not
preoccupy himself with solar-energy research in the 1940s to no
purpose.) We hope it will provide a safe haven for millions of our
objects now stored in increasingly crowded and hence inefficient
spaces on the Mall, free up ample new exhibit space in the National
Museums of Natural History and of Man, and provide a center
for conservation, study, and research that should be exemplary,
a model for our peers. Here, too, is a paradigm of service to
people.

The dimensions of what people are finally able to do to trans-
form our natural environment from one state—a state of nature—
to another—a state of man’s creation—are incalculable. As best we

16 / Smithsonian Year 1979
can, while we chart this untraveled course, we should preserve frag-
ments of testimony of what the state of nature was like, so that
we can measure our path into change. As mankind moves along
this path of manipulation of the environment, it is better, as if
descending into the darkness of an abandoned mineshaft, to leave
a silken cord behind, with markers at intervals. Just as we keep
specimens of fossils to tell us of the world of aeons past, we should
keep the evidence of what tropical forests were like, what birds
were like, and reptiles, and sea creatures.

Perhaps we could even develop an early-warning system, as if
carrying a caged canary with us into the abandoned mineshaft, to
warn us of the unknown presence of carbon-monoxide gas. We
might develop a system in our markers. When half the bird species
of the tropical habitats have become extinct, should we pause to
look backward or should we measure the consequences of forging
ahead? Perhaps in such a way some measure of rational, disciplined
thought about where we are going might intervene. “Jiminy-
crickets,” we might say to ourselves, “look out, there’s a sheer
drop ahead. I see the crack in the wall of the House of Usher. I
see the stone legs of Ozymandias protruding from the sand.”

And what of the anthropological collections of our National Mu-
seum of Man? I know that in the future, people everywhere will be
grateful that we have preserved the evidence of how different we all
are, for in this recaptured sense of diversity there is pride and iden-
tity. These two words also speak eloquently to the collections of the
Museum of African Art, which in August became a member of the
Smithsonian family by an Act of Congress, inspired by our former
Regent Hubert H. Humphrey. The art objects in this newest of
the Smithsonian’s museums capture with striking force and beauty
the symbolic richness and cohesiveness of the societies which
created them, and form today a substantial part of the cultural
heritage of millions of our citizens. Whether through objects or
films, documents or symbols, we will always hunger to know who
we are and were so that we may take comfort in being ourselves
and not anyone else.

yi

All these things and many more embody our perceptions of
service to people. They are diffused outwards in a continual stream,
helping to evoke our past, preserve our present, and lend convic-
tion to our future.

Statement by the Secretary / 17
There have been a number of changes in senior staff positions at
the Institution this year. Our accomplished treasurer for a decade,
T. Ames Wheeler, retired June 30, though he will continue to serve
as a member of the Regents’ Investment Policy Committee. Mr.
Wheeler has been succeeded as treasurer by Christian C. Hohen-
lohe, the former assistant treasurer and former executive assistant
to the Secretary. Mr. Richard Ault, our energetic director of Support
Activities, retired to Arizona in July to pursue his lifelong interest
in aviation. His former responsibilities have been assumed in large
measure by the very able Tom L. Peyton, our director of the Office
of Facilities Services, who came to the Institution this year from the
General Services Administration. The very resourceful Porter Kier
resigned in June as director of the National Museum of Natural
History to resume his research activities and has been succeeded
temporarily by James F. Mello as acting director, while the search
for a permanent director continues. Off for other vineyards went
Dennis Gould of our Traveling Exhibition Service, Carl Larsen, our
director of Public Affairs (succeeded by Alvin Rosenfeld), and
Edward Kohn, the assistant director of the National Zoo. The skill-
ful and diplomatic Dean Francis B. Sayre retired this year from the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and his col-
league George Packard, the center’s assistant director, has left to
become the dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced Inter-
national Studies. As always, we are sorry to have lost these and
other industrious co-workers at the Institution, but we rejoice in
having them as colleagues in the vital cultural pursuits of America.

We have been fortunate in welcoming some fine new senior staff
to the Smithsonian this year. Two new museum directors, Noel
Hinners from nasa and Roger Kennedy from the Ford Foundation,
have been selected and promise to give fresh new leadership to their
very popular museums, the National Air and Space Museum and
the National Museum of History and Technology, respectively. Dr.
Robert Maloy has come to head the Smithsonian Libraries unit,
and Glen Ruh has joined us in the new position of Coordinator of
Publications. With the help of these exceptional personalities, the
Smithsonian will move positively and smoothly into the future.

On December 7th, the Institution suffered an immeasurable loss
in the death of its sixth Secretary (1945-52) and long-time asso-
ciate, Alexander Wetmore. I will always remember Alex as a friend

18 / Smithsonian Year 1979
and inspiration in ornithology and as an able, practical administra-
tor as Secretary. Having assumed the Secretaryship amidst the
trying times of the war, he went on to lay the groundwork for two
additional Smithsonian museums, the National Museum of History
and Technology and the National Air and Space Museum. During
his tenure, the Institution also assumed control of the biological
research station in Panama (now part of the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute), celebrated its own centennial in 1946, and
undertook significant construction of the National Zoo.

Dr. Wetmore’s career at the Smithsonian began in 1924, when he
joined the Institution as superintendent of the National Zoo, and
then, less than a year later, he became assistant secretary for
science and director of the National Museum of Natural History.
A museum man, he was also a man of the world of birds, and he
served both with remarkable devotion. He was a scholar of inspired
intensity and a proud man with a gift of humility and understand-
ing. He enriched this Institution and the lives of those who knew
him; his pursuit of his life’s work somehow never interfered with
his capacity for compassion and friendship.

The Smithsonian is one of those rare places in the world that still
clings to its memories of the wonderful people who helped to build
and shape it—none more so than Alex Wetmore, who shared his
genius with the past and the future, and who will always be re-
spected for his scientific contributions and loved for himself. In
Coventry Patmore’s phrase, he lived in the “traditions of civility.”
He shall not be forgotten.

Statement by the Secretary / 19
Board of Regents

The Board of Regents held three formal meetings during the last
year, as well as a number of additional executive committee meet-
ings. The JANUARY 22, 1979, meeting of the Board of Regents was
designated The Alexander Wetmore Memorial Meeting in honor
and in memory of the late sixth Secretary of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, who died on December 7, 1978. The Regents noted that
“This gentle and affectionate man, loved by all who knew him,
made invaluable contributions to the Smithsonian and to biological
science.”

The Regents recognized both the distinguished services of Repre-
sentative Elford A. Cederberg as a Regent of the Institution and
his profound effect on our nation through his twenty-six years in
the Congress of the United States. This recognition was bestowed
at the conclusion of Representative Cederberg’s term in Congress.

The board memorialized the untimely death of Representative
Leo J. Ryan, who, although a Regent for only a short period, had
expressed an intense interest in the affairs of the Institution.

The Board of Regents welcomed newly appointed Regents from
the House of Representatives, Messrs. Silvio O. Conte of Massa-
chusetts, Norman Y. Mineta of California, and Frank Thompson,
Jr., of New Jersey.

The financial report was reviewed in detail and a special oral
presentation was made concerning past, present, and future projec-
tions of all Institution funds. The board approved the revised
statement of investment objectives recommended by the Invest-
ment Policy Committee for the guidance of the investment man-
agers.

The Regents approved the Five-Year Perspective (later known as
the Five-Year Prospectus) covering fiscal years 1980-84. The
planning process continues in tandem with the annual budget
cycles, and the five-year plan will be updated annually.

The Regents approved continued study of the proposed develop-
ment of the quadrangle in the south garden area and authorized

20
the use of $100,000 of nonappropriated funds for continuing the
development of preliminary plans and program details leading to
the presentation of an appropriate legislative proposal.

The Regents considered proposed bylaws that they plan to adopt
in the near future.

The Secretary was authorized to continue negotiations with the
Boston Athenaeum for acquisition of the Gilbert Stuart portraits of
George and Martha Washington.

The Regents approved a Program of Regents’ Fellowships. These
fellows, perhaps two or three scholars of great distinction, would
enrich the intellectual atmosphere of the Institution and would
explore areas of scholarship not already intensively studied here.
The program would be evaluated periodically.

The board expressed its support of legislation to raise the statu-
tory budget ceiling for programs at Barro Colorado Island, part of
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama.

The Regents approved reports concerning the membership and
acquisitions of the National Collection of Fine Arts Commission
and the National Portrait Gallery Commission. The Regents also
received the report of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden.

The chairman of the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory
Board (NAFMAB) recommended a change in the status of the board
to reflect its current advisory role with the Eisenhower Institute for
Historical Research in the National Museum of History and
Technology. The matter was to be considered by NAFMAB.

The Institution’s continuing attention to the recommendations of
the General Accounting Office report, the report of the Regents’
Audit and Review Committee, and the report of the Surveys and
Investigations Staff of the House of Representatives, has resulted
in implementation of virtually all of the recommendations.

Progress reports on continuing projects of the Institution included
the Museum Support Center status of planning; Smithsonian
Exposition Books plans; Mall Parking Study, Phase II; a description
of approved projects under the special program for collections
acquisitions and scholarly and educational outreach projects; trans-
fer of the Trade (Tariff) Commission Building; Equal Opportunity
Program describing Affirmative Action Plans; the status of major
renovation and repair projects of various Smithsonian buildings; the

Statement by the Secretary / 21
status of the collections inventory project; participation by the
Institution in the celebration of the Einstein Centennial and the
International Year of the Child; Smithsonian Television Programs;
and the National Associates Program.

The Board of Regents voted to confer the title of Regent Emeritus
upon George H. Mahon for his long and faithful service to the
Institution. Mr. Mahon retired from the Congress of the United
States and had been a Regent since 1964.

MAY 7, 1979, MEETING: The spring meeting of the Board of Regents
was held in the Regents Room and was called to order by the
chancellor, and notice of the Executive Committee meeting held on
April 18, 1979, was taken.

The board considered a draft of bylaws which will be acted on
at the next meeting. It was noted that the enabling statute for the
Smithsonian Institution, codified as subchapter 1 of Chapter 3,
Title 20, U.S. Code, defines with considerable specificity many of
the procedures and policies usually set forth in an organization’s
bylaws, and the bylaws of the Board of Regents will convey the
methods and rules by which the board intends to conduct its super-
visory and fiduciary activities.

The financial reports indicated that preliminary hearings on the
federal budget for fiscal year 1980 were favorable. The nonappro-
priated trust-funds budget, when initially presented, proved to be
somewhat conservative, and projections for the future showed a
higher return on investment income, as well as results of auxiliary
activities. As a result of an earlier recommendation to select a new
certified public-accounting firm to conduct the annual audit of the
nonappropriated trust funds, the selection of Coopers and Lybrand,
made by the Executive Committee, was ratified by the Board of
Regents to begin with fiscal year 1979. It was pointed out that the
change in the auditing firm, a common practice in financial busi-
ness, was not in any way a criticism of the present auditors, but
rather a desire to have a new look at the accounting and financial
operations of the Institution.

The Secretary submitted a written report on progress to date
concerning the South Quadrangle development, detailing par-
ticularly the recent pledge of $1 million from the Japanese govern-
ment toward the cost of the project. The revised architectural con-

22 / Smithsonian Year 1979
cept was described and the new model was shown, and the review
of legislative action to authorize and fund further action revealed
that favorable action by the Congress was anticipated. The Secre-
tary advised the Regents of the creation of an ad hoc committee to
assist in raising funds for the project.

With the Regents’ consent, the Smithsonian and the Boston
Athenaeum decided to postpone a final agreement concerning
acquisition of the Gilbert Stuart portraits of George and Martha
Washington, pending the result of a Boston-based fundraising
campaign.

The Board of Regents approved publication of the Smithsonian
Exposition books entitled Animals Alive and The American Land,
contingent on confirmation by the Executive Committee that
satisfactory test-mailing results have been received. Three other
projects, selected for preliminary development based on reader
surveys, include a book on the sun and a series of children’s books.

The research at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies is presently being conducted on land holdings sufficient to
enable the Institution to control and monitor the Rhode River
estuary and enable the center to pursue its research in upland
ecology, watershed studies, and estuarine ecology. It was reported
that scientific integrity of the area could be protected by acquisition
of additional land, and the Secretary was authorized to pursue the
matter.

The board approved the acquisition and operation of aircraft for
research purposes in connection with a coral-reef project, to be
conducted by the National Museum of Natural History in the
Pacific and Indian oceans.

The board expressed its approval of the introduction of legisla-
tion to extend the existing appropriations authority of the National
Museum Act. Also, the Regents are supporting pending legislation
to raise the ceiling on appropriations for Barro Colorado Island at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

The Regents approved the award of the Henry Medal to Dr.
Porter M. Kier in recognition of his important contributions to the
Smithsonian Institution and his successful stewardship of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

The Secretary reported to the Regents on various programs.
The Museum Support Center project is progressing and an appro-

Statement by the Secretary / 23
priations request for construction funds is pending in the 1980
federal budget; the National Armed Forces Museum Advisory
Board generally agreed that the board should continue in its present
form and meet at more frequent periodic intervals to offer advice
and assistance to Smithsonian programs concerned with armed-
forces history; the transfer to the Smithsonian of the Museum of
African Art was proceeding and the necessary transfer arrange-
ments were being worked out. Status reports were presented on
major plant-improvement projects: the National Museum of the
Building Arts, the Trade (Tariff) Commission Building, the Mall
Parking Study, television programs, the Smithsonian Science In-
formation Exchange, and the National Associates Program.

On the evening preceding the Regents meeting, at the Regents
dinner, the Secretary, on behalf of the Board of Regents, presented
to T. Ames Wheeler, retiring treasurer, the Secretary’s Gold Medal
for Exceptional Service. The Regents wished to record their special
appreciation to Mr. Wheeler in recognition of the substantial con-
tributions he made to strengthening the Institution’s financial-
management systems and controls, in guiding and directing its
increasingly significant auxiliary activities, and in providing con-
stant wise counsel to the Secretary and the board on financial and
administrative matters. The Regents approved the appointment of
Mr. Christian C. Hohenlohe to succeed Mr. Wheeler as treasurer
of the Institution.

SEPTEMBER 17, 1979, MEETING: The autumn meeting of the Board of
Regents took place in the Regents Room and was called to order
by the chancellor. It was noted that the Executive Committee met
on August 20, 1979.

The board had previously considered a draft of bylaws by which
the Regents would administer the Institution. The board adopted
the bylaws and authorized their printing and distribution. Appoint-
ments to the Regents’ Audit and Review Committee, established in
the bylaws, and to the Regents’ Personnel Committee, were
affirmed.

A detailed report on the financial affairs of the Institution dis-
closed the status of the fiscal year 1980 and 1981 federal appropria-
tion requests, the supplemental request for 1979, and the non-
appropriated funds budget. The proposed federal budget for fiscal

24 / Smithsonian Year 1979
4 » sth

This row of nine Capitol Hill townhouses, including the one-time residence of
Frederick Douglass, comprises the Museum of African Art. Below. A young visitor
to the museum admires a sculpture of the Luba people of Zaire. (Photo credit for
both pictures: Eliot Elisofon Photo Archives, Museum of African Art.)

year 1981 was reviewed and approved for submission to the Office
of Management and Budget, together with a preliminary budget of
the nonappropriated funds for fiscal year 1981. The board voted
to confirm the authority of the Secretary to establish on behalf of
the Institution and any of its bureaus such commercial bank ac-
counts as are necessary for the conduct of its business.

A draft update of the Five-Year Prospectus of the Institution for
fiscal years 1981-85 was circulated for review and consideration
by the Regents, and a report by the Investment Policy Committee
was received.

P.L. 96-36 was signed by the President on July 20, 1979, author-
izing planning and up to $500,000 to be appropriated for the South
Quadrangle Project. The Secretary reviewed the status of the In-
stitution’s budget request for the planning in the current appropria-
tion bill and reviewed plans for fundraising in the private sector.
The Institution expects to seek authorization to complete planning
and to construct the project in the Second Session of the Ninety-
sixth Congress.

The Museum of African Art officially became a bureau of the
Smithsonian on August 13, 1979. In accordance with P.L. 95-414,
the Regents appointed ten members to the Commission for the
Museum from its former board, and the Regents will appoint five
remaining commission members at the January meeting.

Publication of The Smithsonian Book of the American Land was
approved.

A draft of an updated survey of Smithsonian property was
presented for the Regents’ review. For each Smithsonian facility,
the survey provides identification and purpose; location; size; date,
type, and cost of acquisition; and details of major repairs, renova-
tions, or improvements. Revised and updated as required, the survey
will supplement the Five-Year Prospectus and the Programs and
Activities book and will provide a useful cross-reference to the
Institution’s annual budget request.

The Regents voted to approve the naming of the Silver Hill
facility of the National Air and Space Museum “The Paul E.
Garber Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Facility” in honor of
Mr. Garber’s sixty years of service at the Smithsonian.

The Secretary reported on the status of:

—the Museum Support Center, on which construction may soon
begin;

26 / Smithsonian Year 1979
—transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange to the
Department of Commerce;

—special programs for collections acquisition, scholarly studies,
and educational outreach.

The board approved presentation of the James Smithson Medal
to Pope John Paul II on his visit to the United States in October
1979.

The Regents noted the award of the Secretary’s Medal for Ex-
ceptional Service to Dorothy Rosenberg and approved their own
resolution recognizing her effective work for over two decades.

Statement by the Secretary / 27
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS

Fiscal Years 1970 and 1975-1979

(In $1,000,000’s)

200

FUNDS PROVIDED

75

Auxiliary

and

inc)
2
s
+2)
a
)
Lal
a.
a
ts]
g
iS}
Z

Bureau

150

Trust Funds

Activities

(Gross Revenues)

Federal Grants
and Contracts

100

75

Federal

Appropriations

1976 1977 1978 1979

1975

1970

200

FUNDS APPLIED

To Plant and Endowment

Administration and Facilities Services

Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

175

150

125

100

Epes Programs

Us)

/

Ui

~Public Service

»

History and Art

_

50

|

1976 1977

1975

1970
Smithsonian Institution - 1979
FINANCIAL REPORT

CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER

Summary: Fiscal year 1979 was a generally favorable year for the
Smithsonian, with substantial financial support from all sources and
better-than-balanced budgets. As demonstrated by the chart on the
facing page, there was again overall growth in the Institution’s
funds, sufficient primarily to continue existing programs but also,
in a few cases, to pursue new initiatives. A welcome newcomer to
the Smithsonian family during the year was the Museum of African
Art. A federal appropriation to the Institution for the museum’s
operating support permitted the acquisition to take place on August
13, 1979, and the financial activities of the museum since that date
are incorporated in this report.

Generous congressional support of the Institution continued in
fiscal year 1979, with overall appropriations totaling over $110.5
million, an increase of more than $6 million over the previous year.
These federal appropriations provide core support for the Institu-
tion’s basic research, exhibition, and education programs; for ac-
quisition, care, documentation, and study of the national collections;
and for construction, maintenance, restoration, and protection of all
Smithsonian facilities. While much of the increase over the prior
year was necessary to cover the inflationary costs felt throughout
Smithsonian operations, additional funds were provided for high-
priority needs, such as collection inventories and the multiple-
mirror telescope. Appropriations also permitted substantial progress
on the National Zoo Master Plan construction and on planning for
the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland. Congressional
understanding and backing of the Institution’s research and educa-
tion programs are deeply appreciated.

In recent years, as these financial reports have indicated, the
enthusiastic public acceptance of the Smithsonian Associates Pro-

29
gram and other educational auxiliary activities, as well as gifts and
grants from individuals and foundations, have enabled the Institu-
tion to support a significant portion of its programs from nonappro-
priated funds. Net revenues from these sources declined in fiscal
year 1979 but were sufficient to continue the $2-million-per-year
program established last year for major collections acquisition,
scholarly studies, and educational outreach, as well as numerous
operating allotments to Smithsonian bureaus and programs, and
reserves for construction and land acquisition. But for the success
of auxiliary activities, appropriations would have been sought for
many of these projects. Because of favorable projections for unre-
stricted fund activities and as a measure to reduce directly the
Smithsonian’s costs to taxpayers, the Board of Regents approved
the application this year of $1 million of nonappropriated funds to
support expenses for the Smithsonian fellowship program and costs
of certain leased space that previously had been covered by appro-
priated funds. In recognition, however, that current financial suc-
cesses are not guaranteed in the future, a transfer of the unrestricted
fund surplus of over $2.5 million to endowment was also author-
ized, in order to ensure the Institution’s continued ability to provide
nonappropriated funds for research and educational programs.

This combination of congressional and private financial support,
of grant funds and earned revenues, has been a source of strength
to the Institution in meeting its goals and seizing new opportunities.
A major new priority of the Institution, the South Quadrangle, will
seek to draw further on this dual public/private partnership. The
anticipated financial plan for this project, which will include con-
struction of an Oriental Gallery and a new building for the Museum
of African Art in the area south of the Smithsonian “Castle,” will
rely on contributions, self-generated funds from auxiliary activities,
and appropriated funds. As an initial commitment to the project,
the Board of Regents authorized a transfer of $1,385,000 to plant
funds from unrestricted nonappropriated trust funds for ongoing
and future planning and design effort. The government of Japan
informed the Institution during the year that it will provide $1
million towards construction of the Oriental Gallery.

In an ongoing effort to provide full financial information on
Smithsonian activities in this report, minor changes have again been
made in Table 1 and the supporting tables that follow.

30 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Taste 1. Financial Summary
(In $1,000’s)

FY 1977 FY 1978 FY 1979

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS

FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ..... $ 85,236 $ 93,393 $ 98,202
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts .............. 10,515 11,157 11,412
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Eorekestricted Purposes ace iecrsciia tie cies 4,407 6,538 4,577
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross 41,884 55,189 67,360
——Lessi Related EXpenSes) 2.5.5: ses cuus oslnee (32,485) (43,070) (57,557)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue .. 9,399 12,119 9,803
Investment, Gift, and Other Income ......... 1,676 2,241 3,394
Total Net Unrest. & Special Purpose Revenue. . 11,075 14,360 13,197
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ... 47,967 63,968 75,331
—Net..... 15,482 20,898 17,774
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ......... 143,718 168,518 184,945
Net. acs as oes $111,233 $125,448 $127,388
FUNDS APPLIED
SLO UETGVSCS ik Rect Oo RCTRD CT ORSR RNR CREE CRC RCE ero ea mea $ 46,513 $ 50,396 $ 53,002
—Less SAO Overhead Recovery ............... (1,599) (1,841) (1,850)
History CEPAT EL ame arse ae ees a Aiits ual cetarate aie n atkerens 17,639 19,105 20,245
BD ITCR GS ETVICE esa. reels Aa em ees ie eke eoaiaete 2,724 2,799 2,927
IMITISCUME TOP TAINS! £,25!os.5'2.2t012 oi sielsre. leit, sie clear siete, efersie 6,820 7,A54 8,003
Special Programs). s.sieli0.e06 f sigs o 9 9 aide silvers aueerg ss 2,248 1,981 2,692
Associates and Business Management ............ 194 244 304
Administration—Federal** ..........0.0ccsee08% 5,851 6,346 7,071
—Nonappropriated Trust Funds .............. 3,571. 3,795 4,134
—Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery ..... (2,993) (3,359) (4,038)
FACIITIESMOCT VICES a os. te sisters oi ocessacioaeysrare seiesaxcr¥ode noe ae 22,325 25,985 27,790
Total Operating Funds Applied ................. 103,293 112,905 120,280
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Wnrestricted’' Funds—Wo Plant’... .%....... tee 06+ 559 869 1,857
—-lo Endowments .........- 5,521 3,271 2,671
Restricted Funds—To Endowments ............ iA 1,261 413

Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out $109,544 $118,306 $125,221

CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST

FUND BALANCES
Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Grants &
Gontracts) Was cracos oie iho iad onic aD farereieas $ 6 6©(194) $ 980 $ 171
Unrestricted—General Purpose .................. 8 850 33
—— SpecialiPurposes. .Siascises Sou ciee os 1,875 5,312 1,963
Mo tall imreg tye rete reedevete ecne aol eetereie os Tooke iG orators castes totes $ 1,689 $ 7,142 $ 2,167

YEAR-END BALANCES—
NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

Restricted Purpose) facmacioee cas roamed ae iatanen ele $ 3,560 $ 4,540 $ 4,900***

Unrestricted—General Purpose ................. 4,082 4,932 4,965
—Special Purpose). ia.sec secs ccias sr 4,292 9,604 11,567

“Titet a2) Whe aie yr PRR ES ree Ate eaten Ai Rees peat $ 11,934 $ 19,076 $ 21,432

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ...... Sal 972 $ 1,857 $ 2,063
Foreign Gurrency Programas... cescccc ies eccieicios oc 3,481 4,000 3,700
Construction ees aa ee ache hrc occetote oot scere eters revere 9,530 5,250 6,575

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above).. $100,219 $104,500 $110,540

* Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds:
FY 1977 - $239,000; FY 1978 - $185,000; FY 1979 - $96,000.
** Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1977 - $150,000; FY 1978 - $112,000;
FY 1979 - $47,000.
*** Includes addition to fund balance to reflect acquisition of Museum of African Art restricted
purpose fund balance of $189,000.
Operating Funds—Sources and Application

As indicated in Table 1, as well as the chart on page 28, there has
been substantial and sustained growth in gross operating revenues
to the Institution in recent years. Total gross operating funds in-
creased over $16,000,000, or 10 percent, from $168,518,000 in fiscal
year 1978 to $184,945,000 in fiscal year 1979. Federal appropria-
tions constitute 53 percent of total gross operating funds provided,
federal agency grants and contracts 6 percent, and nonappropriated
funds 41 percent.

The growth in net operating funds, after deducting the necessary
expenses of the nonappropriated fund auxiliary activities, was a
more moderate 2 percent. These funds, available to support the
wide range of Smithsonian programs, are 77 percent from federal
appropriations, 9 percent from federal agency grants and contracts,
and 14 percent from nonappropriated sources. Application of these
monies by all Smithsonian bureaus is displayed in Table 2, with
further supporting detail contained in other tables.

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

Federal appropriations provided $98,202,000 toward the Institu-
tion’s operating needs in fiscal year 1979, an increase of $4.8 million
over the previous fiscal year. As in the past, much of this increase
($3,300,000) was required to fund legislated salary increases; sev-
eral program areas, however, received significant new funding,
including an Institution-wide collections inventory program, the
newly acquired Museum of African Art, the multiple-mirror tele-
scope project of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, and
the Research Awards Program. In addition, some $160,000 was
appropriated directly to the Smithsonian for programs previously
supported through grants awarded by the National Endowments
for the Arts and Humanities. As referred to above, $1,000,000 of
nonappropriated funds was applied in fiscal year 1979 to reduce the
cost to the federal appropriation of leased space ($400,000) and the
Institution’s fellowship program ($600,000).

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Grants and contracts from federal agencies totaled $11,412,000 for
fiscal year 1979, a slight increase over the previous year. These

32 / Smithsonian Year 1979
funds, representing 9 percent of net operating revenue, continue
to constitute a very important source of support for the Institution’s
research. As in previous years (see Table 3: Grants and Contracts—
Expenditures), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
provided the majority of the awards (about 73 percent of the total),
primarily for research and experimentation at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. Some examples of the projects supported
by federal agency grants are: studies of biological systems in the
Antarctic, research in medical entomology and establishment of a
lower mammal tumor registry directed by the National Museum of
Natural History, analysis of lunar geological features by the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum, experiments in high-energy astron-
omy by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, and investiga-
tions of the chemical components of marsh water at the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

Nonappropriated trust funds continue to be the second-largest
source of operating support for the Smithsonian. During fiscal year
1979, gross trust funds provided rose by 18 percent over fiscal year
1978; however, net funds provided, after deduction of costs incurred
by central auxiliary and bureau activities, decreased 15 percent to a
level of $17,774,000, compared to $20,898,000 in fiscal year 1978.
This decrease was due to reduced gifts and grants for restricted pur-
poses, as well as a decreased net revenue from auxiliary activities.
The net revenue, for both restricted and unrestricted purposes, con-
stitutes 14 percent of total net operating funds provided to the
Institution.

Revenue for Restricted purposes totaled $4,577,000 this past
year (see Table 4) and was derived from gifts ($1,775,000), invest-
ment income ($2,075,000), and other sources ($727,000), including
fundraising activities of the Archives of American Art and the
museum shop of the Freer Gallery of Art. Endowment investment
income, as discussed below, provides major support for the Freer
Gallery of Art and oceanographic research at the Fort Pierce
Bureau, as well as funding a large number of specific research and
educational projects annually. Major gift support was received dur-
ing the year for important collection acquisitions at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, National Collection of Fine Arts,

Financial Report / 33
TABLE 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds

Year Ended September 30, 1979

(Excludes ssie, Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)

(In $1,000’s)

Nonfederal Funds

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary cial and
eral federal Gen- activ-  pur- Gen- con-
Funds funds funds eral ities pose eral tracts
FUND BALANCES—
I@OctoberWM97Simeee eee $ -O—- $ 19,076 $ 4,932 $ -0O- $ 9,604 $ 4,428 $ 112
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations ..... 98,202 — — — — — —
Investment Income ........ — 4,605 2,276 — 254" 2075 —
Grants and) G@ontractsima soe — 11,412 — — — — 11,412
Gittsn tase ee een ee ei — 2,457 163 475 44 TTS a
Salessand Revenuel. a. 400.50- — 66,885 — 64,846 2,039 — —
Otherd Sei ae ee eke — 1,384 40 — 617 IPT =
Total! Rrovided’ 2.4.5 Jc 98,202 86,743 2,479 65,321 2,954 A577 AAA
Notal’ Available 23... $98,202 $105,809 $ 7,411 $65,321 $12,558 $ 9,005 $11,524
FUNDS APPLIED
Science:
Assistant Secretary ......... $ 294 $ 237 $ 46$ — $ A$ 21S elo
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History on loe24S 2,319 116 — 703 519 981
Astrophysical Observatory .. 4,803 11,663 1,883 — 180 65 9,535
Less Overhead Recovery .. — (1,850) (1,850) — — — —
Tropical Research Inst. ...... 2,025 215 55 — 133 26 1
Radiation Biology Lab. ..... 1,714 158 — — 36 18 104
Natl. Air & Space Museum .. 55,363 1,481 40 =— aig 167 82
Chesapeake Bay Center ..... 672 529 259 — 114 4 152
Natl. Zoological Park ....... 7,854 297 48 — 92 54 103
Center for Study of Man .... 550 89 1 — — 62 26
Eort Pierce Bureau) .2.5.5..%- a 504 — — = 504 =
Total@Sciencelnrm sen 36,523 15,642 598 “= 2,454 1,440 11,150
History and Art:
Assistant Secretary ......... 290 79 61 —_— 1 -- 17
Natl. Mus. of Hist. & Tech... 6,421 585 26 — 313 251 (5)
Natl. Collect. of Fine Arts .. 3,069 611 49 = 290 272 —
Natl. Portrait Gallery ....... 2,265 292 122 = 18 147 5
Hirshhorn Museum) 2s. o5o40e 2,080 459 62 = 387 10 =
Freer Gallery, of Arte). 23.4.6 554 1,072 17 — — 1,055 —
Archives of American Art .. 459 341 — — 40 301 —
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..... 467 1,434 302 — 690 346 96
Museum of African Art ..... 100 25 — — 12 13 —
Total History and, Art) 1/5}705, 4,898 639 — al yAsnt 2,395 AS
Public Service:
Assistant Secretary ......... 256 313 284 — 2M) 2 —
Reception Genteriaee sasee: — 238 238 — — — _—
Anacostia Museum ......... 556 28 21 — 6 aL —_—
Intl. Exchange Service ...... 232 — — — — = _
Performing ~Amts 2252). ce. 294 3,139 140 2,903 24 — 72,
Smuthsonlaneberess acne cere 774 1,690 — 1,690 — — —
ExpositionsBooks aaseee see — 2,841 — 2,841 — — —
Total Public Service .. 2,112 8,249 683 7,434 57 3 72

TABLE 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued
Year Ended September 30, 1979

(Excludes ssre, Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Nonfederal Funds
Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary _cial and
eral federal Gen- activ- pur-  Gen-_ con-
Funds funds funds — eral ities pose eral tracts
Museum Programs:
Assistant Secretary ......... 2,095 127, 22, —_— 85 20 a
INC CUSttaGaMee penictsise Sotbs a cyens''s aun 107 —- — —- a — os
Conserv. Analytical Lab. .... 627 — — — — — —
|LilorarsicG: “Sig ee as eos ree 2,397 152) 152) — — — —
bike mn S58 tee nate lh 1,167 26 — — 19 7 =
Traveling Exhib. Service .... 145 881 1 820 24 4 32
AT GHIVES MBER 6 oe cored eae sana: t 324 30 29 — 1 — —
National Museum Act ...... 792 — — — — — —
Total Museum
eTOerAMS! ais ccesice ss 7,654 1,216 204 820 129 oi 32
Special Programs:
Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. 346 358 212 — 67 13 66
Intl. Environmental Pgm. ... 382 — — — — — —
Academic & Educational Pgm. 451 294 92 — 176 26 —
Research Awards ........... 386 — = - — — —
Collection Mgt./Inventory ... 482 — —- _ — — —
Total Special Programs 2,047 652 304 a 243 39 66
Associates Program ......... — 34,554 245 34,249 il 4 55
Business Management ...... — 13,199 — 13,199 — — —
Administration ©. 0.75.2 5.4 ses: 7,024 4,569 4,007 419 70 rfl 2
Less Overhead Recovery .. — (4,038) (4,038) — — — —
Facilities Services .......... 27,090 694 701 — (7) — —
Transfers Out/(In):
PIMC ASUTVe: corte hea 9 asia eins 47* == — — — a —_
Coll. Acq., Schol. St., Outrch. — — 2,000 — (2,000) —— =
Liability’ Reserves :.::...... — — 500 — (500) — —
Net Auxiliary Activities .... — — (8,803) 8,803 — — —
Other Designated Purposes .. _ — 982 397 (15319) (68) —-
IPA aNeY «Sus iemeLras tre Sate ene en eee ee — 1,857 853 — 4 —_ —_
ridowimentt (22.053 2 iaiccs sashes ¢ ~~ S084. (257i —_ 100 413 _—
Total Transfers ...... 47 4,941 (897) 9,200 (3,707) 345 —

Total Funds Applied .. $98,202 $ 84,576 $ 2,446 $65,321 $ 991 $4,328 $11,490

Adjustment to Opening Bal.** $ — $ 189$ — $ —$ — §$ 187 $ 2

FUND BALANCES 9/30/79.. $ -O- $ 21,432 $ 4,965 $ — $11,567 $4,864 $ 36

* Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
** Addition to fund balance to reflect acquisition of Museum of African Art fund balance of
$189,000.
Tas_e 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(In $1,000’s)

Federal Agencies FY 1977. FY 1978 FY 1979
Department; of Defense: o52).)5,.15 @ <oy-fo un a 2 $ 998 $ 968 $ 1,079
Departments ofiEnergy 2.17 20s a sete els = ache 157 266 304
Department of Health, Education,
and. ‘Welfare: c:ce0s.) cite sexs ere testers: = cue et 282 311 288
DepartmentiofInterionie en 1c eee scr 155 4 65
Department ofsStateyeereeee ace] rn ae 282 15 —
Environmental Protection Agency ......... 452 422 31
National Aeronautics and Space
AGKUMERABION sosoccooecdcocueeacc0cc 6,346 7,324 8,336
National Endowments for the Arts and
Humanities: 2.00 eecstes 64% ones « Oacieee 356 226 105
NationallScience Foundation =. . 2.2%. -.)-- 315 400 385
Od aes oh Baer eee ee Rts Ho ta See he Sot rare 1,228 iti lreya | 897
Mota: Veeco. neesso sacie ah See Ne $10,571 $11,087 $11,490

and the National Museum of Natural History; for documentation
of the Catalogue of American Portraits at the National Portrait
Gallery; for exhibits at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology; and for a range of
research and other projects supporting virtually every aspect of
Smithsonian interests.

The Special Purpose fund category of Unrestricted Nonappro-
priated Funds includes moneys generated by various bureau activ-
ities, and allotments to bureaus as shares of income from shops and
concession activities. Table 5 details the source and application of
these funds by bureaus. The major sources of revenues are the
National Air and Space Museum, with a new film, Living Planet,
drawing large attendance at its theater, and the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum in New York, which enjoys continued success with its
membership and educational programs, fundraising auction, and
museum shop sales. Also accounted for as transfers to special pur-
pose funds are the allocations authorized for Collections Acquisi-
tion, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach ($2,000,000); the
fellowship program, previously funded from federal appropriations
($600,000); a reserve for potential magazine liabilities; and support

36 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Taste 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds* Fiscal Years 1977-1979
(In $1,000’s)

Revenue Net Fund
Trans- in- bal-
Total fers crease ance
Invest- rev- Deduc- in (de- end of
Item ment Gifts Misc. enue _ tions (out) crease) year
EN 1977—Total.......:. $1,690 $1,724 $ 993 $4,407 $4,901 $ 354 $ (140) $3,518
EY 1978—Total ........ $2,022 $3,478 $1,038 $6,538 $4,367 $(1,261) $ 910 $4,428
FY 1979:
Museum of
Natural istory” .... - Sm l6G. Sar olon es 7 $4488 5 519 $e 1140) S$ 109 $ 547
Astrophysical
@bservatory ......%. Z 16 il 19 65 150 104 36
National Air and
Space Museum ...... 101 10 —— eter 167 (10) (66) 946
Fort Pierce Bureau .... 610 — — 610 504 (340) (234) 142
Other#Science;.... .).5- 243 109 1 353 185 (350) (182) 295
Museum of History
and Technology ..... 35 217 (10) 242 251 7 (2) n365
National Collection
OfmeinesAntses ac. oe: 37 227 (11) 253 272 54 Bie) 179
National Portrait Gallery 23 99 2 124 147 14 (9) 332
Hirshhorn Museum .... 32 237 — 269 10 — 259 512
Freer Gallery of Art .... 756 57 334 1,147 1,055 — 92 352
Archives of
American Art ....... 14 96 356 466 301 — 165 340
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. 41 290 10 341 346 — (5) 322
Museum of African Art. — — — — 13 -= (13) 174
PAINE @ there. 5 ta hs 6 eee Se 15 102 37 154 148 (10) (4) 322
Total FY 1979 ... $2,075 $1,775 $ 727 $4,577 $3,983 $ (345) $ 249 $4,864**

* Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.

** Includes addition to fund balance to reflect acquisition of Museum of African Art
fund balance of $187,000.

for a number of other Institutional endeavors. Due to the success of
its bureau activities, the National Air and Space Museum was able
during the year to make a further transfer of $100,000 to the
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History Endowment Fund, for a
total amount transferred of $350,000 to date toward a goal of
$900,000.

Financial Report / 37
Tas.e 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds
Fiscal Years 1977-1979

(In $1,000’s)

Item

EY S1L9 77,

FY 1978

FY 1979:

Museum of
Natural History. .
Astrophysical
Observatory
Tropical Research
Institute
National Air and
Space Museum ..
National Zoological
Rar ki: ee. cya ante as
Other Science
Museum of History
and Technology ..
National Collection
Of FimerArts) “aes
Hirshhorn Museum.
Cooper-Hewitt
Museum
Museum of
African Art
Exhibits Central ...
Liability Reserves ..
Unallocated Acqui-
sition, Schol. St.,
and Outreach ....
Collections Acq.
RESeEVEN ts dace
Support Activities
and» @then) jaune

FY 1979 Total

Invest-

ment

38 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Revenue Deductions
Bu-
Gifts reau Net Fund
Bu- and Pro-  activ- in- bal-
reau other Total Trans- gram ity crease ance
activ- reve-  reve- fers ex- ex- (de- end of
ities nue nue in/(out) pense pense crease) year
$1,721 $387 $2,111 $ 828 $ 447 $ 617 $1,875 $4,292
$1,327 $506 $2,008 $5,450 $1,284 $ 862 $5,312 $9,604
$ 2 $53 $ 66 $ 542 $ 696 $ 7 $ (95) $ 345
— 29, 30 298 180 —_— 148 321.
40 — 40 107 87 46 14 90
1,284 al} 1,427 16 241 951 Zoi 2,181
—_ 139 183 104 92, —_— 195 813
7 20 28 150 145 9 24 145
4 61 89 232 299 14 8 456
2, 79 92 103 290 — (95) 108
— 6 13 394 387 — 20 141
542 145 689 al 355 335 —_— 3
17 = 17 (4) = 12 1 1
if 5 8 = 34 (15) (11) 36
— — 500 — —_ 500 2,400
—_ — — 345 — — 345 1,386
= = — = = — == 27000
140 111 D2: 919 456 Tide 658 1,141
$2,039 $661 $2,954 $3,707 $3,262 $1,436 $1,963 $11,567

General Unrestricted Purpose funds include all unrestricted
moneys provided for general Institutional purposes, including
auxiliary activity revenues (Tables 6 and 7). Net General Unre-
stricted Purpose funds provided were lower in fiscal year 1979 than
the prior year by approximately $1,500,000 (see Table 6). While
investment income was substantially higher, due both to rising
short-term interest rates as well as to prior-year additions to unre-
stricted endowment, the net gains from auxiliary activities declined
by almost $2,500,000. Contributing to this decrease were the appli-
cation, for the first time, of rental charges to auxiliary activities
occupying space in Smithsonian buildings, higher central admin-
istrative overhead fees, and severe inflationary cost pressures. As
shown in Table 7, the majority of auxiliary activity revenue comes
from the Associates Program, primarily through the Smithsonian
magazine, which continues to enjoy a widespread and enthusiastic
reception. Also important in generating net revenue for other In-
stitutional needs are Smithsonian Exposition Books, which bene-
fitted this past year from the newly published Smithsonian Book
of Invention as well as continued sales of earlier publications, and
the Division of Performing Arts, which released nine recordings
for sale to the public. The decline in net revenue from the Museum
Shops, due to continued start-up costs of the Mail Order Divi-
sion, was offset by the gain of the Smithsonian Institution Press,
primarily from its mail sales of the new book The National Air and
Space Museum. Significant financial support was also received from
public concessions in various Smithsonian buildings.

Notwithstanding this decline in unrestricted funds provided, the
Institution was able to continue the support of numerous programs
and central administrative units with these funds. Major operating
support was provided to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Office of
American and Folklife Studies, the Office of Fellowships and
Grants, the Visitor Information and Associates Reception Center,
and the Office of Telecommunications, in addition to a large num-
ber of small allocations to other bureaus of the Institution. Awards
for program support, including collections acquisitions, were made
to the Freer Gallery of Art, the National Air and Space Museum,
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the Reception Center,
the National Museum of History and Technology, and the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery from funds raised by the Smithson Society

Financial Report / 39
Taste 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and

Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1977-1979

(In $1,000’s)

Item

FUNDS PROVIDED

General Income:

Investments iets china Ae ee oe eines
GEESE ees SEP EI SMD cere Nts

Auxiliary Activities (net):
ASSOCIALCS | 56 snopes cis aichictays) # = bys) yeveieis ale) ssa 6
Business Management
——-Museumy Shops ep sce ck cas vec ce
=—GONCESSIONS \ cireikc ace sreneeree sey ote ees ore
Others fire neh ooas we homens. aes
Performing vArtshyye emis tier =)-boiotae terey= oy 4
Smithsonian sPressi cir cci cies se release
Exposition’, BOOKS) Jac cate sktoe ees tees
@ravelingwExhibitions) ¥.csc\ieek a. Soni oe
Photo #Servicesiigs ies eS evce rss < oeteiess a oeron

Total Auxiliary Activities ..........
Total Funds Provided (Net) ........

EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS

Administrative and Program Expense .....
Less Administrative Recovery ............

INGHFEXpense gti). rihioasineee sft eek

Less Transfers:

To Special Purpose and Restricted Funds
for Program’ Purposes 22... .5s 25...
ToyRlantabundsay 4-008 3. orn Bite ch eae

NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE ...

ENDING IFUNDUBAEANGE, q(t. nue sscprees-

40 / Smithsonian Year 1979

FY 1977

FY 1978

$ 1,400
112
48

1,560

7,656

738
1,567
(169)
253
(199)
2,105
(112)
(185)

11,654
13,214

7,974
5,200

2,774

5,700
869
3,021
850

$ 4,932

FY 1979

$ 2,276
163
40

2,479

6,429

287
1,641

(245)
177
292
1,036

(142)

(275)

9,200

11,679

9,231
5,888

3,343

3,879
1,853

2,971

33

$ 4,965
Taste 7. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1977-1979
(In $1,000’s)

Sales Less Net
and cost reve-
other of Gross Ex- nue***
Activity revenue’ Gifts sales revenue  penses (loss)
ENGR Tae Won nfo acho) chs, car oeusi el ai uals $39,786 $377 $18,129 $22,034 $13,739 $ 8,295
NYGRT OTS! tarcra cust ony tere sid sete te ete $53,420 $442 $23,536 $30,326 $18,672 $11,654
EYS 1979):
IAGSOCIALES | es Sais ae siete wees eas $40,203 $475 $22,395 $18,283 $11,854 $ 6,429
Business Management:
—Museum Shops* ......... 12,879 —_— 6,477 6,402 6,115 287
=AGONCESSIONS) 5.0560 0s wees s 1,748 — — 1,748 107 1,641
OP Wer eee syiis s/ecee aoe ss 255 _— —_— 255 500 (245
Rerforming Arts «2... 6s0<6« « 3,080 — 875 2,205 2,028 c77
Smithsonian Press ........... 1,982 — 751 1,231 939 292
Exposition Books . 2.00. .06 60% 3,877 — 1,364 2513 1,477 1,03¢
Traveling Exhibitions ........ 678 ao — 678 820 (142
Photo Services (Administration) 144 — 22 122 397 (275
MotalsEY 1979 ...c65.56 $64,846 $475 $31,884 $33,437 $24,237 $ 9,200

* Includes Museum Shops, Product Development, Mail Order.
** Includes Business Management Office, Belmont.

*** Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of
$438,000 (FY 1977); $390,000 (FY 1978); and $397,000 (FY 1979).

of the Associates. Other allotments this year provided for the full
equipping of the new Laboratory Wing at the Chesapeake Bay
Center for Environmental Studies and the renovation of the Dis-
covery Theatre in the Arts and Industries Building, at which puppet
shows are held, primarily for younger visitors. As referred to above,
the Regents authorized continuation of the $2,000,000 annual pro-
gram for major collections acquisitions ($1,000,000), scholarly
studies ($500,000), and educational outreach ($500,000). These
moneys are reserved in the Special Purpose Funds until expended
by the recipient Smithsonian bureaus.

Other major applications of unrestricted funds were transfers of
over $1,800,000 to Plant Funds (discussed below) and the addition
of over $2,500,000 to unrestricted endowment funds.

Financial Report / 41
Other Operating Programs

Separate federal appropriations are also received for the Smithsonian
Special Foreign Currency Program, which provides grants to United
States institutions for field research in other countries in which
“excess” foreign currencies are available, and the Smithsonian
Science Information Exchange, which serves as a national source
for the exchange of information on research in progress. The fiscal
year 1979 appropriation for the Special Foreign Currency Program
totaled $3,700,000, or $300,000 less than provided in fiscal year
1978. This amount reflected an increase of $700,000 for grant
awards and a reduction of $1,000,000 for the United States’ con-
tribution to the campaign to save the Egyptian monuments at
Nubia, the fourth and final payment of which was made in fiscal
year 1978. The general areas of research and geographical activities
of this program are contained in Table 8.

The Smithsonian received an appropriation for the Smithsonian
Science Information Exchange of $2,063,000 in fiscal year 1979, an
increase of some $200,000 over the previous fiscal year. This in-
crease covered essentially the cost of inflation experienced over the
past few years.

Construction

The Institution received a federal planning and construction appro-
priation of $6,575,000 in fiscal year 1979, somewhat higher than
that provided in the previous year. As shown in Table 9, the
greater part of this appropriation was for the National Zoological
Park, $3,000,000 for construction of the Great Ape House, an im-
portant part of the National Zoo’s continuing Master Plan, and
$900,000 for restoration and renovation of existing structures at
Rock Creek Park and Front Royal. A further $2,100,000 was appro-
priated for ongoing repair to all other Smithsonian facilities, includ-
ing phased projects to improve access for handicapped visitors, to
correct existing hazardous conditions, to continue facade and roof
repairs, and to improve fire-detection and -suppression systems.
Finally, $575,000 was appropriated for use in association with fiscal

42 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Taste 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1979—Obligations

Archae-
Country ology

Umm aeesanin cs $ —
| FEA 2) 2a eee RRS cee 1,173,568
In Giawer tre cic 1,536,674
Rakistamaconscc se 4,406
Guinea 22.45.00... —
otalie sence $2,714,648

System-
atic and
environ-
mental
biology

$ 4,157
28,490
134,536
237,617

Astro-
physics Grant
and Museum  admin-
earth pro- istra-
sciences grams tion
$ — $ — $ —
130,588 55317 50,000
50,167 80,803 16,702
— 1,145 266
Be Mal 104 at
$180,755 $98,369 $66,968

Total

§ 4,157
1,397,963
1,818,882

243,434
1,104

$3,465,540*

* An additional amount of $182,000 was obligated by the National Science Foundation,
Science Information Program, for translations and printing of scientific publications
requested by the Smithsonian Institution.

Taste 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1977-1979
(In $1,000’s)

Sources FY 1977 FY 1978 FY 1979
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations
National ‘Zoological Park ...-.25..:.-4: $ 6,580 $2,500 $3,900
Museum*Support ‘Center .4.2.2..-..-.- -— 325 575
Restoration & Renovation of Buildings.. 2,950 _ 2,425 2,100
Total Federal Appropriations ...... 9,530 5,250 6,575
Nonappropriated Trust Funds
Income—Gift and Other
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ............ 3 60 —_
Chesapeake Bay Center ............. 2 —_— —
South Quadrangle 5.4:ceesc-he nine nc — — 5
Motalsincomey acme e ate s.« teks 5 60 5
Transfers from Current Funds:
BarmeysHOuses aa tise. ceenn sarees a 70 —
Chesapeake Bay Center ............. 95 344 411
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ............. 195 (10) —
Museum of African, Art 22.5026... — — 4
NMNH—West Court & Shops ....... 269 — —
National Zoological Park .2..2...... —- 110 —
Renwick Gates (Victorian Garden) .. — 225 -
Sensory and East Gardens .......... — 100 10
South @uadranele circehtnisss eae o5-e4 = 30 1,385
Tropical Research Institute ......... — — 47
otal ransfers etches acters a 559 869 1,857
PotalFunds*Provided 44. (c..'-eeiee's oe one $10,094 $6,179 $8,437

year 1978 funds for architectural and engineering planning for
the Museum Support Center. Construction of this facility, which
will provide 302,000 gross square feet of storage, office, laboratory,
and conservation space, is scheduled to begin in fiscal year 1980.
The Institution is being assisted by the General Services Admin-
istration in the management of the design and construction of this
project.

A total of $1,857,000 was allocated to construction and land
purchase from nonappropriated trust funds during the year, the
majority of which ($1,385,000) was for development of the South
Quadrangle, described more fully above. A total of $135,000 was
transferred to this project for development of a conceptual study
and preliminary engineering surveys, and the remaining $1,250,000
will fund architectural plans in fiscal year 1981. The South Quad-
rangle will be a major funding priority, for both appropriated and
nonappropriated funds, in the future.

Additional support ($411,000) was provided for continued land
acquisition at the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental
Studies, and minor transfers to plant funds were also made for
other construction projects.

Endowment and Similar Funds

The total market value of the Smithsonian Endowment Funds was
$66,619,000 on September 30, 1979, as compared to $58,097,000 on
September 30, 1978. These funds include $65,556,000 invested in
the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund, $1,000,000 on per-
manent deposit in the United States Treasury, and $63,000 of mis-
cellaneous securities. Of this total, $44,097,000 (66 percent) are
Restricted Endowment Funds, with income to be used only for the
purposes specified by the donor, and $22,522,000 (34 percent) are
Unrestricted Funds for the general support of the Institution (see
Table 10). Table 13 is a listing of the Institution’s Endowment
Funds, the largest of which are the Freer Fund, supporting the
operations of the Freer Gallery of Art, and Endowment Fund No. 3,

44 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Taste 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1979

Book value Market value
ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Servet ANG SE GUIVAIENES: <ic5. esi e Ws cde bes qe te $ 504,075 $ 504,075
SIS TETEIS. Cease rea ear a Oe aR 18,142,328 17,609,648
Gonvertiblembondsy see mene een eee 1,579,425 2,057,125
SEOCKSHE I Teint ae So Une eee eee 37,200,331 45,384,900
Mota Pooled Funds 0. ssh... aes se 6 oe 57,426,159 65,555,748
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
INotesmReceivableiiaiactacieiiid cre camel oe audus ies 40,308 40,308
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity ....... 1,000,000 1,000,000
ES OMCS MERRIE cteen rete ere te ees Nica ei tinhcne ci tos tate 9,769 9,100
GommoneStOEks micas. Semis ce ae eee 3,572 14,307
Total Nonpooled Funds) ii. 5... 0.66 cus/ 1,053,649 1,063,715
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $58,479,808 $66,619,463
FUND BALANCES
Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ...... $ 953,185 $ 1,417,063
Quasi Endowment ..... 19,579,590 21,105,273
Total Unrestricted Purpose ............ 20;532;775 22,522,336
Restricted Purpose: True Endowment ......... 34,349,831 40,277,533
Quasi Endowment ...... 3,597,202 3,819,594
otal Restricted Purpose)... 0.00000 si. « 37,947,033 44,097,127
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances ..

$58,479,808

$66,619,463

used for oceanographic research. The remainder of the Restricted
and Unrestricted Funds support a wide variety of Institutional
research and museum projects.

The Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is invested under the
management of four professional advisory firms under the close
supervision of the Investment Policy Committee and the Treasurer,
subject to policy guidelines set by the Smithsonian’s Board of
Regents. These firms (with the portion of the Fund under their
management) are BEA, Incorporated (23 percent), Batterymarch
Financial Management Corp. (25 percent), Fiduciary Trust Co. of
New York (43 percent), and Torray Clark & Company, Inc. (9 per-
cent). During fiscal year 1979, the total rate of return of these

Financial Report / 45
funds, as calculated by an independent investment measurement
service, was +14.3 percent (including interest and dividend yield
as well as market value appreciation), compared to +12.5 percent
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 average and +7.8 percent for the
Dow Jones Industrial Average.

As outlined in prior reports, the Institution follows the Total
Return policy, under which the total investment return of the
Endowments is defined as yield (interest and dividends) plus
appreciation (realized and unrealized gains). A prudent portion of
this return is paid to each Endowment as income for current ex-
penditures. Since 1973, this income payout has been at the rate of
41/2 percent of the running five-year average of endowment market
values, adjusted for additions or withdrawals of capital. During
fiscal year 1979, the Board of Regents amended this policy to pro-
vide that the annual total return income payout set each year would
be based not solely on the five-year market average but would also
take into account anticipated dividend and interest yields, support
needs of the Institution’s bureaus, and inflationary factors. In ac-
cordance with these principles, and due largely to the increased
yield of both debt and equity investments, the total return income
payout approved by the Board of Regents for fiscal year 1979 was
equivalent to 4.7 percent of the five-year market average. Even at
this level, the payout was $989,000 less than interest and dividends,
and this difference was therefore reinvested into Endowment prin-
cipal, in contrast to prior years, in which appropriation of capital
gains was required to meet the required total return payout.

Included on Table 12 as additions to the Endowments were re-
stricted gifts of $91,000, primarily for the Harold P. Stern Memorial
Fund, a transfer to Unrestricted Endowment Funds of $2,650,000
approved by the Board of Regents, and additional transfers repre-
senting reinvestment of Endowment income pursuant to the terms
of individual Endowments.

A listing of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endow-
ment Fund as of September 30, 1979, may be obtained upon re-
quest from the Treasurer of the Institution.

46 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Taste 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds

(In $1,000’s)

Fund 6/30/75 9/30/76 9/30/77 9/30/78 9/30/79
Wnrestricted <....06.-5. $ 5,654 $ 7,477 $11,695 $17,206 $21,625
ETC OITA rains lehareite ene elakevenars 15,744 16,035 15,410 16,807 18,303
Endowment No. 3 ...... LE 2ES 2: 12,701 12,343 13,462 15,022
Irestricteduecmmine. cee co. 7,148 7 ,A20 7 A31 9,555 10,606

“TRG el Wt Pe a ae ae $40,867 $43,633 $46,879 $57,030 $65,556

TasLe 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
for Fiscal Year 1979
(In $1,000’s)
Inter- In-
Gifts est crease
Market and and Income in Market
value _ trans- divi- paid Sub- market value
Fund 9/30/78 fers dends* out total value 9/30/79
Unrestricted ...... $17,206 $2,650 $1,109 $ 794 $20,171 $1,454 $21,625
[Praaare.. 4 stakes eee 16,807 — 1,005 TL. 17,090 L203 18,303
Endowment No. 3.. 13,462 340 813 584 14,031 991 153022,
Restricted ......<: 9,555 188 578 416 9,905 701 10,606
otalee qos. $57,030 $3,178 $3,505 $2,516

* Income earned less managers’ fees.

$61,197 $4,359 $65,556

Financial Report / 47
Taste 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1979—Continued

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
Funds value value income balance
Lindsey JessiewAutins. epee crete rait 11,107 10,595 789 2,619
Long, Annette E. and Edith C. ....... 810 1,262 50 205
Maxwell Mayas erm sani ne see 29,299 44,416 1,754 9,100
Milliken? (@othoutwlls see cnc ce: 409 432 17 —0-
Mineral Endowment |... scenes solar 184,504 199,472 7,877 3,796
Mitchell, William A. ..............- 25,061 27,288 1,078 1,179
Natural History and Conservation ... 22,406 24,959 826 2
Nelson) EdwardiWilliamis sesh: 35,785 50,297 1,986 —0-
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ........ 11,069 16,847 665 11,352
Roebling Collection’ 32-3 aa. seein 180,543 271,701 10,729 12,420
Rollins, Miriam and William ....... 331,009 434,241 16,962 9,045
Sprague, Joseph White ............. 2,404,176 2,597,198 101,454 21,284
Springer bramkovaemee cerita erences 27,068 40,544 1,601 22,220
Stern, Harold P., Memorial ......... 218,100 240,672 8,151 11,018
Stevenson JOhneAt tere eee anne 9,469 11,077 437 529
WralcottiGharlest Diane ae eee: 213,816 269,867 10,540 2,822
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux.. 689,467 1,046,258 41,388 12,093
Walcott Botanical Publications* ..... 86,779 126,190 4,983 7,890
Zerbee, Francis Brinckle ............ 1,413 2,132 84 2,220
Subtotal ide: wae ween Ae ae: OY 34,349,831 40,277,534 1,585,081 677,187
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI
/Nojoracy \WWAUbeNi Ils Gogocoodenhoooos 204,601 241,264 9,527 —0-
Armstrong, Edwin James ........... 5,033 5,266 203 —0-
Ae aniermbletninseeriescice ernie 41,191 37,516 1,481 -0-
Bacon; Virginia Purdys.. «2... 179,135 188,293 7,435 25,527
Barstows) eredericelD ny cares icemicosre 1,961 2,310 91 2,552
Batchelonmemmalles erence: 65,377 67,109 2,650 22,417
BeckernGeorger bs eeiieest eee ee 307,719 325,901 12,869 57,809
Gasey, Thomas Lincoln”..:..-2....- 24,607 29,066 1,148 2,305
Desautelsemleaulc weer eieeee ice 16,898 20,524 793 4
Dykes; Charles... joss sonore 0 a4 84,513 99,778 3,940 17,099
Hanson, Martin Gustav and
GarolinesRunice seen eae ee eee 17,452 20,603 814 2,472
Hillyer Virgil eee toe acs 12,903 15,242 602 3,920
Johnson; E. Ri Fenimore «:...2..:... 15,898 15,255 602 8,841
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ...... 48,179 45,529 1,798 6,162
Lindbergh, GharleswAtya esate 6,308 7,330 640 1,870
Loeb: Morris. acon ct ok 171,417 204,340 8,069 5,248
Lyons). Marcus) Ward rcaniac scree 8,528 8,236 325 —0-
Myer, Catherine Walden ........... 39,663 46,832 1,849 3,179
Noyes; Franke Be ci.5 ss seis tociow ina «ers 1,904 2,360 93 1,929
Noyes) Raulinel ema sacer cere tociart: 19,391 17,678 698 —0-
Pell, Gornelia Livingston 22 4.))..2...- 14,566 17,289 683 1,879
Ramsey, Admiral and Mrs. Dewitt
Glintonity ee ees as eee eoratiatnesess 568,463 558,902 22,683 10,474
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ....... 20,896 QT. 979 13,159
Ieertel, ANelehiGomn Iie cooanwadcoboneonas 45,915 52,220 2,288 8,871
Roebling Solar Research ........... 48,546 53,260 2,103 405
Reb Bertitae Mig esrcecss ctotensrcuctwers ereterenes 62,000 59,448 2,348 1,912
Schultz Leonard) bees seieee meee 15,234 17,920 1,070 9,379
Seidell wAthertonmere aoe ieee 102233827 1287,577 51,985 57,478
Smithsonian Agency Account ....... 305,436 324,495 12,505 9,486
Strong, lial Dies Scyocmoteacvaara atte 19,641 23,278 919 1,039
Subtotals mata 3,597,202 3,819,593 153,190 275,416
Total Restricted Purpose ......... $37,947,033 $44,097,127 $1,738,271 $952,603
TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS .... $58,479,808 $66,619,463 $2,585,130** $952,603

* Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

** Total Return Income Payout; does not include $84,000 of interest income for investment of

unexpended income balances.
Taste 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1979

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
Funds value value income balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE
Avery, Robert S. and Lydia* ........ $ 73,006 $ 103,395 $ 4,370 $ ==
abel mG ein ts esis eee nisltiree oe 500 500 30 —0-
Flamiltonamess asc eens cen eee els 3,098 3,480 189 —0-
Higbee, Harry* ete ie eyaveMobene) elie ee vee (erehlabn 20,696 30,995 1,184 —0-
Morrow, Dwight WAS crocs lateceiehe er Stevens 115,505 1L7552.37, 6,920 —0-
IMtissinanseAllfrediprs cits. Ascent ee 39,375 51,246 2,024 —0-
@Wlmsted/e Helen, Agi sec eieccie selec cies 1,247 1,789 71 —0-
Poore, George W. and Lucy T.* ..... 269,469 400,227 16,351 —0-
Rorter) lenny sKarkey <0. oc,< saci 427,858 647,085 253552, —0-
Santord Georges Jae ceurcaee sss 2,431 3,109 145 —0-
Subtotallaee cee nett oo 953,185 1,417,063 56,836 —0-
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI
Abbot. William Te. ccc... <.2:05 0c, << 29,331 35,143 1,388 -0-
Eorrest;, Robert: Lee of) ..0052..2000- 2,152,881 1,950,046 77,004 —0-
Generali Endowment* ......0.0.2... 16,045,105 17,679,494 656,849 —0-
Goddard) Robert Hi. 2.2. 6:..6.e0-5 17,029 15,443 610 —0-
Hackenberg, George P. and Caroline 7,903 9,906 391 —0-
lartGustavitsils, osncc acayele bas.s.ajee are 959 1,155 46 —0-
lenny 1 Garoline 2 ica ecc.s seas ned 2,381 2,850 113 —0-
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. ...... 96,283 114,003 4,502 —0-
HeysisMaude C. ... 0... s<s00cdsels os 204,487 189,750 7,493 2
intons|Garrie (Susam giadeiscees 4 aeine 51,162 55,440 1,642 -0-
Hodgkins, Thomas 'G.* ........5.-.«. 175,471 186,260 9,734 —0-
feamberts) RaulawG. (jecnsiee Semin ens ener 90,813 101,837 4,021 -0-
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace

History (Dedicated) ............ . 356,370 371,971 10,740 -0-
Medints, Graces .cccwienscs eases. 2,017 1,887 74 —0-
Rhees, William Jones* ............. 1,520 1,695 79 —0-
Safford “Georgelkls tasers so odin ncn «1 91,872 88,632 3,500 —0-
Masgert\Gansen, onic. sissies ares eso 735 1,080 43 —0-
Witherspoon, Thomas A. ........... 253,271 298,681 11,794 —0-

Subtotal gue eens okt a 19,579,590 21,105,273 790,023 —0-

Total Unrestricted Purpose ....... $20,532,775 $22,522,336 $ 846,850 $ -O
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE
PNT thir ee amme sis ccacccera.e suas svenay oie) Susan $ 59,743 $ 90,534 $ 3,575 §$ 848
Baird, Spencer Fullerton ............ 54,903 80,928 3,196 170
Barney, Alice Pike vier, «Sins cayiens yas cues 42,848 64,878 2,562 9,201
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial

crn mst fever cic tela ort een ie 76,883 90,661 3,580 10,439
Brown Roland WW), c..hos.cececa os ee 50,988 62,221 2,457 10,605
Canfield’ EredericksAs) soe oe eee 56,289 99,748 3,939 3,131
Chamberlain, Frances Lea ......:3.. 42,070 63,701 2,515 8,266
Cooper, G. Arthur, Curator’s Fund .. 13,918 15,573 530 4
Div. of Mammals Curator Fund ..... 3,405 3,815 151 2,820
Div. of Reptiles Curator Fund ....... 2,359 2,650 102 286
Drake, @arl lot ests poncctieaabtraw.c oS 313,675 336,679 13,173 28,704
Eickenmeyer, Florence Brevoort ..... 16,239 24,579 971 7,895
ENGOWinentINO-t3o0 -ae seen 13,010,009 15,022,092 588,334 142,257
| of eo] Gee Regen tara ene een Ten eee ree 15,561,540 18,302,629 T22°3825 295,569
Guggenheim, David and Florence ... 237,713 233,601 9,225 -0-
Henderson, Edward P.,

Meteoriteseund smc ceeeeis =e 606 805 32 180
le Witte Gta ers aie sls cior- lovee 'sice siete: stencils 13,838 14,687 580 —0-
LC Witt 1S i Geno se myscciekoreine wee esa usiosnio tore 81,925 86,691 3,423 —0-
Elitchcock Al bert Sueisemeccie ences 2,354 3,627 143 631
Hodgkins; Thomas |G* 225.0.. 222+. 100,000 100,000 6,000 5,521
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie ........... 92,352 112,712 4,451 6,651
Mughes, Bruce ss. 2. sc0.0 asec sae ese 28,592 43,350 1,712 13,410
Kramat a Nad abpeieete teat etetiiot 5,292 5,925 234 805
Related Organizations

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc., was incor-
porated by the Smithsonian in 1971 as a separate nonprofit entity.
Its purpose is to facilitate the planning, management, and coordina-
tion of the nation’s research efforts through the collection, process-
ing, and dissemination of information about ongoing research. In
addition to an annual contract from the Smithsonian, equal to the
appropriation provided the Smithsonian for this purpose, the ex-
change also receives substantial revenues from users of its services.
In fiscal year 1979, these user revenues totaled $1,133,000 and
accounted for 35 percent of the operating costs of the exchange. As
a step toward the transfer of the exchange’s operations to the
Department of Commerce, the appropriation for support of the
exchange will be made to this department in fiscal year 1980,
rather than to the Smithsonian. To assist in the transition, the
Institution will continue to provide administrative and _ fiscal
services.

Reading is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F), associated with the Institution
since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedi-
cated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary
support is derived from private contributions and a federal contract
with the United States Office of Education to operate the Federal
Inexpensive Book Distribution Program. Administrative services
are provided by the Institution on a contract basis.

During the year, action was taken to close out the books of the
Smithsonian Research Foundation, and this corporation will be
legally dissolved in the near future.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the
National Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, were established by Congress within the Institu-
tion but are administered by separate Boards of Trustees. Inde-
pendent financial reports are presented by each of these organiza-
tions. Office space and fiscal and other administrative and support
services are provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars on a reimbursement basis.

The Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) is an independent, non-
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological
Park. It operates under contract a number of beneficial concessions

50 / Smithsonian Year 1979
for the National Zoo. Fonz provided concession and rental fees to
the zoo amounting to more than $164,000 during calendar year
1978 (FoNz’s fiscal year). In addition, Fonz contributed other impor-
tant financial and volunteer support for zoo programs. Financial
affairs of this organization are disclosed separately elsewhere in
Smithsonian Year 1979.

Accounting and Auditing

An audit of the nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution is
conducted annually by independent public accountants, and their
fiscal year 1979 report is contained in the following pages. For over
thirty years, this work had been performed in a competent and pro-
fessional manner by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. In January
1979, the Board of Regents authorized its Executive Committee to
invite audit proposals from other major accounting firms as well.
After extensive proposal review and interviews with the nation’s
eight largest firms, Coopers & Lybrand was selected to perform the
Institution’s audit for 1979 and the succeeding four years. During
the year, the internal audit staff continued their reviews of various
operations of the Institution. Additionally, grants and contracts re-
ceived from federal agencies, as well as their allocated overhead
costs, were audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents, under the By-
laws of the Institution, has the responsibility for reviewing the
Smithsonian’s accounting systems and internal financial controls;
of facilitating communication between the Board and internal audi-
tors, independent auditors, and auditors of the General Accounting
Office; and of reviewing operations of the Institution for compliance
with approved programs and policies.

Financial Report / 51
This collection of eighteenth-century Italian fiddles was a major acquisition of the
National Museum of History and Technology’s Division of Musical Instruments.
These rare instruments were acquired for the division through the Major Collections
Acquisition Program. Below. The instruments are here being played by the Smith-
sonian Chamber Players. From left to right: Marilyn McDonald, Mary Price,
Melissa Graybeal, and Kenneth Slowik.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

A MEMBER FIRM OF
COOPERS & LYBRAND (INTERNATIONAL)

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the balance sheet of the Trust Funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1979 and the related state-
ment of financial activity for the year then ended. Our examination
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian
Institution for the year ended September 30, 1978, totals of which
are included in the accompanying financial statements for compara-
tive purposes, were examined by other auditors whose report dated
December 15, 1978 expressed an unqualified opinion on those state-
ments.

The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution do
not include the accounts of the National Gallery of Art, the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts or other departments,
bureaus and programs administered by the Smithsonian Institution
under federal appropriations as detailed in Note 2 to the financial
statements.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1979, referred to above, present fairly the financial posi-
tion of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution as of September
30, 1979, and the results of operations and changes in fund balances
for the year then ended, in conformity with generally accepted ac-
counting principles applied on a basis consistent with that of the
preceding year.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

1800 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
November 27, 1979

53
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Balance Sheet
September 30, 1979
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1978)

Current
funds
ASSETS:
(GENE) 11 lean oat PACHA re ER RIC Fon ic NER wr oe yo legit a a ee eee SEE $ 1,067,242
Investments (Notes:srand:5) i arene ere nee reentrrr: 21,192,559
Receivablesi(Notera wes wricerat crescent ee Rai eea secre 9,833,100
Interfundireceivablesig 5 sive cana vane Oe ecreioernae 1,863,862
Merchandiselinventory (Note) .4-eiene eine sees eer 4,505,523
Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) .................. 6,414,963
Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 6) ................ 1,283,732
$46,160,981
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses ...............45: $ 5,427,060
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) .. 1,745,609
Interfund ¥ payables’ shi asian acs ac mites Selo tor ebedene ceo 4,308,574
Weterredsrevente! (Noted) scence os eee} aera eee 13,247,924
Totalliabilitiess ts, te sacs e cious east keaton cet eRe 24,729,167
FUND BALANCES (Note 1):
Current:
Unrestrictedvgeneral purpose son. a. sacle scree ele eure cece 4,964,511
Specialipurposel Gist iis ce as a eee ae 11,567,125
eeatet eect atali eel enchiy tury Aaah oer ee ire ati fr RCE OS Meme ERR CIEE ener, A 4,900,178
Endowment and similar funds’ (Note 5) «.:.........0.+..- —
Plantorundsa (Noten6)) Eoviwao tates nck Goose eo antes —
jhotalafundsbalancesiy faite sent stsmis Anis cpeiectre nario ae 21,431,814
$46,160,981

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

54 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Endowment
and similar

funds

Plant funds

Total, all funds

$ 62,160
57,935,425
40,308
441,915

$58,479,808

58,479,808

58,479,808
$58,479,808

$ —
2,002,797

11,920,035
$13,922,832

$ 229,778

229,778

13,693,054

13,693,054

$13,922,832

$ 1,129,402
79,127,984
9,873,408
4,308,574
4,505,523
6,414,963
13,203,767

$118,563,621

$ 5,656,838
1,745,609
4,308,574

13,247,924

24,958,945

4,964,511
11,567,125
4,900,178
58,479,808

13,693,054
93,604,676
$118,563,621

Totals, 1978

$ 2,850,678
70,986,935
8,602,476
2,353,786
3,950,770
5,264,020
11,977,248

$105,985,913

$ 3,970,730
1,183,626
2,353,786

14,439,120

21,947,262

4,932,516
9,603,694
4,539,911
53,803,473
11,159,057

84,038,651
$105,985,913

Financial Report / 55
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Statement of Financial Activity

Year ended September 30, 1979

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1978)

Current fung

Unrestricte
Total Total
current unrestricted General
funds funds purpose
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Auxiliary activities;revenues...227-%)s0 ies > 22) $66,884,616 $66,884,616 §$ =
Federal grantsvand contracts G20 fiance chee sess ae 11,411,790 — —
Investment income (net of $278,655 for management
and custodlanesees) i ne ccmiicireeeeaeree cee eeiere 5,598,435 2,849,787 2,591,658
Gain’ (loss) onysalevof securities! 5. oa-cc-s5eeeeeoe (5,765) (5,765) (5,765)
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants ............ 2,457,801 682,979 163,394
Additions to, plant fund! cence ams scies ie selene — — —
Rentals, fees, commissions and other ............. 1,983,617 1,255,508 638,264
Total revenue and other additions .......... 88,330,494 71,667,125 3,387,551
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:
Research and educational expenditures ........... 18,375,482 5,534,719 2,389,110
Administrative expenditures ..................0- 6,842,542 4,210,583 1,552,968
Auxiliary activities expenditures ................. 55,015,797 55,015,797 —
Expenditures for acquisition of plant ............. — — —
Retirement of indebtedness! aes. iii icles — — —
Interest on undeptednessiaaceeenceio seer asec — = —
80,233,821 64,761,099 3,942,078
Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions 8,096,673 6,906,026 (554,527)
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):
Mandatory principal and interest on notes ....... (56,070) (56,070) (52,535)
Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) .. (988,573) (314,694) (310,496)
Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund (348,921) (348,921) (348,921)
EUtures planteacguisitions mers eoa dere cece ceo (1,451,617) (1,451,617) (1,451,617)
Income added to endowment principal ............ (423,331) = —
Appropriated as quasi endowment ............... (2,671,217) (2674217) \(2)5 745247)
Endowmentuneleasediresace taceminicercice ioc toe 10,000 — —
For designated purposes an. 3 ec aced aclsks oes sinc sis — (68,081) (3,481,809)
Net increase in auxiliary ‘activities ...:..-:0...-+-.«. — — 8,803,117
Total transfers among funds ............... (5,929,729) (4,910,600) 586,522
Net) increase forthe year = 22)... = csn 2,166,944 1,995,426 31,995
Acquisition of Museum of African Art ........... 188,749 — =
Fund balances at beginning of year ............... 19,076,121 14,536,210 4,932,516
Fund * balances at end of year 725 22-564 4222 $ 4,964,511

$21,431,814

$16,531,636

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

56 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Endowment

$11,567,125

$93,604,676

Auxiliary Special and similar Plant Total, Totals,

activities purpose Restricted funds funds all funds 1978
$64,846,017 $ 2,038,599 $ — $ — $ — $66,884,616 $54,759,388
_ — 11,411,790 —- os 11,411,790 11,157,066
—_ 258,129 2,748,648 — — 5,598,435 3,429,901
— — — 511,866 — 506,101 1,334,983
475,178 44,407 1774822, 91,348 5,000 2,554,149 4,231,405
— a — — 395,971 395,971 404,605
— 617,244 728,109 — — 1,983,617 2,155,641
65,321,195 2,958,379 16,663,369 603,214 400,971 89,334,679 77 ,A72,989
—_ 3,145,609 12,840,763 —- — 18,375,482 Tb, 799210
2,369,500 288,115 2,631,959 — — 6,842,542 5,675,636
53,751,742 1,264,055 —— — — 55,015,797 41,737,456
— — — — 348,921 348,921 365,992
— — = — 47,049 47,049 46,600
— — — -— 9,021 9,021 8,241
56,121,242 4,697,779 15,472,722 a 404,991 80,638,812 63,593,135
9,199,953 (1,739,400) 1,190,647 603,214 (4,020) 8,695,867 13,879,854
oa (3,535) a = 56,070 — =
ss (4,198) (673,879) 988,573 a= = =
— — —- — 348,921 — —_—
— a — —— 1,451,617 — —_
== aes (423,331) 423,331 — aa =
— (100,000) a 207A 217 — — —
Ze = 10,000 (10,000) es ae =
(396,836) 3,810,564 68,081 _ = = —
(8,803,117) ai a ae ies = =
(9,199,953) 3,702,831 (1,019,129) A073 121 1,856,608 —_— —_—
— 1,963,431 L771 518 4,676,335 1,852,588 8,695,867 13,879,854
— — 188,749 — 681,409 870,158 a
— 9,603,694 4,539,911 53,803,473 11,159,057 84,038,651 70,158,797

$ — $ 4,900,178 $58,479,808 $13,693,054

$84,038,651

Financial Report / 57
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of presentation. The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution—
Trust Funds (Institution) have been prepared on the accrual basis.

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the Insti-
tution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting.
This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classified
for accounting and reporting purposes into funds established according to
their nature and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund;
however, in the accompanying financial statements, funds that have similar
characteristics have been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial
transactions have been recorded and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are reported in
self-balancing fund groups as follows:

Current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, rep-
resent the portion of expendable funds that is available for support of
Institution operations. Separate sub-fund groups of current unrestricted
funds have been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activi-
ties (representing primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smith-
sonian Associates Program, including the Smithsonian magazine, and
museum shop sales) and for special purposes (representing internally
segregated funds for certain designated purposes). Amounts restricted by
the donor for specific purposes are also segregated from other current
funds.

Endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restric-
tions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be
invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment and
similar funds are gifts which will allow the expenditure of principal but
only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds.
Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board
for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such
funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent
gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the prin-
cipal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the gov-
erning board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the
income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisitions
and funds expended for plant.

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other disposition of
investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are

58 / Smithsonian Year 1979
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar manner,
except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar funds,
which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted, or, if unrestricted,
as revenue in unrestricted current funds.

Inventories. Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost, computed on
a first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value.

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian
magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription,
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian
magazine are charged to income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens. In accordance with the practice gen-
erally followed by museums, works of art and living or other specimens are
not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Property and equipment. Capitalized improvements and equipment purchased
with Trust Funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized
in the current unrestricted fund at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives of five to ten years.

Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to the
extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or ap-
praised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in Chesapeake
Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal values.
In accordance with the practice of many museums, depreciation on buildings
is not recorded.

All other land, buildings, fixtures, and equipment which were principally ac-
quired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements.

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the
Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received.

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state-
ments, since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.

2. Related Activities

The Trust Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
private sources, from federal grants and contracts, and from certain business
activities related to the operations of the Institution.

Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements, provide major support for the operations and administration of
the educational and research programs of the Institution’s many museums, art
galleries, and other bureaus, as well as for the maintenance and construction
of related buildings and facilities. In addition, land, buildings, and other
assets acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements.

Financial Report / 59
The following federal appropriations were received by the Institution for the
fiscal years ended September 30, 1979 and 1978:

1979 1978
Operating: fun ds. s.00/55 5 deaiepsy cictyetvcasns yale oihd ea ore $100,265,000 $ 95,250,000
Special foreign currency program ............ 3,700,000 4,000,000
Gonstruction funds eerie eee ene 6,575,000 5,250,000
$110,540,000 $104,500,000

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several sepa-
rately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution
serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these
organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Insti-
tution facilities occupied, etc., totaled approximately $422,000 for the year
ended September 30, 1979. The following summarizes the approximate ex-
penditures of these organizations for the fiscal years ended September 30,
1979 and 1978, respectively, as reflected in their individual financial statements
and which are not included in the accompanying financial statements of the
Institution:

1979 1978
Smithsonian Research Foundation ............... $ — $ 120,000
Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ...... $3,293,000 $2,355,000
ReadineMiserundamental a lnci arose eon aoe $4,042,000 $2,260,000
Woodrow Wilson International Center
for. Scholars—inustelundsim eee ener $2,306,000 $2,079,000

For the years ended September 30, 1979 and 1978, the Smithsonian Research
Foundation did not receive federal grants, and the corporate structure will be
dissolved in fiscal year 1980. The Institution is working with the U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce to effect a transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information
Exchange operations to the U.S. Department of Commerce on October 1,
1980; until that date the Institution will continue to provide fiscal and admin-
istrative services.

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair market value at date
of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1979, investments are

composed of the following:

Current funds:
Certificates of deposit

sijei elie) ej\eve)\e)\e)isieie ue! \s)\e,jeijs,e.e ie Tells

Carrying

value

$ 4,000,000

Market
value

$ 4,000,000

Gommercialipapenwan Ais a Wee Mee Pee Sas 1,974,858 2,000,000
Overnight money marketvaccounth.. 4 eee 1,200,000 1,200,000

U.S. Government and
quasi-government obligations ............. 13,789,494 13,932,400
GommionuStock. yi se basie chs acai de aakicleenuiae 171,860 92,317
IPReferredustOchkeguyer. eiciere peas ae cae een eee eee 56,347 45,797
21,192,559 21,270,514

60 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Endowment and similar funds:

Moan to eS ylreaSuny oe cterne < cieicleye atest sev reichonens $ 1,000,000 $ 1,000,000
Commercial paper os .ins ele cals eee ees od oe 4,063,235 4,075,000
U.S. Government and

quasi-government obligations ............. 5,469,632 5,364,809
orporate ONES oe cic-cisijclove cians c's soles a cakes £0 ,202,227 10,226,965
WOmMONeSLOCK eee esd tee aoe ne Bioneteie level cians 36,491,266 44,685,401
BTELETREC ESTO Kg ice euetens eosseke io erorevevs/si lene ciemerecere sie 709,065 699,500

57,935,425 66,051,675
$79,127,984 $87,322,189

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at
market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $119.91, 346,315
units were owned by endowment and 200,396 units by quasi-endowment at
September 30, 1979.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments:

Market
value
per
Market Cost Net gains unit
Endgotpyeaters) secre se $65,555,748 $57,426,159 $8,129,589 $119.91
Beginning of year ......... $56,831,475 $52,548,845 4,282,630 110.22
Unrealized net gains for year .....oves.0.2 cece seen 3,846,959 —
RGalIZediMeE Sains LOLEVEAT aac dix o's 's oa os ns oe 4: 6i0\e olcse ane 511,866 —-
Motalanet gains: fOr year .oeesks cans cudaceesacsameews $4,358,825 $ 9.69
4. Receivables
Receivables at September 30, 1979 and 1978, included the following:
Current funds 1979 1978
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of
allowance for doubtful accounts of $258,000
in 1979 and $262:000) ini 1978.2... .sec.2e ese es $7,881,683 $6,031,875
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts. . 658,318 1,316,166
Interest and dividends receivable ................ 949,571 716,048
© Nees een roca esis Mate usFo ahi er oereiierei eo 343,528 496,017

9,833,100 8,560,106
Endowment and similar funds

INOtespreceivableg ots shire oan smiiee leis bead Bese emeine 40,308 42,370
Motalfallsfundse4 22 Gensco ses heOknces ase $9,873,408 $8,602,476

Financial Report / 61
5. Endowment and Similar Funds

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1979 are summarized as
follows:

Endowment funds, income available for:

Restricted purnposesy altaurns waka [ossoyalene tis. sh oss 6 Ores es Oe eet $34,349,830
Wnnestrictedy PUNPOSeSy s. jer<ccjuls lo ote viene! ous tate eisncieie ie matepete eke sieve ete 953,185
35,303,015

Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for:
estricteds punpasesn | wisi Myaah.ct).s ceaseless Scilepercuclertenetereke rene tet 3,597,203
Wnrestrictediipurposesht ns sh. tvocs cece cts t acatios sie one cees 19,579,590
23,176,793

Motal’endowment) and’similar funds 4.04.2. vee $58,479,808

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach,
the total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized
gains and losses, in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to
the difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and
the amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from
the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such
factors as, but not limited to: (1) 412% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2)
current dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien-
tists, and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index;
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less
than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation),
the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received. The
total return factor for 1979 was $4.74 per unit of fund participation. The total
return applied for 1979 was $2,516,098.

6. Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is comprised of the following:

September 30,
Current funds 1979 1978
Gapitalgimprovementsmen eee pacer $ 1,342,277 $ 1,317,036
Equipment ees to S55 ccersisuecsstees ee seis eee epn cies 602,777 446,086
Leasehold ‘improvements’ 32/0. 00.0 loos cee 145,229 98,126
Less accumulated depreciation
AMOTFLIZALLONY POR ae ae aise ach eae osiae els 806,551 585,349
1,283,732 1,275,899
Plant funds
Band andy busldings) 5 jn ee bie ana siapale ie sed gee ere 11,920,035 10,701,349

Motalsvallsfamds) si845 gies ohes. cis) ale Sierssaeeers $13,203,767 $11,977,248

62 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the current
funds for 1979 and 1978 was $221,202, and $181,942, respectively.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1979 includes $1,997,525 of
unexpended plant funds.

7. Pension Plan

The Institution has a retirement plan in which substantially all Trust Funds’
employees are eligible to participate. Under the plan, both the Institution and
employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary which are used to pur-
chase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with
the employees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September 30, 1979
was $1,746,293. It is the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs accrued
currently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plan.

8. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal
Revenue Service is presently considering a Request for Ruling filed by the
Institution pertaining to the proper interpretation of the current regulations
concerning the method of calculating certain unrelated business income. If
the Institution’s interpretation is approved, no tax would be imposed on this
income. It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation
as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of
the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. It is the intent of the Institution to seek such dual status. Manage-
ment believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement of these
maters would not have a material effect upon the financial position of the
Institution.

Financial Report / 63
AVV Al sp ee I EI

VAll scenes

Richard Fiske (NMNH) explains concepts of plate tectonics to Associates at the
Denver Museum of Natural History during the Regional Events series in Denver,
March 1979. The geology exhibition was produced by the Regional Events Program
to complement Dr. Fiske’s lectures on geological processes.
Smithsonian Year - 1979
SCIENCE

DAVID CHALLINOR,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

WATERSHED AND ESTUARINE STUDIES

One of the research goals of the Chesapeake Bay Center for En-
vironmental Studies (cBces) is to develop an understanding of the
functions of an estuarine watershed ecosystem and the ways in
which changes in the land use of a watershed affect the biota in
downstream receiving waters. The Rhode River estuary and its
watershed on the Chesapeake Bay have been the focus of this long-
term study, and several interesting results have begun to emerge.
Most of the Rhode River watershed drains into bordering tidal
marshes and tidal mud flats before entering the estuary. David
Correll and Jack W. Pierce have analyzed the effects of these areas
on estuarine water quality. Samples of land runoff were analyzed
for sediments, phosphorus, nitrogen, and organic matter. Overall,
less organic matter moved into the estuary (26.8 tons of carbon)
than was discharged from the watersheds (71.0 tons of carbon).
During a period when land runoff was low because of drought, a
net amount of 65 tons of carbon was observed to move from the
estuary into the tidal marsh area. Carbon output from the marshes
only exceeded input when land runoff was very high. Overall, only
1.86 tons of phosphorus moved into the estuary of the 2.72 tons
discharged from the uplands into the marshes. During four drought
months, a net movement of phosphorus from the estuary to the
marshes (0.69 tons) occurred. Generally, high discharges of phos-
phorus from the watersheds were followed in a week or two by high

65
discharges from the marshes. Orthophosphate constituted a sig-
nificantly lower fraction of the phosphorus that moved into the
estuary (38 percent) than of the phosphorus that was discharged
from the watershed (49 percent).

In all, only 7.45 tons of nitrogen moved into the estuary of the
10.2 tons discharged from the watershed. During four drought
months, a net of 1.63 tons of nitrogen moved from the estuary into
the marshes. Nitrate and reduced forms of nitrogen had independ-
ent patterns. There was no net movement of nitrate between
estuary and marshes during this time.

The important effects of the headwater intertidal zone on the
estuary seemed to be: (1) a less variable rate of materials delivery,
and (2) a change in the average composition of each material before
delivery. However, these headwaters, marshes, and flats appear to
process, rather than trap, the bulk of these materials as they are
transported from the watershed to the estuary.

At the mouth of Rhode River, seasonal mean concentrations of
phosphorus increased steadily for each season each year from the
fall of 1971 to the fall of 1976. The most dramatic increases were
observed in the summer and fall (a four-fold increase). A much
smaller increase occurred in the winter and spring. In contrast, the
year-to-year concentrations of total phosphorus in surface waters
in upstream stations over the same period of time showed less clear-
cut trends. Also, phosphorus loadings from local watershed runoff
fluctuated widely but had no steadily rapid rise with time. Although
total phosphorus increased dramatically at the mouth of the Rhode
River, dissolved orthophosphate, nitrate, and dissolved ammonia
remained essentially constant, especially in the summer and fall.
This data could indicate the increasing effect of summertime anoxic
bottom waters on the phosphorus dynamics of the upper western
shore of the bay.

Estuarine studies were undertaken by Maria Faust to determine
the effect of pleasure-boating activity on the water quality of the
Rhode River. Faust’s study, conducted during a holiday weekend,
indicated that fecal bacteria in the water increased soon after the
arrival of boats, persisted during the weekend, and decreased im-
mediately after the boats departed the area. It was concluded that
in shallow estuarine waters, boating appears to be an important
source of fecal contamination during periods of high boating ac-

66 / Smithsonian Year 1979
tivity. However, the contribution of land runoff to fecal contamina-
tion of the estuary is of longer duration, occurring mostly during
spring, fall, and winter.

Faust and postdoctoral fellow Ryszard Chrost are investigating a
biological nutrient-enrichment phenomenon in the estuary, which
is a result of the metabolic activity of microorganisms. Current
studies have been concentrating on three interdependent areas:
analysis of phytoplankton photosynthesis and the release of dis-
solved organic matter; the assimilation of dissolved organic matter
by bacterioplankton; and the size distribution of the dissolved or-
ganic matter that regulates the activity and productivity of estuarine
microorganisms. Results indicate qualitative and quantitative
changes in the excreted dissolved organic substances appearing in
the water.

On the Rhode River watershed, the distribution of the herbicide
atrazine in runoff and rainwater has been the focus of recent
studies by Tung Lin Wu. Wu attributes the disappearance of atra-
zine from surface soils at elevations above sea level of 15, 22.5, and
30 meters to such processes as volatilization, runoff of rainwater,
and biological degradation. Wu’s investigation shows that, at an
elevation of nine meters, atrazine persists in the surface soils as a
result of the deposition of eroded materials from the higher eleva-
tions. The runoff measured at Wu’s test stations showed that of the
total atrazine applied in the experiment, 1.3 percent was lost in the
runoff, and 55 percent of that amount was accounted for by a storm
that occurred eleven days after application. An additional 32 per-
cent of atrazine loss was the result of another heavy rainfall sixty-
two days after application. In another study, Wu found evidence
that atrazine may travel long distances and maintain residence in
the atmosphere for an extended period of time. Atrazine was de-
tected in samples from the Rhode River and in rainwater samples
collected during the summer months. An unexpected finding was
the detection of generally higher levels of atrazine in rainwater
collected during winter months, long after the herbicide had been
applied to local crops.

LAND USE STUDIES

Another aspect of the Environmental Research Program at cBCES is
concerned with analyzing the effects of present and past land-use

Science / 67
changes on plant and animal communities. An example of this work
is an ongoing project of James Lynch and Dennis Whigham on the
effect of fragmentation and isolation of habitat on plant and bird
communities. Their results suggest that forest size has little effect
on the distribution of plant species. However, forest disturbance
appears to be a significant determinant of the bird species occurring
in a given area.

Specific types of woodland birds, such as flycatchers, warblers,
wood thrushes, vireos, and tanagers, are affected by forest size.
These birds, mostly tropical migrants, do not have the ability to
switch from one source of food to another as do permanent resi-
dents, such as blue jays and cardinals. In addition, competition with
the more adaptable species, and what appears to be a psychological
need for the food and cover of large wooded areas, make the migra-
tory birds more dependent on large wooded areas for survival.

The results of this in-depth examination of forest patches should
provide useful data on the minimum area requirements for the
maintenance of bird species and on the relative merits of small
forest stands vs. large preserves. This information should be par-
ticularly applicable to the work of environmental planners, who
need specific information for the placement of roads, mass transit
systems, power-line right-of-ways, and other construction projects.

Other investigations focusing on the effects of land use are being
conducted by James Lynch. His work on the community ecology of
ants has been conducted in forest, old field, and pasture habitats at
csces. Recent results of this long-term study show that virtually all
of the common ant species that occur at CBCES possess distinctive
patterns of seasonal occurrence, daily activity, food preference,
habitat utilization, and occurrence along the spectrum of secondary
successional vegetation types. His investigations indicate that ant
species associated with the mature hardwood forest belong to genera
with either north-temperate or worldwide distributions. He has
found that this assemblage has very few species in common with
the ant community that inhabits brushy old fields and similar open
disturbed habitats. The old-field ant contains, together with a com-
bination of distinctive species of the north temperate genera, a
large component derived from ant genera with basically tropical or
subtropical centers of distribution and diversity (e.g., Monomorium,
crematogaster, Pheidole).

68 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Relative to their north-temperate counterparts (e.g. Formica,
Lasius, Myrmica), these tropical “invaders” tend to be smaller in
size and more aggressive and often form large aggregations to de-
fend food sources. In addition, the old-field ant community appears
to be adapted to function at higher temperatures than the forest ant
community. The latter group exhibits more nocturnal activity and is
active earlier in the spring and later in the fall than the old-field
community.

Lynch’s work suggests that competitive interactions among ant
species at concentrated food sources are extremely common, and
experimental field manipulations of food supply and ant abundance
confirm that the ability of one species to forage may be severely
depressed by the presence of other species.

Dennis Whigham and Daniel Higman have been conducting a
detailed study of phenodynamics of an old-aged hardwood forest.
These long-term studies are being used to determine norms and
variances for structural and functional components of successional
and old-aged forests, as well as to produce detailed studies of in-
dividual species. The phenology data will be correlated with clima-
tological data to determine the environmental factors responsible
for controlling species and/or community phenodynamics. Whig-
ham’s research on the Cranefly orchid (Tipularia discolor) has
shown, for example, that the rate of population turnover is much
higher than expected for a species that occurs in old-aged stable
forests. The study has also shown that Tipularia is pollinated by
a single noctuid moth (Pseudaletia unipuncta) and that pollinator
interaction is necessary for the production of seeds. The moths, in
turn, are capable of selecting those portions of the orchid inflores-
cences that contain the most nectar. The moths also respond to total
nectar resources in the orchid populations. In Whigham’s investiga-
tions, moth activity increased sharply as the total available nectar
increased and then stopped abruptly once nectar resources began
to decline, even though open flowers were still present.

EDUCATION RESEARCH AND PUBLIC INFORMATION

Part of the research program at cBceEs is concerned with environ-
mental influences on human behavior and the ways in which human
preferences for various landscapes are formed. Through develop-
mental investigations, John Falk and John Balling have begun to

Science / 69
explore the hypothesis that man’s evolutionary history has, at least
in part, determined his landscape preferences. Current theory sug-
gests that much of human evolution took place along or near the
river courses in the East African savanna. Present-day preferences
for natural settings with scattered trees, short grass, and some type
of water body may reflect an innate preference for the environment
in which much of our biological (and psychological) apparatus
evolved.

The results from three completed studies and one currently in
progress are provocative. Although the first investigation revealed
that infants under one year of age can discriminate among natural
environments, future research will attempt to determine whether
infant discrimination among biomes is a function of preference,
visual complexity, or some other variables. Investigation of children
three to five years of age clearly demonstrates a preference for
savanna-like environments and the persistence of this preference
throughout the elementary-school years. However, by the time the
individual reaches high school and throughout adult life, the pro-
nounced preference for savanna disappears and savanna is judged
similarly to the natural environments with which the person is most
familiar.

Most of the nation’s environmental education occurs in the con-
text of school field trips to various outdoor sites. How well do such
trips accomplish their educational objectives? This question has
been the subject of a study by John Balling and John Falk. Balling
and Falk have been seeking to determine: (a) the effects of the field-
trip environment on student behavior, attitudes, and learning; and
(b) the current thinking of educators about field trips and the
relationship of these attitudes to the outcomes of actual field trips.

In one study, fifth- and sixth-grade children from urban, sub-
urban, and rural schools performed a science activity in one of three
settings that differed both in terms of familiarity and relevance to
the learning task. The data revealed that learning was greatest
where the number of relevant examples and the setting novelty
were at a maximum. Attitudinal findings showed that the students
learned a great deal from the field-trip experience and were very
enthusiastic about it.

Significant developmental differences emerged from a study
conducted to determine the interaction of the variety of environ-

70 / Smithsonian Year 1979
” aie

mental factors surrounding the usual field trip—the day away from
school, the disruption of routine, the bus ride—with learning and
behavior. In the groups of third-graders and fifth-graders who were
studied, the younger group learned best when the milieu was
familiar and minimally disruptive to their normal school day, while
the fifth-grade students reacted better to a full-fledged field trip
away from school. Both groups showed significant retention of the
subject matter of the field activity one month later. Behavioral ob-
servations revealed that the third-grade students performed better
in the setting outside their school than they did in the nature center,
while the reverse was true for the fifth-graders.

All four groups surveyed in an assessment of attitudes and per-
ceptions regarding field trip experiences—elementary school teach-
ers, school administrators, college instructors in science education
methods, and nature center professionals—were remarkably similar
in stating positive attitudes toward field trips. The consensus was
that the major benefits of field trips are, in decreasing order of im-
portance: (a) the development of more positive attitudes toward
science among the students; (b) the learning of certain science facts,
concepts, and related skills; and (c) the improvement of the social
climate in the class.

These studies suggested that field trips are a valuable part of the
science education of elementary school children, providing many
cognitive and effective benefits for the students. The project also
demonstrated that the characteristics of the setting for a field trip
and certain aspects of the relationship of the participants to this
setting can have a significant influence on student attitudes, be-
havior, and learning.

Another aspect of the Education Program at cBces focuses on the
use of scientific information for planning and decision-making
purposes and public perceptions of environmental issues. In regard
to the latter, Suzanne Pogell and John Balling are seeking to de-
termine ways in which public involvement and psychological theory
can be used to mediate potentially contentious environmental de-
cisions. In a paper presented at the 1979 Environmental Law Con-
ference, Pogell suggested that environmental compliance can be
encouraged through the participation of an informed public. In
particular, this participation includes involving the public in early
stages of the decision-making process; making available full and

Science / 71
Boats for collecting and research at Fort Pierce. In the Boston Whaler in the fore-
ground is Kenneth Severin, research assistant, as he leaves on a routine field trip
to monitor experiments on foraminifera populations in the Indian River. Directed by
Dr. Martin Buzas, the foraminifera research program is concerned with the role of
foraminifera in the trophic structure of the Indian River estuary.

Left. Juvenile sea cucumber of the genus Phyllophorus, four months old, reared in
the laboratory from a larva collected at the Fort Pierce Inlet. While alive, this
specimen was photographed with a light photomicroscope. Magnified 50 X. Center.
Developing ossicle, composed of calcium carbonate, from the body wall of a juvenile
sea cucumber of the genus Phyllophorus. Scanning electron micrograph, magnified
1900 X. Right. Scanning electron micrograph of a sipunculan larva collected in the
plankton of the Florida current near Fort Pierce, Florida. The body is covered by
small cuticular papillae, the structure of which is useful in distinguishing larval
types. Ventral view. Magnified 189 X.

adequate information to create awareness of the technical and
socioeconomic dimensions of the issue; and providing opportunities
for the general public to participate on an equal footing with
government and economic interests, thereby fostering a climate of
open and honest discussion.

Balling’s paper at the same conference sought to provide a basis
for considering people’s cognitive abilities and perceptions of the
natural world in environmental decisions. Specifically, he suggested
that: experts be used to help those involved in the decision-making
process to interpret statistical data; explicit consideration be given
to the relationship between human perceptions of environmental
quality and the more usual indexes of physical and biological en-
vironmental quality; the decision-making process be broken down
into a series of small steps; and communication among potentially
conflicting groups be encouraged at the earliest possible time.

Fort Pierce Bureau

The Smithsonian’s Fort Pierce Bureau, located on the central east
coast of Florida, is in a zoogeographic transitional zone that offers
an unrivaled opportunity for biological study. Research at the Fort
Pierce Bureau emphasizes studies of the life histories, systematics,
and ecology of a wide spectrum of marine invertebrates. Contribut-
ing to the research efforts are resident scientists, postdoctoral fel-
lows, and numerous visiting investigators. A reference museum
houses 13,000 catalogued specimens that are representative of local
marine flora and fauna. Facilities include small boats for work in
the Indian River lagoon and the nearshore oceanic waters and an
electron microscope laboratory with both scanning and transmission
microscopes. Limited laboratory space is available for visiting scien-
tists.

Studies of life histories directed by Dr. Mary Rice this past year
have centered on various aspects of reproduction and larval biology
of sipunculan worms and bivalve molluscs, with ancillary research
projects on phoronids, bryozoans, polychaetes, gastropod molluscs,
and echinoderms. In studies of the reproductive biology of sipuncu-
lans, Dr. Mary Rice and postdoctoral fellow Dr. John Pilger have

Science / 73
documented the breeding seasons of two species by monthly mea-
surements of coelomic oocytes and observations of spawning in the
laboratory. It was concluded that an offshore species, Golfingia
misakiana, collected from oculinid coral rubble at depths of fifty to
sixty meters, is similar to many temperate species in that it shows
seasonal spawning with a peak in November, whereas Themiste
lageniformis, a species that inhabits the intertidal oyster beds in the
Indian River lagoon, spawns continually from July through Decem-
ber. Development in the former is by means of a planktonic feeding
larva; the latter has a short-lived nonfeeding larva.

Studies by Dr. John Pilger on a parthenogenetic sipunculan,
Themiste lageniformis, have continued for a second year. The sex
ratio of the local population is nine females to one male. Females
produce eggs that are capable of developing with or without fertili-
zation. Preliminary results, using microphotometry to quantify
chromosomal nucleic acid, support the working hypothesis that
fertilized eggs may develop into either males or females, whereas
unfertilized eggs develop only into females.

As part of ongoing studies of the phylum Sipuncula, Dr. Rice has
continued a systematic survey of the Sipuncula of southern Florida
and the Caribbean. Additional specimens have been collected and
illustrated. Collections from 186 stations, totaling 500 lots, were
sorted, identified, and carded.

Reproduction of a brooding clam, Parastarte triquetra, was in-
vestigated by postdoctoral fellow Dr. Bruce Bartlett. The clam is
abundant in the Indian River, occurring in densities as great as
45,000 and 51,000 per square meter in the two sites chosen for
study. Bimonthly measurements of population density, laboratory
observations of juvenile release, and examination of gonads, sug-
gested that the species breeds throughout the year. Developing
embryos are brooded within the gills of the females and released as
benthic juveniles through the excurrent siphon. During brooding,
the embryos are attached to the gill filaments of the maternal parent
at the site of papillary outgrowths. The possibility of a nutritional
link between papilla and embryo is being investigated by use of
electron microscopy. The entire developmental period is estimated
to be one month, and a given female may produce up to nine broods
per year. The clams reach reproductive maturity at three months of
age and have a life span of approximately one year. The population

74 / Smithsonian Year 1979
has a high mortality rate, presumably because of predation by shore
birds, naticid snails, and an infestation of a trematode parasite that
results in castration of the clams.

The question of what induces oceanic larvae to settle and under-
go metamorphosis into bottom-dwelling adults has been investi-
gated by Dr. Mary Rice in a series of experiments on sipunculan
larvae from the Florida Current. For the species studied most in-
tensively (Golfingia misakiana), experiments have shown the exist-
ence of a water-soluble, low-molecular-weight compound associated
with and presumably produced by the adult, which significantly en-
hances metamorphosis of the larva in the presence of a suitable
substratum. It has been demonstrated that the substratum must
contain organic compounds to be effective in inducing metamor-
phosis. Investigations are continuing on the nature of the metamor-
phosis-inducing factors and the manner in which larvae respond to
them. Experiments on young larvae, reared from spawnings of
adults, are in progress to determine at which stage of development
and growth the larva becomes ready to metamorphose.

To provide a basis for understanding the responses of larvae to
various environmental stimuli, including metamorphosis-inducing
factors, Dr. Rice began a cinematographic analysis of the behavior
of oceanic larvae. With the assistance of Kjell Sandved of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, footage was produced for a
documentary film on the functional morphology of specific organs
of sipunculan larvae and juveniles before and after metamorphosis.
Feeding, locomotion, substratum-testing, and burrowing of several
species have been recorded on film.

In an effort to interpret function on the basis of cellular anatomy,
two collaborative studies have been undertaken on the ultrastruc-
ture of various larval organs of sipunculans. Dr. Patricia Dudley of
Columbia University, and Dr. Mary Rice have collaborated on an
investigation of larval epidermal organs. Scattered over the larval
body, these organs open to the exterior through minute pores and
have been found to consist of both glandular and sensory elements.
The ultrastructure of another larval structure, the terminal attach-
ment organ, has been studied by Dr. Edward Ruppert of Clemson
University, and Dr. Mary Rice. The terminal organ, common to
most planktonic sipunculan larvae, functions in attachment and re-
lease of the larva; it may be implicated also in larval feeding and

Science / 75
in sensing the substratum prior to settlement and metamorphosis.
The electron-microscopic investigation has demonstrated sensory,
glandular, and adhesive components.

Dr. Richard S. Houbrick of the National Museum of Natural
History has continued his studies on life histories of gastropod
molluscs of the Indian River lagoon, concentrating during the past
year on two common species, Modulus modulus and Battalaria
minima. He has found that the population of Modulus modulus
has a life cycle of approximately one year. Mating occurs in early
winter and spawning in the spring. Cylindrical spawn masses,
comprised of gelatinous tubes, are deposited on marine grasses in
the Indian River. All stages of larval development take place within
the egg capsule, the young snails emerging after three weeks of
incubation. Detailed studies of the reproductive anatomy of the
two species are in progress.

Echinoderm studies by Dr. David L. Pawson, National Museum
of Natural History, and Mr. John E. Miller, Harbor Branch Founda-
tion, Inc., have continued in the areas of ecology, systematics, and
larval development. Population density, movement, and breeding
cycles of the sea cucumber Holothuria lentiginosa enodis were made
using the research submersible Johnson-Sea-Link. This holothurian
is a dominant faunal member of the Oculina reefs found 220 to 300
feet off central-east Florida. Preliminary investigations, including
studies of sediment composition, suggest that population dispersal
around these reefs is dependent upon sediment organic content.

A study on the systematics of shallow-water holothurians from
the western Atlantic, Gulf of Mexico, and Caribbean regions is
under way. Skeletal ossicles from nearly one hundred species of
holothurians are being photographed by means of scanning electron
microscopy. These ossicles, composed of a calcium carbonate matrix,
are taxonomically invaluable in identifying sea cucumbers. Results
of this study were being compiled for publication in a monograph
on the western Atlantic holothurians.

Three subspecies of the common variable sea urchin Lytechinus
variegatus occur in the western Atlantic. A developmental study
has been initiated in an attempt to identify the factors responsible
for phenetic differences between these subspecies. Larvae reared
from adult Bermudan and Floridian Lytechinus are being main-
tained under controlled conditions of light, temperature, salinity,

76 / Smithsonian Year 1979
and food availability. Examination of metamorphosed juveniles
should determine whether the external morphological differences
are controlled environmentally or genetically.

Research in crustacean biology by Dr. Robert H. Gore empha-
sized larval development of several species of decapod crustaceans
in the families Porcellanidae, Paguridae, Grapsidae, Majidae, and
Hapalocarcinidae. Of particular interest was the development of
Troglocarcinus corallicola, a crab that inhabits galls induced by its
presence on various species of hermatypic and ahermatypic corals.
The larvae were heretofore almost completely unknown. Two
species of porcellanid crabs, Petrolisthes tridentatus and P. tonso-
tius, and the majid crab Mithrax corphye, collected from marine
waters at Santa Marta, Colombia, constituted another part of an
ongoing systematic program in which the larvae of Caribbean and
trans-Panamanian conspecific or geminate species are compared, in
order to elucidate the taxonomic status of the adults. Additional
collections from the Indian River region of ovigerous females in
other brachyuran and anomuran families continued to provide data
on crustacean larval development in the eastern central Florida area.

Taxonomic and ecological investigations on the decapod crusta-
cean community inhabiting the inshore and offshore Oculina coral
reefs in the Indian River region showed a diverse and species-rich
faunal assemblage, with pagurid, porcellanid, and xanthid crabs
comprising a major component in this biotope. Completion of these
studies will complement previously published research by Dr. Gore
on decapod communities associated with sabellariid worm reef, and
seagrass and drift algae biotopes. This data is also applicable to the
long-term baseline study on the systematics of decapod and stoma-
topod crustaceans from the Indian River region of Florida. Ancil-
lary research on the taxonomy and systematics of euphausiacean
crustacea (krill) from eastern central Floridan neretic and pelagic
waters has also been initiated, using material collected earlier by
R/V Gosnold.

Research on foraminifera, directed by Dr. Martin Buzas of the
National Museum of Natural History, has emphasized the processes
that limit populations in the Indian River and the role of forami-
nifera in the trophic structure of the estuary. In this subtropical set-
ting in which seasonal changes are not severe, biotic controls are
important in structuring foraminiferal populations. Exclosure ex-

Science / 77
periments have examined predation as a possible biotic control.
Results of these experiments, run for three- to four-month periods
over four years, have demonstrated greater densities of foraminifera
inside the exclosures. Gut analysis of some fish and benthic inverte-
brates from the exclosures and the estuary have shown that a num-
ber of deposit feeders ingest foraminifera. Abiotic controls are
being studied in collaboration with the chemistry section of the
Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc. Fluctuations of foraminiferal popu-
lations in bare and grassy areas are being compared with variations
of nutrients, trace metals, and organic carbon in sediment pore
water. Other projects include an offshore exclosure experiment,
laboratory culture of foraminifera, and a taxonomic survey of the
foraminifera of the Indian River.

Dr. Malcolm G. Erskian, postdoctoral fellow, is studying the pat-
terns of organization in the foraminiferal community. Spatial pat-
terns in benthic foraminifera are influenced by both microhabitat
substrate type and the population dynamics of the foraminifera.

During the past year, the Reference Museum has placed empha-
sis on improving the organization of the existing collection. Major
additions have been made within the Foraminiferida, Porifera,
Cnidaria, Polychaeta, Mollusca, and Amphipoda. Significant collec-
tions recently catalogued include the J. L. Taylor Polychaeta from
the Tampa Bay region and the R. W. Harrington Fish Collection,
compiled locally during the 1950s and ‘60s.

National Air and Space Museum

The National Air and Space Museum (NasM), which in its first three
years of operation has become the most visited museum in the
world, has embarked on a significant new phase of development.
Dr. Noel W. Hinners, former associate administrator for space
science of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, was
selected as the museum’s new director after an extensive search. He
suceeds Michael Collins, who became under secretary of the
Smithsonian.

Dr. Hinners plans to continue the strong exhibit program that
has contributed so greatly to the museum’s success, but with a

78 / Smithsonian Year 1979
gradually increasing emphasis on new programs in appropriate areas
of research and education. In addition, he intends to expand the
collections management program, tying it into a carefully planned
review of the process of collections acquisition and disposal.

The year 1979 represented a pivotal time for the museum, for
while plans were being developed for this shift in emphasis, the
museum’s basic functions were continued at their previous levels.
The exhibit program was divided almost equally among opening
new galleries, updating existing galleries, and creating a series of
small, specialized ‘“mini-exhibits.” Similarly, the important work of
preservation went on unabated at Silver Hill at the same time that
inventory efforts were expanded and an extensive facility-improve-
ment program was concluded. The basic foundation for an exten-
sive education program was laid, and full fruition of these efforts
will come in 1980 and beyond.

The Center for Earth and Planetary Studies (cers), headed by
Dr. Farouk El-Baz, continued as the major element in the museum’s
research program. Research included photogeologic interpretations
of the moon, Mars, and Mercury, and investigations of the deserts
in Egypt and China. These studies utilized the extensive collection
of planetary photographs at the center and included programs
jointly conducted with research teams in the United States and
abroad. The results appear in the thirty-eight publications that were
published during the course of the year.

Lunar research concentrated on the Smythii basin, the effects of
topography on impact cratering, and a unique volcanic feature
named Ina. The Smythii basin, an ancient impact feature on the
moon’s east limb, has the most extensive topographic coverage of
any lunar multiringed basin. This fact, along with Smythii’s sparse
volcanic mare fill, which leaves much of the underlying basin floor
exposed, makes it an excellent site for the study of basin structure
and morphology.

The effects of variable pre-impact topography and substrate
on slumping and terrace formation have been studied in a group
of thirty craters in the lunar highlands. These craters are character-
ized by preferential terracing on one side of each crater and distinct
upper terraces that are much wider than lower terraces that are to
be found within the crater.

Study of the lunar feature Ina has been initiated. This D-shaped

Science / 79
depression is located in Lacus Felicitatis between the Apennine
Mountains of the Imbrium basin and the Haemus Mountains of
Serenitatis. The region is characterized by highland materials
dominated by lineations radial to Imbrium. The study concentrates
on the local stratigraphy, the regional structural setting, and the
origins of volcanic morphology.

ceps staff maintain and update the primary computer records for
names of lunar surface features. These records include all names
previously approved by the International Astronomical Union and
currently in use, names for future use, biographical and historical
information on commemorated persons, and features locations.

Photogeologic investigations were also conducted of Mars, with
emphasis placed on the classical albedo feature Cerebus. Images
obtained by the Mariner 9 spacecraft in 1972 and the Viking Or-
biter I spacecraft in 1977 show that the boundaries of the dark
feature have shifted in a general NE-sw direction by as much as
130 kms.

In a comparative planetology study, mare-type ridges on Mer-
cury were contrasted with lunar features of similar morphology.
Proposed origins of ridges are still controversial; both tectonic and
volcanic modes of formation have been hypothesized for these per-
plexing features.

Research continued on the project entitled ‘Desert Erosion and
Sand Movement in Egypt.” The research is jointly conducted by
the Smithsonian Institution and Ain Shams University, Cairo,
Egypt. A book by Farouk El-Baz on Egypt as Seen by Landsat was
published.

During September and October 1978, a field trip to the remote
desert regions of southwestern Egypt was undertaken in order to
study both sand movement and wind erosion and possible analogs
of features on the surface of Mars. The multidisciplinary team of
U.S. and Egyptian scientists included geologists, archaeologists, and
one botantist.

The Science and Technology Department expanded its research
program of historical studies, including such topics as the origins of
swept-wing aircraft in the United States, lifting-body reentry, and
Soviet ramjet research, and began an artifact acquisition program.

The Aeronautics Department supplemented its basic role of
historical research for publications and exhibits with several im-

80 / Smithsonian Year 1979
portant public-service functions. These include the preparation of
a Guide to Aerospace History Sources, an intensive collections-
acquisition process to fill gaps in the existing files, and the publica-
tion of Engines in Museums Around the World.

The Education Department conducted a very successful multi-
cultural aerospace education conference, one which apparently filled
a long-felt need, judging by the continuing response from partici-
pants and attendees. This effort to reach communities that in the
past have not been made fully aware of aerospace activities was
supplemented by a pilot teacher workshop for Prince Georges
County educators and a Regional Resources Workshop. All of
these activities were designed to test the extent of the need for the
museum’s resources in these areas.

The magazine Air and Space was stabilized at a circulation of
30,000, although evidence exists that there is a still greater demand
for the publication. The thrust of the magazine will be changed
slightly in the coming year, to provide a more museum-related
content.

An extensive, twenty-one-title filmstrip program was completed
and is entering production. These filmstrips, based on the museum’s
collections, will provide educators around the country with a handy
tool to impart valuable insight into aerospace history.

The design for the new Education Orientation Facility was put
out for construction bids. This facility will enhance the awareness
of visiting schoolchildren of the museum’s offerings and provide
an opportunity for teachers to expand their curriculum on aerospace
subjects.

Similarly, the design for the Center for Live Demonstrations was
completed. This center, which will be located in the Flight Tech-
nology Gallery, will provide direct instruction on aerospace subjects
that are difficult to explain by graphic or audio-visual means and
will enhance the educational value of the museum visit.

The Education Department is also conducting a regional Museum
Assistance Program. Exhibit units, educational materials, and other
activities, including design suggestions, are provided on a limited
basis to museums around the country. As an example, the mini-
exhibit “The Question Mark and the Growth of Aerial Refueling”
was sent to the Air Force Museum, and design consultation has
been going on with the Visitors’ Center at Langley Research Center.

Science / 81
This mini-exhibit was followed by “Aerospace Medicine,” which
related the remarkable progress made in overcoming the sometimes
hostile environment of flight.

Deputy Director Melvin B. Zisfein expanded the exhibits pro-
gram with several major improvements. The Exploring the Planets
Gallery opened in November and featured an intensive concentra-
tion of information on the planets, the tools of exploration, individual
space missions, and comparative planetology. It represents a new
trend in the museum’s exhibit programs, for it must be updated
concurrently with the new knowledge being transmitted back to
earth from spacecraft depicted in the gallery.

On May 5, 1979, an exhibit entitled “Our Beautiful Earth—The
View from Air and Space” opened in the Art Gallery to widespread
critical and public acclaim. The exhibition included the work of
four aerial photographers—William Garnett, Georg Gerster, Robert
Bucknam, and George Hall—as well as space photographs taken by
astronauts and the unmanned Landsat satellite. This exhibit cap-
tured the public’s fancy and received extensive coverage in a wide
variety of publications.

The seventy-fifth anniversary of powered flight was celebrated
by a public symposium in which five papers on the Wright Brothers
and their 1903 Kitty Hawk Flyer were presented. The museum also
opened an exhibit and, with the Smithsonian Institution Press,
published a book in honor of the occasion, The Wright Brothers:
Heirs of Prometheus.

The tenth anniversary of the first manned lunar landing was
honored on July 20, 1979. Special events, extended hours, and a
commemorative book formed part of the celebration of that historic
occasion. The crew of Apollo 11, Neil A. Armstrong, Edwin “Buzz”
Aldrin, and Michael Collins, participated in a press conference and
a public ceremony on the Mall, in cooperation with the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. The museum remained open
until 1:30 a.m. on the night of July 20th, with real-time network
coverage of the first walk on the moon being replayed to several
thousand happy, enthusiastic visitors, who seemed to enjoy greatly
a nostalgic “happening.”

Other galleries were improved. A beautifully restored Albatros
D.Va fighter was placed in the World War I Gallery, and Mariner
10, an important spacecraft, was moved from the discontinued Life
in the Universe Gallery to the Space Hall.

82 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The National Air and Space Museum’s Exploring the Planets Gallery, which opened
in November 1978, is highlighted by a full-scale replica of a Voyager spacecraft.
Two Voyagers, launched by nasa in August and September 1977, passed by Jupiter
in March and July of 1979 and will continue to send back data into the 1980s.

Below. The Vice Premier of the People’s Republic of China, Deng Xiaoping, signs
Secretary Ripley’s guest book during a special tour of NAsM in February 1979. The
Secretary is behind Deng and to his right is Zhou Lin, Deng’s wife. Melvin Zisfein,
the museum’s deputy director, stands behind Secretary Ripley.

The museum’s most popular gallery, Apollo to the Moon, re-
ceived a very important updating with the inclusion of the “Apollo
Results Exhibit.” This exhibit relates the actual scientific results of
the Apollo missions.

The Vertical Flight Hall was changed to include the Piasecki
PV-2 Helicopter, as well as a unit depicting the many life-saving
roles played by U.S. Coast Guard helicopters.

An important facet of the exhibit program has been increased
attention to maintenance. The visitor traffic has been so much
heavier than predicted that there has been more simple wear-and-
tear on exhibits than expected. As a result, a considerable effort
has been made to repair damage, touch up paint, and so on, to
preserve the museum’s appearance.

A new Max film, Living Planet, sponsored by the Johnson Wax
Company, was introduced. Improved scheduling procedures per-
mitted two more daily showings, and attendance at Living Planet
has actually exceeded attendance of To Fly. The critical response
was very favorable. To Fly, however, has a strong following, and
public demand caused it to be brought back to be shown three times
a day. More than 5,000,000 visitors have attended showings of the
two films. Research is now under way for follow-up films.

A new planetarium show, “Worlds of Tomorrow,” opened in the
Albert Einstein Spacearium in November. This show has proved to
be even more popular than its predecessor, ““Cosmic Awakening,”
and has stimulated additional attendance at other spacearium
events, which now include a weekly presentation ““Noontime with
the Stars” as well as Monthly Sky Lectures.

The preservation, restoration, and storage facility at Silver Hill
completed its facilities-renovation program with the installation of
a sprinkler system in all the major buildings. Some 21,000 people
have visited the ‘‘no frills’ museum, which is open by appointment
only, and now features four complete warehouses and the large
workshop in which restoration takes place. More than 200 aircraft,
spacecraft, and engines can be seen, and during the week, it is
possible to view the craftsmen actually at work on the restorations.

Restoration was completed on the 1912 Curtiss Pusher, the 1911
Bleriot, and the 1944 Messerschmitt Me 262 (the world’s first opera-
tional jet fighter), as well as more than a score of engines and a
dozen large models. The Curtiss and Bleriot engines and models

84 / Smithsonian Year 1979
will be featured in the new Early Flight Gallery, while the Messer-
schmitt will be seen in the Gallery of Jet Aviation. Both galleries will
open in 1980. Work continues on the Langley Aerodrome, Bellanca
CF, Vought F4-U Corsair, and Northrop N1-M Flying Wing.

The inventory program at Silver Hill unearths more artifacts as
it goes on; early museum record-keeping sometimes lumped several
items under a single heading, and the inventory process makes
possible proper identification and cataloguing.

The museum’s strong artifact loan program was improved by
procedures which guarantee that artifacts are properly insured,
stored, and handled, and by a systematic inspection of items at the
loan site. More than 1,531 artifacts are on loan to 214 museums in
the United States and abroad.

A very extensive publications program provided scholars and
public with a number of excellent works during the year.

NASM staff members participated actively in national and re-
gional meetings of professional societies across the country. Per-
haps even more important were the public programs given at the
museums. The 1978 Grierson Memorial Lecture was delivered by
John Fozard, chief designer of the Hawker Siddley Harrier. His
subject was ‘“The Problem and Potentials of Vertical Flight.’”” Mr.
Rocco Petrone delivered the annual von Braun Memorial Lecture,
speaking on “Reflections on von Braun and the Saturn-Apollo
Team.”

A very successful seminar on the “Battle of Britain’ was held on
November 15, 1978. The speakers—two participants in the battle
who had actually engaged in aerial combat with each other—were
General Aldoph Galland of the Luftwaffe and Wing Commander
Robert Stanford Tuck of the Royal Air Force. The seminar was
preceded by a dramatic slide presentation of aviation art prepared
by Curator of Art James Dean.

Brigadier General Benjamin S. Kelsey, usar (Retired), a distin-
guished engineer and test pilot, accepted an appointment as the
Lindbergh Professor of Aerospace History in 1979. General Kelsey
is working on a book on the creation of U.S. airpower for World
War II.

Michael Collins and his “Nasm Team” were presented the Thirty-
sixth Annual Frank G. Brewer Trophy, which is awarded yearly for
the most outstanding development in aviation or space education.

Science / 85
A busy schedule of lectures, films, and special events provided
attractions for visitors on most nights of the week. Lectures in-
cluded “The Active Universe” by E. Margaret Burbidge and
“Spaceship Earth” by Buckminster Fuller. The Aeronautics Depart-
ment continued its well-attended free film series, which will be
followed next year by a similar series on science-fiction films. The
Smithsonian’s Frisbee Disc Festival was held on September 2nd
and was, as usual, a happy, fun-filled event with about 11,000
participants.

In the spring of 1979, the nas Library published a guidebook to
the programs, services, and publications of the National Air and
Space Museum Library collection. The guide describes the scope of
the book and journal collection, as well as the unique archival docu-
mentary files of photographs, drawings, and the audio-visual col-
lection.

A computer terminal and data-storage cassette enabled the li-
brary to access the Office of Computer Services’ central terminal
fasters, eliminating optical character-recognition scanning. The
method produces a rapid turnaround time and allows for major
revisions in the subject organization of the machine-readable func-
tion for the documentary files.

The bibliographic and news data base, Information Bank, based
on the New York Times and other newspaper and magazine biblio-
graphic sources, was introduced as a new information service.

The degree of public service provided to visitors was made the
subject of an informal study, and the results were so surprising
that they had to be validated to be believed. Visitor requests for
information ranging from the ordinary—Where is the restaurant?”
—to the extraordinary—Please show me the proof you have that
Gustave Whitehead was not the first man to fly’—numbered in the
hundreds of thousands. There were 42,312 letters, 5,120 visitors to
the museum offices, and over 800,000 telephone and direct requests
for information.

Curator of Art James Dean received fifty-six offers of artwork,
of which fourteen were accepted, including the largest donation
the museum has ever received from a private source, the Stuart M.
Speiser Collection of Photo-Realist art. Mr. Speiser received the
Smithson Medal in recognition of his donation, which will be the
subject of a special showing in the future.

86 / Smithsonian Year 1979
National Museum of Man,
Center for the Study of Man

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

The National Anthropological Film Center (NaFc) is working to de-
velop the means to take greater advantage of the potential for visual
and aural records as a means of furthering human understanding.
The Film Center deals with questions having to do with the nature
of the human condition, including all aspects of the human heritage,
such as behavioral development, philosophy, ethics, cultural his-
tory, aesthetics, the visual arts, and the behavioral and human
sciences.

Many scholarly interests and currents form the background of
the new field of visual inquiry into human affairs. They come from:
visual arts and pedagogy; the medical and behavioral sciences;
aesthetics and epistemology; anthropology and ethnology; psy-
chology, sociology, and economics; history and political science;
ecology and natural history; and information theory and communi-
cations. Cross-disciplinary approaches have begun to emerge, but
the required new frameworks embracing both the humanities and
sciences still do not exist.

At present, the narc is collaborating with leaders and scholars in
several Third World nations on film documentation of their threat-
ened cultural heritages. Facilities for preservation and retrieval of
the visual data obtained are being developed, in response to interest
and invitations received by the Film Center. The Narc is now re-
sponding in the following countries: Nepal, Tibet, India, Papua New
Guinea, Brazil, Micronesia, the Cook Islands, Bolivia, Pakistan, and
Sudan.

In order to provide the broadest possible latitude for independent
scholarly development of visual data on vanishing ways of life, the
NaFc has been experimenting with various kinds of support to
filmmakers and scholars interested in producing films as permanent
scholarly resources. This effort includes: providing consulting
services, filmmaking expertise, or equipment; supplying film stock,
processing facilities, logistic support, training, assembly, and an-
notation services; helping with grant applications; and supplying
preservation service and facilities for analysis. In providing such

Science / 87
assistance, the NAFC maintains a flexible policy aimed at filling
project gaps with resources not otherwise available.

For accurate, up-to-date information on the variety, distribution,
and conditions of the ways of life currently extant in the world,
the Film Center relies on scholars who are personally knowledge-
able about particular regions. In this way, the NaFc can share the
sophisticated understanding possessed by specialists affiliated with
various universities and research institutes actively investigating
and learning more about the state of human organization across the
world.

The National Research Film Collection is being developed as a
means of preserving the irreplaceable records of visual data that
document the various expressions of human potential, organization,
and behavior in social and cultural contexts.

The growing National Research Film Collection is now nearing
2,000,000 feet of film. This body of irreplaceable documents repre-
sents aspects of life throughout the world (see the “List of Donors
to the Smithsonian Institution,” Appendix 9).

The research efforts of the NaFc touch on several program areas:
(1) inquiry into the human condition; (2) studies of human behavior
and development. As the characteristic patterns of behavior take
hold of and mold a growing child, they can reveal how basic human
potential may respond to various conditions of life and how the
patterned responses characteristic of a culture emerge from these
conditions; (3) examination of the nature of human knowledge.
Emerging as a natural corollary to the Narc’s studies is the question
of the nature of human knowledge. Such important issues as the
limits of contemporary scientific method in humanistic studies keep
arising in the course of inquiry into human nature—theoretical
issues relating to the problems of applying the methodology of the
natural sciences to studies of human existence. Key among these
issues is the problem of reflexivity. The objective methods of natu-
ral science are well suited to obtaining knowledge by which the
materials and things of the world can be manipulated for human
benefit, because, in part, these methods divorce the question of
value from the process of inquiry. However, when people examine
people; when humankind is both examiner and examinee, a reflex-
ive epistemological situation is established that may not be separa-
ble from values.

88 / Smithsonian Year 1979
All purposeful human activity is impelled by some human value.
A great variety of different human values exists in the world. All of
these values impel inquiry and activity in their own ways, and in
the arena of life, the human condition partakes of and adjusts to
the many currents of meaning and value. While the methods of
natural science are powerful tools, they remain servants of human
values and thus are poorly equipped to fathom the nature of life
itself. This poses a rather fundamental difference between the na-
ture of natural science on the one side and humanistic studies on
the other. The narc seeks to bridge this gap between the humani-
ties and science.

From the earliest days of the concept of a National Film Studies
Center, the need for research and development on systems of visual-
data management, collection, and retrieval, has been recognized.
The narc has continued to work on equipment and systems design
as part of the task of developing an effective program.

In order to surpass the existing camera technology so as to ob-
tain high-quality, synchronous-sound, visual records of daily
activity in remote cultures, the Narc has established some new
specifications for equipment to gather visual data in daily life
situations.

Professional filmmaking had required a two-person team in order
to record both picture and sound. Experience showed that two
people created a society of their own in other cultures and so
attracted considerably more attention than one person with a
camera. The interactions between these “strange beings” was in
effect a show. For this reason, the narc developed design specifica-
tions for a rig that would be operated by a single person. Then
the Film Center obtained the services of specialized instrument
makers. After a year and a half of testing and reworking, the NAFc
has equipment that works well. It has equipped all its teams with
this new data-gathering instrument.

Developed from the small Ethnofilm Training Program for De-
veloping Nations (initiated in 1974 with a grant from the Wenner-
Gren Foundation), the current Ethnofilm Training Program has
been designed in cooperation with the Anthropology Film Center in
Santa Fe to train students to obtain researchable film samples of
human behavior in the context of vanishing and changing cultures.
Based on the belief that individuals from other cultures enrich such

Science / 89
samples, because of their different, often more expert, cultural per-
ceptions, this program specifically involves members of non-
Western cultures.

The first such participant was a graduate student in anthropology
from the University of Delhi in India. He returned to India to
complete a comparative film study on the divergent patterns of hu-
man development among the ironsmithing nomads of northern
India and isolated Tibetan-speaking mountain people in Lahul. The
naFc has also trained students from the Western Caroline Islands
of Micronesia and from Tibet; from Harvard University and Ameri-
can University; and, from Brazil, a psychologist from the Museu
do Indio. All of these students have already been involved in film
study projects in Third World nations.

On the occasion of the visit of His Holiness the fourteenth Dalai
Lama, spiritual leader of the world’s Buddhists, the Nnarc prepared
a special program of excerpts from its Study of Traditional Tibetan
Civilization. This program included showings of ancient Tibetan
rites and rituals for the first time; aspects of the movements, ex-
pressions, and styles of dialect exchanges; the training and lives of
young monks; the basic respect-relations that are part of Tibetan
family organization; and the spirit-possession and oracle of Stok,

Ladakh.

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES

The Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies (r1£s)
has maintained its efforts to facilitate and promote the study of the
impact of contemporary immigration upon, and its discernible im-
plications for the future of, the United States and the international
community.

In the past year, the institute continued to expand its publication
series, completing and sending to press: Quantitative Data and
Immigration Research, edited by Stephen R. Couch and Roy S.
Bryce-Laporte, as a part of the Research Notes Series; Culture,
Disease, and Stress Among Latinos, by Lucy M. Cohen, as a special
study; and Sourcebook on the New Immigration: Implications for
the United States and the International Community, edited by Roy
S. Bryce-Laporte, with the assistance of Delores M. Mortimer and
Stephen R. Couch, as a special publication published by Transac-
tion Press. It is accompanied by the Sourcebook on the New Immi-

90 / Smithsonian Year 1979

gration: Supplement, edited by Roy S. Bryce-Laporte, with the
assistance of Delores M. Mortimer and Stephen R. Couch.

The staff attended numerous symposia in 1978-79. Dr. Roy
Bryce-Laporte, rues director, served as a participant and official
North American unesco observer at the unesco Conference on
Studies of the African Diaspora and the Caribbean, in the Domini-
can Republic. He participated in the Ethnohistory Society Meetings
in Chicago and the Spring Symposium on the Political Economy of
the Black World, at the Afro-American Studies Center, ucLa, where
he presented the paper “American Plantation Expansion and West
Indian Labor Migration into Central America: Limon, Costa Rica,
4870-1948”; and at the Afro-American Studies Symposium, held at
the University of Pennsylvania and at Haverford College, Haver-
ford, Pennsylvania, he presented the paper “The Persisting Signifi-
cance of Race: The Perplexing Significance of Class.” He partici-
pated in the Columbia Faculty Seminar on Cultural Pluralism,
Columbia University, and served as an official observer and par-
ticipant at CARIFESTA in Cuba, where he participated in the seminar
on Identity and Culture. He also opened a session at the Interna-
tional Conference on the Caribbean sponsored by the Center for
Economic and Social Studies of the Third World, Mexico City,
Mexico, where he presented his paper on ‘Problems in Defining
the Caribbean: An Overview.”

Dr. Stephen R. Couch, rues research coordinator, presented the
paper “Directions of Research on Recent U. S. Immigration:
Prospects for Knowledge and Policy” as part of the Colloquium
Series, Center for International Studies, Duke University. He also
presented his paper “The Orchestra as Factory: Social Structure
and Musical Style” at the American Sociological Association Meet-
ings in Boston.

As an outgrowth of her research on women and migration,
Delores M. Mortimer, rues programs and publications coordinator,
attended the second triennial conference of the International
Women’s Council, which convened in Nairobi, Kenya, in August
1979. While in Nairobi, Ms. Mortimer also served as an evaluator
of various international projects designed to bring about the fuller
incorporation of women into development activities.

The rus staff observed carnivals in Montreal, Toronto, and New
York City as a part of their planning for a seminar and publication

Science / 91
on “Carnival as a New Immigrant Contribution to Folklife” in
connection with the Smithsonian’s Annual Folklife Festival (1979).

Dr. Bryce-Laporte closed the fiscal year with his participation as
moderator of a panel that was part of a series of panels, exhibits,
and concerts on the African Presence in the Americas sponsored by
the Visual Arts Research and Resource Center Relating to the
Caribbean, Phelps-Stokes Fund.

National Museum of Natural History

Of the many events at the National Museum of Natural History
(nMNH) during the past year, two stand out: the opening of ‘“Dy-
namics of Evolution’’—a new exhibit hall that outlines the evolu-
tionary process—and the beginning of a comprehensive inventory
of the sixty million specimens in the museum’s collections.

Involving anthropology, botany, paleobiology, and zoology,
evolution is a unifying theme for the natural sciences, and for this
reason, “Dynamics of Evolution” was installed in a central location
on the museum’s main floor. As the visitors walk through the hall,
they pass through areas that sequentially illustrate the basic con-
cepts of the evolutionary process.

Over the next five years, all of the older natural science exhibits
on the museum’s main floor will be thematically integrated with the
new hall. The east dinosaur gallery and the smaller fossil halls
around it have already been closed for renovation and are scheduled
to reopen in phases between March 1980 and December 1981.

Until this year, inventories of the museum’s collection had been
performed piecemeal, partially by manual means and partially by
using the museum’s Automatic Data Processing (app) facilities. But
now an accelerated app program has begun, with the objective of
establishing a computerized record of the museum’s full collection.

By the end of fiscal year 1979, more than 11 million specimen
and lot records will have been entered into the computer. In the
years ahead, just over eight million more records are expected to
be added to this data base. From then on, it will be possible to
reinventory the full collection swiftly, efficiently, and inexpensively
on a regular basis.

92 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Rare Mexican devil mask (ca. 1850). An exhibit containing 185 ceremonial Mexican
dance masks opened at the National Museum of Natural History. in February 1979.
(Photo by Victor E. Krantz.)
The initial inventory work—which more than eighty persons
were hired to help carry out—focused on collections that are to
be moved to the Smithsonian’s Museum Support Center when that
facility opens in 1982. Because of this priority, much of the in-
ventory work was concentrated in 1979 on the museum’s 3.5 mil-
lion anthropological specimens, approximately 90 percent of which
will be relocated to the Support Center.

In carrying out the inventory, all the newly recorded app data
is compared against the old records to make certain that collection
specimens are in their proper places. Many specimens—such as
minerals and fossils—are becoming very valuable, and the inven-
tory will make it possible to improve control of these objects.

Note is also being made of the conditions of specimens so that
conservation measures can be taken when necessary. This is
especially important with the anthropological materials, many of
which were collected in the nineteenth century and are subject to
deterioration.

Other significant exhibit events at the museum in 1978-79 in-
cluded the opening of an exhibit of 185 ceremonial Mexican dance
masks purchased by the museum from Donald and Mary Cordry of
Cuernavaca, Mexico, who had assembled the most completely docu-
mented and extensive collection of Mexican masks in existence. In
late 1978, through funding provided by the Women’s Committee of
the Smithsonian Associates, the museum launched a series of ex-
hibits on the staff’s research. These exhibits, to date, have focused
on John Ewers’s Plains Indian studies; Storrs Olson’s fossil bird
research; Brian Mason’s Antarctica meteorite investigations; and
Lyman Smith’s and Robert Read’s bromeliad research. A small
gallery area was opened in 1979 in the second floor Indian Hall to
show photographs from the collections of the museum’s Anthro-
pological Archives. ‘“The Working Woman,” depicting traditional
activities of American women, was the first of these exhibits. The
museum’s Office of Education opened a new gallery area in 1978 in
its Learning Center. Exhibits shown there included a collection of
Japanese dolls, nature photographs by NmMNH photographer Kjell
Sandved, and Eskimo graphics and sculptures.

The Office of Education expanded its Outreach Program to elderly
and institutionalized adults and children in the Washington, D.C.,
area in 1978-79, and inaugurated free Saturday film and demonstra-

94 / Smithsonian Year 1979
tion programs, especially aimed at family audiences. Major renova-
tions were begun in the office’s Discovery Room, visited by over
100,000 persons annually since its opening in 1974. Funding for
this renovation was provided by the Smithson Society and the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

In June 1979, Porter M. Kier stepped down after six years as
director of the National Museum of Natural History and was
awarded the Smithsonian’s Henry Medal by Secretary Ripley, for
“carrying the museum into a new era—developing modernized ex-
hibits that interpret the natural sciences for the American people.”
Dr. James F. Mello assumed the acting directorship of the museum.

NMNH archaeologist Dr. Gus Van Beek has completed nine sea-
sons of field excavations at Tell Jemmeh, an ancient town site in
Israel’s western Negev desert, unearthing a mass of valuable data
on an area of unique historical importance.

In the last two years of work at the site (1977-78), two deep
probe excavations sunk in the twelve-acre, forty-five-foot-high tell,
confirmed that it was first occupied on the east side about 3200 B.c.
by asmall group of farming and hunting people.

The first settlement lasted only 200 years. A long period followed
when Tell Jemmeh and other areas of the Negev were left in the
hands of roaming nomads.

Canaanites resettled the Negev about 1700 B.c., and agriculture
was resumed on the Negev land. About 1550 B.c., the town began
to spread over the entire site. An astonishing amount of debris—
as much as eighteen feet at points—accumulated on the tell over
the next 350 years. According to Van Beek, this suggests that the
city was razed by rival Canaanite invaders more than once—and
rebuilt each time.

When war was not raging, Canaanite Tell Jemmeh was a thriving
international trade center. It provided an inland market, only 61/2
miles from the Mediterranean coast, for the sale of imported goods
from Cyprus and the Aegean area. The tell also lay along the great
Arabian incense route. Camel caravans laden with frankincense and
myrrh, bound for the Mediterranean port of Gaza, made the town
an overnight stop.

The probe excavations pointed to considerable industrial activity
by 1500 s.c. within the little Canaanite town. Pottery kilns, black-
smith shops, and possibly lime-burning furnaces were in operation.

Science / 95
One of Van Beek’s discoveries on the west side of the tell—
progressively excavated seasonally from 1971 to 1978—was a
cobblestone courtyard (forty-six feet long by eighteen feet wide)
that he believes may have been a public gathering place associated
with a temple or possibly the palace of the reigning king. It dates to
the thirteenth century B.c., the final period of Canaanite occupation
at Tell Jemmeh.

The Canaanites were overcome in the twelfth century B.c by an
onslaught of Philistine tribes. The Philistines, who had a strong
ethnic identity, created new interregional markets, and the town
continued as a bustling production and trade center.

A large kiln operated by the Philistines in the twelfth century
was excavated by Van Beek’s team (1975-77). Study of this kiln,
one of the largest and most technically sophisticated that has ever
come to light in the Near East, is shedding light on ancient ceramic
technology.

Philistine control of Tell Jemmeh ended in the seventh century
B.c., when the region was invaded by Assyrians. The archaeological
team excavated and examined in detail a large, six-room, mud-brick
building that was the residence of an Assyrian military governor.
Its vaulted basement ceilings were built with the first known
keystone-shaped mud bricks, a discovery that adds a new chapter
to Middle Eastern architectural history.

As part of a massive grain conservation project for the Negev
region, huge cylindrical grain silos were erected in the final century
or so of Tell Jemmeh’s occupation (about 310-200 B.c.), when the
Negev was part of the Ptolemaic Empire. One of these granaries—
the largest and best preserved ever found in Israel and one of con-
siderable architectural interest—was excavated and studied by Van
Beek.

Tell Jemmeh was abandoned between 200 and 150 s.c. Van Beek
believes that its water resources—springs in the riverbed that winds
along and cuts into the tell’s north side—dried up.

Scientists at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural
History are playing a significant role in supporting an international
conservation effort to preserve the Galapagos Islands. Some 600
miles off the coast of Ecuador, the islands are populated by unusual,
often bizarre animals, marine life, and plants, amidst a spectacular
panorama of volcanoes, active and extinct. Observations of this

96 / Smithsonian Year 1979
NMNH archaeologist Dr. Gus Van Beek investigates a Hellenistic stratum of Tell
Jemmeh, an ancient town site in Israel’s western Negev desert. (Photo by Victor E.
Krantz.) Below. Fernandina caldera, Galapagos Islands, is being studied by NMNH
volcanologist Thomas Simkin. These two photographs show the caldera before (top)
and after its floor dropped more than 1,000 feet in 1968. The lower panorama shows
the lava from four subsequent eruptions, the most recent of which (1978) covers
most of the right foreground floor. The far wall of the caldera is nearly three miles
away from the camera. (Top photo by Alan Root; bottom photo by Lee Siebert.)

remarkable setting were important to the naturalist Charles Darwin
in his development of the concepts of evolution.

In 1959, the centenary of the publication of Darwin’s Origin of
Species, action was taken to begin the reversal of trends which had
begun to disrupt the islands’ fragile ecosystem. Ecuador declared
all of the archipelago a natural park and enacted laws for the pro-
tection of the indigenous wildlife, and the Charles Darwin Founda-
tion (cDF) was established, an international organization devoted to
conservation and science in the Galapagos.

The success of conservation in the Galapagos Islands depends
upon scientific study. NMNH’s Raymond Fosberg, a world authority
on tropical island ecology, said about the archipelago:

“Man has initiated the degradation of a remarkable ecosystem.
Whether he can put “Humpty-Dumpty together again” is question-
able. It is possible to try, however, and the first step should be to
make a serious attempt at understanding the ecosystem, both as it
was and as it is.”

Over the past fifteen years, scientists working at the Darwin
Research Station and in scientific institutions throughout the world
have made important strides in this direction. Some NMNH contribu-
tions are listed below.

NMNH’s Thomas Simkin, who specializes in studies of volcanoes
that erupt in midocean, has been monitoring Fernandina, currently
the most active Galapagos volcano. It is the most westerly of the
large Galapagos islands, and the rim of its crater rises nearly a mile
above sea level. Simkin first went to the Galapagos in 1968, when
one of the most spectacular volcanic events of this century took
place as the floor of Fernandina crater collapsed, dropping 1,200
feet in the course of nine days.

Caldera collapses are common in the geological record and have
created features such as Oregon’s Crater Lake. But they occur
rarely in historic time. The last collapse of this magnitude was
Katami, Alaska, in 1912. The much more advanced remote sensing
capabilities of recent decades have provided far more useful data
about the Galapagos collapse.

Simkin has been continuing his studies of the effects of this event
and the lesser eruptions that followed at Fernandina in 1972, 1973,
1977, and 1978. The physical processes that he is studying are
those that have repeatedly modified the Galapagos’ physical and

98 / Smithsonian Year 1979
biological environment over the three million years of the islands’
existence.

The list of NMNH scientists who have published taxonomic studies
of the Galapagos flora and fauna is a long one. Included are: J.
Laurens Barnard, amphipods; J. F. Gates Clarke, microlepidoptera;
F. R. Fosberg, vegetation; Richard C. Froeschner, lace bugs; Paul
Hurd, carpenter bees; A. Colby Child, sea spiders; John M. Burns,
skipper butterflies; Harold Rehder, mollusks; Thomas Bowman,
amphipods; George Watson, seabirds; S. Dillon Ripley, rails;
Raymond Manning, shrimp; and David Steadman, fossil verte-
brates. The late Waldo Schmitt was the first NMNH scientist to take
a major interest in the islands.

NMNH’s James Norris and Katina Bucher are working offshore
from the islands to collect marine algae and quantitative data for
ecological, systematic, and chemical studies. One important benefit
of this work is baseline information necessary to monitor environ-
mental changes in Galapagos waters as a result of tourism.

To compare different marine provinces within the archipelago,
permanent transects were established on island sites with warm
water temperatures and colder upwelled water. This data is being
analyzed for interisland and seasonal variation comparisons of
species composition, diversity, and community structure of the
benthic marine plants and invertebrate animals. Seasonal changes
are being recorded by resurveying the same transects at different
times of the year. Over 20,000 specimens from twenty-four islands
in two seasons represent the most extensive marine botanical col-
lections ever made in this unigue region. Over 36 percent of the
marine flora is endemic to the archipelago. Norris and Bucher sug-
gest that the new collections will increase the species known from
the Galapagos by 30 percent. Many new distributional records and
some new species have already been found in their systematic
studies.

NMNH’s Duane Hope, a specialist on nematodes, accompanied
Norris and Bucher on one of their recent diving expeditions to
collect nematode species that live amidst the Galapagos algae. He
brought back general collections of marine fauna, including speci-
mens of the giant starfish Luidia superba, measuring thirty-three
inches across and with arms up to sixteen inches long, now under
study by nmnu’s Maureen Downey.

Science / 99
Nearly 300 miles northeast of Galapagos, giant worms ranging
up to five feet in length were discovered 8,000 feet beneath the
ocean last year by National Science Foundation-supported scientists
diving in the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution’s submersible
Alvin. The worms possess no mouth and no digestive tract. NMNH’S
Dr. Meridith Jones believes that as they have no capability for
handling particulate foods, their nourishment must be at the mo-
lecular level. For this reason, he says, one is forced to accept the
fact that an animal five feet long and one-and-a-half inches in
diameter can take up molecular food in sufficient quantities to sup-
port this large mass of tissue.

The worms live in seafloor rift zones in which water is heated by
deep fissures into the earth’s interior. The waters in these areas are
saturated with sulfur compounds that are toxic to most animals.
But communities of sea animals are able to survive in this unique
ecological niche by feeding on bacteria and other microorganisms
that metabolize sulfur dioxide rather than oxygen, or, in the case
of the worms, molecular metabolites. The worms appear to be
unique among the higher animals in that they deposit crystals of
elemental sulfur in their tissue. Whether this is a result of sulfur
metabolism by them or a means of detoxifying body fluids has yet
to be determined.

The Galapagos worms are members of a relatively newly recog-
nized taxon, the Vestimentifera, first described ten years ago and
considered to be either part of the phylum Pogonophora or the
phylum Annelida, according to the views of different researchers.
The phylum Pogonophora has some basic morphological similarities
—such as the lack of mouth and digestive tract—to the Galapagos
worms, but there are other morphological characters that the two
groups do not share. The net result is that Jones believes that the
Galapagos worms should be assigned to a subphylum status in the
phylum Pogonophora, even though the Vestimentifera as a whole
has relationships to the phylum Annelida. Jones expects to delve
deeper into this matter in November 1979 when he will take part
in an expedition to the Galapagos to dive in the Alvin to collect
and observe the worms.

In the dim recesses of the basement of the National Museum of
Natural History, marine researcher Walter H. Adey and a team of
coworkers have succeeded, for the first time anywhere, in develop-

100 / Smithsonian Year 1979
ing a functioning, growing coral reef. More than 130 species of
Caribbean reef plants and animals have been transplanted into an
1,800-gallon tank, which creates a balanced reef ecosystem with
functions and processes that mirror the natural habitat.

Dr. Adey attributes his success in preserving the reef’s natural
balance primarily to two devices. First, the twelve-by-four-by-six-
foot tank is lighted by sixteen 400-watt metal halide lamps. These
lamps simulate the intensity of tropical sunlight and are timed to
provide a normal daily cycle of light and dark. The second key
piece of equipment is an automatic wave generator that simulates
both the wave action and current required by a natural reef. These
and other totally new procedures, which have ultimately led to the
creation of the reef microcosm, were the result of more than eight
years of intensive study of Caribbean reefs.

For years, Caribbean reefs were thought to be stunted and barren
in comparison with those in the western Pacific, but the investiga-
tions of Adey and his colleagues have shown the fallacy of this
belief. His findings are based on numerous reef cores taken from
many lesser Antillean Islands, the study of the cross section in a
ship channel cut through the reef in St. Croix, and recent studies
of water chemistry in St. Croix and Martinque.

Modern reef development, Adey found, is controlled by complex
factors. The single most important of these is the shape and nature
of the pre-existing shoreline. Its influence is strongly modified by
the pattern of sea-level rise after each glaciation. A secondary factor
of considerable importance is the strength and constancy of wave
action. Adey’s work has shown that eastern and western Caribbean
reefs differ in ways principally related to sea and swell charac-
teristics.

Adey and his students also have discovered that tropical reefs,
as they build and develop over several thousand years, pass through
a series of well-defined successional stages, much as do many
terrestrial communities. The organisms present in a reef, and its
surface appearance, can differ markedly in each stage, so much so
that in some cases one structure might not even be recognized as a
coral reef.

It has been known for several decades that coral reefs are very
productive biological systems. Adey and his students have shown
that primary productivity—the building of organic compounds

Science / 101
using sunlight—varies according to the stage of succession, later
stages being more productive than the earlier ones in which most
reef building occurs.

Adey and his students have demonstrated that the reef’s algal
turf, in combination with wave surge, produces the tremendous
productivity of mature reefs. Constant wave surge serves to provide
maximum exchange of oxygen, carbon dioxide, and nutrients to
these rapidly metabolizing plants.

The algal turf grows so rapidly that it is never totally consumed
by the large number of parrot fish, sea urchins, and other reef
animals that graze on it. Contrary to expectations, maximum pro-
ductivity and energy flow derive in part from biomass being con-
centrated in grazers.

Well-developed reefs occur in the tropics, where sunlight is
usually consistent and intense. Adey’s observations show that the
mature reef is a master in capturing solar energy and inducing it to
flow through its system. It was because Adey wanted to study this
energy flow, a necessity for all biological systems, as well as other
features of reefs, that he decided to build his reef microcosm in
NMNH’s basement. By working simultaneously with natural reefs
and this experimental unit, Adey and his team hope to understand
the mechanics of this most complex of ecosystems.

This past year, NMNH mineralogist Daniel Appleman collaborated
with predoctoral fellow Izumi Nakai from Tsukuba University,
Japan, to determine the crystal structures of the rare minerals gerst-
leyite and laffittite. Gerstleyite, a hydrous sodium arsenic-antimony
sulfide, proved to have a unique structure based on rings of
antimony-sulfur pyramids linked to chains. Laffittite, a silver-
mercury-arsenic sulfide, is a sulfosalt with close-packed sulfur and
ordered metal atoms. Both structures enlarge our knowledge of the
role of arsenic and antimony in sulfide ore deposits.

Foraminifera are tiny, single-celled, shelled protozoa, each the
size of a tiny sand grain, which live almost everywhere in the sur-
face waters and on the bottoms of the present oceans. Because of
their great abundance and their limy shell (preserved in mud after
the death of the animal), they are recovered in large numbers in
rock deposits formed under the sea millions of years ago.

The world’s largest collection of foraminifera fossils is housed
at the National Museum of Natural History—a half million speci-

102 / Smithsonian Year 1979

mens, each preserved on a glass microscope slide. These specimens
are consulted frequently by petroleum geologists to date sediments
and to help determine potential locations of oil deposits.

Dr. Richard Cifelli is charting the distribution of the so-called
“pelagic” foraminifera that live in the surface layers of the oceans,
where currents transport them over hundreds of square miles.
Working on oceanographic vessels in the North Atlantic, Cifelli
drags a fine-meshed plankton net in the water, separating the
“forams” from the other animals collected with a special furnace
technique he has developed. In the furnace, the soft, organic-tissued
plankton burn up, leaving the shelly remains of foraminifera.

When these remains are identified and counted, Cifelli can plot
the species distribution and relate them to ocean currents. By doing
so, he can see that different water masses in the North Atlantic are
characterized by different species associations, and he can make
estimates of what the water masses were like. Thus he is learning
more about the ancient ocean and past climatic conditions and how
they have changed through time.

Dr. Martin A. Buzas studies the bottom-living foraminifera, the
so-called “benthonic” forms, which have been important rock
builders in the past. He specializes in ones that are found in shallow
water and close to the shore.

Buzas is especially interested in ecological factors that influence
foraminifera distribution and abundance. Until recently, scientists
looked only at physical conditions, such as temperature and water
salinity. But Buzas’s data indicates that competition between differ-
ent species of animals is equally important. He is trying to find out
what effect predation has on foraminifera populations and how
important the foraminifera are as food for clams, crabs, fish,
worms, and other large marine animals.

At Fort Pierce, Florida, where the Smithsonian operates a floating
barge as a marine laboratory, Buzas and an assistant, Karen Carle,
recently set up an experiment designed to provide insight into these
ecological questions.

Cutting sections out of the sides of large trash cans, Buzas and
Carle covered the holes with nylon screen fine enough to keep out
predators and yet sufficiently large for microorganisms such as
foraminifera to flow into the can. The bottom of the can was first
filled with sediment, and then the entire container was placed in

Science / 103
shallow water. Screens were changed twice a week to keep them
from becoming fouled. Every month, the sediment in the can was
sampled and the foraminifera density measured. Less than a thou-
sand individual foraminifera were found for every twenty milliliters
of sediment outside the can. However, the researchers found five
times that many forams inside the can in the same sediment quan-
tity, clear evidence of the importance of predation in pruning
foraminifera populations.

Buzas estimates that the living wet-weight of foraminifera being
consumed adds up to twenty to thirty grams per square meter per
month—a substantial food source for predators. His experiments,
now in progress, are giving some indication of just how important
foraminifera are to the ecology of an estuarine area.

Early in the autumn, as the skies over the Atlantic coast become
crowded with millions of birds winging south for the winter, a less
visible migration is also taking place. In late September and early
October, herds of bottle-nosed dolphins are swimming south be-
tween Long Island, New York, and Cape Hatteras, North Carolina,
on the return leg of an annual journey.

For the past several years, their migration has been closely
monitored by NMNH marine biologist Dr. James G. Mead. How
many dolphins are there? Where, what, and when do they eat?
When and where do they mate? What affects their migration
patterns?

To answer these questions, Mead and his assistant, Charles Potter,
travel along the coast almost as much as the dolphins. From his
studies, Mead has learned much about migration patterns, which
vary from year to year, depending on such factors as the tempera-
ture of the water and the abundance and kinds of fish available to
the dolphins. Basically, the dolphins winter off the North Carolina
coast, or sometimes farther south, until spring, when they begin
heading north. Each herd is composed of several hundred members,
organized loosely in groups of ten or fifteen, moving a mile or two
apart. One herd follows another, and it takes as long as two months
for all the herds to get under way. Although no census has been
taken of this migration in many years, there are probably more
than 10,000 dolphins involved, according to Mead. By the end of
May, the first herds are off Virginia and, by late June, they are as

104 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The skull of a blue whale is hoisted into place in the Dynamics of Evolution Hall,

which opened at the National Museum of Natural History in May 1979. (Photo by
Chip Clark.) Below. Migrating dolphin off the coast of Maryland. Dolphin migrations
are being studied by Dr. James G. Mead, NMNH marine biologist.

far north as Sandy Hook, New Jersey. There they remain for up
to two months before starting back.

Mead is making plans to track one of the dolphin groups through
its entire journey. Radio transmitters and other sophisticated
technological equipment will not be needed—only field glasses.
Dolphins are prone to injuries on their dorsal fins, and these create
distinct markings. The scars are not visible from the air but can be
spotted by observers from shipboard or on shore and should make
it possible to follow individual animals and other members of the
group as they move up the coast.

In addition to these studies, marine animal strandings also pro-
vide valuable information to Mead and Potter. Of 480 marine mam-
mals stranded along the Atlantic shore last year, 320 were dolphins.
Arriving at the scene of a stranding, Mead performs detailed
autopsies on the animals. External body measurements are taken to
provide data for systematic studies. He also examines stomach
contents and reproductive organs and collects samples of tissue,
blood, and parasites for laboratory analysis.

To cover the hundreds of miles of Atlantic shore that hs is un-
able to patrol, Mead relies on a network of observers organized by
the museum’s Scientific Event Alert Network (sean). These indi-
viduals pass along information about dolphins, whales, and other
beached marine mammals. If Mead or Potter cannot go to the
scene, SEAN tries to find someone living in the area of the stranding
who can autopsy the animal and send study samples to the
museum, adding to the museum’s already large collection of infor-
mation on marine mammals.

The box that recently arrived at the Smithsonian from Southeast
Asia contained a new species of Anopheles mosquito—a deadly
carrier of drug-resistant malaria that infests Thailand, Cambodia,
and Vietnam.

The mosquito had been collected in Thailand by U.S. Army
malaria researchers and had been identified as Anopheles balaba-
censis, a malaria carrier common to Borneo, Malaya, Assam, Burma,
the southern Philippines, and Java.

It was shipped to the Smithsonian because a scientist in Thailand
noticed that its biting behavior was peculiar. Balbacensis and other
Anopheles malaria-carriers as a rule attack humans at dusk, where-
as swarms of this mosquito were found looking for a meal much

106 / Smithsonian Year 1979
later in the evening, biting most people between midnight and
2:00 A.M.

At the Smithsonian, E. L. Peyton, a staff member of the Medical
Entomology Project (mer) at the National Museum of Natural His-
tory, examined the specimen, compared it with the Philippine Type
of balabacensis, and discovered that it had been misidentified. The
alternating light and dark bands on its wings were slightly different
from the true balabacensis mosquito. Here was a distinctly new
species.

Peyton determined the taxonomic character of the new species,
making it possible to distinguish it from other mosquitoes. He also
carried out biological studies that demonstrated that the mosquito
is a probable major vector (carrier) of malaria wherever it occurs
in Southeast Asia. In some areas, it may be the only vector. In
recognition of the harm that it causes, Peyton selected the Latin
name dirus (fearful) for the species.

Identification of dirus is making it possible to learn where the
immature stages occur—usually in small scattered puddles on the
forest fringes—information essential to any efforts to eradicate the
species.

MEP is the leading center of research on mosquito biosystematics
in the United States, and Anopheles dirus is only one of hundreds
of Southeast Asian Anopheles mosquitoes that have received de-
tailed taxonomic study over the past fifteen years by the staff.

The Southeast Asia Mosquito Project (sEAMP) was established in
1964 at the National Museum of Natural History, funded by the
U. S. Army Medical Research and Development Command. This
cooperative arrangement continues today as the Medical Ento-
mology Project (MEP). The change in the name reflects the expansion
of the staff’s research to Africa and Latin America and to the
mosquito groups that are the vectors of yellow fever, filariasis,
dengue fever, and encephalitis. These diseases, combined with
malaria, kill and debilitate several hundred million persons every
year. Malaria has been reduced considerably throughout the world
over the past twenty years, but now, because of lack of funding
for control programs, it is experiencing a resurgence.

NMNH’s contributions to research in tropical medicine date back
to the early 1900s, when the United States was attempting to eradi-
cate yellow fever and malaria in Cuba, where U.S. troops were

Science / 107
stationed, and in Panama, where the U.S. was engaged in construc-
tion of the canal. The museum has large holdings of tropical
mosquitoes as a legacy of this work, including such historically
interesting specimens as those studied by Major Walter Reed in
Cuba.

The geographical coverage of the museum’s collection was
further enlarged in the World War II years, when the museum
became the depository for large numbers of specimens collected in
the South Pacific and Asia. Mep’s work has added to this nucleus
hundreds of thousands of Southeast Asian mosquitoes. Over all,
the Smithsonian mosquito collection is now the largest in the world,
numbering more than 500,000 specimens, including 1,200 Types.
Currently the museum is in the process of accessioning an addi-
tional 250,000 mosquitoes collected from North, Central, and South
America by Dr. John Belkin of the University of California.

MEP is currently directed by Dr. Oliver Flint of the museum’s
Department of Entomology. mer has its own support staff, con-
sisting of an administrative assistant, collections manager, several
scientific illustrators, and museum technicians. Scientists on the
staff are working on a variety of projects. Dr. Yiau-Min Huang is
studying African yellow fever and virus vectors; Mr. George K.
Bryce and Dr. Sunthorn Sirivankarn are focusing on New World
vectors of malaria and viral disease, including Venezuelan equine
encephalitis; Captain Michael Faran, one of the project’s Walter
Reed collaborators, is studying South American malaria vectors;
E. L. Peyton and Walter Reed’s Dr. Ronald Ward are continuing
their work on important Southeast Asian vectors, in collaboration
with Major Bruce Harrison of Walter Reed’s Thailand research
laboratory.

The Peruvian Amazon Basin, especially the western periphery
along the moist eastern slope of the Andes, contains what is per-
haps one of the largest unexplored rain forests in the world.

For a volume on the Flora of Peru that is under preparation,
NMNH botanist Dr. Dieter Wasshausen has made four collecting
trips over the last five years to learn what species of Acanthaceae
plants inhabit this rich tropical region.

The Acanthaceae is a family of flowering tropical plants that
makes up an important part of the vegetation of Peru and other
countries of the New World tropics. For most of northern and

108 / Smithsonian Year 1979
coastal Peru, sufficient material is now available to permit the
floristic treatment of Acanthaceae. But there is still a significant
lack of knowledge about the east Andean slopes.

This is largely because the east Andes is such a difficult region
for a botanist to survey. The roads stop at Andean coffee-planta-
tion outposts. To penetrate farther, Wasshausen must travel in a
canoe or small motor launch, stopping downstream where there
are logging trails on which he can hike into the wilderness and
collect.

Wasshausen has been focusing his survey on certain areas of
the Andean slope that survived the dry Quaternary periods as wet-
forest refuges. Here he finds that the evolutionary differentiation
of the Acanthaceae is at its zenith. Some of these refuge areas are
in the Upper Maraftén Valley, the Chanchamayo and Apurimac
valleys, the Upper Urubamba Valley, and the Upper Madre de
Dios basin, comprising the Rios Manu and Inambari valleys.

One of the important questions that these refuges pose concerns
the ways in which plants there are related to the vegetation in the
neighboring forest zones. Opportunities to study this problem are
arising as the Peruvian government opens up new agricultural
lands. Wasshausen points out that new roads being constructed
into the Amazonian lowlands usually cross the Andes chains at the
lowest passes, and it is in these vicinities that overlapping vegeta-
tion areas may be found. He feels it is critical for botanists to study
these newly accessible ecological habitats while the vegetation is
still relatively pristine.

Sharing Wasshausen’s interest in this region is his colleague
Dr. Laurence Skog, a specialist in the Gesneriaceae, the African
violet family. This family occurs as almost 2,000 species in the
tropics. It will be a key part of the Peruvian Flora. Like Wass-
hausen, Skog has sparse material from the eastern slopes of the
Andes. He collected in Andean cloud forests in several parts of
Peru in 1978 and hopes to make species inventories in other areas
of the region before they are cleared for agriculture and the natural
vegetation is lost forever.

In the field, both scientists are interested in making observations
of the reproductive biology of their plants. There is a great diver-
sity of animal groups important to this process for both families,
including hummingbirds, bats, moths and butterflies, and small

Science / 109
bees. These plant/animal relationships must be studied in order to
understand the different breeding systems used for maintaining the
species.

One Generiaceae genus studied by Dr. Skog is an epiphyte, a
plant that hangs from tree branches. Ants, drawn to the plant by
nectar glands on its leaves and stems, collect the plant’s seeds,
which are coated with a tissue that ants like to eat. The ants carry
the seeds back to the nest that they build on the branches of forest
trees. After they eat the tissue coating, they leave the seed core in
the nest, where it can germinate. Soon a plant sprouts out of the ant
nest. In this way, the ants serve the plant by dispersing it and by
literally planting the seeds in their nest. There is some evidence
that they also pollinate the plant’s flowers.

Ants were long thought responsible for the pollination of many
red-flowered rain-forest species of Acanthaceae. But on a recent
trip to Peru, Dr. Wasshausen discovered that the true pollinator is
a small bee. The ants found on the plants are in a symbiotic rela-
tionship with leaf-hoppers on the flowers. It appears that the leaf-
hoppers extract leaf nutrients from the plant and give off a sticky,
sweet substance that is ingested by the ants. The ants in turn pro-
tect the leaf-hoppers from other predators.

The biological scope of the museum’s Scientific Event Alert Net-
work (sEAN) broadened substantially with the addition of a grow-
ing network of correspondents reporting beachings of marine
turtles, many species of which are endangered by egg collecting,
incidental catches by fishermen, and habitat encroachment. In its
first 8 bulletins of 1979, seEAN reported 181 turtle beachings in
addition to 620 whale strandings (9 of which were mass strandings),
71 beachings of pinnipeds, and 62 deaths of manatees, another
endangered species.

A sean-sponsored interdisciplinary workshop on the April 1979
eruption of Soufriére of St. Vincent was held at the Smithsonian’s
Front Royal, Virginia, conference center, September 6-8. Volcanol-
ogists, seismologists, meteorologists, climatologists, physicists, and
satellite technologists discussed their research on this eruption and
explored possibilities for improved cooperation and communication
between workers who will be studying future eruptions.

Under the auspices of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting
Center (sosc), museum biologists Leslie W. Knapp, Colby A. Child,

110 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Herman A. Fehlmann, Frank D. Ferrari, Joseph D. Libbey, Jr., and
Ernani G. Menez, participated in a major expedition in the spring
of 1979 to the central Philippines. It was the second trip in a pro-
jected multiyear program to explore the marine biology of a com-
paratively unknown portion of the Indo-Pacific basin. Funding
was provided by the Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation, Inc.

Northeast was published by nmnu’s Handbook of North Ameri-
can Indians office in November. It is volume fifteen of a twenty-
volume set that is under the general editorship of Dr. William
Sturtevant. The series of volumes will summarize all that is known
about the history and cultures of North American Indians and
Eskimos, from their earliest prehistory through the present. This
volume was edited by Bruce G. Trigger, professor of anthropology
at McGill University in Montreal. It contains seventy-three chap-
ters by fifty-four outstanding authorities on the Indian cultures of
the region. A chapter is devoted to each of the tribes native to the
area, which includes the entire northeast of the United States as
far west as the Mississippi River and as far south as North Caro-
lina, as well as southeastern Canada.

OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION

The Office of Biological Conservation was established by the Secre-
tary on October 1, 1978, as part of the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Science. Dr. Edward S. Ayensu was appointed as its
director. The scope of its mandate includes the coordination of the
various environmental conservation activities already in progress
in the Institution and the development of new projects within areas
of staff interest and expertise. The office is also charged with articu-
lating and representing the Institution’s views on conservation
issues to both administrative and scientific circles, as well as to
the public at large.

The office is embarking on a two-pronged effort to disseminate
information. On a professional scientific level, bulletins will be
issued detailing the Smithsonian’s concern regarding critical en-
vironmental issues. These bulletins will be sent to scientific
authorities and governmental organizations in this country and
abroad, where they can be used as guides for the judicious use and
assessment of the environment. In the public domain, the office has
recently collaborated with the Bureau of Engraving and Printing of

Science / 111
the Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Postal Service in
preparing endangered-flora postage stamps that were issued on
June 7, 1979. It has also collaborated on related Postal Service ex-
hibitions, and additional exhibits are planned. An Occasional Papers
series and educational seminars and symposia will reach both the
scientific and lay communities and serve to amplify the office’s role
as a source of data for information-seekers from both groups.

National Zoological Park

Fiscal year 1979 brought a number of new animals to the National
Zoological Park (Nzp), through successful breeding and acquisition.
nzp also made progress on construction projects and expanded its
programs in animal management, research, conservation, and health.
At year’s end, staff members in all offices at the National Zoo could
take pride in having contributed to a successful year for animals,
visitors, and employees.

THE ANIMAL COLLECTION AND ITS EXHIBITS

Highlighting the year’s innovations was the new Beaver Valley
Exhibit, which opened in May. It features aquatic animals such as
seals, sea lions, beavers, and otters, as well as two canids—bush
dogs and timber wolves. Covering eight acres, the exhibit is grace-
fully landscaped, with waterfalls, pools, rocks, and hundreds of
plantings, so that it preserves the natural, wooded setting of Rock
Creek Park. A massive underground system of pumps and filters,
which circulate and cleanse the 375,000 gallons of water in the
seal and sea-lion pools, is hidden from public view and thus does
not intrude on the quiet beauty of the area—a major triumph of zoo
architecture. In the months since Beaver Valley’s official opening,
the animals have delighted and fascinated thousands of visitors
from all over the world.

An unusual means of acquiring animals was employed in the case
of the California sea lions. Staff of Hanna-Barbera’s Marineland in
Rancho Palos Verdes, California, rescued young animals aban-
doned by their mothers and then rehabilitated them under Marine-
land’s program for stranded and beached animals. The sea-lion

112 / Smithsonian Year 1979
pups were then acquired by the National Zoo, where they now
make their home.

During the spring, keepers began to train the sea lions and grey
seals, using an operant-conditioning method by which desired be-
havior is rewarded with a piece of fish. This training has several
benefits: it helps to establish trust between keeper and animal; it
provides a stimulating activity for the seal or sea lion; and, in cases
in which the animal is learning to retrieve objects from the water,
it helps to ensure that foreign matter will not be ingested. Training
also provides material for planned educational demonstrations for
the public.

For the enrichment of visitors, Beaver Valley provides innova-
tive exhibition techniques. Three-dimensional sculptures, housed
in plexiglas cases mounted on I-beams, accompany explanations
about communication in grey seals and in sea lions. A beaver skull
illustrates a passage about dam-building and dentition. Colorful
pipes and filters comprise a model explaining how Beaver Valley’s
water system works. At underwater viewing areas, visitors can
watch sea lions and otters gliding gracefully and can browse
through a brochure entitled “Aquatic Adaptations,” which answers
many questions.

To manage the complex of animals, personnel, and equipment
that forms the total of Beaver Valley, a curator of aquatic mammals
was hired in fiscal year 1978. At the end of fiscal year 1979, he
obtained his Ph.D., after having done extensive studies on the
reproductive behavior of grey seals in the wild. Once the zoo’s grey
seals attain breeding age, related research projects will be pursued
with them.

With the rest of the animal collection, breeding—with its result-
ing births and hatchings—continued. Emphasis was placed on
captive reproduction and conservation programs for endangered
species. Notable births among mammals, both at Rock Creek and
at the Conservation and Research Center (crc) near Front Royal,
Virginia, included three orabussu titi monkeys, one Bactrian camel,
one yellow-backed duiker, one bongo, thirteen lesser pandas, nine
Pere David’s deer (a species extinct in the wild), four onagers, six
bush dogs, three Matschie’s tree kangaroos, five southern potoroos,
six white-fronted wallabies, and five red kangaroos. With its off-
exhibit collection, the Office of Zoological Research was rewarded

Science / 113
with baby big fruit bats (the most ubiquitous of the larger fruit bats
in the Neotropics), elephant shrews, and short bare-tailed opos-
sums. The opossum colony arrived in May 1978 and has already
entered its second generation.

Among the reptiles, important hatchings included red-footed
tortoises; a third generation of leopard geckos; and emerald tree
boas (possibly the first time a U.S. zoo has bred these snakes three
years in a row). A second year of births in the pancake tortoises
was a victory in this species, which does not in many cases survive
—let alone breed—in captivity.

Fertile eggs were laid by the rarely hatched African plated lizard.
This was the first time keepers were able to recover this species’
eggs close to hatching, for incubation. At year’s end, the eggs,
containing live embryos, were being incubated and carefully moni-
tored; some had begun to hatch.

Bird news was also quite encouraging. At Rock Creek, three out
of four species of swan bred. The Stanley cranes laid seven eggs,
of which four have already hatched; the sarus cranes laid six, of
which four have hatched. A roseate spoonbill chick, hatched in the
incubator, was reintroduced to and successfully raised by its
parents.

At crc, partial stocking of twenty-one crane yards began in
September 1978 and continued to spring 1979. Three unrelated
pairs of Rothschild’s mynahs were breeding: this was the first time
unrelated pairs of this species had been set up to reproduce. Seven
Florida sandhill cranes hatched from one breeding pair. Particular
productivity distinguished a female emu, which laid thirty-three
eges in 1979. Of these, National Zoo staff hatched twenty-eight
and raised twenty-seven. Later, they found the male emu sitting
on six more eggs. For unknown reasons, he was unsuccessful in
hatching them.

A year ago, survival of young ruddy ducks had amounted to a
complete failure. This year, however, nineteen chicks at Rock Creek
were raised from a total of thirty hatchlings; at crc, fifteen out of
fifteen were reared. This welcome new ruddy duck flock was at-
tributed to a change in diet and seclusion of the young. Further
evaluation of this year’s success is under way to ensure optimal
conditions for future hatchlings.

A significant note of progress in the management of the animal
collection is the development of a number of cooperative breeding

114 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Nose-to-nose, a sea lion and young boy seem mutually curious. This underwater
viewing area at the sea-lion pool provides one of Beaver Valley’s most intriguing
highlights for visitors. Below. The new Beaver Valley exhibit provides graceful
landscaping and a pleasant natural setting. At center left are the pool and under-

water viewing window for North American river otters.

——
Bt hy

loan programs with other U.S. institutions. Animals placed under
such agreements during the year included sloth bears, elephant
shrews, orangutans, gorillas, lesser pandas, Masai giraffes, and
fennec foxes.

International breeding exchanges and loans involved bush dogs,
maned wolves, orabussu titi monkeys, Atlas lions, and golden lion
tamarins. For this last species, an exceedingly rare primate in the
wild, an international studbook was maintained at nzp. This record
keeps track of all golden lion tamarins that have been born, been
imported from the wild, been transferred, and died in captivity
internationally. All zoos maintaining this species are thus informed
about the status of captive individuals worldwide; appropriate mat-
ings are recommended and medical problems are identified. From
nzp’s successful breeding program, a number of golden lion tamarins
were transferred in fiscal year 1979 to both national and interna-
tional institutions, ranging from the Lincoln Children’s Zoo in
Chicago to the Frankfurt (Germany) Zoo and the Jersey Wildlife
Preservation Trust in England.

“Enchantress”: for nearly twenty years, Mohini, the National
Zoo’s first white Bengal tiger, lived up to her Indian name, delight-
ing millions of visitors in a generation of zoo-going. But in April
1979 Mohini was put to sleep because of extensive degenerative
osteoarthritis, an incalculable loss for visitors and staff alike. Her
residence at nzp began in 1960, after a journey from her native
India with National Zoo Director Dr. Theodore H. Reed. At her
death, she was survived by seven descendants: two yellow tigers
and two white tigers at nzp (her daughter’s offspring); a white
daughter, on loan to the Rare Feline Breeding Compound in Center
Hill, Florida; and two other related tigers, one yellow and one white,
on loan to the Cincinnati Zoo.

Opening in October at the Bird House was Birdlab, a small center
for public information about birds. Resources include learning
boxes, books, an extensive bird information file, a film-loop called
The Birdkeeper, and trained volunteers from the Friends of the
National Zoo (Fonz), who maintain the center. Clipboards, work-
sheets, and binoculars can be loaned for use in the bird area. Initial
evaluation indicated that it was operating as planned: there are
more adult visitors than families, and more visitors stop to gain
information about birds than to use materials.

116 / Smithsonian Year 1979
RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION

The National Zoo continued to pursue its conservation and research
goals this year. By scientific study of the ecology and behavior of
exotic animals, researchers can amass data that can then be utilized
by wildlife managers around the world for the preservation of
endangered species.

Research with the nzp collection, at both Rock Creek and crc,
progressed in many directions during the year. Broad comparative
studies of pair-bonding and monogamy in mammals continued,
including investigations of golden lion tamarins, South American
canids, and elephant shrews. Tamarin studies are now focusing on
juveniles’ behavior, to assess how sex roles are established and
maintained. South American canid studies at crc have concen-
trated on analysis of pair-bonds, parental care, social development,
and play.

A project continued on the reproductive behavior of that most
famous of nonreproducing creatures, the giant panda. Data re-
vealed this year that the male is sexually mature and, in fact, has
previously ejaculated during the female’s estrous period. Because
of the fatefully improper orientation of the couple during those
attempted matings, there were no successful copulations. In spring
1979, urine was collected from the male and female and was sent
for hormonal analysis to the Wellcome Institute of Comparative
Physiology at the Zoological Society of London. Zoo staff hope to
compare hormone levels in the urine of the pair of giant pandas in
London and of those in Washington. Current analysis suggests
normal levels in the National Zoo’s pair.

A research study was begun on pair-bonding in Carolina wren
subspecies, funded by the Smithsonian Research Awards Program.
Work continued on a comparative study of mother-young relation-
ships among hoofstock. Also in progress was a project on the social
behavior, scent-marking, and chemical composition of the pre-
orbital gland secretion of the dik-dik, a very small antelope.

A study in the Office of Zoological Research on inbreeding in
captive animals represents a major contribution to zoos. This proj-
ect was the first statistically accurate study of the problem of
inbreeding in zoos. Zoo researchers studied juvenile mortality in
selected species of hoofstock, with regard to inbreeding. After
eliminating all other variables, they concluded that if parents are

Science / 117
related, infant mortality increases, compared to those young pro-
duced by nonrelated parents. This finding will have a significant
effect on the pairing of individual animals in breeding programs at
Nzp and elsewhere.

Like the research conducted at the National Zoo’s home sites of
Rock Creek and crc, field studies abroad also yielded fruitful results
during the year. In Sri Lanka, research on the toque macaque con-
tinued into its twelfth year. A typhoon struck the study area,
causing major vegetational changes that have influenced the habi-
tat’s carrying capacity. This occurrence has given NzpP scientists an
opportunity to study population changes among three sympatric
species in the study: the toque macaque, purple-faced langur, and
gray langur.

In Venezuela, research continued on the red howler monkey.
Projects involved a comparison of two populations in adjacent
habitats, in an effort to understand environmental factors that
limit population growth in this species.

In fiscal year 1979, the Office of Zoological Research initiated a
program that provides an opportunity for scholars conducting field
studies to write up the results of their work for the public. Three
researchers were awarded entry into the first year of this program:
Melvin Sunquist documented his studies on tigers in Nepal; Jack
Frazier, on sea turtles in the Indian Ocean; and Rasnayagam Rud-
ran, on red howler monkeys in Venezuela. Under the arrangement,
they were granted stipends and access to both the National Zoo’s
library and the Smithsonian’s computer center. The program is
projected to continue in fiscal year 1980.

Initial investigation was made into a project on the giant civet of
Sulawesi (formerly Celebes). To establish a breeding colony in
Indonesia for the giant civet’s conservation, the Indonesian govern-
ment has agreed to a joint survey of its wild status. In this connec-
tion, the curator-in-charge of crc journeyed to Sulawesi in Sep-
tember, to assess future directions for NzP involvement. The pro-
gram is operating through the sponsorship of the Jakarta Zoological
Park, the Indonesian National Institute of Biology, and the Indo-
nesian Directorate of Nature Conservation.

Significant progress was made on the Smithsonian Nepal Tiger
Ecology Project in Nepal’s Royal Chitwan National Park. Be-
ginning in 1973, the Smithsonian Institution and His Majesty’s

118 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Government of Nepal have cooperated on a long-term study, cen-
tered in this park, of the Bengal tiger’s behavior, ecology, prey, and
competitors. Located in the terai lowlands between the Ganges Plain
to the south and the outermost Himalayan ranges to the north, the
Chitwan Park is a key region for the preservation of many species
of large mammals in the terai. It contains riverine forests and tall
grass areas, supported by rich soil and a plentiful supply of surface
water year-round. At the mutual boundary of two faunal regions
(the main Asian land mass, featuring mostly palearctic forms, and
the terai at the base of the mountains, containing those species
related to the Ganges Plain and the south), the park provides one
of the finest refuges for the magnificent animals for which the
subcontinent has been distinguished throughout history. Here lives
one of the remaining populations of the Indian rhinoceros, among
other endangered mammals.

From the project’s inception, careful research has emphasized
modern field techniques, such as radio-telemetry monitoring and
rapid immobilization with tranquilizing darts. These methods have
yielded fundamental data on breeding, feeding, territorial behavior,
anatomy, and mortality.

Since last year, University of Minnesota student David Smith has
continued his work on tiger dispersal. This work will have implica-
tions for conservation problems associated with managing large
predators in small reserves. Hemanta Mishra, an officer of His
Majesty’s Government of Nepal’s Park Service, has joined the
project to make a detailed study of one of the tiger’s principal prey,
the axis deer. Several investigators have concluded their work on
the project: Dr. John Seidensticker, a Smithsonian research associ-
ate, returned to the National Zoo from Nepal after thirteen months’
work; Melvin Sunquist completed his doctorate in 1979; and Kirti
Man Tamang was continuing his studies in the U.S. In August,
almost all of the members involved over the years in tiger research
in Nepal were brought together at crc to discuss ongoing research
and to identify needs and establish future priorities.

Highlighting the year’s activities in the Office of Pathology was
the “Symposium on Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals,” the
first of its kind in North America. nzp hosted and cosponsored it
October 2-4, supported in part by ronz. Other cosponsors were the
Registry of Comparative Pathology, Armed Forces Institute of

Science / 119
Pathology, Zoological Society of San Diego, Registry of Tumors in
Lower Animals, Smithsonian Institution, and Baltimore Zoological
Society. More than 200 pathologists, veterinarians, and other medi-
cal scientists assembled to hear 76 papers on pathological entities
in a wide variety of zoo species and captive domestic animals. The
participants, many from major zoos in the U.S. and Europe, re-
viewed current knowledge of disease in zoo animals and provided
a wealth of new information on such topics as disorders associated
with captivity, the pathophysiology of aging in zoo species, and
several previously undescribed infectious diseases. The proceedings
of the symposium will be printed in fiscal year 1980 as one of the
continuing series on the symposia of the National Zoological Park,
published by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

Also in this series, published in late 1978, was the book Myco-
bacterial Infections of Zoo Animals, edited by the National Zoo’s
pathologist Dr. Richard J. Montali. An outgrowth of a symposium
held in October 1976 at crc, the volume brings together valuable
information on the pathological mechanisms, diagnosis, treatment,
and control of mycobacterial infections in nondomestic animals,
including nonhuman primates and poikilotherms. There is also an
overview of these infections in domestic animals.

An important development in the Office of Pathology’s teaching
role was the initiation on October 1, 1978, of a full-time residency
training program in pathology.

ANIMAL HEALTH

Animal health activities center on the delivery of quality health
care to NzP’s animal collection, at both Rock Creek and crc. The
mainstay of the health program is ongoing preventive medicine. The
newly constructed Quarantine Building, with capability for both
large and small species, has been a welcome addition to the hospital
complex.

The sphere of responsibility for animal health has been expanded
during the year to include the nursery and intensive care unit. The
Office of Animal Health also began coordinating a pest-control
program for the National Zoo.

The Office of Animal Health’s teaching role continued through
both pre- and postdoctoral training of veterinarians in zoological

120 / Smithsonian Year 1979
medicine. In cooperation with the Office of Graphics and Exhibits,
various techniques and procedures were documented on videotape
for teaching purposes. The first tape, ‘“Laparoscopy in Zoological
Medicine,” has been well received; others were being produced, in-
cluding one on immobilization procedures for giraffes.

The Office of Animal Health has a commitment to its clinically
related research programs. These programs have benefitted from
the addition of a permanent research assistant within the office.
Additional grants were awarded to the office by the Smithsonian
Institution, Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey Combined Shows,
Inc., and the Schering Corporation. It is by this support that the
animal health division has been able to maintain its varied clinic-
ally related research projects. The results of this research have
been, and will continue to be, directly applicable in helping im-
prove the quality of health care in nondomestic species.

During the year, the major research projects of this office were:
physiological evaluation of anesthesia and restraint in nondomestic
species; pharmacokinetics of antibiotics in nondomestic species;
and a study of reproductive physiology, with special emphasis on
electroejaculation and artificial insemination. The anesthesia and
restraint study was funded by the Smithsonian. Its aim has been
an in-depth evaluation of the physiological changes that occur when
nondomestic species are anesthetized and/or restrained, procedures
necessary for routine management and surgery. Attempts were
made to monitor changes so that abnormalities could be recognized
early and prompt corrective measures be taken, as well as to
minimize adverse reactions and decrease the risk caused by these
procedures in nondomestic patients. At year’s end, these studies
were being intensified with birds and reptiles, as well as continuing
with mammals. Preliminary results from this ongoing study have
provided information that has reduced the danger in anesthetizing
NzP’s patients.

The antibiotic study was funded by Ringling Brothers Barnum
and Bailey Combined Shows, Inc. In this ongoing study, staff have
attempted to determine the appropriate antibiotic dosage and treat-
ment schedule for the many species of animals. This basic informa-
tion is vital to insure that antibiotics produce adequate levels of
drug in the patient’s bloodstream but do not accumulate excessively,
which can result in organ toxicity and death. If the dose is too low,

Science / 121
no beneficial therapeutic effect will occur; if the dose is excessive,
severe adverse reactions may set in. The studies have made specific
recommendations for therapy with several antibiotics in reptiles
and birds. Staff are expanding these studies to include other anti-
biotics.

The study of reproductive physiology is designed to provide the
basic information and expertise necessary to aid in captive propa-
gation of zoological species, when indicated. The study has three
aims: first, to document the reproductive cycle in the female and
determine how it can be hormonally manipulated; this has been
done in tigers and cheetahs, with the aid of the laparoscope. A
second goal is to develop techniques for semen collection and
storage. Numerous mammals have been electroejaculated and their
semen frozen for further study and possible use. This year, staff
successfully collected from a black rhinoceros, bongo, and giant
panda. The third phase of this project is to combine the previous
two and artificially inseminate selected species. This year, this pro-
cedure was performed on one cheetah and two white tigers.

In these reproductive studies, staff of the Office of Animal Health
collaborated with Dr. Seager, Dr. Wildt, and Mr. Platz of the Baylor
College of Medicine in Houston, Texas.

CONSTRUCTION AND SERVICES

Fiscal year 1979 was a busy one in terms of construction projects.
Work began on the Great Ape House, scheduled to open in summer
1980. This new exhibit will feature gorillas, chimpanzees, and
orangutans in large, glass-fronted indoor enclosures and ample
outside yards, with play material such as logs and tires. Holding
areas, a quarantine room for newly arrived animals, and a spacious
keeper facility are other innovations.

A “North American Animals Exhibit,” to be completed in spring
1980, was also under construction during the year. Jaguars, pumas,
raccoons, prairie dogs, and wolverines will be among those native
continental species displayed in natural wooded settings. Visitors to
this exhibit will enjoy a rustic walk through the climax forest.

In spring 1979, new leopard and serval cages were occupied.
These unobtrusive enclosures were constructed by the National
Zoo’s own Office of Facilities Management, supplemented by
temporary carpenters. NzpP staff concluded that for small exhibit

122 / Smithsonian Year 1979
projects such as these, it is more economical to build with the Na-
tional Zoo’s own work force than to contract out, as was done with
the new owl and eagle exhibits near the Bird House, which were
also completed in the spring.

At crc, progress continued on the perimeter fencing project and
on construction of new yards for the breeding herd of Eld’s deer.

Thanks to adjustments in the filtration plant and water-flow
system, visitors at the underwater viewing area of the Polar Bear
Exhibit can gain a much clearer picture. The size of the filtration
system was doubled, and the amount of water flowing from pool
to pool was also increased. Both changes have helped provide
greater clarity.

A late-winter storm deposited about two feet of snow on the
Washington area, with drifts of up to ten feet, blanketing every-
thing almost beyond recognition. To combat the silent siege, a
snow-emergency plan was activated. Working day and night, a
valiant group of support staff cleared roadways and sidewalks so
that the animals, trapped in their houses, could be fed according to
schedule and be seen by the veterinarian. The National Zoo could
point with pride to the absence of any animal casualties. Zoo staff
were thankful that the storm’s unusual severity brought to their
attention items that they could update and incorporate in future
snow-emergency strategies.

During the torrential storm caused by Hurricane David in Sep-
tember, a tornado swept through the park, snapping ancient oaks
and beeches, stripping bark and branches, clearing a wide swath of
densely wooded hillside, and twisting the tops off of smaller trees.
Fortunately, there was only one casualty in the animal collection: a
female ostrich, killed by a tree falling in her yard. The loss was
nonetheless traumatic for Nzp (and for the male ostrich).

Facilities staff worked diligently throughout the night and next
day to undo the Creek’s damage. Thanks to the staff’s perseverance,
quick thinking, and elbow grease, destruction from the memorable
night of Hurricane David was kept to a remarkable minimum.

PERSONNEL

In December, Edward Kohn resigned his position as the National
Zoo’s deputy director to become director of the Minnesota State
Zoo. At this time, it was deemed appropriate to conduct a thorough

Science / 123
study of NzpP’s management methods, in order to establish the best
organizational structure for the zoo’s current needs and operations.
The study was completed in spring 1979 and contained many
valuable recommendations. Among the changes made, Dr. John
Eisenberg, formerly head of the Office of Zoological Research, as-
sumed the position of assistant director, responsible for all animal
and education programs. As the year drew to a close, the National
Zoo was recruiting an assistant director for support services.

In June, the first horticulturist in Nzp’s history joined the staff.
His contributions to the park’s extensive gardens, landscaping, and
natural flora are much welcomed.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

For FONzZ, fiscal year 1979 brought new accomplishments and in-
creased support in a wide range of educational, research, and con-
servation programs of direct benefit to the National Zoo.

After completing the award-winning movie Zoo: Behind the
Scenes at the National Zoo, Fonz funded the filming of a sequel on
captive breeding and research at crc. This half-hour color-and-
sound film is scheduled for national distribution in fiscal year 1980.

Since 1975, Fonz has sponsored many of NzpP’s conservation and
research projects. These included the first-ever joint expedition with
the New York and Philadelphia zoos to study and procure rare
birds-of-paradise in Indonesia; a field study to save the endangered
Utah prairie dog; and an expedition to Sulawesi to lay the ground-
work for the study of the giant civet.

FONZ also sponsored an expanded intern and fellowship program.
Summer interns and college fellows assisted the National Zoo’s
scientists in studying animal-health problems and in conducting
behavioral research at both crc and Rock Creek.

Expanded grants underwrote part of the expenses for the com-
parative pathology symposium at Nzp, attended by 200 pathologists
and medical technicians.

Instrumental to expanded and effective education at NzP were
FONZ’s volunteers, who contributed more than 40,000 hours con-
ducting school tours for more than 15,000 students; staffing
Zoolab, Birdlab, and information booths; and assisting NzP scien-
tists with animal behavior and breeding studies. During summer

124 / Smithsonian Year 1979
1979, some sixty junior FONz members staged daily puppet shows
on animal themes for enthusiastic audiences.

More than fifty different educational programs and special events
were offered to FONZ members and the public in fiscal year 1979.
They ranged from classes for all ages, lectures, films, and tours, to
trips to places as near as Rock Creek and as far away as China.
Such diverse activities helped make ronz the third largest zoological
society in the world.

Most of the ronz-generated revenues were derived from sales of
food and merchandise and from public-parking services. Financial
information for calendar year 1978 is provided in detail below. In
addition, a percentage of the restaurant and parking concessions is
available directly to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National
Zoo and is reported as income in the Financial Report of the
Smithsonian.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

Financial Report for the Period
January 1-December 31, 1978
[In $1,000s]

Net increase/

Net (decrease) to

revenue Expense fund balance
FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/78 .... $ 718

SERVICES

INMIEMIBELSNIP: .a6.6ccn cea che ae awe $ 153 Seda? Aad (ef
RUIDITCALIONS) v2 ..4+ sss eoes vot eons 47 73 (26)
carcationg aa nt wean a aN thes 22 277 (255)
AO OPOCTNAGES= aictofe tos bos ete ache ole 1,991 17222 269
iO tal Sears Aan seen $2,213 $2,214 Cyan (CL)
FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/78 .. $ 717

1 Excludes services worth an estimated $196,021 contributed by volunteers to FONZ.

2 Includes gift shop, balloon shops, parking services, and food service.

3 Includes $164,874 paid during this period to the Smithsonian under contractual
arrangement.

4 Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and
scientific work at the National Zoological Park.

Science / 125
Office of Fellowships and Grants

In its role as a leader in the international scholarly community, the
Smithsonian Institution maintains close scholarly ties with uni-
versities, museums, and research institutions around the world.
Among the most important of these connections are those that
have been developed in the areas of cooperative research through
the Fellowship Program and the Smithsonian Foreign Currency
Program. Both are administered by the Office of Fellowships and
Grants.

Major events in 1979 affecting the Office of Fellowships and
Grants included the launching of the important new Smithsonian
Regents’ Fellowship for distinguished senior scholars and scientists.
In addition, a further consolidation of Institutional research pro-
grams was effected when the administration of the Smithsonian
Research Awards Program was assumed by the office.

PROGRAM OF VISITING ACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS

With policy direction from the Board of Fellowships and Grants,
the Office of Fellowships and Grants acts as the center through
which the Smithsonian offers its resources to the academic com-
munity for the pursuit and dissemination of knowledge. The aca-
demic program reflects the character of the research and collection
strengths of the Smithsonian. It avoids duplication of university-
based study and research, stressing new perspectives on academic
subjects and disciplines not commonly studied in the university.
The program’s offerings range from off-campus undergraduate
studies to traditional postdoctoral research-training fellowships.
They are flexible, giving assistance to individuals who need to study
at the Institution for a few days and to persons who require the
research resources of the Institution for a year or more. Since 1965,
when most of the formal Institutional award programs were estab-
lished, the Smithsonian has been the appreciative host to more than
a thousand visitors supported by its fellowship awards, including
825 pre- and postdoctoral fellows. These scholars now form an
international network of individuals who have studied at the
Smithsonian and in many cases continue their association by sub-
sequent visits, consultation, and frequently shared research efforts
with members of the Institution’s research staff.

126 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Postdoctoral fellowships are awarded to scholars to allow them
to spend six months to one year participating in a program of ad-
vanced research training; predoctoral fellowships are awarded for
a similar period to doctoral candidates for the conduct of research
necessary to complete their dissertations. During 1978-79, seventy-
five postdoctoral and predoctoral fellowships were awarded. Gradu-
ate students who need to spend a shorter period pursuing their
research in consultation with the research staff of the Smithsonian
are offered ten-week appointments. During 1978-79, twenty-two
such appointments were made. The Office of Fellowships and Grants
also supports short-term visitors; thirty-seven such visitors were
enabled to spend one week to a month at the Institution during
the past year.

Among the new activities of the office, the most gratifying was
the successful inauguration of the Regents’ Fellowship. The fellow-
ship is intended to encourage outstanding scholars and scientists to
participate in the research, curatorial, and educational programs of
the Smithsonian. Regents’ Fellows will spend a period of residence
at the Institution conducting research on subjects of mutual interest
to Smithsonian scholars and scientists, thereby enriching the intel-
lectual atmosphere of the Institution. The first three Regents’
Fellows are scheduled to begin their tenure in 1980.

Other new offerings include a fellowship in museum exhibit
operations at the National Air and Space Museum developed by
the museum in cooperation with the Office of Fellowships and
Grants. In the summer of 1979, two such awards were made to
persons in positions related to the creation and execution of mu-
seum exhibits. Awards are expected in subsequent summers as well.
In addition, a fellowship in materials analysis has been established
for the application of techniques developed in the physical sciences
to problems in anthropology, art history, and history. The fellow
will work with staff members in the Conservation Analytical Lab-
oratory and other conservation facilities at the Smithsonian, as well
as with curators in anthropology, mineral sciences, history, and art
history. It is hoped that the National Bureau of Standards will also
provide some assistance and access to specialized scientific instru-
ments. One such fellowship was awarded in 1979.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants has undertaken a major
restructuring of its open study program, a program of academic

Science / 127
internships in which students work directly under members of the
professional staff. In a survey in 1979, it was found that there was
increasing interest in this program by Smithsonian curatorial staff
and that colleges and universities that encourage their students to
seek alternatives to traditional classroom learning have been ap-
proaching the Smithsonian in greater numbers during the last
several years. Twenty-three students worked in Smithsonian facili-
ties under the open study program in 1978-79. It is expected that
the development of a more formal program and the first full-scale
advertisement of the program in the fall of 1979 will enable more
students and more staff members to participate in these valuable
learning experiences.

For all academic programs, the Office of Fellowships and Grants
depends upon the support and cooperation of the Smithsonian’s
bureaus to provide fellows with staff guidance, facilities for re-
search, and access to collections, archives, and libraries. Sometimes
direct stipend support is also provided by the bureaus. In 1979, the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, National Air and Space
Museum, National Collection of Fine Arts, National Zoological
Park, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Radiation Biology
Laboratory, International Environmental Science Program, and the
Division of Performing Arts, all offered additional support for
academic appointments.

A total of 161 individuals participated in the Smithsonian’s
academic studies program during 1978-79. A listing of the names of
participants and their research or study projects may be found in
Appendix 7.

SMITHSONIAN RESEARCH AWARDS PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Research Awards Program provides awards on a
competitive basis to Smithsonian scholars and scientists who wish
to pursue new and innovative research projects. Proposals are sub-
mitted by members of the Smithsonian’s science, history, and art
research staffs and are reviewed by a panel of distinguished scholars
drawn from a variety of universities and research organizations
throughout the United States. Intended only to fund projects
through an initial investigative phase, the program is designed to
provide the opportunity and stimulus for Smithsonian staff to
respond quickly to new research initiatives. The competition for

128 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the relatively limited funds stimulates continued innovation and
creativity, vital features of the intellectual growth and integrity of
the Institution.

The program does not contribute toward any part of the salary
of a Smithsonian staff member receiving the award but supports
field and laboratory assistants hired for the duration of the project.
It permits research travel, purchase of specialized equipment and
extra supplies, and similar requirements for new research projects.

During 1979, thirty-nine awards were made to support projects
in the biological sciences, astrophysics and earth sciences, anthro-
pology, archaeology, history, and the history of science. Since the
program’s beginning in 1966, some 515 projects have been funded.
A listing of principal investigators and research projects in 1979
may be found in Appendix 7.

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (srcp) awards grants
to support the research interests of American institutions, including
the Smithsonian, in those countries in which the United States holds
blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of surplus agri-
cultural commodities under Public Law 480. The program is active
in countries in which the Treasury Department declares United
States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of normal
federal requirements, including, in 1979, Burma, Egypt, Guinea,
India, and Pakistan. Research projects are moving toward conclu-
sion under program support in the former excess-currency countries
of Israel, Morocco, Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.

In 1979, preparation was under way to terminate at the end of
fiscal 1981 the availability of these funds in Egypt, because of heavy
demands that have drawn the account down rapidly. The Smith-
sonian Special Foreign Currency Program has been the principal
supporter of American archaeological and historical research in
Egypt and of the Cairo Center of the American Research Center in
Egypt, a consortium of American institutions with research interests
in Egypt. When the funding is terminated in 1981, it is unclear
whether continued support for American research in Egypt will be
developed from sources other than “excess” foreign currencies. The
Smithsonian has urged government and university officials to try to
plan for replacement funding for the future.

Science / 129
The Smithsonian has received a fiscal year 1979 appropriation
of $3.7 million in “excess” currencies to support projects in anthro-
pology and archaeology, systematic and environmental biology,
astrophysics and earth sciences, and museum professional fields.
From its inception in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1979, the
srcp has awarded about $38.5 million in foreign currency grants to
206 institutions in 39 states and the District of Columbia.

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Fifty years ago, in May 1929, an experimental research group within
the Smithsonian began to study the effects of sunlight on growth
and development of plants and animals. The principal motivation
for this laboratory grew out of the interest which its founder,
Charles G. Abbot, had pursued for many years in measuring the
quality and quantity of solar radiation impinging upon the earth’s
surface. It had long been suspected that solar radiation was a con-
trolling environmental factor that could influence growth and de-
velopment, but little was known of the molecular mechanisms oc-
curring, and only a few of the responses controlled by light had
been quantitatively described.

It is a tribute to the foresight of Secretary Abbot and the first
members of this laboratory that several significant major areas of
photobiology were selected for emphasis, such as photosynthesis,
phototropism, and photomorphogenesis. However, it is unlikely
that any members of the laboratory team realized how complex
and lengthy the research would be to obtain answers to their initial
questions. In fact, partial solutions have been obtained only recently
as the techniques and instrumentation from other fields—such as
biochemistry, biophysics, and the technology of engineering in
development of new light sources, detectors, and data handling—
have grown more sophisticated and been applied.

Photobiology is still a fledgling science, having been formalized
with its own American Society only seven years ago. It is interest-
ing that the same research problems that were initially investigated
by the laboratory still occupy a major portion of the annual meeting
program of the society. A great deal has been learned in fifty pro-

130 / Smithsonian Year 1979
ductive years, and, in fact, there is a growing sense of optimism that
the detailed molecular pathways of some of these important photo-
biological processes that affect all our lives are just within our grasp.
We are about to obtain answers to some of the difficult questions,
such as the nature and identification of the photoreceptors, the lo-
cation of the intracellular photoreceptor molecules, and, most im-
portantly, the nature of the initial reactions after light sets a chain
of events into motion.

However, these answers open up many new avenues for research,
especially the questions concerning the importance in the natural
environment of these processes that have been characterized in
the laboratory and the ways we may use this knowledge for the
control of growth and development. It is in these areas that the
research of the laboratory has continued this last year. Specifically
these are: (1) environmental processes and energy flow in biological
systems, such as photosynthesis and carbon metabolism; (2) regula-
tory processes of plants, such as membrane synthesis and pigment
synthesis; (3) the measurement of the amount, duration, and color
quality of sunlight present in the environment; and (4) the age
estimation of biological artifacts based upon their radiocarbon
content.

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

For the study of photobiological processes, it is important to have
accurate measurements of sunlight over a long period of time and
under different meteorological conditions. The spectral data ac-
cumulated by the Radiation Biology Laboratory comprise the only
long-term data base now in existence. The solar radiation data now
include three continuous years of uv-B (erythemal ultraviolet) in
five-nanometer bands from Rockville, Maryland, and one year of
like data recorded in Hampton, Virginia. Continuous recording was
started in Hampton in September 1978 with a newly developed
instrument. Very close agreement is shown in comparing data for
the two sites that are 240 km apart.

From the data collected thus far at four stations (Barrow, Alaska,
71°N; Rockville, Maryland, 39°N; Hampton, Virginia, 37°N; and
Panama, 9°N), predictions based on ozone variability alone cannot
yield quantitatively valid results concerning the levels or wave-
lengths of uv-s that reach the earth’s surface at sea level. The major

Science / 131
variation in the intensity of uv-B is owing to weather and to air
pollution. As pollution increases, the amount of uv-B lessens.

Although spot measurements of solar irradiance below a forest
canopy have been made, there has never been a sustained effort to
monitor such an environment. The Radiation Biology Laboratory
has installed a scanning radiometer on Barro Colorado Island in
the Panama Canal Zone. The unit is recording data on both the
spectral quality and the distribution of the solar irradiance below
the rain-forest canopy. Since irradiance levels vary greatly from
spot to spot, an integrating device was installed so that a true
average value could be determined for the forest floor.

Fluctuations in the ozone content of the stratosphere result in
variation in the ultraviolet light that reaches the earth’s surface.
Some of the variation occurs naturally, but recent studies have
suggested that exides of nitrogen (from the exhausts of supersonic
aircraft or released from nitrogen fertilizers) and fluorocarbons (re-
leased from refrigerants or aerosal sprays) could catalytically de-
stroy 8 to 20 percent of the ozone. Measurements made at Pt.
Barrow, Alaska; Rockville, Maryland; and Flamenco Island, Canal
Zone, indicate at least a 25 percent seasonal variation due to ozone
changes and a daily variation of 100 percent caused by local
meteorological conditions.

Ultraviolet energy obtained in the laboratory, from low-pressure
mercury arc lamps that emit primarily at a wavelength of 254
nanometers, is highly injurious to animals, plants, and microorga-
nisms. This radiation primarily affects nucleic acids, often resulting
in cell death. Thus, it has been speculated that ultraviolet energy at
slightly longer wavelengths in the region designated uv-B (285-320
nm) might also be deleterious to organisms. It is this region that
would be principally affected by ozone changes.

A source of uv-s that closely simulates the spectrum of sunlight
penetrating the atmosphere was developed in the laboratory using
fluorescent lamps with special phosphors and appropriate transmis-
sion filters. Using such lamps installed in canopies of environ-
mentally controlled chambers, plants were grown under conditions
simulating normal and enhanced uv-s levels. A feedback-regulating
detector system was constructed and coupled to the lamp drive to
maintain constant irradiance at 320 nm over extended periods of
time (up to 45 days). Such lamps and filters age and decay rapidly,

132 / Smithsonian Year 1979
and, for quantitative results, it is necessary to monitor the lamp
output continuously with such a feedback system. Using this sys-
tem, the absolute intensity and wavelength distribution of uv-B solar
irradiation at noon have been achieved and maintained. By employ-
ing various filters, the ultraviolet enhancement resulting from de-
pletions of 82, 47, 41, and 29 percent of the ozone content were
obtained. Effects on growth and development in duckweed (Lemna)
and dwarf bush peas (Pisum) were evident only for the very high
enhancement levels of uv-s. For lower levels, no striking damage
was observed. The results indicate that under natural lighting con-
ditions, photoreactivation and repair mechanisms occur that mini-
mize the effects of enhanced vuv-s radiation.

Photosynthetic utilization of incident light energy provides the
earth with renewable fuels, namely, the carbohydrates comprising
the bulk of plants. At the beginning of this century, it was observed
that light energy delivered in flashes, rather than continuously,
caused apparent changes in this photosynthetic utilization. Using
an electronically controlled, direct-current, fluorescent-lamp, flash-
ing-light system, plants have been grown in different periods of
light and dark.

The older work used mechanically operated flash units and indi-
cated a minimal light utilization, with light and dark periods of
about one minute duration. Current work in the laboratory has
dramatically confirmed this observation. However, in the region of
very short flashes (less than 100 milliseconds) the utilization in-
creases and may surpass the utilization found under continuous
lighting. This increase in light utilization appears to be caused by
better light distribution within the plant canopy, rather than an
increased photosynthetic utilization at the molecular level.

For several years, the productivity of a marsh community of
grasses and sedges on the Chesapeake Bay has been measured to
determine the energy and nutritional interaction between the marsh
and an adjoining estuary. Using a sensitive gas analyzer to monitor
the carbon flow in the marsh community, researchers found that
about half of the carbon taken in by the plant community is left
over for use by the estuary.

In the marsh, these plants utilize only 2 percent of the available
sunlight, while under greenhouse conditions they utilize much more.
Experimental determinations were made of the photosynthetic

Science / 133
efficiency, in which the spatial orientation of leaves at different
seasons of the year was mechanically altered by thin transparent
nylon filaments from horizontal to vertical and vice versa. The
position of the leaves in the canopy was found to be a crucial con-
trolling element and confirms the prediction made by several mathe-
matical models. It is still not certain whether the positioning effect
is mediated by changes in the light absorption properties or by
changes in the availability of carbon dioxide to the leaves.

Environmental stress factors, such as low nitrogen and high salt
in marsh soils, also may affect productivity. Just because marshes
border upon open water, they may not necessarily have all of the
water they need. During certain “dry” times of the year, the soil
may contain high levels of salt. This salt has two effects. First, it is
toxic to plants. Second, it causes a fraction of the water to remain in
the soil and, therefore, unavailable to the plants. If the evaporative
demand on the rapidly growing marsh plants becomes excessive
because of high temperatures, the community loses more water
than it receives. This may result in lower photosynthetic efficiency.
However, when the availability of water in salt-marsh soils was
studied, it was found that the osmotic effects of salt did not restrict
the availability of water. No evidence was found to indicate that the
plants were suffering water stress. The salt effects on the distribu-
tion of species or productivity are probably manifested secondarily
through plant nutrition.

The productivity of the phytoplankton in the estuary may be
controlled by the quality and quantity of light penetrating the
water. In collaboration with the Chesapeake Bay Center for En-
vironmental Studies, measurements of the transmission properties
of water samples in the estuary were initiated this year and are be-
ing correlated with biological productivity measured at the same
locations. A scanning radiometer has been designed and constructed
in the laboratory for measuring the spectral distribution and
amounts of radiation at various depths. This unit is powered in the
field by a series of solar panels on the shore and is connected by
cable to the underwater radiometer. This automatically recorded
data is being correlated with the measurements of radiation above
the surface to determine the amount of energy that penetrates into
the estuary.

The distribution of zooplankton in a column of water may also

134 / Smithsonian Year 1979
be regulated by light signals. In the laboratory, experiments have
been initiated to determine the phototactic responses of the water
flea Daphnia to various intensities and monochromatic colors of
light. A population of Daphnia has been maintained in a water
column in a temperature-controlled darkroom in which light stimuli
may be given. Their swimming and migration responses may be
observed under safelight conditions. Initial results indicate that the
Daphnia readily couple their movement to other external stimuli
and thus maintain rhythmic movements that are independent of the
light exposure.

In higher plants, the pigment molecule phytochrome acts as a
receptor of light signals for inducing flowering. However, the
sensitivity to light signals for the flowering responses of plants is
also dependent upon the species of plant and the time in the de-
velopmental cycle during which the signal is received. The nature
of the environmental light signal remains unclear. However, it has
been postulated that the relative amounts of red and far-red energy
in sunlight may play a role. This postulate was based on laboratory
measurements of changes in the relative amounts of red and far-red
light occurring around twilight. Critical experiments with barley,
a plant that requires long daylengths to flower, indicate that the
effectiveness of the far-red light is dependent both on the total and
relative amount of energy.

A detailed time dependence of the ability of the plant to perceive
this far-red energy has shown that it is controlled by an endogenous
change in the plant itself. The far-red light not only is capable of
promoting flowering when the environmental light signal occurs at
the proper time, but it also affects the timing mechanism, so that
the plant becomes sensitive increasingly early in the day. This
result has led to a modification of the hypothesis that the twilight
shift in spectral energy distribution is required as the environmental
light signal. It now appears that only the absolute length of the
day is important and that such twilight shifts serve only a secondary
role in daylength extension during periods of very clear atmos-
pheric conditions.

REGULATORY BIOLOGY

Once the light signals are correct to induce flowering, a chemical
stimulus is produced. The chemical control of flowering is not

Science / 135
understood, despite considerable effort over many years. A search
for a single substance formed by light that will induce flowering
has not been very successful, with the exception of salicylic acid,
which will induce flowering in different species of duckweed
(Lemna). Cyanide ion has now been found to stimulate substantial
flowering in short-day Lemna paucicostata under continuous light.

Although these chemicals are probably not the endogenous sub-
stances responsible for the control of flowering, they do influence
the endogenous system and may lead to clues about its functions.
For instance, the effectiveness of these two chemicals is strongly
daylength-dependent in some cases and suggests that both flower-
inducing and flower-inhibiting substances may be exerting control.
Perhaps it is the interaction of these two types of substances that
ultimately decides whether a plant flowers or remains vegetative.

The photoreceptor pigment involved in flowering and in con-
trolling growth and development is phytochrome. It has been puri-
fied and extensively characterized in the laboratory as to its general
physical and chemical properties without any direct knowledge of
its biochemical function within the plant cell.

Comparison of several general properties of the biologically ac-
tive form (P:r) and the inactive form (P;) have led to the conclusion
that the protein portion of the molecule does not undergo any major
changes during phototransformation. Conversion to the biologically
effective form probably only involves a change at an active site on
the protein.

In an attempt to locate and characterize the active site, it has
been found that phytochrome binds to the polymer Blue Dextran
and its dye chromophore. Both the free dye and the dextran con-
jugate have been found to associate with nucleotide binding sites
on many proteins. This binding is usually reversed by addition of
high concentrations of salt or a low concentration of the naturally
binding ligand for the protein.

The biologically active phytochrome (Prr) binds to the dye with a
higher affinity than P,; and meets the operational criteria for a
nucleotide binding site on the phytochrome protein. Experiments
indicate that the binding site is specific for a flavin-like molecule.
This site is more accessible in the Prr than P; form and implies that
it may be involved in the primary action of phytochrome.

The conversion of light energy to chemical energy in photosyn-

136 / Smithsonian Year 1979
thesis takes place in membranes composed of proteins, lipids, and
pigments. Some of the proteins of chloroplast photosynthetic mem-
branes (thylakoids) are made in the chloroplast on chloroplast ribo-
somes and some in the cytoplasm on cytoplasmic ribosomes. Up to
50 percent of chloroplast ribosomes are bound to thylakoids. The
properties of these thylakoid-bound ribosomes resemble the proper-
ties of ribosomes bound to the endoplasmic reticulum. Therefore,
it has been suggested that the thylakoid-bound ribosomes are
specifically making those thylakoid proteins that are synthesized in
the chloroplast.

Total ribonucleic acid (rRNA) has been isolated from thylakoids.
This RNA contains mostly ribosomal ribonucleic acids (rrNas) but
also contains about 2 percent messenger RNAS (mRNAS). The mRNAS
in the total nna have been used as templates in the in vitro wheat-
germ protein-synthesis system. Conditions required to obtain poly-
peptide synthesis on addition of the total thylakoid rna have been
established, using radioactive amino acids such as leucine and
methionine. Labeled polypeptide products obtained in vitro have
been compared with polypeptides labeled in vivo in the presence of
cycloheximide (polypeptides made in the chloroplast) by means of
electrophoresis on gradients of acrylamide gel. Some of the poly-
peptides made in vitro, on addition of thylakoid RNa to the wheat-
germ system, have electrophoretic properties similar to polypeptides
made in vivo on chloroplast ribosomes. This result suggests that the
thylakoid rNa contains mrnas for thylakoid properties.

In some algae, pigment protein complexes (phycobilisomes) are
attached to photosynthetic membranes. Light energy is absorbed,
converted, and transferred to reaction centers in which oxygen is
evolved. An understanding of this mechanism of energy conversion
in specific plants may lead to insights and solutions for directly
converting solar energy into chemical energy on a commercially
feasible basis.

Complexes of two of the pigments, phycoerythrin and phyco-
cyanin, have been separated and recombined. The first step toward
in vitro recombination, an examination of pigment-to-pigment
binding within the phycobilisomes, has been accomplished. The
recombined complexes have the same properties as those of the
original phycobilisomes. Of special significance is their energy-
transfer characteristics, which are the same as those obtainable for

Science / 137
intact phycobilisomes. Specific polypeptides, in addition to phyco-
biliproteins, are involved in the recombination. Furthermore, these
polypeptides appear to be species-specific, suggesting that the
assembly of the phycobilisomes is not random but is specifically
controlled by each species of algae.

Light regulates the biosynthesis of carotenoid pigments and their
oxygenated derivatives, the xanthophylls, which are widely dis-
tributed in nature. These pigments are responsible for many of the
yellow, orange, and red colors observed in both plants and animals.
Many of these compounds also act as accessory pigments in photo-
synthesis. The carotenoid B-carotene is important in the diet of
many animals because it is a precursor of vitamin-A needed for
vision. In many organisms, the carotenoids have been shown to
protect against adverse effects of visible light.

On the basis of inhibitor studies, it has been suggested that one
or more enzymes in the blue-light-induced carotenoid pathway in
the fungus Neurospora crassa are absent or at low levels in dark-
grown cultures. The level of these enzymes may increase following
the light treatment.

Albino strains have altered carotenoid biosynthesis. One albino
mutant designated wc (white collar) produces normal levels of
carotenoid pigment in the conidia but not in the mycelia. In albino-
1, albino-2, and albino-3 strains, both the conidia and the mycelia
show a defect in carotenogenesis.

The conidia in wild type strains of Neurospora are known to
produce pigment in the dark, whereas light is required for carote-
noid production in the mycelia. Thus, the conidia are somehow
able to bypass the light-regulation process. For this reason, it is
proposed that we albinos, which show normal pigmentation in the
conidia but not in the mycelia, are regulatory mutants that are
blocked in some part of the light-induction process. In such a
mutant, the conidia can still make normal levels of pigment, since
the mutation is not in any genes that code for enzymes in the ca-
rotenoid pathway (structural genes). The other albinos are probably
mutated in structural genes, and carotenoid biosynthesis is thus
blocked in both conidia and mycelia.

Data that support the hypothesis that wc mutants are blocked in
the light-induction process have been obtained. The enzyme system
required for the conversion of the precursor molecule isopentenyl-

138 / Smithsonian Year 1979
pyrophosphate (irr) to phytoene is present in dark-grown we
strains but shows no increase following a light treatment in vivo. A
nine-fold increase in this enzyme activity has been demonstrated
in a wild type strain.

This result suggests it will be possible to isolate we albinos that
are blocked in the first step of the light induction process, i.e., photo-
receptor mutants. If this is the case, these mutant strains may be
used to identify the photoreceptor.

Action spectrum measurements of the effectiveness of different
colors of light for carotenogenesis in Neurospora implicate either a
flavin or carotenoid photoreceptor. Phototropism (the bending of
cells in response to a blue-light stimulus) and the light growth
response of the fungus Phycomyces have similar action spectra. If
carotenogenesis after blue-light exposure is measured in Phycomy-
ces mycelia, the amount of carotenoid synthesized is a biphasic
response to the total dose of blue light given. Preliminary dose-
response measurements for several wavelengths at two-dose levels
indicate that two photoreceptors may be involved in Phycomyces in
the light regulation of carotenogenesis. For low light levels, a
carotenoid is suggested and a flavin for high light levels.

CARBON DATING LABORATORY

A major portion of laboratory research continues to focus upon the
early occupations of the Americas. Geologic, cultural, and climatic
chronologies are being developed for a number of Early Man Sites
in Brazil, Chile, and Venezuela, as well as Alaska, Colorado, and
Wyoming, many of them in association with now-extinct mega-
fauna. Two sites in southeastern Alaska strongly suggest the use
of water transport there as early as 10,000 years ago.

Studies of Pleistocene and Recent geologic and climatic histories
are under way for Pleistocene Lake Bonneville in Utah, the western
coast of Mexico, the upper Chesapeake Bay, interior and coastal
Maine, and Labrador. Contrary to current thought, studies indicate
that at least one area of southern interior Labrador may not have
been covered by the last major ice advance.

A comparative dating program continues on a wide variety of
sample materials from assorted environments to assess their relia-
bility as dating materials and to develop new techniques for extrac-
tion of fractions that can be carbon dated.

Science / 139
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

On May 9, 1979, the Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmT) was dedi-
cated by its builders, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
(sao) and the University of Arizona. A week of festivities con-
ducted at Mt. Hopkins Observatory marked the official commence-
ment of observational programs by the mmr, the first in a new
generation of ground-based optical instruments. Invited guests
gathered by the score to celebrate the advent of a new era in astro-
nomical research, as the MMT took its place as the world’s third
largest optical telescope.

The more than 500 ceremony participants had reason to celebrate:
the mrt had already discovered what appears to be a new class of
pulsating white dwarf stars. In other observations, the instrument
was used to confirm that the spectra and redshifts of the so-called
“twin quasars” were nearly identical, thus suggesting that a gravi-
tational lens effect predicated by general relativity was actually
producing the mirror image of a single object in deep space.

The week’s highlights also included a symposium, ‘“The mut and
the Future of Ground-Based Astronomy,” held at the University of
Arizona. The proceedings, which chronicle the design of and ex-
pectations for the new instrument, have been published as SAO
Special Report No. 385. In addition to the public lectures, exhibits,
tours of the mountaintop, and sessions for the press, a 16mm color
film entitled Mirrors on the Universe: The MMT Story was copro-
duced by the Office of Telecommunications and the University of
Arizona’s Radio-TV-Film Bureau.

The second in the series of nasa’s High Energy Astronomy Ob-
servatories (HEAO) was launched on November 13, 1978. Nicknamed
Einstein, the satellite carried an x-ray telescope designed by mem-
bers of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, which is
capable of focusing images of x-ray sources. Einstein’s launch last
fall also represented the culmination of nearly two decades of plan-
ning and design.

Data returned by HeEAo-2 have allowed investigations of the
brightest, most distant, and most powerful objects observed to emit
X-rays: quasars. sao scientists discovered the quasars by using the
high-resolution telescope in the so-called serendipity mode to make
deep-space surveys. The Einstein has now observed more than

140 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Technicians check one of the six primary mirrors of the recently dedicated Multiple
Mirror Telescope operated jointly by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

and the University of Arizona at the Mt. Hopkins Observatory. (University of
Arizona photo.)

twenty quasars; of these, only three have failed to show a positive
x-ray flux, which demonstrates that the quasars are generally strong
x-ray emitters. This intense x-ray emission suggests that they may
contribute significantly to the widespread low-level background of
cosmic x-ray radiation seen throughout the skies, a finding that
may have implications for theories regarding an open or closed
universe.

Other observations by the Einstein have provided the first photo-
graphs of an x-ray burster in a globular cluster—a relatively rare
phenomenon. An x-ray burster is characterized by sudden, very
intense increases in x-ray brightness. These as-yet-inexplicable
bursts may release more x-ray energy in ten seconds than our sun
does in a week. Bursters were originally discovered by a Harvard-
Smithsonian team using instruments flown aboard the Astronomical
Netherlands Satellite.

It has been said that with the flight of HEAo-2—and the success
of the Einstein satellite—x-ray astronomy has come of age. Indeed,
the Einstein satellite has provided x-ray astronomers with the capa-
bility to produce celestial images with a sensitivity and accuracy
equal to the best instruments in both optical and radio astronomy.
Already, the success of the Einstein Observatory has generated
significant new requirements for optical observing, ranging from
traditional stellar classification to the observation of high redshift
objects. In fact, approximately 50 percent of the observations at
Mt. Hopkins relate in one way or another to the new x-ray data.

With the construction and operation of these two new powerful
observational tools—the mmr and the x-ray telescope aboard HEAO-
2—a quantum leap in the understanding of astronomical phe-
nomena and astrophysical processes may be anticipated for the
coming decade. The rapid increase in the sensitivity of x-ray tele-
scopes over the past ten years is comparable, according to Riccardo
Giacconi, principal investigator for the program, “to the 350-year
evolution of the optical telescope from Galileo’s crude refractor to
the 200-inch Palomar reflector.” The successful completion of the
MMT has also encouraged astronomers at several other institutions
to begin design on similar telescopes with possible diameters up to
1,000 inches.

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory is a member, with
the Harvard College Observatory (Hco), of the Center for Astro-

142 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Me,
age titty
SNL

LF

An artist’s conception of the HEAO-2 (Einstein) satellite in flight. The Einstein was
launched on November 13, 1978. (NAsA photo.) Below. The x-ray telescope on board
the Einstein (designed by members of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astro-
physics) has provided observations of the quasar 3C273 (lower right). In the upper
left is the fainter image of a new quasar seen at a distance of more than ten billion
light years. (NASA photo.)

= ~ if 3 4 r fate
QUASAR 30273 . be Ree nn ge a Boga S ch na
AND NEM QUASAR AT Z=2.6 - 2 ow Te, Rieke pane aes”

EINSTEIN OBSERVATORY -.°* °” .. Re Le dee “ae taunt
physics. The programs of the two observatories are combined in
this joint enterprise and grouped by divisions representing areas of
interest.

ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS

The research program of this division concerns the study and
determination of processes and parameters in atomic and molecular
physics that are important to astrophysics.

In the laboratory, ongoing measurements are made of the gf-
values of atomic and molecular transitions and of photoionization
cross sections of astrophysically important species. Division mem-
bers utilize the recently completed Ion-Beam Facility to study the
feasibility of determining dielectronic recombination cross sections
in an electron-ion inclined-beams experiment and to measure the
absolute cross sections near threshold for electron excitation of
multiply charged ions, e.g., Be-like and Li-like. New experimental
approaches using, for example, lasers and ion traps, are under in-
vestigation to measure f-values of allowed, forbidden, and inter-
system transitions. The facility is also being used to determine
fundamental properties of multiply charged ions in order to under-
stand more fully the nature of a diverse set of astrophysical objects.
Programs to measure electron excitation and dielectronic recom-
bination of C** have begun, and measurements of photoionization
and autoionization cross sections of neutral atoms with shock tubes
have continued.

A joint research program on the part of theorists and experi-
mentalists in the division is under way to examine the destruction
of astrophysically important molecules by radiation.

The initial flight of a rocket-borne Lyman Alpha Coronagraph
was fully successful and yielded the first direct determinations of
solar temperature above the base of the corona. These measure-
ments are critically linked to coronal heating and solar-wind acceler-
ation mechanisms.

The far-infrared laser spectrometer has been modified for use as
a free radical detector in measurements of chemical reaction rates.
Preliminary measurements have been made on reactions of methoxy
(CH3O) with atmospheric gases, in order to assess the importance of
methoxy in the photochemical balance of the lower atmosphere.

144 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The division’s programs to measure oscillator strengths of im-
portance to astrophysics continue. A new method for combining
these measurements in absorption and emission has been formu-
lated. Both new and improved oscillator strengths for over 180 Co I
transitions are being derived from combined hook measurements
taken in the laboratory and branching-ratio and Fourier transform
spectroscopy data from the California Institute of Technology. This
data forms the body of critically compiled oscillator strengths for
Co I that will be published by the National Bureau of Standards.
Absolute oscillator strength values for 34 Y I transitions between
272.3-476.1 nanometers, obtained from hook measurements with
reference to Hanle effects and beam-foil lifetime data, are also being
prepared for publication. In addition, excellent hook spectra for
both V I and U I in the region 240-850 nanometers have recently
been obtained.

An exploratory investigation of the oscillator strengths of rare-
earth ions in crystals, in particular Nd*? in CaF and LaFs, has been
undertaken and is expected to yield the first relative oscillator
strengths of the 4f* interconfigurational transitions in Nd**, by use
of the hook method.

The 6.65-meter vacuum spectrograph, which is equipped for
photoelectric scanning, has obtained spectra of CO in emission and
Oz and NO in absorption at the previously unattained resolution of
0.01 A. In addition, the spectrograph was used to study the absorp-
tion spectra of the Rydberg bands of Nz» in the region 88.5-99.5
nanometer; a multi-level deperturbation program is now being
applied to the interactions between the Rydberg and valence states
of Ne. In another analysis, the vacuum ultraviolet emission spec-
trum of the argon dimer has yielded information on the excited state
symmetry and potential curves.

Among theoretical activities, particular attention has been given
to the study of charge transfer processes in atrophysical plasmas
and to mechanisms of dissociation of molecules in interstellar clouds
and in shocked regions. Work has continued on relativistic effects
and on theoretical molecular spectroscopy. The studies on shocked
interstellar gas were supported by observations at the National
Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO) and on the Orion molecular
cloud by observations at Kitt Peak. The chemical nature of the
pedestal sources was illuminated.

Science / 145
Division members have used the International Ultraviolet Ex-
plorer (1uE) satellite telescope to study the ultraviolet spectra of
globular cluster, x-ray sources, interstellar matter, and the eclipsing
binary star VV Cephei. Analysis of the interstellar absorption line
data includes surveys of highly ionized species in nebulas and of
CO molecules in diffuse clouds.

Investigations related to ground-based observations include the
analysis of interstellar Co towards Zeta Persei and the interpretation
of the spectrum of the unusual emission-line star V645 Cygni. Study
of the photochemistry of nitrogen ions in the terrestrial thermo-
sphere has revealed that the reaction N(?D) + OT > Nt + Oisa
significant, previously unrecognized source of N*. Predictions were
made of the fluxes of quadrupole rotational transitions of Hz in the
OH maser source W30H and in the hot region of the Orion molecu-
lar cloud.

RADIO AND GEOASTRONOMY

The resources and facilities of the Geoastronomy and Radio Astron-
omy divisions have been coordinated into a single division. The
combined program will concentrate on related research on very long
baseline interferometry (vLBI), atmospheric research, and the de-
velopment of maser clocks.

Research objectives in radio astronomy have emphasized micro-
wave atomic and molecular spectroscopy of the interstellar medium,
very long baseline interferometry of galactic and extragalactic
sources, participation in the Very Long Baseline Interferometry
Network, and experiments in radio aeronomy.

Observations of radio-frequency spectral-line emission from a
variety of atoms and molecules were carried out in several different
galactic and extragalactic regions. In particular, the nucleus of the
Milky Way Galaxy was studied extensively, which resulted in the
suggestion that there exists a giant whirlpool of gas, the center of
which is dominated by a supermassive object, perhaps a black hole.

A study of atmospheric ozone with the portable ground-based
millimeter-wave spectrometer continued. This year, an investigation
of reference source characteristics was performed and the profile
inversion program was incorporated into the software operating
system of the spectrometer’s minicomputer.

146 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Very long baseline synthesis mapping techniques were used to
map the Stokes parameters of several OH masers near H II regions.
An unambiguous method of distinguishing among Zeeman split
spectral features was provided that will allow the mapping of the
magnetic field strength in these regions. The intensity variations
of H2O maser spectral features were studied over a three-week
period, and nine features were seen to flare on a time scale of days
to weeks. The light curve of these features made it possible to dis-
tinguish between various maser models.

The first successful vLBI experiment at 43 GHz was completed in
the fall of 1978 on the 74-kilometer baseline between Haystack
Observatory and the University of Massachusetts’ Quabbin Ob-
servatory. Maps of the distribution of SiO maser emission were
made toward Orion and some supergiant stars. The maser in the
Orion nebula arises in a compact shell around a proto-star, which is
known in the infrared as IRC2, a part of the Kleinmann-Low
Nebula

vLBI observations of HzO masers used Network sites at Tyngs-
boro, Massachusetts (Haystack); Greenbank, West Virginia (NRAO);
Onsala, Sweden (Chalmers Institute of Technology); Bonn, Ger-
many (Max Planck Institut); and Semerz, Russia (Crimean Astro-
physical Observatory). First epoch measurements of the motion of
the high-velocity H2O features were made to an accuracy of ~100
parcsec revealing transverse motions of ~30 kilometers per second.
Absolute positions and maps of the masers in Cepheus OB3 were
obtained, and in other observations, newly discovered sites of star
formation were made. In addition, a series of eighteen-centimeter
VLBI experiments utilized three to five stations of the viB1 network,
including the Harvard Radio Astronomy Station (Fort Davis, Texas)
to measure absolute positions and study the structure of several
OH masers. Most of this effort has gone into Type I OH emission
sources, which have been less studied in the past.

Observations at seven millimeters with the 100-meter telescope
at Bonn, which were about five to ten times more sensitive than
previous investigations, show that there are probably no SiO
masers near star formation regions. Except for the Orion-KL SiO
source, all other SiO masers are associated with evolved, late-type
giants and supergiants, which gives the Orion SiO source an out-
standing role in the Galaxy. A detailed investigation has begun.

Science / 147
The division’s geoastronomy programs are concentrated in geo-
physics, upper atmospheric research, relativity, and support of hard-
ware and software systems development. Among the ongoing ac-
tivities are the study of earth dynamics and composition from
satellite measurements; the development of models to describe
temperature and density variations in the atmosphere; the analysis
of data from a spacecraft-borne gravitational redshift experiment;
the development of state-of-the-art hydrogen masers; and the study
of a spaceborne tether system for payload manipulation and in situ
measurements of gravity-field gradients and electrodynamics.

During the past year, sao’s satellite-tracking network provided
routine laser tracking coverage for geophysical research conducted
by the division and other research organizations in the U.S. and
abroad. The network was upgraded with an improved optical pulse
chopper installed at all stations to reduce laser pulse width and
improve ranging accuracy. Data-handling capabilities were im-
proved by modified software, allowing more direct transmission of
data from the field stations to sao. A minicomputer was used in
communications, and software was adapted for operations on the
recently installed pEc vax-11/780 computer in Cambridge. All field
stations continued local coverage of Lageos, Geos C, and other
satellites useful for geodetic applications.

The determination of the earth’s gravity field, expressed in
spherical harmonics to degree and order 30 (i.e., over 900 coeffi-
cients), was completed. This is the latest in the series of gravity-
field models that began in 1961, based on the combination of
satellite-tracking data and other data. The main new feature of
this solution is the inclusion of satellite-to-sea-surface altimeter
data, used as a direct measurement of the geoid in ocean regions.
Altimeter data from the Geos 3 satellite allowed both greater resolu-
tion and greater accuracy in the geopotential model, which is now
known with a horizontal resolution of 600 kilometers and an ac-
curacy of two meters.

Satellite-to-sea-surface altimeter data also contain information
about the ocean circulation, derived from the small difference (less
than one meter) between the physical sea surface and the geoid. By
using suitable filtering methods to eliminate the long wavelength
errors in knowledge of the geoid, a strong western boundary cur-
rent (the Gulf Stream) has been measured with altimeter data pro-

148 / Smithsonian Year 1979
vided by the Seasat satellite, which operated for three months in
1978.

The mechanical properties of the lithosphere were investigated
to identify the factors that influence those properties. The litho-
sphere is known to cool and thicken with increasing age, and this
fact will be reflected in the main trend. There are, however, many
deviations from that simple relationship. The data used for the
investigation are the geoid heights derived from the Seasat and
Geos 3 radar altimeters and their relationships with bathymetry.

Investigations of the variations in the earth’s thermosphere
associated with geomagnetic activity have led to the discoveries of
a broadening of the latitudinal profile of temperature increase at
high geomagnetic latitudes during large geomagnetic disturbances
and of local time variations related to the size and shape of the
auroral oval. An improved model of the geomagnetic variation in
the thermosphere is being constructed using mass spectrometer data
from the Esro 4 and other satellites.

Efforts to improve the 1977 thermospheric models continue,
mainly in the areas of the geomagnetic effect and of the diurnal
variation and its harmonics at relatively low altitudes (150-300
kilometers). Models have been developed that relate the shape and
extension of the auroral oval with the temperature profile along a
meridian of magnetic latitude. The computation of temperatures
and composition at any given height has been greatly simplified by
the development of analytical approximations of the laborious inte-
grations from the assumed boundary (90 kilometers). Mass spec-
trometer data from the Esro 4 and ae-c satellites are used to check
on the models; use is also made of copious published observational
material from a multitude of sources.

Analysis of the 1976 gravitational redshift experiment is com-
plete. A recalculation of all systematic errors and the formal statisti-
cal errors has led to a final result that the relationship between the
observed redshift and the prediction from the equivalence principle
is verified to within 143 parts per million.

A second test of the equivalence principle involving clocks was
done in April 1978 when hydrogen maser and superconducting
cavity clocks were compared at Stanford University to search for
a possible nonmetric behavior of gravitation. The evidence for this
would be that the frequency difference between clocks operating

Science / 149
on different physical principles would be affected by changes in the
sun’s gravity potential, owing to the laboratory’s motion during the
period of measurement. No effect was seen at the 1 percent level of
sensitivity.

During 1979, a hydrogen maser was successfully operated at 25
K, which was made possible by the introduction of a new type of
gaseous wall-coating material frozen in place. The stability avail-
able from the new cold maser is at the 10~1'" level, and work is in
progress to demonstrate this tenfold improvement over present
technology.

Research on the electrodynamics of long orbiting tethers and an
investigation of the interactions between an orbiting tether and the
earth’s ionosphere have shown that a long conducting tether in
orbital motion embedded in the earth’s ionosphere can generate,
under certain conditions, a broad spectrum of hydromagnetic and
electromagnetic waves. The frequency band of these emissions
spans the region from subhertz frequencies up to the optical band
and can be detected with state-of-the-art sensors.

A second study of the electrodynamic interactions of a long
metallic tether with ionospheric plasma is under way. A trans-
mission line model of the tether has been developed that allows
both the transient and steady-state electrical behavior of the wire
to be studied. The model has been included in the Skyhook dynamic-
simulation computer program, in order to study the effect of electro-
dynamic forces on the system dynamics. This computer program
will be used during the coming year to examine the possibility of
electrodynamic control of the Skyhook tether and its use in the
generation and injection of waves in space plasma.

HIGH ENERGY ASTROPHYSICS

Scientific activity in the High Energy Astrophysics Division during
the past year has concentrated on the reduction and analysis of
the very large amount of data returned by the Einstein Observatory
mission, which was successfully launched on November 13, 1978,
as the second in nasa’s HEAO series. In the first five months of
operation, the Einstein (HEAO-2) satellite, which carries a CFA-
designed telescope capable of focusing images of x-ray sources, has
observed the brightest, most distant, and most powerful objects
yet seen in this wavelength: quasars estimated to be more than

150 / Smithsonian Year 1979
ten billion light-years from earth. The intense x-ray emission from
the quasars, and the unusual number so far observed, suggests
they may contribute significantly to the low-level background of
cosmic x-ray radiation, thus implying that the proposed mass
necessary to close the universe is not present in the form of hot gas
between the stars and supporting theories that the universe may
continue to expand forever.

The Einstein Observatory has also observed “normal stars”
similar to our sun, a new class of young hot stars with strong x-ray
emission in their outer atmospheres, the remnants of supernovas,
“cosmic bursters” in globular clusters, distinct sources of x-ray
emission in other galaxies much like our own, and the most distant
clusters of galaxies yet observed by any instruments. Spectral
analysis of x-ray emissions from supernova remnants has also re-
vealed the presence of a variety of heavy elements, in abundances
similar to those found in the solar system, thus supporting the
theory that the sun and planets were formed out of the debris from
similar supernova explosions billions of years ago.

The data returned by HEAO-2 are of extremely high quality, and
the mission represents qualitative improvement in the observational
capabilities available to x-ray astronomers, in that a 1,000-fold in-
crease in sensitivity with respect to previous missions has been
achieved. This capability is coupled with the ability to image ex-
tended x-ray sources to a resolution of four seconds of arc and to
obtain higher resolution spectra with greater sensitivity than any
previously achieved. As a result, the scope of x-ray astronomy has
been enormously increased to encompass all known objects of astro-
physical interest, from nearby stars to objects at a cosmological dis-
tance, including the most distant detected in any wavelength range.

Finally, a very advanced software system has been developed,
which allows the processing of the returned data in less than real
time (the data input corresponds to fifty kilobits per second con-
tinuously in real time). Because of the wealth of data already in
hand, several years of interpretive efforts are needed to realize fully
their scientific import. In addition to the cra’s own observing pro-
gram, a program for guest investigators of unprecedented number
for a mission of this kind is being carried out: observation programs
by 170 guest investigators have been approved during the first seven
months of the mission.

Science / 151
Data returned by the HEAO-1 scanning modulation collimator ex-
periment have provided significant results: identification of BL Lac
objects, groups of galaxies, and cd cluster cores as classes of x-ray
emitters. In particular, these studies have led to the precise posi-
tioning of SS Cygni and EX Hya, thus firmly establishing the dwarf
novas as a clan of hard x-ray emitters; to the discovery of an ex-
tended component of x-ray radiation associated with the active
radio galaxy Cygnus A; and to the x-ray measurement of the di-
ameter of the Tycho Supernova Remnant. In addition, locations
were obtained for emission-line galaxies, Seyfert I galaxies, and
many galactic objects, including the second or third examples of
hard x-ray emitting dwarf novas, RS CVn stars, low mass binaries,
and magnetic white dwarfs. Finally, data from HEAO resulted in an
increase to 1,500 in the catalog of celestial x-ray sources from the
350 previously known.

Other divisional programs include research on extragalactic x-ray
sources with the sas 3 x-ray observatory. Three-year light curve
measurements were completed for the Seyfert galaxies 3C120 and
III Zw2, as well as the Abell cluster A478.

On the x-ray imaging ccp projects, single x-ray photon imaging
with some energy resolution has been achieved, and an x-ray camera
system was developed for testing of a variety of ccp chips.

Fabrication, alignment, and testing of the x-ray spectrometer
were completed, and the instrument was transferred to it (for the
Alcator Tokamak). Interfacing is nearly complete, and Tokamak
spectra are expected shortly. Further studies of holographical
formed x-ray transmission gratings were conducted at the Stan-
ford synchrotron.

With respect to the work for the future, the division is engaged
in the development of new technology and is participating in
NasA’s planning activities, which, it is hoped, will lead to major
new x-ray astronomy programs. In particular, division members
are involved in the overall design of the Advanced X-Ray Astron-
omy Facility (axar), which is currently planned for flight in 1987,
as well as in several activities for the Spacelab proposed for flight
aboard the Space Shuttle between 1981 and 1985. (Two of these
proposed experiments, the Large Area Modular Array of Reflectors
[LaMaR] and the Spherical Crystal Imaging Spectrometer [scis],
have been tentatively accepted by nasa for future shuttle flights.)

152 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The technological developments are particularly directed toward a
second generation of detectors for the AXAF mission.

OPTICAL AND INFRARED

The principal research activities in the Optical and Infrared (or)
Division continue to be in the areas of extragalactic astronomy,
infrared astronomy, and the study of the optical counterparts of
x-ray sources. A highlight of the division’s activities this year was
the dedication of the Multiple Mirror Telescope (mmr) (a joint
project of the Smithsonian Institution and the University of Ari-
zona) at the Mt. Hopkins Observatory, in May. After the final
alignment and performance testing were completed, the initial
astronomical observations were made in March and April. Later,
members of the division helped obtain the first scientific results:
spectroscopic observations of the twin QSOs 0957-++561 A, B.

In extragalactic research, studies continued of the Hubble flow,
using the H magnitude-21-centimeter profile width relation to de-
rive accurate distances to several clusters of galaxies around the
sky. SAO scientists and their collaborators at Kitt Peak and Steward
observatories find a value of Ho (the scaling between velocity and
distance in standard cosmological models) of eighty-five kilometers
per second per mega parsec; they also find that our galaxy is falling
into the local supercluster center with a velocity of a few hundred
kilometers per second. In addition, P-Cygni profiles have been
found in the broad emission lines of the Seyfert galaxy III 2w 2 that
appear to vary on time scales of days, which places strong con-
straints on models of the central energy source.

The Z-machine, initially configured for redshift surveys, is now
routinely available to all observers and has been used in a variety
of observations. The Z-machine detector has also been used with the
echelle spectrometer to conduct programs of research on the inter-
stellar medium and on stellar chromospheric activity.

Other projects in extragalactic research include grid photography
of the faint outer regions of NGC 4565, a spectroscopic test of spin-
orbit coupling in close binary galaxies, and work on the redshift
survey, which will contribute to the measurement of the mean
mass density of the universe. In addition, a dynamic study of the
bulges of disk galaxies is under way to determine the relative
contributions of the disk, the bulge, and any unseen third com-

Science / 153
ponent to the observed galaxy rotation curves. Programs in galactic
spectroscopy that utilize a photon-counting Reticon detector at Mt.
Hopkins include measurement of the velocity dispersions in ellipti-
cals to study the variation in mass-to-light ratio among elliptical
galaxies.

A program of studies of x-ray sources based on ccp images at R
and I wavelengths has begun. The first run on the sixty-inch tele-
scope provided excellent images of two sources of very red color
but stellar appearance, and a cluster of galaxies at z = 0.7 based
on R-J colors of the brightest three cluster numbers. The threshold
for detection of stars or galaxies is found to be R = 21.5 or V =
22.5 on the sixty-inch telescope, and will, it is hoped, be at least a
magnitude fainter on the MMT.

During the last year, two successful flights of the 102-centimeter
balloon-borne telescope were made, the twelfth and thirteenth of
the series. In April 1979, eight hours of high-quality astronomical
observations were acquired and included observations of fourteen
different astronomical regions obtained with the University of
Palermo four-color, single-beam photometer. This unique pho-
tometer has the capability of mapping with high resolution (one
minute of arc) simultaneously at four different infrared wavelength
bands.

Data from previous flights have yielded new insights into star
formation and evolution in the galaxy and have produced new in-
formation on the structure of the outer planets. Considerable study
was devoted to the H II regions at the boundary of giant molecular
clouds in an attempt to understand the processes of star formation
in these objects. Evidence was found for a variable far-infrared
source in a molecular cloud, indicating a possible transient stage of
stellar evolution, and new information on the rate of mass loss
from the carbon star IR + 10216 was obtained.

In June 1979, the telescope was launched carrying the Fourier
Transform Infrared Spectrometer (Firs). This instrument produced
high resolution (0.03 per centimeter) over the spectral range from
40 to 120 microns. Spectra of three astronomical objects were ob-
tained, as well as spectra of the earth’s atmosphere. Preliminary data
indicate that the balloon platform provides an ideal method of ob-
taining far-infrared astronomical spectra.

Division members continue their participation in construction

154 / Smithsonian Year 1979
of the small helium-cooled infrared telescope for Spacelab 2, now
scheduled for launch in early 1982. The experiment is a joint ven-
ture with the University of Arizona and the nasa Marshall Space
Flight Center.

Observational programs aboard the International Ultraviolet Ex-
plorer satellite emphasize ultraviolet studies of strong x-ray sources
and of globular clusters. In particular, the eclipsing binary VV Cep
is the subject of an investigation.

Construction of two new detector systems is nearly complete: the
twin-1024 Reticon photon-counting detector head is planned for use
in the next version of the Z-machine and the new rca ccD camera
for use in direct photography. Future plans include a cooled direct-
illuminated Reticon system.

PLANETARY SCIENCES

A wide variety of solar-system investigations that exclude the sun
and concentrate on the origin of the solar system, studies of ex-
traterrestrial materials, and the astrophysics of small bodies are
carried out by the division.

Solar-system studies have produced an explanation for the
century-old mystery of the changes in nongravitational motion of
Encke’s Comet. Calculation of the jet sublimation forces on a
slightly oblate icy nucleus showed that the spin axis pole has pre-
cessed through some 130° across the sky since the comet was dis-
covered in 1786, which accounts for the variable period and the
asymmetrical comas observed.

Other work on the early history of the solar system includes the
following studies: the interaction between the primitive solar
nebula and a giant gaseous protoplanet; the rapid coalescence and
rain-out of minerals deep in the interior of an evolved giant
gaseous protoplanet; the origin of meteoritic FUN anomalies and of
mechanisms within giant gaseous protoplanets for producing them;
and the r-process caused by neutron-producing conditions when
supernova shock waves traverse the helium and carbon shells in
the presupernova star.

The division’s lunar research programs include the initiation of
an intensive study to be carried out in the consortium mode of
some Apollo 16 rocks. As part of a new program to examine the
evolution of the ancient rocks of the highlands, research is focused

Science / 155
on North Ray Crater ejecta. The following investigations are also
being pursued: an experimental, thermodynamic, and geochemical
research program on pristine spinel-bearing lunar highland rocks—
the first comprehensive work of its kind that has established a non-
surficial or deep-seated origin of these materials; petrologic studies
of some Apollo 16 coarse-fines; and the determination of 'C in
lunar samples.

The heating effect of 7°A1 in early solar-system planetesimals,
and its relationship to time scales defined by the metallographic
cooling rates and radiometric ages of meteorites, have been investi-
gated. In addition, a thermochemical interpretation of experimental
phase equilibria on silicate solid-liquid systems of planetary in-
terest is in progress for the purpose of modeling the early forma-
tion of the crusts and mantles of earth- and moon-sized planets.

The division’s orbital research programs on comets and minor
planets have continued, with the following studies in particular:
the nongravitational effects on periodic comet Temple 2 throughout
its 105-year history, routine calculations on new comets, more ex-
tensive calculations on minor planets, and calculations to check the
results of the astrometric observing program at Agassiz Station at
Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

A comprehensive study of the dust tail of Comet West 1976 VI
has provided the following results: (a) identification of twelve
explosions of dust from the nucleus between six days before
perihelion and twelve days after perihelion; and (b) explanation of
peculiar striae (pseudosynchronic bands) in terms of fragmentation
of dust particles in the tail. A method was developed for determin-
ing the orientation of the rotation axis of the comet nucleus and
the characteristic thermal lag of the sublimation process.

Planetary research programs have yielded results in studies of
both Uranus and Jupiter. For Uranus, analysis of Stratoscope II
photographs has showed clear detection of the ring system in pro-
jection, which in turn provides a measure of confirmation of the
value for the dynamical oblateness of the planet; detection of faint
surface features; and determination of the ellipticity (e = 0.22 =
0.001). With regard to Jupiter, one phase of a study of the outer-
belt asteroids has been completed and indicates that the observed
population cannot be accounted for by Jovian gravitational per-
turbations alone, whereas other asteroids now moving in stable

156 / Smithsonian Year 1979
orbits suggest that Jupiter’s eccentricity has never exceeded
—O.075:

In a search for meteoritic fireballs and related nighttime phe-
nomena, a division member has discovered in the Jovian atmosphere
an aurora and flashes that are thought to be lightning. These ob-
servations of the darkside of Jupiter gathered by the Voyager
mission to Saturn have provided photographic evidence of an elec-
trically supercharged atmosphere. The light output from the flashes
has been estimated to be about ten billion joules—far greater than
that produced by terrestrial superbolts. These light flashes may
provide the energy source required by proponents of theories sug-
gesting that organic chemical activity exists on Jupiter.

A member of the division continues direction of the 1au Central
Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams, which issued some 135 Iau
Circulars and some 40 telegram books, and the rau Minor Planet
Center, which issued some 400 Minor Planet Circulars during the
fiscal year.

Finally, a division scientist spent six weeks of the December-—
January austral summer in Antarctica searching for meteorites
from two field camps: one in the Darwin-Byrd Glacier area (80°S;
157°E), the other in the Allan Hills (76°S; 159°E). Specimens were
collected from patches of stagnant (?) blue ice and three other
types of terrain: in moraines, on steeply sloping ice surfaces, and
on the rocky sides of Derrick Peak, a mountain in the Transantarc-
tic Range. X-ray and sem study has begun on some white Mg-
carbonates that were found on a few Antarctic stones when they
were unpackaged in Houston.

SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS

The research activities in the Solar and Stellar Division focus on
the goal of understanding the physics of the sun and the stars.
Analysis and interpretation continued of data from Harvard's
two solar experiments on the Skylab satellite—the soft x-ray tele-
scope and the extreme ultraviolet spectroheliometer. Studies con-
centrated on the physics of magnetically confined dense plasma
in active-region coronal loops, coronal bright points, and other
features. A major new experimental capability was successfully
inaugurated with the first rocket flight of the Hco Lyman Alpha
coronagraph. This instrument, flown in a joint payload with a

Science / 157
white-light coronagraph of the High Altitude Observatory, ob-
tained the first measurements of coronal temperatures at distances
beyond 1.5 radii from the sun center. This data will provide
valuable constraints on proposed mechanisms for coronal heating
and solar-wind acceleration.

Studies of long-term solar variability conducted as part of the
Langley-Abbot Program included theoretical investigations of mag-
netic diffusion in the photosphere and observational analysis of the
location and rate of emergence of magnetic flux elements revealed
by x-ray bright points. The rate of flux emergence in bright points
was found approximately to equal that of active regions, though it
varies throughout the cycle approximately in opposite phase to the
sunspot number, so that the total magnetic flux emergence rate may
even be approximately constant.

The evidence for variability of the solar “constant” gathered at
sao by Abbot, as well as in recent space data, was carefully ex-
amined, and small but definite decreases due to sunspots, as well
as increases due to active regions, were discovered. Observations
from ground-based facilities confirmed that magnetized regions in
the photosphere rotate faster than nonmagnetized regions—a result
of considerable importance to dynamo theory. Finally, evidence
was obtained for a significant decrease in the solar radius over the
past several hundred years. If confirmed by more modern data,
this result will be of extraordinary importance for an understanding
of the time-varying dynamics of the solar convection zone.

Theoretical studies of radiative transfer in the solar chromo-
sphere continued, with the development of a series of statistical
equilibrium models of solar features (the quiet sun, the magnetic
network, sunspots, active regions, and flares). In addition, new
calculations elucidated a density dependence correction to ioniza-
tion equilibrium relationships.

In parallel to these solar programs, stellar ultraviolet and x-ray
data were acquired using the Copernicus (rue) and Einstein
(HEAO-2) satellites. The ultraviolet observations concentrated on
chromospheres and chromosphere-corona transition zones of late-
type stars, x-ray binary stars, and horizontal branch stars of
globular clusters. The x-ray observation involved, in addition to
specific objects, a survey of the range of x-ray-emitting coronas on
stars in all parts of the temperature-luminosity (H-R) diagram.

158 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Studies were pursued of stellar variability over time scales vary-
ing from minutes to years. This included the development of
scaling laws relating stellar flares to solar flares; study of ultra-
short period variability (minutes) of chromospheres of giant stars;
analysis of luminosity variations of late-type dwarf stars that show
“sunspots”; and photoelectric photometry of peculiar variables.

Theoretical studies of stellar atmospheres included investigation
of relative instability in O-star winds; calculation of empirical
statistical equilibrium models of stellar chromospheres based on
Copernicus ultraviolet data; and publication of arrays of models
giving temperature distribution, Balmer line profiles, and colors of
stars of a wide variety of surface temperatures and compositions.

Programs are under way on the definition of new instrumenta-
tion for solar space astronomy, including a coronal dynamics ex-
periment, an improved Lyman alpha coronagraph, and a precision
solar-variability experiment.

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS

The Theoretical Astrophysics Division carries out research on a
diverse range of astrophysical phenomena, with theoretical studies
often applied to the support and interpretation of observational
data. Division members frequently work in collaboration with
members of other divisions as well as with scientists in other insti-
tutions. In addition, they contribute significantly to the educational
programs of both the Smithsonian and the Harvard College ob-
servatories.

Valuable progress was made in the understanding of dust grains,
charge transfer processes in ionized plasmas, chemistry of shocked
regions, collision-induced dissociation, stellar dynamics, and the
evolution of globular clusters. Basic studies continued of stellar
dynamics, gravitational theory, radiative transfer, kinetic theory,
scattering theory, and cosmology.

Emphasis continues on the development and application of the
methods of quantum mechanics to atomic and molecular processes,
with special reference to energy-related problems. Studies also con-
tinue on the role of atomic and molecular processes in astrophysical
and atmospheric phenomena.

A substantial effort has been directed toward the formulation of
an equation of state for diffuse clouds, which includes the impor-

Science / 159
tant influence of radiative transfer. One aspect is the development
of an accurate method for treatment of the penetration of diffuse
ultraviolet radiation into clouds subject to scattering by dust grains.

Investigation of quantum gravity and supergravity theories has
focused on a study of the so-called gravitational index theorems.
These theorems relate properties of the field equations of fields of
arbitrary spin to the topological invariants of the background
gravitational field upon which these fields propagate. Use of such
theorems can provide information about the quantum-field theo-
retical divergences that appear in such theories. Supertheorems
were also developed in the context of supergravity theory, and it
was found that under special conditions supergravity theory can
be made finite.

Studies of the halos of galaxies continue. Exploration of various
scenarios for the formation of galactic halos is under way, in addi-
tion to a determination of the velocity dispersion and mass of the
halos of elliptical galaxies (e.g., M 87) from the x-ray observations.

An investigation of the effect of deviations from local thermo-
dynamic equilibrium (LTE) on the structure of a stellar atmosphere
and on the emergent spectrum has led to the conclusion that the
customary description of deviations from LTE in terms of departure
coefficients is deceptive and can be misleading.

A study of the efficacy of chemical sputtering for the destruction
of graphite grains, with particular application to H II regions, has
been carried out. The physics of dust grains in hot gas was investi-
gated, as well as the importance of various mechanisms for the
destruction of interstellar dust. Work was done on the nucleation
of interstellar and circumstellar dust, with particular attention paid
to the thermodynamics of small clusters and the applicability of
“classical” nucleation theory.

The existence of an ionization-coupled acoustic instability of
interstellar matter at temperatures of 30-100 K, previously believed
to be stable, has been demonstrated. Recent hydrodynamic study
of the nonlinear developments suggests that the instability affects
the gas simply by including a “stirred-up” state at low enough
temperatures. Also, fluctuations in temperature over the cycle of
the disturbance can induce portions of the gas to cross into the
regime of the previously found thermal instability.

Research has been carried out in the area of grand unification—

160 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the development of theories that unite the strong with the weak
and electromagnetic interactions. In particular, one aspect of these
theories that may be of importance to cosmology has been ex-
plored: baryon nonconserving processes in the early universe can
produce a baryon-entropy ratio of the order of the observed ratio.

Finally, study of models of x-ray emission from active galactic
nuclei provided new techniques for describing Comptonization in
these sources. An investigation of radiative pumping of fine struc-
ture levels has continued, in order to deduce constraints on the
nature of the clouds producing absorption lines in quasar spectra.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Why study the tropics? First, biologists still attain understanding
primarily through comparison, as did Aristotle and Darwin. The
sheer diversity of tropical plants and animals provides a field for
comparison and perspective without rival. The tremendous variety
of competitors and predators implies that adaptation will be most
finely tuned and most easily studied in the tropics. Similarly, the
mechanism maintaining this diversity in balance will be most pre-
cise and sensitive in tropical communities. Finally, a great many
people live in the tropics, and their fate is decisive to the political
and economic stability of the world. Understanding the ways in
which the balance of nature works in tropical communities may
allow these people to use this balance to their profit rather than
destroy it to everyone’s harm.

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (str1) is a major
center of basic research in the tropics, without equal in the New
World. On Barro Colorado Island, the institute administers a
tropical forest reserve, which is less disturbed and has a more com-
plete animal community than any other equally accessible tract of
tropical forest. The value of this reserve is decisively enhanced by
the understanding and the background information built up by a
half century of research. The institute’s Caribbean and Pacific
marine stations permit easy access to the spectacular natural experi-
ment started when the Isthmus of Panama formed three million
years ago. Fossils document in some detail the conditions that pre-

Science / 161
vailed before the isthmus formed and provide the background by
which one can judge how the biota has responded to the very
different conditions on the two sides: the clear, low-productivity
waters of the Caribbean contrasting greatly with the high-produc-
tivity waters of the eastern Pacific, enriched by seasonal upwelling.
Preserving these matchless opportunities has, however, brought
new responsibilities.

In spite of the enormous administrative demands to prepare STRI
for the treaty-related changes in operations, this year has been
particularly fruitful scientifically. Over 140 scientific articles were
published and 75 seminars delivered by str staff, fellows, and stu-
dents in 1979. William Eberhard, Donald Windsor, and David
Roubik joined the permanent scientific staff.

The Barro Colorado Island Nature Monument has been increased
by several tracts of forest in adjoining mainland areas, which will
need vigorous protection. strI personnel is helping in various ways
to bring about an interest in conservation among Panamanian
citizens, and N. Smythe is advising Panama in the management of
a large national park that Panamanian authorities have proclaimed
on the mainland east and north of Gatun Lake, all in the hope that
Barro Colorado will not be left a small oasis in an otherwise tree-
less landscape.

Members of stri feel strongly that the economic resources of the
developed nations should be used to help the developing tropical na-
tions preserve some of their biological resources. A system of tropi-
cal reserves, financed internationally, will help insure the genetic
reservoir in tropical forests for the future needs of all mankind.

sTRI staff and students also work in other tropical countries and
sometimes even in the temperate zone, thereby providing an essen-
tial perspective for studies closer to home. These studies help to
show how typical Panama is of the tropics in general, permit com-
parisons that shed light either on the origins or on the functions of
phenomena encountered in Panama, and bring str1 personnel in
contact with researchers in other lands.

Martin Moynihan visited Sumatra and Singapore to study cora-
ciiform birds—hornbills, kingfishers, and the like—trying to gain
perspectives on the very odd behavior some birds of this order
display in Africa. He also went to Guam and Palau to study the
squid Sepiateuthis, comparing its modes of communication with

162 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Left. Iguanas are unusual among lizards in being almost entirely herbivorous.
Katherine Troyer is feeding artificial diets to growing iguanas to learn how they
extract energy and nutrients from plants. (Photo by Jon Mummaw.) Right. Dr.
M. H. Moynihan during a recent visit to the Bohorok Orangutan Rehabilitation

Center in northern Sumatra. The center is responsible for returning orphaned or
illegal pet animals to the forest. (Photo by Olga Linares.) Below. A comb from the
nest of a feral colony of Africanized Apis mellifera, found in a mangrove forest
in northern South America. The bees will enter Panama in coming years. (Photo
by David Roubik.)

those of relatives on the Caribbean coast of Panama. These squid
have a system of communication more complicated than those of
any bird or of most monkeys. They communicate entirely by
changes of color or position and can perform up to seven displays
at once. They live in groups and are much preyed upon, and often
have to play to different audiences simultaneously, hiding from a
predator by a cryptic display, or surprising or confusing it with
some sudden and totally unexpected color change, while trans-
mitting useful information “in code” to other members of the
group. This year also saw the completion of Moynihan’s studies
on Andean birds, with the publication of his book Geographic
Variation in Social Behavior and in Adaptions to Competition
Among Andean Birds.

A group of stRr scientists, Yael Lubin, Michael Robinson,
Barbara Robinson, and Thane Pratt, is working at the Wau Ecology
Institute in Papua New Guinea. Lubin and the Robinsons have been
working in part on social spiders. At Wau there are at least five
species of web-building spiders with gregarious or social tenden-
cies: their presence at one place provides a unique opportunity for
learning both the functions and the evolutionary origins of social
behavior in spiders. Yael Lubin and Thane Pratt are also studying
the social behavior of terrestrial isopods in the montane forest at
Wau. They have found immense aggregations of isopods ranging
over hundreds of square meters of the forest floor.

Olga Linares complemented her study of the Diola wet-rice
peoples of Senegal by gathering comparative data on South Asian
societies, especially the Batak of Sumatra, some of whom are wet-
rice cultivators. Unlike the Diola, who are politically decentralized,
nonhierarchical, and loosely organized into patrilineages three
generations deep, the Batak are carefully organized into marga,
exogamous patrilineages twenty or more generations deep. The
descendants of the founding members of one of the marga control
the village lands and “rule” the community in accordance with
their traditional law. Despite their differences in social organiza-
tion, the wet-rice cultivations of the Diola and the Batak share
many features adapted to unpredictable rain and intermittent irri-
gation.

Mary Jane West Eberhard has been working in Colombia. She
studied colonial wasps of the genus Synoeca in the eastern llanos.

164 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Their social behavior shows much evidence of competition within
the colony, contradicting the image of social insects as communities
of perfect harmony. Rather than devoting themselves to the benefit
of the queen and brood, some females remain idle and behave like
queens when near established queens or their eggs. These females
live longer than foraging workers and may become workers when
other workers are scarce. William Eberhard, who has just joined
the stri staff, completed a study of combat in male beetles, show-
ing that the elaborate horns that have long puzzled naturalists are
often used as weapons of battle. The Eberhards have just moved
to Costa Rica, where Mrs. Eberhard will continue studying social
wasps, while Mr. Eberhard continues to work on orb-web spiders
and the behavior of insects.

Alan Smith has completed seven years of research on the rosette
plants Espeletia spp. of the Venezuelan paramo. The population
of the most common species, Espeletia schultzii, is self-regulating:
increased mortality leads to increased growth among the remaining
plants. On densely vegetated sites, the dead leaves that adults drop
about their bases inhibit the growth of other species but do not
affect young schultzii. The adults thereby create safe zones for
juveniles, whose main source of mortality here is competition from
plants of other species. Higher up, where vegetation is sparser,
inhibiting the growth of other species may harm young schultzii
by exposing them to frost heave, and this species is replaced by
others better adapted to the harsher conditions. The giant Senecios
of Mt. Kenya, which live in the same type of habitat, resemble
Espeletia both in form and in mode of population regulation. Alan
Smith spent five months on Mt. Kenya, continuing his comparison
of these Senecios with Espeletia.

Egbert Leigh continued his comparative studies of “elfin wood-
lands,” the stunted, seemingly wind-planed thickets that occur on
foggy, breezy mountaintops in the tropics. As part of his research,
he visited Puerto Rico to look at ways in which the elfin forest trees
there arrange their branches and leaves. As in Malaya, Costa Rica,
and elsewhere, these plants tended to arrange their leaves in spiral
decussate fashion around erect twigs, as do rhododendrons and
frangipani, rather than in the horizontal sprays of foliage so char-
acteristic of beech. It seems that here, as elsewhere, the shape of
elfin forest trees allows them to grow with the least shedding of

Science / 165
shaded twigs, although this forces upon them an inefficient form,
requiring a great deal of wood for the leaves carried.

Some understanding of the meaning of tree shape was suggested
by the outcome of a local windstorm that opened two clearings of
several hectares apiece near the laboratory of Barro Colorado
Island. With admirable opportunism, Phyllis Coley, Arlee Montalvo,
and Francis Putz, all graduate students at the station, and Annette
Aiello, proceeded to map the damage and found that trees with
dense, strong wood were uprooted, while those with lighter wood
were snapped off their stumps. The trees with the densest wood
were built most like trees of elfin forest; moreover, most plants
react to wind by forming denser wood. The coincidence of Leigh’s
trip, the windstorm, and the studies of these students may lead to
an entirely new approach to the study of the shapes of trees.

At Barro Colorado Island most of the research is devoted to
learning more about the myriad interactions that together maintain
the balance of nature in this forest. Here, predoctoral and post-
doctoral students, many financed now or previously by the Smith-
sonian fellowship program, are leading the way.

Phyllis Coley, a Smithsonian predoctoral fellow from the Uni-
versity of Chicago, has learned that young leaves are eaten far
more rapidly than older, tougher ones, and that leaves of light-
demanding plants that sprout only in clearings are eaten far more
rapidly than less weedy, more shade-tolerant plants. She is now
trying to learn why some leaves are eaten more than others, and
how hairiness, toughness, protein content, and the levels of various
classes of distasteful or toxic compounds influence the rate at
which leaves are eaten. Katharine Milton, just finishing a Smith-
sonian postdoctoral fellowship, has been analyzing physical, chemi-
cal, and nutritional properties of different leaves, flowers, and
fruits in order to understand better the ways in which the seasonal
rhythms in the abundance of fruit and new leaves control the
numbers of spider and howler monkeys on Barro Colorado.
Katherine Troyer has begun an eighteen-month study of the ways
in which diet affects bacterial fermentation in iguana guts, and how
this in turn affects the growth of young iguanas, which are unusual
among lizards in their ability to live on a strictly vegetarian diet
even as hatchlings.

The seasonal rhythm of new leaves is important to the life of
much of the forest. Henk Wolda is continuing to study the relation

166 / Smithsonian Year 1979
between the abundance of leafhoppers on Barro Colorado and
fluctuations in rainfall and the availability of new leaves. He is also
comparing the seasonality of leafhoppers on Barro Colorado with
those of areas possessing different rainfall regimes.

There is also a seasonal rhythm of leaf fall and decomposition,
leaves dropping in the dry season and beginning to rot in earnest
when the rains come. Nigel Franks has been studying population
regulation in army ants, which live in swarms of several hundred
thousand ants apiece, plundering the leaf litter like little armies
for arthropods and other invertebrates. Swarms seem to be most
abundant and active early in the rainy season, when the litter fauna
is richest. Army ant populations seem to be limited primarily by
the abundance of just two species of forest floor ant. Franks intro-
duced army ants to a small island from which they were previously
absent but which had an abundant supply of these two food
species. He was able to demonstrate an increase in reproduction
rate, and, for the time being, the army ants are thriving. Russell
Greenberg, a former Smithsonian predoctoral fellow, and Judith
Gradwohl have been studying the mixed flocks of insectivorous
birds that form in the understory about two species of antwrens.
Two pairs of antwrens, one of each species, share a territory, and
often move about together, attracting other birds as they go.

Different species of trees produce fruit according to different
rhythms, attracting different dispersers. Andrea Worthington, from
the University of Washington, has been studying the relation be-
tween seasonal changes in the abundance of fruits on different
understory shrubs and the feeding and breeding behavior of the
birds that eat these fruits, trying to learn how these birds respond
to a patchy and variable supply of food. Henry Howe, former post-
doctoral fellow at str1, and Gayle Vande Kerckhove are beginning
a study of fruiting rhythm in a species of canopy tree related to
nutmegs, the fruit of which is dispersed very largely by toucans.
How does fruiting rhythm differ from tree to tree or from year to
year? How do these differences affect dispersal? What degree of
dispersal accords best with survival of the seedlings? How does
the amount of fruit wasted and the pattern of dispersal differ from
plants that attract a wide variety of consumers to a huge feast of
fruit?

Other rhythms are being studied that we are only beginning to
understand. Male euglossine bees obtain from orchids and other

Science / 167
flowers fragrances that they seem to use in connection with mating.
James Ackermann, a strI predoctoral fellow, finds that the number
of male euglossines attracted to different fragrances of known
chemistry changes from season to season. Fragrances attract these
bees in greatest numbers when flowers that they pollinate, and that
supply them with fragrances, are blooming.

George Angeher completed his study of seasonal changes in
territorial behavior of hummingbirds. He found that the intensity
with which hummingbirds competed for control of flowers in the
clearing of Barro Colorado had rather little relation to the number
of flowers available there; instead, hummingbird activity was con-
trolled very largely by the abundance of flowers ten or fifteen miles
away along the Panama Railroad, and when these were in bloom
many hummingbirds left the island.

The Environmental Monitoring Program on Barro Colorado
Island is designed to provide the background information needed
to meld these studies into a coherent picture. Records are kept of
rainfall and other climate variables: the runoff from Lutz ravine, a
ten-hectare catchment; soil moisture in that catchment; the weekly
fall per unit area of leaves, fruit, etc., to the forest floor; and those
trees on a census of 400 that are putting out flowers, fruit, or new
leaves each week. Changes in soil moisture seem to be the most
important factor in the rhythm of the forest, timing the onset of
flowering and/or the production and fall of leaves in many plants.

As the results of its first seven years are being written up, the
Environmental Monitoring Program at sTr1 is being reorganized
and new proposals prepared for the next five years. Dr. Donald
Windsor has joined the permanent staff at str in order to run the
tropical phase of this program.

Environmental monitoring plays a large role in the research at
sTRI's Caribbean marine station, Galeta, where John Cubit, Mark
Hay, and John Kilar, along with James Norris of the National
Museum of Natural History, are studying the ecology of the inter-
tidal reef flat and the habitats fronting it.

Mark Hay has been studying turf-forming algae, finding that
algae photosynthesize less when in a turf but are safer from
dessication and herbivores. Indeed, turf-forming algae depend on
herbivores to protect them from fast-growing but less resistant
competition.

Before beginning a sabbatical at Stanford University in Cali-

168 / Smithsonian Year 1979
fornia, Peter Glynn continued his studies on the factors affecting
reef growth in the eastern Pacific. He and predoctoral student
Gerry Wellington were guests of the government of American
Samoa to investigate the impact of Acanthaster upon coral reefs.
Ross Robertson has been continuing his analysis of the interactions
between different damselfish and between them and the algae they
eat. Harilaos Lessios, a new member of the stri staff, began a study
of the effect of the long-spined sea urchin Diadema on coral reefs:
to what extent do they kill coral or prevent its recruitment? He is
also examining the degree of reproductive incompatibility between
congeneric sea urchins of the two coasts. Echinometra lucunter of
the Caribbean coast wiil, for example, not accept fertilization by
sperm of the Pacific urchin E. vanbrunti, although the reverse mat-
ing works. He will be able to check the correlation of reproductive
incompatibility with either morphological or genetic differences.

Freshwater organisms have not been completely ignored this
year. Mary Power, a Smithsonian predoctoral fellow, completed
another stage in her study of the effects on armored catfish of
seasonal variation in the amount and quality of their food. These
fish live in pools in streams and graze algae from the rocks of the
stream bottom. Their food supply is affected by shade over the
pool, which slows algal growth, and the time elapsed since the last
major flood scoured the rocks clean. High sediment content can
also slow algal growth or even kill the algae—there is more sedi-
ment the more slowly the stream flows. It appears that these fish
populations are limited primarily by their food supply, which is
greatest early in the rainy season when there is little sediment but
few devastating floods.

Professors Luis D’Croz and Rat Amores, with several of their
students from the University of Panama, began a long-term study
of the population dynamics of cladocerans in Gatun Lake. They
will be making weekly plankton tows and hydrographic stations
along a transect between Frijoles and Barro Colorado Island.

There is, however, much more to tropical biology than the simple
adage of eat or be eaten; there is a host of nuances, some affecting
the function of the community in a vital way, some shedding light
on aspects of natural selection not directly related to finding food
or escaping predators, some helping us to understand the diversity
of the community.

David Janos, a Smithsonian postdoctoral fellow, is continuing

Science / 169
his studies of the different relationships between tropical forest
trees and the mycorrhizal fungi that assist their roots in extracting
mineral nutrients from the soil. Most trees here, especially those of
the mature forest, cannot grow without mycorrhizae; some second-
growth trees only need mycorrhizae when on poor soils, and some
plants, characteristic either of early succession or of very poor
soils, do not need them at all. David Janos is starting another set
of experiments to show how mycorrhizae affect the growth and
competitive ability of plants from different stages of succession.
Laurie McHargue is studying the nodules of nitrogen-fixing bac-
teria, which one finds on the roots of many legumes: how do they
affect the growth of seedlings of tropical leguminous trees?

Several people have been studying the ways in which organisms
attract mates. Robert Warner, a former Smithsonian postdoctoral
fellow, has been working on the blue-headed wrasse, a coral reef
fish. Most of its individuals are born female and change color and
sex when large enough to be able to compete with the other males.
These fish mate at special sites: on most reefs, the largest males,
which attract the most mates, hold mating territories at the down-
stream end of the reef, where eggs will most quickly drift off the
reef. On the largest reefs, however, there are many small, non-
territorial males, which mate in swarms and often occupy the
downstream end of the reef while large, brightly colored males
establish mating territories on its side. Warner wishes to learn
whether the females choose the male or the mating territory he
occupies.

Beverly Dugan, a stri fellow, discovered that during the breeding
season male iguanas use three different mating strategies. Very
large males turn bright orange, and each defends an isolated tree
as a territory, where females come to mate with him. Medium-sized
males defend territories peripheral to those of large males and
thereby attract the occasional female. Small males, which are the
size and color of the green females, lurk in the territories of large
males and attempt to fertilize the females gathered there. Large
males do most of the mating, but small males are occasionally
successful.

Michael Ryan, a Smithsonian predoctoral fellow, is studying the
ways in which female frogs, Physalaemus pustulosus, choose a
mate, and why. These females prefer large males and seem to be

170 / Smithsonian Year 1979
able to judge a male’s size by his call. Naida Zucker, of the Uni-
versity of New Mexico, has been examining the same question for
fiddler crabs at Naos.

Male Jamaican fruit bats, Artibeus jamaicensis, keep harems.
Douglas Morrison, a former Smithsonian predoctoral fellow, has
affixed small radios to bats from the same roost in order to follow
their movements. He finds that during mating season they are very
solicitous of their females, always guarding the roost when females
are present, and escorting them in as they return at dawn. To sup-
port all this activity takes a great deal of energy; harem males eat
twice their weight in figs every night, half again as much as other
conspecifics.

“Africanized” honeybees are spreading northward from South
America and should reach the Panama Canal in a few years. When
European honeybees were introduced to America many years ago,
they apparently displaced many native pollinators and greatly
changed the economics of pollination in the eastern United States.
Africanized honeybees show every sign of exerting a similar effect.
David Roubik has joined the stri staff to study this effect, and he
is now working on the ecology and pollinating habits of those
native bees and other pollinators with which the invading bees are
most likely to compete.

Gordon Burghardt and Stanley Rand have been studying thermo-
regulation in nesting iguanas, using radiotelemetry to monitor the
temperatures of nesting female iguanas on Slothia Island. These
females normally thermoregulate rather precisely, but they are
much less careful when nesting and continue to dig nest burrows
even when their body temperature drops well below the normal
activity range.

Francis Putz, anew Smithsonian predoctoral fellow, has come to
study the lianas of Barro Colorado Island. Lianas account for be-
tween a tenth and a sixth of the leaves in most tropical forests, and
for nearly 40 percent of the leaf production for one rain forest in
Gabon. They are a great nuisance to tropical foresters because of
their adverse effect on the tree growth, but very little is known
about them. Putz would like to know how a liana’s mode of climb-
ing, and its degree of commitment to vegetative reproduction by
side shoots to other trees, affects its role in the forest.

Robert Silberglied has extensive records on Anartia, a common

Science / 171
species of butterfly living in the laboratory clearing at Barro
Colorado Island. He and Annette Aiello captured nearly all the
butterflies of this species in the clearing every week for months on
end and took extensive notes on the state of each insect captured.
He can therefore judge the effect of different sorts of damage on
the butterfly’s life expectancy and determine how often the butter-
fly comes within a given degree of being killed by a bird, and from
what direction these threats usually come. He also painted over
some of the markings of these butterflies to see how this affected
their life span and the types of damage they suffer.

Barbara Thorne, a Smithsonian predoctoral fellow, has come to
study seasonal changes in the diet and behavior of termites. Very
much to her surprise, she soon discovered that many termite
colonies had several queens, something known at the turn of the
century but utterly forgotten since. This rediscovery may shed light
on the ways in which colonial behavior evolved among termites.

Catherine Phillips has been studying the distribution of the two
common ferns of the forest, Adiantum lucidum and Tectarias
incisa. These are restricted to steep slopes and show few signs of
competition. They seem to be limited by the places in which their
gametophytes can become established. The gametophytes do not
readily become established in flat areas where they can be dis-
rupted by rain splash or smothered by litter. On steep slopes,
gametophytes are more likely to find shelter from overhanging
roots and stems, and litter accumulates only with difficulty. A
parallel situation may exist in some marine organisms, such as the
corals of the eastern Pacific, which are limited primarily by the
capacity of their young to settle and become established. Thus they
are rare even in places in which it has been shown that adults can
survive without difficulty. It would be interesting to know how true
this is of land plants.

Through the provisions of the Panama Canal Treaty, a contract
with the Ministry of Health, and arrangements with the Panama
Canal Authority, strr will continue to operate research facilities in
Panama indefinitely. There will be some changes in its mode of
operation, but these operational changes are yet to be formalized.

One significant change will occur on October 1, 1979, when the
research reserve of Barro Colorado Island will be expanded under
the designation of the Barro Colorado Nature Monument. In

172 / Smithsonian Year 1979
September 1979, under a separate agreement pursuant to Article
VI of the 1940 Convention on Nature Protection and Wildlife
Preservation, the negotiators of the Torrijos-Carter Treaty, repre-
senting the governments of the United States and Panama, estab-
lished the Barro Colorado Nature Monument and designated the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute as its custodian. The Barro
Colorado Nature Monument will include not only Barro Colorado
Island but also the adjacent areas of Orchid Island; the peninsulas
of Bohio, Buena Vista, and Frijoles on the east bank of the canal;
and the penisulas of Pifia Blanca and Gigantito, south and west of
Barro Colorado Island. According to the nature monument defini-
tion in the 1940 convention, “strict protection will be given to this
area” and only scientific investigations and government inspections
duly authorized will be permitted. The scientific management and
protection of the 5,400-hectare Nature Monument will be an im-
portant new conservation responsibility for strR1.

In addition to the establishment of the Nature Monument, the
Republic of Panama has declared its intention to develop a 22,000-
hectare national park in the Summit and Pipeline areas of the
Canal Zone that will revert to Panama on October 1, 1979. Dr.
Smythe, head of stri’s Office of Conservation and Environmental
Education, has been working with officials of the Republic of
Panama (National Directorate of Renewable Resources [RENARE],
Ministry of Agricultural Development) and of the U.S. National
Park Service and U.S. arp to prepare a master plan for the develop-
ment of this park. The protection of this national park adjacent to
the Barro Colorado Nature Monument should assure the continua-
tion of the enormous animal and plant diversity that has long
attracted scientists from around the world.

Construction of a new circulating seawater system at the Naos
Marine Laboratory was initiated on May 1, 1979. Work will soon
begin on a replacement for the Barro Colorado Island dormitory
and on a library wing for the Ancon laboratory building. The R/V
Benjamin completed its refitting in February, and it began its re-
search with a voyage in March to Cocos Island off Costa Rica. str1
scientists were joined by Costa Rican conservation officials in the
effort to obtain data necessary for the designation of Cocos Island
as a national park.

Science / 173
i |  &

% Fe cle ve OSE aa:

Out into the sun after 120 years on the bottom of Lake Superior, the boiler of the
propeller-ship Indiana is hoisted onto the derrick barge Coleman. The salvage of
this classic artifact was the most complex such operation ever undertaken by the
National Museum of History and Technology.
Smithsonian Year - 1979
HISTORY AND: ART

CHARLES BLITZER,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art

The sources of information scholars expect to find at the Archives
of American Art comprise a wide variety of manuscript and printed
material. Several of this year’s most notable acquisitions offer an
extraordinary richness of such forms.

The earliest piece of material received is unusual for a special
reason—it consists of a single item. It is a long and informative
letter written by the painter Eastman Johnson from Germany in
1851, describing, in gratifying detail, his studies in Diisseldorf, his
work with Emanuel Leutze, and his painting a copy of the latter’s
Washington Crossing the Delaware. Another source of information
consists of the papers of Johnson’s contemporary, Thomas Buchanan
Read, famous in his time as a painter-poet. The papers are made up
chiefly of Read’s fascinating correspondence, with letters from such
luminaries as Hiram Powers, Frederic E. Church, Harriet Hosmer,
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Generals
Sheridan and Sherman. Since Read’s best-known work was a poem
(and several versions of a painting) entitled Sheridan’s Ride, inspired
by a celebrated Civil War incident, several appreciative letters from
the general come as no surprise. A more unexpected item is a neatly
twisted lock from the mane of Sheridan’s horse.

Significant acquisitions reflecting American art in the later nine-
teenth and early twentieth centuries include records of the painters
J. Francis Murphy and John White Alexander, the latter an active
figure in art organizations and president of the National Academy of
Design. Both collections contain a large number of photographs, and

175
Murphy’s papers include a finished but unpublished biography of
the artist. The same period is covered in twenty-six volumes of a
diary kept by Desmond Fitzgerald, a leading Boston art collector and
patron whose daily observations provide a valuable record of the art
establishment in his city.

The papers of John Storrs, an early modernist sculptor, are of
particular interest for the years during and after World War I, when
he corresponded with Marsden Hartley, Joseph Stella, John Sloan,
John Reed, Louise Bryant, William E. Bullitt, and many others. The
Storrs collection includes correspondence, diaries, poetry notebooks,
sketchbooks, scrapbooks, business and commission records, photo-
graphs, exhibition catalogues, notes, and even accounts of dreams,
all in great abundance.

The same critical epoch in American art history is covered in a
splendid collection of several hundred rare exhibition catalogues that
reflect, among other things, the rise of modernism through gallery
and art-society exhibitions, from The Eight show of 1908 (a par-
ticularly scarce item) to the wide acceptance of the new art in the
galleries of the 1920s. It brings to light dozens of short-lived galleries
and associations that played a vital role in the burst of public art
consciousness at the time.

Scholarly concern with federal sponsorship of the arts under the
New Deal is still growing, an interest that will be fed by large new
additions to the papers of Holger Cahill, who directed the wra
Federal Art Project, and of Adele Clark, head of the Federal Art
Project in Virginia. A useful group of records of the critic and writer
Sheldon Cheney, including a series of letters from Alfred Stieglitz,
also touches on cultural activities of the Depression period. The
papers of John Steuart Curry, a painter closely connected to the
regionalist movement of the 1930s, offer a well-rounded view of his
life and career through several thousand items of correspondence,
writings, financial records, and photographs. With the recent dona-
tion of a considerable group of family letters, scrapbooks, notebooks,
calendar diaries, and photographs, another artist often identified
with the same decade, Reginald Marsh, is now represented by the
complete corpus of his records.

The remaining papers of the late Hudson Walker, art dealer,
collector, and patron, filled seven cartons. They include extensive
correspondence with artists, particularly Marsden Hartley and Philip

176 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Evergood, family letters, records of the Hudson Walker Gallery, and
useful documentation on his own collection and on his work with the
American Federation of Art and Artists Equity.

One of the largest of the year’s acquisitions was the correspond-
ence, notes, and draft writings of the art historian and curator W. G.
Constable, covering much of the twentieth century. His papers in-
clude voluminous material on the history of art collecting in both
Europe and the United States and on the role of American museum
personnel in the protection and restitution of works of art in Europe
during and immediately after World War II. This latter subject is
also treated in the papers of Andrew C. Ritchie, the lecturer, writer,
and museum director who served with the U.S. Army’s Monuments
and Fine Arts Section in its task of locating and saving works of art
in Europe toward the end of the war.

Gallery and institutional records among the year’s acquisitions in-
cluded those of the Doll and Richards Gallery, a Boston firm that
recently went out of business after well over a century; the League of
New Hampshire Craftsmen, the first state-supported crafts group
in the country; and the Renaissance Society at the University of
Chicago. Since the society’s founding in 1915, its exhibitions and
lectures have contributed much to Chicagoans’ understanding of
contemporary art.

The Archives Oral History Program began producing videotapes
in 1979 with tapes of interviews with the sculptors Louise Nevelson
and Isamu Noguchi, both conducted in Detroit under the sponsor-
ship of the Center of Creative Studies. More conventionally recorded
interviews were conducted with the writer and authority on Alfred
Stieglitz, Dorothy Norman; the scholar, curator, and museum
director Adelyn Breeskin; and the artists Grace Hartigan, Richard
Stankiewicz, Frans Wildenhain, Allan Crite, and Richard Hunt.

The use made of archives resources is reflected in two statistics:
2,460 research visits and 1,150 rolls of microfilm circulated through
interlibrary loans. A further indication of scholarship pursued at the
archives appears in books, articles, dissertations, and catalogues
acknowledging indebtedness to its holdings. Among these are a
general survey of American art over three hundred years; a history
of art in American culture in the years between 1865 and 1920;
biographies of Louis Eilshemius (by the director of the Archives
West Coast Center), Winslow Homer, Walt Kuhn, and Gertrude

History and Art / 177
Vanderbilt Whitney; major catalogues on the work of Charles
Burchfield, Adolph Gottlieb, Seymour Lipton, Edward Moran, Mark
Rothko, John Singer Sargent, David Smith, and Elihu Vedder; and
volumes on the Columbus Museum of Art collection and on Ameri-
can expatriates in England.

In order to encourage research and promote its resources among
the scholarly and lay public, the archives cooperated in the publica-
tion this year of The Archives of American Art: Collection of Exhi-
bition Catalogues, a large volume listing holdings of over 15,000
American art-exhibition catalogues available on microfilm. A supple-
ment updating the Checklist of the Collection was also published in
fiscal year 1979, while the Archives of American Art Journal, under
new editorship, continued to inform readers of acquisitions and pro-
vide a medium for the results of research by art historians.

The archives’ regional office in Boston cosponsored a well-
attended symposium on American watercolors and drawings. During
the course of the year, members of the archives staff delivered fifteen
lectures, addressed several seminars, and published six articles and a
monograph.

Several small exhibitions of archives material were held at the
regional offices in Boston, San Francisco, New York, and Washing-
ton, D.C. A larger installation of nearly one hundred documents and
photographs was lent to the Whitney Museum in connection with
its fiftieth anniversary, an event coinciding with the archives’ own
twenty-fifth anniversary.

A significant event in the archives’ Washington Center took place
in January, when its quarters underwent a complete rearrangement
and redecoration of offices, working space, and research area. The
new design, incorporating additional space acquired in 1978, enables
the staff to operate more efficiently and allows researchers greater
privacy.

Cooper-Hewitt Museum

In many ways, the past year has been the most fruitful and successful
in the history of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Institution’s Na-
tional Museum of Design. Attendance continued to increase over

178 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the previous year, with more than 180,000 visitors to the museum
attending some of its most popular exhibitions to date.

Beginning in October 1978, ‘“Crosscurrents: French and Italian
Neoclassical Drawings and Prints of France and Italy from the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum” was on view on the museum’s second
floor, and a photographic show, “Form Follows Film,” was installed
in the Contemporary Design Gallery. On October 3, “Ornament in
the 20th Century” opened to the public. This exhibition contained
ornament from jewelry to buildings and consisted of over 500 ob-
jects. On October 10, “Artists’ Postcards, Series II” opened, consist-
ing of 51 framed designs for postcards, as well as supplementary
materials.

“Vienna Moderne, 1898-1918” opened November 27. “Vienna
Moderne” was the first major exhibition of Viennese work from this
period to be installed anywhere in the United States. It proved to
be extremely popular. “The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art”
opened on December 7 in the Contemporary Design Gallery. On
January 23, 1979, “The Dream King, Ludwig II of Bavaria,” opened,
with a selection of drawings and gouache designs for Ludwig II’s
castles and their contents, in addition to articles of furniture, metal-
work, ceramics, and memorabilia. ‘“Indelible Images: Contemporary
Advertising Design” opened in the Contemporary Design Gallery
on February 6 and ran through March 25. It consisted of a selection
of magazine advertisements and posters, with a videotape of tele-
vision commercials.

In the spring, “Japan Today,” a festival celebrating Japanese cul-
ture, was held in a number of American cities. In honor of the
occasion, the Cooper-Hewitt devoted the two main floors of its
galleries to Japanese subjects. The major show, ‘Ma: Space/Time in
Japan,” was designed by Arata Isozaki. The show consisted of nine
sections, each expressing an aspect of the ancient Japanese space/
time concept of Ma by means of photographic essays, sculptures,
and traditional structures, such as the teahouse and the Noh stage.
The extensive catalogue was written and designed in Tokyo and then
edited and printed in New York. The show opened to the public on
March 13. On March 27, “Porcelain: A Selection from the Cooper-
Hewitt Collections” opened in the Carnegie Library.

On June 12, three exhibitions opened for the summer. “Fantastic
Illustration and Design in Britain, 1850-1930” occupied most of the

History and Art / 179
first floor. Organized by the Rhode Island School of Design, the
show consisted primarily of original drawings, with a small selection
of books, furniture, ceramics, and other items of decorative art.
“Alvar Aalto,” a retrospective show on the work of this major
architect, was installed on the second floor. A traveling exhibition
circulated by the Finnish Museum of Architecture, it was largely a
photographic panel show, with a selection of models, furniture, and
which was hung in both the Con-
temporary Design and Decorative Arts galleries, was the third sum-

J

glassware. “Roma Interrotta,’

mer show, and ran until August 12. It consisted of drawings of
idealized schemes for Rome by twelve contemporary architects.

On June 26, the museum’s third immovable objects exhibition,
“Urban Open Spaces,” opened in the Mansion Garden, with a
mayoral proclamation and a festive balloon launching. On this same
occasion, Fifth Avenue from 86th to 102nd Street was closed to traffic
for two hours in the evening so that visitors could stroll along “Mu-
seum Mile” and visit the nine museums that make up one of the
densest concentrations of cultural institutions in the world. The most
extensive immovable objects show yet, “Urban Open Spaces” in-
cluded a sixty-four-page newspaper catalogue, profusely illustrated;
a postcard tour of outdoor art; a videotape on community gardens;
and eleven exhibitions at sites throughout the city.

The year’s final exhibition was “Glass: Selections from the
Cooper-Hewitt Collections,”
Decorative Arts Gallery.

The Smithsonian Traveling Exhibition Service circulated three
Cooper-Hewitt offerings: ‘“Crosscurrents: Neoclassical Drawings
and Prints of France and Italy,” ‘Close Observation” (112 oil
sketches by Frederic E. Church), and ‘““Subways” (the second im-
movable objects exhibition).

In cooperation with the Book-of-the-Month Club, the museum has
completed four parts of a twelve-part series, The Smithsonian IIlus-
trated Library of Antiques. The museum has also published the
following eight catalogues on its collections: Porcelain; Glass; Em-
broidery; French and Italian Neoclassical Drawings; Bandboxes
and Shopping Bags; Japanese Woodblock Prints; Kata-gami:
Japanese Stencils; and Tsuba: Japanese Sword Guards.

During the past year, the museum offered four semesters of
courses covering a wide range of topics relating to design and decora-

which opened on August 28 in the

180 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Dr. Thomas Lawton, director of the Freer Gallery of Art, explains a model of the
proposed South Quadrangle Project to Her Imperial Highness Princess Chichibu of
Japan. Below. Secretary Ripley (center) and Abram Lerner (left), director of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, join in a celebration marking the eightieth

birthday of Joseph H. Hirshhorn (right) on August 11, 1979.

tive arts. The museum continues to increase audience participation in
these programs, as well as its course offerings. In the summer of
1979, 25 percent more courses and tours were offered than the previ-
cus summer, and attendance reached 3,000, a substantial increase
over previous years. Tours continued to be the most popular of the
programs offered. Participation in lecture series also continues to
grow, as more New Yorkers become acquainted with the museum.
Total membership in the museum has now grown to 5,600, a 25 per-
cent increase.

The Sixth Annual Benefit Auction was held in May, with Sotheby
Parke Bernet conducting the sale. This event continues to be popu-
lar and an important source of revenue for the museum.

The success of the museum has been very much dependent on the
seventy volunteers who currently work there. In addition to their
other duties this past year, they conducted tours for 460 groups,
comprising some 16,000 adults and young people.

During the past year, the museum accepted into its collections
3,058 works of art from 70 donors. The departments of Drawings
and Prints, Decorative Arts, and Textiles purchased 13 items for the
museum collections through a variety of restricted acquisition funds.
Incoming loans to the museum continued to increase, as 4,598 items
were borrowed from 220 museums and private lenders. The Cooper-
Hewitt lent 555 objects to 30 museums and other organizations.

Following a special allocation of congressional funds for the plan-
ning and implementation of the inventory of the Cooper-Hewitt
collections, the staff worked with the Office of Computer Services
and with the Smithsonian Registrar to plan inventory systems and
procedures. The inventory is currently in progress. At the end of
fiscal year 1979, some 55,000 items had been inventoried, and 10
percent of the collection had been photographed.

The following staff appointments became effective this past year.
Christian Rohlfing was promoted to the position of assistant director
for collections management. Daniel O'Leary joined the staff in April
as assistant director for administration, and in November, David
Revere McFadden assumed the position of curator of decorative arts.

There were significant material changes in the mansion, with the
cleaning of the exterior of the building, the completion of the fourth
floor to house the textile collection, and the conversion of the old
Carnegie Library to a permanent Decorative Arts Gallery.

182 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Freer Gallery of Art

Several major appointments were made during the past year. Dr.
Shen C. Y. Fu joined the staff as associate curator of Chinese art. A
native of Shanghai, Dr. Fu received his Ph.D. in Chinese art from
Princeton University and most recently was on the faculty of Yale
University. The gallery’s new associate curator of Japanese art, Dr.
Yoshiaki Shimizu, came to the Freer from the University of Cali-
fornia at Berkeley. Dr. Shimizu is a native of Japan. He did under-
graduate work at Harvard and received his M.F.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from Princeton. Julia K. Murray joined the Freer staff as a translator
of technical materials. Miss Murray holds a graduate degree in
Chinese art history from Princeton University and was formerly on
the staff of the Far Eastern Department at the Metropolitan Museum
of Art in New York City. With the arrival of Mr. Ryo Nishiumi, the
Freer acquired the services of a specialist in the techniques of Far
Eastern painting restoration. Nishiumi was born in Japan and com-
pleted a ten-year traditional apprenticeship before coming to the
United States.

With the arrival of these new staff members, the need for addi-
tional office space became critical. To meet that requirement, some of
the corridor areas of the ground floor of the gallery have been desig-
nated for renovation. A proposal to study the possibility of enclosing
the Freer courtyard is also under way. Part of the preliminary study
will explore the possibility of excavating the space beneath the court-
yard to obtain additional space for offices.

All of the Freer’s exhibition galleries were repainted in 1979, and,
where appropriate, carpeting has been installed. A preliminary study
of possible alterations to the present lighting system has been com-
pleted. A pilot program for a comprehensive relighting system will
soon be tested.

The gallery installed two major exhibitions in 1979. ‘The Brush of
the Masters: Drawings from Iran and India” presented eighty-two
works executed between 1400 and 1800. The examples included the
earliest Islamic drawings from Iran made under the patronage of the
Jalairid, Timurid, and Turkmen dynasties in the fifteenth century. A
number of the Iranian drawings were signed and dated, including the
works of such renowned masters as Muhammedi, Sheykh Muham-
med, Muhammed Muhsin, and Riza and Muin Musavvir. The

History and Art / 183
drawings from India represented the Mughal, Deccani, and Rajput
schools, Esin Atil, the gallery’s associate curator of Islamic art, pre-
pared the illustrated catalogue.

The second major exhibition, entitled “Japanese Lacquer,” was
part of the Washington observance of the “Japan Today” program.
Fifty-nine examples of lacquerware, including richly decorated medi-
cine cases (known as inr6), food and water containers, writing boxes,
brush stands, and incense containers from the Freer’s permanent col-
lection, represented eleven centuries of lacquer-making techniques.
Publication of the catalogue, by Ann Yonemura, the gallery’s assist-
ant curator of Japanese art, was made possible by a grant from
Matsushita Electric (Panasonic).

An exhibition of early Armenian manuscripts opened on May 18,
International Museum Day. The Armenian manuscripts form the
largest single group among the world-famous early Christian manu-
scripts in the Freer. The Armenian collection includes six gospels, a
hymnal, and a psalter, and covers a span of seven centuries.

On June 15, the gallery opened a show of Chinese paintings from
the Ch’ing dynasty (1644-1911). The scrolls enabled visitors to com-
pare the styles of the older, intellectual and scholarly paintings with
those done by the eccentric, backward-looking artists during the
early years of China’s last dynasty.

During his visit to the Freer Gallery on May 2, Prime Minister
Masayoshi Ohira of Japan pledged a $1 million gift to help build the
new Asian Art Gallery that is part of the Smithsonian’s South Quad-
rangle Project. As an adjunct to the Freer, the new Asian Art Gallery
will provide room for expansion and will enable the Freer to increase
its programs for exhibitions, research, and public service.

Among visitors of note were Her Imperial Highness Princess
Chichibu of Japan, His Imperial Highness Prince Norihito Mikasa of
Japan, and Miss Chuo Lin, wife of the People’s Republic of China’s
Vice Premier Teng Hsiao-p’ing.

The collection was increased during the year by ninety-two ob-
jects. One of the most important pieces to be acquired was a Japanese
wood sculpture of a guardian king, which dates from the Kamakura
period (1185-1333). This acquisition provided the gallery with a
complete set of the four guardian kings.

The Freer Gallery of Art sponsored the twenty-sixth annual series
of “Illustrated Lectures on Oriental Art.” One of the six lectures, by

184 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Professor Yoshiaki Shimizu of the University of California, Berkeley,
was sponsored jointly with the Embassy of Japan and was entitled
“Landscapes of Muromachi Monks: Images and Words.” The
Rutherford J. Gettens Memorial Lecture, “Silver in Ancient Greece
and Byzantium: Production and Art,” was delivered by Professor
Constantin Conophagos of the National Technical University of
Athens. A special lecture on “Japanese Lacquer” was given by
Ann Yonemura of the Freer Gallery of Art for the “Japan Today”
program.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

During its first five years, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden has actively continued the important task of expanding its
permanent collection through gifts and purchases. The purpose of
these acquisitions is twofold: to keep the collection contemporary, so
that it will reflect current aesthetic developments, and to build upon
original strengths in the collection. During 1979, the museum ac-
quired 280 works of art, including a major gift of 57 objects from the
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Foundation.

A major acquisition was the museum’s purchase of Aristide
Maillol’s monumental sculpture Action in Chains (L’Action En-
chainée): Monument to Louis-Auguste Blanqui. The sculpture, meas-
uring seven feet in height, was acquired with nonappropriated trust
funds made available by the Smithsonian Board of Regents for the
acquisition of important works of art. This acquisition immeasurably
strengthens the museum’s collection of modern European sculpture.

Other important acquisitions consisted of works by Max Beck-
mann, Josef Csaky, Josef Albers, Burgoyne Diller, Kenneth Noland,
Raphael Soyer, and Richard Diebenkorn.

An important event in 1979 was the accreditation of the museum
by the American Association of Museums. The committee found the
Hirshhorn’s operation to be “exemplary. .. . The Hirshhorn is an
exceptionally well-run museum that more than satisfies all require-
ments for accreditation.”

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden acted as host to the
College Art Association’s annual meeting held in Washington, D.C.,

History and Art / 185
from January 31 to February 3, 1979. With the cooperation of other
museums in the area, the Hirshhorn was able to arrange a series of
receptions and visits culminating with the convocation and a farewell
reception on February 2.

The museum’s year of exhibitions began with “Saul Steinberg,” a
large retrospective exhibition organized by the Whitney Museum of
American Art. Public interest ran high, with excellent attendance.
“Ben Nicholson: Fifty Years of His Art,” organized by the Albright-
Knox Gallery, opened at the museum in December 1978. This fas-
cinating display of Nicholson’s art, covering a half-century of the
British artist’s work, was elegantly installed and elicited favorable
comments in the press. “Richard Estes: The Urban Landscape,”
organized by the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, attracted unusual
numbers of midwinter visitors. This exhibition seemed particularly
fascinating to young people, including artists and students, an indi-
cation of the current level of public interest in Neorealist art. The
Hirshhorn Museum added to the exhibition five of Estes’s silkscreen
proof prints and their original studies. ‘““Louis M. Eilshemius: Selec-
tions from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,” organized
for the museum by Paul Karlstrom, west coast area director of the
Smithsonian’s Archives of American Art, was probably the most
complete review of Eilshemius’s art since his death in 1941. Eilshem-
ius, a controversial figure since Duchamp’s “discovery” of him in
1917, was represented by eighty-five paintings alternating between
lyrical landscapes and eccentric nude and genre subjects, the sum of
which confirmed his reputation as a turn-of-the-century romantic
artist. “Alexander Calder,” organized by the Whitney Museum,
drew the attention of thousands of visitors. This traveling version
of the major retrospective of 1976 included over 125 works—
mobiles, stabiles, wire sculptures, paintings, drawings, gouaches,
tapestries, toys, and jewelry—from the fifty-year career of the re-
nowned American artist. “David Hockney: Travels with Pen, Pencil,
and Ink,” organized by the International Exhibitions Foundation,
opened at the museum on March 29, 1979. This exhibition, supported
by a grant from the SCM Corporation, consisted of 150 prints and
drawings, including portraits, interiors, still lifes, and views of Cali-
fornia, Europe, Japan, and North Africa. In the spirit of keeping
abreast of current developments in American contemporary art, the
museum organized and presented a major group exhibition, ““Direc-

186 / Smithsonian Year 1979
tions.” The show of recent work by eighteen young artists from
around the country included fifty-eight sculptures, drawings, paint-
ings, site-oriented projects, and videomovies. This exhibition was
received with remarkable enthusiasm by art critics both locally and
nationally and by the public.

Several smaller exhibitions, consisting of works from the mu-
seum’s own holdings, were presented. These included “Alfred
Maurer,” “David Smith,” “The Cubist Heritage,” “Josef Albers,”
“Cornell Boxes,” “Benin Bronzes,” and “Images of Children.”

The museum provided visitors with a variety of educational ma-
terials, including wall labels, checklists, brochures, and handouts,
the latter ranging from a single page to more ambitious illustrated
minicatalogues, all distributed free to the public. All major exhibi-
tions were accompanied by well-documented and -illustrated cata-
logues that served the general public as well as students and scholars.

Augmenting the museum’s exhibition program was a series of
lectures on various aspects of contemporary art and art history. The
speakers were Karyn Allen, John Canaday, Howard Fox, Henry
Geldzahler, David Hockney, Paul Karlstrom, Joan Martin, George
Rickey, Richard Rubinfeld, Linda Sweet, and Judith Zilczer. The
lively “dialogue” between Mr. Hockney and Mr. Geldzahler, New
York City’s commissioner of cultural affairs, attracted an overflow
audience, with many people being turned away.

The museum continued its tri-part film series: ‘““Lunchtime Films
about Artists”; “Evening Films by Artist Filmmakers”; and “Satur-
day Films for Young People.” Other events held in the auditorium
were concerts by the 20th Century Consort, two piano concerts by
Carla Hiibner, and an evening of “Visual Music” with John Dowell.

Two programs especially designed for children were given. The
annual Hirshhorn Holiday attracted 4,500 people, who were enter-
tained by mimes, a Punch ’n’ Judy show, and special children’s play-
lets. Musical accompaniment included a banjo player, flutists, and
a barbershop quartet whose members led crowds to and from per-
formance areas. This holiday event, sponsored in part by the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, continues to be
a great success, and another is scheduled for next year. A “Calder
for Kids” program was organized by the museum’s staff for eight- to
ten-year-olds and their parents. The program consisted of a screening
of the film Calder’s Circus in the auditorium, as well as a slide pro-

History and Art / 187
gram emphasizing recurring motifs in his works, his significance to
American art, and his unique contribution to the art of the century.
Participants were given a map showing the location of Calder’s works
in the museum for further study after the program.

In order to make the museum’s collection accessible to the widest
possible audience, extensive loans were made to museums in the
United States and abroad. The Hirshhorn Museum lent 131 objects
to 49 institutions, including the Fondation Maeght; Kunsthaus
Zurich; National Museum of Modern Art; and the Hakone Open-Air
Museum in Japan.

Members of the staff continued to lecture at the museum and at
other institutions; to write for publication; to work with graduate
and undergraduate museum interns and Smithsonian fellows; to re-
spond to written inquiries and visits from scholars, students, and
artists; and to carry forward the tasks of research and documenta-
tion.

An active group of specially trained docents offered guidance to
interested visitors with regard to the permanent collection and to
exhibitions. An extension program designed to prepare school classes
for their museum visits began in September 1978 and has already
reached approximately 2,000 children. An extension program, de-
veloped in conjunction with the Montgomery County School System,
was tested in Millcreek Town Elementary School in Gaithersburg,
Maryland, in January, February, and early March. The favorable
response indicates that such programs might be extended to other
areas and to metropolitan Washington in particular. Requests have
been received from Prince Georges and Fairfax counties and the City
of Alexandria for similar programs. On March 24, the Education De-
partment conducted two workshops for the Northern Virginia Coun-
cil for Gifted and Talented Education, and almost every teacher who
attended expressed interest in future participation. A grant has been
received from the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program to en-
able the museum to continue this experimental project for one year.

All departments of the museum concerned with the care and
management of the collection and the mounting of exhibitions con-
tinued to make important contributions. Continuing changes were
made to the installation of the permanent collection, unit installa-
tions from the collection, and major exhibitions. The sculpture am-
bulatories on the second and third floors were completely reinstalled.

188 / Smithsonian Year 1979
A young visitor to the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s “Calder for Kids”
celebration (April 12 and 13, 1979) proves the ageless appeal of the work produced
by one of America’s best-loved sculptors. Below. Children participating in a work-
shop on traditional African architecture sponsored by the Education Department of
the Museum of African Art. (Photo credit: Eliot Elisofon Photo Archives, Museum
of African Art.)

pe

Hmted

The Office of the Registrar completed an inventory of the painting
collection. Such inventories are conducted yearly and are rotated
among the sculpture, painting, and print and drawing collections.

Joseph Henry Papers

The third volume of The Papers of Joseph Henry was published in
the past year by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The longest
volume so far of the projected fifteen-volume series, it provides in-
tensive coverage of the critical years 1836 and 1837, devoted mainly
to Henry’s scientific tour of Britain and France—his formal introduc-
tion to the world of international science.

Two other publications are well on the way to completion. Volume
four (1838-40) documents Henry’s reflections on the American
scientific scene in light of his recent European experience and the re-
sumption of his electromagnetic research at Princeton. Scientific
statesmanship is the subject of the second publication in progress,
which will present essays and speeches by Henry from the entire
span of his career. It begins with an Albany-period statement about
the hierarchy of science and technology and closes with a presidential
address of 1876 to the National Academy of Sciences. A highlight of
the volume is another presidential address to the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science, which pulls together major
elements of Henry’s scientific ideology. The theme of this special
volume, aimed primarily at college audiences, is the scientific way of
life in nineteenth-century America. Both the popular book and the
fourth installment of the Henry Papers are scheduled to go to press
late in 1979.

Members of the Henry Papers staff have been active in other ways.
Marc Rothenberg gave a course at the University of Maryland on the
theme of American scientific exploration. Arthur Molella did con-
sulting work for the newly launched Thomas Edison Papers at
Rutgers and prepared an exhibition for a new science-technology
museum in Richmond, Virginia. Nathan Reingold gave a University
Lecture at Wisconsin on the early years of the Institute for Ad-
vanced Study and again convened his monthly Nineteenth-Century
Seminar.

190 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Two visiting scholars, Cynthia Field and Kenneth Hafertepe (a
Smithsonian ten-week fellow), did research at the Henry Papers on
the architectural and political origins of the Smithsonian Institution
“Castle” Building. James Flack used the resources of the Henry
Papers for research on the history of St. Elizabeth’s Hospital. Char-
lene Matthews carried out research for Arnold Thackray of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania on Americans at the British Association for
the Advancement of Science. These and other scholars availed them-
selves of the more than 47,000 documents now entered in the
project’s computer catalogue.

Museum of African Art

On August 13, 1979, the Museum of African Art, established as a
private museum in 1964 at the initiative of former American Foreign
Service Officer Warren Robbins, officially became a bureau of the
Smithsonian Institution. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey served as the
first chairman of the museum’s Board of Trustees, and continued to
be one of its strongest supporters until his death in 1978. Following
some four years of discussions, consideration by the Board of Re-
gents of reports and analyses of the museum’s resources, preparation
of congressional legislation, and negotiation of the terms of the
merger, authorizing legislation prepared by the late senator was in-
troduced on his behalf by Senator Wendell Anderson and thirty-two
cosponsors in February 1978 and, with the support of Senator
Claiborne Pell, chairman of the Rules Committee, passed by unani-
mous consent of the Senate on May 16, 1978. Similar legislation,
introduced in the House of Representatives by Congresswoman
Lindy Boggs, with Majority Whip John Brademas and all of the
members of the Black Caucus among its ninety cosponsors, and
with the guidance of Committee Chairmen Lucien Nedzi and
Frank Thompson, passed by an overwhelming majority and was
signed by President Carter on October 5.

In keeping with the terms of the legislation and subsequent agree-
ments, the museum turned over to the Smithsonian its collections of
some 8,000 objects of African sculpture, artifacts, craftworks, tradi-
tional costumes, textiles, drums, musical instruments, and jewelry;
its archives of approximately 100,000 slides, photos, and film seg-

History and Art / 191
ments on African art, culture, and environment, bequeathed to the
museum by Eliot Elisofon, the late world-renowned photographer for
Life magazine; a specialized library of 6,000 titles on African culture
and history, to which were added several thousand titles from the
library of the late cultural anthropologist and pioneer American
Africanist Professor Melville Herskovits, for whom the library has
been named; a significant collection of early maps of Africa; and a
variety of other art and educational materials that reflect and en-
hance public appreciation of the African dimension of the American
heritage.

The museum is situated in a row of nine contiguous Capitol Hill
townhouses in the 300 block of “A” Street, Northeast, just behind
the Supreme Court, including the historic Victorian “bookend
houses” that served as the first residence in Washington (1871-77)
of the great nineteenth-century abolitionist orator and publisher
Frederick Douglass. To the Douglass buildings a new wing was
added and opened in 1971, through the munificence of Mr. and Mrs.
David Lloyd Kreeger and other benefactors. Mews properties of two
carriage houses and eighteen garages are also owned by the museum.
With twelve public galleries located in the Douglass building proper,
the other houses accommodate the Elisofon Archives and the Her-
skovits Library, which, together with classrooms, comprise the mu-
seum’s Department of Higher Education; a community workshop
center; a graphics studio; the Programming and Education Depart-
ment; administrative offices; and Boutique Africa, the museum’s
highly acclaimed gift shop, which also serves as a showcase for con-
temporary African crafts.

At the time of the merger, the museum, which has mounted some
fifty exhibitions in its fifteen years of existence, was showing “The
Sculptor’s Eye,” several hundred works from the collection of the
American sculptor Chaim Gross, one of the most important early
collectors of African art in the United States; “Traditional Art from
Upper Volta,” an exhibition of 150 works on loan from private col-
lectors or selected from the museum’s permanent collection; a display
of textiles from Upper Volta and Ghana; and permanent educational
displays, including “African Influences in Modern Art,” “2,000 Years
of Nigerian Art,” “Africa and Egypt,” “Animals in African Art,”
“Drums and Musical Instruments of Africa,” and “Memorabilia of
the Life and Times of Frederick Douglass.” Supplementing the mu-

192 / Smithsonian Year 1979
seum’s exhibitions at all times are the award-winning audio-visual
presentation “Tribute to Africa—The Photography of Eliot Eliso-
fon”; other topical slide shows; and numerous color panels and
black-and-white photo murals of Africa by Elisofon.

During the past year, the Curatorial Department has also been pre-
paring the exhibitions “The Useful Arts of Kenya” and “New Acqui-
sitions,” featuring the Samuel Rubin bequest and selections from the
Herskovits collection on permanent loan to the museum.

With the expansion of the museum’s inner court from the area im-
mediately behind the Frederick Douglass buildings to the consoli-
dated garden areas of the other seven townhouses, the museum’s
permanent outdoor exhibit on the spectacular geometric color murals
of the N’Debele people of southeastern Africa was greatly enlarged.

Existing or new loans of artworks to other institutions during this
period included fifty-nine works of African sculpture to the Ana-
costia Neighborhood Museum; six African sculptures to the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum; forty-three beaded works of the N’Debele people of
southeastern Africa to the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service; two African sculptures to the Cleveland Museum; and
nine African sculptures to the Boston (Mass.) Zoo. Individual works
of African sculpture were also lent for display in the offices of Vice
President Mondale, Senator S. I. Hayakawa, Representative Walter
Fauntroy, Mayor Marion Barry, and D.C. Commissioner Tyrone
Brown.

Ghanaian master weaver Gilbert Bobbo Ahiagble was engaged
during the month of August to demonstrate traditional African
weaving, and a display of Kente cloth woven by him and others was
put on display. The Museum of African Art Drum Ensemble also
performed at various functions.

A special program of lectures, panel discussions, films, and per-
formances was carried on by the Elementary, Secondary, and Con-
tinuing Education Department as part of a year-long series on the
theme “Africa in the Americas: Explaining the African Diaspora.”

A major part of this department’s work has been concerned with
group-orientation visits by school, college, church, and other groups,
part of the total of more than 16,000 such sessions that have been
held at the museum since its establishment. The groups are led by
African members of the museum staff, assisted by members of the
docent corps.

History and Art / 193
The second annual National Endowment for the Humanities-
sponsored Summer Institute for College Faculty, on African art and
culture, was carried on by the Department of Higher Education,
along with its program of credit courses taught each semester in
cooperation with Georgetown, American, Catholic, and George
Washington universities, as well as the Graduate School of the De-
partment of Agriculture. The Department of Higher Education also
supervised the training of a summer class of university interns in all
aspects of museum work, as part of a program that continues
throughout the year.

National Collection of Fine Arts

The efforts of the National Collection of Fine Arts (NcFA) to be re-
sponsive to activity in art throughout the country have continued at
an accelerated pace through acquisition and exhibition. The collec-
tion has been enriched by a gift from the S. W. and B. M. Koffler
Foundation of thirty-four works by contemporary Chicago artists,
many of whom were represented in ncra’s “Made In Chicago,”
circulated through Latin America in 1973-74. These lively works,
chosen by a knowledgeable board drawn from the Chicago art com-
munity, went on tour through the western states immediately after
being shown in Washington. From the West came a varied and
provocative exhibition, “The First Western States Biennial Exhibi-
tion,” comprised of works by twenty-eight artists living in thirteen
western states, selected by a carefully constituted regional jury sys-
tem in which ncra played a part. Organized under the aegis of the
Western States Arts Foundation, the exhibition (which was sent on
an extensive tour that included Hawaii) brought many artists to na-
tional attention. With the help of private foundations, Ncra acquired
three major works from the exhibition for the permanent collection.
Also entering the collection this year was an impressive work chosen
by ncra from the annual juried exhibition—made up of works by
seven southern artists—sponsored by the Southeast Center for Con-
temporary Art (secca). In addition, in collaboration with secca, the
refined collages of Irwin Kremen were given their first publication
and exhibition.

194 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Among the 833 works accessioned during the year were many of
especially notable significance. The quest for a major early landscape
by Asher Brown Durand was fulfilled by the purchase of Dover Hills,
Dutchess County, N. Y. (1848), an important painting of extraordi-
nary silvery luminosity. Alexander Brook’s Summer Wind, George
H. Durrie’s Winter Scene, and Joseph Raffael’s very large watercolor
Worlds Within Worlds, are masterworks by artists not previously
represented in the collection. Several paintings were acquired that
relate to forthcoming exhibitions, including David G. Blythe’s Boy
Playing Marbles (1850s), four paintings by John Graham, and a still
life from 1930 by Jan Matulka, whose colorful works will be shown
in an exhibition produced by ncra and the Whitney Museum of
American Art.

As the result of a generous gift of material from Mr. and Mrs. John
A. Benton, the sister and the brother-in-law of Joseph Cornell, NcFa
has been able to establish the Joseph Cornell Study Center under its
Department of 20th Century Painting and Sculpture. In addition to
works by Cornell and related artists, the collection consists of books
and materials used by the artist for inspiration, reference, and actual
fabrication of his extraordinary creations. The study center is open to
scholars and has already been widely consulted.

As the museum’s collection has become better known, there has
been an increasing demand for loans and illustrative material for
publication and study. Some 225 works were lent for exhibition
during the year, and the photographic laboratory, though small,
produced 8,707 color slides, 2,565 transparencies for study and
reproduction, and 15,280 black-and-white prints. Two new slide sets
of works drawn from temporary exhibitions were issued, “The Har-
monious Craft” and “Daniel Chester French.”

Work has continued on resources for research in American art at
the museum. About 67,000 of the approximately 127,000 Peter Juley
and Son negatives of works of art have been indexed, and 15,000
printed. The index of art in Smithsonian collections outside of art
museums now lists more than 145,000 items, and a start has been
made on computerizing the listings. The computerized Index of
Pre-1877 North-American Art Exhibition Catalogues, in its first
full year of operation, has recorded over 12,000 individual entries
from seventy-six catalogues, many of little-known exhibitions rang-
ing from Cincinnati to Boston. The rapidly expanding Slide and

History and Art / 195
Photograph Archive, also organized for computer retrieval, now
contains about 50,000 slides and 33,000 photographs, documenting
the museum’s collections, exhibitions, and works of American art
elsewhere. The Inventory of American Paintings Executed Before
1914, much consulted by scholars from across the country, now
numbers 200,000 entries and a file of 45,000 images.

The largest of the twenty-five exhibitions mounted during the
year was “Perceptions and Evocations: The Art of Elihu Vedder,” the
first comprehensive showing of this highly individualistic artist’s
works, later shown also at the Brooklyn Museum. The over 350
works were displayed in an especially evocative setting that em-
phasized their rich but subtle coloring, and most were reproduced
with others in the 246-page book accompanying the exhibition.
The fifty-four original drawings for Vedder’s famous illustrations
to accompany The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam (1883-84), shown
in the exhibition, were acquired for the permanent collection.

Of very different character was “Seymour Lipton: Aspects of
Sculpture,” an exhibition and publication that investigated this con-
temporary artist’s creative forms, from drawings through maquettes
to the imposing forms of his finished sculptures. A retrospective
exhibition of the prints of Gabor Peterdi and early pastels and paint-
ings of Santa Fe by William Penhallow Henderson (1877-1943)
were two other exhibitions devoted to the works of individual artists.
One of the most popular of the print and drawing exhibitions was
“Prints and Personalities: The American Theater’s First Hundred
Years.” The International Year of the Child was celebrated by an
exhibition entitled “Childhood,” drawn from the museum’s collec-
tion.

The Renwick Gallery presented many large exhibitions and
smaller theme shows, including “Bo’jou, Neejee! Profiles of Canadian
Art” from the National Museum of Man in Ottawa; the popular “Art
of Russia: 1800-1850,” assembled by the University of Minnesota
from Soviet museums; and “Buildings Reborn: New Uses, Old
Places.” The gallery also presented works by individual craftsmen—
silver by Ronald Pearson, glass by Dale Chihuly, and jewelry by
Olaf Skoogfors and Irena Brynner. These exhibits were supple-
mented by demonstrations and lectures by master craftsmen, made
possible in part by a grant from the Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates. In addition, a program of sales exhibitions
of American crafts was initiated, sponsored jointly by the Renwick

196 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The Renwick Gallery’s refurbished Grand Salon is now hung with newly restored
works from the permanent collection of the National Collection of Fine Arts. Below.
The studio room of Alice Pike Barney’s recently restored Studio House, begun in
1902 and presented to the Smithsonian Institution in 1962.

1 is to AB suse’ by

staff and the museum shops. The special public programs at the
Renwick attracted over 17,000 people.

Among the popular public events during the year were the noon-
time lectures given by ncra’s scholars-in-residence. Subjects ranged
from American bronze casting to European and American symbol-
ists. The thirteen museum interns and nine summer interns from
around the country did not present lectures but were engaged in
every other aspect of museum activity. The junior interns, working
through ncra’s Department of Education, worked in various depart-
ments and assisted with the sixth biennial high-school graphics ex-
hibition “High-School Graphics VI.’”” The exhibit, of particularly
high quality this year, opened with a reception for 1,100 people. The
Discover Graphics workshop served twenty-six schools, and Dis-
cover Graphics Day, on which seventeen artists demonstrated print
techniques, attracted more than 1,600 participants. The annual day
for children and families this year was called “Textures of the West”
and was celebrated by 3,300, keeping a large number of the mu-
seum’s eighty-seven docents, aided by seventeen participating
artists, very busy.

Alice Pike Barney’s “Studio House” on Sheridan Circle, begun in
1902 and once the center of fashionable artistic activity, has now
been restored and will be used for a continuing series of special pro-
grams. Many of Mrs. Barney’s paintings and pastels are displayed in
the house, which also provides an apartment for one of NcFa’s visit-
ing scholars.

National Museum of History and Technology

As an historical museum, the National Museum of History and
Technology uses the man-made objects in its collections both to
learn the effect they have had on us, and to find out, in turn, how
our development has affected them. To illustrate the size and com-
plexity of this undertaking, three projects on which the museum has
been at work over the past year will be discussed in some detail:
salvaging a primitive steamboat engine to reconstruct a wreck and
study at firsthand a revolution in maritime transportation; using a
set of nearly extinct technological skills to restore ancient clocks
with original tools and materials; and, with a comprehensive new

198 / Smithsonian Year 1979
collection of lighting devices, mapping out the bumpy road of inno-
vation leading from the tallow candle to the electric light.

On June 6, 1857, a calm Sunday evening, the propeller-ship Indiana
was steaming across the open waters of Lake Superior, bearing a
handful of paying passengers and a full load of iron ore from the
Marquette docks toward the newly opened Soo Canal. Low to the
water, with a single mast, it was an ungainly looking vessel, with
the overhanging deck of a paddle-wheeler, a single-cylinder vertical
engine, and massive, ten-ton, upright boiler, fueled on cordwood.

Although the Indiana looked like a typical paddle-wheeler, it was,
in one respect, quite advanced. When built, the Indiana was one of
only a few Great Lakes steamers to be outfitted with an Ericsson
screw propeller, a product of the technological revolution of the
1840s, that pushed vessels through the water rather than pulled
them with a sidewheel. With the increased maneuverability, effi-
ciency, and cargo room provided by this new system, the Indiana
was clearly a ship of the future. But in the end, advanced technol-
ogy, coupled with a case of metal fatigue, was to prove its undoing.

The ship was passing High Sand Banks, near Crisp Point, off the
northern peninsula of Michigan, when, suddenly, its ten-foot-wide
propeller lost a blade, fracturing the outboard bolts and hub and
jarring the propeller off balance with such force that it struck the
rudder and threw the ship hard aport. The propeller shaft, vibrating
from the imbalanced screw, ruptured the packing gland in the
sternpost, and the boat began to take on water.

In alarm, the engineer shut down the engine at the main throttle.
The crew began to man the ship’s single six-inch bilge pump, but
this proved totally useless against the water pouring in. Calming
the frightened passengers, the captain ordered more crew below to
try to repair the damage; but when they reached the leaking stern,
the men found their way blocked by thirty-five tons of iron ore
packed into this critical space for the sake of taking on more cargo.

The ship was now settling rapidly. The captain, who owned the
vessel, at last was forced to admit that it was lost, and ordered all
hands to take to the small boats. As passengers and crew rowed off
toward the Crisp Point Lighthouse, five miles distant, the Indiana
went down. Its odd, overhanging deck created such resistance that
the entire superstructure ripped off and floated away. The hull con-

History and Art / 199
tinued downward stern first through the icy water, until, at a depth
of 125 feet, it hit hard bottom, snapping off the propeller and jam-
ming the rudder upright into the sand. In slow motion, the bow
came crashing down, and 330 tons of iron ore rolled forward, burst-
ing the Indiana’s thick oak sides. And that, for well over a century,
was how the ship lay, undisturbed in the still depths of the lake.

In August 1979, the museum set out to salvage the entire steam
power plant and propulsion system of the Indiana. Recovery of this
classic artifact, absolutely untouched since antebellum times, en-
tailed the largest and most complex underwater salvage operation in
which the museum has ever been involved. Overall coordination was
handled by John N. Stine, museum specialist in the Division of
Transportation. Primary participants included the U.S. Navy’s Har-
bor Clearance Unit No. 2 from Little Creek, Virginia, and its Chi-
cago Reserve Unit; the crew of the derrick barge Coleman and the
tug Lake Superior out of Duluth, operated by the U.S. Army’s Corps
of Engineers; and the team of scuba divers led by John Steel of
Waukegan, Illinois, who initially located and filmed the wreck of
the Indiana in its deep-water resting place.

No other American-made commercial engine in its original state,
nor any screw-propulsion system of comparable antiquity, is known
to survive. The Indiana’s machinery, including all engine accesso-
ries, the rudder, and steering quadrant—the entire system totaling
twenty tons—was salvaged by the Navy divers, who made more
than 300 individual descents from their base of operations, the
Coleman, which remained on station around the clock for a total of
twelve days.

Although partial funding was provided from the museum’s Mari-
time Hall Fund, the Smithsonian owes an enormous debt of grati-
tude to other museum and educational institutions, to state agencies
such as the History Division of the Michigan Department of State,
to federal agencies, and especially to the U.S. Navy and the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers. Without this splendid cooperative effort,
such a difficult and costly enterprise would have been inconceivable.

The Indiana was so well preserved that its firebox was found to
be freshly stoked with wood that had scarcely begun to char as the
ship went under and its fires were quenched. Though remarkably
well preserved, the salvaged equipment will require extensive con-
servation measures to counteract the effects of 121 years under-

200 / Smithsonian Year 1979
water. When the treatment is completed, the entire system will be
displayed as one of the most remarkable technological artifacts
brought to light in many years—a unique example of American
steam engineering of the 1840s.

When David Todd talks of the Golden Age of English clockmaking,
his vision seems to focus on some inner panorama of escapements,
fusees and counterweights, springs and balances.

Todd, who is, in many ways, one of the museum’s major acquisi-
tions of 1979, gradually proves to be as astonishing as the mecha-
nisms he restores. As a Liveryman of the Worshipful Company of
Clockmakers, he is entitled to wear a sword in the City of London,
enter the houses of noblemen by the front door instead of the trade
entrance, and vote for the Lord Mayor. As a conservator of fine
mechanisms and clockmaker extraordinaire at the National Museum
of History and Technology, he can also work wonders with the in-
voluted insides of the hundreds of clocks, watches, and other deli-
cate instruments in the museum’s collections.

Born in the English town of Christchurch, Hampshire, in 1942,
Todd first learned his trade and use of tools as a trainee instrument
mechanic with the British Army, at the age of fifteen. After ten
years of making and repairing instruments with the army, he went
to work for a well-known firm of clockmakers and restorers, and,
over the course of a decade, came to be recognized as an expert in
the field. During this time, he was elected to the Company of
Clockmakers, and became a Craft member of the British Horolog-
ical Institute as well as a Freeman of the City of London. It was
his search for a position with scope for his particular expertise—
the repair of centuries-old clocks, using the original tools, materials,
and methods—that led him eventually to America and the National
Museum of History and Technology.

Todd’s small workshop at the museum is a museum in itself.
The aspect of his work that makes him such a rare commodity is
his belief in restoring not only the mechanism of the original piece,
but also its essential integrity. That can only be done by using the
tools and techniques employed by the original maker. “It’s no good
using modern tools on a piece like this,” he says, indicating a late-
seventeenth-century clock, its intricate insides spread all over his
shop. ‘““You simply don’t get the same finish and character.”

History and Art / 201
To make replacement pieces for the museum’s clocks, Todd uses
tools like his eighteenth-century clockmaker’s throw, a sort of
hand-turned lathe, and the smaller clockmaker’s turn, powered by
a beeswaxed bow. The throw came from a ninety-year-old artisan
in South Wales, who lived without a single modern convenience
and gave the tool to Todd in the hopes that it would continue to be
used. Mandrels, bead compasses and dialing scales for making
clockfaces, and moulding cutters and bow-driven, hand-forged
drills all have their careful places on his workbench. Where the
old tool is not available, Todd makes his own, as in the case of the
mainspring winder he fashioned after an old patent. The modern
ones, he has found, tend to break when pitted against some old
clocks.

“Prior to the eighteenth century, clockmakers had to make their
own tools,” says Todd. “There was simply no standard equipment
available.” What applies to tools, also goes for hardware. Each old
clock has its own homemade screws, with uniquely characteristic
threads. So he must not only make the replacement screws to
match, but must cast his own taps and dies to cut the customized
threads. As a concession to the encroachment of modern times, he
also has a collection of Victorian screwplates, through which
blanks can be forced, in order to make threads for clockscrews of a
later period.

Though Todd works on clocks of all varieties at the museum,
he is happiest when working on pre-1850 English clocks and six-
teenth- and seventeenth-century timepieces of any kind. The
museum now exhibits a wide range of styles and types of these
clocks, thanks to his efforts. One of the most interesting clocks he
has worked on recently is a late-eighteenth-century Czechoslo-
vakian alarm clock, now on display in the museum’s exhibition of
the James Arthur Collection. The clock contains a flintlock mecha-
nism and a candle, in addition to a small alarm bell. When the
alarm is tripped, the bell rings; simultaneously, the hammer falls,
igniting the small charge of gunpowder, and the candle pops up
out of a small box to be lit by the smoking tinder.

David Todd is only one of the many skilled technicians at the
National Museum of History and Technology. His work is typical
of the high standards of excellence within the museum and the
Institution as a whole.

202 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Surrounded by the tools of his trade, NmMuHT clockmaker David Todd restores the
music box of an English bracket clock made in the style of Perigal and Markwick
(ca. 1740). Below. The torch—in this case, a nineteenth-century whale-oil lantern

from the Bassett Collection of Lighting Devices—passes from Acting Director
Claudia Kidwell to the new director of NMuT, Roger G. Kennedy.

Preston R. Bassett is a longstanding friend of the Smithsonian
Institution. Professionally associated with the aeronautics industry,
he has for sixty years been a collector of American artifacts, includ-
ing pottery, glass, pewter, furniture—indeed, almost any class of
object that can shed light on American cultural history. In fact,
shedding light is a quite literal interest of his, luckily for scholars
and for the National Museum of History and Technology; for,
early this year, Mr. Bassett made the museum a gift of 900 historic
American lighting devices.

Those from the early days of the country illustrate what a
primitive matter lighting was for most Americans. Early American-
made candleholders and chandeliers in the collection are fairly
spindly affairs. The tallow candles themselves required constant
tending, because of the impurity of the wicks, which had to be
trimmed with special clippers, or “snuffed,” every few minutes to
prevent guttering.

Besides candlestands and -holders, there were splint holders—
little more than large wrought-iron clips for holding lighted splints
of sappy wood; rush holders, meant to hold the peeled pith of a
meadow rush dipped in tallow; and pan lamps, metal saucers for
holding grease and oil, with a twisted rag hanging over the edge
for a wick. Innovation brought the betty lamps, pan lamps with
little clips to hold the wick upright so it could give better light and
burn without dripping or sputtering.

These early lamps are most often made of metal; but the rise of
the glassmaking industry in the early 1800s, coupled with the dis-
covery that molds for glass cup-plates could also produce usable
lamp bottoms, gave rise to the large-scale production of glass
whale-oil lamps and other glass lighting devices.

Whale oil, of course, was another booming American industry in
the early nineteenth century. The Bassett collection contains a large
number of patented whale-oil lamps, with their telltale twin wicks.
Benjamin Franklin is credited with discovering that twin wicks
close together made a flame more than twice as bright as a single
wick—an advantage that diminishes with more than two wicks.
Even with oils, however, nighttime work or social activities requir-
ing illumination were always a problem. The picture that comes
down to us of one person reading aloud to the family group was a
practical necessity as well as an exercise in family closeness.

204 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Lamp designs attempted in various ways to deal with the prob-
lem. One eighteenth-century candle holder in the collection has a
swivel base for raising the four candles to the best height for read-
ing. There were lenses and mirrors and polished surfaces attached
to concentrate the light of candles and lamps. In some cases, the
innovations are beautiful as well as functional, as in the case of the
early “lacemaker’s” or “shoemaker’s” lamps, with suspended glass
spheres filled with water on all four sides of a candle to focus the
light for close work.

The innovation with the largest impact was the Argand lamp,
designed by the Swiss chemist Ami Argand in 1783. The first lamp
to be constructed along scientific principles of combustion, the
Argand lamp used a wick woven around a hollow draft and a glass
chimney to make a brighter flame. Although very expensive,
Argand lamps were in great demand. George Washington used
them in Mount Vernon, and Thomas Jefferson in Monticello. Such
innovations throughout the history of lighting seldom succeeded
without some resistance. The Domestic Encyclopedia of 1804 ad-
mits that the utility of lamps is superior, but warns that the light
from them is “frequently too vivid for weak or irritable eyes.”
Count Rumford, himself a designer of lamps, stated in 1811: ““No
decayed beauty ought ever to expose her face to the direct rays of
an Argand lamp.” Even when Preston Bassett went off to Amherst
College in the early years of this century, his parents were con-
cerned about the effect of the newfangled electric lights on his eyes.

Innovations in design were generally safe; experimentation with
fuels was another story. As whale oil grew more and more expen-
sive, due to overharvesting and the dangers and inconveniences of
whaling, the search for alternative fuels proceeded with a ven-
geance. The 1830s and ’40s saw the rise of “burning fluid,” an ex-
tremely volatile mixture of turpentine and alcohol, which was both
cheap and gave good light. However, its flammability made it so
dangerous that, despite refinements in the lamps to separate the
flame from the fuel and keep the mixture from evaporating, news-
paper articles recounting the gruesome accidents due to “burning
fluid” were common. Nevertheless, various mixtures, bearing the
name ““camphene,” after one popular distilled turpentine product,
were in common use until after the 1860s, when the introduction
of kerosene began to put other fuels out of business.

History and Art / 205
Ironically, Mr. Bassett had little interest in kerosene lamps, with
which he was well acquainted as a boy, and his collection thus con-
tains only lamps of a special interest, such as the patented “angle
lamp,” with a canted wick designed to eliminate the shadow cast by
a normal lamp’s base. Nor does his collection have much to do with
gas lamps, which, though first used domestically in 1806, really
did not become popular until after the Civil War. But the wealth
and diversity of his collection are extraordinary and will keep yield-
ing secrets to scholars for years to come.

These three activities—the salvage of an antique engine, the res-
toration of historical timepieces, and the acquisition of an extensive
collection of lighting devices—are specific examples of the daily
work of the museum over this past year.

A more general look shows the museum in transition during
1979. While the search for a permanent director was under way,
Acting Director Otto Mayr tackled the problems of developing
long-range plans for exhibits and collections management and of
launching a comprehensive inventory of every object in the mu-
seum, from abacuses through zoopractiscopes. In late August, when
Dr. Mayr departed on a long-scheduled study trip to Munich, Mrs.
Claudia Kidwell, chairman of the Department of Cultural History,
assumed his responsibilities and brought the museum through the
remaining month and a half, until the arrival of the new director,
Mr. Roger G. Kennedy.

Meanwhile, the staff, though very occupied with the inventory
process, nevertheless achieved some signal distinctions. John H.
White’s book The American Railroad Passenger Car was nominated
for the National Book Award. Acting Director Mayr’s article
“Yankee Practice and Engineering Theory: Charles T. Porter and
the Dynamics of the High-Speed Steam Engine” won the Society
for the History of Technology’s Abbot Payson Usher Prize for the
best article to be published in Technology and Culture in the past
three years. Assistant Director for Exhibits Benjamin W. Lawless
won an Emmy from the National Academy of Television Arts and
Sciences for writing the television show “Celebrating a Century,”
based on the museum’s “1876” exhibit.

Fourteen temporary exhibits further contributed to the success of
the year. Leading the roll was the museum’s centenary tribute to

206 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Albert Einstein, organized by curators Paul Forman of the National
Museum of History and Technology and Paul Hanle of the National
Air and Space Museum. With objects ranging from the complex
experimental equipment used to test Einstein’s theories, to the briar
pipe he used to smoke, the exhibit took visitors through the stages
of the great man’s life and work, giving them a glimpse of his
private as well as his public world. The effect of this exhibit was
augmented by four Frank Nelson Doubleday lectures dedicated to
Einstein. The Rt. Hon. C. P. Snow, British novelist and scientist,
described Einstein the man, as he had known him; Dr. John A.
Wheeler, director of the Center for Theoretical Physics at the Uni-
versity of Texas, discussed Einstein’s effect on our understanding
of the universe; intellectual historian Peter Gay talked about the
correspondence exchanged between Einstein and Freud on the sub-
ject of war; and the eminent philosopher Sir Karl Popper shed
new light on Einstein’s revolutionary contribution to epistemology.
Other exhibits were the addition of the Red Room Setting to the
Hall of First Ladies Gowns, furnished with the curtains, rug, and
some of the furniture of the original White House room as dec-
orated by Mrs. John F. Kennedy in 1962; “Daum: 100 Years of
Glass and Crystal,” which featured a collection of the art glass
produced by the Daum Company of Nancy, France, from the late
nineteenth century to the present; “Traditional Japanese Medicine
and Its Graphics,
Japanese medicine and pharmacy; and “The Chase Manhattan
Bank Money Collection,” an exhibition of part of the bank’s vast
collection illustrating the development and use of money.

eA

an assemblage of objects from the history of

Over the past year, the museum added some truly extraordinary
objects to its collections. At the head of the list is surely the quartet
of eighteenth-century Italian bowed strings acquired by the Divi-
sion of Musical Instruments from the private collection of Laurence
Witten.

The four instruments—a violin by Ferdinando Gagliano (Naples,
c. 1780), a viola by Gennaro Gagliano (Naples, 1762), a violin by
Antonio Grangnani (Livorno, 1783), and a violoncello by J. B.
Tononis (Bologna, 1740)—are particularly valuable acquisitions for
this museum because they still possess many of their original
eighteenth-century features, long since altered on most other instru-
ments from this period. These original characteristics include

History and Art / 207
shorter necks placed at a different angle and some of the original
blocks and lining. The museum, in cooperation with the Smithso-
nian Chamber Players and the outstanding Dutch violinist Jaap
Schroeder, has already introduced these instruments in public
concert and plans to continue performances on a regular basis.

Other important acquisitions include the earliest dated American
quilt, made in 1760; twelve watercolors from the early nineteenth
century depicting various stages of porcelain manufacture at Ching-
te-Chen, China’s chief center for production of export ceramics;
and an important eighteenth-century telescope made by the English
scientist John Dollond, which is of a design well known and used
in colonial America.

National Portrait Gallery

October 1978 marked the tenth anniversary of the opening of the
National Portrait Gallery. To celebrate this occasion, a dinner was
held in honor of those individuals who had contributed significantly
to the growth of the gallery during its first decade. Two publica-
tions were produced to coincide with this event: Fifty American
Faces, a 256-page volume containing a cross section of portraits
from the gallery’s collections, together with essays on each by
Margaret C. S. Christman of the gallery’s staff; and an IIlustrated
Checklist of all portraits in the gallery’s permanent collection ac-
quired through December 31, 1977, compiled by Linda T. Neumaier
of the staff of the Catalogue of American Portraits, with photo-
graphs by the gallery’s photographer, Eugene Mantie. A third
publication, A Gallery of Presidents, by Marc Pachter, historian of
the National Portrait Gallery, was issued later in the year. These
works were published by the Smithsonian Institution Press. In addi-

,

tion, a symposium on “The Art of Biography,” made possible in
part by a grant from the Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach Pro-
gram, was held at the gallery in November. The speakers were Leon
Edel, Justin Kaplan, Doris Kearns, and Barbara W. Tuchman. A
volume entitled Telling Lives: The Biographer’s Art, consisting of
the texts of these talks, together with additional essays by Alfred

Kazin, Theodore Rosengarten, and Geoffrey Wolff, and with an

208 / Smithsonian Year 1979
introduction by Marc Pachter, was published for the National
Portrait Gallery by New Republic Books in the spring of 1979.

Three distinguished American photographers, Marie Cosindas,
Arnold Newman, and Alfred Eisenstaedt, spoke at the National
Portrait Gallery in October and November 1978 in connection with
the gallery’s major fall exhibition “Facing the Light: Historic Amer-
ican Portrait Daguerreotypes.”

The major exhibition of the year was “Return to Albion: Amer-
icans in England, 1760-1940,” organized by Dr. Richard Kenin.
Accompanying this show was a book of the same title by Dr. Kenin,
with an introduction by Alistair Cooke, published for the National
Portrait Gallery by Holt, Rinehart & Winston.

Eight other exhibitions were held at the gallery during the course
of the year. Four of these were organized by Frederick S. Voss and
Michael L. Lawson of the gallery’s staff: “Black Hawk and Keokuk:
Prairie Rebels,” ““Chester Alan Arthur: From Spoilsman to States-
man,” “They Have Made a Nation: The Creators of the Confed-
eracy,” and “The Whiskey Rebels: The Pennsylvania Whiskey
Rebellion of 1794.” An exhibition entitled “Time: Arts and Enter-
tainment” was selected from the 856 original works created for the
covers of Time magazine and presented to the National Portrait
Gallery by Time, Inc. The show replaced the gallery’s first exhibi-
tion from this collection, ““The Time of Our Lives,’ which traveled
to the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library in Austin, Texas, in July. A
display of significant photographs from the 1840s to the present
from the gallery’s permanent collection was organized by William
F. Stapp, curator of photographs. In connection with the Tenth
Annual American Print Conference (organized by Wendy Wick,
curator of prints, and held at the gallery in May 1979), an exhibi-
tion entitled “Translations: Lithographs from Daguerreotypes”” was
mounted. The conference was attended by more than 150 print
curators and collectors from many parts of the country. Four of
the eight speakers were staff members of the National Portrait
Gallery: Dr. Ellen Miles, Katharine Ratzenberger, William F. Stapp,
and Miss Wick. An illustrated volume containing all eight confer-
ence talks will be published by the gallery in 1980.

A display designed primarily for the visually handicapped was
inaugurated in March. This “Haptic Gallery”—“haptic” meaning
“relating to or based on the sense of touch’—consists of eleven

History and Art / 209
casts of sculptures from the National Portrait Gallery’s permanent
collection made by the Smithsonian’s Office of Exhibits Central.
Among the likenesses included are those of George Washington,
taken from a version of Houdon’s life mask; Abraham Lincoln,
from Volk’s bust of 1860, also based on a life mask; Helen Keller
and her teacher Anne Sullivan Macy, from life masks made by
Onorio Ruotolo in 1916; Ralph Waldo Emerson, from Daniel
Chester French’s life portrait of 1879; and Lyndon B. Johnson,
from the Jimilu Mason life bust. Each cast is accompanied by labels
in large type and in braille. A self-guiding audio cassette made
with the assistance of the Library of Congress’s Division of Library
Services for the Blind and Physically Handicapped is also available.
Its text was written by the National Portrait Gallery’s former cura-
tor of education, Dr. Dennis O’Toole, who is now deputy director
of museum operations at Colonial Williamsburg.

A series of events called “Portraits in Motion” has been inaugu-
rated by the gallery’s Education Department. These consist of
readings from or about, or interpretations of, individuals whose
portraits are in the gallery’s collection. One such “Portrait in
Motion” was a performance given by Eugenia Rawls in December
and devoted to Fannie Kemble and Tallulah Bankhead. A return
performance concerning Tallulah Bankhead, which will be video-
taped, will take place in the coming year.

This year saw 231 portraits added to the gallery’s collection, 37
of them by gift. One of the earliest of those purchased, painted in
1758, is John Singleton Copley’s large (5 X 4 inch) miniature of the
Massachusetts loyalist Andrew Oliver, who is best remembered as
the official who accepted the British Crown’s appointment to ad-
minister the Stamp Act. On an equally small scale, but in another
medium, are four silhouettes by Henry Williams, done in 1809, of
former President John Adams and his wife Abigail and their son
John Quincy Adams and his wife Louisa Catherine, just prior to the
younger Adams’s departure for St. Petersburg as President Madi-
son’s Minister to Russia.

The acquisition of a portrait that is as unusual as it is notable
was made possible in large part by a generous gift from the James
Smithson Society. This is a painting done by a distinguished Euro-
pean artist, Angelica Kauffmann, of Dr. John Morgan, the director

210 / Smithsonian Year 1979
-

This daguerreotype (made by J. H. Whitehurst, ca. 1851) is the only known portrait
of Robert Mills and his wife. Mills was the architect for the first wing of the present
National Portrait Gallery building. Below. Silhouettes of John and Abigail Adams,
acquired by the National Portrait Gallery. The silhouettes were produced by Henry
Williams in 1809.

John Adams ;
180g j
Loed 7. j

general of hospitals and physician-in-chief to the American army
during the Revolution, painted when the subject was in Rome in
1765. As the fates would have it, the self-portrait of Angelica
Kauffmann painted for Dr. Morgan also happens to be at the
Smithsonian, in the National Collection of Fine Arts.

One of the most welcome gifts ever to come to the gallery is the
only known portrait of Robert Mills and his wife, a daguerreotype
by J. H. Whitehurst, made about 1851. One of the greatest of all
American architects, Mills was responsible for the first wing of the
very building in which the National Portait Gallery is housed. This
precious portrait, together with an original eighteen-page manu-
script of Mills’s autobiographical sketch, was the generous gift of
Richard Evans, a descendant of the subject.

Office of American and Folklife Studies

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

The Office of American Studies continued its program in graduate
education throughout the year. The fall 1978 seminar on “Material
Aspects of American Civilization” focused on the material evidences
of urban development and was taught by the director of the office,
Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn, and Professor Howard Gillette of
George Washington University. Other seminars given during the
academic year included ‘“The American Decorative Arts,” taught by
Barbara Carson; “Folklore in America,” taught by Howard W.
Marshall; ‘“Vernacular Architecture,” taught by Dell Upton, with
the assistance of John Pearce and Dr. Washburn; and “ Archaeology
of Alexandria,” taught by Pamela Cressey and Jonathan Haas. In-
dividual graduate students also continued to pursue specialized
research under the supervision of the director of the office.

The Bicentennial exhibition ““The Federal City: Plans and Real-
ities,” of which Dr. Washburn was the scholar-in-charge, was ex-
tended for another year, from February 1979 to February 1980. A
number of changes in the exhibition, which occupies the Great Hall
of the Smithsonian Institution “Castle” Building, had to be made to
fill in the gaps left by the return of some loan objects to their
owners.

212 / Smithsonian Year 1979
During the past year, Dr. Washburn served as president of the
American Studies Association, the national organization of scholars
in the field of American studies, and of the Columbia Historical
Society, the historical society for the District of Columbia. He was
also appointed a member of the St. Mary’s City Commission. The
commission oversees the work of historical restoration of Mary-
land’s seventeenth-century capital, a project with which the Smith-
sonian, through Dr. Washburn’s office, has long been associated.

Dr. Washburn began work on a popular biography of James
Smithson and the Smithsonian Secretaries. In the course of his re-
search he traveled to a number of cities in the United States and
England.

FOLKLIFE PROGRAM

Most Americans would agree that the richness of the nation’s cul-
ture lies in the impressive diversity of its people and in their crea-
tive responses to historical conditions. Research, presentation, and
preservation of this cultural wealth is the goal of the Folklife Pro-
gram. The aesthetic and utilitarian forms produced by America’s
people have a place in the Institution beside the other national
treasures. The preservation of these cultural traditions means not
only collection, storage, and careful display of objects; it also means
working to create a national cultural milieu in which authentic folk
expression can thrive and develop. The Folklife Program works
toward this goal by giving the objects, performances, and per-
formers of folk traditions the respectful and understanding recogni-
tion they deserve. This effort entails the presentation of living folk
traditions in the context of the Smithsonian. Since its inception, the
Folklife Program has directed its attention to the identification and
study of these folk traditions and to the development of methods
for presenting them in a national setting to general audiences. As
an academically oriented program, the Folklife Program also pursues
university teaching, research into foreign folklife traditions that
shed light on cultures that have taken root in American soil, and
publishing of documentary and analytic studies.

The Folklife Program, under the directorship of Ralph Rinzler,
has finished its third year as an independent unit within the Office
of American and Folklife Studies. It planned and supervised the
research and presentation of the twelfth annual Festival of Amer-

History and Art / 213
ican Folklife, which was held over the Columbus Day holiday
weekend, October 4-9, 1978. Presentations of traditional culture
from thirteen states and from Mexico were mounted for six days
on the Mall and within the exhibits of the National Museum of
History and Technology and the Renwick Gallery. The National
Park Service continued its cosponsorship of the festival, and fund-
ing support was provided by the Music Performance Trust Fund,
the Department of Energy, McDonald’s, Inc., the Inter-American
Foundation, and the government of Mexico.

In response to the success of its presentations within the mu-
seums, the Folklife Program inaugurated a special program in 1979
entitled ““Folklife in the Museum,” which was held in the National
Museum of History and Technology for four days prior to the
thirteenth annual Festival of American Folklife. Traditions in Amer-
ican folk medicine were the subject of discussions and demonstra-
tions within the context of the exhibits in the museum’s medical-
sciences area. A scholarly symposium, ‘Folk Medicine: Alternative
Approaches to Health and Healing,” was held in conjunction with
this program.

The staff of the Folklife Program prepared and published a
teacher’s manual on folklore and folklife that was distributed to
local teachers prior to the 1979 festival. This manual was written to
respond to questions and concerns posed by D.C. area school
teachers during orientation sessions prior to the 1978 festival. It
was edited by a local high-school teacher who had used the festival
as a teaching laboratory for his students for several years. The
manual was designed to serve as a general introduction for teachers
to the study of folklore and folklife, and it includes many sugges-
tions for possible student research activities.

Other educational objectives were met through the Folklife Pro-
gram’s continued involvement in presenting courses in folklore for
the Department of American Studies and Anthropology at George
Washington University. Smithsonian staff folklorists Dr. Jack
Santino and Dr. Steven Zeitlin have taught courses in folklore each
term since the spring of 1978. Each course included, as guest lec-
turers, scholars from the Smithsonian, Library of Congress, Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts Folk Arts Program, and from folklore
departments of universities in other cities. Based on the success of
these courses, Dr. Santino arranged a leave of absence for the

214 / Smithsonian Year 1979
spring of 1980 in order to teach folklife courses full time at George
Washington University, with the goal of developing a basic, on-
going scholarly program in this discipline at the university.

Cooperative arrangements were maintained in other areas as well.
The Folklife Program entered its third year of a folklore survey
project in Nevada, in conjunction with the American Folklife Center
at the Library of Congress and the Folk Arts Program at the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts. As a result of fieldwork in 1978,
four small presentation projects were organized in 1979 in Reno
(on the Mexican-American Cinquo de Maio celebration); in Elco
(on methods to do fieldwork for and presentations of traditional
craftsmen); in Fallon (to aid the Portuguese-American community
in reestablishing a Holy Ghost Festa); and in Ely (to organize multi-
ethnic presentations). In addition, a Nevada state-wide conference
on folklore topics was considered for 1980, along with the publica-
tion of an evaluation of the findings of the research project.

In an international context, the Folklife Program supervised three
research trips funded by the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Pro-
gram. Noted scholars were sent to India, Pakistan, Egypt, and
Guinea in 1978 to locate the oldest surviving forms of traditional
puppetry, with a view to bringing groups of folk puppeteers to the
Smithsonian as part of the World Puppetry Festival, scheduled to
be held in Washington, D.C., in June 1980.

Work began in the summer of 1979 on a project to preserve more
than 3,500 wax-cylinder recordings at the Library of Congress,
principally containing Native American songs and stories recorded
prior to 1930. Dr. Thomas Vennum, the Folklife Program ethnomu-
sicologist, serves as director for this project, involving the transfer
of fragile cylinder recordings to magnetic tape, the preparation of
accompanying written material, and the development of suitable
means for the dissemination of these historic cultural documents.
The project was planned as a three-year endeavor.

As a result of an initiative of the Secretary’s Folklife Advisory
Council under the chairmanship of Dr. Wilcomb Washburn, plan-
ning was brought to an advanced stage for a year-long exhibition of
folk art at the Renwick Gallery. This exhibition will open in
November 1981. Elaine Eff, the exhibition coordinator, is work-
ing under the joint supervision of the Folklife Program and the
Renwick. With a theme of “Celebration,” 500 objects will be

History and Art / 215
drawn from Smithsonian collections to fill all seven of the Renwick
galleries. The objects will be chosen to demonstrate the ways in
which different societies celebrate the important cycles and mile-
stones in the lives of their people. The eminent anthropologist Dr.
Victor Turner, a Smithsonian research associate, is serving as guest
curator for the exhibition. Professor Turner has conducted impor-
tant studies of ritual and celebration and is sensitive to the com-
plexities of these events and their meanings.

Five monographs are being prepared by Folklife Program staff
members. All of these monographs are based in part on festival-
related materials, and some reflect longstanding research interests.
Topics include American ethnicity, sleeping-car porters, an oral
history of Dunham School, street hawkers, and a monograph on
occupational narratives. In addition, Indiana University Press is
publishing a book by Dr. Peter Seitel on Haya oral narratives from
Tanzania, entitled See So That We May See. The Folklife Program
published two cookbooks in connection with the 1979 festival. One
contained Caribbean recipes and the other presented recipes for
foods prepared for Vietnamese holidays and celebrations.

Two ethnographic films are being produced in 1979 and 1980.
The first film (with an accompanying monograph) will examine the
survival arts of the Paiutes of Nevada. The second will be an
examination of “hollers’” and street calls in East Coast fish and
vegetable markets.

The archive of film footage from the 1976 Bicentennial festival,
consisting of 144,000 feet of film and accompanying sound track
covering twelve cultures in the United States and abroad, was
logged and cross-indexed by culture. In addition, the entire body
of footage was synchronized with its sound track. This project
has been carried out through an arrangement with the producer of
the film, Documentary Educational Resources in Watertown,
Massachusetts.

Dr. Robert Byington, former deputy director of the Folklife Pro-
gram, was retained on contract during 1979 to develop the cur-
riculum for a course offered by the Office of Museum Programs
Workshop Series, “Living Resources in Museums,” September 29—
October 4, 1979. Using the 1979 Folklife in the Museum Program
and the festival itself as laboratories for the course, Dr. Byington
drew on the twelve years of Smithsonian Folklife Festival expe-

216 / Smithsonian Year 1979
rience to provide professionals from museums throughout the
United States who were enrolled in the course with insight and
instruction in the use of “human resources” within a museum
setting.

Four visiting scholars used the Folklife Program archives, as well
as the scholarly resources of the staff in 1979 and 1980. Barry
O’Connell (Ph.D., Harvard University) is associate professor of
English and American studies at Amherst College. Dr. O’Connell
is conducting research on coal miners and the coal-mining industry
between 1930 and 1960. David Whisnant (Ph.D., Duke University)
is associate professor of American studies at the University of
Maryland. Dr. Whisnant is working on an historical analysis of
institutional intervention in traditional culture in Appalachia and
the southeastern United States. Michael Harris (Ph.D., Harvard
University) is conducting a study of Black American liturgies,
with special attention to folk rituals of worship and their use of
musical instruments. Robert McCarl is a doctoral candidate in folk-
lore at the University of Newfoundland. Mr. McCarl is doing re-
search on the occupational folklife of the firefighters in the Wash-
ington, D.C., area.

In December 1978, Janet Stratton left the Folklife Program to
become the design manager at the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Her design duties have been assumed by Daphne Shuttleworth,
who joined the staff in May 1979.

History and Art / 217
In the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, Walter Hopwood (standing) and Tim
Padfield attempt to measure the electrical conductivity of a silk fiber as a sensitive
test for salt contamination.

Smithsonian Year - 1979
MUSEUM PROGRAMS

PAUL N. PERROT,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MUSEUM PROGRAMS

For A MUSEUM, the pursuit of excellence can have a variety of mean-
ings: superlative collections, great research programs, imaginative
educational offerings, new means to reach previously untouched or
uninterested audiences; bringing into its halls the treasures of other
institutions and nations, issuing scholarly catalogues, or reaping the
fruits of careful archaeological, anthropological, or other research
missions. These pursuits are all essential, indeed integral, to the
historic and social functions of a museum. In all of them the mu-
seums of the Institution have attained an internationally recognized
status and are often considered the models that others seek to
emulate. Yet, for a museum to be truly complete and fully worthy
of its responsibilities to future generations, two other vital elements
must be added: an overriding concern for conservation, supported
by adequate funding and properly trained personnel; and a com-
mitment to the creation of environmental conditions for its collec-
tions in public view and in storage that will guarantee their safe-
keeping and protect them from the vagaries of changing climates,
the hazards of uncontrolled access, and the no-less-threatening
menace of the out-of-sight, out-of-mind syndrome, which leads to
inadequate monitoring and often to insufficient inventory proce-
dures. These two important aspects of museum management have
been given high priority in the past year, a priority predicated upon
a policy decision that conditions in storage will, if possible, be no
less favorable to the safeguarding of our collections than those
that prevail in exhibition halls.

Under the overall coordination of the Office of the Registrar, an
Institution-wide program has been developed to attain, and per-

219
manently maintain, complete and accurate inventory control over
the collections at the three museums with collections that had come
into arrears in this very important aspect of management. Thanks
to the foresight of the Congress, a special appropriation of $500,000
has been allocated to accelerate the inventory of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History’s collections, which number well over
fifty-five million accessions; the collections of the National Museum
of History and Technology, with some sixteen million accessions;
and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum collections, which, though much
smaller in number, had not been thoroughly inventoried since the
museum was founded at the end of the last century.

To anyone concerned with objects, there is probably nothing
more boring than an inventory. This may explain why this activity
is often pursued, if at all, with reluctance. Yet the pressing need of
these museums, the enthusiastic leadership of their directors, and
the splendid cooperation of their staffs, have made of this task an
exciting adventure in discovery. The challenges of developing new
techniques, presenting information in a coordinated fashion, and
linking the results into data-retrieval mechanisms that have lasting
scholarly value, have been met by all. In the process, collections
that had been hidden away for decades have been rediscovered,
with some of the same zest that animates the researcher in the field.

Inventory and management supervision over collections was a
priority in 1979 and will remain a priority in the years immediately
ahead, until the awesome inventory task is completed. The result-
ing data base will be an invaluable resource for identifying strengths
and recognizing weaknesses in the Institution’s collections. It may
well become a model to be emulated elsewhere and play an im-
portant role in international data networks that will come into being
in the next decades. Inventory is essential to conservation, for it re-
quires the physical examination of objects, and from this inspection
comes the identification of hazardous conditions and of incipient
decay that leads to the development of conservation strategies.

The first and most vital step in conservation is not taken in the
laboratory, but rather in the provision of environmental conditions
that prevent the need for conservation. This is one of the major
aims of the Museum Support Center, which has been under study
for the last decade. After an exhaustive analysis of needs and of
alternative solutions, the concept of a building complex of 308,000

220 / Smithsonian Year 1979
gross square feet was evolved. This will include up-to-date,
economical, and environmentally stable facilities to house vast por-
tions of the research collections of the National Museum of Nat-
ural History. In addition, this complex will house the Smithsonian
Oceanographic Sorting Center, with its vast collection of specimens
in vitro, as well as some of the highly specialized collections from
the National Museum of History and Technology.

Directly related to the storage components, conceptually and
physically, will be the research laboratories of those curatorial de-
partments that will house their collections, either in whole or in
part, in the Museum Support Center.

The center will also contain the major part of the facilities of the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory (cat) and will provide space
for advanced, highly specialized research, and laboratories and
studios for the training of conservators. This decision reflects the
Institution’s commitment to help bridge the enormous gap existing
in the United States, and elsewhere throughout the world, between
the need for trained conservators and the number currently avail-
able. Hence no one should think of the Support Center as a mere
storage facility. It will be a highly sophisticated complex, focused
on conservation and research. In its configuration, appointments,
and overall philosophy, it represents a major departure in museum
management. The final approval of preliminary plans, developed
by the architects Metcalf/KCF, has been obtained from the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, the Committee
on Public Works and Transportation of the House of Representa-
tives, and the National Capital Planning Commission. It is expected
that ground will be broken in the spring of 1980 and that the entire
complex will be ready for occupancy at the end of fiscal year 1982.
In preparation for the move, the National Museum of Natural
History has accelerated the inventory of those collections that are to
be relocated. The Conservation Analytical Laboratory has been con-
tinuously involved with specifying and reviewing environmental
conditions at the Museum Support Center and with the special re-
quirements of a training program.

Concurrently cat has begun to plan for the development of a full-
scale research program in archaeometry. Though related to con-
servation, this special field examines objects and materials from all
scientific and technological points of view. Archaeometry is as con-

Museum Programs / 221
cerned with the sources of the raw materials from which objects are
made as it is with the manner in which the objects were formed.
The need for such research is becoming increasingly vital if our
understanding of the evolution of technology and the interrelated-
ness and/or separation of cultures is to be solidly founded. With
the removal of a major part of cAt’s activity to the Support Center,
laboratory space and equipment currently located at the National
Museum of History and Technology will be primarily centered on
archaeometric research, thus carrying out one of cAt’s original aims
when it was established in the mid-1960s.

During the year, cAL continued to provide major analytical serv-
ices and advanced conservation practices to the museums of the
Institution and, in cooperation with the National Bureau of Stand-
ards, coordinated a series of symposia bringing together archaeolo-
gists, anthropologists, and scientists from various disciplines to
focus on common problems.

No less important than a proper research environment is the
maintenance of the proper tools for research. None of these is more
important to the Institution than a well-staffed, responsive, and up-
to-date library system. In the last decade, the libraries of the Insti-
tution have made tremendous advances: in the effectiveness of their
central services, in the development of branch facilities, and in
pioneering methods for accelerating and refining processing proce-
dures, cataloguing in particular.

During the last two years, the library unit has been ably led by
an outstanding professional, Miss Jean Smith, who became acting
director upon Dr. Shank’s resignation in 1977. The task of finding
a successor to Dr. Shank took longer than anticipated and proved
to be an enriching experience for those who were involved with it,
for there is a host of library talent, and many were intrigued by the
great opportunities for service and personal enrichment that are
present in the Smithsonian libraries. Among those interested, none
ranked higher than Dr. Robert Maloy, director of the Library of the
Union Theological Seminary in New York City. In August of 1979,
Dr. Maloy accepted the Secretary’s invitation to join the Institu-
tion’s staff. A paleographer and medieval scholar of note, he has also
reorganized and planned libraries. This particular ability will be
especially valuable as the Institution refines its library requirements
for the proposed South Quadrangle Complex, which is to include

222 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the Rare Book Collections and the extraordinary assembly of docu-
ments and printed materials relating to the history of science do-
nated in 1975 by Dr. Berne Dibner. Part of the South Quadrangle
Complex will also include the libraries’ administrative and process-
ing facilities, now inadequately housed in cramped and inefficient
spaces at the National Museum of Natural History.

During the year, the Rare Book Collections were assessed by Miss
Ellen Wells, rare book librarian, working closely with Mr. Silvio
Bedini, former deputy director of the National Museum of History
and Technology and currently keeper of rare books. Mr. Bedini’s
great knowledge of scientific literature and his distinguished pub-
lishing record have been invaluable in the formulation of policies for
the further development of the Rare Book Collections.

Books, like other objects, are affected by the irrevocable on-
slaught of time. The Institution’s libraries, like all libraries, have
little hope of ever developing the resources and technologies to
arrest this onslaught. Palliative measures are being sought through
the acquisition of facsimile editions, microfiches or microfilms, and,
for those materials that have too great an importance, through
specialized treatment that is coordinated by the rare book conserva-
tor, Mr. Johannes H. Hyltoft.

Few institutions in their own history summarize better the de-
velopment of scientific inquiry in a particular country than the
Smithsonian. The evidence is to be found not only in its publica-
tions but in the official files of the Institution. Under the direction of
the archivist, the Smithsonian Archives has again made major head-
way in coming to grips with a century and a third of accumulation,
organizing it in a rational fashion and preparing published guides
so that its contents can be retrieved by interested scholars. What
was, some years ago, a miscellany of filing cabinets and boxes
distributed in countless offices and storage areas has become, under
Dr. Lytle’s direction, an active research tool, constantly referred to
by the staff and the scholarly community.

The buildings of the Institution have a richness of style, elegance
of disposition, and national architectural importance, which in the
last few years have been greatly enhanced by the colorful and
imaginative landscapes created by the Office of Horticulture.
In the process, what could have been mere adornment has become
a scholarly discipline, with carefully researched horticultural dis-

Museum Programs / 223
plays, of which the best-known and the most evocative is un-
doubtedly the Victorian Garden behind the “Castle.” This verdant
oasis of late-nineteenth-century plantings has been refined over the
years by additional parterres and borders and constitutes today one
of the most accurate and sensitive ensembles of this kind.

The Office of Horticulture, in its leased greenhouses at the
United States Soldiers’ and Airmen’s Home, is now developing
virtually all of the plantings and the hundreds of floral arrange-
ments that are called for by the special exhibitions or events in our
various museums. In addition, it has developed a collection of or-
chids, of national significance, consisting of a large number of en-
dangered species that may not survive in the wild and that are
being propagated for Smithsonian usage and exchange with other
botanical organizations.

Under the direction of horticulturalist James Buckler, plans have
been made for a major exhibition of nineteenth-century horticul-
tural paraphernalia, including dried floral arrangements and garden
furniture that will be shown in the Arts and Industries Building in
the course of 1980. Funds for this endeavor are in part being gener-
ously provided by grants from the Society of American Florists,
the American Institute of Floral Designers, and by the proceeds
from the Victorian Ball that took place in mid-June.

The long-planned Garden for the Handicapped, a major project
funded in part by the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian
Associates, came closer to realization. Hugh Newell Jacobsen has
developed a sensitive and imaginative plan that will transform the
area between the Arts and Industries Building and the Hirshhorn
Museum into a lively sensory environment that will focus on the
needs of the handicapped and provide joy to all. Coordinated with
this project is the redevelopment of the east entrance of the Smith-
sonian “Castle” Building, extending to its junction with the Garden
for the Handicapped. The plans have been reviewed and approved
and construction is expected to start early next year. In preparation
for these new garden areas, the Office of Horticulture is de-
veloping a large number of plants that will have the tactile and
olfactory characteristics suitable for the rich environment that is
being sought.

Just as the Victorian Garden provides the visiting public with an
insight into gardening as an historic discipline, so the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service (sites) provides to the museums of the

224 / Smithsonian Year 1979
nation at large and to historical societies and other organizations, an
opportunity to share in the Smithsonian’s collections and in a wide
variety of exhibitions created by other organizations in the United
States and abroad. Reaching some four to five million persons dur-
ing the past year, siTEs circulated 160 exhibitions and developed
twenty-nine new ones. Under the direction of Dennis Gould, since
1972 sites has become a major national and international force and
is now, by far, the largest traveling-exhibition service anywhere. In
August of 1979, Mr. Gould resigned to become director of the
Armand Hammer Foundation in Los Angeles. He left behind him a
vibrant organization, highly talented colleagues, and a program that
is universally admired. sITEs, pro tem, is under the able direction of
Mr. Gould’s deputy, Mrs. Eileen Rose.

Closely involved in the success of sites has been the Office of
Exhibits Central (orc). This staff has either designed or con-
structed a large number of sites traveling exhibitions. To have a
well-trained, understanding, in-house exhibits staff is essential for
the proper administration of a museum. In the case of the Smith-
sonian, each of our museums has its own exhibits facility, but some
highly specialized disciplines or those in infrequent demand can
best be coordinated through a central point. Thus, oc, in addition
to providing services to sites, has served virtually every depart-
ment of the Institution. The otc film unit, as has been its custom,
has received recognition from the Council on Non-theatrical Events.
It also received an Emmy from the Washington, D.C., Chapter of
the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, and a Cine
Golden Eagle award.

Providing assistance to the museum profession is traditional for
the Institution. Coordinating this assistance into regularly offered
programs, supported by the Museum Reference Center, is a more
recent development. The Office of Museum Programs during the
year offered 30 workshops to 587 participants. In the aggregate,
these workshops constitute courses on museum management. The
participants receive bibliographies and other materials drawn from
the Museum Reference Center, which is a key ingredient of the
program’s success. During the year, the center was enriched by the
unique collection it received from the Museum Education Center
of George Washington University. The collection is now perma-
nently transferred to the Institution. This, combined with resources
already present and that are constantly coming in from all parts of

Museum Programs / 225
the world, provides a documentation and research resource on all
aspects of museum management that is unparalleled in the United
States. Working in close cooperation with the International Council
of Museums Documentation Centre in Paris, the Museum Reference
Center’s holdings are being keyed so that its thesaurus can be co-
ordinated with the resources of the International Centre for Con-
servation (in Rome) and the International Council of Museums and
the International Council of Monuments and Sites (both in Paris).

A continuing perplexity for the museum profession is a method
to determine the effectiveness of museum programs and to discover
what lasting benefits audiences derive from their experience. The
Office of Psychological Studies has continued to provide such a
service to the Institution’s various museums, and a number of im-
portant studies were completed under the direction of Dr. Robert
Wolf. These constitute the basic raw material for publications on
the subject, which, it is hoped, can be initiated in the not-too-distant
future.

The Institution was among the first to realize that if the museums
of this country are going to serve adequately a growing and in-
creasingly more demanding constituency, they will require new
sources of support. In particular, museums must have the means to
enhance the expertise of their staffs and carry out studies and de-
velop new techniques relating either to the interpretation or preser-
vation of their collections. From this conviction grew the National
Museum Act of 1966. First funded in 1972, it provides assistance
to museums and to their professional organizations in areas that
generally have not been served by the other funding organizations
that have developed since.

During the year, the National Museum Act Advisory Council re-
viewed 189 applications and recommended to the Secretary 71
grants, to the amount of $702,006. These covered seminar work-
shops, stipends to individuals for conservation studies, stipends for
support of graduate professional-education training, stipend support
for museum internships, travel for museum professionals, special
studies and research, and professional assistance. The large number
of applications and the paucity of funds available mandated once
again the application of the highest standards of selectivity and re-
quired, as well, that 40 percent of the applications be reduced by at
least 1/3 of the amount requested.

The effectiveness of the National Museum Act in servicing the

226 / Smithsonian Year 1979
profession was dramatically demonstrated by the publication of
the Report on Grants—1972-1978, which appeared in January
1979. During the period covered by the Report, more than $4.5
million was awarded to individuals and institutions. Throughout
the years, the National Museum Act has emphasized support of
conservation, both in training and in basic research. In order to
insure that duplication was avoided and that grant applications were
directed to the source most likely to provide support, the staff of
the National Museum Act maintained close liaison with the staffs of
the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for
the Humanities, the Institute of Museum Services, and the National
Science Foundation. In addition to mailing some 15,000 brochures
describing Museum Act programs and publishing its cumulative
report, Miss Matilda Wells, coordinator of the National Museum
Act, participated in meetings of national and regional museum or-
ganizations and consulted extensively with members of the museum
profession, advising them on the assistance programs available
through the federal and state governments.

Museums, whatever their nature, cannot be parochial. They must
be part of their community; the larger they are, the more compre-
hensive their collections, the broader that community is. The In-
stitution’s constituency is not only the nation, but the world. Be-
cause the Institution acts as the keeper of the national collections and
of a vast part of the tactile heritage of mankind, it is essential that
its staff maintain the closest relationships with professional museum
and scientific colleagues in all parts of the world. Assisting in this
process is the Office of International Activities. It provides guidance
to Smithsonian staff going abroad and coordinates the visits of a
large number of foreigners who come to the United States, either to
study in Washington or to visit Washington as part of a broader
study program. This office offers valuable support to the assistant
secretary for Museum Programs, whose own involvement in in-
ternational activities on behalf of the Institution is extensive.
Among his current responsibilities are the vice-presidencies of the
International Council of Museums and of the International Centre
for the Study of the Preservation and the Restoration of Cultural
Property, involvement in national professional organizations, and
representation of the Secretary on the Advisory Council for His-
toric Preservation.

This report is a condensed summary of the various activities

Museum Programs / 227
coming directly under the aegis of the assistant secretary for Mu-
seum Programs. These activities are described in greater detail in
the departmental reports that follow. They reflect the high pro-
fessionalism, dedication to purpose, and commitment to quality of
an outstanding group of colleagues who are also friends.

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (cAL) provides conserva-
tion expertise and practice concerning many diverse objects in the
national collections. Its activities are closely involved with cura-
torial investigations and with fundamental research in archaeom-
etry, as well as in the more practical aspect of new conservation
treatments. During the year, more than 300 visitors were received.

CONSERVATION DEPARTMENT

The conservation staff of CAL, sometimes in concert with con-
servation scientists, provides services to every museum of the In-
stitution and to most curatorial departments. A broad range of
objects were examined and/or treated. These included the Kitty
Hawk Flyer, Frank Lloyd Wright’s office chair, campaign hats,
nineteenth-century scrimshaw, early ice skates, a unique oversized
campaign cigar, and a host of other objects, some of which required
profound study and analysis before suitable treatments could be
recommended.

Loans to the Smithsonian’s special exhibitions were also cared
for, including a poem sent by Albert Einstein to the Queen of
Belgium and Brigham Young’s gold-knobbed, hard-rubber cane.
Important objects brought in for treatment included a lantern re-
covered from the Monitor area and twenty-seven flintlocks and
assorted archaeological finds recovered by the Peabody Museum,
Harvard, from an Indian burial site in Louisiana, dated about 1735.

Work continued during the year on Roman, Byzantine, and
Islamic artifacts excavated at the Smithsonian’s archaeological dig
at Tel Jemmeh in Palestine. Other important objects conserved in-
cluded a sixteenth- or seventeenth-century Flemish secretary that

228 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Pictured here are some unexpected additions to the Smithsonian collections, dis-
covered by the Conservation Analytical Laboratory. Above left. A 2-mm-long
dendritic crystal of silver sulfide found growing on a silver spoon exhibited in NMHT.
This is an unusual form of the familiar silver tarnish. Above right. Cadmium for-

mate growing out from a cadmium-plated ring on a Bakelite mount. Below left.
Waxy fibers formed by reaction between fatty leather dressing and the brass of a
press stud. Below right. Bullet-shaped crystals of lead formate growing on the lead
core of a bullet exhibited in Nasm. Wood and plywood adhesives are among the
numerous substances that emit organic acid vapours into showcases.

had been treated some years ago with a coating detrimental to its
appearance and preservation.

Large numbers of objects were fumigated for the Freer Gallery
of Art, the National Portrait Gallery, the Institution’s Central Li-
brary, the Dibner Library, the Renwick Gallery, and the Museum
of African Art. Several divisions of the National Museum of His-
tory and Technology and of other S.J. bureaus, in preparation for
a long shutdown of steam, were provided with relative-humidity
monitoring devices, conditioned silica gel, and consultation with
different curatorial departments by cat so that the adverse effects
of environmental changes could be kept to a minimum. In fact,
no damage to any object was reported during the shutdown.

During the past year, cAL responded by telephone or letter to
over 1,000 requests for conservation information from conservator
colleagues, museum personnel across the country, and the general
public. Over 12,000 conservation guidelines were mailed, more
than double the number distributed the previous year. This increase
has imposed a substantial demand on staff time.

ANALYTICAL DEPARTMENT

Ninety requisitions for CAL services were completed, covering a
wide range of materials. Special attention continued to be given to
the problems of damage caused by certain substances used in mak-
ing or furnishing display cases. Several members of the staff ad-
dressed various aspects of this issue during the year. At the Ameri-
can Institute for Conservation conference in Toronto, Walter Hop-
wood delivered a paper on an accelerated aging test to determine
the safety of modern materials that are used in close association
with museum objects. Timothy Padfield, who joined the staff in
February 1979, has been working with other scientists on examples
of deterioration apparently caused by pollution within showcases.
The growth of dendritic crystals of silver sulphide on a silver spoon,
and sodium chloride fogging on the glass in front of a woven silk
picture, are two examples of the problems caused or exacerbated
by the lack of ventilation in well-made display cases within an
environment of unusually constant temperature. Joan Mishara and
Martha Goodway contributed to the identification of these and
many other corrosion products, in addition to their usual work on
the radiographic analysis of materials. Work on the metallurgy of

230 / Smithsonian Year 1979
harpsichord strings was continued by Miss Goodway during the
year.

Harold Westley continued his work with Dr. St. Hoyme on the
trace-element chemistry of tooth enamel. His analysis of enamel
from a 100,000-year-old skull with the earliest known human tooth
cavities showed that it had the same peculiarities in trace element
chemistry as modern carious teeth. This data was presented at the
March 1979 meeting of the International Association for Dental
Research held in New Orleans.

cat has purchased an x-ray detector to fit the Cambridge scan-
ning electron microscope in the National Museum of Natural His-
tory. This detector will provide an elemental analysis from sodium
to uranium. The technique is nondestructive; however, the specimen
holder is small, and for larger objects, samples must be removed.

ADMINISTRATION

CAL’s ongoing series of lectures on conservation orientation attracted
eighteen participants, both staff and nonstaff. Thirteen of them
completed the eighty, one-hour lectures and received certificates.

Marjorie Cleveland and Quentin Maule joined the staff as tech-
nical information specialists to continue abstracting reports, query-
ing the computer, and editing conservators’ reports. This fiscal year,
156 reports were entered into the Termatrex and 263 into the
computer.

CAL can now access the computer in the British Museum Research
Laboratory for the purpose of using its bibliographic computer
tapes of Art and Archaeological Technical Abstracts. This was done
through the use of a copEx modem. Many searches have also been
made through the S.I. Dialog System.

The administrative workload continues to expand, brought on by
the appreciable growth of public interest in conservation and efforts
to expand cat’s conservation staff and to increase its archaeometri-
cal effort. cat has purchased a floppy-disc-store Xerox word
processor for the purpose of updating the “Guidelines” rapidly and
efficiently. Increased staffing is needed, however, in order to serve
better the public’s demanding information needs.

ARCHAEOMETRY

Five seminars were held by the Conservation Analytical Laboratory
and the National Bureau of Standards (Nps) as a continuation of the

Museum Programs / 231
seminar series on “The Application of the Materials and Measure-
ment Sciences to Archaeology and Museum Conservation.” CAL
provided publication funds for the proceedings of the March 1977
seminar, ‘The Search for Ancient Tin.” It is also supplying funds to
edit the proceedings of the “Early Pyrotechnology” seminar held in
April 1979.

Jim Blackman was appointed to a four-year term as physical sci-
entist to prosecute his researches by neutron-activation analysis at
nBs, Gaithersburg, Maryland.

cat collaborated with the National Gallery of Art in support of a
project on the neutron autoradiography of paintings. This process
employs the reactor at the Armed Forces Radiobiology Institute,
Bethesda, Maryland, and gamma spectrometry at NBs, for which
CAL is providing a coaxial detection system.

A postdoctoral fellowship in the Office of Fellowships and Grants
was funded and a candidate selected to work on systems of ceramic
production in the prehistoric American Southwest.

National Museum Act Program

For many decades, the Smithsonian Institution has encouraged and
contributed to the development and improvement of museum prac-
tices. With the passage of the National Museum Act (NMA) in 1966,
this traditional role of assisting other museums was reaffirmed. The
act directs the Institution to cooperate with museums and their pro-
fessional organizations in a continuing study of museum problems
and opportunities both in the United States and abroad; to prepare
and carry out programs for training career employees in museum
practices; to prepare significant museum publications; and to per-
form research on museum techniques.

Funds appropriated to the Smithsonian for the implementation of
the National Museum Act are made available primarily through
grants and contracts to museums, nonprofit museum-related or-
ganizations and associations, academic institutions, and individuals
employed or sponsored by an eligible organization. Each year,
guidelines describing the specific grant program offerings and ap-
plication requirements are distributed widely to the museum com-

232 / Smithsonian Year 1979
munity and institutions having an interest in the objectives of the
National Museum Act. In recent years, the priorities of the NMA
have reflected the pressing needs of museums for improved con-
servation techniques and trained conservation personnel: during
1979, 42 percent (30 of 71) of the projects supported by Na grants
addressed conservation training, research, and studies.

Throughout the development of the National Museum Act grant
programs, the Smithsonian has relied heavily on the expertise and
guidance of an Advisory Council of eleven museum professionals
who represent a cross section of museum interests and disciplines
as well as various regions of the United States. The council plays
an active role in determining the policies governing the grant pro-
gram and reviews and evaluates applications for support. Smith-
sonian staff and other experts also assist in the review of pro-
posals. The council requires that projects supported by the National
Museum Act must be of substantial value to the museum profession
as a whole and must contribute to the improvement of museum
methods and practices or to the professional growth of individuals
entering or working in the museum field. A list of the members of
the Advisory Council in 1979 is given in Appendix 1.

In 1979, the National Museum Act received an appropriation of
$796,900. During the year, 189 applications requesting more than
$3 million were received and reviewed. The Advisory Council
recommended funding totaling $702,006 for 71 grants. Of this
amount, $325,930 was directed to conservation training and re-
search activities.

In recent years, the Advisory Council has noticed a significant im-
provement in the quality of proposals and has found it necessary
to award only partial funding in order to respond to the increased
number of projects deserving support. During 1979, one-third of
the projects were awarded 40 percent less than the amount re-
quested in the proposal. The major effect of these reductions was
to limit the number of stipends for students in museum training
programs and to enforce strict economy in research programs.
However, some grant recipients found that a National Museum
Act grant award helped them secure additional funding from
private sources. It is not anticipated that the substance of the
projects will be unduly restricted or impaired by the reduced fund-
ing.

Museum Programs / 233
A majority (57) of the awards granted in 1979 supported the
training of individuals preparing for professional careers in con-
servation and museum practices and provided continuing educa-
tion opportunities for museum personnel. Through these grants,
approximately 203 individuals will receive training in the conserva-
tion of textiles, enthnographic and archaeological materials, pho-
tographs, and other conservation specialities. Seminars, internships,
and graduate studies will also provide an additional 512 individuals
with training in other areas, such as museum education, exhibit de-
sign, museum management, and specialized curatorial techniques.

One of the primary mandates of the National Museum Act is to
support original research projects and studies that investigate the
increasingly complex problems facing museums in the United States
and abroad. This research is particularly significant in developing
and improving conservation methods and practices. Among the
research projects supported by na this year are studies of the
deterioration of nineteenth-century photographic prints, the effects
of ultraviolet and visible radiation on works of art on paper, and
the effect of environmental and physical forces on fabric-supported
paintings. Another important study relates to the problem and con-
trol of insect damage to natural-history collections. Recent federal
regulations and laws have severely restricted the use of many fumi-
gants, and this study may result in new techniques and effective
solutions to this special museum conservation problem.

These few examples of the projects supported by the National
Museum Act reflect the scope of contributions being made to the
nation’s museums through this grant program. They also typify
areas in which more study, research, and training are required.

Many wnoa projects include provisions for publishing and distrib-
uting findings to the museum profession. However, copies of all
project reports are also maintained in the Museum Reference Cen-
ter of the Office of Museum Programs, in which they are available
for study and reference. To encourage dissemination of the in-
formation accumulated through NmMa-supported projects, particu-
larly those directly benefiting a broad segment of the museum com-
munity, in 1979 the nma published and distributed more than
15,000 copies of a special report describing the grants awarded from
1972 through 1978. As a result of the report, the NMA office has
received a significant number of inquiries expressing interest in the

234 / Smithsonian Year 1979
results of specific projects, particularly in the area of conservation.
All such inquiries have been responded to with enthusiasm.

The National Museum Act office has continued to consult
regularly with government agencies and professional associations
having an interest in museums and has participated in meetings of
the Museum Task Force of the Federal Council on the Arts and the
Humanities to assist with the coordination of all museum support
programs.

Office of Exhibits Central

In addition to the normal wide variety of projects undertaken by
the Office of Exhibits Central (okc), significant staff adjustments
were made in 1979. Constance Minkin, chief exhibits editor since
1968 and assistant chief of oEc since 1974, retired. She had been
instrumental in establishing editorial standards for museums and
had trained many museum professionals in workshops and lecture
series. Her exceptional talents and dedication earned the respect
and admiration of her colleagues throughout the Institution. John
Widener, orc chief of production, replaced her as assistant chief.
Linda DuBro, who joined the editor’s office in 1974, is the new chief
exhibits editor.

Two senior staff members of orc’s Models, Plastics, and Restora-
tion Unit (mpr) retired this year. John Babyak, supervisor of the
MPR Unit, left after eighteen years as a Smithsonian modelmaker.
His broad experience and knowledge of the techniques used in
museum modelmaking will be sorely missed. Walter Sorrell, a
Smithsonian modelmaker since 1962, is the new supervisor of the
MPR Unit. William Donnelly, hired as a boatbuilder (loftsman) in
1958 to work on the life-sized model of the blue whale at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History (NmNu), also retired after thirty-
nine years of government service. His final task at oEc was the
restoration of an early metal model of the paddle-wheeler Robert E.
Lee for a traveling exhibition. His position has been filled by a
junior modelmaker.

The orc suffered a double loss when Carroll B. Lusk died shortly
after his retirement in late 1978. He established the exhibits light-

Museum Programs / 235
ing office after joining the Smithsonian in 1963 specifically to work
on exhibition lighting in the then-new National Museum of History
and Technology (NMut). Mr. Lusk was very active in the I/luminat-
ing Engineering Society of North America and had served as chair-
man of the society's Museum and Art Gallery Committee. He was
also a member of the Task Force on Energy Conservation that
established many of the standards now accepted throughout the
profession.

The many activities at ofc in 1979 were both challenging and re-
freshing. ofc provided assistance to the Museum of African Art
early in the year and anticipates continued participation in its up-
coming exhibition programs. Another project with the Museum of
African Art and the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (sires) has been a comprehensive exhibition of Ndebele
beadwork. A graduate-student intern from Virginia Commonwealth
University worked on the design and editing of this exhibition
under occ direction. The exhibition, including custom mountings
for the fragile beadwork, was produced at otc’s shops at North
Capitol Street.

The mpr Unit made life masks and then sculptured the heads of
the three crew members of Eagle Two, the first balloon to cross the
Atlantic Ocean. These portrait heads will be assembled on manne-
guins in a new National Air and Space Museum (Nasm) exhibit in
the near future. The mpr staff was also called upon to lovingly re-
surface the hide of the Mall’s resident triceratops, ‘Uncle Beasley.”
Every year, thousands of young visitors climb all over this life-sized
reinforced plastic triceratops model (which lounges near NMNH’s
Mall entrance), and their enthusiasm takes its toll, no matter how
thick “Uncle Beasley” ’s skin.

Plastic exhibition cases and beaver skulls were provided by oEc
for the Beaver Valley installation at the National Zoo, and several
biological specimens were freeze-dried and delivered to the Insect
Zoo and Discovery Room at NMNH during the year. Freeze-Drying
Biological Specimens was published in June and is now available.
This complete lab manual, the first on freeze-drying, is dedicated to
John Anglim, former director of the Office of Exhibit Programs. It
is the result of many years of dedicated work by its author, Rolland
O. Hower, and the orc staff.

The otc Motion Picture Unit won a Cine Golden Eagle award for

236 / Smithsonian Year 1979
a pilot film entitled Reunions. Reunions records the personal ex-
periences of the people who have special association with research
and/or the collections of the Institution. The film (16mm, color,
sound, 28 minutes) features General “Jimmy” Doolittle discussing
air-racing experiences for NASM and Gustav Tafel explaining and
reminiscing about the manufacture and use of homeopathic medi-
cine for the Division of Medical Sciences (NMHT). It is hoped that
other subjects can be similarly treated in the near future.

A coordinated signage system identifying the offices in the S.I.
“Castle” was designed in cooperation with the S.I. curator and
produced by otc. otc also created a comprehensive visual aid on
security devices, locks, fire-alarm systems, etc., for the Office of
Protection Services’ use in training lectures and for presentation
at professional meetings. In all, o—c received about 200 requests for
exhibition and related services in 1979. About two-thirds were com-
pleted during the year; the balance involved longer-range or con-
tinuing projects.

For more than a year, orc has worked in close cooperation with
the staff of the Associates Travel Program, editing and designing
its brochures for both domestic and foreign tours. In 1979 almost
every one of its brochures was produced through otc, with par-
ticular emphasis on developing a consistent style and format for
foreign tour announcements.

Working with sires, the staff of the Louisiana State Museum, and
consultants on the music of New Orleans, orc designed, edited,
produced, and supervised the installation of the major traveling
exhibition “Played with Immense Success: Louisiana Music.” The
oEc editor’s office wrote the exhibition script, based on a 640-page
manuscript on the history of Louisiana through its music from
1840 to 1940. The core of the exhibition consists of over 350 pieces
of original sheet music and several musical instruments and memo-
rabilia of the period, all of which required originality in graphic
designs and conservation techniques. The exhibition is being
shown in New Orleans and will begin a two-year U.S. tour in 1980.

Other comprehensive exhibitions produced for sites this year
include “Cut on Wood,” an nNMut exhibition designed as a senior
thesis by a student from Carnegie-Mellon University under orc
supervision; “Erté,” an exhibition of over 300 original fashion
drawings from the designer’s collection; and “The Year of the

Museum Programs / 237
Hopi,” created from private and museum collections of watercolors,
photographs, and kachina dolls. orc did substantial work on more
than twenty new sites exhibitions in 1979, and assisted in various
ways on ten other exhibitions. ““Crosscurrents,” created in coopera-
tion with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, was a major editorial under-
taking. occ also installed and removed the “Subways” exhibit in the
Metro Center subway station in Washington.

The exhibit editor’s office, as well as the production units, made
its annual contribution of time and effort to the Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife. The Office of Horticulture was also assisted by the
editors and other otc staff during the year, most notably in the
fabrication of the Victorian basket display that won honorable
mention at the D.C. Flower Show and is now installed in the
Victorian Garden behind the S.I. “Castle.” “Studies of Volcanoes,”
a limited-use exhibition, was designed and produced for the Na-
tional Associate Program’s Smithsonian Week lectures.

otc has been active in assisting and consulting organizations out-
side the Institution when internal schedules permitted. Notable
projects included editorial, design, and production assistance for the
Supreme Court on its first comprehensive historic exhibition, “John
Jay”; help with production and installation at the Capital Children’s
Museum on the exhibits opening in its new location; training for a
National Park Service staff member in the restoration of conven-
tional taxidermy; continued research into freeze-dry reclamation of
old pathology specimens for the Harvard Medical School; and
assistance in providing protective fixtures for the historic artifacts
displayed at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

orc staff directed six professional workshops for the Office of Mu-
seum Programs this year, participated as faculty in several others,
lectured for the National and Resident Associates programs and the
National Trust for Historic Preservation, and conducted design
seminars for Maryland University, Montgomery County Junior
College, Northern Virginia Community College, and George Wash-
ington University. Professional exchange of information with mu-
seums, educational institutions, and commercial organizations has
continued at a very active pace during the past year.

orc’s Motion Picture Unit added to its list of honors with John
Hiller receiving an Emmy for cinematography and editing of the
film The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, produced by

238 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The deciduous forest exhibit in NMNH’s Dynamics of Evolution Hall was “grown”
in the Office of Exhibits Central’s Models, Plastics, and Restoration Unit. In the
foreground, James Rueter puts the finishing touches on a sappling that will be
installed complete with cocoon. Behind him, Walter Hock mixes maché to complete
a tree trunk.
the Office of Telecommunications. The film also received the “Best
Independent Production” award of the National Academy of Tele-
vision Arts and Sciences. Karen Loveland, director of the Motion
Picture Unit, was invited to serve as a member of the Independent
Film Program Review Board of the American Film Institute in Los
Angeles. The board awarded forty grants on a competitive basis to
filmmakers throughout the United States. In addition to Reunions,
the Motion Picture Unit completed Thomas Edison and His
Amazing Invention Factories (16mm, color, sound, 28 minutes) for
sites, to be shown with a traveling exhibition commemorating the
one-hundredth anniversary of Edison’s incandescent lamp. A thirty-
second tv spot was also made to accompany the exhibition. Three
films on Edison, approximately three minutes each, were produced
for use in the upcoming NMutT exhibit on the great American in-
ventor.

The recovery from the bottom of Lake Superior of the wood-
burning steam engine from the freighter Indiana was recorded on
film by John Hiller for archival use and as a possible documentary
film. A film treatment and proposal for Ghosts of Forever, written
for the Smithsonian by Ray Bradbury, was prepared for the Office
of Telecommunications, and a thirty-second Tv spot was completed
for NMHT’s Hall of American Maritime Enterprise. Scheduled for
completion before the end of 1979 is the ten-minute film Changes:
The Story of Evolution and Speciation, coproduced by Film Polski
of Warsaw, Poland, and directed by Karen Loveland for the Office
of Education and Information at nzp. Now in the planning stages
are a short film about coral reefs for NMNH and two films on Egypt
to supplement a major exhibition on Mamluk art, in cooperation
with the Freer Gallery of Art, stres, and NMNH.

One final achievement of significance for 1979 deserves attention:
the opening of nmnu’s “The Dynamics of Evolution.” This exhibit
represented the fruition of many man-years of otc effort, in co-
operation with nmnu’s exhibition staff. At present, oEC is producing
components for the new Paleontology Hall at NMNuH and has sched-
uled deadlines for sires exhibitions into the spring of 1980. As
the Institution’s only central exhibits office, not part of a single
museum, Okc is aware of the importance of its role in providing
assistance—often on short notice—to other S.I. bureaus in need of
exhibit-related expertise. Several other projects, now in the planning

240 / Smithsonian Year 1979
stages, indicate that the new decade will provide continuing chal-
lenges and varied activity for Okc.

Office of Horticulture

During the past year, the Office of Horticulture continued to expand
its programs of educational, research, and exhibition activities in-
volving all of the museums of the Smithsonian and the develop-
ment of the grounds as a horticultural showplace. With the sup-
port of outside committees and floral societies, the Office of Horti-
culture began major fundraising efforts for future exhibitions and
educational research.

Throughout the year, the office contributed to more than 200
special events, including the Folklife Festival, the National Portrait
Gallery’s Tenth Anniversary, the Women’s Committee Christmas
Ball, the Doubleday Lectures at the Natural Museum of History and
Technology, the Viennese Waltz for the National Associate Pro-
gram, the Musical Weekend for Friends of Music, and the Fourth
of July Celebration. Support provided for such events included
floral arrangements, potted palms, and other tropical plants that
helped create an ambience suitable for the setting and the occasion.

The second Office of Horticulture cooperative Christmas exhibi-
tion opened at the National Museum of History and Technology on
December 15, 1978. “Trees of Christmas” featured thirteen trees
representing various ethnic and cultural traditions. Their decora-
tions were researched and installed by numerous community spon-
sors, including representatives of the Lithuanian and Polish com-
munities. In less than three weeks, the exhibition was seen by over
250,000 people.

The Education Division accessioned 4,378 plants and _ pre-
pared permanent records for approximately 1,000 of these. Some
130 volumes on historic and contemporary horticultural subjects
were added to the library’s collection. Mr. Glen Parnell and Mrs.
Denise Knott, interns from Northern Virginia Community College
and Hood College, assisted the Education Division in these re-
search activities. The division coordinated the highly appreciated
and important service of the volunteers, who contributed approxi-

Museum Programs / 241
mately 2,000 hours of work to many horticultural activities, in-
cluding exhibitions and greenhouse productions.

A special grant enabled the office to acquire a major new collec-
tion of endangered species of orchids and display hybrids. The
collection is under the able supervision of Theodore Villapando,
orchid specialist. With this acquisition, the Institution’s collection
of endangered species of orchids has become one of the largest in
the world, with 12,000 plants representing 270 genera and 2,000
species, in addition to hundreds of showy hybrids. The collections
were further enriched by gifts from Mrs. Rudolph Pabst, and it
is anticipated that additional specimens will be acquired in Panama
during a collecting expedition undertaken by Mr. Paul E. Desautels
and Dr. Robert Reed and Mr. James Buckler.

An exchange program with other botanical gardens and arbore-
tums in the United States and abroad is being developed.

Complementary to the orchid collection, and with the advice of
Dr. Robert Reed, a collection of bromeliad and cycads is being
developed for research and breeding purposes.

In December 1978, the Office of Horticulture began negotiations
with the Society of American Florists (sar) and the American In-
stitute of Floral Designers (arrp) for a joint fundraising venture to
benefit an exhibition to be entitled “1876: Floricultural and Horti-
cultural Arts and Crafts.” This exhibition, to open in July 1980
in conjunction with the annual meetings of these two floral socie-
ties, will feature items from the Smithsonian Institution collections
(and other items yet to be gathered) relating to the famed Horti-
cultural Hall of the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. The
exhibit will feature flower arrangements; bridal and nosegay hold-
ers; Christmas decorations; illustrations of glasshouses, stove-
houses, and conservatories; bedding designs; books and prints of
the period; and antique garden furnishings. Through the joint
efforts of these societies, the Office of Horticulture established a
Victorian Ball Committee under the honorary chairmanship of
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson and the chairmanship of Mrs. George C.
McGhee. On June 15, 1979, this committee sponsored “The Vic-
torian Ball,” a gala dinner held in the Victorian Garden of the
Smithsonian “Castle.” The ball was a resounding success. It was
attended by more than 350 guests in period dress or black-tie, and
it raised $10,000 for the exhibition. All of the elaborate floral ar-

242 / Smithsonian Year 1979
rangements and decorations were provided through the generosity
of the Society of American Florists, the American Institute of Floral
Designers, and the floral industry of America. The Floral Committee
was under the chairmanship of Mrs. Phil Temple and Mr. Ralph
Null, both members of the organizations. Fifteen of the leading
floral designers of the United States donated their time for this
festive occasion.

In conjunction with the Victorian Ball, the Office of Horticulture
sponsored a “Victorian Horticultural Weekend” in cooperation with
the Resident Associates and the Victorian Society of America. A
series of lectures on Victorian horticulture was given in the Car-
michael Auditorium on Saturday, June 16, 1979, by authorities in
this unusual field of research. Speakers included Mr. James R.
Buckler (“The Horticultural Extravaganza of the Victorian Era”),
Mr. Ralph Null (“Fresh Floral Design of the Nineteenth Century”),
Ms. Madeline Schroeder (‘“Nineteenth-Century Window and Parlor
Gardening”), Mrs. Sunny O’Neil (“Dried Flowers and Pressed
Flowers of the Victorian Era’’”), and Mr. Paul E. Desautels (““Orchid
Mania of the Nineteenth Century”). On Sunday, June 17, Victorian
tours were given by Mr. Buckler and docents in “1876” period dress
for members of the Resident Associate Program. These tours high-
lighted the Victorian floral arrangements, bedding designs, plant-
ings of the Victorian Garden, and the interior floral arrangements
in the Arts and Industries and the Smithsonian “Castle” buildings.

The Society of American Florists Endowment generously donated
$25,000 for the forthcoming exhibition, and additional private funds
are expected to bring the total to $50,000 by early October 1979.
The overall fundraising goal for the project is $225,000 over the
next two years.

During the year, the office installed two major exhibits at the
Flower Show sponsored by the Professional Grounds Management
Society of Washington, D.C., and held at the D.C. Armory. The
featured entrance exhibit displayed a Victorian wicker flower basket
reproduced from a photograph appearing in Henderson’s Pictur-
esque Gardens and Ornamental Gardening Illustrated (c. 1908).
The Office of Exhibits Central, working with the Office of Horti-
culture, fabricated this twenty-two-foot-wide basket of nylon rop-
ing to simulate wicker, and, once in place, the basket was planted
with flowers typical of the period. This exhibit was later installed

Museum Programs / 243
in the Victorian Garden in May. The second exhibit featured more
than 100 orchids and bromeliads from Smithsonian collections and
simulated a Victorian grotto, complete with a fountain and rock
wall, which were created by the Office of Exhibits Central. The
flower-show design, installation, and maintenance were under the
direction of Mr. John W. Monday, assistant director of the office.

As part of the continued educational and research activities of
the office, Mr. Buckler presented lectures to the National Associates
Program as well as other organizations throughout the United
States. Lectures on “The Horticultural Extravaganza of the Vic-
torian Era” were given to the New York Horticultural Society, San
Diego Historical Society, Trowel Garden Club of Washington, D.C.,
Victorian Society of America at the Athenaeum in Philadelphia,
Fort Worth Garden Club, and the Mark Twain Memorial in Hart-
ford, Connecticut. Lectures on “Great Gardens of Italy, France, and
England” were given at the Atlanta Historical Society and the Den-
ver Botanic Gardens. In cooperation with the Selective Studies Pro-
gram of the National Associates, Mr. Buckler conducted a number
of seminars at the Smithsonian and elsewhere. Seminar topics in-
cluded “Practical Horticulture: Eighteenth to Twentieth Centuries,”
“Planning Your Garden,” and “Horticulture for Museums, Historic
Houses, and Sites,” this last being conducted for museum profes-
sionals as part of the training workshop series offered by the Office
of Museum Programs. Staff members assisting in this seminar were
Ms. Lauranne C. Nash and Mr. August A. Dietz.

At the Greenhouse-Nursery Complex at the United States Sol-
diers’ and Airmen’s Home, renovation of the greenhouses con-
tinued in order to maximize production and accommodate the
specialized collection of orchids, bromeliads, cycads, and other
horticultural specimens. During the year, the Greenhouse-Nursery
Complex, under the direction of Mr. August A. Dietz IV, was
responsible for the propagation and production of over 120,000
annual bedding plants; 10,000 cut flowers; 4,000 seasonal plants,
such as poinsettias, chrysanthemums, and Easter lilies; and main-
tenance of several thousand tropical plants for use in special events
and exhibitions.

The Grounds Management Division, under the direction of Mr.
Kenneth Hawkins, continued to renovate various areas surround-
ing the Smithsonian’s many museums. Special projects included

244 / Smithsonian Year 1979
installation of the Wicker Flower Basket and new rose beds in the
Victorian Garden, the Hirshhorn Garden renovation, and installa-
tion of over 140,000 spring bulbs, 120,000 annuals, and 2,000 fall
chrysanthemums, as well as many trees and shrubs. The Grounds
Management Division benefited from the services of four full-time
ceTA employees who assisted in the general maintenance and up-
keep of the grounds in July and August.

In June, the Office of Plant Services assisted the Office of Horti-
culture in the installation of a magnificent cast-iron fountain (1849)
in the Victorian Garden. The three-tiered fountain, cast by J. W.
Fiske & Company of New York, was purchased in 1977 from the
Ellerslie Farm Estate. Other antique garden furnishings acquired
during the year included two cast-iron fountain basins (c. 1870-90),
one of which was donated by Dr. Lida Woodbury; a Wardian case
(c. 1900) donated by Mrs. Paul H. MacMahon; three garden settees
of the Renaissance Revival style (1875) by Peter Timmes Son,
Brooklyn, New York; three grape-leaf style settees (c. 1870); and
two armchairs of the Renaissance Revival style (c. 1875) by Fred
Gensil and Company of Philadelphia. During the year, the office
continued its research on the evolution and design of garden
furnishings.

Detailed planning for several new landscape projects continued
throughout the year. Designs for the Garden for the Handicapped
and the East Garden at the east entrance to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Building were completed by Hugh Newell Jacobsen, Fara, with
construction of these two gardens anticipated early in 1980.
In the spring, the office assisted the Museum of African Art with
its landscaping concerns during its transition period prior to be-
coming a part of the Smithsonian. In addition, plans were formu-
lated with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for development of a major
exhibition for 1981 entitled “Horticulture and Its Relationship to
the Decorative Arts.”

Office of International Activities

The Office of International Activities fosters and coordinates in-
ternational aspects of Smithsonian research and cultural exchange

Museum Programs / 245
programs. The office serves the Institution’s interests abroad
through continuing liaison with the government of the United
States, the governments of foreign nations, private institutions, and
international organizations.

A particular responsibility of the office is the development of
opportunities for scholarly cooperation between the Smithsonian
and foreign institutions wherever needed. The People’s Republic of
China (prc), Cuba, and the Soviet Union are cases in point. During
1979, the office sought exchanges with Chinese museums and re-
search institutions. As a result, the Smithsonian has been invited by
the Scientific and Technical Association of the prc to send a delega-
tion to China in November 1979. The delegation will prepare for
research cooperation in biology (particularly field research on the
giant panda) and archaeology, as well as for museum professional
exchanges. A Chinese delegation will subsequently visit the Smith-
sonian. A delegation from the Cuban Academy of Sciences was re-
ceived at the Smithsonian in 1979. Arrangements are under way for
a Smithsonian group from the National Zoological Park and the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History to make research visits to Cuba.
Meetings were held with officials of the Soviet Union’s Ministry of
Culture to propose a number of areas of museum cooperation.

The office obtained the support of the International Visitors
Program of the United States International Communications
Agency (1cA) for the participation of some twenty foreign museum
educators from eighteen countries in a symposium, “Children in
Museums,” planned by the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Pro-
grams. The symposium is one of the Smithsonian’s contributions to
the International Year of the Child. The 1ca contribution provides
that foreign participants receiving 1ca support will also take part
in a twelve-city itinerant seminar on education in museums and
science centers, planned by the Smithsonian’s Office of Museum
Programs.

Logistic support for Smithsonian scholars abroad was provided
through correspondence with United States diplomatic missions
and with foreign governments and their embassies in Washington.
The office also continued the processing of passport and visa appli-
cations for the duty travel of Smithsonian staff and Smithsonian-
sponsored scholars.

The office arranged for foreign officials and scholars to come to

246 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the Smithsonian as short-term visitors, as students and exchange
visitors, and as permanent staff members. The office received some
twenty-five delegations and seventy individual visitors during the
year, including more than thirty high government officials and
many professionals in museum and allied fields. Thirty-one ex-
change visitors and foreign students conducted research and related
activities under Smithsonian programs in 1979.

Office of Museum Programs

The Office of Museum Programs, a department of the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, organizes and conducts
a group of distinct but interrelated activities for the professional
enhancement of museum personnel and institutions throughout the
United States and abroad, as well as research into methods that will
improve the effectiveness of museum operations.

The office conducts museum training workshops; arranges for in-
ternships and for foreign professional training; produces and distrib-
utes audio-visual presentations on conservation theory and prac-
tice; undertakes psychological studies to evaluate museum exhibits
and educational programs; provides training and consulting services
for Native American museums; maintains the Museum Reference
Center, consisting of books, periodicals, research papers, and
documents on museums and their operations; and offers counseling
services on museum careers, training, and museum practices. Group-
ing these functions into one entity facilitates the efforts of the
Institution to respond effectively and directly to the many requests
received from museums for assistance and guidance in improving
their own operational methods, practices, and techniques.

WORKSHOPS AND INTERNSHIPS

The Workshop Series sponsored by the Office of Museum Programs
provides training opportunities for museum professionals from the
United States and abroad through three- to five-day workshops at
the Smithsonian Institution. The staff regularly surveys the needs
of the broad museum community in such areas as traveling exhibi-
tions, museum methods and practices, exhibit preparation, educa-
tional programming, registration methods, museum-shop manage-

Museum Programs / 247
ment and maintenance, evaluation, membership development,
budgeting and accounting, and interpretation. All workshops have
been filled to capacity, and most have been oversubscribed. The
faculty is drawn largely from S.I. staff, occasionally with outside
experts.

During 1979, enrollment for the thirty workshops averaged
eighteen per program. A total of 587 professionals participated dur-
ing the year, representing all types and disciplines of museums and
a broad geographic distribution, including most states in the con-
tinental United States as well as Alaska and Hawaii. Professionals
also attended from Australia, Canada, France, Iran, Israel, Nica-
ragua, and Turkey.

In addition, the Office of Museum Programs offered a series of
specialized workshops for Smithsonian staff members on museum
lighting, label writing and editing, information management and
automation, and conservation and loan agreements.

Recognizing the increasing demand for museum midcareer train-
ing in all areas of the United States, the Office of Museum Programs
cosponsored two programs with the Southern Arts Federation that
drew forty-four professionals representing member museums of the
federation. In early February, Smithsonian staff members con-
ducted a program on registration methods at the McClung Museum
in Knoxville, Tennessee; later that month, a second team of Smith-
sonian administrators traveled to Atlanta, Georgia, to lead a pro-
gram on museum management. These programs were funded by
the Southern Arts Federation and were well received. The success
of these cooperative efforts has led to plans for future expansion.

The Internship Program has offered opportunities for specialized
and individualized learning experiences to more than 400 individ-
uals over the last five years. Interns come to the Smithsonian from
undergraduate and graduate programs, other museums, and as
representatives of foreign museums and governments.

During 1979 the Office of Museum Programs placed thirty-two
interns throughout the Smithsonian. Participants in the program
represented the United States, Australia, France, Singapore, India,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Turkey, and New Zealand. Internships, which do
not carry course credit (unless a university arranges it with the in-
tern) or provide financial support, range from two months to two
years, with the average program lasting about six months. As with

248 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the workshops, the focus of the internships is on museum prac-
tices. Interns assist with educational programming, exhibit or col-
lections research, cataloguing, or design and production activities.
Long-term interns, especially those from foreign countries, often
elect to travel as part of their program. In these cases, itineraries
are prepared by the Office of Museum Programs.

An increase is anticipated in the number of internships and
foreign professionals enrolled in Smithsonian activities, with an
emphasis on cooperative programming with colleges and universi-
ties and cosponsorship with foreign governments and funding
agencies such as the Ford Foundation, the Council for Interna-
tional Exchange of Scholars, the Fulbright Scholarship Committee,
and the International Communications Agency.

The Visiting Professionals Program has earned separate recogni-
tion with the increased number of representatives who visit the
Smithsonian for short-term training. Through this program, mu-
seum professionals can gain access to collections and Smithsonian
staff for specialized work and consultations.

The Visiting Professionals Program is designed to serve people
who plan to be at the Institution for periods of less than one month
and who are interested in a combination of meetings, demonstra-
tions, workshop activities, and research opportunities. The Office of
Museum Programs also schedules trips to other museums in cities
throughout the United States and abroad as part of this program.
During 1979, twenty-seven individuals were served through the
Visiting Professionals Program. The participants represented mu-
seums in the United States, France, New Zealand, Singapore, Nica-
ragua, Guatemala, Netherlands, Ivory Coast, Hong Kong, Chile,
Romania, Jamaica, Brazil, Germany, Great Britain, Republic of
South Africa, India, and Pakistan.

NATIVE AMERICAN MUSEUM TRAINING PROGRAM

The Native American Training Program of the Office of Museum
Programs has continued toward its primary goal of offering training
and providing technical assistance and consultation to Native
Americans who have established or who are interested in creating
tribal museums. The activities of the department focus on provid-
ing assistance to Indian, Eskimo, and Aleut groups and individuals
who want to learn methods of caring for and exhibiting their

Museum Programs / 249
ethnographic and aesthetic collections. The training consists of
field workshops, seminars, and internships at the Smithsonian,
and of cooperative agreements between established professional
institutions and Native American museums. The department works
in close cooperation with the Department of Anthropology in the
National Museum of Natural History.

The week-long training seminar, ‘Native American Museum Di-
rectors’ Workshop,” conducted at the Smithsonian Institution from
October 30 to November 3, 1978, served several important func-
tions. It enhanced the Institution’s image as a leader in the Native
Americans’ guest to find solutions to the problems confronting
them; it provided a unique opportunity for the participants to learn
of federal, state, and private resources available to them; and it
enabled participants to examine firsthand the significant role of the
Institution in the ongoing preservation and study of Native Ameri-
can cultures.

At the same time, the participants made the seminar faculty
aware of their special needs and goals, the result being a sense of
cooperation and mutual assistance. The sharing of ideas among
the directors led to the establishment of the American Indian Mu-
seum Association (aAimA) in May 1979 at Denver, Colorado. The
association now represents a hundred or more groups in the United
States, Canada, and Greenland. The Smithsonian Institution’s Na-
tive American training coordinator, Office of Museum Programs,
serves as secretary for AIMA.

One function of ama is to acquaint the museum profession with
the concerns and needs of the Native American museums and to
introduce the organization to the American Association of Museums
(AAM). This was accomplished through two programs, ‘Native
American Museums: An Overview” and “Too Many Chiefs and
Not Enough Indians,” at the aaAm annual meeting in Cleveland,
Ohio, in June 1979. The Smithsonian’s coordinator served as
panelist for the sessions.

The department has accepted representatives from four institu-
tions for placement in the Native American internship program.
Three participants from the Cherokee National Museum in Chero-
kee, North Carolina, studied exhibit design and philosophy in order
to implement a half-million-dollar renovation of exhibits at their
institution.

250 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Eleanor Crow, an audio-visual specialist, is seen here in the TV studio of the Office

of Museum Programs. Below. An overview of the activity areas in “Reflections: The
Child in America,” one of sites’ exhibitions celebrating the International Year of

the Child.

Bacone College in Muskogee, Oklahoma, one of the oldest In-
dian schools in America, sent its museum director to the Smith-
sonian for study in museum administration. The college’s centenary
observance will take place in 1980, and the school administration
plans to make its museum, with its superb collection, the focal point
for public contact. Two tribal groups, the Crows of Montana and
the Zunis of New Mexico, sent interns who studied museum admin-
istration and the technical requirements for museum structures.
Both tribes plan to build facilities next year. It is hoped that new
funding will become available to continue the internship program,
allowing participation by larger numbers of qualified persons.

A grant proposal has been submitted to the Division of Indian
and Native American Programs of the Department of Labor, to
support training activities through 1980 by means of various in-
ternships, workshops, and consultation services.

Of significant importance to the department this year has been
the impact of the Native American Religious Freedom Act. Ongoing
discussions have been held with the Denver Art Museum and the
Smithsonian Institution’s Department of Anthropology regarding
the implications of the act.

The loan program of collection materials to tribal museums,
initiated in 1978, has been demonstrated to be a useful component
of the program’s services. During 1979 the final disposition of arti-
facts for loan to the Oglala Sioux Parks Board in Pine Ridge, South
Dakota, was completed.

AUDIO-VISUAL LOAN PROGRAM

The Audio-visual Loan Program, which includes the Conservation
Information Program, produces and distributes slide-cassette and
videotape presentations as a service to museums throughout the
United States and Canada. The current mailing list contains 2,000
entries, coded by borrower, purchaser, and institution type. Of
these, about 600 entries represent the borrowers to date.

The goal of most of the presentations is to provide fundamental,
practical information on the care of museum collections. Some
presentations are designed to illustrate techniques used in museums,
and others are intended to enhance awareness of basic principles of
conservation. There are now thirteen slide and eighty-eight video-
tape titles in multiple copies available for circulation.

252 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Besides conservation information, programming has grown to
include information on other aspects of museum operations, such
as educational services and exhibitions. The past year has seen
growth in the programming base and in services to other Smith-
sonian divisions. Services to other divisions include: a one-
camera videotape documentation of four concerts by the Division
of Performing Arts; video support and documentation in two proj-
ects for the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars; a video-
tape documentary produced in collaboration with the Office of
Telecommunications and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum; and a video-
tape production of docents at work in the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, produced in cooperation with the Office of Education.

The staff reached a milestone in 1979 by completing its first four
major videotape productions in color: “The Museum Bracket-
maker,” “Docents on Tour,” “Children in Museums,” and one
other videotape for the Division of Performing Arts.

The distribution of these presentations and materials has been
in operation since 1974. Since that time, a total of 1,564 slide and
1,107 videotape presentations have been sent on loan, 230 slide and
304 videotape packages in 1979 alone. In addition, 925 orders of
printed materials were mailed since January 1978.

Since the loan program is limited to the United States and
Canada, a sales program was initiated in 1976 in response to the
demand from other countries. To date, 47 institutions from the
United States, Canada, Australia, Sweden, Great Britain, Italy,
Hong Kong, Venezuela, Switzerland, New Zealand, Brazil, Guate-
mala, and West Germany have purchased a total of 135 slide and
778 videotape presentations. Of these, 28 slide and 77 videotape
packages were sold in 1979.

OFFICE OF PSYCHOLOGICAL STUDIES

During 1979, the Office of Psychological Studies of the Office of
Museum Programs sought to demonstrate the usefulness of evalua-
tion across the entire Smithsonian Institution. The primary activity
of the office, therefore, was to complete studies at various bureaus
as a means of illustrating the role that evaluation can play in: un-
derstanding the bureau’s impact on the public; enriching program
development; and facilitating exhibit planning and design. It was
also important to demonstrate that evaluation need not be viewed

Museum Programs / 253
as negative or threatening to the professional staffs of the museums.
In addition to this function, the Office of Psychological Studies gave
short-term evaluations, substantive and methodological presenta-
tions, reviews and critiques of ongoing evaluation projects, and
began to train Smithsonian museum personnel in the methods of
conducting their own evaluation studies.

The office has been extremely successful this past year in ful-
filling its goals and objectives. Evaluation studies have been com-
pleted at the National Museum of Natural History, the National
Zoological Park, the National Museum of History and Technology,
and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

Other evaluation projects have been successfully completed.
One included the development of a comprehensive questionnaire
for the purpose of evaluating the Smithsonian Institution Travel-
ing Exhibition Service. The other involved an evaluation of the
New Coral Reef Exhibit at the National Museum of Natural
History as the exhibit was being designed and developed. These
tasks were complemented by a variety of consultative activities
with the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education and the
Office of Equal Opportunity, the latter concerning an evaluation
of the Smithsonian’s accessibility to the handicapped. Presentations
on evaluation have been made to education coordinators, to keepers
and guides at the National Zoo, and to docents at the National
Portrait Gallery and the Discovery Corner of the National Museum
of History and Technology.

MUSEUM REFERENCE CENTER

The Museum Reference Center (mrc) is both a library and a re-
source center, with collections of bibliographic and documentary
materials on the history, philosophy, and operation of museums,
as well as on legislation, conventions, and other developments
affecting museums. A unit of the Smithsonian Institution libraries,
the center was established in 1974 and is located in the Office of
Museum Programs, as this office draws most heavily on the center’s
resources and serves as a conduit through which its resources can
be channeled.

The center is the only repository of museum information as-
sembled and collected on a systematic basis for use by the museum

254 / Smithsonian Year 1979
profession. Its holdings are rich in such fields as museum organi-
zation, administration, and management; museum programs, activi-
ties, and exhibitions; architecture; exhibit design; the management
of collections; training activities; and conservation, registration,
and related technologies.

The center provides a variety of services for museum profes-
sionals and students doing research on museums. These services
include literature searches; preparation of bibliographies; responses
to requests for information on current activities, issues, and training
opportunities; and assembly of materials for use in workshops and
training programs. One of the most-used services of the center is
the free distribution of reports and papers generated in the Office of
Museum Programs and by the National Museum Act grants.

When the Center for Museum Education at George Washington
University recently lost its funding, it voted to give its collection of
materials to the Museum Reference Center. As a result, twenty-
seven cartons of documents are now being integrated with the cen-
ter’s own collection, greatly enhancing its value to researchers. In
addition, a mailing to the center’s membership encouraged future
gifts of materials to be sent to the Museum Reference Center.

This collection is organized by a classification scheme created by
the International Council of Museums (1com). As the result of a
long-term project this year, the center’s file and the 1com scheme
were reviewed for relevance and currency, with alterations made
wherever necessary. This resulted in a classification scheme that
more closely reflects mMrc’s unique collection while allowing for
expansion.

Major bibliographical projects were completed. One covered the
updating and creation of forty subject bibliographies that are
available for distribution in response to specific requests. The other
project resulted in an extensive bibliography for distribution at the
international symposium “Children in Museums,” to be held in
Washington in October 1979.

Other projects completed during the year include the docu-
menting of all journal holdings, arranging of annual reports on the
open shelves, updating the geographic and subject files, and
documenting and arranging the final reports of the National Mu-
seum Act grants. All of these activities have served to make the
collections of the Museum Reference Center more accessible to

Museum Programs / 255
researchers and to meet the increasing demands for information by
the museum profession.

The Smithsonian Institution staff has full access to the services
of the Museum Reference Center, in addition to new acquisitions
lists and the circulation of publications.

OTHER ACTIVITIES

Career counseling for over 100 people per year interested in the
museum field is a subsidiary activity of the Office of Museum Pro-
grams, along with organization of national conferences. Resource
materials are compiled, and staff members serve as consultants for
other museum-studies programs. The staff members of the Office of
Museum Programs also serve as advisors to other offices and de-
partments of the Smithsonian Institution, such as the Office of
Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars, “sI-ALI-ABA Law Conference,”
and “Programs for the Handicapped.” Over 125 consultations were
provided on museum practices and organization during 1979, in-
cluding those for the following countries: New Guinea, Afghani-
stan, Norway, Japan, Belgium, Brazil, Kenya, the People’s Republic
of China, the USSR, Mexico, France, Switzerland, Canada, Korea,
Taiwan, Egypt, Turkey, Argentina, India, Pakistan, and Syria.

Plans for the Smithsonian’s conversion to the metric system are
under way, and the Office of Museum Programs held task-force
meetings and compiled statistics for recommendations as to pro-
cedures. Plans are being coordinated with the Federal Metric
Operating Committee.

The staff members of the Office of Museum Programs annually
serve as speakers at regional and national museum conferences and
are actively engaged in international museum activities.

The Office of Museum Programs is conducting a major interna-
tional symposium, “Children in Museums,” in celebration of the
International Year of the Child. World-renowned educators and
museum professionals will attend as speakers and participants.
The symposium, to be held October 28-31, 1979, is the first of its
kind to deal with such issues as curiosity, learning to see, partici-
patory experiences, intercultural relationships, perception, and use
of museums in the future. A student panel will present its findings,
and the proceedings will be published.

256 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Office of the Registrar

The office’s responsibility for the coordination of management
matters pertaining to Smithsonian collections, has now been firmly
established. Though a key role was envisioned for it when the office
was reconstituted in 1976, full implementation was not immediately
possible. Since then, several developments have helped strengthen
both the acceptance and the performance capability of the office
as a coordinating unit.

One of these was the establishment of the Institution’s collections
policy and management study as a continuing effort under the
auspices of the office. Another was assignment to the Smithsonian
Registrar of overall responsibility for coordinating collection in-
ventories on an Institution-wide basis.

Meanwhile, the growing involvement of all museum registrars
with policies, ethical considerations, legal requirements, innovative
documentation techniques, and other aspects of collections manage-
ment has drawn the office even further into such matters as a re-
sult of its relationship to the Council of Registrars. Since the
Smithsonian Registrar serves permanently as chair for the Council
and for the Collections Policy and Management Committee, the
office is in a distinctly advantageous position to perform its co-
ordinating function.

This greater participation by museum registrars in matters per-
taining to collections management was confirmed during a project
that the Council of Registrars began in 1978 and completed in
1979. The result of this effort, intended as a proposed classifica-
tion standard for positions in the offices of museum registrars, has
been forwarded through channels for possible adoption by the U.S.
Office of Personnel Management. The document consists of two
principal parts: first, an exposition of the work performed by mu-
seum registrars; second, a grade-evaluation guide fashioned after
the schema of the new Factor Evaluation System recently estab-
lished for the federal civil service. Though intended originally as
an introduction to the grade-evaluation guide, the first part can be
used as a definitive description of this occupational specialty. The
Registrars’ Committee of the American Association of Museums
recently requested permission to reproduce 200 copies of the guide
for distribution to its members.

Museum Programs / 257
One pressing need of collections management is the development
of more effective techniques, especially computer related, for han-
dling information about museum objects and specimens. Though by
no means the exclusive domain of the museum registrar, efficient
information management is particularly important to registrars be-
cause much of their work depends on it. When reorganized in 1976,
the Office of the Registrar was charged with promoting better and
more compatible procedures for storing, managing, and retrieving
collection data both inside and outside the Smithsonian. To supple-
ment its regular efforts in this direction, the office devised a tutorial
package that was first presented to an outside audience and then to
a Smithsonian audience in 1978 through the Workshop Series of
the Office of Museum Programs. Oriented toward users rather than
computer specialists, this workshop on information management
and automation is now offered once each year to professionals from
museums throughout the country and several times each year to
Smithsonian staff.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

In 1979 the archives published a Guide to Manuscript Collections
in the National Museum of History and Technology. The Guide
comprises 143 pages and includes 257 entries. Work continued
on the records of the National Museum of Natural History, the
National Museum of History and Technology, the National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den. Records surveys were conducted in the Office of Supply Serv-
ices and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, and the
archives began preparation of retention and disposition schedules
for the National Portrait Gallery.

Major accessions were received from the Office of the Secretary,
the Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs, the Assistant Secre-
tary for Science, the Office of the General Counsel, the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory, the Department of Invertebrate Zoology, the Contracts
Office, the Accounting Division, and the Office of Fellowships and
Grants. Other accessions of note included the papers of Ellsworth

258 / Smithsonian Year 1979
P. Killip, Harry H. Knight, William M. Mann, Watson M. Perrygo,
and Henry B. Roberts, as well as additions to the papers of Charles
G. Abbot and Alexander Wetmore.

The Archives Oral History Program continued, with emphasis
on the National Museum of Natural History and Smithsonian ad-
ministrative history. Accessions included a series of interviews with
James Bradley, retired under-secretary. Material prepared for re-
search use during the year included interviews with Frank A.
Taylor, former director general of museums, Fenner A. Chace, Jr.,
of the National Museum of Natural History, and Lucile Q. Mann,
wife of former National Zoological Park Director William M. Mann.

Scholars continued to visit the archives during the past year.
Several recent publications have appeared, based at least in part on
material in the archives. Among them are: Hamilton Cravens, The
Triumph of Evolution: American Scientists and the Heredity-En-
vironment Controversy, 1900-1941 (Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press, 1978); Douglas V. Hoyt, “An Explosive Vol-
canic Eruption in the Southern Hemisphere in 1928,” Nature 275
(1978) :630-632; Louise Daniel Hutchinson, Out of Africa: From
West African Kingdoms to Colonization (Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979); Michael Laurent Prendergast,
‘James Dwight Dana: The Life and Thought of an American
Scientist,” doctoral dissertation, University of California at Los
Angeles, 1978; and Deborah Jean Warner, Graceanna Lewis, Sci-
entist and Humanitarian (Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1979).

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

The year 1979 culminated with the Smithsonian Institution Li-
braries’ most significant event—the arrival of Dr. Robert Maloy as
its new director. Also of great moment to the libraries unit was the
impetus given to rare book activities by the assignment of Silvio
Bedini, former deputy director of the National Museum of History
and Technology, as keeper of rare books. Two other appointments
during the year improved the libraries’ capabilities in very important
areas. Ellen Wells became rare book librarian and Stephen Toney
became the libraries’ first systems librarian.

Museum Programs / 259.
In 1979, several major gifts and many excellent smaller ones
enhanced the libraries’ research potential. The late Alexander Wet-
more, the Smithsonian’s sixth Secretary, left his important natural
history library and its many rare treasures to the libraries, almost
all of it unrepresented in the present book collections. Daniel
Boorstin, the librarian of Congress and formerly director of the
National Museum of History and Technology, added to his earlier
gift of the American Civilization Collection. The American Society
of Interior Designers followed the gift of its library to the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum Library with funds to process it, a most appreciated
donation. The Color Association of the United States gave the
archives and records of its sixty years’ activity in color planning
in fashion and home-furnishing industries. The Merrill Trust pro-
vided funds to index the eighty cartons of this material. After it
redefined its objectives and structure, the Center for Museum Edu-
cation, formerly located at George Washington University, gave
twenty-seven cartons of pertinent pamphlets and articles and
donated staff time to assist with initial organization of these ma-
terials. These documents add an appropriate dimension and re-
source to the growing Museum Reference Center. Time-Life, Inc.,
in appreciation for reference services given in the bureau libraries
of the National Museum of Natural History, National Museum
of History and Technology, and the National Zoological Park, gave
$2,000 to the Smithsonian Institution for the use of these libraries.
A further gift of $500 to the National Air and Space Museum was
turned over to that library.

A grant from the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation will
permit the libraries to publish a union list of art periodicals in the
Washington metropolitan area.

The vitality of the rare book program was restored when the
positions of rare book librarian and rare book cataloguer were filled
by experienced staff, Ellen Wells and Dianne Chilmonczyk, respec-
tively. Mary Rosenfeld was promoted to the position of Dibner
librarian.

For the first time, funds were budgeted for the purchase of rare
books. Although modest, the funds made it possible to take ad-
vantage of various opportunities on the rare book market to fill
lacunae in the Dibner collection and enhance the substantial collec-
tion of rare natural history books. A special purchase also bought

260 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the twelve parts of M. E. Bloch’s Allgemeine Naturgeschichte
Der Fische (1782-95). This is a significant addition, not only because
of its rarity but because of its importance as a resource for ich-
thyologists.

A short title catalogue of chiefly pre-1800 books in the Dibner
Library was produced in machine-readable form, and a handbound
copy was presented to Dr. Dibner. A checklist of the balance of the
Dibner gift and of transfers from the National Museum of History
and Technology Library to the rare book room is in preparation.
Increased staff coverage in the Dibner Library has meant increased
service and more users. For the program as a whole, new procedures
are being drafted to assure that the growth, use, and care of the
rare book collections are all properly served. The rare book librarian
has identified and established relations with rare book enthusiasts
within the Institution and has studied its several rare book areas,
as well as comparable libraries elsewhere. These steps have rein-
forced the significance of the rare book collections and have en-
couraged the growth of a larger reading audience.

In the conservation training area, the conservator has held work-
shops for the library staff on disaster preparedness, a workshop in
the Cooper-Hewitt Museum Library on making boxes to protect
rare books, and a workshop for conservation and rare book binders
in the Washington-Baltimore area.

The conservator has been consulted and actively involved in the
preparation of exhibits, such as the Einstein exhibit, for which he
treated approximately fifty items by paper restoration, deacidifica-
tion, and encapsulation, and related conservation procedures.

Some progress has been made in improved organization of large
and dispersed library collections and initial organization of large
gifts before full cataloguing. Computer listings have provided al-
most immediately an inventory record and a means of user access
to the Wetmore gift. A large technical report collection at the
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies has been listed
and organized for retrieval by this same computerized alternative
to full cataloguing. The same system is being used for access to the
reports of grants awarded by the National Museum Act in the
Museum Reference Center.

A number of special projects to improve organization and use of
the libraries have been completed. The Entomology Branch Library

Museum Programs / 261
has been recatalogued to the Library of Congress system, and re-
cataloguing gains have been made in several other libraries. A
significant segment of the Special Projects Unit has been occupied
with cataloguing the large gift collection at the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum. The union list of journals currently received in all Smithso-
nian Institution libraries has been expanded to include all journals
—old, noncurrent, and dead—and is available in printout or micro-
fiche format in those Smithsonian Institution libraries where it is
needed.

Not only has the libraries unit addressed internal needs for
organization and cataloguing, but it has begun to face the national
problem of a substantial change in international cataloguing rules,
which if ignored will drastically affect the consistency and utility
of its card catalogues. A major study has been completed that
reviews the options in dealing with these new developments in
cataloguing, in particular, the new Anglo-American Cataloguing
Rules (Aacrit) and the Library of Congress’s decision to adopt these
rules and to close its card catalogue on January 1, 1981. The Smith-
sonian Institution libraries unit outlined in its study the options for
the future of its catalogues and the cost factors for each option.

The appointment of Stephen Toney as systems librarian has
facilitated these studies and given impetus and expertise to many
aspects of the libraries’ automation programs. A thorough systems
analysis of all library procedures has started as a-first step in
developing a totally integrated system, and an organizational study
of the Catalogue Department has been completed.

The acquisition function was improved by collaboration with the
Smithsonian Institution Press to produce a machine-readable mail-
ing list of all recipients of Smithsonian Institution publications and
those that are the libraries’ exchange partners. Claim letters on
overdue orders for books and journals are now produced automat-
ically.

Automated procedures have greatly contributed to the efficiency
and timeliness of cataloguing and acquisitions procedures. The addi-
tion of a terminal in the general reference area now allows access
to bibliographic information in the ever-growing Ohio College
Library Center (octc) data base, thus saving hours of manual
searching for correct citations or for identifying libraries holding
specific titles that can be secured through interlibrary loans. On-
line transactions for interlibrary loans have also been initiated. The

262 / Smithsonian Year 1979
program of on-line access to major indexing and abstracting serv-
ices and consequent preparation of individually tailored bibliog-
raphies continues to attract users. A terminal has been placed in
the National Zoological Park Library in response to the demand for
this service.

The National Air and Space Museum motion picture collection
has been catalogued in machine-readable form. Computer indexing
of aerospace periodical literature was converted to storage on data
cassette, enabling faster and cheaper access to the central Smithso-
nian Institution terminal.

The libraries continue to extend outreach programs. Both the
National Zoological Park and the Museum Reference Center librar-
ians have initiated programs to establish relations with librarians
(or quite frequently, nonlibrarians) in charge of zoo or museum
libraries, with the objective of sharing problems and offering help
from their wider experience. Both are pursuing this approach
through their major professional associations, the American Asso-
ciation of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, and the American Asso-
ciation of Museums. As a further effort in this direction, the
National Zoological Park librarian has compiled a union list of
periodicals held by all zoo and aquarium libraries.

The Museum Reference Center, with a clientele chiefly in the
museum world, has been honored in a contest by the Library Public
Relations Council for the design of its brochure proclaiming its
existence and explaining its services. The Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute Library’s effort to reach interested potential users
in the Republic of Panama resulted in its use by 1,100 students dur-
ing the year.

Although space continued to be a problem in almost every area
of library activity, plans were prepared and in one case a small step
taken to relieve pressures. During the year, the proposed transfer
of some library units and the rare book room to a new South
Quadrangle building was thoroughly studied and preliminary plans
were drawn up. More immediate is the anticipated decking of some
of the library in the Natural History Building; and at the Smithson-
ian Tropical Research Institute, the library will expand into newly
created space.

Library staff was also at work with architects on a new library
unit in the Museum Support Center. This library will be formed
by a combination of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center

Museum Programs / 263
and Conservation Analytical Laboratory libraries and will eventually
serve all operations at the Museum Support Center. Reassignment
and consolidation of units and offices in the Natural History Build-
ing during 1979 made better use of existing space.

In the past year, various components of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries entertained many visitors. A delegation of Cuban
scientists visited the National Zoological Park Library. The Con-
servation Laboratory welcomed a number of distinguished conserva-
tionists, and the director of the Musée de |’Air from Paris, France,
visited the National Air and Space Museum Library.

The National Air and Space Museum Library has produced a
guidebook to its collections, and a guide to the Chesapeake Bay
Center for Environmental Studies Library has also been completed.
The Museum Reference Center’s brochure describing its resources
and services continues to be distributed. The Natural History
Bureau librarian, Mrs. Sylvia Churgin, and the Botany librarian,
Mrs. Ruth Schallert, gave a paper on the history of the National
Museum of Natural History Library at the annual meeting of the
Society for the Bibliography of Natural History in London, in April.

In October, a symposium, “Science and the Arts in the Renais-
sance,” was held jointly by the Folger Shakespeare Library and
the National Museum of History and Technology, with some of the
activities taking place in the Dibner Library. An exhibition of books
from both libraries was prepared by the Dibner librarian.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

The International Year of the Child (1vc) was observed in 1979.
Although the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(sttEs) has planned for children’s involvement in its exhibitions over
the years, the 1vc was a welcome opportunity to extend these efforts
and to emphasize family and cross-generational activities both
within and beyond the museum walls. Additional financial support
from the Smithsonian’s Education Outreach Fund allowed sites to
pursue projects that would otherwise have been impossible within
an individual exhibition’s limited budget.

sites planned and produced several major new exhibitions for

264 / Smithsonian Year 1979
and about children, designated several other current exhibitions as
irc shows, and produced new and innovative educational programs.
Among the new exhibitions were “Jouets Americans: 1925-1975,”
“Reflections: The Child in America,” and “Edison and the Electrical
Age: 100 Years.” Several exhibitions already in circulation, and of
interest to children, were designated as tyc shows. Among them
were: “Ride On!”, “The Frederick Douglass Years,” and ““What’s
in a Map?”.

A board game called ‘Bright Ideas’”’ was created to present an
instructive and entertaining way to learn more about Edison. To
introduce the many facets of quilting to children and adults, sites
developed a quilt pattern kit and companion resource booklet en-
titled Bee Quilting. Through the creative contribution of Fisher-
Price Toys, sites is providing a special toy as an educational supple-
ment to “Jouets Americans.” Each exhibitor receives copies of a
freestanding punch-out circus toy that can be hand-colored. In addi-
tion to the extensive catalogue and brochure for adults visiting “The
Phillips Collection, In the Making: 1920-1930,” sites developed
special children’s activities, including a collecting kit and a self-
guided discovery tour.

Twenty-nine new exhibitions began their tours in 1979. Among
those organized by the International Program were “Benny Motz-
feldt: A Norwegian Pathfinder in Glass,” ““Graficas: Contemporary
Latin American Prints,” “Polish Posters,” and “Art of Sri Lanka:
Contemporary Works on Paper.”

In response to the growing number of requests for international
“exchange” exhibitions, a “sites abroad” emphasis was incor-
porated into the International Program during 1979. Four sites
exhibitions traveled to cities in Mexico, one was shown in Panama
during the year, and international reservations for future sITES ex-
hibits were made. Staff members also investigated other means to
increase the international audience for sites exhibits.

The General Program launched sires’ most important exhibi-
tion: “The Phillips Collection, In the Making: 1920-1930.” This
exhibition, the first collaboration between sires and the Phillips,
also produced a major publication. In addition, “Erté” and “Vi-
sionary Drawings: Planning and Architecture” began their tours.

New American Studies exhibitions covered a vast range of topics:
“The Audiences of the Moon: Photographs from the Age of Lunar

Museum Programs / 265
Exploration,” “Patterns and Sources of Navajo Weaving,” “Build-
ings Reborn: New Uses, Old Places,” “Quintessential Quilts: The
Great American Quilt Contest,” and “Played with Immense Suc-
cess.”

SITES continued to serve the professional museum community by
hosting a week-long workshop in cooperation with the Office of
Museum Programs on all aspects of traveling exhibitions. Because
these workshops are limited to a few participants, stres has begun
the first of a series of technical-assistance publications specifically
written for the exhibitors of temporary and traveling exhibitions.
The first book, due in the spring of 1980, will address the topic of
exhibition installations.

In the area of public affairs, stres produced a television public-
service announcement (psa) for “Close Observation: Selected Oil
Sketches by Frederic E. Church.” This announcement was success-
ful and led to development of two more psas in 1979. Because of
television’s high visibility, stres intends to sponsor more PsAs in
the future.

With the assistance of Dr. Robert Wolf, a consultant to the
Smithsonian’s Office of Museum Programs on exhibition and pro-
gram evaluation, sites developed an exhibition evaluation form that
is now sent to each exhibitor. A pilot project was begun in the fall
of 1978 with a draft questionnaire sent to fifty-nine exhibitors. The
final form was developed with information from the pilot program
and with assistance from the Smithsonian Institution Office of
Computer Services, which will assist s1res in evaluating the returned
forms.

Several staff changes occurred during the year. Dennis Gould,
director since 1971, resigned to become director of the Armand
Hammer Foundation in Los Angeles. He brought a vision of youth
and energy to sites and was a leader as well as a friend to his staff.
Under his direction, new standards were set. They will be main-
tained.

266 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Tours for period October 1, 1978, through September 30, 1979

PCUIMIDETIOEADOOKINGS ss Sel eis /eyehcoeim se ssnaisysce aidine'w 4 ae Ml a bial 825
Number of states served (including Washington, D.C.) .... 49
ESEMMALC: AMICHENGR 6 Sak ws. «jecccie fipelsisers sin ba Nias te ore F 4-5 million
Exhibitions (including duplicates) listed in last

Update (catalogue of sites exhibitions) ................ 148
Exhibitions produced for tour during the

year (including additional versions) .................. 29

Exhibitions beginning tours October 1, 1978, through September 30, 1979

Art as Language

Art of Sri Lanka: Contemporary Works on Paper

The Arts of Latin America

The Audiences of the Moon: Photographs from the Age of Lunar
Exploration

Benny Motzfeldt: A Norwegian Pathfinder in Glass

Buildings Reborn: New Uses, Old Places (two versions)

Crosscurrents: Neoclassical Drawings and Prints from the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum

Edison and the Electrical Age: 100 Years (four versions)

Erté

George Grosz: Works in Oil

Graficas: Contemporary Latin American Prints

Inuit Sculpture

Jouets Americains: 1925-1975

Louis M. Eilshemius: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

Patterns and Sources of Navajo Weaving

The Phillips Collection, In the Making: 1920-1930

Played with Immense Success

Polish Posters

Posters for Victory

Quintessential Quilts: The Great American Quilt Contest

Reflections: The Child in America

Subways: An Underground Exhibition

Twentieth-Century Sculptors and Their Drawings: Selections from the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Visionary Drawings: Architecture and Planning

Museum Programs / 267
At the opening of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s “Out of Africa” exhibit
in February 1979, Assistant Secretary for Public Service Julian Euell talks to Mrs.
Marjorie Kinard, wife of John R. Kinard, the museum’s director. Below. Copper
slave tags, used to identify the skills of slaves at public auctions. The tags were
loaned by the Chicago Public Library for the “Out of Africa” exhibit.
Smithsonian Year - 1979
PUBLIC SERVICE

JULIAN T. EUELL,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR PUBLIC SERVICE

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

The year began with the official opening of the exhibition “Out of
Africa: From West African Kingdoms to Colonization” and the
publication of its accompanying catalogue. The mounting of this
exhibit was the culmination of work begun the preceding year that
focused upon a greater use of primary-source materials in the
production of Anacostia Neighborhood Museum exhibits and
catalogues.

During the past year the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum has
further developed its research capability and exhibition techniques
and has expanded its education and interpretive programs to place
a greater emphasis on increased services to groups and teachers at
the secondary level. These efforts have been supported by the
establishment of a network of contacts with national, local, and
university museums and archival repositories, that has resulted in
a greater use of primary-source documents, artifacts, and memo-
rabilia in the production of exhibits and publications. These new
cooperative and collateral relationships, together with the loan of
artifacts from other Smithsonian Institution collections, are evident
in the “Out of Africa” exhibit, which will be housed in the Ana-
costia Neighborhood Museum through June of 1980.

Located in a community that has suffered many of the problems
of urban blight and disorganization prevalent during the last
decade, the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum is committed to
bringing to local and neighborhood audiences the same quality of
exhibitions and programs that are seen and enjoyed in other cultural
institutions. Through use of artifacts and new research methodology

269
and techniques, together with new ideas in exhibit design, the
museum continues to strengthen its commitment to sound scholar-
ship. This commitment is apparent in the careful preparation of the
exhibit ““Anna J. Cooper: A Voice from the South,” that will open
in September 1980. For in addition to the adaptation of a prepared
manuscript, the museum staff has engaged in extensive site and
archival research that has resulted in the discovery of new primary-
source information that either was not accessible or not known
before.

The accomplishments of the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s
Education Department were highlighted by work with special
audiences, teacher workshops, and special programs to interpret
and amplify both the District of Columbia Art Association’s art
show and the current exhibition “Out of Africa.” Services to
secondary schools and tour groups were also intensified.

To increase accessibility of museum exhibitions and programs to
the handicapped visitor, the staff of the Education Department
asked the Smithsonian Institution’s Coordinator of Special Educa-
tion for assistance. Beginning with “Out of Africa,” museum staff
prepared demonstration lessons and translated text material into a
simplified English that is compatible with the syntactical and gram-
matical characteristics of sign language. This ‘““new” English was
also used in special visitor programs.

In addition to lectures, demonstrations, films, and special pro-
grams planned and implemented to support “Out of Africa,” the
Education Department offered a summer puppet theater. This pro-
gram attracted large numbers of young people and adults, as well
as teachers interested in using puppetry to teach black history.

Two teacher publications, How to Turn Your Classroom into a
Museum and How and Why Africans Came to North America,
were completed. The former has been used by a group of teachers
to initiate a local school minimuseum.

Division of Performing Arts
The Division of Performing Arts programs for 1979 emphasized

public concerts and free special events, as well as publications,
record releases, and national outreach programs.

270 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Public concerts were presented in thematic series designed to
educate and entertain. These series were: Jazz Heritage, The Amer-
ican Musical Theater, American Country Music, The World Ex-
plorer, Three Centuries of Chamber Music, and The Blues.
Participating artists included Alberta Hunter, Illinois Jacquet, the
historic Yakshagana troupe from India, Jan DeGaetani, Sunnyland
Slim, the Sons of the Pioneers, and the Osborne Brothers. The Divi-
sion of Performing Arts is particularly proud that three resident
Smithsonian ensembles took part in these concerts. The Smithsonian
Chamber Players performed on historic instruments from the collec-
tion of the National Museum of History and Technology; the Smith-
sonian Jazz Repertory Ensemble performed the music of James P.
Johnson and Fats Waller; and the 20th Century Consort, the
resident ensemble of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
performed several programs of contemporary music.

The Division of Performing Arts also continued its exploration
into the history of the American musical theater with stage per-
formances of the music of Victor Herbert and of vaudeville. These
performances were enhanced by material drawn from the “Nation
of Nations” exhibit at the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology, by furniture from the Smithsonian Institution “Castle”
Building, and by authentic costumes, properties, and graphics from
the collections of the Institution.

National outreach was achieved primarily through touring per-
formances to several American cities, in conjunction with the
Smithsonian National Associates Program, and through the con-
tinued publication of historic recordings. The catalogue of the
Smithsonian Collection of Recordings now contains 26 issues. Of
special interest was the publication of the “Bach box,’
Six Partitas for Harpsichord; Sonatas for Violin, Harpsichord, and
Viola da Gamba; and the Brandenburg Concerti of Johann
Sebastian Bach. This package of recordings, featuring numerous
instruments from the Smithsonian collections of historic musical

J

including

instruments, received national praise from music critics and the
public. The American Record Guide stated, ‘’Virtually at a single
stroke the Smithsonian has established itself as a major force in the
field of Baroque recordings.”

The African Diaspora Group has completed its task of sum-
marizing and analyzing its research and programs during the past

Public Service / 271
five years and has been redirected to explore and present programs
dealing with the culture of black Americans. This activity has been
retitled ‘““The Program in Black American Culture.”

The Division of Performing Arts continued to offer a year-round
program for children. The Smithsonian’s Discovery Theater, re-
furbished and now functioning with adequate technical equipment,
offered monthly programs of puppet theater, dance, and music and
served as a valuable introduction for children to the national
museums.

A Holiday Celebration, presented in conjunction with the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology from December 26 to
December 31, 1978, served to remind museum visitors of the history
and traditions that have evolved from the celebration of Christmas
and Hanukkah. A July Fourth Celebration likewise acquainted the
visiting public with the ways in which Americans have marked our
great secular holiday. Each of these large-scale events was presented
free of charge and drew more than one hundred thousand visitors.

A new bimonthly publication, Notes on the Arts, was inaugu-
rated. Articles on a variety of subjects related to the performing
arts are contributed by staff members and by scholars and critics
from a variety of disciplines. This publication began as an educa-
tional adjunct to the regular programs of the division and is now
circulated to more than 3,500 individuals and educational institu-
tions.

International Exchange Service

Since 1851, the International Exchange Service (1es) has provided
the means whereby learned societies in the United States can ex-
change their scholarly publications for those of foreign institutions.

During the year, the International Exchange Service was trans-
ferred from the Support Activities group to the Office of Public
Service.

Pending legislation would transfer the responsibility for the ex-
change of official U.S. government publications to the Library of
Congress. In the meantime, 1Es has contracted with the Government
Printing Office (Gro) to distribute official publications through

272 / Smithsonian Year 1979
GPo’s Statutory Stock Distribution Division. This transfer will allow
1Es to place more emphasis on the exchange of publications between
universities, colleges, medical and dental societies, etc., which was
the original intent of the Institution in establishing the exchange
system.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

With the belief that it is as important for students to learn to use
works of art, natural history specimens, historical artifacts, and
other museum resources, as it is for them to use words and num-
bers, the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education (oEsE) con-
tinued to serve the Smithsonian’s education offices while working
to meet a growing commitment to foster the educational uses of
museums in the Washington area and throughout the nation.

In fiscal 1979, this commitment led to the development of a
major new program to make Smithsonian education programs
accessible to hearing-impaired visitors. With support from the
Smithsonian Educational Outreach fund, oEsE is now working with
bureau education offices to adapt educational programs to the needs
of hearing-impaired visitors. A number of programs have been
undertaken: (1) sign-interpretation classes for volunteers and staff
are conducted at both beginning and intermediate levels; (2) pro-
grams with the National Portrait Gallery, Anacostia Neighborhood
Museum, and the Division of Performing Arts have been adapted
for hearing-impaired visitors; (3) orse’s film Museums: Where Fun
Is Learning has been captioned for teachers of the hearing-impaired;
(4) oEsE’s teacher workshops are now offered with both sign and
oral interpretation; and (5) two hearing-impaired students par-
ticipated in “Intern ’79” (an educational program for high-school
seniors that is described below). When oese provided interpreters
for the recent symposium “The Joys of Research,” a member of its
advisory committee wrote: “For the first time the program was
really meaningful to me. Always before it has been mostly panto-
mime. The interpreters added a great new dimension to my under-
standing of the presentation and I was also able to ask what I felt
were appropriate questions.” Although these are only a few of the

Public Service / 273
many programs now available to hearing-impaired visitors, they
are excellent indications of the work being done in this area by
oEsE and other Smithsonian education offices.

On the local level, ofse continues to offer a number of programs
that have proven successful in the past and that are expanding with
new programs in new directions. Let’s Go (a monthly newsletter)
and Learning Opportunities for Schools (an annual brochure) in-
form teachers of the ever-growing variety of Smithsonian services
available to students. Multiple copies were sent free to approxi-
mately 1,200 schools in the Washington area.

In May, the sixth annual “Teacher’s Day” brought more than
150 Washington-area teachers and Smithsonian staff together for
a series of informal activities celebrating the opening of the “Ein-
stein’ centenary exhibition at the National Museum of History and
Technology (NnmuT). In December, the second annual “Teacher’s
Christmas Program” was held at Nut. Traditional Christmas games
and foods enriched a tour of the museum’s holiday exhibits.

Now in its eighth year, orse’s workshop and seminar program
offered a wide variety of activities designed to help teachers use
Smithsonian and other community resources to maximum advantage
in their classrooms. Approximately 3,000 teachers participated in
the workshops, which were expanded this year to include six sum-
mer courses on the development of curriculum units based on
Smithsonian resources. One new course, “Architecture in the Class-
room,” focused on ways in which teachers and students can become
more aware and sensitive to the manmade environment. Teachers
were encouraged to plan curriculum units in art, science, and even
home economics, by using architecture as their primary resource.
As one teacher explained, “The course receives a gold star! It is a
truly provocative idea which produced many fine examples of
incorporating multiple subject areas into functional teaching
activities.”

For teachers nationwide, the distribution of Art to Zoo—a four-
page publication to promote the use of museums, parks, libraries,
zoos, and other community resources—reached approximately
50,000 classrooms. During the 1979-80 school year, Art to Zoo will
be expanded to include a student supplement with each issue.

In conjunction with Art to Zoo, two new audio-visual projects
have been developed. Supported by a grant from the Women’s

274 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, staff members from OESE
and the National Portrait Gallery produced a slide package entitled
“The Museum Idea,” showing teachers ways in which to create a
museum in the classroom with materials readily at hand. This
package is now available for national distribution.

In cooperation with the Department of Anthropology, orse began
preparation of a media kit for high-school students drawing on the
extensive papers and collections of the nineteenth-century naturalist
Dr. Edward Nelson. This program, funded by the Smithsonian’s
Educational Outreach funds, will be tested in schools during the
1979-80 school year. It is anticipated that the ‘Nelson Kit’ will be
the first in a series of curriculum units on various aspects of the
Smithsonian collections in art, history, and science.

In 1979, oEsE sponsored its fifth annual program for summer
interns. “Intern ’79” brought twenty-eight high-school seniors from
rural and inner-city communities to the Smithsonian to participate
in learning and service projects. The students worked under the
guidance of curatorial and technical staff members in various
parts of the Institution. The program often provides students with
new perspectives; as one intern explained, “I have met so many
interesting people and have done so many interesting things. When
I explain what I have been doing they tell me that it sounds like
such a great opportunity and they wish they had the same oppor-
tunity when they were in school.” This program was made possible
through a grant from the Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach fund.

Other important oEsE activities include: (1) developing a series of
teacher workshops and student tours for the District of Columbia
public schools, with support from the Cafritz Foundation; (2)
collaborating with other Smithsonian bureaus in celebrating the
International Year of the Child; and (3) expanding the scope and
understanding of the professional museum educator, through par-
ticipation in national and regional conferences and workshops. OESE
staff members also helped to plan and teach seminars on docent
training, museum/school relations, and museum interpretation.
These seminars were offered at the Smithsonian by the Office of
Museum Programs.

Public Service / 275
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

Knowledge for what? And for whom? These questions were posed
in a new brochure marking the tenth anniversary of the Smithso-
nian’s symposia and seminar program, designed to publish materials
bridging the humanities and sciences and to improve interdisci-
plinary cooperation among the Institution’s professional staff and
their colleagues elsewhere in the United States and throughout the
world. These activities are aimed at the increase and diffusion of
knowledge as a tool for research and educational outreach. Since
January 1969, the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars
has been responsible for four major symposia, a special Bicentennial
international conference, more than fifteen continuing seminar
series and special seminars, and resource services to universities,
foundations, professional organizations, and government groups.

Entering its second decade, the office paused to mourn the death
of Margaret Mead, the anthropologist, long-time consultant, and
mentor who, even in her last illness, was in close touch with Direc-
tor Wilton S. Dillon about Smithsonian endeavors. Publication in
April 1979 of Kin and Communities: Families in America, based
on the Institution’s sixth international symposium (1976-77), of
which Dr. Mead was chairman, brought her sharp questions and
insights once again to a broad audience of scholars and public. The
office helped to organize a memorial service for Dr. Mead at the
Washington Cathedral on December 7, 1978, and was instrumental
in arranging for the posthumous presentation of the Medal of
Freedom at a ceremony on January 20, 1979, at the American
Museum of Natural History. It also is helping to establish the Mead
Archives. Copies of Kin and Communities, edited by Allan Lichtman
and Joan Challinor, were presented to the White House Library
and to the Hubert H. Humphrey Papers of the Minnesota Historical
Society.

Director Dillon served as general chairman of the Smithsonian’s
Einstein centennial observance, which included a major exhibition
at the National Museum of History and Technology and close
collaboration with the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.
Dedicated to the linkage of “truth and decency as exemplified in
[Einstein’s] lifelong intellectual pursuits,” a colloquium, ‘“The Joys
of Research,” brought together Nobel laureates Julius Axelrod,

276 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Linus Pauling, Howard H. Temin, and Rosalyn S. Yalow. George
B. Field, Ernst Mayr, I. M. Singer, and J. Tuzo Wilson also ad-
dressed the two-day session. A special musical evening, “First
Hearing,” was arranged by the composer William Schuman, presi-
dent emeritus of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and
the Juilliard School, and a speaker’s lunch was addressed by
architect Konrad Wachsmann, who talked about the house near
Potsdam that he designed for Einstein in 1929 before the great
physicist fled Germany. The series of activities received high praise
and forms the basis of a book edited by Walter Shropshire, Smith-
sonian physicist, to encourage high-school and college students to
pursue careers in science. Nathan Reingold, editor of the Joseph
Henry Papers, chaired the colloquium planning committee.

Among other highlights of the Einstein observance were: (1) a
much-publicized gathering on March 14 of Washington-area school-
children in the “Einstein” exhibition hall to sing happy birthday
and to enjoy a cake bearing the famous “E = mc?” equation; (2) a
limited-edition centennial poster designed by John Cullen Murphy,
made available to other academic institutions and offered for sale
at the museum shops; (3) distribution of reprints of Einstein’s essay
on Newton, published in The Wilson Quarterly; and (4) public
lectures at the Einstein Spacearium of the National Air and Space
Museum.

Through the initiative of Senator Robert Morgan, Smithsonian
Regent, the office developed a pilot program for high-school stu-
dents. A group of fifteen gifted teenagers from rural areas of North
Carolina came to Washington in May for the first in a series of
seminars featuring presentations by six Smithsonian curators,
augmented by special tours of exhibits, participation in ongoing cul-
tural activities, and informal discussions over a period of several
days. “The Planet Earth” will be followed by “The Quest for
Beauty” in October 1979 and “Human Development: A Zoological
Perspective” in April 1980. In all, forty-five students have been
selected for the program, organized by Carla M. Borden and
financed by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation.

Director Dillon, an honorary commissioner of the U.S. Commis-
sion for the International Year of the Child, worked closely with the
Federal Interagency Committee and other government and private
groups in focusing national and international attention on children

Public Service / 277
in 1979. The Institution’s major contribution to the Year was “Play
and Inventiveness,” a cluster of Mall activities (May 23-25) explor-
ing the links between play, art, science, and technology, and
emphasizing the educational importance of playfulness in children
and adults. Opening ceremonies at Baird Auditorium featured
Secretary S. Dillon Ripley, Senator Charles Mathias (who gave the
keynote address), Eunice Kennedy Shriver, Jean Childs Young,
Frances Humphrey Howard, and Erik and Joan Erikson, along with
a mime who enchanted the platform guests and audience. The
Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., Foundation organized the participation of
handicapped children in a procession, workshops, and sports events.
The Special Olympics on the Mall attracted Senator Edward
Kennedy for a game of volleyball.

“Learning through the Arts/Imaginations at Work” was the
theme of a children’s colloquium running concurrently under spon-
sorship of the Learning About Learning Foundation, Trinity Uni-
versity, San Antonio, Texas, and held at the National Gallery of
Art. Joan Mondale and David Rockefeller, Jr., were special guests.

The Eriksons, distinguished scholars of child development, gave
memorable presentations on the human life cycle, with a particular
view to Einstein’s childhood—linking the International Year of the
Child and the Einstein centennial—and the experience of play as
intrinsic to art and science. Small seminars and workshops explored
the role of educational systems, including museums, in keeping
alive a sense of wonder and curiosity.

The seminar series “Voluntarism and the Public Interest in Amer-
ican Society” focused on International Year of the Child issues in
1979, including a lecture by Professor Kenneth Keniston of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a television show on chil-
dren’s problems (sponsored by Pet, Inc., of St. Louis, Missouri),
and cross-generational workshops presented by the Teaching-
Learning Center of Ann Arbor, Michigan.

On July 31, the office held a special breakfast for faculty and
students, concluding a two-week seminar on ‘Women in History”
organized by the Women’s Action Alliance and Sarah Lawrence
College to understand more fully the often-unrecognized import-
ance of women in shaping life and events over the centuries. The
Honorable Patricia Schroeder, Representative from Colorado, was
featured speaker in the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology’s reception suite.

278 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Mary Grace Potter, director of the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center, presents a token of appreciation to volunteer Thelma Wright at a ceremony
honoring volunteer information specialists. Looking on are Reception Center staff
members Gilmer Van Poole (left) and Sally Covel. Below. William C. Grayson (left),
senior telecommunications specialist, and Nazaret Cherkezian, director of the Office
of Telecommunications, holding an “Emmy.” The office was awarded the gold
statuette by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (Washington
chapter) for The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, selected
as best film produced by an independent organization in 1979.

Re gee a
Closing the year was a one-day symposium, “Pompeii and the
Vesuvian Landscape,” cosponsored by the Smithsonian and the
Washington Society of the Archaeological Institute of America,
observing the nineteen-hundredth anniversary of Mount Vesuvius’s
famous eruption and the one-hundredth anniversary of the found-
ing of the Archaeological Institute. His Excellency Paolo Pansa
Cedronio, Ambassador of Italy, served as honorary chairman. Seven
scientists and classical scholars offered illustrated presentations at
Baird Auditorium on such subjects as recent excavations at Pompeii,
architecture, sculpture, portraiture, and social and economic life at
Pompeii and Herculaneum. A commemorative book was distributed
to all symposium subscribers. The project was under the manage-
ment of Dorothy Richardson.

The office continued preparations for the Institution’s seventh
international symposium in November 1981, tentatively entitled
“Nature and Nurture: New Perspectives,” organized in consultation
with Smithsonian anthropologist Donald J. Ortner. Professor
James Neel of the University of Michigan will serve as the sym-
posium chairman.

Office of Telecommunications

The year 1979 marked a series of “firsts’’ for the Office of Tele-
communications. The office was honored with its first Emmys by
the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, Washington
Chapter. It garnered two of the coveted gold statuettes for its film
The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary. The
film has won ten major awards, has been broadcast over more than
sixty television stations, and remains in constant demand.

This was also the year the office launched its ‘Smithsonian
Galaxy” project—the exciting world of the Institution brought to
life in new features for radio. Since its inception in midyear,
“Smithsonian Galaxy” has had a popular reception, with some 120
radio stations throughout the nation and Canada broadcasting its
lively, upbeat, informative featurettes.

Also, 1979 saw the beginnings of a videotape operation as a
support to other Smithsonian divisions. Production teams from the

280 / Smithsonian Year 1979
office, utilizing its lightweight mobile videotape cameras and re-
corders, produced a fifteen-minute video story for the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum’s “Urban Open Spaces” exhibit and another
fifteen-minute videotape for the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education, graphically demonstrating ways to assist visitors with
hearing impairments.

In addition, two half-hour films were completed and two new
film projects begun. The two completed films, now being distributed
to television stations, are: Mirrors on the Universe: The MMT
Story, a coproduction with the University of Arizona; and Reunions
—Memories of an American Experience, produced with the Motion
Picture Unit of the Office of Exhibits Central. Filming began late in
the year on A Sense of Discovery, which focuses upon the National
Collection of Fine Arts. At the same time, scripting was initiated on
The Orchid and the Spear, a film dealing with the exacting world
of research at the National Museum of Natural History.

The twelve months of 1979 were busy in other areas as well.
“Radio Smithsonian,” approaching its tenth anniversary, was being
broadcast nationally each week to over sixty-five stations to a
potential audience of more than six million.

A number of public and commercial television projects are in
various stages of development and planning, ranging from the
ambitious ‘Smithsonian World” magazine format for public-televi-
sion viewers to lively children’s specials and an intriguing mini-
series for commercial-television audiences.

Smithsonian Exposition Books

Smithsonian Exposition Books began the fiscal year by publishing
in October The Smithsonian Book of Invention, an overall look at
the nature of the inventive process. While the book ranges around
the world and back in time to the pleistocene epoch, its major focus
is on American inventiveness in the nineteenth and twentieth cen-
turies. The book gained considerable acclaim from newspaper re-
viewers as well as academic experts in the field. In the course of
the year, approximately 145,000 copies were sold, mostly by mail

Public Service / 281
to Smithsonian Associates, with several thousand sold through
bookstores via W. W. Norton & Co., Inc.

In the late summer of 1979, Smithsonian Exposition Books
issued its fourth volume, A Zoo for All Seasons. This book, which
included contributions by Dr. Theodore Reed and Dr. John Eisen-
berg of the National Zoo staff, is an in-depth exploration of the
National Zoo and its workings, including research and conservation
work at Front Royal and elsewhere. It contains a lengthy section on
some thirty other prominent zoos in the United States. The recep-
tion for this book was gratifying: within two months of its an-
nouncement, orders for more than 85,000 copies had been received.

During the course of the year, editing and marketing proceeded
on a major book for the fall of 1979, The American Land, and work
began on two volumes scheduled for 1980, one on the American
presidency and the other on the sun. In addition, exploratory work
was under way on an atlas of American civilization and on a chil-
dren’s series. The organization’s first two volumes, The Smithsonian
Experience and The Magnificent Foragers, continued to be distrib-
uted during the year.

Smithsonian Institution Press

During fiscal year 1979, the Smithsonian Institution Press (sip) con-
tinued to make notable progress toward its two main goals. The
first is to meet the Smithsonian’s requirements for the quality
publication of its research studies and monographs, art and exhibit
catalogues, brochures, information leaflets, and the like, which are
produced in connection with the Institution’s manifold federally
funded activities. Its second goal is to expand its university-press
role by publishing and distributing for sale a growing number of
scholarly and general-interest books by authors both within and
outside the Institution on subjects related to Smithsonian collec-
tions and studies. A reorganized, rejuvenated, and slightly expanded
sip staff has responded competently and enthusiastically to the
greater recognition now being accorded it, as well as to the steadily
growing workload that its improved capability is attracting.

This increase is reflected in the sip’s workload statistics. During

282 / Smithsonian Year 1979
1979, the press published a total of 141 books, catalogues, mono-
graphs, and miscellaneous publications. In the 28 volumes of the
Smithsonian Contributions series alone, manuscript pages sub-
mitted totalled 15,050, compared with 11,348 in 1978 and 6,621 in
1977. Important publications produced with federal funding in-
cluded Louise Daniel Hutchinson, Out of Africa; Howard N. Fox,
Directions; Alan D. Franklin, Jacqueline S. Olin, and Theodore A.
Wertime, editors, The Search for Ancient Tin; Harold F. Pfister,
Facing the Light; and Linda T. Neumaier, compiler, National Por-
trait Gallery Permanent Collection Illustrated Checklist. Scientific
monographs of note were Lindenmeier, 1934-1974 Concluding Re-
port on Investigations (anthropology); Morden Smithsonian Ex-
pedition to Dominica: The Lichens (Graphidaceae) (botany); United
States Women in Aviation through World War I (air and space);
and Gammaridean Amphipoda of Australia, Part III: The Phoxo-
cephalidae (zoology).

The Smithsonian Institution Press published or added to its dis-
tribution inventory on a consignment basis six new titles during
1979. The popularity of one of these books, The Smithsonian
Collection of Newspaper Comics, was instrumental in helping the
press to operate profitably in each of the first six months of the
fiscal year, a “‘first’’ in the press’s history. Demand for the first of
the Harry N. Abrams-published books on Smithsonian museums,
The National Air and Space Museum, which the sip offers to Smith-
sonian Associates by arrangement with the publisher, promises to
bring end-of-the-year sales up to the point at which trust-funded
press operations will become self-sufficient—another “first.”

Other significant scholarly works published with nongovernment
funds during the year included Don H. Berkebile, Carriage Termi-
nology: An Historical Dictionary; Rolland O. Hower, Freeze-Dry-
ing Biological Specimens: A Laboratory Manual; Richard P. Hallion
and Tom D. Crouch, editors, Apollo: Ten Years Since Tranquility
Base; Michael Grow, Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C., for
Latin American and Caribbean Studies (the second in this important
Scholars’ Guide series); Allan J. Lichtman and Joan R. Challinor,
editors, Kin and Communities: Families in America; Marc Pachter,
A Gallery of Presidents; and Richard J. Montali, Mycobacterial
Infections of Zoo Animals (the third in a continuing series of papers
from seminars conducted by the National Zoological Park).

Public Service / 283
In response to popular demand, the sir also published reprints
of a number of Smithsonian works that have become classics in
their fields, including Roland W. Brown, Composition of Scientific
Words; James Mooney, Calendar History of the Kiowa; and John
R. Swanton, Indians of the Southeastern United States (the first
two volumes in what will be a reprint series of important anthro-
pological works); S. Dillon Ripley, The Sacred Grove; and John R.
Swanton’s perennially popular Indian Tribes of North America.

The Smithsonian Institution Press has profited from contacts
and opportunities made available through active membership in
the American Association of University Presses (aaupP) to improve
its marketing, warehousing, and order-fulfillment operations in
cost-sharing combinations with other aaup member presses. For
over two years, the press has been a member of the Columbia Uni-
versity Press Consortium, in which twelve scholarly presses share
the costs of an aggressive and well-organized sales force. During
1979, the Smithsonian Institution Press entered into a joint ware-
housing and order-fulfillment arrangement at the Johns Hopkins
University Press, together with the presses of the universities of
Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Virginia, and the State University of
New York.

The press acquired a new overseas agent for sales in British,
European, and Near Eastern markets. In addition, the Smithsonian
Institution Press has established copublication or U.S. distribution
arrangements with British Museum Publications, Ltd; with the
British Museum (Natural History); with the Israel Academy of
Sciences and Humanities; and with Heineman Educational Books
of Auckland, New Zealand.

The quality of Smithsonian Institution Press books continued as
usual to receive acclaim in numerous editing and design competi-
tions. Gregory Gillespie, designed by Stephen Kraft, and Maria
Martinez: Five Generations of Potters, designed by Elizabeth Sur,
were two of the twenty-eight books out of 273 university press
entries selected by the committee for exhibition in the American
Association of University Presses’ Annual Book Show. The Wright
Brothers: Heirs of Prometheus, by Richard Hallion of the National
Air and Space Museum, and Excalibur III: The Story of a P-51
Mustang, by Robert C. Mikesh, the first of the National Air and
Space Museum’s Famous Aircraft series, both published by the

284 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Smithsonian Institution Press, were winners in the Aviation/Space
Writers’ Mid-East Region writing awards competition. Two press
books were winners of the National Association of Government
Communicators’ Blue Pencil Awards: Aeronca C-2, edited by
Louise Heskett, and Galileo Galilei, designed by Natalie Bigelow
Babson.

Smithsonian Magazine

The year’s record shows more of everything at the Smithsonian
magazine. There have been more magazine editorial pages; more
circulation, with increased revenue; more advertising pages, with
increased revenue, and more total revenue, but, alas, more produc-
tion expenses, too. Inflationary pressure has driven up costs in the
areas of salaries, obtaining editorial material, postage, prepress
preparations, printing, and, most importantly, paper. Thus, uncon-
trollable operating charges have resulted in a net profit somewhat
below that of the record year preceding. Nevertheless, the per-
centage of net return to sales remains the envy of the industry,
whether in educational or out-and-out commercial areas. As always,
all proceeds go to the Trust Fund of the Institution.

The magazine’s overall editorial purpose has been to keep pace
with the expanding frontiers of human understanding. Readers
were given views of the new research being conducted by the Na-
tional Institute of Health, the National Bureau of Standards, and
the Smithsonian-University of Arizona multimirror telescope for
focusing on individual stars. Articles described the scope of the
U.S. Geological Survey’s modern mandates, the nature of thunder-
storms, and ways in which oceanography seeks to chart details of
the vast seas; they told of a pilot attempt to reverse the advance
of the Sahara (with funds processed by the Institution) and the
mysteries of bird navigation. More immediate problems—such as
the ways in which American cities try to cope with the twin
phenomena of modernization and stagnation—received a three-part
treatment.

The magazine did not hesitate to deal even-handedly with such
controversial subjects as violence to animal life in the name of

Public Service / 285
conservation, the threat of tribalism to Third World well-being,
and the rivalry between Indian and other fishermen for West
Coast salmon. It even began a two-part examination of the emo-
tional harp-seal question.

Historical aspects of the year, such as the centenary of Edison’s
electric light bulb (subject of an exhibit at the National Museum
of History and Technology), the diamond anniversary of manned
flight, and the revelatory archaeology of ruined Carthage, received
full treatment.

The activities of the Institution received complete coverage in
“Smithsonian Highlights,” to which the Secretary (in “View from
the Castle’) and Edwards Park (in ‘““Around the Mall and Beyond’’)
added more subjective interpretations. Major exhibits in Smith-
sonian museums were the subjects of major articles, for example:
the Renwick Gallery’s exhibit on imperial Russian art; the National
Portrait Gallery’s record of the Peale family papers; the National
Air and Space Museum’s exhibit on ‘Our Beautiful Earth’; the
Hirshhorn Museum’s Eilshemius retrospective; the Freer Gallery’s
exhibit on Near Eastern art; and the National Museum of History
and Technology’s new maritime hall.

Institution experts joined other outstanding authors in writing
articles. They included James Cornell (Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory), Farouk El-Baz and Tom Crouch (NAsm), Edward S.
Ayensu (director of the Institution’s Office of Biological Conserva-
tion), Esin Atil (Freer Gallery), C. Frederick Starr (Kennan Insti-
tute), Joshua Taylor (NcFa), James K. Page (Smithsonian Exposition
Books), and Edwards Park (magazine).

A start, which seems likely to result in more articles, was made
during the year toward tapping the vast resources, particularly in
the fields of art, archaeology, and history, of the People’s Republic
of China. Following the publication of two articles—one on a cave
containing about 50,000 figures of Buddha, the other on the success-
ful breeding, by artificial insemination, of a baby panda—will come
publication of pictures of the incredible buried terra-cotta army of
the Emperor of Qin and a magnificent display of Ming dynasty
bronzes. Although communication with sources in China is still
difficult, a number of contacts have been made. Preliminary
estimates on the twenty-two-by-thirty-three-inch poster of the Sep-
tember panda cover indicate that it will be widely distributed.

286 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The magazine is now able to guarantee a circulation of 1,750,000
copies per issue, at no increase in the cost per thousand to adver-
tisers. Advertising increased from 795 pages in the last fiscal year
to 855 this year.

The magazine’s mailing lists have been made available to other
divisions of the Institution for purposes of solicitation. Parts or all
of them have been used in mailings by Smithsonian Exposition
Books, Smithsonian shops, the Division of Performing Arts, the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum, the Smithsonian Institution Press, the
Resident Associates, and The Wilson Quarterly. A conservative
estimate, based on names used, is that these lists would have cost
more than a million dollars in the open market.

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

In its eighth year, the Visitor Information and Associates’ Recep-
tion Center is continuing to refine and expand central information
and assistance services for the public, Associate members, and the
Institution’s staff. Existing programs were expanded and new serv-
ices were introduced and developed.

The dedicated corps of 400 volunteer information specialists
remains the nucleus of the center’s Seven Day Information Services.
These men and women contribute their time and skills to ensure
full and rewarding experiences for Smithsonian visitors, 364 days
a year. In spite of the hardships inflicted by severe winter storms
and gasoline shortages, these dedicated volunteers met their com-
mitment to the Institution, realizing a remarkable 90 percent of
desk-coverage goals in 1979. Results of a survey conducted by an
outside firm attested to the effectiveness of museum desk operations
and procedures.

The installation of a new information desk at the National Air
and Space Museum was a welcome addition, creating the extra
space needed to accommodate visitor demands in the Mall’s most
popular museum.

Throughout the year, volunteer educational events concentrated
on highlighting major exhibits. Lectures and tours by the profes-

Public Service / 287
sional staff provided insight and knowledge that were, in turn,
enthusiastically passed on to the visiting public.

Steady escalation of the Reception Center’s telephone traffic
dictated designating the Telephone Information Service as a
separate program unit. Efforts are under way to streamline this
operation through intensive volunteer training and reassessment of
information aids.

To address the needs of the many large groups of visitors arriv-
ing at the Smithsonian annually, the Group Orientation Program
was established. Thirty-minute slide/lecture sessions provide a
basic introduction to the Institution’s twelve museums and galleries
in the nation’s capital, as well as the National Zoo, thereby allow-
ing group members to make more rewarding use of their limited
time at the Smithsonian.

Given the early summer energy crisis and the restrictions it
imposed, a 10 percent increase in the number of visits by National
Associates came as a pleasant surprise. The survey of National
Associates conducted annually during the summer months in The
Court indicated that 97 percent found that their privileges at the
Smithsonian met their expectations.

Revision and reprinting of the Guide to the Nation’s Capital and
the Smithsonian Institution was undertaken in cooperation with
Smithsonian magazine. This popular guide is available once again
through the Smithsonian museum shops and the Reception Center.

The Castle Docent Program continued to work closely with the
Smithsonian National Associate offices by offering tours on a
routine basis for participants in the “Washington Anytime Week-
end” and “Selected Studies” seminars. Special services were also
provided for numerous visiting contributors to the Smithsonian
magazine.

Two grants were gratefully received by the Reception Center.
Monies were made available by the James Smithson Society to
survey the need and feasibility for low-cost or no-cost transporta-
tion between Mall museums for persons with ambulatory diffi-
culties. Another sum, from the Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates, came in response to a request for support
to update and revise audio-visual media used for visitor orientation
and the new Group Orientation Program.

288 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Experience gained in the development of Smithsonian volunteer
programs was shared with museum professionals from across the
country through the participation of Reception Center staff mem-
bers in management seminars, organized through the Office of
Museum Programs.

Progress made by the Staff/Volunteer Service Programs was
significant. Behind-the-scenes volunteers registered with the Inde-
pendent Volunteer Placement Service now number more than 500.
Some 40 percent of these volunteers were placed through this
program, accumulating over 32,000 hours of service. Two program
highlights included a pilot work/learn experience for students in
business management, and recruiting and organizing the volunteer
interpreters for visiting Russian museum specialists. Procedures for
issuing identification credentials to independent volunteers were
revised to provide a more effective security system.

An additional Magazine Membership File was transferred to the
Reception Center, and a new system was created to accommodate
the growth and special nature of the reduced-rate National Mem-
bership Employee/Volunteer file. The addition of a program-coor-
dination assistant has added strength to the fulfillment of program
services and enhances future potential.

Public-inquiry mail increased by 10 percent. Office efficiency was
improved through the addition of one part-time staff member to
aid in research and production of preprinted material.

A booklet describing facilities and programs for handicapped
visitors was produced and is now being used Institution-wide.

Participation on the Auxiliary Activities Council and compilation
of a bimonthly list of products offered for sale by Smithsonian
bureaus have helped to centralize information. A survey of 500
National Associate members who visited during summer months
indicated that information packets and the services of the Recep-
tion Center were valued membership benefits.

The entire Reception Center staff was saddened by the death of
a valued colleague and friend, Dorothy Adamson, who contributed
much to the program’s creation.

Public Service / 289
Uae
Pgh

Smithsonian Associates experience the wonders of the Alaskan wilderness in
Mt. McKinley National Park as part of a domestic study tour.
Smithsonian Year 1979
MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

JAMES MCK. SYMINGTON,
DIRECTOR

As ITS NAME IMPLIES, the Office of Membership and Development
has two separate yet interrelated purposes.

In the development area, the office’s primary mission is to serve
the needs of the individual museums for financial support of ac-
guisitions, exhibits, research, and various other scholarly and edu-
cational activities. Such support is sought by this office on a project-
by-project basis from individuals, foundations, and corporations
whose interests or guidelines could be congenial to the character of
each project. In 1979, there were thirty-eight such projects, for
which nearly seven hundred proposals were distributed for the
benefit of twenty different bureaus, departments, or offices of the
Smithsonian.

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates also
plays an important role in raising funds for a number of Smith-
sonian projects. The net proceeds of the annual Christmas Ball at
the National Museum of Natural History, organized and managed
by the Women’s Committee, provided financial assistance in 1979
for six Smithsonian organizations. Receiving support were: the
National Museum of Natural History’s “Discovery Room”; the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden’s “Hirshhorn Holiday”;
the Chesapeake Bay Center’s publication, Guide to the Common
Butterflies; the Visitors’ Information and Associates Reception
Center’s orientation slide program; the concert series of the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology’s Division of Musical
Instruments; and the Free Film Program of the Resident Associates.

An additional beneficiary of Women’s Committee support for
several years has been the planned Garden for the Handicapped

291
between the Hirshhorn Museum and the Arts and Industries Build-
ing. In May 1979, the committee organized a benefit jazz piano con-
cert by the distinguished pianist Brooks Kerr, proceeds from which
were added to the substantial amount the committee had already
raised toward making this attractive new addition to the Mall.

Beyond seeking suport for individual bureau needs, the Develop-
ment Office has been active in such broad Institutional activities as
the proposed “Smithsonian World” public television series; the
Quadrangle Project, embracing two new museums, the Museum of
Oriental Art and the Museum of African Art; as well as the de-
velopment of unrestricted trust funds through a program of life-
income giving plans, wills, and bequests.

The Membership Program of the Smithsonian has, since its incep-
tion in 1965 as the Smithsonian Associates, served the interests of
Washington area residents. With the publication of Smithsonian
magazine in 1970 and the creation of its large national audience, the
National Associates Program came into being. There are, therefore,
two Smithsonian membership programs: the Resident Associates,
providing a wide variety of activities and benefits for more than
51,000 Washington area members, and the National Associates,
whose members now number 1,800,000 across the nation.

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

The National Board of the Smithsonian Associates has, since 1970,
provided the Associates Program with leadership and support.
Intimately involved with the programs and activities of the Smith-
sonian as these affect communities around the country, its members
are selected for geographical representation and prominence in
their own localities. Under the chairmanship of William S. Ander-
son, board chairman of NCR Corporation, the board met in Wash-
ington in the autumn of 1978 and in New Orleans in the spring
of 1979.

Five new members were elected to the board in 1979: G. Morris
Dorrance, Jr.; Gordon Hanes; Richard D. Hill; Honorable Carla
Anderson Hills; and Roger B. Smith.

292 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Other members of the board are: William S. Anderson, chair-
man; Robert H. B. Baldwin; Henry C. Beck, Jr.; Nicholas F. Brady;
Keith S. Brown; Mrs. Jackson Burke; Mrs. Charles H. Clark;
Honorable William T. Coleman, Jr.; E. Mandell deWindt; Gaylord
Donnelley; James A. Elkins, Jr.; Thomas M. Evans; Honorable
John N. Irwin IJ; James M. Kemper, Jr.; Scott McVay; Mrs.
Robert A. Magowan; John R. Norton III; George S. Pillsbury;
Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.; David E. Skinner; and Vernon Taylor, Jr.

Smithsonian National Associate Program

In Secretary Ripley’s words,’ an Associate “[has] joined a special
community ... [and] become part of a rigorous educational and
cultural force everywhere in the land.” This national dynamism
was observed again and again in 1979 as Associates participated in
activities planned for members and as the Institution continued to
expand its commitment to public education and scholarship through
membership programs.

Since 1970 and the appearance of Smithsonian magazine, pro-
grams have been developed that allow active participation in the
life of the Smithsonian without regard to geographical location.
These National Associate Programs include: Contributing Member-
ship, Regional Events, Selected Studies, and the Travel Program.
These programs are dedicated to the proposition that learning
should be an enjoyable lifelong pursuit for everyone and that the
national museums and research organizations of the Smithsonian
Institution can make a valuable contribution to this learning process.

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP

The 4,200 Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National
Associate Program gave $295,000 in unrestricted funds during
fiscal year 1979. By renewing at a rate of 85 percent, members con-
tinued to confirm their special commitment to the Smithsonian and
insured a continuing income for educational and research projects.

The levels of annual support offered to Smithsonian Associates
are: Supporting ($50); Donor ($100); Sponsoring ($250); Sustain-
ing ($500); and James Smithson Society ($1,000 and above).

1 Smithsonian, September 1976, page 6.

Membership and Development / 293
Introducing the new Sponsoring level, a series of ‘Collectors’
Tours” was presented in cooperation with the Freer Gallery of Art
and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

In the Chinese program, members enjoyed an after-hours tour of
the Freer Gallery of Art with Dr. Thomas Lawton, followed by a
visit to Senator and Mrs. Hugh Scott’s outstanding private collec-
tion. The contemporary art program gave members an opportunity
to visit behind-the-scenes at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden and to tour Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn’s personal
collection.

Close Observation: Selected Oil Sketches by Frederic E. Church,
was chosen as the 1979 Contributing Membership publication, and
all levels of membership received it. Members of Donor level and
above also received a portfolio of wild flowers by Mary Vaux Wal-
cott. The original edition of prints was published by the Smith-
sonian in 1925.

The Contributing Membership Program sponsored nine special
events, including the Viennese Waltz in the Renwick’s Grand
Salon, a Victorian Tea Dance and Garden Party in the Victorian
Garden, and a black-tie opening reception for the “Return to
Albion” exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery.

A major objective has been to broaden the geographical distribu-
tion of the Contributing Membership. Representing a dramatic in-
crease in national scope in 1979, some 60 percent of the Members
reside outside of the Washington, D.C., area.

The James Smithson Society, established in 1977, represents the
highest order of Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian
Associates. Annual Members are individuals who make unrestricted
contributions of $1,000 or more in a given year. Life Members are
those who give $25,000 or more, either in monetary donations or
in additions to the Smithsonian collections.

In its third year, total Smithson Society membership increased
48 percent, from 181 to 268. The number of Annual Members en-
rolled in 1979 was 148, up 24 percent from last year; there were
58 new Life Members, bringing their total to 120, a 94 percent in-
crease. Among these were six former Life Members who made addi-
tional contributions this year. It has been estimated that the total
value of the additions to the collections given by Life Members in
1979 amounts to $7,600,000. These gifts represented a wide range

294 / Smithsonian Year 1979
of splendid objects and collections given to ten Smithsonian
bureaus, among them minerals, gems, jewelry, sculpture, drawings,
paintings, portraits, pottery, glass, coins, musical instruments, and
scientific equipment.

Contributions from Annual Members made possible four sig-
nificant acquisitions and supported two important Smithsonian
activities. The National Portrait Gallery acquired the Benjamin Lay
oil portrait by William Williams (c. 1758); the Freer Gallery of Art
purchased a Turkish brass candlestick of the Ottoman period (c.
1500); the National Museum of History and Technology added to
its superb collection of eighteenth-century silver an important
American silver teapot by Samuel Casey (c. 1750); and Michael
Ayrton’s 1972 sculpture, Icarus, was bought by the National Air
and Space Museum. Grants were made to the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute in Panama for a plant-growing house on Barro
Colorado Island and to the Visitor Information and Reception
Center toward a feasibility study of transportation about the Mall
for visitors with ambulatory problems.

The Smithsonian Institution acknowledges with deep gratitude
the generous and loyal support of the James Smithson Society’s
1979 Annual Members, Life Members, and the Contributing Mem-
bers of the Smithsonian Associates, all of whose names are given
in Appendix 8.

REGIONAL EVENTS

In 1979 the Regional Events Series, traveling to San Diego, Atlanta,
Denver, Philadelphia, Hartford, and New Orleans, offered over 200
events to which approximately 200,000 households of Associates,
cosponsoring members, and their families, were invited. Over
73,000 tickets were requested for lectures as varied as “Landscape
and Mind: Art and American Vistas” by Joshua Taylor (NcFA);
“The Collector as Artist” by Edward P. Lawson (HMsc); “Precious
Jewels in Priceless Settings” by Paul E. Desautels (NMNH); and “Be-
witched by Buildings: Melnikov, Russian Visionary” by S. Frede-
rick Starr (Kennan Institute, wwics). During this season, the num-
ber of lecture topics doubled, and the number of events increased
by 30 percent over the preceding year. Ticket requests in 1979
alone equalled the cumulative totals from 1975 to 1978.

The list of 53 cosponsors also equalled the combined totals of

Membership and Development / 295
cosponsoring groups for the previous 3 years. Philadelphia, the
largest city visited since the inception of the program, included the
greatest number of topic areas (20), events (72), and cosponsors
(18). Two specialized lectures highlighting Philadelphia collections
were offered: “Perfect Likenesses: Indian Portraits Preserved” by
Herman J. Viola (NAA) and “Philadelphia and the Origins of the
Steamboat” by Brooke Hindle (NmHT). Cosponsoring organizations
exhibited artifacts that complemented the lectures.

Two Philadelphia coordinating organizations, the Museum Coun-
cil of Philadelphia and the Greater Philadelphia Cultural Alliance,
representing more than 100 local cultural and scientific groups, also
cosponsored the events. In order to bring additional benefits to
these organizations, a professional seminar, chaired by Jane Glaser,
was offered in conjunction with the Office of Museum Programs.
James Mahoney (oc&c) and Robert H. Angle (snap) spoke to more
than 100 museum staff members on shared problems in exhibition
design and membership.

For the first time, the Regional Events Series returned for a second
time to a host city. Denver, originally visited in 1977, was revisited
with a greater-than-anticipated response. The nineteen programs
originally planned grew to forty-six to accommodate an unprece-
dented demand for tickets. The Denver community also responded
wholeheartedly to a pilot program, “More About Animals: Denver
Builds a Zoolab.” Several thousand members requested tickets for
themselves and their families for a series of weekend workshops
in which they bought, researched, and donated animal specimens to
the Denver Zoo. With the help of Judith White and Marlene Robin-
son (Office of Education, Nzp) and members of the Education staff,
the Denver Zoo took its initial step in making the Zoolab a per-
manent part of its program.

In 1979, family events and in-depth seminars in photography by
Kjell Sandved (NMnuH), in horticulture by James Buckler (Office of
Horticulture), and in papier-maché sculpture by Washington artist
Joan Danziger, met with an enthusiastic response. Additionally, a
special program for the Hispanic community was offered by Marc
Pachter (NPG) in San Diego. Educational materials were once again
prepared as enhancements to each of the lectures and seminars.

296 / Smithsonian Year 1979
SELECTED: STUDIES

During 1979 the Selected Studies Program continued to draw for
program content upon the collections and expert staff of the
Smithsonian Institution, visiting scholars, and the other superb
cultural offerings in the Washington, D.C., area. This series of
seminar programs provides National Associates with an environ-
ment that broadens their appreciation and understanding of the
arts, sciences, and humanities, and enables them to pursue knowl-
edge for their own stimulation, enrichment, or professional ad-
vancement.

Designed for small groups of approximately thirty-five people,
these five-day intensive seminars include lectures, films, behind-
the-scenes tours, and field trips to the Smithsonian and other scien-
tific and cultural organizations in the greater Washington area. In
addition to the educational aspects of the seminars, the program
includes a welcoming reception and special tour of the historic
Smithsonian “Castle,” breakfast each morning in the Associates
Court, and a farewell luncheon with faculty and staff.

The response to the large variety of subjects offered by the
Selected Studies Program in its second year was uniformly enthusi-
astic, with National Associates being drawn to Washington from
across the country and Canada. Participants’ backgrounds ranged
from interested novices to lifelong buffs to travelers preparing for
trips to China and Japan. In certain fields, such as ““Connoisseur-
ship of American Antique Furniture” and “Aircraft Restoration,”
a large number of professionals participated in the seminars.

Selected Studies began the year 1979 with two seminars in Oc-
tober. Experts from the National Genealogical Society presented
lectures and conducted field trips to the National Archives, the DAR
and National Genealogical Society libraries, and the Library of
Congress.

Also during October, Selected Studies presented ““Man’s Quest
for Wings: A History of Flight,” in conjunction with the National
Air and Space Museum’s staff. This seminar offered participants a
wide variety of lecture topics, from the Wright Brothers to manned
space flight, with specially arranged tours at NAsM and a full-day
trip to Nasm’s preservation, restoration, and storage facility at
Silver Hill, Maryland.

An important aspect of the Selected Studies seminars is the small

Membership and Development / 297
size of the participating groups, providing staff, faculty, and par-
ticipants an opportunity to become well acquainted during the
week. The limited enrollment, however, necessitates turning away
many enthusiastic Associates from these popular seminars. In an
attempt to meet the demand, several of the seminars were repeated
in January and June. The “Genealogy” and “History of Flight”
seminars were offered in June and “China: A Cultural History”
was repeated three times during the year.

New subjects in the spring included “Astronomy of the Ancients”
with nasm staff and experts from across the country lecturing on
Stonehenge, Egyptian pyramids, and the Mesoamerican Indians’
knowledge of astronomy. Demonstrations in the Albert Einstein
Spacearium were enthusiastically attended.

Daily gallery tours at the National Gallery of Art and the
Phillips Collection were offered during the “French Impressionist
Painting” seminar. Tours of the temporary exhibitions at the Freer
Gallery of Art and the International Monetary Fund, dinner at a
Japanese restaurant and a special tea ceremony in the Embassy of
Japan’s garden teahouse were presented during “The Arts of
Japan” program.

“Historic House Preservation: How To,” coordinated by the His-
toric House Association of America and the National Trust for His-
toric Preservation, covered such practical topics as buying a house,
maintenance problems, and legal questions of historic properties.
Walking tours of Georgetown and Alexandria and visits to numer-
ous restored as well as still-in-progress public and private proper-
ties were popular features.

Participants learned practical methods and techniques of “Air-
craft Restoration” at workshops at nasm’s Silver Hill facility. This
seminar was an outgrowth of the “History of Flight” series: partici-
pants had mentioned that they would like the opportunity to spend
additional time at Silver Hill learning more fully about the process
of restoration.

ASSOCIATES TRAVEL

The Associates Travel Program continues to design and administer
a variety of unique educational tours that mirror the interests and
concerns of the Smithsonian Institution. An expanded program in
1979 established small group tours to a variety of foreign destina-

298 / Smithsonian Year 1979
tions, in addition to continued charter programs. It also intensified
the educational aspects of the tours.

While 150 Associates made the first direct flight from New York
to Rovaniemi, Finland, on the Arctic Circle, to participate in Mid-
summer Night ceremonies, a group of 18 amateur naturalists jour-
neyed to the Aigas Field Centre in Scotland for two weeks of study.
The first of a series of seminars held in cooperation with schools
and universities around the world saw 120 members established at
Oxford University to take part in sessions designed by Oxford
faculty especially for Associates. An introductory tour of the
People’s Republic of China began with lectures in San Francisco for
25 members before they flew to Peking, Sian, Loyang, and Shanghai.
Twelve subsequent programs in four different areas of China will
provide Associates with exciting new study opportunities there.

Domestic study tours continued to grow in scope, with more
than forty trips in 1979. The program offers a wide range of study
topics in natural history, architecture, history, and art. Each trip is
designed for a group of fifteen to thirty participants and is led by
a study leader and Smithsonian staff representative. This year, for
example, Associates learned about the winter adaptation of plants
and animals while exploring spectacular Yellowstone Park on cross-
country skis and snowshoes and spent a week hiking and studying
alpine ecology in the Collegiate Peaks of the Colorado Rocky
Mountains. Members interested in historic preservation visited the
antebellum homes of Natchez and Vicksburg, while others learned
about antiques in Connecticut and the history of Annapolis and
the Eastern Shore of Maryland. They particularly enjoyed the
opportunity to meet people from local museums and visit private
homes, which provided a personal impression of each region.

Associates from all parts of the country visited the nation’s
capital through the Washington “Anytime” program, presented in
cooperation with the Visitors’ Information and Associates’ Recep-
tion Center, or through the “Sampler Weekend” designed to present
a sampling of the Institution’s collections, with lectures by curators
and other museum staff.

Membership and Development / 299
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program, the self-supporting
membership and continuing education arm of the Smithsonian In-
stitution for metropolitan Washington, is considered a model for
museum membership and education programs both nationally and
internationally. Established in 1965 by Secretary Ripley to provide
opportunities for those who live in the Washington area to partici-
pate actively in the life of the Smithsonian, the program offers a
broad range of educational activities that complements the exhibi-
tions, collections, and research of the Institution.

Resident Associate members are drawn from the entire spectrum
of the greater Washington community, encompassing all aspects of
life in the capital. Membership has grown from 8,000 in 1972 to
more than 51,000 in 1979, representing some 130,000 persons in
the greater Washington area. Largely as a result of word-of-mouth,
12,419 new members joined in 1979, and the retention rate, which
has risen every year since 1972, when it was 50 percent, this year
reached 79 percent.

During 1979, the program presented 892 activities, attended by
well over 100,000 individuals.

During the year, the program’s national and international stat-
ure was enhanced by a number of special projects supported by
grants from the National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities
and the National Science Foundation. Under a joint grant from the
two endowments, the program served as national sponsor, con-
sultant, and audience source for two international symposia cele-
brating the contemporary cultures of Japan and Mexico through
art exhibitions, films, panel discussions, performing arts, and
courses. With a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts,
the program presented a three-part series of African, Third World,
and Black American Films. To increase public understanding of
current and controversial national scientific issues, the program
offered a series of monthly lectures funded by its third annual
grant from the National Science Foundation. The program received
national recognition for its outstanding educational activities re-
lated to architecture when Director Janet W. Solinger was awarded
Honorary Membership in the American Institute of Architects for
“implementing the Resident Associate Program’s broad range of

300 / Smithsonian Year 1979
The Grand Promenade at the Victorian Tea Dance and Garden Party sponsored by
the Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian National Associate Program.
Below. Young people and adults collaborate on the construction of miniature doll-

houses and decorate them with Victorian furniture in this special parent-child
course offered by the Resident Associate Program.

nT nals

courses, lectures, and tours, which has spread understanding and
appreciation of good architecture to more than 40,000 persons
since 1972.”

In 1979, the Resident Associate Program strengthened its civic
commitment to involve the Washington community more fully in
its activities. In April, Mayor Marion Barry opened the program’s
all-day symposium on adaptive reuse of older buildings, presented
in conjunction with the Renwick Gallery exhibit “Buildings Reborn:
New Uses, Old Places.” The mayor also proclaimed April 17—24
“Japan Today Week” in the city of Washington, and the D.C.
public schools honored Japan the entire month of April in celebra-
tion of the “Japan Today” symposium, cosponsored by the pro-
gram. One hundred and eleven young people from fifty-six inner-
city schools received tuition-free scholarships to Young Associate
classes, and in addition, eighty-six full scholarships were awarded
to adults for Resident Associate courses through the offices of the
Adult and Continuing Education Division of the D.C. Public
Schools. In observance of Caribbean Independence Week in the
District of Columbia, the program offered its “Celebration of
Caribbean Rhythm and Rhyme” for the third consecutive year.

The year was marked by continued close cooperation with Smith-
sonian bureaus on projects to heighten knowledge and appreciation
of their exhibitions, research, and curatorial expertise. The program
works in close collaboration with the Smithsonian museums in plan-
ning exhibition openings, lectures, symposia, tours, and courses
highlighting their activities. The monthly Smithsonian Associate
newsletter made possible the public announcements of the Smithso-
ian community—for example, Division of Performing Arts activ-
ities; Smithsonian Institution Press books; Museum Shop products;
and National Air and Space Museum lectures and symposia. The
Resident Associate membership list was used eighteen times this
year to bring activities of various Smithsonian bureaus to members’
attention.

ADULT COURSES

The adult course department offers an exciting range of educational
programs in the arts, sciences, humanities, and studio arts that pro-
vides opportunities for serious study with distinguished experts in
a variety of fields. ‘Illustrators on Illustration,” featuring nationally

302 / Smithsonian Year 1979
syndicated cartoonists such as Edward Sorel; “Archeology of
Egypt’; “New Masters of Photography”; “New Directions in
Architectural Design,” with renowned architects such as Cesar Pelli
and Stanley Tigerman; ‘American Antique Furniture”; and ‘Spring
Wild Flowers” were among the best-received courses for the year.
Some 294 adult courses scheduled in four terms, as well as in a
special September studio arts miniterm, were attended by 9,090
students.

SPECIAL EVENTS, LECTURES, SEMINARS, AND SYMPOSIA

From comprehensive explorations of subjects in the arts, humani-
ties, and sciences to individual and multiple film screenings; from
brunch and courtyard concerts to lectures by Smithsonian curators
and eminent guest scholars, the Office of Lectures, Seminars, Sym-
posia, and Special Events responds to and stimulates member in-
terest in current cultural topics. Major film series—such as the
Indian films of James Ivory and the award-winning color docu-
mentaries of the historic Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo manned-
spaceflight programs—were among the year’s highlights. Brunch
and courtyard concerts featured pianist John Eaton, the bluegrass
group None of the Above, and The Washington Jazz Ensemble.
Filmmaker Claudia Weill, actress Jessica Tandy, and artist Louise
Nevelson spoke as part of the “American Women in the Arts”
series. Other notable speakers included editor Norman Cousins,
Ambassador Elliot L. Richardson, and photographer Ansel Adams.

Intensive all-day seminars exploring such topics as the art of
Monet, the England of great literature, and desertification, con-
stitute an increasingly important component of the program. Mem-
bers also heard lectures on black holes of the universe, the Book
of Kells, “Mad” King Ludwig of Bavaria, Saul Steinberg, and the
Wright Brothers’ Kitty Hawk flight. During 1979, some 56,038
people attended 211 of these special programs.

TOURS

On-site learning experiences are offered to members in art, archi-
tecture, archaeology, history, and the sciences, both at the Smithso-
nian and nearby cultural facilities. Ranging in length from one hour
to two days, these tours appeal to all age groups and interests.
From an excursion to Seventh Avenue designers’ studios in New

Membership and Development / 303
York City with Washington Post fashion editor Nina Hyde, to
behind-the-scenes viewings of the living coral reef and the electron
microscope lab at the National Museum of Natural History, there
were 208 tours during the year. Some 21,000 persons participated
in these programs, which also included visits to the homes of lead-
ing Washington-area architects who discussed their own architec-
tural philosophies; trips to the Barnes Foundation in Merion, Penn-
sylvania; and walking tours in the Washington area—Georgetown,
DuPont Circle, Meridian Hill, Foggy Bottom, and Chevy Chase
Village. One-day excursions to explore the architecture, history,
and art of nearby towns, such as New Castle, Delaware; Water-
ford, Virginia; and Lancaster, Pennsylvania, were also regularly

scheduled.

VOLUNTEER PROGRAM

Some 439 volunteers provided invaluable assistance to the Resident
Associate Program during the year, monitoring special events,
classes, and tours, and performing vital office duties. In June, volun-
teers were feted at a gala reception celebrating “The First Western
States Biennial Exhibition” at the National Collection of Fine Arts.

YOUNG ASSOCIATE AND FAMILY ACTIVITIES

Young Associate and Family Activities provide an opportunity for
young people and family groups from the metropolitan area to
experience museum enrichment programs specially planned to
enhance their enjoyment of the Smithsonian’s vast resources. The
nationally publicized boomerang and kite festivals, held each
spring, attract competitors of all ages, some from distant locales.
Family activities, such as monthly free films and excursions to Fer-
guson Farm, are regular features; and this year, parent/child pro-
gramming was expanded. Some 95 activities were attended by
12,221 people throughout the year. A parent/child magic class and
one featuring the filming of National Zoo animals were among the
most popular of the 84 classes attended by 1,129 students in 4
terms. Other classes explored archaeology, creative dramatics, art
appreciation, and entomology.

304 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Smithsonian Year - 1979
ADMINISTRATION

JOHN F. JAMESON,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION

In Smithsonian Year 1978, it was reported that the Board of Regents
was giving preliminary consideration to the matter of bylaws. At
the September 17, 1979, meeting of the board, bylaws were adopted
to govern the conduct of the Institution’s business. The bylaws
cover the Board of the Regents, its Executive Committee, and other
committees, officers of the Institution, and financial administration.

The Institution’s first Five-Year Prospectus of its plans and ob-
jectives for the period of fiscal years 1980-84 was approved by the
Board of Regents at its January 22, 1979, meeting and subsequently
made available to the Office of Management and Budget, the Con-
gress, and others. An update of this prospectus for the period of
1981-84 was prepared for review by the board at its September 17
meeting.

Further reorganization of the Institution’s administrative and sup-
port activities during the year resulted in the assignment of the
offices of Computer Services, Contracts, Printing and Photographic
Services, Programming and Budget, Supply Services, and Travel
Services to the assistant secretary for Administration, joining the
Equal Opportunity, Management Analysis, and Personnel Admin-
istration offices already assigned. A new coordinating Office of
Facilities Services, headed by Tom L. Peyton, Jr., was established,
with responsibility for strengthening the management of construc-
tion projects and for overseeing protection, health, safety, and plant
services operations. Facilities Services includes the offices of Facil-
ities Planning and Engineering Services, Plant Services, and Protec-
tion Services.

305
Administrative and Support Activities

During the past year, significant improvements were made to pro-
vide timely administrative support for the Institution. Some high-
lights follow.

The Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 has had a major effect
upon the activities of the Office of Personnel Administration. By
the end of fiscal year 1979, policies and procedures for probationary
periods for newly appointed managers had been established. A plan
for appraisal of the performance of senior Smithsonian executives
was developed for use in fiscal year 1980. Implementation of other
provisions of the act is well under way and is due for completion by
October 1981. A comprehensive review of both the Civil Service and
trust-fund personnel systems is also being conducted to assure that
changes brought about by the act are fully integrated into the Civil
Service system and are compatible with the trust-fund system. The
office participated with the Accounting and Computer Services
offices in planning and developing a unified personnel/payroll sys-
tem. In an effort to enhance the environment of the Personnel Office
and to provide better employment services to the public, the em-
ployment office was renovated in period motif in keeping with the
Victorian era of the Arts and Industries Building. The new office
opened to the public in August 1979.

In the Office of Equal Opportunity, efforts to improve accessi-
bility for handicapped visitors to Smithsonian programs and activ-
ities have been enhanced through the employment of a new staff
member assigned to develop, coordinate, and implement an Institu-
tion-wide accessibility plan. Improvements for vision- and hearing-
impaired visitors have been made in anumber of programs, including
the installation of exhibit labels in simplified English as well as the
use of such special equipment as teletype systems, clamp-on mirrors,
building models, and braille reading machines. A new coordinator
of cooperative education was employed during the year in an effort
to bring the Institution’s employee profile into closer alignment
with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended. This new
work/study program, in collaboration with colleges and universities,
is now under active development as part of the Institution-wide
affirmative-action program. Other important affirmative-action pro-

306 / Smithsonian Year 1979
grams for women, Hispanics, and for upward mobility continued
to be emphasized during the year.

The Office of Programming and Budget worked closely with all
operating and managerial levels in the development and justification
of budgets to the Board of Regents, the President’s Office of Man-
agement and Budget, and to Congress. A significant improvement
was made in the format and content of the budget to the Congress
by showing comprehensive information on all sources of funds
available for each operating organization and program. This im-
provement should result in significantly enhanced understanding of
the Institution’s financial resources and the ways in which they are
used. During the year, expenditures and staffing plans for some
seventy organizational units were closely monitored in relation to
their established budgets. The Institution was able to meet higher
utilities costs without significant disruption in operating programs.
The office continued to develop new ways to use the computer for
the storage and retrieval of budget data, including refinements in
the system to monitor and project personnel costs, the largest area
of Institution expense.

The Office of Computer Services continued to respond to increas-
ing demands for automatic data-processing services in all areas of
Institutional operations. Approximately 125 researchers now receive
assistance in mathematical and statistical applications yearly, many
of them taking advantage of the interactive processing capability
afforded by the present computer.

The Management Analysis Office continued to improve the In-
stitution’s policies and directives system and to focus on completion
of the forms inventory in anticipation of issuing a catalogue next
year.

The Office of Supply Services planned and installed word-proc-
essing equipment to facilitate preparation of procurement and con-
tract documents, to transmit purchasing data electronically for
computer and accounting records, to prepare reports required by
law and regulation, and to simplify preparation of instructional
handouts. This equipment will proivde data to the new accounts-
payable system being developed by the Accounting Office.

In the Office of Printing and Photographic Services, increased
emphasis was placed on custom laboratory processing for exhibits,
research, collections management, and publications. Microfilming

Administration / 307
was eliminated during the year, and the Government Printing Office
Print Shop was phased out and replaced through the purchase of
new phototype equipment. An inventory of nitrate films and nega-
tives was completed as an initial step in the plans to eliminate the
hazard posed by their combustible condition.

Support offered by the Travel Services Office, in addition to pro-
viding official travel services to the staff during the year, included
arrangements for approximately 250 people from around the world
to attend the Tenth International Congress of Anthropological and
Ethnological Sciences in New Delhi. In addition, the Travel Office
arranged for Latin American scholars to attend Washington meet-
ings on the Economic Stabilization Programs in Latin America and
for several prominent American writers to attend the Soviet-Amer-
ican Writers Conference in Moscow.

In the Office of Facilities Planning and Engineering Services,
major projects during the year included assistance in the develop-
ment of the South Quadrangle and the proposed Museum Support
Center to be located in Silver Hill, Maryland; and design and con-
struction of a new maintenance building for the Chesapeake Bay
Center for Environmental Studies, a dormitory for visiting scientists
at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama, and an
annex to link the 1.5-meter and 0.6-meter telescopes at Mt. Hopkins,
Arizona, for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Major
emphasis continued to be placed on improvements to make all
Smithsonian buildings fully accessible to handicapped visitors and
staff. Projects under way include a number of museum entrance
and restroom modifications, as well as modifications in the Hirsh-
horn Sculpture Garden.

Energy conservation continues to be an important objective of
the Office of Plant Services. Its energy-program efforts resulted in
a cost avoidance of nearly $435,000 in utilities expenditures during
the last year. In addition, the Smithsonian played a large role in the
cultural community’s successful efforts to obtain an exemption from
the federal temperature restrictions for collections areas of museums,
archives, and art galleries across the nation, helping to protect and
preserve fragile and irreplaceable artistic works, cultural artifacts,
and scientific specimens. Also during the year, the Institution re-
vitalized its energy program, established some five years earlier, by
the creation of a Smithsonian-wide energy-conservation task force,

308 / Smithsonian Year 1979
with an assignment to develop further energy-saving measures in all
museums and facilities. Ongoing conservation measures through-
out the Institution included reducing lighting levels in work spaces
and, wherever possible, in public areas; operating heating and air-
conditioning systems at the minimum levels required to prevent
damage to the collections; shutting down fans and other heavy con-
sumers of electricity during nonpublic hours; phasing major air-
conditioning systems into operation to keep the peak demand rates
to a minimum; and, where possible, retrofitting utilities-distribution
equipment to improve energy efficiency.

A number of programs already initiated by the Office of Protec-
tion Services continued throughout the reporting period, including
safety inspection and accident prevention programs, as well as oc-
cupational safety and health surveys and fire-prevention inspec-
tions. Progress continued toward completing the planned conversion
from a leased security and fire protection system to an Institution-
owned and -controlled system. New procedures were implemented
during the year to identify, monitor, and correct all areas within the
Institution containing asbestos, in order to eliminate any potential
safety hazard. Security services provided to the entire museum com-
munity included the formulation of a museum security checklist
for the International Council of Museums (in conjunction with the
National Museums of Canada) and the organization of a workshop
on museum security for the American Association of Museums.

Financial Management Activities

On June 30, 1979, Mr. T. Ames Wheeler retired as treasurer after
overseeing eleven years of modernization and expansion of the In-
stitution’s financial, accounting, and business-management activ-
ities. Mr. Christian C. Hohenlohe, who has been with the Institution
for eight years, and had served most recently as assistant treasurer,
was appointed by the Board of Regents as treasurer, effective July 1.

The firm of Coopers and Lybrand was selected by the Executive
Committee of the Board of Regents to conduct the annual audit of
the Institution’s nonappropriated funds beginning with fiscal year
1979. Coopers and Lybrand replaces the firm of Peat, Marwick,

Administration / 309
Mitchell & Co., which has served the Institution with diligence and
proficiency for over thirty years.

Improvements continued to be made in accounting and related
areas of financial management. Following an extensive review of the
Institution’s banking practices coordinated by the Investment Ac-
counting Division, a manual is being prepared detailing appropriate
banking procedures. In recognition of the need for cooperative
management of limited computer resources, a review group on auto-
matic data-processing priorities has been established to review and
set priorities for computerizing the operations of accounting,
budgeting, personnel and payroll, and financial and statistical re-
porting. Progress in providing more comprehensive support of
financial operations was realized with the establishment of a second
accounting service unit. These service units, located in various
museum buildings and equipped with a computer terminal, make
accounting services more accessible to the bureaus and expedite
payments and other accounting operations.

Risk-management studies that analyze and identify the potential
for financial loss were conducted in the following areas: Smithso-
nian activities outside the United States, publishing activities, use
of domestic watercraft, and the protection and preservation of
Smithsonian collections included in traveling exhibitions. In addi-
tion, a brochure was designed and prepared by the Office of Grants
and Risk Management to increase understanding and awareness of
employee benefits available to trust-fund staff.

Technical training seminars in timekeeping, payables, travel
vouchers, and financial reporting were offered to more than 400
administrative and clerical employees of the Institution by the Ac-
counting Office. In addition, the Office of Grants and Risk Manage-
ment participated extensively in a series of workshops developed
by the Office of Museum Programs for museum professionals
throughout the country.

The continuing success of the Institution’s Museum Shops unit
was evidenced in 1979 by an 11-percent increase in sales. Important
to this growth were the creative, eyecatching displays that brought
to the Institution a second award in international competition. The
highly successful annual seminar for museum-shop personnel at-
tracted managers from Sweden and France, as well as from many
parts of the United States.

310 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Strong sales growth was also experienced by the Mail Order
Division. The handsome 40-page fall catalogue produced a 21-per-
cent sales increase over 1978, while the 24-page spring catalogue
doubled the volume of sales realized by the previous year’s cata-
logue. The modern warehouse facility in suburban Virginia that
houses the mail-order fulfillment operation has been furnished with
electronic and materials-handling equipment, further enhancing the
prompt and efficient processing of orders.

The Belmont Conference Center, a 240-year-old manor house
surrounded by 365 acres of lawns, forests, and fields, offers an
attractive, secluded conference site for the needs of small groups.
Located between the District of Columbia and Baltimore, near Inter-
state 95, Belmont can accommodate twenty-five in-house residents,
with facilities for meals and meeting sessions for ten to twelve
additional participants. The center’s limited size ensures that each
conference has the undivided attention of the entire staff, as well as
the opportunity for unusually close interaction within the meeting
group in an atmosphere unencumbered by the normal intrusions
associated with offices. Of the 80 or so meetings that Belmont hosts
in a year, approximately 60 percent are from federally funded
agencies; the balance includes those from foundations, universities,
and other philanthropic organizations, as well as private industry.

Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities

The Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council continued with long-
range planning for career-oriented training during the year. Special-
interest activities included a lecture by Gloria Steinem, Woodrow
Wilson Scholar (1977-78), entitled ““The Women’s Movement To-
day,” as well as “open forums” that were designed to acquaint a
larger segment of the Smithsonian work force with the programs
of the Women’s Council. The council was represented at the Na-
tional Training Conference of Federally Employed Women, in
Seattle, Washington, and several other council members par-
ticipated in local training conferences during the year.

Administration / 311
The Tiller in the Fields, created by Anthony Tudor for the American Ballet Theatre,
the Kennedy Center’s official company, had its world premiere on April 13, 1979,
and featured Patrick Bissel and Gelsey Kirkland. (Photo by Jack Buxbaum.)

Smithsonian Year 1979

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

ROGER L. STEVENS, CHAIRMAN

THE JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER for the Performing Arts was established
in 1958 by an Act of Congress as the National Cultural Center and
designated in 1964 as a living memorial to the late President Ken-
nedy. As a national showcase for the performing arts, the Kennedy
Center’s artistic, educational, and broad public-service programming
is focused on the cultural enrichment of the entire country.

The John F. Kennedy Center Act clearly presents the duties and
responsibilities to be carried out by its Board of Trustees:

1. present classical and contemporary music, opera, drama,
dance, and poetry from this and other countries;

2. present lectures and other programs;

3. develop programs for children, youth, and the elderly (and
for other age groups as well), in such arts, designed specifically
for their participation, education, recreation; and

4. provide facilities for other civic activities.

Since 1971, more than 8,000 performances have been presented
to an audience of nearly 13 million. With virtually no federal sup-
port for its artistic operations, the center’s first years of operation
focused principally on the presentation of outstanding performing-
arts programming and as a result achieved financial stability and
attracted audiences that exceeded 80 percent of the capacity of the
center’s houses.

The Kennedy Center’s preeminent success as a performing-arts
facility—both artistically and financially—has enabled it to attract
substantial private gifts to further fulfill its broad artistic and

313
public-service mandate. Over the past several years, therefore, the
center has sought particularly to expand its commitment to the
future of the performing arts in America and to serve as a catalyst
for the development of new audiences, new works, and talent
across the nation.

Thus, while it has immeasurably enriched the cultural life of
Washington, the Kennedy Center’s programs and presentations
have drawn millions of audience members of all ages from through-
out the country. It has not only presented outstanding performing-
arts groups from across America but also secured private contribu-
tions to nurture young playwrights, discover talented musicians,
and involve thousands of young people in the creative experiences
of the performing arts. As a living memorial that has hosted thirty-
five million visitors, it has served well the late President Kennedy’s
dedication to the cultural enrichment of America and its people.

Performing-Arts Programming

During the 1978-79 season, 1,280 performances were presented in
the Opera House, Concert Hall, and Eisenhower and Terrace Thea-
ters, and audience attendance exceeded 1.5 million. In addition, the
American Film Institute (arr) presented more than 700 films to an
audience of 92,000 in the arr Theater.

DRAMA AND MUSICAL COMEDY

During 1978-79, some 600,000 theatergoers attended 652 perform-
ances of 33 productions. The drama season in the Eisenhower
Theater included Howard Sackler’s Semmelweiss, starring Colin
Blakeley; Arthur Kopit’s Wings, directed by John Madden and
starring Constance Cummings; the National Theatre Company of
Great Britain’s production of Alan Ayckbourn’s Bedroom Farce;
D. L. Coburn’s The Gin Game, starring Jessica Tandy and Hume
Cronyn; the Comédie Frangaise repertory presentation of Victor
Hugo’s Ruy Blas, Feydeau’s La Puce a l’Oreille, and Moliére’s Le
Misanthrope; Home and Beauty, by W. Somerset Maugham, star-
ring Rosemary Harris and directed by José Ferrer; and Ira Levin’s
play Deathtrap, starring Brian Bedford.

In the Terrace Theater (Japan’s gift to the people of the United

314 / Smithsonian Year 1979
States, which opened in January of 1979), thirteen dramatic offer-
ings were presented. Among the productions were Albee Directs
Albee; the first Theatre of the Americas festival, which presented
Macunaima, by the Grupo Pau-Brasil; La Diva, by the Theatre
d’Aujourd’hui of Montreal; Cudntos Afios Tiene un Dia? by Chile’s
Grupo Ictus Theatre Company; An Exhibition of Images: The Little
Elephant is Dead, with Japan’s Kobo Abe Theatre; Glory Van
Scott’s musical exploration of the life of the slave Sojourner Truth,
Miss Truth; Dylan Thomas Growing Up, starring Emlyn Williams;
and the British-American Repertory Company’s American premiere
of Tom Stoppard’s Dogg’s Hamlet, Cahoot’s Macbeth.

The season’s musicals in the Opera House included a revival of
Whoopee, starring Charles Repole; Carmelina, by Joseph Stein,
Alan Jay Lerner, and Burton Lane, starring Georgia Brown; and
major revivals of Peter Pan, starring Sandy Duncan, and Rodgers
and Hammerstein’s Oklahoma!, directed by William Hammerstein.
Tom Stoppard’s “play for actors and orchestra” Every Good Boy
Deserves Favour was presented in the Concert Hall for a return
engagement featuring Eli Wallach and Reneé Auberjonois.

Finally, the Grand Kabuki of the National Theatre of Japan ap-
peared at the Kennedy Center with generous support from the
Japan Foundation to present Shunkan and Renjishi with featured
performer Nakamura Kanzaburo XVII.

Since 1971, some 135 theatrical productions have been presented
at the center. Of these, 80 have been produced, coproduced, or made
possible by the center itself.

DANCE

During the 1978-79 season, the Kennedy Center presented 127
performances of ballet by the American Ballet Theatre, the New
York City Ballet, Ballet Nacional de Cuba, and the Stuttgart Ballet.

American Ballet Theatre, the Kennedy Center’s official company,
appeared in two engagements totaling seven weeks. Highlights in-
cluded the world premiere of Anthony Tudor’s The Tiller in the
Fields and Washington premieres of the company’s production of
Balanchine’s Theme and Variations; Birgit Cullberg’s Miss Julie;
and Glen Tetley’s Pierrot Lunaire and Contredances, the latter
danced by Natalia Makarova and Anthony Dowell, for whom the
ballet was created. The American Ballet Theatre repertory also in-

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 315
cluded return engagements of Mikhail Baryshnikov’s full-length
ballets Don Quixote (or Kitri’s Wedding) and the Nutcracker, each
of which had its world premiere at the Kennedy Center.

New York City Ballet’s sixth Kennedy Center engagement fea-
tured eighteen ballets, including five Washington premieres: Tri-
colore from the Entente Cordiale; Harlequinade; Prodigal Son; The
Four Seasons; and Jerome Robbins’s Interplay.

The Ballet Nacional de Cuba and Stuttgart Ballet made return
engagements to the United States through a continuing dance
partnership between the Kennedy Center and the Metropolitan
Opera designed to facilitate American appearances by major foreign
companies. The summer engagement by the Ballet Nacional de
Cuba, under the direction of Prima Ballerina Alicia Alonso, marked
the second American appearance by the company. The Cuban
Ballet’s first appearance at the Kennedy Center in 1978 marked the
first major cultural exchange between Cuba and the United States
in more than seventeen years. The company’s repertory in Washing-
ton included twenty-two ballets, six of these American premieres,
reflecting both traditional ballets of international scope and new
works founded on Latin American themes.

The Stuttgart Ballet returned for its seventh visit to the United
States, bringing four works for their American premieres, most
notably John Neumeier’s Lady of the Camellias set to music by
Frederic Chopin, which highlighted the Kennedy Center’s festival,
“Paris: The Romantic Epoch.”

The Washington Performing Arts Society, a Kennedy Center
affiliate, presented the eighth center engagement of the Alvin Ailey
City Center Dance Theater and folk dance troupes from Yugoslavia,
Bulgaria, Mexico, and the Soviet Union.

MUSIC

The 1978-79 music season was particularly reflective of the center’s
commitment to present the highest quality of music from America
as well as other countries. Through the combined efforts of the
center, its resident orchestra (the National Symphony), its affiliates,
and independent producers, the season included 128 symphony
concerts, 73 opera performances, 34 recitals, 25 choral concerts, 31
concerts of chamber music, and 60 concerts of popular, folk, and
jazz music.

316 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Kennedy Center affiliates, the Washington Performing Arts So-
ciety, and the Washington Opera, along with the National Sym-
phony, operate within the center under separate administrations.
The Washington Performing Arts Society presented more than
70 concerts at the center, including performances by 25 major
symphony and chamber orchestras and such recital artists as André
Watts, featured in a celebration of Schubert; Luciano Pavarotti;
Frederica von Stade; and Lazar Berman.

The National Symphony, under the musical direction of Maestro
Mstislav Rostropovich, performed 133 concerts to audiences of
nearly 350,000. In addition, America’s greatest orchestras were
presented at the center: the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Boston
Symphony Orchestra, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Milwaukee
Symphony, the New York Philharmonic, the Detroit Symphony,
and the Los Angeles Philharmonic.

During May 1979, the center presented its ninth major music
festival, “Paris: The Romantic Epoch,” highlighting the exciting
achievements in dance, theater, the visual arts, and music focused
in Paris during the years between 1820 and 1850. The Oratorio
Society of Washington, the National Symphony, Choral Arts So-
ciety, the Paul Hill Chorale, American Film Institute, Performing
Arts Library, and National Gallery of Art all produced special
programs and exhibits as part of the festival.

Visits by three major companies from abroad—the Orchestre de
Paris, the Comédie Francaise, and the Stuttgart Ballet—formed the
core for the Romantic music, theater, and dance celebrated by the
festival. Under the direction of Daniel Barenboim, the Orchestre de
Paris and its chorus presented all of the great choral works of
Hector Berlioz: Damnation de Faust, Requiem, and Roméo et
Juliette.

The center’s operatic season was particularly rich. In addition to
Washington Opera productions of I Capuleti ed Montecchi, La
Traviata, and Cendrillon, the annual center engagement of the New
York City Opera featured productions of Dido and Aeneas, The
Daughter of the Regiment, Carmen, Manon, Faust, and The Turk in
Italy, a gala performance of which marked Beverly Sills’s last Wash-
ington appearance with the New York City Opera before assuming
directorship of the company.

During the summer, the center presented a first season of cham-

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 317
ber opera in collaboration with the Washington Opera. An en-
semble of young performers who had appeared with America’s
leading companies was assembled for four operas ideally suited to
the size and intimacy of the new Terrace Theater: Wolfgang Ame-
deus Mozart’s The Impressario and Carl Maria von Weber’s Abu
Hassan, joined in a new presentation by librettist Hugh Wheeler;
Dominick Argento’s Postcard from Morocco; Christopher Colum-
bus, with music of Offenbach set to a new libretto by Don White;
and Donizetti’s I] Furioso all'Isola di San Domingo, presented in a
complete and authentic version for the first time in America in over
a century.

The center’s third Handel Festival, directed by Stephen Simon,
featured a concert-staging of one of the most popular of Handel’s
operas, Giulio Cesare, and the oratorios Semele and Jephtha.

FILM

Since its opening in April 1973, the American Film Institute Theater
has shown more than 3,000 motion pictures to an audience num-
bering almost 700,000. Programming selections have reflected the
entire span of the development of film as art and industry. Many
selections, particularly of pre-1942 motion pictures, are made
possible for audience viewing only by virtue of ari’s film-preserva-
tion program.

Among the series presented by the ari during the 1978-79 season
were tributes to directors Vincente Minnelli, Leo McCarey, Sam
Fuller, Werner Hochbaum, and Norman McLaren; retrospectives of
Hollywood stars Jean Arthur, Rosalind Russell, William Powell,
Astaire and Rogers, and Paul Newman; new cinema from Israel,
Greece, and Yugoslavia; classic cinema from Italy and Germany;
lecture programs on musical theater and film and on the French
director Robert Bresson; thematic series focused on such topics as
“Show Biz,” “The War Years,” America’s fascination with trains
(“Romance of the Rails’), and the law (“Disorder in the Court”).

In February 1979, the arr launched a complete retrospective of
the works of French filmmaker and critic Francois Truffaut, with
Truffaut appearing in person in the Eisenhower Theater with his
most recent film, Love on the Run. The six-week program included
all of his own films, plus several dozen others that he admired as
a critic.

318 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Educational/Public-Service Programming

The Kennedy Center’s authorizing legislation, which established it
as the National Cultural Center, mandates a broad range of per-
forming-arts, educational, and public-service programming. The
center's responsibilities and concerns in carrying out its congres-
sionally mandated activities focus not only on the nation’s capital
but extend across the country through a wide variety of outreach
efforts, particularly through the center’s Education Programs. Over
the past year, the center has continued to expand the entire range
of its public-service and educational efforts in order to stimulate
both local and national interest in the performing arts.

EDUCATION PROGRAMS

As the National Cultural Center, the Kennedy Center bears a
specific congressional mandate to serve children and youth. Toward
this end, the center’s Education Programs are committed to cooper-
ating with other cultural centers around the country in developing
model arts-education projects and providing a national focus for
quality performing-arts programming for young people.

The Kennedy Center’s Education Program is committed to inte-
grating the arts with the educational experience of every child. As
one essential part of its national commitment, the Kennedy Center’s
Education Program works closely with the National Committee,
Arts for the Handicapped, an educational affiliate of the Kennedy
Center. The center seeks, therefore, at both the national and state
level, to identify and support exemplary arts-education programs
and to promote greater cooperation between arts organizations and
educational institutions.

Kennedy Center Education Programs include four major com-
ponents: the Alliance for Arts Education; the American College
Theatre Festival; Programs for Children and Youth; and a newly
implemented pilot Regional Cultural Center cooperative arts-edu-
cation project for the Pacific Northwest—Arts Coalition—Northwest.
Each element is integrated with a national outreach network de-
veloped through the Alliance for Arts Education (AAE), a coopera-
tive effort of the center and the United States Office of Education.
In this way, the four broad program areas help to determine the
presence of the arts in education in virtually every state in the
country.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 319
THE ALLIANCE FOR ARTS EDUCATION

The National Alliance for Arts Education’s state network assists
state AAE committees in providing technical assistance in planning
and implementation of comprehensive arts-in-education programs.
Technical assistance includes monitoring progress; convening meet-
ings, conferences, and workshops; developing advocacy programs;
providing in-service programs to arts-education demonstration
sites; identifying community arts resources; developing curriculum
materials; and implementing cooperative programming using exist-
ing state and local resources. Thus far, arts-in-education plans have
been developed in more than forty states, and a nationwide com-
munications network has been established to monitor model arts-
education projects and relevant legislation.

During the past year, ten regional conferences were organized,
funded, and implemented by the national aart. Agenda topics ranged
from strengthening communication networks between model arts-
education programs in state and local projects to handling specific
challenges on the community and state levels. During October 1979,
a National Summit Conference on Arts Education was held at the
Kennedy Center, bringing together state aaet chairpersons, chief
state school officers, and other national leaders in the fields of the
arts and arts education. Speakers included Mrs. Joan Mondale and
Senators Edward Kennedy and Charles Percy.

AMERICAN COLLEGE THEATRE FESTIVAL

The American College Theatre Festival (actF) is presented annually
by.the Kennedy Center and the Alliance for Arts Education and
serves to provide national recognition of the efforts of college and
university theaters throughout the United States. During the
eleventh actF (1978-79), more than 12,500 students and 2,200
faculty members from over 400 schools participated in the program.
Their productions across the country drew audiences of more than
2 million.

The festival seeks to encourage new styles of theatrical presenta-
tion and new methods of staging, new approaches to the classics,
new plays by young writers, and revivals of important plays of the
past, as well as excellence of total production—acting, directing,
design, and writing.

320 / Smithsonian Year 1979
New York City Ballet principal Jacques d’Amboise was commissioned by the Ken-
nedy Center and its educational affiliate, the National Committee, Arts for the
Handicapped, to create a new work for the National Children’s Arts Festival known
as “Imagination Celebration.” An Encounter with Dance was performed by
d’Amboise and his young company of deaf boys in Washington, Chicago, and
Seattle. Below. The Kennedy Center Honors recognize life achievement in the per-
forming arts. Richard Rodgers, Fred Astaire, Marian Anderson, George Balanchine,
and Arthur Rubinstein were the first outstanding artists chosen by the Trustees of
the National Cultural Center and honored at the White House for their contribu-
tions to America’s cultural life. (Photo by Richard Braaten.)

Ce |

ie meena canis item
é

a4
tee

Nearly seventy productions were presented in thirteen regional
festivals. Of these, eight were chosen for showcase presentation at
the Kennedy Center’s new Terrace Theater: Look Back in Anger,
Wright State University, Dayton, Ohio; Five by Beckett, University
of Maryland, Baltimore County; Waiting for the Feeling, Brandeis
University, Waltham, Massachusetts; And They Dance Real Slow
in Jackson, Hanover College, Hanover, Indiana; The Authentic Life
of Billy the Kid, University of Iowa, lowa City; Summer of the
Seventeenth Doll, Hofstra University, Hempstead, New York; En-
dangered Species, uctA, Los Angeles, California; and Luann Hamp-
ton Laverty Oberlander, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida.

The festival program includes a series of annual awards for indi-
vidual excellence. Winners during the 1978-79 season were: Lee
Blessing, University of Iowa—National Student Playwriting Award
for The Authentic Life of Billy the Kid; Peter Baloff, University of
Florida—Norman Lear Award for the best student-written comedy,
Barnum and the Mermaid; Richard Russell, San José State Univer-
sity, and Daniel Du Plantis, winners of the Lorraine Hansberry
Award for American Chalk Circle and Throw Me Something, Mr.
God, awarded for the best plays on the black experience in America;
Peter Baloff, University of Florida—David Library of the American
Revolution Award for the best original play on American freedom,
Barnum and the Mermaid; Gerard W. Pauwels, Indiana University,
ActF-Critics’ Institute Scholarship; and the recipients of the AcTF
Awards for Theatrical Design Excellence—William Buckingham,
University of Minnesota (Set Design) and Jeffrey Ross Struckman,
Webster College (Costume Design). Winners of the Irene Ryan
Winners’ Circle Evening of Scenes Scholarships were Sharon Rolf
of the University of Evansville and Larry LoVerde of Rhode Island
College. Thirteen Irene Ryan Scholarships were also awarded to
student actors on the regional level.

The festival, sponsored by the Amoco campanies and the
Kennedy Center’s Corporate Fund, is produced by the University
and College Theatre Association for the American Theatre Associa-
tion.

PROGRAMS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH

The commitment of the center’s Education Programs to quality per-
forming-arts programming for young people is clearly expressed in

322 / Smithsonian Year 1979
the goals of its Programs for Children and Youth: to support arts-
education programs in the schools through the medium of perform-
ance and to provide a variety of quality performances to school
groups and general audiences. Along with the development and
presentation of performances for young people, materials are pro-
vided for audiences and teachers by the staff of Programs for
Children and Youth in order to help integrate the performance ex-
perience into the students’ overall education. During 1978-79, Pro-
grams for Children and Youth presented nearly 300 performances
and related events for an audience of over 100,000 young people in
Washington, D.C., and cities around the country.

The Programs for Children and Youth produces a children’s per-
forming-arts series at the Kennedy Center during the spring and
fall seasons. The model series features professional companies from
all parts of the country, which perform for young people. This past
year, nearly seventy culturally diverse performances of theater,
dance, mime, music, and puppetry were presented. Featured per-
forming groups included A Contemporary Theatre from Seattle,
Washington; the Southern Educational Theatre from Biloxi, Missis-
sippi; and the Chuck Davis Dance Company from New York City.

Coordinated teacher-workshops, focusing on such topics as
“Teaching Performing Arts for the Hearing-impaired” and “Poetry
and the Black Experience,” drew more than 1,000 teachers. A School
Residency Program enabled selected artists appearing in the Chil-
dren’s Arts Series to perform and teach in local schools.

The Children’s Arts Series provides a model performance pro-
gram that can be replicated in other performing-arts centers around
the country and develops teaching materials that enhance the arts-
education curriculum in schools throughout the country.

The Programs for Children and Youth’s annual National Chil-
dren’s Arts Festival, “Imagination Celebration,” not only provides
a model for performing-arts festivals but enables the Kennedy
Center to contribute to the development of new works, to involve
noted artists in performing for young people, and to serve as a
catalyst for the development of children’s arts festivals around the
country. Denver, Chicago, and Seattle have already mounted their
own “Imagination Celebrations,” with technical assistance and
core productions from the Kennedy Center. Atlanta and Phoenix
will participate in 1980.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 323
“Imagination Celebration 1979’’"—presented at the Kennedy Cen-
ter and in Chicago and Seattle—opened with a gala performance
celebrating the importance of imagination in the lives of young
people. New York City Ballet principal dancer Jacques d’Amboise
received the second annual Kennedy Center “Award for Excellence”
in programming for young people for his work with young deaf
boys in creating and performing An Encounter with Dance.

“Imagination Celebration 1979” also featured New York City
Opera Theatre’s The Toy Shop; Joy, a musical tribute to Duke
Ellington, with Leon Bibb and Stan Keen, commissioned by the
Kennedy Center for the festival; the Empire State Theatre for
Youth’s Kabuki production of The Sleeping Beauty; and the Atlanta
Children’s Theatre’s The World of Folktales.

In Chicago, DePaul University hosted the city’s first ‘Imagination
Celebration,” featuring two new works commissioned by the Ken-
nedy Center, An Encounter with Dance with Jacques d’Amboise
and Joy. These well-known performers were joined by nineteen
Chicago performing groups and enjoyed by over 25,000 children,
parents, and teachers in a week-long celebration.

In Seattle, the entire facility of the Seattle Center, along with
twenty-three schools, hosted a ten-day festival that featured forty
Seattle productions, sixty performances, and hundreds of related
events, as well as the two Kennedy Center-commissioned produc-
tions that were brought to the city to serve as a catalyst for the
West Coast’s first “Imagination Celebration.” More than 25,000
people attended more than forty performances that focused the
attention of the entire city on the importance of the performing
arts in the lives of young people.

The Programs for Children and Youth was supported during the
1978-79 season with generous assistance from the Kennedy Center
Corporate Fund and with grants from the McDonald’s Corporation
(for “Imagination Celebration” outreach activities) and from the
Mobil Foundation, Inc. (for the School Residency Program).

Special performances were also presented in the Grand Foyer
throughout the year by student artist ensembles from the states of
Georgia, Michigan, Massachusetts, West Virginia, Texas, Connecti-
cut, New York, and Pennsylvania. Nearly 4,000 visitors to the
center attended free concert programs.

324 / Smithsonian Year 1979
SPEGIALLY PRICED TICKETS

Since its opening in September 1971, the Kennedy Center has main-
tained a Specially Priced Ticket Program through which tickets for
center-presented attractions are made available at half price to
students, the handicapped, citizens over the age of sixty-five, low-
income groups, and military personnel in grades E-1 through E-4.
The attendant costs, in terms of reduced revenue potential and
administrative overhead, are borne by the center itself and are
viewed as a part of its educational/ public-service responsibility.

During the twelve-month period ending September 30, 1979,
some 98,522 tickets for center-produced or -presented attractions
were sold at half price through the Specially Priced Ticket Program.
The sale of these tickets at full price would have resulted in an
additional gross income to the center of $417,259.

The center also requires that affiliate organizations and independ-
ent producers participate in the program by making a percentage
of their tickets available for sale at half price. During the twelve-
month period ending September 30, 1979, combined half-price
ticket sales for center-produced or -presented attractions and those
of affiliate organizations and independent producers totalled
114,925. The sale of these tickets at full price would have resulted
in a total additional gross income of $763,477 to the center, its
affiliates, and independent producers.

PUBLIC-SERVICE PROGRAMMING

The Kennedy Center is charged by Congress with wide-ranging
responsibilities for performing arts, public service, and educational
programming. During 1978-79, the center allocated more than $2
million, raised from private sources, to support its extensive chil-
dren’s arts programming and hundreds of free events, including
special performances, symposia, lectures, and exhibits.

During the past year, 426 free public-service events were pre-
sented at Kennedy Center, of which 363 were sponsored by the
center itself and 63 by affiliated and other public-service organiza-
tions. Audience attendance totalled 219,000.

Presentation of free public-service events at the center itself was
curtailed somewhat by major repairs that have been carried out
during the past year, particularly interior renovation of the Grand

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 325
Foyer and repair of the Roof Terrace above the Grand Foyer. Use of
the theaters during daylight hours, except for regularly scheduled
matinee performances, was also adversely affected. To offset these
limitations, greater efforts were invested in national “outreach”
programs.

Repairs to the center are now complete, and it is expected that
the numbers of free performances and public-service events, par-
ticularly those that utilize the Grand Foyer to reach large visitor
audiences, will be restored in the coming months to levels estab-
lished in previous years.

The completion of the Terrace Theater complex, which includes
the Performing Arts Library, the Musical Theatre Lab, and offices
for the center’s Education Programs, has greatly enhanced the
center’s efforts in all areas of its public-service programming, in-
cluding the development of new talent and works.

Young performers from the Duke Ellington School for the
Arts presented Puttin’ on the Mask, featuring the music of W. C.
Handy, in the Musical Theatre Lab. All performances were free of
charge to the public. A total of seven theater companies, five from
Latin America and two from Canada, were presented in the first
multilingual hemispheric theater festival in the Terrace Theater
and Musical Theatre Lab.

Free performances in the Lab included the Factory Theatre Lab of
Toronto’s production of Lucky Strike; Teatro de Los Buenos
Ayres’s production, Historias para Ser Contadas; Teatro Taller de
Colombia’s Los Amigos de Candelita; and the Teatro Repertorio
Unam of Mexico’s Lastima Que Sea Puta.

The center annually hosts the Kennedy Center-Rockefeller Foun-
dation International Competitions for the Performance of American
Music and the Friedheim Awards for musical composition. Semi-
finalist and finalist recitals for these competitions are open to the
public free of charge. National radio broadcast of the concerts en-
ables an enormous audience across the country to appreciate and
enjoy the discovery and recognition of important young talent.

The center’s 1978 Holiday Festival included eleven special per-
formances for all age groups. The festival’s highlight was again the
Messiah Sing-Along, which drew a capacity house and full audience
participation.

Free weekly performing-arts symposia are coordinated and pro-

326 / Smithsonian Year 1979
grammed by the Friends of the Kennedy Center, the center’s aux-
iliary volunteer organization, and feature many of the artists ap-
pearing at the center and at other theaters in the Washington area.
Among the participants during the last year were Carol Channing,
Arthur Kopit, John Neumeier, and Alec McCowen.

The Friends also coordinate free weekly demonstrations of the
Concert Hall’s Filene Memorial Organ that include recitals by young
organists from around the country. Demonstrations are also pre-
sented periodically in the American Film Institute Theater to illus-
trate the use of organ music for silent-film showings.

Finally, the National Town Meeting Program, sponsored by the
Mobil Oil Corporation, continued to provide a live and radio-
broadcast forum on national issues between citizens and leading
public figures. During the 1978-79 season, thirty-one Town Meet-
ings were held at the center.

FRIENDS OF THE KENNEDY CENTER

In 1966, the Kennedy Center’s Board of Trustees established the
Friends of the Kennedy Center as its nationwide, volunteer, self-
supporting auxiliary. For the past thirteen years, the organization
has met its goal of providing public-service programs and activities
on the center’s behalf through income from memberships and from
the sale of gift and souvenir items.

Friends membership now numbers nearly 8,500, including 290
active volunteers whose combined contribution to the center totalled
more than 65,000 hours during the past year. Friends volunteers
staff the Volunteer Office, an information and assistance center
for visitors and performance-goers, 365 days a year, from 9:00 A.M.
until 9:00 p.m. Volunteer guides provide free tours of the center to
more than 6,000 visitors each day, and for the benefit of foreign
visitors, tours are available in French, German, and Spanish. In
addition, the Friends have prepared tour-script translations in
Dutch, Italian, Hebrew, and Japanese.

The Friends of the Kennedy Center also host a number of special
public-service events throughout the year, including the free weekly
Performing Arts Symposia Series. In April 1979, the Friends spon-
sored the center’s first poetry reading. The noted Russian poet
Andrei Voznesensky read from his volume Nostalgia for the
Present.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 327
During the summer months of 1979, the Friends played special
host to nearly 6,000 4-H members from 41 states. The Friends also
sponsored the Sixth Annual Performing Arts Seminar, in conjunc-
tion with the Theatre School, which enabled over 1,000 high school
and college students to participate in free workshops on theater
training.

Volunteers also aid in the administration of the Specially Priced
Ticket Program, staff souvenir stands, help coordinate special ar-
rangements for the handicapped, assist the center’s mail-order
department, and respond to requests for information from all over
the country.

The Friends work closely with the National Park Service, which
is responsible for maintaining the Kennedy Center as a national
memorial, and, during the past year, the Friends and Park Service
personnel offered information, assistance, and hospitality to more
than four million visitors and performance patrons.

Activities of the Friends are guided by Mrs. Polk Guest, who
has served as chairman since 1968.

MINORITY-AFFAIRS PROGRAMMING

The chairman of the Kennedy Center’s Board of Trustees, Roger L.
Stevens, announced in late 1976 the establishment of a commission
to explore ways in which the center could expand its commitment
to minority participation in all aspects of the performing arts. The
chairman’s National Commission to Expand the Scope and Con-
stituency of Black Participation in the Performing Arts was for-
mally convened in March 1977 and filed its formal report and recom-
mendations to the center’s Board of Trustees two years later, in
March 1979.

The commission’s report, entitled Cultural Diversity and Quality
in the Performing Arts, detailed extensive findings about increasing
minority participation in the performing arts; described more than a
score of projects sponsored by the commission with nearly $600,000
in support made available by the center through its Corporate Fund;
and made eleven major recommendations to the center to further
fulfill the overall objectives the commission had pursued.

Throughout this period, the commission continued to provide
technical assistance to artists and administrators and presented
three recitals at the center at which two commissioned works were

328 / Smithsonian Year 1979
premiered: George Walker’s Sonata No. 2 for Violin and Piano and
Roque Cordero’s Doble Concierto sin Orquesta. Two national
projects undertaken by the commission are still ongoing and are
exemplary of its commitment to encourage new works and young
talent.

An independent Task Force was established to work with the
commission in designing a National Black Theater and Playwright
Project. The Task Force, with the technical assistance of the Ameri-
can Theatre Association, compiled the first comprehensive listing of
black producing theaters in the United States (subsequently pub-
lished by the commission and distributed by the Black Theatre
Alliance) and awarded grants to six black theaters to commission
and help produce new plays: Urban Arts Corps, New York City—
Vinnette Carroll’s But Never Jam Today; amas Repertory Theatre,
New York City—Charles Fuller’s Sparrow in Flight; Dashiki Proj-
ect Theatre, New Orleans—Sharon Martin’s The Moving Viola-
tion; New Freedom Theatre, Philadelphia—Meet Me on Broad
Street; Inner City Cultural Center, Los Angeles—James Bronson’s
The Invasion of Addis Ababa, Alfred Brenner’s The Death of Black
Jesus, and J. D. Hall’s Void Where Prohibited by Law; and Karamu
House, Cleveland—Margaret Ford-Taylor’s Don’t Rock the Boat.

The commission also sponsored the first National Black Music
Colloguium and Competition to identify and assist talented young
minority musicians and to encourage the performance of music
written by America’s black composers. The competition for pianists
and string players is being carried out with the technical assistance
of the National Music Council.

Entrants from twenty-nine states auditioned in Chicago, Los
Angeles, New York City, Atlanta, Houston, and St. Louis. Finalists
in each performance category from the regional auditions will par-
ticipate in the final colloguium and competition to be held in the
Terrace Theater, January 11-18, 1980.

One of the most important recommendations made to the center
by the commission was the establishment of a standing committee
to advise the Trustees of the Kennedy Center on minority affairs
and to monitor continuing commission-sponsored projects. The
center will shortly announce the composition of a National Ad-
visory Committee on Cultural Diversity in the Performing Arts,
which shall begin operation in fiscal year 1980.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 329
The work of the National Commission on Black Participation in
the Performing Arts and the many projects it sponsored were made
possible in large measure by generous support from the center’s
Corporate Fund. The Black Theatre and Playwright Project also
received a grant from the General Foods Corporation.

Members of the commission were: Dr. Archie L. Buffkins, presi-
dent; Kathryn Bloom; Catherine Chance; Shirley Trusty Corey;
Mattiwilda Dobbs; Katherine Dunham; John M. Ehle; Roberta
Flack; James O. Gibson; Denise Hamilton; Jessie Hill; Marvin
Holloway; Fred Hudson; Quincy Jones; Jack Morrison; Bud Schul-
berg; Elie Siegmeister; Ellen Stewart; and Nancy Wilson.

MUSIC AWARDS

The second annual John F. Kennedy Center-Rockefeller Foundation
International Competitions for Excellence in the Performance of
American Music focused on vocal music. Ten semifinalists,
selected from a field of 312 singers from around the world, com-
peted during a week-long series of semifinal and final recitals pre-
sented in the center’s Concert Hall in September. Competition
winners, announced after the final recital on September 15th, were:
First Place—William Parker (Butler, Pennsylvania); Second Place—
Leslie Guinn (Conroe, Texas); and Third Place—Sanford Sylvan
(New York City). The aim of the Kennedy Center-Rockefeller
Foundation competitions is to stimulate the interest of performers,
teachers, and students in the large body of recital music written by
American composers since 1900, in the hope that more of the
heritage of twentieth-century American music may become better
known and that additional compositions will take their place in the
standard repertory. The 1978 competitions were open to pianists
and, in subsequent years, the competitions will be open to instru-
mentalists, pianists, and vocalists on an alternating-year basis. The
competitions are funded by a grant from the Rockefeller Founda-
tion, and winners receive cash prizes and concert and recording
contracts.

The Kennedy Center-Friedheim Awards were established to
recognize outstanding American achievement in the composition
of symphonic and chamber music. The Friedheim Awards Jury is
selected by the Music Critics Association. The 1978 awards were
given for compositions in the symphonic field; in 1979, instrumental

330 / Smithsonian Year 1979
chamber music compositions were judged. Works by the five final-
ists were performed in a public concert on September 16. The first
winners in the chamber music category were: First Place—George
Rochberg (Newton Square, Pennsylvania), for String Quartet No. 4
from The Concord Quartets; Second Place—Claude Baker (Louis-
ville, Kentucky), Banchetto Musicale; Third Place—Claus Adam
(New York, New York), for String Quartet ’75.

The awards honor the late distinguished pianist Arthur Fried-
heim and are partially funded by a grant from the Eric Friedheim
Foundation.

KENNEDY CENTER HONORS

The Kennedy Center Honors Program was conceived in 1978 by
the Board of Trustees of the National Cultural Center as a way in
which the United States as a nation could accord the fullest possible
recognition to its preeminent performing artists. The first recipients
—DMarian Anderson, Fred Astaire, George Balanchine, Richard
Rodgers, and Arthur Rubinstein—were honored at a White House
ceremony and a special performance in the Opera House on De-
cember 3, 1978.

On December 2, 1979, Aaron Copland, Ella Fitzgerald, Henry
Fonda, Martha Graham, and Tennessee Williams will be honored
at a second gala performance in the Opera House for their life
achievements in the performing arts, which have so enriched
American life and culture. The evening’s program, which will fea-
ture many of America’s outstanding artists in salute to the honorees,
will again this year be broadcast on nationwide television on De-
cember 29th.

Terrace Theater

The Terrace Theater, a 513-seat auditorium, opened on January
28, 1979, completing the theater facilities that had been planned
for the Kennedy Center in its original design. The theater was de-
signed and constructed with a $3 million gift from the government
and people of Japan to the people of the United States in com-
memoration of the American Bicentennial.

John FE. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 331
The Terrace Theater was designed by Philip Johnson and John
Burgee to accommodate all of the performing arts—theater, dance,
and music—and has become the home of the center’s children’s
arts programming and the American College Theatre Festival. The
theater’s size, intimacy, and design have facilitated its use for new
and innovative works in all media and added a broad new dimen-
sion to the center’s programming. The Terrace Theater will provide
an appropriate forum for small performing groups and works that
would have been economically unfeasible for presentation on the
center’s major stages. The completion of the Terrace Theater will
provide greatly expanded opportunities for artists and performers
to reach audiences for the future development of new works and
techniques in all areas of the performing arts.

Mrs. Rosalynn Carter, Ambassador Fumihiko Togo, and Chief
of the Japanese Delegation Nobuhiko Ushiba participated in the
opening ceremonies, which were climaxed by a dedicatory dance,
performed by members of Japan’s Grand Kabuki Troupe.

Performing Arts Library

The Performing Arts Library formally opened on March 8, 1979,
the last element in the Terrace Theater complex to be completed.
A joint project of the center and the Library of Congress, the Per-
forming Arts Library serves the reference and information needs
of artists, visitors, and staff at the center and provides a national
focus for the creative resources and materials necessary to the en-
couragement of new works and new audiences.

The Performing Arts Library houses reference, periodical, visual,
and recorded sources on theater, dance, music, film, and broadcast-
ing. Reference staff and computer access to the vast collections of
the Library of Congress complement the library’s holdings. Since
its opening earlier this year, the Performing Arts Library has served
over 14,000 people. Visitors to the library have also enjoyed two
special exhibits on the performing arts: “An Introduction to the
Performing Arts Collections in the Library of Congress” and “Paris:
The Romantic Epoch.”

The Performing Arts Library was designed by Philip Johnson

332 / Smithsonian Year 1979
and John Burgee. Its construction and furnishing were made pos-
sible by generous gifts from the center’s Corporate Fund and former
center trustee Mr. Lew Wasserman, and Mrs. Edith Wasserman.
Funding from the National Home Library Foundation and a gift
from the Recording Industry Association of America contributed
significantly to the expansion of the library’s book and recording
collections.

Building Repairs

In 1977, Congress authorized a special appropriation of $4.7 million
to the National Park Service for repair, renovation, and reconstruc-
tion to correct design and construction errors that resulted in seri-
ous water leakage from the center’s terraces, East Plaza Drive,
kitchen, and roof. Since that time, funds totaling $4.5 million have
been appropriated; roof, kitchen, and Concert Hall ceiling repairs
were completed by early 1978.

Work on the most extensive phases of the repair project—the
Roof Terrace and East Plaza Drive reconstruction—began just prior
to the beginning of fiscal year 1978 and was completed during early
November 1979. Reconstruction of the East Plaza Drive allowed
resumption of normal traffic flow to and from the center.

The interior of the Grand Foyer, damaged by water leakage from
the Roof Terrace above, was refurbished once waterproofing of the
Roof Terrace had been completed.

The center was thus able to anticipate normal operations and
activities for 1980.

Foreign Gifts

During 1978-79, the center received gifts from Brazil and Ghana.
Ambassador J. B. Pinheiro presented a fiber sculpture entitled
Caroa, created by the outstanding Brazilian artist Jacques Douchez.
A wood sculpture entitled Asase Due was presented to the center
for the African Room by Ambassador Alex Quaison-Sackey. The

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 333
sculpture was carved by Dr. Oku Ampofo in memory of President
Kennedy; its title translates as “Condolences to Mother Earth.”

Funding

The Kennedy Center was authorized by an act of Congress in 1958
as the National Cultural Center and in 1964 became a living
memorial to the late President John F. Kennedy, by unanimous vote
of the Congress. However, the center receives virtually no direct
federal, state, or municipal funding for its performing-arts pro-
gramming or administrative operations.

The center was also charged by Congress in its authorizing legis-
lation to carry out a broad range of performing arts, public-service,
and educational programming designed to enlighten and give pleas-
ure to all citizens through the performing arts. The varied and ex-
tensive programs developed by the center in response to its legisla-
tive mandate have been made possible this year by over $2 million in
private, foundation, and corporate contributions. The sole exception
has been the Alliance for Arts Education, which operates as a co-
operative venture between the center and the U.S. Office of Edu-
cation, by virtue of funds appropriated to the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. A relatively small portion of the contracted
funds from the Office of Education is also used to support the
activities of the American College Theatre Festival and the Pro-
grams for Children and Youth; both of these activities are sup-
ported for the most part by funds raised by the center from private
sources.

During the past year, the center’s operating budget exceeded $20
million, and in meeting its budget obligations, the center was al-
most wholly dependent upon revenue from its theater operations,
concession income, and private contributions.

The center reimburses the National Park Service a pro-rata share
of certain annual maintenance, utility, and housekeeping costs on
the basis of a formula devised to apportion costs of the building’s
upkeep as a presidential memorial and its operation as a perform-
ing-arts center. The center bears 100 percent of the costs of main-
taining its theaters and extensive backstage facilities. For fiscal year

334 / Smithsonian Year 1979
1979, the Kennedy Center’s reimbursement to the National Park
Service under the terms of the pro-rata formula was more than
$600,000.

Financial support from a wide range of private sources is essential
if the center is to be able to carry out the broad mandate of per-
forming-arts, public-service, and educational programming set forth
by Congress but for which the center receives no federal support.
Since 1971, when the center opened, individuals, foundations, and
corporations have contributed more than $12.7 million to enable
the center to meet its responsibilities as the National Cultural
Center.

In 1977, principal officers of thirty-six major American corpora-
tions organized the Corporate Fund for the Performing Arts to
provide continuing corporate support to the center, particularly
for its public-service and educational programs. Contributed funds
are used to encourage the development of new works, encourage a
new generation of young artists, to broaden all aspects of the
center’s constituency on a national basis, and to enable certain
performing-arts presentations to be offered free or at reduced prices.

Participation in the Corporate Fund is open to any corporation
that contributes to the center. Rawleigh Warner, Jr., chairman of
the Mobil Corporation, served as chairman of the 1979 Corporate
Fund. During the past year, fund contributions were received from
the following:

Corporate Leadership Circle

Alcoa Foundation; American Telephone and Telegraph Company; At-
lantic Richfield Foundation; Exxon Corporation; International Business
Machines Corporation; McDonald’s Corporation; Mobil Foundation, Inc. ;
The Prudential Foundation; Standard Oil Company (Indiana).

Corporate Patrons

cps, Inc.; Champion International Corporation; General Foods Corpora-
tion; General Motors Foundation, Inc.; The Charles E. Merrill Trust; R.J.
Reynolds Industries, Inc.; Time, Inc.; United States Steel Foundation,
Inc.; Xerox Corporation.

Corporate Sponsors

Allied Chemical Foundation; Anheuser-Busch Foundation; Arthur Ander-
sen & Company; Coastal States Gas Corporation; E.J. du Pont de
Nemours & Company, Inc.; General Electric Company; Hess Foundation,

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 335
Inc.; Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc.; The Merck Company Foundation; Philip
Morris, Inc.; The Procter & Gamble Fund; Raytheon Company; Shell
Companies Foundation, Inc.; Texaco, Inc.; Warner Communications, Inc.;
The Washington Post Company.

Corporate Donors

The Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton Foundation; Allis-Chalmers Founda-
tion, Inc.; The Allstate Foundation; American Broadcasting Company;
American Can Company Foundation; American Express Foundation;
American Security Bank, N.A.; Bechtel Corporation; Bethlehem Steel
Corporation; The Bristol-Myers Fund; Burroughs Corporation; Celanese
Corporation; The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.; Chesapeake and Po-
tomac Telephone Company; Chevron U.S.A., Inc.; Chrysler Corporation;
Ciba-Geigy Corporation; Citibank, N.A.; Clark-Winchcole Foundation;
The Continental Group, Inc.; Continental Oil Company; Corning Glass
Works Foundation; Cummins Engine Foundation; Dart Industries, Inc.;
Dayco Charitable Foundation, Inc.; Walt Disney Productions; Dresser
Industries, Inc.; The First National Bank of Chicago; Fluor Corporation;
Fruehauf Corporation Charitable Fund, Inc.; General Dynamics; Georgia-
Pacific Corporation; Getty Oil Company; The Géillette Company;
Gould, Inc.; John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company; Honeywell
Fund; The George Hyman Construction Company; International Tele-
phone and Telegraph Company; Johnson & Higgins; Johns-Manville
Corporation; The Johnson’s Wax Fund, Inc.; The Joyce Foundation; Levi-
Strauss Foundation; The McGraw-Hill Foundation, Inc.; Martin Marietta;
Metropolitan Life Foundation; Monsanto Fund; ncr Corporation; Na-
tional Broadcasting Company, Inc.; National Geographic Society;
Neiman-Marcus; Northrop Corporation; Northwest Industries Founda-
tion, Inc.; J. C. Penney Company, Inc.; Perpetual Federal Savings & Loan
Association; Phelps-Dodge Industries, Inc.; Potomac Electric Power Com-
pany; Price Waterhouse & Company; Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.;
Reynolds Metals Company Foundation; The Riggs National Bank;
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc.; Charles E. Smith Companies; Sperry
Rand Corporation; Standard Oil Company (Ohio); Sun Company; The
Times-Mirror Foundation; Union Carbide Corporation; Union Pacific
Foundation; United Technologies Corporation; Hiram Walker, Inc.;
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.; Woodward & Lothrop, Inc.

Corporate Contributors

Abbott Laboratories; Acacia Mutual Life; American Airlines; Ashland
Oil, Inc.; Baker International Corporation; The Bendix Corporation;
Black Starr & Frost, Ltd.; The Boeing Company; Borg-Warner Corpora-
tion; Burson-Marsteller; Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc.; Chevy
Chase Savings & Loan, Inc.; Continental Bank Foundation; Crum and
Forster; Equitable Life Insurance Company; Ethyl Corporation; Federal-
Mogul Corporation Charitable Trust Fund; Giant Food Foundation, Inc.;

336 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Government Employees Insurance Company; Earl G. Graves Publishing
Company, Inc.; Halliburton Company; The Hecht Company; Hospital
Corporation of America; Lazard Freres & Company; Lever Brothers
Foundation, Inc.; Liberty National Bank & Trust Company; Eli Lilly and
Company; ttv Corporation; Loews Foundation; Mapco, Inc.; Mars Foun-
dation; Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company; National Bank
of Detroit; National Bank of Washington; National Permanent Federal
Savings and Loan Association; National Savings and Trust Company;
New York Life Insurance Company; Owens-Corning Fiberglass Corpora-
tion; Petrolane, Inc.; Phillips Petroleum Company; Reading & Bates Cor-
poration; The Singer Company Foundation; Trans Union Corporation;
Uniroyal, Inc.; U.S. News & World Report, Inc.; Western Electric Com-
pany; The Young & Rubicam Foundation.

Board of Trustees

Although organizationally a bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, the
Kennedy Center is separately administered by a forty-five-member Board
of Trustees. Thirty members are appointed by the President of the United
States to ten-year terms; six board members are thus appointed every two
years. The remaining fifteen members are appointed ex officio as repre-
sentatives of the legislative and executive branches. Members of the
Kennedy Center’s Board of Trustees are listed in Appendix 1.

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts / 337
Two members of the Delegation of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences that
visited the United States in April 1979 are greeted by five Wilson Center Fellows.
Left to right: Robert J. Donovan, author and former Washington bureau chief of
the Los Angeles Times; Alan Henrikson, associate professor of diplomatic history,
Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University; Samuel F. Wells, Jr., cur-
rently secretary, Wilson Center International Security Studies Program and formerly
associate professor of history, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; Rei Shira-
tori, director, Institute for Political Studies in Japan, Tokyo; and Saburo Okita,
chairman, Japan Economic Research Center, and special advisor to the chairman of
the International Development Center of Japan.
Smithsonian Year: 1979

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

JAMES H. BILLINGTON, DIRECTOR

THe Wooprow Witson CENTER is—with the Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts and the National Gallery of Art—one of three
institutions created by the Congress within the Smithsonian Insti-
tution in Washington, D.C., in order to fulfill a national mission
with mixed trust/public funding under a board appointed by the
President of the United States. The Wilson Center is an active
workshop and switchboard for scholarship at the highest levels.
Since it opened in 1970, it has gained widespread recognition for
the work of its fellows in mining the scholarly riches of Washing-
ton, for its many meetings bringing together the world of affairs
and the world of ideas, and for its democratic openness, unique
among the world’s great institutes of advanced study.

Some forty-five fellows each year are brought in through inter-
national competition involving ever-increasing numbers of appli-
cants from a wide range of backgrounds, disciplines, cultures, and
nations. A broad spectrum of ideas is, in turn, shared with a non-
specialized national audience through the Wilson Quarterly, which
already has more subscribers than any other scholarly quarterly
in the English-speaking world.

The center seeks to render a service to this country and to the
Washington community by throwing open its core fellowship pro-
gram to all interested individuals, both American and foreign.
In effect, the center conducts an annual inventory of creative
scholarship throughout the world. Fellows are selected for the
promise, importance, and appropriateness of their projects on the

339
recommendation of broadly based academic panels outside the
center. Nevertheless, the center does have special areas of emphasis
that provide focus without the rigidities of university departments
and of a tenured faculty. Thus, the center chooses fellows competi-
tively for limited periods, not only in its broadly inclusive general
divisions of social, political, historical, and cultural studies, but
also in special programs in Russian and Soviet studies (the Kennan
Institute), Latin American studies, and international security
studies. Each program is headed by a scholar on the staff.

Following its mandate to symbolize and strengthen the fruitful
relation between the world of learning and the world of public
affairs, the center sponsors conferences and seminars on topics of
special current interest to both worlds. In 1979, for example, repre-
sentative meetings brought scholars, businessmen, and _ policy-
makers together to discuss such topics as the impact of the oil crisis
on democratic institutions; a comparison of Soviet and U.S. negotia-
ting techniques in sALT; and antidisease strategies for the 1980s. In
many cases, the meetings produced papers or books that have been
widely circulated to interested persons.

As usual, the center’s fellows have come from many corners of
the globe and from all sections of the United States. Among its
1979 fellows and guest scholars have been Saburo Okita; Professor
John Ely of Harvard Law School; anthropologist Laura Nader,
University of California, Berkeley; the historian and Directeur
d’Etudes at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in
Paris, Alexandre Bennigsen; the Schweitzer Professor of the Hu-
manities from Syracuse, Dwight Waldo; Mansour Khalid, former
foreign minister of the Sudan; and Robert J. Donovan, former
Washington bureau chief of the Los Angeles Times. The product
of this broad mixing of scholarly interest and life experience is
greater than the sum of its parts: the collegial atmosphere provides
opportunity for communication and learning that crosses cultural,
national, and disciplinary boundaries for the enrichment of all.

340 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Smithsonian Year: 1979
READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

MRS. ROBERT S. MC NAMARA, CHAIRMAN
RUTH GRAVES, PRESIDENT

IN ITS THIRTEENTH YEAR of operation and eleventh year of association
with the Smithsonian, Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F) continued
to fulfill its mission by developing and supporting more than 2,300
community projects that give young people a chance to own books
and that encourage them to read.

The traditional rir method, inspired by founder Mrs. Robert S.
McNamara in 1966, continued to be the keystone of this year’s
activities, with notable success. Reports from educators, parents,
librarians, and others have stated that when riF projects offer
youngsters books that engage them, the young people read more,
start to enjoy books, and, sometimes, begin to read better.

This past year marked the observance of the International Year
of the Child, providing a unique opportunity for Reading Is Funda-
mental. With support from the Mattel Foundation, riF joined world-
wide efforts for children by staging a project that brought literacy
to the center of American concern.

The high point of r1F’s project on behalf of the International Year
of the Child arrived on National Reading Is Fun Day, October 11,
1979. RIF invited all of its projects operating in some 10,000 sites to
hold simultaneous reading celebrations and book distributions. In
every state and the territories of the United States, on National
Reading Is Fun Day young people in riF projects chose books and
enjoyed book parades, visits from celebrities, and other events.

In Washington, D.C., the White House observed National Read-
ing Is Fun Day by joining with rir in a book distribution on the
South Lawn, hosted by the First Lady and Miss Amy Carter. Mrs.
Carter, writing to r1F’s local projects, congratulated them for “the

341
wonderful work” they are doing “in getting books to children and
children into books, reading, and learning. I am so pleased,” she
wrote, “that Amy and I can join you and be a part of the celebra-
tion of National Reading Is Fun Day.”

Two hundred youngsters from RIF projects in the Washington,
D.C., area, as well as classmates of Miss Carter’s, selected books
at the White House event. Books were donated to Reading Is
Fundamental by many of the more than 250 suppliers with which
RIF has special agreements.

Joining the young people at the White House were the master of
ceremonies, John Chancellor, of nsc News; entertainer Carol Bur-
nett, who was featured in riF’s public-service advertisements;
tennis star Arthur Ashe, also featured in rtF’s public-service an-
nouncements and a member of the riF board of directors; officials
from the Mattel Foundation and Reading Is Fundamental; and other
honored guests from publishing, education, and business.

Along with the book distribution, youngsters at the White House
were entertained by a mime troupe and a band, watched Miss
Carter unveil the National Reading Is Fun Day poster, and released
colored balloons with messages asking their finders to write back.

State and local officials around the country joined RIF and the
White House in celebrating National Reading Is Fun Day. Procla-
mations of the day were made by governors around the country,
including those of New York, Vermont, Georgia, Arizona, Dela-
ware, Virginia, Indiana, Tennessee, Mississippi, Kansas, South
Dakota, New Mexico, and California.

In an international event, Reading Is Fundamental cooperated
with Sister Cities International, Inc., to make it possible for RIF
projects in ten U.S. cities to send books to youngsters in their
Sister City counterparts overseas.

The rir “Reading Is Fun!” poster that Miss Carter unveiled at the
White House was created by Maurice Sendak, one of America’s
leading illustrators and authors of children’s books. It features the
benign monsters and rascally young hero, Max, from Mr. Sendak’s
Caldecott Award-winning Where the Wild Things Are. Reading Is
Fundamental also produced color bookmarks featuring the illustra-
tion.

Posters were distributed by Reading Is Fundamental to the sites
of local r1F projects. RIF also provided projects with bookmarks for

342 / Smithsonian Year 1979
each youngster participating in National Reading Is Fun Day dis-
tributions.

In addition, Reading Is Fundamental produced a National Reading
Is Fun Day work kit, to help projects plan their local October 11
and International Year of the Child events.

In other highlights, Reading Is Fundamental was recognized
through awards made to Mrs. Robert S. McNamara. Mrs. Mc-
Namara was named a 1979 Washingtonian of the Year for her
work with riF and also received an honorary doctorate, from the
University of Nebraska at Omaha.

Both Mrs. McNamara and rif President Ruth Graves participated
as guest panelists in seminars sponsored by the Center for the Book
at the Library of Congress, and Mrs. McNamara was appointed by
the president to serve on the White House Conference on Library
and Information Services.

Reading Is Fundamental also earned important endorsements in
1979 from major education, service, and professional organizations.
Among the organizations supporting RIF in 1979: the National As-
sociation of Elementary School Principals; National Association of
Secondary School Principals; National Association for the Educa-
tion of Young Children; American Library Association, Association
for Library Services to Children; International Reading Association;
National Urban League; National Education Association; Girl
Scouts of the U.S.A.; Boys’ Clubs of America; and Camp Fire Girls,
Inc.

Educators from state superintendents of education to classroom
teachers also continued to support Reading Is Fundamental this
year, as did parents, local businesspeople, librarians, and many
other interested citizens.

For three years, r1F has contracted with the U.S. Office of Educa-
tion to provide matching federal funds for local dollars raised to
buy books for young people. rir estimates that in the past three
years, projects have distributed some nineteen million books to
five million young people, ages three through high school.

With a staff of fifty-two, Reading Is Fundamental continued in
1979 to provide extensive services. In roughly the first half of the
year, RIF’s technical-assistance team held more than 125 meetings
and site visits throughout the country, helping local groups through
each stage of developing and operating their projects. In the same

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. / 343
period, rir processed thousands of proposals for federal book
funds, held a symposium for local project directors, and responded
to the hundreds of requests that arrive daily for information on
the program.

Reading Is Fundamental also produced publications and training
aids in 1979. In addition to special materials created for the Inter-
national Year of the Child, rir distributed:

RIF Newsletter, sent to more than 20,000 citizens and groups interested
in Reading Is Fundamental activities

RIF Bulletin, circulated to local projects, providing detailed information
on motivational activities, book selection, volunteer training, fundrais-
ing, and other issues

RIF Speaks, volunteer training kits provided to local projects

Information Flyer, general r1F information handed out at conventions
and meetings and mailed to interested groups

RIF Brochure for Schools, sent to teachers, administrators, and others
interested in starting RIF projects in schools

RIF Brochure for Libraries, sent to librarians, library associations, and
others interested in starting RIF projects in libraries

Inexpensive Book Distribution Program Brochure, sent to groups wish-
ing to apply to rr for matching book funds

Spanish Version of the Book Program Brochure, provided to Spanish-
speaking groups interested in applying to r1F for matching book funds

Resource Manual, sent to local volunteers to guide them in organizing
and operating their riF projects

RIF’s Painless Guide to Ordering Books and Making Payments, pro-
viding detailed instructions to local projects on purchasing books

Read, Read, Read, a fifteen-minute film that shows how volunteers
work and how children respond to books in a RIF project

Profiles of Book Companies, distributed to local projects to detail the
discounts and services provided by publishers and distributors cooperat-
ing with Reading Is Fundamental

A Book in Every Hand, brochure describing rir and local projects,
distributed to interested citizens

It is estimated that since 1972, Reading Is Fundamental public-
service advertisements promoting literacy have received some $15
million in donated broadcast time and print space.

In 1979, nBc, abc, and cps radio and television networks con-

344 / Smithsonian Year 1979
tinued to be generous in the time given riF public-service advertise-
ments. Local stations also gave substantial air time to the RiF
announcements, and virtually every national magazine printed RIF
messages free of charge.

Entertainer Ed Asner has agreed to appear in the new Reading Is
Fundamental public-service announcement, scheduled for release in
early 1980.

Reading Is Fundamental continued to enjoy the strong support of
American corporations and foundations in 1979, as well as excel-
lent cooperation from book publishers and distributors.

But Reading Is Fundamental received its strongest support this
year, and made its most notable progress, in local communities. In
this International Year of the Child, tens of thousands of citizens,
40 percent of them parents, worked with Reading Is Fundamental
to bring books, the love of reading, and the hope for a better
future to America’s young people.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. / 345
Smithsonian Year: 1979

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE
INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC.

DAVID F. HERSEY, PRESIDENT

LAST YEAR’S REPORT indicated the decision of the legislative and
executive branches of the government to affiliate the Smithsonian
Science Information Exchange (ssiE) with the Department of Com-
merce in fiscal year 1979. The transfer of this function, however,
was delayed until fiscal year 1980. The Office of Management and
Budget (oms) asked the Department of Commerce to request ap-
propriated funds for partial support of sste as a part of its budgetary
submission for fiscal year 1980. It was further requested by omB
that the department contract with ssiz, as had the Smithsonian
Institution in previous years, to provide partial support, said fund-
ing to be used with user income for the operating expenses of SSIE.

As the Congressional Appropriations Conference Report noted,
$200,000 has been provided for a study on the feasibility of inte-
grating the Science Information Exchange program with the Na-
tional Technical Information Service of the Department of Com-
merce. This study, which is to be carried out in fiscal year 1980, will
help determine the best approach to the full transfer of sstE to the
department in fiscal year 1981.

IMPROVEMENTS IN ONGOING RESEARCH INFORMATION

A number of events occurred in 1979 that are expected to improve
both the comprehensiveness and timeliness of the exchange’s data
base and its use as a management tool for research and development.

In January 1979, Dr. Frank Press, chairman of the Federal
Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology
(FccsET), created an ad hoc committee to review Science and Tech-

346
nology Information (st1nFo) policies in the federal government and
make recommendations for improvement in such policies. One of
the first items on the agenda included a review of ssiE and its inter-
actions with federal agencies. Discussions between the exchange
and major federal agency representatives on the committee high-
lighted problems associated with input to, and use of, the system,
and ways in which these could be improved. Action that could be
taken by agencies on a short-term basis has been initiated, in ad-
dition to the identification of issues that will require broader policy
review, and, perhaps, recommendations to the FccsET or omsB for
action on a long-range basis. A majority of federal agencies have
agreed to arrange for special briefings by sst1e of their research-and-
development management staffs in the coming year. The exchange
has continued its program to increase awareness of its services in
both the public and private sector.

ssiE efforts to enhance national accessibility to ongoing research
information (or1) included making the ssie data base available
through a third commercial vendor, Bibliographic Retrieval Services
(prs) in New Hampshire. Interaction with this organization is par-
ticularly important, as it will substantially increase access by aca-
demic institutions and other users over that now available through
the System Development Corporation and Lockheed systems. Use
of the ssie data base through such online vendors has increased
significantly over the last twelve-month period.

The preliminary analysis of responses obtained by the exchange
in its latest user survey has reaffirmed the high regard sste users
have for the exchange’s products and services. The importance of
ongoing research information has been recognized not only na-
tionally but internationally as well.

The exchange has continued its program of encouraging expan-
sion and use of such systems in other countries by preparing the
first worldwide inventory of Information Services on Research in
Progress, compiled by ssie in cooperation with unEsco, which was
published last fall. The exchange has agreed to prepare a second
edition of this work at the request of, and with the support of,
unEscO. The exchange also participated in December 1978 in the
development of a special section devoted to research in progress-
information systems at the International Symposium on Animal
Health and Disease Data Banks sponsored by the U.S. Department

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. / 347
of Agriculture. The session included papers from three overseas
and two U.S. information systems covering this field. It is important
to note that more countries are continuing to develop specialized
data bases of ongoing research information, not only at the cen-
tralized national level, but on an international subject-oriented basis
as well. This fall the exchange’s president will co-chair a session on
research in progress-information systems in social sciences as a
part of a North American Roundtable on the International Aspects
of Social Science Information, cosponsored by the U.S. and Cana-
dian National Commissions for uneEsco. In addition to some twenty-
five U.S. and Canadian representatives, the chairperson of the
Committee for Ongoing Research of the Organization for European
Cooperation in Social Science Information and Documentation has
been asked to attend and participate, further strengthening efforts
for cooperation in this area. This group (Ecss1p) includes representa-
tives of both Eastern and Western European countries.

On a pilot study basis, sste has made its records for fiscal year
1978 available in Japan to determine interest in and use of U.S.
research-in-progress information to a selected group of foreign
users. Funding for the study was provided to the Japan Information
Center of Science and Technology through the Japanese govern-
ment’s Science and Technology Agency. Results of the study are
expected to influence ss1e’s future decisions in regard to the leasing
of its data base overseas. Expressions of interest by other countries
in Europe and Latin America have also been received and are being
considered by ssre. If these approaches are approved, they could be
an important source of user income to the exchange and provide
much wider access to the U.S. data base of ort, as well as benefit the
research-and-development activities in developing countries. In
addition to providing economic benefits to ss1E, such agreements
serve to increase the awareness of U.S. users in regard to foreign
research information; agreements include options to permit access
to the information held by foreign governments.

IMPROVEMENTS IN PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The exchange continues to work with various federal agencies to
improve the use of output products to meet the needs of research-
and-development management. Among these new efforts were the
development of programs using microprocessers for repackaging of
information obtained in searches of the ssre data base. These tech-

348 / Smithsonian Year 1979
nigues and this equipment allow the exchange to organize material
retrieved in searches of the data base in more meaningful subsets,
including the development of a mini-index for the information re-
trieved. Detailed information on the cost and value of such an ap-
proach is currently being gathered. The approach, if cost effective,
could be applicable to searches from other information systems as
well as ssIE’s.

Information in selected subject areas is now being made available
to users in a number of instances through agency-controlled data
bases such as TOXLINE, CANCERPROJ, and water-resources research
information systems. These may, in time, replace printed catalogues,
as more users turn to the rapid online modes of access now being
offered, though hard-copy overviews of research in a selected sub-
ject area are still best prepared manually.

A matter of some concern to ssie has been its ability to continue
the input of nonfederally supported research projects resulting from
economic constraints of federal support. Primary support for ssIE,
which is made available through a contract of appropriated funds,
has remained relatively constant over the past few years. As a con-
sequence, inflationary costs have reduced the amount of input that
can be processed into the system. As in the past, priority for proc-
essing of information has been given to the processing of federally
supported research. Funds for the processing of nonfederal input
consequently have come either from government agencies with
special subject-oriented interests (such as cancer, energy, etc.) or
from user-generated income. The exchange hopes to improve input
of nonfederally supported research in the future and is currently ex-
ploring a number of ways in which to do so.

To offset these inflationary costs and provide better service to
users, continued improvements in the data-processing system are
constantly being made. These efforts effectively reduce the time
and, ultimately, the cost associated with the processing of informa-
tion into and out of the exchange.

As noted earlier, federal information systems are currently being
studied by both the executive and legislative branches of the govern-
ment. A number of oms policy bulletins and legislative bills have
been introduced that could affect sste. The exchange has provided
input wherever possible to such groups and will continue to do so
in the future, realizing that a system such as ssie plays an important
role in the overall management of federal research and development.

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. / 349
The Artist and His Mother by Arshile Gorky. Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund.
Smithsonian Year - 1979
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

J. CARTER BROWN, DIRECTOR

THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, although formally established as a
bureau of the Smithsonian Institution, is an autonomous and
separately administered organization. It is governed by its own
Board of Trustees.

Early in 1979, the Chief Justice of the United States, citing the
press of judicial business and other official responsibilities, asked
the Board of Trustees to accept his resignation as its chairman, in
which capacity he had served since 1969. He continues to serve as
a trustee, ex officio, with the Secretaries of State and of the
Treasury and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. John
Hay Whitney, vice president and trustee since 1963, retired from
the board.

At the May meeting, the board elected trustees Paul Mellon as
chairman, John R. Stevenson as president, and Carlisle H. Humel-
sine as vice president. Dr. Franklin D. Murphy continues to serve
as a general trustee. To fill the vacancy caused by Mr. Whitney’s
retirement, the general trustees elected Ruth Carter Johnson of
Fort Worth, the founder and president of the Amon Carter Museum
of Western Art.

During the year, attendance at the gallery surged to a record
5,188,000.

A number of significant works of art were acquired. A set of
Stuart portraits of the first five presidents, owned for more than a
century by lineal descendants of Jefferson, came to the gallery by
a combination of gift and purchase. Copley’s Adam Babcock was
donated by a descendant of the sitter, and Eastman Johnson’s The
Brown Family was purchased. Twentieth-century paintings acquired

351
by purchase included Matisse’s Palm Leaf, Tangier and three
seminal works by Arshile Gorky.

A dramatic enhancement of the gallery’s collection of American
drawings came with the receipt of the John Davis Hatch Collection,
150 years of American drawing from colonial times to the early
twentieth century. The most important European items acquired
were a Burgkmair drawing, Fight in the Forest, Barocci’s oil sketch
of a Head of St. John, an Altdorfer landscape etching, the Piranesi
drawing Grottesco with the Tomb of Nero, a Piazzetta drawing of
a Boy with a Lute, and a fine impression of Diirer’s woodcut The
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.

The twenty-two exhibitions offered by the gallery during the
year covered an immense span of time and space—from the third
millennium B.c. to the mid-twentieth century, from Micronesia to
Norway and the Aegean. In the East Building’s main exhibition hall
were shown “Edvard Munch: Symbols and Images,” the most com-
prehensive assemblage of Munch’s work ever displayed in America,
and “The Art of the Pacific Islands,” illustrating the creative artistry
of Oceania, with examples drawn from cultures ranging from the
Spice Islands eastward to Easter Island, and from New Zealand
northward to Hawaii. The smaller galleries of the East Building were
used effectively to display early Cycladic sculpture; a small but
comprehensive “Berenson and the Connoisseurship of Italian Art,”
mingling old master paintings, photographs, and printed materials;
and exhibitions of artists as diverse as Grandma Moses and Mon-
drian. Galleries in the West Building housed special exhibitions of
Italian Renaissance paintings from the Hermitage, French Roman-
tic paintings, and the drawings of the Carracci family, Fragonard,
Robert, and Daumier.

The gallery made loans to thirty exhibitions at thirty-eight Ameri-
can institutions and to ten exhibitions at thirteen museums in
Europe and Asia. Included were a total of twenty-seven paintings,
five sculptures, and fifty-six works of graphic art.

During the year, the audience served by the Department of Ex-
tension Programs increased by over 30 percent to 8,300,000, and
extended throughout the United States and to twelve foreign na-
tions and four territories. More than 38,000 bookings of slide sets,
films, and videotapes reached over three million viewers, and pro-
grams aired through public television and state educational net-

352 / Smithsonian Year 1979
works reached an audience of more than five million, the latter an
increase of more than 50 percent over the preceding year. A special
effort to produce multimedia programs in connection with the
Munch and Berenson exhibitions reached many thousands unable
to visit those exhibits.

Inside the gallery, the Education Department tours and talks con-
ducted by volunteer docents were enjoyed by more than 100,000
visitors. Attendance at more than a thousand film showings in the
East Building’s two auditoriums exceeded 57,000. Forty-eight Sun-
day afternoon lectures, including thirty-one by guest speakers, drew
over 15,000. Among the invited lecturers were John Rewald, emi-
nent authority on French painting and the Andrew W. Mellon
Lecturer in the Fine Arts, whose six lectures dealt with Cézanne’s
works in America. Other distinguished scholars who lectured in-
cluded George Heard Hamilton, Kress Professor-in-Residence;
Colin Eisler of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University;
Everett Fahy, director of The Frick Collection; Terisio Pignatti,
director emeritus of the City Museums of Venice; and Hugh Brig-
stocke of the National Gallery of Scotland.

The Music Program continued with thirty-nine Sunday-evening
concerts in the East Garden Court of the West Building and two
string recitals. The concert marking the 150th anniversary of the
death of Schubert was taped by the Voice of America for broadcast
overseas.

During the spring and summer, the working facilities of the
board, executive officers and staffs, and most of the curatorial and
related departments were moved from their original locations in
the West Building to the Study Center portion of the East Building.
The effect of the move was felt most strongly by the staff of the
library, which had to shut down for eleven weeks as it moved its
more than 100,000 volumes and vertical-file materials.

With the East Building virtually complete, the board authorized
major reconstruction in the entire ground level of the West Building.
This project, long envisaged and planned in detail, will open up for
public use a concourse running the entire length of the east-west
axis of the building and convert former office spaces to exhibition
galleries for public display of graphic arts and small sculptures.
The work, to be financed by private donations, began in August and
is scheduled for completion in 1982.

National Gallery of Art / 353
TEMPORARY EXHIBITIONS AT THE GALLERY
IN FISCAL YEAR 1979

American Art at Mid-Century: The Subjects of the Artist
from the previous fiscal year to January 14, 1979
The American Folk Art Tradition: Paintings from the Garbisch Collection
from the previous fiscal year to February 4, 1979
Small French Paintings from the Bequest of Ailsa Mellon Bruce
through the entire fiscal year
Edvard Munch: Symbols and Images
November 11, 1978 to March 4, 1979
French Printmaking in the Time of Fragonard and Robert
November 19, 1978 to January 21, 1979
Drawings by Fragonard in North American Collections
November 19, 1978 to January 21, 1979
Hubert Robert: Drawings and Watercolors
November 19, 1978 to February 4, 1979
Berenson and the Connoisseurship of Italian Painting
January 21 to September 3, 1979
Early German Drawings and Prints: Two Recent Acquisitions and
Related Works January 24 to February 25, 1979
Circus & Carousel: Watercolor Renderings from the Index of
American Design
January 31 to February 25, 1979
Grandma Moses: Anna Mary Robertson Moses (1860-1961)
February 11 to April 1, 1979
Prints and Related Drawings by the Carracci Family
March 18 to May 20, 1979
From Leonardo to Titian: Italian Renaissance Paintings from
The Hermitage, Leningrad May 13 to June 24, 1979
French Romanticism May 15 to September 3, 1979
Cycladic Art: Ancient Sculpture and Ceramics of the Aegean from
the N. P. Goulandris Collection
May 20 to the end of the fiscal year
Self-Portraits: Prints from the Collections of the National Gallery of Art
June 3 to September 3, 1979
Eighteenth- and Nineteenth-Century American Costumes: Watercolor
Renderings from the Index of American Design
June 3 to September 3, 1979
Spanish Sculpture of the Twentieth Century
July 23 to the end of the fiscal year
Pablo Picasso: The Vollard Suite June 3 to September 3, 1979
The Art of the Pacific Islands July 1 to the end of the fiscal year
Mondrian: The Diamond Compositions July 15 to September 16, 1979
Honoré Daumier (1808-1879) September 23 to the end of the fiscal year

354 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Smithsonian Year - 1979
CHRONOLOGY

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during the
year. No attempt has been made to make it a complete compilation of all
Smithsonian activities.

October

Education: The National Museum of Natural History expanded its Outreach
presentations to the elderly and to institutionalized adults and children and
inaugurated a free film and demonstration program for family audiences.

Publication: The Smithsonian Book of Invention, a lavishly illustrated exami-
nation of the inventive process through history, was published by Smith-
sonian Exposition Books.

Publications: In connection with its tenth anniversary, the National Portrait
Gallery published its first Illustrated Checklist of the Permanent Collection
and a book on a selection of its holdings, entitled Fifty American Faces.

October-November

Lecture Series: The 1978 Guggenheim Lecture Series, “Planet Earth: A New
Look at This Old World,” was held at the National Air and Space Museum.

October 1

Education: The Selected Studies Program of the National Associate Program
sponsored the first of fourteen week-long, in-depth workshops combining
lectures and tours in specialized areas of interest. The initial offerings were:
“Genealogical Research: How To Do It” and “From Flights of Fancy to Kitty
Hawk and Cosmos: A History of Flight.”

Film Series: The first screening of a six-week series, “Mexican Films Today,”
part of the international symposium “Mexico Today,” was sponsored by the
Resident Associate Program.

October 2-4

Conference: A Symposium on the Comparative Pathology of Zoo Animals,
drawing pathologists and technicians from all over the world to summarize
current knowledge and expose new areas of research, was held at the Na-
tional Zoo.

355
October 4

Exhibition: “Saul Steinberg,” the largest retrospective ever assembled to honor
the Rumanian-born American artist, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, on tour from the Whitney Museum in New York and
bound for Europe.

October 4-9

Festival: The twelfth annual Festival of American Folklife featured more
than 200 participants from across the nation, demonstrating crafts, discussing
traditions, and performing in dance and musical presentations.

October 5

Special Event: The National Portrait Gallery marked the tenth anniversary
of its opening with a reception.

October 6

Acquisition: The Stuart M. Speiser Photo-Realism Collection, twenty-two pho-
tos with aviation as a theme, was the most valuable gift of art from a private
donor ever received by the National Air and Space Museum.

October 7

Education: The first of twelve orientation programs for participants in the
foreign study tours was conducted by the National Associate Program.

October 8

Concert Series: Drummer Jo Jones and friends appeared in the first concert
of the annual Jazz Heritage Series offered by the Division of Performing Arts.

October 9

Lecture: Marie Cosindas was the first speaker in a lecture series on photog-
raphy held in connection with the National Portrait Gallery’s exhibition of
great American portrait daguerreotypes, ‘Facing the Light.”

October 13

Exhibition: “Perceptions and Evocations: The Art of Elihu Vedder,” includ-
ing drawings for his famous illustrations for the 1884 edition of The Rubaiyat
of Omar Khayyam, opened at the National Collection of Fine Arts.

October 15

Exhibition: “Children of South Africa,” showing the work of prize-winning
South African photojournalist Peter Magubane, opened at the Anacostia Neigh-
borhood Museum.

Concert Series: The 20th Century Consort began its residence at the Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden, performing works by Reale, Penn, Stra-
vinsky, Hindemith, and others in the first of four concerts cosponsored by
the Division of Performing Arts.

October 16

Exhibition: “The Brush of the Masters: Drawings from Iran and India,”
opened at the Freer Gallery of Art.

October 19

<

Lecture: Norman Cousins, editor-in-chief of the Saturday Review for forty
years, shared memories of his career in this presentation by the Resident
Associate Program.

356 / Smithsonian Year 1979
October 23

Opening: Birdlab, a resource center for public information about birds, opened
at the Bird House of the National Zoo.

October 27—28

Symposium: “Science and the Arts in the Renaissance” was sponsored jointly
by the Folger Shakespeare Library and the National Museum of History and
Technology.

October 30

Workshop: The Education Department of the Anacostia Neighborhood Mu-
seum conducted a workshop, “How to Turn Your Classroom into a Museum,”
for D.C. public school teachers.

New Program: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its
Special Education Programs for Handicapped Visitors.

November

Publication: Northeast, the second handbook in a twenty-volume encyclopedia
that will summarize all that is known about the history and cultures of North
American Indians and Eskimos, was published by the National Museum of
Natural History.

Research: National Museum of Natural History mammalogist James Mead
began regular flights up and down the Atlantic’s remote barrier beaches to
monitor migrations of marine mammals and check beaches for strandings
of these animals.

Research: The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies and the
Maryland State Department of Agriculture began a joint study, “Impact of
Open Marsh Water Management on the Ecology of Chesapeake Bay High
Marsh Vegetation.”

November 1

Acquisition: Twenty-five works by Joseph Cornell, in addition to archival
material for the Joseph Cornell Study Center, were formally accessioned by
the National Collection of Fine Arts.

November 3-5

Sampler Weekend: One of five weekends for members of the National As-

sociate Program included special tours and lectures in five museums on the
Mall.

November 3

Exhibition: “Loose the Mighty Power: Impressions of the Steam Engine in
America” opened at the National Museum of History and Technology.

November 9

Award: The film The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary
received an award from the International Film and Television Festival of
New York. As of November 1979, this Office of Telecommunications produc-
tion had been telecast on more than fifty Public Broadcasting System stations
around the country.

Exhibition: “Louis M. Eilshemius: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden” opened for a seven-week showing before beginning
its national tour with the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

Chronology / 357
November 10

Symposium: Mexican and American scholars met at the National Collection
of Fine Arts to discuss “Colonialism to Independence as Reflected in the Arts
of Mexico and the United States.”

November 13-14

Symposium: At the National Portrait Gallery, biographers Leon Edel, Doris
Kearns, Justin Kaplan, and Barbara Tuchman discussed the art of biography.

Launch: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Einstein
(HEAO-2) satellite was launched, carrying an x-ray telescope designed by sci-
entists at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics.

November 15

Symposium: “Battle of Britain” featured two of the aces who fought in the
famous air battle of World War II as speakers at the National Air and Space
Museum.

November 17

Exhibition: ‘Baskets and Cylinders: Recent Glass by Dale Chihuly,” one of
a series of exhibitions by contemporary craftsmen, opened at the Renwick
Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts.

Film/ Lecture Series: “New Visions,” first program of a three-part series of
films by African, black-American, and Third World filmmakers, supplemented
with lectures by leading authorities, was scheduled by the Smithsonian Resi-
dent Associate Program under a grant from the National Endowment for the
Arts.

November 18

Concert Series: The Musical Theater Series of the Division of Performing
Arts opened with a survey of the songs of Victor Herbert.

Exhibition: “The John Paul Remensnyder Collection of American Stoneware”
opened at the National Museum of History and Technology.

November 23

Exhibition: A major print exhibition, “American Color Woodcuts: The Years
of Transition,” opened at the National Collection of Fine Arts.

November 24

Acquisition: Fifty-four original drawings by Elihu Vedder for The Rubdaiyat
of Omar Khayyam were formally accessioned by the National Collection of
Fine Arts.

November 27

Concert: The Theater Chamber Players performed works by Haydn, Bach,
and others in the final concert of their five-year residence at the Smithsonian,
presented by the Division of Performing Arts.

November 28

Opening: “Worlds of Tomorrow,” a half-hour-long space voyage to other
planets, began daily showings in the Albert Einstein Spacearium of the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum.

December

Publication: The Flora of Barro Colorado Island, by Thomas B. Croat, the
culmination of many years of research on the Smithsonian Tropical Research

358 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Institute’s Barro Colorado Island in Panama, was published by Stanford Uni-
versity Press.

December-—January 1979

Expedition: Ursula Marvin, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory geologist,
participated in a joint U.S.-Japanese expedition to Antarctica to search for
meteorites.

December 2

Special Event: The “Hirshhorn Holiday” children’s celebration was held at
the museum for the third consecutive year, under the sponsorship of the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

December 8-10

Special Event: The National Associate Program’s seventh annual ‘Christmas
at the Smithsonian” featured lectures, tours, and tree-trimming.

December 11

Premiere: First showing of “A Place of Dreams,” a one-hour documentary
on the National Air and Space Museum produced by weta-tTv, a local public-
broadcasting station.

December 13

Telecast: “A Place of Dreams,” a one-hour film documentary on the National
Air and Space Museum and the experience of flight, was broadcast over the
pps network.

December 14

Exhibition: An exhibit commemorating the seventy-fifth anniversary of the
Wright brothers’ flight opened at the National Air and Space Museum. Five
papers were presented at a colloquium marking the occasion.

December 15

Exhibition: “Trees of Christmas,’ thirteen trees decorated with traditional
and handcrafted ornaments by the Smithsonian’s Office of Horticulture, were
displayed in the National Museum of History and Technology.

Exhibition: “Black Hawk and Keokuk: Prairie Rivals,” focusing on the con-
flict between these Indian leaders in the early 1800s, opened at the National
Portrait Gallery.

December 17

Concert Series: The Smithsonian Chamber Players performed an all-Bach
concert on period instruments, the first in a series of programs sponsored
jointly by the Divisions of Performing Arts and Musical Instruments.

December 21

Exhibition: ‘Ben Nicholson: Fifty Years of His Art,” the first American retro-
spective of works by one of Britain’s leading abstractionists, opened at the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

December 26-31

Special Event: A traditional holiday celebration reflecting the customs of
Christmas and Hanukkah, cosponsored by the National Museum of History
and Technology and the Division of Performing Arts, opened with puppet
shows, craft demonstrations, music, games, films, and special tours.

Chronology / 359
December 27

Performance: Ventriloquist Susan Linn opened the Division of Performing
Arts season of programs for children.

December 28

Performance: Actress Eugenia Rawls presented portrayals of Fanny Kemble
and Tallulah Bankhead at the National Portrait Gallery.

January 1979

Research: The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies began a
three-year research project on the ecology of lawns, under funding from the
U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Research: George B. Field, director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Ob-
servatory, was appointed by the National Academy of Sciences to head a
two-year survey of astronomy and astrophysics.

Inventory: The National Museum of Natural History began a comprehensive
inventory of the sixty million specimens in its collections, an effort that will
improve their management and care.

January 6

Broadcast: Charter radio-station subscribers began weekly national broad-
cast of “Smithsonian Galaxy,” a new series of two-and-a-half-minute fea-
turettes produced by the Office of Telecommunications.

January 10

Seminar: “Community Challenge: Creating Potential with Old and Young
for the Future Together,” sponsored by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia
and Seminars, marked the beginning of Washington’s and the Smithsonian’s
activities in celebration of the International Year of the Child. This date
also marked the tenth anniversary of the OSSS.

January 22

Special Event: A program of traditional Irish music was performed in a con-
cert cosponsored by the Division of Performing Arts and the Division of
Musical Instruments of the National Museum of History and Technology.

January 23

Lecture Series: “Key Issues in Science Today,” first of five panel discussions
made possible by a grant from the National Science Foundation, was or-
ganized by the Smithsonian Resident Associate Program.

January 25

Exhibition: “Richard Estes: The Urban Landscape,” an exhibition of paint-
ings and prints by the well-known realist, on tour from the Boston Museum
of Fine Arts, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

January 30-31

Visit: Vice Premier T’eng Hsiao-Ping of the People’s Republic of China vis-
ited the National Air and Space Museum. His wife, Madame Zhou Lin, toured
the National Museum of History and Technology, the Freer Gallery of Art,
and, accompanied by First Lady Rosalynn Carter and her daughter Amy,
visited the giant pandas at the National Zoo.

360 / Smithsonian Year 1979
February 1

Exhibition: Four polychromed wood statues of the Kamakura period (1185—
1333), representing the guardian kings of the four cardinal directions, were
placed on display at the Freer Gallery of Art.

February 4

Exhibition: “Out of Africa: From West African Kingdoms to Colonization,”
covering early African civilizations, the slave trade, the abolitionist movement,
and the founding of the first African republic, opened at the Anacostia
Neighborhood Museum.

February 7-9

Workshop: The Office of Museum Programs conducted a workshop on “Mu-
seum Registration Methods” in Knoxville, Tennessee.

February 8

Exhibition: “Highlights from the Chase Manhattan Money Collection” opened
at the National Museum of History and Technology.

February 9

Visit: Princess Wijdan Ali of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan visited the
Freer Gallery of Art.

Visit: Scientists from Peking’s Institute for Space Physics toured the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory facilities and discussed research projects.

February 11

Concert Series: The Romantic Chamber Ensemble performed works by Hum-
mel, Brahms, Schubert, and others in the premiere concert of a series spon-
sored by the Division of Performing Arts.

February 14

Exhibition: “Traditional Japanese Medicine and Its Graphics’”” opened at the
National Museum of History and Technology.

February 23

Exhibition: A selection of recently acquired rare Mexican masks was placed
on display in the National Museum of Natural History.

Special Event: “A Viennese Waltz” in the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gal-
lery was sponsored for Donor Members of the Smithsonian Associates by
the Austrian ambassador and the Smithsonian National Associate Program.

February 25

Concert Series: Jim and Jesse and the Virginia Boys opened the seventh sea-
son of the Country Music Series of the Division of Performing Arts.

February 26-28

Workshop: The Office of Museum Programs conducted a workshop in “Funda-
mentals of Museum Management” in Atlanta, Georgia.

March 1

Exhibition: The National Portrait Gallery opened its “Haptic Gallery,” a per-
manent installation of specially made casts of eleven sculptures, enabling the
blind and others to experience the works through touch. Braille labels and
an audio narrative are also provided.

Chronology / 361
March 1-13

Education: The Regional Events Program of the Smithsonian National Asso-
ciate Program offered lectures, performances, and special exhibits among forty-
one events for members in Denver, Colorado.

March 3

Exhibition: “Einstein: A Centenary Exhibition,” paying tribute to the scien-
tist’s life and work, opened at the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology.

March 9

Exhibition: A major print retrospective, “Gabor Peterdi: Forty-five Years of
Printmaking,” opened at the National Collection of Fine Arts.

March 15

Exhibition: “Calder’s Universe,” a traveling version of the retrospective of
work by Alexander Calder presented in 1976 by the Whitney Museum of
American Art, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

March 16-17

Colloquium: “The Joys of Research,” sponsored by the Office of Smithsonian
Symposia and Seminars, was dedicated to Albert Einstein during the cen-
tennial of his birth.

March 29

Research: The first scientific colloquium and public discussion of the results
from the Einstein (HEAO-2) satellite was held at the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory, in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

March 30

Exhibition: The re-installation of the Grand Salon of the Renwick Gallery of
the National Collection of Fine Arts was completed, with nineteenth-century
works from the collection.

April

Research: National Museum of Natural History curator Meredith Jones began
studying giant worms recently discovered off the Galapagos islands. He be-
lieves the worms represent a new subphylum of the animal kingdom.

Special Event: The Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies held
an open-house afternoon “Behind the Scenes,” providing lectures, walks, and
participatory ecology activities to initiate a new series of spring and summer
education programs.

April 2

Exhibition: ‘““Nineteenth-Century American Carpeting” opened at the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology.

April 5

Symposium: “Buildings Reborn: New Uses, Old Places” explored adaptive
reuse of old, often historic buildings in an all-day session, presented by the
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program, that has become a model for similar
programs organized to complement the exhibition nationwide.

Opening: The National Air and Space Museum’s second max film, “Living
Planet,” projected on a screen five stories high, takes the visitor on a whirl-
wind tour over five continents.

362 / Smithsonian Year 1979
April 6
Exhibition: “Buildings Reborn: New Uses, Old Places” opened at the Renwick
Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts.

April 12-13

Special Event: “Calder for Kids,” a two-day program at the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden, introduced children to the work of Alexander
Calder.

April 17-June 6

Symposium: The opening of the international symposium “Japan Today,”
made possible by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities
and the National Endowment for the Arts, was sponsored by the Smithsonian
Resident Associate Program.

April 17

Exhibition: “Japanese Lacquer,” fifty-seven items spanning eleven centuries,
opened on the inaugural day of the international celebration “Japan Today,”
at the Freer Gallery of Art.

Award: Reunions: Memories of an American Experience, a new film pro-
duced by the Office of Telecommunications and the Office of Exhibits Cen-
tral Motion Picture Unit, premiered at the Smithsonian and was awarded a
cinE Golden Eagle. The film focuses on Gen. James “Jimmy” Doolittle, the
pioneering aviator, and Gustav Tafel, the nation’s largest manufacturer and
exporter of homeopathic medicines.

April 19
Award: The 1979 Brewer Trophy was presented to Michael Collins and the
National Air and Space Museum staff for the development of the museum.

April 20
Exhibition: The National Portrait Gallery opened “Return to Albion: Ameri-
cans in England 1760-1940,” an exhibition of portraits and objects concerning
American expatriates in England.

April 21-22
Musical Theater: An original production entitled “The Gershwins, 1930, and
Girl Crazy” was presented by the Division of Performing Arts.

April 25
Broadcast: nsc’s ““Today Show” was taped in the Transportation Hall in the
National Museum of History and Technology.

April 28
Exhibition: “Edison and the Electrical Age: 100 Years,” honoring the inventor
and illustrating the development of electric power, opened at the National
Museum of History and Technology, beginning a national tour under the
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

April 29

Special Event: The American premiere of Handel’s oratorio Esther, performed
with period instruments, was presented by the Divisions of Performing Arts
and Musical Instruments.

May

Award: National Museum of Natural History Director Porter M. Kier received
the Joseph Henry Medal from Secretary Ripley, for “carrying the museum

Chronology / 363
into a new era—developing modernized exhibits that interpret the natural
sciences for the American people.”

May 2

Visit: While on a tour of the Freer Gallery of Art, Prime Minister Masayashi
Ohira of Japan announced Japan’s intention to give $1 million toward the
construction of an annex to the Freer Gallery.

May 4

Permanent Installation: The National Zoo’s “Beaver Valley” exhibit, featur-
ing aquatic animals such as seals and sea lions as well as wolves and bush
dogs, in a natural wooded setting, opened to the public.

May 5

Exhibition: “Our Beautiful Earth: The View from Air and Space,” photographs
taken by aerial photographers, astronauts, and satellites, opened in the Flight
and the Arts Gallery of the National Air and Space Museum.

May 6-10

Seminar: ‘The Planet Earth,” sponsored by the Office of Smithsonian Sym-
posia and Seminars, was the first in a series of pilot programs for academically
gifted high-school students.

May 8-10

Special Event: Customs and traditions of the Faroe Islands were explored in
an evening of discussion, song, and dance presented by the Division of Per-
forming Arts, and Faroese crafts were demonstrated in workshops cospon-
sored by the Division of Performing Arts and the National Museum of History
and Technology.

May 9

Dedication: The Multiple Mirror Telescope at the Mt. Hopkins Observatory,
Arizona, a joint effort of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and
the University of Arizona, was dedicated and the first scientific results were
obtained.

May 10

Premiere: The premiere of the film “Mirrors on the Universe: The MMT
Story,” produced by the Office of Telecommunications and the University of
Arizona’s Radio-TV-Film Bureau, was part of the dedication ceremonies for
the Multiple Mirror Telescope.

May 14-20

Visit: A delegation of Cuban scientists visited the National Zoo’s facilities at
Rock Creek and the Conservation and Research Center at Front Royal, Vir-
ginia.
May 17
Acquisition: The gondola of the Double Eagle II, the first balloon to make
the transatlantic crossing, was given to the National Air and Space Museum.
May 18

Exhibition: “Dynamics of Evolution,” the first exhibit hall in any American
science museum to explain the basic steps of evolution, opened as a perma-
nent installation in the National Museum of Natural History.

364 / Smithsonian Year 1979
May 20
New Service: The Group Orientation Program, a new service of the Visitor

Information and Associates’ Reception Center, will provide groups of visitors
with an overview of exhibits in the twelve Smithsonian museums.

May 23-25

Colloquium: “Play and Inventiveness,” exploring the proposition: “Are art,
science, and technology the products of the play impulse in mammals?” was
the Smithsonian’s major program for the International Year of the Child.
The program was organized by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars.

May 28

Exhibition: “They Have Made a Nation,” devoted to the figures who estab-
lished the American Confederacy, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

,

June

Research: The Coral Reef Evaluation study was initiated by the Office of
Psychological Studies of the Office of Museum Programs, at the National
Museum of Natural History, the first evaluation of its kind to study all
stages of the design process in cooperation with exhibit specialists.

June 1

Exhibition: “Ten Years of Sesame Street,” featuring Big Bird and videotape
playback of selections from the program, opened at the National Museum of
History and Technology.

June 2

Awards: The film The Smithsonian Institution with S. Dillon Ripley, Secre-
tary, a production of the Office of Telecommunications, was awarded two
Emmys by the Washington, D.C., Chapter of the National Academy of Tele-
vision Arts and Sciences.

June 5

Special Event: Members of the U.S. Congress celebrated the National Zoo’s
Congressional Zoo Night with dinner, tours, and informative activities.

June 5-7

Special Event: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute sponsored an en-
vironmental film festival at the Museum of the Panamanian Man in Panama
City, Panama.

June 6-13

Visit: Several curators from the British Science Museum visited the Na-
tional Museum of History and Technology.

June 11-12

Conference: Educators from around the country attended a conference on
multicultural aerospace education programs in schools and museums, spon-
sored by the Education Office of the National Air and Space Museum.

June 13

Visit: Her Imperial Highness Princess Chichibu of Japan and His Imperial
Highness Prince Norihito Mikasa visited the Freer Gallery of Art.

June 14

Exhibition: “Directions,” a major exhibition reflecting the diversity of cur-
rent American art, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

Chronology / 365
June 15

Exhibition: ‘The Whiskey Rebels,” an exhibition on the Whiskey Rebellion
in 1791 in western Pennsylvania, opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

Acquisition: Action in Chains, a major work of twentieth-century sculpture
by Aristide Maillol (1861-1940), the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den’s first purchase under the Regents’ Acquisitions Fund, was placed on
display.

June 25
Workshop: The eighth annual series of summer workshops and classes for

teachers offered by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education drew
over 500 participants.

June 30

Acquisition: The Museum Reference Center of the Office of Museum Pro-
grams accepted the reference library of the Center for Museum Education.

July 4

Special Event: The National Museum of History and Technology celebrated
Independence Day with music, craft demonstrations, films, and special per-
formances.

July 5

Acquisition: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden announced a gift
of fifty-six works of art from the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Foundation.

July 11

Performance: The mime troupe Archaesus performed “Mall Bearings,” an
imaginary tour of the Smithsonian, the first in a series of productions, spon-
sored by the Division of Performing Arts, in the Discovery Theater at the
Arts and Industries Building.

July 20

Special Event: The tenth anniversary of Apollo 11 and the first manned land-
ing on the moon was celebrated at the National Air and Space Museum.
Activities included a morning press conference by astronauts Armstrong,
Aldrin, and Collins; a public ceremony; special exhibits; and free films. The
museum remained open until 1:30 a.m. to relive, via videotape, the first walk
on the moon.

July 26

Exhibition: “David Smith: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Collection” opened, displaying the largest public holdings of works by this
artist.

July 27

Exhibition: “Time: Arts and Entertainment,’ an exhibit drawn from the
National Portrait Gallery’s collection of original portraits for Time magazine
covers, succeeded the original exhibition from the Time collection, “The
Time of Our Lives.”

July 30

Publication: A Gallery of Presidents, a book on the collection of presidential
portraits, was published by the National Portrait Gallery.

366 / Smithsonian Year 1979
August

Publication: A Zoo for All Seasons, a careful look at the exhibitions, research,
and conservation efforts carried out by the National Zoological Park, incor-
porating a survey of other U.S. zoos, was published by Smithsonian Exposition
Books.

August 9

Lecture: Artist Judy Chicago discussed her monumental sculpture The Din-
ner Party, and the story behind its creation, in a presentation sponsored by
the Resident Associate Program.

August 11

Special Event: More than 1,300 well-wishers gathered at the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden to celebrate the eightieth birthday of its principle
donor, Joseph H. Hirshhorn.

August 13

New Museum: The Museum of African Art, with collections of more than
7,000 objects of sculpture, carvings, textiles, paintings, and musical instru-
ments that include items from virtually every country in sub-Saharan Africa,
formally joined the Smithsonian Institution.

August 15

Award: The film Mirrors on the Universe: The MMT Story received a Gold
Cindy Award from the Information Film Producers of America, Inc. The film
was jointly produced by the Smithsonian Office of Telecommunications and
the University of Arizona.

Exhibition: “An Engraver’s Potpourri: Life and Times of a Nineteenth-century
Bank Note Engraver” opened at the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology.

August 30

Publication: The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum’s Education Department
published a pamphlet, How and Why Africans Came to North America.

Audio-visual Release: “Storage in a Swiss Museum,” a slide show directed
at museum personnel, presenting one museum’s solution to the ever-present
challenge of artifact storage, was produced by the Audio-visual Loan Pro-
gram of the Office of Museum Programs.

September

Publication: Volume XI of Ars Orientalis, a publication devoted to the art,
architecture, and archaeology of Asia, was published jointly by the Freer
Gallery of Art and the Department of Art of the University of Michigan.

September

Renovation: Construction began on the first phase of a long-term plan to
provide increased access for the handicapped to the sunken garden of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

September 2

Festival: The third annual Frisbee disc festival attracted thousands of visitors,
who watched demonstrations by human and canine experts and participated
in workshops to learn different techniques of throwing and catching.

Chronology / 367
September 9

Lecture: World-renowned photographer and conservationist Ansel Adams pre-
sented a slide-illustrated lecture sponsored by the Resident Associate Pro-
gram.

September 12

Visit: The Dalai Lama visited the Freer Gallery of Art for a tour of the
collections and viewed Smithsonian films about vanishing Tibetan Buddhist
culture.

September 14

Exhibition: “The Red Room: An Addition to the First Ladies Hall” in the
National Museum of History and Technology recreates the Red Room as it
appeared during Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis’s years at the White House.

September 20

Seminar: “The Observer Observed” featured John Kilepak Kisokau, long-
time informant to Dr. Margaret Mead in Papua, New Guinea, in a program
sponsored by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars.

September 28

Education: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s new media
kit for teachers, ‘““The Museum Idea,” was completed.

Awards: The James Smithson Society program honoring major contributors
to the Institution was held in conjunction with the autumn meeting of the
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates.

September 29

y

Symposium: “Pompeii and the Vesuvian Landscape,” organized by the Office
of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars in association with the Washington
Society of the Archaeological Institute of America, commemorated the 1,900th
anniversary of the catastrophic eruption of Mount Vesuvius.

September 30

Videotape Release: ‘“Docents on Tour,” unrehearsed demonstrations of teach-
ing skills practiced by museum docents at the National Museum of Natural
History, was produced by the Office of Museum Programs for use by museum
educators and docent trainees.

368 / Smithsonian Year 1979
10.
at:

Smithsonian Year - 1979
APPENDICES

Organization Chart page 370
Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and

Commissions, September 30, 1979 72
Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards

Made October 1, 1978, through September 30, 1979 379
Smithsonian Research Awards Program in Fiscal Year 1979 383
National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1979 386
Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press

in Fiscal Year 1979 389
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution

and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1979 398
Academic Appointments in Fiscal Year 1979 465
Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in

Fiscal Year 1979 477
List of Donors to the Smithsonian Institution

in Fiscal Year 1979 492
Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1979 557.

Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1979 558

369
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

BOARD OF REGENTS

THE *SECRERARYG

UNDER SECRETARY*

AUDITOR

TREASURER*
Accounting Office

Office of Grants and Risk Management

Investment Accounting Division
Business Management Office
Concessions

Mail Order Division
Smithsonian Museum Shops

Assistant Secretary for
SCIENCE*

Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies

Fort Pierce Bureau

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Man
Center for the Study of Man

National Museum of
Natural History

National Zoological Park

Office of Biological Conservation

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute

* Secretary’s Executive Committee

Assistant Secretary for
HISTORY AND ART*

Archives of American Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Freer Gallery of Art
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers
Museum of African Art
National Collection of
Fine Arts
Renwick Gallery
National Museum of
History and Technology
National Portrait Gallery
Office of American and
Folklife Studies

GENERAL COUNSEL*

Assistant Secretary for
MUSEUM PROGRAMS*

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

National Museum Act

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of International
Activities

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar
Smithsonian Archives
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries
Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition
Service
Ss

Under Separate Boards of Trustees:

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

|
|
ie ae ST a eA pen eel

po ae ie oe 7
|

| SMITHSONIAN '

| SCIENCE INFORMATION

| EXCHANGE, INC. |

les gan ea es = _———3 == aE ew eae ee [J 2a

Coordinator of
PUBLIC INFORMATION*
Office of Congressional Liaison

Office of Public Affairs
Office of Special Events

Director of
MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT*

Development Office

Smithsonian National Associate
Program

Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program

ann RREEE EERE

Assistant Secretary for
PUBLIC SERVICE*

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Division of Performing Arts

International Exchange Service

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Exposition Books

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates
Reception Center

Assistant Secretary for
ADMINISTRATION*

Office of Computer Services
Contracts Office
Office of Equal Opportunity
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Facilities Planning and
Engineering Services
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Management Analysis Office
Office of Personnel Administration
Office of Printing and Photographic
Services
Office of Programming and Budget
Office of Supply Services
Travel Services Office
APPENDIX 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards,
and Commissions, September 30, 1979

Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio (Chancellor)
Walter F. Mondale, Vice President of the United States, ex officio
Henry M. Jackson, Senator from Washington

Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona

Robert B. Morgan, Senator from North Carolina

Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Frank Thompson, Jr., Representative from New Jersey

Anne Armstrong, citizen of Texas

John Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

John Nicholas Brown, citizen of Rhode Island

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Caryl P. Haskins, citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania

Thomas J. Watson, citizen of Connecticut

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

Executive Committee, Board of Regents

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor (Board of Regents), ex officio
James E. Webb, Chairman Caryl P. Haskins
William A. M. Burden S. Dillon Ripley

Smithsonian Council

Gordon N. Ray, A. Hunter Dupree Peter Marler
Chairman Frank B. Golley Ruth Patrick
Dore Ashton Stephen Jay Gould David Pilbeam
Milton Brown Neil Harris Vera C. Rubin
Frederick Burkhardt August Heckscher Carl E. Sagan
William H. Davenport Nathan I. Huggins Andre Schiffrin
Anne d’Harnoncourt Ada Louise Huxtable Gunther Schuller
Richard M. Dorson George F. Lindsay Barbara W. Tuchman

Archives of American Art Board of Trustees

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson,
Chairman Vice President

Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney, Mr. Henry deForest Baldwin,
President Treasurer

Mrs. Nancy B. Negley, Mrs. Dana M. Raymond,
Vice President Secretary

372 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman
Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro

Dr. Irving F. Burton

Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mr. Howard W. Lipman
Mr. Harold O. Love

Mrs. Alvin M. Ferst, Jr.

Mr. Richard Manoogian

Mr. Russell Lynes

Mr. Porter A. McCray

Dr. Abraham Melamed
Mrs. William L. Mitchell
Mr. Frederic A. Sharf

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman
Mrs. Louise Talbot Trigg
Mr. Edward M. M. Warburg
S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio
Charles Blitzer, ex officio

FOUNDING TRUSTEES

Lawrence A. Fleischman

HONORARY TRUSTEE
Mrs. William L. Richards

E. P. Richardson

Mrs. Edsel B. Ford

Archives of American Art Advisory Committee

NEW YORK

James Humphry III,
Chairman

John Baur

Milton Brown

Frederick Cummings

Anne d’Harnoncourt

Lloyd Goodrich

Eugene Goossen

NEW ENGLAND

Harley P. Holden,

Chairman
Winslow Ames
Mr. and Mrs.

George H. Bungardner
Charles Ferguson
Wolfgang M. Freitag
Hugh Gourley

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Wesley Chamberlin,
Chairman

Stanley Andersen

Joseph Baird

Herschel Chipp

Van Deren Coke

Wanda Corn

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

Donelson Hoppes,
Chairman

E. Maurice Bloch

Carl Dentzel

Beatrice Farwell

James J. Heslin

John Howat

Bernard Karpel

John A. Kouwenhoven
Abram Lerner

Russell Lynes

A. Hyatt Mayor
Barbara Novak

Elton W. Hall
Patricia Hills
Sinclair Hitchings
John Kirk
William Lipke
Kenworth Moffett
Elliot Offner
James O’Gorman

James Elliott

Albert Elsen

Alfred Frankenstein
Lanier Graham

Henry Hopkins
Robert Emory Johnson
Martha Kingsbury

Burton Fredericksen
Thomas H. Garver
David Gebhard
Constance W. Glenn

Clive Phillpot

Jules D. Prown

J. T. Rankin

Marvin Sadik

Joshua Taylor

Charles van Ravenswaay
William B. Walker
Richard P. Wunder

Stephen Prokopoff
Stephen Riley

Laurence Schmeckebier
Theodore Stebbins
Richard Teitz

Bryant F. Tolles

Peter Wick

Margaret Craver Withers

George Neubert
Peter Selz
Kevin Starr
Don Stover
Harvey West
Ian White

Paul Mills

Moira Roth
Maurice Tuchman
Robert R. Wark

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 373
WASHINGTON, D.C.

William Homer
Charles Hummell
Peter Marzio
Peter Mooz
Suzanne Newman

Bernard Mergen,
Chairman

Lorraine Brown

David Driskell

Lois Fink

Henry Glassie

Board of Fellowships and Grants

Abram Lerner
Walter Shropshire

Ira Rubinoff, Chairman
Porter Kier

Cooper-Hewitt Museum Advisory Council

Harmon Goldstone
Karen Keland
Russell Lynes
Susan Mellon

August Hecksher,
Chairman

Rosemary Corroon

Joanne DuPont

Folklife Advisory Council

Wilcomb E. Washburn, William Fitzhugh
Chairman Lloyd Herman
Roger Abrahams Robert Laughlin
Richard Ahlborn Scott Odell

Richard Dorson

Freer Visiting Committee

Mrs. Jackson Burke
Kwang-chih Chang
Marvin Eisenberg

Murray Gell-Mann

Charles A. Greenfield
John M. Rosenfield
Hugh Scott

Marc Pachter
Marvin Sadik
Phoebe Stanton
Joshua Taylor
John Wilmerding

David Challinor, ex officio
Charles Blitzer, ex officio

Kenneth Miller

Arthur Ross

Robert Sarnoff

S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio

Ralph Rinzler
Peter Seitel
Richard Sorenson
Thomas Vennum

Mrs. Katharine Graham Laurence Sickman

John Thacher
Richard Weatherhead

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Board of Trustees

Anne d’Harnoncourt
Thomas M. Evans
Jerome Greene

Daniel P. Moynihan,
Chairman

Leigh B. Block,
Vice Chairman

Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Sydney Lewis
Dorothy C. Miller

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

Horticultural Advisory Committee

Carlton Lees
Donald Parker

Jimmie L. Crowe
Belva Jensen
ORCHID SUBCOMMITTEE

Paul Desautels Robert Read

Robert Read

Mary Ripley

Joint Sponsoring Committee for the Papers of Joseph Henry

Fredrick Seitz, Chairman

Whitfield J. Bell, Jr. Charles Blitzer

374 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Lee Anna Embrey Blick S. Dillon Ripley

Henry D. Smyth
Museum of African Art Commission

Lee Bronson
David Driskell
John B. Duncan
Carl Freeman
S. I. Hayakawa

Frances Humphrey
Howard

Frank Moss

Robert Nooter

Museum of African Art National Council

Joseph James Akston
Arthur Ashe

James Avery

Ernie Barnes

Saul Bellow

Julian Bond

Rep. John Brademas
Dona Bronson
Edward W. Brooke
Joseph Campbell
Rep. John Conyers
Ossie Davis

Lula Dawson

Rep. Ronald Dellums
Barbaralee Diamonstein
Rep. Charles Diggs
Ofield Dukes

Joanne duPont

Jill and Elin Elisofon
Ralph Ellison

John Hope Franklin
Buckminster Fuller
James Gibson

Dick Gregory

Chaim Gross

Lily Polk Guest

Alex Haley

George Haley

Eliot Halperin
Philip Handler
Geoffrey Holder
Rep. Frank Horton
Muriel Humphrey
Barnaby Kenney
David Lloyd Kreeger
Jacob Lawrence
Vera List

J. Bruce Llewellyn
Richard Long
Stanley Marcus

Mel McCaw

Mary McFadden
Robert McNamara
Rae Alexander Minter
Clarence Mitchell
Rep. Parren Mitchell
Nancy Negley

Mace Neufeld
Dorothy Porter
Vincent Price
Benjamin Quarles
Milton Ratner

Thomas Schwab
Franklin Williams

Charles Blitzer, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, ex officio

Michael Rea
Saunders Redding
John Reinhardt
Stellita Renchard
Norman B. Robbins
Harold Rome
Bayard Rustin
Senator Hugh Scott
Stanley Scott

Evelyn Sessler
Mabel Smythe
Michael Sonnenreich
David Stratmon
Lynette Taylor
Anne Teabeau
Maurice Tempelsman
Paul Tishman
Sterling Tucker
Mike Wallace
Barbara Watson

G. Mennen Williams
Isabel Wilson

Lester Wunderman
Elizabeth Bouey Yates
Andrew Young
Nicholas Zervas

National Air and Space Museum Advisory Board

Mr. S. Dillon Ripley, Chairman
Mr. Jefferson W. Cochran

Brig. Gen. James L. Collins

Rear Adm. Robert H. Scarborough
Lt. Gen. Thomas H. Miller, Jr.

Maj. Gen. B. F. Starr, Jr.

Vice Adm. Frederick C. Turner
Mrs. O. A. Beech

Lt. Gen. Elwood R. Quesada,
USAE (Ret.)

National Air and Space Museum Visiting Committee

Dr. Alexander H. Flax
Dr. Gerard K. O'Neill
Dr. Leon T. Silver

Lt. Gen. James T. Stewart,
USAF (Ret.)
Dr. Richard T. Whitcomb

National Anthropological Film Center Advisory Council

Ira Abrams
T. Berry Brazelton
Roma Crocker

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 375

William H. Crocker
Herbert Di Gioia
Phoebe Ellsworth

Gordon Gibson
Edward T. Hall
Glenn Harnden
Stephen P. Hersh Norman Miller Sol Tax

Paul Hockings Phileo Nash E. Fuller Torrey
Matthew Huxley Marion Stirling Pugh Colin Turnbull
Bennetta Jules-Rosette Jerrold Schecter Carroll W. Williams
Peter Marzio Hubert Smith Joan Swayze Williams
Constance B. Mellon George Spindler

National Armed Forces Museum Advisory Board

John Nicholas Brown, Chairman}

Clifford J. Alexander, Secretary of the Army
Edward Hidalgo, Secretary of the Navy
Hahns Mark, Secretary of the Air Force

Fred L. Dixon

William I. Greener, Jr.

William H. Perkins, Jr.

Theodore Ropp

James M. Stone, Sr.

Harold Brown, Secretary of Defense, ex officio
S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

1 Deceased October 9, 1979.

Advisory Council for the National Museum Act

Paul N. Perrot, Marigene Butler Thomas W. Leavitt
Chairman Russell Fridley Richard H. Randall

Joel N. Bloom Ann Hitchcock Kenneth Starr

Richard F. Brown Philip S. Humphrey A. Brett Waller

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

William S. Anderson, E. Mandell deWindt Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Chairman Gaylord Donnelley Scott McVay
Robert H. B. Baldwin James A. Elkins, Jr. John R. Norton III
Henry C. Beck, Jr. Thomas M. Evans George S. Pillsbury
Nicholas F. Brady Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.
Keith S. Brown John N. Irwin II David E. Skinner
Mrs. Jackson Burke James M. Kemper, Jr. Vernon Taylor, Jr.

William T. Coleman, Jr.

HONORARY MEMBERS

Richard P. Cooley William A. Hewitt Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Joseph F. Cullman III Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson Merritt Kirk Ruddock
Leonard K. Firestone Lewis A. Lapham Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Alfred C. Glassell, Jr. George C. McGhee

National Collection of Fine Arts Commission

George B. Tatum, Lloyd Goodrich David Lloyd Kreeger
Chairman Walker Hancock Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mrs. Hiram W. McKee, _ R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Charles H. Sawyer
Vice Chairman Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. George Segal
S. Dillon Ripley, August Heckscher Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Secretary Mrs. Robert Homans Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Elizabeth Brooke Blake © Thomas C. Howe Otto Wittmann
Thomas S. Buechner Jaquelin H. Hume Abram Lerner, ex officio

376 / Smithsonian Year 1979
HONORARY MEMBERS

Martin Friedman Paul Mellon Edgar P. Richardson
Henry P. MclIlhenny Ogden Pleissner Andrew Wyeth

National Portrait Gallery Commission

John Nicholas Brown, Robert L. McNeil, Jr. Robert H. Smith
Chairman Andrew Oliver Frank Stanton
Barry Bingham, Sr. E. P. Richardson Barbara Tuchman

Katie Louchheim

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, ex officio

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

1 Deceased October 9, 1979.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Visiting Committee

Harvey Brooks A. Lee Loomis, Jr. Merritt K. Ruddock
William Kaula Walter Orr Roberts James O. Wright

Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program Advisory Councils

ARCHEOLOGY AND RELATED DISCIPLINES ADVISORY COUNCIL

Esin Atil George Dales Daniel H. Ingalls

Daniel G. Bates George R. Hughes Thomas W. Jacobsen
ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES ADVISORY COUNCIL

Felix Chayes Paul Hodge Thornton Page

Henry Faul William Klein Victor Szebehely

George Field William Melson Louis Walter
SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY ADVISORY COUNCIL

Kenneth Cooper Norman D. Newell R. Ruibal

D. A. Livingstone Robert Ornduff Richard W. Thorington, Jr.

Smithsonian Research Awards Advisory Council

James Griffin John Ostrom Virginia Trimble
William Hazen Beatrice Sweeney Harry Woolf

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates

Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr., Mrs. Thomas E. Bryant
Chairman Mrs. Thomas J. Camp, Jr.
Mrs. Clifford Alexander Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk
Mrs. William Alexander Mrs. Richard Cobb
Mrs. Charles Bartlett Mrs. James M. Collins
Mrs. Robert O. Blake Mrs. Ernest A. Connally
Mrs. Robert A. Brooks Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker
Mrs. John A. Bross Mrs. John Howard Dalton
Mrs. James T. Broyhill Mrs. Avery Faulkner

Appendix 1. Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions / 377
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Randolph A. Frank
Arthur W. Gardner
C. Leslie Glenn
Parker T. Hart
Hugh Jacobsen
James Kraft

Archie Lang

George Varick Lauder
Lawrence Bruce Olds
James R. Patton, Jr.
Charles H. Percy
Horace White Peters
Richard Powell

S. Dillon Ripley

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Reynaldo Rodriquez
Frederick B. Rooney
Peter T. Russell

John T. Sapienza
Leonard R. Silverstein
Harold Snell

Potter Stewart
Willard G. Triest
Sander Vanocur
Edwin M. Wheeler
Gordon Page Williams
Morton Wilner
Anthony T. Wilson
Laurence I. Wood

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

Board of Trustees

William J. Baroody,
Chairman

Paul W. McCracken,
Vice Chairman

James A. Baker III

Daniel J. Boorstin

Robert J. Bork

Joseph D. Duffey
Stuart E. Eizenstat
Bryce N. Harlow
Patricia Roberts Harris
James E. O'Neill

Kennedy Center Board of Trustees

Roger L. Stevens,
Chairman
Henry Strong,
Vice Chairman
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Marion Barry
K. Le Moyne Billings
Daniel J. Boorstin
Mrs. Edward T. Breathitt
J. Carter Brown
Robert S. Carter
James C. Corman
Mrs. Edward Finch Cox
Marshall Coyne
Mrs. J. Clifford Folger
Abe Fortas
Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen

J. William Fulbright
Ralph Philip Hanes, Jr.
Orval Hansen
Patricia Harris

Mrs. Paul H. Hatch
Mrs. Bob Hope
Frank Ikard

Edward M. Kennedy
Melvin R. Laird
Marjorie M. Lawson
Joseph M. McDade

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

Ronald H. Nessen

Charles H. Percy,
Vice Chairman

Donna Stone Pesch

A. James Reichley
John E. Reinhardt

S. Dillon Ripley
Cyrus R. Vance
Rawleigh Warner, Jr.

John E. Reinhardt

Mrs. Abraham A. Ribicoff

S. Dillon Ripley II

Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr.

William H. Rumsey

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smith

John G. Spatuzza

Frank H. Thompson, Jr.

Benjamin A. Trustman

Jack Valenti

William J. Whalen

Harrison A. Williams, Jr.

Mrs. Jack Wrather

Mrs. George A. Garrett,
Honorary Trustee

(Note: No ex-officio appointment for the Commissioner of Education has been

made.)

National Gallery of Art Board of Trustees

Paul Mellon,
Chairman

Carlisle H. Humelsine
Ruth Carter Johnson

Franklin D. Murphy
John R. Stevenson

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of State, ex officio
G. William Miller, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio

S. Dillon Ripley, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

378 / Smithsonian Year 1979
APPENDIX 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program
Awards Made October 1, 1978, through
September 30, 1979

_ ARCHEOLOGY, ANTHROPOLOGY,
AND RELATED DISCIPLINES

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago, Illinois. Continued support for
administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology; photo-
history of India from nineteenth- and twentieth-century photographs; pro-
duction of als volume on anthropology; translations program; participation
in the Tenth International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological
Sciences.

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. Operation of the
Center in Cairo; continuation of the epigraphic survey of the Oriental Insti-
tute of the University of Chicago; The Middle Commentaries on Aristotle’s
Organon by Averroes; medieval Islamic astronomy; publication of the exca-
vation findings at Mendes; fellowship program in the study of archeology
and related disciplines; archeological investigation of Qasr Ibrim, Egyptian
Nubia; a historical and architectural study of the Bayt al-Razzas; an archeo-
logical map of the Theban Necropolis; books for the Cairo Center Library;
publication of a catalog of astronomical manuscripts; publication of Luxor
Museum catalog.

American Research Center in Egypt, Princeton, New Jersey. The Wadi Tumilat
project (Egypt).

American Schools of Oriental Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Excava-
tions in salient areas of Punic and Roman Carthage (Tunisia); the Wadi
Tumilat project (Egypt).

Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. The ancient city of Stobi: archeo-
logical research (Yugoslavia).

Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Epigraphic recording and archeo-
logical survey of the pharaonic and pre-pharaonic remains at Gebel es-Silsilah,
Egypt.

Columbia University, New York, New York. The study, transcription, and
translation of popular narrative ballads of modern Egypt; Sayed Shah: Islam
in a Panjab Village (Pakistan); The Sacred Year: A Village Temple in South
India and its function as a focus of art and ritual performance in traditional
society.

Dumbarton Oaks Center for Byzantine Studies, Washington, D.C. Publication
of the Corpus of the Mosaics of Tunisia (India); Corpus of mosaics of Tunisia
project.

Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. An exhibi-
tion of Mamluk art (Egypt).

Appendix 2. Foreign Currency Program Awards / 379
Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, New York. Women and rice cultivation:
a comparative study in four traditional rice-producing states of India.

Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana. Preparation for publication of
Folktales of India.

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Indo-American Fellowship Program.

Lawrence University, Appleton, Wisconsin. Marathi folk songs in Malarashtra
and northern Mysore (India).

National Anthropological Film Center, Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C. Filmic inquiry into the processes of ecological adaptation and social
integration in India of the Pashtoon nomads of Afghanistan.

National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C. A metallurgical site survey of the western Chagai district (Pakistan).

Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas. Prehistory of Egypt; publica-
tion of The Afian: A Study of Stylistic Variation in a Nilotic Industry (India).

University of California, Berkeley, California. Conduction, recording, and film-
ing of last performance of an Agnicayana ritual in India.

University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Quseir project (Egypt).

University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut. Comparative field study of
socialization in three communities in India.

University of Hawaii, Manoa, Hawaii. U.S. participation in the Indo-Pacific
Prehistory Association meeting (India).

University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky. Exploration of an early medieval
settlement in the Kujawy Region in Poland.

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Publication of pro-
ceedings of symposium on desertification, Tenth International Congress of An-
thropological and Ethnological Sciences (India); excavations at east Karnak,

Upper Egypt.

University of Washington, Seattle, Washington. Catalog of Islamic coins
(Egypt).

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Changing patterns of produc-

tion in an Indian village, with a view to introducing use and local construc-
tion of solar energy devices.

Washington State University, Pullman, Washington. Studies in predynastic
Egypt: subsistence-settlement studies, the Nagada-Khattara region.

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY
(INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY)

Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Participation of U.S. officers in
International Primatological Society International Congress, Bangalore, India.

Columbia University, New York, New York. Marine geology and biology of
the Indian Ocean.

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Anthropological and paleontologi-
cal research on fossil anthropoid sites of the Egyptian Oligocene.

Harvard University Medical School, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Integrated
field study of behavior, genetics, and virology of the hanuman langur in
Rajasthan, India.

380 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Howard University, Washington, D.C. Cenozoic mammals of Pakistan.

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C. Revisions of Trimen’s
Handbook to the Flora of Ceylon; biosystematic study of insects of Ceylon;
a study of the biological productivity of some tropical lakes in South India;
the natural history of ground beetles at a temperate forest site, Bialowieza
Primeval Forest, Poland; tropical forest avifaunas in southern India.

National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Zoo-
logical park exchanges (India).

Office of Assistant Secretary of Science, Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C. U.S. participation in International Symposium on the Tiger (India).

Our Lady of the Lakes University, San Antonio, Texas. Zoogeography of the
Anostraca of south India.

Rutgers-The State University, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Participation in
International Union of Forestry Research Organization workshop (India).

University of Miami, Miami, Florida. Nitrogen cycling in a mangrove estuary
of western India.

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Studies on the molluscan
genus Bulinus in Africa and other regions (Egypt); symposium on adaptive
grades in the evolution of primates (India): fossil mammals in Paleocene and
Eocene continental sediments of Pakistan.

University of North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina. Symposium on the
origin of the new world monkeys and continental drift: biogeographic and
phylogenetic consideration (India).

Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. Hominoid evolution in south Asia
and the origins of hominidae (Pakistan).

ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES

Harvard College Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Participation in
Indo-U.S. workshop “Solar-Terrestrial Physics.”

International Solar Energy Society, Washington, D.C. Participation in Inter-
national Solar Energy Society Congress (India).

National Air and Space Museum, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Desert erosion and sand movement (Egypt).

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Continua-
tion of operation of satellite tracking lasar system on Helwan Observatory
in Egypt; continuation of operation of Uttar Pradeh State Observatory/
Smithsonian Astrophysical Tracking Station at Naini Tal (India); development
of laser tracking program in India.

National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington,
D.C. Defining Plio-Quaternary to Recent sedimentation patterns on the Nile
Cone (Egypt).

University of Alabama, Huntsville, Alabama. Participation in Indo-U.S. work-
shop “Solar-Terrestrial Physics.”

University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Playa Lake studies, Nubian Desert,
Egypt.

University of California, Los Angeles, California. Participation in Committee
on Space Research (COSPAR) Symposium on Non-Solar Gamma Rays (India).

Appendix 2. Foreign Currency Program Awards / 381
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. Program in high energy astrophysics
(India).

University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. Field investigation on program of
earthquake prediction (India).

University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. Participation in Indo-U.S.
workshop “Solar-Terrestrial Physics.”

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Field investigation of
the geologic context of the present occurrence of Libyan Desert silica glass
(Egypt); geochronology of alkaline complexes of the southeastern desert

(Egypt).
MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Capital Children’s Museum, Washington, D.C. Consultation on establishment
of an Egyptian children’s museum.

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Museum
training and exchange with the Museum of Natural History, New Delhi.

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Insti-
tution, Washington, D.C. Museum professional exchange (India and Guinea).

The Puppeteers of America, Washington, D.C. Folk puppet traditions in Africa
and Asia (India and Pakistan).

382 / Smithsonian Year 1979
APPENDIX 3. Smithsonian Research Awards Program
in Fiscal Year 1979

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Paul Hanle. Study of European Archives in History of Aerodynamics and
Modern Physics.

Ted A. Maxwell. Comparative Studies of Desert Pavement.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Richard E. Ahlborn. The Will of a Woman, 1761.

Harold D. Langley. The First Century of Medicine in the U.S. Navy, 1798—
1898.

Philip K. Lundeberg. The Emergence of Galvanic Sea Mine Warfare.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Richard Benson. Paleoecology and Crises in Atlantic “Deep-Sea” Circulation.

Arthur H. Clarke. Studies on the Ecology, Life History, Systematics and Zoo-
geography of the Freshwater Mollusks of Central America.

Clifford Evans. Prehistoric Human Ecology of the Rio Guapore Area of Western
Brazil and the Eastern Lowlands of Bolivia.

Kurt Fredriksson. The Anatomy of Chondrites: The Composition of Lithic
Fragments and Clasts vs Bulk, Chondrules, and Matrix.

Richard Grant. Permian Brachiopods of Greece and Turkey: Living Habits
and Extinction Patterns.

Mason Hale. Biochemical Systematics of the Lichens Genus Usnea in Tropical
America.

W. Ronald Heyer. Speciation Patterns of Neotropical Frogs Determined from
Quantitative Immunological and Morphological Evidence. I. Speciation Pat-
terns in the Frog Genus Leptodoctylus.

W. Duane Hope. A Monographic Study of the Marine Nematode Family
Leptosomatidae.

Richard S. Houbrick. Ecology and Systematic Studies of Gastropods of the
Family Cerithiidae in Australia.

Erle G. Kauffman. Why do Evolutionary Rates Vary? A Text of the Marine
Ecosystem.

Raymond B. Manning. Application of a Microcomputer/Word Processing
System to Basic Research in Systematic Zoology.

Bruce Smith. The Emergence of the Middle Mississippi Cultural Tradition in
the Cairo Lowland, Missouri.

Appendix 3. Smithsonian Research Awards Program / 383
Daniel J. Stanley. Oceanography and Sedimentology of the Hellenic Trench,
Ionian Sea: Mediterranean Basin (MEDIBA) Project.

Thomas R. Waller. The Living Scallops of the Western Atlantic—A Study of
the Effects of Ocean Dynamics on Evolution and Biogeography.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Ellen G. Miles. Catalogue of the Work of Charles Balthazar Julien Févret de
Saint-Mémin.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Mitchell Bush. The Physiological and Hematological Changes in Exotic Ani-
mals During and After Physical Restraint, Chemical Immobilization and
General Anesthesia.

Eugene S. Morton. An Experimental Study of Intraspecific Variation in Pair
Formation Behavior in the Carolina Wren: Behavioral Impediments to Gene
Flow in a Continuously Distributed Passerine Bird.

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Maurice Margulies. Characterization of m-RNA Bound to Chloroplast Photo-
synthetic Membranes.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Nathaniel P. Carleton. A Study of Infrared Emission Lines from Galactic
Nuclei.

Edward Fireman. Neutrinos in Nature and the Law of Baryon Conservation.

Fred A. Franklin. An Investigation into the Stability of Orbits in the Outer
Part of the Asteroidal Belt.

E. M. Gaposchkin. Thermal Convection Models-Subduction Zones.

Kate Kirby-Docken. Calculation of Potential Curves and Warefunctions for
Small Astrophysically Interesting Molecules.

John L. Kohl. An Experimental Study of the Dielectronic Recombination
Process.

Rudolph E. Schild. Proposal for the Development of a Low Light Level Imag-
ing System for the Multiple Mirror Telescope.

Herbert Schnopper. The Continued Testing of Microlithographic Transmission
Grating Efficiencies.

Daniel A. Schwartz. To Develop a CCD X-ray Imager for Astrophysical Appli-
cations.

Robert F. C. Vessot. Test by Computation the Concept of a Correlated Linear
Doppler Tracking System.

Charles A. Whitney. Designing and Breadboarding of a Stellar Radial Velocity
Spectrometer.

384 / Smithsonian Year 1979
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

G. Gene Montgomery. Comparative Energy Economics of Sympatric Mam-
malian Anteaters with Different Foraging Strategies.

Robert Silberglied. Evolutionary Studies of Reproductive Isolation in Anartia
Butterflies (Lepidoptera, Nymphalidae)

Alan Smith. Ecology and Evolution of Plant Form in the East African Giant
Senecios.

Hindrik Wolda. Fluctuations in Abundance of Insect Population in Nonsea-
sonal Tropics.

SEECIAL PROJECT

Crimilda Pontes. Collecting Material about John Howard Benson for Archival
and Biographical Use.

Appendix 3. Smithsonian Research Awards Program / 385
APPENDIX 4. National Museum Act Grants Awarded
in Fiscal Year 1979

SEMINAR/WORKSHOP PROGRAM

American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.

American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee.
Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.

Bay Area Art Conservation Guild, San Francisco, California.

The Decorative Arts Chapter of the Society of Architectural Historians, New
York, New York.

National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C.
New England Aquarium Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts.
New Mexico Association of Museums, Santa Fe, New Mexico.

New York State Office of Parks and Recreation, Peebles Island, Waterford,
New York.

The North Carolina State Museum of Natural History, Raleigh, North Caro-
lina.

Southern Arts Federation, Atlanta, Georgia.

STIPENDS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR CONSERVATION STUDIES
Virginia Caswell, Art Conservation Programme, Queen’s University, Kingston,
Ontario, Canada.

Barbara H. Christen, Institute of Archaeology, University of London, London,
England.

Helen Ganiaris, Art Conservation Program, Queen’s University, Kingston,
Ontario, Canada.

Janet Garbarino, The Victoria and Albert Museum, London, England.
Karen Garlick, Folger Shakespeare Library, Washington, D.C.

Judith K. Golden, Colorado Historical Society, Denver, Colorado.

Greta Hansen, The George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
Stephen P. Koob, Institute of Archaeology, London, England.

Michael J. Mills, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C.

Susan Paterson, The George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
Anne Rosenthal, Kimbell Art Museum, Ft. Worth, Texas.

Thomas E. Solon, US/ICOMOS, Washington, D.C.

John Turney, Institute of Archaeology, London, England.

Evie Zachariades-Holmberg, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.

386 / Smithsonian Year 1979
STIPEND SUPPORT FOR GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING

Bank Street College of Education, New York, New York.
Conservation Center, Institute of Fine Arts, New York, New York.
Cooperstown Graduate Program, Oneonta, New York.

The George Washington University, Washington, D.C.

The University of California, Los Angeles, California.

The University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware.

The University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

The University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont.

Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut.

STIPEND SUPPORT FOR MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS

Association of Science-Technology Centers, Washington, D.C.
The Children’s Museum, Boston, Massachusetts.

The Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York.

Rochester Museum and Science Center, Rochester, New York.
The University Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut.

TRAVEL FOR MUSEUM PROFESSIONALS

Michael Alexander, Museum of Science, Boston, Massachusetts.

Kathryne Andrews, The Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn, New York.

Stephen Barbata, Coyote Point Museum Association, San Mateo, California.
Michael Canoso, Harvard University Herbaria, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Allan D. Griesemer, University of Nebraska State Museum, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Judith Henson, Fernbank Science Center, Atlanta, Georgia.

Laurence Libin, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, New York.
Floyd Merenkov, The Denver Art Museum, Denver, Colorado.

Estella Pate, Brooklyn Children’s Museum, Brooklyn, New York.

Terence Pitts, Center for Creative Photography, Tucson, Arizona.

Mark S. Rich, The San Diego Zoo, San Diego, California.

Leila M. Shultz, Intermountain Herbarium, Logan, Utah.

Geri Volpe, Talkeetna Historical Society and Museum, Talkeetna, Alaska.

Appendix 4. National Museum Act Grants Awarded / 387
SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH

Carnegie-Mellon Institute of Research, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

North Dakota State University of Agriculture and Applied Science, Fargo,
North Dakota.

Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, New York.
The School of Textiles, Raleigh, North Carolina.

The University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland.

The University of the State of New York, Albany, New York.
Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.

The Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware.

PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE

The American Association for State and Local History, Nashville, Tennessee.
American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.

The Association of Systematics Collections, Museum of Natural History,
Lawrence, Kansas.

The International Council of Museums, Paris, France.

The Library of the College of Physicians, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

388 / Smithsonian Year 1979
APPENDIX 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press
in Fiscal Year 1979

GENERAL PUBLICATIONS

TRADE PUBLICATIONS

Roland Wilbur Brown. Composition of Scientific Words. Reprint. 882 pages.
October 20, 1978. $12.50.

John C. Ewers, editor. Indian Art in Pipestone: George Catlin’s Portfolio in the
British Museum. 79 pages, 5 color and 35 black-and-white illustrations. Feb-
ruary 28, 1979. $8.95.

Howard N. Fox. Directions. 103 pages, 12 color and 31 black-and-white illus-
trations. July 1, 1979. $15.00.

James M. Goode. Capital Losses: A Cultural History of Washington's De-
stroyed Buildings. xxiv + 517 pages, 482 black-and-white illustrations. Octo-
ber 22, 1979. $37.50.

Michael Grow. Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C., for Latin American and
Caribbean Studies. xii + 348 pages. June 25, 1979. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $7.95.

Rolland O. Hower. Freeze-Drying Biological Specimens: A Laboratory Manual.
196 pages, 145 black-and-white illustrations. May 16, 1979. $25.00.

Louise Daniel Hutchinson. Out of Africa: From West African Kingdoms to
Colonization. 223 pages, 12 color and 220 black-and-white illustrations.
March 1, 1979. $25.00.

Allan J. Lichtman and Joan R. Challinor, editors. Kin and Communities: The
Peopling of America. 335 pages, 11 black-and-white illustrations. March 22,
1979. Cloth: $17.50; paper: $7.95.

Luis G. Lumbreras. The Peoples and Cultures of Ancient Peru. Translated by
Betty J. Meggers. Fourth reprint. vii + 248 pages, 372 black-and-white illustra-
tions. September 24, 1979. Paper: $9.95.

Richard J. Montali, editor. Mycobacterial Infections of Zoo Animals. vii +
275 pages, 2 color and 67 black-and-white illustrations. January 10, 1979.
Cloth: $12.50; paper: $7.95.

G. Gene Montogomery, editor. The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores. 574 pages,
177 black-and-white illustrations. February 23, 1979. Cloth: $22.50; paper:
$12.50.

James Mooney. Calendar History of the Kiowa Indians. Reprint of the Bureau
of American Ethnology Bulletin 17, with a foreword by John C. Ewers.
August 13, 1979. Paper: $8.95.

Linda T. Neumaier, compiler. Checklist of the Permanent Collection. 172
pages, 1,267 black-and-white illustrations. October 3, 1978. Paper: $5.95.

Marc Pachter. A Gallery of Presidents. 95 pages, 39 black-and-white illustra-
tions. April 23, 1979. Paper: $4.95.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 389
Harold Francis Pfister. Facing the Light: Historic American Portrait Daguerreo-
types. 378 pages, 327 black-and-white illustrations. October 23, 1978. $25.00.

Nathan Reingold, editor. The Papers of Joseph Henry, Volume 3: The Prince-
ton Years, January 1836—December 1837. 585 pages, 250 line cuts, 16 portraits.
August 15, 1979. $30.00.

Nathan Reingold, editor. The Sciences in the American Context: New Per-
spectives. 399 pages. September 6, 1979. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $9.95.

S. Dillon Ripley. The Sacred Grove: Essays on Museums. Reprint. 159 pages.
March 19, 1979. Paper: $4.50.

Jay P. Spenser. Aeronca C-2: The Story of the Flying Bathtub. 72 pages, 108
black-and-white illustrations. November 22, 1978. Paper: $4.95.

Theodore E. Stebbins, Jr. Close Observations: Selected Oil Sketches by
Frederick E. Church. ix + 110 pages, 5 color and 122 black-and-white illus-
trations. November 22, 1978. Cloth: $17.50; paper: $10.00.

John R. Swanton. The Indians of the Southeastern United States. Reprint of
the Bureau of American Ethnology Bulletin 137. 943 pages, 112 black-and-white
illustrations, 13 maps. August 20, 1979. Paper: $17.50.

John R. Swanton. Indian Tribes of North America. Fifth reprint of the Bureau
of American Ethnology Bulletin 145. vi + 726 pages, 5 maps. September 17,
1979. Paper: $35.00.

Joshua C. Taylor, Jane Dillenberger, and Richard Murray. Perceptions and
Evocations: The Art of Elihu Vedder. ix + 246 pages, 7 color and 302 black-
and-white illustrations. March 27, 1979. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $15.50.

Deborah Jean Warner. Graceanna Lewis: Scientist and Humanitarian. 139
pages. April 23, 1979. Paper: $3.95.

TRADE SALES DISTRIBUTION

Esin Atil. Ceramics from the World of Islam. 225 pages. 20 color and 81 black-
and-white illustrations. September 1979. Paper: $12.50.

Richard Edwards. The Field of Stones: A Study of the Art of Shen Chou
(1427-1509). 313 pages, 115 black-and-white illustrations, 50 plates. Septem-
ber 1979. $15.00.

Freer Gallery of Art. Arts of Asia at the Time of American Independence.
41 pages, 95 black-and-white illustrations. September 1979. Paper: $3.00.

Rutherford John Gettens. The Freer Chinese Bronzes: Volume II, Technical
Studies. 227 pages, 13 color and 302 black-and-white illustrations. September
1979. $30.00.

Richard P. Hallion and Tom D. Crouch, editors. Apollo: Ten Years Since Tran-
quility Base. 192 pages, 70 black-and-white illustrations. July 20, 1979. Cloth:
$17.50; paper: $6.95.

Richard P. Hallion, editor. The Wright Brothers: Heirs of Prometheus. 146
pages, 84 black-and-white illustrations. December 17, 1978. Cloth: $15.00;
paper: $5.95.

Aschwin Lippe. The Freer Indian Sculptures. 128 pages, 3 color and 52 black-
and-white illustrations, 1 map. September 1979. $15.00.

John A. Pope, Rutherford J. Gettens, James Cahill, and Noel Barnard. The
Freer Chinese Bronzes: Volume 1, Catalogue. 638 pages, 8 color and 193
black-and-white illustrations. September 1979. $40.00.

390 / Smithsonian Year 1979
ANNUAL REPORTS

American Historical Association. Annual Report, 1977. viii + 201 pages.
December 18, 1978.

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies. Annual Report, 1978. 13
pages. July 15, 1979.

Office of Membership and Development. Benefactors of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, October 1, 1976, through September 30, 1977. 28 pages, 1 black-and-
white illustration. November 7, 1978.

. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution, October 1, 1977, through
September 30, 1978. 35 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. July 16, 1979.

Smithsonian Institution. Smithsonian Year, 1978. Programs and Activities.
October 1, 1977, through September 30, 1978. viii + 525 pages, 105 black-
and-white illustrations. May 3, 1979.

. Smithsonian Year, 1978. Statement by the Secretary. vi + 65 pages,
41 black-and-white illustrations. May 3, 1979.

EXHIBITION CATALOGUES

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Louise Daniel Hutchinson. Out of Africa: From West African Kingdoms to
Colonization. 223 pages, 12 color and 220 black-and-white illustrations. Feb-
ruary 3, 1979.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Howard N. Fox. Directions. 103 pages, 12 color and 31 black-and-white illus-
trations. June 8, 1979. Paper: $6.25.

Miranda McClintic. David Smith: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den Collection. 48 pages, 33 black-and-white illustrations. August 8, 1979.
Paper: $2.75.

Phyllis Rosenzweig. Arshile Gorky: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden Collection. 47 pages, 6 color and 44 black-and-white illustrations.
September 14, 1979. $3.75.

National Collection of Fine Arts

High School Graphics VI. 16 pages, 24 black-and-white illustrations. April 20,
1979.

Joshua C. Taylor, Jane Dillenberger, and Richard Murray. Perceptions and

Evocations: The Art of Elihu Vedder. ix + 246 pages, 7 color and 302 black-

and-white illustrations. March 20, 1979. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $15.00.
National Museum of History and Technology

Einstein: A Centenary Exhibition. 48 pages, 30 black-and-white illustrations.

July 17, 1979. Paper: $2.50.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Paul J. Karlstrom. Louis M. Eilshemius: Selections from the Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden. 108 pages, 15 color and 95 black-and-white illus-
trations. November 1, 1978. Paper: $6.95.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 391
Pochoir. Revised edition of the catalog of an exhibition held at the National
Museum of History and Technology in 1977. 22 pages, 5 color and 8 black-
and-white illustrations. May 21, 1979. Paper: $3.00.

EXHIBITION CHECKLISTS

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Alfred Maurer: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Collection.
16 pages, 1 color and 19 black-and-white illustrations. April 30, 1979. Paper:
$.75.

Grant Mudford: Photographs. 12 pages, 10 black-and-white illustrations.
May 31, 1979. Paper: $1.00.

National Collection of Fine Arts

After the Crash. 4 pages, 5 black-and-white illustrations. August 23, 1979.

Chicago Currents: The Koffler Foundation Collection. 8 pages, 34 black-and-
white illustrations. July 18, 1979.

Gabor Peterdi: Forty-five Years of Printmaking. 16 pages, 9 black-and-white
illustrations. May 31, 1979.

Perceptions and Evocations: The Art of Elihu Vedder. 32 pages, 3 black-and-
white illustrations. October 6, 1978.

Prints and Personalities: The American Theater's First Hundred Years. 16
pages, 7 black-and-white illustrations. July 20, 1979.

William Penhallow Henderson, 1877-1943: An Artist of Santa Fe. 8 pages,
1 color and 5 black-and-white illustrations. November 9, 1978.

National Museum of History and Technology

The John Paul Remensnyder Collection of American Stoneware. 16 pages,
16 black-and-white illustrations. November 15, 1978.

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts

Clay Figures from Guerrero. 6 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. No-
vember 1, 1978.

Mexican Masks. 8 pages, 8 black-and-white illustrations. November 1, 1978.

BOOKS
Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Alan D. Franklin, Jacqueline S. Olin, and Theodore A. Wertime, editors. The
Search for Ancient Tin. viii + 63 pages, 27 black-and-white illustrations.
March 13, 1979.

National Air and Space Museum

Jay P. Spenser. Aeronca C-2: The Story of the Flying Bathtub. 72 pages, 108
black-and-white illustrations. November 22, 1978. Paper: $4.95.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Harry Rand. Seymour Lipton: Aspects of Sculpture. 80 pages, 1 color and 89
black-and-white illustrations. March 13, 1979. Paper: $4.00.

392 / Smithsonian Year 1979
National Portrait Gallery
Linda T. Neumaier, compiler. Checklist of the Permanent Collection. 172 pages,
1,267 black-and-white illustrations. October 3, 1978. Paper: $5.95.

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History, Art, Science.
152 pages. September 18, 1979.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Guide to Manuscript Collections in the National Museum of History and
Technology, 1978. xiv + 143 pages. October 3, 1978.

BOOKLETS

National Collection of Fine Arts

Alan Sonfist/Trees. 12 pages, 13 black-and-white illustrations. December 12,
1978.

National Museum of History and Technology

Luna Lambert. The American Skating Mania: Ice Skating in the Nineteenth
Century. 20 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. November 30, 1978.

The Honey Bee. 26 pages, 5 black-and-white illustrations. June 8, 1979.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: Learning Opportunities for Schools. 32 pages,
47 black-and-white illustrations. August 15, 1979.

Office of Membership and Development

James Smithson Society of the Smithsonian Associates. 6 pages. February 8,
1979.

Dinner program for the Second Annual Dinner in Honor of the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates and the James Smithson Society. 12 pages.
October 6, 1978.

Dinner program for the Third Annual Dinner in Honor of the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates and the James Smithson Society. 16 pages.
September 28, 1979.

Office of Museum Programs

National Museum Act Guidelines for 1980 Grant Programs. 31 pages. July 10,
1979:

National Museum Act Report on Grants, 1972-1978. 70 pages. January 26,
1979.

Smithsonian Institution, Office of Museum Programs Workshop Series, 1979-
1980. 16 pages. March 20, 1979.

Office of Personnel Administration

Employment at the Smithsonian: Questions and Answers. 12 pages. Octo-
ber 24, 1978.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 393
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Art of Sri Lanka: Contemporary Works on Paper. 16 pages, 9 black-and-white
illustrations. September 5, 1979.

FOLDERS
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

Animal Adaptations: Insects and Spiders. Reprint. October 24, 1978.
Estuary Chesapeake. Reprint. October 24, 1978.

National Air and Space Museum

National Air and Space Museum. Revised reprint. August 29, 1979.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Ars et Scientia: American Painting and Science in the Nineteenth Century.
February 9, 1979.

Sculpture and the Federal Triangle. September 21, 1979.

National Museum of History and Technology

Atom Smashers .. . 50 Years. Reprint. May 31, 1979.

Handicapped Visitor's Guide to the National Museum of History and Tech-
nology. March 13, 1979.

Welcome to the National Museum of History and Technology. Reprint. July 1,
1979.

National Museum of Natural History

National Museum of Natural History, November 28, 1978. Reprinted Au-
gust 17, 1979:

Office of Horticulture
Program for the Victorian Ball. June 13, 1979.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Art to Zoo. Newsletter published several times a year.

Let’s Go to the Smithsonian! Bulletin published several times a year.

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Program of Higher Education and Research Training in Anthropology. Octo-
ber 20, 1978.

Program of Higher Education and Research Training in Biological Sciences.
October 20, 1978.

Program of Higher Education and Research Training in Cultural History.
October 20, 1978.

Program in Higher Education and Research Training in Earth Sciences. Octo-
ber 20, 1978.

Program of Higher Learning and Research Training, Eppley Smithsonian
Fellowship. October 20, 1978.

394 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Program of Higher Learning and Research Training in History of Art. Octo-
ber 20, 1978.

Program of Higher Learning and Research Training in History of Science
and Technology. October 20, 1978.

Smithsonian Fellowships. September 25, 1979.
Office of Museum Programs

Children in Museums. August 17, 1979.

Museum Reference Center. October 6, 1978. Reprinted September 25, 1979.
Office of Public Affairs

Smithsonian Institution. Revised reprint. June 4, 1979.
Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts

The Harmonious Craft: American Musical Instruments. December 28, 1978.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Cut on Wood: The Art of American Wood Engraving, 1790-1900. Septem-
ber 26, 1979.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute. November 22, 1978.

INVITATIONS
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Out of Africa: From West African Kingdoms to Colonization. January 5, 1978.

National Collection of Fine Arts

Alan Sonfist/Trees. October 5, 1978.

Collages by Irwin Kremen. January 9, 1979.

Gabor Peterdi: Forty-five Years of Printmaking. January 12, 1979.

High School Graphics VI. April 3, 1979.

Jackson Pollock: New Found Works. November 27, 1978.

Seymour Lipton: Aspects of Sculpture. January 5, 1979.

Sculpture and the Federal Triangle. September 5, 1979.

William Penhallow Henderson: An Artist of Santa Fe. October 16, 1978.

Office of Horticulture
Victorian Ball. April 30, 1979.
Office of Membership and Development

Victorian Tea Dance and Garden Party. May 16, 1979.

Renwick Gallery of the National Collection of Fine Arts

The Art of Russia: 1800-1850. June 20, 1979.
Bo’jou Neejee! Profiles of Canadian Indian Art. November 22, 1978.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 395
Buildings Reborn: New Uses, Old Places. February 3, 1979.
Irena Brynner: Jewelry since 1953. August 1, 1979.
Olaf Skoogfors, 20th Century Goldsmith. March 19, 1979.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Capital Losses. August 14, 1979.

SERIES PUBLICATIONS
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ANTHROPOLOGY

24. Edwin N. Wilmsen and Frank H. H. Roberts, Jr. “Lindenmeier, 1934-1974:
Concluding Report on Investigations. 187 pages, 166 figures, 3 maps, 108
tables. March 6, 1979.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO BOTANY

40. Michael Wirth and Mason E. Hale, Jr. “Morden-Smithsonian Expedition
to Dominica: The Lichens (Graphidaceae).” 64 pages, 12 figures, 11 plates.
October 26, 1978.

42. Harold Robinson. “A Study of the Genus Schistocarpha (Heliantheae:
Asteraceae).” 20 pages, 25 figures. July 17, 1979.
SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO EARTH SCIENCES

22. Robert F. Fudali, editor. “Mineral Sciences Investigation, 1976-1977.” 73
pages, 22 figures, 20 tables. September 11, 1979.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO PALEOBIOLOGY

36. Bruce W. Hayward and Martin A. Buzas. “Taxonomy and Paleoecology of
the Early Miocene Benthic Foraminifera of Northern New Zealand and the
North Tasman Sea.” 154 pages, 26 figures, 27 plates, 4 tables. August 3, 1979.

37. G. Arthur Cooper. “Tertiary and Cretaceous Brachiopods from Cuba and
the Caribbean.” 45 pages, 2 figures, 7 plates, 1 table. January 30, 1979.

38. G. Arthur Cooper. “Tertiary and Quaternary Brachiopods from the South-
west Pacific.” 23 pages, 4 figures, 2 plates. December 15, 1978.

SMITHSONIAN CONTRIBUTIONS TO ZOOLOGY

245. J. Lauren Barnard and Margaret M. Drummond. “Gammaridean Amphi-
poda of Australia, Part III: The Phoxocephalidae.” 551 pages, 269 figures.
December 20, 1978.

269. J. Laurens Barnard and Margaret M. Drummond. “Gammaridean Amphi-
poda of Australia, Part IV.” 69 pages, 38 figures. August 3, 1979.

271. J. Laurens Barnard. “Littoral Gammaridean Amphipoda from the Gulf of
California and Galapagos Islands.” 149 pages, 74 figures, 11 tables. March 21,
L979:

273. J. F. Gates Clarke. “Neotropical Microlepidoptera, XXI: New Genera and
Species, of Oecophoridae from Chile.” 80 pages, 54 figures, 6 plates. Octo-
ber 10, 1978.

279. Oscar L. Cartwright and Fortuné E. Chalumeau. “Bredin-Archbold-Smith-
sonian Biological Survey of Dominica: The Superfamily Scarabaeoidea (Co-
leoptera).” 32 pages, 16 figures. December 14, 1978.

396 / Smithsonian Year 1979
281. Tyson Roberts. “An Ichthyological Survey of the Fly River in Papua
New Guinea with Descriptions of New Species.” 72 pages, 39 figures. Decem-
ber 28, 1978.

282. Donald R. Davis. “The North American Moths of the Genera Phaeoses,
Opogona, and Oinophila, with a Discussion of Their Supergeneric Affinities
(Lepidoptera: Tineidae).” 39 pages, 128 figures, 1 map. November 24, 1978.

283. Karl V. Krombein. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, II: A
Monograph of the Scoliidae (Hymenoptera: Scolioidea).” 56 pages, 36 figures.
December 14, 1978.

284. George R. Zug and Patricia B. Zug. “The Marine Toad, Bufo marinus:
A Natural History Résumé of Native Populations.” 58 pages, 20 figures, 22
tables. March 16, 1979.

285. Wayne N. Mathis and Guy E. Shewell. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera:
Ephydridae), I: Revisions of Parascatella Cresson and the triseta Group of
Scatella Rovineau-Desvoidy.” 44 pages, 62 figures, 1 table. December 21, 1978.

286. Ernest A. Lachner and Susan J. Karnella. “Fishes of the Genus Eviota
of the Red Sea with Descriptions of Three New Species (Teleostei: Gobiidae).”
23 pages, 11 figures, 2 tables. December 27, 1978.

287. Wayne N. Mathis. “Studies of Notiphilinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), I:
Revision of the Nearctic Species of Notiphila Fallén, Excluding the caudata
Group.” 111 pages, 210 figures, 1 table. June 19, 1979.

288. C. C. Lu and Clyde F. E. Roper. “Cephalopods from Deepwater Dump-
site 106 (Western Atlantic): Vertical Distribution and Seasonal Abundance.”
36 pages, 11 figures, 5 tables. June 25, 1979.

290. Richard S. Houbrick. “Classification and Systematic Relationships of the
Abyssochrysidae, a Relict Family of the Bathyal Snails (Prosobranchia: Gas-
tropoda).” 21 pages, 11 figures. June 5, 1979.

923. C. Allan Child. “Shallow-Water Pycnogonida of the Isthmus of Panama
and the Coasts of Middle America.” 85 pages, 25 figures. September 27, 1979.
295. Wayne N. Mathis. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), II:
Phylogeny, Classification, and Zoogeography of Nearctic Lamproscatella
Hendel.” 41 pages, 52 figures. August 3, 1979.

298. Karl V. Krombein. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, V: A
Monograph of the Ampulicidae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea).” 29 pages, 24
figures. July 27, 1979.

299. Ernest A. Lachner and James F. McKinney. “Two New Gobiid Fishes of
the Genus Gobiopsis and a Redescription of Feia nympha Smith.” 18 pages,
11 figures, 3 tables. September 14, 1979.

300. George R. Zug, S. Blair Hedges, Sara Sunkel. “Variation in Reproductive
Parameters of Three Neotropical Snakes, Coniophanes fissidens, Dipsas
catesbyi, Imantodes cenchoa.” 20 pages, 13 figures, 7 tables. September 14,
1979.

SMITHSONIAN STUDIES IN AIR AND SPACE

2. Claudia M. Oakes. “United States Women in Aviation through World
War I.” 44 pages, 48 figures. November 14, 1978.

ATOLL RESEARCH BULLETIN

222. Michael Pichon. Recherches sur les peuplements a dominance d’anthozo-
aires dans les recifs coralliens de Tulear (Madagascar). 447 pages, 67 figures,
18 tables. December 15, 1978.

Appendix 5. Smithsonian Institution Press Publications / 397
APPENDIX 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian
Institution and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1979

Publications are by staff members unless otherwise indi-
cated.

SCIENCE

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Balling, J. D.; Donovan, W. L.; and Leavitt, L. A. 1978. “Maternal Physio-
logical Response to Infant Signals.” Psychophysiology 15:68—74.

; and R. C. Flanery. 1979. “Developmental Changes in Hemispheric

Specialization for Tactile Spatial Ability.” Developmental Psychology 15(4):

364-72.

. 1979. “Environmental Decision-Making: A Psychologist’s View.” Ali-
Aba Course of Study: Environmental Law 2:849-55.

Melhop, Pat, and Lynch, J. F. 1978. “Population Characteristics of Peromyscus
leucopus Introduced to Islands Inhabited by Microtus pennsylvanicus.”
Oikos 30:17-26.

Pogell, S. M. 1979. “Estuaries Provide Labs for Ecology Studies.” Smithsonian
Institution Research Reports, Winter 1979, pp. 4-5.

. 1979. “Public Participation: Some Opportunities and Mechanisms for

Non-Adversary Resolution of Environmental Conflict.” Ali-Aba Course of

Study: Environmental Law 2:857—938.

. 1979, “Smithsonian Institution’s Chesapeake Bay Center for Environ-

mental Studies: A Research and Education Facility on the Rhode River.”

Boating Almanac 4:85.

. 1979. “Government-Initiated Public Participation in Environmental
Decisions.” Environmental Comment, April 1979, pp. 4-6.

Whigham, D. F. 1979. “The Distribution of Seeds, Seedlings, and Established
Plants of Arrow Arum (Peltandra virginica) (L) (Kunth) in a Freshwater
Wetland.” Bulletin Torry Botanical Club 106, July-August.

, and Simpson, R. L. 1978. “Aboveground and Belowground Biomass

Relationships of Freshwater Tidal Wetland Macrophytes.” Bulletin Ecological

Society America 50:112.

. 1978. “The Relationship Between Aboveground and Belowground

Biomass of Freshwater Tidal Wetland Macrophytes.” Aquatic Botany

on355—64.

, and McWethy, M. 1979. “The Reproductive Ecology of Tipularia dis-
color (Orchidaceae). ASB Bulletin 26:93.

Wu, T. L. 1979. “The Distribution of Atrazine in Cornfield Soils at Various
Elevations.” In Proceedings of Northeastern Weed Science Society 33:121—
30.

FORT PIERCE BUREAU

Buzas, M. A. “Community Unity? Patterns in Molluscs and Foraminifera.” In
Recent Advances in Estuarine Research with Special Emphasis on Estuarine
Interactions, edited by M. L. Wiley. 1978.

398 / Smithsonian Year 1979
. “Foraminifera as Prey for Benthic Deposit Feeders: Results of Preda-
tor Exclusion Experiments.” Journal of Marine Research 36(1978) :617-27.

Gore, Robert H., and Scotto, Liberta E. “Memoirs of the Hourglass Cruises:
Crabs of the Family Parthenopidae (Crustacea, Brachyura: Oxyrhyncha)
with Notes on Specimens from the Indian River Region of Florida.”
Florida Department of Natural Resources, Marine Research Laboratory
3(6) (1979) :1-98.

McDonald, Jack, and Grant, Jonathan. “Desiccation Tolerance of Eurypanopeus
depressus (Smith) (Decapoda: Xanthidae) and the Exploitation of Micro-
Habitat.” Estuaries 2(3) (1979) :172—77.

Miller, J. E., and Pawson, D. L. “A New Subspecies of Holothuria lentiginosa
from the Western Atlantic Ocean (Echinodermata: Holothuroidea).” Pro-
ceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91(4)(1979) :912—22.

Pilger, John F. “Reproduction of a Parthenogenetic Sipunculan.” American
Zoologist 18(3)(1978) :663.

Rice, Mary E. “Review: The Living Dock at Panacea, by Jack Rudloe.”
Bioscience 29(5) (1979) :316.

, and Murdoch, Joseph D. “Influence of Adults on Metamorphosis of
Oceanic Sipunculan Larvae.” American Zoologist 18(3)(1978) :664.

Ruppert, Edward E. “The Reproductive System of Gastrotrichs. III. Genital
Organs of Thausastodermatinae Subfam. n. and Diplodasyinae Subfam. n.
with Discussion of Reproduction in Macrodasyida.” Zoologica Scripta 7
(1978) :93-114.

Wilson, Kim A.; Scotto, Liberta E.; and Gore, Robert H. “Studies on Decapod
Crustacea from the Indian River Region of Florida XIII. Larval Development
under Laboratory Conditions of the Spider Crab Mithrax forceps (A. Milne
Edwards, 1875) (Brachyura: Majidae).” Proceedings of the Biological So-
ciety of Washington 92(2) (1979) :307-27.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Office of the Director

Boyne, Walter J. “Technological Progress in World War I Aviation.” Diamond
Jubilee of Powered Flight, Dayton, Ohio, 1978.

. “Famous and Obscure Planes, No. 4.” Air and Space (September—

October 1978).

. “A Covey of Curious Contraptions.” Airpower (October 1978).

. “Test Pilot’s Log Book—The Story of Sam Shannon.” Airpower

(March 1979).

. ‘Penrose of Westland.” Wings (April 1979).

. “Fly Off—The First U.S. Aircraft Competition.” Airpower (Septem-

ber 1979).

. “Military and Commercial Aviation.” In Grolier Encyclopedia, 1979.

Art Department

Dean, James D. “The Artist and Space.” Interdisciplinary Science Reviews
(September 1978).

. [Review] Apollo: Ten Years Since Tranquillity Base, edited by T. D.

Crouch and R. P. Hallion. 1979.

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Abdel-Rahman, M. E.; El-Etr, H. A.; El-Baz, F.; and Hamdan, A. H. “Statisti-
cal Analysis of Craters in the Equatorial Belt of the Near Side of the Moon.”

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 399
In Fourth Conference on Statistics, Computer Science and Social Research,
pp. 351-99. Cairo: Ain Shams University in Cairo, 1979.

Andre, C. G.; Wolfe, R. W.; and Adler, I. [Abstract] “Are Early Magnesium-
rich Basalts Widespread on the Moon?” In Lunar and Planetary Science X,
pp. 36-37. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979.

. “Evidence for a High Magnesium Subsurface Basalt in Mare Crisium
from Orbital X-ray Fluorescence Data.” In Mare Crisium: The View from
Luna 24, pp. 1-12. New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.

Andre, C. G.; Wolfe, R. W.; Adler, I.; and Clark, P. [Abstract] “Mare Basalt
Depths from Orbital X-ray Data.” In Lunar and Planetary Science X, pp.
38—40. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979.

Breed, C. S.; McCauley, J. F.; Grolier, M. J.; Witbeck, N.; and El-Baz, F.
[Abstract] ‘“Eolian Depositional Features in the Western Desert of Egypt:
Comparison with Mars.” In Reports of Planetary Geology Program, 1978
1979, pp. 282-85. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, TM-
8033971979:

Chaikin, A. L.; El-Baz, F.; and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] “Comparison of
Mariner 9 and Viking Imagery of the Cerberus Albedo Feature.” In Reports
of Planetary Geology Program, 1978-1979, pp. 279-81. National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, TM-80339, 1979.

El-Baz, F. “A Stratigraphic Approach to the Evolution of the Lunar Crust.”
In Comparative Planetology, edited by C. Ponnamperuma, pp. 103-39. New
York: Academic Press, 1978.

. [Abstract] “Earth Orbital Photography in the Shuttle Era.” In Ab-

stracts with Programs, Geological Society of America Annual Meeting,

p. 395, 1978.

. “Naming Moon’s Features Creates ‘Ocean of Storms’.” Smithsonian

9(10) (1979) :96—-104.

. [Abstract] “Wind Erosion in Egypt’s Oweinat Mountain and Implica-

tions to Eolian Erosion on Mars.” In Second International Colloquium on

Mars, p. 26. National Aeronautics and Space Administration Conference

Publication 2072, 1979.

. [Abstract] “Clones of Martian Light- and Dark-colored Streaks in the

Southwestern Desert of Egypt.” In Second International Colloquium on Mars,

p. 26. National Aeronautics and Space Administration Conference Publi-

cation 2072, 1979.

. “Apollo and the Scientific Harvest.” In Apollo: Ten Years Since

Tranquility Base, edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D. Crouch, pp. 34-47.

Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

. “Recent Space Missions Give Us a New View of Mars.” In Action,

pp: 1-8. New York, 1979.

. “Shuttle Operations Explained.” Arab News, (April 1979):7. Jedda:

Saudi Arabia, 1979; also in Arabic, “Kaifa Satatim Al-Rahalat Al-Makou-

kia.” Al Sharg Al Awsat (The Middle East), (March 1979):7. London: Eng-

land, 1979.

. Egypt As Seen By Landsat. Cairo: Dar El-Maaref Press, Cairo, Egypt,

1979,

. “Misr wa Makouk Al-Fada (Egypt and the Space Shuttle).” In Al

Majal, pp. 22-23. Washington, D.C.: International Communications Agency,

Issue No. 96, 1979.

. “Siwa Resort of Kings.
1979) :30-35.

El-Baz, F., and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] “Eolian Landforms in Southwestern
Egypt: Implications for Surface Processes on Mars.” In Lunar and Planetary
Science X, pp. 349-51. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979.

. “Comparison of Desert Formations in Southwestern Egypt with Simi-

7

Aramco World Magazine (July-August,

400 / Smithsonian Year 1979
lar Features on Mars.” In Press Abstracts, Tenth Lunar and Planetary

Science Conference, pp. 13-18. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute,

1979.

. [Abstract] “Wind Streaks in the Southwestern Desert of Egypt: Topo-
graphic Influences and Martian Analogies.” In Reports of Planetary Geology
Program, 1978-1979, pp. 296-98. National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration, TM-80339, 1979.

El-Baz, F., and Ondrejka, R. J. “Earth Orbital Photography by the Large
Format Camera.” In Proceedings of the Twelfth International Symposium
on Remote Sensing of Environment, pp. 703-18. Ann Arbor: Environmental
Research Institute of Michigan, 1978.

Gifford, A. W., and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] ‘“Topographic Effects on
Slumped Craters in the Lunar Highlands.” In Lunar and Planetary Science
X, pp. 431-33. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979.

Gifford, A. W.; Maxwell, T. A.; and El-Baz, F. “Geology of the Lunar Farside
Crater Necho.” In The Moon and the Planets 21, pp. 25-42, 1979.

Grolier, M. J.; McCauley, J. F.; Breed, C. S.; and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Yar-
dangs of the Western Desert of Egypt.” In Reports of Planetary Geology
Program, 1978-1979, pp. 290-92. National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration, TM-80339, 1979.

Maxwell, T. A. “Origin of Multi-Ring Basin Ridge Systems: An Upper Limit
to Elastic Deformation Based on a Finite-Element Model.” In Proceedings
of the Ninth Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, pp. 3541-59. Hous-
ton: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1978.

. [Abstract] “Field Investigation of Martian Canyonlands in South-
western Egypt.” In Second International Colloquium on Mars, p. 54. Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administration Conference Publication 3073,
1979;

Maxwell, T. A., and El-Baz, F. “The Nature of Rays and Sources of Highland
Material in Mare Crisium.” In Mare Crisium: The View From Luna 24,
pp. 89-103. New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.

. [Abstract] “Fluvial Landforms in Southwestern Egypt: Implications

for Surface Processes on Mars.” In Lunar and Planetary Science X, pp.

786-88. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979.

. [Abstract] “Grain Size Characteristics of Eolian Deposits in South-
western Egypt: Implications for the Surface of Mars.” In Reports of Plane-
tary Geology Program, 1978-1979, pp. 277-78. National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, TM-80339, 1979.

Maxwell, T. A., and Phillips, R. J. “Stratigraphic Correlation of the Radar-
Detected Subsurface Interface in Mare Crisium.” In Geophysical Research
Letters 5, pp. 811-14, 1978.

McCauley, J. F.; Breed, C. S.; Grolier, M. J.; and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Pitted
Rocks and Other Ventifacts in the Western Desert of Egypt.” In Reports
of Planetary Geology Program, 1978-1979, pp. 286-87. National Aeronautics
and Space Administration, TM-80339, 1979.

Prestel, D., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Microscopic Characteristics of Quartz
Sand From the Arid Environment of the Gilf Kebir, Southwest Egypt.” In
Reports of Planetary Geology Program, 1978-1979, pp. 293-95. National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, TM-80339, 1979.

Strain, P. L., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] ‘Topography of the Smythii Basin.” In
Lunar and Planetary Science X, pp. 1180-82. Houston: Lunar and Planetary
Institute, 1979.

Walker, A. S., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Analysis of Craters on the Floor of
Aitken.” In Lunar and Planetary Science X, pp. 1271-73. Houston: Lunar
and Planetary Institute, 1979.

Warner, D. M., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “Apollo-Soyuz Photographs of Arid

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 401
Lands.” In Abstracts with Programs, Geological Society of America Annual
Meeting, p. 512, 1978.

Wolfe, R. W. [Abstract] “Olympus Mons Aureole: Possible Evidence for the
Antiquity of Olympus Mons.” In American Astronomical Society, Division
of Planetary Sciences Meeting, 1978.

. [Abstract] “Orientation of Eolian Features in the North Polar Region
of Mars: A Preliminary Assessment.” In Lunar and Planetary Science X,
pp. 1364-66. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979.

Wolfe, R. W., and El-Baz, F. [Abstract] “The Wind Regime of the Western
Desert of Egypt.” In Reports of Planetary Geology Program, 1978-1979,
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, TM-80339, 1979.

Department of Aeronautics

Casey, Louis S. Flying Boats. London: Phoebus Publishers, 1979.

. “Naval Aircraft, 1914-1945.” Phoebus Publishers. Republished in Sea-
power, 1979.

Mikesh, Robert C. “Night Intruder, Korean Style.” Air Enthusiast No. 8.

. “More about Those Japanese Planes.” American Aviation Historical

Journal (Winter 1978).

. “Restoring the Museum’s Aircraft.” Kokufan. Tokyo: Burindo Co.,
Ltd. August 1979.

Oakes, Claudia M. “United States Women in Aviation through World War I.”
Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space, no. 2. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.

Spenser, Jay P. Aeronca C-2: The Story of the Flying Bathtub. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Caged Owl—The Heinkel 219.” Wings (August 1979).

Department of Astronautics

Crouch, Tom D. “Engineers and the Airplane.” In The Wright Brothers: Heirs
of Prometheus, edited by R. P. Hallion. Washington, D.C.: National Air
and Space Museum, 1978.

. “December: Diamond Anniversary of Man’s Propulsion Skyward.”

Smithsonian (December 1978).

. “The Sands of Kitty Hawk.” Rotarian (December 1978).

———.. “The Path to the Apollo: Unmanned Exploration of the Moon.” In
Apollo: Ten Years Since Tranquility Base, edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D.
Crouch. Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

Dillon, Walter. “The Apollo Command and Service Modules.” In Apollo: Ten
Years Since Tranquility Base, edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D. Crouch.
Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

Durant, F. C. D., III. “July 20, 1969: The View across a Decade.” In Apollo:
Ten Years Since Tranquility Base, edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D. Crouch.
Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

Flint, Walter H. “Operational Support for Apollo.” In Apollo: Ten Years
Since Tranquility Base, edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D. Crouch. Washing-
ton, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

Kennedy, Gregory. “Pioneers to a Cloudy Planet.” Model Rocketry News (De-
cember 1978).

. “Voyage to the Outer Planets.” Model Rocketry News (January 1979).

—. “Apollo 11 and Beyond.” Model Rocketry News (July 1979).

. “The Lunar Module.” In Apollo: Ten Years Since Tranquility Base,

edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D. Crouch. Washington, D.C.: National Air

and Space Museum, 1979.

402 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Purnell, Louis. “The Evolution of the Apollo Space Suit.” In Apollo: Ten Years
Since Tranquility Base, edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D. Crouch. Washing-
ton, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

Winter, Frank. “1928-1929 Forerunners of the Shuttle: The Von Opel Flights.”
Spaceflight (February 1979).

Winter, Frank, and James, George. “Happy 50th Birthday Buck.” Starlog
(March 1979).

Department of Science and Technology

Hallion, Richard P. “Wooden Aircraft and the Great War.” Journal of Forest
History 22(4) (October 1978) :200-2.

. “X-15: Highest and Fastest of Them All.” Flight International (Decem-

ber 23, 1978) :2255—61.

. “Saga of the Rocket Ships: The Lifting Bodies.” Air Enthusiast 8:51—

59.

. “Lippisch, Gluhareff, and Jones: The Emergence of the Delta Planform

and the Origins of the Sweptwing in the United States.” Aerospace His-

torian 26(1)(March 1979) :1—10.

, editor. The Wright Brothers: Heirs of Prometheus. Washington, D.C.:
National Air and Space Museum, 1978.

Hallion, Richard P., and Crouch, Tom D., editors. Apollo: Ten Years Since
Tranquility Base. Washington, D.C.: National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

Hallion, Richard P., and Winter, Frank H. [Monthly feature] “Out of the Past:
An Aerospace Chronology.” Astronautics and Aeronautics (September 1978—
September 1979).

. “The Soviet Stovepipes: A History of Soviet Ramjet Research.” Air
Enthusiast 9:55—60.

Hanle, Paul A. “Indeterminacy before Heisenberg: The Case of Franz Exner
and Erwin Schrédinger.” Historical Studies in the Physical Sciences 10(1979).

. [Review] My Life: Recollections of a Nobel Laureate, by Max Born.
ISIS 70(1979).

Hanle, Paul A., and Forman, Paul. Einstein, A Centenary Exhibition. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Education Division

Joéls, K. “Space Industrialization: Education.” AIAA Princeton Conference
Proceedings, May 1979.

. “Apollo and the Two Cultures.” In Apollo: Ten Years Since Tran-

quility Base, edited by R. P. Hallion and T. D. Crouch. Washington, D.C.:

National Air and Space Museum, 1979.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

Maloney, M. Michael, and Sorenson, E. Richard. “An Update on the National
Anthropological Film Center and its Activities.” In: Society for the Anthro-
pology of Visual Communications Newsletter, Fall 1978.

Sorenson, E. Richard, and Neuberger, Gay C., with the staff of the NAFC and
the Executive Committee of the Advisory Council. The National Anthro-
pological Film Center, A Report on its Beginnings and Programs. 415 pp.
Washington, D.C.: NAFC, 1979.

. “The Development of the Advisory Council to the NAFC.” Supple-

ment 1 to: The National Anthropological Film Center, A Report on its

Beginnings and Programs. 111 pp. Washington, D.C.: NAFC, 1979.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 403
. “Annual Reports of the National Anthropological Film Center.” Sup-
plement 2 to: The National Anthropological Film Center, A Report on its
Beginnings and Programs. NAFC, 1979.

. “The Development of the NMNH Advisory Committee on the NAFC.”
Supplement 3 to: The National Anthropological Film Center, A Report on
its Beginnings and Programs. 269 pp. Washington, D.C.: NAFC, 1979.

. “Analysis of the Program and Policy Committee Report.” Supplement
5 to: The National Anthropological Film Center, A Report on its Begin-
nings and Programs. 38 pp. Washington, D.C.: NAFC, 1979.

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES

Bryce-Laporte, Roy S. “New York City and the Caribbean Immigration: A
Contextual Statement.” The International Migration Review, vol. 13, Sum-
mer 1979.

. On the Presence, Migrations and Cultures of Blacks in the Americas.”
Caribe, vol. 4, 1979.

Couch, Stephen R. “Money and Music.”” Working Papers for a New Society,
July/August 1979.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
Department of Anthropology

Angel, J. Lawrence. “Osteoarthritis in Prehistoric Turkey and Medieval By-
zantium.” Henry Ford Hospital Medical Journal 27(1)(1979) :38—43.

Brooks, Alison S. ““A Note on the LSA Features at gi: Analogies from His-
toric San Hunting Practices.” In Botswana Notes and Records 10, 1978.

Brooks, Alison S., and Yellen, John E. “Archaeological Excavations at +gi,
(Western Ngamiland, Botswana): A Report on the First Two Field Seasons.”
In Botswana Notes and Records 9, pp. 21-30, 1977.

Brooks, Alison S.; Crowell, Aron L.; and Yellen, John E. “Gi, a Stone Age
Archeological Site in Western Ngamiland, Botswana.” In Proceedings of
the Eighth Pan-African Congress of Prehistory and Quaternary Studies, Sep-
tember 3-10, 1977.

Burch, Ernest S., Jr. “Native Claims in Alaska: An Overview.” In Etudes/
Inuit/Studies 3(1) (1979) :7—30.

Conkey, Laura E.; Boissevain, Ethel; and Goddard, Ives. “Indians of Southern
New England and Long Island: Late Period.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce
G. Trigger. Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 15, pp. 177-89, Wil-
ilam C. Sturtevant, general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1978.

Cox, Steven L. “Paleo-Eskimo Occupations of the North Labrador Coast.”
Arctic Anthropology 15(2)(1978) :96-118.

Duncan, Kate C. “Alaskan Athabascan Beadwork.” Alaska Journal (Summer
1977) : 113-24.

Fitzhugh, William W. “Maritime Archaic Cultures of the Central and Northern
Labrador Coast.” Arctic Anthropology 15(2)(1978) :61—95.

. “Winter Cove 4 and the Point Revenge Occupation of the Central
Labrador Coast.” Arctic Anthropology 15(2)(1978) :146—74.

Gibson, Gordon D., editor of translation. The Ethnography of Southwestern
Angola, vol. 2, The Nyaneka-Nkumbi Ethnic Group, by Carlos Estermann.
New York: Africana Publishing Co., 1979.

Gibson, Gordon D., and Yellen, John E. “A Middle Stone Age Assemblage
from the Munhino Mission, Huila District, Angola.” South African Archaeo-
logical Bulletin 33(1978) :76—82.

Goddard, R. H. Ives, III. “Eastern Algonquian Languages.” In Northeast, edited
by Bruce G. Trigger. Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 15, pp.

404 / Smithsonian Year 1979
70-77, William C. Sturtevant, general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smith-

sonian Institution, 1978.

. “Delaware.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce G. Trigger. Handbook of

North American Indians, vol. 15, pp. 213-39, William C. Sturtevant, gen-

eral editor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “Central Algonquian Languages.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce G.

Trigger. Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 15, pp. 583-87, William

C. Sturtevant, general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution,

1978.

. “Mascouten.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce G. Trigger. Handbook

of North American Indians, vol. 15, pp. 669-72, William C. Sturtevant,

general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “Synonymy” in the chapters “Northern Iroquoian Culture Patterns,”

“Huron of Lorette,” “Wyandot,” “Erie,” “Mohawk,” “Oneida,” “Onondaga,”

“Cayuga,” “Seneca,” “Tuscarora Among the Iroquois,” “Fox,” “Sauk,” and

“Southeastern Ojibwa.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce G. Trigger. Hand-

book of North American Indians, vol. 15, pp. 319-21, 393, 404-6, 416-17,

478-79, 489-90, 499, 503, 515-16, 524, 645-46, 654-55, 768-70, William C.

Sturtevant, general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “Technical Alphabet.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce G. Trigger.

Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 15, p. x, William C. Sturtevant,

general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “Ethnohistorical Implications of Early Delaware Linguistic Materials.”

In Neighbors and Intruders: An Ethnohistorical Exploration of the Indians

of Hudson's River, edited by Laurence M. Hauptman and Jack Campisi,

pp. 88-102. Ottawa: National Museums of Canada, 1978.

[Reviews] Studies in Southeastern Indian Languages, edited by

James M. Crawford; Menomini Lexicon, by Leonard Bloomfield; A Proto-

Algonquian Dictionary, by George F. Aubin; and A Bibliography of Algon-

quian Linguistics, by David H. Pentland et al. American Anthropologist 80

(1978) :719-21.

. Delaware Verbal Morphology: A Descriptive and Comparative Study.

New York and London: Garland Publishing, Inc., 1979.

, linguistic editor. Northeast, edited by Bruce G. Trigger. Handbook
of North American Indians, vol. 15, William C. Sturtevant, general editor.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

Goddard, R. H. Ives, III, and Golla, Susan. “Synonymy” in the chapter ‘““Win-
nebago.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce G. Trigger. Handbook of North
American Indians, vol. 15, p. 706, William C. Sturtevant, general editor.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

Hesse, Brian, and Evans, Robert K. “A New Permanent Exhibition at the Smith-
sonian Institution.” Archaeology 32(3)(1979) :53-55.

Houchins, Chang-su. “Kankoku min’ga ni egakareta tora (The Tiger Motif in
Korean Folk Paintings).’” Han, Institute of Korean Studies, (March 1979),
Tokyo. (Japanese translation by M. Narisawa.)

Meggers, Betty J. “Climatic Oscillation As a Factor in the Prehistory of
Amazonia.” American Antiquity 44(2)(1979) :252-66.

. [Prehistoric America] Gakusei-sha, Tokyo, 232 p. [Japanese transla-
tion of Prehistoric America, 1972.]

Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford. “Aspectos Arqueoldégicos de las Tierras
Bajas de Suramérica y las Antillas.” Cuadernos del Cendia, vol. 258, no. 4.
Universidad Auténoma de Santo Domingo. [Complete translation of Meg-
gers and Evans, 1978, in Ancient Native Americans.]

. “Lowland South America and the Antilles.” In Ancient Native Ameri-

cans, edited by Jesse D. Jennings, pp. 543-91. San Francisco: W. H. Free-

man and Co., 1978.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 405
. “Apresentacao.” Areas da Amaz6énia Legal Brasileira para Pesquisa
e Cadastro de Sitios Arqueologicos, by Mario F. Simdes and Fernanda
Araujo-Costa. Museu Goeldi, Pubs. Avulsas no. 30, p. 5. Belém, 1978.

Nagle, Christopher. “Indian Occupations of the Intermediate Period on the
Central Labrador Coast: A Preliminary Synthesis.” Arctic Anthropology
15(2)(1978) :119-45.

Okrand, Marc. “Metathesis in Costanoan Grammar.” International Journal of
American Linguistics 45(1979) :123—30.

. “Costanoan Philological Practices: Comment and Criticism.” Inter-
national Journal of American Linguistics 45(1979) :181-87.

Quilter, Sarah McAnulty, compiler. “George Catlin—Painter of American
Indians” [accompanying slide packet]. Washington, D.C.: Office of Printing
and Photographic Services, Smithsonian Institution, 1979.

Smith, Bruce D. ‘Determining the Selectivity of Utilization of Animal Species
by Prehistoric Human Populations.” American Antiquity 44(1979) :155-60.
Stewart, T. D. “George A. Dorsey’s Role in the Luetgert Case: A Significant
Episode in the History of Forensic Anthropology.” Journal of Forensic Sci-

ences 23(4)(1978) :786—91.

. “The Skull of Vendovi: A Contribution of the Wilkes Expedition to

the Physical Anthropology of Fiji.” Archaeology and Physical Anthropology

in Oceania 13(2 & 3)(1978) :204-14.

. Essentials of Forensic Anthropology, Especially as Developed in the

United States. Springfield, Illinois: Charles C. Thomas Publisher, 1979.

. “The First Americans: Migrations to a New World.” In Kin and

Communities: Families in America, edited by Allan J. Lichtman and Joan R.

Challinor, pp. 59-75. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. “Forensic Anthropology.” In The Uses of Anthropology, edited by
Walter Goldschmidt, pp. 109-83. Special Publication of the American An-
thropological Association, no. 11, 1979.

St. Hoyme, Lucile E. “Ancient Tooth Decay.” Science News 115 (May 19,
1979) :328.

Sturtevant, William C. “The Hole-and-Slot Heddle.” In Ethnographic Textiles
of the Western Hemisphere, edited by Irene Emery and Patricia Fiske, pp.
325-55 (Irene Emery Roundtable on Museum Textiles, 1976 Proceedings).
Washington, D.C.: The Textile Museum, 1978.

. “The Last of the South Florida Aborigines.” In Tacachale: Essays on

the Indians of Florida and Southeastern Georgia during the Historic Period,

edited by Jerald Milanich and Samuel Proctor, pp. 141-62 (Ripley P. Bullen

Monographs in Anthropology and History No. 1, Florida State Museum).

Gainesville: University Presses of Florida, 1978.

. “Sale of Harvard Peabody Museum Collections.” Council for Mu-

seum Anthropology Newsletter 3(1)(1978) :16—20.

, general editor. Northeast. Handbook of North American Indians, vol.

15, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “Oklahoma Seneca-Cayuga.” In Northeast, edited by Bruce C. Trig-

ger, Handbook of North American Indians, vol. 15, pp. 537-43. William C.

Sturtevant, general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “The Cherokee Frontiers, the French Revolution, and William Au-

gustus Bowles.” In Cherokee Indian Nation: A Troubled History, by Duane

H. King, pp. 61-91. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1979.

. “Louis-Philippe on Cherokee Architecture and Clothing in 1797.” In
Journal of Cherokee Studies III, no. 4, pp. 198-205. Cherokee, N.C., 1979.
Sturtevant, William C.; Bray, Warwick; and King, Jonathan. “The Americas
on the Eve of European Conquest.” In The Times Atlas of World History,

edited by Geoffrey Barraclough, pp. 148-49. London: Times Books, 1978.

Trousdale, William. “Backhouse and His Mountain-train.” In The Journal of

the Royal Artillery 106(1)(1979) :23—-26.

406 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Ubelaker, Douglas H. “Human Cremations from the Gore Mound, Boone
County, West Virginia.” The West Virginia Archeologist 26(1977) :13.

.““Microscopic Analysis of Archaeological Bone.” In Ancient Disease in

the Midwest, edited by Dan Morse, pp. 66—72. (Illinois State Museum, Re-

ports of Investigations, no. 15.) Springfield, Ill.: 1978.

. [Review] The Middle Woodland Population of the Lower Illinois Val-
ley: A Study in Paleodemographic Methods, by David L. Asch and Hope-
well in the Lower Illinois Valley: A Regional Study of Human Biological
Variability and Prehistoric Mortuary Behavior, by Jane E. Buikstra. Vols.
1 and 2, Northwestern Archeological Program Scientific Papers, Evanston,
Illinois. Plains Anthropologist 24(83)(1979) :76—78.

Ubelaker, Douglas H., and Kerley, Ellis R. “Revisions in the Microscopic
Method of Estimating Age at Death in Human Cortical Bone.” American
Journal of Physical Anthropology 49(4)(1978) :545—46.

Viola, Herman J. [Review] A Bibliographical Guide to the History of Indian-
White Relations in the United States, by Francis Paul Prucha. The Colo-
rado Magazine of History (Spring 1978) :107-8.

. [Review] John Ross, Cherokee Chief, by Gary E. Moulton. The Ameri-

can Historical Review (April 1979) :560.

. [Review] Lincoln and the Indians: Civil War Policy and Politics, by
David A. Nichols. The Indiana Magazine of History (March 1979) :108-9.
Viola, Herman J., and Kvasnicka, Robert M., editors. The Commissioners of

Indian Affairs. Lincoln, Nebraska: The University of Nebraska Press, 1979.

Wapnish, Paula; Hesse, Brian; and Ogilvy, Anne. “The 1974 Collection of
Faunal Remains from Tel Dan.” Bulletin of the American Schools of Ori-
ental Research, no. 227 (1977) :35—-63.

Department of Botany

Ayensu, E. S. “The Beginnings of Agriculture.” In The Smithsonian Book of
Invention, pp. 50-57. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “The Farm Goes Industrial.” In The Smithsonian Book of Invention,

pp. 160-67. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “The U.S. Red Data Book.” Garden 2(5) (1978) :2-3.

. “Calling the Roll of the World’s Vanishing Plants.” Smithsonian 9

(7) (1978) :122-29.

. “The Role of Science and Technology in the Economic Development
of Ghana.” In Science and Economic Development: A Historical and Com-
parative Study, edited by W. Beranek and G. Ranis, pp. 288-340. New York:
Praeger Publications, 1978.

Ayensu, E. S.; Matlock, W. C.; and North, A. M. The Research Function of
the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research. Accra, Ghana: Govern-
ment Printer, 1979.

Bohlmann, F.; Dutta, L. N.; Dorner, W.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Zwei
neue Guajanolide sowie weitere Longipinenester aus Stevia-arten.” Phyto-
chemistry 18(1979) :673-75.

Bohlmann, F.; Jakupovic, J.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Neue
Melampolide und cis,cis-Germacranolide aus Vertretern der Subtribus Me-
lampodiinae.” Phytochemistry 18(1979) :625—30.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. “Neue Labdanderivate
aus Carterothamnus anomalochaeta.” Phytochemistry 18(1979) :621—24.

Cowan, Richard S. “Harleyodendron, A New Genus of Leguminosae (Swart-
zieae).” Brittonia 31(1)(1979) :72-78.

Cuatrecasas, J., and Cleef, A. M. “Una neuva crucifera de la Sierra Nevada
del Cocuy (Colombia).” Caldasia 12(57)(1978) :145-58.

Duek, J. J., and Lellinger, David B. “New Combinations in the Fern Flora of
Venezuela.” American Fern Journal 68(December 1978) :120.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 407
Eyde, R. H. “Reproductive Structures and Evolution in Ludwigia (Onagraceae).
II. Fruit and Seed.” Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 65(1978):
656-75.

Fosberg, F. R. “Documentation of Identifications in Ecological Work.” Tropi-
cal Ecology 18(1)(1977) :97-98.

. “A Fossil Garcinia Fruit from the New Hebrides, Melanesia.” Pacific

Science 31(3)(1977) :293-97.

. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring

Islands: VII. Eugenia elliptica var. levinervis (Myrtaceae).” Kew Bulletin

33(1) (1978) :133-34.

. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring

Islands: VIII. Hedyotis subgenus Oldenlandia (Rubiaceae).” Kew Bulletin

33(1) (1978) :135—40.

. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring

Islands: IX. The Native Aldabra Solanum.” Kew Bulletin 33(1) (1978) :141—42.

. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring

Islands: X. The Aldabra Clerodendrum (Verbenaceae).” Kew Bulletin 33(1)

(1978) 143-44.

. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring

Islands: XI. Critical Notes on Euphorbiaceae.” Kew Bulletin 33(2)(1978):

181-90.

. “Miscellaneous Notes on the Flora of Aldabra and Neighbouring

Islands: XII. Boerhavia repens L. var. maris-indici Fosberg (Nyctaginaceae)

Validated.” Kew Bulletin 33(3) (1979) :398.

. “The Woody Rubiaceae of Aldabra Island (Indian Ocean).” Phyto-
logia 41(5) (1979) :347—62.

Fosberg, F. R., and Sachet, M.-H. “Callicarpa erioclona Schauer (sensu
stricto).” Phytologia 41(5)(1979) :363-65.

Fosberg, F. R.; Sachet, M.-H.; and Oliver, Royce. “A Geographical Checklist
of the Micronesian Dicotyledonae.” Micronesica 15(1—2)(1979) :41-295.

Goldberg, Aaron. “A New Species of Melochia from the Planalto of Bahia,
Brazil.” Phytologia 43(3) (1979) :287-88.

Hale, Mason E., Jr. ““A New Species of Ramalina from North America (Lichens:
Ramalinaceae).” Bryologist 81(4) (1978) :599-602.

. How to Know the Lichens, 2d. ed. Dubuque, Iowa: W. C. Brown Co.,
L979;

Hale, Mason E., Jr., and Figueiras, M. Lopez. “New Species of Evernistrum and
Hypotrachyna from South America. (Lichens: Parmeliaceae).” Bryologist 81
(4) (1978) :590-93.

King, R. M., and Robinson, H. “New Records and New Species of Central
American Eupatorieae (Asteraceae).” Wrightia 6(2) (1978) :41—42.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXIV. A New Genus,

Nothobaccharis.” Phytologia 41(6)(1979) :396—97.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CLXXV. A New Genus from

Bahia, Litothamnus.” Phytologia 44(2)(1979) :79-83.

. “Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). The Relationship of Eupa-
torium cyrili-nelsonii.” Phytologia 44(2) (1979) :84—88.

Kirkbride, Joseph H., Jr. “Raritebe, An Overlooked Genus of the Rubiaceae.”
Brittonia 31(2) (1979) :299-312.

Lawrey, J. D., and Hale, Mason E., Jr. “Lichen Growth Responses to Stress
Induced by Automobile Exhaust Pollution.” Science 204(1979) :423-24.

Lellinger, David B. “Rio Palenque Fern Notes.” Selbyana 2(September 1978):
283-85.

Little, Elbert L., Jr. Checklist of United States Trees (Native and Naturalized).
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Handbook no. 541. Washing-
ton, D.C.: U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1979.

408 / Smithsonian Year 1979
. “Four Varietal Transfers of United States Trees.” Phytologia 42(3)
(1979) :219-22.

Nicolson, Dan H. “Araceae.” In Flora Vitiensis Nova. A New Flora of Fiji
(Spermatophytes Only), by A. C. Smith, pp. 438-60. Lawai, Kauai, Hawaii:
Pacific Tropical Botanical Garden, 1979.

. “Illegitimate ‘Basionyms,’ Impact on Priority and Author Citation or,

The Rise of Desmodium incanum and Fall of D. canum (Fabaceae).”’ Taxon

27(August 1978) :365—70.

. “Neolaugeria, A New Name for Terebraria (Rubiaceae) of the West

Indies.” Brittonia 31(1)(1979) :119-24.

. “Nomenclature of Bombax, Ceiba (Bombacaceae) and Cochlospermum

(Cochlospermaceae) and Their Type Species.” Taxon 28 (August 1979) :367—

PIe\,

. “The Reinstatement of Capparis rheedii DC. (Capparaceae).” Bulletin
of the Botanical Survey of India 17(1979) :20-21.

Norris, D. H., and Robinson, H. “The Systematic Position of Bryobrothera
crenulata.” Bryologist 82(2)(1979) :305-9.

Payne, W. W.; Croat, T. B.; Elias, T. S.; Holmgren, P. K.; McVaugh, R.;
Nicolson, D. H.; Nevling, L. I., Jr.; Ornduff, R.; and Thorne, R. F. System-
atic Botony Resources in America. Part II: The Costs of Services. Mill-
brook, New York: The New York Botanical Garden, Cary Arboretum, 1979.

Read, R. W. “Live Storage of Palm Pollen.” Principes 23(1)(January 1979):
33-35.

. “Monocotyledoneae (Palmae).” In Flora of the Lesser Antilles, Lee-
ward and Windward Islands, by Richard A. Howard, vol. 3, pp. 320-68.
Jamaica Plain: Arnold Arboretum, Harvard University, 1979.

Robinson, H. “Lundellianthus, A New Genus from Guatemala (Heliantheae:
Asteraceae.” Wrightia 6(2) (1978) :40—42.

. “New Species of Clibadium, Heterosperma and Milleria from Peru

(Heliantheae: Asteraceae).” Wrightia 6(3) (1979) :46—48.

. “New Species of Vernonieae (Asteraceae). I. Veronia harlingii from

Ecuador.” Phytologia 44(2) (1979) :65—-69.

. “Notes on Oyedaea in Central America (Heliantheae: Asteraceae).”

Wrightia 6(3)(1979) :43—45.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XIII. A New Genus, Pery-

meniopsis.” Phytologia 40(6) (1978) :495—96.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XIV. Validation of Sub-

tribes.” Phytologia 41(1) (1978) :39-44.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XV. Various New Species

and New Combinations.” Phytologia 41(1) (1978) :33-38.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XVI. A New Subtribe, En-

hydrinae.” Phytologia 41(6) (1979) :398.

. “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). XVII. Additions to Monac-

tis and Kingianthus.” Phytologia 44(2)(1979) : 70-78.

. “Studies in the Liabeae (Asteraceae). XIII. A New Species of Lia-

bellum from Nayarit, Mexico.” Phytologia 41(1)(1978) :45—49.

. “Studies in the Senecioneae (Asteraceae). IX. A New Genus, Dres-

slerothamnus.” Phytologia 40(6) (1978) :493—94.

. “A Study of the Genus Schistocarpha (Heliantheae: Asteraceae).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Botany, no. 42. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1979.

Robinson, H.; Bohlmann, F.; and King, R. M. “Chemosystematic Notes on the
Asteraceae I. New Correlations in Subtribes of the Heliantheae.” Phyto-
logia 41(1) (1978) :50-54.

. “Chemosystematic Notes on the Asteraceae II. Acyclic Sesquiter-

penes.” Phytologia 41(6) (1979) :387-95.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 409
Sandved, Kjell B. “De Vlinders van Prikkebeen.” Panorama 22 (May 1979):
60-65.

. “Papillons les bataillons de la nuit.” GEO 4(1979) :60—76.

Shetler, Stanwyn G. “North America.” In Systematic Botany, Plant Utiliza-
tion and Biosphere Conservation, edited by I. Hedberg, pp. 47-54. Stock-
holm: Almqvist & Wiksell International, 1979.

. “Pollen-collecting Hairs of Campanula (Campanulaceae), I: Historical
Review.” Taxon 28(1, 2/3) (1979) :205—-15.

Skog, Laurence E. “Flora of Panama, Part IX. Family 175. Gesneriaceae.’
Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 65(3) (1978) :783-996.

. “A Look at Leaf Surfaces of Reldia Using Scanning Electron Micros-
copy. The Gloxinian 28(5)(1978) :9-12.

Skvarla, John J., and Nowicke, Joan W. “The Morphology of the Exine in
Nigella (Ranunculaceae).” American Journal of Botany 66(2)(1979) :162-65.

Smith, Lyman B. “Recollections of Mulford Foster.” Journal of the Bromeliad
Society 29(1) (1979) :4—7.

Smith, Lyman B., and Ayensu, Edward S. “Velloziaceae Brasiliae—1.” Bradea
2.(49) (1979) :326—-28.

Smith, Lyman B., and Pereira, Edmundo. “Emenda Necessaria na Descri¢ao
de Dyckia ferruginea Mez.” Bradea 2(49) (1979) :324—25.

Smith, Lyman B., and Read, R. W. “Aechmea milsteiniana.” Journal of the
Bromeliad Society 29(1) (1979) :21—23.

. “Notes on Bromeliaceae, XL.” Phytologia 41(5) (1979) :329-45.

. “Orthophytum Burle-Marxii.” Journal of the Bromeliad Society 29
(4) (1979) :164-65.

Soderstrom, Thomas R. “The Bamboozling Thamnocalamus.” Garden 3(2)
(1979) :22-27.

Soderstrom, Thomas R., and Calderén, Cleofé E. “Chusquea and Swallenochloa
(Poaceae: Bambusoideae): Generic Relationships and New Species.” Brit-
tonia 30(3) (1978) :297-312.

Stafleu, Frans A., and Cowan, Richard S. “The Making of A Book: An Interim
Report on TL-2.” Taxon 28(1979) :77-86.

. Taxonomic Literature: A Selective Guide to Botanical Publications
and Collections with Dates, Commentaries and Types, 2d. ed., vol. II:
H-Le. Utretcht, The Netherlands: Bohn, Scheltema and Holkema, 1979.

Stone, B. C., and Nicolson, Dan H. “Arguments for Limonia acidissima L.
(Rutaceae and Against Its Rejection as a Nomen Ambiguum.” Taxon 27
(November 1978) :551—52.

Wirth, Michael, and Hale, Mason E., Jr. Morden-Smithsonian Expedition to
Dominica: The Lichens (Graphidaceae). Smithsonian Contributions to
Botany, no. 40. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Wurdack, John J. “Certamen Melastomataceis XXIX.” Phytologia 41(1)(1978):
1-10.

. “Certamen Melastomataceis XXX.” Phytologia 43(4)1979) :339-55.

. “Vicariads in Henrietella (Melastomataceae).” Wrightia 6(2)(1978):

222

{2

Department of Entomology

Cartwright, O. L. “A New Species of Psammodius from Sand Dunes of Cali-
fornia (Scarabaeidae: Aphodiinae: Eupariina).” Coleopterists Bulletin 31(3)
(1977) :281-82.

. “Concerning Aphodius aegrotus Horn and Aphodius geomysi Cart-
wright. Coleopterists Bulletin 32(3)(1978) :258.

Cartwright, O. L., and Chaluméau, Fortuné E. “Bredin-Archbold-Smithsonian
Biological Survey of Dominica. The Superfamily Scarabaeoidea (Coleoptera).

410 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology no. 279, 32 pp., Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Davis, Donald R. “The North American Moths of the Genera Phaeoses, Opo-
gona, and Oinophila, with a Discussion of Their Supergeneric Affinities
(Lepidoptera: Tineidae).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 282,
39 pp. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Two New Genera of North America Incurvariine Moths (Lepidop-

tera: Incurvariidae).” The Pan-Pacific Entomologist, no. 54 (1970) :147-153.

. New Leaf-Mining Moths of the Family Nepticulidae from Florida.
The Florida Entomologist 61(4) (1978) :209-24.

Deonier, E. L.; Mathis, W. N.; and Regensburg, J. T. “Natural History and
Life-cycle Stages of Notiphila carinata (Diptera: Ephydridae).” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 91(1979) :798-814.

Emerson, K. C., and Price, Roger D. “Two New Species of Emersoniella (Mal-
lophaga: Philopteridae) from New Guinea Kingfishers.” Pacific Insects, 19
(1-2) (1978) :105-8.

Erwin, Terry L. “Systematic, Natural History, and Zoogeographic Notes on
the Genus Agra Fabricius, with a Description of a New Species from Panama
(Coleoptera: Lebiini).” Coleopterists Bulletin 32(4) (1978) :261-68.

. “Techniques.” Coleopterists Bulletin 32(4)(1978) :372.

. [Review] Handbook of Common New Guinea Beetles, by J. Linsley
Gressitt and Richard W. Hornabrook. Entomological Society of America
Bulletin 24(4) (1978) :443—44.

Erwin, Terry L., and Halpern, Anne L. “Max Banninger: His Collection and
Publications (Coleoptera: Carabidae).” Coleopterists Bulletin 32(4)(1978):
357-66.

Erwin, T. L., and House, Gloria N. “A Catalogue of the Primary Types of
Carabidae (including Cicindelinae) in the Collections of the United States
National Museum of Natural History (USNM) (Coleoptera).” Coleopterists
Bulletin 32(3) (1978) :231-55.

Faran, M. E. “Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) trinkae, a New Species in the
Albimanus Section (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 11(2)(1979):
26-39.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr. “Studies of Neotropical Caddisflies, XXII: Hydropsychidae
of the Amazon Basin (Trichoptera).” Amazoniana 6(1978) :373-421.

. “Probable Origins of the West Indian Trichoptera and Odonata
Faunas.” In Proceedings of the 2nd International Symposium on Trichop-
tera, pp. 215-23. Junk, The Hague, 1977.

Huang, Y.-M. “Redescription and Subgeneric Position of Aedes meronephada
(Dyar and Shannon) with Notes on the Subgenus Diceromyia (Diptera:
Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 10(3) (1978) :335—50.

. “Taxonomic Status of Aedes (Stegomyia) laffooni Knight and Roze-

boom with Redescription of Aedes (Stegomyia) pseudalbolineatus Brug

(Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 10(3)(1978) :351—64.

. “Medical Entomology Studies-XI. The Subgenus Stegomyia of Aedes
in the Oriental Region with Keys to the Species (Diptera: Culicidae.” Con-
tributions of the American Entomological Institute, 15(6)(1979) :1-79.

Hurd, Paul D., Jr. “Bamboo-nesting Carpenter Bees (Genus Xylocopa Latreille
of the Subgenus Stenoxylocopa Hurd and Moure (Hymenoptera: Anthopho-
ridae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 51(1978) :745—64.

. “Superfamily Apoidea.” In Catalog of Hymenoptera in America North
of Mexico, by Karl V. Krombein et al., vol. 1, pp. 1-1198; vol. 2, pp. 1199-
2209. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Knutson, L., and Flint, O. S., Jr. “Do Dance Flies Feed on Caddisflies?—Fur-
ther Evidence (Diptera: Empididae:Trichoptera). Proceedings of the En-
tomological Society of Washington, 81(1979) :32—33.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 411
Krombein, Karl V. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, III. Life His-
tory, Nest and Associates of Paraleptomenes mephitis (Cameron) (Hymenop-
tera: Eumenidae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 51(1978):
721-34.

. “Biosystematics Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, II. A Monograph of the

Scoliidae (Hymenoptera: Scolioidea).” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology

no. 283, pp. 1-56. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, IV. Kudakrumiinae, a

New Subfamily of Primitive Wasps (Hymenoptera: Mutillidae).” Trans-

actions of the American Entomological Society 105(1979) :67—83.

. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps, V. A Monograph of the

Ampulicidae (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea).” Smithsonian Contributions to

Zoology no. 298, pp. 1-29. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,

1979"

. “Studies in the Tiphiidae, XII. A New Genus of Methochinae with

Notes on the Subgenera of Methocha Latreille (Hymenoptera Aculeata).”

Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 81(1979) :424-34.

. “Biosystematic Studies of Ceylonese Wasps. VI. Notes on the Sclero-
gibbidae with Description of Two New Species (Hymenoptera: Chrysidoi-
dea).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 81(1979):
465-74.

Krombein, Karl V., and Hurd, Paul D., Jr., et al. “Introduction: Hymenoptera,
Apocrita, Aculeata, Bethyloidea, Scolioidea, Vespoidea, Pompiloidea, and
Sphecoidea.” Catalog of Hymenoptera in America North of Mexico, vols.
1 and 2, vii-xvi, 1-2, 1199-1321, 1469-1740. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1979.

Mathis, Wayne N. “A Synopsis of Neotropical Eleleides Cresson (Diptera:
Ephydridae).” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 80
(1978) :465-72.

. “Studies of Notiphillinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), I. Revision of the

Nearctic Species of Notiphila Fallén, Excluding the caudata Group.” Smith-

sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 287, pp. 1-111. Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. [Review] Record of My Life-Work in Entomology, 1903-1904, by

C. R. Osten Sacken, with an appreciation and introductory preface by

K. G. V. Smith. Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington

81(1979) :330-31.

. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera: Ephydridae), II. Phylogeny, Classi-
fication, and Zoogeography of Nearctic Lamproscatella Hendel.” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 295, pp. 1-41. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Mathis, Wayne N., and Shewell, Guy E. “Studies of Ephydrinae (Diptera:
Ephydridae), I: Revisions of Parascatella Cresson and the triseta Group of
Scatella Robineau-Desvoidy.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no.
285, pp. 1-44. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Mathis, Wayne N., and Wirth, Willis W. “Paracanace New Genus Near Cana-
ceoides Cresson, Three New Species, and Notes on the Classification (Dip-
tera: Canacidae).”” Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington
80(1978) :524—37.

Peyton, E. L., and Harrison, B. A. “Anopheles (Cellia) dirus, a New Species
of the Leucosphyrus Group from Thailand (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito
Systematics 11(1) (1979) :40—52.

Price, Roger D., and Emerson, K. C. “The Neopsittaconirumus (Mallophaga:
Philopteridae) from Cacatua (Aves: Psittaciformes).” Pacific Insects 18
(1-2) :33-36.

Sirivanakarn, S. “The Female Cibarial Armature of New World Culex, Sub-

412 / Smithsonian Year 1979
genus Melanoconion and Related Subgenera with Notes on the Character

in Subgenera Culex, Lutzia and Neoculex and Genera Galindomyia and

Deinocerites (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 10(4) (1978) :474—

92.

. “A New Species of Culex (Melanoconion) from Bolivia and Ecuador
(Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 11(2)(1979) :135—37.

Sirivanakarn, S., and Jakob, W. L. “A New Species of Culex (Melanoconion)
from Southern Brazil (Diptera: Culicidae).” Mosquito Systematics 11(2)
(1979) :139-43.

Spangler, P. J., and Santiago-de Bueno, S. “A New Water Scavenger Beetle
from Mexico (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae).” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 92(2) (1979) :333-38.

Traub, R., and Wisseman, C. L., Jr., editors. “Korean Hemorrhagic Fever.”
Journal of Infectious Diseases 138(2)(1978) :267-72.

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

Barnard, J. L. “Littoral Gammaridean Amphipoda from the Gulf of California
and the Galapagos Islands.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 271,
pp. 1-149. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. “Redescription of Plioplateia K. H. Barnard, a Genus of Amphipod
(Crustacea) from South Africa.” Annals of the South African Museum,
vol. 77, pp: 47—55, 1978.

Barnard, J. L., and Drummond, M. M. “Gammaridean Amphipoda of Aus-
tralia, Part 3. The Phoxocephalidae.” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
no. 245, pp. 1-551. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Gammaridean Amphipoda of Australia, part 4.” Smithsonian Con-
tributions to Zoology, no. 269, pp. 1-69. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1979.

Barnard, J. L., and Karaman, G. S. “Classificatory Revisions in Gammaridean
Amphipoda, part 1.” In Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washing-
ton, vol. 92, pp. 106-65, 1979.

Bayer, Frederick M. ““Adelogorgia telones, a New Species of Gorgonacean Coral
(Coelenterata: Octocorallia) from the Galapagos Islands.” In Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington, vol. 91, pp. 1026-36, 1979.

Bowman, Thomas E. “From Brazil to Jamaica: A Range Extension of the
Neritic Calanoid Copepod, Pseudodiaptomus acutus.’’ Crustaceana 35(3)
(1978) :249-52.

. “The Modified Suture Between Segments 8 and 9 on the First Antenna
of Some Calanoid Copepods.” Crustaceana 35(2)(1978) :113-18.

Cairns, S. D. “A Checklist of the Ahermatypic Scleractinia of the Gulf of
Mexico, with the Description of a New Species.” Gulf Research Reports
6(1) (1978) :9-15.

. “The Deep-water Scleractinia of the Caribbean and Adjacent Waters.”

Studies on the Fauna of Curacao and Other Caribbean Islands 57(180) (1978):

341.

. “Distichopora (Haplomerismos) Anceps, a New Stylasterine Coral
(Coelenterata: Stylasterina) from Deep Water off the Hawaiian Islands.”
Micronesica 14(1) (1978) :83-87.

. “Types and Figured Specimens of Stylasterina and Scleractinia at the
NMNH, Smithsonian. Part 1. Recent and Cenozoic.” Fossil Cnidaria 7(2)
(1978) :9-14.

Chace, Fenner A., Jr., and Brown, Diane E. “A New Polychelate Shrimp from
the Great Barrier Reef of Australia and Its Bearing on the Family Bresiliidae
(Crustacea: Decapoda: Caridea).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 91(3) (1978) :756—66.

Cressey, R. F., and Randall, J. “Synodus capricornis, a New Lizardfish from

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 413
Easter and Pitcairn Islands.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington 91(3) (1978) :767—74.

Cressey, R. F., and Russell, B. C. “Three Species of Indo-West Pacific Lizard-
fish (Synodontidae).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
92(1) (1979) :166-75.

Downey, Maureen E. “Pythonaster pacificus n. sp., a New Starfish of the
Family Myxasteridae (Echinodermata: Asteroidea.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington 92(1) (1979) :70—74.

Fauchald, Kristian, and Jumars, Peter A. “The Diet of Worms: A Study of
Polychaete Feeding Guilds.” Oceanography and Marine Biology: An Annual
Review, vol. 17, pp. 193-284.

Harshbarger, J. C.; Squire, R. A.; Goodman, D.G.; Valerio, M. G.; Frederick-
son, T.; Strandberg, J. D.; Levitt, M. H.; Lingeman, C. H.; and Dawe, C. J.
“Tumors.” Pathology of Laboratory Animals, vol. 2, pp. 1051-1283.

Hart, C. W., Jr. “A New Species of the Genus Sphaeromicola (Ostracoda:
Entocytheridae: Sphaeromicolinae) from Texas, with Notes on Relationships
between European and North American Species.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington 91(3) (1978) :724—30.

. [Review] Wind in the Rock, by Ann Zwinger. Smithsonian 9(11)
(1979) :132-35.

Hart, C. W., Jr., and Fuller, Samuel L. H., editors. Pollution Ecology of Es-
tuarine Invertebrates. New York: Academic Press, Inc., 1979.

Hart, C. W., Jr., and Hart, Dabney G. “Ostracods (Arthropoda: Crustacea:
Ostracoda).” In Pollution Ecology of Estuarine Invertebrates, edited by
C. W. Hart and S. L. H. Fuller, pp. 127-44. New York: Academic Press, 1979.

Higgins, R. P., and George, R. Y. “A Eutrophis Hadal Benthic Community in
the Puerto Rico Trench.” Ambio, no. 6 (1979) :51-58.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Paters, Daniel J. “A Substitute Name for the
Homonym Aphelocythere Hobbs and Peters (Ostracoda, Entocytheridae).”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91(4)(1978) :1—37.

Houbrick, R. S. “Classification and Systematic Relationships of the Abys-
sochrysidae, a Relict Family of Bathyal Snails (Prosobranchia: Gastropoda).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 290, pp. 1-21. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. “The Family Cerithiidae in the Indo-Pacific. Part 1: The Genera

Rhinoclavis, Pseudovertagus and Clavercerithium.” Monographs of Marine

Mollusca, no. 1 (1978) :1-130.

. “Reassignment of Batillaria sardida (Gmelin) from the Cerithiidae to
the Potamididae (Gastropoda: Prosobranchia). Proceedings of the Biologi-
cal Society of Washington 91(3) (1978) :246—49.

Kensley, Brian. “Decapod Crustaceans Collected in Southern African Waters
by the Th. Mortensen Java-South Africa Expedition (Crustacea, Decapoda).”
Steenstrupia 4(1978) :249-61.

. “Five New Genera of Anthirid Isopod Crustaceans.” Proceedings of

the Biological Society of Washington 91(1978) :775—92.

. “Interaction Between Coastal Processes and Lagoonal Fauna, Between

Walvis Bay and Luderitzbucht, South West Africa.” Madoqua 11(1978):

55—60, 1978.

. “The South African Museum’s Meiring Naude Cruises Part 8. Isopoda
Anthuridea.” Annals of the South African Museum 77(1978) :1-25.

Kensley, Brian, and Kaufman, H. W. “Cleantioides, a New Idoteid Genus from
Baja California and Panama.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-
ington 91(1978) :658—65.

Kensley, Brian, and Koening, M. L. “Two New Species of Quantanthura from
Brazil (Crustacea, Isopoda, Anthuridae).” Proceedings of the Biological So-
ciety of Washington 91(1979) :953-62.

414 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Kensley, Brian, and Penrith, M. J. “Biological Survey of Sandvis 1, Introduc-
tion and Faunal List.” Madoqua 10(1979) :181-90.

Kornicker, Louis S. “The Adult Male of Harbansus bradmyersi Kornicker,
1978, and a Key to Subfamilies of the Philomedidae (Ostracoda: Myodo-
copina).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91(1979):
999-1007.

. “The Question Mark in Taxonomic Literature.” Journal of Paleon-
tology 53(1979) :761.

Kornicker, Louis S., and Sohn, I. G. “Viability of Freeze-Dried Eggs of the
Freshwater Heterocypris incongruens.” In Proceedings of the View Imkrish
Society of Ostracodes, p. 272, 1979.

Manning, Raymond B. “Additional Records for Two Eastern Atlantic Stoma-
topod Crustaceans.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91
(2) (1978) :450-52.

. “Lobsters.” FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Purposes:

Western Central Atlantic (Fishing Area 31) 6(1978).

. “Nannosquilla vasquezi, a New Stomatopod Crustacean from the

Atlantic Coast of Panama.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Wash-

ington 92(2)(1979) :380-83.

. “Notes on Two Species of Stomatopod Crustacea from Phuket Island,

Thailand.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(2)(1979):

394-98.

. “Stomatopods.” FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Pur-
poses: Western Central Atlantic (Fishing Area 31) 6(1978).

Manning, Raymond B., and Froglia, Carlo. “Brachynotus gemmellari (Rizza,
1839), the Third Mediterranean Species of the Genus (Crustacea, Decapoda,
Brachyura).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington (3)(1978):
691-705.

Manning, Raymond B., and Makarov, R. R. “A New Species of Faughnia from
the Western Indian Ocean (Crustacea, Stomatopoda).” Bulletin du Museum
national d’Histoire naturelle, Paris, ser. 3, no. 520 (1978) :517—23.

Manning, Raymond B., and Reaka, Marjorie L. “Three New Stomatopod Crus-
taceans from the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica.” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 92(3) (1979) :634-39.

Pawson, David L. “Some Aspects of the Biology of Deep-sea Echinoderms.”
Thalassia Yugoslavica 12(1) (1978) :287-93.

. “The Eichinoderm Fauna of Ascension Island, South Atlantic Ocean.”
Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences, no. 2, pp. 1-31. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Pawson, David L., and Miller, J. E. “A New Subspecies of Holothuria lenti-
ginosa Marenzeller from the Western Atlantic Ocean (Eichinodermata: Ho-
lothuroidea).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91
(1979) :912-22.

Perez Farfante, Isabel. “Families Hippolytidae, Palaemonidae (Caridea), and
Penaeidae, Sicyoniidae and Solonceridae (Penaeoidea).” FAO Species Iden-
tification Sheets for Fishery Purposes, Western Central Atlantic (Fishing
Area 31) 6(1979).

. “Range Extension of Penaeopsis serrata (Crustacea: Penaeoidea) to Off

New Jersey and Rio Grande do Sul.” Proceedings of the Biological Society

of Washington 92(1) (1979) :204—7.

. “Penaeopsis jerryi, New Species from the Indian Ocean (Crustacea:
Penaeoidea).” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(1)
(1979) :208-15.

Rice, Mary E. “Morphological and Behavioral Changes at Metamorphosis in
the Sipuncula.” In Settlement and Metamorphosis of Marine Invertebrate
Larvae, 83-102.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 415
. “The Living Dock at Panacea, by Jack Rudlow.” Bioscience 29(5)
(1979) :3161.

Rice, Mary E., and Chia, Fu-Shiang. Settlement and Metamorphosis of Marine
Invertebrate Larvae, pp. i-xi and 1-290, 1978.

Rice, Mary E., and Murdoch, Joseph D. “Influence of Adults on Metamorphosis
of Oceanic Sipunculan Larvae.” American Zoologist 18(3) (1978) :664.

Riitzler, Klaus. “Shallow-Water Sponges of the Western Bahamas, by Felix
Wiedenmayer, Experientia supplementum 28.” The Quarterly Review of
Biology 53(4) (1978) :465—-66.

Riitzler, Klaus, and Macintyre, Ian G. “Siliceous Sponge Spicules in Coral
Reef Sediments.” Marine Biology 49(2)(1978) :147-59.

Roper, Clyde F. E. “Cephalopods of the Western Central Atlantic Ocean.”
FAO Identification Sheets, (Fishing Area 31) 6(1978).

Roper, Clyde F. E., and Lu, C. C. “Cephalopods from Deepwater Dumpsite
106 (Western Atlantic): Vertical Distribution and Seasonal Abundance.”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology no. 288. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1979.

. “Rhynchoteuthion Larvae of Ommastrephid Squids of the Western
North Atlantic, with the First Description of Larvae and Juveniles of Illex
illecebrosus.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91(4)
(1978) :1039-59.

Roper, C. F. E.; Walters, J. F.; and Young, R. E. “Eyes and Extraocular Photo-
receptors in Midwater Cephalopods and Fishes: Their Roles in Detecting
Downwelling Light for Counterillumination.” Marine Biology 51(1979):
371-80.

Rosewater, J. “Parakrama Kirtisinghe. 1978. Sea Shells of Sri Lanka.” National
Capital Shell Club Newsletter 11(1978).

. “A Reconnaissance of West American Littorinidae.” Bulletin of the
American Malacological Union, Inc. for 1978 55(1978).

Williams, Austin B. “A New Crab Family from Shallow Waters of the West
Indies (Crustacea: Decapoda: Brachyura).” Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 92(2) (1979) :399-413.

. “Symposium on the Composition and Evolution of Crustaceans in the

Cold and Temperate Waters of the World Ocean.” Bulletin of the Biological

Society of Washington, no. 3(1979) :xiv, 359.

. “True Crabs.” FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Purposes.
Western Central Atlantic (Fishing Area 31) 6(1978).

Williams, Austin B., and Duke, Thomas W. “Crabs (Arthropoda: Crustacea:
Decapoda: Brachyura).” In Pollution Ecology of Estuarine Invertebrates,
pp. 171-222, 1979.

Williams, Austin B.; Boothe, Billy B., Jr.; and Herbst, Gary H. “Reassessment
of Northern Geographic Limits for Decapod Crustacean Species in the Caro-
linian Province, USA; Some Major Range Extensions Itemized.” Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 91(4) (1979) :989-98.

Department of Mineral Sciences

Chalmers, R. O.; Henderson, E. P.; and Mason, Brian. “Australasian Micro-
tektites and the Stratigraphic Age of the Australites: Discussion and Reply.”
Geological Society of America Bulletin 90(1979) :508—12.

Clarke, R. S., Jr. “A Response to Wasson’s Views on Cutting the Old Woman
Meteorite.” Eos 60(1979) :652.

. “Carbon in Iron Meteorite Structures.” Program Forty-Second Annual
Meeting of the Meteoritical Society, Heidelberg, 1979.

Clarke, R. S., Jr., and Jarosewich, E. “The Concentration and Distribution of
Cu in Meteoritic Metal.” Meteoritics 13(1978) :418—20.

D’Antonio, P.; Konnert, J. H.; and Appleman, Daniel E. “Analysis of Thin-

416 / Smithsonian Year 1979
walled Glass Capillaries.” American Crystallographic Association, Program
and Abstracts, ser. 2, vol. 6, no. 2 (1979) :84.

Dunn, Pete J. “Dehrnite and Lewistonite: Discredited.” Mineralogical Maga-
zine 42(1978) :281.

. “Gem Peridot and Enstatite with Spinel Inclusions from Chihuahua,

Mexico.” The Journal of Gemmology 16(1978) :236-38.

. “New Minerals 1973-1977: A Perspective.” The Mineralogical Record

9(1978) :363-65.

. “Sanmartinite: New Data.” Mineralogical Magazine 42(1978) :281.

. “Ganomalite from Franklin, New Jersey.” The Mineralogical Record

10(1979) :47—48.

. “Guest Editorial: When You Are All Through Collecting.” The Min-

eralogical Record 10(1979) :66.

. “Light Green Zincite from Sterling Hill, Ogdensburg, New Jersey.”
The Mineralogical Record 10(1979) :45—47.

Dunn, Pete J.; Appleman, Daniel E.; and Nelen, J. ““Liddicoatite, A New Gem
Tourmaline Species from Madagascar.” Journal of Gemmology 16(1978):
172-76.

Dunn, Pete J.; Peacor, D. R.; and Palmer, T. D. “Desautelsite, A New Mineral
of the Pyroaurite Group.” The American Mineralogist 64(1979) :127—30.

Dunn, Pete J.; Peacor, D. R.; and Sturman, B. D. “Mandarinoite, A New Ferric-
iron Selenite from Bolivia.” The Canadian Mineralogist 16(1978) :605-9.

. ‘Marsturite, MnsCaNaHSi;sO:;, A New Mineral of the Nambulite Group

from Franklin, New Jersey.” The American Mineralogist 63(1978) :1187-89.

. “Carlhintzeite, A New Calcium Aluminum Fluoride Hydrate from the

Hagendorf Pegmatites, Bavaria, Germany.” The Canadian Mineralogist 17

(1979) :103-5.

. “Paulmooreite, A New Lead Arsenite Mineral from Langban, Sweden.”
The American Mineralogist 64(1979) :353-54.

Dunn, Pete J., and Rouse, R. ““Morelandite, A New Barium Arsenate Chloride
Member of the Apatite Group.” The Canadian Mineralogist 16(1978) :601—4.

Dunn, Pete J., and Seel, P. [Review] The Mineralogy of the Diamond. The
Mineralogical Record 9(1978) :383.

Dunn, Pete J.; Wolfe, C. W.; Leavens, P. B.; and Wilson, W. E. “Hydroxyl-
herderite from Brazil and a Guide to Species Nomenclature for the
Herderite/hydroxyl-herderite Series.” The Mineralogical Record 10(1979):
511.

Fiske, R. S. “A Deontological Code for Volcanologists?—Response to Derek
Bostok’s Editorial.” Journal of Volcanology and Geothermal Research
5(1979) :211-12.

Fleischer, Michael. “F. W. Clarke and the Data of Geochemistry.” Geotimes
(March 1979).

Fleischer, Michael. Third list of additions to “Glossary of Mineral Species.”
The Mineralogical Record 9(1978) :371-74.

Fleischer, Michael. “Relation of the Relative Concentrations of Lanthanides in
Titanite to Type of Host Rocks.” The American Mineralogist 63(1978):
869-73.

Fleischer, Michael. “Relative Proportions of the Lanthanides in Minerals of
the Bastnaesite Group.” The Canadian Mineralogist 16(1978) :361-63.

Fredriksson, K.; Noonan, A. F.; and Nelen, J. “Ultrathin Sections: An Apoca-
lyptic View of Chondrules and Chondrites.” Meteorites 13(1978) :462—64.

Fredriksson, K.; Noonan, A. F.; Nelen, J.; and Beauchamp, R. H. “Bonding
and Reactions During Accretion of Ordinary Chondrites: I. Bjurbéle.” Lunar
and Planetary Science 10(1979) :397-99.

Fredriksson, K.; O’Keefe, J.; and Brenner, P. “The Bulk Composition of In-
dividual Chondrules.” Meteorites 13(1978) :464.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 417
Fudali, Robert F. “Gravity Investigation of Wolf Creek Crater, Western Aus-
tralia.” Journal of Geology 87(1979) :55—67.

Fudali, Robert F., and Ford, R. J. “Darwin Glass and Darwin Crater: A
Progress Report.” Meteorites 14(3) (1979) :267—82.

Gait, R. I.; Sturman, B. D.; and Dunn, Pete J. “Prosperite, HCaZn2(AsOs,)e
(OH), A New Mineral from Tsumeb, Southwest Africa (Namibia).” The
Canadian Mineralogist 17(1979) :87—92.

Gomes, C. B.; Keil, K.; Ruberti, E.; Jarosewich, E.; and Silva, J. “Studies of
Brazilian Meteorites XVI. Mineralogy, Petrology and Chemistry of the
Ipiranga, Parana, Chondrite.” Chemie Der Erde 37(1978) :265-67.

Johnson, H. Paul, and Melson, William G. “Electron Microprobe Analyses of
Some Titanomagnetite Grains from Hole 395A.” In Initial Reports of the
Deep Sea Drilling Project 45, by W. G. Melson, P. D. Rabinowitz, et al.
Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.

Leavens, P. B.; Dunn, Pete J.; and Gaines, R. V. “Compositional and Refrac-
tive Index Variations of the Herderite—hydroxyl-herderite Series.” The
American Mineralogist 63(1978) :913-17.

Mason, Brian. Data of Geochemistry, Sixth Edition, Chapter B, Cosmochemis-
try, Part 1, Meteorites. U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 440-B-1
(1979).

. “Descriptions of Antarctic Meteorites.” Antarctic Meteorite Newsletter

1(1, 2, and 3); 2(1 and 2)(1978-1979).

. “Strontium Abundance in Cosmos, Meteorites, Tektites, and Lunar
Materials.” Handbook of Geochemistry 2(5)(1978).

McClelland, L., and Simkin, Thomas E. “Volcanology: Review of 1978.”
Geotimes 24(1)(1979) :50-51.

Melson, William G. “Chemical Stratigraphy of Leg 45 Basalts: Electron Probe
Analyses of Glasses.” In Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project 45,
by W. G. Melson, P. D. Rabinowitz, et al., pp. 507-12. Washington, D.C.:
U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978

Melson, William G., and O’Hearn, Timothy. “Basaltic Glass Erupted Along
the Mid-Atlantic Ridge Between Composition and Latitude.” In Deep Drill-
ing Results in Atlantic Ocean: Ocean Crust, Maurice Ewing Series 2, edited
by M. Talwani, D. G. Harrison, and D. Hayes. Washington, D.C.: American
Geophysical Union, 1978.

Morris, L.; Simkin, T.; and Myers, H. [Map] “Volcanoes of the World.” World
Data Center A (NOAA), 1979.

Nakai, Izumi, and Appleman, Daniel E. “Klebelsbergite—A New Definition
and Synthesis.” The American Mineralogist (1979).

Nakai, Izumi, and Appleman, Daniel E. “The Crystal Structure of Gerstleyite,
Na2(Sb,As)sSis°2H20.” Geological Society of America 11(1979).

Natland, J.; Bouganlt, H.; Fujii, T.; Graham, A. L.; Melson, W. G.; Prosser, E.;
Rhodes, J. M.; and Zolotarev, B. “Chemical Data for Site 395 and 396:
Analytical Procedures and Comparisons of Interlaboratory Standards.” In
Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project 45, by W. G. Melson, P. D.
Rabinowitz, et al. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1978.

Nelen, J. A.; Noonan, A. F.; and Fredriksson, K. “A CAI in Clovis, an Impact
Droplet.” Meteoritics 13(1978) :573-77.

Noonan, A. F.; Nelen, J. A.; and Fredriksson, K. “Ca-Al-Na Rich Inclusions
and Aggregates in H-Group and Carbonaceous Chondrites.” Meteoritics
13(1978) :583-87.

Noonan, A. F.; Rajan, R. S.; and Fredriksson, K. “Agglutinates in Ordinary
Chondrites.” Meteoritics 13(1978) :587.

Noonan, A. F.; Rajan, R. S.; Nelen, J. A.; and Fredriksson, K. “Petrologic and
Isotopic Constraints on the Origin of the Bhola Chondrite.” Annual Report
of the Director—Department of Terrestrial Magnetism 1977-1978, pp.
452-56, 1978.

418 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Shannon, R. D.; Gier, T. E.; Foris, C. M.; Nelen, J. A.; and Appleman,
Daniel E. “Crystal Data for Some Sodium Rare Earth Silicates.” Journal of
Applied Crystallography (1979).

Simkin, Thomas E. “CDF Numbered Contributions.” Noticias de Galapagos
28(1978) :24-29.

. “Volcanology: U.S. National Report (1971-1978) to International

Union of Geodesy and Geophysics.” Reviews of Geophysics and Space

Physics 17(4) (1979) :872-87.

. [Review] Volcanic Regimes in Canada. The American Mineralogist

64(1979) :932.

. [Review] Generation of Basaltic Magma. The American Mineralogist
64(1979) :932.

Tobisch, O. T. and Fiske, R. S. “Near Parallelism of Nevadan and Mid- to
Late-Cretaceous Deformations in the Central Sierra Nevada.” Geological
Society of America, Abstracts with Programs (1979) :132.

Weinke, Helmut H.; Kiesl, W.; and Clarke, R. S., Jr. “The Waterville Iron
Meteorite.” Program of the Forty-Second Annual Meeting of the Meteoritical
Society, Heidelberg, 1979.

Department of Paleobiology

Adey, W. H. “Algal Ridges of the Caribbean Sea and West Indies.” Phycologia
17(1978) :361-67.

. “Coral Reef Morphogenesis: a Multidimensional Model.” Science
202(4370) (1978) :831-37.

Buzas, M. A. “Community Unity? Patterns in Molluscs and Foraminifera.” In
Estuarine Interactions, edited by M. L. Wiley, pp. 173-90. New York: Aca-
demic Press, 1978.

. “Foraminifera as Prey for Benthic Deposit Feeders: Results of Predator

Exclusion Experiments.” Journal of Marine Research 36(4)(1978) :617-25.

. “The Measurement of Species Diversity.” In Foraminiferal Ecology

and Paleontology, SEPM Short Course no. 6, by J. H. Lipps, W. H. Berger,

M. A. Buzas, R. G. Douglas, and C. A Ross, pp. 3-10. Tulsa: Society of

Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1979.

. “Quantitative Biofacies Analysis.” In Foraminiferal Ecology and
Paleoecology, SEPM Short Course no. 6, by J. H. Lipps, W. H. Berger, M. A.
Buzas, R. G. Douglas, and C. A. Ross, pp 11-20. Tulsa: Society of Economic
Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1979.

Cifelli, Richard, and Glacon, Georgette. “Récapitulation Ontogenique des
Caractéres Ancestraux Chez Globorotalia.” Compte Rendus, Académie des
Sciences, Paris, Series D, Tome 286(1978) :1665—67.

Emry, R. J., “A New Hypertragulid (Mammalia, Ruminantia) from the Early
Chadronian of Wyoming and Texas.” Journal of Paleontology 52(5)(1978):
1004-14.

. “Review of Toxotherium (Perissodactyla: Rhinocerotoidea) with New
Material from the Early Oligocene of Wyoming.” Proceedings of the Bio-
logical Society of Washington 92(1) (1979) :28—41.

Hayward, B. W., and Buzas, M. A. “Taxonomy and Paleoecology of Early
Miocene Benthic Foraminifera of Northern New Zealand and the North
Tasman Sea.” Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology no. 36, 154 pp.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Hickey, L. J. “Paleobotany.” Geotimes 24(1) (1979) :41—42.

Hotton, Nicholas, III. [Review] The Phylogeny of Vertebrata, by Soren Lovtrup.
Journal of Paleontology 53(1) (1979) :225—27.

. [Review] Archosauria: A New Look at the Old Dinosaur, by John C.
McLoughlin. The Washington Post, Friday, July 13 (1979): E7.

Kauffman, E. G. “Benthic Environments and Paleoecology of the Posidonien-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 419
schiefer (Toarcian).” Neues Jahrbuch fiir Geologie und Paldontologie,

Abhandlungen 157(1/2) (1978) :18—36.

. “Evolutionary Rates and Patterns among Cretaceous Bivalvia.” Philo-

sophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London [series B] 284(1001)

(1978) :277-304.

. “Short-lived Benthic Communities in the Solnhofen and Nusplingen

Limestones.” Neues Jahrbuch fiir Geologie und Paliontologie Monatshefte,

Jahrgang 1978 (12)(1978) :717—24.

. “British Middle Cretaceous Inoceramid Biostratigraphy.” Annales du

Museum d’Histoire Naturelle de Nice, tome 4, pp. IV.1-IV.12. 1978.

. “An Outline of Middle Cretaceous Marine History and Inoceramid

Biostratigraphy in the Bohemian Basin, Czechoslovakia.” Annales du Mu-

seum d'Histoire Naturelle de Nice, tome 4, pp. XIII.1—XIII.12. 1978.

. “South African Middle Cretaceous Inoceramidae.” Annales du Museum

d'Histoire Naturelle de Nice, tome 4, pp. XVII.1—XVII.6. 1978.

. “Middle Cretaceous Bivalve Zones and Stage Implications in the

Antillean Subprovince, Caribbean Province.” Annales du Museum d'Histoire

Naturelle de Nice, tome 4, pp. XXX.1—-XXX.11. 1978.

. “Cretaceous.” In Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, Part A, Fos-
silization (Taphonomy), Biogeography and Biostratigraphy, edited by R. A.
Robison and Curt Teichert, pp. A418-A487. Lawrence, Kan.: Geological
Society of America and University of Kansas Press, 1979.

Kauffman, E. G.; Cobban, W. A.; and Eicher, D. E. “Albian through Lower
Coniacian Strata, Biostratigraphy, and Principal Events, Western Interior
United States.” Annales du Museum d’Histoire Naturelle de Nice, tome 4,
pp. XXIII.1-XXIIL.52. 1978.

Kauffman, E. G., and Sohl, N. F. “Middle Cretaceous Events in the Caribbean
Province.” Annales du Museum d’Histoire Naturelle de Nice, tome 4, pp.
XXIX.1—XXIX.5. 1978.

Lighty, R. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Submerged Early Holo-
cene Barrier Reef South-East Florida Shelf.” Nature 275(5683) (1978) :59-60.

. “Reply: Holocene Reef Growth on the Edge of the Florida Shelf.”

Nature 278(5701) (1979) :281—82.

. “Reply: Shelf Temperatures and Reef Growth on the South-East
Florida Coast.” Nature 278(5705) (1979) :670.

Lipps, J. H.; Berger, W. H.; Buzas, M. A.; Douglas, R. G.; and Ross, C. A.
Foraminiferal Ecology and Paleoecology, SEPM Short Course no. 6, 198
pages. Tulsa: Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, 1979.

Macintyre, I. G.; Pilkey, O. H.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Reply: Relict Oysters
on the United States Atlantic Continental Shelf: A Reconsideration of Their
Usefulness in Understanding Late Quaternary Sea-Level History.” Geological
Society of America Bulletin, Pt. I, 90(7) (1979) :692—94.

Maldonado, Andrés, and Stanley, D. J. “Depositional Patterns and Late
Quaternary Evolution of Two Mediterranean Submarine Fans: A Compari-
son.” Marine Geology 31(3/4) (1979) :215—50.

Pierce, J. W., and Siegel, F. R. “Particulate Material Suspended in Estuarine
and Oceanic Waters.” In Scanning Electron Microscopy/79, edited by Om
Johari, pp. 555-61. AMF O/’Hare, Illinois: Scanning Electron Microscopy,
Inc., 1979.

. “Suspended Particulate Matter on the Southern Argentine Shelf.”
Marine Geology 29(1/4) (1979) :73-91.

Pierce, J. W., and Stanley, D. J. “Talc in the Mediterranean: Some Com-
ments.” Marine Geology 31(3/4) (1979) :345—48.

Ray, C. E., and Wilson, D. E. “Evidence for Macrotus californicus from Ter-
lingua, Texas.” Occasional Papers, The Museum, Texas Tech University,
no. 57 (1979) :1-10.

420 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Ruetzler, Klaus, and Macintyre, I. G. “Siliceous Sponge Spicules in Coral
Reef Sediment.” Marine Biology 49(2)(1978) :147-59.

Siegel, F. R., and Pierce, J. W. “Geochemical Exploration Using Marine Min-
eral Suspensates.” Modern Geology 6(1978) :221—27.

Stanley, D. J. “Sedimentological Evidence for Current Reversal at the Strait
of Gibraltar.” In National Geographic Society Research Reports, 1970
Projects, edited by P. H. Oehser and J. S. Lea—Under the Direction of the
Committee for Research and Exploration, pp. 493-501. Washington, D.C.:
National Geographic Society, 1979.

Stanley, D. J., and Bertrand, J. P. “Penrose Conference: Subamine Slope, Fan,
and Trench Sedimentation—New Concepts and Problem Solving.” Geology
7(1) (1979) :49-52.

Stanley, D. J., and Hall, B. A. “The Bucegi Conglomerate: A Romanian Car-
pathian Submarine Slope Deposit.” Nature 276(5683) (1978) :60—64.

Stanley, D. J., and Maldonado, Andrés. “Levantine Sea—Nile Cone Lithostrati-
graphic Evolution: Quantitative Analysis and Correlation with Paleoclimatic
and Eustatic Oscillation in the Late Quaternary.” Sedimentary Geology 23
(1/4) (1978) :37-65.

Stanley, D. J., and Sheng, Harrison. “Trona in Nile Cone Late Quaternary
Sediments: Probable Redepositional Origin.” Marine Geology 31(1/2)(1979) :
M21-M28.

Stanley, D. J.; Sheng, Harrison; and Kholief, M. M. “Sand on the Southern
Mediterranean Ridge: Proximal Basement and Distal African—Nile Prove-
nance.” Nature 279(5714) (1979) :594—98.

Waller, T. R. “Morphology, Morphoclines and a New Classification of the
Pteriomorphia (Mollusca: Bivalvia).” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
Society of London, series B, 284(1001) (1978) :345—65.

Wiedmann, Jost, and Kauffman, E. G. “Mid-Cretaceous Biostratigraphy of
Northern Spain.” Annales du Museum d’Histoire Naturelle de Nice, tome 4,
pp. III.1-III.34. 1978.

Department of Vertebrate Zoology

Aldrich, J. W. “Status of the Canadian Sandhill Crane.” In Proceedings 1978
Crane Workshop, Rockport, Texas, pp. 139-48. Published by National Au-
dubon Society, April 1979.

Aldrich, J. W., and Weske, J. S. “Origin and Evolution of the Eastern House
Finch Population.” The Auk 95(1978) :528-36.

Ali, S., and Ripley, S. D. Hadnbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan, vol. 1,
2d ed. Bombay, London, and New York: Oxford University Press, 1978.

Altenbach, J. S.; Geluso, K. N.; and Wilson, D. E. “Population Size of Tada-
rida brasiliensis at Carlsbad Caverns in 1973.” In Biological Investigations
in the Guadalupe Mountains National Park, Texas. National Park Service
Proceedings and Transactions Series No. 4, edited by H. H. Genoways and
R. J. Baker, pp. 341-48, 1979.

Ash, John S. “An Albinistic Carmine Bee-eater from Ethiopia.” Ostrich 49
(1978) :91.

. “A New Species of Serin from Ethiopia.” Ibis 121(1979) :1—7.

Ash, John S., and Jonquil, W. “Personalities: Dr. Stephanie Tyler.” British
Birds 71(1978) :412-14.

Belton, William. “Supplementary List of New Birds for Rio Grande do Sul,
Brazil.” The Auk 95(2)(April 1978) :413-15.

Bohlke, J. E.; Weitzman, S. H.; and Menezes, N. A. “Estado Atual da sistema-
tica da peixes da agua doce da America do Sul.” Acta Amazonica 8(4) (1978):
657-77.

Brownell, R. L.; Schonewald, C.; and Reeves, R. “Preliminary Report on
World Catches of Marine Mammals 1966-1975.” Marine Mammal Commis-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 421
sion Contract Report, National Technical Information Service, Department
of Commerce, PB-290 713, 353 pp., 1978.

Carleton, Michael D. “Taxonomic Status and Relationships of Peromyscus
boylii from El Salvador.” Journal of Mammalogy 60(1979) :280-96.

Carleton, Michael D., and Eshelman, R. “A Synopsis of Fossil Grasshopper
Mice, Genus Onychomys, and Their Relationship to Recent Species.” Con-
tributions of Museum of Paleontology, University of Michigan no. 21, pp.
1-63. 1979.

Carleton, Michael D., and Myers, P. “Karyotypes of Some Harvest Mice,
Genus Reithrodontomys.” Journal of Mammalogy 60(1979) :307-13.

Crombie, Ronald I. “A Revised List of the Herpetological Publications of the
National Museum of Natural History (USNM), 1853-1978.” Smithsonian
Herpetological Information Service, no. 42(1979) :1—28.

Eisenberg, J. F., and Wilson, D. E. “Relative Brain Size and Feeding Strategies
in the Chiroptera.” Evolution 32(1979) :740-51.

Feduccia, Alan, and Tordoff, Harrison B. “Feathers of Archaeopteryx: Asym-
metric Vanes Indicate Aerodynamic Function.” Science 203(1979) :1021-22.
Feduccia, Alan, and Torrey, Theodore W. Morphogenesis of the Vertebrates,

4th ed., xii + 540 pp. New York: John Wiley & Sons, 1979.

Gibbs, Robert H., Jr. “Alepisauridae.” FAO Species Identification Sheets for
Fishery Purposes, Western Central Atlantic, 1-2(1978).

. “Exocoetidae.” FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Pur-
poses, Western Central Atlantic, 1-32(1978).

Hansen, L. J.; Perrin, W. F.; and Mead, J. G. “A List of U.S. Institutions Pos-
sessing Collections of Marine Mammal Osteological Specimens.” Southwest
Fisheries Center, Administrative Report LJ-79-10. 1979.

Heaney, L. R., and Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Ecology of Neotropical Red-Tailed
Squirrels, Sciurus granatensis, in the Panama Canal Zone.” Journal of
Mammalogy 59(1978) :846—51.

Heyer, W. Ronald. “Systematics of the fuscus Group of the Frog Genus Lepto-
dactylus (Amphibia, Leptodactylidae).” Natural History Museum of Los
Angeles County Science Bulletin, no. 29, pp. 1-85, 1978.

Heyer, W. Ronald, and Crombie, Ronald I. “Natural History Notes on Cras-
pedoglossa stejnegeri and Thoropa petropolitana (Amphibia: Salientia, Lep-
todactylidae).” Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 69(1)(1979):
17-20.

Heyer, W. Ronald, and Mello, Craig C. “Descriptions of the Advertising Calls
of Cycloramphus asper and Cycloramphus dubius (Amphibia, Leptodactyli-
dae.” Papeis Avulsos de Zoologia, Sa6 Paulo, 32(15) (1979) :193—200.

Kirkland, Gordon L., Jr.; Schmidt, David F.; and Kirkland, Carol J. “First Rec-
ord of the Long-tailed Shrew (Sorex dispar) in New Brunswick.” The Ca-
nadian Field Naturalist 92(1979).

Lachner, Ernest A., and Karnella, Susan J. “Fishes of the Genus Eviota of the
Red Sea with Descriptions of Three New Species (Teleostei: Gobiidae).”
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 286. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.

Leatherwood, S., and Reeves, R. “Porpoises and Dolphins.” In Marine Mam-
mals of Eastern North Pacific and Arctic Waters, edited by D. Haley, pp.
96-111. Seattle, Washington: Pacific Search Press, 1978.

McDiarmid, Roy W., editor. “Amphibians and Reptiles.” Rare and Endangered
Biota of Florida 3(1978).

. “Evolution of Parental Care in Frogs.” In The Development of Be-
havior: Comparative and Evolutionary Aspects, edited by G. M. Burghardt
and M. Bekoff, pp. 127-47. New York: Garland STPM Press, 1978.

McKinney, James F., and Lachner, Ernest A. “A New Species of Gobiid Fish,
Callogobius stellatus, from Flores Island, Indonesia (Teleostei: Gobiidae).
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 91(3) (1978) :715-23.

422 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Mead, J. G. “An Analysis of Cetacean Strandings along the Eastern Coast of
the United States.” In Biology of Marine Mammals: Insights through
Strandings, edited by J. B. Geraci and D. J. St. Aubin, pp. 54-68. NTIS
PB-293 890. 1979.

Olson, Storrs L. “Rails” and “Broadbills.” In Bird Families of the World,
edited by C. J. O. Harrison, pp. 86-88 and 165-67. New York: Harry Abrams,
Inc., 1978.

. [Footnotes, pp. 81, 88-89] In Homology Mapping of the Primitive

Archosaurian Palate on the Palate of Birds, by Sam McDowell. Evolution-

ary Theory 4(2)(1978) :81—94.

. “Greater Ani, Crotophaga major, in Mexico. The Auk 95(4)(1979):

766—67.

. “Multiple Origins of the Ciconiiformes.” In Proceedings of the Co-
lonial Waterbird Group 1978, pp. 165-70, 1979.

Olson, Storrs L., and Feduccia, Alan. “Flight Capability and the Pectoral Girdle
of Archaeopteryx.” Nature 278(5701) (1979) :247—48.

Olson, Storrs L., and Steadman, David W. “The Fossil Record of the Glareoli-
dae and Haematopodidae (Aves: Charadriiformes).” Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 91(4) (1979) :972-81.

. “The Humerus of Xenicibis, the Extinct Flightless Ibis of Jamaica.”
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 92(1)(1979) :23—27.

Ray, C. E., and Wilson, D. E. “Evidence for Macrotis californicus from Ter-
lingua, Texas.” Occasional Papers, The Museum, Texas Tech University,
no. 57, pp. 1-10, 1979.

Reeves, R. “The Narwhal: the Arctic’s Unicorn.” Alaska 44(9)(1978) :10-11,
88-89.

. “Narwhal: Monodon Monoceros.” Alaska Geographic 5(4)(1978) :108—

14.

. “Bottlenose Whales.” Oceans 11(6)(1978) :61-63.

. “El Problema de Acosamiento de la Ballena Gris (Eschrichtius robus-

tus): En las Lagunas de Paricion y Durante las Migraciones.” Marine Mam-

mal Commission Contrast Report, National Technical Information Service,

Department of Commerce, PB-291 763, 62 pages. 1978.

. “Atlantic Walrus (Odobenus rosmarus rosmarus): A Literature Sur-

vey and Status Report.” U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife

Service, Wildlife Research Report 10, pp. 1-41, 1978.

. “Right Whale: Protected but Still in Trouble.” National Parks and

Conservation Magazine 53(2)(1979) :10-15.

. “The Atlantic Walrus in Retreat.” National Parks and Conservation
Magazine 53(6)(1979) :10-14.

Ripley, S. D. “In Memorian Dr. Nagamichi Kuroda.” Tori 27(1978) :82-84.

. “The Drought in the Sahel Is Over, but the Lessons Learned there

Should Be Applied to Large Areas of the World.” Environmental Aware-

ness 1(2)(1978) :61-62.

. “Un Engagement International.” Naturopa Council of Europe, no. 32
(1979) :9-10.

Ripley, S. D., and Lovejoy, T. E. “Threatened and Endangered Species.” In
Wildlife and America, edited by H. Brokaw, pp. 365-78. Washington, D.C.:
Government Printing Office, 1978.

Roberts, T., and Taylor, W. R. “Hypophthalmidae.” In FAO Species Identi-
fication Sheets for Fishery Purposes. Western Central Atlantic 1—2(1978).
Skinder, C., and Mead, J. “Marine Mammal Strandings: On Site Problems and
Solutions.” In Biology of Marine Mammals: Insights through Strandings,
edited by J. B. Geraci and D. J. St. Aubin, pp. 248-61. NTIS PB-293 890.

1979.

Slud, Paul. “First Record of Leach’s Storm-Petrel in Costa Rica: A Correc-

tion.” Condor 81(1979) :102-3.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 423
Springer, Victor G. “Blenniidae.” FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fish-
ery Purposes, Western Central Atlantic 1-4(1978).

. “Clinidae.” FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Purposes,
Western Central Atlantic 1-6(1978).

Steadman, David W.,; Stull, J.; and Eaton, S. W. “Natural History of the Ocel-
lated Turkey.” The World Pheasant Association Journal 4(1978-1979) :15-37.
(June 1979).

Studier, E. H., and Wilson, D. E. “Effects of Captivity on Thermoregulation
and Metabolism in Artibeus jamaicensis (Chiroptera: Phyllostomatidae).”
Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology 62B(1979) :347—-50.

Taylor, W. R. “Loricariidae.” In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fish-
ery Purposes, Western Central Atlantic 1-2 (1978).

. “Aspredinidae.” In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery
Purposes, Western Central Atlantic 1-4(1978).

Taylor, W. R., and Menezes, N. A. “Ariidae.” In FAO Species Identification
Sheets for Fishery Purposes, Western Central Atlantic 1-38(1978).

Taylor, W. R., and Roberts, T. “Anchenipteridae.” In FAO Species Identifica-
tion Sheets for Fishery Purposes, Western Central Atlantic 1-4(1978).

. “Pimelodidae.” In FAO Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Pur-
poses, Western Central Atlantic 1-4(1978).

Thorington, R. W., Jr. “Conservation and Primatology: A Glum View of the
Future” and “Summary Remarks on Primate Conservation.” In Recent Ad-
vances in Primatology, vol. 2: Conservation, edited by D. J. Chivers and
W. Lane-Petter, pp. 3-5 and 97-100. London: Academic Press, 1978.

. [Review] Living New World Monkeys (Platyrrhini) with an Intro-
duction to Primates, by Philip Hershkovitz. Journal of Mammalogy 60(1979) :
238-39.

Watson, George E.; Ash, John S.; and Wood, Owen L. Ecological Relation-
ships between Arboviruses, Ectoparasites and Vertebrates in Ethiopia. Final
Technical Report. Smithsonian Institution, August 31, 1978.

Weitzman, Stanley H., and Balph, Martha H. “Some Phylogenetic Implications
of a Discovery of Aspidoras pauciradiatus (Pisces: Siluriformes: Callichthyi-
dae) from the Rio Negro in Brazil.” Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 92(1) (1979) :10—22.

Wetzel, Ralph M. “Review of Recent Species of Armadillos, Dasypodidae.”
Abstracts, II Congress Theriology, 2, p. 270, 1978.

Wilson, D. E. “Reproductive Patterns.” In Biology of Bats of the New World
Family Phyllostomatidae. Part III, edited by R. J. Baker, J. K. Jones, Jr., and
D. C. Carter, pp. 317-78. Special Publications, The Museum, Texas Tech
University, no. 16. 1979.

Wood, Owen L.; Lee, Vernon H.; Ash, John S.; Shope, Robert E.; and Casals,
Jordi. “Viruses Isolated from Ixodid Ticks in Ethiopia.” American Journal
of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 27(1978) :600—4.

Zug, George R. “Anuran Locomotion—Structure and Function, 2: Jumping
Performance of Semiaquatic, Terrestrial, and Arboreal Frogs.” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, no. 276. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1978.

Zug, George R., and Altig, Ronald. “Anuran Locomotion—Structure and Func-
tion: The Jumping Forces of Frogs.” Journal of the Washington Academy
of Science 68(4) (1979) :144—47.

Zug, George R., and Zug, Patricia B. “The Marine Toad, Bufo Marinus: A
Natural History Resumé of Native Populations.” Smithsonian Contributions
to Zoology, no. 284. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Zusi, R. L. “Notes on Song and Feeding Behaviour of Orthonyx spaldingii.”
The Emu 78(1978) :156-57.

Zusi, R. L., and Bentz, G. D. “The Appendicular Myology of the Labrador
Duck (Comptorhynchus laboradorius).” Condor 80(1978) :407-18.

424 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Handbook of North American Indians

Scherer, Joanna Cohan. “You Can’t Believe Your Eyes: Inaccuracies in Pho-
tographs of North American Indians.” Exposure: The Journal of the Soci-
ety for Photographic Education, Columbia College, Chicago, 16(4) (1979).

Trigger, Bruce G., editor. Northeast. In Handbook of North American Indians,
vol. 15, William C. Sturtevant, general editor. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution, 1978.

Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center

Hendler, G. “Reproductive Periodicity of Ophiuroids (Echinodermata: Ophi-
roidea) on the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts of Panama.” In Reproductive
Ecology of Marine Invertebrates 9(283) (1979) :145—56.

Landrum, B. “Polar Biological Specimens.” Antarctic Journal of the United
States, 13(4) (1979) :223-24.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

August, P. V. “Scent Communication in the Southern Plains Wood Rat, Neo-
toma micropus.” American Midland Naturalist 99(1)(1978) :206-18.

Brady, C. A. “Reproduction, Growth, and Parental Care in Crab-eating Foxes
(Cerdocyon thous) at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.”
International Zoo Yearbook 18(1978) :130—34.

Brown, K., and Mack, D. S. “Food Sharing among Captive Leontopithecus
rosalia.” Folia Primatologica 29(1978) :268—90.

Buechner, Helmut K., and Mackler, Sally F. “Breeding Behavior in Captive
Indian Rhinoceros.” Der Zoologische Garten N. F. 48(1978) :305—22.

Bush, M., and Bovée, K. C. “Cystinuria in a Maned Wolf.” Journal of the
American Veterinary Medical Association 173(9)(1978) :1159-62.

Bush, M.; Custer, R.; Smeller, J.; Bush, L. M.; Seal, U. S.; and Barton, R. “The
Aid-Base Status of Lions, Panthera leo, Immobilized with Four Drug Com-
binations.” Journal of Wildlife Diseases 14(1978) :102-9.

Bush, M.; Custer, R.; Smeller, J. M.; Charache, P.; and Arthur, R. “Prelimi-
nary Study of Gentamicin in Turtles.” In 1977 Proceedings of the American
Association of Zoo Veterinarians, pp. 71-78, 1978.

Bush, M., and Kennedy, S. “Ventriculostomy for Removal of Foreign Bodies
from Sarus Cranes.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Asso-
ciation 173(9) (1978) :1107-10.

Bush, M.; Kennedy, S.; Wildt, D. E.; and Seager, S. W. J. “Sexing Birds by
Laparoscopy.” International Zoo Yearbook 18(1978) :197-99.

Bush, M.; Montali, R. J.; Smith, E. E.; and Peratino, W. S. “Clinical Experi-
ence with Tuberculosis in Exotic Birds.” In Mycobacterial Infections of Zoo
Animals, edited by Richard J. Montali, pp. 199-204. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Bush, M., and Smeller, J. “Blood Collection and Injection Techniques in
Snakes.” Veterinary Medicine/Small Animal Clinician 73(2)(1978) :211-14.

Bush, M.; Smeller, J. M.; Charache, P.; and Arthur, R. “Biological Half-Life
of Gentamicin in Gopher Snakes.” American Journal of Veterinary Research
39(1) (1978) :171-73.

Bush, M.; Wildt, D. E.; Kennedy, S.; and Seager, S. W. J. “Laparoscopy in Zoo-
logical Medicine.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association
173(9) (1978) :1081-87.

Custer, R. W.; Bush, M.; Smeller J. M.; and Smith, E. E. “Clinical Experience
with Dissociative Anesthetics in Lesser Pandas (Ailurus fulgens): Hema-
tology and Blood Chemistry Values.” Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine 9(1)
(1978) :22—28.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 425
Eisenberg, J. F. “Comparative Ecology and Reproduction of New World Mon-
keys.” In The Biology and Conservation of the Callitrichidae, edited by
D. G. Kleiman, pp. 13-22. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1977.

. “Communication Mechanisms in New World Primates with Special

Reference to Vocalizations in the Black Spider Monkey (Ateles fusciceps

robustus).” In Aggression, Dominance, and Individual Spacing, edited by

Lester Krames, Patricia Pliner, and Thomas Alloway, pp. 31-48. New York:

Plenum, 1978.

. “The Evolution of Arboreal Herbivores in the Class Mammalia.” In

The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp.

135-52. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. Review of African Ungulates: A Comparative Review of Their Ethol-
ogy and Behavioral Ecology, by Walter Leuthold. Carnivore (University of
Seattle), vol. 1, pt. 2(1978) :114-15.

Eisenberg, J. F., and O’Connell, M. A. “The Reproductive Characteristics of
Some Caviomorph Rodents and Their Implications for Management.” Semi-
nario sobre, Chiguires y babas, Maracay, 1976.

Elliott, A. L. “Social Behavior and Foraging Ecology of the Eastern Chipmunk
(Tamias striatus) in the Adirondack Mountains.” Smithsonian Contributions
to Zoology, no. 265. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Ensley, P. K.; Montali, R. J.; and Smith, E. E. “Necropsy Procedure for Birds.”
In Zoo and Wildlife Medicine, pp. 887-91. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co.,
1978.

Field, Rebecca. “A Perspective on Syntactics of Wolf Vocalizations.” In The
Behavior and Ecology of Wolves, edited by Erich Klinghammer, pp. 182-205.
New York: Garland Press, 1978.

. “Vocal Behavior of Wolves (Canis lupus): Variability in Structure,
Context, Annual/Diurnal Patterns, and Ontogeny.” Ph.D. thesis, Johns Hop-
kins University School of Hygiene and Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland,
1978.

Gilbert, S. “The Hawaiian Goose or Nene, Branta sandvicensis, Breeding Pro-
gram at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.” International Zoo
Yearbook 19(1978).

Green, K. M. “Primate Censusing in Northern Colombia: A Comparison of
Two Techniques.” Primates, A Journal of Primatology 19(3)(1978) :537—-50.

Greenwell, G., and McGrath, S. “First Mating Attempt by Grand Cayman
Amazon Parrots at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.” Maga-
zine of the Parrot Society 3(6) (1978) :147—49.

Hall, B. J. “Notes on the Husbandry, Behavior, and Breeding of Captive Tegu
Lizards (Tupinambis teguixin).” International Zoo Yearbook 19(1978) :91—95.

Hoage, R. A. “Parental Care in Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia: Sex and Age
Differences in Carrying Behavior and the Role of Prior Experience.” In The
Biology and Conservation of the Callitrichidae, edited by D. G. Kleiman,
pp. 293-305. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.

Hoopes, P. J.; McKay, D. W.; Daisley, G. W., Jr.; Kennedy, S.; and Bush, M.
“Suppurative Arthritis in an Infant Orangutan.” Journal of the American
Veterinary Medical Association 173(9) (1978) :1145—47.

James, A. E., Jr.; Montali, R. J.; Novak, G. R.; and Bush, M. “The Use of
Xeroradiographic Imaging to Evaluate Fracture Repair in Avian Species.”
Skeletal Radiology 2(3)(1978) :161—68.

Kennedy, S., and Bush, M. “Evaluation of Tuberculin Testing and Lymphocyte
Transformation in Bactrian Camels.” In Mycobacterial Infections of Zoo
Animals, edited by Richard J. Montali, pp. 139-43. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.

Kennedy, S.; Montali, R. J.; James, A. E., Jr.; and Bush, M. “Bone Lesions in

426 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Three Tree Kangaroos.” Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Asso-
ciation 173(9) (1978) :1094-98.

Kleiman, D. G., editor. The Biology and Conservation of the Callitrichidae.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.

Kleiman, D. G. “Characteristics of Reproduction and Sociosexual Interactions
in Pairs of Lion Tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia) during the Reproductive
Cycle.” In The Biology and Conservation of the Callitrichidae, edited by
D. G. Kleiman, pp. 181-90. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
LOTT

. [Review] The Evolution of Reproduction, edited by C. R. Austin and

R. V. Short. Quarterly Review of Biology 52(1977) :412.

. [Review] Sociobiology, the New Synthesis, by E. O. Wilson. Signs

3(1977) :493-95.

. “Golden Lion Tamarin Status Updated.” American Association of

Zoological Parks and Aquariums Newsletter 19(1978) :18.

. “Watching and Waiting: Five Years with Ling-Ling and Hsing-
Hsing.” ZooGoer, Friends of the National Zoo, 7(3)(1978) :9-11.

Kleiman, D. G., and Brady, C. A. “Coyote Behavior in the Context of Recent
Canid Research: Problems and Perspectives.” In Coyotes: Biology, Behavior,
and Management, edited by M. Bekoff, pp. 163-88. New York: Academic
Press, 1978.

Kleiman, D. G., and Jone, M. “The Current Status of Leontopithecus rosalia
in Captivity with Comments on Breeding Success at the National Zoological
Park.” In The Biology and Conservation of the Callitrichidae, edited by
D. G. Kleiman, pp. 215-18. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1977.

Kranz, K. “Tiny Dik-dik are Big Breeders at Zoo.” ZooGoer, Friends of the
National Zoo, 7(3) (1978) :12-13.

Mack, D., and Kafka, H. “Breeding and Rearing of Captive Woolly Monkeys
(Lagothrix lagotricha) at the National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.”
International Zoo Yearbook 18(1978) :117—22.

Mackler, S. F., and Buechner, H. K. “Play Behavior and Mother-Young Rela-
tionships in Captive Indian Rhinoceroses (Rhinoceros unicornis).’’ Der Zoo-
logische Garten N. F. 48(2/3) (1977) :177-86.

Malcolm, James. [Review] Coyotes: Biology, Behavior, and Management,
edited by Marc Bekoff. Science 202(1978) :424.

. [Review] Wolf and Man, edited by Robert L. Hall and Henry S.
Sharp. Science 202(1978) :424.

Marcellini, D. L. “The Acoustic Behavior of Lizards.” In Behavior and Neu-
rology of Lizards, edited by N. Greenberg and P. D. MacLean, pp. 287-300.
Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Publication ADM-77-491.

McLanahan, E. G., and Green, K. M. “The Vocal Repertoire and an Analysis
of the Contexts of Vocalizations in Leontopithecus rosalia.” In The Biology
and Conservation of the Callitrichidae, edited by D. G. Kleiman, pp. 251-69.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1977.

Montali, R. J., editor. Myobacterial Infections of Zoo Animals. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Montali, R. J.; Bush, M.; and Smith, E. E. “Pathology of Tuberculosis in Cap-
tive Exotic Birds.” In Mycobacterial Infections of Zoo Animals, edited by
Richard J. Montali, pp. 209-15. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1978.

Morton, Eugene S. “Avian Arboreal Folivores: Why Not?” In The Ecology of
Arboreal Folivores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 123-30. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Reintroducing Recently Extirpated Birds into a Tropical Forest Pre-

serve.” In Endangered Birds: Management Techniques for Preserving Threat-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 427
ened Species, edited by Stanley Temple, pp. 379-84. Madison, Wisconsin:

University of Wisconsin Press, 1978.

. [Review] Growing Points in Ethology, by R. A. Hinde. Quarterly Re-
view of Biology 53(1978) :201.

Morton, Eugene S.; Geitgey, Mary S.; and McGrath, Susan. “On Bluebird Re-
sponses to Apparent Female Adultery.” American Naturalist 112(987) (1978):
968-71.

Muckenhirn, N. A., and Eisenberg, J. F. “The Status of Primates in Guyana
and Ecological Correlations for Neotropical Primates.” In Recent Advances
in Primatology, vol. 2, edited by D. J. Chivers and W. Lane-Petter, pp.
27-30. New York: Academic Press, 1978.

Ralls, K. “Mother-Young Ties in Hoofed Mammals.” ZooGoer, Friends of the
National Zoo, 7(2) (1978) :4—10.

. [Review] The Gerbil in Behavioral Investigations: Mechanisms of

Territoriality and Olfactory Communication, edited by Del Thiessen and

Pauline P. Yahr. Quarterly Review of Biology 53(1978) :79-80.

. [Review] Ontogeny and Phylogeny, edited by Stevan Jay Gould. Con-

temporary Psychology 23(1978) :498—500.

. [Review] Primate Ecology: Studies of Feeding and Ranging in Lemurs,

Monkeys, and Apes, edited by T. H. Clutton-Brock. Quarterly Review of

Biology 53(1978) :326-27.

. “Tragelaphus eurycerus.” Mammalian Species (American Society of

Mammalogists) 111(1978) :1—4.

. “When Bigger Is Best.” New Scientist 77:360—62.

Rathbun, G. B. “Evolution of the Rump Region in the Golden-Rumped Ele-
phant Shrew.” Bulletin of the Carnegie Museum 6(1978) :11-19.

Roberts, M. “The Annual Reproductive Cycle of Captive Macaca sylvana.”
Folia Primatologica 29(1978) :229-35.

Rudin, Emily B. “A Sign for All Seasons: From Writer’s Clipboard to Zoo
Exhibit.” In 1977-1978 Regional Workshop Proceedings of the American
Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, pp. 434-40, 1978.

Rudran, R. “Intergroup Dietary Comparisons and Folivorous Tendencies of
Two Groups of Blue Monkeys, Cercopithecus mitis.” In The Ecology of
Arboreal Folivores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 483-504. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Sekulic, R. “Note on Interaction between Sable (Hippotragus niger) and Roan
(Hippotragus equinus) Antelopes in Kenya.” Journal of Mammalogy 59(2)
(1978) :444—46.

. “Patterns of Reproduction in the Sable Antelope.” East African Wild-
life Journal 16(1978) :177-82.

Smeller, J. M.; Bush, M.; and Seal, U. S. “Blood Volume Measurements in
Gopher Snakes, Using Autologous “Cr-Labeled Red Blood Cells.” American
Journal of Veterinary Research 39(2)(1978) :355—56.

Smeller, J. M.; Slickers, K.; and Bush, M. “Effect of Feeding on Plasma Uric
Acid Levels in Snakes.” American Journal of Veterinary Research 39(9)
(1978) :1556-57.

Smith, E. E., and Bush, M. “Haematologic Parameters on Various Species of
Strigiformes and Falconiformes.” Journal of Wildlife Diseases 14(1978) :447—
50.

Walsh, T., and Davis, S. “Observations on the Husbandry and Breeding of the
Rufous-Beaked Snake, Rhamphiophis oxyrhynchus rostratus, at the Na-
tional Zoological Park.” Bulletin of the Maryland Herpetological Society
14(1978) :75-78.

Wemmer, C. [Review] Of Wolves and Men, by Barry Lopez. Smithsonian
9(8) (1978) 194-95.

Wemmer, C., and Collins, L. R. “Communication Patterns in Two Phalangerid

428 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Marsupials, the Gray Cuscus (Phalanger gymnotis) and the Brush Possum
(Trichosurus vulpecula).” Séugetierkundliche Mitteilungen 40(3)(1978):
161-72.

Wildt, D. E.; Bush, M.; and Seager, S. W. J. “Research and Clinical Uses of
Laparoscopy in the Domestic Dog and Cat and Various Zoo Mammals.” In
Endoscopy in Gynecology, edited by J. M. Phillips, pp. 369-73. Downey,
California: American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists, 1978.

Wildt, D. E.; Bush, M.; Whitlock, B. S.; and Seager, S. W. J. “Laparoscopy:
A Method for Direct Examination of Internal Organs in Zoo Veterinary
Medicine and Research.” International Zoo Yearbook 18(1978) :194—97.

Wilson, Susan C. “Social Organization and Behavior of Harbor Seals, Phoca
vitulina concolor.” Prepared for Marine Mammal Commission. U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce Technical Information Service, PB-280, XI, 103 p., 1978.

Woodward, P. “Keeping Banding Records: Writing Fall Reports.” North Ameri-
can Bird Bander 2(1977) :99-103.

. “Large Flight of Vultures in Montgomery County.” Maryland Bird
Life 33(1977) :33-34.

Yahner, R. H. “Some Features of Mother-Young Relationships in Reeves’
Muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi).”” Applied Animal Ethology 4(4)(1978) :379-88.

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Adovasio, J. M.; Gunn, J. D.; Donahue, J.; and Stuckenrath, R. ““Meadowcroft
Rockshelter 1977: An Overview.” American Antiquity 43(1978) :632—-51.

Butzer, Karl W.; Fock, Gerhard J.; Scott, Louis; and Stuckenrath, Robert.
“Dating and Context of Rock Engravings in Southern Africa.” Science 209
(1979) :1201-14.

Butzer, K. W.; Stuckenrath, R.; Bruzewicz, A. J.; and Helgren, D. M. “Late
Cenozoic Paleoclimates of the Gaap Escarpment, Kalahari Margin, South
Africa.” Quaternary Research 11(1978).

Fisher, R., and Shropshire, W., Jr. “Reversal By Light of Ethylene-Induced
Inhibition of Spore Germination in the Sensitive Fern Onoclea sensibilis.”
Plant Physiology 63(1979) :984—88.

Gantt, E. “Phycobiliproteins of Cryptophyceae.” In Biochemistry and Physiol-
ogy of Protozoa, 2d ed., edited by M. Levandovsky and S. Hunter, pp. 121—
37. New York: Academic Press, 1979.

Gantt, E.; Lipschultz, C. A.; Grabowski, J.; and Zimmerman, B. K. “Phyco-
bilisomes from Blue-Green and Red Algae, Isolation Criteria and Dissocia-
tion Characteristics.” Plant Physiology 63(1978) :615—20.

Goldberg, Bernard, and Klein, William H. “A Simplified Model for Deter-
mining the Spectral Quality of Daylight and the Availability of Solar Energy
at any Location.” In Sun, Mankind’s Future Source of Energy. Proceedings
of the International Solar Energy Society Congress, New Delhi, India,
January 1978, vol. 1, edited by Francis deWinter and Michael Cox, pp. 353—
57. Elmsford, New York: Pergamon Press.

Jabben, M., and Deitzer, G. F. “Spectrophotometric Phytochrome Measure-
ments in Light-grown Avena sativa L.” Planta 143(1978) :309-13.

Jabben, M., and Deitzer, G. F. “Effects of the Herbicide San 9789 on Photo-
morphogenic Responses.” Plant Physiology 63(1979) :481-85.

Katoh, T., and Gantt, E. “Photosynthetic Vesicles with Bound Phycobilisomes
from Anabaena variabilis.” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 546(1979) :383-93.

Kawecka, Barbara, and Drake, Bert G. “Biology and Ecology of Snow Algae.
1. Sexual Reproduction of Chlamydomonas nivalis (Bauer) Wille (Chloro-
phyta, Volvocales).”” Acta Hydrobiologica 20(1978) :111—16.

Klein, W. H., and Goldberg, B. ‘Monitoring UVB Spectral Irradiances at
Three Latitudes.” In Sun, Mankind’s Future Source of Energy. Proceedings

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 429
of the International Solar Energy Society Congress, New Delhi, India, Janu-
ary 1978, vol. 1, edited by Francis deWinter and Michael Cox, pp. 400-14.
Elmsford, New York: Pergamon Press.

Lighty, R. G.; Macintyre, I. G.; and Stuckenrath, R. “Submerged Early Holo-
cene Barrier Reef, Southeast Florida Shelf.’” Nature 276:59-60.

Margulies, Maurice M., and Tiffany, H. Lee. “Sedimentation Behavior of
Chloroplast Ribosomes from Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Biochimica et
Biophysica Acta 563(1979) :171-80.

Sager, J. C.; Goldberg, B.; and Klein, W. H. “Flat Plate Collector Dynamic
Evaluation.” In Sun, Mankind’s Future Source of Energy. Proceedings of the
International Solar Energy Society Congress, New Delhi, India, January
1978, vol. 1, edited by Francis deWinter and Michael Cox, pp. 912-16. Elms-
ford, New York: Pergamon Press.

Shropshire, W., Jr. “Stimulus Perception.” In Encyclopedia of Plant Physiology,
Vol. 7: Physiology of Movements, edited by W. Haupt and M. E. Feinleib,
pp. 11-41. Berlin and Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 1979.

Spurgeon, S. L.; Turner, R. V.; and Harding, R. W. “Biosynthesis of Phytoene
from Isopentenyl Pyrophosphate by a Neurospora Enzyme System.” Archives
of Biochemistry and Biophysics 195(1979) :23-29.

Stuckenrath, R.; Miller, G. H.; and Andrews, J. T. “Problems of Radio-
carbondating Holocene Organic-Bearing Sediments, Cumberland Peninsula,
Baffin Island, N. W. T., Canada.” Arctic and Alpine Research 11(1979):
109-20.

Tanaka, O.; Cleland, C. F.; and Hillman, W. S. “Inhibition of Flowering in
the Long-day Plant Lemna gibba G3 by Hutner’s Medium and Its Reversal
by Salicylic Acid.” Plant and Cell Physiology 20(1979) :839-46.

Tanaka, O.; Takimoto, A.; and Cleland, C. F. “Enhancement of Long-day
Flowering by Mo-Deficiency and Application of Some Amino Acids and
Asparagine in the Short-day Plant Lemna paucicostata 6746.” Plant and
Cell Physiology 20(1979) :267-70.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
(Including Contributions from Harvard Members
of the Center for Astrophysics)

Baliunas, S. L.; Avrett, E. H.; Hartmann, L.; and Dupree, A. K. [Abstract]
“High Pressure Transition Regions in Stellar Model Chromospheres.” Bul-
letin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :448.

Baliunas, S. L., and Dupree, A. K. “Ultraviolet and Optical Spectroscopic
Studies of \ Andromedae: The Chromosphere and Interstellar Medium.”
Astrophysical Journal 227(1979) :870—83.

Ball, J. A. “Mini-reviews of Calculator Books.” Didactic Programming 1-2
(1979) :25.

. “Trigonometry in Two Easy Black Boxes.” BYTE 4—5(1979) :184.

Bardas, D.; Kellogg, E.; Murray, S.; and Enck, R. “Detection of Soft X-Rays
with NEA III-V Photocathodes.” Review of Scientific Instruments 49(1978):
1273-78.

Bender, P. L.; Faller, J. E.; Levine, J.; Moody, S.; Silverberg, E. C.; and Pearl-
man, M. R. “Possible High-Mobility Lageos Ranging Station.” Techtono-
physics 52(1979) :69-73.

Black, J. H., and Hartquist, T. W. “H2 Line Emission from OH Maser Regions.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 232(1979) :L179-L182.

Black, J. H.; Hartquist, T. W.; and Dalgarno, A. “Models of Interstellar
Clouds. II. The ¢ Persei Cloud.” Astrophysical Journal 224(1978) :448—52.
Boesgaard, A., and Hagen, W. ‘The Circumstellar Envelopes of M Giants.”

Astrophysical Journal 231(1979) :128-38.
Bradt, H. V.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; Schwartz, D. A.;

430 / Smithsonian Year 1979
and Schwarz, J. [Abstract] “Positions of Compact Galactic X-Ray Sources
from HEAO/A3.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978):
499,

Bradt, H. V.; Doxsey, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; Schwartz, D. A.; Burkhead,
M. S.; Dent, W. A.; Liller, W.; and Smith, A. G. “3C 273: X-Ray Variability,
Spectrum and Position.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L5-L9.

Branduardi, G.; Dupree, A.; Pollard, G.; and Sanford, P. W. “Search for Short
Time-Scale Periodicity in the X-Ray Flux of 4U1700-37.” Nature 279(1979):
508-9.

Branduardi, G.; Elvis, M.; Epstein, A.; Fabbiana, G.; Feigelson, E.; Giacconi,
R.; Griffiths, R. E.; Henry, P.; Jones, C.; Murray, S.; Pye, J.; Soltan, A.;
Tananbaum, H.; van Speybroeck, L.; and Zamorani, G. [Abstract] “Study of
Several QSOs with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the American
Physical Society 24(1979) :640.

Broadfoot, A. L.; Belton, M. J. S.; Takacs, P. Z.; Sandel, B. R.; Shemansky,
D. E.; Holberg, J. B.; Ajello, J. M.; Atreya, S. K.; Donahue, T. M.; Moos,
H. W.; Bertaux, J. L.; Blamont, J. E.; Strobel, D. F.; McConnell, J. C.;
Dalgarno, A.; Goody, R.; and McElory, M. B. “Extreme Ultraviolet Observa-
tions from Voyager 1 Encounter with Jupiter.” Science 204(1979) :979-82.

Bunch, T. S.; Christensen, S. M.; and Fulling, S. A. “Massive Quantum Field
Theory in a Two-Dimensional Robertson-Walker Space-Time.” Physical
Review D18(1978) :4435-59.

Buser, R., and Kurucz, R. “Theoretical UBV Colors and the Temperature Scale
for Early-Type Stars.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 70(1978) :555—63.

Butler, S. E.; Bender, C. F.; and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer of O** and
Ne** with H.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L59-Lé1.

Canizares, C.; McClintock, J. E.; Li, F. K.; and Grindlay, J. E. [Abstract]
“Simultaneous Optical and X-Ray Observations of the Seven Second Pulsar
4U1626-67.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :509.

Canizares, C. R.; Grindlay, J. E.; Hiltner, W. A.; Liller, W.; and McClintock,
J. E. “Optical Studies of the X-Ray Globular Cluster NGC 6624.” Astro-
physical Journal 224(1978) :39-45.

Cann, M. W. P.; Nicholls, R. W.; Evans, W. F. J.; Kohl, J. L.; Kurucz, R.;
Parkinson, W. H.; and Reeves, E. M. “High Resolution Atmospheric Trans-
mission Calculations Down to 28.7 km in the 200—243-nm Spectral Range.”
Applied Optics 18(1979) :964-77.

Cardon, B. L., and Smith, P. L. [Abstract] “Physics Beyond the Fringe: Hooks,
Oscillator Strengths and Solar Abundances.” Bulletin of the American
Physical Society 23(1978) :705.

Cardon, B. L.; Smith, P. L.; and Whaling, W. [Abstract] “Oscillator Strengths
of Neutral Cobalt (Co I).” Journal of the Optical Society of America 68
(1978) :1447.

Chaisson, E. J. “Gaseous Nebulae.” Scientific American, December 1978.

Chaisson, E. J.; Lichten, S. M.; and Rodriguez, L. F. [Abstract] “The Helium
Problem in Sagittarius B2.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society
9(1978) :555.

Chaisson, E. J., and Vrba, F. J. “Magnetic Field Structures and Strengths in
Dark Clouds.” In Protostars and Planets, edited by T. Gehrels, pp. 189-208.
Tucson, Arizona: University of Arizona, 1978.

Chevalier, R. A., and Raymond, J. C. “Optical Emission from a Fast Shock
Wave: The Remnants of Tycho’s Supernova and SN 1006.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters) 225(1978) :L27—L30.

Dalgarno, A., and Bieniek, R. J. “Associative Detachment in Collisions of H
and H-.” Astrophysical Journal 228(1979) :635-39.

Daneu, V.; Maxson, C.; Peres, G.; Serio, S.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Four-Color
Infrared Bolometer System for One-Meter Telescope.” In Infrared Astron-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 431
omy, edited by G. Fazio and G. Setti, pp. 335-44. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1978.

Davis, M., and Latham, D. W. “Photon-Counting Reticon™ Detector.” Pro-
ceedings of the Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, Instru-
mentation in Astronomy III 172(1979) :71-81.

Davis, R. J.; Black, J.; Dupree, A. K.; Gursky, H.; Hartmann, L. W.; Matilsky,
T. A.; and Raymond, J. C. [Abstract] “Ultraviolet Spectroscopy of HZ
Herculis with the IUE Satellite.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 10(1978) :444.

den Boggende, A.; Mewe, R.; Gronenschild, E.; Heise, J.; and Grindlay, J.
“X-Ray from the Direction of the Orion Nebula (M42).” Astronomy and
Astrophysics 62(1978) :1—4.

Dollfus, A.; Chapman, C. R.; Davis, M. E.; Gingerich, O.; Goldstein, R.;
Guest, J.; Morrison, D.; and Smith, B. A. “I[AU Nomenclature for Albedo
Features on the Planet Mercury.” Icarus 34(1978) :210-14.

Dower, R.; Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt, M.; Doxsey, R.; Johnston, M.; and Schwartz,
D. [Abstract] “Seyfert Galaxy X-Ray Sources Observed with the HEAO-1
Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 10(1978) :675.

Dower, R.; Griffiths, R.; Johnston, M.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; and Schwartz,
D. [Abstract] “More Seyfert Galaxy X-Ray Sources Observed with the
HEAO-1 Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 11(1979) :442-43.

Doxsey, R.; Bradt, H.; Gursky, H.; Schwartz, D. A.; and Schwarz, J. “Posi-
tion for the Rapid Burster MXB1730-335, Determined with the Scanning
Modulation Collimator on HEAO-1.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 221
(1978) :L53-L55.

Doxsey, R.; Grindlay, J.; Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt, H.; Johnston, M.; Leach, R.;
Schwartz, D.; and Schwarz, J. “Identification of the Variable X-Ray Sources
GX339-4 and MXB1659-29.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 228(1979) :L67—
L70.

Doxsey, R. E.; Bradt, H. V.; Griffiths, R. E.; Grindlay, J.; Johnston, M. D.;
Schwartz, D. A.; and Schwarz, J. [Abstract] “Recent Identification of
Galactic X-Ray Sources with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :500.

Draine, B. T. [Abstract] “Are Graphite Grains Chemisputtered in H II Re-
gions?” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :668.

. “On the Chemisputtering of Interstellar Graphite Grains.” Astro-
physical Journal 230(1979) :106-15.

Draine, B. T., and Salpeter, E. E. “On the Physics of Dust Grains in Hot Gas.”
Astrophysical Journal 231(1979) :77—94.

. “Destruction Mechanisms for Interstellar Dust.” Astrophysical Jour-
nal 231(1979) :438-55.

Dupree, A. K.; Davis, R. J.; Gursky, J.; Hartmann, L.; Raymond, J. C.; Bog-
gess, A.; Holm, A.; Kondo, Y.; Wu, C.-C.; Macchetto, F.; Sandford, M. C.
W.; Willis, A. J.; Wilson, R.; Ciatti, F.; Hutchings, J. B.; Johnson, H. M.;
Jugaku, J.; Morton, D. C.; Treves, A.; and van den Heuvel, E. P. J. “IUE
Observations of X-Ray Sources: HD 153919 (4U 1700-37); HDE .226868
(Cyg X-1); Hz Her (Her X-1).” Nature 275(1978) :400-3.

Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Matilsky, T. A.; Ray-
mond, J. C.; and Gursky, H. “Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Measurements of
Globular Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L89-L93.

Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; Raymond, J. C.; and Davis, R. [Abstract] “Chro-
mospheres and Coronae of Late-Type Stars.” Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society 11(1979) :448.

Dupree, A. K.; Moore, R. T.; and Shapiro, P. R. “Non-Equilibrium Ionization

432 / Smithsonian Year 1979
in Solar and Stellar Atmospheres.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 229
(1979) :L101-L106.

Fabbiano, G., and Branduardi, G. “X-Ray Bursters and ‘Soft’ X-Ray Tran-
sients: Different Phenomena from the Same Objects.” Astrophysical Journal
227(1979) :294-98,

Fabbiano, G.; Bradt, H. V.; Dower, R.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, R. E.; Johnston,
M. D.; and Schwartz, D. A. [Abstract] “Observations of Supernova Rem-
nants with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :644—45.

Fabbiano, G.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R. E.; Gursky, H.; Schwartz, D. A.; and
Schwarz, J. “Location of the Norma Transient with the HEAO-1 Scanning
Modulation.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 221(1978) :L49-L52.

Fabbiano, G.; Doxsey, R. E.; Johnston, M.; Schwartz, D. A.; and Schwarz, J.
“HEAO 1 Scanning Modulation Collimator Discovery of an Extended X-Ray
Source at Cygnus A.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L67—-L72.

Fichtel, C.; Trombke, J.; Grindlay, J.; and Hofstadter, R. “Gamma Ray Astro-
physics—A New Look at the Universe.” Science 202(1978) :933-38.

Field, G. B. “Summary Conclusions II.” In Planetary Nebulae, Observations,
and Theory, edited by Y. Terzian, pp. 367—73. Boston, Massachusetts: Reidel
Publishing Company, 1978.

Fireman, E. L. “Alpha Particle Study of Madagascar Monazite for Superheavy
Elements.” In Proceedings of the International Symposium on Superheavy
Elements, edited by M. A. K. Lodi, pp. 172-76. Texas: Texas Technological
Institute, 1978.

. “Carbon-14 in Lunar Soil and in Meteorites.” Geochimica et Cosmo-

chimica Acta, suppl. 10, 2(1978) :1647—54.

. [Abstract] ““Carbon-14 in Lunar Samples and in Stony Meteorites.” In
Lunar and Planetary Science X, pp. 385-87. Houston, Texas: Lunar and
Planetary Science Institute, 1979.

Fireman, E. L.; Ketelle, B. H.; and Stoughton, R. W. “Superheavy Element
Search in Bismuthinite, BisS:.” Journal of Inorganic Nuclear Chemistry 41
(1979) :613-15.

Fireman, E. L.; Rancitelli, L. A.; and Kirsten, T. “Terrestrial-Ages of Four Allan
Hills Meteorites: Consequences for Antarctic Ice.” Science 203(1979) :453-
55.

Fireman, E. L., and Stoenner, R. W. ““Ar and “Ar Radioactivities in the
Dhajala and Canon City Meteorites.” Meteoritics 14(1) (1979) :1—-11.

Forman, W. R.; Jones, C.; Murray, S.; and Giacconi, R. “Detection of Large
X-Ray Halos in Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 225(1978) :L1-L4.

Fox, J. L., and Dalgarno, A. “Electron Energy Deposition in Carbon Dioxide.”
Planetary and Space Science 27(1979) :491-502.

Galeev, A. A.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S. “Structured Coronae of Accre-
tion Disks.” Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :318-26.

Gaposchkin, E. M. “Estimates of 550-km X 550-km Mean Gravity Anomalies
and Mean Geoid Heights.” Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special
Report Number 384, 66 p.

. “Recent Advances in Analytical Satellite Theory.” In Applications
of Geodesy to Geodynamics, Proceedings of the 9th GEOP Conference,
edited by I. I. Mueller, pp. 197-206. Ohio State University, Department of
Geodetic Science, Report Number 280, 1979.

Garcia, M.; Conroy, M.; Griffiths, R.; Ralph, E.; Roberts, W.; and Schwartz,
D. A. [Abstract] “Location of H 1743-322 and H 0632 + 18 Determined
with the Scanning Modulation Collimator on HEAO-1.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :447.

Garrison, R. F., and Schild, R. E. “The Main Sequence of NGC 6231.” Astro-
nomical Journal 84(1979) :1020-24.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 433
Geller, M. J., and Davis, M. “On Application of Statistical Virial Theorems.”
Astrophysical Journal 225(1978) :1-6.

Geller, M. J.; Turner, E. L.; and Bruno, M. S. “Night-to-Night Variations in
the Optical Continuum Flux from the Nucleus of NGC 1275.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L141-L144.

Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; Moran, J. M.; Johnston, K. J.; Spencer, J. H.; Walker,
R. C.; Haschick, A.; Matveyenko, L. I.; Kogan, L. R.; Kostenko, V. I.; Ron-
nang, B.; Rydbeck, O. E. H.; and Moiseev, I. G. [Abstract] “HzO Sources
in the Formation of OB Stars.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical So-
ciety 10(1978) :436.

. “Structure and Kinematics of H:O Sources in Clusters of Newly-
Formed OB Stars.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 66(1978) :13—29.

Genzel, R.; Downes, D.; Pauls, T.; Wilson, T. L.; and Bieging, J. “Interstellar
CH: Excitation Temperatures and Abundance Relative to H:CO.” Astron-
omy and Astrophysics 73(1979) :253-59.

Genzel, R.; Moran, J. M.; Lane, A. P.; Predmore, C. R.; Ho, P. T. P.; Hansen,
S. S.; and Reid, M. J. “VLBI Observations of the SiO Maser in Orion.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 231(1979) :L73—-L76.

Giacconi, R. “Extragalactic X-Ray Sources (I). Europhysics Journal 17(3)(1978).

. “The HEAO-B X-Ray Telescope and Its Observing Program.” Euro-

physics Journal 17(3)(1978).

. “The Origin of X-Ray Emission from Clusters.” Europhysics Journal
17(3) (1978).

Giacconi, R.; Branduardi, G.; Briel, U.; Epstein, A.; Fabricant, D.; Feigel-
son, E.; Forman, W.; Gorenstein, P.; Grindlay, J.; Gursky, H.; Harnden, F.
R., Jr.; Henry, J. P.; Jones, C.; Kellogg, E.; Koch, D.; Murray, S.; Schreier,
E.; Seward, F.; Tananbaum, H.; Topka, K.; Van Speybroeck, L.; Holt, S. S.;
Becker, R. H.; Boldt, E. A.; Serlemitsos, P. J.; Clark, G.; Canizares, C.;
Markert, T.; Novick, R.; Helfand, D.; and Long, K. “The Einstein (HEAO-2)
X-Ray Observatory.” Astrophysical Journal 230(1979) :540—50.

Gingerich, O. “Early Copernican Ephemerides.” In Science and History, Stud-
ies in Honor of Edward Rosen, Studia Copernicana, vol. 16, pp. 403-17. Pol-
ska Akademia Nauk, 1978.

. Circumventing Newton: A Study in Scientific Creativity.” American

Journal of Physics 46(1978) :202-6.

. “Science in the Age of Copernicus.” Harvard Library Bulletin 26

(1978) :401-16 and 12 plates.

. “Census of ‘De revolutionibus’.” Aus dem Antiquariet nr. 7, pp.

A276—-77. In Béresenblatt fiir den Deutschen Buchhandel, no. 60, July 28,

1978.

. “The Discovery of the Satellites of Mars.” Vistas in Astronomy 22

(1978) :127-32.

. “Messier and His Catalogue” (Amalgamated Reprint of Articles from

1953 and 1960). In The Messier Album, pp. 1-16. Cambridge, Massachu-

setts: Sky Publishing Corporation, 1978.

. [Abstract] “Astronomical Alignments at Stonehenge and Callanish.”

Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :612.

. “Two Early Astronomy Books.” Books at Iowa, no. 30, pp. 3-5.

. “Who Reads Novels? A Symposium.” American Scholar 48(1979):

168-70.

. “In Search of Angular Momentum.” Harvard Magazine 81(1979) :6-7.

. “Eclipse!” Harvard Magazine 81(1979) :5-7.

Golub, L.; Davis, J. M.; and Krieger, A. S. “Anticorrelation of X-Ray Bright
Points with Sunspot Number.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 229(1979):
L145—-L150.

Golub, L.; Maxson, C.; Rosner, R.; Serio, S.; and Vaiana, G. S. [Abstract]

434 / Smithsonian Year 1979
“Observational Tests of Magnetic Field-Related Coronal Heating Theories.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :408-9.

Golub, L.; Rosner, R.; and Vaiana, G. S. [Abstract] “Coronal Heating and
Its Relation to Magnetic Field Evolution.” Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society 10(1978) :440.

Gorenstein, P.; Murray, S.; Epstein, A.; Griffiths, R.; Fabbiano, G.; and
Seward, F. [Abstract] “A High-Resolution X-Ray Image of the Remnant
of Tycho’s Supernova from the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :462.

Gottlieb, C. A.; Ball, J. A.; Gottlieb, E. W.; and Dickinson, D. F. “Inter-
stellar Methyl Alcohol.” Astrophysical Journal 227(1979) :422-32.

Gottlieb, E. W., and Liller, W. “Photometric Histories of Six Infrared Objects
and Three Highly Reddened Blue Supergiants.” Astrophysical Journal 225
(1978) :488-95.

Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt, H.; Briel, U.; Dower, R.; Fabbiano, G.; Gursky, H.;
Johnston, M.; Leach, R.; Ramsey, A.; Schwartz, D.; Schwarz, J.; and Mur-
din, P. “Optical Identifications of Transient X-Ray Sources Positioned with
the HEAO-1 Modulation Collimator.” In Proceedings of the COSPAR/IAU
Symposium on Non-Solar X-Ray Astronomy, edited by W. A. Baity and
L. E. Peterson, pp. 93-96. Oxford and New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.

Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt, H.; Briel, U.; Doxsey, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; Schwartz,
D. A.; and Schwarz, J. [Abstract] “HEAO-1 Modulation Collimator Ob-
servations of X-Ray Seyferts and Other Active Galactic Nuclei.” Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :503.

Griffith, R. E.; Briel, U.; Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.; Doxsey, R. E.; and
Johnston, M. D. “Observation of Type I Seyfert Galaxies with the HEAO-1
Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astro-
nomical Society 188(1979) :813-17.

Griffiths, R. E.; Doxsey, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.;
and Blades, J. C. “X-Ray Observations of High-Excitation Emission-Line
Galaxies with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Astrophysi-
cal Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L21-L25.

Griffiths, R. E.; Doxsey, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; Schwartz, D. A.; Ward, M. J.;
Wilson, A. S.; and Bradt, H. [Abstract] “Locations and Optical Identifica-
tions of Weak, High-Galactic Latitude X-Ray Sources with the HEAO-1
Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 10(1978) :662.

Griffiths, R. E.; Feigelson, E.; and Van Speybroeck, L. [Abstract] “X-Ray Ob-
servations of Emission-Line Galaxies with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulle-
tin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :466.

Griffiths, R. E.; Gursky, H.; Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey,
R. E.; Charles, P. A.; and Thorstensen, J. R. “Precise Positions and Optical
Identifications for the Galactic X-Ray Sources 2A1822-371 and 251254-690.”
Nature 276(1978) :247-49.

Griffiths, R. E.; Ward, M. J.; Blades, J. C.; Wilson, A. S.; Chaisson, L.; and
Johnston, M. D. “The Optical Identification of 2A 0311-227 with a New
AM Herculis-Type Object.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 232(1979) :L27—
ES:

Grindlay, J. E. “Diffuse y-Ray Background from Seyfert Galaxies.” Nature
273(1978) :211.

. “Thermal Limit for Spherical Accretion and X-Ray Bursts.” Astro-

physical Journal 221(1978) :234-57.

. “Photometric Study of the X-Ray Pulsar 4U1626-67.” Astrophysical

Journal 225(1978) :1001—4.

. “Two More Globular Cluster X-Ray Sources?” Astrophysical Journal

(Letters) 224(1978) :L107-L111.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 435
Grindlay, J. E.; Canizares, C.; and McClintock, J. E. [Abstract] “Studies of
the Optical Counterparts of Three X-Ray Bursters.” Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Astronomical Society 10(1978) :515.

Grindlay, J.; Marshall, H.; Hertz, P.; Darbro, W.; Elsner, R.; Ghosh, P.; and
Weisskopf, M. [Abstract] “Studies of an X-Ray Burst Imaged by the Einstein
X-Ray Observatory.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11
(1979) :445.

Grindlay, J.; McClintock, J.; Canizares, C.; van Paradijs, J.; Cominsky, L.;
Li, F. K.; and Lewin, W. H. G. [Abstract] “Discovery of Optical Bursts from
an X-Ray Burst Source, MXB1735-44.” Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society 10(1978):514; Nature 274(1978) :567—68.

Guberman, S. L., and Dalgarno, A. “Absorption into the “ru State of Molecular
Oxygen.” Journal of Geophysical Research 84(1979) :4437—40.

Gursky, H. “The X-Ray Luminosity Function of Abell Clusters.” Astrophysical
Journal 220(1978) :8—13.

Gursky, H.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L. W.; Raymond, J.; Davis, R. J.; and
Black, J. [Abstract] “Ultraviolet Observations of HZ Herculis.” Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :442.

Habbal, S. R.; Holzer, T. E.; and Leer, E. “Heating of Coronal Loops by Fast
Mode MHD Waves.” In Proceedings of International Astronomical Union
Colloquium No. 44, Physics of Solar Prominences, edited by E. Jensen, P.
Maltby, and F. Q. Orrall, pp. 228-32. Oslo, Norway: Institute of Theoretical
Astrophysics, 1978.

Habbal, S. R., and Tuan, T.-F. “Plane MHD Flows in a Hyperbolic Magnetic
Field: Implications for the Problem of Magnetic Field Line Reconnection.”
Journal of Plasma Physics 21(1979) :85—96.

Hagen, W. “Broad Band 104m and 20um Photometry of Southern Sources from
the AFGL Infrared Sky Survey.” Astronomical Journal 84(1979) :1189-92.

. “Simultaneous Optical and Infrared Observations of Stellar Maser
Sources.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 91(1979):
165-67.

Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Hertz, P.; Goresenstein, P.; Grindlay, J.; Schreier, E.; and
Seward, F. [Abstract] “Observations of the Vela Pulsar from the Einstein
Observatory.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :424.

Harris, D. E., and Grindlay, J. E. [Abstract] “The Prospects for X-Ray Detec-
tion of Inverse Compton Emission from Radio Source Electrons and Photons
of the Microwave Background.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical
Society 10(1978) :504.

Hartmann, L. “Disk Structure of Early-Type Stellar Envelopes.” Astrophysical
Journal 224(1978) :520-26.

Hartmann, L.; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Dupree, A. K.; Gursky, H.; Matilsky,
T.; and Raymond, J. [Abstract] “Observations of Globular Clusters with
IUE.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :726.

Hartmann, L., and Rosner, R. “Stellar Luminosity Stability: Luminosity Varia-
tions and Light Curve Period Changes in BY Draconis Stars.” Astrophysical
Journal 230(1979) :802-14.

Hartquist, T. W.; Black, J. H.; and Dalgarno, A. “Cosmic Ray Ionization and
the Deuterium Abundance.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical
Society 185(1978) :643—46.

Haschick, A. D.; Moran, J. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Burke, B. F.; Greenfield, P. E.;
and Garcia-Barreto, J. A. [Abstract] “Observations of a Compact H II Re-
gion and Rapidly Varying HsO Maser Sources in the Vicinity of the Herbig-
Haro Objects 7-11.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979):
400.

Heise, J.; Mewe, R.; Brinkman, A.; Gronenschild, E.; den Boggende, A.;
Schrijver, J.; Parsignault, D.; and Grindlay, J. “Detection of Both Soft and

436 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Hard X-Ray Emission from SS Cygni with ANS.” Astronomy and Astro-
physics 63(1978) :L1-L3.

Helmken, H. F., and Weekes, T. C. “A Search for Very High Energy Gamma
Ray Emission from CG195+4, CG135+1 and Other 100 Mev Sources.”
Astrophysical Journal 228(1979) :531-35.

Henry, P., and Tucker, W. “A Luminosity-Temperature Relation for Cluster
X-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :78-82.

Herzberg, C. T. “The Bearing of Spinel Cataclasites on the Crust-Mantle Struc-
ture of the Moon.” In Proceedings of the Ninth Lunar and Planetary Science
Conference, Vol. 1, Petrogenetic Studies: The Moon and Meteorites, pp.
319-36. Houston, Texas: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1978.

. [Abstract] “Identification of Pristine Lunar Highland Rocks: Criteria

Based on Mineral Chemistry and Stability.” In Lunar and Planetary Science

X, pp. 537-39.

. [Abstract] “Solubility of Olivine in Lunar and Eucritic Basalts: An
Ionic Model.” In Lunar and Planetary Science X, pp. 540-42. Houston, Texas:
The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1979.

Hoessel, J. G.; Elias, J. H.; Wade, R. A.; and Huchra, J. P. “A Near Infrared
Photographic Survey of the Galactic Plane.” Publications of the Astro-
nomical Society of the Pacific 91(1979) :41—45.

Huchra, J. P. “The IR Luminosity H I Velocity-Width Relation and Its Appli-
cation to the Distance Scale.” Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :1—-13.

Jacchia, L. G. “Forefathers of the MMT.” Sky and Telescope 55(1978) :100-2.

. “CIRA 1972, Recent Atmospheric Models and Improvements in Prog-
ress.” In Space Research XIX, edited by M. J. Rycroft, pp. 179-92. Oxford
and New York: Pergamon Press, 1979.

Jacchia, L. G.; Slowey, J. W.; and von Zahn, U. “Thermospheric Seasonal-
Latitudinal Variations of Four Major Atmospheric Constituents from ESRO
4 Gas-Analyzer Measurements.” In Space Research XVIII, edited by M. J.
Rycroft and A. C. Stickland, pp. 199-206. Oxford and New York: Pergamon
Press, 1978.

Johnston, M.; Bradt, H.; Doxsey, R.; Gursky, H.; Schwartz, D. A.; and
Schwarz, J. [Abstract] “Precise Positions of LMC X-1, X-2 and X-3 with
the HEAO-1 Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the American Astronomi-
cal Society 10(1978) :390.

. “Position and Pulse Profile of the X-Ray Transient 4U0115+63.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 223(1978) :L71-L73.

Johnston, M. D.; Bradt, H. V.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, R. E.; Schwartz, D. A.;
and Schwarz, J. “Location of Recurrent (LMC) X-Ray Transient A0538-66
with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters), 230(1979) :L11-L14.

Johnston, M. D.; Bradt, H. V.; Doxsey, R. E.; Gursky, H.; Schwartz, D. A.;
Schwarz, J.; and van Paradijs, J. “LMC X-1, X-2 and X-3: Precise Positions
from the HEAO-1 Modulation Collimator.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
225(1978) :L59—Lé2.

Johnston, M. D.; Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt, H.; Dower, R.; Doxsey, R.; Fabbi-
ano, G.; and Schwartz, D. A. [Abstract] “Observations of the Peculiar
Galaxy M82 with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin
of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :628.

Joss, P. C.; Fechner, W. B.; Forman, W.; and Jones, C. “Properties of the 2-6
keV Pulse Profiles of Herculis X-1.” Astrophysical Journal 225(1978) :994—
1000.

Kellogg, E. M. “X-Ray Sources in Nearby Superclusters.” Astrophysical Jour-
nal (Letters) 220(1978) :L63—L65.

. “Primeval Clusters of Galaxies and the X-Ray Background.” In Pro-

ceedings of the IAU Symposium No. 79, The Large Scale Structure of the

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 437
Universe, edited by M. S. Longair and J. Einasto, pp. 445-46. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1978.

Kellogg, E. M.; Murray, S.; and Bardas, D. “The High Speed Photicon.” Insti-
tute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Transactions on Nuclear Sci-
ence NS-26(1979) :403-19.

Kirby, K., and Dalgarno, A. “NaH and LiH in Diffuse Interstellar Clouds.”
Astrophysical Journal 224(1978) :444-47.

Kirby, K., and Liu, B. “Theoretical Studies of Molecular Dipole Moment Func-
tions. II. The d*A and a’ 3=* States of CO.” Journal of Chemical Physics
69(1978) :200-3.

. “The Valence States of C2: A Configuration Interaction Study.” Jour-
nal of Chemical Physics 70(1979) :893—900.

Kirby, K.; Saxon, R. P.; and Liu, B. “Oscillator Strengths and Photodissocia-
tion Cross Sections in the XA and XB’ Band Systems in MgH.” Astro-
physical Journal 231(1979) :637—41.

Kirsten, T.; Ries, D.; and Fireman, E. L. “Exposure and Terrestrial Ages of
Allan Hills Antarctic Meteorites.” Meteoritics 13(1978) :519—22.

Koch, D.; Hall, R.; Tsao, H.; Wollman, H.; and Kilinski, R. “Aspect System
for HEAO-B.” Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Transac-
tions on Nuclear Science NS-25(1978) :475.

Kohl, J. L. “Spectroscopic Mapping of Solar Wind Velocities.” In Proceedings,
A Close-Up of the Sun, edited by M. Neugebauer and R. W. Davis, pp.
354-65. Pasadena, California: Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 1978.

Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; Withbroe, G. L.; Munro, R. H.; Parkinson, W. H.;
and Reeves, E. M. [Abstract] “Lyman Alpha Line Profiles from 1.5 to 3.0
Solar Radii.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :398.

Kowal, C. T.; Liller, W.; and Marsden, B. G. “The Discovery and Orbit of
(2060) Chiron.” In Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union
Symposium No. 81, Dynamics of the Solar System, edited by R. L. Dun-
combe, pp. 245-50. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1979.

Kurucz, R. L. “Model Atmospheres for G, F, A, B, and O Stars.” Astrophysi-
cal Journal Supplement 40(1979) :1—340.

. “A Progress Report on Theoretical Photometry.” In Workshop on
Problems of Calibration of Multi-Color Photometric Systems, Dudley Ob-
servatory, edited by A. G. Davis Philip, no. 14. Albany, New York: Dudley
Observatory, 1979.

Lada, C.; Oppenheimer, M.; and Hartquist, T. W. “Evidence for Shock Chem-
istry in Orion.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 226(1978) :L153—-L156.

Lane, A. P.; Genzel, R.; Moran, J. M.; Predmore, C. R.; Ho, P. T. P.; Hansen,
S. S.; and Reid, M. J. [Abstract] “Recent Observations of the SiO Maser
in Orion.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :468.

Latham, D. W. “Measurements of Interobservatory Densitometer Calibration
Plates.” American Astronomical Society Photo-Bulletin 2(18) (1978) :3.

. “Signal to Noise.” In Modern Techniques in Astronomy, edited by
R. M. West and J. L. Hendier, pp. 141-52. Switzerland: European Southern
Observatory, 1978.

Levine, R. H. Spatial Distribution of Large-Scale Solar Magnetci Fields and
Their Relation to the Interplanetary Magnetic Field. Solar Physics 62(1979):
277-303.

Levine, M. W.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and Mattison, E. M. “Performance Evaluation
of the SAO VLG-11 Atomic Hydrogen Masers.” In Proceedings of the 32nd
Symposium on Frequency Control, pp. 477-85. U.S. Army Electronics Re-
search and Development Command, 1978.

Levine, R. H. [Abstract] “Spatial Distribution and Interplanetary Signature of
Large-Scale Solar Magnetic Fields.” ECS 59(1978) :1175.

438 / Smithsonian Year 1979
. “The Relation of Open Magnetic Structures to Solar Wind Flow.”
Journal of Geophysical Research 83(1978) :4193-99.

Lichten, S. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Chaisson, E. J. “A Hydrogen and Helium
Recombination Line Survey of Galactic H II Regions at 10 GHz.” Astro-
physical Journal 229(1979) :524—32.

Lichten, S. M.; Liller, M. H.; and Freeman, K. C. “The Eclipsing Binary V78
Omega Centauri.” Astronomical Journal 84(1979) :1216-17.

Lightman, A. P.; Giacconi, R.; and Tananbaum, H. “X-Ray Flares in NGC
4151: A Thermal Model and Constraints on a Central Black Hole.” Astro-
physical Journal 224(1978) :375—80.

Lightman, A. P., and Rybicki, G. B. “X-Rays from Active Galactic Nuclei:
Inverse Compton Reflection.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 229(1979) :L15—
L18.

. “Inverse Compton Reflections: Time-Dependent Theory.” Astrophysi-
cal Journal 232(1979) :882—90.

Liller, M. H., and Carney, B. W. “A Photometric Study of the X-Ray Globular
Cluster NGC 6624.” Astrophysical Journal 224(1978) :383—93.

Liller, M. H., and Lichten, S. M. [Abstract] “The Eclipsing Binary V78 Omega
Centauri.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :411.

. “The Variable Stars in the Globular Cluster NGC 5986.” Astronomi-
cal Journal 83(1978) :1070—74.

Liller, M. H., and Liller, W. “The Pre-Maximum Light Curve of the Slow
Nova Vulpeculae 1979.” Astronomical Journal 84(1979) :1357-58.

Linsky, J. L.; Ayres, T. R.; Basri, G. S.; Morrison, N. D.; Boggess, A.; Schif-
fer, F. H., III; Holm, A.; Cassatella, A.; Heck, A.; Macchetto, F.; Stick-
land, D.; Wilson, R.; Blanco, C.; Dupree, A. K.; Jordan, C.; and Wing, R. F.
“TUE Observations of Cool Stars: a Aurigae, HR 1099, \ Andromedae, and
e Edidani.” Nature 275(1979) :389-94.

Lombardi, G. G.; Smith, P. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. “A Measurement of the
Photoionization Cross Section of Neutral Iron.” Physical Review A 18
(1978) :2131-44.

Lynden-Bell, D., and Liller, W. “A New Method of Cosmological Distance
Determination Applied in an Attempt to Weigh the Universe.” Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 185(1978) :538—48.

MacGregor, K. B.; Hartmann, L.; and Raymond, J. C. [Abstract] “Radiative
Amplification of Sound Waves in the Winds of O and B Stars.” Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :648.

. “Radiative Amplification of Sound Waves in the Winds of O and B
Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 231(1979) :514—23.

MacGregor, K. B., and Vitello, P. A. J. “Radiation-Driven Winds in Binary
X-Ray Source Systems.” In X-Ray Astronomy, edited by W. A. Baity and
L. E. Peterson, pp. 267-70. Oxford and New York: Pergamon Press, 1979.

Mariska, J. T., and Withbroe, G. L. “Temperature Gradients in the Inner
Corona.” Solar Physics 60(1978) :67—82.

Marsden, B. G. “Concluding Remarks at Satellites of Mars Colloquium.”
Vistas in Astronomy 22(1978) :219-20.

——.. “Letter to the Editor.” Sky and Telescope 56(1978) :387.

. “Report of the Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams.” Inter-

national Astronomical Union Information Bulletin Number 40, pp. 6-7, 1978.

. “Introduction.” In Proceedings of the International Astronomical

Union Symposium No. 81, Dynamics of the Solar System, edited by R. L.

Duncombe, pp. ix—x. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,

1979.

. “Comet Catalogues.” International Astronomical Quarterly 1(1979):

13-16.

. Catalogue of Cometary Orbits, 3rd ed., 88 p. Cambridge, Massachu-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 439
sets: International Astronomical Union Central Bureau for Astronomical

Telegrams, 1979.

, editor. [AU Commission 20, Circular Number 7, 2 pp., 1978.

. [AU Commission 20, Circular Number 8, 10 pp., 1979.

. [AU Commission 20, Circular Number 9, 8 pp., 1979.

Marsden, B. G.; Millis, R.; Wasserman, L.; Persson, E.; Nicholson, P.; Mat-
thews, K.; Goldreich, P.; and Neugebauer, G. “Occultations by Uranian
Rings.” International Astronomical Union Circular Number 3215, 1978.

Marvin, U. B. “Apollo 12 Coarse Fines (1-10 mm). Sample Location, Classi-
fication and Description.” Houston, Texas: NASA Johnson Space Center
Publication 14434, 100 pp.

. Roster of Women in the Geoscience Professions, 2d edition, compiled
and edited on behalf of the Committee of Women in the Geosciences. Falls
Church, Virginia: American Geological Institute, 1978.

Marvin, U. B., and Ryder, G. “On the Origin of Luna 24 Basalts and Soils.”
In Proceedings of the Luna 24 Conference: Mare Crisium: The View from
Luna 24, edited by R. B. Merrill and J. J. Papike, pp. 339-55. New York:
Pergamon Press, 1978.

Marvin, U. B., and Walker, D. “Implications of a Titanium-Rich Glass Clod
at Oceanus Procellarum.” The American Mineralogist 63(1978) :924—29.

Maxson, C. W.; Sciortino, S.; Serio, S.; Variana, G. S.; and Fazio, G. G.
[Abstract] “Far-Infrared Observations of Regions near W42.” Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :470.

McBreen, B.; Fazio, G. G.; Stier, M.; and Wright, E. L. “Evidence for a Varia-
ble Far-Infrared Source in NGC 6334.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 232
(1979) :L183-L188.

McClintock, J.; Grandlay, J.; Canizares, C.; van Paradijs, J.; Cominsky, L.;
Li, F. K.; and Lewin, W. “A Three Second Delay in an Optical Burst from
the X-Ray Burst Source MXB 1735-44.” Nature 279(1979) :47—-49.

Miller, R.; Austin, G.; Koch, D.; Jagoda, N.; Kirchner, T.; and Dias, B. “The
High Energy Astronomy Observatory X-Ray Telescope.” Institute of Elec-
trical and Electronics Engineers, Transactions on Nuclear Science NS-25
(1978) :422-29.

Moran, J. M.; Ball, J. A.; Predmore, C. R.; Lane, A. P.; Huguenin, G. R.;
Reid, M. J.; and Hansen, S. S. “VLBI Observations of SiO Masers at a
Wavelength of 7 Millimeters in Late-Type Stars.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 231(1979) :L67—-L71.

Munro, R. H.; Kohl, J. L.; MacQueen, R. M.; Noyes, R. W.; Parkinson, W. H.;
Weiser, H.; and Withbroe, G. L. [Abstract] “Lyman a and White Light
Observations of the Outer Solar Corona.” Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society 11(1979) :398.

Murray, S.; Epstein, A.; Fabbiano, G.; Gorenstein, P.; Griffiths, R.; Madej-
ski, G.; and Fabian, A. [Abstract] “Observations of the Supernova Remnant
CAS A with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society 11(1979) :462.

Pallavicini, R., and Vaiana, G. S. “L’Atmosfera Solare Sopra le Macchie: Im-
plicazioni di Osservazione x e Ultraviolette Dallo Skylab.” Boll. Soc. Ital.
Fisica 115(1978) :51.

Pallavicini, R.; Vaiana, G. S.; Tofani, G.; and Felli, M. “The Coronal Atmos-
phere above Solar Active Regions: Comparison of High Spatial Resolution
Soft X-Ray and Centimetric Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 229(1979):
375-86.

Parsignault, D., and Grindlay, J. “Intensity and Spectral Variability of Strong
Galactic X-Ray Sources Observed by ANS.” Astrophysical Journal 225
(1978) :970-87.

Parsignault, D. R.; Delvaille, J. P.; Epstein, A.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Schnop-

440 / Smithsonian Year 1979
per, H. W. “Si XII and Si XIV Line Emission Search with the ANS Crystal
Spectrometer.” Astrophysical Journal 226(1978) :486—93.

Payne-Gaposchkin, C. H. Stars and Clusters. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Har-
vard University Press, 1979.

Pearlman, M. R. “Laser Workshop.” In Proceedings of the Third International
Workshop on Laser Ranging Instrumentation, edited by G. Veis, pp. 1-3,
82-88, 179-82, 202-3, 257, 286-90. Athens, Greece: National Technical Uni-
versity of Athens, 1978.

Peres, G:: Serio, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Cali, C.; Daneu, V.; Maxson, C.; and
Stier, M. “The Palerma Four-Color Far Infrared Program.” Me. Soc. Astron.
Ital. 49(1978) :95-106.

Pineda, F.; Delvaille, J.; Grindlay, J.; Huchra, J.; and Schnopper, H. [Abstract]
“X-Ray, Optical, and Radio Observation of MCG-6-30-15.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :427.

Porter, N. A., and Weekes, T. C. “Upper Limits for Gamma-Ray Bursts from
Primordial Black Holes Decaying According to the Elementary Particle
Model.” Nature 277(1979) :199.

Raymond, J. C. “Shock Waves in the Interstellar Medium.” Astrophysical Jour-
nal Supplement 39(1979) :1—27.

Raymond, J. C.; Black, J. H.; Davis, R. J.; Dupree, A. K.; Gursky, H.; Hart-
mann, L.; and Matilsky, T. A. “Ultraviolet Observations of AM Herculis
with IUE.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 230(1979) :L95—-L98.

Raymond, J. C.; Black, J. H.; Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Wolff,
R. S. [Abstract] “Ultraviolet Observations of the Cygnus Loop with IUE.”
Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :432.

Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; Leach, R. W.; Ball, J. A.; Johnston, K. J.; Spencer,
J. H.; and Swenson, G. W. “Stellar OH Masers and Magnetic Fields: VLBI
Observations of U Orionis and IRC + 10420.” Astrophysical Journal (Let-
ters) 227(1979) :L89-L92.

Rodriguez, L. F., and Chaisson, E. J. “The Temperature and Dynamics of the
Ionized Gas in the Nucleus of Our Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 228
(1979) :734-39.

Roelof, E. C., and Levine, R. H. [Abstract] “Recurrent Minima in Solar Ener-
getic Particle Fluxes and Their Association with Coronal Magnetic Struc-
ture.” EDS 58(1978) :1204.

Rosner, R.; Grindlay, G.; Harnden, R.; Seward, F.; and Vaiana, G. [Abstract]
“X-Ray Sources from O Star Associations.” Bulletin of the American Astro-
nomical Society 11(1979) :446.

Rosner, R., and Hartquist, T. W. “Coronae of Rotating Interstellar Clouds.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 231(1979) :L83—L86.

Rosner, R., and Vaiana, G. S. “Cosmic Flare Transients: Constraints upon
Models for Energy Storage and Release Derived from the Event Frequency
Distribution.” Astrophysical Journal 222(1978) :1104-8.

Roufosse, M. C. [Abstract] “Study of the Filter between Geoid Height and
Bathymetry in the Marshall-Gilbert Islands Region.” Transactions of the
American Geophysical Union 59(1978) :1198.

. [Abstract] “Comparison between Creep Rates Produced by Diffusion

Mechanism and Natural Radioactivity.” Transactions of the American Geo-

physical Union 59(1978) :376.

. “Interpretation of Altimeter Data.” In Applications of Geodesy to
Geodynamics, Proceedings of the 9th GEOP Conference, edited by I. I.
Mueller, pp. 261-66. Ohio State University, Department of Geodetic Science,
Report Number 280, 1979.

Rybicki, G. B.; Flannery, B. P.; and Sarazin, C. L. “Ultraviolet Pumping of N*
Fine Structure Levels.” Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :1057—-73.

Sarazin, C. L.; Flannery, B. P.; and Rybicki, G. B. “On the Distance from

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 441
Quasars to Absorbing Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 227(1979):
L113-L116.

Sarazin, C. L.; Rybicki, G. B.; and Flannery, B. P. “An Asymptotic Limit to
Optical Pumping in an Opaque Region.” Astrophysical Journal 230(1979):
456-68.

Saxon, R. P.; Kirby, K.; and Liu, B. “Ab Initio Configuration Interaction Study
of the Low-Lying Electronic States of MgH.” Journal of Chemical Physics
69(1978) :5301-9.

Schechter, P. L., and Gunn, J. E. “Observations of the Internal Dynamics of
12 Elliptical Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 229(1979) :472-84.

Schild, R., and Davis, M. “Properties of the cD Galaxies in Poor Clusters.”
Astrophysical Journal 84(3)(1978) :311-16.

Schneps, M. H.; Wright, E. L.; Barret, A. H.; Haschick, A. D.; and Moran,
J. M. [Abstract] “Co, VLA, and Optical Observations of the Stellar Wind
Bubble NGC 2359.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 11(1979):
450.

Schnopper, H. W.; Davis, M.; Delvaille, J. P.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P.
“Contribution of Intermediate Luminosity X-Ray Galaxies to the Back-
ground; Anon 0945-30.” Nature 275(1978) :719-21.

Schreier, E. J.; Delvaille, J.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Feigelson, E.; Giacconi, R.;
Grindlay, J.; Henry, P.; and Schwartz, D. A. [Abstract] “X-Ray Observa-
tions of Cygnus A with the Einstein Observatory.” Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Physical Society 24(1979) :640.

Schreier, E. J.; Delvaille, J.; Elvis, M.; Feigelson, E.; Grindlay, J.; Schwartz,
D. A.; and Giacconi, R. [Abstract] “X-Ray Observations of the Radio
Galaxies Centaurus A and NGC 315.” Bulletin of the American Physical
Society 24(1979) :621-22.

Schwartz, D. A.; Bradt, H. V.; Briel, U.; Dower, R.; Doxsey, R.; Fabbiano, G.;
Griffiths, R.; Gursky, H.; Johnston, M.; Leach, R.; Ramsey, A.; and
Schwarz, J. “Location of Unidentified Weak X-Ray Sources by the HEAO-1
Scanning Modulation Collimator.” In Proceedings of the COSPAR/IAU
Symposium on Non-Solar X-Ray Astronomy, edited by W. A. Baity and
L. E. Peterson, pp. 435-38. Oxford and New York: Pergamon Press, 1978.

Schwartz, D. A.; Bradt, H. V.; Doxsey, R. E.; Fabbiano, G.; Griffiths, R. E.;
and Johnston, M. D. [Abstract] “A Search for X-Ray Emission from NGC
1129 with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :628.

Schwartz, D. A.; Bradt, H. V.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, R. E.; Gursky, H.;
Johnston, M. D.; and Schwarz, J. “Identification of 4U1651+39 with the
BL Lac Object Markarian 501 with the Modulation Collimator on HEAO-1.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 224(1978) :L103-L105.

Schwartz, D. A.; Doxsey, R. E.; Griffiths, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; and
Schwarz, J. “X-Ray Emitting BL Lac Objects Located by the Scanning Mod-
ulation Collimator Experiment on HEAO-1.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
229(1979) :L53—L56.

Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.; Fabbiano, G.; Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt, H.; Dower,
R. G.; Doxsey, R. E.; and Johnston, M. D. [Abstract] “HEAO-1 Scanning
Modulation Collimator Location and Size of X-Ray Sources Associated with
Groups of Galaxies.” Bulletin of the American Physical Society 24(1979):
621.

Schwartz, D. A.; Schwarz, J.; Gursky, H.; Bradt, H. V.; and Doxsey, R. E.
“The Scanning Modulation Collimator Experiment on the HEAO-1.” In
Proceedings; Sixteenth Aerospace Sciences Meeting, paper 78-34. New York:
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1978.

Schwarz, J.; Briel, U.; Doxsey, R. E.; Fabbiano, G.; Griffiths, R. E.; Johnston,
M. D.; Schwartz, D. A.; McKee, J. D.; and Mushotzky, R. F. “X-Ray Loca-

442 / Smithsonian Year 1979
tions and Sizes of Clusters of Galaxies Observed with the HEAO-1 Scan-
ning Modulation Collimator.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 231(1979):
L105-L111.

Schwarz, J.; Johnston, M. D.; Griffiths, R. E.; Doxsey, R.; Schwartz, D. A.;
and Bradt, H. V. [Abstract] “Search for Point-Like X-Ray Components in
the Perseus, Virgo, and Coma Clusters with the HEAO-1 Modulation Col-
limator.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :501.

Schwarz, J.; Schwartz, D. A.; Briel, U.; Fabbiano, G.; Griffiths, R. E.; Bradt,
H. V.; Dower, R. G.; Doxsey, R. E.; Johnston, M. D.; and McKee, J. [Ab-
stract] “X-Ray Locations and Sizes of cD Clusters of Galaxies Observed
with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Bulletin of the Ameri-
can Physical Society 24(1979) :620—21.

Sekanina, Z. [Abstract] “Rotation Axis and Surface Morphology of a Comet
Nucleus from Observations of Fan-Shaped Structures in the Coma.” Bul-
letin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :589.

. “Flyby- and Rendezvous-Type Comet Missions from the Standpoint

of Large-Particle Dust Experiments.”” In Space Research XIX, edited by M. J.

Rycroft, pp. 471-74. Oxford and New York: Pergamon Press, 1979.

. “Fan-Shaped Coma, Orientation of Rotation Axis, and Surface Struc-

ture of a Cometary Nucleus. I. Test of a Model on Four Comets.” Icarus

37(1979) :420-22.

. “Relative Motions of Fragments of the Split Comets. III. A Test of

Splitting and Comets with Suspected Multiple Nuclei.” Icarus 38(1979):

300-16.

. “The Split Comets: Gravitational Interaction between the Fragments.”
In Proceedings of the International Astronomical Union Symposium, No.
81, Dynamics of the Solar System, edited by R. L. Duncombe, pp. 311-14.

Sekanina, Z., and Farrell, J. A. [Abstract] “Observations of Explosive Events
Associated with the Splitting of the Nuclei of Comets West 1976 VI and
Tago-Sato-Kosaka 1969 IX.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical So-
ciety 10(1978) :588.

. “Comet West VI: Discrete Bursts of Dust, Split Nucleus, Flare-Ups,

and Particle Evaporation.” Astronomical Journal 83(1978) :1675-80.

. [Abstract] “The Striated Tail of Comet West (1976 VI).” Bulletin of
the American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :455.

Serio, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Godoli, G.; Motta, S.; Pirronello, V.; and Zappala,
R. A. “Configuration and Gradual Dynamics of Prominence-Related X-Ray
Coronal Cavities.” Solar Physics 59(1978) :65—86.

Smith, P. L., and Kuhne, M. “Oscillator Strengths of Neutral Titanium Lines
from Hook Method Measurements in a Furnace, I: Lines from the a*Fo,sana4
Levels at 0, 0.021, and 0.048 eV.” In Proceedings of the Royal Society of
London A 362(1978) :263-79.

Smith, P. L., and Parkinson, W. H. “Oscillator Strengths for Lines of the
C’B:-X’A: Band of H:O in Diffuse Interstellar Clouds.” Astrophysical Jour-
nal (Letters) 223(1978) :L127—-L130.

Tanaka, Y.; Walker, W. C.; and Yoshino, K. “Emission Spectrum of Rare Gas
Dimers in the Vacuum UV Region. I. Are.” Journal of Chemical Physics 70
(1979) :380-92.

Tang, C. H., and Grossi, M. D. “Results of the Viking Radioelectric Measure-
ments of Mars Surface Properties.” In Proceedings of the Second Colloquium
on Planetary Water and Polar Processes, pp. 51-54. Hanover, New Hamp-
shire: U.S. Army Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory, 1978.

Tarter, C. B.; Weisheit, H. C.; and Dalgarno, A. “Double-Charge Transfer
Processes in Gaseous Nebulae,” Astronomy and Astrophysics 71(1979):
366-68.

Thorstensen, J. R.; Charles, P. A.; Bowyer, S.; Briel, U. G.; Doxsey, R .E.;

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 443
Griffiths, R. E.; and Schwartz, D. A. [Abstract] “The Extraordinary Optical
Counterpart of 4U 2129 + 47.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical So-
ciety 11(1979) :445.

Traub, W. A., and Carleton, N. “Retrograde Winds on Venus: Possible Peri-
odic Variations.” Astrophysical Journal 227(1979) :329-33.

Traub, W. A.; Carleton, N. P.; Connes, P.; and Noxon, J. “The Latitude Varia-
tion of O2 and O; Abundance on Mars.” Astrophysical Journal 229(1979):
846-50.

Traub, W. A.; Stier, M. T.; and Fazio, G. G. “Far-Infrared Observations of
Uranus, Neptune, and Ceres.” Astrophysical Journal 226(1978) :347—49.

Turver, K. E., and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma-Ray Astronomy from 10-100 GeV.”
Nuovo Cimento vol. 45B, ser. 11 (1978) :99-108.

Uzer, T., and Dalgarno, A. “Photodissociation of Na»*.”” Chemical Physics
Letters 61(1979) :213-15.

. “The Photodissociation of CH* through Absorption into Shape Reso-
nances of the A ‘II State.” Chemical Physics Letters 63(1979) :22-24.

Vaiana, G.; Forman, W.; Giacconi, R.; Gorenstein, P.; Pye, J.; Rosner, R.;
Seward, F.; and Topka, K. [Abstract] “Initial Results from the Einstein
Survey of Stellar Low-Luminosity X-Ray Sources.” Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society 11(1979) :446.

Vaiana, G. S., and Rosner, R. “Recent Advances in Coronal Physics.” Annual
Review of Astronomics and Astrophysics 16(1978) :393—428.

Vessot, R. F. C., and Levine, M. W. “A Test of the Equivalence Principle
Using a Space-Borne Clock.” General Relativity and Gravitation 10(1978):
181-204.

Wade, E. W.; Hoessel, J. G.; Elias, J. H.; and Huchra, J. P. “A Two Color
Photometric System for the Near Infrared.” Publications of the Astro-
nomical Society of the Pacific 91(1979) :35—40.

Ward, M. J.; Wilson, A. S.; Griffiths, R. E.; and Blades, J. C. [Abstract]
“Optical Identifications of Extragalactic X-Ray Sources.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :442.

Weeks, T. C., editor. “The MMT and the Future of Ground-Based Astronomy.”
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory Special Report Number 385, 210 pp.
1979.

Weinberg, S. “A New Light Boson?” Physical Review Letters 40(1978) :223-26.

. “Cosmological Production of Baryons.” Physical Review Letters 42

(1979) :850-53.

. “Implications of Dynamical Symmetry Breaking: An Addendum.”
Physical Review D19(1979) :1277—80.

Weisskopf, M. C.; Darbro, W.; Elsner, R.; Ghosh, P.; Sutherland, P. G.; Hertz,
P.; Vaiana, G.; and Grindlay, J. [Abstract] “Results from the Monitor Pro-
portional Counter Aboard the Einstein Observatory: High Time Resolution
Studies of Cygnus X-1, X-2, and X-3.” Bulletin of the American Physical
Society 24(1979) :583.

Whipple, F. L., and Sekanina, Z. [Abstract] ““Comet Encke: Precession of the
Spin Axes, Nongravitational Motion, and Sublimation.” Bulletin of the
American Astronomical Society 11(1979) :455—56.

. [Abstract] “Precession of the Pole of the Comet Encke Nucleus: Prog-
ress Report.” Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 10(1978) :589.

Withbroe, G. L. “The Thermal Phase of a Large Solar Flare.” Astrophysical
Journal 225(1978) :641—49.

Wood, J. A. The Solar System. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall,
Inc., 1979.

Wright, E.; DeCampli, W.; Fazio, G. G.; Kleinmann, D.; Lada, C.; and Low, F.
“Discovery of a Compact Far Infrared Source, IR 12.4+0.5.” Astrophysical
Journal 228(2) (1979) :439—44.

444 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Wright, E. L., and Kleinmann, D. E. “Infrared Observations of the Most Lumi-
nous Quasar.” Nature 275(1978) :298—300.

Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; and Tanaka, Y. “High Resolution VUV Absorp-
tion Spectrum of Ne, Ci *2a <— X'*Zg Bands.” Journal of Molecular Spec-
troscopy 76(1979) :153-63.

Zombeck, M. V.; Vaiana, G. S.; Haggerty, R.; Krieger, A. S.; Silk, J. K.; and
Timothy, A. “An Atlas of Soft X-Ray Images of the Solar Corona from
Skylab.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 38(1978) :69-85.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Aiello, Annette, and Silberglied, Robert E. “ ‘Orange’ Bands, a Simple Reces-
sive in Anartia fatima (Nymphalidae).” Journal of the Lepidopterists’ So-
ciety 32(2) (1978) :135-37.

Andrews, Robin M. “Evolution of Life Histories: a Comparison of Anolis
Lizards from Matched Island and Mainland Habitats.” Breviora 454(1979):
1-51.

. “The Lizard Corytophanes cristatus: An Extreme “Sit-and-Wait”’
Predator.” Biotropica 11(2) (1979) :136—-39.

Augspurger, Carol Kathleen. “Reproductive Consequences of Flowering Syn-
chrony in Hybanthus prunifolius (Violaceae) and Other Shrub Species of
Panama.” Thesis, University of Michigan, 1978.

Bartholomew, George A., and Casey, Timothy M. “Oxygen Consumption of
Moths during Rest, Pre-Flight Warm-up, and Flight in Relation to Body
Size and Wing Morphology.” Journal of Experimental Biology 76(1978):
M25.

Baruch, Zdravko, and Smith, Alan P. “Morphological and Physiological Cor-
relates of Niche Breadth in Two Species of Espeletia (Compositae) in the
Venezuelan Andes.” Oecologia 38(1) (1979) :71-82.

Beliz, Tania del C. “Estudio de los Helechos de la Isla de Barro Colorado.”
Thesis, Universidad de Panama, 1978.

Bertsch, Hans. “The Chromodoridinae Nudibranchs from the Pacific Coast of
America—Part I. Investigative Methods and Supra-Specific Taxonomy.” The
Veliger 20(2)(1978) :107-18.

. “The Chromodoridinae Nudibranchs from the Pacific Coast of Amer-

ica—Part II. The Genus Chromodoris.” The Veliger 20(4)(1978) :307—27.

. “The Chromodoridinae Nudibranchs from the Pacific Coast of Amer-

ica—Part III. The Genera Chromolaichma and Mexichromis.” The Veliger

21(1) (1978) :70-86.

. “The Chromodoridinae Nudibranchs from the Pacific Coast of Amer-
ica—Part IV. The Genus Hypselodoris.” The Veliger 21(2)(1978) :236—50.
Boyden, Thomas C. “Territorial Defense against Hummingbirds and Insects

by Tropical Hummingbirds.” The Condor 80(2) (1978) :216—21.

Breymeyer, Alicja. “Analysis of the Trophic Structure of Some Grassland
Ecosystems.” Polish Ecological Studies 4(2) (1978) :55—128.

Cooke, Richard G. “Lower Central America: Panama.” American Antiquity
43(3) (1978) :521-22.

Croat, Thomas B. “Flora of Barro Colorado Island.” Stanford, IIll.: Stanford
University Press, 1978.

. “The Sexuality of the Barro Colorado Island Flora (Panama).” Phy-
tologia 42(4) (1979) :319-48.

D’Croz, Luis; Rivera, Rafael; and Pineda, Elpidio. “Observaciones sobre un
Arte de Pesca Fija en las Costas de la Bahia de Panama.” Conciencia 5(2-3)
(1978) :14-17.

Dean, John M., and Smith, Alan P. “Behavioral and Morphological Adapta-
tions of a Tropical Plant to High Rainfall.” Biotropica, 10(2)(1978) :152—-54.

DeLong, Dwight, M., and Wolda, Henk. “New Species of Polana and Curtara

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 445
(Guponinae) (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) from Panama.” Entomological News
89(9-10) (1978) :227-30.

Downing, Holly A. “The Foraging and Migratory Behavior of the Ponerine
Ant, Termitopone laevigata.” Thesis, Smith College, 1978.

Dressler, Robert O. “Episcia cupreata in Panama.” Gloxinian 28(1978) :28—29.

. “An Infrageneric Classification of Euglossa, with Notes on Some Fea-

tures of Specific Taxonomic Importance (Hymenoptera: Apidae).” Revista

de Biologia Tropical 26(1) (1978) :187—98.

. “New Species of Euglossa from Mexico and Central America.” Revista

de Biologia Tropical 26(1) (1978) :167-85.

. “Two Noteworthy Ornamentals from the Caribbean Coast of Pan-

ama.” Selbyana 2(1978) :300-2.

. Eulaema bombiformis, E. meriana and Miillerian Mimicry in Related

Species.” Biotropica 11(2) (1979) :144—-51.

. A Huge Scaphyglottis from Western Panama: Scaphyglottis gigantea

Dressler, sp. nov.” Orquidea (Mex.) 7(3)(1979) :232-34.

. “Una Enorme Scaphyglottis del Occidente de Panama: Scaphyglottis
gigantea Dressler, sp. nov.” Orquidea (Mex.) 7(3) (1979) :227-31.

Eberhard, William G. “The Function of Horns in Podischnus agenor (Dynas-
tinae) and Other Beetles.” In Sexual Selection and Reproductive Competi-
tion, pp. 231-58, 1979.

. [Review] Arachnology, edited by P. Merrett. Science 204(4391) (1979):

399,

Fetcher, Ned. ‘Water Relations of Five Tropical Tree Species on Barro Colo-
rado Island, Panama.” Oecologia 40(2) (1979) :229-33.

Fryxell, John. ““A Census and Analysis of Autumn Raptor Migration in Pan-
ama.” Thesis, University of British Columbia, 1978.

Garwood, Nancy C.; Janos, David P.; and Brokaw, Nicholas. “Earthquake-
caused Landslides: A Major Disturbance to Tropical Forests.” Science 205
(4410) (1979) :997-99.

Gee, John H., and Graham, Jeffrey B. “Respiratory and Hydrostatic Functions
of the Intestine of the Catfishes Hoplosternum thoracatum and Brochis
splendens (Callichthyidae).” Journal of Experimental Biology 74(1978) :1-16.

Glynn, Peter W.; Wellington, Gerard M.; and Birkeland, Charles. “Coral Reef
Growth in the Galapagos: Limitation by Sea Urchins.” Science 203(4375)
(1979) :47—48.

Graham, Jeffrey B.; Kramer, Donald L.; and Pineda, Elpidio. “Comparative
Respiration of an Air-Breathing and Non-Air-Breathing Characoid Fish and
the Evolution of Aerial Respiration in Charachins.” Physiological Zoology
51(3) (1978) :279-88.

Grand, T. I. “Adaptation of Tissue and Limb Segments to Facilitate Moving
and Feeding in Arboreal Folivores.” In The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores,
edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 231-41. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1978.

Haines, B. L. “Element and Energy Flows through Colonies of the Leaf-Cutting
Ant, Atta colombica, in Panama.” Biotropica 10(4) (1978) :270-77.

Hendler, Gordon. ‘Development of Amphioplus abditus (Verrill) (Echinoder-
mata: Ophiuroidea). II]. Description and Discussion of Ophiuroid Skeletal
Ontogeny and Homologies.” The Biological Bulletin 154(1)(1979) :79-95.

Herrera C., Amalia, and Chang, Fernando. “Inventario y Analisis Ecolégico
de Algunos Parasitos de Peces Comerciales del Pacifico de Panama.” Thesis,
Universidad de Panama, 1978.

Hladik, Annette. “Phenology of Leaf Production in Rain Forest Gabon: Dis-
tribution and Composition of Food for Folivores.” In The Ecology of Ar-
boreal Folivores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 51-71. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

446 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Hladik, Annette, and Hallé, N. “Note sur les Endocarpes de Quatre Espéces
de Spondias d’Amérique (Anacardiacées).” Adansonia 18(4)(1979) :487—92.
Hladik, C. M. “Adaptive Strategies of Primates in Relation to Leaf-Eating.”
In The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp.

373-95. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Howe, Henry F., and De Steven, Diane. “Fruit Production, Migrant Bird Visi-
tation and Seed Dispersal of Guarea glabra in Panama.” Oecologia 39(2)
(1979) :185-96.

Howe, Henry F., and Vande Kerckhove, Gayle A. “Fecundity and Seed Dis-
persal of a Tropical Tree.” Ecology 60(1) (1979) :180-89.

Hume, Arthur G. “A New Cyclopoid Copepod, Pseudanthessius, limatus, As-
sociated with an Ophiuroid in Panama (Atlantic Side).” In Proceedings of
the Biological Society of Washington 91(1) (1978) :242-49.

Karban, Richard, and Smith, Alan P. “Notes of Leaf Temperature Balance in
Sedum adolphi (Crassulaceae).” Bartonia 45(1979) :6—10.

Karr, James R. “Man and Wildlife in the Tropics: Past, Present and Future.”
In John S. Wright Forestry Conference Proceedings, Wildlife and People,
Department of Forestry and Natural Resources and the Cooperative Exten-
sion Service, pp. 120-39. West Lafayette, Ind.: Purdue University, 1978.

. “On the Use of Mist Nets in the Study of Bird Communities.” Inland
Bird Banding 51(1)(1979) :1-10.

Karr, James R.; Willson, Mary F.; and Moriarty, D. J. “Weights of Some
Central American Birds.” Brenesia 14-15(1978) :249-57.

Kennedy, Helen. “Calathea elegans and C. spiralis—New Panamanian Maran-
thaceae.”” Botaniska Notiser 131(3) (1978) :349-54.

. “Notes on Central American Marantaceae III. New Species of Cala-

thea from Costa Rica and Panama.” Brenesia 14—15(1978) :349-56.

. “Systematics and Pollination of the “Closed-Flowered” Species of
Calathea (Marantaceae).” University of California Publications in Botany
71(1978) :1-90.

Kimsey, Lynn Siri. “Nesting and Male Behavior in Dynatus nigripes spinolae
(Lepeletier).” The Pan-Pacific Entomologist 54(1978) :65—68.

Kramer, Donald L. “Reproductive Seasonality in the Fishes of a Tropical
Stream.” Ecology 59(5) (1978) :976-85.

Lasker, Howard R. “Intraspecific Variability and Its Ecological Consequences
in the Reef Coral Montastrea cavernosa.” Thesis, University of Chicago,
1978.

. “Light Dependent Activity Patterns among Reef Corals: Montastrea
cavernosa.” Biological Bulletin 156(2) (1979) :196—211.

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr. “Leaf Production, Leaf Consumption, and the Regulation
of Folivory on Barro Colorado Island.” In The Ecology of Arboreal Foli-
vores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 33-50. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. [Review] The Evolution of Sex, by John Maynard Smith. Science
202(4374) (1978) :1274-75.

Lessios, H. A. “Use of Panamanian Sea Urchins to Test the Molecular Clock.”
Nature 280(5723) (1979) :599-601.

Libonati-Barnes, Susan D. “Filoboletus propullans, a New Poroid Agaric from
Panama.” Mycotaxon 9(1979) :232—38.

Linares, Olga F. [Comments] Food, Taboos, Diet, and Hunting Strategy: The
Adaptation to Animals in Amazon Cultural Ecology, by Eric Barry Ross.
Current Anthropology 19(1)(1978) :23.

. [Review] The Prehistory of Chalchuapa, El Salvador, edited by Rob-

ert J. Sharer. American Antiquity 44(3) (1979) :628—-30.

. “What is Lower Central American Archaeology?” Annual Reviews of

Anthropology 8(1979) :21-43.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 447
Lubin, Yael D. “Seasonal Abundance and Diversity of Web-Building Spiders
in Relation to Habitat Structure on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Journal
of Arachnology 6(1)(1978) :31—52.

Lubin, Yael D.; Eberhard, W. G.; and Montgomery, G. G. “Webs of Mia-
gramopes (Araneae: Uloboridae) in the Neotropics.” Psyche 85(1)(1978):
1—23.

McCurdy, Warren W. “Investigacién Tropical en el Canal de Panama.” Hori-
zontes USA 32(1979) :33—36.

McNab, Brian K. “The Comparative Energetics of Neotropical Marsupials.”
Journal of Comparative Physiology 125(2) (1978) :115—28.

. “Energetics of Arboreal Folivores: Physiological Consequences of
Feeding on a Ubiquitous Food Supply.” In The Ecology of Arboreal Foli-
vores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 153-62. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Merserve, Peter L., and Glanz, William E. “Geographical Ecology of Small
Mammals in the Northern Chilean Arid Zone.” Journal of Biogeography 5
(2) (1978) :135—48.

Milton, Katharine. “Behavioral Adaptations to Leaf-Eating by the Mantled
Howler Monkey (Alouatta palliata).” In The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores,
edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 535-49. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1978.

Milton, Katharine; Casey, Timothy M.; and Casey, Kathleen K. “The Basal
Metabolism of Mantled Howler Monkeys (Alouatta palliata).” Journal of
Mammalogy 60(2) (1979) :373-76.

Mittermeier, Russell A. “Locomation and Posture in Ateles geoffroyi and
Ateles paniscus.” Folia Primatologica 30(1978) :161—93.

Mittermeier, Russell A., and Milton, Katharine. “Proposal for an Island Na-
tional Park in Panama.” Oryx 14(4) (1978) :343-44.

Montgomery, G. Gene, editor. The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores.’” Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Montgomery, G. Gene. “El Grupo Alimenticio (Feeding Guild) del Oso Hormi-
guero.”’ Conciencia 6(1)(1979) :3—6.

Montgomery, G. Gene, and Lubin, Yael D. “Movements of Coendou prehen-
silis in the Venezuelan Llanos.” Journal of Mammalogy 59(4) (1978) :887-88.

. “Social Structure and Food Habits of Crab-Eating Fox (Cerdocyon
thous) in Venezuelan Llanos.” Acta Cientifica Venezolana 29(5) (1978) :382—
83.

Montgomery, G. Gene, and Rand, A. Stanley. “Movements, Body Temperature
and Hunting Strategy of a Boa constrictor.” Copeia 3(1978) :532-33.

Montgomery, G. Gene, and Sunquist, M. E. “Habitat Selection and Use by
Two-Toed and Three-Toed Sloths.” In The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores,
edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 329-359. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.

Mori, Scott A. “A New Species of Gustavia (Lecythidaceae) from Panama.”
Brittonia 30(3) (1978) :340—41.

Morrison, Douglas W. “Foraging Ecology and Energetics of Frugivorous Bat
Artibeus jamaicensis.” Ecology 59(4) (1978) :716—23.

. “Lunar Phobia in a Neotropical Fruit Bat, Artibeus jamaicensis (Chi-
roptera: Phyllostomidae).” Animal Behaviour 26(3) (1978) :852-55.

Moynihan, Martin. “An ad hoc Association of Hornbills, Starlings, Coucals,
and Other Birds.” La Terre et la Vie 32(1978) :557—76.

. “Geographic Variation in Social Behavior and in Adaptations to Com-
petition among Andean Birds.” Publications of the Nuttall Ornithological
Club 18(1979) :1-162.

Nagy, Kenneth A., and Milton, Katharine. “Aspects of Dietary Quality, Nu-
trient Assimilation and Water Balance in Wild Howler Monkeys (Alouatta
palliata).”” Oecologia 39(3)(1979) :249-58.

448 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Perrone, Michael. “The Economy of Brood Defence by Parental Cichlid Fishes,
Cichlasoma maculicauda.” Oikos 31(1)(1978) :137-41.

Perrone, Michael, and Zaret, Thomas M. “Parental Care Patterns of Fishes.”
The American Naturalist 113(3) (1979) :351—61.

Pye, Ade. “The Structure of Cochlea in Some Mammals.” Journal of Zoology
187(1) (1979) :39-53.

Rabinowitz, Deborah. “Early Growth of Mangrove Seedlings in Panama, and
an Hypothesis Concerning the Relationship of Dispersal and Zonation.”
Journal of Biogeography 5(2) (1978) :113—33.

. “Mortality and Initial Propagule Size in Mangrove Seedlings in Pan-
ama.” Journal of Ecology 66(1)(1978) :45—51.

Rand, A. Stanley. “Reptilian Arboreal Folivores.” In The Ecology of Arboreal
Folivores, edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 115-22. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Rand, A. Stanley, and Rand, William M. “Display and Dispute Settlement in
Nesting Iguanas.” In Behavior and Neurology of Lizards, edited by N. Green-
berg and P. D. McLean, pp. 245-51. Rockville, Md.: U.S. Department of
Health, Education and Welfare, 1978.

Ranere, Anthony J. “Toolmaking and Tool Use among Praceramic Peoples
of Panama.” Advances in Andean Archaeology (1978) :41-84.

Ranere, Anthony J., and Hansell, Pat. “Early Subsistence Patterns along the
Pacific Coast of Central Panama.” In Prehistoric Coastal Adaptations, edited
by Barbara L. Stark and Barbara Voorhies, pp. 43-59. New York: Academic
Press, 1978.

Rettenmeyer, Carl W.; Topoff, Howard; and Mirenda, John. “Queen Retinues
of Army Ants.” Annals of the Entomological Society of America 71(4)
(1978) :519-28.

Roberts, Tyson R. “An Ichthyological Survey of the Fly River in Papua New
Guinea with Descriptions of New Species.” Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology, no. 281, pp. 1-72. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1978.

Robertson, D. Ross; Polunin, Nicholas V. C.; and Leighton, Kimberly. ‘The
Behavioral Ecology of Tree Indian Ocean Surgeonfishes (Acanthurus linea-
tus, A. leucosternon and Zebrasoma scopas): Their Feeding Strategies, and
Social Mating Systems.” Environmental Biology of Fishes 4(2)(1979) :125—70.

Robertson, D. Ross, and Warner, Robert R. “Sexual Patterns in the Labroid
Fishes of the Western Caribbean, II: The Parrotfishes (Scaridae).” Smith-
sonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 255, pp. 1-26. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Robinson, Michael H. [Review] The Ethology of Predation, by Eberhard Curio.
The Quarterly Review of Biology 53(1978) :198-99.

. “Symbioses between Insects and Spiders: An Association between

Lepidopteran Larvae and the Social Spider Anelosimus eximius (Araneae:

Theridiidae).” Psyche 84(3—4) (1978) :225-32.

. “Untangling Tropical Biology.” New Scientist 82(1153) (1979) :378—-81.

. “Wondrous Ways and Means of Tropical Spiders.” Smithsonian 9(7)
(1978) :66—75.

Robinson, Michael H., and Robinson, Barbara. “By Dawn’s Early Light: Matu-
tinal Mating and Sex Attractants in a Neotropical Mantid.” Science 205
(4408) (1979) :825-27.

. “Culture Techniques for Acanthops falcata, a Neotropical Mantid

Suitable for Biological Studies (with Notes on Raising Web Building Spi-

ders).” Psyche 85(2—3) (1978) :239-47.

. “Thermoregulation in Orb-Web Spiders: New Descriptions of Ther-
moregulatory Postures and Experiments on the Effects of Posture and
Coloration.” Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 64(2)(1978) :87-102.

Robinson, Barbara, and Michael H. Robinson. “Developmental Studies of Ar-

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 449
giope argentata (Fabricius) and Argiope aemula (Walckenaer).” Symposia
of the Zoological Society of London 42(1978) :31—40.

Rosenblatt, Richard H., and Stephens, John S., Jr. “Mccoskerichthys sandae,
a New and Unusual Chaenopsis Blanny from the Pacific Coast of Panama
and Costa Rica.’”” Contributions in Science 293(1978) :1—22.

Rubinoff, Ira. “Los Problemas Ambientales que Confronta Panama.” Revista
Meédica de Panama 4(1) (1979) :21-33.

Schroder, Steven L., and Zaret, Thomas M. “The Adaptive Significance of
Color Patterns in Cichla ocellaris.” Copeia 1(1979) :43—47.

Silberglied, Robert E. “Inter-Island Transport of Insects Aboard Ships in the
Galapagos Islands.” Biological Conservation 13(4) (1978) :273—78.

Silberglied, Robert E., and Taylor, Orley R., Jr. “Ultraviolet Reflection and
Its Behavioral Role in the Courtship of the Sulfur Butterflies Colias eury-
theme and C. philodice (Lepidoptera, Pieridae).” Behavioral Ecology and
Sociobiology 3(3)(1978) :203—43.

Smith, Alan P. “Buttressing of Tropical Trees in Relation to Bark Thickness
in Dominica, B.W.I.” Biotropica 11(2) (1979) :159-60.

. “Establishment of Seedlings of Polylepis sericea in the Paramo (AI-

pine) Zone of the Venezuelan Andes.” Bartonia 45(1978) :11-14.

. “Function of Dead Leaves in Espeletia schultzii (Compositae), an An-

dean Caulescent Rosette Species.” Biotropica 11(1)(1979) :43—47.

. “Spacing Patterns and Crown Size Variability in an Ecuadorian Desert
Shrub Species.” Oecologia 40(2)(1979) :203-5.

Smith, Neal G. “Alternate Responses by Hosts to Parasites Which May Be
Helpful or Harmful.” In Host-Parasite Interfaces, edited by Brent B. Nickol,
pp. 7-15. New York: Academic Press, 1979.

Smythe, Nicholas. “The Natural History of the Central American Agouti
(Dasyprocta punctata).”” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology, no. 257, pp.
1-52. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Studier, Eugene H., and Wilson, Don E. “Effects of Captivity on Thermo-
regulation and Metabolism in Artibeus jamaicensis (Chiroptera: Phyllosto-
matidae).” Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology, 62A(2)(1979) :347—50.

Terwilliger, Valery J. “National History of Baird’s Tapir on Barro Colorado
Island, Panama Canal Zone.” Biotropica 10(3) (1978) :211—20.

Turner, John R. G.; Johnson, Michael S.; and Eanes, Walter F. “Contrasted
Modes of Evolution in the Same Genome: Allozymes and Adaptive Change
in Heliconius.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 76(4)
(1979) :1924-28.

Vleck, Carol M., and Vleck, David. “Metabolic Rate in Five Tropical Bird
Species.” The Condor 81(1) (1979) :89—-91.

Vollrath, Fritz. “Behaviour of the Kleptoparasitic Spider Argyrodes elevatus
(Araneae, Theridiidae).” Animal Behaviour 27(2) (1979) :515—21.

Warner, Robert R., and Robertson, D. Ross. “Sexual Patterns in the Labroid
Fishes of the Western Caribbean, I: The Wrasses (Labridae).” Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology, no. 254, pp. 1-27. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1978.

Weinstein, M. P., and Heck, K. L., Jr. “Ichthyofauna of Seagrass Meadows
along the Caribbean Coast of Panama and in the Gulf of Mexico: Composi-
tion, Structure, and Community Ecology.” Marine Biology 50(1979) :97—107.

Wells, Kentwood D. “Courtship and Parental Behavior in a Panamanian
Poison-Arrow Frog (Dendrobates auratus).” Herpetologica 34(2)(1978) :148—
59:

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Polygyny and the Evolution of Social Behavior in
Wasps.” Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society, 51(4)(1978) :832—56.

. “Temporary Queen in Metapolybia Wasps: Nonreproductive Helpers

without Waltruism?” Science 200(4340) (1978) :441—43.

450 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Windsor, Donald M. “The Feeding Activities of Tropical Insect Herbivores on
Some Deciduous Forest Legumes.” In The Ecology of Arboreal Folivores,
edited by G. Gene Montgomery, pp. 101-18. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.

Winston, Judith E. “Polypide Morphology and Feeding Behavior in Marine
Ectoprocts.” Bulletin of Marine Science 28(1)(1978) :1—-31.

Wolda, Henk. “Abundance and Diversity of Homoptera in the Canopy of a
Tropical Forest.” Ecological Entomology 4(1979) :181-90.

. “Estudios Ecolégicos sobre Insectos en la Regidn de Fortuna y Su

Importancia para la Conservacion de la Naturaleza.” ConCiencia 5(1)(1978):

3-6.

. “Fluctuations in Abundance of Tropical Insects.” The American Nat-
uralist 112(988) (1978) :1017—45.

Yeaton, Richard I. “Intraspecific Competition in a Population of the Stilt
Palm, Socratea durissima (Oerst.) Wendl. on Barro Colorado Island, Pan-
ama.” Biotropica 11(2) (1979) :155—58.

Young, Orrey P. “Resource Partitioning in a Neotropical Necrophagous Scarab
Guild.” Thesis, University of Maryland, 1978.

Zucker, Naida. “Monthly Reproductive Cycles in Three Sympatric Hood-
Building Tropical Fiddler Crabs (Genus Uca.” Biological Bulletin 155(2)
(1978) :410-24.

HISTORY AND ART

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Karlstrom, Paul. Louise Michel Eilshemius. New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc.,
1978.

. Louis M. Elshemius: Selections from the Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Louis Michel Eilshemius: A Closer Look.” American Art and Antique

Magazine, September—October 1978.

. “Eilshemius, Pursuit of Fame: A Tragic Story.” Smithsonian, Novem-
ber 1978.

McCoy, Garnett. [Introduction] The Archives of American Art Collection of
Exhibition Catalogs. Boston, Massachusetts: G. K. Hall & Co., 1979.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DESIGN AND DECORATIVE ARTS

Dee, Elaine Evans. Japanese Woodblock Prints in the Collection of the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum. New York, 1979.

. Kata-gami: Japanese Stencils in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt

Museum. New York, 1979.

, contributor. Connoisseur Magazine, July 1979.

McFadden, David Revere. Porcelain in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum. New York, 1979.

, contributor. Connoisseur Magazine, July 1979.

Oliver, Richard B. Bandboxes and Shopping Bags in the Collection of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, 1978.

. “Images of Special Places.” In Urban Open Spaces. New York, June
1979.

Sonday, Milton, contributor. Connoisseur Magazine, July 1979.

Taylor, Lisa. Foreword to Designs for the Dream King: The Castles and Pal-
aces of Ludwig II of Bavaria. London: Debrett’s Peerage Ltd, November
1978.

. Foreword to Minoru Niizuma. Tokyo, January 1979.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 451
. Foreword to Japanese Woodlock Prints in the Collection of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, March 1979.

. Foreword to Kata-gami: Japanese Stencils in the Collection of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum. New York, March 1979.

. Foreword to Porcelain in the Collection of the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum. New York, March 1979.

. Foreword to MA, Space/Time in Japan. New York, April 1979.

. Foreword to Cooper-Hewitt Benefit Auction Catalogue. New York,
April 1979.

. Foreword to Porcelain, Smithsonian Illustrated Library of Antiques
prepared by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, distributed by the Book-of-the-
Month Club. New York, April 1979.

. “Notes from the Director.” Cooper-Hewitt Newsletter, Fall, Winter,
and Spring issues, 1979.

, editor. Urban Open Spaces. New York: Cooper-Hewitt Museum,
Smithsonian Institution, June 1979.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Atil, Esin. The Brush of the Masters: Drawings from Iran and India. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “Ahmed Naksi: An Eclectic Painter of the Early 17th Century.” In
Fifth International Congress of Turkish Art, edited by G. Feher, pp. 103-21.
Budapest, 1978.

Chase, W. Thomas, III. “Photomacrography of Artifact Inscriptions—How To
Bring out Finite Detail.” Functional Photography 13(5) (1978) :18-21.

Chase, W. Thomas, III, and Franklin, Ursula Martius. “Early Chinese Black
Mirrors and Pattern-etched Weapons.” In Ars Orientalis XI, edited by
W. T. Chase, E. W. FitzHugh, T. Lawton, J. Winter, and L. Zycherman, pp.
215-58. Ann Arbor, Mich.: University of Michigan, 1979.

Chase, W. Thomas, III, and Ziebold, Thomas O. “Ternary Representations of
Ancient Chinese Bronze Compositions.” In Archaeological Chemistry—Il,
edited by Giles F. Carter, pp. 293-334. A.C.S. Advances in Chemistry Series,
no. 171. Washington, D.C., 1978.

Fu Shen. “The Paintings and Calligraphy Collection of the Grand Princess
of Lu-kuo, Sengge—A History of the Yiian Imperial Art Collections:
Part I.” The National Palace Museum Quarterly 13(1)(1978).

. “Emperor Yiian Wen-tsung and the K’uei-chang-ko—A History of the
Yiian Imperial Art Collections: Part II.” The National Palace Museum
Quarterly 13(2) (1978).

Murray, Julia K. “An Album of Paintings by Yun Shou-p’ing, the Recluse
of Nan-t’ien.” Record of the Art Museum, Princeton University 37(1)(1978):
3-25.

. A Decade of Discovery: Selected Acquisitions 1970-1980. Washington,
D.C.: Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, 1979.

Simpson, Marianna Shreve. The Illustration of an Epic: The Earliest Shah-
nama Manuscripts. Outstanding Dissertations in the Fine Arts. New York
and London: Garland Publishing Co., 1979.

Winter, John. “Reports on Reference Collections.” In ICOM Committee for
Conservation, Fifth Triennial Meeting, Zagreb, 1-8 October. Yugoslavia,
1978.

. “Sources of Reference Materials for. Museum Laboratories.” ICOM

Committee for Conservation, Fifth Triennial Meeting, Zagreb, 1-8 October.

Yugoslavia, 1978.

, editor and designer. Japanese Scroll Paintings: A Handbook of Mount-

ing Techniques by Masako Koyano. Washington, D.C.: Foundation of the

American Institute for Conservation, 1979.

452 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Yonemura, Ann. Japanese Lacquer. Washington, D.C.: Freer Gallery of Art,
Smithsonian Institution, 1979.

Zycherman, Lynda A. ‘Radiography in the Freer Gallery: New Equipment and
New Techniques.” Materials Evaluation 36(12) (1978) :18—21.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Fox, Howard N. Directions. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1979.

. “The Thorny Issues of Temporary Art.” Museum News 57(July/

August 1979): cover, 42-50.

. “Clarity and Ambiguity: The Drawings of Robert Longo.” Sun &
Moon: A Journal of Literature and Art, no. 8 (Fall 1979).

McCabe, Cynthia Jaffee. “A View of Sculptors in the Hirshhorn Museum Col-
lection.” In Twentieth Century Sculptors and Their Drawings: Selections
from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Washington, D.C.:
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

. Fernado Botero: A Retrospective, Washington, D.C.: Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden and Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Millard, Charles. “Theodore Reff, The Notebooks of Edgar Degas.” Art Bul-
letin (September 1978) :565—68.

.“’The Later Monet.” Hudson Review (Winter 1978-79) :637—43.

. “Baziotes and Rothko.” Hudson Review (Summer 1979) :245-51.

. Grant Mudford: Photographs, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press, 1979.

Rosenzweig, Phyllis. “Problems and Resources in Thomas Eakins Research:
The Hirshhorn Museum’s Samuel Murray Collection.” Arts (May 1979):
118-20.

. [Review] Julio Gonzalez: Sculpture in Iron, by Josephine Withers.

Museum News (November/ December 1978).

. Arshile Gorky: The Hirshhorn Museum Collection, Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Weil, Stephen E. “In the News: McClain Decision.” Aviso (June 1979):5.

. “Vincible Ignorance: Museums and the Law.” Museum News, Sep-
tember/ October 1979 :31-36.

Zilozer, Judith. “Anti-Realism in the Ashcan School,” Artforum 17 (March
1979) :44-49,

Alfred Maurer: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Col-

lection, Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. “The Dispersal of the John Quinn Collection,” Connoisseur (Septem-

ber 1979).

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Reingold, Nathan. “National Science Policy in a Private Foundation: The Car-
negie Institution of Washington, 1902-1920.” In The Organization of
Knowledge in Modern America, 1860-1920, by A. Oleson and J. Voss. Bal-
timore, 1979.

. “Clio’s Handmaidens Uncovered?” Review in Reviews in American

History, September 1979.

, editor. The Sciences in the American Context: New Perspectives.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Reingold, Nathan; Molella, Arthur P.; Rothenberg, Marc; Waldenfels, Kath-
leen; and Bodansky, Joel N. The Papers of Joseph Henry, Volume 3: The
Princeton Years, January 1836—December 1837. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1979.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 453
MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

EXHIBITION CATALOGUE

Traditional Sculpture from Upper Volta. 12 pages, 14 sepia-and-white illus-
trations, 1 map. Summer 1979.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Breeskin, Adelyn D. Essay for William Penhallow Henderson, 1877-1943:
An Artist of Santa Fe. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1978.

Fink, Lois M. “The Innovation of Tradition in Late Nineteenth-Century Ameri-
can Art.” The American Art Journal 10 (November 1978).

Flint, Janet A. Essay in Gabor Peterdi: Forty-five Years of Printmaking. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. Essay in Prints and Personalities: The American Theater's First Hun-
dred Years. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Grana, Teresa C. High School Graphics VI. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Instiution Press, 1979.

Gurney, George. Sculpture and the Federal Triangle. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1979.

Herman, Lloyd E. Fall and Winter Lectures in the Renwick Gallery of the
National Collection of Fine Arts. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1979.

. Text for booklet The Harmonious Craft: American Musical Instru-

ments. (Prepared for the Renwick Gallery and for the Office of Printing

and Photographic Services slide kit; privately printed), 1979.

. Text for checklist The Harmonious Craft: American Musical Instru-
ments. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Hormats, Bess. Essay in “Duncan Phillips, Collector as Critic: 1920.” In Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service exhibition The Phillips Col-
lection in the Making, Washington, D.C., May 1979.

Hutchinson, Sara. Essay in After the Crash. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1979.

Minter-Doud, Christine. “Made in Alexandria, 1790-1860.” City of Alexandria,
Virginia, 1979.

Monroe, Michael W. Text for Baskets and Cylinders: Recent Glass by Dale
Chihuly. (Privately printed), 1978.

Murray, Richard. Essay in book Perceptions and Evocations: The Art of Elihu
Vedder. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Rand, Harry. “Jacob Kainen.” Arts Magazine, November 1978.

Taylor, Joshua C. The Fine Arts in America. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1979.

. “Perceptions and Digressions” and Foreword in Perceptions and Evo-

cations: The Art of Elihu Vedder. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-

tion Press, 1979.

. Essay in Clay Figures from Guerrero. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1978.

. “Malvina Hoffman.” American Art and Anitques, July-August 1979.

. Introduction to The First Western States Biennial Exhibition. Den-

ver, Colorado: Western States Arts Foundation, Inc., 1979.

. Introduction to The Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd Wright. New

York: E. P. Dutton, 1979.

. Introduction to Chicago Currents. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1979.

. Foreword to Seymour Lipton: Aspects of Sculpture. Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

454 / Smithsonian Year 1979
. Foreword to Collages by Irwin Kremen. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1978.
. “Past 100 Years in Art.” Washington, D.C.: Cosmos Club, 1979.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY
Office of Director

Lawless, Benjamin W. “Notes on Restoring an Underwater Obstruction.”
Motorboat (December 1978) :62—-65.

. “A Curmudgeonly View of Air Comfort.” Smithsonian (September
1979) :113—22.

Malone, Alice Reno. [Recording] “Publications For and About the Disabled.”
In Museums and the Disabled: Solving 504. Program of the American As-
sociation of Museums, June 3-8, 1979, Cleveland, Ohio, 1979.

Post, Robert C. “The American Genius.” In The Smithsonian Book of Inven-
tion, pp. 22-31. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. “Science, Public Policy, and Popular Precepts: Alexander Dallas Bache
and Alfred Beach as Symbolic Adversaries.” In The Sciences in the Ameri-
can Context: New Perspectives, pp. 77-98. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1979.

Tillotson, Robert G. “Maritime Museum Security.” In Third International
Congress of Maritime Museums, September 24-29, 1978, Mystic, Connecti-
cut, 25 pages, 1979.

Department of Cultural History

Fesperman, John T. Organs in Mexico. Raleigh, North Carolina: Sunbury
Press, 1979.

. “Early Organs in Mexico.” In Research Center for the Arts Review,
vol. 2, no. 1 (March 1979). San Antonio, Texas: University of Texas.

Hoover, Cynthia Adams. “Instrumental Ensembles in 18th-Century America.”
Summary published in RIdIM/RCMI Newsletter, vol. IV, no. 2 (Fall 1979).

Kidwell, Claudia B. “Short Gowns.” Dress The Journal of the Costume Society
of America, 4(1978) :30-65.

Myers, Susan H. “A Survey of Traditional Pottery Manufacture in the Mid-
Atlantic and Northeastern United States.” In Northeast Historical Archae-
ology 6, nos. 1-2 (Spring 1977) :1-13. (Published in 1978).

. The John Paul Remensnyder Collection of American Stoneware. Wash-

ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Department of National History

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira. Highlights from the Money Collection of the Chase
Manhattan Bank. Washington, D.C.: The National Museum of History and
Technology, 1979.

Houchins, Lee. “Sources of American Knowledge of the Brazil Coast to 1822.”
In Anais Hidrograficos (Annals of Hydrography), pp. 121-27. Rio de Janeiro:
Brazilian Navy Department of Hydrography and Navigation, 1977.

Langley, Harold D. “Museums and the Historian.” The Maryland Historian,
10 (Spring 1979) :25-—28.

Department of the History of Science

Davis, Audrey B. “Medical Technology.” In A History of Technology, the
Twentieth Century 1900 to 1950, vol. 7, chapter 54, pp. 1317-62. Oxford,
England: Oxford University Press, 1978.

Eklund, Jon B. “From the Artisan’s Hand.” In The Smithsonian Book of In-
vention, pp. 72-81. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 455
. “Industry’s New Ingredients.” In The Smithsonian Book of Inven-
tion, pp. 168-73. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

Finn, Bernard S. “Keeping in Touch.” In The Smithsonian Book of Invention,
pp. 174-81. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

Finn, Bernard S., and Coates, Vary. A Retrospective Technology Assessment:
Submarine Telegraphy. San Francisco: San Francisco Press, 1979.

Finn, Bernard S., and Friedel, Robert. Edison: Lighting a Revolution. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1979.

Forman, Paul. “The Reception of an Acausal Quantum Mechanics in Ger-
many and Britain.” In Reception of Unconventional Science, pp. 11-50.
Washington, D.C.: American Association for the Advancement of Science,
1978.

. “The Atom Smashers.” In The Smithsonian Book of Invention, pp.
132-39. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

Forman, Paul, and Hanle, Paul A. Einstein: A Centenary Exhibit. Washing-
ton, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

Hamarneh, Sami K. “Medicinal Plants, Therapy and Ecology in al-Ghazzi’s
Book on Agriculture.” In Studies in History of Medicine, vol. 2, pp. 223-63.
New Delhi, India, 1978.

. “Problems of the Techno-scientific Manuscripts from the Arabic

Legacy.” In Episteme, vol. 6, pp. 103-25. Italy (Marked 1976 but appeared

1979).

. “Sabur’s Abridged Formulary: The First of Its Kind in Islam,” and

“A New Light on Sabur’s Formulary: The First of Its Kind in Arabic Phar-

macy.” In Hamdard Medicus, vol. 22, pp. 4-30. Karachi, Pakistan, 1979.

. “Ibn al-’Ayn Zarbi and His Definitions of Diseases and Their Diag-
nosis.” In Proceedings of the First International Symposium for the History
of Arabic Science, April 5-12, 1976, Aleppo, Syria, vol. 2, pp. 305-23, 1979.

Warner, Deborah J. The Sky Explored. New York: Alan R. Liss, 1979.

. Graceanna Lewis: Scientist and Humanitarian. Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. Women in Science in Nineteenth Century America. Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Women in Science in Nineteenth Century America.” Journal, Ameri-

can Medical Women’s Association 34(1979) :59—-66.

. “Women Astronomers.” Natural History (May 1979) :12-26.

Department of the History of Technology

Adrosko, Rita J. Introduction to The Weaver's Draft Book and Clothier’s As-
sistant. Worcester: American Antiquarian Society, 1979. (Reprint of a book
by John Hargrove first published in 1792 in Baltimore, Maryland), 11 pages.

Hoffman, John N. “Pennsylvania’s Bituminous Coal Industry: An Industry
Review.” Pennsylvania History 65(4)351—363, October 1978.

Kulik, Gary, and Bonham, Julia C. Rhode Island: An Inventory of Historic
Engineering and Industrial Sites. Washington, D.C.: Historic American En-
gineering Record, 1978.

. “The Pawtucket Textile Strikes of 1824.” In Federal Rhode Island,

The Age of the China Trade, 1780-1860, ed. Linda Lotridge Levin, pp. 86—

112. Providence, Rhode Island: Rhode Island Historical Society, 1978.

. “Patterns of Resistance to Industrial Capitalism, Pawtucket Village
and the Strike of 1824.” In American Working-class Culture, Explorations
in American Labor and Social History, ed. Milton Cantor, pp. 209-39. West-
port, Connecticut: Greenwood Press, 1979.

Ostroff, Eugene; Herschel, Sir John F. W.; and Talbot, W. H. Fox. “Photo-
graphic Research.” The Journal of Photographic Science, vol. 27, no. 2
(March/April 1979) :73-80.

456 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Schlebecker, John T. “The Occupation of the Great Plains, 1897-1960.” In
Proceedings of the Seventh International Economic History Conference, pp.
411-18. Edinburgh: University of Edinburgh Press, 1978.

. “Tillage and Crops on Prairies and Plains: America, 1830-1960.”
Journal d’Agriculture Traditionelli et de Botanique Appliquée, 24(2/3)
(1977) :171-84. Published December, 1978, Paris.

Sharrer, George T. 1001 References for the History of American Food Tech-
nology. Davis, California: Agriculture History Center, University of Cali-
fornia, 1978.

Walther, Robert G. The Honey Bee. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, 1979.

White, John H., Jr., editor. Railroad History, 139 (Autumn 1978).

. Railroad History, 140 (Spring 1979).

White, John H., Jr. “Rails: From Old World to New.” In The Smithsonian
Book of Invention, pp. 94-97. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution,
1978.

Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research

Pogue, Forrest C. “The North Carolina Museum of History.” In Proceedings
of the Program Public History in North Carolina, 1903-1978, March 6-7,
1978, Raleigh, North Carolina, pp. 43-53. 1979.

. “The Military in a Democracy.” International Security, 3, no. 4

(Spring 1979) :58—80.

. “Germany and Origins of the Cold War.” Problems of Communism,

28 (March—April 1979) :55—60.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Appel, Toby. [Review] “Henri Dutrochet (Henri du Trochet, 1777-1847): Le
Materialisme mecaniste et la physiologie generale, by Joseph Schiller and
Tetty Schiller.” Bulletin of the History of Medicine, 1978.

. [Review] “The Pursuit of Knowledge in the Early American Republic:
American Scientific and Learned Societies from Colonial Times to the Civil
war, by Alexandra Oleson and Sanborn C. Brown.” Bulletin of the History
of Medicine, 1979.

Henderson, Amy. [Review] Images of the Ohio Valley, by John A. Jakle.
The Filson Club History Quarterly, January 1979.

. [Review] Dame Myra Hess, by Marian McKenns. History, August

1979.

, contributor. The Dictionary of Biographical Quotations. New York:
Knopf, 1978.

Lawson, Michael L. [Doctoral dissertation] The Pick-Sloan Plan and the Mis-
souri River Sioux, 1944-1970. Ann Arbor: University Microfilms, 1978.

. [Review] Native American Testimony: An Anthology of Indian and

White Relations, First Encounter to Dispossession, edited by Peter Nabo-

kov. The American West, January 1979.

. [Review] Frederick Remington and The West: With the Eye of the

Mind, by Ben Merchant Vorpahl. The Pacific Historical Review, August

1979.

. [Review] German Artist on the Texas Frontier; Friedrich Richard

Petri, by William W. Newcomb, Jr. The Western Historical Quarterly, Fall

1979:

. [Review] Objects of Bright Pride: Northwest Coast Indian Art from
the American Museum of Natural History by Allen Wardwell. Montana:
The Magazine of Western History, Fall 1979.

Miles, Ellen G. Thomas Hudson 1701-1779, Portrait Painter and Collector,

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 457
A Bicentenary Exhibition with Catalogue Entries by Jacob Simon. London:
The Iveagh Bequest, Kenwood, Greater London Council, 1979.

Miller, Lillian B. “The Peale Family: a Lively Mixture of Art and Science.”
Smithsonian, April 1979.

Neumaier, Linda T. Checklist of the Permanent Collection. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

Pachter, Marc. A Gallery of Presidents. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian In-
stitution Press, 1979.

, editor. Telling Lives: The Biographer’s Art. Washington, D.C.: New
Republic Books, 1979.

Pfister, Harold Francis. “Daguerreotypes at the National Portrait Gallery,”
The Magazine Antiques, December 1978.

Walker, William B. “Art Libraries: International and Interdisciplinary.” Spe-
cial Libraries, December 1978.

OFFICE OF AMERICAN AND FOLKLIFE STUDIES
Office of American Studies

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “A National Museum.” In The Smithsonian Experi-
ence, pp. 20-26. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1977.

. “Seventeenth-Century Indian Wars.” In Handbook of North Ameri-

can Indians, Vol. 15, Northeast, edited by Bruce G. Trigger, pp. 89-100.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. The Cosmos Club of Washington: A Centennial History, 406 pp.

Washington, D.C.: The Cosmos Club, 1978.

. “The Indian-White Contact in Alaska.” In Actes du XLII° Congres

International des Américanistes, Congres du Centenaire, Paris, 2-9 Sept.

1976, Vol. 5, pp. 265-69. Paris: Société des Américanistes, 1978.

. “The Archivist’s Two-Way Stretch.” Archivaria 7 (Winter 1978):

137-43.

. “Part II: Discussion” of Symposium on American Indian Studies.

American Indian Culture and Research Journal 2 (1978):3, 4, 28-46.

. “On the Trail of the Activist Anthropologist; Response to Jorgensen

and Clemmer: JES 6:2, 6:3.” Journal of Ethnic Studies 7 (Spring 1979):1,

89-99.

. “Can Tribal Government Survive?” In C.T.C.A. [California Tribal

Chairmen’s Association] Newsletter 2 (March, April 1979) :1-4.

. “Samuel Eliot Morison, Historian.” William and Mary Quarterly, 3d

ser., 36 (July 1979) :3, 325-52.

Folklife Program

Ball, John, editor. Folklife and Folklife: Teachers Manual, (written by the staff
of the Folklife Program), S.I. Folklife Program, 1979.

Kalcik, Susan. “CB Community: Folklore in the Modern World.” In Festival
of the American Folklife Program, S.I. Folklife Program, 1979.

. “Folk Festival Pros and Cons,” Newsletter, Center for Southern Folk-

lore, 1979.

. “Regional Folklore: A Resource for Local Colleges.” In Student Ac-
tivities Programming (a publication of the National Entertainment and
Campus Activities Association), Spring, 1979.

Nathan, Joan. A Booklet of Vietnamese Cooking. S.I. Folklife Program, 1979.

. Callaloo, Creole, and Carnival—Cooking of the Caribbean. S.1. Folk-
life Program, 1979.

Rinzler, Kate, editor. Children’s Games from Tradition (a series of guides for
teachers to accompany four video tapes on children’s folklife). S.I. Folklife

458 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Program, 1979. Guide titles and authors are: “Children’s Games from British
Tradition,” by Stu Jamieson; “Children’s Games from Southern Play Party
Tradition,” by Alison McMorland; “Children’s Games and a Folktale from

African Tradition,” by Paul Ofori-Ansah; “Children’s Games and Cultural

Activities from Chinese Tradition,” by Marg Scherbatskoy.

. All Things Shall Be Remembered (three video tapes encompassing the
repertoire of Southern Afro-American children’s games of Mrs. Bessie
Jones). S.I. Folklife Program, 1979.

Rinzler, Kate. “Play and Inventiveness—Implications of American Children’s
Culture to Educational Practice.” Cultures Magazine, UNESCO, Paris, 1979.

Santino, Jack. “Flew the Ocean in a Plane: An Investigation of Airline Occu-
pational Folklore.” Journal of the Folklore Institute, Indiana University,
1979.

. “Healers, Curers, and Herbalists: Folk Medicine in America.” In Fes-
tival of American Folklife Program Book, S.I. Folklife Program, 1979.

Santino, Jack, and Zeitlin, Steven. Open Market Vendors (an ethnographic
film). October, 1979.

Seitel, Peter, editor. Festival of American Folklife Program Book, S.1. Folklife
Program, 1979.

Zeitlin, Steven. “Street Cry!” In Festival of American Folklife Program Book,
S.I. Folklife Program, 1979.

MUSEUM PROGRAMS
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Olin, J. S.; Harbottle, G.; and Sayre, E. V. “Elemental Compositions of Spanish
and Spanish-Colonial Majolica Ceramics in the Identification of Proveni-
ence.” In Archaeological Chemistry II, edited by Giles F. Carter, Advances
in Chemistry Series, 1978.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Bain, Alan L. “Computer Applications to Archives and Manuscripts at the
Smithsonian Institution Archives.” International Council on Archives ADPA
2(1978) :13-21.

. Guide to Manuscript Collections in the National Museum of History
and Technology. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.
Henson, Pamela M. “Oral History at the Smithsonian.” Oral History Asso-

ciation Newsletter 13(1) (1979) :1, 6.

Lytle, Richard H. “Subject Retrieval in Archives: A Comparison of the Prove-
nance and Content Indexing Methods.” Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Maryland, 1979.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Goodwin, Jack. “Current Bibliography in the History of Technology (1977).”
Technology and Culture, 20(2) (1979) :403-513.

Pisano, Dominick A. “The Wright Brothers: A Guide to Research.” In The
Wright Brothers: Heirs of Prometheus, edited by Richard P. Hallion, pp.
137-46. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1978.

. “Project Apollo: A Selective Bibliography and Research Guide.” In

Apollo: Ten Years Since Tranquillity Base, edited by Richard P. Hallion

and Tom D. Crouch, pp. 167-74. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution

Press, 1979.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 459
Scott, Catherine D. “NASM Library: a Guidebook.” Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries, 1979.

Wells, Ellen B. “Horsemanship: a Guide to Information Sources.” Detroit:
Gale Research, 1979.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

EXHIBITION CATALOGUES

Beall, Karen. Contemporary Czechoslovakian Printmakers. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

Dentzel, Carl Schaefer; Wheat, Joe Ben; Link, Martin; Conn, Richard G.; and
Dockstader, Frederick. Patterns and Sources of Navajo Weaving. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

Hormats, Bess, and Grogan, Kevin. The Phillips Collection, In the Making:
1920-1930. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, 1979.

Lehman, Arnold. The World of Haitian Painting. Washington, D.C.: Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.

McCabe, Cynthia. Twentieth Century Sculptors and Their Drawings: Selec-
tions from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

Opstad, Lauritz, and Ada Polak. Benny Motzfeldt: A Norwegian Pathfinder
in Glass. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, 1979.

Stevens, Andrea, editor. Update, 1978-79. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian In-
stitution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1978.

BOOKLETS

Ehrlich, Hedy, and Nancy Davis. The Homefront Times. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

Gerson, Sareen. George Grosz: Works in Oil. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

. The Phillips Collection, In the Making: 1920-1930. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

Bee Quilting. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibi-
tion Service, 1979.

Erté. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service,
1979.

KITS AND GAMES

Share, Marjorie. Bee Quilting. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, 1979.

Bright Ideas. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, 1979.

POSTERS

America’s Architectural Heritage

Buildings Reborn: New Uses, Old Places
Dance Masks of Mexico

Edison and the Electrical Age: 100 Years
Graficas: Contemporary Latin American Prints
Inuit Sculpture

Ride On! (Reprint)

The World of Haitian Painting

460 / Smithsonian Year 1979
PUBLIC SERVICE
DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Morris, James R. [Program notes] American Musical Theater presentation,
Songs of Victor Herbert, November 18, 1978.

. [Narrative script] American Musical Theater presentation, Songs of

Victor Herbert, November 18, 1978.

. [Program notes] Chamber Music of the Twentieth Century: Music

of Joan Tower, Lucas Foss, Bela Bartok, Lawrence Widdoes, Paul Reale,

William Penn, Igor Stravinsky, Wallace Berry, Paul Hindemith, Gunther

Schuller, George Rochberg, Gerald Chenoweth, Olivier Messiaen, Maurice

Wright, Earl Kim, Jacques Ibert, and Arnold Schoenberg for the series of

20th Century Consort concerts, October 15, 1978, November 5, 1978, De-

cember 10, 1978, and March 18, 1979.

. [Program notes; musical arrangements] American Musical Theater

presentation, Vaudeville, January 27, 1979.

. [Program notes] Chamber Music of the Romantic Era: Music of
Johann Hummel, Johannes Brahms, Charles Loeffler, Franz Schubert, Gabriel
Faure, Karl Maria von Weber, Ludwig Spohr, and Max Bruch for the series
of Romantic Chamber Ensemble Concerts, February 11, 1979, and April 8,
1979.

Reagon, Bernice Johnson. “The Borning Struggle.” In They Should Have
Served that Cup of Coffee, by Dick Cluster. South End Press, February 1979.

Taylor, J. R. [Record annotation] “Dizzy Gillespie and Sonny Stitt: The Mod-
ern Jazz Sextet.” Verve 2533.

Williams, Martin. [Review] Jazz: A History, by Frank Tirro. Radio Free Jazz,
January 1979.

RECORDS

Victor Herbert

There’s a Good Time Coming and Other Songs of the Hutchinson Family
Let’s Face It

Bach Partitas

Bach Brandenburg Concerti

Bach Sonatas

Whoopee

Ellington 1940

Music of Jelly Roll Morton

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Art to Zoo (Newsletter). Published four times during the year.

Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: A Bulletin for Schools. Published five times dur-
ing the year.

Let’s Go to the Smithsonian: Learning Opportunities for Schools, 1979-80.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, August, 1979.

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Dillon, Wilton S. “Margaret Mead: 1901-1928.” Grants Magazine, March
1979.

SMITHSONIAN EXPOSITION BOOKS

The Smithsonian Book of Invention. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1979.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 461
A Zoo for All Seasons. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1979.

Post, Robert. American Maritime Enterprise: Checklist, Guide, Acknowledg-
ments. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of
Natural History, 1978.

. “From Pillar to Post: The Plight of the Patent Models.” Industrial

Archeology 4(1978) :58—60.

. “The American Genius.” In The Smithsonian Book of Invention, pp.

21-32. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution, 1978.

. [Review] The Pioneer Stage of Railroad Electrification, by Carl Con-

dit. Railroad History, Fall 1978.

. [Review] A Treatise upon Cable or Rope Traction, by J. Bucknall

Smith and George Hilton. Railroad History, Fall 1978.

. [Review] Tramways and Trolleys: The Rise of Urban Mass Transit

in Europe, by McKay. Technology and Culture, October 1978.

. [Review] Travels in Southern California, edited by Schoenmann.

Pacific Historical Review, November 1978.

. [Review] The Yellow Cars of Los Angeles, by Walker. Pacific His-

torical Review, February 1979.

. [Review] The Story of the Los Angeles Pacific Railway, by Myers

and Swett. Pacific Historical Review, February 1979.

. [Review] Personal Rapid Transit, edited by Anderson. Technology

and Culture, April 1979.

. [Review] The Autobiography of John Fitch, edited by Prager. Annals

of Science, May 1979.

. [Review] Fogg and Steam: A Regional Look at Steam in North Amer-

ica, by Clodfelter. Railroad History, Spring 1979.

. “Science, Public Policy, and Popular Precepts: Alexander Bache and

Alfred Beach as Symbolic Adversaries.” In The Sciences in the American

Context: New Perspectives, edited by Nathan Reingold, pp. 77-98. Wash-

ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1979.

. “Indiana Salvage: Oldest American Engine Recovered.” Society for

Industrial Archeology Newsletter 8 (September 1979) :1.

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT
SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Associate. Janet W. Solinger, Publisher/Executive Editor;
Helen Marvel, Editor.

Harney, Andy Leon, “Atria through the Ages.” AIA Journal, July, 1979.

, “Community Design Center.” AIA Journal, November, 1978.

, editor. Reviving Urban Waterfronts. National Endowment for the

Arts, Partners for Livable Places, and Office of Coastal Zone Management,

1979.

, regular contributor of design and lifestyle articles. The Washington
Post Magazine.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Backlund, Carolyn. Index, 1977-1978, to Smithsonian (Summer 1979).

Bohlin, Diane. Prints and Related Drawings by the Carracci Family, A Cata-
logue Raisonné. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art; Bloomington,
Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1979.

Brown, David A. Berenson and the Connoisseurship of Italian Painting. Wash-
ington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1979.

462 / Smithsonian Year 1979
. “Berenson and Mrs. Gardner: The Connoisseur, the Collector, and
the Photography.” In Fenway Court, pp. 24-29. Boston: Isabella Stewart
Gardner Museum, 1979.

Brown, David A., and Oberhuber, Konrad. ““Monna Vanna and Fornarina:
Leonardo and Raphael in Rome.” In Essays Presented to Myron P. Gilmore,
2 vols., edited by Sergio Bertelli and Gloria Ramakus, pp. 25-86, vol. II.
Florence, 1978.

Edelstein, J. M. A Jargon Society Checklist 1951-1979. New York: Books &
Co., 1979.

. “About Jonathan Williams.” Truck 21(1979).

Fine, Ruth E. [Review of exhibition and accompanying catalogue] ‘Blake at
the Tate.” Blake, An Illustrated Quarterly 45 12(1)(Summer, 1978) :42—53.

. “John Taylor Arms.” [Review of exhibition] Arts Exchange, 2(6)

(November—December, 1978) :36—40.

. “The Duality of Hitoshi Nakazato.” Arts Exchange 3(2)(March—April,

1979) :20-22.

. Two by Fifteen: Contemporary American Prints. La Plume, Pa.: Key-
stone Junior College, 1979.

Grossman, Sheldon. “Ghirlandaio’s Madonna and Child in Frankfurt and
Leonardo’s Beginnings as a Painter.’ Stadel-Jahrbuch 7(1979) :100-25.

Hutton, Richard W. “The History of the Shakespeare Gallery and Its Role
in the London Art World at the End of the Eighteenth Century.” Introduc-
tion to Aldermen Boydell’s Shakespeare Gallery. Chicago: University of
Chicago, David and Alfred Smart Gallery, 1978.

Lewis, Douglas. [Review] The Literature of Art: Sansovino and Venetian Ar-
chitecture, by Deborah Howard. The Burlington Magazine, 121(910)(Janu-
ary 1979) :38—41.

. “PALLADIO, Andrea.” In The Encyclopedia Americana, vol. 21, pp.
207-8. New York, 1979.

Lippman, Irvin M. “William Michael Harnett’s My Gems.” The Journal of the
American Medical Association 241/14(April 6, 1979) :1438, 1482.

. “James Jacques Tissot’s Hide and Seek.” The Journal of the Ameri-
can Medical Association 241/15(April 13, 1979) :1550, 1598.

Parker, Barbara. [Review] Aesop in England: The Transmission of Motifs in
17th-century Illustrations of Aesop’s Fables, by Edward Hodnett. Book
Collector’s Market 4(5)(September/October 1979) :17-19.

. “Marriage on the Boards.” Book Collector’s Market 4(5)(September/
October 1979) :41—42.

Parsons, Margaret. “Orientation Needs and the Library Setting.” In Sign
Systems for Libraries, compiled and edited by Dorothy Pollet and Peter
Haskell. New York: R. R. Bowker Company, 1979.

Rathbone, Eliza. “Mark Rothko.” Center State Magazine (October 1978).

. Robert Stark. Washington, D.C.: The Phillips Collection.

Robison, Andrew. “An Aesthetic History of Paper in Prints.” In Paper—Art
and Technology, edited by Paulette Long. San Francisco: World Print
Council, 1979.

Sheehan, Jacquelyn L. “A Pair of Unrecorded Audubon Portraits.” The Ameri-
can Art Journal XI, 1 (January 1979) :87-88.

Wheelock, Arthur K., Jr. “Perspective and Its Role in the Evolution of Dutch
Realism.” In Views of Pictorial Representation: Making, Perceiving and
Interpreting, edited by C. F. Nodine and D. F. Fischer. Praeger.

Williams, William J. The Treasures of Tutankhamun. New York: The Metro-
politan Museum of Art, 1978.

Wilmerding, John. “Portrait of John N. Fort by Thomas Eakins.” Studies in
the History of Art, I. Williamstown, Mass.: Williams College Museum of
Art, 1978.

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff / 463
. “Thomas Eakins’ Late Portraits.” Arts Magazine 53(9)(May 1979):

108-12.

. “Luminism: The Poetry of Light.” Portfolio 1(2)(June/July 1979):

20-30:

. [Reviews] American Art at the Century, by A. Hyatt Mayor and Mark

Davis; and Art America, by Mary Ann Tighe and Elizabeth Ewing Lang.

The Magazine Antiques CXIV(6)(December 1978) :1296—99.

. “The American Painting Collection of the White House.” The Maga-

zine Antiques CXVI(1) (July 1979) :135-145.

. “Nineteenth-century American Landscape Painting: Luminism: The
Poetry of Light.” Review 4(9)(September 1979) :78-88.

With, Christopher B. “French Romantic Paintings at the National Gallery of
Art.” In Paris: The Romantic Epoch, pp. 25-32. Washington, D.C.: The
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, 1979.

464 / Smithsonian Year 1979
APPENDIX 7. Academic and Research Training Appointments
in Fiscal 1979

Smithsonian Fellows pursue research problems in Smithsonian facilities and
collections in collaboration with professional staff members.

SMITHSONIAN POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWS

Program in Anthropology

David Timothy Clark, Ph.D., University of Pittsburgh. Analysis of the Rus-
sell Cave archeological assemblage, with Bruce D. Smith and Dennis J. Stan-
ford, Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1978, through August
Si, 1979.

Marc Okrand, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Costanoan languages
of the central California coast, with R. H. Ives Goddard, Department of An-
thropology, from September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1980.

Program in Astrophysics

Haldan N. Cohn, Ph.D., Princeton University. Astrophysical research primarily
centered on stellar systems; globular clusters, galactic nuclei and quasars, and
galaxies in a cluster environment, with Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from January 1, 1979, through December 31, 1979.
Bruce T. Draine, Ph.D., Cornell University. Physics of interstellar grains, with
Alexander Dalgarno, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September
1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Reinhard Genzel, Ph.D., University of Bonn, Germany. Investigation of HzO
maser sources in regions of star formation, with J. M. Moran, Jr., Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory, from September 1, 1978, through August 31,
1979.

Wendy A. Hagen, Ph.D., University of Hawaii. Spectroscopy of stellar maser
sources, with Herbert Gursky, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from
September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Aubrey D. Haschick, Ph.D., Michigan Institute of Technology. Research in
experimental radio astronomy, with J. M. Moran, Jr., Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, from September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Program in Cultural History

Michael Wesley Harris, Ph.D., Harvard University. Problems in American
liturgical history, with Wilcomb Washburn and Thomas Vennum, Office of
American and Folklife Studies, and John T. Fesperman, Department of Cul-
tural History, from June 1, 1979, through May 31, 1980.

Frank Phillips King, Ph.D., University of Cambridge. American policy, the
European Advisory Commission, and planning for peace in Europe during the
latter phases of the Second World War, with Forrest C. Pogue, Eisenhower
Institute for Historical Research, from July 1, 1978, through June 30, 1979.

Appendix 7. Academic Appointments / 465
Program in Earth Sciences

Charles Arthur Wood, Ph.D., Brown University. Synthesis of volcanological
data, with Thomas E. Simkin, Department of Mineral Sciences, from Septem-
ber 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Program in Environmental Sciences

Bruce Robert Bartlett, Ph.D., Oregon State University. The reproductive biol-
ogy of brooding bivalves, with Mary E. Rice, Fort Pierce Bureau, from October
1, 1978, through September 30, 1979.

Joel Berger, Ph.D., University of Colorado. Visual and olfactory communica-
tion in Persian onagers and Grant’s zebras; a comparative approach to spac-
ing systems, with John F. Eisenberg and Christen M. Wemmer, National
Zoological Park, from August 15, 1978, through August 14, 1979.

Maxeen Biben, Ph.D., University of North Carolina. Noble Foundation Fellow.
Role of play in the development of social behavior in South American canids,
with Devra Kleiman and Christen Wemmer, National Zoological Park, from
September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Claire Buchanan, Ph.D., University of New Hampshire. Eppley Fund Fellow.
Study of the photokinetic swimming responses of zooplankton and their inter-
action with the phototactic reactions, with William Klein, Radiation Biology
Laboratory, from November 1, 1978, through October 31, 1979.

Ora D. Canaani, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Biochemical and
spectroscopic studies on the structure and localization of phycobiliproteins,
with Elisabeth Gantt, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from May 1, 1978,
through April 30, 1979.

Ryszard Jan Chrost, Ph.D., University of Warsaw, Poland. Phytoplankton;
bacterial interactions at the Rhode River estuary, with Maria A. Faust, Chesa-
peake Bay Center for Environmental Studies, from October 1, 1978, through
September 30, 1979.

Malcolm Gregory Erskian, Ph.D., University of California, Davis. Dynamics
of spatial patterns in epiphytic foraminifera, with Martin A. Buzas, Fort
Pierce Bureau, from January 1, 1979, through December 31, 1979.

H. Jack McDonald, Ph.D., University of South Carolina. Reproductive ecology
of the decapod crustaceans of the Indian River region of Florida, with Robert
H. Gore, Fort Pierce Bureau, from May 15, 1978, through May 14, 1979.
Hemanta R. Mishra, Ph.D., University of Edinburgh. Population distribution
and behavior of chital in the Royal Chitwan National Park with reference to
population and distribution of the tiger, with Theodore H. Reed and Christen
M. Wemmer, National Zoological Park, from February 1, 1978, through Janu-
ary 31, 1979.

John Franic Pilger, Ph.D., University of Southern California. Metamorphic
processes in the head of Themiste langeniformis, with Mary E. Rice, Fort
Pierce Bureau, from September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Osamu Tanaka, Ph.D., Kyoto University. Studies on the flowering of Lemna,
with Charles Cleland, Radiation Biology Laboratory, from October 1, 1978,
through March 31, 1979.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Joachim Ulrich Adis, Ph.D., Georg-August University, Géttingen. Neotropical
Carabidae of forests in Central America, with Terry L. Erwin, Department of
Entomology, from June 1, 1979, through May 31, 1980.

Susan Howard Brawley, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Nutrient
cycling in a model reef system, with Walter H. Adey, Department of
Paleobiology, from September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

466 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Stephen John Culver, Ph.D., University of Wales. Ecological and taxonomic
studies of Recent benthonic Foraminiferida of the East Coast of the United
States, with Martin A. Buzas, Department of Paleobiology, from October 1,
1978, through September 30, 1979.

Amnon Friedberg, Ph.D., Tel-Aviv University. Revision of the world Terel-
liinae with bio-taxonomic and numeric studies, with Wayne N. Mathis, De-
partment of Entomology, from March 15, 1979, through March 14, 1980.
Robert Ewan Fordyce, Ph.D., University of Canterbury, New Zealand. Sys-
tematics of North American Oligocene Cetacea, with Clayton E. Ray, Depart-
ment of Paleobiology, from February 1, 1979, through January 31, 1980.
Charles Garrett Messing, Ph.D., University of Miami. The systematics of
tropical western Atlantic Crinoidea emphasizing the evolution of Recent
crinoid communities and geographical and ecological variations in morphology,
with David L. Pawson, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from April 1,
1979, through March 31, 1980.

Richard Peter Vari, Ph.D., City University of New York. Generic relation-
ships and anatomy of the family Curimatidae, with Stanley Weitzman, De-
partment of Vertebrate Zoology, from June 15, 1978, through June 14, 1979.

Program in the History of Art

Wanda M. Corn, Ph.D., New York University. The American artist and Euro-
pean Modernism, 1880-1940, with Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of
Fine Arts, from August 1, 1978, through July 31, 1979.

Charles Eldredge, Ph.D., University of Minnesota. The affinities between
American art and symbolist aesthetics, 1885-1915, with Joshua C. Taylor, Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts, from January 1, 1979, through June 30, 1979.
David Killoran, Ph.D., Tulane University. The kinship of 19th-century Ameri-
can painters and writers, with Lois M. Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts,
from September 1, 1978, through June 30, 1979.

Jean Fagin Yellin, Ph.D., University of Illinois. Slavery in 19th-century Ameri-
can art with Janet L. Flint, National Collection of Fine Arts, from September
15, 1978, through March 14, 1979.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Joseph J. Corn III, Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley. Flight and Ameri-
can society, 1880-1970, with Richard P. Hallion, Department of Astronautics,
National Air and Space Museum, from August 1, 1978, through July 31, 1979.
Von Hardesty, Ph.D., Ohio State University. Guggenheim Fellowship. The
great patriotic war and the shaping of Soviet Air Force strategy, with Donald
S. Lopez, Department of Aeronautics, National Air and Space Museum, from
October 1, 1978, through September 30, 1979.

John Douglas Helms, Ph.D., Florida State University. A study of the cotton
boll weevil and the American South, with John T. Schlebecker, Department
of the History of Technology, from July 1, 1978, through June 30, 1979.

Program in Tropical Biology

Michael Dennis Greenfield, Ph.D., University of Wisconsin. Niche segregation
of neotropical clear-wing moths, with Robert Silberglied and Donald Windsor,
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1978, through
August 31, 1979.

Robert Robbins, Ph.D., Tufts University. Ecological genetics of the Nymphalis
Butterfly, Chlosyne lacinia, with Donald Windsor and Robert Silberglied,
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from September 1, 1978, through
August 31, 1979.

Appendix 7. Academic Appointments / 467
SMITHSONIAN PREDOCTORAL FELLOWS

Program in Anthropology

Susan B. Beman, Ph.D. candidate, University of Connecticut. Detailed analysis
and description of Kagamil mummies and artifacts, with Lucile St. Hoyme,
Department of Anthropology, from June 1, 1978, through November 30, 1978.
Kate Corbin Duncan, Ph.D. candidate, University of Washington. Bead and
silk embroidery of the Northern Athabascans; origin, evolution, and transfer
of design with John C. Ewers, Department of Anthropology, from July 1,
1978, through June 30, 1979.

Clark Spencer Larsen, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. Morphological
changes in the human skeleton associated with agricultural adaptation on the
Georgia coast, with Douglas H. Ubelaker, Department of Anthropology, from
September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Vincas Petras Steponaitis, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. Analysis
of Moundville phase ceramics, with Bruce D. Smith, Department of Anthro-
pology, from September 15, 1978, through September 14, 1979.

Program in Astrophysics

Paul Hertz, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Studies in astronomy and
astrophysics, with Alan Lightman, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory,
from October 1, 1978, through June 30, 1979.

Daniel Jaffe, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Development of an InSb
array camera for infrared astronomy, with Douglas Kleinmann, Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from October 1, 1978, through June 30, 1979.
Sten Odenwald, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Analysis of infrared
and radio data on the nucleus of the Milky Way galaxy with Giovanni Fazio,
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from October 1, 1978, through June
30, 1979.

Jan Vrtilek, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. Investigation of various as-
pects of the Far-Infrared Spectrometer (FIRS) program, with Nathaniel P. Carle-
ton, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, from October 1, 1978, through
June 30, 1979.

Program in Cultural History

Lynn Rachele Eden, Ph.D. candidate, University of Michigan. The rebuilding
and reshaping of the American military, 1945-1950, with Forrest C. Pogue,
Eisenhower Institute for Historical Research, from October 1, 1978, through
September 30, 1979.

Phillip Harris, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Field research with
the African Diaspora Program, with Bernice Reagon, Division of Performing
Arts, from February 1, 1979, through January 31, 1980.

Luna F. Lambert, Ph.D. candidate, The George Washington University. Study
of the greeting card industry during the era of chromolithography, 1874-1910,
with Rodris Roth, Department of Cultural History, from September 1, 1978,
through May 31, 1979.

Robert McCarl, Ph.D. candidate, Memorial University of Newfoundland. Ap-
plied ethnography of urban fire fighters, with Ralph Rinzler and Peter Seitel,
Folklife Program, Office of American Studies, from January 1, 1978, through
December 31, 1979.

Willa Rouder, Ph.D. candidate, Brandeis University. Some beginnings of piano
jazz; the New York stride pianists of the 1920’s, with Martin Williams, Divi-
sion of Performing Arts, from November 15, 1978, through November 14, 1979.
Gretchen Adel Schneider, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Davis.
The ballroom in 19th-century America, with James R. Morris, Jr., Division of
Performing Arts, from January 15, 1978, through January 14, 1979.

468 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Program in Earth Sciences

Joseph P. Donoghue, Ph.D. candidate, University of Southern California.
Sediment transport and deposition in the Rhode River, Maryland, with Jack
W. Pierce, Department of Paleobiology, from January 1, 1979, through Decem-
ber 31, 1979.

Izumi Nakai, Ph.D. candidate, University of Tsukuba. Study on oxidechalo-
genides, with Daniel E. Appleman, Department of Mineral Sciences, from
August 1, 1978, through July 31, 1979.

Program in Environmental Sciences

James L. David Smith, Ph.D. candidate, University of Minnesota. Tiger dis-
persal in the Chitwan National Park, Nepal, with Christen M. Wemmer, Na-
tional Zoological Park, from February 1, 1978, through January 31, 1979.
Kotaro Yamamoto, Ph.D. candidate, University of Tokyo. Study on the photo-
reversible binding in vitro of purified phytochrome to particulate fractions iso-
lated from etiolated pea seedlings, with William O. Smith, Radiation Biology
Laboratory, from September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

Maria Eulina Jorge da Silva, Ph.D. candidate, University of Sao Paulo. Study
and classification of mouthpart structure of neotropical carabidae and their
phylogenetic significance, with Terry Erwin, Department of Entomology, from
October 1, 1978, through February 28, 1979.

Nina Jablonski, Ph.D. candidate, University of Washington. The functional
anatomy of the masticatory apparatus of the Gelada baboon, with Richard W.
Thorington, Jr., Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from October 1, 1978,
through March 31, 1979.

Ming-Jou Lai, Ph.D. candidate, University of Helsinki. Revision of the Tai-
wanese Parmeliaceae (Lichens), with Mason E. Hale, Jr., Department of Botany,
from July 1, 1978, through June 30, 1979.

Program in the History of Art

Henry B. Nichols Clark, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. The Dutch
influence in American genre painting in the first half of the 19th century, with
Lois M. Fink, National Collection of Fine Arts, from October 1, 1978, through
September 30, 1979.

Douglas Kirk Hyland, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Lorenzo Bar-
tolini and American sculpture, 1825-1850, with Joshua C. Taylor, National
Collection of Fine Arts, and Charles W. Millard III, Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, from September 1, 1978, through February 28, 1979.

Alice Kreit, M.F.A., Rochester Institute of Technology. Artist-in-residence with
the Discover Graphics Outreach Program, with Teresa Grana, National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, from October 1, 1978, through June 30, 1979.

Ellen Hope Gross Landau, Ph.D. candidate, University of Delaware. Lee Kras-
ner and the development of Abstract Expressionism, with Lois M. Fink, Na-
tional Collection of Fine Arts, from August 1, 1978, through July 31, 1979.
Richard Lee Rubenfeld, Ph.D. candidate, Ohio State University. Preston
Dickinson, American Modernist, and a catalogue of known works, with Judith
K. Zilczer, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from September 1, 1978,
through August 31, 1979.

Julie Ann Schimmel, Ph.D. candidate, New York University. Westward the
course of empire; the rise and progress of John Mix Stanley, with William H.
Truettner, National Collection of Fine Arts, from January 1, 1978, through
December 31, 1979.

Appendix 7. Academic Appointments / 469
Beverly E. Schreiber, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. The contributions
of Francois Boucher to the development of the decorative arts in the 18th
century, with Elaine E. Dee, Cooper-Hewitt Museum, from July 1, 1978,
through May 31, 1979.

David Paul Schuyler, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia University. Public landscapes
in urban America, 1830-1860, with Joshua C. Taylor, National Collection of
Fine Arts, and Wilcomb E. Washburn, Office of American Studies, from De-
cember 1, 1978, through November 30, 1979.

Michael Edward Shapiro, Ph.D. candidate, Harvard University. The develop-
ment of American bronze foundries 1850-1925, with George Gurney, National
Collection of Fine Arts, and Charles W. Millard III, Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, from August 1, 1978, through July 31, 1979.

James Yarnall, Ph.D. candidate, University of Chicago. John LeFarge’s theory
and practice of landscape painting, with Richard N. Murray, National Collec-
tion of Fine Arts, from October 15, 1978, through October 14, 1979.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Robert Blake Belfield, Ph.D. candidate, University of Pennsylvania. The
Niagara frontier; the evolution of electric power systems in New York and
Ontario, 1883-1930, with Bernard S. Finn, Department of History of Science,
from September 1, 1978, through August 31, 1979.

Valnora Leister, Ph.D. candidate, University of SAo Paulo. Guggenheim Fellow-
ship. Transfer of space technology and the Outer Space Treaty, with Frederick
C. Durant III, Department of Astronautics, National Air and Space Museum,
from October 1, 1978, through September 30, 1979.

William Stanley Pretzer, Ph.D. candidate, Northern Illinois University. Printers,
printing, and technology in Washington, D.C., with Elizabeth R. Harris, De-
partment of Cultural History, from April 1, 1979, through March 31, 1980.

Program in Tropical Biology

James David Ackerman, Jr., Ph.D. candidate, Florida State University. Pheno-
logical relationships between male euglossine bees and the fragrance flowers
they pollinate, with Robert L. Dressler, Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, from January 1, 1979, through December 31, 1979.

Phyllis Dewing Coley, Ph.D. candidate, University of Chicago. Walter Rath-
bone Bacon Scholarship. Ecological and evolutionary responses of tropical trees
to herbivore pressure, with Egbert G. Leigh, Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, from June 1, 1978, through May 31, 1980.

Susan Farabaugh, Ph.D. candidate, University of Maryland. Comparative study
of the duetting behavior of three wren species in Panama, with Neal Smith,
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from March 1, 1979, through Febru-
ary 28, 1980.

Gerard Michael Wellington, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Santa
Barbara. Ecological determinants of zonation patterns among reef corals, with
Peter W. Glynn, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, from July 1, 1978,
through June 30, 1979.

CHARLES A. LINDBERGH CHAIR OF AEROSPACE HISTORY

Benjamin Scovill Kelsey, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Development
of military aircraft, 1927-1940, with Donald S. Lopez, Department of Aero-
nautics, National Air and Space Museum, from February 1, 1979, through
January 31, 1980.

470 / Smithsonian Year 1979
SMITHSONIAN VISITING SCHOLAR

David Whisnant, Ph.D., Duke University. Analysis of institutional interven-
tion into traditional culture in Appalachia and the southeastern United States,
with Ralph Rinzler, Folklife Program, Office of American Studies, from Janu-
ary 1, 1979, through June 30, 1980.

MUSEUM EXHIBITS OPERATION FELLOWS

Hollister S. Smith, University of Iowa and St. Louis Medical Museum, with
Kerry M. Joels, Education Division, National Air and Space Museum, from
June 11, 1979, through August 3, 1979.

Herbert D. Thier, New York University and Lawrence Hall of Science at the
University of California, with Kerry M. Joels, Education Division, National
Air and Space Museum, from June 11, 1979, through August 3, 1979.

VISITING RESEARCH STUDENTS
Program in Anthropology

Kathleen Bragdon, Brown University. The history of Massachusetts Algon-
quians following King Phillip’s War, with R. H. Ives Goddard, Department of
Anthropology, from October 1, 1979, through December 7, 1979.

Program in Cultural History

Kenneth Hafertepe, University of Texas, Austin. James Renwick’s Smithsonian
building and the politics of public architecture, with Nathan Reingold, Joseph
Henry Papers, from June 11, 1979, through August 17, 1979.

Beverly Orlove, University of Michigan. Study of American festivals, 1775—
1825, with Lillian B. Miller, National Portrait Gallery, and Joshua C. Taylor,
National Collection of Fine Arts, from October 1, 1979, through December 7,
1979.

Program in Earth Sciences

Masaaki Shimizu, University of Tokyo. Mineralogy and characterization of
skarn-type ore deposits in the United States, with Brian H. Mason, Department
of Mineral Sciences, from June 11, 1979, through August 17, 1979.

Program in Evolutionary and Systematic Biology

David Steadman, University of Arizona. Study of vertebrate paleontology of
the Galapagos Islands, with Storrs L. Olson, Department of Vertebrate
Zoology, from June 4, 1979, through August 10, 1979.

John Zawiskie, Wayne State University. Archasaurian skeletal anatomy and
related studies on a new Wyoming Thecodont, with Nicholas Hotton III, De-
partment of Paleobiology, from January 14, 1980, through March 21, 1980.

Program in Exhibits

Linda Gordon, Virginia Commonwealth University. Studies in exhibition and
design, with James A. Mahoney, Jr., Office of Exhibits Central, from June 4,
1979, through August 10, 1979.

Program in the History of Art

Judi Freeman, Johns Hopkins University. Joan Miro and his American audience
and influences on post-1945 abstraction in America, with Charles W. Millard

Appendix 7. Academic Appointments / 471
Ill, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, from June 4, 1979, through
August 10, 1979.

Gloria Garaventa, University of California, Berkeley. Study of Heian and
Kamakura paintings in Freer Gallery collections, relationship between figural
traditions of 12th- and 13th-century China and Japan, with Ann Yonemura,
Freer Gallery of Art, from June 25, 1979, through August 24, 1979.

Program in the History of Science and Technology

Pluma Beyer, University of Maryland. Study of early printing, with Elizabeth
M. Harris, Department of Cultural History, from May 14, 1979, through July
20, 1979.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN INTERNS

Ann Belsky, George Washington University. Research and study, with Edward
P. Lawson, Department of Education, January 1979 through May 1979.

Linda Cabe, University of North Carolina. Study of museum operation with
work projects in one or more departments, with Charles W. Millard III, De-
partment of Painting and Sculpture, from June 11, 1979, through August 17,
1979.

Karen Domenici, Arizona State University. Study of museum operation with
work in a specific department, with Anna Brooke, Library, from June 11, 1979,
through August 17, 1979.

Julianne Hinton, Harvard University. Study of museum operation with work
projects in a specific department, with Edward P. Lawson, Department of Edu-
cation, from June 11, 1979, through August 17, 1979.

Carol Kiefer, University of Pittsburgh. Research and study, with Charles
Millard III, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from June 1979 through
August 1979.

Kathleen McClain, University of Mississippi. Study of museum operation with
work projects in one or more departments, with Sidney Lawrence, Public
Information Office, from June 11, 1979, through August 17, 1979.

Leila Milani, George Washington University. Research and study, with Charles
Millard III, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from September 1978
through December 1978.

Lauren C. Stringer, University of California, Santa Cruz. Study of museum
operation with work projects in one or more departments, with Joseph Shan-
non, Office of Exhibits and Design, from June 11, 1979, through August 17,
1979.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN
CONSERVATION INTERN

Holly Hotchner, New York University Institute of Fine Arts. Studies in the
conservation of paintings, with Laurence M. Hoffman, Conservation Labora-
tory, from June 11, 1979, through August 17, 1979.

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS INTERNS

Beth Barban, University of Michigan. Curatorial research for exhibitions and
study of day-to-day operations, with Harry Rand, Department of 20th-Century
Painting and Sculpture, from June 4, 1979, through August 3, 1979.

C. Reynolds Brown, George Washington University.

Nancy Burdman, George Washington University.

Bayla Cohen, George Washington University.

472 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Sarah Cohen, Oberlin College. Expanding and organizing file on miniatures
in curatorial office, with Robin Lee Bolton-Smith, Department of 18th- and
19th-Century Painting and Sculpture, from June 4, 1979, through August 3,
1979.

Glenn Cooke, George Washington University.

Christine Daulton, Winterthur Program, Winterthur Museum.

Sarah Donnelly, Stanford University. Designing Outreach and Workshop ma-
terials for museum tours for secondary school children, with Teresa Grana,
Department of Education, from June 4, 1979, through August 3, 1979.
Elizabeth Haas, Bowdoin College. Research activities on future exhibitions,
with Peg Cogswell, Office of Program Support, from June 4, 1979, through
August 3, 1979.

Mary Kahn, George Washington University.

Victoria Lautman, George Washington University.

Susan Marteney, Hartwick College.

Becky Millhollin-Bane, University of California at Berkeley.

Karen Nelson, George Washington University.

Kitty Nicholson, Brown University.

Maribeth Phillips, College of William and Mary. Research and exhibition and
design work in the Renwick Gallery, with Michael Monroe and Ellen Myette,
Renwick Gallery, and Judith H. Houston, Office of Research and Professional
Training, from June 4, 1979, through August 3, 1979.

Susan Pitler, Sweet Briar College.

Lisa Schick, Duke University.

Nancy Solomon, Yale University. Designing and installing exhibitions and
working in the silkscreen, frame, and cabinet shop, with David Keeler, Office
of Exhibitions and Design, and Judith H. Houston, Office of Research and
Professional Training, from June 4, 1979, through August 3, 1979.

Lisann Weinberg, University of California at Berkeley.

Zahira Veliz, Post-graduate intern, National Museum Act Program through
the Inter-Museum Laboratory, Oberlin, Ohio.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM INTERNS
Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowships

Amy Friedman, Wesleyan University. Research and study in the Programs
Department, with Mary Kirk, from June 11, 1979, through August 17, 1979.
Susan Niewiarowski, Hampshire College. Research and study in the Depart-
ment of Exhibitions, with Robin Parkinson, from June 11, 1979, through
August 17, 1979.

Dominique Payot, Columbia University. Research and study in the Public
Relations Department, with Isabelle Silverman, from June 11, 1979, through
August 17, 1979.

SMITHSONIAN OPEN STUDY STUDENTS

Jane Adams, George Washington University. Research on “Lost Washington”
project, specifically defense housing and temporary buildings, with James
Goode, Curator of Smithsonian Institution Building.

Judy L. Anderson, University of California. Work and study of various aspects
of academic program administration, with Edith McRee Whiteman, Office of
Fellowships and Grants.

Sally Benjamin, University of Michigan. Research for historical data to be
used to generate annotations, with Marc Rothenberg, Joseph Henry Papers.
Pluma Beyer, University of Maryland. Research on early presses and type
foundries, with Elizabeth Harris, Department of Cultural History.

Appendix 7. Academic Appointments / 473
Charles Brodine, James Madison University. Research on and cataloging of
dental instruments and equipment, with Audrey Davis, Department of History
of Science.

Alan Lee Braddock, Northern Virginia Community College. Analyzing and
defining patterns of energy consumption in a museum, with Arun Vohra,
Energy Conservation Officer.

Lawrence E. Clemmens, Frostburg State College. Work and study emphasizing
cataloging and registration of museum specimens, with Donald Kloster, De-
partment of National History.

Brenda Cramblett, East Carolina University. Study of various aspects of pro-
duction in performing arts, with Ken Wilson, Division of Performing Arts.
Batya Friedman, University of California. Study of process involved in design-
ing a large-scale science exhibit, with Daniel Appleman, Department of Min-
eral Sciences.

Kay A. Harris, University of Iowa. Work on production for the American
Musical Theatre Series and the Concert Series, with Sharyn Reitz, Division of
Performing Arts.

Frederick Heuser, Drexel University. Archival studies including surveying,
classifying, and cataloging various collections of records, with William Deiss,
Smithsonian Archives.

Jennifer A. Hoffman, University of California, Berkeley. Study of preparatorial
and curatorial procedures in mammalogy, with Charles O. Handley, Depart-
ment of Vertebrate Zoology.

Greg A. Jacobson, University of California, Los Angeles. Archival studies in
the records of the Ethnogeographic Board, 1942-1945, with William Deiss,
Smithsonian Archives.

Donald R. Kirkpatrick, James Madison University. Review of the systematics
of the Devonian fishes of Southeastern Canada, with Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.,
Research Associate, Department of Paleobiology.

Catherine Lark, University of Michigan. Archival studies of the records of the
Museum of Natural History, with William Deiss, Smithsonian Archives.
Linda B. Lostfogel, University of California, Los Angeles. Work and study
with Nancy Nooter, Education Department, Museum of African Art.

Barbara Lyons, Williams College. Work and study with Betty Beuck, Folklife
Program, Office of American Studies.

Tamara J. McCracken, Evergreen State College. Research in indexing and com-
puter coding of manuscripts, with Arthur Molella, Joseph Henry Papers.
Christine Moenke, American University. Work and study in public relations,
promotion and press functions, with Manuel Melendez, Division of Perform-
ing Arts.

Joanne L. Ratner, American University. Work and study associated with the
National Portrait Gallery’s tenth anniversary, with Susanne Roschwalb, Office
of Public Affairs, National Portrait Gallery.

Gregory Sabourin, University of Southern California. Research and study to
prepare materials for exhibition for centennial celebration of the birth of
Albert Einstein, with Paul Hanle, Department of Science ans Technology,
National Air and Space Museum.

Ben Tacheron, Georgetown University. Research on descriptive anatomy and
interpretive work on fossil dolphins, with Frank C. Whitmore, Jr., Research
Associate, Department of Paleobiology.

Lisa Wagner, University of California, Berkeley. Collation and organization of
materials relating to the grasses of Sri Lanka, with Thomas Soderstrom, De-
partment of Botany.

474 / Smithsonian Year 1979
CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

WORK/LEARN STUDENTS
Patti Baker Eileen Mendel
Mark Fly Cynthia Read
Claire Forman Alan Remde
Robert Glaser Steven Vail
Kathleen Hull Ann Valega
Katherine Kenyon Katherine Wagner
Beth Marsh-Doyle Megan Wood

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES INTERN

Frederick J. Heuser, Jr. Theory and practice of archives administration, with
William A. Deiss.

Catherine Ruth Lark, University of Michigan. Theory and practice of archives
administration, with William A. Deiss.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
SHORT-TERM FELLOWSHIPS IN TROPICAL BIOLOGY

Scholarly Studies Program

George Angeher, University of Colorado.

Pamela Balogh, University of Maryland.

Mark Bertness, University of Maryland.

Tamsie Carlisle, University of California at Santa Barbara.
Stephen Garrity, University of Maryland.

Mary Hagedorn, Scripps Institution of Oceanography.

Camille Logue, Institute of Animal Behavior, Newark, New Jersey.
William Nowell, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

Richard Olson, Harvard University.

Patricia Parker, University of North Carolina.

Robert Richmond, State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Michael Ryan, Cornell University.

George Stevens, University of Pennsylvania.

Katherine Troyer, University of California at Davis.

Scott Winterstein, New Mexico State University.

ASSISTANTSHIPS IN TROPICAL BIOLOGY
Educational Outreach Fund

Carlos Brandaris, Universidad de Panama.
Tina Colburn, Western Kentucky University.
Milton Collazos, Universidad de Panama.
Clifford Cunningham, Yale University.
Stephen Graff, Temple University.

Patricia Hansell, Temple University.

Harold Herzog, University of North Carolina.
Roberto Ibafiez, Universidad de Panama.
Laurie McHargue, University of Michigan.
Edgardo Mufioz, Universidad de Panama.
Dolores Piperno, Temple University.

Javier Sarsanedas, Universidad de Panama.
Julio Tejada, Universidad de Panama.

Valery Terwilliger, Western Maryland College.
Nancy Town, University of San Diego.

Appendix 7. Academic Appointments / 475
Katherine Troyer, University of California at Davis.
Petra Volkel, Ruhr-Universitat, Bochum, Germany.
Janie Wulff, Cornell University.

Luis C. Zamora, Universidad de Panama.

Rolf A. Zell, Ruhr-Universitat, Bochum, Germany.

EXXON Corporation

Juan Achurra, Universidad de Panama.

Ritelia Angulo, Universidad de Panama.

Rafael Araujo, Universidad de Panama.

Clotilde Arrocha, Universidad de Panama.

Carlos Avila, Universidad de Panama.

Victoria Batista, Universidad de Bogota, Colombia.

Tania Béliz, Universidad de Panama.

José Castillo, Universidad del Valle, Colombia.

Milton Clark, Universidad de Panama.

Alvaro Florez, Universidad del Valle, Colombia.

Eric Gonzalez, Universidad de Panama.

Rigoberto Gonzalez, Universidad de Panama.

Gustavo Justines, Universidad de Panama.

Victor M. Leon, Universidad de Panama.

Leonardo Mariduefa, Charles Darwin Station, Ecuador.

Reneé Mariscal, Universidad de Panama.

Carlos Martin, Universidad de Panama.

Antonio Prieto, Universidad de Bogota, Colombia.

Cecilio Puga, Universidad de Panama.

Albaida Ramirez, Universidad de Panama.

Osvaldo Rodriguez, Universidad de Panama.

Jorge Roldan, Universidad de Panama.

Javier Sarsanedas, Universidad de Panama.

Guadalupe Scott, Universidad de Panama.

José Urrutia, Universidad de Panama.

Jorge Ventocilla, Universidad de Panama.

Octovio Winter, Universidad de Panama.

Megumi Yamakoshi, Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Manaus,
Brazil.

Luis C. Zamora, Universidad de Panama.

476 / Smithsonian Year 1979
APPENDIX 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution

in Fiscal Year 1979

As a trust instrumentality of the United States, the Smithsonian Institution
has received federal support since it was established in 1846 to carry out the
terms of James Smithson’s will. Appropriated funds have long provided impor-
tant additions to the trust funds, donated by Smithson and subsequent bene-
factors, to enable the Institution to carry out its responsibilities for research
and exhibition of the national collections and maintenance of the valuable ob-
jects and records of science, history, and culture entrusted to the Institution.

The Smithsonian’s basic trust funds have provided the Institution with the
elements of flexibility and independence essential to its creative, innovative
growth. Trust funds traditionally have made possible many of the research,
acquisition, and educational programs, which are central to the Smithsonian’s
present resources and achievements.

The Smithsonian is extremely grateful to the foundations, corporations, and
individuals listed below for their gifts, bequests, and contributing memberships

in the Smithsonian Associates.

GIFTS AND BEQUESTS TO THE SMITHSONIAN

$100,000 or more:

The T. M. Evans Foundation
Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

James Smithson Society
Mary Horner Stuart Foundation

$10,000 or more:

Anonymous

Mrs. Patricia D. Beck

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Helen W. Buckner

Mary Livingston Griggs &
Mary Griggs Burke Foundation

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Chamber of Commerce of the U. S.

Robert Sterling Clark Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon

Doubleday & Company, Inc.

The Max & Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation, Inc.

Thomas Alva Edison Foundation

Ernst & Company

EXXON Corporation

Far Eastern Art Studies

The Ford Foundation

Goethe House

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Hanes Dye & Finishing Co.

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert E. Hawkes

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton

Estate of Carrie Susan Hinton

Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust

International Committee, Centennial
of Light

International Minerals & Chemical
Corporation

Japan Society

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Dr. Maury Leibowitz

Mr. Joseph O. Losos

Mr. Richard Manoogian

Masco Corp.

Cordelia S. May Charitable Trust

McDonald’s Corporation

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 477
$10,000 or more—continued

Mrs. Cecilia DeGolyer McGhee

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

The Charles E. Merrill Trust

The Ambrose Monell Foundation

Irene Morden Trust

Philip Morris Incorporated

Parthenon Books

Readers Digest

Ringling Brothers-Barnum & Bailey
Combined Shows, Inc.

Lewis & Rosa Strauss Memorial Fund

Mr. Kelso F. Sutton

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead

The Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

World Wildlife Fund

Estate of D. Lorraine Yerkes

Zoological Society of San Diego

$1,000 or more:

The Alvord Foundation

Amax Foundation, Inc.

Amoco Foundation, Inc.

Amos Press, Incorporated

Anonymous

Armed Forces Communications &
Electronics Association—
Washington Chapter

Miss Felicia Degolyer Arnold

Badger Meter Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Robert R. Barker Foundation

Mrs. Evelyn F. Bartlett

The Bass Foundation

The Beneficia Foundation

Beneficial Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Edwin A. Bergman

Mr. Barry Bingham, Sr.

Mr. Leigh B. Block

Mrs. John L. Bradley

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust

The Bristol-Myers Fund

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

The Bundy Foundation

Bunker Ramo Corporation

Miss Mary Griggs Burke

Mr. Irving F. Burton

Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.

Mr. John G. Case

CBS Foundation, Inc.

Celanese Corporation

Century

Columbia Broadcasting Systems, Inc.

Mr. G. Arthur Cooper

Mr. Julien Cornell

Corning Glass Works Foundation

Ms. Lucile Turnbull Daum

Mr. and Mrs. Christian de Guigné

Mr. David Dibner

Estate of Mary L. A. J. Dietrich

Dillingham Corporation

The Henry L. and Grace Doherty
Charitable Foundation, Inc.

Joel & Ann Ehrenkranz

478 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Mrs. Ruth M. Epstein

The Explorers Club

Benson & Edith Ford Foundation

Walter and Josephine Ford Fund

Garfinckel, Brooks Brothers,
Miller & Rhoads, Inc.

General Foods Corporation

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Gilman Foundation Inc.

Mr. Leo Gold

Mrs. Katharine L. Graham

Mr. Preston Greene

The Griffis Foundation Inc.

Mrs. Diane Lane Hamilton

Miss Nancy Hammond

Dr. Herbert E. Hawkes

Lydia Bush-Brown Head Trust

The Bothin Helping Fund

Miss Jenifer Henderson

Dayton Hudson Foundation

The Island Foundation

Mrs. Sally Faile Jeancon

Morris Joseloff Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Ruth Cole Kainen

Kaman Corporation

Mr. Jacob J. Kaufman

Mr. Erle G. Kaufmann

Ms. Karen J. Keland

Kent-Lucas Foundation

Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney

The Sydney and Frances Lewis
Foundation

Links Club of Washington, D.C.

Mr. Howard Lipman

Little Gallery

Mrs. Elizabeth Lorentz

Mrs. Kathleen S. Louchheim

The Magowan Family
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Roland Marcotte, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller

Mr. Brian H. Mason

Robert and Phyllis Massar
$1,000 or more—continued

Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed

R. K. Mellon Family Foundation

Dr. Eugene Meyer

Michigan Council for the Arts

The Midgard Foundation

Ms. Marian S. Mitchell

Mr. Robert A. Mosher

National Audubon Society, Inc.

National Geographic Society

New York Zoological Society

Newsweek

The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Owens-Corning Fiberglas
Corporation

Mr. Jefferson Patterson

Ellis L. Phillips Foundation

Phillips Petroleum

The Pioneer Foundation, Inc.

Feodor Pitcairn-Beneficial Foundation

Mr. Joe D. Price

Mr. Lloyd E. Raport

Rare Animal Relief Effort, Inc.

Anne S. Richardson Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Richardson

Dr. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley

Mr. R. Thomas Schaub

The Scherman Foundation, Inc.

The Florence and John Schumann
Foundation

Siegle Foundation

Ms. Ann Marie Shapiro

Ms. Anne Shapiro

Ms. Sarah I. Shieffelin

Simon Foundation, Inc.

The L. J. & Mary Skaggs Foundation

SMC Corporation

Mrs. Eloise Spaeth

Sperry Rand Corporation

Stacks

J. M. Stangl

Steelcase, Inc.

Abbot & Dorothy H. Stevens
Foundation

The Stroh Brewery Foundation

Student Loan Marketing Association

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman

The Termont Hotel

Texas Instruments Incorporated

Mr. John Thacher

Miss Helen R. Thompson

Time Incorporated

Time-Life Books Inc.

Miss Louise Talbot Trigg

The Tinker Foundation Incorporated

United States Steel Corporation

United Technologies

The Valley Line Company

Mr. Chi-Chuan Wang

The Ellen Bayard Weedon
Foundation

Ralph J. Weiler Foundation

Mr. Fred L. Whipple

Xerox Corporation

$500 or more:

Mr. Louis H. Aborn
American Geological Institute
Anonymous

Baker, Knapps & Tubbs
Ms. Marcella Brenner

Dr. Annella Brown

Mr. Mario Buatta

The D. C. Art Association
Mr. Vincent J. Doyle

Dr. H. A. Fehlman

Mr. Dean F. Frasche

Mr. Ira Gershwin

Mr. Gordon P. Getty
Henfield Association

Miss Ruth L. Hewitt
William and Mary B. Jack
Mrs. Lois K. Lawrence

Linn’s Stamp News & Amos Press,
Incorporated

Maryland Arts Council

Mrs. Hiram W. McKee

Herman Miller, Inc.

New York Community Trust

Mr. Andrew Oliver

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Reynolds

Riveryway Co.

Mr. Matthew Schutz

Mr. Sidney N. Shure

Miss Celia Siegel

Skidmore, Owings & Merrill

Mr. Kenhelm W. Stott, Jr.

The Taubman Company Inc.

Miss Ruth R. Teague

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph B. Wheelwright

Mr. Takashi Yanagi

We also gratefully acknowledge all other contributions to the Institution.

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 479
SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES * CONTRIBUTING MEMBERS

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates sup-
port the Institution’s work through annual contributions of $50, $100,
$250, and $500.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and rec-
ognize major gifts to the Smithsonian Institution. This Society, which is
the highest order of the Contributing Memberships in the Smithsonian
Associates, is comprised of two membership categories. Annual Members
are individuals who make unrestricted contributions of $1,000 to $24,999
annually. Life Members are those who give $25,000 or more either in
monetary gifts or additions to the collections.

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the generous sup-
port of the James Smithson Society 1979 Annual Members, Life Mem-

bers, and the Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Associates.

JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY
1979 Life Members

SMITHSON

Dale B. Dubin, M.D.*
Lita Annenberg Hazen

GOLD

Mrs. Anni Albers
Joan Hay Baizerman
Mr. Preston R. Bassett
Mr. and Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton
Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat
Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun and
Dr. Bertel Bruun
Benjamin Hubbard Caldwell, Jr., and
Gertrude Sharp Caldwell
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II
Willis H. duPont

“SILVER

Patricia D. Beck

Kit and Clay Bedford

Catherine B. Cantrell and
Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.

BRONZE

David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Edith Mansfield Hills

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Thrig

Dr. Arthur A. and Marie L. Kirk
Mr. and Mrs. L. E. “Louie” Leininger

Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn*
Stuart M. Speiser

Dr. Lawrence Andrew Funt and Thalia
Riordan Funt

Jerome L. Greene*

Evelyn Annenberg Hall

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Frances and Sydney Lewis

Doris Merrill Magowan

Harry I. Saul

Benjamin Stack*

Norman Stack*

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.

Richard W. Weatherhead*

John R. Doss

Mrs. Francis Tracy Henderson
Samuel W. and Blanche M. Koffler
Sen. and Mrs. Hugh Scott

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman, in Memory
of Dr. Harry Lepman

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Jack L. Messman

Dr. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Fredric Mueller

* Life Members previously awarded a Smithson Society medal for other gifts.

480 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Marvin Murray, M.D., Ph.D.
Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. James Brooks Newbill

Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow
John Alexander Pope

Thomas M. Roberts

Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Helen Goodwin Rose

Eloise Spaeth

Dr. and Mrs. Richard F. S. Starr
June and Leo F. Stornelli

Membership (Annual and Life)

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton*

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Hon. and Mrs. Walter H. Annenberg

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo*

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo*

Mr. Geoffrey B. Baker

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Baker II

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow*

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Hood Bassett

Mr. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry*

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Best*

Mrs. Harry Payne Bingham

Mr. and Mrs. Leigh B. Block*

Mr. Allan J. Bloostein

Mr. Winton M. Blount

Mr. and Mrs. Thornton F. Bradshaw

Mr. Nicholas F. Brady

Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Brown

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce*

Mrs. Susie Brummer

Hon. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. Philip W. Buchen

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S.
Campbell*

Allan Caplan*

Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. Henry E. Catto, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George P. Caulkins, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. Robert Horne Charles

Mr. E. Taylor Chewning, Jr.

Mr. James H. Clement

Mr. Thomas G. Cleveland*

Mr. Robert L. Coleman*

Mr. and Mrs. Gardner Cowles

Mr. Marshall B. Coyne

Miss Louise Crane

Mr. Kenneth M. Crosby

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd

* Life Members.

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 481

Katharine Sergava (Mme
Bernard W.) Sznycer
Drs. Yen and Julia Tan
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper
Richard W. Thomssen
Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley
Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Cora Witten and Laurence C.
Witten II

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Daly III

Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart

Hon. Shelby Cullom Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley R. Day

Mr. Morse G. Dial, Jr.

Ms. Kathryn F. Donaldson

Mrs. Kathryn W. Donaldson

Mr. James C. Donnell II

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. John T. Dorrance, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Douglas

Mr. Willard D. Dover*

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Downey

Mr. Duncan L. Edwards*

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Elkins, Jr.

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac*

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans*

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. Charles E. Exley, Jr.

Mr. Charles T. Fisher III

Hon. William H. G. FitzGerald

Hon. John Clifford Folger

Mrs. John Clifford Folger

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh K. Foster

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Freed

Rear Adm. and Mrs. Edwin Gaines
Fullinwider*

Mrs. George A. Garrett

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould*

Mr. Robert C. Graham, Sr.

Mr. Jerome L. Greene*

Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert C. Greenway

Mr. and Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mrs. Lloyd P. Griscom

Mrs. Helen K. Groves

Dr. Armand Hammer*

Mr. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Richard Harkness*
Membership (Annual and Life)

Mrs. Averell Harriman

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold*

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

John and Lucia Heard

Mr. Andrew Heiskell

Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Herring

Mr. Jacob W. Hershey

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn*

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Holladay

Janet A. Hooker*

Mr. Allan Oakley Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Ireland

Mr. R. L. Ireland III

Hon. and Mrs. John N. Irwin II

Mr. and Mrs. Sam Israel, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

Mr. and Mrs. George Frederick
Jewett, Jr.

Mr. Samuel C. Johnson

Mr. J. E. Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen*

Mr. and Mrs. H. Warren Kampf

Mrs. Louise Page Kastner*

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman*

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. W. John Kenney

Mr. and Mrs. Randolph A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merrill Klein*

Mr. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick

Dr. David Landau*

Mr. R. Heath Larry

Dr. Morris P. Leibovitz*

Mr. Harold F. Linder

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn*

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Logan*

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord*

Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick

Mr. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mrs. Edward Macauley

Hon. and Mrs. George C. McGhee

Hon. and Mrs. Robert M. McKinney*

Mr. Malcolm MacNaughton

Mr. and Mrs. Donald McNeely

Mr. Henry S. McNeil

Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Sam Maddux, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Marks

Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Marriott

Hon. and Mrs. William McChesney
Martin, Jr.

* Life Members.

482 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Dr. Ruben F, Mettler

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Monell*

Dr. Josephine L. Murray

Mrs. Nancy Brown Negley

Hon. and Mrs. Paul H. Nitze

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Norton III

Hon. and Mrs. R. Henry Norweb*

Mr. and Mrs. Gyo Obata

George L. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Hon. Daniel Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Judge and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson*

Mr. C. W. Peebles

Mrs. C. W. Peebles

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Louis F. Polk

Mrs. Abraham Rattner*

Mr. and Mrs. John Paul
Remensnyder*

Hon. Frederick W. Richmond

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Ridder

Mr. and Mrs. Walter T. Ridder

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler*

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Mr. John J. Robertson

Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson

Mr. Ellis H. Robison*

Dr. and Mrs. Milton L. Rock

Judge Martin J. Roess*

Mr. Arthur Ross*

Mr. William R. Salomon

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul II

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Seeligson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frates Seeligson

Mrs. George M. Seignious II

Mr. William M. Siegel

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman*

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Silverstein

Mr. David E. Skinner

Mr. David G. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. C. Grove Smith

Hon. and Mrs. Gerard C. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith*

Hon. and Mrs. Joel Solomon

Mr. Benjamin Stack*

Mr. Harvey G. Stack*

Mr. Norman Stack*

Mrs. Edith C. Steinbright

Miss Marilyn L. Steinbright

Membership (Annual and Life)

Mr. David A. Sutherlund

Mr. J. Fife Symington III

Mrs. Gardiner Symonds

Dr. Hans Syz*

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Taylor, Jr.*

Mrs. Edith Hale Thomas*

Hon. and Mrs. Clark W. Thompson

Mr. BardyI R. Tirana*

Ms. Margaret Brown Trimble

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Turner*

Mr. and Mrs. Wynant D.
Vanderpool, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.
Mr. Richard W. Weatherhead*
Mr. Caspar W. Weinberger

Mr. Brayton Wilbur, Jr.

Mrs. Leonard E. Wilkinson*

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson*
Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner
Mr. and Mrs. David Wintermann
Mr. and Mrs. David O. Woodbury*
Mrs. Stanley Woodward*

Mr. James O. Wright

Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu*
Mr. Barry Yampol*

SUSTAINING MEMBERS ($500 and above)

F. G. Addison

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis B. Anderson
Arthur J. Curry

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey S. Fuller
Ms. Susan Goldman

Mr. Abner J. Golieb

Mr. W. J. Handelman

Hon. and Mrs. John W. Hechinger
Mr. Louis W. Hill

Mr. A. Atwater Kent, Jr.

F. M. Kirby Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield

Mrs. John E. Long

Dr. Raymond Mize, Jr.

James J. Scott

Mrs. Arthur H. Sulzberger

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond E. Thompson
Raymond John Wean Foundation

SPONSORING MEMBERS ($250 and above)

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Anderson
Myron Anderson

Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Earl W. Barnes
Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. Barrett
Mr. Robert W. Beckham

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Bernard
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Bernett
Mr. Robert K. Blum

Mr. and Mrs. David H. Blumberg
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F. Burks
Mr. Alan L. Cameros

Mr. and Mrs. Jerald L. Clark

Mr. W. C. Cobb

Edward L. Cochrane, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Corbet
Alexander D. Crary

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Dear
Ann E. Erdman

Mr. and Mrs. M. F. Flaherty

M. F. George

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Joseph Guilietti, Jr.

Morella R. Hansen

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Hinton

* Life Members.

Brig. Gen. and Mrs. Edward Hirsch
Mrs. Raymond J. Howar

Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Hubatka III
Dr. and Mrs. Jeffrey J. Irving

Mrs. H. L. Kempner, Jr.

Mr. Walter H. Kidd

Dr. Robert Krasner

Dr. and Mrs. Merrill D. Lipsey
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Mascioli
Laura and Terrence McAuliffe

Mr. and Mrs. Philip L. McHugh
Dr. David B. Michaels

Mr. and Mrs. E. Kirkbride Miller
Mrs. C. E. O’Connor

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald H. Patrick
Helen Ann Patton

Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Paynter
Dr. James G. Schwade and guest
James G. Shakman

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Sherman
Mr. and Mrs. Milton L. Shurr
Hugh M. and Marilyn M. South
Mr. and Mrs. A. Stutzer

John E. Toole

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 483
DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard L. Abel
Ms. Boucie Addison

W. W. Alexander

James E. Alford

Woody A. Allen

Dr. and Mrs. R. Eric Alving

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Amory

Mr. and Mrs. Emmet D. Anderson
Prof. Evelyn J. Anderson

Joseph R. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Paul B. Anderson
Mrs. Paul S. Anderson

G. J. Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. R. S. Antes

John D. Archbold

Mr. and Mrs. William Buck Arnold
Joseph S. Asin

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Auchincloss
Dr. Doris B. Autry

Mr. Fred C. Babcock

Morton W. and Joyce S. Bachrach
Mr. and Mrs. Smith Bagley

Dr. Bernard W. Bail

Geraldine R. Baker

Mr. Warren Baker

Dr. and Mrs. H. H. Balch, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Terry M. Banks
Leo T. Barber, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

John P. Bartlett

Mrs. Alice G. Bauer

Winifred H. Bauer

Mr. J. Fred Beamer

Mr. and Mrs. Joel L. Beardsley
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Beck

Mrs. Jack Bender

Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Benedict

Col. and Mrs. George C. Berger
Merrill Berkley

Samuel W. Bernheimer

Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry

Paula and Steven Bershader

Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Beveridge III
Mr. and Mrs. Livingston L. Biddle
Mr. and Mrs. Frederic F. Bigio
Mr. H. Harold Bishop

Mrs. Jill S. Bixler

Gerald and Sara Bjorge

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Eric Black
Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake
James B. Blinkoff

Frank Bliss, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Huntington Block
William W. Blunt, Jr.

484 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Mrs. Julian S. Boardman

Robert F. Bodroghy

Ms. Marie-Therese Boever

Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Bogan

Mr. and Mrs. Mel H. Bolster
Victor L. and Barbara J. Bonat
Joan V. Bonk and Mrs. Philip Bonsal
Hon. E. Bordenet, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. F. Borowsky

C. Joseph Bowdring

Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bowles
John and Patricia Boyd and family
Mr. Maxwell Brace

Eugenie Rowe Bradford

Mr. and Mrs. Glenn M. Branch
Richard L. Branvold

Edward L. Bratton

Mr. Harold H. Bredell

Mr. J. Bruce Bredin

Terence R. and Vivien C. Brewer
Robert L. Bridges

Dr. and Mrs. Clifton H. Briggs
Dr. and Mrs. S. B. Brinkley

Ms. Dorothea T. Bristol

Mr. Harvey K. Brock

Mrs. George H. Brodie

Lt. Col. William W. Brooks
John A. Bross

Mr. F. Carroll Brown

Mrs. Maude E. Brown

Patricia L. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph H. Brown
Guy J. Brunacci

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick B. Bryant
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Buck

Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Buhler
Edward P. Bullock

Alfred F. Buonaguro

Hon. William A. M. Burden

Mr. and Mrs. I. Townsend Burden III
Mr. James M. Burger

Mrs. Julia T. Burlen

Mrs. Poe Burling

Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Burns
Richard Scott Burow

Joseph Burton

Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Burwell
Marion B. Busch

Mr. and Mrs. Thompson H. Butz
Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Byrne
Lorena Smith Cabaniss

G. W. Cage, M.D.

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Callahan
DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)—continued

Thomas J. Camp, Jr.

William D. Campbell

Francis Caponegro, Jr., M.D.
William I. Cargo

Mr. and Mrs. Woolsey Carmalt
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth S. Carpenter
Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten

Col. Douglas H. Carter

Thomas K. Carter

Mr. Robert J. Carver

Mrs. Eugene B. Casey

Dr. Gary W. and Carol S. Cashon
Mr. and Mrs. Edmund L. Castillo
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Cate

Dr. David Challinor

Mr. E. P. Charlap

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk
Mr. and Mrs. G. Howland Chase
Joel Chaseman

Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Mr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs
Gregory M. Christopher
Priscilla M. Christy

Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett
Patricia D. W. Clark

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Clement
Miss Isabelle L. Clouser

Mr. Hayward C. Coe

Dr. and Mrs. David G. Cogan
Bertram M. Cohen

Col. Russell C. Coile

Mr. Arthur J. Collingsworth
Mrs. Ethel Conlisk

Dr. George W. Conner

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Cook
Ralph J. and Debbie Coselli
Mrs. Logan O. Cowgill

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Crabtree
Fritz J. Cramer, M.D.

Mr. and Mrs. Walthall Crist
Mrs. Thomas E. Crocker

Mrs. Richard S. Cross

Marsha C. and Andrew D. Culver
Ms. Ida D. Cutherbertson

Mrs. Chester Dale

Helen E. Daniells, M.D.

Capt. and Mrs. R. L. Daniels
Helen Darling

Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis
Mr. and Mrs. Keith Davis

Olivia Davis

Evelyn Y. Davis

Ms. Patricia Davis-Wack

Mrs. Alva A. Dawson

E. A. Dawson

Mr. and Mrs. Charles DeRoche

Mr. Alan L. Dean

Dalene B. and Joseph E. Dean

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne Richard
Delaney

Capt. and Mrs. Victor Delano

Adalberto Delgado, M.D.

Arthur F. and Isadora Dellheim

Howard Dellon

Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Hilliard Dennis

Gen. Jacob L. Devers

James L. Dietz

Dr. Henry Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. John Dimick

Mr. and Mrs. Allen T. Dittmann

Austin F, Dohrman, Jr.

Steven Donaghey

George Arntzen Doole

James A. Dorsch

David M. Dorsen

Mr. Alden Lowell Doud

Mr. and Mrs. T. M. Douglas

Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Draper

Roburt Andre Dumas, Sr.

Lucia J. Dunham

Helen Jean Arthur Dunn

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart Dunn, Jr.

Vernon J. Dwyer

Mr. Cyril H. Dye

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin

Dr. Elizabeth M. Earley

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn R. Eastridge

Frank K. Eggleston

Lawrence A. Ehrhart

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Eichholz

Comdr. and Mrs. Harvey Eikel

C. Burke Elbrick

Mrs. Leila Eley

Mr. George M. Elsey

J. C. Mason Emde

Elinor and Harry Emlet

Mr. and Mrs. Pleasanton H. Ennis

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen B. Epifano

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Esswein

Mr. and Mrs. James G. Evans, Jr.

Mrs. Herbert P. Fales

Ms. Marilyn Farrand

James P. Farrell

Col. and Mrs. J. J. Felmley

Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Fesler

Roy Feuchter

Mr. Marshall Field

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Finberg

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 485
DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)—continued

Robert C. and Karen J. Fink
James P. Finn

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone
Edward P. Fischer

Mr. and Mrs. S. Greenhoot Fischer
John A. Fischer, M.D.

H. Marshall Fitzgerald

Ronald and Barbara Fitzgerald
Mr. Thomas R. Flagg

J. Fleischman

Robert W. Fleming

Mr. and Mrs. M. K. Fleschner
Jerry L. and Carol C. Fletcher
David Fogelson

Hon. and Mrs. Edward Foley
Mr. and Mrs. Lee M. Folger

Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Harold Folk
Albert A. Folop

Richard E. Ford

Miss Helen E. Forshier

Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Francis
Randolph and Mafalda French
M. C. Freudenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H. Fribourg
Col. and Mrs. Clarence D. Fried
Dr. Howard L. Friedenberg
Arthur D. and Barbara B. Friedman
Ms. Robbin Marie Fusero
Atsushi Futamase

Mrs. Charles E. Gamper

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Gardner

Mrs. Virginia B. Garvey

Mr. T. Jack Gary, Jr.

Rachel Gay

Larry Gaynes

The General Products, Inc.
Gerald R. Gereau

Frances Giacobbe

Miss Alice L. Giles

Douglas J. and Carol Giles
Robert S. Gillia, Jr.

Mrs. N. Gimbel

Mr. and Mrs. W. Shuler Ginn
Mrs. E. W. Glascock

Dr. Sanford A. Glazer

Mr. and Mrs. T. K. Glennan

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard J. Godet
John M. Goehner

Mr. and Mrs. Henry H. Goldberg
Susan S. and Richard W. Goldman
Col. and Mrs. Julius Goldstein
Mr. David Goodman

Mr. James G. Gore, Jr.

486 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Mrs. Bette C. Graham

Ms. Betty R. Graham

Mrs. Katharine Graham

Capt. and Mrs. C. A. Grandjean
Dr. Sheila H. Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green

Hix H. Green, Jr.

Judith Greenwood Designs

Mr. and Mrs. George G. B. Griffin
Richard P. Grill

Robert Groberg

Drs. Christian and Carol Gronbeck
Dr. and Mrs. C. D. Groover

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth M. Grubb
Helena Gunnarsson

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Guttag
Walter and Elise Haas Fund

John L. Hafenrichter

Louis P. Haffer

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest V. Hallberg, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Allen Hamburg
Mrs. Ivan Hamilton

Mr. and Mrs. Elwood C. Hamsher
Mrs. E. P. Hand

Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Hansen
Dorcas Hardin

Mr. and Mrs. William L. Harding
George D. Hardy

Robert C. Harris

William J. Harris, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Byron E. Harrison
George A. Hatzes, Jr.

Thomas Hays

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Healy III
Miss Annabelle Heath

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Hedlund
Judith B. Heimann

Col. and Mrs. Robert D. Heinl, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Martin D. Held
Alverne S. Hellenthal

Ralph D. Helwig

Jeffrey L. Hendry

Nona G. Herndon

Earl C. Hertenstein

Mrs. Christian A. Herter

Claire C. Hicks

Robert A. Hicks

Mr. Alan R. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan B. Hill
Dr. and Mrs. J. D. Hills

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Hinchcliff
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Hines
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice A. Hoard
DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)—continued

E. Roberts Hofsas

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Holden
Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Holle
Mr. and Mrs. George B. Holmes
Jesse H. Holmes

Mr. and Mrs. X. L. J. Holroyd
Anthony and Judith Hope
William E. Horn

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Horsky
Mr. John K. Hoskinson

Mr. Arthur A. Houghton, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence R. Houston

Mr. and Mrs. Morton B. Howell
Dr. Sam W. Huddleston

Mrs. Hugo G. Huettig, Jr.

Mrs. Albert A. Hughes

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Hughes
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes
Mr. Leslie R. Hunt

Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Hunt

R. Bruce Hunter

Claude D. Hurd

Mr. and Mrs. F. Irving Hutchins
Ms. Marjorie P. Hutchinson
Ann H. Hyde

Mr. and Mrs. William K. Ince
Mrs. S. T. Inglish

Terrence Jach

Patricia Hale Jackson

W. D. Jackson

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Jacobsen
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Jacobsen
Dr. John R. Jacoway

Dr. Glenn James

Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries
J. Ruskin Jelks, Jr.

David B. Jenkins

Robert E. Johnson

Col. and Mrs. F. M. Johnson, Jr.
Ms. Patricia E. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Jung
John M. Kalbermatten

Linda H. Kamm

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Kay
Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Kaye

Mr. Daniel C. Kaye

Mr. Ronald G. Keeping

J. R. Keiper, Jr.

Mrs. George C. Keiser

Mr. Robert E. Keiter

Harris L. Kempner

Thomas C. Kibirsky

John Kicak

Linda H. Kight

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 487

Mr. Charles T. Kindsvatter

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Kirchheimer

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick G. Klemm

Hon. and Mrs. Herbert W. Klotz

Mrs. Virginia H. Knauer

Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Knee

Dr. and Mrs. Rolf A. Koehler

David E. Koranek

Dr. and Mrs. M. C. Korengold

Laurence E. Korwin

Albert Kramer

P. G. Kruzic

Mr. Stanley J. Kuliczkowski

William P. La Plant, Jr.

Mr. Albert J. Laflam

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Lanahan

Mr. and Mrs. A. Scheffer Lang

R. D. and M. A. Langenkamp

Mr. and Mrs. Chiswell D.
Langhorne, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony A. Lapham

Mr. and Mrs. Felix J. Lapinski

Dr. and Mrs. K. C. Latven

Mr. Robert F. Law

Mr. George E. Lawrence

Walter E. Lawrinson, M.D.

Mr. Sperry Lea

James A. Lee

Mr. George Lehnen III

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation, Inc.

Edward L. Lembitz

Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Levi

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Levine

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis

H. D. Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G. Liebhardt

Frank W. Lindenberger

Mr. R. Robert Linowes

Mrs. Eunice K. Lipkowitz

David H. Lloyd

Kathleen E. Lloyd, M.D.

Mr. and Mrs. Millington Lockwood

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Loftin

Mr. and Mrs. R. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. James P. Londergan, Jr.

William A. Long

Lois Lorton

Mrs. Richard Keith Louden, Sr.
Dr. and Mrs. James Louie
Roger H. V. and Claudine G. Lourie
Charles L. Lowery
DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)—continued

Mr. Phillip C. Luttenberger

Mr. and Mrs. John A. L. Lyons
Marian S. MacIntyre

Anthony J. Maciorowski

Mrs. J. Noel Macy

Louise Mann Madden

Rex A. Maddox

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. Maffitt
Mrs. Genevieve E. Major

E. S. and Jean C. Mangiafico

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes

Mr. E. Manuel Manning

Mrs. R. A. Marmet

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew W. Marshall
Barton A. and Barbara H. Marshall

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Marshall, Jr.

Mrs. Elizabeth Martin

Mr. and Mrs. Guy Martin

Miss Priscilla Mason

Dr. and Mrs. Glenn B. Mather
Ms. Billie G. Matheson

Mrs. G. L. Mathews

Mr. Stephen C. Matula

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Maxwell
Dr. and Mrs. Francis Mayle, Jr.
Hannah and Michael E. Mazer
June L. McCalla

R. McCann, M.D.

Mr. and Mrs. Lacy McClain
Truman McCray

Mr. Matthew B. McCullough
James P. McGranery, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. John J. McGrath
John S. McInnes

Mrs. David H. McKillop

Mr. and Mrs. J. T. McLane

Mr. John McNeill

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred A. Michaud
Dr. and Mrs. Hubert S. Mickel
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K. Milestone
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Miller
Linda B. and Marc E. Miller

R. Eric Miller

Mr. and Mrs. T. Craig Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Walter C. Miller
Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Minutillo
Col. and Mrs. Kenneth L. Moll
Mr. and Mrs. Charles N. Monsted
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cotton Moore
Mrs. E. P. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward Moore
Richard H. Moore

Margaret Morgan

Mr. Charles W. Morris

488 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Mr. and Mrs. Dapray Muir

Mr. and Mrs. Carl J. Mulert, Jr.
G. R. Munger

Jerry L. Mungo

Burnaby Munson

John F. Murphy

Mr. Edmund L. Murray

Arthur Heaton Nash

Richard Needelman

Arthur H. Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce H. Nelson
Mrs. Robert E. Newby

William and Louisa Newlin

Dr. and Mrs. Dwight W. Newman
Gary Ray Newport

Thomas S. Nichols

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Nigra
Glenn and Judith Nordin

Mr. Gerson Nordlinger, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Norwood
Mr. Robert O’Brien

Patricia H. O’Connor

Marilyn O’Harrow

Grace and Jerry O’Regan

Dr. Carlos E. Odiaga

Comdr. and Mrs. Lester E. Ogilvy
Dr. and Mrs. Edward C. Oldfield III
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds
Joseph A. Ondrejko

Mrs. Carolyn C. Onufrak

Robert Orben

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Orr

Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Osbourne
David and Irene Osterman
Daniel J. Ostrowski

Gayil Nalls Overholser

Mrs. Dudley Owen

Mr. Philip T. Pagliaro

Mr. and Mrs. David J. R. Pales
David S. and Sarah C. Palmer
Comdr. Everett A. Parke

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Parnell, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. David T. Parry

Mr. and Mrs. Ray Patrick

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Patton, Jr.
Miss Ruth Uppercu Paul

Louis Peller

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Walter Peltason
Edmund Pendleton

William C. Penick

James P. Perry

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin G. Perry
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Peterson
Mrs. Elizabeth M. Petrie
DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)—continued

Hon. and Mrs. Christopher H.
Phillips

Rae H. Pickrel

Jacqueline Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. L. Harrison Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Larry R. Pilot

Mr. and Mrs. L. B. Polsky

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J. Porter

Ms. Leezee Porter

Alan W. Postlethwaite

Mrs. Richard Preece

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Prenzel

Mrs. Charles P. Price

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas S. Price

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Price

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold Principato

Mrs. Dow Puckett

Mr. Cyrus J. Quinn

John B. Radner

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest G. Rafey

Ms. Mary E. Ragan

William Rausch

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne F. Rayfield

Isabel M. Rea

Eugene L. and Marina Irma Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Rector

Henry Reed

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Don Rhodes

Joseph A. Rice

Ronald P. Rich

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Robb

Ms. Jane F. Roberts

Mrs. David Roberts III

Garnett Lynn Robins

Walter P. Robinson, Jr.

Mr. Laurance S. Rockefeller

C. O’Neil Rogers

Dr. and Mrs. Charles C. Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Rogers

Gary D. Rosch

Mr. Gerald A. Rosen

Seymour and Elizabeth Rosen

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel J. Rosenfeld

Benjamin J. Rosenthal

Mr. R. M. Rosenthal

Irma R. and Kenneth M. Royer

Ms. Roberta Ruliffson

H. E. Russell

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo

John M. and Madeline S. Ryan

Henry Sabatell

Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs

Mr. John S. Samuels III

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 489

Dorothy B. Sandleman

Hon. Joseph C. Satterthwaite

Mr. David Saunders

Donald R. and Mary C. Saylor

Francis B. Sayre

Mr. John K. Scales

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Schaefer

Ms. Wendy Schaetzel

Mr. and Mrs. Tony Schall

Robert J. Schemel

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer

Dr. Basil A. Schiff

Ms. Antoinette B. Schmahl

Ms. Diane M. Schmitt

Col. and Mrs. William P. Schneider

Florence M. Schoenborn

Miss Harriet Schofield

Morton and Judith A. Schomer

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Schubert

Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Schugar

Lloyd E. Schuster

Mr. and Mrs. David L. Schwartz

Mr. C. W. Scott

Corine G. Scott

Mrs. Charles Scribner

Marjorie H. Scribner

Miss Carolynne Seeman

Mr. and Mrs Gene F. Seevers

David A. Seibold

Jean T. Seidenstein

Harold A. Serr

Sherman J. Sexton

Miss Ronna Sharp

George and Alison Sharpe

Mr. Donald W. Shaw

Miss Kathleen Sherman

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Siegel

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Silberman

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Dr. and Mrs. James D. Singletary

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Sivard and
family

Nelson Slater

Sanford Slavin

Mrs. Charlotta B. Sloan

Anne Smalet

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Col. and Mrs. C. Haskell Small

Marvin Small

Victoria B. Smalley

Raymond L. Smart

Charles S. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Smith

DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)—continued

Shirley A. Smith

Hon. and Mrs. Henry Smith III
Mr. Benjamin M. Smith, Jr.
Lawrence P. and Helen R. Snipper
Mr. and Mrs. Harry R. Snyder
Mr. and Mrs. Joel W. Solomon
T. A. Stanhope

Gary Staples

Bruce E. Stauffer

Stuart L. Stauss

Dr. Colby S. Stearns

Dudrey N. and Frances S. Steel
William R. Stehle

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Steigerwald
Dr. Marjorie L. Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Stephens
W. Clinton Sterling III

William C. Sterling, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Sterrett
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Stevens

Dr. and Mrs. T. Dale Stewart
Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Stratton

Mr. and Mrs. A. Michael Sullivan, Jr.

Mr. Larry D. Sumner

Mrs. Fairfax Foster Sutter

Mary H. D. Swift

Richard O. Swim

James McK. Symington

Martha Frick Symington Inc.

M. D. and R. Tabakin

Mr. and Mrs. Leland E. Talbott
Cleonice Tavani

Ms. Evalyn Taylor

Mrs. May Day Taylor

Ms. Linda Teixeira

Joseph M. Tessmer

The Treuhaft Foundation

Mr. Beverly T. Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Thompson
Mr. and Mrs. Brian Thomson

Dr. John L. Thornton

Dr. and Mrs. George Tievsky
Phillip and Sylvia Tiger

Mr. and Mrs. Vladimir S. Tolstoy
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Toner

Mr. and Mrs. David G. Townsend
Wesley Townsend

Carol J. and Timothy J. Traub, Sr.
Mr. and Mrs. James C. Treadway
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Trentman
Robert L. Tull

James M. Tully

David S. Turner

John H. Turner

Charles A. Turner III

490 / Smithsonian Year 1979

George E. Tuttle

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Tuttle
Anthony S. Vaivada

Caroline E. Van Mason

Peter Van Roijen

Dr. and Mrs. Philip Varner

Emily W. Vaughn

Mr. and Mrs. William V. Vaughn
Maria C. Volpe

H. F. Wachsman, M.D.

John R. Wagley

Mr. and Mrs. John P. Wagner
Col. and Mrs. John K. Walker, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Wallace
Barbara R. Walsh

Daniel C. Warren, M.D.

Robert L. and Carol B. Waters
Mr. and Mrs. Ray Watkins

Mr. Arnold Watson

Col. and Mrs. Louis V. Watwood
Hon. James E. Webb

Ms. Elizabeth A. Webber

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick S. Webster
Nathan and Pauline Wechsler

Dr. Morris A. Weinberger

Mr. and Mrs. Eric W. Weinmann
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Weinstein
Gen. Sarah P. Wells

Elizabeth A. Werner

Stuart L. Werner

Mr. Kenneth F. Wesolik

Mrs. Mary Nan West

Mrs. Thea Westreich

Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler

Mary Anne Whitcomb

Mr. Maurice E. White

Mr. and Mrs. Milton G. White
Mr. and Mrs. Grover C. White, Jr.
James L. Whitehead

G. William Whyers

Mr. and Mrs. Harry W. Whyte
Mr. Crocker Wight

Mrs. Vivian Wildman

Mr. and Mrs. J. Burke Wilkinson
Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Wilkinson
Dr. and Mrs. B. H. Williams
Edward D. and Sheryl A. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Harold M. Williams
Mr. and Mrs. John K. Willis

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Wilner
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Foss Wilson
Mrs. Mark Winkler

Mr. and Mrs. Milton S. Winters
Mrs. Jean Sohner Wirtz

Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff

DONOR MEMBERS ($100 and above)—continued

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Wolfson Hal L. and Janice M. Young

Ms. Carolyn Wong Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Zelony

Mr. David L. Wood Mrs. John H. Zentay

Ms. Rosemary Wood Ms. Jolie Zielinski

Mrs. Joseph H. Woodward Samuel E. and Karen R. Zimmerman
Mr. and Mrs. Herman Wouk Mr. G. H. Zinkgraf

Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Wright Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M. Zorc

Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz Mr. George Zournas

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Yaney

There are, in addition to those Contributing Members listed above, 3,380
Members at the Supporting Level ($50) whose contributions in 1979 amounted
to $169,000. Their names are included in the separate publication, Benefactors
of the Smithsonian Institution.

Appendix 8. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution / 491
APPENDIX 9. List of Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1979

The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
join with the entire staff in thanking all of the Institution’s friends for
their generous financial support and for their gifts to the collections. If
perchance the name of any donor has been omitted from the following
list, it is an inadvertence and in no way diminishes the Institution’s
gratitude. Many gifts were received from donors who prefer to remain
anonymous; the Smithsonian wishes to thank them for their generosity.

OFFICE OF WHE SEGREDARY

SPECIAL PROJECTS

Donors to the Furnishings Collection

Dr. Richard H. Howland, Washington, D.C.: pair of Renaissance Revival music
cabinets, c. 1865; Renaissance Revival sideboard, c. 1860.

The Reverend and Mrs. Edmund S. Matthews, Wappingers Falls, New York:
Renaissance Revival music cabinet, c. 1870.

Bequest of Glenn Edward Thompson, Washington, D.C.: set of one arm chair
and five side chairs, Colonial Revival, c. 1895.

SGIENGE

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Donors of Financial Support

Johnson Wax.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

Donors to the Collections

Academy of Model Aeronautics, Washington, D.C.: electric motor, model air-
plane.

Academy of Sciences, U.S.S.R.: space research equipment.

Mr. James S. Alcorn, La Jolla, California: aircraft model.

Capt. Ben S. Allen, Sunnyvale, California: USAF personal flight equipment.

American Airlines: propeller.

Mrs. A. Francis Arcier, Boulder, Colorado: memorabilia.

Mr. Richard Ault, Alexandria, Virginia: WW II flight equipment.

Mr. John Babel, Monterey, California: flight helmet.

Sfc. Clyde W. Ball, Fort Belvoir, Virginia: personal flight equipment.

492 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Bendix Field Engineering Corporation, Owings Mills, Maryland: dynamotors.

Col. Robert J. Benford, USAF (Ret.), Satellite Beach, Florida: WW II flight sur-
geon’s kit.

Boeing Aerospace Company: aviation art.

Sen. Neville Bonner, Ipswitch, Queensland, Australia: boomerang.

Mr. William Booth, Deland, Florida: personal flight equipment.

Mr. Lawrence H. Boteler, McLean, Virginia: USAF personal flight equipment.

Mr. Leroy A. Boutwell, Concord, New Hampshire: WW I helmet and goggles.

Mr. Richard Brant, Springfield, Virginia: aircraft model.

Burroughs Corporation, Detroit, Michigan: data processing equipment.

Mr. R. J. Butler, Chiltenham, Maryland: uniform and personal flight equipment.

Mr. J. Duncan Campbell, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: WW I, US Army aviation
badges and insignia.

Columbia Pictures Corporation: spacecraft model.

Mr. Peter Cook, Wiscasset, Maine: aviation art.

Mr. Steve Crichton, Gresham, Oregon: boomerang.

Col. John M. Davies, USAF (Ret.), Falls Church, Virginia: personal flight
materiel.

Ms. Glenna Mae Davis, St. Simons Island, Georgia: aviation trophy.

Department of Defense: flight equipment.

Mr. George Marsden Design, Washington, D.C.: model aircraft.

Mr. Daniel J. Dossert, Syracuse, New York: aircraft model.

Mr. Charles Stark Draper, Newton, Massachusetts: awards and memorabilia.

Ethyl Corporation, Detroit, Michigan: antique aviation spark plugs.

Federal Aviation Administration, Washington, D.C.: airline emergency oxygen
equipment.

Mr. Jean Fo, Les Vans, France: aviation art.

Fort Benjamin Harrison Museum, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indiana: WW II
aerial bombs—U.S.A., German, and Italian.

Wilson A. Foust, Jr., New Holland, Pennsylvania: memorabilia.

Mr. Patrick Frank and Ms. Linda Frank, West Hartford, Connecticut: memora-
bilia.

Ms. Candy Gamble, Baltimore, Maryland: Pan American stewardess uniform.

Mr. Everett Gamble, Washington, North Carolina: Pan American World Air-
ways uniform.

General Electric Company, Burlington, Vermont: bombsight attachment.

General Electric Corporation, Lynn, Massachusetts: turbojet aircraft engine.

Mr. David Gray, Mundelein, Illinois: helicopter model.

Greeff Fabrics, Inc., Port Chester, New York: aircraft materiel.

Grumman Aerospace, Bethpage, Long Island, New York: portable communica-
tions system, space construction beam.

Haystack Observatory, Westford, Massachusetts: research electronic equipment.

Mr. Brian Hessler, Kensington, Maryland: photographic equipment.

Historical Aircraft Research & Development, Denver, Colorado: aircraft model.

Mr. Robert B. Hodes, New York, New York: aviation art.

Mr. Carman L. Hoovler, Jr., Camp Springs, Maryland: aircraft components.

Ms. Nena Norris Hudson, Arlington, Virginia: aviation art.

James Smithson Society, Washington, D.C.: sculpture.

Mr. Robert T. Jones, Sunnyvale, California: aircraft model.

Gen. K. Jorgensen, Copenhagen, Denmark: memorabilia.

Mr. Michael Jorgensen, Hastings, Nebraska: flight materiel.

Mrs. Emma Kavert, Howell Township, New Jersey: memorabilia.

Mr. George Kay, Browns Mills, New Jersey: flight equipment.

Mr. Taras Kiceniuk, Palomar Mountain, California: hang glider.

Mr. Rolf Klep, Astoria, Oregon: painting.

Mrs. A. S. Koch, Falls Church, Virginia: personal flight materiel.

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 493
Dr. Richard Koszarski, Elmhurst, New York: amateur rocketry equipment.

Maj. Thomas C. Kulligan, USAF, Colorado Springs, Colorado: WW II uniform
item.

Mr. James C. Lackridge, Kailua, Hawaii: flight equipment.

Kenneth M. Lane and Everett Cassagneres, Miami, Florida: Lindbergh trans-
Atlantic flight survival kit.

Col. John M. Lucker, Arlington, Virginia: flight materiel.

Mr. Kenneth R. Lundquist, Doraville, Georgia: aircraft model.

Marine Corps Museum, Quantico, Virginia: aircraft engine.

McDonnell Douglas Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri: Mercury and Gemini
series equipment, Gemini series spacecraft components, aircraft flight instru-
ments, accessories and components, astronaut equipment.

M. Sgt. Clair Mittan, Andrews Air Force Base, Washington, D.C.: USAF oxy-
gen equipment.

Mrs. Christine Montgomery, Ann Arbor, Michigan: insignia.

Museo Caproni, Milano, Italy: Italian WW II uniforms and flight materiel.

National Aeronautic Association, Washington, D.C.: Apollo- Soyuz world rec-
ord information file.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration: cameras, NACA memorabilia,
thrust chamber, lenses and equipment, space suit components, retro rocket
igniters, instruments and components, oxygen and scanning instruments,
space shuttle model, heat shield, space suit and survival equipment, and
Voyager spacecraft model; Ames Research Center: Pioneer program elec-
tronic equipment; Jet Propulsion Laboratory: reproduction, Viking space-
craft; Johnson Space Center: Apollo camera equipment, space program per-
sonal flight equipment and accessories, rescue equipment, lithium hydroxide
canisters, lunar module components, biomedical space flight equipment, in-
struments and electronic components; Kennedy Space Center: emergency
egress trainer, Saturn V launch vehicle and hardware; Langley Research Cen-
ter: Skylab equipment; Marshall Space Flight Center: photographic equip-
ment, spacesuits, cameras, biomedical equipment; Pasadena Office: Vernier
spacecraft engines.

National Park Service, Washington, D.C.: aircraft cannon.

Naval Air Development Center: personal flight equipment, military oxygen
equipment.

Naval Air Facility, Andrews Air Force Base, Washington, D.C.: personal flight
equipment.

Naval Air Systems Command: flight equipment, personal flight equipment.

Mr. A. J. Ostheimer: memorabilia.

Mr. Christopher Pickup, Vienna, Virginia: insignia.

Capt. Holden C. Richardson, Washington, D.C.: memorabilia.

Rockwell International, Dunney, California: spacecraft components and thrust
chamber.

Ruben Brothers Waste Company, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: USAAF personal
flight equipment.

George J. Sobrick, Somers Point, New Jersey: Japanese aircraft fabric.

Ms. Francis Schoenwetter, Chicago, Illinois: aviation art.

Mr. and Mrs. David Schwartz, Silver Spring, Maryland: flight materiel.

Thomas Sefton, San Diego, California: antique aircraft components.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts: space-age
equipment.

Specialized Electronics Corporation: electric flight and pre-flight navigation
computer.

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser, New York, New York: aviation art.

Mr. William F. Spengler, Colorado Springs, Colorado: memorabilia.

Sperry Gyroscope Company: WW I bomb sight.

494 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Ms. Doris A. Stilwell and Mrs. Sally Stilwell Nannestad, Kanneoke, Hawaii:
WW L, USN pilot’s uniform and insignia.

Mr. Raymond L. Suppes, Chevy Chase, Maryland: memorabilia.

Mr. C. G. Sweeting, Clinton, Maryland: flight equipment.

Capt. Howard B. Thorsen, USCG, Alexandria, Virginia: military flight helmet.

Thrift Shop, Andrews Air Force Base, Washington, D.C.: WW II rescue flight
equipment.

Toshihiko Sakow Associates, Teaneck, New Jersey: aircraft model.

Col. John M. Tucker, USAF (Ret.), Arlington, Virginia: personal flight materiel.

Mr. Douglas Tyler, Notre Dame, Indiana: aviation art.

Mr. Naomi Uemura, Tokyo, Japan: electronic equipment and memorabilia.

US Air Force: personal flight equipment, flight helmets and oxygen masks;
Helmet Development Branch, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio: equip-
ment, flight helmet.

US Army: WW II ordnance, aviation equipment, protective flying helmet.

US Army Aviation Museum, Fort Rucker, Alabama: military clothing and
equipment.

US Coast Guard: helicopter rescue equipment.

Mr. Thornton Utz, Sarasota, Florida: painting of Alan Shepard.

Family of Rodman Wanamaker, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: memorabilia.

Col. John S. Weeks, London, England: Hale war rockets of the 19th century.

Mr. Richard N. Whitman, Columbus, Ohio: USN airship telephone.

Mr. Robert Whipperman, Harbor City, California: first Ercoupe production
airplane.

Williams Research Corporation, Walled Lake, Michigan: turbofan engine.

Mr. Frank Youngquest, Rock Island, Illinois: memorabilia.

Mr. Joseph Zacko, Springfield, Maryland: aircraft propeller.

Donors to the National Air and Space Museum Library

John Bodin: collection of 90 autographed letters and photographs of aircraft
and airmen and 14 aircraft accident reports.

The Honorable William F. Bolger: imprinted album of the First Day cover, 21-
cent airmail, U.S. Postal Card, September 16, 1978.

Louise Breck Fergus: 4 astronomical prints.

Patrick Frank: Herman Goering holograph.

Ira Milton Jones: WW I Overseas Flyers Roster with the signature of 5 United
States Presidents—Harry S. Truman, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon,
Gerald R. Ford, and Jimmy Carter.

M. J. Kasiuba: collection of 50 military aircraft slides.

Mrs. Ann Kerr: postcard featuring the Wright Brothers and Walter Brookins.

Miss Rae T. Lewis: 30 airline decals.

A. J. Ostheimer: letters, documents of early aviation pioneers.

Joseph de Casseres Reshower: 2 framed sets of autographs of early aviation
pioneers.

Mrs. Eugene Scroggie: 2 photographs.

Gerald A. Willey: postcards of the wreck of the USS Shenandoah.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN

Donors of Financial Support

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

R. K. Mellon Family Foundation: in support of expenses to convene the Ad-
visory Council to the National Anthropological Film Center.

RESEARCH INSTITUTION ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES

Ford Foundation: in support of research of Donald L. Horowitz, “Ethnic Con-
flict in Developing Countries.”

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 495
Donors and Collaborative Acquisitions

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

Lain S. Bangdel, Royal Nepal Academy: 104,100 feet of synch sound research
footage on the cultural heritage of Nepal, filmed in 1978-79.

Josef Bohmer: 1,365 feet of master/print film and 35 mm original nitrate still
negatives of the Austrian Motorcycle Tour Through Africa, Capetown-Cairo,
1935-36.

Lewis Cotlow: 2,000 feet master/print film Primitive Paradise.

Margaret Cussler: 800 feet master/print film Hopi Horizons, c. 1945.

Wayne Dye/Summer Institute of Linguistics: 44,500 feet of synch sound re-
search footage from traditional cultures in Papua New Guinea, filmed in 1979.

Museu do Indio, Rio de Janeiro: 42,700 feet of synch sound research footage
on the Canela Indians of Brazil, filmed in 1979.

National Museum of Natural History: 1,048 feet nitrate original film of The
Vanishing Indian, c. 1928.

Luding Khen Rinpoche/Library of Tibetan Works and Archives: 74,400 feet of
synch sound research footage of traditional Tibetan life and culture, filmed
in Ladakh (Western Tibet) 1978 and 1979.

Dr. Gyatsho Tshering/Library of Tibetan Works and Archives: 47,330 feet of
synch sound research footage of traditional Tibetan life and culture, filmed

in traditional Tibetan monastic communities in India in 1979.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Donors of Financial Support

Frances J. Allen

American Geological Institute
Amoco Foundation, Inc.
Ann M. Anderson
Anonymous

Keiji Baba

Evelyn F. Bartlett
Kathleen L. Bolick

E. L. Bousfield

J. Bruce Bredin

Bunker Ramo Corporation
Beatrice L. Burch
Melbourne R. Carriker

Mr. and Mrs. Fenner A. Chace, Jr.

Ailsa M. Clark

Maureen E. Downey

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation

Mrs. Robert F. Duckworth

Exxon Corporation

H. A. Fehlmann

Dr. and Mrs. Gordon E. Gates

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Isabella Gordon

The Griffis Foundation, Inc.

Janet Haig

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.

Malcolm F. Hodges

L. B. Holthuis

Carl L. Hubbs

International Minerals and Chemical

Corporation

496 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Mildred E. Joseph

Kazuo Koba

Mrs. G. R. Lunz

Brian Mason

Lucien Masse

Cordelia S. May Charitable Trust
William G. Melson

Marvin C. Meyer

National Geographic Society
T. Odawara

Phillips Petroleum

Marie M. Picard

Grace E. Pickford

Ernest S. Reese

W. D. Robertson

Katsushi Sakai

R. Thomas Schaub

Mary Horner Stuart Foundation
Hiroshi Suzuki

Time-Life Books, Inc.
Marion D. Tolbert

U.S. Steel Corporation
Elizabeth D. Walsh
Washington Art League
Alvin J. Wegman

The Whale Protection Fund
General Whale

Alan J. Wike

Women’s Committee

World Wildlife Fund
Restricted Trust Fund Donors

Armstrong Fund

Beauregard Fund

Brown Fund

Canfield Fund

Casey Fund

Chamberlain Fund

Cooper Fund

Desautels Fund

Division of Mammals Fund

Division of Reptiles and
Amphibians Fund

Donors to the National Collections

INSTITUTIONAL

Aarhus Universitet: Jutlandicum
Herbarium, Denmark

Academy of Sciences, California

Academy of Sciences, Poland

Academy of Sciences, U.S.S.R.

Adelphi, University of

Adit

Agriculture, U.S. Department of

Air India Airlines

Alabama, University of

Alaska, University of

Alpine Exploration

American Museum of Natural History

Applied Scientific Research
Corporation, Thailand

Arizona State University

Arizona University: Herbarium

Arizona, University of

Artrox, Inc.

Auburn University

Australian Museum

Axel Giese Associates, Inc.

Baghdad, University of, Iraq

Beak Consultants, Inc.

Bell Laboratories

Bermuda Biological Station

Bernice P. Bishop Museum

Biology Laboratory, Palau

Boston University

Botanical Museum, Sweden

Botanischer Garten und Botanisches
Museum, Germany

Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem,
West Germany

Bradeanum Herbarium, Brazil

Bristol, University of, England

British Columbia, University of,
Canada

British Museum of Natural History,
England

Bruce Hughes Fund

Drake Fund
Henderson Fund
Hillyer Fund
Hitchcock Fund
Hrdlicka Fund
Hughes Fund
Kellogg Fund
Kramer Fund
Lyons Fund
Maxwell Fund

Mineral Fund
Mitchell Fund
Noyes Fund
Rathbun Fund
Roebling Fund
Schultz Fund
Springer Fund
Sprague Fund
Walcott Fund

Butler University

Calgary, University of, Canada

California, Department of Agriculture

California Institute of Technology

California, State of: Department of
Fish and Game

California, University of: Berkeley
Campus, Herbarium, San Diego
Campus, Santa Barbara Campus

Calvert Marine Museum

Canada, Centre for Mineral and
Energy Technology

Canada, Department of Geological
Sciences, Geological Survey of

Canberra Botanic Gardens, Australia

Canfield Fund

Canterbury, University of, New
Zealand

Cape Breton College, Canada

Carleton University, Canada

Carnegie Institution of Washington

Carnegie Museum of Natural History

Centre Office de la Recherche
Scientifique et Technique
Outre-Mer, French Guiana

Centro Internacional e Agricultura
Tropica, Colombia

Chamberlain Fund

Charles Darwin Foundation for the
Galapagos Isles, Ecuador

Chevron Oil Field Research Company

Chicago, University of

Clemson University

College of Charleston

Colorado Gem and Mineral Company

Colorado State University: Lassa
Fever Multimammate Mouse
Project

Colorado University: Herbarium,
Museum

Cominco, Ltd., Canada

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 497
Commerce, U.S. Department of

Commissao Executiva Do Plano da
Lavoura Cacaueira, Brazil

Commonwealth Scientific and
Industrial Research Organization,
Australia

Conservatoire et Jardin Botaniques,
Switzerland

Copenhagen, University of, Denmark

Cornell University

Crystal Cavern Minerals

Dalhousie University, Canada

Dallas Museum of Natural History

Dartmouth College

Dauphin Island Sea Laboratory

Defense, U.S. Department of: Navy

Delaware, University of

Denver Museum of Natural History

Departamento de Botanica y Ecologia,
Argentina

Departamento de Conservacas
Ambiental, FEEMA, Brazil

DePauw University

Deutsches Museum, Germany

Duke University: Herbarium

Drake Fund

Economic Herbarium of Oak Ames

Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa
Agropecuaria, Brazil

Environmental Protection Agency,
WES:

Escuela Nacional de Agricultura,
Mexico

Escuela Nacional de Ciencias
Biologicas, Mexico

Fairchild Tropical Garden

Field Museum of Natural History

Florida Atlantic University

Florida, Department of Agriculture

Florida State Museum

Florida State University: Herbarium

Franklin-Kiwanis Mineral Museum

Free University, The Netherlands

Freshwater Institute, Canada

Frozen Seafood Specialties

Fundacao Instituto Agronomico do
Parana, Brazil

General Electric Company

Geological Museum, Denmark

Geologicky Ustav csav Paleontologie,
Czechoslovakia

George Peabody College for Teachers

George Washington University

Georgia, State of: Department of
Natural Resources

Georgia, University of

498 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Ghana, University of

Glenville State College

Goteborgs, University of, Sweden

Government Chemical Laboratories,
Australia

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory
Museum

Gulf Specimens Company, Inc.

Harbor Branch Foundation, Inc.

Hartwick College

Harvard University: Botanical
Museum, Gray Herbarium,
Mineralogical Museum

Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.

Hawaii, University: Harold Lyon
Aboretum, Manoa Campus

Health, Education, and Welfare, U.S.
Department of

Helsinki University: Botanical
Museum, Finland

Herbario “Alberto Castellanos,”
Brazil

Herbario de la Universidad de
Panama, Panama

Herbario Hortorio, Mexico

Herbario Rafael M. Moscoso,
Dominican Republic

Herbarium Bogoriense, Indonesia

Herbarium of the Northern Territory,
Australia

Herbier du Centre Orstom de
Cayenne, French Guiana

Heron Island Research Station,
Australia

Hong Kong, University of, Hong Kong

Houston, University of

Hubbs-Sea World Research Institute

Humboldt State University

I. T. V. Maden Fakultesi, Turkey

Ichthyological Associates

Illinois, University of

Indiana, University of

Institut fur Allgemeine Botanik,
West Germany

Institut fur Seefischerei, West
Germany

Institute for Systematic Botany, The
Netherlands

Institute for Systematic Botany and
Plant Geography, West Germany

Institute of Applied Zoology, Poland

Institute of Biology and Pedology,
ES Sake

Institute of Earth Resources, Australia

Institute of Hydrobiology, China
Institute of Jamaica: Science
Museum, Jamaica

Institute of Ocean Sciences, Canada

Instituto Agronomico do Parana,
Brazil

Instituto Botanico, Venezuela

Instituto de Botanica, Brazil

Instituto de Conservacao da
Natureza, Brazil

Instituto de Investigaciones Sobre
Recursos Bioticas, Mexico

Instituto de Pesquisas Agronomicas,
Brazil

Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y
Desarrollo Pesquero, Argentina

Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da
Amazonia, Brazil

Instituto Oceanografico do la
Armada, Ecuador

Instituto Paranaense de Botanica,
Brazil

Interior, U.S. Department of

International Zoological Expedition

Iowa State University: Herbarium

J. E. Purkyne, University of
Czechoslovakia

James Cook University at North
Queensland, Australia

Jardim Botanico do Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil

Jardin Botanico del Valle, Colombia

Jardin Botanico Nacional, Dominican
Republic

Jardin Botanique National de
Belgique, Belgium

Joseph Moore Museum

Jundi Shapur University, Iran

Kansas, University of

Karachi University: Herbarium,
Pakistan

Kerala, University of, India

Kristalle

Kyushu University, Japan

Laboratorio de Botanica, Uruguay

Laboratorio di Technologia della
Pesca, Italy

Laboratory of Plant Taxonomy and
Plant Geography, The Netherlands

Lae, Territory of Papua New Guinea

Lakehead University, Canada

Laval Universite, Canada

Liverpool Polytechnic, England

Litton Bionetics, Inc.

Lomonosov State University, U.S.S.R.

Longwood Gardens

Los Angeles County Museum of
Natural History

Louisiana State University

Louisville, University of

Lyko Mineral and Gem, Inc.

Macaulay Institute for Soil Research,
Scotland

Malaya University: Herbarium,
Malaysia

Manitoba, University of, Canada

Marie Selby Botanical Gardens

Marine Environmental Sciences
Consortium: Herbarium

Marine Science Research Center

Marquesas Expedition

Maryland University: Herbarium,
Horn Point Environmental Labs.

Massachusetts University: Herbarium

Memorial University at
Newfoundland: Herbarium, Canada

Miami, University of

Michigan University: Herbarium,
Museum of Zoology

Mid-Coast Trading Corporation, Inc.

Mineral Fund

Mineralogical Research Co.

Mineralogisk-Geologisk Museum,
Norway

Mineralogisch-Petrographisches
Institut und Museum, West
Germany

Ministerio de Agricultura, Bolivia

Minnesota University: Herbarium

Mississippi State University:
Herbarium

Missouri Botanical Garden

Missouri, University of

Mobil Oil Corporation

Modena, University of, Italy

Montana University: Herbarium

Moss Landing Marine Laboratories

Mote Marine Laboratory

Musee Royal de |’Afrique Central,
Belgium

Museo de Historia Natural, San
Salvador, Central America

Museo Nacional de Costa Rica:
Herbarium, Costa Rica

Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil

Museu Paraense Emilia Goeldi, Brazil

Museum National D’Histoire
Naturelle, France

National Aeronautics and Space
Administration Fund

National Botanic Gardens, India

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 499
National Geographic Society

National Herbarium, Rhodesia

National Herbarium of New South
Wales, Australia

National Museum, New Zealand

National Museum of Natural
Sciences, Canada

National Museum of Victoria,
Australia

National Science Museum, Japan

Naturhistorisches Museum, Austria

Newcastle, University of, Australia

Newfound Harbor Marine Institute

New Mexico, State of, Bureau of

Mines and Mineral Resources

New South Wales, University of,

Australia

New York Botanical Garden

New York State University

New Zealand Geological Survey,
New Zealand

New Zealand Oceanographic
Institute, New Zealand

Normandeau Associates, Inc.

North Carolina State Museum of

Natural History

North Carolina, University of: Chapel

Hill Campus, Wilmington Campus

North Dakota State University

Northern Kentucky, University of

North Wales, University College,

United Kingdom

Nova Scotia Museum, Canada

Nucleo de Nueva Esparta, Venezuela

Oceanographic Research Institute,
South Africa

Ohio State University: Herbarium

Old Dominion University

Oporto, University of, Portugal

Oregon State University

Ottawa, University of, Canada

Pacific Bio-Marine Supply Company

Pacific Environment Institute, Canada

Pala Properties International, Inc.

Paterson Museum

Peace Corps, U.S.

Pennsylvania State University

Pennsylvania University: Museum

Phelps Dodge Corporation

Philippines, University of

Plumbago Mining Corporation

Port Harcourt, University of, Nigeria

Prague, Geological Survey,
Czechoslovakia

Prefeitura Municipal de Curitiba,
Brazil

500 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Puerto Rico, Commercial Fisheries
Laboratory

Queen’s University, Canada

Queensland Herbarium, Australia

Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden

Research and Control Department,
West Indies

Rhodesia, Geological Survey
Department

Rijksherbarium, The Netherlands

Rijksmuseum Van Natuurlijke
Historie, The Netherlands

Roche Research Institute of Marine
Pharmacology, Australia

Roebling Fund

Rothamsted Experimental Station,
England

Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia

Royal Botanic Gardens, England

Roval Botanic Gardens, Scotland

Royal Ontario Museum, Canada

Ruhr-Universitat Bochum, West
Germany

San Diego Zoological Gardens

San Francisco State University

San Jose State University

Scientific and Industrial Research,
Department of, New Zealand

Seoul National University, Korea

Servico Publico Federal, Brazil

Silliman University, Philippines
Island

Simon Fraser University, Canada

Society for the Investigation of the
Unexplained

South Australian Museum, Australia

South Carolina, University of

South China Sea Aquatic Resources
Institute, China

South Florida, University of

Southern Illinois University:
Herbarium

Southern Methodist University

Southern Mississippi, University of

Southland Museum, New Zealand

Southwest Missouri State College

Southwest Research Institute

Springer Fund

Standard Fruit Company, Central
America

Second Oceanography Research
Institute, China

Stetson University

Stuart Fund

Sul Ross State University

Summit Herbarium, Canal Zone
Swaziland National Herbarium,
Swaziland

Taiwan Forestry Research Institute,
Taiwan

Tasmania, University of, Australia

Technische Hochschule Darmstadt:
Institut fur Botanik, West Germany

Tennessee, University of

Texas A&M University: Marine
Laboratory, Moody College, Tracy
Herbarium

Texas University: Austin Campus,
Dallas Campus, Herbarium

Texas Tech University

Tohoku University: Research Institute
for Iron, Steel and Other Metals,
Japan

Tokyo University, Japan

Toronto, University of, Canada

Towson State College

Trinity College: Herbarium

Tsukuba, University of, Japan

Tufts University

Tulane University

Universidad Austral de Chile, Chile

Universidad Central de Venezuela,
Venezuela

Universidad Centro Occidental,
Venezuela

Universidad de Costa Rica,
Costa Rica

Universidad de la Republica, Uruguay

Universidad Nacional, Colombia

Universidad Nacional de la Plata,
Argentina

Universidad Nactional Autonoma de
Honduras, Honduras

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de
Mexico, Mexico

Universidad del Nordeste, Argentina

Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil

INDIVIDUAL

Abbott, Mae (Deceased)
Allen, Dr. Richard K.
Alvarez, Dr. Fernando
Amthauer, Dr. Georg
Antonius, Dr. Arnfried
Antunez de Mayolo, Kay K.
Armstrong, Dr. Carol W.
Ashby, Wallace L.
Asselborn, Dr. Eric

Ayal, Yoram

Bagchi, Dr. Pranab

Baker, Dr. A. N.

Baker, James H. (Deceased)

Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil

Universita Degli Studi di Firenze,
Italy

Universitat Osnabruck Abt. Vechta,
Germany

Universitat zu Berlin: Zoologisches
Museum der Humbolt, Germany

Universite Libre de Brusselles,
Belgium

Universite P. et M. Curie, France

Universiteit van Amsterdam,
Netherlands

Uppsala Universitet, Sweden

Utah, University of

Utah State University: Herbarium

Van Scriver’s Minerals

Victoria University at Wellington,
New Zealand

Vienna University: Institut fur
Mineralogy und Kristallography,
Austria

Virginia Institute of Marine Science

Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University

Washington University: Thomas
Burke Memorial State Museum

Waterloo, University of, Canada

West Virginia, Geological and
Economic Survey

Western Australian Museum,
Australia

Western Foundation of Vertebrate
Zoology

Wisconsin University: Herbarium

Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution

Yale University: Peabody Museum of
Natural History

Zoologisk Museum, Denmark

Ball, Dr. George E.
Bandy, Mrs. M. C.
Barber, John C.
Barbosa, Carlos do Prado
Barnard, Dr. J:L.

Barr, Dr. VW. E:

Barrow, Dr. Ronald
Bartelke, Dr. Wolfgang
Bartlett, Mrs. Bradford
Bath, Dr. Hans

Baum, John

Bayer, Dr. Frederick M.
Belk, Dr. Denton

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 501
Bennett, Bruce R.

Berger, R.

Beus, Dr. Stanley S.
Bhat, Dr. B. N.

Bickley, Dr. William
Blachly, Mr. and Mrs. Frederick J. O.
Blake, Dr. James A.
Blanchard, Andre

Blasco, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Blasdell, Francis S.

Blow, Warren C.

Blume, Richard R.
Bokermann, Werner C. A.
Bosch, Dr. Donald T.
Bostwick, Richard C.
Boudier, Dr. Francois
Bouseman, Dr. John K.
Bowman, Dr. Thomas E.
Brandon, Dr. Ronald A.
Brewer, George

Boucot, Dr. A. J.

Britton, Dr. Joseph C.
Brumbach, William C.
Brunn, Dr. Ruth Dowling
Burke, Randolph B.

Burr, Allan L.

Busack, Stephen D.
Caldwell, Dr. Ben H., Jr.
Canelhas, Dr. Maria da Graca
Carver, Dr. Mary

Cavey, Chistopher R.
Challet, Gilbert
Chalumeau, Dr. F.

Chao, Dr. George Y.
Chasens, Steven
Chenowith, Rob

Child, C. Allan

Chiu, Dr. Robert C. C.
Christiansen, Dr. Kenneth
Cianciulli, Victor

Clarke, Dr. Arthur H.
Clarke, Dr. J. F. Gates
Clayton, Dale H.

Clench, Dr. William J.
Cohen, Dr. Daniel M.
Colin, Dr. Pat

Collins, Timothy Michael
Cornwall, John H.
Correll, Dr. Donovan S.
Cowger, Brian R.

Cowie, Dr. Robert H.
Cressey, Dr. Roger F.
Crocker, Dr. Denton W.
Crombie, Ronald I.

Cruz, Gustavo A.
Cuatrecasas, Dr. Jose

502 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Cureton, F., II

Dahl, Dr. Arthur L.
Dahrling, Dr. Bruce E., II
Dahrling, Mrs. Margaret S.
Davidson, Mrs. Maureen M.
Davis, Dr. Don R.

Davis, Donna K.

Davis, Mignon

Dawson, Dr. C. E.
DeBoer, Charles
Decosimo, Joseph F.
DeLeo, Dennis M.
Dellacasa, Giovanni
Deonier, Dr. D. L.
DeVries, Philip J.
Didham, Mrs. Lallie Lee
Dietrich, Dr. Roland
Doolittle, Gen. J. H.
Dubin, Dr. Dale B.
Duenas, Ricardo
Duffield, Dr. Richard M.
Dunn, Pete J.

DuShane, Mrs. Helen
Eads, Dr. Richard B.
Ebner, John C., Jr.
Edmunds, Dr. George F.
Edwards, Bob

Edwards, Lt. Col. Corinne
Egoscue, Harold J.
Eicher, Dr. D. B.

Eiten, Dr. George

Elbel, Dr. Robert E.
Emerson, Dr. K. C.
Empey, Dr. H. N.

Emry, Robert J.
Engbring, John

England, Dr. Brian M.
Ernst, Dr. Carl H.
Erseus, Christer

Erwin, Dr. Terry L.
Escobar, Linda K.

Evans, Dr. Clifford
Falster, Al

Fauchald, Dr. Kristian
Ferguson, Dr. Douglas C.
Fisk, Dr. David

Fitt, Alfred B.

Flint, Mrs. Carol M.
Flint, Dr. Oliver S., Jr.
Flint, Dr. and Mrs. Oliver S., Jr.
Fosberg, Dr. F. Raymond
Fowler, Mrs. Raymond B.
Frack, Donald
Fredriksson, Dr. Kurt
Froglia, Dr. Carlo
Fujioka, Tomoo
Fulton, Richard, Jr.
Funt, Dr. Lawrence A.
Futrell, Darryl
Gabrera, Mrs. Sally
Gaedike, Dr.

Gaines, Dr. Richard V.
Garcia, Frank A.
Gardner, Dr. Alfred L.
Garg, Dr. G. S.

Garmo, Thorgeir T.
Garrison, Rosser W.
Gautier, T. Gary

Gerk, Arthur
Gerstmann, Ewald
Gibbs, Dr. Robert H., Jr.
Gill, John W.

Godden, Dr. Donald
Goodstadt, George J.
Goodyear, Dr. Richard H.
Gordon, Linda K.
Gorman, Dr. George C.
Gomon, Janet

Grady, Fred V.

Grey, L. Paul

Griffiths, Dr. Henry J.
Gurney, Dr. Ashley B.
Hafalla, Mrs. Juliana R.
Hamilton, John Edward

Handley, Dr. Charles O., Jr.

Hansen, Dr. Gary
Hardy, Dr. Alan R.
Harlan, Maj. Harold J.
Harmatuk, P. J.
Harris, Marguerite
Harrison, Dr. Bruce A.
Harrison, Richard V.
Hart. Gaw., Jr:
Hatschbach, Dr. Gert
Hauck, Richard
Hawks, Dr. GaH:
Hayes, Mr. and Mrs. Joe C.
Hayward, Dr. Bruce J.
Hayward, Dr. Bruce W.
Haynes, L. M.

Hecker, Barbara
Hedges, S. Blair
Helm, Dr. E.

Helms, Dr. J.

Helmy, Dr. M. M.
Hendrix, Bunny
Heppner, Dr. John B.
Heron, Hugh

Herting, Dr. B.

Hevel, Gary F.

Heyer, W. Ronald
Higgins, Dr. Robert P.

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 503

Hills, Mrs. Edith M.
Hinderling, Dr. Paul
Hobbs, Dr. Horton H.
Hodges, Dr. and Mrs. Ronald W.
Hoffman, Dr. Richard L.
Hoffman, Vernon
Hogue, Dr. Charles L.
Honkala, Mrs. Elsie Louise
Hope, Dr. W. Duane
Hopkins, Dr. Thomas S.
Houbrick, Dr. Richard S.
House, Dr. Michael R.
Howard, R. Vince
Howell, Dr. Kim M.
Howells, Robert G.
Hubricht, Dr. Leslie
Hueber, Dr. Francis M.
Huneke, Jack C.

Hunt, Dr. Gary W.
Hurd, Dr. Paul D., Jr.
Hurlimann, Dr. H.
Ivanov, Dr. Boris G.
Jackson, Dr. Kathleen
Jackson, William B.
Javidpour, Dr. Mahdokht
Jaxel, Robert A.
Jayasekera, R. D. B.

Jell, Dr. Peter

Johnson, Dr. J. G.
Johnson, Roy

Jones, Dr. Meredith L.
Kaicher, Mrs. Sally D.
Kaplan, Dr. G.

Kasaoka, Mr. and Mrs. Gary
Kasper, Dr. Andrew E., Jr.
Kauffman, Dr. E. G.
Kaufmann, James
Kawaoka, Kenji
Keating, Robert B.
Keller, Dr. Paul

Kelso, Dr. Donald
Kennedy, A. J.

Kensley, Dr. Brian

Key, Charles

Keyser, Dr. Thomas De
King, Mary M.

King, Robert M.

King, Vandall T.

Kirk, Dr. and Mrs. A. A.
Kissling, Prof. Don L.
Kistner, Dr. David H.
Klemm, Dr. Donald J.
Knez, Dr. Eugene

Kohn, Dr. Alan J.

Kolic, John

Korowski, Stan
Kozykowski, Bernard
Kraissl, Mrs. Alice
Krauss, Dry Nee.
Kravitz, Michael
Kristiansen, Roy
Krotki, Carl

Kuhn, L. B.

Kupper, Kenneth M.
Lago, Dr. Paul
Lambert, Mrs. James S.
Lamberts, Dr. Austin
Lane, Dr. H. Richard
Larson, Ron and Kathy
Larson, Ronald J.
Larson, William

Lauer, Mr. and Mrs. Merle B.
Law, Alfred B.

Lawry, Vance

Lee, Dr. Daphne

Lee, Richard B., Jr.
Lierly, James Elmo
Lindh, David E. P.
Linsley, Prof. E. Gorton
Liska, Dr. Robert D.
Lloyd, Brian S.

Lobl, Dr. Ivan

London, David

Low, The Honorable and Mrs. S.
McConnaughey, Dr. Bayard H.
McCullough, Frances I.
MacDonald, John

MacGinitie, Dr. and Mrs. George E.

McKenzie, Dr. Ken
MacLean, Dr. Stephen F., Jr.
McLeod, Dr. John D.
Maier, Bruce

Maitland, Dr. M.

Maizels, Dr. Albert D.
Malcolm, Stanley
Maldonado Capriles, Dr. J.
Malone, Leo J.

Mankins, Dr. J. V.
Manley, G. V.

Manley, Gary V.
Manning, Raymond B.
Marble, Mr. and Mrs. Roger H.
Marshall, Dr. Bruce A.
Mason, Dr. Brian H.
Masteller, Dr. E. C.
Mather, Bryant

Mathis, Dr. Wayne N.
Maul, David R.

Meggers, Dr. Betty J.
Meister, Charles A.
Melton, Charles F.
Mendryk, Harold

504 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Merz, Rachel
Metcalf, Dr. A. L.
Metzler, Eric H.
Meyer, Richard P.
Micheli, Dr. Julio
Mielke, Dr. Olaf
Miller, Dr. Andrew

Miller, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh, Jr.

Moldenke, Dr. Harold N.
Monnig, Oscar E.
Morgan, Dr. A. V.
Morris, Jack

Morrison, Robert
Mortensen, Dr. B. Kim
Mosher, Dr. L. C.
Mosmann, Walter H.
Mucke, Dr. Arno
Nagano, Chris
Nagatomi, Dr. Akira
Nelson, Dr. Gayle H.
Nelson, Robert C., Jr.
Nemuras, Kenneth T.
Newbill, Dr. J. Brooks
Nichols, Dr. Jean
Nikolaus, Herr Gerhard
Nimmo, Dr. Andrew P.
Norden, Arnold

Nova, Fritz

Obcdda, Herb

Ochoa, Dr. Carlos
Ogden, Dr. James
Ogle, Dr. Douglas W.
Oliver, Royce

Olson, Dr. Storrs L.
Ombholt, Dr. P. E.
Opler, Dr. Paul

Orejas-Miranda, Dr. Braulio A.

Ostrom, Gerald
Otway, Charles

Owen, Robert P.

Paine, Dr.

Parker, Fred

Parnau, Jack

Pascal, Robert

Patten, Samuel M., Jr.
Peet, Dr. William B., Jr.
Pennington, Wendell
Peratino, William S.
Perdue, Dr. Georgia P.
Perkins, Nancy
Perkins, Dr. Philip
Pessagno, Dr. Emile A., Jr.
Petuch, Edward J.
Phelan, Thomas
Pickett, Joseph F., Sr.
Pitt, William D.
Poche, Richard M.
Polhemus, Dr. John T.
Pollack, Joseph

Pope, Mrs. Alice James
Potts, Deborah L.
Powell, Dr. A. M.
Powell, Eric N.
Proctor, Dr. G. R.
Proper, Datus C.
Provenzano, Dr. A. J., Jr.
Pulawski, Dr. W. J.
Purnell, L. M.
Putterman, Isaac
Pyburn, William F.
Quick, Edward

Rageot, Roger H.
Reddell, James

Rehder, Dr. Harald A.
Reichart, Dr. C. V.
Reinert, Dr. John F.
Resig, Dr. Johanna
Rhoades, Mrs. Rendell
Ridgely, Robert
Riesenberg, Dr. Saul H.
Ripley, S. Dillon
Ristau, Dr. Donn
Roberts, Ken
Robinson, Dr. A. Grant
Robinson, Dr. George
Roemhild, Dr. George
Rogers, Edward
Rogers, Dr. Richard
Rohr, David M.
Roldan, Prof. Gabriel
Root, Dave

Rosewater, Dr. Joseph
Ross, Charles Andrew
Rossa rake oO:
Rossolimo, Dr. Olga L.
Rotger, Bernard

Roth, Bernard
Rothstein, Joseph
Ruetzler, Klaus
Sabrosky, Dr. C. W.
Sailer, Dr. Reece I.
Salmon, John

Sanford, Steve

Saul, Harry I.

Sawyer, Dr. Roy T.
Scheltema, Mrs. Amelie
Schindel, Dr. David
Schultz, Dr. George A.
Schuster, Dr. Guenter A.
Serodino, V. P.

Sever, Dr. David M.
Severance, William

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 505

Sharpe, William F.
Shapiro, Dr. A. M.
Shaw, Dr. J. Kevin
Siber, H. J. Kirby
Siddons, Derek

Sinton, Dr. John
Skelton, Dr. P. W.

Skog, Dr. Judith E.
Smith, Dr. Cecil L.
Smith, David

Smith, Mr. and Mrs. David S.
Smith, Judith Ann
Smith, Dr. Lyman B.
Smith, Mrs. M. F. I.
Soderstrom, Dr. Thomas R.
Sohn, Dr. G.

Solervicens A., Prof. Jaime
Spangler, Dr. Paul J.
Spjeldnaes, Dr. Nils
Springer, Victor G.
Squires, Dr. Hubert J.
Standing, Dr. Jon D.
Stansbury, Dr. David H.
Staples, David A.

Stark, Dr. William
Starmuhlner, Dr. F.
Steadman, David
Stearns, Palmer N., Jr.
Steiner, Warren E., Jr.
Stewart, Jay

Stewart, John

Steyskal, George C.
Stinchcomb, Dr. Bruce L.
Stornelli, Dr. Leo F.
Strickler, Robert

Sturm, Dr. Helmut
Sutcliffe, Ralph and Barbara
Svecz, Robert

Sweeney, Michael J.
Swegman, Dr. Bernard G.
Swindell, Clyde

Taft, Prof. Stephen J.
Taibi, Douglas M.

Tan, Yen T.

Taylor, Dr. John L.
Taylor, Dr. Margaret C.
Tepper, Dr. David J.
Teskey, Margaret
Thomssen, Richard W.
Tkac, Dr. Martin A., Jr.
Trainor, James
Triplehorn, Dr. C. A.
Troelsen, Johannes C.
Troth, R. Gay

Trumpf, William F.
Turner, Ray
Turner, Dr. Ruth
Turetsky, Matthew
Turinge, Dr. Aris P.
Van Arsdale, John M.
Van Landingham, T. C.
Venable, George L.
Verity, Dr. David S.
Verwoerd, Dr. W. J.
Von Nidek, C.

W. R. Grace Co.
Waddell, J. M.

Wade, David C.
Walenta, Dr. Kurt
Walker, Dr. Francis S.
Waller, Dr. Thomas R.
Wals, Dr. L.

Walter, Chad

Wappes, James
Watrous, Dr. Larry
Watson, Dr. George E.
Way, Kathie

Weires, Dr. Richard, Jr.
Wellington, Dr. Gerald M.
Wells, Dr. John W.
Wenzel, Robert F.
Wenzel, Dr. Rupert L.
West, Dr. Ronald R.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Donors of Financial Support

Miss Felicia Degolyer Arnold

The Explorers Club

Fourth grade science classes,
Manchester, Maryland

Grants

Eli Lilly and Company
Friends of the National Zoo!
National Geographic Society

National Institutes of Mental Health

Wewalka, Dr. Gunther

Wheeler, Alfred G., Jr.

Whitehead, Dr. Donald R.

Whiteley, Thomas E.

Whitmire, John

Wichard, Dr. W.

Widener, Millard E.

Wiedemann, Mrs. Kent

Wiezlak, W.

Wilkinson, Mrs. C. Kirk

Wilson-Shook, Mr.

Winters, Mrs. Mary

Wirtz, Dr. Peter

Wright, Dr. John D.

Yasuda, Dr. Tosiro

Young, Stephen

Youngsteadt, Dr. and Mrs.
Norman W.

Yount, Victor

Zajicek, Ralph

Zampetti, Sr., Marcello

Zardini, Rinaldo

Zimmerman, Dr. James R.

Zinn, Martin, III

Zweibel, Julius

Zweibel, Mr. and Mrs. Julius

Contribution in memory of
Mrs. Helen D. Gutman

Mrs. Henrietta S. Henrich

Kenhelm W. Stott, Jr.

Miss Helen R. Thompson

National Science Foundation
Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey
Combined Shows, Inc.

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

Donor of Financial Support

Eppley Foundation

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Donors of Financial Support

Cinefoto, S. A.

Henry B. and Grace Doherty
Foundation

EXXON Corporation

The Nature Conservancy
Rare Animal Relief Effort
James Smithson Society

1 These funds were earned by Friends of the National Zoo, according to their
provision of public service under contract to the Smithsonian Institution.

506 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Restricted Trust Fund Donor

HISTORY AND ART

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 and above

Mrs. David R. C. Brown (Brown
Foundation)

$5,000 and above

The Bothin Helping Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney
The Theodore N. Law Foundation

$1,000 and above

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Bradley

Mr. and Mrs. John Lee Bunce

The Bundy Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton
California Arts Council

Mrs. Lucile Daum

Mr. and Mrs. Christian de Guigne
Mrs. Albert DeSalle

Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkrantz
Benson and Edith Ford Fund
Gilman Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. James L. Goodwin

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Hoiles

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Lawrence
Howard and Jean Lipman Foundation

$500 and above

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen
Mrs. William G. Costin, Jr.
Nina J. Cullinan

Mrs. George R. Fink

Mr. and Mrs. Henry L. Goldberg
Mr. Donald Gray

Mrs. Alfred C. Harrison

Mrs. Robert G. Hartwick

Mrs. Dorothy H. Hirshon

John and Ella Imerman Foundation
Mrs. Carmen Lacoppidan

$100 and above

Mr. and Mrs. Hale R. Allen
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Ames
Mr. and Mrs. Denton Anderson
Ms. Edith M. Aufiero

George Becker Fund

Mr. Richard Manoogian

Michigan Council for the Arts
Sid W. Richardson Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Manney
Felicia Marsh

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Marsteller
Dr. and Mrs. Abraham Melamed
Mrs. Edwin Meredith

Mr. and Mrs. William Mitchell
Diane L. Morris Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Dan Oppenheimer
Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Rubin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

The Stroh Brewery Foundation
The Symonds Foundation

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman

Mrs. Louise Talbott Trigg

Mrs. Robert R. Williams

La Vetta

Mrs. Annalina Levi

Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman
Louise R. Noun

Shirley Polykoff Advertising, Inc.
Ms. Ethel R. Scull

Mrs. Helen Urban

Mrs. Esteban Vicente

Mrs. Rudolph W. Weitz

Mrs. French Zeller

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

and Mrs. Philip Augerson

and Mrs. Louis C. Baker

and Mrs. Henry deForest Baldwin
and Mrs. Lewis E. Ball II

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 507
Mr. W. N. Banks

Mr. and Mrs. Charles U. Banta

Joyce Barnes

Mrs. Norma Bartman

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce A. Beal

Mrs. James H. Beal

Mrs. Bernhard G. Bechhoefer

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Benkert

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Bennett

Mrs. James A. Beresford

Mrs. James Biddle

Mrs. Anne Bing (Bing Fund)

Mr. George B. Bingham

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore D. Birnkrant

Mr. and Mrs. H. Glenn Bixby

Mr. and Mrs. Alan Blinken

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph L. Braun

Mr. Winston Broadfoot

Mrs. George R. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Brown

Mr. J. Lawrence Buell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Sandor Burstein

Chapellier Galleries, Inc.

Mrs. Maryette Charleton

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin

Mrs. Janet Coors

Mr. Gardner Cowles (Cowles
Charitable Trust)

Dr. and Mrs. Burrill B. Crohn

Miss Ruth Cumming

Mrs. Chester Dale

Mrs. Elaine Dannheisser (New
Hermes Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Fredric J. Danzinger

Mr. and Mrs. Keith Davis

Mrs. Mary M. Davis

John Deere Foundation

Mrs. Barbara Chobot Deutsch

Mrs. Amy Dobronyi

Mrs. John C. Dorn

Mr. Lawrence F. Du Mochelle

Mr. and Mrs. Saul H. Dunitz

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dyer

Mr. and Mrs. Albert I. Edelman

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Edelstein

Mrs. Allan D. Emil

Mr. and Mrs. George M. Endicott

Jimmy/Dallas Ernst

Mr. and Mrs. E. M. Estes

Mrs. Aubrey Ettenheimer

Mr. Bayard Ewing

Mrs. William Rodman Fay

Mr. and Mrs. Porter Fearey

Mrs. Betty Feldman

Mrs. John H. Ferguson

Fischbach Gallery, Inc.

508 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Fisher

The Janet and Mortimer Fleishhacker
Foundation

Walter and Josephine Ford Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Mrs. Lewis Fraad

Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Frankel

Mrs. Helena Fraser

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall M. Fredericks

Mrs. John S. French

Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Fried

Mrs. Hugh E. Frisbie

Miss Elizabeth H. Fuller

Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon Fuller

Mr. and Mrs. Kennedy B. Galpin

Mr. and Mrs. William N. Genematas

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty

Mr. Howard Gilman

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Glen

Mr. and Mrs. Seth M. Glickenhaus

Mr. and Mrs. Abner Goldstone

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Goldyne

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Gorelick

Mr. Alan L. Gornick

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Gossett

Mr. Charles M. Grace

Mr. and Mrs. Fredric J. Graber

Mrs. Graham J. Graham

Mrs. B. Thomas Green

Dr. and Mrs. Gerold M. Grodsky

Mr. and Mrs. Lester Gruber

Mr. and Mrs. Melville W. Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Hamburger

Mr. Joseph Hardy

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Haro

Mr. and Mrs. E. Jan Hartmann

Helen Hays

Mrs. Randolph A. Hearst

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton

Mr. and Mrs. Walter W. Hess, Jr.

Hess’s Fine Arts Gallery

Dr. and Mrs. Charles H. Hine

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Hirsch

Mrs. Jacqueline S. Hoefer

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Hoffman

Mrs. Grace Garden Hooker

Mr. and Mrs. F. Herbert Hoover

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Mrs. J. Stewart Hudson

Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings

Mrs. William M. Hume

Mr. and Mrs. James Humphry III

IBM Corporation, Graphic Design

Miss Milka Iconomoff

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Iselin
Mrs. Harrison Ivancovich

Mrs. Carter Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Henry C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Winslow Jones
Mr. and Mrs. John Lowell Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Kalmanson
Mrs. Virginia W. Kampf

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob M. Kaplan
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Karpel
Mr. Sidney Katzman

Mr. and Mrs. Martin A. Kellman
Mrs. Robert L. Kemper

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight Kendall
Kennedy Galleries, Inc.

Mrs. E. Coe Kerr

Mr. and Mrs. Barron Kidd

Mrs. Lillian Kiesler

Mrs. David L. Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Harry L. Koenigsberg
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod
Mr. Nate Krause

Mrs. Roger Kyes

The Lachaise Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Landsman
Mrs. Richard E. Lang

Dr. William A. Lange

Mrs. Rodney M. Layton

Mr. Rensselaer W. Lee

Mr. Arthur D. Leidesdorf

Dr. and Mrs. I. H. Leopold

Mrs. Philip J. Levin

Mrs. Leonard Levine

Mrs. Stanley K. Levison

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis
Miss Diane I. Leweck

Mr. Harold F. Linder

Mr. and Mrs. Louis M. Loeb

Mr. Meredith Long

Longue Vue Foundation

Mrs. Sylvia Loomis

Mr. and Mrs. Harold O. Love
Mrs. Madeleine M. Low

Mr. Jack Lowrance

Mr. T. Melvis Lowrance

Mr. Earle Ludgin

Mr. Harry H. Lunn, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Lynes

Mr. and Mrs. David Hunter McAlpin
Mr. Porter A. McCray

Mrs. Dent W. MacDonough

Mr. John P. McGrath

Mr. James T. McKay

Mrs. Hugh McMillan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Mrs. Elizabeth H. Maddux

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Mr. J. A. Mallinckrodt

Mrs. Edward Marcus

Mr. and Mrs. Tom F. Marsh

Mrs. Grey Mason

Mr. and Mrs. Louis K. Meisel

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Merriam

Drs. Paul and Laura Mesaros

The Metropolitan Museum of Art,
American Paintings and Sculpture

Mrs. Barbara B. Millhouse

Mr. and Mrs. Irving J. Minett

Mr. and Mrs. A. Minowitz

Mrs. Carleton Mitchell

Dr. and Mrs. Coleman Mopper

Mrs. Juana Mordo

Mr. and Mrs. Joshua A. Muss

Raymond D. Nasher Company

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Nasser

Miss Emily Nathan

Mrs. Eldo Netto

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Neuberger
(Neuberger Foundation)

Charles Newton

Mr. John C. Nicholls, Jr.

Norman Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oroshnik

Mrs. Mary T. Osborn

Mr. Alfonso A. Ossorio

Mrs. Lawrence Ottinger

Overbrook Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Francis F. Owen

The Pace Gallery of New York, Inc.

Mr. L. Vere Peter Page

Mrs. E. Bliss Parkinson

Mrs. Henry Pearlman

Mr. and Mrs. S. B. Penick, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Laughlin Phillips

Mrs. Max Pine

Mr. and Mrs. David N. Plant

Mrs. Herbert Polacheck

Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Poplack

Mr. and Mrs. M. P. Potamkin

Mr. and Mrs. John Rakolta, Jr.

Albert B. and Faye Ratner

Mrs. Dorothy H. Rautbord

Mrs. James A. Rawley

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond

Mrs. Michael Rea

Mr. Raphael Recanati

Miss Margaret A. Reichenbach

Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Richardson

Mrs. Barbara Cavender Riley

Drs. Ulrich O. and Barbara Ringwald

Mrs. Maurice Ritz

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 509
Mr. and Mrs. Allen Robinson

Mr. and Mrs. C. David Robinson

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller III

Mrs. William F. Rosenblum

Mrs. Edwin Rosenthal, Jr.

Mrs. Joseph Rubin

Mrs. D. J. Russell

Mrs. Madeleine H. Russell

Miss Anna Wells Rutledge

Mr. and Mrs. Irving D. Saltzstein

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Allan B. Schmier

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas A. Schubot

Mrs. Gertrude Schweitzer

Mrs. Henry Sears

Mr. Melvin R. Seiden

Mr. Stephen Shalom

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Sharf

Mrs. Allan Sheldon III

Mr. Stephen Sloan

The George M. and Mabel H. Slocum
Foundation

Mrs. J. Scott Smart

Mrs. Lawrence M. C. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier

Mr. Ira Spanierman

Mr. Jay Spectre

Mr. and Mrs. Mark C. Stevens

Mr. Stanford C. Stoddard

Mena Storrs

Mr. Philip A. Straus

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Strauss

Mrs. Maury Strom

Mrs. Jerome John Suich II

Mr. Emanuel Sulkes

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Susman

Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Swig

Mrs. Robert Taubman

Kathryn F. Taylor

Mr. and Mrs. Robert N. Taylor

Mr. Eugene Victor Thaw

Mr. and Mrs. Carsten Tiedeman

Mrs. Paul Tishman

Mrs. William C. Tost

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Troubh

Mrs. Hooper Truettner

Mrs. Maurice Tumarkin

Mr. Al Virzi (G & D Communications
Corporation)

Mrs. Norton Walbridge

Mrs. Hudson D. Walker

Ms. Suzanne Walker

Mr. Edward M. M. Warburg

Mrs. W. Clyde Ward

Eleanor Ward

Mrs. Joan Washburn

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Weinstein

Mr. Maurice Weir

Mrs. Elaine Graham Weitzen

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer

Mrs. David R. Williams, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Winston

Greta M. Wolff

Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. Clarence J. Woodward

Mrs. C. Bagley Wright

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy H. Wulfmeier III

Mr. Nicholas Wyeth

Mr. and Mrs. William J. Young, Jr.

Mrs. James N. Youngblood

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DESIGN AND DECORATIVE ARTS

Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 and above

Mrs. Helen W. Buckner

Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Corroon
Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust
Japan Society, Inc.

Japan-U.S. Friendship Commission

$1,000 and above

The Bristol-Meyers Fund
Brunschwig & Fils

GBS; Inc.

Celanese Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Frances Head

Sally Faille Jeancon

510 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Charles E. Merrill Trust

New York State Council on the Arts

New York State Council on the
Humanities

Arthur Ross Foundation

Phyllis Massar

Newsweek

Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.
Celia Siegel

Time, Inc.

Wyeth Endowment
$500 and above

Annella Brown Matthew Schultz
Mario Buatta Skidmore, Owings & Merrill
Henfield Foundation

Donors to the Collection

A total of 3,151 objects were given by 63 donors during the period October 1,

1978, through September 31, 1979; among the most important are the following:

Carol B. and Stephan W. Brener: 1,425 match safes of divers materials ranging
from gutta-percha and celluloid to gold and enamel.

Carnegie Corporation of New York: 2 embroidered tablecloths with matching
napkins belonging to Andrew Carnegie.

Thomas Carnese: Tiffany “Favrile” glass vase.

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Colin: portfolio of 10 color lithographs, ‘““Anarchitecte
Suite C,” by Jean Dubuffet.

Mrs. Eleanor Delanoy: 24 Spanish and Italian tiles and over 300 tile fragments
for study.

Sidney Frank: a superb memorial hair wreath.

Suzanne Geismar: carved and lacquered chair, “Chiquita,” by the donor.

Marco Grass: 5 sixteenth- to seventeenth-century embroideries, including an
important German or Italian hanging.

Mrs. Ralph Hanes: 3 bed covers, each of a nineteenth-century printed fabric.

Mrs. Curt Hasenklever: 43 textiles and technical material recording early pro-
duction of F. Schumacher with some demonstrating processes.

Marilynn and Ivan Karp: 6 architectural ornament fragments from New York
buildings.

Howard Kottler: porcelain plate “Pupil Reflex,” with transfer decoration, by
the donor.

Mrs. Homer Kripke: 4 pieces of Libby glass tableware in the “Diana” pattern.

David Macaulay: anaxiometric drawing “The Subway,” by the donor.

R. M. Manders: portfolio of 33 drawings, designs for glass lamp shades.

Jane Merritt: machine-knitted souvenir picture for the proposed coronation of
Edward VIII.

Paul Mills: album of 15 drawings, designs for Chinese style carpets for the
nineteenth-century firm, Victorien M. Meyer.

Mrs. B. Richard: chandelier of silk passementerie.

Paul Rudolph: 16 architectural drawings for the New Haven Government
Center.

Mrs. Howard J. Sachs and Mr. Peter Sachs in memory of Edith Sachs: a group
of 77 objects, including an eighteenth-century lounge, textiles, drawings,
paintings, andirons, candlesticks, a clock, an ormolu-mounted crystal vase,
seventeenth- to nineteenth-century bronzes, and a pair of Limoges enamel
plates.

Charles Sampson Memorial Fund: a pair of Bow sauceboats, purchase.

Isabel Shults: precious stones and gold in Art Nouveau style, and 7 pieces of
enameled glass tableware by Salviati.

Mrs. Marietta Tree: a pair of nineteenth-century téle coal scuttles and a signed
eighteenth-century chair by Porrot.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Donors of Financial Suport

The Japan Foundation Smithsonian Institution Scholarly
Japan Society, Inc. Studies Program

Mrs. Cecilia DeGolyer McGee Dr. Richard Weatherhead
Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Art Studies

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 511
Donors to the Freer Collection

Mrs. Hubert Grigaut

Mr. Leonard Klein

Mr. Wolf Ladejinsky

Mr. and Mrs. Louis S. Rothschild
The Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott

Donors to the Study Collection

Mr. Alfred Bodian: 55 Japanese
prints.

Dr. Thomas Lawton: pair of Chinese
lacquer vases (reproduction) ;
1 Japanese stencil.

Donor to the Library

Dr. and Mrs. Richard F. S. Starr, in
memory of Langdon Warner

Mr. Alan F. Winslow

Mr. David C. Winslow

The Reverend Donald F. Winslow

Mr. Richard Louie: Chinese painting
(reproduction).

Mr. John Menke: 54 Korean shards.

Dr. S. J. O’Connor: 1 Malaysian
shard.

The Honorable Raymond A. Hare

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Donors of Financial Support

GENERAL CONTRIBUTIONS Washington Art League
HIRSHHORN HOLIDAY ACTIVITY GRANT
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
ACQUISITION GRANT FOR PURCHASE OF Sculpture Abstraite, Figure Debout

Sydney and Francis Lewis Foundation

MATCHING ACQUISITION FUND CONTRIBUTIONS

Mr. Leigh Block

Ernst and Company

Mr. Leo Gold

Mr. Jerome Greene

Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn

Mr. Jack Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Richardson

Mr. and Mrs. Henry A. Rosenberg, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Shaskan, Jr.

PURCHASE OF ROBERT KULICKE PAINTINGS HONORING
ANNIVERSARY OF MR. AND MRS. GUSTAVE RING

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Abraham
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Auerbach
Mr. and Mrs. S. M. Barnett

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Bechhoefer
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred L. Bennett
Mr: and Mrs. Irving Berger

Mr. and Mrs. Ned Bord

Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph D. Danzansky
Dr. and Mrs. Jack Diener

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan England
Dr. and Mrs. Aubrey Fischer

Mr. and Mrs. Millard B. Fleischer
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Freedman
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Freedman
Mr. and Mrs. David Gichner

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Glassman
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard S. Green
Dr. and Mrs. Milton Harris

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Jacobs
Mrs. Garfield Kass

Mr. and Mrs. Joel Kaufmann

512 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Kolker

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Korengold
Dr. and Mrs. Herman Kossow
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Levin

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Levison

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Manchester
Mr. and Mrs. Wilton Mendelsohn
Mr. and Mrs. Elliot I. Pollock
Mrs. Leonard E. Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. Robert R. Parks
Mr. and Mrs. Maury Rosenberg
Mrs. Philip Rosenfeld

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Rosensweig
Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Sachs

Mr. and Mrs. I. D. Shapiro

Mr. Philip Smith

Mr. and Mrs. David Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Teplin

Mr. and Mrs. Jules C. Winkelman
Mr. and Mrs. Morton H. Wilner
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Wilner
Donors to the Collections

Martin S. Ackerman Foundation
New York, New York

Ms. Anni Albers
Orange, Connecticut

Josef Albers Foundation, Inc.
Orange, Connecticut

American Academy of Arts and
Letters (Hassam Fund)
New York, New York

Mrs. Saul Baizerman
New York, New York

Best Products Co., Inc.
Richmond, Virginia

Mr. and Mrs. George Blow
Washington, D.C.

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Cohen
New York, New York

Mr. Gene Davis
Washington, D.C.

Elsa de Brun
New York, New York

Dreyfuss-Glicenstein Foundation
New York, New York

Bella and Sol Fishko
New York, New York

Forum Gallery
New York, New York

Mr. Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Naples, Florida

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Joseph Hirshhorn Foundation
New York, New York

Mr. Brooks Jackson
New York, New York

Mr. R. Michael Heidenberg
New York, New York

Boris Lovet-Lorski Estate
New York, New York

Mr. Loren Madsen
New York, New York

Mrs. Felicia Meyer Marsh
New York, New York

Mr. Robert Natkin
New York, New York

Mr. Philip Reissman
New York, New York

Mr. Richard Roth
Chappaqua, New York

Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program, Washington, D.C.

Mr. Raphael Soyer
New York, New York

Mrs. Suzanne Vanderwoude
Great Neck, New York

Mr. Donald Wall
Hoboken, New Jersey

Mr. James Younger
Washington, D.C.

Donor of Financial Support Peter C. Cornell Trust

MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART
Donors of Financial Support?
$100 AND ABOVE

Miss Dorothy May Anderson
Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Atkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred F. Bryan
Mr. Flournoy A. Coles, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. Paul Cornely
EXXON Corporation

Mrs. Nancy M. Folger

Mr. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Sylvia Candib Hurston
Dr. and Mrs. Harold M. Johnson
The Honorable and
Mrs. Clinton E. Knox
Mr. and Mrs. James Mitchell
Mr. and Mrs. John U. Nef
Mrs. Barbara Held Reich
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Wilson

Donors to the Collection?

Melville Herskovits Collection
(permanent loan)
Joseph Peters

Samuel Rubin
Ernie Wolfe III

2 August 13-September 30, 1979.

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 513
NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Donors of Financial Support

Betty Benton
Judith L. Bonstein
Marcella Brenner
CBS

Preston Greene

R. Philip Hanes
Thomas Howe

Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Kaman Corporation

Donors to the Collections

Gertrude Abercrombie Trust

American Academy and Institute of
Arts and Letters

Mr. David Anderson

Anonymous donor

Anonymous donor

Mr. and Mrs. Linden B. Arthur

Rudy Ayoroa

Helen Baltz

Xavier J. Barile

Mr. and Mrs. William Benedict

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Benton

Mrs. Fannie T. Brenner

Donald A. Brown

Mrs. Margaret S. Bruce

Lowry Burgess

Dr. and Mrs. Jerome Canter

Mr. and Mrs. J. Roy Carroll, Jr.

Murray Cohen

Miss Winifred Compton

Mrs. George L. Crofford

Frances Currey

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Darling

Mr. Gene Davis

Estate of Robert Tyler Davis

Estate of Jean de Botton

Mrs. Gleb Derujinsky

Olin Dows

Werner Drewes

Mrs. Lincoln Dryden

Edward Dunay

Miss Maria Ealand

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fendrick

Barbara Fiedler

Mrs. Lenore E. Fitzsimons

Lawrence A. Fleischman

Dr. and Mrs. Henry Fogelman

Seymour Fromer

Aline Fruhauf

Rupert Garcia

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Granick

Luke Gwilliam

514 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Roland Marcotte, Jr.

Mrs. Margaret McKee

Charles E. Merrill Trust

Mrs. Edgar Rossin

Charles Sawyer

Smithsonian Women’s Committee
Student Loan Marketing Association
Mrs. Brereton Sturtevant

George B. Tatum

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Hanes, Jr.

Mrs. Ida Watkins Harkness

Tony Harvey

Elizabeth W. Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Jack M. Hockett

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

Mariana Howes

Sheila Isham

Luis Jiminez

Hilda Katz

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

S. W. and B. M. Koffler Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. Monroe Kornfeld

Mrs. Ann Kraft

Kenneth A. Larson

Mr. and Mrs. Murray Lebwohl

Katrina Williams Lester

Seymour Lipton

Frank McClure

Lauris Mason

Mrs. Ethel W. Mohamed

Breton Morse

Mr. Frederick Mueller

Mrs. Alice Ingersoll Neagie

Emily Nordfeldt

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Miriam Pearlman, Inc.

Gabor Peterdi

Jozef Pielage

Jozef and Betty Huse Pielage

Henry Ward Ranger Fund (bequests
through the National Academy
of Design)

Anton Refregier

M. C. Richards

Mr. and Mrs. Hugo Robus

Mr. and Mrs. Louis S. Rothschild

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Schoenfeld

Estate of Leonard Hastings Schoff

Mr. and Mrs. A. Serviente

Mortimer Slotnick

Michael Smallwood
Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program

Southeastern Center for
Contemporary Art (Ford Foundation
Purchase Award)

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

Ethel Starbird

Beth Ames Swartz

Mrs. Katharine Sergava Sznycer

Prentiss Taylor

Hilda Thorpe

Edward Toledano

Saul Waller

Stokely Webster

Faith Bordon Weston
Dr. and Mrs. Robert J. Wetmore
Mr. Nelson C. White
Mr. Kurt Wiener

Ms. Adriana Williams
Diana Wheeler Williams
Xerox of Canada Limited
Mahonri Sharp Young
James M. Younger

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Donors of Financial Support

MISCELLANEOUS UNRESTRICTED GIFTS

Eldorado School Ira Gershwin
DIVISION OF CERAMICS AND GLASS

Melville N. and Mary F. Rothschild
DIVISION OF COMMUNITY LIFE

Sports Illustrated

Time-Life Books, Inc.

The Washington, D.C., Chapter of The Links, Incorporated
DIVISION OF ELECTRICITY AND MODERN PHYSICS

Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association, Washington

Chapter

International Committee for the Centennial of Light of The Thomas Alva

Edison Foundation
The Thomas Alva Edison Foundation

DIVISION OF EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES

DIVISION OF MECHANISMS
DIVISION OF NUMISMATICS
Amos Press Inc.

DIVISION OF PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY

The Bass Foundation

U.S. Chamber of Commerce

U.S. Chamber of Commerce

Stack’s

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Institution Associates

DIVISION OF POLITICAL HISTORY
The Estate of Mary L. A. J. Dietrich

DIVISION OF POSTAL HISTORY

DIVISION OF TRANSPORTATION

Amos Press Inc.

Sidney N. Shure

The Washington, D.C. Chapter of the National Railway Historical Society

DOUBLEDAY LECTURE SERIES

Doubleday & Company, Inc.

THE HALL OF AMERICAN MARITIME ENTERPRISE

Dillingham Corporation
Riverway Co.
The Valley Line Company

Friends of Music at the Smithsonian

Mr. Mark Adler

Miss Helen Appeldoorn
Mr. Fred Aufford

Miss Virginia Ballard

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Banta

Women’s Propeller Club, Port of
New York

Dr. and Mrs. Allan B. Bell
Mr. Harold Bredell

Mrs. Percy W. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Caplan
Mr. Anthony Chanaka

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 515
Mr. and Mrs. Edward C. Childs
Mrs. Thomas Cline

Mr. Robert Dabney

Mr. and Mrs. William P. Debbington
Mr. and Mrs. George A. T. Dongly
Mrs. Mildred Fenton

Mrs. Philip Gibbons

Mr. and Mrs. William H. Greer, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Hall

Mrs. John B. Ham

Diane Lane Hamilton

Mr. Samuel Henes

Miss Virginia Hoff

Mrs. Jane Holben

Mr. and Mrs. William Jack

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen V. C. Morris

Mrs. Thomas R. Morton

Mrs. Charlotte Nopar

Mr. and Mrs. J. Paul Nuse

Mrs. Anne O'Keefe

Mrs. Verner Partenhemer, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rothman

Mr. Fulton Samson

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mrs. Francis Smith

The Honorable and Mrs. Henry
P. Smith III

Mrs. Sylvia Smith

Mrs. Janet W. Solinger

Mrs. Lucy Fox Stern

Mr. and Mrs. James Symington
Mr. and Mrs. Curtis Tarr

Mrs. Pauline Bird Treman
Miss Marian Urland

Mrs. Anne Kimzey
Mrs. Edward T. Maben
Mrs. Herbert C. Mayer
Mrs. Loudon Mellon
Mrs. W.A.C. Miller III

Donors to the National Collections

Raul Santiago Acosta y Lara: 1976 mint set from Uruguay (1978.0999).

John P. Adams: Longest Walk Indian materials, including buttons, brochures,
posters, patches, handouts, t-shirts, and armbands (1978.2202).

Eugenia Afanasiev (through Mrs. Jay C. Bryant): woman’s brooch and 3 seals
(1978.0324).

John Aiello: counterstamped ancient coins (1978.1053).

Lonnelle Davison Aikman in memory of Mabel May Davison: water pitcher
and goblet with stand and tray made by Pairpoint Manufacturing Co., New
Bedford, Massachusetts, 1880-1900 (1979.0428).

Government of Aitutaki, Aitutaki Post Office: 2 used postage stamps and 18
used official stamps all of Aitutaki (1979.0134); Postal Accounts (through
Resident Agent’s Office): 6 mint souvenir sheets, 3 First Day covers, 9 mint
postage stamps, and 4 used postage stamps all of Aitutaki (1978.2249).

Alphaeus H. Albert: 9 reproduction US buttons and 3 reproduction wax button
impressions (1978.0659).

Frank I. Albin: RCA Victor model 66E Victorla (1978.2230).

All Plastic Corporation: 4 plastic bottle caps concerning the 1964 political cam-
paign, bag in which bottle caps were mailed, and a mailer for soliciting
financial support for Republicans in 1964 (1978.2135).

Mrs. Elizabeth B. Allen: 45-star US national flag, official date 1896-1908
(1978.0953).

Irving Amen: serigraph, color wood cut, and 3 color lithographs all by Irving
Amen (1978.0926).

The American Negro Commemorative Society (through George Beach): com-
memorative silver medals issued by the donor (1977.0414).

American Red Cross: 60 American Red Cross posters (1978.0880).

Martin P. Amt: lead-glazed earthenware jar with incised decoration (1978.-
2425).

Adelaide S. Anderson: woman’s designer wedding ensemble, 1946 (1977.1086).

Anonymous: Violin labelled “Nicolaus Amatus Cremonen, Hieronymi/Fil, ac
Antonij Nepos Fecit, 1679” (1979.0548).

Douglas Applegate: lapel sticker in the shape of a red apple with a white gate
overlay (1979.0629).

Aquarius Collector Coins of America (through R. Winston Harris): 10 cent

516 / Smithsonian Year 1979
trade tokens, Aquarius Collector Coins, 1976 (1978.2326); 2 sets of 1979 one-
and five-cent tokens (1979.0057).

Mrs. Audrey Z. Archer-Shee in memory of Mary Stuart Roe Zeigler: gold watch
belonging to Mary Abigail Fillmore, engraving of Millard Fillmore, framed
portrait of Matilda H. Stuart, letter documenting the gold watch, and a pam-
phlet entitled “Dedicatory Exercises, June 24, 1858” (1978.2199).

Mrs. Blanche Armstrong in memory of Mr. Dewey Armstrong: turning plow,
new ground plow, disk harrow, and a cultivator (1978.0945).

Mrs. R. H. Armstrong: locomotive wheel center gauge (1979.0031).

Grant Arnold: lithograph North County Blizzard and photolithograph Snow-
fall (1979.0492).

Michael Arpad: long pink chiffon gown, long pink and lavender chiffon scarf,
short gold brocade coat all worn by Perle Mesta, and a photograph of Presi-
dent Lyndon Johnson and Perle Mesta (1979.0697).

Art Display Service, Inc.: political bumper stickers (1978.2132).

Cevriye and Ibrahim Artuk: group of modern Turkish coins (1978.0930).

AT&T Long Lines (through Robert C. Cooper): 2 sections of type TAT-6
coaxial submarine cable (1978.2297).

Jane McCall Babson: 119 clothing and accessory items (322657.00).

Bachrach, Inc. (through Fabian Bachrach): photograph of Albert Einstein, orig-
inally made c. 1935 (1979.0627).

Rosalie F. Bailey: brain trepanning set and a surgical instrument set (1979.-
0264).

Baird Corporation (through Walter Baird and David A. Low): commercial grat-
ing spectrograph and grating taken from spectrograph (1979.0025).

Stephen Bairstow: sliding caliper rule (1978.2143).

Arlene T. and Murry Bakel: 14 items used in the manufacture of Manoil Com-
pany toys including molds, dies, stencils, and castings (1978.2349).

Terry W. Baker: Oregon State University football jersey worn by donor (1979.-
0529).

William C. Banning: Lenegre 1862 postage stamp album (1979.0231).

Lewis Williams Barber: collection of Vietnam period uniforms, footwear, and
insignia (1979.0330).

Government of Barbuda, Philatelic Bureau, Post Office: 6 First Day covers and
29 mint postage stamps all of Barbuda (1978.2296).

Stanley Bard: 4 designer paper fashion sketches (1979.0067).

Eugene R. Barenburg in the name of the family of the late J. W. Barenburg,
M.D.: ophthalmic test case, ophthalmoscope with case, set of 2 optical trial
frames, and a tonometer (1978.2269).

H. A. Barker: sample of first artificially produced Carbon-14 (1978.2113).

The Honorable Marion Barry: oilcloth banner, “Marion Barry for Mayor”
(1979.0376).

F. W. Bartlett II: lithograph of Michigan Central Station, Ann Arbor,
Michigan by the donor (1978.0494).

BASF Wyandotte Corporation (through Fred F. A. Jacobson): recording tape
display panel (1979.0304).

Donald P. Basham: US Navy laundry safety pin (1979.0493).

Dorothy and Nat Bass: pair of Regency candelabra made of pineapple-cut lead
crystal and cast brass, Bristol, England, c. 1812, and a porcelain floral group,
Derby, England, c. 1810 (1979.0246).

Preston R. Bassett: 8 glass fly traps, 3 with stoppers, 1 with a base, and 1 with
a flower holder (1978.0609).

Mrs. James “Lee” Batson: American Agriculture Movement flag and a news-
paper, “American Agricultural News” (1979.0243).

Frances Z. Baxter: boy’s clothing items including 2 suit jackets, a 2-piece suit,
coat, and cap (1978.0299).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 517
Bruce Bazelon: WW II ration, K type (1977.0702); USAAF silk head scarf from
WW II period and a US Colt revolver holster made in 1918 (1978.0532);
US Army insignia, WW I Captain of Artillery card, WW II branch insignia
and ribbons, and Army-Navy game ticket (1978.0828); US Lighthouse Serv-
ice uniform button, US Navy sleeve insignia, collar insignia, rating badge,
shoulder patch; and utility jacket patch, US Coast Guard rating badge and
utility jacket patch, US Marine Corps gunner’s patch, 3 Vietnamese-made
naval sleeve insignia, and International Morse Code cardboard training aid
(1979.0293).

Mrs. Anna B. Beach (through Gregory G. Connell); ship models, USS Con-
stitution and Tripolitan Gallery Gunboat both with bases (1978.0981).

Estelle Scharfeld Bechhoefer: woman’s clothing items including 4 dresses, a
cape, suit, hat, and stockings and a child’s dress (1977.0882).

Mrs. Dorothy Gondos Beers: WW II uniform, service ribbon, and lapel pin
(1978.0962).

Virginia Beets: poem from the campaign of 1960 “I’d Love to See My Portico”
(1978.0889) ; magazine—The Life of George C. Wallace, “Our Kind of Man”
(1978.0988) ; 2 bumper stickers and 1 sticker referring to Khrushchev, and 2
U.S. News & World Report magazines dating from August 1958 and August
1959 (1979.0503); sticker with note saying that Nixon is the only one who
can save the world from Communism, and a political bill stating “A Vote for
Nixon or Kennedy is a vote for integration . . .” (1979.0436); comic book
about Caroline Kennedy entitled “America’s First Young Lady, Caroline
Kennedy” (1979.0183).

Bell Telephone Labs, Inc. (through Mildred Boyd and E. F. Carpenter): auto-
mated X-ray diffractometer (1978.2176).

Lawrence J. Bellarts: WW II aircraft escape kit ration (1978.0329). :

Benay-Albee Novelty Company, Inc.: plastic hats, Johnson/For President
(1978.1087).

Daniel L. Benson: Lincoln commemorative cigar fan, c. 1909 (1978.2172).

Evelyn O. Berke: woman’s designer dress and woman’s shoes (1978.0427).

Don H. Berkebile: coupler pin, c. 1880 (1979.0404).

Mrs. Freda Berla: Stereo Realist 35mm stereoscopic camera, TDC Stereo Vivid
stereoscopic slide projector, TDC Stereo Vivid viewer for 35mm stereoscopic
transparencies, and 142 35mm color stereoscopic transparencies (320771.00).

Mrs. Julian Berla: child’s chair designed by Mies van der Rohe (1978.2334).

Martin Berman: a collection of 112 geometric models representing regular-
faced convex polyhedra (1978.1065).

Martha Berrien: pochoir colored halftone, “Perspective View of the Blockade
of Boston,” reproduced by the Meriden Gravure Company, 1978 (1978.2187).

Doris D. Best: 6 US Navy enlisted men uniform shoulder patches, 4 US Navy
utility uniform fleet and ship 1p patches, and a brochure for the Guided
Missile Frigate ‘““Worden” (1978.0171).

Bethlehem Steel Corporation (through L. T. Burtchby): gas blowing engine
model (1978.2278).

D. Lewis Bickel: Model 1911 spurs (1978.0258).

William F. Bigspring, Sr.: Montana button from the 1976 Republican National
Convention (1979.0533).

Dr. and Mrs. William C. Binzer: man’s 4-piece court suit, 1860-79, woman’s
parasol, c. 1840-70, and woman’s parasol, c. 1890-1900 (1977.0943); 6 hand-
painting, animated “slipping” magic lantern slides (1978.2499).

Mildred A. Birge: 3 pairs of woman’s shoes, 1920-29 (1977.0945).

Leet Wilson Bissell: pocket compass, inclinometer, thickness gauge, hand level,
and a cased set of drawing instruments (1979.0633).

Ethel F. Black: silk paisley shawl given by Queen Victoria to Florence Nightin-
gale, drawing of young Florence Nightingale wearing a shawl, and 3 letters
of documentation (1978.2234).

518 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Dr. James E. Blackburn in memory of K. T. Hall: medical irrigation set in
mahogany box (1979.0431).

David D. Blackmer: Gunter scale (1979.0011).

Mrs. William McCormick Blair, Jr.: woman's clothing items including 4 pairs
of shoes, 3 dresses, 1 coat, and 1 3-piece ensemble, and boy’s clothing items
including 1 3-piece suit, 1 shirt, and 1 tie (1977.1218).

William M. Blair: political campaign badges, tickets, press credentials, etc., col-
lected by the donor while reporting for The New York Times (1978.2190).
John B. Blake: group of 13 Louisiana state lottery tickets from 1884-89 (1979.-

0478).

Joseph A. Blake: McGovern-Shriver license plate (1979.0532).

John A. Bland: seal embossing stamp with dies for Walthall Printing Co., Inc.
(1979.0005).

Mrs. William W. Bland: woman’s clothing items including 2 hats, a 2-piece
suit, a dress, and a blouse (1978.0426).

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner: 7 English figure groups, eighteenth and nine-
teenth centuries (1979.0373).

Reba Harden Bloom: woman’s dress, parasol, and shawl (1979.0205).

George Blow: Transcontinental Railroad broadside (1979.0403).

Ellen R. Bocek: letter dated October 23, 1936, from the volunteers for Sun-
flower Day in the Alf Landon political campaign (1978.2193).

Colonel Charles T. R. Bohannan: 1 miniature offset “X” press with 2 inking
roller handles, operating instruction book, red ink, black ink, yellow paper,
and master sheets (1978.0522).

Natalia A. Bolognini: baton case with 5 batons, a baton fragment, and a pencil,
all used by Arturo Toscanini, and a photograph of Arturo Toscanini (1979.-
0192).

Margaret Neave Boswell (through Elizabeth B. Stephan): woman’s Quaker
bonnet and dress, 1860-76, and woman’s cape, 1840-69 (1977.1063).

Mrs. Joann D. Bowen: glove darner marked ” F & R STERLING” (1978.2500).

Mrs. J. L. Bowes: 1952 Ike pin (1978.0964).

Stephanie J. Boylston: cotton and wool overshot coverlet (1978.2528).

Mrs. Margaret B. Brandt: US Navy Officer and Midshipman uniforms and uni-
form items, worn by Captain John Henry Brandt and Midshipman Thomas
K. Brandt (1978.0232).

Paul Braunstein: 2 gold peanut buttons and 1 white peanut button (1978:2418).

Dorothy Emmert Brewster: Girl Scout 2-piece uniform and hat, c. 1917 (1977.-
0881).

E. J. T. Bristow: brass US tokens (1977.0459).

Britannia Commemorative Society, Ltd. (through W. T. Baird): silver commem-
orative medals, serial #6 (1978.1000).

Eli Broad: sculptural textile hanging, Meditation Space, by Barbara Shawcroft
(1979.0002).

The Brookings Institution (through Ruth McCarthy): automatic signature ma-
chine (1978.1076).

Tim J. Browder and Mrs. Dora J. Browder: paper currencies of the Maldive
Islands (320705.00).

Stanley W. Brower: transit, dial marked: “w. & D. MOGEY. BAYONNE, N.J. 350”
(1979.0266).

Bruce M. and Diana B. Brownell: sheet-iron radiator and a motorized drill
press (1979.0032); bench vise screw, blacksmith’s bellows, hand-crank blower,
and a treadle lathe (1979.0206) ; electric oven (1979.0250); milking stool, log
bee hive, box bee hive, grubbing hoe, hand seeder, and a swingling knife
(1979.0280).

Mrs. Rowena Brownell (through Peter Brownell): ship model of the brig Argus
with display case (1978.0827).

Franklin R. Bruns, Jr.: 3 UN First Day covers, 20 mint UN postage stamps, 1

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 519
used UN postal stationery, 1 mint UN postal stationery, 1 mint US Bicen-
tennial souvenir sheet, 338 mint US postage stamps, and 50 mint Canadian
postage stamps, all in presentation folders (1979.0051).

Charles E. Brush: man’s tie bar and cuff links (1979.0342).

Robert Bryson: woman’s collar box, 1895—1915 (319935.00).

Eugene D. Buchanan (through Gordon Buchanan, Jr.): Dr. Wall’s Worcester
cup, c. 1755-65 (1978.0932).

Mrs. Eugene D. Buchanan (through Gordon Buchanan, Jr.): Chippendale corner
chair, c. 1775, and tin tray, France, c. 1780 (1978.0108).

Mrs. Marjorie Gordon Buchanan: infant’s cap, white-on-white embroidery
(1978.2442).

Charles S. Buck: Zumbrota, Minnesota, Bicentennial medal, 1976 (1978.2342).

Diane E. Bull: ERA material including a pot holder, plastic key chain, and
stickers (1978.0876).

George G. Bull: 3 specialty covers commemorating the seventeenth annual con-
vention of the Postmark Collectors Club (1979.0230).

H. C. Burchard, Jr.: 2 Ku Klux Klan membership tokens (1979.0349).

Ken Burnett: farmers cap, bumper sticker, and flag from the American Agri-
culture Movement (1979.0244).

Gordon Burroughs: Observox TV receiver (1978.0936).

C.T.P. Industries, Inc. (through Arnold L. Silberman): plastic shopping bags
with political legends from 1972 (1978.0997).

California Intraocular Lens Corporation (through R. Dale Cook): 6 intraocular
lenses of various types (1979.0583).

University of California, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory (through George
Pappas, Emilio Segre, and Dr. Clyde Wiegand): Stilbene scintillation crystal,
nuclear emulsion plate, stack of exposed nuclear emulsions, stack of unex-
posed nuclear emulsions, Cerenkov counter, cross-section of McMillan syn-
chrotron, and 2 reels of photos of 15” bubble chamber and 15” liquid-hydro-
gen-using bubble chamber (1978.2302).

Cambria County Bicentennial Association (through Martha M. McDonald): 1
silver and 1 bronze medal issued by the Cambria County Bicentennial Asso-
ciation in commemoration of the American Bicentennial, 1976 (1978.2355).

Bank of Canada: Bank of Canada 100-dollar specimen note (1975) No. 047
(1977.0452); one-dollar Canadian specimen bank note (1978.1054); (through
R. H Osborne): 20-dollar 1979 specimen bank note (1979.2510).

Government of Canada (through G. M. Sinclair): First Day cover of Canada
celebrating the opening of CAPEX 1978 (1979.0136).

Canadian Large Cents Club (through Gary C. Littrell): group of CLCC wooden
Canadian large cents (1978.0934).

Leopoldo Cancio: specimen bonds issued by the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development, Washington, D.C. (1977.0441); group of speci-
men bonds for Kuwait and Libya issued by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, Washington, D.C. (1978.2316).

Dr. Mary Canfield in memory of Jay Livingston Canfield: woman’s designer
suit, 1948-52 (1977.1087).

CAPEX 78 (through Kenneth Rowe): capex Court of Honor participation medal,
3 souvenir cards distributed at capex 78, and 3 specimen souvenir cards from
CAPEX 78 (1979.0226).

Miriam M. Cappers: 2 radio telegraph operator licenses, license verification
card, radio operator license certificate, and an amateur radio license (1979.-
0698).

Mrs. George Carl: man’s vest, 1850-1910 (1979.0070).

Carlisle Colonial Minute Men, Inc. (through Robert R. Heath): 2 medals issued
by the Carlisle Colonial Minute Men in commemoration of the Estabrook
Trail Walk, 1978 (1978.2351); 2 1979 Estabrook Trail Walk medals (1979.-
0476); 2 1976 issue Estabrook Trail Walk medals (1979.0639).

520 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Wallace O. Carlson: book, illustrated with photo tri-chromatic prints of Wash-
ington buildings (1979.0504).

Earl R. Carneal, Jr.: certificate of promotion, 2 discharge certificates for Charles
Helton, and a US Colt’s DA revolver with leather holster (1978.2367).

Carnegie Institute (through Merle Tuve): Van de Graaff accelerator (1978.1075).

Carnegie Institution of Washington: framed photograph of Rear Admiral
Robert E. Peary presenting a gold medal to Amundsen in Washington, D.C.,
in 1912 (1979.0472).

Joseph L. Carr: woman’s muff 1933-45 (1978.0796).

The Jimmy Carter Campaign Committee and The 1976 Presidential Campaign
Committee (through Robert J. Lipschutz): Carter campaign materials includ-
ing buttons, bumper stickers, handouts, postcards, newsletters, invitations,
stationery, pamphlets, and booklets (1978.0980).

Oscar L. Cartwright: Byrd Antarctic Expedition II cover and Clemson, S.C.,
cover of 1935 (1979.0229).

Mrs. Judith H. Cash: Argoflex seventy-five twin-lens reflex 620 rollfilm camera
with flashgun (1977.1032).

Frederick Casoni: photographs of Senator Hubert H. Humphrey’s funeral in
the Rotunda of US Capitol (1978.2119).

Claire Monod Cassidy and John Rosine: Philco air conditioner, 1951 (1978.-
2111).

Celebration ’76 (through Patricia Gordon and the Reverend George Greenough):
bronze medal issued by Celebration ’76 commemorating the Bicentennial,
1976 (1978.2352).

Central Illinois Light Company (through William T. Reid and Harry D. Felten-
stein, Jr.) : Turbo-Generator, Kerr/Allis-Chalmers, 1912 (1978.2391).

Carolyn Chandler: WW I Army Nurse Corps cape (1978.2213).

The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (through David Rockefeller): replica cased
set of the “Church,” Hamilton-Burr dueling pistols (1978.2273).

Chicago Albumen Works, Inc. (through Dr. Joel Snyder and Doug Munson):
portfolio of 10 gold-toned albumen prints produced by Chicago Albumen
Works, 1977, entitled “Eadweard Muybridge Yosemite Photographs 1872”
(1978.1031).

Peoples Republic of China (through His Excellency Chai Ze-Min): needlework
picture of the Great Wall of China, embroidered luncheon cloth with 12 nap-
kins, and a porcelain vase (1979.0585).

Republic of China, Director General, Directorate General of Posts (through Y.
C. Shih): 19 First Day covers, 79 mint postage stamps, 35 unused specimen
stamps, and 32 used postage stamps, all of the Republic of China (1979.-
0137); 10 commercial covers, 2 mint souvenir sheets, 1 presentation folder,
65 mint postage stamps, and 18 used postage stamps, all of the Republic of
China (1978.2268).

University of Cincinnati: Tinius and Olsen Universal Testing Machine (1979.-
0029); (through Donald L. Vieth): Keleket X-ray diffraction apparatus
(1979.0049).

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: Italian medals by Giacomo Manzu (1978.2489) ; pair of
steel dies used for the striking of silver pieces of twenty units of a hybrid
design derived from coins issued c. 350-280 B.c. in Populonia (1978.2516) ;
pair of steel dies used for striking silver coins of a design patterned after
silver staters issued c. 480—400 B.c. in Poseidonia (1978.2517); pair of steel
dies showing designs derived from ancient silver staters issued c. 550 B.c. in
Tarentum (1978.2518) ; pair of dies used for the striking of silver pieces pat-
terned after Tetradrachms issued c. 310-304 at Syracuse (Sicily) during the
reign of Agathokles (1978.2519); group of US medals and store cards (1979.
0298); collection of ancient Greco-Roman coins struck in the name of Em-
peror Augustus (1978.0972); two ancient Greco-Roman coins struck in the
name of Emperor Domitian and his wife, Domitia (1978.0977); historical

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 521
collection of ancient Greco-Roman coins showing the damnatio memoriae of
Emperor Geta (1978.0978); group of ancient Greek coins, mostly from the
third to first century B.c. (1978.1055); group of ancient, mostly quasi-auton-
omous Greek coins (1978.1056); group of Romanian paper currencies (1978.-
2315).

V. Clain-Stefanelli: bronze medal commemorating the First National Nu-
mismatic Convention (1978.0970); ancient coins struck in Alexandria,
Egypt, in the name of Antoninus Pius and Lucilla (1978.0973); ancient
drachms from Alexandria, Egypt (1978.0974); group of ancient Greek and
Roman coins (1978.0975); collection of ancient Greco-Roman coins (1978.
0976); group of ancient coins, mostly “sestertii’” (1978.1057); group of an-
cient Roman coins (1978.1058); Portuguese religious medal (1978:2329);
South African Mint medal (1978.2478) ; pair of steel dies by the Italian master
counterfeiter Tardani used for the striking of silver coins of a design issued
c. 331-302 B.c. in Tarentum (1978.2520); pair of dies used for the striking of
silver coins patterned after ancient staters issued at Caulonia, c. 480-388 B.c.
(1978.2521); pair of dies probably by Tardani used for the striking of silver
tetradrachms derived from the ancient coinage of Rhegium issued c. 466-415
B.c. Also 1 pair of lead off-strikes (1978.2522); pair of steel dies made prob-
ably by the Italian master counterfeiter Tardani and used for the striking of
silver pieces patterned after 16-litrae coins issued at Syracuse during the
reign of Hieron II and bearing the portrait of Queen Philistis. Also, lead off-
strikes (1978.2523); ancient Roman aureus of Septimius Severus (1978.2524) ;
ancient Roman contorniate showing the portrait of Nero on the obverse and,
on the reverse side, Alexander the Great standing with his horse (1978.2525) ;
diagnostic set with ophthalmoscope head (1979.0524).

Ada M. Clark: woman’s clothing items including 4 blouses, trousers, boots, a
belt, coat, jacket, skirt, and a vest (1977.0996).

Mrs. Jessie B. Cleveland: desk used by Grover Cleveland (317944.00).

Margaret M. Coffin: wine glass with tin “make-do” foot (1978.0352).

Mrs. Albert H. Cohn: woman's 2-piece designer ensemble, 1942-52 (1977.1093).

Mrs. Rosalee S. Cohn: English soft-paste porcelain circular, pierced basket
decorated with foliate motifs in underglaze blue. Probably Bow, England, c.
1755 (1978.0839).

Herbert R. Collins: 31 newspapers, 2 bumper stickers, 2 sample ballots from
Virginia, license plate, brochure, checklist card, postcard, and a visitor’s pass
(1979.0174); newspaper dated September 27, 1881, York, Pennsylvania bear-
ing a memorial of James A. Garfield (1979.0175).

Mrs. Isabel G. Collison: Wisconsin State 1wy meeting materials including a
wooden stop sign, handout, leaflet, newsletter, and an invitation (1978.1078).

Republic of Colombia, Jefe de la Oficina Filatelica, Administracion Postal Na-
cional (through Carlos Julio Medina Salamanca): 31 First Day covers and 2
used postage stamps, all of Colombia (1979.0053); First Day covers of Co-
lombia, 8 of 1978 and 4 of 1979 (1979.0138).

Colorado Centennial—Bicentennial Commission (through Errol Giddings):
Colorado Centennial—Bicentennial commemorative medal set (1978.2338).
The Columbia Historical Society (through Elizabeth J. Miller): souvenir token

from the Howe Scale Co., at the 1876 Centennial (1978.2109).

Columbia University (through Professor Samuel Devons): Dunning cyclotron
(1978.1074).

CONRAIL (through W. M. Wehner): watercolor rendering of “Erie Railroad
Co. Proposed Addition to Pier 7, New York City” and 3 tinted engineering
drawings of “Transfer Bridge for Erie Railway Co.” (1979.0351).

Jorge Schaerer Contreras: lottery-bond certificate issued by original Panama
Canal Company, June 26, 1888 (1979.0024).

Government of Cook Islands’ Ministry of Posts, Philatelic Bureau (through

522 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Officer in Charge): 48 First Day covers, 10 mint souvenir sheets, 82 mint
postage stamps, and 30 used postage stamps all of Cook Islands (1978.2254);
2 First Day covers from 1978, a mint souvenir sheet of 1978, 15 mint postage
stamps, and 23 used official stamps, all of the Cook Islands (1979.0139).

Mrs. Grace R. Cooper: wooden quilt frame (1978.2407).

Van Cooper and Georgia Agrirama (through Charles T. Hall, Jr., for Georgia
Agrirama): peanut planter (1978.2386).

Cordis Corporation (through Dr. William Murphy, Jr.): Omni-Stanicor lithium-
powered programmable cardiac pacer, Omni-Stanicor programmable cardiac
pacer, and a Cordis-Omnicor programmer (1979.0374).

Irma M. Coridan: 6 woman’s designer dresses (1977.1152).

Cornell University, Laboratory of Nuclear Studies (through B. D. McDaniel):
strong-focusing poleface laminae (1978.2175).

Dr. Ivor Cornman: Adjustable tri-square, panel-marking gauge, plow plane,
chalkline, brace, spokeshave, scyth-sharpening iron, broad ax, crimping tool,
molding plane, 2 C-clamps, scorp, auger hole cleaner, digger, cleaver, oven
rake, oven spatula, two-man saw, and log dog (239502.00).

Mrs. Benedict Cunio Cosimano: infant’s shoes, dress, and blouse (1979.0066).

Mrs. Grace Coupe (through Mrs. Marian C. Robertson): WW I Armed Forces
Special Services Librarian’s uniform coat, skirt, handkerchief, insignia, neck-
tie, service ribbon, and 2 shoulder patches (1977.0929).

Joel Crawford: 220 rolls of film from the McGovern primary campaign, spring
of 1972 (1979.0182).

Warren M. Crawford, Jr.: 2 US national bank notes and 4 notes of the Potomac
River Bank in Georgetown, D.C. (1978.2356).

Ingrid M. Crepeau: puppet, “Arba the Eagle,” made by Patchwork Productions
to emcee Bicentennial events on television (1979.0124).

Dolores Gray Crevolin (through Stanley Weaver): woman’s designer dress,
1958, and woman’s designer dress with shawl, 1962 (1978.0458).

Mrs. Ruth E. Crownfield in the name of Albert C. Crownfield: 1 protractor
(1978.2291).

Robert J. and Virginia A. Crozier: Nelson Rockefeller campaign umbrella
(1979.0573).

Cube Card Corporation (through Constance M. McKee): Republican cube cards
in form of an elephant, 1964 (1978.1090).

Colonel James W. Curtis: autographed one-dollar silver certificate of 1935,
carried by King Farouk of Egypt during the end of WW II (1978.2324).

Government of Cyprus, Embassy of Cyprus (through His Excellency Nicos
Demetriou): mint postage stamps of Cyprus (1978.2266); First Day cover, 7
unused specimen stamps, and 3 used postage stamps, all of Cyprus (1979.
0140).

DMV Contact Lens Company (through Robert England): contact lens remover/
inserter, epilating mirror, set of 2 luma serters, and DMv remover/ inserter
(1979.0340).

Daisy—Heddon, Division Victor Comptometer Corporation (through John R.
Powers, Jr.): collection of foreign and US air guns and accessories (1978.
1028).

Nicholas W. Danforth: white linen damask napkin with American eagle woven
pattern (1978.2526).

Raymond Darida: 2 US Army Flying Cadet belts, c. 1930, and 2 original boxes
(1978.0657); 2 rifle belt rings for model 1912 cavalry belt and a saber sling
attachment (1978.2102).

Pyllis O. Davenport: newspapers, the Boston Sunday Herald, November 26,
1865, and The Atlas, January 11, 1840 (1978.2275).

Walter Davis: Davis pattern plate puller (1979.0413).

The Deadly Nightshade (through Pamela Brandt, Helen Hooke, and Anne

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 523
Bowen): items relating to the musical group “The Deadly Nightshade,” in-
cluding a scrapbook, press kit, T-shirt, button, wooden doll, magazine, 2
record albums, and 3 posters (1978.2200).

Rene Delcour: 29 engraved steel plates (1978.2258).

Delta Queen Steamboat Co.: model of steamboat Delta Queen (1978.2287).

Kingdom of Denmark, Ministry of Public Works, General Directorate of Posts
and Telegraphs: 65 mint postage stamps of Denmark and 40 mint postage
stamps of Faroe Island (1978.2252); 35 mint postage stamps of Denmark
and 15 mint postage stamps of Faroe Island (1979.0141).

Dertoit Historical Museum: automatic surveyor level and stake setter (1979.-
0238).

Renato Di Lauro, Jr.: Kelly automatic press (1978.0942).

Barbara Dickstein: woman’s shoes and 2-piece designer dress (1979.0081).

Matthew Dickstein: 4 man’s necklaces, 1968-69 (1979.0274).

Nancy Dickstein: girl’s clothing items including a pair of trousers, a hat, a
blouse, a coat, and a boy’s belt (1979.0089).

Sidney Dickstein: man’s clothing items including 2 suit jackets, 2 ties, 3 shirts,
a 2-piece suit, and a pair of trousers (1979.0091).

C. May Diekmann in memory of Mr. and Mrs. George O. Diekmann: book
entitled A Practical Treatise on the Hive and Honey-Bee and a book entitled
Barry’s Fruit Garden (1978.2374).

Mary Louisa Adams Johnson Dietrich (through Joseph B. Manello): 15 pieces
of John Adams blue and white cornflower dinner service, 27 pieces of John
Quincy Adams pink and gold banquet service, 10 pieces of French silver, c.
1805, baby rattle and a silver basket marked “JJC” (1977.0675).

District of Columbia (through Martin K. Schaller): posters, bumper stickers,
pamphlets, notices, circulars, etc., concerning the 1974 District of Columbia
elections, first “Home Rule” elections in the District for 100 years (1978.
0843).

Eileen K. Dodd: 2 woman’s designer dresses and 2 woman’s 2-piece designer
suits (1977.1155).

Richard F. Dole: 2 builder’s plates from railroad cars (1979.0318).

Mrs. Irma M. Donnellon: Anti-Era button and keychain (1978.2142).

Mrs. Paul J. Donovan: 18M electric typewriter—Model A (1978.2227).

Gladys C. Dougherty: butter knife, ladle spoon, jelly spoon, and a sugar spoon
(323532.00) ; infant’s booties and shoes (1979.0079).

Doulton & Company, Ltd. (through Joseph Lee): 6 porcelain figures of soldiers
of the Continental Army—Royal Doulton, Ltd., England, c. 1977 (1978.2436).

Michael M. Doyle: WW II uniform, officer tropical worsted (1977.0898).

Thomas J. Drake: Emerson portable radio model 508 (1978.0825).

Petro Drapala: Bicentennial wall hanging made of ribbons (1978.2173).

Orcutt Phillips Drury: Semiautomatic rifle model T1, Smith and Wesson “New
Departure” revolver in original box, Smith and Wesson revolver, Harrington
and Richardson “32 Auto Ejector” revolver, and semiautomatic Colt’s M1911
pistol with leather shoulder holster and extra magazine (1977.0478).

James Du Vall (through Rick Miller): continuous discharge book No. 090358
(1979.0399).

Mildred F. R. Duncan: woman’s brooch, 1900-19 (1978.0554).

Mary B. and William F. Duncan: Bausch & Lomb microscope, 1905 (1978.0982).

Mrs. Arthur Wallace Dunn: official Navy correspondence, personal corre-
spondence, and personal memorabilia of Comdr. Arthur W. Dunn, USN
(Ret.) (1979.0291).

W. Clyde Dunn: Polaroid Speedliner land camera in case with accessories
(1979 :0009).

Willis H. duPont: 1855 Kellogg $50-gold-piece struck at San Franciso. (1978.-
2507).

524 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Christopher J. Durborow: Philco color television receiver, c. 1954 (1979.0494).
William H. Duvall III and Betty Duvall Rigoli in memory of William H.
Duvall, Jr.: 15 hand tools from the William H. Duvall Collection (1978.2235).

Mrs. Richard F. Dwyer: woman’s 2-piece designer suit, 1953 (1977.1176).

Ira Dye: Astronomical calculating device used on Type 21 German U-boats,
WW II, and carrying case (1979.2307).

John I. H. Eales: Bacon and Co. single-shot pistol and flint “Lock” stamped
“Tower” (1978.2332).

Prescott Eaton: Fowler Meo rifle with powder horn (314674.00).

Barton M. Eckert: man’s clothing items including a shirt, tie, shoes, and stock-
ings (322628.00).

Lucy E. Edens: fabric print of Santa Claus by Thomas Nast (1978.0848).

Elizabeth Longmire Edinger: woman’s stole and muff, c. 1900 (1977.1068).

Mrs. Nat Edmonson: objects relating to Anti-ERA (1978.0459).

Constantine Eisinger: horizontal boring machine (1978.2112).

Cecil E. Ellis and Ted Farrell: painted wooden sign from the front of a tractor
used in the American Agriculture Movement, January, 1979 (1979.0368).

Harold W. Ellis: US Marine Corps Officer’s uniform leather puttees, c. 1922
(1978.2419).

Mrs. Dorothy Ellis: 13-star flag of the ship Bedford, c. 1780 (1977.0886).

Major William K. Emerson, USA: 3 models of a bomb, spherical munition, and
a bomblet (318008.00) ; experimental jacket, wide mesh (1977.0774).

Irene R. Eno: woman’s step-ins and chemise from 1930 (1979.0093).

Bessie Powers Evans (through Clara Powers Basnight): woman’s 2-piece wed-
ding dress from 1888 (1979.0062).

Dr. and Mrs. Henry C. J. Evans: Hand balance, set of 6 weights, set of 5
weights, and a pocket compass (1978.2178).

Elliot Evans: glass tumbler cut by the Eggington Rich Cut Glass Company,
Corning, N.Y., c. 1899-1920 (1978.0841).

Ever-Ready Lace and Textile Company (through Mrs. Faye Basow): political
emblems (1978.2128).

Executive Design, Inc. (through E. T. Richards, Jr.): Goldwater political jewelry
consisting of a tie tac and a tie bar (1978.2127).

Ada M. Fagin: toy bear by Steiff (1979.0287).

Herbert I. and Robert E. Fahnestock: rubberized British seaman’s protective
suit, yellow coat and trousers (1979.0357).

Irving S. Falk: US propaganda leaflets, WW II (1978.0183).

Fargo Rubber Stamp Works (through C. M. Fossum): political campaign but-
tons from 1964 (1978.2139).

Elizabeth Coonley Faulkner: linen napkin designed by Frank Lloyd Wright for
the Avery Coonley House in 1908 (1978.0327).

Albert Louis Feldstein: Button—“Wages for Housework” and poster—’March
on the FBI/FBI out of Native American Nations” (1978.1080).

Capt. William G. H. Finch, USN (Ret.): Finch facsimile machine (1979.0103).

C. W. Fishbaugh: Victory Loan rubber stamp (1978.1007).

Joseph C. Fisher: US Navy 1p tag worn by the donor, c. 1963-66 (1978.0253).

Mrs. Ruth K. Fisher: beaded reticule of a scene with buildings, lake, and
swans (1979.0105).

Mrs. Anne M. Fitzsimmons: collection of 166 US and foreign zeppelin, cata-
pult, and commercial covers and post cards, and 30 mint postage stamps
from the Saar (1979.0080).

Carolyn E. Fix: Prohibition and G.a.r. badges and ribbons (1978.0987).

Mrs. Virginia S. Fledel: woman’s designer 2-piece suit, 1944—45 (1977.1158).

Millicent C. Fleming: woman’s 2-piece designer suit and a purse from 1946
(1978.0425).

Shelly Jayne Foote: Woman’s jewelry including 1 brooch and 3 bracelets, and

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 525
woman’s clothing items including a scarf, cap, brassiere, and panties (1979.
0076).

Mrs. Gabrielle E. Forbush: 2 newspapers, a membership card, poster, campaign
button, “Roosevelt” pin, and a booklet, all from the Franklin D. Roosevelt
era (1978.2417).

Harry J. Forman: Lithographic vignettes and related materials used mostly on
financial documents (1978.0866).

Paul Forman: 3 ticket stubs from ’(Pl?)ayland at the Beach,” San Francisco,
California (1979.0194) ; bronze medal commemorating the Einstein Centennial
Symposium held in Jerusalem in March 1979 (1979.0442).

David R. Fox: RCA type RT-3A tape recorder (1978.0814).

Grace Fox: collection of 27 pieces of nineteenth- and twentieth-century cloth-
ing (1978.0583).

Dr. Grace Fox and Mrs. Mary W. Fox Whittlesey: pair of knitted black silk
mitts, infant’s white-on-white embroidery dress, and tan twill weave shawl
(1978.2533); woman’s dress, cape, and hoop (1979.0088).

The Foxboro Company (through Earle W. Pitt): direct digital control panel for
chemical processes (1979.0186).

Anselm Frankel: 7 books of “war scrip” (1979.0392). The Franklin Mint Cor-
poration (through Martin F. Walsh): 2 sets of specimen banknotes from
Northern Ireland (1978.1083); President Jimmy Carter’s official inaugural
medals in silver proof and bronze proof (1978.0802); original obverse plaster
model and steel obverse and reverse dies for the Jimmy Carter Inaugural
Medal, 1977. (1978.0803); 5 President Jimmy Carter inaugural medals, 1
“Official Inaugural Plate,” and 1 “Inaugural Crystal Paperweight” (1978.
0804); specimen banknotes—States of Jersey (1978.2188); group of foreign
specimen banknotes from Ghana, Gibraltar and Tonga (1978.2311); group
of recent issues of Swaziland treasury notes (1978.2439); 11 silver commem-
orative medals struck by The Franklin Mint (1978.2466); group of new issues
of specimen banknotes from Mauritius (1978.2495); set of specimen bank-
notes from Bahrain Islands (1979.0041); set of new specimen banknotes of
the Dominican Republic (1979.0288); (through William J. Krieg): 45 silver
commemorative medals, 1 bronze commemorative medal, and 20 silver “in-
gots” (1978.0867).

French Cable Company (through Jacques Berenger): telegraph pieces including
lighting arrester, test bench, galvanometer scale, reversing switch, send-
receive switch, telegraph key, test set, test switch, switch board, 4 switches,
3 test keys, 3 resistance boxes, and 2 galvanometers (1978.2346).

Friendship Dedication: plastic license plate with legend ““McGovern-Shriver/
Unite America” (1978.2242).

Fruit Growers Express Company (through C. S. Hill): model of refrigerator car,
c. 1925 (1979.0319).

Melinda Young Frye: dressmaker’s drafting tool with instruction booklet
(1977.0045).

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel B. Fuller: woman’s blouse, c. 1955 (320856.C2).

Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider: woman’s designer dress, 1947-57, and woman’s
designer two-piece suit, c. 1957 (1978.0451).

Kenneth Fulton: Democratic National Committee objects from 1968 and 1972
including 3 pamphlets, 2 badges, 2 guidebooks, a photograph, and a sign
(1978.0993).

Galanos (through Verene B. Lane and Stanley Weaver): woman’s designer fall
dress, 1977, and designer sketch, fall/winter 1977 (1978.0157).

Galaxies Unlimited, Inc. (through Robert Weber): Bicentennial presidential
commemorative medals in silver and bronze (1977.0395).

David L. Ganz: pattern piece in pure nickel for small-sized silver dollar (1978.-
2493); pattern piece in titanium for small-sized dollar (1978.2494).

526 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Frances Gardiner (through Stanley Weaver): woman’s 2-piece designer dress
from 1959 and a woman’s 3-piece ensemble from 1962 (1979.0064).

Dr. Leslie N. Gay, Jr.: collection of medical items including metabulator ma-
chine, ophthalmometer, medicine instrument cabinet, air compressor, blood-
pressure testing apparatus, autoclave, centrifuge, incubator, 2 percussion
hammers, tuning fork, aspirator, stethoscope, nasal speculum, 2 copper
specimen traps, 2 ophthalmoscopes, throat illuminating apparatus, and a
blood lancet (1979.0306).

Mrs. Mary W. Geer: Geer color television tube (1978.0816).

General Electric Company (through Cliff Rockwell): telephone carrier test
equipment (1978.0813).

Mary D. Gentry: woman’s suit, hat, and shoes, 1942-45 (1977.1168).

Georgetown University in the name of the Donahue and Kelliher families
(through Joseph A. Haller, S.J.): woman’s 2-piece dress, 1876-81 (1978.-
1004).

The Georgian Lighting Studios, Inc. (through Judy K. Hymes and Sol Wein-
traub): miner’s lamp and a kerosene lamp (1978.2497).

John R. Gerwig, Jr.: pair of sardine scissors (1978.2490).

Dr. Donald A. Glaser: xenon bubble chamber and 4 experimental glass bubble
chambers (1977.0994); propane bubble chamber (1978.2168).

Alexander Glass: 2 sets of Zeiss Standard Gauge Blocks, both with cases
(1979.0190).

Estate of Margrethe C. Goddin in memory of Commander John Morris Goddin
(through Vincent D. Farrell and Robert J. Stapleton): slave bill of sale,
Richmond, November 14, 1850/$750 (1978.0850).

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Goldberg: 2 black-and-white engraved posters and 1
“Shtetl” engraving all by Chaim Goldberg (1979.0044).

Carol Hirschler Goldstein and Samuel J. Goldstein, Jr.: rosewood flute and
case made by Bohm and Mendler of Munich (1978.0613).

Jose I. Gonzalez: Spanish Order of Military Merit medal, belonged to Eusta-
quio Gonzalez (1978.0957).

Harold E. Good: US Marine Corps enlisted man’s winter field uniform with
accessories, c. WW I (1979.0471).

G. Dean Goodsell: 2 fabric panels from a satin dress (1978.2441).

Alvin J. Gordon: octagonal platinum pocket watch with platinum watch chain
(1978.2103).

Jane T. Gotwols (through Miss Elizabeth Edinger): 2 woman’s hats, 1955-62
(1978.0452).

From the Collection of Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould: 40 pieces of scrimshaw
(1978.0052).

Josephine C. Graff: woman’s 2-piece designer suit, 1950-51, and 2 hats, 1950-53
(1977.1070).

Lt. Comdr. Edwin G. Graham (Ret.): 9 US plate blocks autographed by gen-
erals and admirals of WW II (1979.0227).

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Grant: WW II items including Japanese national flag,
American downed-pilot recognition flag, Japanese gun elevation plate, 2
Japanese nomenclature plates, and 3 Japanese shell casings (1978.2257).

Gray Communications Consultants, Inc. (through Thomas J. Sabiston, Jr.): TV
camera, control rack, and 2 power supplies (1978.0857).

The Great American Picture Company, Inc (through Lynn Goldsmith): lino-
leum block and linoleum cut entitled On the Beach by Margaret Burroughs
(1978.0811).

Green Duck Company (through Kenneth S. Mirza): political campaign ma-
terial from 1964 including 4 clips, 21 buttons, a medal, plaque, and bumper
sticker (1978.2131).

Louis C. Green: celestial globe, J. Wilson & Sons, 1826 (1979.0203).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 527
Julius Gregory: political campaign medal, 1840 (1978.2165).

Mrs. Leéntine Grialon: ats letter from Thomas Hey Usher to his mother, 1862
(1978.0950).

George W. Groom: German porcelain cup and saucer, German porcelain litho-
phane lamp, Austrian porcelain trembleuse cup and saucer, European por-
celain lithophane gas or electric bulb shade, European glass bud vase, Euro-
pean porcelain cup and saucer, and a pressed glass fairy lamp (1979.0599).

Ruth and Robert Gruenberg: 4 milk bottles, c. 1940, from Thompson’s Dairy,
Washington, D.C. (1979.0056).

Mabel B. Gudgell: woman’s 2-piece designer suit (1978.1066).

Dorothy Guimaraes (through Dona Guimaraes): memo tablet (1978.0164).

Government of the Republic of Guinea: 6 mint and 6 used postage stamps of
Guinea (1978.2253).

Edith M. Gullett (through Martin J. Murtagh): US emblem, button, badges,
pin, and 2 medals (296665.C2).

Edward C. Gumprecht: Mary Todd Lincoln Plate, early twentieth century
(1979.0181).

Wilma I. Gurney: Union League of America certificate (1979.0531).

Dr. William Haddon, Jr.: wooden flat shovel, hay hook, sun plane, corn chop-
per, hay saw, bung borer, branding iron, ice hook, food chopper, horn
plane, Dutch plane, cooper’s adze, reel winder, sugar devil, flail, lumberstick,
gruls hoe, pea scythe, wooden log caliper, and a peevy hook (1978.2375).

Mrs. Maxine H. Hall: oil painting of 5.S. Alianca by Antonio Jacobson (1978.-
2218).

Robert L. Halvorson: 2 pairs of earphones and a listening station for ear-
phones used in listening to Watergate tapes, microphone used by Alexander
Butterfield as witness in the impeachment inquiry of Richard M. Nixon,
and a plaque which reads “This device was used at IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY
OF R. M. NIXON . . . SECOND WATERGATE TRIAL Nov.—Dec. 1974” (1978.2416).

Joyce E. Hamula: Anti-era buttons (Pro-Family) (1978.0844).

Mrs. Mary Ellen Handwork: carpet stretcher (1978.2335).

Dorothy K. Handy: 1852 Winfield Scott kerchief (1978.0859).

Morton W. Harmel: 234 US covers posted on board US naval ships, and 7
miscellaneous covers relating to the US Navy (1979.0558).

James W. Harper: cartridge and 4 accessory pouches (1978.2463).

Elizabeth Harris: color photolithographs (1978.1044).

Michael R. Harris: man’s coat, c. 1965 (1978.0662).

April J. and Dennis M. Harrison: ship’s bell from the USS Guadalcanal, 1943
(1978.2292).

Edward R. Harrison: audio-visual political campaign memorabilia (1978.2192).

Edward R. and Marion L. Harrison: hotel key with brass fob, inscribed “Orn-
dorff Hotel/34/Tucson, Ariz.” (1979.0196).

Hartland Vermont Historical Society (through Leslie F. Motschman): booklet,
Hartland, the Way It Was 1761-1976 (1979.0325).

Mrs. Walter M. Hartman: woman’s designer suit and woman’s designer
2-piece suit both from c. 1944 (1977.1149).

Elinor G. Hayes: yearbook from Bates College, Lewiston, Maine, with com-
mencement program for July 1, 1880 (1979.0455).

Hannah L. Hayes, BD nurse’s pocket surgical kit, 7 clinical thermometers,
a bath thermometer, surgical saw, and a trocar (1978.2357).

Fairlie Lane Haynes (through Mrs. Homer Waitstill Orvis): white and gold
porcelain cake plate which belonged to President and Mrs. Tyler (1979.
0382).

Hearst Corporation, Hearst Metrotone News (through John D. May): Eyemo
motion picture camera with 3 lenses and accessories, Arriflex II-C motion
picture camera with 3 lenses and accessories, J. M. Wall motion picture

528 / Smithsonian Year 1979
camera with 5 lenses and accessories, film magazines, optical amplifier and
Akeley Cyro tripod for Wall camera, and an Akeley Cyro tripod for Arri-
flex camera (1979.0115).

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Hebert: group of Islamic and European coins
(320707.00); collection of United States and foreign notes and other finan-
cial documents (1978.0829); group of United States and foreign medals,
badges, tokens, and coins (1977.0450).

Frances Held: sheet music—Woman Suffrage song entitled “Votes for Women
Suffrage Rallying Song” (1978.2141).

Joseph Henchel: pin—American Women’s Voluntary Services,” arm band—
“United War/Work Campaign,” bumper sticker—”Welcome Home/POWS,”
and “A Coin History of the Presidents” (1978.0986).

Provie L. Henderson: blacksmith’s hand hammer (1978.2277).

Jane and Mary Henle: collection of 30 pairs of opera glasses, 25 with carry-
ing pouches, and 1 extra case (1978.2216).

William K. Henson: cans of peach jam (1977.0571); US Navy enlisted man’s
blue flat hat, c. 1913-41 (1978.0131); US Army 4 buckle Artics, 1943 (1978.-
0835); Spencer rifle cartridge (1979.0486).

Rochambeau A. Herosian: 32 cartridges, machine gun bullet, shotgun shell
casing, projectile, shell casing, rifle cartridge clip, and a “D” ring handle
from reserve parachute (1978.2473).

Sue Hestor: 4 issues of “The McCarthy Advance” newspaper from August
1968 (1979.0435).

Mrs. Donald F. Hilderbrandt II: woman’s designer dress, 1947-52 (1977.1156).

Louis Hill and Allen R. Salfer: US postage stamp commemorating Mariner 10’s
visit to Venus and Mercury with missing colors, 1975 (1978.2153).

Ernest G. and Ruth I. Hinck: 20-star US flag, official date 1818-20 (1979.0292).

Mrs. Laural Buxton Hobbes: copy of photograph of Dr. John Gorrie, made
by Fabian Bachrach of Boston (1978.2430).

Kemp B. Hobbs, Jr.: Chesapeake Ferry Company ticket from 1933, program
bulletin for George Washington Bicentennial in New York, and a pass,
itinerary and silk ribbon all used for a visit to Wakefield on February 22,
1932 (1978.0060).

Robert Hodges: group of US broken banknotes (1978.2364).

Mrs. Frank Hodson: invitation from the Mayor of Boston to meet Her Majesty
Queen Kapiolani and Her Royal Highness The Princess Liliuokalani of the
Hawaiian Islands, dated May 1887 (1979.0438).

Dr. Stanton S. Hoechstetter in memory of Mrs. Bertha B. Hoechstetter: tin-
glazed earthenware dish in form of a shell upon a coral twig stand (1979.-
0012).

Lt. Col. George A. Hoffman, USA (Ret.): WW II period Japanese and US
Army equipment, and Australian insignia (1978.0958).

John N. Hoffman: Republican National Convention ticket for June 1924 (1979.
0123).

Holiday Tie Company: black necktie with elephant and “Goldwater ’64”
(1978.1092).

Adeline L. Holleran: woman’s dress and collar from 1860 (1979.0090).

The Hollerith Family (through Elisabeth C. Hollerith): No. 1 Panoram-Kodak
panoramic camera manufactured by Eastman Kodak Co. (1978.1034).

Helen R. Holmes in memory of Elsie R. Worrall: woman’s 2-piece wedding
dress, 1889, and a woman’s petticoat, c. 1889 (1977.0892).

Donald W. Holst: German entrenching carriers, c. WW I (323539.00).

Mrs. Mildry S. Hopper: toy dog (1978.2105).

Mrs. John F. Houck: 20 plates and 8 plaques, Continental European porcelain
with birds of the states, hand-painted by the donor (1979.0256).

Rolland O. Hower: carton of 25 7.62 mm ball cartridges (1979.0283).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 529
Richard H. Howland: 3 woman’s jabots, a woman’s collar, a woman’s collar
and cuff set, and a man’s combination (1977.1160); “Shopping list” note-
book (1977.1160.C3); X Piano Taboret by L. Postawka (1978.2378) ; 33 pieces
of early twentieth-century woman’s jewelry (1979.0337).

A. W. Huebner: wooden tripod, Premo film pack tank, Eastman plate tank,
and a Baby Brownie Special camera (1979.0007).

Hughes Aircraft Company, Research Laboratories (through Dr. Robert L.
Forward and George F. Smith): set of 9 technical journals, “Hughes Aircraft
Company Technical Journals” (1979.0129).

Hunt-Ragan, Inc.: Goldwater campaign eyeglasses (1978.1091).

Harry Hunter: cartridge carton and 3 M1911 caliber .45 match cartridges
(1978.2468).

Immaculata School (through Sister Mary Olive O’Connell and Sister Mary
Dempsey, S.P.): 2 Corona typewriters, 1 Remington typewriter, and a Dalton
adding, listing, and calculating machine (1978.2479).

INA Corporation (through William A. Slugg): oil painting of clipper ship
Young America (1979.0525).

Indiana State University, Department of Physics (through Mark Branham):
surveyors Vernier compass (1979.0649).

Mary Inman: pamphlet, The Two Forms of Production Under Capitalism;
journal issue, The Political Affairs Journal; flier, Credit Women Without
Discrediting Men; flier, In Woman’s Defense; leaflet, Facts for Women;
book, In Woman's Defense, by Mary Inman (1978.1038).

Institute for Studies in Equality (through Anita M. Miller): book, Women’s
Rights and the Law, and 2 issues of the magazine Equal Rights Monitor
(1978.2339).

Intermedics Intraocular, Inc. (through Larry M. Wigent): ophthalmological
collection including 2 contact lens starter care kits, contact lens care kit,
and 9 intraocular lens demonstration models (1979.0469).

International Brotherhood of Painters and Allied Trades (through S. Frank
Raftery): labor union membership card and labor union book entitled Con-
stitution General Laws and Trade Rules of Carpet, Linoleum and Tile Work-
ers Union Local No. 1 (1979.0198).

Evelyn D. Irish: girl’s dress, 1860-75 (1977.1189).

Loretta M. Irwin: man’s clothing items from 1938 including a formal suit, for-
mal shirt, collar, collar stud, bow tie, pair of socks, and gloves (315474.00).

State of Israel, Ministry of Communications (through Director General): 6
First Day covers, 14 used postage stamps, and 1 mint postage stamp, all
1978 of Israel (1979.0142); Ministry of Posts: 17 Israeli First Day covers
issued in 1977 and 1978 (1978.2300).

J. A. Industries (through S. P. Mallett): 5 Mystic Grip Discs with 1964 political
campaign slogans (1978.2125).

Jack-Bilt Corporation (through Marshall Hughes, Jr.): political campaign items
including 8 stickers, 3 paper banners, and a bumper sticker (1978.2126).
Emma Bee Jackson: photographs, news articles, and a booklet concerning
Emma B. Manchester, Supreme Guardian of the Woodmen’s Circle (1978.-

212A).

Mrs. Ewell Y. Jackson: boy’s WW II civilian bombardier outfit, 1944 (1978.-
0456); toy truck (1978.1062).

Carl H. Jaeschke: group of US tokens used by merchants, coal mines, and
transportation companies (1977.0444); collection of US military tokens used
in Vietnam (1977.0445).

The Bank of Japan (through Haruaki Hayakawa): 2 100-yen specimen coins
dated 1976, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of Emperor Hirohito’s
accession to the throne (1978.2313).

Lorena E. Jennings: 1898 certificate of Civil War service (1978.0959).

530 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Arthur Jensen: fan, “Keep Cool With Me and Take Me Home From—” (1978.-
0965).

Doris S. and William M. Jimison: 2 ingrain carpet fragments (1979.0166).

Joseph P. Jodoin: factual chart of WW II Asiatic-Pacific Operations (1978.-
2164).

Johnson City Bicentennial Committee (through Frank A. Tannewitz): bronze
Bicentennial medal issued by donor (1978.2350).

Charles E. Johnson: 3 Finnish commemorative medals (1979.0202); china plate
bearing a color transfer of Washington’s tomb (1978.2243).

Eleanor M. Johnson: woman’s 2-piece designer suit (1977.1090).

Gary Johnson: etching, Stonybrook, by the donor (1979.0296).

Lloyd E. and Margaret Ann Johnston: corkscrew spigot (1978.1063).

Mrs. Diana D. Jones, Anna W. Knapp, and Mrs. Babette R. Woodruff in mem-
ory of Frank Knapp: Scharf Schutzen Trophy and a collection of 16 medals
presented to Frank Knapp (1978.2432).

Holmes Ed Jones: oil painting depicting early days in the Spindletop Oil Fields
(1978.2279).

Mrs. Jewell Jones: china plate used on the train which carried President
Franklin D. Roosevelt to San Francisco in 1942 (1979.0055).

Virginia C. Jones (through H. McCoy Jones): oil can, globe, 24 Christmas
lights and 10 duplicate lights (1978.0571); 2 toiletry bottles with caps and
4 Christmas tree candle lamps (1978.0571).

George E. Jordan: silver tea spoon and silver fork (1978.0547).

Margaret F. Joy: woman’s 2-piece designer wedding suit, 1944 (1977.1169).

Jerome F. Kapp: man’s shoes, c. 1946 (1979.0485).

June C. Karamessines and Vera C. Parmiter: South Carolina ten-pound note,
June 1, 1775 (1978.0935).

Mrs. Elizabeth de B. Karrick: 4 knives, spindle, carving fork, carving knife,
and a steel (1978.0610); 19 glass items of late-nineteenth—early-twentieth-
century origin, mainly American, 1 ceramic salt dish by Lenox, Inc., Tren-
ton, N. J., and 9 porcelain handled knives, late nineteenth or twentieth
century, Austria (1978.0840).

Jessie W. Karsted: 2 woman’s 2-piece designer suits (1977.1153).

Lucille D. Kaufman: boy’s coat, trousers, and shoes (1979.0094); boy’s clothing
items including 2 shirts, a 3-piece suit, a tie, and a pair of shoes (1979.0479).

Margaret C. Kaylor: 2 man’s designer shirts, 1950-59 (1977.1088).

A. C. Keller: Western Electric rubber line electrical recorders (1978.2539).

Priscilla R. Kelley (through Miner D. Crary, Jr., Esquire): white porcelain vase
and cover, jar-shaped, made by Adelaide Alsop Robineau in 1910 (1979.-
0104).

Frances A. and Roger G. Kennedy: Japanese porcelain place setting (6 pieces
of the 60’s editions) for a dinner service designed by Frank Lloyd Wright
for the Imperial Hotel in Tokyo, c. 1922 (1979.0591).

Sally A. Kenney: man’s overcoat, 1954 (1979.0086).

Verna Rudd Kenvin and Joan Weekes Smith: paper bill from 1799 (323619.00).

James W. Kerr: 6 full sheets of US Christmas seals (600 objects), 335 mis-
cellaneous Christmas seals, 3 full sheets of Easter seals (254 objects), 136
progressive proofs of US Christmas seals, 1 Danish Christmas seal on cover,
and 1 Danish Christmas seal on postcard (1979.0225).

James R. Ketchum: anti-Nixon poster produced in 1968 by the arFt-c1o (1978.
2422).

Jane M. Kindle and Sarah M. Moore: woman’s designer dress and woman’s
hat from 1947 (1977.1157).

Margaret Brown Klapthor: green and white china plate with teddy bears going
to the White House and a pamphlet entitled My Mother’s Gold Ring (1979.-
0849); 4 American Red Cross pins, Subordinate Grange manual, and a USA

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 531
War Ration Book from WW II (1978.1096); handout from the Capitol Hill
Chapter of the National Organization for Women (1978.2217).

Robert Lee Klinger: WW II Pro Kit, unopened, 1945 issue (1978.2177); 1 Japa-
nese slide rule in dark brown leather case (1978.2289); pin from the Young
Men’s Blaine Club, “25th Anniversary 1884-1909” (1979.0505).

Carolyn Berhard Knapp: woman’s 2-piece designer suit, 1949 (1977.1170).

Emma C. P. Knapp: painted and carved lunette (1978.1069).

Dr. Eugene Knez: album of unused Korean postage stamps issued during 1970
(1978.2159).

Grand Encampment of Knights Templar of the United States of America
(through Paul C. Rodenhauser): Knights of Templar badges (1978.0940).
Edward A. and Jean A. Kohl: shipping articles of the private armed hermaph-
rodite brig Prince de Neufchatel, and articles of agreement between the
owners and crew of the private armed vessel the brig Prince de Neufchatel

(1978.2467).

Roland A. and Saga L. Kollbeck: man’s clothing items including 5 pairs of
socks, 3 bow ties, cap, gloves, ski pants, ski jacket, ski boots, ski goggles,
2-piece hunting outfit, a pair of shorts, pair of ice skates, pair of stockings,
and a shirt, and woman’s clothing items including a cap, pair of overshoes,
and a pair of shoes, and a pair of girl’s shoes (309462.00).

Irving Kolodin: RCA record player, c. 1949, and Columbia record player, c.
1948 (1978.0824).

Elmer R. Koppelmann: Carter bust peanut container (1978.1009).

Robert Korver: 10-dollar banknote of the Jefferson County Bank, Watertown,
New York, dated January 4, 1830 (1978.2314).

Amelia Pachmayer Koski: woman’s wedding dress and hat from 1940, and a
woman’s 2-piece dress from 1937 (1977.1065).

Sandy Koufax: “Rawlings” baseball glove used by donor (1979.0530).

Mrs. Marion Kramer: book, Women of the War, 1866 (1978.0581).

Mrs. Genevieve Kratzer in memory of Einar A. Johnson: WW II bar pin with
the letter “E’”’ (1979.0440).

William K. Krutz: 1 Post Versalog slide rule and instruction manual (1978.-
0800).

Jeanne E. Kulp: toy, “Felix the Cat’ (1978.1067).

Frederick E. Kusiak in memory of the family of Alma and Joseph Kusiak
(through Judith S. Patch): WW I posters (1978.0401); 3 WW I recruiting
posters (1978.0638).

Cameron J. LaClair, Jr.: 2 molds for casting toy soldiers and a ladle for pour-
ing molten lead (1978.2450).

The Lagonda Printing Company (through John E. Harwood): coasters with
likeness of John F. Kennedy and a set of 7 placemats depicting events in
US history (1978.2196).

Elizabeth Tyler Lane (through Mrs. Homer W. Orvis): silver sugar tongs
which belonged to President John Tyler and Letitia Christian Tyler (1979.-
0699).

John Langer: cornet by the Boston Musical Instrument Manufactory with
period case (1978.0517).

I. B. Laskowitz: variable delivery pump or blower, experimental model (1979.-
0464).

Mrs. Edith M. Lawall: William Hall and Son guitar, Gibson mandolin, guitar
and tenor banjo—all items with cases (1978.0845).

Benjamin T. Layton, LTC USAR Retired: WW I identity card (1978.0637).

League of Women Voters (through Davida Kristy): 2 ERA T-shirts (1978.0557).

Mrs. Dorothy M. Leatham: steam gauge valve plate from the USS Maine, 1898
(1978.1098).

532 / Smithsonian Year 1979
John H. Leckenby: push-button telephone dial (1978.2366).

Lehigh University, Department of Chemistry (through Professor Frederick M.
Fowkes): Spencer spectroscope, Coleman University spectrophotometer,
Coleman Jr. spectrophotometer, Beckman pH meter, Beckman oxygen ana-
lyzer, and accessories for these instruments (1979.0432).

L. E. Leininger: collection of wooden box ends and boxes (approximately 475)
(1979.0441).

Mrs. John Lemp: 4 panels of embroidered curtains and an unfinished panel
of an embroidered curtain (1979.0498).

Lenox China, Inc. (through Robert J. Sullivan): porcelain plate, ninth in the
limited edition birds series, “Mockingbirds” (1978.2263); porcelain plate in
the limited edition ‘Woodland Wildlife Series—Whitetail Deer” (1978.0838).

Mrs. Clyde B. Leonard: pay order form from the Washington Office of Dis-
count and Deposit (1979.0477).

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman in memory of Dr. Harry Lepman: political campaign
commemorative ribbons, badges, etc. (1978.0590); broadside, campaign litho-
graph, flier, corn flakes box, equality button 1903, oval cardboard sign,
bronze donkey, and Van Buren-Adams ballot (1978.0591); collection of po-
litical memorabilia including broadsides, posters, cartoons, sheet music,
pamphlets, ballots, comic books, tickets, window stickers, bumper stickers,
postcards, caps, hats, cloth items, and campaign objects (1979.0215).

Alice N. and Peter R. Levin: 168 scenic post cards, c. 1900 (1978.0801).

Ruth S. Levinson: woman’s clothing items including 4 designer dresses and
2 purses (1979.0069).

C. Theodore Lewis: peeled splint broom made by the donor (1978.0381).

Mrs. Grace Elaine Lewis: photograph of the “Big Three” at Potsdam, invita-
tion to the Misses Tiffany from Mrs. Wm. H. Taft, and an announcement
from President and Mrs. Wilson of the marriage of their daughter (1979.-
0350).

Mabel E. Lewis and Viola Lewis Allen: 2 girl’s muffs, c. 1874-75, and a box,
c. 1874-75 (1978.0047).

Andree Lindow: woman’s clothing items including 5 hats, 2 dresses, 3-piece
ensemble, 2-piece suit, blouse, coat, pair of shoes, and a pair of stockings
(1978.0651).

H. L. Lindquist Publications, Inc.: 874 assorted First Day covers, special can-
cels, used and unused postal cards, locally issued souvenir cards, and used
postage stamps of the world (1979.0487); 1462 US and foreign philatelic
items (1979.0297); 1346 US and foreign philatelic items (1979.0347); 1331
assorted First Day covers, special events covers, and used postage stamps
of the world (1979.0454); 520 assorted covers and postage stamps of the
world (1979.0642); 1497 US and foreign philatelic items (1979.0692);
(through Frederic A. Lambert): collection of United States gold coins (1977.-
0412); collection of United States gold coins (1978.0868).

Mrs. Patricia A. Lipman: Resurrection City items including photographs, bro-
chures, handouts, newspapers, buttons, and posters (1978.1093).

Geraldine C. M. Livingston and Mary Livingston Ripley: woman’s Whipper-
In outfit, man’s daytime Master of Hounds regalia, evening Master of
Hounds coat, Matador regalia, and 9 other costume items (1978.0454).

Mrs. Edward J. Loewenthal: silver meat fork by Falick Novick (1978.2333).

Ethel F. Loewer in memory of Bettie Jo Van Horn: woman’s mourning ring,
1829 (1978.2445).

Rebecca Pollard Logan: woman’s designer dress, 1953 (1979.0068).

Helen R. and James W. Long: Climax gas making machine including air pump,
gas mixer, index clock, and a set of direction sheets (1978.0787).

Dave Longhofer: political ballots (1978.1047).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 533
Mr. Loring: red earthenware vase, c. 1876, red earthenware vase impressed
“Chicago Terra Cotta Works, 1876,” and a brownish-red earthenware nurs-
ery kettle and stand (1979.0501).

Mrs. Walter Louchheim: printed cotton fabric—Liberty of London and needle-
point lace (320014.00).

LaVerne Love: booklet and program for the Convention of the National Coun-
cil of Negro Women (1978.2340).

Richard O. Lovering: sea chest, 1843 and a needle case containing 6 needles
(1979.0412).

Mrs. Anna Martin Lowe on behalf of her husband, Gerald Lowe, Jr.: letter
from George Washington dated August 13, 1780, to Major Benjamin Tall-
madge (1978.2276).

Tom Lowenstein and Mrs. Hanna Wildenberg: a mint and used collection of
philatelic specimens of the world (1979.0541).

George K. Lucey: “Original Odhner” calculator with instruction booklet
(1978.2290).

Lynell Medical Technology Inc. (through Stanley Poler): intraocular lens and
insertional tool kit (1979.0465).

Robert MacKellar: 2 reciprocating steam engines (1978.2317).

Mrs. Grace B. Madison: blanket, brown with striped borders (1978.2406).

Mr. and Mrs. Frank R. Magan: book on the USS Leviathan of WW I (1979.-
0447).

Porter Capps Main and Frances C. Robinson: man’s 2-piece suit, 1937-1939,
and man’s 3-piece suit, 1920 (1977.0178).

Alexander Maish: boy’s clothing including a 2-piece suit, trousers, and a shirt,
all c. 1920 (1979.0085).

Mr. and Mrs. James E. Mallard, Jr.: A. S. Aloe Company wye level (1979.-
0584).

Bonnie Dow Mallory: dinner plate and an oval relish dish from a service of
porcelain made by the Paris firm of “Rihouet, Rue de la Paix” (1979.0466).

Harry L. Mangerich: 48 airmail and 49 postage stamps from Afghanistan, all
unused (1978.2160).

Jean A. Mann: porcelain snuff bottle with ivory spoon and a porcelain Blanc
de Chine plate both made by donor (1978.2437).

Darwin R. Martin: 28 WW I and WW II period posters (1978.2348).

S. Stephen Marvin: Deacon’s Synchronological Chart, universal history in 7
languages, London (1978.2362).

University of Maryland, Department of Physics (through John S. Toll): gravi-
tational radiation antenna (1979.0563).

Massachusetts IWY Coordinating Committee (through Mrs. Anne Barron):
report—Women at Home in the World, brochure, delegates packet which
includes handouts, activity schedules, and posters, all relating to the Massa-
chusetts observance of IWY (1978.1029).

Genevieve D. and Harold B. Master: broadside of “The President’s Prayer,”
offered by President Eisenhower at his inauguration January 20, 1953, and
a brochure giving the history of the broadside (1978.0574).

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin Mayberry: electric lawn mower (1979.0204).

Edith P. Mayo: petition, League of Women Voters Education Fund “Presi-
dential Debates: Equal Time for Issues” (1978.0990).

David R. McCann: coat tree and hat rack by Utilatree Products, Inc. (1978.-
1016).

McClatchy Newspapers (through C. K. McClatchy): newspaper and printing
plate of the front page of “The Sacramento Bee” bearing the story of an
assassination attempt on the life of President Ford (1979.0177).

Margaret A. McCorkle: woman’s designer hat, 1942-1952 (1979.0084).

534 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Emmett McDonald: personal store cards of the donor (1978.2337).

George J. McDonald: G. E. electric refrigerator, c. 1927(1978.0831).

Frances McFerran: tintype of donor’s parents and grandparents standing in
front of log cabin, taken May 1890 (1978.2403).

James M. and Reathie L. McKee: Edison electric D.C. motor (1979.0430).

Dr. Edwin McMillan: Lauritsen electroscope and recording of McMillan syn-
chrotron (1878.2174).

Mrs. William McMillan: 8 WW II posters, “Careless Talk Costs Lives” series
by the artist Fougasse (1978.2379).

Robert T. McNamara: silver medals struck and issued by Heraldic Art, Cleve-
land, Ohio (1977.0439).

Tom O. Means: two-burner kerosene stove (1979.0169).

Medallic Art Company (through William T. Louth): group of 87 medals struck
before 1976 by Medallic Art Company (1978.2427); (through Donald A.
Schwartz): Inaugural medal of President Gerald Ford (1978.0927); Nelson
Aldrich Rockefeller Vice Presidential Inaugural Medal (1978.0928); silver
“Bicentennial Calendar Medal” (1978.0979); silver “Bicentennial Year Cal-
endar Medal” (1978.2465).

Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (through Glenn A. Wesselman): first
betatron designed and fabricated specifically for cancer treatment and medi-
cal research (1978.2361).

Mrs. Elaine Fine Menszer: electrified eye examining chart (1979.0221).

Roger J. Merritt: 2 one-cent tokens issued by the donor in Miami Beach,
Florida (1979.0610).

Evelyn M. Meyer: cast-iron coffee mill (1978.1072).

Mrs. Marian C. Mickelwait: 71 Royal Copenhagen Christmas plates and 56
Bing and Grondahl Christmas plates, all from Denmark (1979.0587).

Mrs. Arnold Miles: 1 bronze lapel pin and 5 paperback books (1979.0122).

Mrs. R. L. Miles: woman’s 2-piece wedding suit and wedding hat from 1944
(1977.1173).

Wyndham Miles, M.D.: death mask made of white plaster (1978.2328).

Mrs. Albert L. Miller: Roosevelt button, 1942, and war production board pin,
1942 (1978.2114).

Dorothea S. Miller in memory of Frank C. Miller: golf bag and clubs used by
the donor’s husband during the 1920’s (1979.0197).

Mr. and Mrs. Elmer M. Miller: group of United States fractional currency
notes and other currencies (1978.0869).

Mrs. J. Brown Miller: woman’s wedding items from 1946 including a designer
2-piece suit, shoes, and a hat (1977.1167).

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Miller: Atlas Designed to Illustrate the Geography of
the Heavens, Elijah Burritt (1979.0027).

Marguerite G. and Hugh Miller, Jr.: woman’s clothing items including step-ins,
brassiere, gloves, stockings, and a dress, boy’s drawers and 2-piece suit, and
an infant’s cap (1978.0070).

Ruth A. Ming: 13 drafting instruments (1978.2110).

Myrna Lynn Minna: Woman’s designer dress, 1950 (1977.1174).

Mrs. Bettie Mintz: 2 pairs of cotton stockings (1978.2408).

The C. J. Mitchell Company, Inc. (through Lloyd W. Olcott): political cam-
paign sign (1978.2140).

Faye Mizell: woman’s designer suit, 1942 (1978.0059).

Robert L. Mohlenkamp: oil canning sealing machine and a hand embossing
sealer (1978.2281).

Government of Monaco, Office des Emissions de Timbres-Posts (through M. H.
Chiavassa): 136 mint postage stamps, 11 used postage stamps, 4 mint sou-
venir sheets, and 16 precanceled postage stamps, all of Monaco (1979.0144).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 535
Donna Moore: calendar, “Sisters Sol Screens” (1978.0286).

Dr. F. Morgan: New Jersey cent, 1787 (1979.0346).

Midshipman Richard Andrew Morgan: US Navy submarine patrol badge worn
by donor, c. 1978 (1978.0952).

Mrs. G. Morgenstern: copy of the Chicago Daily News, Chicago Today, an
envelope from “Office of The President-Elect/Richard M. Nixon,” advertise-
ment for drinks “Johnson Juice” and “Goldwater,” card of acknowledgment
of support signed by Richard Nixon, letter to Mrs. Morgenstern from
Richard Nixon, letter to Mrs. Marrisay from Women’s Division of the
Democratic National Campaign committee, Republican Congressional Com-
mittee Newsletter, and 7 postcards with scenes in Washington, D.C. (1978.-
1085).

Peter Morse: mint postage stamps; 4 of Albania, 2 of Epirus, 17 of Turkey,
and 25 used postage stamps of Turkey (1979.0127).

Owen D. Mort, Jr.: group of oriental coins and related objects (1978.0991);
Umayyad die (1978.2155); group of Sasanid and Sasanid-like coins (1978.-
2156); group of Indian coins (1978.2158).

Mrs. Jean Moss: five-armed candelabrum, probably Venetian (1978.2179).

Sherrill and William B. Mozey, Jr.: Spanish officer’s sword, framed photo-
graph of soldier taken at Fort Henry in 1915, and a handwritten message
taken from the hilt of the sword (1979.0514).

Dennis P. Mroczkowski: 2 US ignition fuzes and 1 US mine fuze (1978.2492).

Kathryn Murdock: whole-plate tintype photograph, hand-colored (1978.2225).

Mrs. Ray D. Murphy: 31-star US flag, said to have been made by the donor’s
grandmother during the Civil War (1978.2223).

Roland Murphy: US Marine Corps Officer’s uniform items (1977.0821).

Mrs. John H. Murray: 1 game of fortune, 1 pack of fortune cards, 2 packs of
playing cards, and 1 Mah Jong game all dating from the 1920’s (1978.2451);
sheet of parchment with the heading: “THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, DE-
PARTMENT OF THE NAVY” acknowledges the loan of a pair of binoculars in
response to the Navy’s appeal for “Eyes for the Navy” during WW I, a
bowl with pale green printed decoration on a cream ground with the in-
scription ‘Temperance and Industry; Industry pays debts,” mark, “Adams,”
small cream colored earthenware plate inscribed “Band of Hope” at the
top and “Signing the pledge” at the bottom, cup and saucer—cup has “G.
Washington” on one side and in the center of the saucer is “1774 Congress
1874,” “Martha Washington Cook Book” prepared for the 1932 observance,
book by Roxana B. Doran titled “Prohibition Punches,” and a photograph
(1979.0562); 30 pieces of glass and ceramics (mostly English) (1979.0652).

James A. Muscarella: sign, reverse painting on glass—”J.A. Muscarella. Ph.D.,
Lilly, Pharmaceuticals and Biologicals” (1979.0185).

Chester Myers (through Richard M. Miller): US postal stationery, postal
cards, picture post cards, meter impressions and precancelled stamp collec-
tion (1978.0559).

Susan H. Myers: porcelain insulator made in Trenton, New Jersey (1978.2426).

E. J. Myerson: Lincoln Model 50 record turn table (1978.0817).

Dr. Perham C. Nahl: 192 US first flight covers from 8 different air mail routes
(1979.0099).

National Academy of Sciences (through Jean R. St. Clair): dissectoscope con-
tained in wooden case, Carl Zeiss manufacturer (1978.2382).

The National Commemorative Society (through William F. Krieg): silver
medals, issues #137 through #146, issued by The National Commemorative
Society serial no. 3 (1977.0415).

National Society Children of the American Revolution (through James H.
Johnson): percussion rattle instrument (1979.0160).

536 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Anna and Mortimer L. Neinken: group of mostly Greek, Greek Colonial, and
Roman coins (1978.0864).

Mortimer L. Neinken: reverse die for the Columbian Exposition commemora-
tive half dollar, 1892 (1977.0411); group of Judaean coins (1978.2487); uni-
face trial striking of the James Madison medal by Fuerst (1978.2488);
specimen banknote engraving produced by Tanner, Kearney and Tiebout
in Philadelphia, c. 1815 (1977.0408); receipt for one million dollars in bonds
signed by David Rittenhouse (1977.0409).

Jan Nelson: ERA drinking mug and buttons (1978.0967).

Government of The Netherlands, Netherlands Postal and Telecommunications
Service (through Dr. A. W. Van Ommeren): mint souvenir sheet and 41
mint postage stamps of The Netherlands (1978.2251); (through J. D.
Smeets): 6 mint postage stamps, 4 mint semi-postal stamps, and a mint
souvenir sheet all of The Netherlands (1979.0145).

Linda Taylor Nettleton and Nancy Whistler: Colorado State IWY meeting
materials including 5 handouts, a pamphlet, and a poster (1978.1081).

Georg Neumann GmbH (through Gotham Audio Corporation): Neumann U-47
microphone (1977.1096).

New England Rare Coin Galleries (through Edgar B. Phillips): North Caro-
lina Bill of Credit for 3 pounds, 1729 (1977.0451).

Government of New Zealand, Philatelic Bureau, Post Office (through A. J.
Murray): 11 mint postage stamps of New Zealand (1979.0146); First Day
cover, mint souvenir sheet, and 19 mint postage stamps, all of New Zealand
(1978.2265).

Clinton T. Newby: Amsler integrator with instruction booklet (1978.1095).

Mrs. Peter H. Newby in memory of her son Peter Henry Newby (through Mr.
and Mrs. John J. McManus): baby’s rattle (1978.0304).

Mary Burke Nicholas: New York state IWY meeting T-shirt and poster (1978.-
0954).

Mr. and Mrs. Louis A. Nick: paperhanging tools used professionally by Louis
A. Nick (1979.0307).

Government of Niue, Niue Post Office (through L. Douglas): First Day cover,
2 mint souvenir sheets, 2 mint postage stamps, and 8 used postage stamps
all of Niue (1978.2255); 1 First Day cover, 2 used postage stamps, and 10
mint postage stamps, all of Niue (1979.0147).

Janice A. Noack: Cine-Kodak magazine 8 camera and No. 1-A Kodak folding
rollfilm camera (1979.0008).

Noble Popcorn Farms, Inc. (through Alan Vast): “GOP” elephant coin bank
produced for 1964 campaign (1978.2129).

Anne Noggle: 4 untitled silver print photographs by Anne Noggle (1979.0045).

Mrs. Helen Meredith Norcross: collection of 199 Norcross greeting cards
(1978.0439).

Norsk Teknisk Museum (through Torleif Lindtveit): Lieben electron tube and
Weinstrom dynamo (1978.0833).

Government of Norway, Postens Generaldirektorat: Souvenir folder, 4 First
Day covers, and 14 mint postage stamps (1978.2294); 2 First Day covers,
1 unexploded booklet, and 3 mint postage stamps, all of Norway (1979.-
0148).

Mrs. Nora C. O’Brien: Teddy bear postcard dated 1907 (1978.2423).

Robert Oehmig and Mrs. W. H. Oehmig: mustard mill model (1979.0223).

Frank A. Ognibene: scrotal truss (1978.2220).

Earl C. Oler (through Mrs. Ruth B. Weaver) in memory of Esther V. and
Earl C. Oler: 177 pieces of art glass (1978.2513).

Robert M. Organ: gci audio equalizer, QUAD 1 audio amplifier, guAD 1 audio
amplifier, and acoustical FM tuner (1978.1049).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 537
Dennis H. Pack: 3 US postal insurance booklets, 2 US postal cards with RPO
cancels, 2 US covers with RPO cancels, and 1 International Reply coupon
(1978.2162).

The Packer Collegiate Institute (through John Skillman, Jr.): optical bench
with accessories (1979.0302).

John S. Palanuk: Ukrainian hammered dulcimer made by the donor, set of
wooden hammers and a tuning wrench (1978.0614).

The Paperlynen Company (through Joan M. Knox): political folding hats
(1978.2133).

The Pasquaney Trust (through John K. Gemmill): Statistical and Chrono-
logical History of the US Navy 1775-1907, vols. 1 and 2 (1978.0160).

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: electric lamp and steel housing for indirect lighting
(1978.2365); objects associated with John Cabell Breckenridge, including a
sword, scabbard, hand string without tassel, chamois storage bag, 2 ma-
hogany walking canes, and a mountain climber’s cane (1978.2240); floor
lamp by Tiffany, hat rack with beaded picture, and a bench by Val-Kill
(1979.0213); colored cartoon entitled ‘““Can’t Shake The Plum-Tree” copy-
right 1888 by Arkell Publishing Company of New York (1979.0572); man’s
clothing items including a vest, undershirt, drawers, shirt, boots, and a coat
(1978.0578); lead, copper, and glass lamp shade marked “TIFFANY sTUDIOS
NEW YORK 1435 68,” pair of colorless glass bird figures from France, and a
bronze lamp stand marked: “TIFFANY STUDIOS/NEW YORK/423” (1979.0489);
side chair of wood and cloth by Emile Gallé, 1890-1910 (1979.0596).

Frederic K. and Joan P. Patton: man’s hat and hat box, 1880-1950, and Gilbert
orto Kit (315371.00).

Peach State Depression Glass Club, Inc. (through John W. Davis): depression
glass plates made in the US (1978.2149).

Mrs. Eugene Pedersen: woman’s wedding items including a 2-piece designer
suit, shoes, gloves, and a purse from 1948 (1977.1150).

J. Roy Pennell, Jr.: American Bond Detector in original green cloth (1978.-
0863).

Government of Penrhyn, Penrhyn Post Office: 2 First Day covers, 14 mint
postage stamps, 4 mint souvenir sheets, and 6 used postage stamps all of
Penrhyn (1978.2248); 15 used official stamps of Penrhyn Islands (1979.0149).

Nancy M. Perkins: stockholder’s committee report of the National Typo-
graphic and the Mergenthaler Printing Companies of 1887 (1979.0372).

Martin J. A. Petersilia: 22 objects relating to Marion Barry’s campaign for
Mayor of the District of Columbia (1979.0273).

Mrs. Cornelia B. Peterson: continental note, colonial paper money dated
September 26, 1778 (1978.2504) ; Waterman pen (19-190039).

Diane M. Peterson: poster, ‘Florida Women’s Conference I.W.Y./Speak Out/
Forum/Jacksonville” (1978.2148).

Mendel L. Peterson: study collection illustrating minting techniques (1977.-
0447); study collection of facsimiles and contemporary counterfeits (1977.-
0448); phonograph and 2 phonograph records used by advance forces in
Pacific during WW II, USN face mask and field cap, 1964, and a jungle
hammock with 10 stakes used for a tent in Antarctica, 1947-48 (1978.1097).

A. R. Phillips: 2 Victor phonograph reproducers (1979.0040).

C. Robert Phillips: Roosevelt New Deal hat, 1932 (1978.1010).

Picatinny Arsenal Coin Club (through Hannibal Geruntho and Gino R. De
Togni): silver bar commemorating the Picatinny Arsenal (1977.0437).

Mrs. Alfred G. Pickney: doll house including 45 pieces of furnishings
(315340.00).

Pictorial Productions, Inc. (through Kay Anderson): political campaign but-
tons from the 1960’s (1978.2137).

Mrs. Nancy J. Pietropaoli: waterproof folding canvas bag (1978.0836).

538 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Ann Groot Piken: woman’s designer blouse, 1950-55 (1977.1091).

The Pioneer Rubber Company (through Betty Wolfe): Qualatex Advertising
Balloon Buyer’s File and a bag of 20 different sample balloons (1978.2123).

Mrs. Mary B. Poats: embroidered piano cover (1978.2182).

Dr. Philippe F. Polani: 91 nineteenth-century mint and used European postage
stamps (1979.0106).

Government of the Polish Peoples Republic (through S. Dillon Ripley): 2 500-
zlotych gold coins, 1976, commemorating Kozciuszko and Pulaski (1978.-
2482).

Mrs. M. and Matthew Poole: 1776-1976 US quarter made at the Denver Mint
nicknamed “Stick Pin, Hair-Do Drummer Boy” (1979.0354).

Mrs. Alice James Pope: 91 pieces of silverware, document relating to the col-
lecting of taxes in Dartmouth, Massachusetts Bay Colony, manuscript
inventory of the possessions of Seth Pope in 1727, likeness of Lafayette
engraved on paper, wax doll, and a miniature lidded tureen with platter
(1977.0334).

Porcelain Enamel Institute Inc. (through Robert L. King): porcelain enamel
exhibit mounted on display (314516.00).

Mrs. Joan P. Porter: looking glass, eighteenth century (1978.0533); Bristol
porcelain plaque, c. 1775, Bristol, England (1978.0943); looking glass,
eighteenth century (1978.1068).

Professor Robert V. Pound: gravitational red shift apparatus (1979.0522).

Mrs. Katherine Power: depression glass salt and pepper shakers with per-
forated threaded metal tops (1978.1094).

Mrs. Richard B. Prindiville: woman’s designer wedding dress and headdress,
1938 (1979.0095).

Igor Prissovsky: specialized collection of mostly German and Russian paper
currencies (1979.0234).

Kathryn and Richard Ralston: Schumacher and Ettlinger cigar label catalog,
c. 1883, Louis E. Newman and Company cigar label catalog, c. 1886, large
scrapbook of cigar box labels, c. 1890, small scrapbook of miscellaneous
cigar box labels, and a miscellaneous collection of cigar box labels (1979.-
0367).

Loretta M. Rankin: book, Coal Miner’s Pocket Book (1979.0366).

RCA/David Sarnoff Research Center (through W. M. Webster and C. E. Kur-
lander): amorphous semiconductor solar cell (1979.0187).

Mrs. A. Bradford Reed: micrometer stamped “REED SMALL TOOL WORKS WORCES-
TER, MASS. U.S.A. 901” (1979.0282).

Mrs. Passya O. Reefer: mounted silver photographic prints (1977.0934).

H. A. Register, Inc. (through Michael O. Flatt): world’s first electronic cam-
paign button, 1976 (1978.1046).

Mrs. Freda L. Reiter: 21 original drawings made by the donor for use on asc
TV news (1979.0667).

Robert S. and Sylvia K. Reitman: pair of porcelain whippets made by Boehm,
New Jersey, c. 1952-61 (1979.0101).

Remington Arms Company Inc. (through Richard F. Dietz): modern reproduc-
tion Old Timers, ammunition tin, and gun oil can (1978.2358).

R. D. Remley: Katzenbach & Warren wallpaper samples, Welsbach Co. adver-
tising tray, and Richter toy building blocks (1978.0443).

Christian F. Rendeiro: button “Hamden 1776-1976”, booklet The American
Revolution Bicentenntial, and a program of events (1978.0847).

Republican National Committee (through Gus Miller): plastic hand puppet of
Uncle Sam elephant, and “Vote Republican” plastic cap (1978.2274).

Elizabeth Rhodes in memory of her mother, Jessie A. Rhodes: silk on wool
sample with Adam and Eve with tree, snake, birds, animals, hearts, and
alphabet (1978.2515).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 539
Oscar W. Richards: Tolles objective, Spencer and Smith objective, set of 2
diffraction plates for 16mm objective, microphotograph made by Margaret
C. Cubberly, and a portable microscope in a case (1978.2420).

Ethelette T. Ridder: woman’s designer debutante dress, 1938 (312920.00).

Jeanne LeSalle Rigley: woman’s designer wedding dress, 1945 (1977.1151).

Jacqueline C. Rigsby: woman’s designer dress, 1947-49 (1977.1154); woman’s
jacket, 1935-36 (1979.0364).

Dr. S. Dillon Ripley: commercial cover and 2 mint souvenir sheets, all 1978
issues of Indonesia (1979.0107).

Deborah Ann Rippé: woman’s cape 1900-9 (1979.0075).

George C. Roberts: sample ballots for states, bumper stickers, stickers, post-
card, admission ticket, membership card, brochure, broadside, letterheads
(1978.1048).

Markley Roberts: Chinese note from the period of the Ming dynasty (1978.-
0628).

Edwin K. Robinson: 3 folding pocket maps, New York State, 1824, New York
State railroads, 1890, and New Jersey railroads, 1890 (1979.0405); political
campaign flyer from Fiorello H. La Guardia’s 1933 campaign for Mayor of
New York City (1979.0640).

Wilbur F. Robinson in memory of the Rev. Charles E. Robinson: 60 car-
tridges, 2 cartridge cases, 22 spent bullets, 8 rifle cartridge clips, 3 pieces
of shrapnel, 4 iron balls, 1 lead ball, 1 native made knife, 1 native made
razor, 1 leather cartridge belt, 1 piece of carbon, 7 Army buttons, 1 mess
kit and 1 pop button (1978.2401).

Ellis H. Robison: collection of foreign coins (1977.1138).

Henrietta Roig: collection of first flight and airmail covers of Panagra, TWA,
Capitol, and Northwest Airlines (1979.0637).

I. Carl Romer, Jr. in memory of Carl Romer and Irving C. Romer: foot treadle
lathe, 1902 sTAR (1978.0985).

Cornelius V. S. Roosevelt: WW I French poster and French WW I fourragere
awarded to Major T. Roosevelt, Jr. (1978.2459).

Theodore Roosevelt III: 2 silver models of Chinese junks (1979.0502); gold
toilet set including 2 hairbrushes, clothes brush, hat brush, glass bottle
containing a toothbrush and a nail brush, soap dish, tooth-powder holder,
glass bottle for lotion, glass bottle for mouthwash, whiskey flask, case
with nail scissors, cuticle knife, and shoe-button hook, case with shaving
brush holder, shaving brush, shaving soap spring holder, and pill box, case
with mirrors, and a jewelry case (1979.0507).

Mrs. Helen G. Rose: saltglazed stoneware figure group, Staffordshire, England,
c. 1725-50 (1978.2512).

Edward Rosenblum: white damask tablecloth with coats-of-arms and 12 white
damask napkins (1978.2534).

Philip J. Ross: Carter campaign objects including buttons, posters, portraits,
kerchief, and envelopes (1978.0306); bumper sticker, booklet, and large oil-
cloth banner with political legends (1978.1086).

Michael Rothbaum: 15m dial time recorder, c. 1912-14 (1978.2237).

Harry E. Rothman: framed postal history collage commemorating the inaugu-
ration of President Carter and Vice-President Mondale, and a framed col-
lage commemorating the First Day of Issue of the US Declaration of Inde-
pendence stamps of 1976 (1978.2170).

Leon E. Rowe: Nixon license plate, 1972 (1978.1008).

Royal Craftsmen, Inc. (through Barbara Kling): woman’s jewelry from 1974
including 6 necklaces and 2 bracelets (1979.0058).

Royal-Globe Insurance Companies (through R. H. Gerrard): shelf clock by
Smith, c. 1841 (1979.0528).

Rubin Brothers Waste Co. (through Edward Rubin): US Navy parka hood,

540 / Smithsonian Year 1979
ditty bag, silk neckerchief, swimming trunks, parka, and service dress
uniform jacket, US Marine Corps utility jacket and softball uniform shirt,
and a nonregulation utility jacket (1979.0294); US Navy, US Coast Guard,
US Revenue Cutter Service, US Merchant Service, and US Naval Academy
uniform items (1979.0446).

Edward Rubin: Pitch-pipe made by the William Kratt Co. in New Jersey
(1978.0524).

Eli Rubin: Near East powder charger measurer (1978.2464).

Peter M. Rudolph: Frank Pierce medal (1978.2104).

Barbara Korff Russell: woman’s card case and parasol (1977.1064).

P. F. and Phyllis A. Russell: collection of steamship menus (1978.2256).

Julia P. Weekes Russo: 3 color abstract serigraphs, 2 etchings, and a color
abstract lithograph (1979.0267).

Anna Wills Rutledge: cotton damask tablecloth (1978.2529).

Jim Ryun: track jersey, “Kansas,” and a track uniform, “Witchita Kiwanis
Track Club” (1979.0536).

Terry M. Sachs: 1 Pickett slide rule and 1 computer printout (1978.2239).

Juliana Sivik Samoriski: alto saxophone, c. 1929 (1978.2532).

Phyllis Schlafly: stop-Era materials including newsletters, pamphlets, a card,
bumper sticker, button, book, handout, and a videotape (1978.0924).

Leonard Hastings Schoff: photograph of Willey Brook Bridge and Mt. Web-
ster, P & O R.R., Crawford Notch, N.H. (1979.0545).

Estate of Leonard Hastings Schoff (through Joseph J. Rink): collection of
prints, drawings, and photographs (1979.0114).

Mrs. Emilie Schulz: cornet by H. Schindler, violin labelled Carl Schulz, and a
violin bow (1978.2376).

Edward G. Schumacher: “Bailey” office copying press, inking brayer, 6 perfec-
tion copying sheets, 5 copying pads, 2 rubber copying pads, and a micaschist
stone (1978.1039).

Walter R. Schumann: 11 different Post Office Department presentation folders
containing various US souvenir sheets, stamped envelopes, postal cards, and
postage stamps (1978.2250).

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Schwartz: toy bed (1977.0038).

Catherine D. Scott: film, in original box, The Inauguration of Eisenhower
and The Nation’s Capitol, by Castle Films, and a brochure titled “Youth
Salutes The President on the Occasion of His Birthday/Ike Day/Oct. 13,
1956” (1979.0575).

Honorable Hugh Scott: cartoon printed of Senator Hugh Scott dressed as
William Penn and standing on the dome of the US Capitol, 1970 (1978.2115).

Bruce Scull: 48-star US National Flag (official date 1912-59) (1977.1100).

Sy Seidman: 6 bandannas, 2 “Vote” socks, and a wall plaque saucer (1977.-
0799).

R. J. Sellers: facsimile letter signed by King George of England welcoming the
United States troops on behalf of the British Isles, April 1918 (1978.2380).
Anne Marie Serio: Polaroid J33 Land camera kit in leather carrying case

(1978.1030).

Mrs. Margaret M. Sharke: jacquard double woven coverlet (1978.2413).

Sidney A. Shaskan: political items including 31 buttons, 1 badge, 2 pins, and
1 stud (1979.0506).

Margery W. Shaw, M.D.: volumes 1 and 2 of Henry A. Meyer’s collection of
Napoleonic and French Revolutionary covers (1979.0098).

Dorothy Heckman Schrader: triple chime whistle from steamboat John Heck-
man (1979.0542).

Dr. Edwin B. Shykind: Nimbus storage tube (1978.0832).

Richard A. Sicking: cover franked with a 2-cent Guam Guard Mail stamp
and two unused Guam Guard Mail stamps (1978.2161).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 541
Shirley Ebnar Siebert: WW I memorabilia including a pass, telegram, auto-
matic interpreter booklet, and 2 postcards (1978.2341).

Louis Siegel: bass ocarina with amplifier (1979.0162).

Len Silverfine: nylon star from the Bicentennial flag displayed on the
Verrazano-Narrows Bridge at the entrance of New York Harbor in 1976
(1979.0295).

Ted F. Silvey: bronze medal commemorating the Peace Jubilee celebrated in
Washington, D.C. on May 23-25, 1899 (1978.2399).

Joseph S. Simms: man’s designer belt, tie and eye glasses, and a woman’s
designer dress (1978.0301); 13 pieces of woman’s designer clothing, 1 man’s
designer suit, 1 man’t shirt, and a designer fashion sketch (1977.1166).

Mrs. Charles Singer: 7 cable samples, microphone, microphone stand and an
electron tube (1978.2347).

Dr. Vijai Pal Singh: 13 mint souvenir sheets, 2 used souvenir sheets, 6 mint
sheetlets, and 1 mint postage stamp, all of Poland, and 2 Czechoslovakian
souvenir sheets (1979.0014); 122 various mint and used postage stamps of
the world including color errors and one First Day cover (1979.0641).

Mrs. Pansey Aiken Slappey: watch shop sign (1978.1071).

Beatrice T. Slater: infant’s clothing including 3 dresses and 2 slips (1979.0082).

Doris E. Slothower: wooden dancing doll figure, and a folding or pocket knife
in form of a shoe (1978.0621).

Dr. Stephen D. Smith: beanpot with lid and 2 mugs of earthenware decorated
with sgraffito and glaze, made by the Shearwater Pottery, Ocean Springs,
Mississippi (1978.2438).

Edith Hertz Smith: woman’s bag, 1917-18 (1979.0065); Stevenson shoe ear-
rings (1978.0629).

Helen Powell Smith: woman’s clothing items including a riding jacket, sun-
bonnet, gloves, bonnet, collar, and purse, and a glove box (1978.0665); toy
theater with stage, base, and 5 plays, and a toy doll house, 1904, with 39
pieces of furniture (1978.0931).

N. B. Smith: 2 St. Louis Browns baseball scorebooks—-1, c. 1902, and 1, c. 1903
(1979.0379).

Ralph Smith: American Agriculture Movement flag (1979.0245).

Smithsonian Institution Product Development Office (through Ann McC. Mil-
ler): 5 pieces of pressed glass, c. 1880’s, and 11 pieces of pressed glass re-
productions of items in the Smithsonian collections (1978.2514).

The Society of Medalists (through Howard Tooter): bronze medal, issue No.
94 (1977.0435); (through Donald A. Schwartz): 2 bronze medals of The
Society of Medalists, 1978 (1978.2336).

Sohio/BP Alaska (through Charles B. Towill): 1 gallon of crude petroleum
oil from Alaska (1979.0365).

Frederick H. Solliday: 2 combination gas-electric ceiling fixtures, c. 1910, and
2 shades (1978.0808); in memory of Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Kremer: electric
light fixtures (1978.1050).

Jack D. Solomon: 2 crystal glass plates, 1 with the scene of Washington cross-
ing the Delaware, the other with the Declaration of Independent (1979.-
0546).

The South African Mint (through J. J. Groenewald): proof 1 rand, 1977, in
nickel (1978.2310).

University of Southern California (through Dr. Robert Cole): Alvarez linear
accelerator (1978.1073).

Mrs. Allen Sparrow: 2 woman’s 2-piece designer suits (1978.0057).

Mary Eleanor Spear: 6 Teddy bear name cards (1978.2421).

Mrs. Robert D. Spear: lithograph of Jacob Perkins (1978.2150).

Talbot T. Speer: painting of Harriet Lane Johnston, lace collar, handkerchief,

542 / Smithsonian Year 1979
French porcelain platter, and French porcelain centerpiece, all owned by
Mrs. Johnston (1978.1037).

Mrs. Mary N. Spence: wicker work box or basket, embroidered linen work
bag, needlework accessories and examples of embroidered netting and mac-
ramé (1978.2503).

Mrs. Carolyn A. Spencer: memorabilia from the Bicentennial Celebration in
Hartland, Vermont (1979.0242).

William F. Spengler: group of Indian and Afghan coins (1978.2157).

The Spirit of ’76: bumper sticker, stamp booklet and newspaper all concerning
the 1964 political campaigns (1978.2138).

Spotswood Specialty Co., Inc. (through Mrs. Marianne S. Kohler): campaign
material from 1964, including 8 paper hats, 3 fans, 1 cardboard hat, 1 game,
1 mask, 1 toy gun made of paper, and 5 paper head bands (1978.2130).

Benjamin, Harvey G., and Norman Stack: medals commemorating heroes and
battles of the American Revolution (1977.0393); master hubs made at the
Philadelphia Mint for the coinage of Honduras of 1871 (1977.0422); steel
dies by Italian master counterfeiter for the striking of medieval and modern
coins from Italy (1978.0852); group of steel dies made by an Italian master
counterfeiter for the striking of late Roman and Byzantine coins (1978.-
0854); 2 badges, 6 medals and 1 ribbon (1978.1084); group of Middle
Eastern coins (1978.2483); groups of Indian coins (1978.2484); Conrad
Wiegand $20.00 gold ingot dated 1867 (1978.2506); gold medals, “The
Atoms for Peace Award” and “the Albert Einstein Award” (1978.2511);
Brazilian silver bar dated 1932 (1979.0001); bound volume published in
1869 by the American Bond and Currency Detector Company, entitled The
American Bond Detector and the Complete History of the United States
Government Securities (1979.0281); silver bar made in 1932 by the foundry
“Santa Casa de Misericordia” of the Department of Gold in Sad Paulo,
Brazil (1979.0377).

Harvey G. Stack: 25 dies by two master counterfeiters (1978.0861); dies for
the striking of ancient Greek coins made by a master counterfeiter (1978.-
1040); coin dies for ancient Sicilian coins made by a master counterfeiter
(1978.1041); dies for ancient Greek coins made by an Italian master
counterfeiter (1978.1042).

Anna Pierce Stafford (Mrs. Russell H. Stafford): Old England: A Pictorial
Museum of Regal, Ecclesiastical, Baronial, Municipal, and Popular Antiq-
uities, vols. 1 and 2, 1845 (1978.2327).

Jackson W. Staley: Bell & Howell 16mm projector and Kodak carousel slide
projector and associated items used by the donor in making the film, The
Raising of the Gunboat Philadelphia (1978.0209).

Stanford University, W. W. Hansen Laboratories of Physics (through Marshall
D. O'Neill): set of 2 sections from Mark I linear electron accelerator, set of
2 sections from Mark III linear electron accelerator, Mark III klystron power
supply, and Niobium superconducting accelerator section (1978.1082).

Mrs. Daniel P. Stanton: combat ration (1978.2100).

Gerald and Phyllis Steinberg: worldwide collection of John F. Kennedy First
Day covers and associated material (1979.0358).

Mrs. Ruth A. Steiner: Meissen porcelain cup and saucer with green Watteau-
type decoration, c. 1740-50 (1979.0362).

Frederick A. Stevens, Jr.: 20 textile tools (1978.2414).

George M. Stevens: US Stevens crossbow, five shot repeater, 2 bow strings,
and 10 arrows (322731.00).

Gladys Carroll Stewart: woman’s designer suit, 1947 (1977.1089).

John A. Stewart: New York Arms Co. revolver and Smith & Wesson new 32
departure revolver (323601.00).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 543
Stokley-Van Camp Inc. (through Alfred J. Stokely): Texturemeter (1978.1022).

Charles R. Stouch: Coffman portable typewriter, 1902 (1978.2226).

Lewis H. Strauss: 17 commemorative medals from the collection of the late
Rear Admiral Lewis L. Strauss (1979.0631); 12 commemorative medals from
the collection of the late Rear Admiral Lewis L. Strauss (1979.0662).

Mary E. Studebaker: 2 woman’s dresses from 1897 (1977.0037); barber’s bag
and equipment used by donor’s father, c. 1900 (1979.0199).

Colonel Reni Studler: US Army Colonel’s 1936 full dress uniform with
accessories (1977. 0572).

Richard B. and Ann M. Sullivan: cotton picker (1978.0474).

Superior Match Company (through E. R. Cable): political match book covers
dating back to 1940 (1978.2136).

Superior Stamp and Coin Company (through Mark Goldberg): striking in
gold from four frank pieces, 1860, issued in the name of Norodom I, King
of Cambodia (1978.2323).

Louis Suskind: illuminated plumb bob (1979.0509).

Government of Sweden, General Directorate of Posts (through Nils Horjel):
31 first day covers, 6 postal cards with first day cancels, 90 mint postage
stamps, 20 mint unexploded booklets, and 1 used postage stamp, all of
Sweden (1979.0151); 59 First Day covers, 15 unexploded booklets, 7
aerograms, 7 letter sheets, 7 postal cards, and 130 mint postage stamps, all
of Sweden (1979.0272).

James Mck. Symington: needlework memorial to William McKinley, 1901
(1978.2171).

Dr. Hans Syz: Meissen porcelain including a platter, clock with case and stand,
pair of plates, figure of a man with grapes, figure of a pikeman, figure of a
street singer, and a pair of nesting birds (1978.2185); porcelain saucer,
white with blue strawflower decoration, Thuringia, Germany, c. 1810
(1978.2381); 3 printed fabric fragments (1978.2530); 17 pieces of porcelain
made at Meissen, Germany, eighteenth century (1979.0120); 4 white-
glazed busts on round pedestals representing the four seasons, modeled by
Rustelli, Nymphenburg, Germany c. 1755-60 (1979.0611).

Tandem/TAT Productions (through Norman Lear): wing chair, lolling chair,
table, dolly, ashtray, 2 beer cans, and 6 set designs, all from the television
show “All in the Family” (1978.2146).

Frank A. Tannewitz: commemorative cover marking the fortieth anniversary
of the sinking of the USS Panay by the Japanese on December 12, 1937
(1979.0228).

Bank of Tanzania (through M. E. J. Nkurlu): 100 shilling specimen banknote
(1978.2325); 2 specimen notes from the Bank of Tanzania, 1979 (1979.0339).

Joan Taylor: button, “Alvin For President” (1979.0437).

Joyce S. and Lawrence E. Taylor: broadside entitled “Pin the Bug on The
Watergate Donkey” (1979.0439).

Estate of Miss Marion Taylor (through Alec Greenfield): Quilt, “Tulip”
pattern with “Saw-Tooth” border (1978.2412).

Telephony Museum—lllinois Bell (through Gregory R. Russell): Ader tele-
phone transmitter and receiver (1978.0815).

Telescreen Company (through Robert A. Mann): conservative bumper stickers,
political campaign, 1964 (1978.1089).

Lloyd B. Thomas: collection of iron truss bridge parts from Keysville, Mary-
land (1978.0786).

Marilee Tillstrom: girl’s bathing suit 1955-58, woman’s slip 1968-69, man’s
bow tie 1945-55, woman’s scarf 1940-59, woman’s brassiere 1920-29, and
woman’s rubbers 1950-59 (1978.0158).

Jeffrey W. Tinsley: US national flag, 45 stars, usgmp Post and Recruiting

544 / Smithsonian Year 1979
flag 1896-1908 (1978.0661); 4 bumper stickers relating to the American
Agricultural Movement (1979.0576).

Tip-Top: 2 pennants—Carter “Next President of the U.S.A.,” and ‘Operation
Sail ’76, A Tribute from 30 Nations; American Revolution Bicentennial
1776-1976.” (1979.0128).

Tokelau Islands Administration (through J. A. Bain): 4 “Bird” stamps, 4
Queen Elizabeth II “Silver Anniversary” stamps, and 4 “Sports” stamps all
issued by Tokelau Islands (1979.0153).

The University of Toledo, Department of Civil Engineering (through David
C. Colony): Beckman wye level (1979.0635).

Mrs. Miriam L. Transue: 39-star US flag, official date 1890 (1978.2152).

Luisa Trelles: woman’s designer 2-piece suit, 1952 (1977.1172).

Lee Trevino: “Super Mex” golf cap and a “Hogan” golf glove both auto-
graphed by donor (1979.0626).

Laura M. Trexler: tin container (1978.2280); woman’s 2-piece dress, mantle,
and coat, girl’s hat and coat, boy’s hat, and a man’s undershirt (1979.-0571);
“Brainerd & Armstrong” color card, wool throw rug, and a wool blanket
fragment (1978.2409).

Trifari, Krussman and Fishel, Inc. (through Robert F. Flood and Susan Sadlier) :
woman’s jewelry including 2 necklaces, 2 bracelets, a ring, and an earring
and pin set (1978.2502).

Trigere, Inc. (through Clark Radley and Pauline Trigere): woman’s designer
dress, fall 1974, and woman’s 2-piece designer ensemble, 1961 (1977.0942).

Turkish Federated State of Cyprus: 4 First Day covers, 8 mint postage stamps
and 12 mint specimen stamps all of Turkish Cyprus (1978.2320); First Day
cover, 3 mint postage stamps, and 6 mint specimen stamps, all of Turkish
Cyprus (1979.0154).

Maxine Kennedy Turquette: pair of ice skates with skate guards (1977.0183).

Unimation Inc. (through Stanley J. Polcyn) and Owens-Illinois (through E.
James Tippett): industrial robot, Unimate®, Mark II, 1962 (1978.2205).

Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (through Raymond
Lloyd and D. C. Kimmel): set of 30 medals, “Ceres Medals Series,” Issued
by the Fao Money and Medal Program of the Food and Agriculture Or-
ganization of the United Nations (1978.0018).

United Nations Postal Administration (through Ole Hamann): 594 mint post-
agestamps of the United Nations (1978.2298); 550 mint sheets of UN
stamps, 44 mint blocks of four of US stamps, and 14-used postage stamps
of the UN (1979.0155).

Unknown: woman’s dress, 1968-69 (1978.2108); mimeograph 91 duplicator
(1978-2207); times Stenafax (1978.2208); photograph of Rosendale Bridge,
Wallkill Valley Railway, New York (1978.2429); US Navy, Marine Corps,
Coast Guard, Naval Academy and Merchant Service uniform insignia and
uniform items (1978.2469); 4 phonorecord discs titled “Merry Christmas
Bing Crosby” (1979.0462); United Steelworkers of America AFL-CIO-
ctc membership card with the name Bickhart (1979.0463).

US Department of Commerce, Maritime Administration: parallel rule, c. 1940’s
(1979.0407); US Patent Office: relic of US Patent Office fire of 1877 (1978.-
0842).

US Department of Defense, Defense Property Disposal Office: 3 ammunition
carrying vests, 1 fragmentation protective vest, and 1 fragmentation pro-
tective body armor (1978.2452); Defense Supply Agency, Defense Contact
Administration Services Region, Detroit (through Environmental Research
Institute of Michigan): Spectra-Physics/Perkin Elmer #110 laser (1978.-
0826); Department of the Army: Russian AK-47 magazine pouch (1978.-
2458); Institute of Heraldry: Collection of US Army distinctive insignia

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 545
and shoulder sleeve insignia (314467.00); US insignia, officially authorized
by the Institute of Heraldry (1978.0603); Mobility Equipment Research and
Development Command, MERADCOM Services and Support Directorate, R&D
Model Fabrication Division: collection of 211 blacksmithing and foundry
hand tools (1978.2204); District of Columbia National Guard: collection of
1970’s period recruiting posters and pamphlets (315479.00); Pueblo Depot
Activity: 5 M-6 knife bayonets with M8A1 scabbards and a M-1 knife
bayonet (1978.2272); Women’s Army Corps Museum: pair of women’s
service shoes, pair of women’s field shoes, and a pair of women’s marching
boots (1978.1015); US Department of the Navy, Naval Weather Service
Command, Environmental Detachment (through Benjamin L. Holt): Adak,
Alaska, Bicentennial medals issued by Naval Weather Service Environ-
mental Detachment (1978.2363); (through Owen H. Oakley): 1 integraph
(1978.2308).

US Department of State, Office of Chief of Protocol: shotgun with case, belt
and 22 shotgun shells (1978.0622); mother of pearl box from Jordan con-
taining ancient coins (1978.0862); recent issues of gold and platinum coins
from Panama (1978.0877).

US Department of the Treasury (through Robert Carswell): US currency
collection (1978.0941); Bureau of aT&F: Sturm-Ruger revolver (1978.2154);
US Raven Arms semi-auto pistol (1979.0096); New Jersey District Office:
US Iver Johnson revolver, US Hopkins and Allen revolver, and a US
Remington carbine (1979.0097); Bureau of Engraving and Printing (through
Seymour Berry): certified plate proof sheets of US postage stamps (1978.-
2267); 302 certified plate proof sheets of US postage stamps (1979.0232);
67 certified plate proof sheets of US postage stamps (1979.0565); Bureau
of the Mint (through F. H. McDonald): group of United States proof sets
and proof dollars (1977.0453); 2 Jimmy Carter Presidential medals and 2
US proof sets (contains 12 proofs) dated 1978-S (1978.0162); group of US
coins and Assay Commission medals struck between 1974 and 1976
1978.0860); group of US coins and medals struck between 1975 and 1977
(1978.0870); group of US coins from the Philadelphia and Denver Mints
dated 1978 (1978.0929); group of uncirculated mint sets, 1975-78 (1978.-
2312); Customs Service: group of 1966 Rhodesian gold coins (1978.0873);
1887 US $1.00 gold coin in an earring setting (1978.0878); Internal Revenue
Service, Eastern Judicial District of Pennsylvania: Belgian FN rifle (1978.-
2259).

US Department of Transportation, Fifth Coast Guard District: navigational
buoy (1978.2285); US Coast Guard Yard: Combat Information Center
equipment from the US Coast Guard cutter Chautauqua (1977.0775); US
Coast Guard: miniature copy of the Alexander Hamilton medal (1978.-
2151); US Coast Guard: 3 Jackson china cup saucers with uscc insignia, 2
dated 1945 and 1 dated 1942 (1978.2476); ship’s binnacle from the uscc
cutter Chautauqua (1979.0171); Ist order lighthouse lens from Graves
Lighthouse in Boston Harbor (1979.0410); Lyle gun and projectile (1979.-
0527); Curtis Bay Shipyard: steam engine and auxiliaries and radio room
and equipment from usccs buoy tender Oak (1979.0518).

US Government American Revolution Bicentennial Administration (through
Susan Hamilton): 170 Bicentennial objects including flags, scarves, flyers,
ties, plaques, belts, and posters (1977.0530); 20 medals from the Franklin
Mint’s “Bicentennial History of the United States Commemorative ingot
series” (1978.2477).

US Government, Executive Office of the President, The White House (through
Clement E. Conger): state dinner menu and program of entertainment held
at the White House for Vice Premier Deng Xioaping of the People’s Republic

546 / Smithsonian Year 1979
of China on January 29, 1979 (1979.0284); Christmas tree ornaments used
at the White House: 4 from 1974, 3 from 1975, 6 from 1976, and 6 bro-
chures concerning the tree ornaments from 1975 (1979.0285).

US Government Printing Office: recording temperature gauge, recording py-
rometer, and a laboratory balance (1979.0222).

US Government, Veterans Administration (through Carl P. Mason): collec-
tion of 60 prosthetic devices (1979.0648).

US Library of Congress: French Medal Commemorating Charles Samaran
(1978.0830); print, Harper’s Weekly, dated June 11, 1859 (1979.0265);
(through Nathan R. Einhorn): Continental Currency Note, US banknote, and
US medals (1978.0871); ceramic plaque with profile of James A. Garfield
(1978.0963); Exchange and Gift Division (through Peter H. Bridge): phila-
telic presentation folder commemorating the enduring friendship between
the Republic of China and the USA (1978.2299); 1 mint souvenir sheet and
5 mint postage stamps, all of Poland (1979.0559); Manuscript Division
(through John C. Broderick): used stamps including 8 Canadian, 2 Aus-
tralian, and 302 US, 54 used telegram envelopes, 38 used foreign commer-
cial covers, and US philatelic items including 4 unused postal cards, 461
used commercial covers, 28 used special delivery covers, 16 used free
franked covers, 2 used newspaper wrappers, 173 used stampless covers,
22 used covers with meter marks, 45 used penalty envelopes, 19 used mourn-
ing covers, 39 used stampless folded letters, 30 First Day covers, 16 airmail
covers, 138 used postal stationery covers, 116 illustrated advertising covers,
and 8 unused cut squares from postal cards (1979.0052); assorted philatelic
specimens (1978.0417); assorted US and foreign covers and postal history
items (1979.0612); assorted US and foreign covers, postal stationery, post-
cards, and used postage stamps (1979.0701).

US National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Director of International
Affairs (through Don Gregory and Robert A. Forsy: sword and 2 ladies
bracelets, all yellow gold with gems (1979.0326).

US Postal Service (through Gordon C. Morison): 27 US stamp panels with
First Day cancellations (1978.2295); Administrative Group (through James
R. Williams): US stamp panels with First Day cancels (3 copies of each
design) (1978.2293); 54 mint postal stationery, 3 mint postal cards, 3 mint
reply postal cards, 3 mint unexploded booklets of stamps, 43 mint coil
postage stamps, 141 mint postage stamps, and 3 mint postal cards, all of the
US (1978.2460); Stamp Management Branch, Stamps Division (through
James R. Williams): 12 unexploded booklets, 15 mint postal cards, 3 mint
airmail postal cards, 6 mint reply postal cards, 36 mint postal stationery,
3 mint souvenir sheets, 78 mint postage stamps, and 12 mint coil stamps,
all of the US (1979.0156); 19 US stamp panels with First Day cancellations
(3 copies of each stamp) (1979.0158); 30 mint postage stamps, 3 mint postal
cards, 3 mint aerogrammes, and 3 mint postal stationery, all of the US
(1979.0560); 6 American stamp panels, 3 commemorating Albert Einstein,
and 3 commemorating Pennsylvania Toleware (1979.0561); Office of Inter-
national Affairs (through Michael J. Regan): 2811 mint postage stamps,
11 mint unexploded booklets and 132 mint souvenir sheets all of the world
(1978.2321); 1784 mint postage stamps of the world, 3 mint unexploded
booklets of the world, and 58 mint souvenir sheets of the world (1978.2322);
1120 mint postage stamps of the world and 34 mint souvenir sheets of the
world (1978.2461); 3781 mint postage stamps of the world, 5 mint unex-
ploded booklets of Sweden and 199 mint souvenir sheets of the world (1978.-
2462); 4185 mint postage stamps of the world, 2 mint unexploded booklets
of Belgium, 10 mint unexploded booklets of Sweden, and 187 mint souvenir
sheets of the world (1978.2485); 5,149 mint postage stamps, 259 mint sou-

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 547
venir sheets, and 10 mint unexploded booklets, all of the world (1979.0033) ;
2,248 mint postage stamps of the world, 139 mint souvenir sheets of the
world, and 5 mint unexploded booklets of Sweden (1979.0034); 1,114 mint
postage stamps of the world, 1 mint unexploded booklet of Hungary, and
35 mint souvenir sheets of the world (1979.0268) ; 5,302 mint postage stamps
of the world, 139 mint souvenir sheets of the world, 3 mint unexploded
booklets of Sweden, and 1 mint unexploded booklet of Hungary (1979.0269) ;
5,029 mint postage stamps of the world, 208 mint souvenir sheets of the
world, 5 mint unexploded booklets of Belgium, and 3 mint unexploded
booklets of Sweden (1979.0270); 5,153 mint postage stamps of the world,
180 mint souvenir sheets of the world, and 9 mint unexploded booklets
of the world (1979.0271); (through H. Edgar S. Stock): mint souvenir sheet
and 56 mint postage stamps all of Japan (1978.2396); 240 mint postage
stamps of Japan (1979.0143); 47 mint postage stamps of Spain issued in
1977 and 1 mint souvenir sheet of Spain issued in 1978 (1979.0150); 13 mint
souvenir sheets, 312 mint imperforate postage stamps, and 78 proofs of
postage stamps, all of Togo (1979.0152).

US Youth Council: US Youth Council voting rights material (1978.2206).

Ritta L. Valentine: silver albumen photograph, and a photo-ceramic tea set
which includes a teapot with lid, sugar bowl with lid, creamer, 4 cups, and
4 saucers (1979.0369).

Mrs. Harry A. Van Lear: Teddy bear and burial costume (1979.0021).

Vatican City, Philatelic Office: used postage stamps of the Vatican City issued
during 1977 and 1978 (1979.0157).

Janet Lyle Vaughn: woman’s wedding veil, c. 1927, and infant’s christening
dress, 1868 (1977.1163).

Veeder-Root (through William Stoloff): Vacuum die-casting machine and col-
lection of die-cast parts (1978.1060).

Ray Veloff: 1919 recruiting poster and a WW II German propaganda poster/
leaflet (1978.0397).

Ken Venturi: pair of “Aristocraft” golf shoes worn by the donor in the 1964
US Open Golf tournament (1979.0538).

Leonard R. and Muriel S. Viner: woman’s clothing items including 3 designer
dresses, 2 2-piece designer ensembles, 3 pairs of shoes, a dress, and sweater
(1978.0302).

W-R-S Corporation of America: 2 Barry Goldwater banks and 2 Lyndon B.
Johnson banks (1978.1088).

Jacqueline Wakeling: pocket watches with silver cases (1978.2231).

Dr. Felix A. Wallace: surveyor’s tackle-case (1979.0218).

William L. Walters, M.D.: sculptured wooden tooth used for advertisement
(1978.2345).

Virginia B. Warner: woman’s clothing items including a wedding hat, 1945,
shoes, c. 1952, designer coat, 1960-63, and a designer dress with jacket,
c. 1968 (1978.0577).

Washington Area Field Artillery Ball Committee (through Richard L. Reynard
and David A. Schulte): medal commemorating the 200th anniversary of the
Field Artillery, 1775-1975 (1978.0865).

Washington State University, Department of Psychology (through Professors
Ronald H. Hopkins and Francis A. Young): graphic chronomometer of the
Jaquet type and a double Deprez signal (1979.0028).

C. Malcolm Watkins: 3 cups, a child’s alphabet bowl, and a teapot (1978.-
0611); child’s knife, fork, and spoon (1979.0003).

George H. Watson: “Emigrant” doorlock (1978.1061); 7 hand tools including
3 planes, a draw knife, a saw, chisel, and a hammer head (1979.0453);
nineteenth-century New England painted wood display case (1979.0470).

Buell F. Weare: WW II period olive drab field jacket (1978.0797).

548 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Helen Richards Weber: woman’s clothing items including 6 dresses, 2-piece
suit, blouse, culottes, purse, and a pair of shoes (1977.1188).

Ben H. Weil: 360 Zip blocks of 4 mint US stamps, 1 mint US souvenir sheet,
1 Zip block of 10 mint US stamps, 2 Zip and Mail Early blocks of 8 US
stamps and 3 Zip and Mail Early blocks of 6 US stamps (1978.2393); 298
Mail Early blocks of 6 mint US stamps, 1 Mail Early strip of 20 mint US
stamps, 1 Mail Early strip of 10 mint US stamps, 4 Mail Early and Zip
blocks of 8 US stamps, and 1 Mail Early block of 4 mint US stamps (1978.-
2394); 860 mint postage stamps of the world, 126 mint souvenir sheets of
the world, and 1 First Day cover of Ecuador, all celebrating the US bicen-
tennial year (1979.0100); 4 used souvenir cards, 5 First Day covers, and 11
used postage stamps, all UN of 1977 (1979.0126).

Leon and Maury Weisel: bandanna, “In God We Trust,” 1909 (1978.1051).

Weissberg Development Corp. (through Arthur O’Donnell): water turbine,
Woodward Type L12 governor and oil pump for the governor (1978.0984).

L. John G. Wenner: watercolors of US War Office Seal and US Presidential
Seal (1978.0818); 2 watercolors—1 of the great seal of the US Navy and
1 of the great seal of the US Marine Corps (1978.2229).

Mrs. Margaret D. West: silk dress fabric and 3 silk fabric samples mounted
on a card (1978.2536).

John H. White, Jr.: lithograph of Her Majesty’s Ship Albion (1978.2228).
Mrs. Helen Wicksten: political campaign letter from Senator Edmund Muskie
dated May 18, 1972, and a press release dated April 27, 1972 (1978.0994).

Halsey H. M. Wilbur: “Peking Siege Medal” (1978.1001).

Wilkes-Barre Township Bicentennial Committee (through Tillie Klutz): 1 sil-
ver and 1 bronze medal commemorating the 200th anniversary of the found-
ing of the Wilkes-Barre Township, Pennsylvania, 1974 (1978.2354).

Mrs. Rachel B. Willcox from the Russell G. Willcox Collection: archery bows
and accessories and a set of 10 wooden tapering jigs for duocurve bow
laminations (1979.0133).

Mrs. Elizabeth P. Williams: white damask tablecloth, scenes from the life of
Christ pattern (1978.2535).

Kenneth A. Willson: Japanese loan contract between Nippon Kangio Bank,
Tokyo, and Sotoma Eiske in Okinawa for 400 yen, dated October 6, 1936
(314597.00).

Willson Products (through James E. Crider and Michael Weik): Koenig-
Martens Spectrophotometer (1979.0570).

University of Wisconsin in honor of Emeritus Professor J. W. Williams
(through Professor Aaron J. Ihde): ultracentrifuge rotor (1979.0188).

Mrs. Annette Witkin: WW I period accessories, web equipment, and saber
carrier (1977.0733).

Cora and Laurence C. Witten II: violin by Antonio Gragnani, dated 1783
(1979.0173).

Charles W. Wittholz: 2 treenails and wedges (1979.0519).

G. E. and H. R. Woltman in the name of the H. R. Woltman Family: ship’s
log of the US prize steamer Don, kept by Richard D. Dodge, Engineer in
Charge (1978.0837).

George H. Wood: pair of tcpr’s epaulets usn, late nineteenth c. (1978.2359).

Hannah O. Wood: camera patented on July 15, 1902, wooden tripod, 2 double
plate holders, 2 printing frames, and a compartmented fiber carrying case
(1979.0370).

John R. Wooden: 1932 Player of the Year certificate for basketball, photograph
of John Wooden and Gary Cunningham in 1975, 1932 Helms Athletic
Foundation medal, “Pyramid of Success” chart, book by John Wooden en-
titled They Call Me Coach, portfolio of 4 tapes by Wooden entitled “Talk-
ing Basketball,” and a party program from October 14, 1975 (1979.0539).

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 549
Donald L. Woodford: Woodford front surface radius computer for contact
lens manufacturing (1979.0303).

Clifton W. and Mary Simescus Woodry: woman’s designer dress, 1946 (1977.-
1092).

Mrs. Donald O. Woolf: woman’s stockings, 1915-30 (1977.0944).

Rosemary S. Woolston (through Kenneth R. Washburn): woman’s ring, 1875-
85 (1979.0391).

Worcester Polytechnic Institute (through Gardner Pierce): hydraulic elevator
valve (1978.0933).

Douglas Wornom: motorman’s hat badge and ticket book for Inman Line
Steamship Co. (1979.0398).

Faye Evelyn Wright: woman’s nightgown, 1925 (1979.0078).

Frances Wright: cup and saucer (1978.0271).

Leland Yoshitsu: phonograph record, LELAND: This is My World, 1976
(1979.0689).

The Vincent Youmans Company, Inc.: political campaign sheet music (1978.-
2134).

Wilfred G. Zinavage: Eisenhower dollar, 1976, mailed July 4, 1976, from air-
craft carrier USS America in Bicentennial envelope (1978.2370).

Thomas E. Zinn: Cram’s map of Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, and
Delaware railroad systems (1979.0406).

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Donors of Financial Support

Amax Foundation, Inc.

Barry Bingham, Sr.

Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.
Morris Joseloff Foundation, Inc.
Kent-Lucas Foundation

Dr. Maury Leibovitz

Mrs. Katie Louchheim

Maryland Arts Council

The Ambrose Monell Foundation

Donors to the Collections

Gertrude Abercrombie (by bequest)
Mrs. Alfred A. Angrist

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Arpad
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett
Mrs. Alfred Bendiner

Mrs. Margaret Garber Blue
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Connor
Mrs. Gleb W. Derujinsky
Mrs. Garrison Ellis

Richard Evans

Mrs. Philip Burt Fisher

Andrew Oliver

The Florence and John Schumann
Foundation

Simon Foundation, Inc.

James Smithson Society

Abbott and Dorothy H. Stevens
Foundation

Xerox Corporation

Richard E. Guggenheim

Mrs. Irene Cooper Hustvedt
Mrs. Pauline R. Mergenthaler
Hon. J. William Middendorf
John O’Brien

Henry Ostrow

Terence Pepper

Marvin Sadik

Miss Bess Udoff

Peggy Wood (by bequest)

OFFICE OF AMERICAN AND FOLKLIFE STUDIES

Donors to the Folklife Program

Mrs. Jackson Burke E. Miles Herter

Documentary Educational Research, The Music Performance Trust Funds
Inc. U.S. Department of Energy

Giant Foods

550 / Smithsonian Year 1979
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Donors to the National Collections

INDIVIDUALS

James C. Bradley: taped Watson M. Perrygo: the papers of
reminiscences. Watson M. Perrygo.

Mrs. Patricia Knight: the papers of Evelyn P. Walter: the papers of
Harry H. Knight. Edward A. Preble.

Charles R. Long: the papers of Alexander Wetmore: the papers of
Conrad V. Morton. Alexander Wetmore.

Mrs. Lucile Q. Mann: the papers of Mrs. Sarah Adler Wolfinsohn: the
William M. Perrygo. papers of Samuel P. Langley.

Brian Mason: the papers of
Brian Mason.

INSTITUTIONAL
American Ornithologists’ Union: Eastern Bird Banding Association:
the records of the Union. the records of the Association.

American Society of Ichthyologists
and Herpetologists: the records of
the Society.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Donors to the Collection

Aalbers, G. C. E. T.: 25 booklets.

Agnelli, Mrs. Gianni: I] Tessuto Moderno: Disegno Moda Architettura 1890-
1940.

Albrecht, Fritz: Die Nordamericanische Vogelwelt, by Heinrich Nehrling, 1891.

Appleman, Daniel: The Earth beneath the Continents.

Assaad, Hany: Hieroglyphic Inscriptions of the Treasures of Tutankhamun,
by donor.

Audubon Naturalist Society: 31 volumes of Atlantic Naturalist and Wood
Thrush.

Auerback, Alfred: 47 monographs.

Ault, Richard: Smithsonian Magazine, volumes 1-9.

Banks, Harold: 3 volumes.

Banks, Mrs. Marian: Powder Puff Derby Commemorative Album.

Bartlett, Dexter S.: Elements of the Branches of Natural Philosophy, by
J. Elliot, 1786.

Beer, Alice B.: 300 books and magazines.

Bickel, George D.: Studer’s Popular Ornithology, by Theodore Jasper, 1881.

Blue, Rhea C.: 5 volumes of American Oriental Society “Journal.”

Bodine, John W.: 66 books, 226 journals, and other miscellaneous items on
space.

Boorstin, Daniel J.: 42 books and 36 journals.

Botwin, Ed.: 36 journals and monographs.

Bowers, Rae: 7 publications.

Brack, Peg: Time backfile on microfilm.

Breeskin, Adelyn: 56 art monographs.

Brener, Steven W.: 35 monographs and magazines.

Brown, J. Carter: program of Ceremony in Celebration of the Opening of the
East Building of the National Gallery of Art.

Cahn, Mrs. Lester: 50 magazines and books.

Campbell, William: 10 issues of The Connoisseur.

Cannon, Susan Faye: Science in Culture, volume 1.

Churchill, Mrs. Mary S.: Pitture a Fresco del Campo Santo di Pisa, 1812.

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 551
Clain-Stefanelli, Mrs. Elvira: 12 volumes.

Coles, Victor L: 16 volumes.

Crombie, Ronald: Common Snakes of South East Asia and Hong Kong.

Dee, Elaine: 11 volumes.

Dorfsman, Ann: 2 volumes.

Doulton, Michael: Royal Doulton Figures, by Eyles and Dennis, 1978.

Drubba, Dr. H: 2 volumes.

Dubois, J. Harry: 44 books, pamphlets, and trade literature.

Ellsworth, Robert: Chinese Furniture, by donor.

Eppes, William: 6 items.

Ernst, Dr. Gertrud: 14 volumes.

Etchecopar, Robert: Les Oiseaux de Chine, by donor.

Fergus, Louise Breck: astronomical prints.

Ferguson, Mrs. Dewey: Romance of Collecting Case Knives, 1978.

Fordyce, R. Ewan: The Morphology and Systematics of New Zealand Fossil
Cetacea, by donor.

Frelick, Jane: 4 monographs.

Fremersdorf, Joseph: 9 monographs.

Frings, John: 25 monographs.

Gardner, Brig. Gen. Paul, USAF: Aerospace: The Challenge.

Gatheral, Mrs. W. M.: 75 magazines.

Gerwig, John R., Jr.: 42 miscellaneous publications.

Gordan, Robert: 9 motion picture annuals.

Greenwell, Frank: 100 issues of National Geographic.

Group, Ralph Edward: Pittsburgh Glass company brochures.

Hammer, Armand: Appeal of Conscience Foundation Annual Award 1978.

Henderson, Edward: 7 volumes.

Hilton, George: 2 volumes.

Hirohito, Emperor of Japan: Crustacean Anomura of Sagami Bay, by donor.

Hodges, Chantal and Fletcher: 25 books and monographs.

Houbrick, Dr. Richard: Monographs of Marine Mollusca.

Hughes, Barbara: 20 magazines.

Hummel, Julius: 3 catalogues.

Hunt, Margot A.: Hobbies magazine subscription.

Huxtable, Ada Louise: 175 magazines.

Jacobs, George J.: Dictionary of Vertebrate Zoology: Russian-English, English-
Russian, by donor.

Johnson, Mrs. Oliver F.: 172 issues of Handweaver and Craftsmen.

Johnson, Paul C.: 16 volumes.

Jones, F. F.: The Art of Drawn-work, 1894.

Jones, Mrs. T. B.: The 1915 Mode as Shown in Paris.

Kainen, Mr. and Mrs. Jacob: exhibition catalogues and journals.

Kaufmann, Robert C.: 7 volumes.

Kidd, Dick: R/C Modeler magazine.

Kier, Porter: Mycobacterial Infections of Zoo Animals, edited by Richard
J. Montali.

Knez, Dr. Eugene: assorted monographs and journals.

Knowles, Thomas A.: 3 aeronautical monographs.

Krombein, Karl: Bulletin de la Société Entomologique d’Egypte, vol. 59, 1975.

Lane, Maggie: Oriental Patchwork, by donor.

Larcher, Jean: 5 volumes on art.

Larsen, Carl W: 302 monographs and journals.

Larsen, Jack Lenor, Inc.: Danese Milano—Catalogo della Produzione 1976.

Lerman, Leo: 2,000 magazines, monographs, and ephemeral materials.

Livingston, M. Stanley: The Production of High Velocity Hydrogen Ions
without the Use of High Voltages, by donor.

552 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Loebell, Ernst: 3 monographs.

Lowe, David: Lost Chicago, by donor.

Lynes, Russell: 36 art catalogues.

Lyons, Roger: 55 volumes.

McFadden, David: 30 monographs.

Mademoiselle Magazine: 10 bound issues of Home Furnishing Arts.

Magriel, Charles L.: The Glass of René Lalique: The Magriel Collection, 1979.

Manton, Mrs. A. E. O.: issues of American Fabrics/Fashions Magazine.

Marton, Dr. L.: 4 volumes of Advances in Electronics and Electron Physics.

Mason, Dr. Brian: 5 volumes.

Mauro, Richard: 11 photographs by donor.

Mecinski, Louise: 175 monographs on English architecture and decorative arts.

Melson, William: Pluto’s Chain.

Metcalf, Pauline: 30 magazines and books.

Metz, Mike: 13 drawings of objects, by donor.

Meyers, Ernest G.: 25 issues of Animals magazine.

Mitchell, Ann: Andrew Carnegie, by Joseph Frazier Wall, 1970.

Morgan, Thomas B.: 14 issues of Politicks & other Human Interests, bound.

Moss, Gilliam: 2 volumes.

Multhauf, Dr. Robert P. Neptune’s Gift: A History of Common Salt, by donor.

Munsell, Alex: portfolio of 7 color photographs of paintings by donor.

National Association of Colored Women’s Clubs: Colored Woman in a White
World.

Navez, Andre: Ethiopia’s Endemic Birds.

Oliver, Richard: 30 books and magazines.

O'Neil, Isabel: 4 volumes.

Ossorio, Robert U.: 275 magazine issues and several books.

Overlock, Les: The Roneo Story and Vickers: Against the Odds 1956-1977.

Palley, Reese: 11 publications on Boehm Porcelain.

Parkinson, Russell: 3 volumes.

Perkins, Nancy: trade literature materials.

Perrot, Paul N.: Catalogue of Constable-Maxwell Collection of Ancient Glass.

Pettibone, Marian: Beitraige zur Kenntnis der Polychaeten-Familien Hermelli-
dae, Sabellidae und Serpulidae, 1927.

Phillips, Mary Walker: issues of The Workbasket and Home Arts Magazine.

Prager, Mrs. Frank: Neue (Sogenannte) Magdeburger Versuche tiber den
Leeren Raum, 1968.

Rice, Dr. Mary: International Symposium on the Biology of the Sipuncula and
Echiura, Proceedings, edited by donor.

Riesenberg, Saul: 145 monographs and journals.

Ripley, S. Dillon: 2 volumes.

Rohlfing, Chris: 25 periodicals and monographs.

Rosewasser, Beulah G.: 2 volumes.

Ross, C. A.: 2 volumes.

Schimel, Bob: 3 brochures and 5 posters of Experimental Design Ltd.

Scott, Catherine D.: Larvae of Insects: Lepidoptera and Hymenoptera, Part I,
by Alvah Peterson, 1948.

Scroggie, Mrs. Eugene: photographs and journals.

Selig Manufacturing Co: photographs of chairs.

Setzer, Henry: monographs and journals.

Shropshire, Dr. Walter: 63 journals.

Smith, C. Ray: 4 auction catalogues.

Smith, Mark Stewart: 6 volumes.

Smith, Sheila: 200 items including monographs, journals, and ephemeral
materials.

Smith, Master Timothy: 11 volumes.

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 553
Sohn, Bertha: 55 issues of Special Libraries.

Sohn, Dr. I. Gregory: Bioresearch Index and Zaliva Petra Velikogo.

Sonday, Milton: Threads of Time: Artistry in Jewish Costume, 1978.

Stained Glass Association of America: transferred their entire library to the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum Library. Bookplates were designed, printed, and
funded by William Bridges and John McLaughlin.

Stanbury, Helen: 13 magazines.

Stann, E. Jeffrey: Native American Astronomy.

Stark, Helen: 2 volumes.

Stern, Lynn S: 175 magazines.

Sullivan, James T.: F-42 Corsair in Action, by donor.

Suter, Dr. Heinz E.: 2 volumes.

Swickley, C. W.: Boy Aviators in Record Flight, 1910.

Taylor, Bertrand: portfolio of Avedon photographs.

Taylor, Lisa: 250 items.

Torre y Rabasa, Dr. Ing. Mario de la. Visién del Mundo—1844, Frederick
Catherwood.

Vogel, Robert: De Architectura Venice, 1511.

Warren, Miss Dorothy: 125 monographs and magazines.

Wasicko, Richard: Air Progress magazines.

Watson, George: Mechanick Exercises.

Weber, M. R.: Flow Blue China and Mulberry Ware and Staffordshire: Ro-
mantic Transfer Patterns.

Wedel, Mr., and Mrs. Waldo: 27 issues of Horizon.

Wetmore, Alexander: 3000 titles.

White, John H., Jr.: Railway Engineering and Maintenance Cyclopedia.

Wilson, Druid: Prodrome de Paléontologie.. . 1850.

Winkler, Major George N.: monographs and journals.

Winship, Frederick: 3 exhibition catalogues.

Winslow, Dinny: books and journals.

Winter, Frank: aeronautical books.

Wolf, Joy: Japanese art catalogue.

Yeager, Mary Lou: Royal Doulton Figurine Collections, by donor.

Zellers, Albert. 7 magazines.

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Donors of Financial Support

Smithsonian Education Outreach Fund: Special Education Programs, Intern
‘79, The Edward Nelson Papers Curriculum Project.

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation: Curriculum Project with the
District of Columbia Public Schools.

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Donors of Financial Support

BASF Wyandotte Corporation Learning About Learning Foundation
Bunker Ramo Corporation McDonald’s Washington Area Family
Ellis L. Phillips Foundation Restaurants
General Foods Corporation National Institute of Child Health and
Hasbro Center for Child Development Human Development

and Education Texas Instruments Incorporated
Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., Foundation U.S. Department of Energy

554 / Smithsonian Year 1979
MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT
SMITHSONIAN RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Donors of Financial Support

National Endowment for the Arts: granted funds for a three-part film series,
“New Visions,” featuring the work of contemporary African, Third World,
and Black American Filmmakers, November 1978—March 1979

National Endowment for the Humanities and National Endowment for the
Arts: granted funds for the Program’s participation in national symposium,
“Japan Today,” April 17-June 6, 1979.

National Science Foundation: granted funds for a monthly lecture series, ‘Key
Issues in Science Today,” January—May 1979

Smithsonian Women’s Committee: for the Free Film Theater

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Donors of Works of Art

Keith Achepohl

Anonymous

Art Center, Inc., South Bend, Indiana

David Baron in memory of his wife, Mary F. Baron

Mr. and Mrs. Jacques Z. Baruch

Ruth B. Benedict in memory of her parents, Sophie and Carl Boschwitz

Ruth B. Benedict and Bertha B. Leubsdorf in memory of Sophie and Carl
Boschwitz

William and Ruth Benedict

Mr. and Mrs. Sam R. Broadbent

Collectors Committee

Thomas Jefferson Coolidge IV in memory of his great grandfather, Thomas
Jefferson Coolidge, his grandfather, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge II, and his
father, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge III

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Edinburg

David B., James R., and Richard A. Epstein

David Edward Finley and Margaret Eustis Finley

Edgar William and Bernice Chrysler Garbisch

Dr. and Mrs. George Benjamin Green

Brian Halsey

John Davis Hatch Collection

Philip Hofer in memory of his mother, Mrs. Jane Arms Hofer

Istituto Nazionale per la Grafica-Calografia, Rome

Gerald Johnson

Peter W. Josten

David Landau

Sylvia Benson Lawson

Mark and Bryan Leithauser

Bertha B. Leubsdorf in memory of her parents, Sophie and Carl Boschwitz

Dieter Erich Meyer

Matthew J. Mitchell in memory of Robert M. Mitchell

Henry A. and Caroline C. Murray

John T. Overbeck

Ambrose and Viola Patterson

Lessing J. Rosenwald

Charles Ryskamp in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mellon

Leonard and Mary Schlosser

Appendix 9. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution / 555
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour Schwartz Mr. and Mrs. E. W. R. Templeton

Regina Slatkin in memory of Dr. and Mrs. Walter Timme

Charles E. Slatkin Mr. and Mrs. Arthur E. Vershbow
Robert H. and Clarice R. Smith Dr. and Mrs. Maclyn E. Wade
William M. Speiller Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Walker
The Taylor Foundation Ian Woodner

Donors of Financial Support

Ferdinand Lammot Belin Fund Andrew W. Mellon Fund
Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund Adolph Caspar Milier Fund
William Nelson Cromwell Fund Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund
Chester Dale Fund Print Purchase Fund

Dr. and Mrs. Ronald R. Lubritz Fund

556 / Smithsonian Year 1979
APPENDIX 10. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution in

Fiscal Year 1979

Smith-

sonian History

Institu- Arts & Natural Freer & Tech-

tion Industries History Air & Space Gallery nology
Month Building Building Building Building of Art Building

October 1978 62,795 70,722 323,936 837,698 22,228 298,353
November 43,296 52,234 357,019 933,946 21,467 246,335
December 33,046 43,393 301,889 767,140 19,357 217,032
January 1979 21,749 33,563 224,524 641,546 14,640 133,688
February 25,703 32,427 195,249 468,843 11,404 141,639
March 66,537 66,778 512,661 758,713 21,995 300,957
April 124,173 117,807 873,631 1,442,551 33,625 568,851
May 92,876 95,077 687,584 893,973 30,356 525,672
June 104,162 110,649 586,493 909,138 26,634 536,027
July 115,888 119,229 591,389 1,004,552 27,683 526,781
August 123,531 133,047 645,275 948,017 33,883 578,835
September 64,079 65,917 295,098 545,242 22,997 293,013
TOTALS 877,835 940,843 5,594,748 10,151,359 286,269 4,367,183

Fine Arts Anacostia

& Neigh- —_Cooper-
Portrait Renwick Hirshhorn borhood Hewitt
Month Gallery Gallery Museum Museum Museum Totals

October 1978 43,882 18,009 109,627 2,003 11,185 1,800,438
November 36,666 15,014 102,362 858 11,707 1,820,904
December 35,422 15651. 62,974 30 14,214 1,510,128
January 1979 32,378 11,824 on a 2 — 20,435 1,185,459
February 24,484 7,864 58,742 2,241 14,127 982,723
March 40,428 10,338 120,730 4,855 18,241 1,922,233
April 38,852 15,184 158,538 3,439 16,393 3,393,044
May 39,588 13,019 127,356 3,301 15,664 2,524,466
June 40,558 12,914 110,009 2,679 18,134 2,457,397
July 34,391 13,923 L177 017 4,600 16,531 2,571,978
August 37,207 32,548 122,994 3,034 15,993 2,674,364
September 30,625 22,520 69,984 1,968 11,661 1,423,104
TOTALS 434,481 188,788 1,211,439 29,008 184,285 24,266,238

Note: Not reflected in the above tabulation are an estimated 2,200,000 visitors to the
National Zoological Park in calendar year 1979. The very nature of the Park, with
its indoor and outdoor exhibits and its several vehicular and pedestrian entrances,
makes it impossible to obtain exact visitor statistics. To overcome this difficulty,
NZP has developed a reliable sampling system, which was used to determine the

1979 estimate.

The Museum of African Art has a total of 6,936 visitors during August and Sep-

tember 1979.

Appendix 10. Visitors to the Smithsonian Institution / 557
APPENDIX 11.

Staff of the Smithsonian Institution and

its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1979

SECRETARY’S OFFICE AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

THE SECRETARY
ExecutivesAssistant = s.ia: sce soe co
Special Assistant
Special Assistants to the Secretary ....

Assistant Secretary for Administration .
Assistant Secretary for History and Art .
Assistant Secretary for Science ........
Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Assistant Secretary for Public Service ..

Director, Office of Facilities Services ...
Director of Membership and Development
Coordinator of Public Information .....
Curator, Smithsonian Institution Building
Honorary Research Associate

S. DILLON RIPLEY
Dorothy Rosenberg
James M. Hobbins
Margaret Hird
Richard H. Howland

John F. Jameson
Charles Blitzer
David Challinor
Paul N. Perrot
Julian T. Euell

Christian Hohenlohe
Peter G. Powers

Tom L. Peyton

James McK. Symington
Lawrence E. Taylor
James M. Goode

Paul H. Oehser

OEFIGE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY

The Under Secretary .................
Executive Assistant

SGIENGE

Assistant Secretary for Science ........
Executive Officer
Program Manager
Administrative Assistant ..............

Michael Collins
John Motheral

David Challinor
Harold Michaelson
Ross Simons

Rita Jordan

OFFICE OF BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION

CHESAPEAKE BAY CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

Director eae oan ceo Sora
Associate Director for Education
Programs: (io. Geet a We
Associate Director for Science Programs
Administrative Officer ................
Facilities Manager

558 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Edward S. Ayensu
Marsha Cox

J. Kevin Sullivan

John H. Falk
David L. Correll
Donald L. Wilhelm
John Rynarzewski
Scientific Staff
UPLAND ECOLOGY
Edward Balinsky
Christine Fritz
Daniel Higman
Elizabeth Ley
James Lynch
Robert Tabisz
Dennis Whigham

Education Staff
John Balling
Linda Chick
Ann Coren

WATERSHED STUDIES
Liza Hamill
William Schaffner
Kathy Vaughan
Tung Lin Wu

ESTUARINE ECOLOGY

Robert Cory
Robert Disque

Paul Dresler

Maria Faust
Debbie Ford

Nancy Goff

Anson Hines
Margaret McWethy
Joseph Miklas

Jay O'Neill

Katharine Kenyon
Sharon Maves
Suzanne Pogell

Jamie Harmes

FORT PIERCE BUREAU

aljaije catia) a 6: o) (e: 0e. eybie) SveLe 6160: 0) 0.016 ‘eee 1°

©: 'e) 6 8) 6:18) 10.0 @ 8 6) 6) 18, 'e) 8 6:

Scientific Staff
Carcinologist
Embryologist/Life Histories
Research Assistants:
Karen J. Carle
Margaret Davis
Cynthia Hunter
Julianne Piraino
Museum Assistant
Biological Illustrator
Postdoctoral Fellows

Collaborators, National Museum
of Natural History

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE

Director
Administrative Assistant
Deputy Director
Executive Officer

Public Information Officer
Staff Assistant
Program Management Assistant
Building Manager
Registrar
Budget Analyst
Curator of Art

Si: (si,e| © (ee) .6e) ei ie\e le: (ew) :@. 1! \u\-0) 0° 6) ee:

©9036) 016.6 8) 6! es a: 01 fie, ip) eee 0. .0; 0 010

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 559

Vacant
June J. Jones

Robert H. Gore
Mary E. Rice

Liberta E. (Scotto) Poolt
Kenneth P. Severin
Kim A. Wilson

Paula M. Mikkelsen
Mary Ann Nelson
Bruce R. Bartlett
Malcolm G. Erskian
H. Jack McDonald
John F. Pilger

Martin A. Buzas
Richard S. Houbrick
David L. Pawson

MUSEUM

Noel W. Hinners
Betty J. King
Melvin B. Zisfein
Walter J. Boyne
M. Antoinette Smith
Rita C. Bobowski
Louise Hull

Helen McMahon
Joseph L. Davisson
Robin A. Schroffel
Wendy Stephens
James D. Dean
Department of Aeronautics

Assistant Dinectonmecaanio de coimencreaece
Eistoniangementtusiea. serene cet
GuaTatorsy airs eich ese es: ha ehersieie sien cbareuesetere

Assistant Gurators’ 4. onsen eee

Department of Astronautics
Assistant Dinectore.ne denice oie
GUnAtORS! etic witceen costo ere ee URS ee

Associate Curator
Research Historian

of e) je; el (ellieitei is! ie, Jejre! ele elie) eile) eis

Department of Science and Technology
Assistant Director S24. eiacemer sce cs:
Curators) yt. bcs, yatessc ts hen susseneieueceteyens aie a.

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
ResearchyDirecton ea eee reine:
Geologists:

Andrew Chaikin

Diane Cobb

Ann Gifford

Ted Maxwell

Library Bureau
Librarian sods (cists) stern geen cers emerge 3s

(Chie hese. 7p heisctr ner cera a oeia eis
Rlanetaniumm© fiicerseae nee:
Mheater Manager’ 4.425 see een ess

Education Division
GHIieER ek sorter eats DE cee

Editor

Exhibits

Chiefu(Acting) 2.24550 ose heat
Ghief, Audiovisual Uniti22. 2 .cnecen. -*
Ghief, ‘Design, Unitist.u% Ss teehee ct:
DWESIONEEST Fig hie tebe Simian ero ooo erence

Ce

Editor

Donald S. Lopez
Paul E. Garber
Louis S. Casey
Robert B. Meyer, Jr.
Robert C. Mikesh

E. T. Wooldridge, Jr.
Claudia M. Oakes
Charles G. Sweeting

F. C. Durant III
Tom D. Crouch
Walter H. Flint
Louis R. Purnell
Frank H. Winter

Howard S. Wolko
Richard P. Hallion
Paul A. Hanle

Farouk El-Baz

Gar C. Schulin
Priscilla Strain
Alta Walker
Robert W. Wolfe

Catherine D. Scott
Dominick Pisano

Von Del Chamberlain
Vacant
Ronald E. Wagaman

Kerry M. Joéls
Charles Courchaine
Holly Haynes
Helen Podolske
Janet Wolfe

Julie Forbush

Melvin B. Zisfein
Hernan Otano
Robert Widder
John W. Brown
John R. Clendening
Lucius E. Lomax
Terezia M. Takacs
Edna W. Owens
Frank A. Nelms

Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Division

Ghietr: RRR eee ere ee ft EY

560 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Edward B. Chalkley
Walter R. Roderick
Alfred Bachmeier
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF MAN, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF MAN

Porter M. Kier!
James F. Mello
James F. Mello?
Sherrill Berger

PDITECTON Fe ciS oes Haan ke, STG itn ial g sieians
IANSSistant (DiInectOre cinch oso cke cis ea cess
Acting SDITeCtOr 4 aciew ccionceiew secu ss
Administrative @Officer’ 2. --00.-.-.-.-

NATIONAL ANTHROPOLOGICAL FILM CENTER

DDITECEORE As ice Chas otto is a rere eoeelne
Research Film Studies Coordinator .....
Research Film Editor «........: tees
Assistant Research Film Editor .........
Wisuall Data Specialist ...2....225.5885
Research wAlssistants sac. ceaese oe o's

E. Richard Sorenson
Gay C. Neuberger
Pamela C. Wintle
Vacant

Barbara Y. Johnson
M. Michael Maloney
Mathias Maradol
Vacant

Ragpa Dorjee
Steven C. Schecter
Vacant

Helena M. Da Rocha
Leslie A. Curtin
Vacant

Mary L. Azoy
Mark P. Borneman

Research Film Cataloguer .............
Assistant Research Filmmakers ........

Researchebilm Intern ..+..os-0ess. +44.
Administrative Assistant .............
Secretarymeency aie te seckevsiod odes mera Gee are ke
Administrative Aides .........<s2ss024

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scholars
Research Associates ...2...00.e0088005 Asen Balikci, University of

Collaborating Schoiars:

Asen Balikci, University of Montreal,
Quebec

Dirk A. Ballendorf, Director,
Micronesian Area Research Center,
Agana, Guam

Lain S. Bangdel, Chancellor, Royal
Nepal Academy, Kathmandu, Nepal

Dhundiraj Bhandari, Royal Nepal
Academy, Kathmandu, Nepal

Judith Chase, Tribuvan University,
Nepal

William Crocker, Associate Curator,
National Museum of Natural
History, Washington, D.C.

T. Wayne Dye, Summer Institute of
Linguistics, Ukarumpa, Papua New
Guinea

M. K. Jaya Sinhji Jhala, Director,
Institute of Audio-Visual
Resources, Ajitniwas, India

1 Resigned May 31, 1979.
? Resigned June 1, 1979.

Montreal, Quebec

John K. Marshall, Director,
Documentary Educational
Resources, Sommerville,
Massachusetts

John Kolia, Director, Institute of
Papua New Guinea Studies,
Boroko, Papua New Guinea

Luding Khen Rinpoche, Library of
Tibetan Works and Archives,
Dharamsala, India

Claudia Menezes, Museu do Indio,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Johan Reinhard, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin

Indera P. Singh, University of
Delhi, Delhi, India

Thepo Tulku, Library of Tibetan
Works and Archives,
Dharamsala, India

Gyatsho Tshering, Library of
Tibetan Works and Archives,
Dharamsala, India

Scott Williams, Bellevue
Community College, Bellevue,
Washington

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 561
Consultants:

Melvyn Goldstein, Case Western Sol Tax, University of Chicago,
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio Chicago, Illinois

Hubert L. Smith, Director, Carroll Williams, Director,
Contemporary Yucatec Maya Film Anthropology Film Center,
Project, Venice, California Sante Fe, New Mexico

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES

Director os hice oe soot ee Ole reraeeKo ue (arte Roy S. Bryce-Laporte

Administrative Assistant .............. Betty S. Dyson

Research) Goordinatotys piece eee Stephen R. Couch

Program Goordinator e)icie1cre eles oe Delores M. Mortimer

Glerk-Typist (its nel wea eter oi oe 6 Constance Trombley

Research) Associates iniedaraciseiierohels Donald L. Horowitz

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Director .o62s oe ase Se ae oe Bee ais ists. Porter M. Kier?
Assistant Director) ai-einicicecicir acer James F. Mello
Alcting wDirechOr a.m eis ae oretorere ers c's e's James F. Mello#
Writer-Editor juice de te tate cio eters © ss cie Thomas R. Harney
Administrative Officer anette: oes Charles Ossola
Management;Analysti.9-2 02.08.00 2-6 =: John Townsend
Staff Assistants to Director -.2..--..... C. Willard Hart®

William P. Haynes
Catherine J. Kerby

Ghicfsofaexhibitsmaceaee aoe mere: Eugene F. Behlen
Coordinator, Office of Education ...... Joan C. Madden
Ghiefiof ADP “Program! sic cles ons os: T. Gary Gautier
Buildings Manager Giaemccce: sri ees Jerome A. Conlon
Anthropological Researcher ........... Samuel L. Stanley®
Registrar aes cco tyne cisterserehons eet shea Margaret A. Santiago
Operations Officer, Scientific Events

Alert Network? S205 4 ceecsis e tod noe David R. Squires

ANTHROPOLOGY

Ghairmam= (cei reeteos re eeee eis ecets William W. Fitzhugh
SenionjEthnologistsea- eee once John C. Ewers?

Saul H. Riesenberg®
Curator, National Anthropological

IAT CHIVES Mistih oct eae Herman J. Viola
Gollections Manager) 2 5-m ean ore oe U. Vincent Wilcox
Supervisor, Conservation Laboratory ... Carolyn L. Rose
Supervisor, Processing Laboratory ..... George E. Phebus
Supervisor, Illustration Unit .......... George R. Lewis
Public Information Specialist .......... Ruth O. Selig
Latin American Anthropology
GUE ALOTS paisa it oyscei che chute cuanto eG ss Clifford Evans

Robert M. Laughlin

Associate! Guratomenee ne noe e eine William H. Crocker

® Resigned May 30, 1979.

* Appointed June 1, 1979.
> Transferred April 8, 1979.
® Retired July 6, 1979.

* Retired February 1979.

’ Retired August 1979.

562 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Old World Anthropology

GratOnsiers ser rece acini Pe eieiisicee Gordon D. Gibson
Eugene I. Knez®
William B. Trousdale
Gus W. Van Beek

North American Anthropology

(CUTE eS OR eS A a a William W. Fitzhugh
Dennis M. Stanford
William C. Sturtevant

AGsociateGuratonesd.ss soe se oe eee Bruce D. Smith
Linguistics
Ascociate:@uratoneeme aang on Acree es R. H. Ives Goddard III

Physical Anthropology

(ClescetoneSee 0 Ss SRR eee OIA ee eae J. Lawrence Angel
Donald J. Ortner
Douglas H. Ubelaker

Acsociatei@uraton.. = 2s ssc 40 swe scm Lucile E. St. Hoyme

GT emis tame gsrewerors crate anckciece ea encians ceeaeei eho David W. Von Endt

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists

John P. Albanese (Geology) ?°
Larry D. Banks (Geology)
Alison S. Brooks (Archeology)
Ernest S. Burch, Jr. (Ethnology)?!
Henry B. Collins (Archeology)
Steven L. Cox (Archeology)
Brian C. Hesse (Archeology)
Paula Hesse (Archeology)
Richard T. Koritzer (Physical
Anthropology)

BOTANY

Phanerogams

1iTAtORS Me cists aie eee ele ioais toe ela cident

Ferns

Associate Gurator . <.5<....0.000--0-

Grasses

Wuratona sce yeh sink ar ee oe eek

® Retired November 1978.
?” Appointed March 15, 1979.
*! Appointed March 1, 1979.

Betty J. Meggers (Archeology)

Walter G. J. Putschar (Physical
Anthropology)

Owen S. Rye (Archeology)

T. Dale Stewart (Physical
Anthropology)

Mildred Mott Wedel (Archeology
and Ethnohistory)

Waldo R. Wedel (Archeology)

Theodore A. Wertime (Archeology)

Dieter C. Wasshausen
Richard S$. Cowan
Mason E. Hale, Jr.

Dan H. Nicolson
Robert W. Read
Dieter C. Wasshausen
John J. Wurdack
Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr.
Marie-Héléne Sachet
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Laurence E. Skog

David B. Lellinger

Thomas R. Soderstrom

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 563
Cryptogams

Guratorsc eae a ae Pao ae

Palynology

Guratora Hose poate ett s

Plant Anatomy

Guratoniec ss. ee ee eC ee Sack:

Harold E. Robinson
James N. Norris

Joan W. Nowicke

Edward S. Ayensu
Richard H. Eyde

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists

Katina Bucher (Cryptogams)

Paul S. Conger (Diatoms) 1

Judith L. Connor (Algae)!%

Jose Cuatrecasas (Flora of Tropical
South America)

Arthur Lyon Dahl (Algae)

James A. Duke (Flora of Panama)

Marie L. Farr (Fungi)

F. Raymond Fosberg (Tropical Island

Plants)
Aaron Goldberg (Phanerogams)
Charles R. Gunn (Seeds)
LeRoy H. Harvey (Grasses)14
William H. Hathaway (Flora of
Central America)
James D. Lawrey (Lichens)1°
Paul A. Lentz (Fungi)

Elbert L. Little, Jr. (Dendrology)
Alicia Lourteig (Neotropical
Botany)
Kittie F. Parker (Compositae)
Duncan M. Porter (Phanerogams)
Clyde F. Reed (Phanerogams)
Velva E. Rudd (Leguminosae)
Lyman B. Smith (Flora of Brazil)
Seymour H. Sohmer
(Phanerogams)
Marie L. Solt (Melastomataceae) 16
Frans A. Stafleu (Phanerogams)
William L. Stern (Plant Anatomy)
Edward E. Terrell (Phanerogams)
Francis A. Uecker (Fungi)
Egbert H. Walker (East Asian
Flora)

ENTOMOLOGY

Chairman ieyecn ue cprcetde gs ahera Qe, oddvane Don R. Davis

Gollections Manager ujsaeeeer ose a4: Gary F. Hevel

Senior Entomologist a2 saesecedec deo cn Karl V. Krombein

Neuropteroids and Diptera

Curator iets ee a eration: Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Associate. Curator’ .y:'\34 a noteiaisienn sans Wayne N. Mathis

Lepidoptera

Gurdtors: Nee A i es John M. Burns
Don R. Davis

W. Donald Duckworth
William D. Field

Coleoptera
Guaratorgine ene al ttrete eats kee es), vaste Terry L. Erwin
Associate. Guratons (geile on wale ean ties Paul J. Spangler

Hemiptera and Hymenoptera
GurTators ae erect aerate nn Richard C. Froeschner
Paul D. Hurd, Jr.

Myriapoda and Arachnida
Curators ss eee ea cis Meter eN Be cog Ralph E. Crabill, Jr.

™ Deceased August 12, 1979.

8 Appointed January 15, 1978.
™ Appointed March 1, 1979.

*° Appointed January 1, 1978.
1° Deceased December 29, 1978.

564 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists

Charles P. Alexander (Diptera)
Donald W. Anderson (Coleoptera)
Edward W. Baker (Mites)
S. W. T. Batra (Hymenoptera)
S. Franklin Blanton (Diptera)
Barnard Burks (Hymenoptera)
Robert W. Carlson (Hymenoptera)
Oscar L. Cartwright (Coleoptera)
J. F. Gates Clarke (Lepidoptera)
Hilary Crusz (Insects of Sri Lanka)
K. C. Emerson (Mallophaga)
John H. Fales (Lepidoptera)
Douglas C. Ferguson (Lepidoptera)
Richard H. Foote (Diptera)
John G. Franclemont (Lepidoptera)
Raymond J. Gagné (Diptera)
Robert D. Gordon (Coleoptera)
E. Eric Grissell (Hymenoptera)
Ashley B. Gurney (Orthoptera)
Jon L. Herring (Hemiptera)
Ronald W. Hodges (Lepidoptera)
Harry Hoogstraal (Medical
Entomology)
John M. Kingsolver (Coleoptera)
Lloyd Knutson (Diptera)
James P. Kramer (Homoptera)
Paul M. Marsh (Hymenoptera)

INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

Ghrainmante gre ole: caviar so ete ee hes
SemioreZoologist «i253. heae dea cis

Crustacea
Curators:

J. Laurens Barnard
Thomas E. Bowman
Roger F. Cressey

ASSociatei@umatOricn a scsbieie acne sic ee es

Echinoderms

GtiralOrsMe eer eae tse ee ee Galea

Mollusks

Wuratorsiet cheek ion sco Eee es

Associate: Guraton aint oe seis oe

Worms

GuratOrsy ees ae ee ek oes

Associate: Curators. ..1 aero enin oa ands

” Appointed April 8, 1979.
18 Appointed November 30, 1978.
?® Appointed March 11, 1979.

Arnold S. Menke (Hymenoptera)

Douglass R. Miller (Homoptera)

Carl F. W. Muesebeck
(Hymenoptera)

Kenelm W. Philip (Lepidoptera)

George W. Rawson (Lepidoptera)

Mary Livingston Ripley (General
Entomology)

Louise M. Russell (Homoptera)

Curtis W. Sabrosky (Diptera)

Robert L. Smiley (Mites)

David R. Smith (Hymenoptera)

Theodore J. Spilman (Coleoptera)

George C. Steyskal (Diptera)

Manya B. Stoetzel (Homoptera)

F. Christian Thompson (Diptera)

Edward L. Todd (Lepidoptera)

Robert Traub (Siphonaptera)

Hayo H. W. Velthuis
(Hymenoptera)

Ronald A. Ward (Medical
Entomology)

Richard E. White (Coleoptera)

Donald R. Whitehead (Coleoptera)

Willis W. Wirth (Diptera)

David Wooldridge (Coleoptera)

W. Duane Hope
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.

Charles W. Hart, Jr.17
Louis S. Kornicker
Raymond B. Manning
Brian F. Kensley1®

Frederick M. Bayer
David L. Pawson
Klaus Riietzler

Richard S. Houbrick
Clyde F. E. Roper
Joseph Rosewater
Arthur H. Clarke

Robert P. Higgins
Meredith L. Jones
Mary E. Rice
Kristian Fauchald?®

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 565
Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists

S. Stillman Berry Patsy McLaughlin

J. Bruce Bredin Marian Pettibone

Stephen D. Cairns?° Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.
Fenner A. Chace?! Harald A. Rehder

Sing Chen Chang? Frank R. Schwengal
Hillary Boyle Cressey?? I. G. Sohn

Isabel Perez Farfante Geerart J. Vermeij?*

John C. Harshbarger Gilbert L. Voss

Lipke B. Holthuis Austin B. Williams

Roman Kenk David K. Young

J. Ralph Lichtenfels

MINERAL SCIENCES

Ghairmvany eure. saci = anced teeea terse 'e.6 Daniel E. Appleman

Meteorites

GuTatOnsaae ere ero ene ara Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Brian H. Mason

Geochemistsieeenee rie cies Kurt Fredriksson

Robert F. Fudali

Mineralogy
Curator eee oe Pee aes Paul E. Desautels
Associate Guraton weenie nck ae John S. White, Jr.

Petrology and Volcanology

Guratorsics hie eee eee ne eee eo Richard S. Fiske
William G. Melson
Thomas E. Simkin

Physical Sciences Laboratory

GhemistShas oct ene eee reece Julie N. Barrows?®
Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists

Howard J. Axon (Meterorites) Peter A. Jezek (Petrology)

Vagn F. Buchwald (Meteorites) Peter Leavens (Mineralogy)
William C. Buell IV (Volcanology) Paul B. Moore (Mineralogy)
Gary R. Byerly (Petrology) Izumi Nakai (Mineralogy)?7
Robert T. Dodd (Meteorites) Masaaki Shimizu (Mineralogy)?
John Filson (Meteorites) George S. Switzer (Mineralogy)
Michael Fleischer (Mineralogy) Geoffrey Thompson (Petrology)
Martin Flower (Petrology) Othmar T. Tobisch (Peterology)
John J. Gurney (Petrology) John J. Trelawney (Mineralogy)
Chris Hatton (Petrology) ?® Suzanne Wass (Meteorites)
Edward P. Henderson (Meteorites) Charles A. Wood (Petrology)??

“© Appointed April 1, 1979.

*! Appointed November 1, 1978.
*° Appointed October 1, 1979.

°8 Appointed October 1, 1979.

** Appointed August 1, 1977.

* Appointed January 28, 1979.
°° Appointed March 1978.

*" Appointed August 1, 1978.

*S Appointed June 11, 1979.

* Appointed September 1, 1978.

566 / Smithsonian Year 1979
PALEOBIOLOGY

Chairman
Collections Manager

Invertebrate Paleontology
Curators:

Richard M. Benson
Richard S. Boardman
Martin A. Buzas

Alan H. Cheetham
Richard Cifelli

Geologist

Vertebrate Paleontology
Curators

Associate Curator

Sele u ajo se\e..© a) ifs] ece 0a s\e\,ee0

Paleobotany
Curators

eine (@)\e).e \s.(e lv'© ¢\\6 8.00) @ © @).8).6, 6 '@: 8 0) :6) suet e

Curator
Geological Oceanographer
Geologist

ae) (5/48) ©) ©, m6 (0.6 8 © © 8) uO, @ 0 C0 10, 6 4 610 wi ai ete

S) 6! (0).6) jolie: 0: eee! es

Martin A. Buzas
Frederick J. Collier

Richard E. Grant
Erle G. Kauffman
Porter M. Kier

Thomas R. Waller

Kenneth M. Towe

Nicholas Hotton III
Clayton E. Ray
Robert J. Emry

Walter H. Adey
Leo J. Hickey
Francis M. Hueber

Jack W. Pierce
Daniel J. Stanley
Ian G. Macintyre

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists

Patricia Adey
Arthur J. Boucot
Sankar Chatterjee
Anthony G. Coates
G. Arthur Cooper
Daryl P. Domning?®
Raymond Douglass
J. Thomas Dutro
Douglas Emlong
Ralph E. Eshelman
Jerzy A. Federowski
Robert M. Finks

C. Lewis Gazin
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Richard Graus
Peter J. Harmatuk
Bruce N. Haugh
Joseph E. Hazel

VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY
Chairman

Fishes
Curators

Associate Curator

* Appointed July 1978.
* Appointed March 22, 1979.
* Retired September 7, 1979.

Appendix 11.

S. Taseer Hussain
Ralph W. Imlay
Jeremy B. C. Jackson
Gilbert Kelling
Harry S. Ladd

N. Gary Lane
Kenneth E. Lohman
Venka V. Macintyre
Andres Maldonado
Sergius H. Mamay
James F. Mello
Robert B. Neuman
William A. Oliver, Jr.
Thomas F. Phelen
John Pojeta, Jr.

Roy H. Reinhart
Charles A. Repenning
E. Carol Roth

a) 0) sehen eels

Jan J. Roth

Bruce Runnegar
William J. Sando
Frederick R. Siegel
Elwyn L. Simons
Judith E. Skog
Norman F. Sohl
George Stanley?!
Steven M. Stanley
Robert S. Steneck
Margaret Ruth Todd
Ronald R. West
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Druid Wilson

John W. Wilson
Wendell P. Woodring
Ellis P. Yochelson

George R. Zug

Robert H. Gibbs, Jr.
Ernest A. Lachner
Victor G. Springer
Stanley H. Weitzman
William R. Taylor?

Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 567
Reptiles and Amphibians

Guratorsi sis ce ae ee ee a eieioeaaues

Birds

Gurators' erecta eOcio hone oicierteae

IAssociater Gtinatorsmieei eee cic

Mammals

Graton, secession ue Re eae est tat

Associatei@uratomen ecole Lene
Assistant @uratomenen enn ace

W. Ronald Heyer
George R. Zug

George E. Watson
Richard L. Zusi
Storrs L. Olson
Paul Slud

Charles O. Handley, Jr.
Richard W. Thorington, Jr.
James G. Mead

Michael D. Carleton??

Research Associates, Collaborators, and Affiliated Scientists

John W. Aldrich (Birds)

Ronald Gail Altig (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

John S. Ash (Birds)#4

Richard C. Banks (Birds)

William Belton (Birds)

Michael A. Bogan (Mammals)

James E. Bohlke (Fishes)

Robert L. Brownell (Mammals)

Howard W. Campbell (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Daniel M. Cohen (Fishes)

Bruce B. Collette (Fishes)

Robert K. Enders (Mammals)

Carl H. Ernst (Reptiles, Amphibians)

Alan Feduccia (Birds)

John G. Frazier (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Herbert Friedmann (Birds)

Jeffrey Froehlich (Mammals)

Alfred L. Gardner (Mammals)

Richard Highton (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

George J. Jacobs (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Frances C. James (Birds)

Clyde J. Jones (Mammals)

Warren B. King (Birds)*®

Gordon L. Kirkland (Mammals)

HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS

General: Editor y#o2sia: - eee eee
Rroduction)s Manager 4.455 4e5 come

E. V. Komarek (Mammals)

Irving Kornfield (Fishes)

Roxie C. Laybourne (Birds)

Joseph T. Marshall (Birds)

Roy W. McDiarmid (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

J. A. J. Meester (Mammals)

Edgardo Mondolfi (Mammals)

Russell E. Mumford (Mammals)

Ralph S. Palmer (Birds)?®

William F. Perrin (Mammals)

Dioscoro S. Rabor (Mammals)

Randall R. Reeves (Mammals)

S. Dillon Ripley (Birds)

Brian Robbins (Mammals)

Rudolfo Ruibal (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

William Schevill (Mammals)

David W. Steadman (Birds)

Ian R. Straughan (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Stephen G. Tilley (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

Richard Wassersug (Reptiles,
Amphibians)

John C. Weske (Birds)

Ralph M. Wetzel (Mammals)

James D. Williams (Fishes)

Don E. Wilson (Mammals)

William C. Sturtevant
Diane Della-Loggia

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

| OS e(<Let (0) a aac ra ie VAS MRE as tees Beir
Supervisory Marine Biologists .......

8 Appointed September 4, 1979.
*4 Appointed August 1, 1979.

*% Appointed August 1, 1979.

8° Appointed February 1, 1979.

568 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Frank D. Ferrari
Herman A. Fehlmann
Oceanographer

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director
Assistant Director for Animal Programs
Assistant Director for Support Services
Special Assistant
General Curator, Office of Animal
Programs
Curators:
Daryl Boness
Dale Marcellini
Olav Oftedal
Scientist-in-Charge, Office of
Zoological Research « «0. 0<.06.00 <
SGCIONINCESEAM & 5-s6s:0kic cii/ale eS shee eae

Associate in’ Ecology’ «.: 5.4. ds3055«c bas
Molla bOratOrs: des cco Je e's ws cueing oes

Gordon Hendler
Leslie Knapp
Betty J. Landrum
Ernani Menez
Cathy J. Kerby

Theodore H. Reed
John F. Eisenberg
Vacant

Robert Hoage

Vacant

Charles W. Pickett, Jr.
Miles S. Roberts
William A. Xanten, Jr.

Devra G. Kleiman
Eugene S. Morton
Katherine Ralls
S. Dillon Ripley
Paul Leyhausen
Richard Faust
Kenhelm W. Stott

Research Associates and Affiliated Scientists:

Maxeen Biben
Carolyn Crockett
Jean Delacour
Wolfgang P. J. Dittus
Nicole Duplaix
John G. Frazier, Jr.
Sheri L. Gish
Chief, Office of Animal Health ........
Veterinarian Emeritus
Chief, Office of Pathology ...........;
Research Associates (Pathology):
Daniel R. Brooks
C. K. Hsu
Opendra Narayan
Curator-in-Charge, Conservation
and Research Center
Chief, Office of Education
Chief, Office of Graphics and Exhibits . .
Chief, Office of Construction
Management
Chief, Office of Facilities Management .
Chief, Office of Police and Safety ......
Chief, Office of Management Services ..
Director, Friends of the National Zoo ..

oy .0) 6) ©: 6 (6: <8) leis je: 6 fe 18.18

Kenneth M. Green
Judith L. Hand
Robert A. Hoage
James R. Malcolm
Walter Poduschka
Galen B. Rathbun
John G. Robinson

Rasnayagam Rudran
James K. Russell

John C. Seidensticker IV
Ranka Sekulic

Melvin E. Sunquist

Gay Troth

Susan C. Wilson
Mitchell Bush

Clinton W. Gray

Richard J. Montali

John D. Strandberg
Charles O. Thoen
Bernard Zook

Christen M. Wemmer
Judith White
Robert E. Mulcahy

Fred G. Barwick
Emanuel Petrella
Samuel L. Middleton, Jr.
Vincent J. Doyle

Sabin Robbins

RADIATION BIOLOGY LABORATORY

9} 10),4) ere 0), 8,\9:\0; 0; 6:.6) le, foe) @! ese) se) 0,6) .0\0),01 @) e!re, 6

© hehe: (e;:e), 0, eL.eleesela) a) e ee eke

William H. Klein
W. Shropshire, Jr.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 569
Agricultural Engineer John Sager

Anthropologist * 22's..tiyalaseiaeeine ns es Robert Stuckenrath
Aquatic: Ecologist... 3.24. steeper ees sie Claire Buchanan*
Biochemists:....... 00 qi caer ou oe Ora Canaani*
Maurice Margulies
BIOlOGISES:: si 'an creer, SRA te seein: Elisabeth Gantt
Rebecca Hayes
Biophysicist \siesce cities 5 siete meres sien Josef Grabowski*
Geneticist oc. eee ae ees els Roy W. Harding, Jr.
PRYSICISE 2 2 -5)2:3EPOSIGHAAD oslo eeo tees Bernard Goldberg

Theodore M. DeJong*
Bert G. Drake
Stephen N. Turitzin*

a) eer leveliaMe)is) (es) [e\\a ce) eho

Physiological Ecologists

Plant Physiologists:
Charles F. Cleland
Gerald Deitzer

William O. Smith
Osamu Tanaka*

John L. Edwards

Machi F. Dilworth*

Students:
Susan Daniels
David L. Herrin

Tetzuya Katoh*
Thomas Redlinger*

Denise Knott
Marjorie Mooney

Don Philip

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY
(Including Harvard Members of the Center for Astrophysics)

Eugene H. Avrett
John A. Ball

Barbara Bell

John H. Black
Graziella Branduardi
Alastair G. W. Cameron
Bartley Cardon
Nathaniel P. Carleton
Frederick Chaffee
Eric Chaisson

Kelly Chance

Steven Christensen
Haldan Cohn
Giuseppe Colombo
Guy J. Consolmagno
Eustratios Constantinides
Allan F. Cook II

John L. Cowan
Alexander Dalgarno
Marc Davis

Robert J. Davis

John P. Delvaille
Bruce Draine

Andrea K. Dupree
John Eddy

Arnold S. Epstein
Giuseppina Fabbiano

* Postdoctoral Fellows.

S. Michael Fall
Giovanni Fazio
Edward L. Fireman
Brian P. Flannery
William Forman
Peter Foukal

Fred A. Franklin
Daryl E. Freeman
Bruce A. Fryxell
Edward M. Gaposchkin
John C. Geary
Margaret J. Geller
Reinhard Genzel
Riccardo Giacconi
Owen Gingerich
Leo Goldberg

Leon Golub

Paul Gorenstein
Richard E. Griffiths
Jonathan E. Grindlay
Mario Grossi
Herbert Gursky
Shadia Habbal
Wendy Hagen

F. R. Harnden, Jr.
Lee W. Hartmann
Thomas Hartquist

570 / Smithsonian Year 1979

George B. Field
John G. Gregory

Aubrey Haschick
Timothy Heil

J. Patrick Henry
Claude Herzberg
John Huchra

Luigi G. Jacchia
Christine Jones-Forman
Paul Kalaghan
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Edwin Kellogg
Kate Kirby-Docken
Douglas Kleinmann
Edgar Knobloch
David G. Koch
John L. Kohl
Yoshihide Kozai
Max Krook

Robert L. Kurucz
David Latham
David Layzer
Myron Lecar
Randolph H. Levine
Alan P. Lightman
Martha Liller
William Liller

A. Edward Lilley
Keith MacGregor
Brian Marsden Robert Rosner Wallace H. Tucker

Ursula Marvin Micheline Roufosse Giuseppe S. Vaiana
Edward Mattison George B. Rybicki Leon P. van Speybroeck
Alan Maxwell John A. Rys Jorge E. Vernazza
Brian McBreen Paul L. Schechter Robert F. C. Vessot
Richard E. McCrosky Rudolph E. Schild George Victor
James M. Moran Herbert Schnopper Trevor C. Weekes
Stephen S. Murray Ethan J. Schreier Steven Weinberg
Peter Nisenson Daniel A. Schwartz Heinz Weiser
Robert W. Noyes Joseph Schwarz Nigel O. Weiss
Michael Oppenheimer Zdenek Sekanina Fred L. Whipple
Costas Papaliolios Frederick D. Seward Charles A. Whitney
William H. Parkinson Larry Smarr George L. Withbroe
Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin Peter L. Smith John A. Wood
Michael R. Pearlman Robert Stachnik Kouichi Yoshino
William H. Press Harvey Tananbaum Frederick D. Young
Harrison E. Radford Paul O. Taylor Martin Zombeck
John C. Raymond Wesley Traub

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

ME COM NE (oi dic. oo a ws cn auiee ats sentieiee Ira Rubinoff
Assistant: mDiIrectOn ja..ic 0 eed « nels Vacant
Assistant Director (Academic Programs) Neal G. Smith
Special Assistant to Director .......... Adela Gomez
Deputy Special Assistant to Director .. Elena Lombardo
Senior SClentists’ ..5 niwlottccesicas ems « Martin H. Moynihan
A. Stanley Rand

Administrative Officer .....0066.0.+.> Luis R. del Rio
Superintendent, Barro Colorado

Nature Monument: /.-. 2-22.00. oss - Vacant
Facilities, Manager: fi. 2.0305 baa ae Thomas R. Borges
Deputy Facilities Manager ............ David Cantagalli
Miloranianeres ste cm eects shor Alcira Mejia
Head, Office of Conservation and

Environmental Education ........... Nicholas Smythe
Educational Assistant ..........0%.06: Georgina DeAlba
Editorial "Assistant. 2..64¢.¢% <3 cares om Arilla H. Kourany
Scientific Staff:
John Cubit Harilaos Lessios David Roubik
Robert L. Dressler Olga F. Linares Roberta W. Rubinoff
Mary Jane West Eberhard G. Gene Montgomery _ Robert E. Silberglied
William Eberhard D. Ross Robertson Alan P. Smith
Peter W. Glynn Michael H. Robinson Donald M. Windsor
Egbert Leigh, Jr. Arcadio F. Rodaniche = Hindrik Wolda
Research Associates:
Annette Aiello Robin Foster Bruce Menge
Humberto Alvarez Nathan Gale Anthony Ranere
Robin Andrews Pedro Galindo Tyson Roberts
Carlos Arellano Carman Glynn Barbara Robinson
Charles F. Bennett, Jr. Jeffrey B. Graham Gordon B. Small
José Ignacio Borrero Deborah Caldwell Hahn W. John Smith
Gordon M. Burghardt Jane Lubchenco Henry Stockwell
Richard Cooke Yael Lubin Alastair M. Stuart
Reinaldo Diaz Ernst Mayr Paulo E. Vanzolini

Kerry Ann Dressler

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 571
HISTORY AND ART

Assistant Secretary ................... Charles Blitzer
SpecialwAssistants,; eacarse = cameras ciclo Dean Anderson
Susan Hamilton
Administrative @fficemmer. 4 -reheoneeer Patricia DuVall
Secretary iets eta Bah cco aloe emyalapetaiess Grace F. Fulton

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART
NEW YORK (ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE)

Director) Fe8 2 S2k eke ws viv: ee William E. Woolfenden
Secretary 0% oe aise ti os se hoitene io es Arleen A. Pancza

WASHINGTON (PROCESSING OFFICE)

Deputy Director/Archivist ............ Garnett McCoy
ANdimumistrativerOfficer sas. n Richard J. Nicastro
Secretany ea pecsier. © cgopare tates! c18 Aare ota tee Elizabeth C. James
Gurator of Manuscripts! (252 s-0-6-5 oe Arthur Breton
Associate Curator of Manuscripts .... Judith Throm
iAream@ollectons noes eee Julie Link Haifley
Membership/Secretary 22. 0.2..-.2--.- Elizabeth Eastburn
Archives (Mechnicians: 225222056 -< =. Linda Best

Elizabeth Kirwin
Ann Ferrante
Buck Pennington
Judy Reis

Judith Throm
Susan Williams

NEW YORK AREA OFFICE

AreaMlDineCtor,. 238i: 2 pes 2 oa Se ere William McNaught
Seenretarys (yaad sigeaee ch ta a eet een cles Jemison Hammond
Eield@lesearchenmane neni ener Ivor Avellino
Archives) echnictan! passe eee Elizabeth Evans

BOSTON AREA OFFICE

Areas Director sic) staat c ciesie me setaeierine aie Robert Brown
SECKCLALY) soi isc maha tecture orate ate eae aes Lane Rogers
Archives slechnician: <.6<is-csccscse ene Joyce Tyler
Archives i@lérk, 2.02.0 t tei son omcetaer Demetra Pulos
DETROIT AREA OFFICE
Area Director ta cuinuer « scisceen myer Dennis Barrie
AdministrativesAide f2.50 555 ce seeoaae Marilyn Wheaton
Archives Wechnician/ yc - > sce aen a Marilyn Florek
SAN FRANCISCO AREA OFFICE
Areas irectO rays tatters eis een Paul Karlstrom
SEGKELATY | Aci iaters, dee betye.s er asclelclarecoveoenee: Irene Sickel
Archivesjlechnicians/f. 0565 vededceoas Karen Davis

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DESIGN AND DECORATIVE ARTS

Die Gor os cts  eta eh o cI ch ae Lisa Taylor
Assistant Director for Collections

Management soniines. \ ols eeieiea te Christian Rohlfing
Assistant Director for Administration .. Daniel J. O’Leary
Curator of Drawings and Prints ...... Elaine Evans Dee

572 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Curator of Decorative Arts
Guratorohmextilesiamemias cake siticie ss 6
Curator of Architecture and Design ....
iranian scisciecensteyeuhitere as cassates sje oa
Gonservator mextilemsycaciiesace sce «
Conservator, Paper
Exhibition Coordinator ...............
Exhibition; Designer cjjacsenaccees sees
Business Administrator
Chief of Security
programs Manager 229). cc. a scicles sce oo
Museum Shop Manager ..............
Public Relations Manager .............
Technician for Drawings and Prints ...
Exhibition Research
Assistant Registrar
Program Coordinators

Biie).0| (4,16 0) 8 0)0 6

Business Office Manager
Administrative Assistants to the
Director

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Director
Executive Assistant
Associate Curator, Chinese Art ........
Associate Curator, Japanese Art .......
Associate Curator, Near Eastern Art ...
Assistant Curator, Japanese Art .......
Translator
Head Conservator, Technical Laboratory
Conservators

Ce

Research Curator, Far Eastern Ceramics
Research Assistant
Librarian
Assistant Librarian
Registrar
Registrarial Specialist
Honorary Associates

David Revere McFadden
Milton Sonday

Richard B. Oliver
Robert Kaufmann

Lucy Commoner
Konstanze Bachmann
Dorothy Twining Globus
Robin Parkinson

Kurt Struver

Luis Palau

Mary Kerr

Railey Macey

Isabelle Silverman
Xenia Cage

Lucy Fellowes

Sheila Silverman
Jennifer Jarvis

Susan Yelavich
Elizabeth McKirdie

Barbara V. Foss
Peter M. Scherer

Thomas Lawton
Richard Louie

Shen C. Y. Fu
Yoshiaki Shimizu
Esin Atil

Ann Yonemura

Julia K. Murray

W. Thomas Chase III
John Winter

Lynda A. Zycherman
John A. Pope
Josephine H. Knapp
Priscilla P. Smith
Chung-ming Lung
Eleanor Radcliffe
Sarah L. Newmeyer
Richard Edwards
Calvin French

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Director
Mepiuitys Director spe aires einer eer
Administrative Officer

a: [o: (0s (0/56; 'e: ofa ie! 0's; e. e008: we! .e'\e! a 8) eye! :e 810. 16) 0

Curator for Archives
Associate Curators

ASsistant Gurators ee eee tee

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 573

Abram Lerner
Stephen E. Weil
Nancy F. Kirkpatrick
Charles W. Millard
Cynthia J. McCabe
Inez Garson

Frank Gettings
Phyllis Rosenzweig
Judith Zilczer
Howard Fox
Miranda McClintic
Librarian sce ee ee aa ez ei Anna Brooke

Gonservators: 22); a ctenererenctoreiclo eters Laurence Hoffman
Antoinette Owens
Steven Tatti

Registrar 2026 oc 2c. NER Seven eve tee winders Douglas Robinson
Ghief, Education(ss5 0h erect rr 2 Edward Lawson
Writer/Editor’. (etetie are. toate eine oilers Nancy Grubb
Chief, Exhibits and Design ........... Joseph Shannon
Information) Specialistea--)-eeeee eee ee Sidney Lawrence
Photographer 6c .ccwsctenier peers ets John Tennant
Building Services Coordinator ......... Frank Underwood

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

EqibOne) 2 eeeneele ache e Cee See a aie Nathan Reingold
Issociates Editon eenee eae eee Arthur P. Molella
Assistant Editor (i. fie ase ees oe Marc Rothenberg
Statheblistorianwe eee ree Kathleen Waldenfels
INesearchwAssistantsi eee ee se « Joan F. Steiner

Beverly Jo Lepley

MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Die Clore oe icine sis ee ett ne Warren Robbins
Assistant Director for Administration .. Jean Salan
Secretary to the Director |.225-0.....-< Helen Loerke
Editorial Assistant to the Director ..... Lee Williams
Buildings Manager ¢ -cccussa eee ce o Basil Arendse
Public Affairs and Development Officer Isabel Brookfield
Public Information @fficer {...:..-...- Thomas Peterson
GuratorofGollections eer one: Lydia Puccinelli
Registrar and Research Assistant ...... Marietta Joseph
Gonservaton” 25,22): int setae eee eee Rene Welfeld
Program/Education Director .......... Amina Dickerson
Programma@tficenimaee mec eter men Helen Haynes
Academic Coordinator, Higher Education Edward Lifschitz
Assistant Academic Coordinator ....... Nancy Nooter
Archives Assistants. 52.22 -3:o0es0 soc Bryna Freyer
Dorothy Huete
Mibrariany ees one eee eee ae Janet Stanley

NATIONAL COLLECTION OF FINE ARTS

Director? 15.0.5 4. ene es ee ee Joshua C. Taylor
INTE IDibSiye Bodcccsogaoonosoude Harry Lowe
Administrator «acy. eee eee Oa ae H. Eugene Kelson
Associate Administrator. ss-nsaee ee one Charles J. Robertson
Assistant to the Director .o.:<2...... Birute Vileisis
Curator, 20th Century Painting and

Sculpturees sgt eh Ga eok Gere Harry Rand
Associate Curator, 20th Century Painting

and/Sculpttre)) .-eeiseieenh atta oe se: Virginia Mecklenburg
Assistant Curator, Joseph Cornell Study

Gerber Sie ese ee ee RUA atl nares Lynda Hartigan
Consultant, 20th Century Painting and

Sculpture apes Mere tena eles a « cee Adelyn Breeskin

574 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Curator, 18th and 19th Century Painting

and Sculptere wanes a6 ie ees es ws William H. Truettner
Associate Curator, 18th and 19th

Century Painting and Sculpture .... Robin Bolton-Smith
Curator, Prints and Drawings ......... Janet Flint
Associate Curator, Prints and Drawings Martina Norelli
CGuratornsofeEducation’ gacees sc sn oie - Barbara Shissler
Associate Curator of Education,

SECOMGATY: cise. oie iota te eros chester es este Teresa C. Grana
Assistant Curator of Education,

Blementanyerc cans nisi =r eke aisles 3000 Margery E. Gordon
Director, Renwick Gallery ............ Lloyd E. Herman
Curator, Renwick Gallery ............ Michael Monroe
Associate Curator, Renwick Gallery .... Ellen Myette
Curator of Research 135.0552 a2. ees Lois Fink

Chief, Office of Exhibition and Design . David Keeler
Assistant Chief, Office of Exhibition and
ID CSIS TIGA sy cnet eos ielayecte Syed cooce, cadences Val Lewton
GonsenvatOrs: sens 8 40 easoe ds ween es hase elaine Ann Creager
Katherine Eirk
Stefano Scafetta

Editor, Office of Publication ........... Carroll Clark
INC SISERATEM igen: often hs ik. a cena srsjatmnerer W. Robert Johnston
Assistant Registrar, Permanent

GOMeGHON! (isc 2 deeca ae ee ae eae ae Thomas W. Bower
Chief, Packing and Shipping .......... Burgess A. Coleman
Coordinator of Program Support ...... Lois A. Bingham
Chief, Office of Public Affairs ......... Margery Byers
Chief, Office of Visual Resources ...... Eleanor Fink
Assistant Chief, Office of Visual

IRCSOUTCES! Me ssl sic oiensinee ye ae a an Rachel Allen
Photoeraphers) .. 0.4% sia enac enews sca Martin A. Curry

Michael Fisher
Coordinator, Inventory of American

eANTEI ES, | nrg veo ett Syste won ts. era Martha Andrews
Coordinator, Smithsonian Art Index ... Bess L. Hormats
Ribrarian, NGEA/INEG @e see... soso William B. Walker

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY

Acting DirectOr © Askae ties 6 ve ete e's Otto Mayr
SpecialwAssistants 2 csdda bis. eee se Sans Josiah Hatch

Claudine Klose
Assistant Director for Administration .. Robert G. Tillotson
Administrative! Officerss..2. 5.5.5 ae Jean J. Middleton
Public Information Officer ............ Geraldine E. Sanderson
Goordinator of Education .........:..; Alice Reno Malone
Seniors istorian wissen cas se ear eee s Brooke Hindle

CULTURAL HISTORY

Ghairmans eters sete cea oes Claudia B. Kidwell
Senior, Guratonent cists ele sere C. Malcolm Watkins
Ceramics and Glass

PCtine: ‘SUPCEVISOL i wsicate gets: sccas/ oe ans Claudia B. Kidwell
GuratonsEmeritus eee es oe cele J. Jefferson Miller II

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 575
Community Life
Guratorsi Aye cae cee tein leveteunc rs Richard E. Ahlborn
Carl H. Scheele

Costume
Curator! 4:4). date bere pee nee eens Claudia B. Kidwell
Gurator Emeritus ja4 ses ciate Anne W. Murray

Domestic Life

G@urators! Be ys ey re ena execs 8 Rodris C. Roth
Anne C. Golovin

Graphic Arts

(Gibb 20) Cm PORE HAN, aes Gy iicts ia eee Bees Elizabeth M. Harris

Musical Instruments
GuratOrsy ciiict cic sicis HO oes aie askai Cynthia A. Hoover
John T. Fesperman

Honorary Research Associates:

Geramics and ‘Glass 4.234. oss kc Hans Syz
DomesticuLife scene oe atte ea batee Ivor Noel Hume

Joan Pearson Watkins
Musicall Instruments J9.5.......... 0. Mrs. Sheridan Germann

NATIONAL HISTORY

Ghainrmianacetaseas erection iiercucle ns Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli
Military History

Curators ek on eee ee Ss Craddock R. Goins, Jr.
Associates Guratoreee nace eee. Donald E. Kloster

Naval History
Guratorsy | circa sta aie eacan sein encio ot eee Philip K. Lundeberg
Harold D. Langley

Numismatics
Gwratorsigses irc ee se ae Vladimir Clain-Stefanelli
Elvira Clain-Stefanelli

Political History

Gurators a 359. ei tae hei as Margaret B. Klapthor
Herbert R. Collins

Assistant, Curator! 23 co.2.80-o886 so066 Edith P. Mayo

Postal History

Associate: Curator. eich cites anitesio oe Reidar Norby

Honorary Research Associates:

MilitanyHistonyiet, atta ee tetera ee Anne S. K. Brown

Naval Eistory etic deni © alee wales seas Lee Houchins

INGIMISmatiGsM Ae’. Soil eutineer ms aayeteies R. Henry Norweb

Emery May Norweb

Ghairmant.: “Geechee ae ee eae Bernard S. Finn
Senior Scientific Scholar s.....0.00..- Robert P. Multhauf
GuratorpEmenttusiy een een Sami K. Hamarneh

Electricity and Modern Physics
Gurators pee ete aes brcaoee Bernard S. Finn
Paul Forman

576 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Mathematics

Gators ree earned oles Uta C. Merzbach
Mechanisms

@urator 2s seealee se ameiislae ose eae Otto Mayr

Medical Sciences

@uraton Ae see teas jedsiacws tae oS, Audrey B. Davis
Assistant GuratOr ci «.cieieic scars cs ree oes Ramunas A. Kondratas

Physical Sciences
Wssociate (Curators) ..6..006 oe 04205 0 Jon B. Eklund
Deborah J. Warner

Honorary Research Associates:

Officexofe Chairman’ 44326 snake tee. Derek J. De Solla Price
Bern Dibner

Electricity and Modern Physics ........ Gerald F. J. Tyne

Mechanismse atiacmiccn ecice caret e ne Edwin A. Battison

BRVSICANSCICNCES 2. oad) ces es dees sade Arthur Frazier

HISTORY OF TECHNOLOGY

Ghainmanuaen vere ote ee John T. Schlebecker
Extractive Industries

GuratOleean ier oe ene John T. Schlebecker
Associate: Gurator oc.ess ceca aee see John N. Hoffman
Assistant (Curator . <6. si se see ser George T. Sharrer

Mechanical and Civil Engineering

CSNALOTE Raia oct ls a einse als woah edd aati o e's Robert M. Vogel
Photographic History

Graton sy cise penis os segue oot ne ne awd Eugene Ostroff
Textiles

Guratore ent sik sa steht eb eel isteucoire Rita J. Adrosko
Assistant Curator 2.5. os eds ces we ee eles Gary Kulik
Transportation

MSR AOI coche araratarer oro ncncrce Pata a Rien John H. White
Associate Curator ....00056cas0 04 0s04 se Don H. Berkebile
Honorary Research Associates:

Mechanical and Civil Engineering ..... Charles T. G. Looney
Transportation, cai. eo: oe cdsams « ceeuee es Peter B. Bell

Arthur D. Dubin
Melvin H. Jackson
Extractive. Industries: «2.02... s006G sine Philip W. Bishop
EISENHOWER INSTITUTE FOR HISTORICAL RESEARCH
IStOrians merges eres ocare er oensiaeie cco James Hutchins
Forest C. Pogue

COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT

Golléctions Manager. <si.).). oie cents ss John Shroeder
RepiStrat 2 acs sais en cle eacel oes wie score aisle Virginia Beets
Assistant Registrar 52 A-smeciei 2. iseek Martha Morris
Inventory Control Project Manager ...._ Warren J. Danzenbaker

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 577
CONSERVATION

HeadiGonservatonme ee eee eee J. Scott Odell

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS
Assistant Director for Exhibits ........ Benjamin W. Lawless
Chief, Exhibits Management .......... Richard S. Virgo
Acting Chief, Exhibits Design ........ Benjamin W. Lawless
Ghief Exhibits: Broductions= sess eee Walter N. Lewis

OFFICE OF BUILDING MANAGEMENT
Building, Manager <<)5 1. cis reer seks Lawrence A. Bush

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Director ge eee ok aeee tee ane ees Marvin S. Sadik
Deputy Director «4:2 80 ee hese. cies Douglas E. Evelyn
Program Management Officer ......... Harold Pfister
Administrative Officer’ ...25.5..-.---- Barbara A. Faison?
Historian Gis. cose citenetce tase ries 3) 5 eas 0 Marc Pachter
Curator of Painting and Sculpture ...... Robert G. Stewart
Associate Curators of Painting

and Sculptures. soca cme acca ce. «6 wos Monroe Fabian

Ellen Miles

Guratoniofebrintsy see ceric «= Wendy Wick
Gurator of Photographs). cascie cc «i. < « William F. Stapp
Curator! ofExhibitions: jj. .cc cass 6 Beverly J. Cox
Editorsof Eublications))...5--)-1-1404 +1 Frances S. Wein
Guratonmofieducationiaja.c sme ceeie oee Dennis O’Toole?®
Associate Curator of Education ........ Kenneth Yellis®9
Chief, Design and Production ......... Nello Marconi
Keeper of the Catalog of American

Portraits) 1i:.%2...2,¢ staee WSkc ROR hs esicve's Mona Dearborn
National Survey Coordinator of the

Catalog of American Portraits ...... Richard K. Doud

Editor of the Charles Willson Peale
Papers and Historian of American

Gulturer® Ses eee sie ieranels Lillian B. Miller
Senior (Gonservator acces cio eileen Felrath Hines
Ribrariany 25 ere tan cheese William Walker
Senior Photographer <.... ss see ace Eugene Mantie
Registrar yea g.ecosd aoe eacavane sia) ei ateilee. ayers Suzanne Jenkins
RubliceAttairss © fficcrusssn eee Susanne Roschwalb?°
RublicyAtfairs: © fiicersaneeee ere: Sandra Westin?!

OFFICE OF AMERICAN AND FOLKLIFE STUDIES

AMERICAN STUDIES PROGRAM
DILCCLOT esis ts cosy cles ae ere ee Wilcomb E. Washburn
Administrative Assistant ............. Dorothy D. Blaska

*7 Appointed June 17, 1979.

88 Resigned November 18, 1978.

*® Appointed Curator January 28, 1979.
* Resigned February 28, 1979.

“| Appointed March 9, 1979.

578 / Smithsonian Year 1979
FOLKLIFE PROGRAM

MIRC Oo spe ee Spee Chars 2s 15.02 wie: 8 ser Ralph Rinzler
Senior EOuUclorist: 5... .c ccc © +o. siervie.gs 0 es Peter Seitel
EERMOMUSICGIOGISES Sieiciis ersersicieys ose 0's s Thomas Vennum
Administrative Officer ................ Betty Beuck
Program Coordinator .2:...30........ Jeffrey LaRithe
RRLOrists es ce ees ciice ta. 52 bis widisisie leis. s Susan Kalcik

Jack Santino
Steve Zeitlin

Broject) Coordinator x25. 2 25 e056... «:<\2 Diana Parker
SOHO End csc tia rahe ts Seiad mete ait os Daphne Shuttleworth
LEELATINTSLS (AS A Ee ree er ae Richard Derbyshire
Administrative Assistant ............. Sarah Lewis
MBER IU IGE sos <hsi eioows FS vein, aera eevee as Barbara Strickland

OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS

DIKCCLON Fess cosas ees eras Hem gue ar Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
IASSOGlateMDINeCtOrn ©. fess. es ne aie Edward Davidson
Grants Specialists’ ; oo! 5 co. doe Wee a ie oels Francine Berkowitz

Betty Wingfield
Grantsmlechnician: 9..41...0 ose eee Edith McRee Whiteman
MUSEUM PROGRAMS
Assistant Secretary ................... Paul N. Perrot
Executive: Assistant J:. .): (o.eecleass- William N. Richards
National Museum Act Coordinator .... F. Matilda Wells

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Directors esc 5) ees one Metab ake Sleveas Robert M. Organ
Supervisor (Archaeometry) ........... Jacqueline S. Olin
Supervisory Conservator .............. Eleanor McMillan
Supervisory Conservation-Scientist ..... Timothy Padfield
Administrative Officer 2:20.22. 6..0.5. Montague Smith
Conservators ee) oneal em a Walter Angst

Mary L. Garbin

Nikki Horton

Christine Smith
Conservation-Scientist, X-ray Diffraction Joan Mishara
Conservation-Scientist, X-ray

FIMOKESCENCE) cc 22h, Sh dis oi n(ode Syke oss Peter Waldstein4?
Conservation-Scientist, Metallurgist ... Martha E. Goodway
NEMmistse + Moccin ke Ae es oo eed alee Walter Hopwood

Harold Westley
ny sical, SCIEMEISE c cictc vf erevaronnnteaye aere c= James M. Blackman?#*
SEETCLALY) se cds maieietncs see. cesw sinagaipads Zelma Coleman
Ter eMypist nie wcesia.cts shove Bid. SS Aare e a's oe L. Susan Tolbert
Conservation Technician .............. Carol Callahan
Conservation ‘Aide 2s: css ssse ce ewcess Mary Ellen Fossey*4

“ Resigned April 13, 1979.
* Appointed December 3, 1978.
“* Temporary appointment ended September 30, 1979.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 579
Technical Information Specialists ...... Marjorie Cleveland*®
John Fuller*®
Quentin Maule#*

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

GChieb. oi sacs shia Sen Gls wdees ee tenet oe James A. Mahoney
Assistant Ghiefss, uci ence eines John C. Widener
Administrative @ fiicermene ee ae ee: William M. Clark, Jr.
GhiehrohiDesicnireer emcee trie iocie: James A. Mahoney
GhieBiofsEroduction( eee ene eer John C. Widener
GhiefExhibitsveditommare aerate rc Linda S. DuBro
Director, Motion Picture Unit ......... Karen Loveland
Freeze Dry Specialist’ S2jse-e er. 2 -'> « Rolland O. Hower

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Dre COR Foe eves ae ee eaiye ee James R. Buckler
AssistanteDirector nis.) ironies» 25s John W. Monday
Secretary? Ufo aripteleter ae cae einen oid! » es S: Rebecca A. Evans*®
Administrative Services Clerk ......... Sandra L. Conway
Chief of Education Division .......... Lauranne C. Nash

Foreman, Grounds Management Division Kenneth Hawkins
Foreman, Greenhouse Nursery Division August A. Dietz IV

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Director yh) aclsc oe we tee eee are Kennedy B. Schmertz
Deputy) Dinecton Pa04: ay seeke vec: fk Richard T. Conroy
Program) Officers: seas siatise eo toc scieg LeRoy Makepeace
International Liaison Specialist ........ Saundra Tilghman-Thomas

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Program Manager ..................-- Jane R. Glaser
Administrative Officers: i scrper. » = <1: Gwendolyn G. Baker
Assistant Program Manager, Training .._ Nancy L. Welch
Program! Aide, draining sss. -hmeeee oo. Phyllis Meltzer
Native American Museum Training

Coordinator: 4..cehtiecee oe oer James A. Hanson
Program Coordinator, Conservation

Information Program). ace. ei. 22 - Elena Borowski
Television Production Specialist ....... Peter R. Erikson
Audio-Visual Production Specialist .... Eleanor D. Crow
Program Assistant prysceie sci ter ler che Mary B. Nugent
Program Adderrjnyirik 9c tne en ee oe Kelly Forrest
Psychologist/Evaluatona: -feca4e ce Robert Wolf
Museum Reference Center Librarian ... Rhoda Ratner

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

Registrar ase qa cs ah tenes eieyue ce ols Philip Leslie
Assistant Repistrani an ais cielo ell Mary W. Lund

* Appointed August 13, 1979.

“° Resigned June 1, 1979.

*” Appointed November 27, 1978.
48 Resigned May 18, 1979.

580 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Management Assistant ............... Melva L. Simmons
SRCEBIQY, Sooddbolnn Hood bud UCmOO aCe Athena Carvounis*®

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

PE CRIVIGE ers Sein Stee sis sas Oe. s Sis domes Richard H. Lytle
Deputy Archivist: <0. .65.500.0s%e0's0 William A. Deiss
INSSOCiate eATGMIVISES! |. s.ci.ictsne mie «isis. « Alan L. Bain

Richard V. Szary
INGsistanbeAnchivasts a4 «ssc s ces William R. Massa, Jr.

James A. Steed
Supervisory Archives Technician ...... Norwood N. Biggs
blistonians eos seec voto ee cat cniseucels 6 Pamela M. Henson

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Director of Libraries ................. Robert M. Maloy®°®
Keeper of Rare Books’... 00.0000 Silvio Bedini>!
Systems ulibratian 2cce.c4- 25. oe se ee Stephen R. Toney*?
Administrative Librarian ............. Thomas L. Wilding
Administrative Officer ................ Mary C. Quinn
Assistant Director of Libraries for

Mechnicals Services ...1..2..6 +0. se5e- Vija L. Karklins

Acquisitions Services

hich saree sco ciae cae eee Mildred D. Raitt
Gittrand Exchange) 5 fs. as sane s26sn Sharon H. Sweeting
Ordernmbibrarianen ic scceeso. ora William B. Neff
Serials#librariany j.. 2. = << ae bre ses Robert W. Hull®8
Cataloguing Services

KG EE hace atte nina Soot Re a ee tias Qt ad Mary Jane H. Linn
Acsistant)@hief stores ere oesa nee cece Bertha S. Sohn
BaEAIOP UCTS |e se as cei am aectcye ete hicvelna's @ ees Angeline D. Ashford

Charles H. King
Helen S. Nordberg
Frances W. Penfold®4
Margaret A. Sealor

Rare’ Book Cataloguer . «....)....40.¢2s<?. Dianne M. Chilmonczyk®>

Processing Services
Gic heer ea eae ane Savors Mary J. Pierce

Rare Book Conservation Laboratory
Gonservator (2526 vacsaoonee sce es sees Johannes H. Hyltoft

Special Projects
Special Projects Librarian ............ Neal T. Turtell

* Appointed November 5, 1978.
© Appointed August 27, 1979.

*! Appointed September 9, 1979.
°° Appointed October 1, 1978.

53 Resigned August 25, 1979.

4 Retired May 10, 1979.

*° Appointed October 6, 1978.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 581
Bibliographic Support

Ghieboss cs. A eee cetera Victoria Avera
Assistant Director of Libraries for
Bureau and Information Services .... Jean C. Smith®®

Assistant to the Assistant Director of
Libraries for Bureau and Information

SERVICES! oke )x icy AC ERIE oe 2 Susan VanHaften-Mackler
Access Services
GCGhiek i le0122%5 2.2 BE Pea ae eat sais es Jack F. Marquardt
Assistant:Ghief svat. oes dace. sens Amy E. Levin
Bibliographer for the History of Science

and slechnologysns.cn st eee mie icici. Jack S. Goodwin

Bureau Libraries
Chesapeake Bay Center for

Environmental Studies Librarian ..... Mary Clare Gray
Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design and

Decorative Arts Librarian .......... Robert C. Kaufmann
Freer Gallery of Art Librarian ......... Priscilla B. Smith
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture

Garden) librarian ces eo ose eo Anna M. Brooke
Museum Reference Center Librarian ... | Rhoda Ratner
National Air and Space Museum

Librarian: mca ee ee eee es Catherine D. Scott

Reference Librarian... 25655-0060... - Dominick A. Pisano
National Collection of Fine Arts and

National Portrait Gallery Librarian .. William B. Walker

Reference’ Librarian) g2.5- 4. sees so - Katharine Ratzenberger
National Museum of History and

mkechnology Librarian 3.22482. Frank A. Pietropaoli

Reference: Librarians .:..5.:2.... «+=. Charles G. Berger

Barbara F. Veloz

Rare Book» Librarian, .oe:saceqeee-0 5 Ellen B. Wells®7

Dibner Mibraniany en sac ceeemance ane Mary Rosenfeld
National Museum of Natural History

Pibrariany. Ys... anys) qe cum me Sewers esos Sylvia J. Churgin

Anthropology Branch Librarian ...... Janette K. Saquet

Botany Branch) Librarian! 223.2 65.0: Ruth F. Schallert
National Zoological Park Librarian .... | Mary Clare Gray

Reference) Librarian)... 4-2 405000 0 Kay A. Kenyon®’
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

ibraniater sce 2c Acycir to erne ites roe Joyce M. Rey
Smithsonian Radiation Biology

Maboratory Librarian’ sss. eerecene Mary Clare Gray
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Mei brarvamc: ten sogectere eit seere ees orcevee Alcira Mejia

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Directoren ce scence ee hoe ee ea oe Dennis A. Gould®®
Acting Dinectonsacivos scsi hesiniee le Eileen Rose

RubliceAttainsu@ticenma ie aero Eileen Harakal

°° Served as Acting Director through August 26, 1979.
** Appointed January 7, 1979.

°8 Appointed June 25, 1979.

°° Resigned July 27, 1979.

582 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Administrative Staff

Administrative Officer’ ::..0........... Antonio Diez
WRERISEDAG) Oi ec raitome toate is fete ciel eave lowes) a 078 Emily Dyer
MGsistant REGiStrars ia... ss cs cee sos Mary Lou Cocker

Sally Slater
NGcountantee tcc ornate ey cleolstge susie Marie-Claire Jean
SSSI ES Dies oo Oe os nrc aaa Marie-Marthe Goodwin
General Exhibitions Program
rogram) OMCET ios. bedi ow sieges os Anne R. Gossett
Exhibitions Coordinators ............. Janice Driesbach

Elizabeth Driscoll
Quinton Hallett®°
Regina Lipsky®!
American Studies Program
American Studies/Publications

ROOT ARON a. cies Heid alesis ase s\eretare 28 Andrea Stevens
Exhibitions, Coordinator .. 2... 4:05.55 Nancy Davis
Science Exhibitions Coordinators ...... Martha Cappelletti

Deborah Dawson

Education Program

Education: Specialist. 22-2. .5... 5.6 ose) Marjorie Share
Education Coordinator ..¢.: 2.4.5.2.) Hedy Ehrlich
Education, Glerk, « .cc.4350..6e0s$veues Mary Lynn Riley
Interns

Susan Boer, George Washington University
Linda Daur, University of Delaware
Kathryn McGuire, St. Mary’s College

PUBLIC SERVICE

Assistant Secretary .................. Julian T. Euell
ExecutivemAssistant ..o.0.....0+..+0s: Vincent L. MacDonnell
Administrative Officer ..0.5.02.....06 Jewell B. Dulaney
Publications Coordinator ............. Glen B. Ruh

ANACOSTIA NEIGHBORHOOD MUSEUM

DirectOrwer er ee rn wT See John R. Kinard
Secretary pe Si fanie vcs ricco soe secon gies Vashti Hill
Administrative Officer . 0. .6...6.....55% Audrey Archer

Research Department

FATStORIATU frie) aha eese cies, opi yeusieh «) susie toeuayouss Louise D. Hutchinson
SeCretanyiy seer ne oe emo aoe eiaces toe Hazel Evans
Research “Assistant: .4< 0054 ..0004 o000% Carolyn Margolis

Exhibits Center

Exhibits Program Manager ............ Victor Govier
SY ete a] 71 | pu eR SO ne Linda Fantroy

© Resigned July 27, 1979.
®! Resigned July 20, 1979.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 583
Photographericaae ne oe siete eerie Christopher Capilongo
Supervisory Visual Information

Specialist’ "We apt ostmie sorte eo: tals Laurence Thomas
Supervisory Exhibits Specialist ........ James E. Mayo
Exhibits Specialists). tates aceite oie James P. Daniels

Omar Wynn
Wooderaftsman! \oujo 872 eects sates ss) dele Grandison Jones
Exhibits( Helper’... abr. nscuetsetagtes nevse secon Milton Jones

Education Department

Education; Specialistite yas 1450 dere Zora Martin-Felton

Secretary”... )s. slsccine see cee wero secs Frances Webb

Education) Mechniciany) = aes e es. ee.) Schroeder Cherry

MiausemmigAi din cei. ce- ee ier meester Marshall Jackson
Maintenance

General Maintenance Worker ......... Alexander Foster

DIVISION OF PERFORMING ARTS

Director: oie sie coc cose Cece eatiehave isis) 86 ie James R. Morris
Administrative Officer ars aoe. - Ernestine A. Potter
Director, Jazz and American Culture

Programs. comme ence rege >: Martin Williams
Director, Chamber Music Programs .... James M. Weaver
Production Associate =. 42-117 see Peggy Martin
Culture Historian, Program in Black

American Gultune peccss no soce sole Bernice Johnson Reagon
Director, Museum Programs .......... Shirley Cherkasky
Director, Education Services .......... Cynthia Hightower
Production’ Goordinator = 2.5.968- 4-4. Bill Bennett
Coordinator of Children’s Programs ... Susan Price Drachsler
Director, Marketing and

Gommunications)-s5-4-seoe oo es eee Sally Roffman
Wechnical'Goordinator 25-5. 4500-- Harold A. Closter
Public Affairs'@fficer <0. o-ccc aseee es Manuel Melendez

INTERNATIONAL EXCHANGE SERVICE
Director. 2 scois secre nee OR eos ne John E. Estes

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Education Program Coordinator ....... David W. Estabrook
Education’ Specialist) 42%. o 92-020 .-05% Ann P. Bay
Writer/Editorin. jcc tave eee eco Thomas E. Lowderbaugh
Specialist Education Coordinator ...... Janice Majewski

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN SYMPOSIA AND SEMINARS

Director ec sccccvne Crean as ot anoroe Wilton S. Dillon
Associate Directorsmeaene coo nee Carla M. Borden
Dorothy Richardson
IASSIStan tap ita ter rile cee ieeioe Helen Leavitt
Gonsiltantennnse cee alosigeaniiere Barrick W. Groom

584 / Smithsonian Year 1979
OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS

Director
Senior Telecommunications Specialist ..
Telecommunications Specialist
Radio Production Specialist ...........
Production Coordinators

C) 0 (6 ef 0) (elu: (6:0 16 jee ©

Nazaret Cherkezian
William C. Grayson
Paul B. Johnson

Ann M. Carroll
Lawrence E. Kline, Jr.
Jean B. Quinnette

SMITHSONIAN EXPOSITION BOOKS

James K. Page, Jr.
Russell Bourne
Thomas A. Hoffman

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

Director
Secretary tothe Director... <5 6%... <
Peotity Director. <i. 55 3 ee AS Send
Administrative Officer ....5:........«.
Administrative Assistant
Managing Editor, General Publications .
Managing Editor, Series ..............
Writer/Editor
Editors:
Mary Frances Bell
John Harris

Louise J. Heskett
Production Manager
broductionwAssistants ss. -4. 5560 405.

Joan B. Horn
John Korytowski
Kathleen Preciado

Broduction Glerk.< ais .4/sc «odes isda e os
Pestone Manager i255 fs act aces os oe 3
Senior Designer c.c)./s.< sc has seeds es
BBESIOMONS gaye cia tesa ais Wie Se Satta ds oo ere

Diep DCSIOMOT gC. Grpsiacent « Soeiaihic o.4o.00 a oss»
Distribution Manager 2 ...0.5..0.0020.056
Publications Distribution Specialist ....
Publications Technician

Publications Assistants:
Eleanor R. Dixie Sarah King
Brenda Green Florence R. Morgan®

SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE

Editor and Publisher
EXECULVeEwEGItOTSma maces ceceuec cree

©: @, sea ,0te elie: 6, 3)166 (6) 6.6

© Retired August 31, 1979.
®3 Retired June 29, 1979.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 585

Edward F. Rivinus
Ruby Hamblen
Felix C. Lowe
Georgiana Hahn
Bessie J. DeBeck
Maureen R. Jacoby
Albert L. Ruffin, Jr.
Hope Pantell

Barbara Spann

Ruth Spiegel

Judith F. Wilder
Lawrence J. Long
Kathleen Brown

Alan Burchell

Don Fisher

Janet Stratton
Stephen Kraft

Natalie Babson
Elizabeth Sur

Carol Hare

Frederick H. MacVicar
Theresa F. Hostettler®?
Rosa E. Maness

Frank Mathis

Margaret Thompson

Edward K. Thompson
Ralph Backlund
Donald B. Moser
Members, Board of Editors:

Grayce P. Northcross Paul Trachtman
Edwards Park John P. Wiley, Jr.
Bennett Schiff Richard L. Williams
Associatesbublisher soo. oie nies Joseph J. Bonsignore
Advertising, Director erm ce cee eer Thomas H. Black
Circulation-Promotion Director ........ Anne Keating
Picture Aissociatel scr. scicrerslererereretetene) =a) Caroline Despard
Production: 5 2:., sa.<asiee ci saciariasers eine Nannie Shanahan
BUSimeSS. 90s tie aiesstoeuathce ioe oo aetene ee Carey O. Randall

VISITOR INFORMATION AND ASSOCIATES’ RECEPTION CENTER

Director oss eee ose Set ih oaks oe Mary Grace Potter
Secretary sae) clo tetumiaieaetenoeter acetal S Elizabeth Bennett
Assistant Program Coordinator,

Wreekendsi ce scenic toniaa naire sexe Lois Brown
Deputy ‘Directors etite ardor). 001 © Carolyn Clampitt
Program Manager, Staff Volunteer

SELVICES feh aves aitisisheceetnocm aie ois, aie Sally Covel
Building, Goordinators) S...%.c6--..<.- Gail Dalmat

Gilmer VanPoole
Program| Assistants). ae cieiciieciscicls © «+ = Mary Epremian
June Graham
Programme Editor... teenies eos « Maria Heasly
Assistant Program Coordinator ........ Nancy Hinton
SECretaLy. ooic.s-sepimcureanie omar kes Wyn Keating
Program: Coordinator ceri cak uc ee = ae < Gretchen Latimer
Office;Manager jcc cies Sone eectieenee Bee Gee Livsey
EditonialmAssistante enema rier Evelyn McClave
Manager, Public Inquiry Mail ......... Ann Perper
Staff Assistant, Weekends ............ Katie Simpson
Coordinator, Group Orientation
REO STAM oss wrcpeacere trae totnesiee is orelo se Jennifer Williams

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

Director ‘3.0500 Bae cee ee eee James McK. Symington

OFFICE OF DEVELOPMENT

Deputy Director 2.5. 6.6 essen oes E. Jeffrey Stann

Associate Development Officers ....... Arthur W. Gardner
Martha R. McLure
Carole A. Rader

NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

DITO CEOR y cree cysatsnicint ore Po setae Mie esas Robert H. Angle
Regional Events

Program Vianag enue sctnieerihiccrnr Charlene James
Rrogram AssistamtS ae ecco eile Amy Kotkin

MaryBeth Mullen

Contributing Membership
Program) Manager) .ci).0% «tosis ienicise Jessie Brinkley

586 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Selected Studies
Program Manager steeisie ssc cccscee es 5%
Rrogrami Assistant cacccccs-+ wees ss

Associates Travel Program

Program Manager ...24.-...5.0.¢.0
Deputy Program Manager ............
Foreign Study Program Manager ......
Program Coordinators

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Director
IXSSIStanteDITeCtON Vo cies ioe serie syeyn te «deo.
Administrative Officer
Rrogram: Coordinators. +. s.j.<< 1.2. 08

Si ieis) w/e) ie tweie wel ele ‘el/s; .w (ee) ein el fee Bie, 8; 8,8

Associate Program Coordinators ......

Consultant, Studio Arts ..............
Public Information Specialist .........
Assistant Public Information Specialist .
Art Director
Membership Coordinator .............
Registration Manager ................
Assistant Registration Manager .......
Volunteer Coordinator ...............
State Photographer <..i5 ac cave ess dees s

ADMINISTRATION

Assistant Secretary ...................
Director, Agenda Office ..............
Contracting Officer, Contracts Office ...
Director, Management Analysis Office .
Director, Office of Computer Services ..
Director, Office of Equal Opportunity ..
Director, Office of Personnel
Administration
Director, Travel Services Office ........
Director, Office of Printing and
Photographic Services ..............
Director, Office of Supply Services ....
Director, Office of Programming and
Budget
Director, Office of Facilities Services ...
Director, Office of Facilities Planning
and Engineering Services ...........
Director, Office of Plant Services ......
Director, Office of Protection Services ..

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 587

Nancy Starr
Abby Yochelson

Jacqueline Austin
Prudence Clendenning
Barbara Schneider
Bryan DeLeo

Bliss Schumann

Janet Varn

Janet W. Solinger
Michael C. Alin
Harry H. Bair

Paul J. Edelson
Edward P. Gallagher
Moya B. King
Christine Parker
Diane Lynn Arkin
Natalia Krawec
Alice Dana Spencer
Andy Leon Harney
Helen A. Marvel
Michael L. Roney
Margaret V. Lee
Jeanne B. George
Nuzhat Sultan-Khan
Xenia Sorokin Arnelle
Elinor K. Emlet
Lillian M. O’Connell

John F. Jameson
Robert L. Farrell
Elbridge O. Hurlbut
Ann S. Campbell
Stanley A. Kovy
Will Douglas, Jr.

Howard Toy
Ann H. Krafthofer

James H. Wallace, Jr.
Harry P. Barton

Jon E. Yellin
Tom L. Peyton, Jr.

Phillip K. Reiss
Kenneth E. Shaw
Robert B. Burke, Jr.
FINANCIAL SERVICES

MirCASWrer. ook aoc sec iat joe hears ea eo Christian C. Hohenlohe
Assistant, to) the Tineasurern pe ece oo ce John R. Clarke
Einanciall Analystunjm cence dncit ree Frances C. Rooney
Director, Accounting Office ........... Allen S. Goff
Assistant Director, Accounting

SERVICES ora. 5 sitet iead = Su RA ae AME Seer William B. Henegan
Assistant Director, Financial Systems .. John P. Howser
Director, Office of Grants and Risk

Managemient: .(.552.anasictgeeh se Phillip H. Babcock
Director, Investment Accounting

DIVISION! ese 52 sicko b ehstebenster teen is eo Ernest A. Berger
Director, Business Management Office . Richard Griesel
Controller, Business Management

(@} sieve eaaeAertcrae tore occ, aie 6 Sto cao or re eee Ohlen J. Boyd®4
Director, Smithsonian Museum Shops .._ James J. Chmelik
Director, Belmont Conference Center .. Mary B. Force
Director, Mail Order Division ........ David H. Ehrlich

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL

General (Gounselisjiee see ce tai oS Peter G. Powers

Associate General Counsel ........... Alan D. Ullberg

Assistant General Counsels:

Robert A. Dierker Suzanne D. Murphy
John W. Lang III George S. Robinson
Marie C. Malaro James I. Wilson

FACILITIES SERVICES

BITC CEO DS iacs ers ae eos sees en Tom L. Peyton, Jr.
Administrative! @fficer) 2s. -45.--. +6. Mary Anne Sedillo
Director, Facilities Planning and

Engineering) Services pmaaasiese se dee Phillip K. Reiss
Director lant Senvicesme eee eee Kenneth E. Shaw
Director, Protection Services .......... Robert B. Burke, Jr.

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

Director! ystems James H. Billington
Deputya Director nessa ace eee Prosser Gifford
| (DUG) Ciera cibieacas Gene ears Act orca DIEU Sola Peter Braestrup
ib rarianet fete cetacean tice Zdenek V. David
Rublications, @Officertean-e4 ase Elizabeth Dixon
Assistant Director for Administration .. William M. Dunn
Secretary, Kennan Institute and

Assistant) Directors setae qin eenion Abbott Gleason
Coordinator, East Asia Program ....... Harry Harding
Assistant Director for Fellowship

Selection) Sask ace eae Oceans Michael J. Lacey
Secretary, Latin American Program .... Abraham F. Lowenthal

** Appointed October 1, 1979.

588 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Assistant Director for Development .... George Liston Seay

Program, OMicer . 2.0. cies doc tlas oc e es Ann Sheffield
Special Assistant to the Director ...... Mernie Wright Weathers
Secretary, International Security

Studiesybrogramin ait cicrsie.0 4s 210.415) Samuel F. Wells, Jr.

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Flonorary Chairmen’ \). .). sci vnils).'./<.- Mrs. Jimmy Carter
Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower®

Chairman of the Board of Trustees ..... Roger L. Stevens
Wite tO MalrmeNn! 3.2.50. 5 a0 «mined a0 Charles H. Percy
Henry Strong
Seene tanya nave taeceresies atare aomibeegers.cue setae Frank N. Ikard
AssistantpSecretary . 6.0.5.5 205- +00 sae Charlotte Woolard
BC ASUTO Taso) choirs lopsthy cused no, 4.4 Sy SiexAisoronchs W. Jarvis Moody
Assistant) PreaSUrers ©... 22.2 cu). 20s oe’ James F. Rogers

William H. Ryland
Henry Strong

GeneralGounsel <2... -c.cqecs cn oceans Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
Wesociates Counsell Fans on espace sede: William W. Becker
Director of Opera and Ballet .......... Martin Feinstein
Director of Operations .............:- Thomas R. Kendrick
General Manager of Theaters ......... - Judith O’Dea Morr
Controller me aces oes eos Seas ee Clifton Jeter

Director of Development. .......:..... Jillian H. Poole
Director, Building Management ....... Edward G. Schessler
Budcetm@iicery se cmc ceies so isie clea ois Verda V. Welch
Deputy Director of Operations ........ Geraldine M. Otremba
Associate Manager of Theaters ........ Richard H. Owens
Director of Education <2s:......0..... Jack W. Kukuk
Director of Public Relations .......... Leo Sullivan

Director of Marketing ................ Kathryn K. Elliott
Manager O68 Salés 5.4206 sas .m2 also decir Carl A. Matte
Minority Affairs Consultant .......... Dr. Archie L. Buffkins
Management Systems Consultant ...... Alexander Morr
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Presidents Aah :2icstkas tase soul aeeke leh © John R. Stevenson
Wacepreresident. 2 ci.us.d so acess aero ats iain Carlisle H. Humelsine
| DAU RLEL Ca) dy au een A ee eee J. Carter Brown
ASsistantairectOr 22 eae net Side Sout Charles P. Parkhurst
PRTCASUTEN Baars acie oh rays eke es Robert C. Goetz
aMInistratOne se ck). . vv 0 <bohelnels.0 6 812 Joseph G. English
Secretary and General Counsel ........ Robert Amory, Jr.
Gonstruction ‘Manager \.../.5. 20600. 2555 Hurley F. Offenbacher

°° Deceased November 1, 1979.

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 589
Staff

Assistant to the Director, Music ...... Richard Bales
Assistant to the Director, Public

Information, oct. eo ee ae eee Katherine Warwick
Assistant to the Director, Special

Events. Cts ince ates ester reese cites Carol M. Fox
Planning, Consultant? 3. ec eiecn see David W. Scott
Curator of American Painting ........ John H. Wilmerding
Ghief Librarian, s24).oh tia seve eles <a J. M. Edelstein
Chief, Education Department ......... Margaret I. Bouton
Head, Extension Program Development . _Joseph J. Reis
Head, Art Information Service ........ Elise V. H. Ferber
ATE OR, i 52 LMS Ske mcrae any ee ee sie Theodore S. Amussen
Chief, Photographic Laboratory ....... William J. Sumits
Curator of Photographic Archives ..... Ruth Rowe Philbrick
Senior Gonservator! sa-cmeeee ooo © ne Victor C. B. Covey
Head, Exhibitions and Loans )->....... Jack C. Spinx
Head, Department of Design and

Installation: .c..eactecne oe hase eae Gaillard F. Ravenel
Iegistran nn piace ee atone oereciers Peter Davidock, Jr.
Curator of Early Italian and Tuscan

Paintings morse eet eine a6 David A. Brown
Guratorvof Graphic Anrtss mae eae Andrew C. Robison, Jr.
Curator of French Painting ©2-°).....-. David E. Rust
Guratoniof Sculptureser ees Douglas Lewis, Jr.
Curator of Twentieth-Century Art ..... E. A. Carmean, Jr.
Curator of Northern and Later Italian

Patneini ge <i eayokauece, ensver ce atevetes seeeeteto es Sheldon Grossman
Curator of Northern European

Paintings oc ceirdees ae loaiaonn ce John O. Hand
Guraton of Dutch Painting 3. .....027-< Arthur K. Wheelock
Gurator of Spanish Painting, {22/0 5)1.2- Anna Voris
Assistant Administrator .............. George W. Riggs
Associate Secretary and General

Gounsel) fv ecuixcaino me susie seiiacios mee Carroll J. Cavanagh
Assistant General Counsel ............ Elizabeth A. Croog
Assistant, Secretary” ac -eciease eo oe Kathryn K. Bartfield
Personnel @flicerienoacrce cece ree Michael B. Bloom

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

Chairman of the Board ............... Margaret McNamara
President’ Pa yacweaics wociie cee owen Ruth Graves
Executives Gecretany meni. elite Patricia Robinson
Deputy National Director ............. Arnold Baker
Director of Development ............. Don Walther
Director of Field Services Division ..... Carolyn Gunn
Director of Finance Administration .... | Christina Mead
Director of Publications: 22.23.4240... «- Kristine Wilcox
Publications;Secretanyase see ese Joanne Fox
Wiaiter/Researcher aranuncceese deo: Charlie Miller
Director of Resource Coordination

and, Support Senvicesy ayeciemcie ae. Barbara Atkinson
Resource Coordination Officer ........ Maxine Cohen
Resource) Coordinator 2... - <2 046 ao: Rosemary Zibert

590 / Smithsonian Year 1979
Support Services

Offices er sei. iets. Ryazard Obuchowicz

Support Services Manager ............ Calvin McFadden
Support Services Assistant ............ Dewan Vines
Regional Program Coordinators ....... Curtis Brown

Denise Bullock
Jessie Lacy
Saucie Melnicove

Program Specialists... 06225. .hc00 04s 04 Mary Chor

Cassandra Freeman
Quintina Hoban
Debbie Serling

Program Assistant 2.2.2 ..525 ce0csas es Steve Lawson
EAOJCEL GPCCIALISE! <.:.)c)e 6 x26 5 5 s5eie seta. erers Hemlata Lepperd
Subcontract Manager .........2.....5 Peter Shaw
Subcontract Control Specialist ........ Jean Merriwether
Subcontract oecretary 2)... .s.ee ses Dahlia Parry

Finance Manager

Be atareyis easton Stat ents Donna Wagley

Assistant Finance Manager ........... John Crance
Finance secretary, «cicjse «<i te suse « ieee Vickie Lewis
Payments Procedures Specialist ....... Etta Seward
invorce Goordinator 2... 25.26 s00000 00. Christine Moore-Tanner
Invoice Control Specialists ............ Scholar Okorie
Wanda Sweeney
Data Retrieval Manager .............. Jill Gaines
Data Retrieval Specialists ............ Marian Isaac

Deborah Wilson

Technical Assistance Specialists ....... Laura Baker

Mary Erkson
Alex Intermaggio

Administrative Assistants ............ Barbara Barse

Beverly Briscoe
Barbara Cunningham
Nancy Lewis

Secketanlesieets sc uvele clas fines crieisieies ere tie Louise Evans
Cathy Franklin
IRECEPHONISH arian no cieieis Bre tasers ors sei els Deborah Anderson
Mail (Gontrol Clerk: .20.. 0.6262 acs ee Joann Campbell
General Office Workers .............. William Cabell

Walter Moore

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC.

President ......

Rea ee teehee irsids opaiinscahe David F. Hersey

Vice President, Scientific Affairs

DIVISION Ets hhc cle os huaitaja oanton se Donald A. Elliott
Vice President, Data Processing

ID IVISIONMEM aia Foe rere ie, isha aes oe rerdaee Martin Snyderman
Special Assistant to the President and

TEESE ee ee eer one Thomas P. Bold, Jr.
Assistant Treasurer and Secretary ..... Evelyn M. Roll
Marketing, Manager 4 < ose <.de.eecie nic sls Karen Wheeless

CURRENT CANCER RESEARCH PROJECT ANALYSIS CENTER

DireCtOm ren nee has eae eee sie eee acer Donald A. Elliott
IGDULY: oe Gre aus aes ois als ale BS Su Seer Lily Ayad

Appendix 11. Staff of the Smithsonian Institution / 591
MEDICAL, BEHAVIORAL, AND SOCIAL SCIENCES DIVISION

Director
Deputy
Chief, Medical Sciences Branch .......
Chief, Behavioral Sciences Branch .....
Chief, Social Sciences Branch .........

fe) ©) ¢ (eis) | 6/ (0) {us} ave ele) shelieds) (ele) \«) 's)\e lvls) (=e

@icelca Fe. .e (ele, 10)}e!(e! 9] \0\ 0) 6) eo fee ela jolts) tee\e(el e's fe

Donald A. Elliott
Charlotte M. Damron
Charlotte M. Damron
Rhoda Goldman

Ann Riordan

NATURAL SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING DIVISION

Acting Director pccyeracchiormvtoherraneie ues
Deputy
Chief, Chemistry Branch
Chief, Agricultural Sciences Branch ....
Chief, Biological Sciences Branch ......
Chief, Materials and Engineering Branch
Chief, Physics, Mathematics, and
Electronics Branch
Acting Chief, Earth Sciences Branch ...

DATA PROCESSING DIVISION
Director
Deputy
Manager, Systems Development Branch
Manager, Input Services Branch .......
Manager, Programming and Reports

ServicesiBranch. \s 2.4.4 acti: © >
Manager, Computer Operations Branch

e)e,ceij(e) a’ 6] 0| '»"@ he\\e)) /'s)'e)\e\ 6 [selves le).e) ie le) \e' je] s/\e) 0s

592 / Smithsonian Year 1979

Donald A. Elliott
Samuel Liebman
Samuel Liebman
William T. Carlson
James R. Wheatley, Jr.
William H. Payne

Robert Summers
Chalmer G. Dunbar

Martin Snyderman
Bernard L. Hunt
Bernard L. Hunt
Jack Devore

Robert A. Kline
Paul Gallucci
eke

Sern
aN

~

Wesiah oeyy
NY UA

hi

re

fons

