» —— tI
; “y,, "
HYDE

ee

—— se

|

© Smithsonian Year
1981
Smithsonian Year - 1981
[he fascinating Coral Reef installed in the Sea Life Hall at the National Museum of
American History marks the first time it has been possible to keep a large reef com-
smunity—including the corals—alive and functioning in isolation from the sea.
Smithsonian Year - 1981

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 1981

Smithsonian Institution Press* City of Washington * 1982
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402 (paper cover) Stock Number: 047-000-00382-2
The Smithsonian Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in
1846 in accordance with the terms of the will of James Smithson
of England, who in 1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America “to found at Washington, under the name of
the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property
and accepting the trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in
an “establishment,” whose statutory members are the President,
the Vice President, the Chief Justice, and the heads of the executive
departments, and vested responsibility for administering the trust
in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

THE ESTABLISHMENT

Ronald Reagan, President of the United States
George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States
Alexander M. Haig, Jr., Secretary of State
Donald Regan, Secretary of the Treasury
Caspar W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense
William French Smith, Attorney General
James G. Watt, Secretary of the Interior
John R. Block, Secretary of Agriculture
Malcolm Baldrige, Secretary of Commerce
Raymond J. Donovan, Secretary of Labor
Richard S. Schweiker, Secretary of Health and Human Services
Terrel H. Bell, Secretary of Education
Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Andrew L. Lewis, Jr., Secretary of Transportation
James B. Edwards, Secretary of Energy
Board of Regents and Secretary * September 30, 1981

REGENTS OF THE Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio, Chancellor

INSTITUTION

EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE

THE SECRETARY

George H. W. Bush, Vice-President of the United States, ex officio
Henry M. Jackson, senator from Washington

Barry Goldwater, senator from Arizona

Edwin Jacob (Jake) Garn, senator from Utah

Silvio O. Conte, representative from Massachusetts
Norman Y. Mineta, representative from California
Edward P. Boland, representative from Massachusetts
David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

J. Paul Austin, citizen of Georgia

William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

William A. M. Burden, citizen of New York

Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

James E. Webb, citizen of the District of Columbia

Warren E. Burger, Chancellor
William A. M. Burden
Carlisle H. Humelsine

James E. Webb (Chairman)

S. Dillon Ripley

Phillip S. Hughes, Under Secretary

Charles Blitzer, Assistant Secretary for History and Art
David Challinor, Assistant Secretary for Science

Joseph Coudon, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Julian T. Euell, Assistant Secretary for Public Service
James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the Secretary
Christian C. Hohenlohe, Treasurer

John F. Jameson, Assistant Secretary for Administration
Paul N. Perrot, Assistant Secretary for Museum Programs
Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

James McK. Symington, Director, Office of Membership and Development
Lawrence E. Taylor, Coordinator of Public Information

vi
Smithsonian Year * 1981

page

109
120
122
128
£37
149

159
159
164
169
ily/p2
176
A77
181
186
192,
197
198

205

205
213
214
217
223

CONTENTS

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
BOARD OF REGENTS AND SECRETARY
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
FINANCIAL REPORT

SCIENCE

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies
National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of Man, Center for the Study of Man
National Museum of Natural History

National Zoological Park

Office of Biological Conservation

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Radiation Biology Laboratory

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art
Cooper-Hewitt Museum

Freer Gallery of Art

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Joseph Henry Papers

National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
National Museum of American History
National Portrait Gallery

Office of American Studies

Office of Folklife Programs

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum Act Programs
Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of International Activities

Vii
224
237
238
240
247

251
201
293
256
256
261
265
267
268
270
272

275
276
279
280

283

283
284
284
285
292.

302
302

303
305
326
328
33
337
342
359

MUSEUM PROGRAMS, Continued

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

PUBLIC SERVICE

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum

Division of Performing Arts

International Exchange Service

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Exposition Books

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

ADMINISTRATION

Administrative and Support Activities
Financial Management Activities
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council Activities

MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

Office of Development

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

PUBLIC INFORMATION
Office of Public Affairs

Office of Special Events

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS
READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

SMITHSONIAN SCIENCE INFORMATION EXCHANGE, INC.
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

CHRONOLOGY

APPENDICES

Vili
Smithsonian Year * 1981

STATEMENT BY: THE SECRETARY
3
(XXX)
ae
ex
xy
KY.

ex

10n,

Bo
a8
on
-
& 6
y=
pay
Ye
Ee
ey)
ey fey,
& op
ion
ine
e §
co A,
op 2
cea
€=
ee
oe
oO
ES
col ~
gS
in
mn kg
oy
a5)
~~
oO
ro
2

is un

The Museum Support Center,
der construct
Conservation in Nature and in Culture

= DILLON RIPLEY

“The future is something which everyone reaches
at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he
does, whoever he is.” c.s. LEWIS

IN THIS MOMENTOUS YEAR just past, the Smithsonian has seen the
fulfillment of an epoch of planning. Shifting uncomfortably like a
hen sitting on too many eggs, making a little tuck here and a ruffle
of feathers there, trying to encompass an ever-larger nest, the Insti-
tution has been stretched and pushed into an imminent state of
disarray. For years, like all museums, loathe to give up what may
be the remainders of the past, we have had to make do with
cramped corridors, ever-shrinking attic spaces, the imminent loss
of knowing what it is we have or where we started. Our collections
have threatened to lose their utility, sinking under the very weight
of accretion. Last year saw the final breakthrough with a generous
Congress agreeing to expressed needs of the past many years. The
Institution got off to a running start in January 1981; we now are
proceeding at a record pace, ahead of schedule, and—dare we admit
it—narrowly under budget to create the best, biggest, and most
sophisticated and efficient atmospherically controlled storage and
retrieval center in the Union.

Can we achieve this monumental task? I believe we can, and the
portents so far are with us. The Museum Support Center as it is
titled, all 308,566 square feet of it, will be opened in 1983. Say what
one may, this “trip” has been necessary. If anywhere, if anyone,
the Smithsonian must realize its destiny to build a storage and
retrieval center second to none, to preserve the materials, the
evidence of all that has made this Nation, rich, proud, careless and
vainglorious, the extraordinary creation that it is. Somewhere with-
in this heap, this litter, lies the truth. For that we must keep this
material with care, conserve it as if life would depend on it—for
our future and for life itself.

Curiously enough almost no one these days understands what
the word “‘conservative’’ means. The so-called media, TV, press,
radio, the varieties of slogan-peddling called ““communications,” all
readily define “conservative” in political terms: conservative versus
liberal. This fashionable interpretation is of course meaningless,
conjuring up stereotype visions, Grant Wood’s famous portrait of
the middle western farm couple outside their American Gothic
farmhouse, opposed to a shaggy, curly-haired professor with horn-
rims, smoking almost anything.

Conservatives—both men and women—are supposed to wear
business clothes, lips pursed tightly in expressions of determination
and discipline, and virtually march when they walk or jog to the
beat of a predetermined drum. Nonconservatives, dressed loosely,
always informally, in mussy clothes smile in a relaxed friendly
manner, thinking always of others, moving by impulse perhaps,
“making it’ to a distant threnody of wood notes wild.

In museum circles, as in research circles, “conservative” means
something entirely different, symbolizing a profession, a whole
career. Museum people do not really pursue their careers mostly in
attics, although the popular slogan for the Smithsonian, “the
Nation’s Attic,” serves up endless images of dusty, dark crannies
stuffed with old-fashioned trunks, old clothes, abandoned radio
sets and broken toys. “Conservative” in museum terms means con-
servation, the care of thousands of objects, testaments to man’s
creativity, or evidences of creation, the hand of nature or of God,
which lie about us always.

In America, museum people and many research people lead lives
of quiet desperation, buoyed up only by the inner conviction of the
importance of their task. Conservation of at least part of mankind’s
creation before it all vanishes on the dust heaps of history becomes
a sacred task, the dictates of which marry totally disparate com-
ponents. On the one hand things must be preserved with exquisite
care; on the other, time is of the essence, before what is to be cared
for floats away in the inexorable process of decay. In this work
the curator always loses something, a little piece here and there, a

4 / Smithsonian Year 1981
fragment of the evidence. But to keep something is better. To con-
serve even bits and pieces of history is a measure of the curator’s
success. Speed connotes haste, and haste connotes waste. But with-
out some measure of speed too much is lost, for America is a con-
tinuing example at every level of wastefulness. Humans are con-
sumers more than creators. We all live unconsciously on mounds or
heaps of the debris of past lives. All our history or what is left of it
can be found in dry privies or charnel heaps. There is an old New
England maxim at the very heart of American prudence and thrift
which assumes some degree of carelessness:

“Use it up, wear it out
make it do, or do without.”

The last two words are the most important if you think about it.
They convey our mood. “Conservative,” then, means to conserve.
But what an anomaly that is in popular terms. People in business
or government tend not to be able to conserve. Business means
forward momentum. Dollars imply development. Government
moves forward erratically, a juggernaut, propelled by legislation
often read through a glass darkly, mirroring forgotten crises. Busi-
ness and government both proceed on the understanding that
growth is the only truth. In such a context “conservative” is a
recessive word.

Today the mood of America is “conservative.” I hope it augurs
well for what the word really means: ‘to take care, to mind the
lessons of history, to keep the testament of the past.” Perhaps
America has turned an invisible corner. We who live with museum
principles in mind should take heart that at last Americans and
nationals of other nations who throng our halls, seem to have a
new respect for what we can demonstrate through the conservation
of objects, retrieved with speed but with care, before it is too late.

The other side of the term should be of equal or greater value,
conservation of nature. Here again museum workers and our
associated colleagues in biological research bring home the con-
trast between endless growth and the preservation of what is left.
These past twenty years have demonstrated, even to poll-takers, the
existence of a solid block of public concern in favor of conservation
of our environment. In political terms what an anomaly this is!
Here for once the terms contravene each other. Conservatives, i.e.,

Statement by the Secretary / 5
“business,” in favor of endless growth, are following a spendthrift
trail. Liberals, i.e., “fiddlers,” living on organic food, careless of
the future or of economics, are becoming ecofreaks—crazy for
conservation. But how silly this is. It cannot be the sign of a liberal
to be a conservator of the environment, any more than it need be
a sign of a conservative to be a disciple of conspicuous waste. Let
conservatives and liberals (in the political sense—if indeed the
labels are valid any more?) take heart from the fact that conserva-
tion is here to stay, a way of life on which our future will be
judged. What greater obligation do we have than to be conservators
of the things of mankind or of nature? Without the one we become
rootless, adrift, undisciplined even, lost amid shifting sands. With-
out the other we have with certainty lost our future.

One of the advantages of the new Museum Support Center is
that we shall for the first time be able to “decompress,” to spread
out most everything, to see what we have altogether and in what
condition. Whether going to the new center or staying in one of the
museums, we will have room to examine everything. Already the
Institution is in the throes of a giant inventory, supported now for
three years with a special appropriation. In some collections, the
inventory is completed, one hundred percent; in others, only par-
tially so. Over all, we are a little more than half-way through. As a
result, the numbers of objects are beginning to appear in fact, in
contrast to the educated guesswork of the past.

Only now can we begin to form a comprehensive listing of
objects or lots of objects in certain collections to be conserved, to
be studied for loans or possibly to be disposed of as duplicates, and
to make all the future curatorial decisions that will have to be
made in the next quarter century. In the end, we will not only know
what we have for the first time in every department, but we will
have a rational idea of what to do with it. I believe that we will
save money in the long run by being able to make valid and wholly
merited decisions on what to keep once we are totally sure of what
we have. This of course excludes the obviously priceless or unique
objects. These we know already, and most of them are well cared
for and well documented. But on the fringes of all collections there
are hard decisions to be made about objects that surface, come to a
curator’s attention, because they had just been put away a while
back for a decision later on.

6 / Smithsonian Year 1981
This next generation, in time, will be a voyage of discovery for
our own curators, rediscovering things so put aside. It will be an
enormous job and a very heavy responsibility for working curators
to dig in and excavate in the collections themselves. We welcome it
as a test of the staff and their aptitude in the work.

If the future catches up with us all too speedily, we can certainly
realize that life admits of no delays. These are parlous days for
building anything. We in the Smithsonian have been lucky in that
we have created buildings with minimal overruns, sometimes in-
deed under budget. But inflation is all around us. It is a cancer that
has been creeping up on us “on little cat feet’ since the 1890s,
according to an elderly cousin of mine. But it is here, and we can
only hope that these years will finally see a realization of what
Hemingway called “the first panacea for a mismanaged country.”
That relentless liberal said, “The first panacea for a mismanaged
nation is inflation of the currency; the second is war. Both bring a
temporary prosperity; both bring a permanent ruin.” He should
have lived on to see the complex of conflicting pressures we live
under today.

These are hard years in which to summon the resolve to build
anything. And yet the Smithsonian has an extraordinary oppor-
tunity to perform a signal service for the nation and it is our hope
that we can do so, with imagination and understanding for the
future. Another realm of space, another project to build may seem
uncalled for in these uncertain days, but we have ample reasons to
do so. On the one hand our government is committed to strengthen-
ing the peace through marshaling the power and military strength
to maintain it. On the other hand we conceive a need to strengthen
understanding with the vast arc of nations stretching from the
Atlantic shores of Africa across Eurasia, as the geographers term
it, “the eastern Mediterranean,” and on to the shores of the Pacific.
Here live two-thirds of the world’s population, too few nations
among which are really understood by Americans. In the city of
Washington there are more than eighty embassies whose occupants
represent the majority of peoples of the world. Yet they have
no real means for representing their cultural history and tradi-
tions to Americans. We lack a theater, a window from which to
demonstrate their long and fundamental role in our own history.
Whether because of the roots of intellectual development for the

Statement by the Secretary / 7
ee
FRRSIRI A wa rk wa Ice lek a

Carre ‘ry f
ae
meet

saree perese peeese ee

ge |

uw 4 i?
Qe = gt

The Quadrangle project, pictured here in a plan showing Independence Ave-
nue (at bottom, foreground) and the Smithsonian Castle (at top, background),
addresses the need to strengthen our nation’s understanding of the vast arc
of nations stretching from Africa across Eurasia and on to the shores of the
Pacific. The Quadrangle space, the old South Yard of the Smithsonian, has
had a multitude of uses over the years. In the 1880s, bison (facing page, at top)
and other live animals were kept (for study by Smithsonian taxidermists) in
pens on the south side of the Castle—here the beginnings of our National
Zoo! In the center (facing page) is a view from Independence Avenue in late
1975, just before the area was cleared, showing various buildings behind the
Castle: the Victorian carriage house to the left, the first Smithsonian observa-
tory buildings dating from the 1890s towards the right, and the World War I
“quonset” hut originally erected by the U.S. Army Air Service for development
of World War I aircraft and later used by the National Air Museum (now
NASM) to display historic aircraft. At bottom (facing page) is a contemporary
view of the Castle showing the Freer Gallery of Art to the left, the Arts and
Industries Building to the right, and the Castle itself at center—with the
existing parking lot and adjacent Victorian Garden (first developed in 1976).
Western world in mathematics, medicine and astronomy in the
Arab tradition, whether in religion, law and philosophy in Judaism
and the roots of Christianity, whether in philosophy and invention
and technology in Asia and Africa, Americans are still unaccus-
tomed to understanding the close cultural links between themselves
and the worlds of Africa and Asia. Only with such understanding
can peace come through mutual respect coupled with the urgency of
the need for environmental survival, the new conservatism of which
I have written.

The speed at which we live, the triumphs of invention have done
nothing to assuage our need for mutual understanding on which
peace must depend. Speed of communication seems to exacerbate
tension. Instant television replays of events abroad, usually colorful
events such as riots or warfare, excite us into an eventual state of
satiety. We spend most of our lives today receiving short-range
signals of despair, starvation, disease, war—apocalyptic visions
circulate through the air, in the name of keeping up with the news.
More often than not, these are the only signals emanating from
Africa or Asia which reach the public mind.

Nor does transportation and its miracles assist us in the search
for understanding. Jet-assisted tour groups take the place of time
for contemplation or for reading history or biography. “I’ve done
southern Asia” or “I’ve been to Africa” is the answer as one comes
back exhausted from a ten-day all-packaged tour, bulging shopping
bags and kaleidoscopic impressions replacing reflection or apprecia-
tion. This manic approach to travel seems to replace contemplation.
It is no recipe for understanding.

Our hope is to create a Quadrangle space adjacent to the Smith-
sonian buildings in our south garden area. Here in an atmosphere
of quiet mini-parks we hope to create two adjoining museums,
interlocking below the surface, lighted by skylights, with cere-
monial entrance pavilions symbolizing the worlds of Africa and
Asia, and their riches, their fundamental meaning for us all. Is it
not vastly important that the annual visitors to the Mall, represent-
ing nearly ten percent of our population, should have an oppor-
tunity to assimilate some of the significance of this luminous
majority, a majority who are too little understood or valued for
their vital interconnections with us at every level? James Smithson
spoke of his hope for the increase and diffusion of knowledge

10 / Smithsonian Year 1981
among all mankind. This Institution was to benefit all, not merely
Americans, but how better could we thus benefit Americans?

Our Quadrangle plan calls for the centering here of educational
programs to spread out across the country, of exhibitions to travel
to far places, of meetings, discussions, seminars, occasions at which
representatives of all these nations could foregather and communi-
cate. The strength of our nation comes from understanding, not
merely from weapons. We need reminders of the origins of civiliza-
tion in two-thirds of the world, of its diffusion spreading out
through the moral suasion of religion as it evolved across the
Middle East and Asia and the unequivocal force it remains today.
If a sheathed sword is a symbol of peace, so too will be our garden,
our Quadrangle, a center for illumination, and for hope.

This Institution must reaffirm what is our conviction, that all
mankind is our concern. Our folk festival has demonstrated our
concern for interpreting the minority interests and cultures here.
The Woodrow Wilson Center next door in the Castle has demon-
strated the wisdom of discourse, of debate freed from politics. In
the same way, cultural history and tradition must be defused,
stayed from politicization, if any degree of understanding is to be
achieved. The certain death of our Quadrangle plan would be to
have it seem to be used, to assume political meaning. These are
dangerous days, and passions and suspicions lie close to the surface
of man’s thinking, exacerbated by technology, fed by fears of
ultimate destruction. To survive we must revive respect for his-
torical and religious traditions of all kinds, and for self-discipline.
It should be the goal of every government. We persist, rightly
I think, in believing that it is our own goal, the conviction of
Americans.

Several of our exhibitions this year past gave a foretaste of those
to be seen in the Quadrangle’s galleries: Renaissance of Islam: The
Art of the Mamluks, which opened at the Smithsonian and is now
circulating under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, is an unprecedented exhibition of
diverse arts produced in the most creative age in medieval Islam.
The Arts of Ancient Egypt: Treasures on Another Scale, a collec-
tion of pharaonic treasures, was part of the “Egypt Today”’ sym-
posium sponsored in the Washington area in part by the Resident

Statement by the Secretary / 11
Associates Program. And 5000 Years of Korean Art, the inaugural
exhibition in the Thomas M. Evans Gallery, illustrated with some
345 objects the richness and diversity of Korean artistic traditions.

Other exhibitions, not so directly tied to efforts at developing
an understanding of other cultures, but an understanding of our
own, were unveiled in measured pace, freshening our face and
adding rich new experiences to the cumulative identity of the
Smithsonian. Each is a testament to the fulfillment of our man-
date to conserve that part of mankind’s creation entrusted to us.

At the National Museum of American History (formerly the
National Museum of History and Technology) Jefferson and Science
highlighted the scientific pursuits of Thomas Jefferson; Perfect in
Her Place traced the struggles and successes of women at work in
industrial America; and Images of Labor commemorated the one-
hundredth anniversary of the founding of the American Federation
of Labor. At the Hirshhorn Museum, The Avant-Garde in Russia,
1910-1930: New Perspectives, presented art from the tumultuous
pre-Revolutionary period. The National Portrait Gallery opened
Champions of American Sport, an eye-catching tribute to one hun-
dred athletes from the 1830s to the present, including such person-
alities as Babe Ruth, Willie Shoemaker, Ben Hogan, Sonja Henie,
Muhammed Ali, Billie Jean King, Jesse Owens, Johnny Weismuller,
and Jack Nicklaus. Afer leaving the gallery, the exhibition began
its travels to Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York. Jet Aviation,
summarizing the first forty years of jet aviation (1930-70) by
tracing the evolution of commercial and military jet aircraft and
highlighting the careers and contribution of jet-age engineers and
designers, opened at the National Air and Space Museum. Anna J.
Cooper: A Voice from the South, an exhibition bringing this
remarkable woman to life in the broad context of her time—the
several decades before and after the turn of the century—opened
to much critical acclaim at the Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.

Conservation does not mean “sealed away or removed from
experience.” Some objects must even be brought to life so that we
may experience their meaning more completely. So it was with our
celebration of the birthday of the 150-year-old locomotive, John
Bull, which operated under its own steam before the public along
the Chessie System tracks near Georgetown. Bellowing smoke,
steam, and cinders, the train chugged out of the past, recreating an
experience of the earliest days of rail travel.

12 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Dr. Esin Atil (back to camera), exhibition curator for the show titled Renaissance of
Islam: Art of the Mamluks, points out a detail to Mr. and Mrs. Harry Grey of United
Technologies, Ambassador of the Arab League Clovis Maksoud, and Mrs. Alfred
Atherton, wife of the U.S. ambassador to Egypt.

As part of the opening festivities of the exhibition 5000 Years of Korean Art in the
Thomas M. Evans Gallery at NMNH and dedication of the gallery, Korean musicians
performed there and in the museum’s rotunda. Below. Professor Milo Cleveland Beach
of Williams College—a scholar chosen in 1980 as fourth Smithsonian Regents
Fellow—prepares works for the Freer’s exhibition on The Imperial Image: Paintings for
the Mughal Court. Focus of this exhibition is the great body of work produced in
northern India in the 100-year period from 1560 on.

While our exhibition program conserves for all that part of
mankind’s creation entrusted to us, our colleagues in biological
research provide the foundation for conservation of what remains.

The Radiation Biology Laboratory’s continued study of photo-
synthetic utilization efficiency in plants growing under artificial
lights shows that lamps developed commercially for horticultural
applications yield no higher photosynthetic utilization efficiencies
than some of the most common lamps developed for lighting
applications.

Our curator of invertebrate zoology, Meredith Jones, during
innovative research on giant sea worms off the Galapagos, dis-
covered that bacteria in the worms’ guts produced an enzyme that
could transform sulfur and use the resulting energy to make atp—
a chemical crucial to the formation of carbohydrates.

The National Zoological Park opened its new Ape House, cre-
ating an environment that will promote social interaction among
our apes and help insure their survival in captivity. The Zoo re-
ceived the Edward H. Bean award from The American Association
of Zoological Parks and Aquariums for notable breeding accom-
plishment with captive Chinese alligators, and John Eisenberg was
presented the Merriam Award by the American Mammal Society.

Taking notice of years of this endeavor to conserve our past and
future, the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory celebrated the
twenty-fifth anniversary of its move to Cambridge, and the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum the fifth anniversary of its opening.

International research and collaboration by Smithsonian scholars,
an embodiment of Joseph Henry’s concept of global correspondents,
reaches into almost every country on the earth. Although the ex-
change of letters, objects, and scientists has greatly expanded with
the advent of modern transportation and technology, the scholar-
to-scholar basis envisioned by Henry is, in general, maintained.
The pursuit of knowledge blurs all distinctions and ideologies that
may exist among scholars. During the course of the year, the Office
of International Activities arranged 82 programs for visiting foreign
dignitaries, numbering 276 persons, including 16 groups totaling
117 from the People’s Republic of China alone. Thirty-eight pro-
grams of other institutions at home and abroad were assisted in
developing contacts with the Institution. In December 1980, follow-
ing a proposal to Vice Premier Fang Yi, an agreement to foster

14 / Smithsonian Year 1981
joint research with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, People’s
Republic of China, was signed. Collaborative research was started
in July 1981 when Chinese scholars joined the Smithsonian’s
Pleistocene archeological excavation in Colorado. In the fall, Smith-
sonian scientists from the National Museum of Natural History/
Museum of Man and Tropical Research Institute conducted re-
search in marine invertebrate biology and paleobiology in China.

During the course of the year, we were pleased to welcome
special guests to the Smithsonian. The Prime Minister of Korea
was here to present the Smithsonian with a check for $1 million
as an earnest of Korean support for our Quadrangle project, and
the Prime Minister of Japan and Mrs. Suzuki planted a beautiful
flowering cherry, Prunus incisa, to symbolize our partnership in its
development. Mrs. Jihan El-Sadat opened our exhibitions cele-
brating “Egypt Today.” Their Imperial Highnesses Prince and
Princess Hitachi, His Royal Highness Prince Charles, and His High-
ness the Aga Khan and Princess Sarilla were here to learn of us
and added luster by their presence.

Recognizing that not everyone can travel to us for our exhibi-
tions, performances, and activities centered here, we endeavored,
through many means, to reach our national and international con-
stituency. Our book and record publishing activities are part of
this effort to make our many faces available throughout the land.
This year saw the release of Classic Country, an eight-record an-
thology of this important American musical idiom. Smithsonian
Exposition Books’ Fire of Life: The Smithsonian Book of the Sun,
with contributions by many of our staff, traced man’s under-
standing of the sun from his early worship through today’s
developments in solar technology.

Performing arts events at the Smithsonian brought lecture
demonstrations and performances by troupes—from all over the
world—like the Kathakali Music Drama from India, the Philippine
Dance Company, and Japanese Kabuki dancers, which added
explanations of their origins for contrast with our own. Music of
earlier ages was played on authentic instruments as the composers
intended. Instruments like the Servais violoncello created by
Stradivari in 1701, donated this year to the Division of Musical
Instruments by Charlotte V. Bergen, were brought to life again.

The Festival of American Folklife continued to appeal to a vast

Statement by the Secretary / 15
Quadrangle development
brought many important
visitors and a bustle of
activities providing a glimpse
of our dream for the site.
Prime Minister of Japan and
Mrs. Suzuki saw the model
and planted a flowering cherry
tree (top). Prime Minister
Begin of Israel visited with
Vice-President and Mrs. Bush
(center). Prince and Princess
Hitachi of Japan (bottom)
restated their country’s
partnership with ours in
working toward the goals
affirmed in the Quadrangle.
Secretary Ripley and Qian
Sangiang, Vice-President of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences,
People’s Republic of China,
sign an agreement to foster
joint research and exchanges
(top). Mrs. Sadat (center) is
shown with Director Lawton

at the Freer Gallery during
“Egypt Today” symposium
activities. Below. His Excellency
Lee Kwang-Pyo, Minister of
Culture and Information of

the Republic of Korea, and
Secretary Ripley open

the major exhibition

5000 Years of Korean Art.

His Royal Highness Prince Charles (Great Britain) is shown inspecting the historic
Albatros D.Va during his May Ist visit to the National Air and Space Museum. He is ac-
companied by Secretary Ripley and nasm Assistant Director Walter Boyne. Below. Presi-
dent Reagan visited the exhibition George Catlin: The Artist and the American Indian
with Catlin expert William Truettner, Curator of 18th and 19th Century Painting and
Sculpture at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of American Art.

audience, and in addition to the usual demonstrations and exhibi-
tion of crafts, ethnic food, and musical performances, this year we
had a special exhibition on Folklore for the Deaf. Visitors learned
something about what it is like to grow up deaf through dramas
by deaf actors and instruction in American sign language as well
as displays of flashing-light alarm clocks and other ingenious sig-
naling devices.

Few have been as persistent in the furtherance of culture in
America as Joseph Hirshhorn, with whose sudden death on
August 31 we have suffered an irreparable loss. History will recall
this great man for his magnificent contribution to the Smithsonian,
and through the Institution to people the world over. In the annals
of the Smithsonian he has earned, and he shall always have, a
special place of his own. But Joe has been an irresistible presence
in all our lives, and it is almost impossible to imagine Washington,
the Smithsonian, and his museum without him. He was—as he was
apt to say of anyone from a guard at the museum to the president
of the United States—truly a darling man.

It seems that never a year passes at the Smithsonian without a
number of changes in our senior staff, and this year has been no
exception. We were sorry to receive the resignation of Marvin
Sadik, the vivacious, scholarly, and articulate director of the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery since 1969, who left to labor in other cultural
vineyards—but only after we could present him with the Secre-
tary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional Service. Nearly simultaneously,
we were all extremely shocked and saddened by the untimely
death of Joshua Taylor, the Director of the National Museum of
American Art (formerly the National Collection of Fine Arts).
Josh’s contributions to Smithsonian life will be surfacing for years
to come. Professor and scholar, Josh’s greatest legacy has been the
interdependent roles of public education and scholarship in the
museum setting.

Another sad departure this year resulted from the death of
Raymond Mondor, a former personnel expert who became our first
ombudsman in 1977. Ray pioneered in this important office, and his
compassionate demeanor and thorough knowledge combined to
establish the ombudsman as an effective tool in employee relations.
We were pleased to appoint John Lang, formerly of the General
Counsel’s Office, to take up where Ray had left off.

Statement by the Secretary / 19
During the last year, we were fortunate to attract two out-
standing officials from the International Communication Agency.
Dr. John Reinhardt, the former director of 1ca, has agreed to serve
as acting director of the National Museum of African Art during
Warren Robbins’s absence on sabbatical. (It should be noted, too,
that Jean Salan of the museum has been serving as the acting
deputy director.) And Dr. Alice Ilchman, formerly associate director
for educational and cultural affairs at the 1ca, served as a consultant
to the Institution on the subject of overseas research institutions.
She has gone on, now, to become the president of Sarah Lawrence
College. We had to give up the invaluable services of another senior
woman, Miss Jean Smith, who retired this year as deputy director
for the Smithsonian Libraries. For more than twelve years a steady
force in the development of our library system, Miss Smith has
earned the time she will now devote to her own intellectual pur-
suits as a research associate in the library.

The Smithsonian lost a very special friend this year in the death
of Margaret McNamara, the founder, key proponent, and chairman
of Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. This year’s and previous annual
reports delineate the remarkable achievements of this organization,
now only fifteen years old. We shall all miss Margaret’s presence in
RIF affairs, but shall be going on, from strength to strength, with
our new chairman, Anne Richardson, in the spirit of Margaret and
with her vision for literacy in America.

20 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Board of Regents

THE BOARD OF REGENTS held three formal meetings during the last
year. Additional meetings of the Regents’ Executive Committee, the
Audit and Review Committee, the Personnel Committee, and the
Investment Policy Committee were held throughout the year and
reported at the Regents’ meetings.

The first meeting of the Board of Regents was held on Janu-
ary 26, 1981, in the Regents’ Room of the Smithsonian Castle and
was called to order by the Chancellor. The Personnel Committee re-
ported finding no evidence of conflict of interest in the financial
statements of the senior staff of the Institution. In recognition of
his work on behalf of the Audit and Review Committee, in addi-
tion to his continuing role on that committee and on the National
Portrait Gallery Commission, the Regents conferred upon former
Regent Senator Robert B. Morgan the title of Regent Emeritus, with
all the rights and responsibilities thereof.

The Treasurer reviewed financial developments since the last
Regents’ meeting in September 1980, and summarized the fiscal year
1980 results, which are presented in Smithsonian Year 1980. It was
noted that federal funds totaling $137,144,000 were appropriated
to the Institution for fiscal year 1981, including an unanticipated
$5 million provided for the Museum Support Center to permit its
construction as originally planned. The Regents were briefed on
the Office of Management and Budget allowance for fiscal year
1982 and the Institution’s consolidated budget as submitted to the
Congress. The Investment Policy Committee reported on its meet-
ing of December 8, 1980, and analyzed the performances of the
three investment managers. With the Board’s approval the Chancel-
lor appointed Regent Emeritus Thomas J. Watson, Jr., to the Invest-
ment Policy Committee.

The Regents discussed and approved the Five-Year Prospectus
for fiscal years 1982-1986. It was noted that the projected increases

Statement by the Secretary / 21
in the Institution’s budget during that time are primarily due to
inflation. The Regents agreed with the Secretary’s suggestion that
in the future the Prospectus would include projections beyond a
five-year period for certain activities.

Noting the historical significance of the “Smithsonian Park” and
its suitability for underground development, the Secretary dis-
cussed a revised model of the Quadrangle and the need to accom-
modate therein a Center for Eastern Art, the National Museum of
African Art, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, the Resident and National Associate programs, and
kindred activities. He reported that rising construction costs are
necessitating reconfigurations of the proposed structure, and that
efforts are being made to stay within original estimates. The Secre-
tary also reported that domestic and foreign committees had been
formed to raise funds from corporations and foundations. Of para-
mount importance was the approval of the Quadrangle concept by
the National Capital Planning Commission.

With the Board and the Congress appropriating the additional
funds needed to meet escalated costs, the Smithsonian was able to
sign a contract for construction of the Museum Support Center as
planned. The Secretary outlined the steps which resulted in full
funding and assured the Regents that complete progress reports
would be available.

The Regents approved revised bylaws of the Commission of the
National Museum of American Art, recommended by the com-
mission at its meeting on December 4, 1980, to reflect the Regents’
delegation of authority to the Secretary for approving accessions
and dispositions, and other policies and procedures adopted by the
Regents in 1970. The Regents also approved the bylaws recom-
mended by the National Portrait Gallery Commission on January 15,
1981, similarly recognizing the Regents’ delegation to the Secretary
of authority for approving accessions and dispositions in accord
with the policies and procedures laid down by the Board. The latter
bylaws also increased the membership from eleven to fifteen and
provided for standing committees.

In other actions, the Regents appointed Senator Goldwater to
the National Portrait Gallery Commission and to its chairmanship
and appointed Dr. Milton Ratner to the National Museum of
African Art Commission.

22 / Smithsonian Year 1981
In recognition of his timely donation, which enabled the Insti-
tution to develop a special exhibitions gallery in the National
Museum of Natural History/Museum of Man, the Regents named
the new facility the Thomas M. Evans Gallery.

The Secretary presented a series of status reports on the Museum
of Man, the Equal Opportunity Program, major construction
projects, the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, litigation,
legislation, publishing, and television.

A dinner for the Regents was held in the Renwick Gallery on
Sunday evening, January 25. The Chancellor welcomed new
Regents, Vice President Bush and Congressman Boland, and intro-
duced the Secretary, who presented the Smithsonian Associates’
Corporate Founders’ Medal to Mr. David Rockefeller and the Chase
Manhattan Bank in recognition of their donation to the Smith-
sonian of the magnificent ““Chase Manhattan Bank Money Collec-
tion.” The Secretary also presented to the Honorable Lucien N.
Nedzi, retiring from the U.S. House of Representatives, a piece of
smithsonite and a citation of gratitude for his fine service as chair-
man of the House Subcommittee on Libraries and Memorials
(1971-1981).

The spring meeting of the Board of Regents, May 4, 1981, was
preceded that morning by the dedication of the Langley Theater
in the National Air and Space Museum. Senator Goldwater spoke
of the significant aeronautical work of Samuel P. Langley, third
Secretary of the Smithsonian, and of Messrs. Burden’s and Webb’s
great achievements in promoting what is now considered the
world’s most popular museum. Dr. Hinners, director of the
museum, awarded certificates of appreciation to Messrs. James
Greenwell and Wolfgang Gadson, National Air and Space Museum
staff, who heroically rescued a woman from the Metro tracks.

Following the dedication, the Regents’ meeting was called to
order by the Chancellor, who welcomed the new Senator Regent
E. J. “Jake” Garn. The Executive Committee reported on its meet-
ing of April 6, 1981, where, in addition to considering the entire
array of agenda items, the committee noted with pleasure that in
a poll the Regents had unanimously voted to award the Henry
Medal to Mr. Burden in recognition of his manifold services to the
Smithsonian as a friend and Regent since 1962. The medal was
presented at the May 3 Regents’ Dinner (see below).

Statement by the Secretary / 23
The Audit and Review Committee reported on its meeting of
April 28, 1981, where it reviewed with Coopers and Lybrand the
Smithsonian’s trust fund financial statements for fiscal year 1980
and the recommendations to management for “fine tuning” ac-
counting procedures and automatic data processing operations.
Briefed by the Treasurer and Assistant Secretary for Administra-
tion on the scope of operations and controls in auxiliary activities,
the committee suggested that these activities are integral to success-
ful educational outreach and, properly managed, are stimuli to the
market for educational products.

The Treasurer reported that, as part of the government-wide
budget reductions, the Office of Management and Budget reduced
the Institution’s pay supplemental request by $732,000 to a total
of $4,613,000, and reduced the federal full-time permanent employ-
ment ceiling by 113 positions, from 3,340 to 3,227. It was noted
that a hiring freeze would be continued indefinitely to meet the
reduced ceiling and that savings from that freeze and other oms
restrictions would be used to cover the unfinanced portion of the
supplemental requirement. The Board approved the Secretary’s
recommendation that $500,000 of unrestricted trust funds be set
aside as a reserve for possible television production costs. With
respect to fiscal year 1982, the Treasurer noted that oms deferred
until fiscal year 1983 the Quadrangle construction money, but
allowed the Institution to request from the Congress an amount of
$1 million for Quadrangle planning. In further action by oms, the
full-time permanent employment ceiling previously allowed for
fiscal year 1982 was reduced by ninety-six and an associated re-
duction of $1.8 million was also applied, reducing the salaries and
expenses request from $136,886,000 to $135,086,000. The Secre-
tary commented on the friendly and constructive congressional
appropriations hearings.

Referring to the growth of budget figures in the Five-Year Pro-
spectus, the Secretary introduced a study which discounted those
budget estimates into constant 1981 dollars and thus gave a
measure of the real growth of the Institution. Real growth of gross
operating funds from 1970 to 1981 was at a compound annual rate
of 6.5 percent; for the next five years, with gross revenues from
auxiliary activities increasing at a more modest rate, real growth is
expected to decline to a rate of 4 percent. Net operating funds,

24 / Smithsonian Year 1981

exclusive of trust fund auxiliary activity expenses, are expected to
continue at approximately the same 4 percent growth rate as from
1970 to 1981.

The Investment Policy Committee reported that, as of March 31,
1981, the total value of the Institution’s endowment under outside
management was $86,761,000. It was noted that the total Smith-
sonian endowment funds have been out-performing standard
market indices for the first time since December 1979.

The Secretary reviewed the status of the Quadrangle project,
lamenting the fact that the deferral of construction from fiscal year
1982 to 1983 would lead to increased costs due to inflation. He
noted that all requirements under the National Historic Preserva-
tion Act have been completed and that progress has been made in
raising funds from American corporations, individuals, and founda-
tions. The Secretary also outlined strategies for eliciting support in
the Far East, Middle East, and Africa.

The Secretary reported that the Council of the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum, established in 1978 to advise the Secretary on the
museum’s activities, had drafted its bylaws, and the Secretary
recommended a list of members of the council. To formalize the
role of the council, the Regents approved the bylaws and appointed
the following individuals to the council: Rosemary Corroon, Joanne
du Pont, Harmon Goldstone, August Heckscher, Karen Johnson
Keland, Russell Lynes, Gilbert C. Maurer, Kenneth Miller, Amanda
Ross, Arthur Ross, Robert Sarnoff, and Marietta Tree. In a separate
action, the Regents appointed Professor Barbara Novak to the Com-
mission of the National Portrait Gallery.

The Secretary gave a detailed report on the construction of the
Museum Support Center and progress in the Institution-wide in-
ventory. Dr. Gell-Mann pointed out that the Museum Support
Center affords the Smithsonian a great opportunity to develop a
first-rate program in archeometry, which the Regents affirmed in
passing Dr. Gell-Mann’s resolution.

The Regents noted the death of Joshua C. Taylor on April 26,
and voted to record their profound regret: “Scholar, educator, and
connoisseur, his manifold contributions to the National Museum of
American Art will be of lasting significance both in the Smithsonian
and in the world of learning.”

The Secretary reported that Ambassador John Reinhardt will

Statement by the Secretary / 25
serve as Acting Director of the National Museum of African Art,
while Warren Robbins takes a sabbatical for purposes of studying,
collecting, and writing. He also reported that Tom Wolf, formerly
Director of Cultural Affairs at ABC-TV News, will come to the
Institution for six months to study possible Smithsonian television
programming from marketing and production points of view.

Other reports from the Secretary included the International Year
of Disabled Persons, the Security of the National Collections, the
Equal Opportunity Program, the Museum of Man, legislation,
litigation, and construction projects. It was noted that the Secre-
tary had received Belgium’s highest civilian honor, the Order of
Leopold, on April 22, and the Medal of Honor from the National
Society for the Daughters of the American Revolution on April 30;
the Regents offered their unanimous consent and congratulations
to Mr. Ripley.

The Regents’ Dinner was held on Sunday evening, May 3, at the
Paul E. Garber Facility of the National Air and Space Museum in
Suitland, Maryland. The Chancellor presented the Henry Medal to
William Armistead Moale Burden: “”. . . In grateful salute to this
perceptive man, the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution are
proud to present to him the Henry Medal for his outstanding
service.” As approved by the Regents at their January meeting,
the Secretary then presented Langley medals for aerodromics
to Drs. Robert T. Jones and Charles Stark Draper.

On behalf of the Chancellor, Mr. Webb, Chairman of the Execu-
tive Committee, called the Regents’ autumn meeting to order in the
Regents’ Room at 9:30 a.mM., September 14, 1981. The meeting
began with a memorial tribute to the late Joseph H. Hirshhorn,
“a friend, a colleague, and an incomparable patron who shared
with us all his passion for art.’” The Regents noted his extraordi-
nary gift of contemporary art to the nation and sent their best
wishes to Mrs. Hirshhorn and the family.

Reporting on the Executive Committee meeting of August 17,
1981, Mr. Webb said that the committee reviewed all the business
before the Institution and commended to the Regents’ attention
the agenda papers for the autumn meeting. The Executive Com-
mittee lamented the recent death of Harold F. Linder, a founding
member of the Regents’ Investment Policy Committee whose
counsel and interest would be sorely missed.

26 / Smithsonian Year 1981
The late Joseph H. Hirshhorn is shown at a reception in
his museum with Director and Mrs. Abram Lerner in
June 1981. Below. Joshua C. Taylor, Director of the
National Museum of American Art from 1970 until his
death on April 26, 1981, was scholar, university pro-
fessor, educator, mentor, beloved presence at the Smith-
sonian. A scholarship fund is established in his name
to support research in American art at NMAA.

ph

Pe 4
1 yy ee

4

The Regents noted with interest that the Audit and Review Com-
mittee and the Personnel Committee planned a joint meeting in
October 1981 to review the Smithsonian’s procedures for personal
financial disclosure and related standards of professional conduct.
Other items on the committees’ agenda will include a mid-audit
conference with Coopers and Lybrand, consideration of recom-
mendations on an indemnity bylaw and insurance against personal
liability of individual Regents, and a review of computer services
at the Institution. The committees also looked forward to discussing
procedures for guaranteed construction and repair services.

The Treasurer noted that the Institution is receiving the full
amount of the fiscal year 1981 supplemental federal budget request,
and is also receiving an unsolicited $200,000 for the celebration of
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s one hundredth birthday.
He also reported that the fiscal year 1981 trust funds would con-
clude the year at the break-even level with certain stated variances
from earlier projections. The Treasurer summarized the varying
House and Senate actions in the budget request for fiscal year 1982,
which actions were being appealed to the conference committee.
With projections that net income will be lower than in the previous
year, the general fund budget expenditures would also be lower,
and a break-even budget is in sight; the Regents approved a fiscal
year 1982 trust fund budget and authorized the Secretary to expend
funds provided in the fiscal year 1982 federal budget.

The Regents also approved the fiscal year 1983 consolidated
budget forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget. The
federal budget recognizes stringent budget restraints throughout
the government and proposes no new programmatic starts, but
rather emphasizes the security and maintenance of the Smith-
sonian buildings and the national collections, the requirements of
the Museum Support Center, and the computerization and modern-
ization of equipment.

The Investment Policy Committee though reporting a slight
decline in the total value of the Smithsonian endowment funds for
the quarter ended June 30, 1981, was pleased to note the favorable
performance of all three investment management firms in the
last three years.

The Regents discussed the fact that the Act of August 10, 1846
(20 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), which established the Smithsonian, provided

28 / Smithsonian Year 1981

a te
for the payment of 6 percent per year on funds deriving from the
bequest of James Smithson that are on permanent loan to the
United States Treasury. It was noted that inflation and rising inter-
est rates have rendered the statutory rate uncompetitive, and the
Regents therefore voted to seek legislation to adjust that rate to
the current average yield of the outstanding marketable securities
of the United States Government, less 25 basis points (with a
minimum of 6 percent).

The staff presented the Regents with a draft and summary tables
of the Five-Year Prospectus for fiscal years 1983-1987. The text
highlighted progress over the past year in Smithsonian’s programs
and delineated expectations for fiscal year 1982 and for the plan-
ning and budget period of fiscal years 1983-87. At the Secretary’s
suggestion, a new chapter forecast program and facility aspirations
through 1995. The Regents looked forward to commenting on the
draft and to approving a revised draft in January 1982.

The Secretary noted progress in the prospective authorization
and appropriation of $1 million for Quadrangle planning in House
and Senate actions to date. He reported that additional technical
and design studies, recent unexpectedly high levels of construction
industry cost escalations, and a year’s delay in the proposed start-
ing date indicate that the earlier estimate for the Quadrangle,
despite certain reductions in the scope of the project, will increase
by about 50 percent to a new total of $75 million. Reporting on
fund-raising, the Secretary acknowledged recent donations and
pledges which amounted to over $7 million, including unrestricted
trust fund transfers and interest. Additional pledges appeared
imminent from the Middle East and other sources. Since the Insti-
tuition will be seeking through the oms and the Congress the
federal share of Quadrangle construction funds, $36 million, in its
fiscal year 1983 budget request, the Regents requested their con-
gressional members to introduce and support legislation author-
izing the Board to construct the Quadrangle.

In recognition of his great scientific achievements and outstand-
ing leadership of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, the
Regents voted to name the Mount Hopkins, Arizona, Observatory
“The Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory.” The Regents also ap-
pointed Mrs. Joan Kaplan Davidson to a three-year term on the
Council of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and asked their con-

Statement by the Secretary / 29
John Bull, oldest operable locomotive in the world, steams along tracks near the C&O
Canal in Washington as part of the engine’s 150th anniversary celebration.

gressional members to seek legislation reauthorizing the National
Museum Act at $1 million annually for fiscal years 1983-1985.

The Secretary outlined a series of status reports on the Museum
Support Center, the inventory, and collections management; legis-
lation; other major construction projects; the Smithsonian Science
Information Exchange; museum security; litigation; television; and
personnel matters.

Following the meeting, the Regents were driven to Georgetown
where they boarded the National Museum of American History’s
1836 railroad passenger car for a ride behind that museum’s
150-year-old John Bull locomotive to Fletcher’s Landing, where
they enjoyed an alfresco luncheon with a period menu.

The traditional Regents’ dinner was held the preceding evening,
Sunday, September 13, 1981, in the Balcony Gallery of the Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Of special interest was the
dedication of the renovated sculpture garden, which now features
improved aesthetics and full accessibility to the handicapped.

Statement by the Secretary / 31
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUNDS
Fiscal Years 1970, 1975, and 1979-1981
(In $1,000,000’s)

ae
228 nt
FUNDS PROVIDED Auxiliary
and
200 $$$ ii Burret
nn Activities
Expenses Nonappropriated
Trust Funds
(Is ans a aE (Gross Revenues)
1150 fo x Unrestricted
“+ Restricted
Federal Grants
T2522 eetetesecetet and Contracts
aT )e3 eae ET se =
7s | _______Eee =
— = Federal
= —— Appropriations
he ee Se _———
SES oe
25 —— —____ oe =
0
1970 1975 1979 1980 1981
(| To Plant and Endowment
225 TT

FUNDS APPLIED

200

\| Hi | \||\\||| Administration and Facilities Services

175

150

Mi

125 Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

Special Programs
Museum Programs
Public Service

100

75

History and Art

50

Science

25

=

1970 1975 1979 1980 19812

Smithsonian Institution » 1981

FINANCIAL REPORT

CHRISTIAN C. HOHENLOHE, TREASURER

Summary: During this past fiscal year, the Smithsonian continued
its wide range of activities in exhibits, research, publication, and
public education. The diversity of the Institution’s programs is re-
flected in the diversity of funding sources which support these en-
deavors. While the majority of the operating budget is provided
annually from federal appropriations, indispensable support is also
obtained from gifts and grants, from investment income, and from
earned revenues of auxiliary activities. This combination of support
from Congress, foundations, federal agencies, individuals, and the
general public, has enabled the Institution to perform significant ac-
complishments during the year, as reported elsewhere in this
volume.

The bar chart on the facing page outlines the overall source and
application of the Institution’s operating budget for fiscal year 1981
and prior periods. While the growth pattern of past years is evident
again in fiscal year 1981, these increased revenues were more a
function of inflation than expansion of programs and were there-
fore devoted in large measure to offsetting the higher costs of per-
sonnel, supplies, utilities, maintenance, and acquisitions. Due to a
hiring freeze during most of the year on civil service personnel as
well as self-imposed limitations on other hires, the full-time staff of
the Institution grew only one percent, primarily in the areas of fa-
cilities protection and maintenance and the auxiliary activities.

In the current climate of budgetary restraint, the Institution was
treated by Congress with supportive understanding. The total fed-
eral appropriation of $142 million, of which $122 million was for

33
operating purposes, provided base resources for research and educa-
tion, for conservation and study of the national collections, for ren-
ovation and maintenance of Smithsonian facilities, and for adminis-
trative and support services, as well as assisting the Institution in
meeting unavoidable cost increases due to inflation. The appropria-
tion also provided further significant funding for constructing and
equipping the Museum Support Center in Suitland, Maryland,
which will provide essential storage and conservation facilities for
the national collections, and program funding for selected exhibition
and collection management projects.

While federal appropriations provide the core support for the
Institution’s programs, and are expected to do so in the future, non-
appropriated trust funds from various sources are also vital to the
research and outreach efforts. In recognition of this need as well as
of the value of services provided, strong public financial support
continued last year through the Smithsonian Associates programs,
other educational auxiliary activities, gifts from individuals, and
grants from foundations and corporations. Net revenues from these
nonappropriated sources, after deduction of operating expenses and
the sales cost of auxiliary activities, were higher than the prior
year. Thus in addition to meeting ongoing program commitments—
such as the Regents’ Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, and
Educational Outreach programs, pre- and post-doctoral fellowships,
and operating allotments to certain bureaux—the Institution fol-
lowed the practice of prior years in transferring some $2.5 million
of unrestricted trust funds into endowment. Funds were also made
available for the Museum Support Center to augment the federal
contribution to this endeavor.

There was further progress during the year in raising nonappro-
priated funds for the Quadrangle, the future site of two museums of
the cultures of Asia and Africa. With a $1 million gift from the
Government of Korea during the year, as well as gifts from individ-
uals, foundations, and corporations and unrestricted moneys desig-
nated to the project, total nonappropriated funds received for the
project in fiscal year 1981 were $3,455,000. The partnership of fed-
eral appropriations with direct public support, evident in other
Smithsonian programs, will be an essential part of the financial plan
for this venture.

34 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Taste 1. Financial Summary
(In $1,000’s)

FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS
FUNDS PROVIDED:

Federal Appropriations—Salaries & Expenses ............ $ 98,202
Federal Agency Grants & Contracts ............+++.04-- 11,412
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Rorgixestrictedsbunposesui) 4-192 1). sale eryac ele eres ale 4,577
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross ..... 67,360
Messer clatedsexpensesier eee eerie ia (57,557)
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Net Revenue ......... 9,803
Investment, Gift, and Other Income ................ 3,394
Total Net Unrest. & Special Purpose Revenue ....... 13,197
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds*—Gross ........... 75,331
NOE ie ne ieiersysycucreheys 17,774
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ................. 184,945
NEES Ss oSie- oints one, eFeve fel «lsh $127,388
FUNDS APPLIED:
ST TOTIC CRM ee ele rreoe eOe SSeS CLetiod SUSE S eueusreoetaus cusnsveus $ 53,002
MessisA Ol@verhead RECOVELY ae © Satis 6 ale o'eystolele ire = bells (1,850)
iA MeR ony Keaiteta0'9d comin 6 DO o50 468 HNO HOMO capo Oe OOD. 20,245
Pirielie Sangre as Jain Ba or a.s Bee nee ON Ste ce OB Ba RSPR ees ne 2,927
VIE SELIIN EKO PTAING ot ercoys ei ysioaie are or Ye cievetor el ovoler oie sys lol rsh 8,003
Special PCED ooo dcesueon 6 uoebs enn oobD DON SOOO ODDE 2,692
Associates and Business Management .................. 304
PRAMINIStrAatlON—— Fede ra leit scarey syevey slrencyede vovoeey sueHellep  eieiloustore ious 7,071
—Nonappropriated Trust Funds ...................0-. 4,134
Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery ..............- (4,038)
PACINITIOSHOELVICES! fc), cteveis cs ctx Sie apes suoteherosefegoyn onet elle i eielavenoxe 27,790
Motalt@perating, Eunds Applied... 4....05-20-- see eee = 120,280
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)
Wnrestricted| Funds—To Plant... ..:<.c5:<.6.2:0)0 6 operate aysuere iene 1,857
—Io' Endowments: j.2.-04-5-. 4+: 2,671
Restricted Funds—To Endowments ................--: 413
Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out ....... $125,221
CHANGES IN NONAPPROPRIATED
TRUST FUND BALANCES:
Restricted Purpose (Incl. Fed. Agency Gr. & Contracts) ... $ 171
Unrestricted—General Purpose ..............-...0 eee 33
——Opecial (PUTPOSE corse e ss oo ee sists selec s 1,963
Mio SAUER Se ee Sins renee ah elie Gn ola oe oan La $2,167

YEAR-END BALANCES—
NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:

MEG EICLECMEMED OSES concn AT ye A Teo ee cee naTAe eS $ 4,900
Unrestricted—General Purpose ...............0 eee eee 4,965
=== SDECIAL EULPOSE) ere caeiateis CaS hae ercins een ce 11,567

TUS scien acehtehene fe: ae ere aie ais Baebin et Is eaten Ae rae en $ 21,432

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange .............. $ 2,063
Special Foreign Gurrency Program << ce... ++ cit em acces 3,700
KEOTISEDHCLION as wate cise G Gitte ele & ates ists. saonovarara eaten teres 6,575

Total Federal Appropriations (Incl. S&E above) ........ $110,540

$107,764
12,947

5,339

75,150
(65,933)

217
3,825

13,042

84,314
18,381

205,025
$139,092

$ 57,907
(2,196)
26,224

3,129
8,974
3,204
345
8,048
4,937
(4,379)
30,630

136,823

1,342
2,031
757

$140,953

$ (225)
36
(1,672)

$ (1,861)

4,200
32,100

$144,064

$122,478
14,172

6,378

88,381
(75,924)

12,457
4,887

17,344

99,646
23,722

236,296
$160,372

$ 62,703
(2,470)
25,614

3,421
8,084
7,284
312
8,782
5,740
(5,014)
36,501

150,957

2,550
2,550
108

$156,165***

$ 1,276
42
2,704

$ 4,022

$ 5,951
5,043
12,599

$ 23,593

$ a
3,650
15,829

$141,957

*Figures do not include gifts and other income directly to Plant and Endowment Funds: FY 1979—

$96,000; FY 1980—$1,211,000; FY 1981—$2,696,000.

**Includes unobligated funds returned to Treasury: FY 1979—$47,000; FY 1980—$267,000; FY 1981—

$64,000.
***Excludes $185,000 available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.
Operating Funds—Sources and Application

Once again, the overall operating budget of the Institution has
shown substantial growth over the past year, as displayed in Table
1 as well as the bar chart. Total gross operating funds grew from
$205,025,000 in fiscal year 1980 to $236,296,000 in fiscal year 1981,
an increase of $31,271,000 or 15 percent. Of the total available op-
erating funds, 52 percent were derived from federal appropriations,
6 percent from federal agency grants and contracts, and 42 percent
from nonappropriated sources, approximately the same ratios as in
recent years.

The growth in net operating funds, after deduction of the ex-
penses of the nonappropriated auxiliary and bureau activities, was
also 15 percent, or $21,280,000 over the prior year. Those net oper-
ating funds, which support a wide range of Smithsonian programs,
were obtained 76 percent from federal appropriations, 9 percent
from federal agency grants and contracts, and 15 percent from non-
appropriated sources. Application of these funds by all Smithsonian
bureaux is outlined in Table 2, with further supporting detail in
other tables.

FEDERAL APPROPRIATION

The Institution received a federal appropriation for operating pur-
poses in fiscal year 1981 of $122,478,000, an increase of $14.7 mil-
lion, or 14 percent, over fiscal year 1980. The apparent growth rep-
resented by this increase was in large part attributable to inflation
in the areas of pay, utilities, rent, and other objects of expense,
which, following the pattern of recent years, continued to absorb
the major portion, over $9.6 million, of increased funding. Beyond
these inflationary increases, however, $5.1 million was allowed for
a number of program needs throughout the Institution. While al-
most half of the programmatic increase was for the purchase of
equipment for the Museum Support Center, to be phased over a
period of several years, significant support also was received for the
development of major new exhibitions in the History and Art muse-
ums; for expenses of the Tropical Research Institute resulting from
implementation of the Panama Canal Treaty; for protection, admin-
istrative, and maintenance requirements; and for a variety of other

36 / Smithsonian Year 1981
needs primarily related to the conservation and management of the
collections.

In order to meet a reduced federal personnel ceiling imposed by
the Office of Management and Budget, the Institution maintained a
hiring freeze throughout most of the year. Dollar savings of $1.4
million resulted from this employment freeze as well as other spend-
ing limitations imposed by the Office of Management and Budget.

FEDERAL AGENCY GRANTS AND CONTRACTS

Support from federal agencies, in the form of grants and contracts,
primarily for the Institution’s research programs, totaled $14.2 mil-
lion for fiscal year 1981, an increase of 9 percent over fiscal year
1980. As may be seen in Table 3, the major source of grant and con-
tract support was the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, primarily for research programs of the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory (sao). Significant programs at sAO were
experiments in high energy astrophysics, hydrogen maser construc-
tion, and satellite tracking. Other important research programs re-
ceiving support were the medical entomology project at the National
Museum of Natural History, supported by the Department of the
Army; research into conservation of wild primates conducted by the
National Zoological Park with funds from the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service; and the National Science Foundation support
to the Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (via the
Chesapeake Research Consortium) for ecological studies on a major
tributary of the Chesapeake Bay.

NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS

The Institution’s nonappropriated trust fund revenues totaled
$99,646,000 in fiscal year 1981, while net revenues available for
support of Institutional programs, after exclusion of expenses neces-
sary to generate auxiliary and bureau activity revenues, totaled
$23,722,000. Displayed in Tables 2, 4, and 5 are the bureaux of the
Institution utilizing these funds.

Restricted fund revenues, which may only be used for specific
purposes, were $6,378,000 for the year, made up of $2,978,000 from
gifts and grants, $2,591,000 from investment income, and $809,000
from other sources, primarily fund-raising activities at the Archives
of American Art and sales desk activities at the Freer Gallery of

Financial Report / 37
Taste 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds
Year Ended September 30, 1981

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Fed-
eral

Funds funds

FUND BALANCES 10/1/80 ... $
FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations ........ 122,478
Investment Income ........... —
Grants and Contracts ......... —
Gifts 2 as os5c, pate oeieenome ciate eerie _
Sales and Revenue ............ —
@thers ses, yaw Oreos —
Totals Providedeaas-rac ic 122,478
Total Available ~~... $122,478
FUNDS APPLIED
Science:
Assistant Secretary ........... $ 328
Natl. Mus. of Nat. History .... 15,677
Astrophysical Observatory .... 5,370
Less Overhead Recovery ..... —
Tropical Research Inst. ........ 2,773
Radiation Biology Lab. ........ 1,999
Natl. Air & Space Museum .... 6,152
Chesapeake Bay Center ....... 869
Natl: ZoologicaljParks 32... m 9,221
Center for Study of Man ...... 603
Fort\Pierce Bureau ssa. ..-+> + oo
ihotal@Sctencessreee ee 42,992
History and Art:
Assistant Secretary ........... 351
Natl. Mus. Am. History ....... 8,072
Natl. Mus. American Art ...... 3,557
Natl’ Portrait) (Gallery 3. ..--) «- 2,613
Elinshhornvinsetimese es ciiee 2,431
Freer Gallery of Art .......... 727,
Archives of American Art ..... 542
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ....... 702
Natl. Mus. of African Art. .... 621
Total History and Art .. 19,616
Public Service:
Assistant Secretary ........... 184
Reception) Genter scsi. eer) -1 20
Telecommunications .......... 55
Anacostia Museum ........... 529
Intl. Exchange Service ......... 346
Performing vArtsiyiretersereiei- ei 387
Smithsonian Press: ese ee « 847

Exposition Books

Total Public Service ....

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux-  Spe- Grants

non- iliary _cial and
federal Gen-  activ- pur-  Gen- con-
funds eral ities pose eral tracts
— $ 19,571 $ 5,001 $ — $ 9,895 $ 4,574 $ 101
6,303 3,123 — 589 2,091. —_
14,172 —_ _— —_ — 14,172
4,421 IS) 1,329 99 2,978 —_
87,052 — 83,719 Saas —_— —_—
1,870 is}e) — 1,006 809 _—
113,818 3,193 85,048 5,027 6,378 14,172
$133,389 $ 8,194 $85,048 $14,922 $10,952 $14,273
$ 366 $ 28 $ — $ 11 $ 140°%$) J 187
2,539 206 —_ 680 oon Ll22
14,416 2,479 — 432, 101 11,404
(2,470) (2,470) = — = =
339 59 — 202 78 —_
169 _ —_ 98 13 58
2,001 14 — 1,765 109 113
522 83 —_— 141 34 264
416 21 — 118 28 249
18 —_ —_ — 18 _
389 — — — 389 —_
18,705 420 — 3,447 ade Siaaes
i5l/ 86 — 17 il 13
974 96 — 647 250 —_
422 207 —_ 149 34 32
378 36 —_ 44 297 1
alpalle yé 26 —_ 677 494 _—
1,296 10 —_— 45 1,241 —_—
451 al — 3 447 —_
1,464 364 —_ 788 287 25
420 163 —_ 170 83 4
6,719 989 — 2,540 3,115 75
1 1 =“ = a
395 395 = = = =
305 237 atl 68 = =
48 26 = 20 2 =
4,813 = | 4561 114 130 8
2,146 22 OGL = 55 —
4,725 — 4,725 == = se
12,433 659) L377, 202 187 8

2,368

Nonfederal Funds

i.
Taste 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds—continued
Year Ended September 30, 1981

(Excludes Special Foreign Currency Funds, Plant Funds, and Endowments)
(In $1,000’s)

Unrestricted Restricted
Total Aux- Spe- Grants
Fed- non- iliary cial and
eral federal Gen- activ- pur-  Gen- con-
Funds funds funds eral ities pose eral tracts
Museum Programs:
Assistant Secretary .......... 747 149 45 — 25 18 61
RG OUSEN ARIE Fol AS a0) sf'sc0ile inne, sieges 6/8 126 — —_ — — -— --
Conserv. Analytical Lab. ..... 788 2 — — 2 — —
MD RARE S MAS iors srars Sisto wets 2,976 217 207 == = 10 =
Ebi bitsMr see. ds cites. Yeas ib els 14 —_ — 14 — —
Traveling Exhib. Service ..... 192 1,491 — iLiéé 55 244 26
ASCHIVESIMEver Ia. shia sume wieeiots 430 44 43 — iL — —
National Museum Act ....... 795 -- — — -- — —
Total Museum Programs. 7,366 1,917 295 1,166 97 272 87
Special Programs:
Am. Studies & Folklife Pgm. ... 534 793 540 — 51 17 185
Intl. Environmental Pgm. ..... 468 — a — — — —
Academic & Educational Pgm. . 562 856 129 — 691 36 —
Collections Mgt./Inventory .... 587 _— — — — — —
Major Exhibition Program .... 739 — oa — — — —
Museum Support Center ..... 2,767 —— — _— — — —
Total Special Programs .. 5,657 1,649 669 -- 742 53 185
——————y en
Associate Programs ......... — 44,533 260 44,219 : 13 alll 30
Business Management ....... — 16,769 — 16,769 — = =
Administration: Mun. 66:05 es 8,718 5,888 5,365 148 96 193 86
Less Overhead Recovery .... — (5,014) (5,014) — — — —
Faetlities Services ...........- 35,512 989 1,014 a (48) 23 —
Transfers Out/(In):
‘TSASRUAYA “SS ee chee OE Creer re ae 64* — — — — — a
Goll Acq) Schol- St., ©utrch. .. — — 2,000 — (2,000) — —
Liability Reserves ........... — — 230 — (230) — —
Net Auxiliary Activities ...... — — (10,979) 10,979 — — —
Other Designated Purposes .... — — 2,196 390 (2,589) 3 —
MMMM Tet as rose oats eee es — 2550" ~2;526 — 24 — —
EMOOWMENE 65 sicjars vi bende 5 — 2,658. 2,521 —- 29 108 —
Motalwinansters) =o. 4042 64 5,208 (1,506) 11,369 (4,766) Ta —
Total Funds Applied .... $122,293 $109,796 $ 3,151 $85,048 $ 2,323 $ 5,406 $13,868
FUND BALANCES 9/30/81 .... $ 185** $ 23,593 $ 5,043 $ — $12,599 $ 5,546 $ 405

Nonfederal Funds

*Unobligated funds returned to Treasury.
**Funds available for FDR Centennial through FY 1982.
Taste 3. Grants and Contracts—Expenditures
(In $1,000’s)

Federal Agencies FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981
Departmentiof Defensels as aeceeoe ose $ 1,079 $ 1,078 $ 703
Department of iEnengy nyse acer cin 304 340 407
Department of Health and Human Services 288 280 283
Department of Interiom see are oe 65 197 244
National Aeronautics and Space

Administrations eee eee oe ee 8,919 9,832 10,663

National Endowments for the Arts and
Jahoboqkebquileteti meng tcions etoeska Guaec eRD orcte che RevCRRE 105 118 57
National Science Foundation** .......... 385 651 784
Other koi as ce Me Hn oe cas 345 386 727
Totaly arson cee ee eats hse ete sient $11,490 $12,882 $13,868

*Includes $583 (FY 1979), $554 (FY 1980), and $813 (FY 1981) in subcontracts from
other organizations receiving prime contract funding from NASA.

**Includes $112 (FY 1980), and $208 (FY 1981) in NSF subcontracts from the Chesa-
peake Research Consortium.

Art. Endowment income, as detailed more fully below, provides
funding to the Fort Pierce Bureau for research in oceanography,
major operating support to the Freer Gallery of Art, as well as a
number of other specific research projects at the Institution. Signifi-
cant gifts were received during the year for exhibitions of the Na-
tional Museum of American History, the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, the National Portrait Gallery, the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Major collection acquisition support was received by the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden and the National Museum of Amer-
ican Art, which also obtained a large grant for collections conserva-
tion.

Unrestricted Special Purpose funds are comprised of bureau ac-
tivity revenues, such as the membership and educational programs at
the National Museum of African Art and the Cooper-Hewitt Mu-
seum, sales shops at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum and the National
Air and Space Museum (NaAsm), and the theaters at NASM; invest-
ment income earned on bureau fund balances; shared revenues for
those bureaux housing centrally run concession and museum shop
activities; and continuing allocations of funds for fellowship awards
($948,000), the Regents’ Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies,

40 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Taste 4. Restricted Operating Trust Funds*

Fiscal Years 1979-1981
(In $1,000’s)

Net Fund
Trans-_ in- bal-
Total fers crease ance
Invest- rev- Deduc- in (de- end of
Item ment Gifts Misc. enue tions (out) crease) year
fav et979— otal: . .\. 2022 os ws $2,075 $1,775 $ 727 $4,577 $3,983 $ (345) $ 249 $4,864
EY t980—Total ........... $2,349 $2,257 $ 733 $5,339 $4,856 $ (773) $ (290) $4,574
FY 1981:
National Museum of
NaturalvHistory .. 5. +... ¢ 189 $ 440 $ (4) $625 $530 -§. I3an$ 0007 $1576
Astrophysical
@bservatory \4: 2s sein). 4 13 130 (30) 113 101 (3) 9 20
Tropical Research
LEDS To ee 20 SV 10 87 78 — 9 65
National Air and
Space Museum ...5..... 60 4 -- 64 109 <2) (57) 90
Chesapeake Bay Center .... GT: — — 11 34 — (23) 82
Fort Pierce Bureau ........ 761 —_ _- 761 389 -— 372 813
DEVEL OCICNCe «2. .6260-2 6s 220 149 84 453 199 (79) W715 530
National Museum of
American History ....... 59 294 4 357 Doll — 126 458
National Museum of
PIMETICAN ATE 25 << 26 2s! 63 254 3 320 34 — 286 341
National Portrait Gallery .. 42 82 (3) 121 297 -- (176) 233
Hirshhorn Museum ....... 39 235 —— 274 494 sos (220) 280
Freer Gallery of Art ....... 910 32 476 1,418 1,241 = AZ. 810
Archives of
PRIMEEIGAN UATE 2)... 5 se = 28 210 DAD; 450 447 — 3 DTA
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ... 36 253 55 344 287 — 57 313
National Museum of
Wirican Art ......)....: 7, 11 1 14 83 = (69) 4
Traveling Exhibition
PTEMAUNC OME, fee iov.c nic tds 2,5 ses 25 224 — 249 244 —_ 5 154
EMUIM@then ta. ss oes se ees 113 603 1 717 496 (30) 191 506
Motal FY 198i s..5.. $2,591 $2,978 $ 809 $6,378 $5,295 $ (111) $ 972 $5,546

*Does not include Federal Agency Grants and Contracts.
Taste 5. Unrestricted Special Purpose Funds

Fiscal Year 1981

(In $1,000’s)

Revenue

Bu-
reau
activ-
ities

$2,039

Gifts

and
other

rev-
enue

Total

Trans-
fers
in
(out)

$3,707

Obligations

FY 1981:

National Museum
of Natural
History

Astrophysical
Observatory .. 6

Tropical Research
Institute

National Air and
Space Museum

Chesapeake Bay
Center

National Zoo-
logical Park

Other Science ...

National Museum
of American
History

National Museum
of American
Art

National
Portrait Gallery 4

Hirshhorn
Museum

Freer Gallery
of Art

Cooper-Hewitt
Museum

National Museum
of African Art

Liability Reserves

Unallocated Coll.
Acq., Schol. St.
and Outreach .

Fellowships

Museum Support
Center Equip. .

Other

24

32

230

25

66
2,528
43
362
51

81

153

394

679

Deductions
Bu- Net
Pro- reau in-
gram activ- crease
ex-  ityex- (de-
pense pense crease)

$3,262 $1,436 $ 1,963
$7,361 $1,813 $ (1,672)
$ 680 $§ — § 68
320 112 204
140 62 22
498 1,267 398
118 23 10
118 —_— 296
109 _— ol
596 51 (172)
146 3 86
36 8 33
677 —_ 26
45 _— 4
304 484 9
(5) 175 (48)
= — 230
_— —_ (232)
630 —_— 66
— _— 750
432 60 902

Fund
bal-
ance

end of

year

$ 334
534

90
2,838
25
1,295
148

273

197

149

750

1,764
and Educational Outreach programs ($2 million per year), as well
as funds provided for other designated purposes.

Unrestricted General Purpose funds revenue, which is available
for general Institutional purposes, is derived primarily from invest-
ment income and auxiliary activity net revenues. As displayed in
Table 6, net general unrestricted funds, after deduction of auxiliary
activity expenses, totaled $14,562,000 in fiscal year 1981, a some-
what better result than the prior year. This improved performance
was due to the higher interest rates during the year, which bene-
fited the short-term investments of the Institution, and to the aux-
iliary activities. These activities are listed in Table 7, and as may be
seen therein, the Smithsonian Associates programs, including the
Smithsonian magazine, generate the majority of the revenues on
both a gross and net basis. The magazine continued to enjoy wide-
spread acceptance, increasing once again the number of subscribing
National Associates; the Contributing Associates program, provid-
ing unrestricted gift support to the Institution, also showed modest
growth.

Important educational products and public services are provided
as well by the other auxiliary activities, such as the Smithsonian
Institution Press, Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Serv-
ice, and the Smithsonian Exposition Books. On an overall basis,
these other activities provided a financial return to the Institution
at approximately the same rate as in fiscal year 1980.

The growth in unrestricted funds allowed continued support for
a number of administrative and programmatic activities as well as
some contributions towards new endeavors and facilities develop-
ment. Activities receiving major operating support include the Visi-
tor Information and Associates’ Reception Center, the Folklife Pro-
gram, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, and the Office of Telecommuni-
cations, while smaller amounts for specific programs were allotted
to numerous other units. Special emphasis was placed on affirma-
tive action efforts with funding allotted for the establishment of a
cooperative education program. In addition to the operating support
provided the Office of Telecommunications, an amount of $500,000
was set aside in fiscal year 1981 for future exploration of potential
television production by the Institution. Special funding was also
provided for the major exhibition, 5,000 Years of Korean Art, in

Financial Report / 43
Tas_e 6. Unrestricted Trust Funds—General and Auxiliary Activities
Fiscal Years 1979-1981
(In $1,000’s)

Item FY 1979 EY 19605 FY¥eagea
FUNDS PROVIDED

General Income:

Inger aoaveinquch - A craela is bis Bic a's Gicia certs BicRBIG Otc $ 2,276 $ 2,470 $ 3,123
Giftswrers tara ce uete ein cies icntre oa 163 14 LS
IMiscellancotsa ters eieine cece emir 40 140 55
jotalaGeneraleincome.s25-. oo. ee 2,479 2,624 3,193
Auxiliary Activities Income (Net):
INSSOCIALeS ia nee el oi sriite eects, “Va ot eters 6,429 6,113 8,691
Business Management
—-Museum! Shops % acs. e- aor oe le 287 1,022 631
—Concessions and Parking ......... 1,641 1,938 1,978
SEI FE NS et oh icicle cota ays si avel dimen wionapa: mua ORS > (245) (191) (251)
Performa -Atts) hiss 2 pars «56 als eles ote 177 (75) (186)
Smithsonian eresse vee sence ietanie 292 252 231
EXPOSiE1ON! IBOQKS (foi) aiaa Se alsin strains aye et 1,036 305 536
Praveling, EXMIDItiONS  ...c1m« «sec cee = (142) (268) (226)
PHOtOVSEFVICES st cece cere ae eeeee tee ott (275) (115) (35)
Total Auxiliary Activities ......... 9,200 8,981 11,369
Total Funds Provided (Net) ....... 11,679 11,605 14,562
EXPENDITURES AND TRANSFERS
Administrative and Program Expense ..... 9,231 10,535 12,141
Less Administrative Recovery ............ 5,888 6,575 7 A484
IN Gt vEXPpense 5 criercicicjsusnusiane eva, eoretens 3,343 3,960 4,657

Less Transfers:
To Special Purpose

for Programyburposesy sme ioe sare 3,879 4,307 4,816

Mone lantibundsiesy ns sce koe ene ce 1,853 1,281 2,526
ToEndowment Funds 24... cess ee eel Alay 2,021 2,521
NET ADDITION TO FUND BALANCE .. 33 36 42
ENDING EUND BALANCER poe e ooo. $ 4,965 $ 5,001 $ 5,043

44 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Taste 7. Auxiliary Activities Fiscal Years 1979-1981
(In $1,000’s)

Sales
and Less Net
other cost Gross rev-
reve- of rev- Ex- enue***
Activity nue Gifts sales enue penses (loss)
TEN SRS )72 FC bs eee ee $64,846 $ 475 $31,884 $33,437 $24,237 $ 9,200
NMA SO prs cect dae cncsee cas $72,203 $ 898 $41,569 $31,532 $22,551 $ 8,981
FY 1981:
PASSOGIALES suet ci-palsrg ioe oes ae $51,581 $1,329 $34,551 $18,359 $ 9,668 $ 8,691
Business Management:
—Museum Shops* ..... 16,074 — 8,335 F739 7,108 631
—Concessions/Parking . 2,682 — S5ne2 047, 669 ~=1,978
—SO}i Yoriko OE ee ee Syl — — 371 622 (251)
Rertorming “Arts (0). /f)5..5%: 4,375 — aS 3,262 3,448 (186)
Smithsonian Press ....... 2,322 — 688 1,634 17403 231
Exposition Books ........ 5,261 — 1,101 4,160 3,624 536
Traveling Exhibitions .... 940 _ = 940 1,166 (226)
Photo Services
(Administration) ...... 113 — 43 70 105 (35)
WotalieY WSs...) $83,719 $1,329 $45,866 $39,182 $27,813 $11,369

ee  ,

*Includes Museum Shops and Mail Order.
**Includes Business Management Office and Belmont.
***Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaux of $397,000
(FY 1979); $381,000 (FY 1980); and $390,000 (FY 1981).

the new Thomas Mellon Evans Special Exhibits Gallery in the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History. Transfers to special purpose
funds included continuing allotments for the Collections Acquisi-
tion, Scholarly Studies, and Educational Outreach programs ($2 mil-
lion), the Fluid Research program of small grants to Smithsonian
scientists ($200,000), and the Smithsonian Fellowship program,
which provides stipend support to pre- and post-doctoral fellows
($948,000), as well as a one-time transfer of $750,000 for conserva-
tion equipment at the Museum Support Center.

Some $2.5 million was added to the Institution’s unrestricted en-
dowment funds to ensure a stable source of current revenues for
future years. As described below, transfers were also made to plant

Financial Report / 45
funds to support facilities development, notably $750,000 towards
construction of the Museum Support Center and $1.3 million
towards Quadrangle development.

Special Foreign Currency Program

A separate appropriation was received for the Special Foreign Cur-
rency Program of $3,650,000 equivalent in excess foreign currencies.
These currencies, accumulated from sales of surplus agricultural
commodities under Public Law 83-480, have been determined by
the Treasury Department to be in excess of the normal needs of the
United States. Some $2.9 million of this appropriation was used to
provide grants to United States institutions for field research and
advanced professional training in the countries of Burma, Egypt,
India, and Pakistan, in fields of traditional Smithsonian interest and
competence. The remaining $750,000 was added to a reserve of
Indian rupees, established in fiscal year 1980 to support future pro-
grams of the American Institute of Indian Studies after the supply
of excess rupees is depleted. Obligation of these funds by research
discipline and country is provided in Table 8.

Construction

Funds appropriated for construction and renovation projects at the
Institution totaled $15,829,000 in fiscal year 1981, as shown in
Table 9. With the support and encouragement of the Congress, the
Institution continued to accelerate its efforts to meet the essential
renovation needs of a large and complex physical plant. An appro-
priation of $7,539,000 under the Restoration and Renovation of
Buildings account represented a 44 percent increase over the previ-
ous year. The funding permitted progress in facade, roof, and ter-
race repairs; systems and structural modifications to further energy
efficiency; renovations to comply with legislative requirements on
occupational health and safety as well as the needs of disabled per-
sons; and modification and improvement of existing facilities for

46 / Smithsonian Year 1981
TaB_e 8. Special Foreign Currency Program
Fiscal Year 1981—Obligations
(In $1,000’s)

System- _—‘ Astro-

aticand physics Mu- Grant
environ- and seum admin-
Archae- mental earth pro- istra-

Country ology biology sciences grams tion Total
Burma soe. 05: $ 620 Sia $ — $ — $ al mi Al
empties t sloiacens 286 50 150 41 242 769
Iiraye Fetes eine eee 2,318* 268 24 T75 44 2,829
Pakistan ....... — 84 — _ — 84

Motaluesse 2°624! $ 402 $ 174 $ 216 $ 287 $3,703

*Includes the obligation of $750,000 for a forward-funded reserve for the American
Institute of Indian Studies.

Tas_e 9. Construction and Plant Funds Fiscal Years 1979-1981
(In $1,000’s)

Sources FY 1979 FY 1980 FY 1981

FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:

National: Zoological harks: asec sae ae $ 3,900 $ 6,250 $ 3,290
Museum) Support Genter .2..5°0.-)... 55. 575 20,600* 5,000
Restoration & Renovation of Buildings .. 2,100 5,250 7,539

Total Federal Appropriations ....... 6,575 32,100 15,829

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other

Cooper-Hewitt Museum .............. — 104 175
Horticulture Greenhouse ............. — = 11
Specialsexhibits Gallenyi sess se see: — _ 307
Wcadrane lamer ccc. sence oem ccn c 5 1,051 2,115
MotalmlncOmenisncccroccstaa ce en. 5 1155 2,608
Transfers from Current Funds:

Chesapeake Bay Center .............. 411 39 300
National Museum of African Art ..... 4 22. 24
Museum Support Center ............. = — 750
As taGardenieans isin chiara. Mem acces 10 241 110
@uaadrangler free ccs se eee ee wins oes 1,385 1,040 1,340
Tropical Research Institute ........... 47 — 26
Motalminanstersi. 0 4a ee ae 1,857 1,342 2,550
Motalaeunds Provided’.....24.. ssa00. ee 42 $ 8,437 $34,597 $20,987

*Obligation authority of $19 million deferred until FY 1981 on instructions from Office
of Management and Budget.

Financial Report / 47
program or safety needs. An amount of $3,290,000 was received for
renovation and construction of Zoo facilities, including construction
of the Monkey Island Exhibit, which is the final project in the de-
velopment of the Central Area of Rock Creek Park; construction of
a small mammal breeding facility and design of hardy bird yards at
the Front Royal Conservation and Research Center; and the neces-
sary restoration and renovation work at both Rock Creek and Front
Royal. And finally, an additional $5 million was provided for con-
struction of the Museum Support Center. Construction bids re-
ceived by the Institution for this project exceeded the Institution’s
original estimate by some $7 million. This appropriation, together
with the $20.6 million appropriated in fiscal year 1980 and $2.5 mil-
lion committed from the Institution’s nonappropriated trust funds,
provides sufficient funding to complete the project as planned.

During the year, nonappropriated trust funds totaling $2,550,000
were transferred from operating accounts to construction and land
acquisition, and a further $2,608,000 was received from gifts and
investment income. The majority of these funds—$3,455,000—was
for Quadrangle development, and a further $775,000 of pledges was
received toward the project. Major gifts were also received for con-
struction of the Special Exhibits Gallery in the National Museum of
Natural History as well as for renovation work at the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum. An amount of $750,000 was allocated to Museum
Support Center construction for which, as noted above, the Institu-
tion has committed an amount of $2.5 million in nonappropriated
trust funds. Transfers also were made for major land acquisition at
the Chesapeake Bay Center, mortgage payments on property occu-
pied by the National Museum of African Art, construction of a
greenhouse at the Tropical Research Institute in Panama, and addi-
tional costs associated with development of the garden area to the
east of the Arts and Industries Building.

Endowment and Similar Funds

As of September 30, 1981, the market value of the Smithsonian En-
dowment Funds was $79,025,000, as compared to $78,390,000 on
September 30, 1980. Of this total, $77,972,000 is invested in the

48 / Smithsonian Year 1981
TaBLe 10. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1981

Book value Market value

ASSETS
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Boag ONG EQuivalents: 2. .icc6 06's ci ceies Soe oe os $ 715,006 $ 715,006
[ETE IRE eS ee EM a ir ar a eg ge a 16,029,705 14,849,789
WonvertiblewBonds: J oegestee oo ete aes cake 461,550 560,000
SHOES. ony Se OA, ME ees HE 57,204,501 61,847,366
Mintaleooled VEunGdsiey. « wrchiciticls sere. a clalene 74,410,762 77,972,161
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
INotesmecelVableoeraacince ae oa oe eee wees 35,794 35,794
Loan to U.S. Treasury in Perpetuity ........ 1,000,000 1,000,000
ESET SMM es Pr aes k eects Sad or uoucnuares eis 9,769 8,600
SOTO MAOLOCKS aa ery erin ae aayeedi helene sakes es 98 FP re A0o!
Total Nonpooled EUNGS Pee eee __ 1,047,562 1,052,494
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $75,458,324 $79,024,655
FUND BALANCES
Unrestricted Purpose: True Endowment ...... $ 2,808,369 $ 3,480,402
Quasi Endowment ..... _ 28,054,405 _ 27 813,668
Total Unrestricted Purpose ............ 30,862,774 31,294,070
Restricted Purpose: True Endowment ...... 33,513,631 36,216,512
Quasi Endowment ..... _ 11,081,919 11,514,073
MotaleRestrictedtPurpose\. a. 4s. 15. cies 44,595,550 47,730,585
Total Endowment and Similar Fund Balances .. $75,458,324 $79,024,655

Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund under outside investment
management; $1 million is on permanent deposit with the United
States Treasury; and the remaining $53,000 is held in miscellaneous
securities. As shown in Table 10, restricted endowment funds, the
income of which may be used only for purposes specified by the
donor, comprise 60 percent of the total, or $47,731,000. The remain-
ing 40 percent, or $31,294,000, are unrestricted endowment funds
with the income available for general Institutional purposes. Certain
of these unrestricted funds, such as the Lindbergh Chair of Aero-
space History Endowment at the National Air and Space Museum,
have been designated internally for specific purposes, as noted in
Table 13, which lists all endowments of the Institution.

Financial Report / 49
Tae 11. Market Values of Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds
(In $1,000’s)

Fund 9/30/77 9/30/78 9/30/79 9/30/80 9/30/81
Unrestricted 5.....- $12,525 $18,114 $22,614 $28,384 $30,399
ERECT eta ctcne chs eaeutie 15,410 16,807 18,303 ZO TL 20,472
Other Restricted ... 18,944 22,109 24,639 28,175 27,101

sotalo yawns. $46,879 $57,030 $65,556 $77,330 $77,972

The investment of the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund is
managed by three outside professional investment advisory firms
under the oversight of the Investment Policy Committee and the
Treasurer and subject to policy guidelines established by the Board
of Regents. At the conclusion of fiscal year 1981, the firms (with
their respective portion of the Fund) were Fiduciary Trust Company
of New York (50 percent), Batterymarch Financial Management
Corp. (31 percent), and Torray Clark & Company (19 percent).
During fiscal year 1981, the total rate of return for these funds, as
calculated by an independent investment measurement service, was
+2.8 percent (including interest and dividend yield as well as mar-
ket value depreciation), as compared to —3.4 percent for the Dow
Jones Industrial Average and —2.7 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Average (both calculated on the same basis). Market
values of the major components of this fund for prior years are
shown in Table 11, and activity during the past year, in Table 12.

The Smithsonian utilizes the Total Return Income policy which
defines total investment return as yield (interest and dividends) plus
appreciation, including both realized and unrealized capital gains. A
portion of this return is made available for expenditure each year,
and the remainder is retained as principal. This total return income
payout is determined in advance each year by the Board of Regents
based on studies of anticipated interest and dividend yields, the In-

50 / Smithsonian Year 1981
TasLe 12. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds

for Fiscal Year 1981
(In $1,000’s)

Market
Inter- value
Gifts est in-

Market and and Income crease Market
value trans- divi- paid Sub- (de- value
Fund 9/30/80 fers dends* out total crease) 9/30/81
Winrestricted .....:.-. $28,384 $ 2,529 $1,611 $ 1,157 $31,367 $ (968) $30,399
ESKERTMIMEY Sis fe <4, tesis)'e,(05/000)'« PAO AT(AL _— 1,164 839 21,096 (624) 20,472
Other Restricted ... 28,175 (760) 1,568 132) 27,65 (Z50)) 27100
TOUR vtattoreere $77,330 $ 1,769 $ 4,343 $ 3,128 $80,314 $ (2,342) $77,972

*Income earned less managers’ fees of $363,000.

stitution’s programmatic needs, inflationary factors, and the five-
year running average of market values adjusted for capital additions
or withdrawals. The income payout rate for fiscal year 1981 to en-
dowments in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment Fund constituted
a 10 percent increase over the previous year, and a further increase
of 8 percent for restricted endowments has been approved for fiscal
year 1982. Even after the income payout of $3,128,000 in fiscal year
1981, $1,215,000 of excess interest and dividend yield was available
for reinvestment into endowment principal.

Included in Table 12 as additions to the endowment funds were
approximately $2.5 million transferred from unrestricted funds, as
mentioned above, and gifts of $116,000. These additions were par-
tially offset by a withdrawal of $976,000 from the Johnson Fund,
which, together with the Hunterdon Fund, was formerly described
as Endowment Number 3. This withdrawal, representing prior year
income that had accumulated in principal, was made to reimburse
the Harbor Branch Foundation for support of the Johnson Sea-Link
submersible program, and similar funding from the Johnson Fund
will be provided in the future.

A full listing of all endowment funds is shown on Table 13. De-
tail of the securities held in the Pooled Consolidated Endowment
Fund as of September 30, 1981, may be obtained upon request from
the Treasurer of the Institution.

Financial Report / 51
TasLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981

Fund

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

Avery Ee unde fais sjajeelsieie eieinteveters
Higbee, Harry, Memorial* ..........
jolyela ne siiel 5 uooasececasucenecc
Morrow) DwightaVVerce cer ctiteetaenier
MirtssintanmeAlired: ap. \.crerreirieieess-esieer
Olmsted> HeleniwAe here alee cis(ers +) secures
Poore, Lucy T. and George W.* .....
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ......
SantordsiGeoneer bles i cierestrisiet siserenere
Smithsonvp amesea- eer soe
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,
Research (Designated)* ...........

Stibtotaliccecarscconeeicetestanse se
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Forrest Roberts beellaeeeieee cence
GeneraljEndowmenttsauece sce cone:

Goddard Robertabive eoce essence
HabeliD ratSee - sekigere stare toveu shove ia sieve arsenite

Hartal\Gustayus Ee a: a ceveleicrernerereterstone
Henry; Garolinetaty.ciweumeeetsanee
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. .......
Heys; Maude Gin. tittacrentsacmre cena ve
HMinton,;uG@arrier SUSANU. ielcleleer clic
EambertabatlanGaaree scree sat
MedinusiGraceiLs ea eeieiyeecn ea
Rhees; William! Jones! . 2... 06-0) ose
Safford Glaraslouisesseraceeeooeece.
Smithsonian Bequest Fund ..........
Taggart iGansonveiieasc ce deere oe
Abbott, William L. (Designated) .....
Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) ...
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History

(Designated) aon cis ceiecn esses
Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) ..
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated)

Subtotal rae rere

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

Arthur? Jamesilwnate a caceabietientks
Baird, Spencer Fullerton ............
Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial .......
Batchelor sEmmapeape. seo miare
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial ....
Brown; RolandsiWiae. sactascumcsteteiei tre
Gan freldiibredertcle Aca serait seni
Gasey,; Thomas Lincolninnc-s4 +e
Chamberlain, Frances Lea ...........
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology .......
Division of Mammals Curators Fund .
DrakelEoundationyem ea ecenclscea care
Dykes, Charles, Bequest ............
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort .......
Freer: ‘Charles* i hiceoe ase ek eee
Grimm) SergeiiNn, sci: cyise ok crisis seit
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ...

Hamilton: ilames* aca. ceiectestecioecmne acters

Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund
Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund .....
Hewitt), Sarah Goopen! ceed sees
Hitchcock vAllbertio «eee ences
Hodgekins@bund?) saecemiecteres etree

Principal
Book Market
value value

$ §=689,352 $= «113,989
25,024 31,864
72,318 78,587
263,547 312,004
48,746 57,320
1,574 2,001
337,774 444,498
546,178 723,771
2,798 3,348
541,380 541,380
879,678 1,171,640
2,808,369 3,480,402
2,509,445 2,181,148
23,379,368 23,553,292
19,853 172273
500 500
1,170 1,292
2,902 3,188
117,129 127,514
239,183 212,238
61,299 62,010
109,434 113,905
2,362 pystalal
1722) 1,826
108,079 99,134
40,501 37,096
933 1,208
284,473 309,165
2,384 2,584
1,155,986 1,070,774
7,648 8,198
10,034 9,212
28,054,405 27,813,668
$30,862,774 $31,294,070
$ 76,298 $ 101,264
69,700 90,519
54,711 72,566
77,648 75,062
93,459 101,405
62,364 69,595
74,528 111,570
29,922 32,510
53,717 71,251
27,688 27,662
4,103 4,267
383,447 384,778
102,757 111,603
20,733 27,492
18,908,174 20,471,689
73,364 63,979
280,426 261,285
3,277 3,596
753 900
16,524 16,427
97,777 96,965
3,017 4,057
100,000 100,000

Income
Unex-

Net pended

income balance
$ 4,940 $ —0—
1,423 —0—
10,183 —Oo—
8,037 —0—
2,350 —O0—
82 —0—
18,734 —0—
29,680 —0—
158 —0—
32,483 —0—
48,023 48,979
156,093 48,979
89,442 —0—
880,174 —0—
708 —0—
30 —0—
53 —0—
131 —0—
5,229 —0—
8,703 —0—
2,543 —0—
4,671 —0—
87 —0—
86 —0—
4,065 —0—
601 —0—
49 —0—
12,678 1,424
106 3,285
43,909 51,538
961 4,115
378 776
1,054,604 61,138
$ 1,210,697 $ 110,117
$ £153, 8,854
3,712 8,166
2,976 17,413
3,078 34,158
4,158 18,082
2,854 16,477
4,575 214
isco 1,847
2,922 11,954
1,101 959
175 3,171
15,686 45,832
4,576 21,819
gs Py 11,661
839,484 572,009
656 669
10,714 11,460
195 399
37 261
674 726
3,976 4,253
166 851
6,000 13,073
u
Principal
| Book Market
| Fund value value
lalicka, PES WATCHIN LATIG fe cieielctotetscrets cee oes 112,961 126,069
135) BMG doceqgonodse decceeueeaaooor 36,518 48,487
anson, Seward, Trust Fund for
| TEETER Besaponcande tno aso bapoagar 7,803,670 8,514,478
Hllogg, Remington, Memorial ............. 58,276 52,513
2 LE. INFAIE? sené6o Berge CML SCD ICI ROO EEOC 6,375 6,628
hdsey, Gage IS aes oeeeoeo oa ect ecoOOr 11,380 10,272
Bxwell, Mary E. ........--.--0- esses sees 37,421 49,679
iliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ............ 488 483
SEeIPENCUOWMIENL cian siecle cts icicle ee missle 220,977 223,111
PETE MIPAU NLR ANTD WAGs te. « isso ei oireiesvagensiars le aleve iayns 30,050 30,521
httural History and Conservation .......... 39,872 39,722
Mem edward William ............-s:20s 44,982 56,258
trocelli, Joseph, Memorial ..............-. 14,150 18,844
RUMMPVCLCLISOT MUP ssa eieid crcl ac bie crest ies e615 eienare 53,452 57,105
ue TEC Ap adeesdodde sdeocmecono cada 230,223 303,901
lins, Miriam and William ............... 431,978 506,336
fryock Endowment for Docents ........... 1,516 1,440
BMECOLC CIV oie c.cieis cis aisie aves sicie cere sjarsiels 5,186 4,452
frague ESR! ob Vookao Domo COD pO UpOsomo OD or 3,007,384 3,027,731
SME TD ATNCN fereleye: ace a%s) orc. exersis(eiwine@isiaiels wie 34,482 45,349
re Harold P:, Memorial <.3. 562 sec ccicne ss 317,303 321,329
f-venson, John A., Mycological Library .... 11,495 12,390
jalcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,
) .teGcil OU bo Oto Sng DBRT ar oie arrerare 277,444 315,443
jalcott Research Fund, Botanical
MESMEAL ONG ANS are roc eis ta teleeie aid season Se eiahs 109,852 141,144
Senee Erances Brinckle .. 6.0. .0006ss000.+ 1,809 2,385
BE PeeE ALES Let eee acts tatis ros overs She evens eye sisrelenens 33,513,631 36,216,512
ESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Bastrong, Edwin James .........000.0.000- 6,260 6,159
SES ERTT ET MEO LUTE oes iecu oie ai clishase coi olailetavatoyatrorave dats 48,050 41,962
SPV ATP INIA DULAY 6/210 <5)s)ce)s se esc o. 213,564 210,609
METAS EOL SCO.) cicicinis elev vc¥s aicis ies stats ce erste 367,310 364,524
oc Lage. eC as Sead eiemae teen ocae 22,725 24,938
PRIS OLA OTIG ieterare fe clea) cceleen ls sciaisls Sislarait 2,844 2,964
lichenberg, George P. and Caroline ........ 9,714 11,080
finson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. ..... 21,219 23,045
REP ROTO eee ayernic tal terslais azote sev oie 15,690 17,049
Einterdon Endowment ..............-+ee0- 6,956,321 7,417,421
rete, ee EEMIMOLE) 6 os sieves vies orien a 18,687 17,063
MEPL OSES ciel Ue ayes isos ci sitl csaca'ie/ctloya Seite Snails se 208,781 228,556
ieeeAnnette E. and EdithG, .......0 02... 1,040 1,412
merGatherine Walden. ........0..0.-s00008 48,226 52,382
2S, IStaS 1) eee Ane ie ee eA 2,336 2,640
MSMMEPATEITI® RIGS) Gi csric\svctars jones =) se reicts:eselers 22,623 19,773
Sme@ormelia Livingston ..........-0+ 00 c20ss 17,728 19,338
imsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* .... 693,040 648,079
Athbun, Richard, Memorial ............... 25,425 27,707
Sealing Solar Research ........5.0c0000%5. 58,285 59,572
MME SESE ENA IV A igs texts cas avs) arefors lst ©, Susie avers ioral aterase 72,870 66,494
BRECON ATC Pit iss, oe eos ara 50 sia rts) sloians oles 18,510 20,043
MMPPALEIION oea.cciecinewie cease oes xraeie as 1,459,261 1,440,168
nithsonian Agency Account ............... 439,627 430,981
MN CELE AN INE) Sc asie Rois fab Jaros wyeke/ erp Iw: Sie-fove miocare cd syeohe 23,898 26,036
itherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial ........ 307,885 334,078
RPUICO TAN eee valAare aja avee etelesse-aiswaesier 11,081,919 11,514,073

$44,595,550

$47,730,585

$79,024,655

TasLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981—continued

Income

Unex-

Net pended

income balance
5,170 7 ,A92
1,988 17,237
375,889 619,376
2,141 6,459
272 1,471
799 4,209
2,037 10,982
20 20
9,149 124
a 252, 2,705
1,539 —0—
2,307 2,477
Fb i 15,628
Zool 12,182
12,462 266
20,520 21,191
59 94
91 91
122,707 2,317
1,860 25,423
13,170 19,038
508 320
12,762 15,615
5,788 7,657
98 2,945
1,510,240 1,599,627
253 253
72 1,831
8,636 31,556
14,948 —0O—
999 —0—
121 1,008
454 950
945 4,338
699 5,972
308,383 191,781
700 9,219
9,372 19,717
58 328
2,148 4,932
108 1,314
811 853
793 625
26,762 5,145
1,136 17,724
2,443 5,740
PH f Oy Fel)
821 9,172
59,057 160,147
17,059 —O0—
1,068 1,623
13,700 6,666
475,922 489,227

$ 1,986,162

$ 3,196,859

Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

$ 2,088,854

$ 2,198,971

Total Return Income payout; does not include $218,000 of interest income for investment of unexpended in-

come balances

Fund

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

IN ing) Ail h. Sunbiaoeeada babe doaddoNdo cogs
Higbee, Hanryy, Memiorialt isc 1)-ichesiaeicirie
lodekins bungie: occrteveeverciarrsia/rrereiereseatetets
Morrow) DiwightiVVence ciscsistesteraecnrtercrete ste
Mussinan;, Alfred’ 4% .).-stcjttecatete-c 0 craps ste Stareeevace
@lmsted’ Atelem-Az) = srsieecmucsecvere ordtouamte orctoveretere
Poore;, Lucy, I. and George \W.* a... <6 ee
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial .............
Sanford, Georgestie” cect ts iinet rane ore
Smithson; JiamMestin cancers cxcternorcieester teers star
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,
Research. (Desiprated) = ertccieetieiariereereier:
Subtotal): sictnc cnet tenies ae eee

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Forrest: (Robertokeelecccceacs hone eee
Generalibndowmenteiecee seen
Goddard jRobertabine] lence einer ne eee
Habel, Dir) Siee) co meeictosavatetouesevcucl nei avecerevelavotenerees
Hart. 'Gusftavus, Bosse aot ontere cere eee
Henry, ‘Garoline (jc. isa ais eave anni svertaras
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. ..............
Heys; Maude Gigs nee e teciteeiemictotsicte siaameys
Hinton), (Gamnie Susan miscicieenuseeiiinciaietae sine
Lambert#PaulaiGe ance stench ee nae ee eke
Medinits,,Grace Ts. fs 15 sce tstomsensers ahorey ard toi
Rhees)) Williammonests> scien cries
Safford, iGlaranl:ouise@: 7.306 Gee eee
Smithsonian Bequest: Fund... es. seen ecie
Taggart, iGansone eye: erie kt oeiehelete neo eteratey ster
Abbott, William L. (Designated) ............
Barstow, Frederic D. (Designated) ..........
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History
(Designated) .'hii's nastics sarc eee eaten
Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated) .........
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) .......

Subtotal’ 45h se oaselet ane ote nee

Total Unrestricted Purpose ...............

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

Arthur, James (2.8 s.ictioe feds ostier oale ears
Baird; ‘Spencer Eullertony ora.
Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial... waa deen
Batchelorweminanbae acdsee eee
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial ...........
Brown; RolandiWayachiacscn eokvcreitebiharc cere
Canfield, Frederick “A vas. osncrae sarees
Gasey, Thomas: Lincolnysiee does sete
Chamberlain, Erancesileatas sc oeeceiioc eae
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology ..............
Division of Mammals Curators Fund ........
Drake Eoundation™ +. >. cassette Soe ine eters
Dykes, Gharles” Bequest}is acing cietictse cterncisiciel
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ..............
Freer, ‘Charles pets nee tae aston tat or tle
Grimm, (GergeiiNe seistaceters craereterereteie ors tations
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence ..........
Hamilton, James® :\ joc cccionl ee teeta
Henderson, Edward P., Meteorite Fund ......
Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund ............
Hewitt, Sarah (@ooper trasareierietes/televetorsteicners
Flitchcocks Albert) S:s-nieaare ittacinecteeiterrees
Hodgkins“Fund*®> Oiiicccte centile a ereciecen ote.

TaBLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
value value income balance

89,352 $ 113,989 $ 4,940 $ —0—
25,024 31,864 1,423 —O0—
72,318 78,587 10,183 —O0—
263,547 312,004 8,037 —0—
48,746 57,320 2,350 —O0—
1,574 2,001 82 —0—
337,774 444,498 18,734 —0—
546,178 723,771 29,680 —0—
2,798 3,348 158 —0—
541,380 541,380 32,483 —0—
879,678 1,171,640 48,023 48,979
2,808,369 3,480,402 156,093 48,979
2,509,445 2,181,148 89,442 —O—
23,379,368 23,553,292 880,174 —0—
19,853 V7 270 708 —O—
500 500 30 —0—
1,170 1,292 53 —0—
2,902 3,188 131 0
117,129 127,514 5,229 —0—
239,183 212,238 8,703 —0—
61,299 62,010 2,543 —0—
109,434 113,905 4,671 —O—
2,362 2 LA 87 —O0—
aba ei74 1,826 86 —0—
108,079 99,134 4,065 —0—
40,501 37,096 601 —0-
933 1,208 49 —0—
284,473 309,165 12,678 1,424
2,384 2,584 106 3,285
1,155,986 1,070,774 43,909 51,538
7,648 8,198 961 4,115
10,034 9,212 378 776
28,054,405 1,054,604 61,138

$30,862,774

$

31,294,070

$

1,210,697

$

110,117

76,298
69,700
54,711
77,648
93,459
62,364
74,528
29,922
53,717
27,688

4,103
383,447
102,757

20,733
18,908,174

$

101,264
90,519
72,566
75,062

101,405
69,595

111,570
32,510

27 ,662
4,267
384,778
111,603
27,492
20,471,689
63,979
261,285
3,596
900
16,427
96,965
4,057
100,000

fr

Qe
oON
G9 ew
aod Ww

Uw OH
aun
& ©

PNF BN PWN
= is seid L
QN
Qn

oaNON
QAunrRN

wi OarF wo
1

NN
“I

[on

$

8,854
8,166
17,413
34,158
18,082
16,477
214
1,847
11,954
959
3,171
45,832
21,819
11,661
572,009
669
11,460
399
261
726
4,253
851
13,073

TasLe 13. Endowment Funds September 30, 1981—continued

nS

Principal Income
Unex-
Book Market Net pended
Fund value value income balance
ES
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie ................+. 112,961 126,069 5,170 7,492
Hughes, Bruce ......-----+esseeeeeeeeeeeee 36,518 48,487 1,988 17,237
Johnson, Seward, Trust ond for
on TOSEERIY Qe SOB Bp Cede SUUmEa ac amecesaan 7,803,670 8,514,478 375,889 619,376
Kellogg, Remington, Memorial ............. 58,276 52,513 2,141 6,459
3 ORGEN 55 260500 000BNS BODO eE SoC Oneoes 6,375 6,628 272 1,471
|. so), (sig bbe” pe Sggbespebecoprorercane 11,380 10,272 799 4,209
oe or. AVETS7 12ers 37,421 49,679 2,037 10,982
Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ............ 488 483 20 20
Mineral Endowment ..........0....eeeeeee- 220,977 223,111 9,149 124
MMMESIMAU NUIT AGUA «oie. 5) ots eiereisicreisie's oie 0 ns 30,050 30,521 1,252 2,705
Natural History and Conservation .......... 39,872 39,722 1,539 —0—
WelsoueEdward William ................... 44,982 56,258 2,307 2,477
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ................ 14,150 18,844 773 15,628
FRPP MIGOMNOUM ts fo che ces <vieve sc susie ee oae oe 53,452 57,105 2,551 12,182
NNTP ED NIAC Meteors is) -\a 00)» o(oreuslw) 70 \eistaye) ajecooi 230,223 303,901 12,462 266
Rollins, Miriam and William ............... 431,978 506,336 20,520 21,191
Shryock Endowment for Docents ........... 1,516 1,440 59 94
BMMEGGEOICE VV. 6.2 ee eect ete e eevee 5,186 4,452 91 91
Sprague UGG ob tb bac COGS COE Goer ae 3,007,384 3,027,731 122,707 2,317
MRE ATLICN ole) wi-ie os) v!s cies ois nie nies eiiecs 34,482 45,349 1,860 25,423
Stemieriarola’P., Memorial ............-.... 317,303 321,329 13,170 19,038
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library .... 11,495 12,390 508 320
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux,
MEER ARN UTS) 8 yooh, sala as, a) 8 je\/01 sila Losieye\le se 277 444 315,443 12,762 15,615
Walcott Research Fund, eoenical
 ) EL DRG > oo Ge OI eee 109,852 141,144 5,788 7,657
Popmeeeerances brinckle .....2...02.0sc0es% 1,809 2,385 98 2,945
AREER SEAL I sev cTies (arot's falc sororay sl ecaven see 33,513,631 36,216,512 1,510,240 1,599,627
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
Asnstzone, Edwin James ............-..-.-- 6,260 6,159 253 253
io (ace? TEST 5a 48,050 41,962 W721 1,831
Beceem meinia PUTAY 5... 062 cece ese stews 213,564 210,609 8,636 31,556
EMME OLE ENE, |< visfe'sie vic cise ss ae esis aa carats 367,310 364,524 14,948 —0—
Das: tue, Ear) a 22,725 24,938 999 —0—
SEPM OTM Ax 1 tileve oa oclorc diie lewis ole wees s 2,844 2,964 121 1,008
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline ........ 9,714 11,080 454 950
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. ..... 21,219 23,045 945 4,338
Hillyer, Virgil 2 oct atric GIONS Fie SIGE EEREIOM Oe on 15,690 17,049 699 5,972
Emerdorn Endowment .......0..000.ses0- 6,956,321 7,417,421 308,383 191,781
Weemetiee, Ro Fenimore ...<.0..0.sceeeee0s 18,687 17,063 700 9,219
(+. oO LDITRS ooo ge eee eee 208,781 228,556 9,372 19,717
Long, meanetteves and Edith G. .. 25.066. 06 am. 1,040 1,412 58 328
Myer, SEPRETING VVALGOM, c!sciene.ciseu oe 206 000s 48,226 52,382 2,148 4,932
MEERA cs cca elec see wccceews 2,336 2,640 108 1,314
Mememeanline Riggs .........c0ccccseseeeas 22,623 19,773 811 853
Eelmeomelia Livingston ...............:... 17,728 19,338 793 625
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton* .... 693,040 648,079 26,762 5,145
Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ............... 25,425 27,707 1,136 17,724
Roebling Solar Research .............0.0005 58,285 59,572 2,443 5,740
co ote) 72,870 66,494 2,727 7,733
BMEEEON ATA Pons oc ose nce ec seeneccees 18,510 20,043 821 9,172
BEMEEMMPATHETION, 000 occs ce seiscvescv ce cases 1,459,261 1,440,168 59,057 160,147
Smithsonian Agency Account ............05- 439,627 430,981 17,059 —0—
Strong, Ma DEP Ne Spr ies) ies arcin « ey dard wistone 23,898 26,036 1,068 1,623
Witherspoon, Thomas A., Memorial ........ 307,885 334,078 13,700 6,666
OULUSUET ote ee eo 11,081,919 11,514,073 475,922 489,227

prvaheyerarefe vce aa Waterers $44,595,550 $47,730,585 $ 1,986,162 $ 2,088,854
TOTAL ENDOWMENT BUIN DSi aie csaterhaeverctels $75,458,324 $79,024,655 $ 3,196,859 $ 2,198,971

—————— ——<=———
*
Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

Ld
Total Return Income payout; does not include $218,000 of interest income for investment of unexpended in-
come balances.
Related Organizations

The Smithsonian Science Information Exchange, Inc. (ssre) has
served as a national source for information on research in progress
since its founding in 1949. Incorporated by the Smithsonian in 1971
as a nonprofit entity, sstE received funding through an annual con-
tract from the Smithsonian, equal to the appropriation provided the
Smithsonian for this purpose. Since fiscal year 1980, appropriations
for the exchange have been made to the Department of Commerce
in anticipation of the integration of the functions of ssrE into the
National Technical Information Service. During this period, the
Smithsonian has continued to provide the exchange with adminis-
trative and fiscal services on a contract basis. As a result of federal
hiring freezes and budgetary reductions, plans for integration have
been indefinitely postponed. In view of the substantial financial un-
certainty faced by ssie and its effect on the future ability of the ex-
change to operate in an effective manner, the ss1e Board of Directors
resolved that ssre would cease operations no later than October 30,
1981. The database and other physical assets of the exchange are
scheduled to be transferred to the Commerce Department, and plans
are proceeding to dissolve the corporation.

Reading is Fundamental, Inc. (r1F), associated with the Institution
since 1968, is an independent, separately incorporated entity dedi-
cated to the improvement of reading abilities in children. Primary
support is derived from private contributions and a federal contract
with the Department of Education to operate the federal Inexpen-
sive Book Distribution Program. Administrative services are pro-
vided by the Institution on a contract basis.

The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts were established by Congress within the Institution
but are administered by separate boards of trustees. Independent
financial reports are prepared by each of these organizations. Office
space and fiscal and other administrative and support services are
provided the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars on
a reimbursement basis.

The Friends of the National Zoo (FoNz) is an independent, non-
profit corporation working closely with the National Zoological
Park. It operates, under contract, a number of beneficial concessions

54 / Smithsonian Year 1981

for the National Zoo; Fonz provided concession and rental fees to
the Zoo amounting to approximately $202,000 during calendar year
1980 (FoNz’s fiscal year). In addition, Fonz contributed other impor-
tant financial and volunteer support to Zoo programs. Financial
affairs of this organization are disclosed separately elsewhere in
Smithsonian Year 1981.

Accounting and Auditing

The nonappropriated trust funds of the Institution are audited an-
nually by an independent public accounting firm; the report of
Coopers & Lybrand is contained in the following pages. Additional
reviews are conducted annually on a number of Smithsonian activi-
ties by the internal audit staff. Additionally, the Defense Contract
Audit Agency conducts an annual audit of grants and contracts re-
ceived from federal agencies, as well as their allocated administra-
tive costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Regents met during the
year pursuant to their responsibility, under the bylaws of the Insti-
tution, for reviewing the Smithsonian’s accounting systems and in-
ternal financial controls; for facilitating communication between the
Board of Regents and auditors from the internal audit staff, the in-
dependent accounting firm, and the General Accounting Office; and
for reviewing operations of the Institution for compliance with ap-
proved programs and policies.

Financial Report / 55
Smithsonian \

: dauonal
lostitution wie mi

be eee eR aaehice Park Service

5 war)
Siete \,

Traditional music, dance, crafts, and demonstrations are presented at the Festival of
American Folklife, an annual celebration of the cultural traditions of this country.
Supported by a combination of outside gifts and grants, the Institution’s non-
appropriated trust funds, and federal appropriations, the Festival reflects the
diversity of funding sources for the Institution’s programs. Sampled here, from the
1981 Festival, are dancers whose performances were designed to introduce hearing
audiences to concepts of deaf communication (top), and Ojibwa Indians from the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan who demonstrated canoe making on the National Mall.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have examined the balance sheet of the Trust Funds of Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1981 and the related state-
ment of financial activity for the year then ended. Our examination
was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
and, accordingly, included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We previously examined and reported upon the
statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution for the
year ended September 30, 1980, totals of which are included in the
accompanying financial statements for comparative purposes only.

The statements of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution
do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of Art, the
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts or other depart-
ments, bureaus and programs administered by the Smithsonian In-
stitution under federal appropriations as detailed in Note 2 to the
financial statements.

In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended
September 30, 1981, referred to above, present fairly the financial
position of the Trust Funds of Smithsonian Institution as of
September 30, 1981, and the results of operations and changes in
fund balances for the year then ended, in conformity with gen-
erally accepted accounting principles applied on a basis consistent
with that of the preceding year.

COOPERS & LYBRAND

1800 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036
December 2, 1981

Financial Report / 57
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Balance Sheet

September 30, 1981
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1980)

Current
funds
ASSETS:
GET RES ONG ete PIMA OLE MEDD ECC MITIIMR EE CUNY ol $ 1,092,016
Investmentsi(Notes)3 and 5)) oe a. se eee ecko eee eee 28,526,435
Receivables(Note’ 4)) | anak oauseeen anes ee ae Meee ee 12,618,660
Interfund: receivables .)5) a5.) sta sore arcs sea ee —
Merchandise inventory (Note 1), of). 2%.u.6)-alt ane eee 7,464,010
Prepaid and deferred expense (Note 1) ................-- 7,534,919
Property and equipment (Notes 1 and 6) ................. 1,420,486
$58,656,526
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses ................. $ 8,121,769
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) . 1,958,329
Interfand« payables! 2.2/3). aie .d siete ccs Goes ¢ ohe  t 8,270,529
Deferredreventie, (Note D)) 3.6 bs. cin tae oe e ecites es ae 16,712,953

Total iabilities!*: Scotts ote ee ee eee Oe 35,063,580

FUND BALANCES (Note 1):

Current:
Unrestricted sceneralupunposele oe. ee eine eee ee 5,042,459
Special purpose oc ié.. a3) seo vss e 1 nsies los ai giees eee 12,599,061
Restricted th. 2 bach ule ate stand ao eine Mate Cn ne a Oe 5,951,426
Endowment and similar funds) (Noter5) a een 15 eee oo
Riant funds! (NOG) icin. «tno certs locus ire a
Total#funds balances i spices sateen ei ere Gece ieee 23,592,946

$58,656,526

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

58/ Smithsonian Year 1981

Endowment

and similar

funds Plant funds Total, all funds Totals, 1980

$ 36,625 $ = $ 1,128,641 $ 81,122
74,707,523 —_— 103,233,958 85,693,264
35,794 _— 12,654,454 11,089,622
678,382 7,992,147 8,270,529 4,272,661

—_— —_— 7,464,010 6,244,380

—- —_ 7,534,919 7,294,999

—_ 14,024,283 15,444,769 14,012,745
$75,458,324 $21,616,430 $155,731,280 $128,688,793
$ — $ 304,763 $ 8,426,532 $ 5,968,872
= — 1,958,329 1,218,910

aS = 8,270,529 4,272,661

= — 16,712,953 17,063,378

_— 304,763 35,368,343 28,523,821

— = 5,042,459 5,000,736

— —_— 12,599,061 9,895,106

— _ 5,951,426 4,675,330
75,458,324 —_ 75,458,324 64,422,312
_ 21,311,667 21,311,667 16,171,488
75,458,324 21,311,667 120,362,937 100,164,972
$75,458,324 $21,616,430 $155,731,280 $128,688,793

Financial Report / 59
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Statement of Financial Activity

Year ended September 30, 1981

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1980)

REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Auxiliary activities revenue
Federal grants and contracts
Investment income (net of $362,585 for management

and custodian fees)
Net gain on sale of securities
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants
Additions to plant fund
Rentals, fees, commissions and other

CLatwielaiieis! ailelie je; is o16, (ele) e| sie 'e

wate, 0/0, 80, \e) 6:0) .0n'e' @lleju ei eh seis te) \e\\ele .«
iw) Ula te (a lia .e ts) (eles wilelielie (8) «Ve
A) io) (8; 0) 0.0 calm ee (a
©|,u)s ai ‘ei fe, a iwi)'e-e \0).u\/s)16]/ patel e)ieile! ie) 'en\n ie

Total revenue and other additions

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:
Research and educational expenditures
Administrative expenditures
Auxiliary activities expenditures
Expenditures for acquisition of plant
Retirement of indebtedness
Interest on indebtedness
Endowment reimbursement (Note 5)

©) ws) (0 O16)(6) @) em) witel ie) erelelekehe ss
elvis es) els .8) sie (es) 0) a ies ie
aye) lu) e)ie..s/cel/eleh eis’ eie)(u) sie) e\'e\e) els
eo} 6) (ele ei laie (ela elye' sie) 6 )\01/@) |e, =)\n\ «(6 1a! fe

a je iseele @ = si sheln

Total expenditures and other deductions ..

Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—

ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS) :
Mandatory principal and interest on notes
Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) .
Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund.
Future plant acquisitions
Income added to endowment principal
Appropriated as quasi endowment
For designated purposes
Net increase in auxiliary activities

ui lel u (p) a) Je) e001 ‘el le) @ [s) |= /6Je\\6. eels .0 (6

Total transfers among funds

Net increase for the year
Fund balances at beginning of year

ajje\} Sie. =ihe] 6)\/6:/'8i)e val cwie,

Fund balances at end of year

Total
current

funds

$ 87,052,047

14,171,827

7,517,027

4,420,917

2,540,536
115,702,354

23,912,377
9,095,394
72,650,533

105,258,304

10,444,050

(23,970)
(1,214,397)
(242,598)
(2,243,524)
(107,988)
(2,549,799)
(40,000)

(6,422,276)

4,021,774

LO S772,
$ 23,592,946 $17,641,520 $ 5,042,459

Total

unrestricted

funds

$87,052,047

4,165,614

1,442,526

1,731,527
94,391,714

7,712,912
5,731,672
72,650,533

86,095,117

8,296,597

(23,970)
(454,289)
(242,598)

(2,243,524)
(2,549,799)
(36,739)

(5,550,919)

2,745,678

14,895,842

Current fund

Unrestrict 5 d

Gener, al
purpose

$

(413,664)
(242,598)
(2,243,524)
(2,521,053)
(4,465,160)
10,978,755

1,092,756

41,723
5,000,736

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

60 / Smithsonian Year 1981

Endowment

Auxiliary Special and similar Totals, Totals,
activities purpose’ Restricted funds Plant funds all funds 1980
33,719,087 $ 3,332,960 $ = — $ — $ 87,052,047 $ 74,251,010

— noe 14,171,827 — —_ 14,171,827 12,946,943

— 629,497 3,001,413 — 638,992 8,156,019 6,407,402

— — —— 8,052,520 —_ 8,052,520 1,999,209
1,328,593 98,785 2,978,391 87,497 1,969,038 6,477 452 4,379,096
— —— — — 1,486,583 1,486,583 665,896

— 1,006,446 809,009 — —_ 2,540,536 2,220,072,
35,047,680 5,067,688 21,310,640 8,140,017 4,094,613 127,936,984 102,875,228
a 4,666,626 15,799,465 — = ZS, ON 2S 7. 24,472,580
2,966,312 484,267 3,363,722 a = 9,095,394 8,077,438
(05712531 1,938,002 — — — 72,650,533 63,079,852
—- — —_ — 1,480,557 1,480,557 623,691

— — — — 6,026 6,026 42,205

== — — 17,943 17,943 19,166

— — — 976,189 — 976,189 —
73,678,843 7,088,895 19,163,187 976,189 1,504,526 107,739,019 96,314,932
11,368,837 (2,021,207) 2,147,453 7 163,828 2,590,087 20,197,965 6,560,296
_ (23,970) aes = 23,970 _ =

_ (40,625) (760,108) 1,214,397 a =m Aah

—_— — —_— —_ 242,598 — —

— aa _ —— 2,243,524 — —

= = (107,988) 107,988 = ae =

— (28,746) — 2,949,799 —- — —
(390,082) 4,818,503 (3,261) ae 40,000 ae =
10,978,755) — — —- — — —
11,368,837) 4,725,162 (871,357) 3,872,184 2,550,092 — —
—_ 2,703,955 1,276,096 11,036,012 5,140,179 20,197,965 6,560,296

— 9,895,106 4,675,330 64,422,312 16,171,488 100,164,972 93,604,676

ooo eee

TT

Financial Report / 61

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS

Statement of Financial Activity
Year ended September 30, 1981
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1980)

REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Auxiliary activities revenue
Federal crantseandacontractsinns.ae tee ci eee
Investment income (net of $362,585 for management

and custodian fees)
Net gain on sale of securities ..................
Gifts, bequests and foundation grants ...........
Additions tomplantecunde remanence ria
Rentals, fees, commissions and other ...........

Total revenue and other additions ........

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER DEDUCTIONS:

Research and educational expenditures ..........
Administrative expenditures ....................
Auxiliary activities expenditures ................
Expenditures for acquisition of plant ............
Retirement of) indebtedness -aqecca--c ear
Interest on indebtedness
Endowment reimbursement (Note 5)

Total expenditures and other deductions

Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—

ADDITIONS (DEDUCTIONS):
Mandatory principal and interest on notes .......
Portion of investment yield appropriated (Note 5) .
Purchase of property and equipment for plant fund.
Euturesplantjacquisitionsm nee cine
Income added to endowment principal ..........
Appropriated as quasi endowment ..............
For designated purposes
Net increase in auxiliary activities ..............

Total transfers among funds .............

Net ancrease forthe wean sconce se ccceioe
Fund balances at beginning of year .............

Fund balances at end\of year 7.5.0. a5.- 4c «se

60 / Smithsonian Year 1981

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

Total
current

funds

$ 87,052,047

14,171,827

7,917,027

4,420,917

2,540,536

115,702,354

23,512,377
9,095,394
72,650,533

105,258,304

10,444,050

oF FN

_—
oOOoON
oN! 0

\o

Total
unrestricted

funds

$87,052,047

4,165,614
1,442,526

L 7 3Ajo2e
94,391,714

7 112,902,
5,731,672
72,650,533

86,095,117

8,296,597

(23,970)
(454,289)
(242,598)

(2,243,524)

(2,549,799)

(36,739)

$17,641,520

Current fund.
—

Unrestricte:
a,

Genera

purpose
——

3,536,117 =

15,148

725,081 ~
4,276,346 HT 8

3,046,286 b
2,281,093 j

5,327 ,379

(1,051,033

(413,664
(242,598
(2,243,524
(2,521,053
(4,465,160
10,978,755

1,092,756 i

41,723
5,000,736

$ 5,042,459

Endowment

Auxiliary Special and similar Totals, Totals,
activities purpose’ Restricted funds Plant funds all funds 1980
$83,719,087 $ 3,332,960 $ — §$ — $ — $ 87,052,047 $ 74,251,010

— — 14,171,827 — —- 14,171,827 12,946,943

—- 629,497 Syoolals — 638,992 8,156,019 6,407,402

— — “= 8,052,520 — 8,052,520 1,999,209
1,328,593 98,785 2,978,391 87,497 1,969,038 6,477 452 4,379,096
— — — — 1,486,583 1,486,583 665,896

— 1,006,446 809,009 — — 2,540,536 2,225,672
85,047,680 5,067,688 21,310,640 8,140,017 4,094,613 127,936,984 102,875,228
— 4,666,626 15,799,465 —— — ZS OUA oT 24,472,580
2,966,312 484,267 SoCo 722, a — 9,095,394 8,077,438
70,712,531 1,938,002 — — — 72,650,533 63,079,852
— —_— — — 1,480,557 1,480,557 623,691

-— — — — 6,026 6,026 42,205

= — -—— — 17,943 17,943 19,166

— — — 976,189 = 976,189 —
73,678,843 7,088,895 19,163,187 976,189 1,504,526 107,739,019 96,314,932
11,368,837 (2,021,207) 2,147,453 7,163,828 2,590,087 20,197,965 6,560,296
— (23,970) — — 23,970 — —-

— (40,625) (760,108) 1,214,397 — — —

— — — oa 242,598 — —_—

— —- — — 2,243,524 — —

— — (107,988) 107,988 — — —

— (28,746) — 2,549,799 — —_ —_
(390,082) 4,818,503 (3,261) — 40,000 — _—
(10,978,755) =e aa = a —_ a
(11,368,837) 4,725,162 (871,357) 3,872,184 2,550,092 — ==
— 2,703,955 1,276,096 11,036,012 5,140,179 20,197,965 6,560,296

— 9,895,106 4,675,330 64,422,312 16,171,488 100,164,972 93,604,676

$ — $12,599,061 $ 5,951,426 $75,458,324 $21,311,667 $120,362,937 $100,164,972

eee eee
LL —— ee

Financial Report / 61
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION—TRUST FUNDS
Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of significant accounting policies

Basis of presentation. The financial statements of Smithsonian Institution—
Trust Funds (Institution) have been prepared on the accrual basis.

Fund accounting. To ensure observance of limitations and restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Institution, the accounts of the Insti-
tution are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting.
This is the procedure by which resources for various purposes are classified
for accounting and reporting purposes into funds established according to
their nature and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund;
however, in the accompanying financial statements, funds that have similar
characteristics have been combined into fund groups. Accordingly, all finan-
cial transactions have been recorded and reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are reported in self-
balancing fund groups as follows:

Current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, repre-
sent the portion of expendable funds that is available for support of
Institution operations. Separate subfund groups of current unrestricted
funds have been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activi-
ties (representing primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smith-
sonian Associates Program, including the Smithsonian Magazine, and
museum shop sales) and for special purposes (representing internally
segregated funds for certain designated purposes). Amounts restricted by
the donor for specific purposes are also segregated from other current
funds.

Endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restric-
tions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be
invested and the income only be used. Also classified as endowment and
similar funds are gifts which will allow the expenditure of principal but
only under certain specified conditions and quasi-endowment funds.
Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board for
the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such
funds may be expended. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent
gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the prin-
cipal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the govern-
ing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the income
for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisitions
and funds expended for plant.

62 / Smithsonian Year 1981

All gains and losses arising from the sale, collection or other disposition of
investments are accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are
recorded. Income from investments is accounted for in a similar manner,
except for income derived from investments of endowment and similar funds,
which is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted,
as revenue in unrestricted current funds.

Inventories. Inventories are carried at the lower of average cost, computed on
a first-in, first-out method, or net realizable value.

Deferred revenue and expense. Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription,
which is one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian
Magazine are charged against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of art, living or other specimens. In accordance with the practice gen-
erally followed by museums, works of art and living or other specimens are
not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Property and equipment. Capital improvements and equipment purchased with
Trust Funds and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized in the
current unrestricted fund at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives of three to ten years. All other capital
improvements and equipment purchased with Trust Funds are expensed
currently.

Real estate (land and buildings) are recorded in the plant fund at cost, to
the extent that restricted or unrestricted funds were expended therefor, or
appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in the
Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at
nominal values. In accordance with the practice of many museums, depre-
ciation on buildings is not recorded.

Land, buildings, fixtures and equipment which were acquired with federal
funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial statements.

Government contracts. The Institution has a number of contracts with the
U.S. Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the
Institution. Contract revenue is recognized when billable or received.

Contributed services. A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made
significant contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s
programs. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these state-
ments since it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.

2. Related activities

The Trust Funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from
private sources, from federal grants and contracts and from certain business
activities related to the operations of the Institution.

Federal appropriations, which are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements, provide major support for the operations and administration of
the educational and research programs of the Institution’s many museums, art

Financial Report / 63
galleries and other bureaus, as well as for the maintenance and construction
of related buildings and facilities. In addition, land, buildings and other assets
acquired with federal funds are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements.

The following federal appropriations were received by the Institution for the
fiscal year ended September 30, 1981:

Operating ‘funds. i025. cacidaneesee ts cee eso slate oe a eee $122,478,000
Special fareien, CURTeNCy. program [wie ae 2s « sicceremee eet ee 3,650,000
GonsStrictionehundse sae ee se ee ee etek Be ea nee 15,829,000

$141,957,000

The Institution provides fiscal and administrative services to several separately
incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution serve
on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these orga-
nizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institution
facilities occupied, etc., totaled approximately $408,000 for the year ended
September 30, 1981. The following summarizes the approximate expenditures
of these organizations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1981 as reflected
in their individual financial statements and which are not included in the
accompanying financial statements of the Institution:

Smithsonian Science Information Exchange ................-+- $3,400,000
Reading Is" Fundamentals Inc) 3. .s.c5. > | sock ancien $8,900,000
Woodrow Wilson International Center

for Scholars—iTrust VEandsé). 2 se cee ee eee eee $3,200,000

The Institution is continuing to work with the U.S. Department of Commerce
to effect a transfer of the Smithsonian Science Information Exchange (Ex-
change) operations to the U.S. Department of Commerce. The Exchange has
ceased operations as of October 31, 1981 and is awaiting final approval of
fiscal year 1982 appropriations to sustain them in perfecting an orderly
liquidation.

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair market value at date of
acquisition, if acquired by gift. At September 30, 1981, investments are com-
posed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
Current funds:
Gertificatesofidepositys-mea eae aie $ 12,307,814 $ 12,307,814
Commercial jpaperdsccie acer veer ox 2,931,913 2,900,000
Overnight money market account ....... 1,785,000 1,785,000
U.S. government and quasi-government

obligations, (6.2 so,-k Qe crore cites 11,276,081 10,679,338
GZommontstocks. soe eee eee rr 169,280 117,835
Preferredsstocks.n see ean n eee 56,347 41,034

28,526,435 27,831,021

64 / Smithsonian Year 1981

Endowment and similar funds:

Roantovl:S. wlreasuny (97)... sf a es es 1,000,000 1,000,000

U.S. government and quasi-government
TISINPAIONS Sido eles 6U dbo oo Do modoE 8,487,773 7,984,259
Beene (DONS. fo ows sek te ec nee 7,959,718 7,434,129
PBGIITIMONEStOC Kaye teins core nin s cece a 55,986,140 60,745,716
PRETEEKERSLOCK ra to ae re eee ore ree 1,273,892 1,109,750
74,707,523 78,273,854

$103,233,958 $106,104,875

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the value per unit at
market value at the beginning of the month within which the transaction
takes place. Of the total units, each having a market value of $134.12, 289,797
units were owned by endowment and 291,564 units were owned by quasi-
endowment at September 30, 1981.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments:

Market
value
per
Market Cost Net change unit
BA OL Yat ©. i ee ois $77,972,161 $74,410,762 $ 3,561,399 $134.12
Beginning of year ....... $77,329,906 $63,371,084 13,958,822 136.08
Decrease in unrealized
PIP TANSMRECILIN@ AT ie) 5 fed 0, la/lo ils ei Aleta We she AM elaokes (10,397,423) —
meameed Net Sains fOr year 2... 66.56 ee clelele ws eden ae 8,052,520 _
Moralmetichange fOr year. fe. 6. + tse cmie wcities: oie $ (2,344,903) $ (1.96)
4. Receivables
Receivables at September 30, 1981 included the following:
Current funds
Accounts receivable, auxiliary activities; net of allowance
form doubtful accounts of $5395769 in! 1981 ..25.-2-.-..--5- $ 9,624,382
Unbilled costs and fees from grants and contracts .......... 626,972
inttecesteand! dividends receivable) .).2).. 25. as0s ec eens pore ce 1,707,940
BUREN OMS EST Ha onc hic roseiaieien ox Co stehedereus clay ofeinon eda fo lalcarevahatel stieansieratuts 659,366
12,618,660
Endowment and similar funds
Biaresmreceivable) mace ante sca neon sees entele peace see aie 35,794

Motalevallietind sits siseenccitsr cacpenat voi einrokctera so eis whee Pacey $12,654,454
5. Endowment and similar funds

Endowment and similar funds at September 30, 1981 are summarized as
follows:

Financial Report / 65
Endowment funds, income available for:

Restricted! purposesy acco s,s is0s)s suse retains ca teva SP ae ae Josh $33,513,631
Unrestricted purposes) .....s.c 12 sheer CeCe OL One 2,808,369
36,322,000

Quasi-endowment funds, principal and income available for:
Restricted: (panpyosesa ssa dlsuek aiae.2 aise sade tert oe. eile 11,081,919
Wnrestricted, purpOsess sisi adtyey ire sors aisioieta, chs tee ee) ole ol oe 28,054,405
39,136,324

Hotal.endowment andisimilarn funds) 5... 42+ 1c) ee $75,458,324

The Institution utilizes the “total return” approach to investment management
of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach, the
total investment return is considered to include realized and unrealized gains
and losses in addition to interest and dividends. An amount equal to the
difference between interest and dividends earned during the year and the
amount computed under the total return formula is transferred to or from the
current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such
factors, as, but not limited to: (1) 442% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2)
current dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scien-
tists and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index;
however, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less
than 110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation),
the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received. The
total return factor for 1981 was $5.50 per unit of fund participation. The total
return applied for 1981 was $3,128,478.

Endowment reimbursement represents payment of income, which had accu-
mulated in principal of the endowment funds, in accordance with a settlement
related to a lawsuit.

6. Property and equipment

At September 30, 1981, property and equipment which has been capitalized
(see Note 1) is comprised of the following:

Current funds

Capital improvements irc accion dante eo eee ore $ 1,712,318
Equipmientacetaek tc coined siomeesetecaie ahertovotersic ieee tolerance teen 1,059,153
Leéasehold@improvementsy 2 osc sais ocrocic 3 6c ei eie ene Oe 179,962
Less accumulated depreciation

Abid: AMOTUZATONN 25. foie cchararshaniea dane eo re sree Re eee 1,530,947
1,420,486

Plant funds
Landoand buildings ¢.04.54 a-.iews cece eee as: oo ees eee 14,024,283
HOtal)all"funds:...*: (cake See Shines peace see pene $15,444,769

66 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Depreciation and amortization expense reflected in expenditures of the cur-
rent funds for 1981 was $397,399.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1981 includes $7,463,658 of
unexpended plant funds.

7. Pension plan

The Institution has a retirement plan in which substantially all employees
of the Trust Funds are eligible to participate. Under the plan, both the Insti-
tution and employees contribute stipulated percentages of salary which are
used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately
vested with the employees. The cost of the plan for the year ended September
30, 1981 was $2,436,155. It is the policy of the Institution to fund plan costs
accrued currently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plan.

8. Income taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. The Internal
Revenue Service is presently considering a request for technical advice per-
taining to whether income derived from several of the Institution’s activities
is subject to tax as unrelated business income. If the Institution’s position is
upheld, no tax would be imposed on this income.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income
taxation. The Institution has not yet sought such dual status.

Management believes that any income taxes required as a result of settlement
of these matters would not have a material effect upon the financial position
of the Institution.

Financial Report / 67
In a behind-the-scenes shot of exhibition installation, workers are seen unpacking a
bronze Buddhist finial for display in the Evans Gallery at NMNH. The show 5000 Years
of Korean Art included gold crowns, Buddhist sculptures, celadon pottery, scroll paint-
ings, and other treasures from Korean museums, universities, and private collections.

Smithsonian Year - 1981

1 oi gl ll

DAVID CHALLINOR,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE

Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies

Estuaries include some of the most productive bodies of water in
the world. They are exceedingly complex systems because they
represent areas where fresh water from the land and salt water
from the oceans meet and interact. Scientists from the Chesapeake
Bay Center for Environmental Studies (cBceEs) are seeking to
understand how fresh water entering the Chesapeake Bay estuary
is influnced by the quality of rainfall and the types of land-use
patterns found in the bay’s watershed. The site for this work is
Rhode River, a tributary to the Chesapeake Bay, located near
Annapolis, Maryland. In conjunction with these efforts, education
programs of the center are developing methods and materials for
improving public understanding of these dynamic and important
ecological systems.

AIRSHED AND WATERSHED STUDIES

The chemical composition and volume of precipitation falling in
the Rhode River watershed have been measured by David Correll
since 1973 to evaluate the effects of precipitation on the ecosystem.
The relative importance of nitrogen loading due to both precipita-
tion and land runoff were evaluated for a five-year period. Year-
to-year variations were large, but in an average year the amount of
readily available nitrogen entering the estuary was about the same
as from precipitation, falling directly upon the water’s surface, and

69
land runoff from all sources. During the summer and fall, precipi-
tation was the largest source of nitrogen.

Runoff was compared for a one-year period from three small,
single land-use watersheds representative of the most abundant
land-use types on the watershed (forest, row crops, and cattle
pastures). Annual area yields of total phosphorus were over six
times as high for row crops as for forest or pastureland. Annual
area yields of total nitrogen were twice as high for pasture and
five times as high for row crops as for forest. A much higher
proportion of this nitrogen from the pasture and cropland was
nitrate. Total phosphorus in soil was higher in the pasture and
cornfield than in the forest, especially in subsoils, but total soil
nitrogen was lower in cropland surface soils than in the forest.
Soil nitrate was somewhat lower in the forest, but higher than
expected from discharge data.

ESTUARINE RESEARCH

In continuing studies of the benthic (bottom dwelling) invertebrate
communities of the Rhode River estuary, Anson Hines is investi-
gating the seasonal cycles and population dynamics of the twenty-
five major species of clams, crustaceans, and worms in the system.
The benthic communities undergo an annual cycle with a high
peak of recruitment in spring, followed by a rapid decline in sum-
mer, and a secondary, minor recruitment in fall. Warming water
temperatures in February and March probably stimulate the spring
burst of reproductive activity, which results in heavy larval settle-
ment and high densities of up to fifty thousand organisms per
square meter. Although all sampling stations exhibited this general
cycle, there has been considerable variation in the densities of
organisms between locations in the estuary.

The precise timing of the peak densities and declines also varies
between locations within a year and between years within a loca-
tion. Moreover, the species composition of the spring peak of
recruitment is highly variable between locations and between years.
For example, in 1980, the spring increase at some locations resulted
mainly from a massive settlement of a polychaete worm, Scole-
colepides viridis, which attained peak densities of over forty-five
thousand worms per square meter; whereas, in 1981, the spring
increase at other locations resulted in recruitment of high densities

70 / Smithsonian Year 1981

of the amphipod crustacean, Corophium lacustre. At other stations,
the recruitment was composed of a more balanced mix of several
species. Particular attention is being given to the five species of
clams in the estuary. One species, the brackish water clam
(Rangia cuneata), showed continued poor recruitment and popula-
tion decline; while the balthic clam (Macoma balthica) had a very
successful settlement of up to forty-five hundred clams per square
meter in 1981, but predators consumed most of the juvenile clams
during the summer. Other species of clams, including the commer-
cial soft clam (Mya arenaria), maintained more stable populations.
Survival of larger clams depends on the timing of their larval
recruitment relative to the activity of predators. Clams that settle
early in the spring or late in the fall, may have time to grow large
enough to burrow below the reach of predatory blue crabs and fish.
Stomachs of blue crabs contain large numbers of small clams early
in the summer, but few clams late in the summer.

In studies of fish populations of the Rhode River estuary, Hines
and Joseph Miklas have documented major declines of several key
species. Pickerel, which had an extremely successful year-class in
1980, show a complete year-class failure in 1981, probably as a
result of high salinities during a prolonged drought. Record high
salinities during the fall of 1980 also apparently prevented the
Rhode River population of carp from moving out of a shallow creek
and into deep water to spend the winter. About one thousand to
five thousand carp were trapped in the creek by the salinity wedge
during a prolonged winter cold spell. Nearly 800 carp died in the
frozen creek, but large numbers of carp were present in the creek
again in the summer of 1981. Populations of yellow and white
perch have continued to decline drastically; in 1981, no spawning
fish of either species were trapped in the area. Populations of other
species of minnows and juvenile fish remain plentiful in the Rhode
River estuary, however.

Anson Hines is also studying the evolutionary and ecological
inter-relationships of reproduction, growth, and size in the life
history strategies of crabs from the east and west coasts of North
America. Analysis of patterns of reproductive output in nineteen
species from seven families of crabs shows that weight of the egg
mass is evolutionarily limited by the volume of the body cavity to
about ten percent of the female’s body weight, but that egg size

Science / 71
and number of broods per season are major variables that regulate
fecundity. The relationship of egg size to rates of larval develop-
ment and growth to sexual maturity are being compared in five
species of spider crabs that have a wide range in mature size.

The movement of nutrients within the Rhode River ecosystem
was studied for a thirteen-month period by David Correll. Organic
matter, nitrogen, and phosphorus budgets were calculated among
the 2,300 hectares upland watershed dominated by agriculture and
secondary successional vegetation, 88 hectares of tidal marshes
and mudflats, and the estuarine open water basin. Less organic
matter moved out to the estuary (27 tonnes of carbon) than was dis-
charged into the intertidal zone from the watersheds (71 tonnes)
and deposited in precipitation (3.4 tonnes). Of the 2.7 tonnes of
phosphorus discharged from uplands into the intertidal zone, only
1.9 tonnes moved into the estuary. Generally, high discharges of
phosphorus from the watersheds were followed in a week or two
by high discharges into the estuary from the intertidal zone. Ortho-
phosphate constituted a significantly lower fraction of the phos-
phorus that moved into the estuary (38%) than of the phosphorus
that was discharged from the watershed (49%). Of the ten tons of
nitrogen that were discharged from the watershed into the intertidal
zone, only 7.4 tons moved into the estuary. These data indicate
overall removal and storage of nutrients from land runoff by the
intertidal zone. When land runoff was low, the intertidal zone
scavenged nutrients from tidal waters. Only when high runoff
occurred due to storms, were some of the stored nutrients flushed
from the intertidal zone.

Studies of the factors that affect the penetration of sunlight
into the estuary and of the effects of this light upon algae were
continued by Maria Faust and David Correll in cooperation with
Jack Pierce of the Museum of Natural History and William Klein
and Bernard Goldberg of the Radiation Biology Laboratory. Al-
though the spectral distribution of incident light is similar on
clear and cloudy days, the attenuation of this light in the water
column is much more rapid on clear days. The wave length of
maximum intensity and maximum percent penetration for down-
welling light shifted between 550 and 600 nanometers in cold
weather and between 600 and 650 nanometers in warm weather,
especially at times of high turbidity and in the presence of dense

72 / Smithsonian Year 1981
plankton blooms. Attenuation coefficients were also found to have
different patterns for clear sky conditions than for heavily over-
cast days. On clear days, attenuation declined steeply with depth
for all spectral bands. On cloudy days, the attenuation coefficient
declined with depth in the blue portion of the spectrum, but
increased with depth in the red end of the spectrum, while yellow
light or total downwelling light were attenuated at a constant
rate with depth. Generally, very little light penetrated to a depth
of 3 meters. Factors which affected light penetration the most were
cloud cover, wave height, suspended mineral particulate concen-
tration, and chlorophyll concentrations. Most of the variability in
light penetration could be explained by variations in ten parameters
which were measured at five locations, coincident with light meas-
urements each week for a complete year.

Measurements by Maria Faust in controlled growth chambers
indicated that a red tide, forming dinoflagellate species Prorocen-
trum mariae-leboriae, can utilize a wide range of wavelengths of
the visible spectrum for growth and pigment synthesis. In the
bottom waters, where only faint light of green and red wavelengths
is available, the number of P. mariae-leboriae and other species
are as numerous as those close to the surface. Studies are in
progress to determine the photosynthetic utilization of green to
orange radiation by P. mariae-leboriae and the role of such acces-
sory pigments as peridinin and chlorophyll c in this process.

Dennis Whigham, Margaret McWethy, and John O’Neill have
completed the first 21/2 years of a study to determine the impact
of mosquito ditching on the ecology of Chesapeake Bay brackish
wetlands. Extensive ditching produced no deleterious effects on
water quality parameters in adjacent estuarine water, and mosquito
populations were eliminated from the three experimentally treated
areas. Shifts in dominance patterns within the wetland vegetation
occurred in response to the ditching, and the changes were related
to the depth of the water table that was maintained in the experi-
mental areas. Water tables were maintained near the wetland
surface in one treated area, and only minor shifts in vegetation
occurred with Spartina patens (saltmarsh hay) becoming the domi-
nant species. Water tables were lower at the two other experi-
mental sites, and vegetation shifted to a dominance of Distichlis
spicata (Spike grass) in the first year. Two undesirable shrubby

Science / 73
species—Iva frutescens (Marsh elder) and Baccharis halimifolia
(Sea-myrtle)—invaded the two sites during the first year and
were the dominant species by the third growing season.

UPLAND ECOLOGY

Upland plant ecology projects were continued on long-term studies
of plant populations and on successional processes in forested
environments. One project focused on gaps produced in the forest
canopy by tree-falls. These events create small-scale disturbances
that provide sites for species colonization. Dan Higman and Dennis
Whigham have been monitoring recruitment, mortality, and growth
in several tree-fall gaps in the mature forests at cpces. They have
found that several species typical of young forests—Liquidambar
styraciflua (Sweet gum) and Liriodendron tulipifera (Tulip pop-
lar)—immediately invade the gaps, but that most do not survive
for more than one year. They have also found that the dynamics
of invasion and mortality vary in different parts of the gaps.
Understory shrubs and small-statured tree species are also impor-
tant in the dynamics of gap invasion because they have the
potential to increase rapidly in number by sprouting or clonal
spreading.

The dynamics of early successional environments are being
studied by Robert Tabisz and Dennis Whigham. One interesting
weed of cultivated fields is Ipomoea hederacea (Morning glory).
Ipomoea is almost an obligate species in corn fields and disappears
very quickly from fields that are abandoned. At the same time, an
enormous seed pool lies buried in the successional fields, insuring
that when fallow areas are returned to cultivation, Ipomoea be-
comes the dominant weed species again. Results of several experi-
ments have shown that Ipomoea is eliminated during the first
year after abandonment because it is an inept competitor for
nutrients due to a poorly developed root system. Plants that are
able to survive during the first year only rarely produce seeds so
that few propagules are produced in the first year. Since only
seeds on the soil surface will germinate, very few Ipomoea will
be present in the second and succeeding years.

Whigham and James Lynch have initiated detailed studies on
population dynamics of canopy trees with emphasis on the pro-
duction and survival of fruits of nut-bearing species. Preliminary

74 / Smithsonian Year 1981
results show that predation levels are very high, and that the suc-
cess of predators, mainly mice, in finding fruits is dependent upon
fruit density.

Lynch has been involved with projects concerning terrestrial ani-
mals, particularly insects, birds, and mammals. He and Whigham
have recently completed a study of the impact of habitat fragmen-
tation on forest bird communities in six Maryland counties. The
results indicate that many bird species, particularly those that
migrate to the neotropics during the nonbreeding season, react
negatively to reduced forest area, plant diversity and increased
isolation. Permanently resident bird species are much less likely
to be affected by these factors.

Lynch has continued his long-term studies of the structure and
dynamics of ant communities at cpces and comparative sites in
Florida and the Caribbean region. This research has attempted to
quantify the relative importance of season, time of day, habitat,
microhabitat, and food type in ecologically segregating ant species.
Additional experiments have been aimed at increasing the under-
standing of behavioral interactions as mediators of foraging
success in ants.

A continuing study by Lynch, Whigham, and Edward Balinsky
is documenting the impact of White-tailed deer (Odocoileus vir-
ginianus) on regeneration of forest trees in several study plots.
Preliminary results indicate that unusually high-density deer popu-
lations found on certain islands in Chesapeake Bay completely
suppress tree regeneration, but the more typical densities of deer
that occur at csces have relatively little impact on survivorship of
forest trees.

EDUCATION

Another primary goal of csces is increased understanding of the
relationship between people and their environments. In an educa-
tion context, both research and materials development have been
directed towards this end. In one recent example, John Balling,
John Falk, and Ruth Aronson collaborated with the education staff
and docents of the National Zoological Park (Nzp) to study the
effects of various pre-trip programs on student learning and
behavior on a single-visit field trip to the park. This eighteen-
month study involved approximately 950 fourth-grade children.

Science / 75
All children were pre-tested well in advance of their trip to the
Zoo. One week prior to their field trip, each class of students in the
experimental groups received one of nine pre-trip programs espe-
cially designed for this study by the education staff at nzp. The
major part of the students’ field trip was a highly structured
docent-led tour of the aquatic mammals section (Beaver Valley)
of the nzp. The tour included discussions of the aquatic adaptations
and habitat of the polar bear, California sea lion, gray seal, and
river otter. During the tour, observers recorded the behavior of
the children. Following the tour, students received two post-tests;
one several days later, and one approximately ninety days later
to test for longer term retention.

Three distinctly different types of pre-trip material and three
different kinds of presentation were factorially crossed for a total
of nine separate programs. Using the theory of advanced orga-
nizers, one set of pre-trip material included largely cognitive,
factual information about the animals the students were to see at
the Zoo. Another kit relied heavily on previous research done at
CBCES, suggesting that children need some orientation to a novel
environment before they can successfully attend to a prescribed
task. Therefore, the orientation kit presented information about
the appearance of the Zoo and the location of various animals, the
bathrooms, eating places, and gift shops, among other things. The
final type of material used was based upon zoo educators’ concern
that children learn to observe animals carefully, to note similarities
and differences in both structure and behavior. Through slides and
other tasks, this observation kit emphaized comparative looking
and detection of details.

Each type of pre-trip material was presented in the students’
home classroom in one of three ways: by a trained individual from
the Zoo who came to the classroom, by the classroom teacher who
had previously gone through a workshop explaining the material
and the nature of the field trip, and by the classroom teacher who
had simply been mailed the materials with instructions for their
use. Interest in these three presentation modes derives from the fact
that they represent considerably different amounts and types of
resource allocation on the part of a zoo (or any other similar in-
formal education institution). Sending a Zoo staff member out to
the classroom is expensive, time-consuming, and draws people

76 / Smithsonian Year 1981
away from duties at the park. Running teacher workshops is more
efficient, but it still takes considerable staff time. Clearly, mailing
materials to teachers places the least demand on the Zoo education
staff. However, the overriding concern is the quality of the
experience the children have at the Zoo. Only if one of the more
intensive techniques produced significantly better results would
there be a reason to expand energy and resources on it.

The results completed to date have shown that children can learn
a great deal from a trip to the Zoo; there were highly significant
gains from pre- to post-test in all groups who took the trip (and
none in the control group that did not take the trip). Further, almost
all of what was learned on the trip was retained for at least 90 days,
as the decline in test scores after this interval was very slight. Com-
pared to the learning that took place from the trip itself, the effects
of the pre-trip programs were relatively small; however, there were
some significant results. Overall, the orientation materials had the
strongest effect in that all groups receiving the orientation program
performed significantly better than controls. Although the cognitive
material provided some benefit, it tended to be specific to a subset
of items of the test involving conceptual information about aquatic
mammals. The observation materials, in general, had little effect.
There was also some tendency for the groups who received their
pre-trip program from a teacher with workshop experience to score
better than the groups whose presentations had been by Zoo per-
sonnel or by teachers with no workshop background. The results of
this study provide support for the notion that children have a strong
need to acquire general knowledge about the environments in which
they find themselves. If the environment is relatively novel, this
need to attend to the setting will interfere, to some degree, with
other tasks imposed upon them by a teacher or docent. However, a
pre-trip program that emphasizes environmental or setting informa-
tion and provides the children with some sense of the place they are
to visit can reduce this interference, thereby enhancing achievement
of the educational goals of the trip.

Another long-standing research interest at the csces has been
environmental influences on human behavior and ways in which
human preferences for various landscapes are formed. John Balling
and John Falk have been exploring the effects that man’s evolution-
ary history may have on these preferences. Underlying much of

Science / 77
their work is the hypothesis that human evolution, in large part,
took place along or near river courses in the East African savanna.
Preferences for natural settings with scattered trees, short grass, and
some type of water body may, therefore, reflect an innate prefer-
ence for the environment in which much of our biological (and psy-
chological) apparatus evolved.

Previous research by Balling and Falk has shown strong prefer-
ences by Americans for savanna-like settings. In order to validate
these findings in light of evolutionary, rather than cultural, influ-
ences, cross-cultural data was required. Falk collected data from
two populations of Nigerians living in the rain forest belt of West
Africa. These subjects shared very different cultural and environ-
mental experiences than the North American populations sampled.
Preliminary analysis of the data shows an overwhelming preference
by rural Nigerians for savanna over all other biomes sampled. Evi-
dence for an acclimatization preference for the biome most closely
resembling one’s native surroundings also showed up as in the
American samples. In this case, rain forest was the second most
preferred biome, while deciduous forest was ranked second by mid-
Atlantic Americans. These cross-cultural findings lend strong sup-
port to Falk and Balling’s evolutionary basis for landscape prefer-
ence theory.

The Smithsonian Family Learning Project (sFLP) is a series of
written educational materials designed to allow families to explore
the ecology of their homes and the science integral to their everyday
lives. Under the direction of John Falk, staff members Laurie Green-
berg and Jamie Harms are developing a series of learning activities,
focused on home-related subjects, for parents and their children to
do together at home. To date, activity packets have been developed
and tested in five areas: lawn, houseplant, and pet ecology; home
energy use; and food science. Each packet includes games, experi-
ments, and creative projects that provide the tools for families to
discover the dynamics of these systems in their home environment.
In one of the activities, families learn about the role of proteins in
different flours by baking bread. In another, they take on the roles
of pet owners and other community citizens to solve problems asso-
ciated with pet ownership.

As new activities are developed, they are trial tested by families
in both organized workshops and at home. Through a monthly ac-

78 / Smithsonian Year 1981
tivity mailing, Greenberg and Harms are able to gather evaluative
information from over 1,000 families across the country. Families
comment that sFtp activities are valuable tools for promoting qual-
ity interactions while providing fun and educational experiences for
the whole family.

The National Air and Space Museum

The National Air and Space Museum (NasM) has continued its
balanced program of research, exhibits, collections management,
education and public service, constantly monitoring its resources so
that the needs of each of these areas could be properly addressed as
conditions changed. In this regard, while the museum’s primary
effort has been expanding its research role, it has had to consider
the effects of the wear and tear occasioned by the fifty million per-
sons who have visited the building since its opening date, and upon
the routine mechanical problems that can be expected with any
facility as it ages.

The most evident results of Nasm’s research efforts lie in its
publications and exhibits. In the Aeronautics Department, the bien-
nial publication Aircraft Engines in Museums Around the World
was completed and distributed. This publication, which is published
alternately with its companion volume, Aircraft in Museums
Around the World, is widely used internationally, and is a very
much sought after publication. The Messerschmitt Me 262: An
Arrow to the Future, by Walter J. Boyne, was published jointly with
the Smithsonian Institution Press and Jane’s of England; this new
publication method opens a wider market for distribution and re-
sults in significantly lower unit publication costs. Several other
books have been completed in the course of the year, and will be
published next year.

The Aeronautics Department has made the preliminary plans for
a four-volume history of aviation, which will be completed over the
next several years. This is intended to be the definitive history of
aviation, and fills a long perceived need in historical research.

The Space Science and Exploration Department devoted much of

Science / 79
its effort to programs for researching and recording the history of
space activity. There has been instituted a continuing series of
seminars in which visiting and resident scholars delivered talks to
staff and guests in the museum. These covered the early develop-
ment of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, the history of meteoritics,
cosmic evolution, development of earth-resource monitoring satel-
lites, and early studies of turbulent fluid flow. A department-spon-
sored “‘proseminar” in May convened more than thirty persons from
around the country—nearly the entire field of historians studying
space programs—to discuss themes and methods in the history of
space studies. A popular symposium titled “Space Science Comes
of Age” brought a distinguished panel of twelve space-science
pioneers and historians together to discuss the recent history of
their field. A volume of essays published in advance under the same
title accompanied the public event.

With the aid of Regents Fellow James A. Van Allen, the depart-
ment helped to establish a special committee of the American Geo-
physical Union to foster the history of geophysics. Another of the
department’s curators will continue this line of research toward a
monograph history of cosmic ray studies. Dr. Van Allen completed
the bulk of a book on his early involvement in the first scientific in-
vestigation in space, which uncovered the intense belts of radiation
around the Earth that bear his name. He kindly submitted to four-
teen hours of oral history interviewing, which has been transcribed
and deposited in the museum’s oral history collection.

Research has increased at the Center for Earth and Planetary
Studies (cers) in lunar and planetary photogeology and in terres-
trial deserts, due to the addition of data acquired from the Voyager
and Landsat spacecraft. Close-up live pictures of Jupiter and Saturn
were shown to the public via closed-circuit TV during the Voyager
encounters, and copies of the images are being kept in the center’s
archives for researchers.

The interpretation of lunar orbital geochemical data, gathered by
the Apollo 15 and 16 missions, is continuing as an important ele-
ment in the analysis of lunar highland samples. As part of a “high-
lands initiative,” undertaken by Nasa to determine the origin of
Apollo 16 samples, research at the center has been instrumental in
establishing the extent of lunar nearside and farside rock types.

Several aspects of martian geology were presented at the Third

80 / Smithsonian Year 1981

International Colloquium on Mars. Distinctive terrestrial desert
landforms present in the Western Desert of Egypt were compared
with analogous features seen in Viking pictures of Mars. These
comparisons have resulted in a better understanding of the deposi-
tion of sand, erosion of mountains and formation of small surface
pits on rocks.

Remote sensing studies of arid lands have concentrated on the
spectral analysis of images taken from Earth orbit, and comparisons
with laboratory spectra of samples collected in the field. Studies of
the reflectance characteristics of rock and sand samples were made
in cooperation with several universities, and results are being used
to interpret spectral ratios seen in Landsat images of the world’s
deserts.

During a trip to Egypt, at the invitation of the late President
Anwar Sadat, Farouk El-Baz, Research Director for cers, received
the Order of Merit-First Class of the Arab Republic of Egypt. The
award was made as a result of Dr. El-Baz’s contributions to space
geology.

The numerous publications of the center are listed in Appendix 6.

The Education Services Division (esp) has accomplished pro-
grams, projects, and products to serve the general public, the edu-
cation community (teachers and students), and other museums.

It is an especially helpful adjunct to the curatorial staff. Nearly
four thousand tours were given to over seventy-one thousand peo-
ple. This year the division has formalized a one-year training sched-
ule and evaluation plan for the specialized tour for the National Air
and Space Museum and the Paul E. Garber Facility, which now has
daily tours.

The Briefing Room, a center for live demonstrations for museum
visitors, teacher workshops, professional meetings, curator lecture
series, and scheduled docent training sessions, opened in March.
The Briefing Room activities result in an increased awareness and
curiosity about air and space, not only in the students, but also in
the teachers.

Among NAsM’s visitors are those who are disabled and may not
be able to experience the total visual and auditory excitement of the
galleries and artifacts. The esp has produced captioned thermo-
forms for the visually impaired which are raised line drawings of
fifty artifacts. Audio and print scripts of audio shows used in the

Science / 81
galleries have been prepared for the hearing impaired. Cassette
tours of the three most visited galleries are being developed (for
visually impaired and physically disabled). These materials are the
conduits of information for a specialized audience, who otherwise
might not be able to learn, enjoy, or grow in their understanding of
the story of flight.

On a national scale, the general public is reached by the Muse-
um’s Regional Resource Program. During the 1980-81 academic
year, over seventeen thousand people were offered presentations,
lectures, slide shows, and workshops by twenty-eight regional re-
source persons.

Flight, the filmstrip series, has sold over twelve hundred units
and has received awards from the Society of Technical Communica-
tion, U.S. Industrial Film Festival, and from the Houston Film Festi-
val. The filmstrips are very well received by teachers and are used
for classroom and after-school activities.

The Air & Space magazine, a small quarterly publication for edu-
cators, is an outreach of the museum, combining information from
many sources for a condensed overview of the history, science, tech-
nology, and social impact of selected aviation and space subjects.
The circulation list has been updated; the magazine is distributed to
over thirteen thousand educators.

The esp has developed a NAsM intern program that offers a
specialized opportunity to help graduate and undergraduate stu-
dents develop an awareness of the museum world as a source of
research. The interns are recruited, screened, and placed in a work
environment that promotes initiative and a sense of accomplishment
for tasks performed for the museum’s and interns’ mutual benefit.
Fourteen interns were placed during fiscal year 1981.

The Teacher Resource Center opened in May. This facility makes
slides, videotapes, books, pamphlets, posters, charts, and learning
kits available for teachers to create customized aerospace units for
their classes. These units carry the message of aviation and space
science education to a greater audience and eventually enhance the
students’ visit to NASM. Teachers from the Washington metropoli-
tan area use the room on an appointment basis; large teacher work-
shops traveling to the Washington, D.C., area from several states
are scheduled on a rotating basis.

The nasm exhibits program was highlighted by the opening on

82 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Aviation artist Keith Ferris’s huge mural for National Air and Space Museum’s new
Jet Aviation Gallery, opened for NAsm’s 5th anniversary celebration this year. Among
other activities in this museum-wide event was the demonstration on model rocket
building (below) which drew young and old alike in universal appeal.

July 1, 1981, of the Jet Aviation Gallery in celebration of the
museum’s fifth anniversary. This gallery features four historic jet
aircraft, seven pivotal jet engines, and a huge mural by Keith Ferris
depicting the seminal jet aircraft of the time. Perhaps the most in-
teresting part of the exhibit is hidden; the Jet Aviation Gallery
audio visuals are entirely video-disc. This is probably the first
museum so equipped in the world, and the equipment offers sub-
stantial improvements in maintenance costs.

The successful launch and flight of Space Shuttle Columbia was
celebrated with a new exhibit “America’s Space Truck—Space Shut-
tle,” which will be updated to reflect progress in the Space Shuttle
program.

The Flight and the Arts Gallery featured a collection of photo-
realist paintings in “Assignment Aviation.” The collection was do-
nated by Stuart M. Speiser and is complemented by actual flight
artifacts similar to those in the paintings.

The first balloon to cross the Atlantic, the Double Eagle II, was
placed in the Balloons and Airships Gallery in an exhibit commem-
orating the crossing.

In response to public demand, the Special Aircraft Gallery was
redone to feature five famous fighter aircraft. This gallery is used
to exhibit recent restorations done at the Paul E. Garber Preserva-
tion, Restoration and Storage Facility.

The two max films To Fly and Living Planet continue to attract
large audiences, and major work was completed on a third film,
which will premiere in July 1982.

One of the least heralded but most important functions of a
museum is the intelligent management of its collection. During this
year, NASM made substantial progress in several important areas.
The inventory is on schedule, and the Atherton Seidell program of
placing Nasm’s important photographic collection on video-disc is
proceeding well. The collection was increased by the careful selec-
tion of some important artifacts, including a long sought Beechcraft
D-17 Staggerwing and a Boeing B-17G Flying Fortress.

The museum’s policy of offering selected programs to groups with
specific interest in air and space has been considerably expanded,
and has been exceptionally well received. A complete program of
evening events, ranging from astronomy lectures to specialized film
series, has provided almost nightly offerings to an apparently un-

84 / Smithsonian Year 1981
quenchable public thirst for information. These evening programs
are reinforced with periodic presentations during the daytime hours
in either the Spacearium or Briefing Room, where NAsM curators
or special guest lecturers cover topics on a close interpersonal basis
with visitors.

National Museum of Man,
Center for the Study of Man

NATIONAL HUMAN STUDIES FILM CENTER
(formerly National Anthropological Film Center)

Studies of the Jyapu people in Nepal, currently underway by Dr.
Richard Sorenson, Barbara Johnson, Ragpa Dorjee, and Lain Bang-
del of the National Human Studies Film Center (NHsFc), offer new
insights into alternative forms of industrious productivity.

In the Jyapu communities, work is approached much the same
way sports might be approached in Western cultures: considerable
mental, physical, and experimental effort are invested in perfecting
the “playing technique.” The social enjoyment of joint involvement
is a principle reward. A “work ethic,” in the Western sense, is not
involved. It is a way of life that has played a crucial role in the
emergence of the unique civilizational process of the Kathmandu
Valley.

Similar collaborative studies among the Tibetan stock people re-
veal a unifying social pattern of mutual personal regard and respect
in which pleasure is typically derived from feeling out and helping
to satisfy the interests and desires of others. This culturally specific
behavior patterning starts to take hold during early childhood in an
extended family. Analysis of research films reveals that this basic
habit of life provides for an unusually harmonious life style—even
in the hard, arid environment of barren Himalayan valleys of 12,000
feet in elevation.

This response pattern also provides a basis on which the particu-
larly Tibetan response to Buddhism could develop. Endowed with
habits of reciprocal respect and sympathy, Tibetan boys entered
monasteries run by people like themselves. Participation in the dis-
ciplined approach to life was attractive to them, as individual style

Science / 85
and personal impetus were readily incorporated. With the disci-
plined objectives of the monasteries remaining receptive and toler-
ant to individual penchant, continuous behavioral and philosophical
growth flourished.

Through another visual-data project, the Nusrc learned that the
Canela Indians of Brazil have produced a remarkable social solidar-
ity that has anchored a persisting way of life, but with it was a con-
siderable latitude for individuality. This presented a paradoxical
situation. Further analysis of the visual-data records revealed that
the style of Canela life imparted to the young children provided a
basis for simultaneous expressions of individuality and solidarity.

A different pattern of development pertains among the traditional
atoll-dwellers of Micronesia who are also participants in an NHSFC
research film inquiry. In this part of the world, respect patterns and
cognitive interest would seem to sustain a basically harmonious life
amid high population densities. Preliminary studies show that for-
mally hierarchical political structures follow age and lines of ex-
tended family parentage. However, in spite of this, community life
is expressionally democratic. What happens is that age provides in-
creased experience and knowledge. These are valued by the younger
members of the community. The system of respect provides the
means to satisfy the inquisitive interests of the young.

Still in its early stages is a collaborative inquiry into the cultural
heritage of Papua New Guinea. To date this has concentrated upon
an unusually traditional representative of an important but little-
studied region in the upper Sepik watershed. This research film
effort in a Mianmin-speaking Melanesian community preceded all
other Western contact or acculturation there. Because this commu-
nity survives in an exceedingly harsh tropical environment, where
severe dietary and health conditions even affect the neurophysio-
logical status of the population, it provides a case study of human
adaptability under severe conditions. This project includes collab-
oration with human studies scholars of the Summer Institute of
Linguistics and local experts.

During the year the nusrc has continued its program to develop
increasingly better visual-data resources for scholarly purposes. A
total of 185,486 feet of research film have been worked up as visual-
data resources on eleven different cultures from seven Third World
nations.

86 / Smithsonian Year 1981

RESEARCH INSTITUTE ON IMMIGRATION AND ETHNIC STUDIES

The Research Institute on Immigration and Ethnic Studies (rus) is
now focusing on a specialized program of studies and exhibitions on
the Caribbean region as both source and recipient of new immi-
grants and immigration, and the human experiences and socio-
cultural processes that accompany such movements.

During the past fiscal year, res collaborated with the School of
Divinity, Howard University, and the Visual Arts Research and
Resource Center Relating to the Caribbean/Phelps-Stokes Fund in
sponsoring a seminar on “Beliefs, Rituals and Symbols of African
Religion—Africa and the Americas;” sponsored an outreach pro-
gram as its contribution to the Caribbean Segment of the Smith-
sonian Institution’s Festival of American Folklife activities on the
Mall.

The director, Dr. Roy Bryce-Laporte, chaired sessions at the
Caribbean Studies Association meetings on “The Haitian Immi-
grants, Refugees and Boat People,” and “The Presence of the New
Caribbean Immigrants” in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, and a panel
on “Migration of Third World Immigrants to the U.S.” at the
American Political Science Association meetings in New York City.
He participated in the National Immigration Consultation in Wash-
ington, D.C., and gave presentations at the D.C. Links’ forum on
“Global Women’s Issues,” at the Dedicators’ tribute to “Dr. George
Westerman,” and at the Coalicion de Panama/Museum of Natural
History, both in New York City. He also gave consultations on
“Illegal Immigrants in New York City” to the New York Urban
League’s Special Task Force.

Dr. Bryce-Laporte was one of the recipients of the Caribbean
American Intercultural Organization’s “Tribute to Caribbean
Scholars in the United States’”” Award. Also he was among the first
recipients of the D.C. Mayor’s Annual Arts Award for his contri-
butions to the Washington community. Two publications of RIES
were nominated for the C. Wright Mills Award of the Society for
the Study of Social Problems meeting in Toronto.

Science / 87
Nmnu botanist Dr. Mason Hale spent four weeks in snow-free
(dry) valleys of the Antarctic collecting unique lichens that live
inside rock. Below. NMNuH’s Dr. Dennis Stanford (right) shows
Chinese scientists (from left) Hu Chang Kang, Gai Pei, and
Li Youheng Anhui a paleo-Indian excavation in Colorado.

National Museum of Natural History

THOMAS M. EVANS GALLERY

The new Thomas M. Evans Special Exhibition Gallery opened on
July 15, 1981, endowing the National Museum of National History
(nmNH) with an elegant, versatile, and spacious new first-floor hall.

Designed to accommodate important traveling loan exhibitions
and major exhibits organized by the Smithsonian, the gallery is
named for Thomas M. Evans, a New York philanthropist whose
contribution to the Smithsonian made its construction possible.

Over an eight-month period, workers transformed the first floor
foyer hall—which formerly housed an ecology exhibition—into a
stylish new gallery with oak floors, a new ceiling and lighting
system and a system of fabric-covered adjustable walls. A walled
corridor runs the center length of the gallery as a throughway for
persons going to and from the museum’s first-to-second-floor esca-
lator, Baird Auditorium, and the Associates Court Dining Room.

The gallery—designed by Elizabeth Miles of the Museum Exhibit
Office—has the largest exhibit space of any Smithsonian museum
on the Mall: 12,460 square feet.

Size is only one of the gallery’s attributes; equally important
is its economy and flexibility. At a minimum of expense it will be
possible to accommodate virtually any traveling exhibition, from
the largest down to the smallest, with relative ease.

Evans, a long-time friend and supporter of the Smithsonian
exhibition, was honored by Secretary Ripley and Museum Director
Richard S. Fiske at a dinner held July 14 before the opening of the
new gallery’s inaugural exhibit, 5000 Years of Korean Art.

EXHIBITS

Two spectacular special exhibitions highlighted the 1980-81 season
at the NMNH. 5000 Years of Korean Art, (July 15-September 30,
1981) gave the public the opportunity to view gold crowns,
Buddhist sculptures, celadon pottery, scroll paintings, and a wealth
of other treasures from Korean national museums, universities, and
private collections. The most comprehensive display of Korean art
ever brought to the United States, the exhibition was organized by
the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco in cooperation with the

Science / 89
National Museum of Korea and funded by the National Endow-
ment for the Humanities.

The museum hosted the debut of the Smithsonian Traveling
Exhibition Service’s ‘Renaissance of Islam: Art of the Mamluks,”
(May 14~-July 19, 1981). The first major showing of the art of
the Mamluk era in the United States, it contained masterworks of
metalwork, glass, ceramics, woodwork, ivory, carpets, textiles,
and illuminated manuscripts from the thirteenth to the sixteenth
centuries.

While stepping up its showings of large and important special
exhibitions, the museum is continuing to carry out scheduled
modernization of its permanent exhibit halls. In October 1980, a
revolutionary new exhibit aquarium housing a living coral reef,
opened in the Sea Life Hall.

The exhibit marks the first time it has been possible to keep a
large reef community—including the corals—alive and functioning
in isolation from the sea. More than three tons of coral rubble and
at least two hundred species of plants and animals were transported
from the Caribbean for the exhibit. Housed in a three-thousand-
gallon tank system, this ‘“microcosm” reef community is kept alive
by high intensity lights, a wave-generating machine, and a battery
of monitoring equipment. The exhibit is equipped with an adjoining
laboratory area where research is conducted on the reef system.
It is the first time an actual research project has ever been located
in a museum exhibit area, providing the public with a unique, first-
hand opportunity to see scientists at work.

The reef system is a spinoff of eight years of pioneering field
investigations in the Caribbean by museum scientist Dr. Walter H.
Adey. The project was constructed with a grant from the National
Science Foundation’s Public Understanding of Science Program.
Different versions of the coral reef exhibit will be built with
Smithsonian and NsF assistance at other museums in the United
States.

The museum’s Rotunda Balcony Gallery featured six exhibitions
in 1980-81: “Native Flora of Louisiana,” “Photographs of Guate-
mala,” “Elizabeth Gwillim Bird Paintings,” ‘Pressed on Paper:
Fish Rubbings and Nature Prints,” “Galapagos: Born of the Sea,”
and “Two Bird Painters in Oregon Territory.”

The Museum’s new first-floor Corridor Gallery opened with a

90 / Smithsonian Year 1981

—
Housed in a 3,000-gallon tank system at NMNH, the reef
community is kept alive by high-intensity lights, a wave-
generating machine, and a battery of monitoring equip-
ment. Below. NMNu’s Dr. Meredith Jones holds a giant
tube worm, one of this newly discovered family of
deep-sea animals.

on iene cnmentcaesiisigom

display of color nature photographs, ‘Beyond the Ocean, Beneath
a Leaf,” by staff member Kjell Sandved.

Other small special shows elsewhere in the museum were: —
“Photographic Scenes of Contemporary Egypt;” “Peace Corps 20th —
Anniversary Photographs;” “Diplomats in Buckskin,” an exhibit
of historic photographs from the Museum’s Anthropological
Archives of Indian delegations to Washington, D.C.; “Cycles of
Sustenance,” photographs of World Bank sponsored projects to
stimulate food production in the Third World; “Reflections on a
Fossil Lake,” a collection of fossil plants, fish, birds, insects, and
other animals from the Rocky Mountains; a display of ““Contem-
porary Korean-American Arts;” and an exhibit of John Wesley
Powell’s anthropological manuscripts and artifacts.

ANTHROPOLOGY

This year saw the beginning of the five year Chinese/American
New World Human Origins Program under the direction of Dr.
Dennis Stanford. Funded by the National Geographic Society and
the Wenner-Gren Foundation, and involving an interdisciplinary
team of American and Chinese scholars, this program is designed
to increase understanding of human origins in the New World, as”
well as clarify the paleoenvironment and culture history of Asia
and North America between one hundred thousand and twelve
thousand years ago.

During the summer of 1981, Stanford, with a Chinese archeolo-
gist, vertebrate paleontologist, and geologist, participated in exca-
vations at Lamb Springs, a large multi-component archeological
site in Colorado, which spans a time period from thirteen thousand
years ago to the historic period. The three Chinese scholars visited
other paleo-Indian archeological sites and collections in Wyoming,
Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona.

The second phase of Stanford’s project will take him to China’s
Manchurian Plain to investigate Pleistocene terraces of the Sungari
River to search for ancient open-air camp sites, kill sites, butcher-
ing stations, and quarries of the kind he has studied in the United
States. It is hypothesized that the original colonists of the New
World derived from populations which developed in the mainland
of China and moved northwest to the Manchurian Plain, eventually
following the unglaciated Sungari River, and thence into the New

World.

92, / Smithsonian Year 1981
An important beginning in 1981 was made to the understanding
of biocultural adaptations and biological evolution of prehistoric
populations in South America with the publication of Dr. Douglas
H. Ubelaker’s The Ayalan Cemetary, A Late Integration Period
Burial Site on the South Coast of Ecuador. This monograph in the
Smithsonian's Contributions to Anthropology series presents a
detailed analysis of fifty-four funerary urns from coastal Ecuador,
containing twenty-five primary skeletons dating from 500 B.C. to
the time of initial European contact. As a detailed, comprehensive
presentation of both biological and cultural information gleaned
from prehistoric cemetery excavation, the work is unique in Latin
America. Ubelaker’s analysis shows an increase through time of
characteristics such as crania! deformation, arthritic lipping at the
knee, dental caries, evidence of infectious disease and life expect-
ancy. It is hypothesized that an increased dependency upon inten-
sive agriculture may account for dental and arthritic problems and
some of the other changes.

Comparative biological data were also published by Ubelaker
this year from the Ecuadorean sites of St. Elena on the southern
coast and from Cotocollao in the highlands. The skeletal sample
from St. Elena has been dated at nearly ten thousand years ago,
making it one of the oldest large samples in the Western Hemi-
sphere. Together, these new data present an emerging picture of
prehistoric biological evolution that can be correlated with postu-
lated changes and diversity in subsistence, settlement patterns, and
other aspects of culture.

Diplomats in Buckskins: A History of Indian Delegations in
Washington City, written by Dr. Herman J. Viola, Director of the
Smithsonian’s National Anthropological Archives, was published
in 1981 by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The book, focusing
on the nineteenth century, tells the sometimes tragic, often dra-
matic story of Indian delegations from Colonial times through the
present day. In spite of the painful misunderstanding and mis-
treatment the Indians endured, Viola shows the benefits Indians
received from their visits to Washington as each delegation became
more adept in handling relations with the federal government.

Archeological fieldwork conducted by Dr. William Fitzhugh
resulted in the discovery of the largest, most complex late Mari-
time Archaic site (4,000—3,400 B.P.) so far known in Central and

Science / 93
Northern Labrador. At Nulliak Cave, evidence of an unexpected
extensive settlement was uncovered through the investigation of
series of structures, apparently houses, replete with hearths, floor
passages, and tools. Large burial mounds and the remains of a
caribou trap were also found. The buildings and burials indicate
large social groups, perhaps formed into clans, with certain people
accorded special status as seen in the elaborate burial and profu-
sion of grave goods.

Fitzhugh’s 1980 discoveries, reflecting social organization and
domestic life, when combined with his previously obtained data on
burial practices and trade patterns, revolutionizes former interpre-
tation of Maritime Archaic culture and has important ramifications
for studies of the early archeological cultures of northeastern
North America.

Adrienne L. Kaeppler continued her research and writing on
Polynesian dance, investigating the meaning, use, and aesthetic
principles of structured movement systems in Tonga and Hawaii.
She worked in Hawaii with the three major living exponents of
hula pahu (dance accompanied by wooden drums covered with
sharkskin membranes)—the dance type that evolved from sacred
temple rituals. She is particularly interested in indigenous Poly-
nesian ideas of what constitutes ““dance’—a concept for which
they have no over-all term—and the relationship between “dance”
movement and the poetry that it projects into visual form as an
audio-visual enhancement of social relationships and cultural
aesthetics.

BOTANY

Museum botanist Dr. Mason Hale spent four weeks in December
and January 1980-81 in the snow-free (dry) valleys of the Ant-
arctic’s Transatlantic Mountains, collecting unique lichen that
literally live inside rock to survive one of the harshest environ-
ments on earth.

No large masses of ice or snow exist in the dry valleys. The
glaciers that originally cut the valleys withered away millions of
years ago. The mountainous slopes, high plateaus, and steep
gorge-like cliffs of the valleys now resemble the landscape of the
southwestern U.S. desert. Occasionally, it snows, but the valley’s
fierce winds soon scour most of the snow away.

94 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Lichen—which grows elsewhere in Antarctica—is not able to
survive in its normal form in the dry valleys because of the strong
winds that ceaselessly “sandblast’” the surface of the rock.

Because the dry valleys are the nearest terrestrial analog to the
cold and barren surface of Mars, microbiologists used the valleys
in the 1950s and 1960s to test their hypotheses concerning the
possibility of the existence of life on the red planet. Traces of a
few microorganisms that had been carried into the dry valley by
the wind were discovered, but no evidence was found of any
indigenous life.

Then in 1977 Dr. Imre Friedmann of Florida State University dis-
covered that there were algae and lichen living in the microscopic
niches between rock crystals. During the dark, sub-zero Antarctic
winters, the lichens cease their life activities and become “‘freeze-
dried” inside the rock. When the Antarctic summer arrives, the tem-
perature outside remains below freezing, but the sun shining on the
rocks allows them to absorb and retain solar heat and keeps the
“climate” inside the rock a comfortable 45° F. The lichen thaws out
and life resumes. Light penetrates into the porous sandstone and
makes photosynthesis possible as far down as a half inch below the
surface.

Hale, one of the world’s leading lichenologists, returned to Ant-
arctica with Friedmann to classify the lichens and determine their
life cycle and distribution. Hale’s analysis shows the presence of
three chemical populations. He collected fertile material that is evi-
dence for at least two crutose lichen genera, Buellia and Lecidea,
each represented by two species in addition to the chemical popula-
tions. Much work remains to be done on the taxonomy, morphol-
ogy, and chemistry of the lichens before anything can be said of
their evolution and dispersal and relation to temperate forms.

In addition to their research activities, some museum scientists
play key roles as “lawyers” within the scientific community. One of
these is museum botanist Dr. Dan H. Nicholson, a leading interna-
tional authority on correct botanical nomenclature. He represents
the Smithsonian—along with other Botany Department staff mem-
bers—at the meetings of the legislative body that amends the
international laws (code) of botanical nomenclature, which is used
throughout the world and affects the scientific names of all plants.
The group met last August in Sidney, Australia, at the Thirteenth

Science / 95
Annual Botanical Congress. Nicholson is currently nomenclature
editor for Taxon, the official journal of the International Association
of Plant Taxonomists, in which all proposals to amend the code are
published.

Museum botanist Dr. Richard H. Eyde looked into a curious chap-
ter in botanical history during the past year: the mysterious mass
death in the early nineteenth century, of trees that forested most of
Trinidade, a small Brazilian island 700 miles out in the Atlantic
Ocean. All that was left was a desolate landscape of arboreal
corpses with interlocking branches.

Many explanations have been given for this phenomenon, includ-
ing diseases and pests, extended drought, volcanic eruptions, high
seas, and destructive goats and pigs. After getting the first true
identification of the dead trees, Dr. Eyde points out that almost
every possible explanation for their death has been given except old
age and that this possibility is not as silly as it might seem. In fact,
trees do become more susceptible to stress when they reach an ad-
vanced age. If introduced goats or pigs prevented young trees from
growing, all the old trees could have succumbed together in an extra
dry or damp year.

ENTOMOLOGY

Museum entomologist, Dr. Paul Hurd, in a study published in No-
vember 1980 that has important economic applications, has deter-
mined native American wild bees to be far superior to honeybees as
pollinators of North American sunflowers.

Hurd, and colleagues Dr. Wallace E. LaBerge of the Illinois Natu-
ral History Survey and Gorton Linsley of the University of Cali-
fornia at Berkeley, are authors of “Principal Sunflower Bees of
North America with Emphasis on the Southwestern United States
(Hymenoptera: Apoidea),” Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology,
No. 310, 1980.

The Hurd-LaBerge-Linsley study provides a comprehensive list of
all sunflower pollinators, classifying them according to their effec-
tiveness. It is the first such guide ever prepared and is intended to
provide a basis for the assessment and management of our native
bees for pollination of sunflowers in both commercial and native
settings.

Of the nearly fifty species of sunflowers native to the Western
Hemisphere, it is the “giant” sunflower that is cultivated for its

96 / Smithsonian Year 1981
edible seeds and oils. Useful for salad and cooking oils, shortening
and margarine, and as an ingredient in paints, plastics, and indus-
trial lubricants, sunflower oil is also believed to have potential as an
economical and renewable source of high-quality fuel for diesel en-
gines. Now that the giant sunflower is a major cash crop, farmers
are striving to increase the yield per acre. Employing more effective
pollinators is one way of achieving this objective.

In the Soviet Union and other foreign countries, growers have
long depended on honeybee colonies to provide pollination for sun-
flower plants. The scientists believe that because of ignorance the
idea that honeybees are the best pollinators of sunflowers spread to
this country.

In their three-year study, the scientists surveyed sunflower polli-
nators in eight areas in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and southern
California. They recorded data on 9,964 pollinating bees. Seventeen
species of native wild bees made up ninety percent of bees observed
at the monitored sites.

“Up until now, few people in the United States have realized the
role of the native bee,” Dr. Hurd said. ‘““We hope our study will
change this view and make growers aware of how important it is to
maintain natural areas around sunflower fields for the wild bees to
use as nesting sites.”

Another study underway addresses the many biogeographical in-
fluences—including Africa to the south and Europe to the north—
that contribute to the composition of Israel’s fauna. The Israel
Academy of Sciences and Humanities is currently undertaking the
first comprehensive systematic classification of this fauna, a project
in which museum entomologist Dr. Wayne Mathis is participating.

Dr. Wayne Mathis made two field trips to Israel in 1980-81 for
a study of Ephydriadae (shorefly) family of flies, which eventually
is to be published in the Academy’s Fauna Palaestina series. Accom-
panied by Dr. Amon Friedberg (Tel Aviv University), Dr. Mathis
made a collection of twelve thousand to fifteen thousand shorefly
specimens mostly in northern Israel (Golan Heights, the upper
Gallilee, and Hula Valley) and in the Sinai. This rich and versatile
family of flies—eighty to one hundred species—is of importance
because it thrives in a variety of habitats ranging from the saline
conditions of the Dead Sea to freshwater areas. Dr. Bryan H. Cogan
of the British Museum, is coauthor of the study.

Science / 97
INVERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

After three years of intensive research, the museum’s
Dr. Meredith L. Jones and other scientists reported in July 1981
that giant worms found growing on the deep sea floor are a new
family of animals that owe their existence to a heretofore unknown
strategy for energy derivation based on chemosynthesis.

The giant worms live on the seafloor at geothermal springs oc-
curring in a geologically active region of the East Pacific where lava
sometimes erupts between separating zones of oceanic crust. Ordi-
narily, water at depths of a mile and a half is a frigid 36° F.; animal
life is scattered and sparse. But in these rift areas, hot water from
the earth’s interior—rich in hydrogen sulfide—flows up through
fissures or vents in newly solidified sea floor lava. Living and thriv-
ing in these pockets of warm water are diverse communities of
animals, including giant tube worms with no mouths or digestive
systems. How do these worms and other animals survive, let alone
flourish, in this toxic environment? Puzzled researchers who found
the worms shipped them to Dr. Jones, one of the world’s leading
experts on the anatomy of worms. It became his job to determine
what known species, genus and family of worms—if any—they
represented.

At first, the giant worm’s anatomy was totally alien to Jones,
but after awhile it became apparent that it was related to that of
two smaller species of worms, described about eight years ago,
belonging to the order Pogonophora (or “beard bearer’’). At that
point, Jones and other scientists had tacitly assumed that the giant
worms probably were nourished by absorbing organic molecules
through the tentacular surface of their plumed tip or across their
body surfaces. This picture was consistent with the prevailing belief
that the smaller pogonophoran worms received nourishment by
absorbing organic molecules from the deep sea mud in which they
lived.

But then the news arrived that two British and two Norwegian
scientists had assayed the environment in which the small pogo-
nophoran worms lived and could not find enough organic material
in the mud to make it possible for the worms to survive, much less
reproduce and grow. How, Jones wondered, could much larger
worms without mouths or guts be getting nourishment?

98 / Smithsonian Year 1981

Shortly after, Jones came upon a tiny clue that would eventually
lead to solution of the puzzle. While dissecting giant tube worm
tissue from the trunk of the worm’s body, he spotted some tiny
yellow flecks. Suspecting that they might be grains of sulfur, he
asked mineralogists at the museum to test them. His hunch proved
correct. The flecks were crystals of pure sulfur—an extraordinarily
unusual substance to find in an organism.

Jones thought there had to be some relationship between the
sulfide environment in which they lived and the sulfur crystals. The
giant tube worms must have worked out a mechanism to get rid of
sulfide that came across the plume or body wall. Somehow, they
were detoxifying the sulfide.

A few weeks later, Jones gave a lecture on the worms at Harvard
University. He mentioned the crystals of sulfur to a Harvard grad-
uate student, Colleen M. Cavanaugh, who immediately told him
that she thought bacteria might be producing the sulfur.

Jones sent specimens of tissue to Cavanaugh and to Stephen L.
Gardiner at the University of North Carolina. Using sophisticated
microscopic techniques, both confirmed the presence of sulfur-
containing bacteria.

Another major piece of the puzzle fell into place when Dr. Horst
Felbeck of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego
reported that in the worm’s trunk region he had found several key
enzymes identical to plant enzymes that convert inorganic carbon
to useful organic carbon in the form of carbohydrates. It soon
became clear that bacteria were living in the worms’ trunks by the
billions and they contained enzymes that could transform the
hydrogen sulfide and use the resulting energy to make adenosine
triphosphate, an energy-carrying chemical crucial to the formation
of carbohydrates.

The last critical link in the chain of discovery was forged by Dr.
Greg H. Rau of the University of California at Los Angeles. His
studies suggested that organic carbon manufactured by the bacteria
was being incorporated into the muscle structure of the worms
themselves, thus ruling out the possibility that the worms were
somehow getting carbon from some other sources in their environ-
ment.

Dr. Jones’s description and name for the new worm—Riftia
pachyptila Jones—was reported in Science magazine along with the

Science / 99
other scientists’ findings on how the worms get nourishment. Many
questions about the worm are yet to be resolved, including how the
worms reproduce, how they get from one deep sea vent to another,
and where they originally evolved.

MINERAL SCIENCES

“Volcanoes of the World,” the most comprehensive summary of
global volcanism ever assembled, was published in August 1981
after ten years of research by staffers of the Museum’s Department
of Mineral Sciences. It is expected to be an invaluable source of
information for scientists, historians, students or any other reader
interested in the history and effects of volcanoes.

The detailed reference book covers 5,564 eruptions, arranged
chronologically with data on duration, explosive magnitude, and
volume of products (when known); and 1,343 volcanoes active in
the last 10,000 years, arranged by region with data on locations,
heights, types, known eruptive history, and behavioral character-
istics.

In addition, there are 5,345 volcano names, synonyms, and fea-
ture names, arranged alphabetically and cross-referenced; a list of
709 references, arranged chronologically by region, constituting a
selective guide to the volcanological literature; and a world map
with volcano locations and cross-referencing numbers shown.

The ten-year effort to produce the directory was led by the mu-
seum’s Dr. Tom Simkin, who took over direction of the project
after it was launched by Dr. William Melson in 1972.

Simkin hopes the book will interest a broad audience and that
feedback from the readers will help in the continuing effort to
improve the volcanological record.

Because the book’s data is concentrated in a computer data bank,
feedback can be quickly incorporated to build an increasingly
complete record of global volcanism. The data bank is already being
used for studies ranging from plate tectonic maps to tidal influences
on volcanism.

The five other coauthors of the directory are: Lee Siebert, a mu-
seum specialist in the Mineral Sciences Department, who compiled
useful geographic, historic, and volcanological information on the
world’s volcanoes; Lindsay McClelland, leader of the museum’s
Scientific Event Alert Network, who gathered information on con-

100 / Smithsonian Year 1981
temporary eruptions; David Bridge, operations manager for the
museum’s Automatic Data Processing Program, who made it pos-
sible to produce the book’s computer-generated camera-ready data
tables; Christopher Newhall of the U.S. Geological Survey, who
compiled the directory’s explosivity index; and Dr. J. H. Latter, a
New Zealand geologist, who contributed considerable information
on foreign volcanoes in regions such as Canada.

Museum scientists continued in 1981 with the characterization
and description of the meteorites collected in the past four years
in Antarctica by National Science Foundation expeditions. Approxi-
mately 300 of the 750 specimens collected have been classified and
described by Dr. Brian Mason in the Antarctic Meteorite News-
letter.

The Antarctic iron meteorites are being studied and described by
Dr. Roy S. Clarke, Jr. One of these, a twenty-three-pound iron
specimen from Antarctic’s Allen Hills, achieved a special status in
the annals of meteoritic science.

As the specimen was being sliced with the department’s metal-
cutting saw, the saw suddenly stopped and refused to cut further.
X-ray diffraction studies of the material conducted by Dr. Daniel
E. Appleman and Daphne E. Ross disclosed the presence of tiny
crystals of diamonds, together with two other forms of carbon: a
rare mineral called lonsdaleite, chemically identical with, but having
a different crystal structure than, diamond; and granite, the familiar
form of carbon used in lead pencils.

Only one other iron meteorite has been found to contain dia-
monds: the Canyon Diablo meteorite that formed the mile-wide
Meteor Crater in Arizona about fifty thousand years ago.

The diamonds in the Canyon Diablo meteorite seem to have been
produced when the meteorite hit the earth and shockwaves con-
verted natural carbon (graphite) in the meteorite into diamonds.
But being small, the Antarctic meteorite would have been slowed
down as it came through the atmosphere, and it would have hit the
ice at too low a speed to create a crater. Therefore, Clarke believes
the diamonds must have formed before then, probably as the result
of two asteroids colliding with each other. Thus the meteorite is a
piece from the collision.

Clarke, Appleman, and Ross reported their discovery in the mag-
azine Nature.

Science / 101
PALEOBIOLOGY

For a number of years, museum paleobiologists Dr. Richard S.
Boardman and Dr. Alan Cheetham have been working toward an
improved understanding of the biology of bryozoans—aquatic,
mostly marine, invertebrate animals that form permanently
attached colonies.

The Boardman and Cheetham research, which supports a new
classification of the Bryozoa phylum, is being published in detail in
the first volume of the revision of the Bryozoa in the Treatise on
Invertebrate Paleontology and in a textbook on Invertebrate Paleon-
tology to be published by W. H. Freeman. The textbook has twenty-
five contributing authors and is being organized and edited by Drs.
Boardman, Cheetham, and A. J. Rowell of the University of Kansas.

Dr. Boardman has just finished a study of Triassic and Jurassic
Bryozoa to investigate the fate of four bryozoan orders which sup-
posedly became extinct at the close of the Permian. Only a fifth
order has continued after this time. Boardman thinks that parts of
this single order are derived from the extinct orders, and that major
revisions of bryozoan phylogeny and classification are needed. The
finished manuscript entitled, “Origin of Post-Triassic Stenolaemata
(Bryozoa),” has been sent to Paleobiology for publication.

New material, consisting of Tertiary and Recent Bryozoa Dr.
Boardman collected on a five-week trip to Australia in October and
November 1980, is expected to provide new biologic information.

Many fossil bryozoans grew in the form of miniature trees, but
have been preserved only as separated fragments. Dr. Cheetham, in
collaboration with Lee Ann Hayek, Smithsonian Office of Computer
Services, and Erik Thomsen, University of Aarhus, Denmark, de-
veloped mathematical methods to analyze branching patterns and
branch tapering gradients in these fossil treelike forms. This has
enabled them to reconstruct the form of a whole colony of these
fossils and compare them with living species. Their findings were
published in Paleobiology.

In an extension of this project, a three-dimensional model of a
miniature treelike fossil bryozoan was built and placed in a flume so
that Cheetham and Thomsen could study it under the stress of flow-
ing water and measure its mechanical properties and resistance to
breaking up. This permitted precise estimation of limiting physical
conditions under which fossil species of this form could have grown.

102 / Smithsonian Year 1981
VERTEBRATE ZOOLOGY

North America’s tree-loving grey and fox squirrels are really living
fossils, which have changed very little in their anatomy in the last
thirty-five million years, according to Museum mammalogist Dr.
Richard Thorington and vertebrate paleobiologist Dr. Robert Emry.

The conclusion of the two scientists is based on studies of the
oldest known fossil squirrel, Protosciurus, discovered recently by
Dr. Emry in Wyoming’s White River Formation. Fragments of fos-
sil squirrels had been found before in Oligocene deposits, but
Emry’s is an almost complete skeleton. The jaw muscles of the fossil
squirrel differ from the modern squirrel’s but otherwise it is almost
identical to a modern tree squirrel.

Dr. Thorington has also been conducting a study of flying squir-
rels with Dr. Lawrence R. Heaney of the University of Michigan,
focusing on how size differences might influence the gliding capa-
bilities of various sized species of squirrels.

The smallest flying squirrels are only seven inches long, whereas
the largest are thirty-six inches long. Using hand gliding as an
analogy, Thorington and Heaney concluded that the largest flying
squirrels must glide faster than the small ones, and that one of the
main problems for a large flying squirrel is the speed at which it
lands. They discovered that to cope with the problem the large fly-
ing squirrels have different shaped gliding membranes from the
small ones to enable them to Jand at lower air speed than they other-
wise could.

South America’s vast freshwater fish fauna is very poorly known,
but a study now underway by museum ichthyologist Dr. Richard
Vari is remedying this situation to a great extent in one major region
of the continent—the Guyanas.

For the past two years, Vari has been surveying the fish of Suri-
nam’s Corantijn River where the World Bank is funding a vast
hydroelectric project.

When the project is completed, the Corantijn River will be di-
verted into a tributary, the Kabalebo River, which will be dammed
and impounded at two or three points.

Both the diversion and the impoundment lakes are expected to
have major effects on the fish fauna—a source of food for the sev-
eral thousand people living on the lower reaches of the river.

Vari’s study, undertaken for the Surinamese Government and the

Science / 103
World Bank, is the first comprehensive inventory of that region’s
fish fauna. More than 230 species have been observed and collected,
and considerable information has been gathered about their life his-
tory, breeding behavior, ecology, and food requirements. Dr. Vari
has been assisted in the field by Dr. Lynne Parenti, a Smithsonian
postdoctoral fellow. The approximately fifty-five thousand speci-
mens that they have amassed is the largest freshwater South Ameri-
can fish collection ever acquired by the museum. Studies of the
material are now underway.

FORT PIERCE BUREAU

Administrative responsibility for the Smithsonian’s Fort Pierce Bu-
reau was transferred in March 1981 to the director of the NMNH
from the Smithsonian’s Office of Grants and Risk Management. The
bureau, located on the Indian River near Fort Pierce, Florida, con-
ducts research in marine biology with emphasis on studies of life
histories and systematics of selected marine organisms of the Indian
River and nearby continental shelf. Smithsonian facilities—includ-
ing a laboratory barge—are located in the compound of the Harbor
Branch Foundation, a not-for-profit corporation, established primar-
ily for research in the marine sciences and for the development of
tools and systems for underwater oceanographic research.

Museum scientists work at Fort Pierce in cooperation with Harbor
Branch Foundation scientists and engineers. Currently, Dr. Martin
Buzas is conducting a study of the distribution and systematics of
Indian River foraminifera and examining the relataionship between
the chemistry of the Indian River environment and foraminifera;
Dr. Robert Gore is studying Indian River crustaceans; Dr. Mary E.
Rice is studying the life histories of selected species of sipunculan
worms from the coast of Florida and from the Caribbean; and Dr.
David Pawson has been using the Harbor Branch submersible,
Johnson-Sea-Link, to study deepwater holothurians (sea cucumbers)
off the coast of Florida.

OFFICE OF EDUCATION

While continuing its services to schools in 1980-81, the Office of
Education turned its attention to finding new ways to serve adults
and family groups visiting the museum. Regular, adult tours began
to be scheduled in the early afternoon, featuring opportunities to

104 / Smithsonian Year 1981
see new or especially popular exhibits with the guidance of knowl-
edgeable docents. With a small grant from Outreach Funds, it was
possible to stage four special family-audience programs related to
museum exhibits: Sea Rhythms celebrated the museum’s new coral
reef; A South American Christmas, with Peruvian musicians and
Andean craftspersons, was presented over the holidays in the South
American exhibit area; Brother Ah and the Sounds of Awareness
honored Black History Month with traditional music from Africa,
the Caribbean, and the Americas; and a dance performance titled
Bugs, or How to Taste with the Feet, Smell with the Knees and
Wear a Skeleton on the Outside was chosen to relate to the Insect
Zoo.

A grant from the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public
Service supported a small pilot program for gifted high school stu-
dents from the District of Columbia and Prince George’s County.
Under the supervision of Sarah Gagne, fifteen students were pro-
vided with an introduction to the various departments in the
museum. Each was subsequently placed in one of the curatorial
departments for a part-time, voluntary project on which the student
wrote and presented a report. In addition to this special program,
the office is providing an increasing number of multivisit, in-depth
tours for secondary-school students.

With the opening of the new Thomas M. Evans Gallery, the office
is seeking to provide appropriate educational programs for the spe-
cial exhibits. Docents for both the Mamluk and the Korean exhibits
were recruited and trained so that regular adult tours could be
scheduled.

The Free Film and Lecture Series continues to offer a wide variety
of natural history and anthropological films to the public. Thirteen
curators presented illustrated lectures, and Dr. Gus Van Beek intro-
duced and fielded questions on six Fridays in October and Novem-
ber with the series, The Christians: A Stunning Tapestry of History
and Culture.

The outreach to special audiences continued this year in coopera-
tion with the National Zoological Park and the Museum of African
Art. Numbers of people using the Naturalist Center increased sig-
nificantly as new services and programs were offered. The Discovery
Room continued to operate at peak capacity with more than 105,000
visitors this year.

Science / 105
PUBLIC SYMPOSIUM

Therapsids, the mammal-like reptiles that gave rise to the first mam-
mals about two-hundred million years ago, have long been of inter-
est to scientists as documents of one of the great evolutionary
transitions in the history of life. The first major scientific conference
about these strange looking beasts—the dominant four-legged ani-
mals on Earth 250-230 million years ago—was held in June 1981
at the Smithsonian, jointly organized by the museum and the Lab-
oratory of Brain Evolution and Behavior, National Institute of Men-
tal Health. Among the twenty-five leading scientists in the fields of
paleontology, physiology, and ecology participating in the confer-
ence were the museum’s Dr. Nicholas Hotton, Dr. George Zug, and
Dr. Leo Hickey.

HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS

During 1981, editing and typesetting were completed on Subarctic,
the fourth volume in the series, scheduled for publication late in
1981. This volume focuses on the significance of the natural envi-
ronment in affecting major aspects of the Indian cultures of Canada
and interior Alaska. Editing and typesetting were begun on the sec-
ond part of Southwest (volume 10), which covers all non-Puebloan
peoples. The first part of Southwest (volume 9) was published in
1980.

The first two volumes, California and Northeast, issued in 1978,
continue to sell and are both in their third printing. The complete
encyclopedia, published under the general editorship of NMNuH’s Dr.
William C. Sturtevant, will consist of twenty volumes.

SMITHSONIAN OCEANOGRAPHIC SORTING CENTER

Notable collections arriving at the center in 1980-81 included a
quantity of trawl fishes from the Hawaiian Islands and African
freshwater fishes from Lake Malawi. Collections of benthic inverte-
brates came in from the Azores, the Philippines, Colombia, Oki-
nawa, Hawaii, and the Solomon Islands. Dr. Gordon Hendler con-
tinued field studies of coral reef brittlestars in Belize and Panama.
With the help of Dr. Klaus Ruetzler, Ms. Barbara Littman, and Mr.
Kjell Sandved, Hendler used 16-mm elapsed-time underwater pho-
tography to observe the fishing behavior of basketstars and the ac-
tivity of brittlestars that clean sponges.

106 / Smithsonian Year 1981
SCIENTIFIC EVENT ALERT NETWORK

Notable geophysical events reported by the Scientific Event Alert
Network in its monthly Bulletin during 1981 included: the continu-
ation of episodic lava extrusion at Mount St. Helens; major explo-
sive eruptions in the USSR and the Mariana Islands that injected
ash into the stratosphere; repeated extrusion of lava flows on Re-
union Island; two destructive earthquakes in Iran; and meteorite
falls in Yemen and Oregon.

Since April 1981, data gathered by the Scientific Event Alert Net-
work (SEAN) on strandings of marine mammals and turtles have
been entered directly into museum research files maintained in the
Smithsonian’s Honeywell computer. Each month’s data is compiled
in the computer to produce the tabular mammal and turtle sections
of the SEAN Bulletin. Some of the more significant marine mammal
strandings and sightings of 1981 involved animals found outside of
their normal ranges: a Hyperoodon ampullatus, never previously
reported south of Rhode Island, sighted off North Carolina; a
Cystophora cristata, not usually found south of the Gulf of St.
Lawrence, observed off Massachusetts; and strandings of Kogia
simus and Kogia breviceps on the California coast, rare there, but
fairly common in the waters off Hawaii and the East Coast of North
America.

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

The National Museum of Natural History Office of the Registrar
continued to register incoming and outgoing collections, provide
donor information to the museum and the public and provide regis-
tration workshops for the museum staff. The office participated in
the Museum Registration Methods Workshop with approximately
twenty-six participants from the United States, Canada, and Eng-
land, and also accepted an intern from Kuwait for six months of
training in Registration and Museum Storage.

During the year, the office recorded approximately 1,200 incom-
ing collections and 1,700 accessions. Outgoing shipments processed
through the office totaled approximately 4,500. Out of the total num-
ber of outgoing shipments, 1,890 loan transactions were recorded.

The office has been very active in describing the registration sys-
tem for future automation plans. Each segment of the manual sys-
tem has been described and documented.

Science / 107
MUSEUM SUPPORT CENTER

Construction began in January 1981 on the Smithsonian’s Museum
Support Center—urgently needed by the National Museum of Nat-
ural History for collection storage space—and with favorable
weather proceeded ahead of schedule through fiscal year 1981. The
general contractor is the George Hyman Construction Company of
Bethesda, Maryland. The scheduled completion date for the $29
million project is January 9, 1983. Located on an eighty-two-acre
site in the southern half of the Suitland Federal Center, the 303,000-
square-foot building will consist of a two-level laboratory and re-
search area connected to four large storage pod units.

INVENTORY

The base-line collection inventory at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History was nearly sixty-five percent complete by the end of
fiscal year 1981 and is on schedule. Valuable specimen types and
many specimens to be moved to the new Museum Support Center
are being inventoried on an item-by-item basis, and the remainder
of the museum’s collection of over 60 million objects is being inven-
toried in batches of specimens. The total computerized data base for
the inventory will consist of over 2.3 million records, of which
nearly 1.5 million were on file by the end of fiscal year 1981. Com-
pleted or near completion are inventories of archeology/ethnology
objects, major groups of type specimens of plants, invertebrate ani-
mals, vertebrates and fossil organisms, valuable mollusks, certain
families and orders of insects, invertebrates, mammals and birds,
the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, and Devonian stratigraphic
suites of fossils, the egg and nest collection, fish tank collection,
groups of reptiles and amphibians, the gem, mineral and rock col-
lections, and the collection of the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sort-
ing Center.

BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS

A major study of the heating, ventilating, and air conditioning sys-
tems of the museum was undertaken to determine the course of
future improvements in these systems. When implemented in future
years, these improvements will be of significant benefit to the col-
lections, our visitors, and staff.

108 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Significant progress was made in improving the building’s fire
protection systems. Complete fire detection and suppression systems
were installed in the museum’s two wings.

The renovation of rest-rooms, designed to provide access to the
disabled, was accomplished as a part of the museum’s plan for im-
proved accessibility.

National Zoological Park

Each fiscal year is a continuum of efforts beginning in 1889 to the
present and proceeding into the future. The National Zoological
Park (Nzp) is staffed with intelligent, dedicated, well-trained, and
highly motivated, employees, who are among the best zoo people
assembled to accomplish our mission. This includes everyone in the
organization from janitors to scientists. Although fiscal year 1981
presented personnel and budgetary reductions—problems we have
not faced for many years—the staff demonstrated creativity, initia-
tive, and great diligence when confronted with these changing con-
ditions. As a result, the Zoo moved forward in all areas. Our animal
acquisitions, management, health, and breeding programs flour-
ished; planned construction and renovation projects proceeded rea-
sonably well on schedule; the scientific programs continued produc-
tive research, presenting new insights into animal ecology, behav-
ior, and breeding; and the support services program kept the
grounds and facilities in even better condition than heretofore.
Thus, in this year of challenge, the Zoo continued its progress, de-
velopment, and achievements through superb staff response to
budgetary and personnel constraints.

ANIMAL COLLECTION AND EXHIBITS

Upon completion of construction in November 1980, the Great Ape
House was turned over to the Zoo by the contractor. The orangu-
tans were the first to occupy the building, followed later by the
gorillas. The educational, information signs and labeling were in-
stalled; and, after technical adjustments, the building was quietly
opened to the public Easter week of 1981. The public acceptance of
the building and exhibition has been very pleasing.

There are seven large, 1/2-inch-thick glass-fronted exhibit areas
for the animals. In each animal’s area are artificial climbing ‘’trees”

Science / 109
In this year of challenge, the National Zoo continued its progress, development, and
achievements through superb staff response to budgetary constraints. Shown here is
the main entrance to the brand new Great Ape House, opened to the public during
Easter Week this year. Below. In this interior view of the Great Ape House, visitors
observe Nikumba, a male lowland gorilla (left) and Femelle, the female. The animals’
acceptance of their new enclosure has been dramatic as they become more content
and responsive to each other . , . and to the public.

made of steel gunite. It was thrilling to see mature gorillas and
orangutans, who had never before had more than pipes and wooden
shelves, climbing on their new trees. Especially gratifying is the
animals’ acceptance of their new quarters. They seem much more
content and responsive to each other, as well as to the public.

Unseen by the public, but appreciated by the animals and keep-
ers, are large retiring areas for the animals, an off-exhibit quaran-
tine area, and wide spaces for safe and easy servicing of the animals
by the keepers.

The grass-covered outside yards are separated from the visitors
by a combination of dry moats and glass walls. Trees and gymnastic
play apparatus will be installed in these areas next year.

The building is now occupied by six mature gorillas, three males
and three females—Nikumba, Tomoka, Hercules, Femelle, Sylvia,
and M’wasi, respectively. Hercules and Sylvia are on loan from the
Baltimore Zoological Park, and M’wasi is on loan from the New
York Zoological Park. Also occupying the building are a mature
pair of orangutans, Atjeh and Pensi, and two juvenile orangutans,
Bonnie and Azy.

After the 1980 annual Christmas Pageant of Peace on the Ellipse,
the Zoo’s reindeer herd was transferred from Rock Creek to the
Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia. There
they accepted readily their fifty-acre pasture, enjoying the space and
natural forage. This year their antlers were more magnificent than
they have ever been.

The various animal breeding programs have continued. Among
these are the golden lion tamarin (two-hundredth birth in Septem-
ber 1981), lesser panda, various crane species, Bali mynah, Eld’s
deer, Pere David’s deer, bactrian camel, maned wolf, bush dog, tree
kangaroo, binturong, and other animals whose reproduction con-
tinues to proceed satisfactorily. At the Conservation and Research
Center, the yards for hardy birds (pheasants) were completed, and
occupancy is beginning. Reproduction at the Bird House in Rock
Creek has also been satisfactory. Among those birds reproducing
were the ground cuckoos, red-breasted geese, and—for the first
time at the Zoo—five double-wattled cassowary chicks were
hatched. In February 1981, our lone kiwi was sent on breeding loan
to the San Diego Zoo.

During the latter part of fiscal year 1981, the Great Flight Room

Science / 111
in the Bird House was closed to the public while a large fiberglass,
steel-reinforced “tree” was built. It was completed in mid-Septem-
ber. The birds immediately explored and accepted their new perch-
ing areas on this tree, which has pockets for plants, a hidden water-
ing system, and numerous knot-holes for potential nests.

The following animals were shipped to the Peking Zoo this year
as part of an exchange agreement with the National Zoological
Park: four cranes, two swans, six parakeets, one adult male man-
drill, and two male and two female Canada geese.

Four bongo calves were born this year at Rock Creek. Tarun, the
male Indian rhinoceros, was sent on loan to the New York Zoologi-
cal Park, where he joins his son and two females. Patrick, his seven-
year old son, is several inches taller at the shoulder and weighs more
than his father. A captive-born pair of two-year-old white rhinoc-
eroses, Milton and Stormy, were received on loan from King’s
Dominion, Doswell, Virginia.

The frustrating sage of the giant-panda breeding continues.
Hsing-Hsing, our fertile thirteen-year-old male panda, has failed
over the past four seasons to properly mount and breed Ling-Ling,
the female. For this year’s breeding season in April, the London
Zoological Society graciously lent us their fertile male panda, Chia-
Chia, with the hope that he would sire an offspring. After many
weeks of preparation and negotiation, Chia-Chia arrived in March
and settled in very well. Every new animal coming into the Zoo
must undergo at least a thirty-day quarantine period to insure that
it is free of any infectious agent that might contaminate the collec-
tion. For unknown reasons, Ling-Ling came into estrus three weeks
earlier than expected. As a result, after the quarantine period, the
two animals had not had the planned slow, gradual introductions to
each other. On April 11, when Ling-Ling came into estrus, they
were placed together. However, the normal panda roughhousing and
fighting to establish male dominance turned into a serious fight.
Chia-Chia completely dominated Ling-Ling and severely bit her
hind legs repeatedly before Zoo personnel could separate the ani-
mals. Ling-Ling was so sore in her hind legs she could not stand.
By the time she was able to walk again, she was out of estrous, so
the breeding attempt for this year was another failure. On June 6,
1981, Chia-Chia returned to London and arrived in good shape.
Once again we look forward to next April when Ling-Ling comes

112 / Smithsonian Year 1981
In ever-continuing efforts to produce giant panda offspring,
Chia-Chia (shown) was brought to Washington on breeding
loan from the London Zoo. Below. In a more successful
saga, four bongo calves were born this year at Rock Creek,
among them this young calf (left foreground).

into estrus. In September, the giant panda pair began being rotated
into each other’s enclosures as a preliminary to possibly putting
them together in their yards during the day when the weather gets
colder.

In September 1981 the American Association of Zoological Parks
and Aquariums presented to the nzp the Edward H. Bean Award in
recognition for the most notable birth in 1981: the Chinese alliga-
tor. This award is the most prestigious given by the American Asso-
ciation of Zoological Parks and Aquariums. It was shared jointly by
the New York Zoological Park and the National Zoo as a result of
a cooperative breeding loan. In 1937 a pair of Chinese alligators was
obtained by Dr. William Mann on his East Indies expedition. While
the pair was at NzP, eggs were laid but none hatched. In 1975 the
pair was sent to the New York Zoological Park and then shipped to
the Rockefeller Wildlife Center in Louisiana, which has special
breeding enclosures. In 1976 the nzp male died, and in 1979 the
Nzp female was permitted to enter the neighboring enclosure con-
taining a pair owned by the New York Zoological Park. In 1980 the
New York Zoological Park female hatched a clutch of four eggs and
the nzp female produced a clutch of eggs out of which eighteen
hatched. These are the first known breedings and hatchings of
Chinese alligators in captivity. These reptiles are among the world’s
most endangered animals.

Another milestone in captive breeding involved an nzp-owned
Liberian narrow-nosed, female, crocodile on loan to the Atlanta Zoo
to be paired with their male. After six years together without re-
sults, the pair was sent to a specially designed facility at the Cran-
don Park Zoo, Miami, Florida. There the female showed her first
nesting behavior and laid two eggs, which did not hatch. However,
in the fall of 1980 she laid eighteen eggs, thirteen of which seemed
fertile. This breeding is the first United States success with this
species and may be the first captive breeding outside of Africa.

A management training program was established for the animal
keepers. Three keepers were selected to receive broad and diverse
training in management and care of zoo animals. Once they have
completed the total training, they will be collection managers.

CONSTRUCTION
Remodeling of the Reptile House started in February 1980 and the
building was turned over to the Zoo by the contractor in mid-

114 / Smithsonian Year 1981

September 1981 after completion. The curator and animal keepers
are currently preparing the exhibition areas’ decoration and reintro-
ducing the animals to their renovated quarters. The various reptiles
and amphibians had been in a holding area while the renovation
was underway. With the new environmental-control conditions in-
stalled in the building, there should be a surge in reproduction and
scientific studies within the next few years. Located in the area be-
hind the Reptile House are three new, small houses, for indoor ex-
hibits of crocodiles, and four outside yards and pools. The Reptile
will not be completed until early in fiscal year 1982.

The basement of the Reptile House has been remodeled for a noc-
tural exhibition of various animals, primarily small mammals. For
the National Zoological Park this is a new exhibit technique and
will not be occupied and opened to the public until later within the
next fiscal year.

Since the acquisition of the Conservation and Research Center,
Front Royal, Virginia, the staff has spent many hours planning for
the future expansion of the center. Work has started on a new
hoofed-stock facility scheduled for completion in the first quarter of
1982. During this fiscal year a long-range development plan for
animal facilities and services has been underway. Although most of
the formal architectural planning has been done this fiscal year, it
will not be completed until early in fiscal year 1982.

Plans for Monkey Island and the first phase of the Aquatic Verte-
brates exhibits have been progressing. Construction on these two
projects will be initiated in future fiscal years.

RESEARCH

The programs in scientific research and conservation continue. The
work in Nepal is reduced primarily to an advisory capacity and the
Venezuelan field studies are beginning to move into the final write-
up stage.

Dr. Christen Wemmer’s studies on the Sulawesi civet are moving
forward. As a result of last year’s field trip, several animals are now
in the Jakarta Zoo where, it is hoped, they will breed. It has been
found that this animal is more widespread, with a higher popula-
tion, than was originally believed. Dr. Daryl Boness has made two
field study trips concerning pinnipeds. One trip was to the north-
eastern Atlantic area to continue investigations into gray seals, and

Science / 115
the other trip was to the Pacific coast concerning a study on the
California sea lion. Dr. Katherine Ralls continues her studies of the
sea otter on the West Coast, with research periods in California and
Alaska. Dr. Mitchell Bush spent several weeks in South Africa on a
cheetah breeding study in a cooperative research effort with the
Pretoria Zoo and the Wildlife Veterinarian Society of South Africa.

Dr. Eugene Morton pursued his field studies into neotropical
birds in Panama and, this year, made one visit to Cuba. Dr. John
Eisenberg, accompanied by scientists from the Cuban Academy ot
Sciences, conducted a field study of the Cuban solenodon in the
Sierra Madre mountains of Cuba. Dr. Dale Marcellini’s field work
in Puerto Rico on the enolis goes forward.

Mr. Miles Roberts spent a month in Nepal studying the lesser
panda in a continuation of his research on this animal. Dr. Melvin
Sunquist went to Nepal to advise on radio-tracking of gavials and
their plans for reintroduction of this animal into its native habitat.
Dr. Christen Wemmer also visited Nepal and, while there, assisted
in the immobilization and capture of a great one-horned rhinoceros
for the Nepalese game department.

Drs. Kleiman, Eisenberg, Seidensticker, Wemmer, and Sunquist
consulted with colleagues in India and visited several national parks
concerning the parks’ problems and the possibility of future collab-
orative work on several different species of animals.

A training program has been established for our staff and guest
students in radio-tracking techniques. There have been several stu-
dents from overseas who have spent time observing and participat-
ing in this program. This summer there was a six-weeks’ course at
the Conservation and Research Center on radio-tracking and wild-
life-censusing techniques conducted for students participating in a
cooperative primate training program. The National Zoo’s staff is
involved in advisory and managerial aspects of this program.

A nutrition laboratory has been established, and we are develop-
ing an analysis program of foods and diets at the National Zoo as
well as a comparative milk analysis of various animals. Dr. Mitchell
Bush continues his studies of techniques of semen collection, analy-
sis, and storage for a variety of species.

In April 1982, Drs. Eisenberg and Seidensticker, and Mr. Ross
Simons, from the Assistant Secretary for Science’s office, spent three
weeks in China to discuss the possibility of developing a long-term

116 / Smithsonian Year 1981
research program in a national forest in the Sichuan mountains, to
study the ecology of the area, with emphasis on the giant panda.
Plans were formulated, and negotiations with the Chinese authori-
ties began. In September, a delegation from China visited the Smith-
sonian Institution for final negotiations, but an agreement was not
reached. Should an agreement be made, preliminary plans are that,
early next spring, members of the staff will go to China to establish
a camp and begin studies. Throughout the year, Zoo and other
Smithsonian staff will visit the study site for varying periods of in-
vestigation. Dr. Melvin Sunquist would be in residence for most of
the year.

The long-term study— initiated at the Conservation and Research
Center—on the native wildlife, involving numerous censusing tech-
niques, has resulted in some interesting data. On the Center prop-
erty, there has been no hunting for seven years. We found that
there was a spring population of fifty-nine deer, thirty-seven rac-
coons, and five opossums per square kilometer. The ground-hog
census has not been completed, but it is obvious that there is a large
population. One startling occurrence was the discovery this year of
endemic rabies in wild raccoons; there have been six confirmed
cases. This is apparently the first time there is an opportunity to
follow a rabies outbreak with a population under study. Much in-
teresting data will be gathered over the next few years about the
effects on the wildlife population.

The heavy deer population on the center’s property is affecting
the undergrowth in the forest and has, for the past two years, de-
pleted our alfalfa production. This year seven hundred acres in the
central part of the center’s campus, which includes the primary
alfalfa field, have been blocked off with what we believe is a deer-
proof fence. In September there was a drive to remove the deer from
this fenced area, and about one hundred deer were known to have
been chased out, probably one hundred evaded the drive. Plans are
proceeding for a deer-cropping effort this year through a controlled
public hunt. The plan is to reduce the number of wild white-tail
deer to a level compatible with available food.

In September Dr. John F. Eisenberg’s book, The Mammalian
Radiations, was published by the University of Chicago Press. The
book is a cumulation of many years of study and observation, and
promises to be an important aid in the study of mammals and their

Science / 117
ecology. At the American Mammal Society meeting this year, Dr.
Eisenberg received the J. Hart Merriam award for outstanding con-
tributions to mammalogy. This is a distinguished honor for him,
the zoo, and the Smithsonian Institution.

This has been a very scientifically productive year for the Na-
tional Zoological Park.

PERSONNEL

This fiscal year has resulted in a reduction of the nzp’s staffing level.
The Zoo reached the new man-year level of 297 employees from the
previous level of 327. Naturally, there were many adjustments and
some anxiety among the staff; however, we met the new ceiling
through attrition and imaginative personnel management.

On January 1, 1981, the Office of Education was reassigned from
the Office of Animal Programs and placed under the Office of the
Director. Dr. Robert J. Hoage, Special Assistant to the Director, was
assigned Coordinator of the Offices of Public Information and Edu-
cation. A peer review of our education programs was conducted in
August, and a final decision on this report has not yet been made.

FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO

This year the Friends of the National Zoo (Fonz) continued even
more vigorously with their programs of support in education and
science. The guide program for school children continues to provide
a worthwhile service to younger visitors. The fourth-grade, junior-
high, and high-school programs, which have been developed jointly
with the Office of Education, continue to be an exciting experience
for the students. The busing program continues to be popular with
the children and school systems.

This year the Smithsonian Institution renewed the Fonz contracts
for operating gift, food, and parking concessions located at the Zoo.

The nzp staff appreciates very much the continuing support of
the Fonz in the intern and postdoctoral programs, as well as support
of the Zoo’s various scientific programs both here and overseas.
Many of these projects would not be possible without this monetary
support. The contributions and support provided by the Fonz to the
NZP’s programs also includes the time given by a group of well-
trained, dedicated, and talented volunteers.

Most of the Fonz-generated revenues were derived from sales of

118 / Smithsonian Year 1981

food, merchandise, and public parking services. Financial informa-
tion for calendar year 1980 is provided in detail below. In addition,
a percentage of the restaurant and parking concessions is available
directly to the Smithsonian for the benefit of the National Zoo and
is reported as income in the Financial Report of the Smithsonian

Institution.
FRIENDS OF THE NATIONAL ZOO
Financial Report for the Period
January 1-December 31, 1980
[In $1,000’s]
Net increase/
Net (decrease) to
revenue Expense fund balance
FUND BALANCE @ 1/1/80 .... $ 724
SERVICES
Piemisershap 2). 52 occ s ccc e dees $ 241 $ 192 49
ECAGIONS. of eciere% 6 oi oes os cidales 67 77 (10)
ET UMANIOU | 4 een ee 49 339 (290)
OGRSEINICES | a cjoiiaai. ati cas eiet 2,493 2,040° 453
BO kal Site yaks cols eis a ne $2,850 $2,648 $ 202
FUND BALANCE @ 12/31/80 .. $ 926*

1 Excludes services worth an estimated $118,243 contributed by volunteers to FONZ.

2 Includes gift shops, parking services, and food services.

SIncludes $201,650 paid during this period to the Smithsonian under contractual
arrangement.

“Net worth, including fixed assets, to be used for the benefit of educational and
scientific work at the National Zoological Park.

Science / 119
Office of Biological Conservation

The Office of Biological Conservation (osc), in its third year, has
continued to provide many of the Institution’s responses to requests
for scientific information and advice on aspects of biological and
environmental conservation.

In order to apprise Smithsonian colleagues and the scientific and
conservation community of current areas of environmental interest,
bureau contributions and the recent relevant literature, the office has
produced a “Biological Conservation Newsletter” which is circulated
on a monthly basis.

For the purpose of stimulating concern among students and the
general public, the office has been actively engaged in the prepara-
tion of a color-illustrated book entitled, Endangered Plants of the
United States. The textual portions of the book have been com-
pleted, and provide a consideration of the vegetation and physiogra-
phy of the United States in relation to the 150 endangered and
threatened plant species whose status is discussed. The text will be
complemented by 150 full-page color representations of the plants.

The Smithsonian Institution—Threatened Plants Committee (1ucNn)
Latin America Project has finished a compilation of the names of
eight thousand candidate endangered, vulnerable, and rare plant
species for Middle America (Mexico and Central America). The can-
didate species, obtained by canvassing the literature, are arranged
by country and have been sent to scientists and local authorities for
comments regarding their population status. The final draft list of
candidate species, based on these solicited comments, is expected to
be completed by the end of this calendar year.

The second phase of the project, which concerns the flora of
South America, has begun with a request for contributors to recom-
mend species that deserve immediate priority for conservation. In-
formation on species known to be threatened is being assembled for
“red data sheets,” which will be included in the rucn’s forthcoming
volume of the Plant Red Data Book. Expected to be published at the
end of 1982, the newly expanded volume will include fifty to one
hundred data sheets for Middle and South America.

The director, as the Smithsonian representative on the Species
Survival Commission (ssc) of the 1ucn, presented a Situation Report
for North America at the fifty-fourth ssc meeting. The report em-

120 / Smithsonian Year 1981
phasized the need to standardize the criteria used to develop status
determinations for endangered flora, recognize the importance of
threatened species in terms of their utility to people, and educate
the interested public by means of popular books.

At a meeting of the Organization Committee for the Regional
Workshop on Conservation of Tropical Plant Resources in South-
east Asia, held in New Delhi during the 1981 Convention on Inter-
national Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(c1TEs), a workshop was planned for January 1982, during which a
cooperative project involving the Smithsonian Institution and the
government of India will be developed for assessing the status of
endangered plant taxa, their wild relatives, and genetic resources in
India.

The osc, in conjunction with the Center for Earth and Planetary
Studies of the National Air and Space Museum and botanists from
the Suez Canal University, Ismailia, Egypt, is also involved in de-
veloping a study of the relationships between soils and vegetation
communities in the Sinai peninsula in order to help recommend
natural areas for preservation.

The director submitted five papers for the Thirteenth Interna-
tional Botanical Congress held in Sydney, Australia: “International
Approaches to the Conservation of Wild Orchids,” “Tropical Afri-
can Viewpoints on Conservation and Botanical Gardens,” ““Threat-
ened Plants of the Americas,” “The Plight of the World’s Vanishing
Flora,” and ‘’Plant Conservation, A Message for the Future.”

As commissioner, the director continued to serve as Smithsonian
representative on the International Convention Advisory Commis-
sion (1cAc), which advises the secretary of the interior on scientific
matters pertaining to the cites, particularly on the granting of
specific import and export permits for trade in species listed in the
Appendices to the Convention.

The osc was awarded a contract to provide illustrations of ten
plant species (three carnivorous Sarracenias, seven cacti) most fre-
quently found in international trade. which will be utilized in a
United States identification manual for customs inspectors enforc-
ing the cites at ports of entry.

The office continued its role in supporting the Charles Darwin
Foundation for the Galapagos Isles and has provided sizable finan-
cial imput into the Seychelles Islands Foundation through fund-
raising efforts.

Science / 121
Office of Fellowships and Grants

The Office of Fellowships and Grants (orc) continues to serve as
an Institution link with scholarly organizations throughout the
world. It brings scientists and scholars to all parts of the Smith-
sonian to utilize the unique resources available as well as to interact
with professional staff. The office also encourages cooperative
research with universities, museums, and research organizations in
the fields of art, history, and science. At present, two major activi-
ties are managed and developed by the office: Academic Programs
and the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program.

Academic programs at the Smithsonian support and assist visit-
ing students and scholars, providing opportunities for research to
be conducted at Smithsonian facilities in conjunction with staff
members. Residential appointments are offered at the undergradu-
ate, graduate, and professional levels.

The Smithsonian also enhances the quality of its research and
extends the reach of its scholarly efforts through the Smithsonian
Foreign Currency Program (srcp). The secp offers grants to the
Smithsonian and other U.S. scholarly institutions for research in
a limited number of foreign countries where “excess currencies”
are available. It is particularly effective in strengthening the “‘in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge” on an international scale.

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS

Academic programs at the Smithsonian are an important comple-
ment to those offered at universities. The national collections and
the curators who study them are unparalleled resources, not avail-
able anywhere else, essential to scholarly research. In general,
university education is based primarily on the study of books or
artifact reproductions. At the Smithsonian, historical and anthro-
pological objects, original works of art, natural history specimens,
living plants, animals, and entire ecosystems are available for
study. The educational experience, which combines university
study with field research, is one that is significantly enhanced, and
the breadth of field opportunities at the Smithsonian is unmatched.

The Office of Fellowships and Grants administered a variety of
academic appointments in fiscal year 1981. The program of Smith-

122 / Smithsonian Year 1981

sonian pre- and postdoctoral fellowships, begun in 1965, awarded
fifty-seven fellowships during 1980-81. These appointees pursue
independent research projects under the guidance of staff advisors
for periods of six months to one year in residence at one of the
Institution’s bureaus or field sites. This year, topics of study for
Smithsonian fellows included: skeletal biology of ancient Near East
human populations; observational studies of families in natural
environments; higher classification of the species-rich hairstreak
butterflies; iconography of American feminism; the early years of
the National Institutes of Health; and art and taste in Boston from
1907 to 1929.

The visiting graduate student program offered twelve ten-week
awards during 1981. The participants are usually junior graduate
students beginning to explore avenues that develop into disserta-
tion research. This year, visiting graduate students studied ante-
mortem tooth discoloration; herbaceous diversity of tropical forest
understory; the Samuel A. Murray collection at the Hirshhorn; and
analysis of new meteorites in the S.I. collections. The support of
short-term visitors was also continued by the office. Twenty-three
persons spent from one week to a month at the Institution, study-
ing collections and conducting research.

A number of senior fellowships continued to be offered at the
Institution. One of the pioneers of the space program and dis-
coverer of the Earth’s radiation belts, Dr. James Van Allen, from
the University of Iowa, spent eight months at the National Air
and Space Museum (NASM) as a Smithsonian Regents Fellow.
During his stay, he worked on a history of the space program to
be published for the twenty-fifth anniversary of the space age.
Dr. Van Allen’s tenure provides the base for future scholarly
studies of astronautic history conducted at Nasm. In September of
1981, Dr. Lawrence W. Levine from the University of California
at Berkeley came to the Institution to spend the year as a Regents
Fellow at the National Museum of American History. He will be
working on his current research topic, ‘“The American people and
the great depression: culture and consciousness during the 1930s.”
The end of fiscal year 1981 also marked the arrival of Dr. Joseph
E. Harris from Howard University, the first Smithsonian Secre-
tary’s Fellow who will complete his research and publication on
the Ethiopian Research Council. The Nasm’s appointment as

Science / 123
John Hanley, former predoctoral fellow under an Office of Fellowships and Grants
program—now a geologist with the U.S. Geological Survey—conducts a fossil identi-
fication workshop for the National Associate Regional Events Program. Below. The
Radiation Biology Lab’s spectral turbidometer is being prepared for submersion from
the boat deck whence it is lowered by winch.

Lindbergh Professor was awarded to R. E. G. Davies, internation-
ally recognized for his work on the history of the worlds’ airlines.
He will continue these studies.

During 1981, a number of bureaus continued to offer support
for appointments to visiting scientists and scholars in cooperation
with the orc. These awards made possible visits to the Smithsonian
by persons who may not be eligible for the pre- and postdoctoral
program, for example, scholars at mid-career.

A survey of past fellows has recently been completed, and the
results are being compiled. Preliminary review shows that the 260
persons responding published a total of 961 articles and 55 books.
Last year four former fellows participated in the National Asso-
ciates Regional Events Program.

Internship activities during 1981 continued to expand. The
National Air and Space Museum increased the number of summer
appointees from three to nine students. The Cooper-Hewitt
Museum also expanded summer internship offerings and appointed
three students under the Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Fund.
The orc also assumed the administration of certain academic
appointments at the National Zoological Park (Nzp) and the
Chesapeake Bay Center for Environmental Studies (csces). Ten
students were selected to take part in the research at the caces and
three students have begun studies as part of the nzp Primate
Conservation Training Program. Eight students arrived in August
to take part in the second Smith College-Smithsonian Program
in American Studies. The students will again conduct research
projects under the direction of staff members and will also attend
a seminar course conducted by Smithsonian staff.

The survey of Smithsonian internships conducted in 1980 by
the orc was reviewed and evaluated by a task force of bureaus
and office representatives. The task force developed a policy
statement covering internships throughout the Institution as a
guide to bureau heads, administrators, internship coordinators,
internship advisors and interns themselves. The development of
policies and procedures on this subject is a major accomplishment
as the value of an internship in academic courses of study is
increasingly widely recognized.

In cooperation with the Office of Equal Opportunity, the ore
has undertaken new initiatives aimed at improving minority par-

Science / 125
ticipation in Smithsonian Academic programs. Using networks of
minority scholars and students, and focusing on the 117 historically
black colleges, considerable success was achieved in the 1981
summer academic internship appointments. For the fall, a similar
effort is underway, including staff visits to several historically
black colleges and continued development of the networks by
which candidates can be found whose needs are fulfilled by Smith-
sonian programs. Both student interns and visiting faculty fellows
are sought in this effort.

SMITHSONIAN FOREIGN CURRENCY PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program (srcp) awards grants
to support the research interests of American institutions, includ-
ing the Smithsonian, in those countries in which the United States
holds blocked currencies derived largely from past sales of surplus
agricultural commodities under Public Law 480. The program is
active in countries in which the Treasury Department declares
United States holdings of these currencies to be in excess of
normal federal requirements, including, in 1981, Burma, Egypt,
Guinea, India, and Pakistan. Research projects are moving toward
conclusion under program support in the former excess-currency
countries of Poland, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, and Yugoslavia.

This year, projects ranged through many disciplines, including
archeological investigation of land-use patterns in India; geological
investigations of the Egyptian desert; analysis of the disappearing
court language of Burma; anthropometric analysis of dental maloc-
clusion in Punjabi youths; systematic studies of blennoid and
soleiid fishes in India; palynological survey of selected areas of
Pakistan; and anthropological examination of the role of women
in rice cultivation in India. The srcp supported the travel of ten
presidents of historically black colleges to India to meet with
counterparts there in an effort to develop linkages between
similar institutions.

In 1981, preparation continued for the termination, at the end
of the year, of excess currency funds in Egypt. The srcr has
been the principal supporter of American archaeological and his-
torical research in Egypt and of the Cairo Center of the American
Research Center in Egypt, a consortium of American institutions
with research interests in Egypt. The contribution of U.S. scholars

126 / Smithsonian Year 1981

has been highly significant; therefore, the Smithsonian continues
to urge government and university officials to plan for replacement
funding for the future.

The Smithsonian added another increment in 1981 to the
forward-funded reserve for the American Institute of Indian
Studies (aus), initiated in 1980, for use when surplus currencies
are no longer available in India. The aus, a consortium of thirty-
four United States institutions, is the most successful U.S. scholarly
presence in India, bringing more than one hundred fellows to
that country yearly, operating an archaeological documentation
center at Benares, and conducting language, translation, and pub-
lication programs. The aus has received program funding for the
past fourteen years. Through incremental appropriations, the
Smithsonian hopes to establish a fund of up to a $20 million
equivalent in Indian rupees for future aris activities.

The Smithsonian received a fiscal year 1981 appropriation of
$3.65 million in “excess” currencies to support projects in anthro-
pology and archaeology, systematic and environmental biology,
astrophysics and earth sciences, and museum professional fields,
and to add to the aus forward-funded reserve. From its inception
in fiscal year 1966 through fiscal year 1981, the srcp has awarded
about $45.5 million in foreign currency grants to 221 institutions
in forty states and the District of Columbia.

Through the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program and other
relationships, the Institution has a long-term interest in American
research centers abroad. In spring 1981, Dr. Alice Ilchman was
retained by the Smithsonian to study the Institution’s role in
securing the future of such centers and developing their activities
further. As part of the response to Dr. Ilchman’s recommendations,
the Office of Fellowships and Grants is assisting these centers
in forming a cooperative organization for advancement of the
interests shared by all. An orc staff member is acting as secretary
to the new organization for several months as it creates a structure
and program.

Science / 127
Radiation Biology Laboratory

Plant growth and development are influenced by many environ-
mental factors. The Radiation Biology Laboratory (rBL) has empha-
sized the study of one of these, light, as a major, controlling
factor. Light is periodically present in the environment with a
precise timing that varies seasonally in the percentage of each
twenty-four hour cycle as the earth rotates around the sun.
Thus, plants have evolved processes which utilize sunlight and
its periodic variations in two major ways.

First, plants have developed photosynthetic structures that cap-
ture large amounts of light energy and store it as chemical,
potential energy; i.e., energy-rich molecules that serve as food
for all living organisms are formed by photosynthesis. Second,
plants utilize light signals—in ways that are incompletely under-
stood at present—at the molecular level to regulate the utilization
of available energy for growth. These regulatory processes are
known as photomorphogenesis and include responses such as
flowering, germination of seeds, and elongation growth. They
respond not only to changes in light intensity and duration, but
also to specific colors of light. The research areas of the rBt have
continued to measure environmental factors, especially sunlight,
and how they are utilized in photosynthesis and photomorpho-
genesis in the regulation of plant development. Specifically, these
areas are: (1) environmental processes and energy flow in biologi-
cal systems, such as photosynthesis, water relations, and carbon
metabolism; (2) regulatory processes of plants, such as membrane
synthesis and pigment synthesis; (3) measurement of the amount,
duration, and color quality of sunlight present in the environment;
and (4) age determination of biological artifacts based upon their
radiocarbon content.

ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY

The relative effectiveness of different colors of incident radiation
for photosynthesis was determined first many years ago in the RBL
and was subsequently measured for numerous species by other
investigators. This action spectrum for photosynthesis indicates
that an ideal artificial source of photosynthetically active radiation
would be one that generates only the wavelengths (colors) of

128 / Smithsonian Year 1981

radiation that are most effectively utilized. A source could be
considered to be one hundred percent efficient if it produced
radiation of a single color that coincides with the action spectrum
maximum. A broad-band source, such as sunlight, consisting of
many colors of light, is only fifty to sixty percent efficient for
photosynthesis when compared in this manner.

The conversion of electrical to radiant energy by various elec-
trical lamps used in horticulture and growth chambers was meas-
ured in relation to their photosynthetic utilization efficiencies.
However, the lamps with the highest photosynthetic utilization
efficiencies did not produce plants with normal developmental char-
acteristics. It was found that the lamps commercially developed
for horticultural applications yield no higher photosynthetic utili-
zation efficiencies than some of the most common lamps developed
for lighting applications. These results indicate that compromises
are necessary to obtain maximum photosynthetic conversions of
costly radiation provided by electrical sources and at the same
time to maintain a suitable balance of colors needed for the desired
photomorphogenic responses leading to normal developmental
characteristics.

When the photosynthetic efficiency of plants occurring in salt
marshes on the Chesapeake Bay was measured, it was found to
decline from June through the remainder of the growing season
and is correlated with an increase in the water stress within
the leaves.

During the past year, a study was initiated to determine how
growth and photosynthesis in salt marshes are inhibited by water
stress, the first step of which was to characterize the daily and
seasonal patterns of water potential. Water potential is defined in
terms of the free energy of water in the plant compared to the
free energy of pure water at the same temperature and pressure
and is readily measurable in the field. Plant water potential
declines as water loss, accumulation of salt from the soil, and
small molecules from photosynthetic activity increase in leaf tissue
throughout the day.

Water potential in the leaves of species adapted to salt marshes
was found to be much lower than it is in plants adapted to forests
and grasslands, and dramatically lower than in agricultural species.
Spartina alterniflora and Distichlis spicata, two species that com-

Science / 129
monly form large tracts of salt marsh along the Atlantic coastline
of North America, develop daytime water potentials approximately
five times lower than would be required to stop photosynthesis
and growth in corn. In fact, only plants from extremely arid
environments have lower water potentials than these salt marsh
species.

An interpretation of these measurements is that the ability to
develop low water potentials through accumulation of salt and
organic compounds (perhaps directly from photosynthesis) is a
strategy for survival in an environment in which high salt and
low oyxgen in the soil work against the plant’s ability to take
up water. If the plant could not lower its water potential, water
uptake from the soil could not keep pace with evaporative demand,
and water loss would soon reduce turgor, resulting in the cessa-
tion of growth. Dessication is the single most common stress for
all land plants. Knowledge of the mechanisms by which wild
species have adapted to environments in which dessication is
brought about by water loss or salt accumulation may ultimately
permit economically important species to grow in environments
where they are now unable to grow.

The monitoring of the color quality of daylight continues. As
the accumulated data for several years indicate, there are complex
changes in the values obtained from year to year. The determina-
tion of precise descriptions of the periodic fluctuations will require
a long-term monitoring of both sun and sky components.

Precision instruments have been designed for monitoring the
short wavelength portions of sunlight (ultraviolet B radiation, uvs).
Since 1975, when these measurements were initiated, no consistent
trend, either decrease or increase, in the fluctuations of the amounts
of uvs has been observed. It is concluded that no significant
changes in the ozone layer, which regulates the amount of uvB
received from the sun, have occurred. These measurements are
continuing at both the Rockville and Panama stations.

Another facet of the spectral monitoring of sunlight has been
implemented with measurements near sunrise and sunset by a high
precision device capable of accurately integrating data for two
restricted wavelengths of light, 660 and 730 nanometers. These
two wavelengths are important in controlling photomorphogenesis.
Changes have been observed on a horizontal surface in the ratio

130 / Smithsonian Year 1981

of one wavelength to another. Measurements are in progress to
determine if the same or larger magnitude changes occur in light
directly from the solar beam. The changes so far noted are at
very low levels of light around sunrise and sunset, but do not
occur every day.

Underwater radiometric equipment has been devised to study
the light penetration into estuarine waters along the Chesapeake
Bay in a collaborative project with Chesapeake Bay Center for
Environmental Studies and the National Museum of Natural His-
tory. A portable unit makes measurements at various places so
that some understanding of the spatial relationships can be gained.
Another unit, one that is stationary, is underwater at a mean depth
of two meters. It monitors the spectral quality of light penetrating
the water from sunrise to sunset every day of the year. The unit
is removed every few months for maintenance and then is replaced.
A duplicate of this unit monitors the spectral quality of daylight
that falls on the water surface. A fourth unit is being used to do
turbidity studies using the same spectral bands that are being
monitored. Periodic changes, approximately five days long, in the
light penetration of the estuary have been observed. A much
larger data set will be needed to be sure this phenomenon is not
an artifact or a short-lived event that may not occur from year to
year. This instrument, with its integrating capabilities, can make
high precision measurements in extremely turbid waters. The
measurements will assist in correctly describing the aquatic light
environment in the Rhode River estuary at the Chesapeake Bay.

Solar spectral quality and quantity affect not only the vegetative
productivity and growth of plants through photosynthesis, but
also in a much more subtle manner, their reproductive behavior.
It has been known since the 1920s that many plants are capable
of reproducing in response to changes in the relative length of the
day throughout the year. This phenomenon has come to be known
as photoperiodism. Two factors are known to be important for
the control of this phenomenon, one is the presence in the envi-
ronment of a suitable light signal to tell the plant, with some
precision, how long the daylength is, and the other is an internal
detector mechanism required to perceive such a signal.

It has been known for some time that the universal plant
pigment, phytochrome, is the probable detector molecule or photo-

Science / 131
receptor. Based on the fact that this pigment exists as two inter-
convertible forms, it was thought that the daylength timing was
related to the time required for one form to revert to the other.
However, critical measurements of the rates of this interconversion
have shown this not to be the case. In the laboratory, for at least
one group of plants, it has been found that the response appears
to be mediated rather by the relative levels of the two forms of
the pigment that coexist in specific ratios depending on the quality
of the light. It was also found that this response required very
high energies of light with an optimal spectral composition. As the
spectral composition changes from this optimum, the amount of
energy required increases.

Laboratory measurements of the spectral composition of solar
daylight indicate that, throughout most of the day, the relative
energies are suboptimal. At twilight, however, as the total energy
decreases, the relative energy shifts toward more optimal ratios.
This shift was also found to occur with increasing shade when
the light is passed through a series of leaves, as might occur under
a forest canopy. Thus, it appears that this shift in relative energy
might be the environmental light signal for photoperiodism.

The sensitivity of the plant itself to optimal spectral ratios was
found to vary by fifty-fold during the course of the day. Thus,
even when all of the proper light signals are present, the plant
will only respond when they occur at the proper time. This internal
regulation appears to be a function of the biological clock of the
plant and, as such, is coupled to numerous biochemical and physio-
logical events. As evidence for this, it has recently been found
that the phase of the fifty-fold change in sensitivity is determined
by the time when a light pulse is given. Normally maximum sen-
sitivity occurs during the second half of the day. A light pulse
given at this time changes the maximum sensitivity to the first
half of the day. This change in time of sensitivity effectively
shortens the daylength requirement and reinforces the initial
stimulation.

The mechanism of how optimal ratios of the phytochrome
pigment interact with this internal clock to both promote flowering
and set the phase of sensitivity to the external light environment
are the subjects of further investigation. The possibility that photo-
synthesis is somehow involved in this response has recently been

132 / Smithsonian Year 1981
excluded by demonstrating that plants, grown on a herbicide that
produces plants without any chlorophyll, still show the same
variation in response to light, at the same times during the day,
as do normal green plants.

A specific example of the effects of spectral quality on repro-
duction occurs in the peanut. White light radiation stimulates the
elongation of the plant gynophore, the fruiting body of the
fertilized plant flower, and inhibits development of the embryo
and pod. Elongation of this gynophore decreases as the levels of
blue, white, red, and far-red radiation are decreased. Only when
the radiation levels are decreased below a threshold level, which
differs for each spectral quality, are embryo and pod development
initiated. The threshold in the number of photons required for
white and red radiation is lower than the threshold for far-red.
The reversibility of the induction of these developmental charac-
teristics by red and far-red radiation at the threshold values
indicates the involvement of the photomorphogenic pigment
phytochrome.

REGULATORY BIOLOGY

Phytochrome, the major photoreceptor for light-mediated devel-
opment in higher plants is a colored protein that can be isolated
and purified in the laboratory. Light converts an inactive form of
the molecule to an active form, thereby initiating a chain of bio-
chemical events leading to a physiological response. This light-
mediated activation of the purified phytochrome molecule is being
studied. It has been determined that a limited portion of the
protein surface is altered on conversion to the active form. This
site, which is believed to be a biologically active site, is located by
binding to the dye Cibacron blue 3GA.

Limited proteolysis has been used to further characterize the
dye binding domain. It has been found that the one hundred
twenty thousand dalton peptide of naturally occurring phytochrome
can be broken down to smaller fragments in the size range of sixty
thousand to forty thousand daltons. Two fragments of about forty
thousand daltons have been produced—one containing a colored
chromophore and one not. Both of these bind to the dye, but with
different affinities. It is believed that this is the result of proteolytic
cleavage of the binding domain itself. These peptide fragments
are being collected for further characterization.

Science / 133
The mechanism by which salicylic acid induces flowering in
duckweed plants has been studied by using radioactive salicylic
acid. Short-term uptake experiments indicate the acid is taken up
rapidly and part of it is converted to a bound form of salicylic
acid. When the acid is removed from the medium, its effect on
flowering ceases almost immediately, but the level of both free
and bound salicylic acid remains fairly constant in a culture for
at least five days after the acid is removed from the medium. If
a labeled four-frond colony is placed in control medium and
allowed to grow until sixteen fronds are present, over ninety
percent of the radioactivity is found in the original four fronds.
Differential centrifugation shows no evidence for association of
radioactive salicylic acid with any cell organelle. These results
indicate that the acid does not move from parent to daughter frond
and apparently is bound soon after being taken up. Thus, it
probably acts during the uptake process or very soon thereafter.

Chloroplasts synthesize some of their polypeptides on ribosomes
that differ from the ribosomes of the cytoplasm. A large portion
of the chloroplast is composed of membranous sacs (thylakoids)
in which the electron transport reactions of photosynthesis take
place. Some of the polypeptides of these thylakoids are made in
the chloroplast on chloroplast ribosomes, and some are made in
the cytoplasm on cytoplasm ribosomes. Thylakoids of the alga
Chlamydomonas, and thylakoids of other plants have thylakoid-
bound ribosomes bound to them. Previous work suggested that
the thylakoid-bound chloroplast ribosomes might be specifically
involved in synthesizing polypeptides that are added to the
thylakoids.

Messenger RNA (m-RNA) associated with thylakoids has been
isolated and translated in vitro in the wheat-germ protein synthesis
system. The protein products formed have been analyzed using
an antibody to total chloroplast membrane polypeptides. Prelimi-
nary analyses indicate that some of the labeled protein products
are chloroplast-synthesized thylakoid polypeptides.

Antibodies to a number of chloroplast synthesized polypeptides
have been prepared and characterized. These antibodies are cur-
rently being used to analyze the products formed when thylakoid-
bound m-rna is translated in vitro.

Under light-limiting conditions in red and blue-green algae, a

134 / Smithsonian Year 1981

large portion of the radiant energy from the sun is harvested by
specialized supramolecular phycobiliprotein complexes (phycobili-
somes). Since energy transfer within the phycobilisomes, and from
the phycobilisomes to photosynthetic membranes is known to be
highly efficient, it is of interest to determine the phycobilisome
composition and the link to the photosynthetic membrane.

In the red alga Porphyridium cruentum, it was established that
the phycobilisomes are closely spaced on the photosynthetic
membranes with about four hundred fifty phycobilisomes per
square micrometer, virtually covering the entire surface. Isolation
of photosynthetic vesicles with the same phycobilisome density
was accomplished, and it was shown that they were as photosyn-
thetically active as whole cells and, furthermore, transferred exci-
tation energy to chlorophyll as evidenced by a high fluorescence
ratio (F 695 nm/F 685 nm = 1.1). Accomplishment of this phase,
serving as an assay for functional phycobilisome-membrane attach-
ment, is essential for being able to ascertain in-vitro reattachment.
The phycobilisome composition of Porphyridium cruentum is
highly complex. It consists of at least eighteen polypeptides, about
half of which possess chromophores, and half of which are
colorless. The colorless ones, assumed to be involved in phyco-
biliprotein-phycobiliprotein linking were present primarily in the
core fraction. In the core they presumably link allophycocyanin
and phycocyanins. Isolation and purification is proceeding toward
identification of components involved in anchoring the phycobili-
some to the photosyntheic membrane.

Phytoene, a forty-carbon colorless compound, is a precursor of
the carotenoid pigments, and phytoene is synthesized from a five-
carbon compound, isopentenyl-pyrophosphate (irr), by a series
of reactions. The biosynthetic pathway in the fungus Neurospora
crassa using cell-free enzyme extracts has been studied. The con-
version of pp to phytoene requires both soluble and membrane-
bound enzymes. The enzyme which converts geranylgeranyl pyro-
phosphate (ccrr) to phytoene is membrane-bound and regulated
by blue light. This enzyme is absent in an albino-2 mutant. The
conversion of 1Pp to Gopr is catalyzed by soluble enzymes, and
at least one of these (probably a prenyltransferase) is regulated
by blue light. The soluble activity required for the biosynthesis of
GGpP is at a reduced level in an albino-3 mutant. In an albino-1

Science / 135
mutant, the enzymes required for phytoene biosynthesis from IPP
have been shown to be present. In this mutant, the block in
carotenoid biosynthesis is the conversion of phytoene to the
carotenoid pigments.

Phytoene biosynthesis has also been investigated in another
type of albino which is designated wc-1 (white collar-1). This
mutant produces normal levels of carotenoid pigment in the conidia,
but the mycelia remain albino under all conditions. It is proposed
that the white collar phenotype is characteristic of regulatory
mutants that are blocked in some part of the initial light-induction
process. The results of cell-free studies in the Radiation Biology
Laboratory support this hypothesis, since the light-induced increase
in both soluble and membrane-bound enzymes, observed in wild-
type and albino strains, is absent in the wc-1 mutant.

Based on these experiments, it was proposed that a number of
such genes will be identified by a systematic mutant hunt. The
isolation of wc mutants may lead to identification of the photo-
receptor pigment. Identification of the photoreceptor would be of
fundamental importance because of the distinct possibility that
this compound is also involved in blue-light effects in higher plants.

The control of carotenoid synthesis in the fungus Phycomyces
by blue light was previously shown to be a two-stepped process
in which one step is induced by low. light levels and the second
by high light levels. It was suggested last year, from preliminary
data in which the relative effectiveness of three wavelengths was
measured (365, 405, and 455 nm), that the apparent increase in
effectiveness in the ultraviolet at 365 nanometers was due to the
presence of two photoreceptors. A carotenoid was implicated for
small light doses and a flavin for large light doses. Subsequent
data confirmed the increase in relative effectiveness in the ultra-
violet, but additional measurements revealed that significant
screening occurs in the mycelium by the carotenoid being produced
during the long exposure times required for the high light doses.
When this screening is taken into account, it is concluded that
only a single photoreceptor is required for both the low and high
dose components, and the data favor f-carotene as the photo-
receptor. Reciprocity data support the conclusion that irradiation
of dark-grown cultures elicits the synthesis of a factor that is
required before the high light dose component can occur.

136 / Smithsonian Year 1981
CARBON DATING

The laboratory provides analytical service for the research inter-
ests of the Institution’s staff in providing radiocarbon chronologies
for samples of archeological and geological interest. Additionally,
a major portion of laboratory research continues to focus upon
the early occupations of the Americas and upon the investigation
of relationships between changing environment and changing cul-
tures. A series of Late Archaic Indian burials from the southern
Connecticut Valley have now been dated to between thirty-three
hundred and thirty-one hundred years ago. The burials contained
a variety of artifacts previously attributed to other time periods
and different regions in the Northeast. Further excavation and
dating are being conducted to elucidate what promises to be a
complete rearrangement of Indian chronologies in southern New
England.

Bottom sediments cored from Munsungan-Chase Lake in north-
central Maine have been dated to 12,700 years ago. While done
to provide paleoclimate reconstruction of that area in cooperation
with the University of Maine’s Munsungan Lake archaeological
project, the date is of considerable interest in that it suggests,
with other sediment dates in Maine, that the last great icesheet
of the area was not a part of the Canadian sheet, but a separate
ice cover that retreated from all sides rather than simply from
south to north as formerly believed. The matter is of great interest
to Pleistocene geologists in both the history of glaciations, as well
as its implications in glacial dynamics.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

On April 10, 1981, the Secretary joined several hundred Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory (sao) employees and friends in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniver-
sary of the observatory’s location at Harvard University. Former
director Fred Whipple narrated a slide presentation documenting
the quarter-century history of sao’s growth during this period
and its contributions to the international space program.
Whipple was appointed to sao in 1955 and shortly thereafter,

Science / 137
at the request of the National Committee for the International
Geophysical Year (1957-58), sao assumed the responsibility for
establishing and operating an optical network to track any satel-
lites launched during the upcoming period of intensive atmospheric
research. Sao’s response was the development of the Baker-Nunn
camera, comprised of a Schmidt camera—not unlike those utilized
by the Harvard Radio Meteor Project—which was modified by
James Baker, and a new mounting system, which was designed
for this application by Joseph Nunn. In tandem with these plans
was the establishment of a volunteer program called ““Moonwatch,”
charged with making the first acquisition of the satellites and
providing the rough orbital positions for camera tracking.

The camera stations eventually numbered twelve in locations
around the world, and the Moonwatch volunteers numbered in
the hundreds. When the first artificial satellites were launched, sao
stood ready to back them. And, for more than a decade thereafter,
these cameras provided optical coverage of satellite passages, as
well as information on other astronomical phenomena. Scientific
contributions from these efforts were reflected in the publication
of the Smithsonian Standard Earth, a classic work that refined the
size and shape of the earth to unequalled accuracy at the time.
(This geodetic measurement would be further refined by data
acquired later by lasers that replaced the cameras at most sao
stations.) The SAO Star Catalog and accompanying Atlas also
resulted from sao’s tracking program.

Under Whipple’s direction, the observatory pioneered in other
areas as well. For example, sao became a world leader in the
theoretical study of stellar interiors; the Prairie Network was
established in the hope of photographing bright meteors as they
entered the earth’s atmosphere and recovering any resultant mete-
orites. SAo’s computer was instrumental in testing the theory that
explained the alignments at Stonehenge. The Celescope Project,
part of the first Orbiting Astronomical Observatory, mapped the
sky in ultraviolet light; and two sao researchers, in independent
programs, were awarded lunar samples from the Apollo missions
for study.

Many programs instituted under Whipple’s directorship continue
to maintain sAao’s prominence as a research facility. Planetary re-
search has led to participation in the Pioneer and Voyager mis-

138 / Smithsonian Year 1981
sions. Sao’s hydrogen maser clocks are considered the most accu-
rate time-keeping instruments in the world and are the standards
for the deep-space tracking networks. Very long baseline inter-
ferometry studies are an intrinsic part of a large national program.
Balloon-borne gamma-ray studies have led to the development of a
large infrared telescope also carried aloft by balloon to map the
skies. Finally, the establishment of a new facility—the Mt. Hopkins
Observatory—which would allow significant achievement in
ground-based astronomy was conceived under Whipple’s leader-
ship. This installation has provided the means for active observa-
tional programs using both conventional telescopes, whose com-
patibilities are enhanced by special detectors, and more unusual
instruments, such as a ten-meter reflector for gamma-ray studies.
More recently, the successful operation of the Multiple Mirror
Telescope (mmT) has contributed greatly to the establishment of
sao as a leader in the field of ground-based astronomy—a posi-
tion sao had already achieved in the space sciences. (The mmr is
a joint project of the Smithsonian Institution and the University
of Arizona.) On September 14, 1981, the Board of Regents voted
to rename the Mt. Hopkins Observatory in honor of Dr. Fred L.
Whipple.

Since the establishment of the Center for Astrophysics in 1973,
George B. Field has led the coordinated research programs of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Harvard College
Observatory. During this period, solar studies have furnished
valuable observations both in the extreme ultraviolet, by use of
the Apollo Telescope Mount on Skylab, and in the X-ray regions.
Indeed, under the center’s auspices, the long-term interests of
both observatories were combined in the Langley-Abbot Solar
Research Program. At the same time, the Einstein satellite, which
carried the first X-ray telescopes capable of providing focused
images of X-ray objects in space, gave X-ray astronomers an in-
strument equal to those available to optical and radio astronomers.

As sao’s second quarter-century in Cambridge began, Secretary
Ripley acknowledged his confidence that the observatory would
meet the new challenges posed by pursuit of excellence in astro-
physics.

Research results of the past year, grouped by the divisions of
the Center for Astrophysics, follow.

Science / 139
ATOMIC AND MOLECULAR PHYSICS

The Atomic and Molecular Physics Division carries out research
in theoretical and experimental physics and chemistry that relates
directly to the interpretation of astronomical and aeronomical
observations and that enters into theories of the astrophysical
phenomena. The accuracy with which the physical condition can
be inferred depends directly on the precision and comprehensive-
ness of the data base of atomic and molecular processes. These
atomic and molecular processes are more than diagnostic probes
of the physical environment; they are often critical in the deter-
mination of the evolution of the astronomical objects. The divi-
sion’s goal is to provide these data and the basic understanding
of the processes.

A diverse array of theoretical topics, involving atomic and
molecular processes and their application to the interpretation of
astrophysical and atmospheric phenomena, is investigated by divi-
sion members. Their studies concentrate on photodissociation,
photoionization, and charge transfer.

Spectroscopic studies of processes and parameters in atomic and
molecular physics of importance to astronomy also continue.
Particular attention is directed toward the measurement of gf-
values of weak transitions in atoms and ions and of transition
of rotational lines of molecules of interest to studies of interstellar
gases and of the earth’s middle atmosphere.

Divisional programs are also supported by use of the 6.65-meter
scanning spectrometer and Ion-Beam Facility. For example, high-
resolution absorption cross-section measurements of the Schu-
mann-Runge bands of O2, which occur in the 175-205 nanometer
wavelength region and control the penetration of solar radiation
into the earth’s atmosphere in that region, have been obtained by
use of the 6.65-meter scanning spectrometer. The Ion-Beam Facility
is being utilized to determine basic properties of multiply charged
atomic ions found in high-temperature astrophysical plasmas and
in laboratory plasmas being developed by the Department of
Energy. Measurements of electron impact excitation cross-sections
of triply ionized carbon were accomplished, and experimenters
have begun to study this process in singly ionized carbon.

New programs pursued by the division include a laser selective
excitation technique developed to measure weak-line oscillator

140 / Smithsonian Year 1981
strength. This new technique has been tested recently with a
measurement of the f-value of the Mg I 'S — °P® intersystem line
where comparison experimental and theoretical values exist. The
technique will be applied in the future to the analogous but one-
thousand-times weaker transition in Be I and will provide a
useful check on earlier theoretical data. A study of the coherent
and nonlinear effects induced on atomic ensembles by high-power,
coherent laser radiation has alse been carried out and will give a
critical assessment of the general applicability of this laser-based
approach to study other weak transistions.

HIGH. ENERGY ASTROPHYSICS

The principal activities of the High Energy Astrophysics Division
are grouped in three main areas: analysis of data obtained in current
or previous missions; planning and development of instrumentation
for future space missions for orbiting observatories; and continuing
research on energetic phenomena in the universe.

This year, scientific activities related to the reduction and analysis
of data from the Einstein satellite dominated the division’s research.
Einstein, the second satellite in the High Energy Astronomy Observ-
atory (HEAO) series, carried the first X-ray telescopes capable of
providing focused X-ray images of a wide range of astronomical
objects. Other Einstein-related activities emphasized mission plan-
ning and target selection; the conservation of the spacecraft atti-
tude-control gas, which was exhausted in April 1981; and the con-
tinued direction of and support for the Guest Investigator Program.

Among the highlights of the Einstein research in fiscal year 1981
were the discovery of two galaxies showing strong X-ray activity
but no optical activity; the detection of a probable underluminous
X-ray active nucleus in the nearby galaxy M81; and the discovery
of limitations on the physical state of a confining medium for the
emission line clouds found in the outer regions of active Seyfert
nuclei.

Since the formation of the center, the division has played a pre-
eminent role in developing and using high spatial resolution tele-
scopes and imaging detectors for X-ray astronomy. The X-ray tele-
scope, the imaging proportional counter, and the high resolution
imaging detector on the Einstein/HEAo-2 Observatory were de-
signed and developed by division members.

Other substantial data-analysis activities included the HEAo-1,

Science / 141
sas-3, Skylab at, and rocket programs. Ongoing hardware design
and developments included the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facil-
ity, the Large Area Modular Array of Reflectors for a Spacelab or
oss-2 mission, advanced X-ray imaging detectors, and X-ray spec-
troscopy for plasma diagnostics.

OPTICAL AND INFRARED ASTRONOMY

The Optical and Infrared Astronomy Division, in addition to con-
ducting astronomical research in the areas of optical and infrared
astronomy, has the responsibility for maintaining and upgrading
ground-based optical telescope facilities. These include the twenty-
four-inch and sixty-inch telescopes and the mot at Mt. Hopkins,
and the Agassiz optical facilities (owned by Harvard College
Observatory). (The mmr is a joint operation of the Smithsonian
Institution and the University of Arizona.) The division also has
an active instrument development group whose main activities have
been the continuing development of photon-counting devices (image
intensifier and Reticon) for spectroscopic applications and of the
ccD camera.

The mn is still not fully operational; however, in the past year,
more than fifty percent of the available time was used for scientific
observing. Staff members made use, principally, of the moderate
resolution MMT spectrograph, the sao echelle spectrometer, and the
SAO ccD camera. In addition, some work was carried out with the
MMT InSb photometer.

The development work on the mnt is concentrated on the thermal
configuration and the coalignment system from the point of view of
taking advantage of the superb seeing—sometimes better than one
second of arc.

A collaborative effort by University of Arizona and sao computer
programers, engineers, and technicians led to the development of a
new telescope coalignment system (tcs) that can adjust the individ-
ual telescopes to a common focus as often as four times per second.
With the new tcs, which significantly improves the quality of
images obtained by the telescope, a video camera is used to look at
the six individual images in the focal plane. A small, high-speed
computer then interprets these video images and adjusts the mov-
able optics of the mmr to keep the images “stacked”; i.e., at a com-
mon focus.

142 / Smithsonian Year 1981
The division also continued to upgrade the capability to provide
remote observing for the staff and to provide reduced data using the
NOVA and vax computers. In addition, balloon and satellite studies
of the infrared region are under way.

PLANETARY SCIENCES

The Planetary Sciences Division carries out a wide variety of solar
system investigations that exclude the sun and concentrate on the
analysis of Voyager results, lunar studies, and comets. Of particu-
lar importance is research related to the origin of the solar system.

A wide range of investigations is pursued by a member of the
Voyager Imaging Team and includes the following areas: detection
of aurorae; lightning and bright fireballs in the atmospheres of
Jupiter and Saturn; and the measurement and structure of aerosol
layers that exist well above the cloud tops of both planets. An in-
vestigation of volcanism on Io led to a model for the plumes that
compares very favorably with the observed examples. Another divi-
sion member has utilized Voyager results in studies of Saturnian
satellites and rings and is carrying out a detailed calculation of the
location of resonances and their theoretical strengths.

A consortium to study the petrography, major and minor ele-
ment chemistry, and ages of some of the Apollo 16 samples is led
by a division geologist who is a participant in the lunar highlands
initiative. Current study is focused on rock 67015, a breccia with a
light gray, friable matrix from the rim of North Ray Crater. Early
results of the study show that the matrix is more variable in a KREEP
component and the clasts include at least one variety not found in
the adjacent breccias.

Another lunar project is the effort to computer-model the origin
of the earth-moon system via accretion of the earth from planetesi-
mals, and formation of a protolunar swarm from planetesimals that
are disruptively captured during passage through the earth’s Roche
zone.

About 550 observations of comets and minor planets were made
with the 1.55-meter reflector at the Agassiz Station. The observa-
tions of the new comet 1980s played a critical role in the establish-
ment of its orbit, and those of 1980e seem to have been the last
obtained of that object.

The rotation periods and vectors of cometary nuclei continued to

Science / 143
be subjects of study. Halley’s Comet has been given special atten-
tion because of interest in mission planning for 1985. The nucleus
rotated in 10"19™ both in 1835 and 1910, and the axis of rotation is
being determined.

Investigations of the solar system have focused on studies of the
structure and evolution of isolated giant gaseous protoplanets that
are formed as a result of gravitational instabilities in the primitive
solar nebula. Current research is concentrating on the possibility
that interstellar grains present in the giant gaseous protoplanet can
clump together and precipitate gravitationally to the center of the
object on a sufficiently short time scale to form a higher density
core, which will not be subject to the evaporation process.

A member of the division directs the IAU Central Bureau for
Astronomical Telegrams, which issued some 130 [AU Circulars and
35 telegram books, and the IAU Minor Planet Center, which issued
some 750 Minor Planet Circulars during the year. In addition, some
130 minor planets were newly numbered during the year.

RADIO AND GEOASTRONOMY

The Radio and Geoastronomy Division activities included research
in Very Long Baseline Interferometry (vLBI); atomic clock develop-
ment and relativity applications; aeronomy research in mesopheric
ozone; geophysics research based on the operation of the sao laser
tracking network; and other research devoted primarily to Space
Shuttle applications.

The visi group improved the accuracy of relative positional
measurements of interstellar masers to better than 100 microseconds
of arc including measurements of proper motions. They also con-
structed the first aperture synthesis map of an OH maser and discov-
ered high velocity mass outflow from a young stellar object in
Cepheus A. In addition, maser emission was mapped in the enve-
lopes of M super giants.

Basic research has been carried out to improve the stability of
masers and their applications to experimental tests of relativity.
Considerable progress has been made by lowering the operating
temperature of the maser cavity, and by coating the cavity wall sur-
faces with such substances as carbon tetrafluoride. The maser group
has successfully operated a maser at 26 K. Development continues
on masers for space flight operations for relativity, gravity wave,

144 / Smithsonian Year 1981
and visi applications. Atomic clocks developed by this group were
used as precise time standards in the tracking of the Voyager mis-
sions to Saturn.

Routine spectroscopic observations were made of stratospheric
and mesospheric ozone, using a ground-based spectrometer operat-
ing near a wavelength of three millimeters. Inversion of spectra
clearly reveals substantial diurnal variations of the ozone mixing
ratio with altitude. The aeronomy group collaborated with others to
measure other atmospheric molecular species, especially water, as a
test of current photochemical theories.

Under nasa support, the division operates three satellite ranging
lasers: Arequipa, Peru; Natal, Brazil; and Orroral Valley, Australia.
A fourth tracking laser is maintained at Mt. Hopkins. During the
past year, the network was upgraded with an improved optical
pulse chopper installed at all stations to reduce laser pulse width
and improve ranging accuracy. Data handling capabilities were im-
proved by modified software, allowing more direct transmission of
data from field stations to sao. A minicomputer was used in com-
munications; software was adapted for operations on the recently
installed pec vax 11/780 computer at sao. All field stations con-
tinued local coverage of LAGEOS, GEos-c and other satellites useful
for geodetic applications. In addition, the sao laser network rou-
tinely provides five-day averages of the earth’s polar position to the
Bureau International de l’Heure.

Basic research in geophysics is concentrated on the short wave-
length features of the earth’s geoid (~100 or ~1000 kilometers),
which can be measured with satellite-borne radar altimeters. Sev-
eral chains of seamounts and ridges in the Pacific and Atlantic
oceans were studied.

A number of research programs are under way to study the be-
havior of a very long tether deployed from the Space Shuttle.
Among them are use of the tether to deploy a satellite for aeronomy
purposes, below the shuttle, at a low altitude where atmospheric
drag would severely limit the lifetime of a conventional satellite. A
second application of the tether is its use as a very long antenna to
inject radio waves into the magnetoionic medium of the earth’s
ionosphere. The research shows that a deployed tether of one-
hundred-kilometer length would permit vir and ELF signals to be
detected with state-of the-art magneto-metric instrumentation.

Science / 145
TYCHO’S SUPERNOVA
EINSTEIN OBSERVATORY 12@ ARC-SECS)

|

|

|

|

oe
ont

63°54 |

63°S1'

{
@)

63°48"

00°23125 ooh22785 00°22" 2/3 o0*22™ 008

The HEAO-2 (Einstein) satellite sent back to sao unprecedented views of celestial
sources of X-rays, including this X-ray picture (above) of the Tycho’s Supernova
which could then be compared with a radio image (below) of the same object.
SOLAR AND STELLAR PHYSICS

The Solar and Stellar Physics Division pursued a vigorous observa-
tional and theoretical program directed toward critical problems
pertaining to cool stars and the spectroscopy and behavior of hot
astronomical plasmas.

The Langley-Abbot Program provides fundamental support in the
area of solar physics and related problems. (This program, funded
by the Smithsonian Institution and using data provided by several
Harvard satellites, supports intensive coordinated studies of the
complex relationship between solar and terrestrial phenomena.) Ob-
servational programs at the Mt. Hopkins Observatory, ultraviolet
spectroscopic measurements with IvE, HEAO-2 (Einstein) X-ray meas-
urements, and a solar ultraviolet coronagraph program formed the
principal ongoing observational component of the division’s re-
search. Emphasis is generally on the sun and other cool stars and
stellar systems. Ultraviolet observing programs with tue also include
the spectroscopy of supernova remnants, of the interstellar medium,
and of cataclysmic variables. Theoretical research continues with
particular emphasis on stellar chromospheres, stellar winds, and
diagnostic spectroscopy of hot plasmas.

This year’s highlights include the first measurement of the tem-
perature and density in the solar-wind acceleration region. The dis-
covery of a decrease in the solar proton temperature with height in
the solar corona establishes the need for additional coronal energy
input at 1.5 to 4 solar radii. These results were obtained by analysis
of rocket-borne ultraviolet coronagraph observations.

Definitive semi-empirical models of components of the solar at-
mosphere, based on our ultraviolet experiment on Skylab, were
published.

An ultraviolet survey of cool stars made with the 1vE satellite pro-
vided measurements that define the chromospheric and coronal
radiative losses, determine the minimum energy requirement of cool
stellar atmospheres, and exhibit the enormous range of activity to
be found in cool stars.

Stellar analogs of solar activity were discovered to occur in several
G and K stars. Short time-scale variability in the Ca K line limits
the size of activity to restricted regions of a stellar surface. Funda-
mental measurements of the modulation of the integrated flux of the
chromospheric Ca K feature directly yield the rotation rate of cool

Science / 147
stars. This unique program is a powerful probe of the critically im-
portant rotation rates of solar-type stars, which are difficult, if not
impossible, to infer from line profiles. The rates of many stars are
now known from this survey to be less than previously thought.

THEORETICAL ASTROPHYSICS

The Theoretical Astrophysics Division carries out research on a
diverse range of astrophysical phenomena, with theoretical studies
often applied to the support and interpretation of observational
data. Division members frequently work in collaboration with scien-
tists in other institutions as well as with members of other divisions.
In addition, they contribute significantly to the educational pro-
grams of the observatories.

The theoretical programs under investigation by division scien-
tists are heavily computer-dependent; however, satellite observa-
tions do provide the basis for some.

An IUE program to monitor the variability of Seyfert galaxies
simultaneously across the radio-X-ray wavelength range led to a
better understanding of the nature of the continuum source. In par-
ticular, these observations point to the importance of inverse Comp-
ton scattering in the production of X-ray photons in the galaxies
that are strong radio sources.

An analysis of the cra Redshift Survey—which, in essence,
weighs the matter contained in clusters of galaxies—was performed.
Implied values of the cosmological density parameter 1 were shown
to lie in the range 0.07 to 0.6, depending on the assumptions made.

From an investigation of methods of forming galaxies from
massive neutrinos, it was concluded that if stable neutrinos have
masses on the order of one hundred eV, and if there also exists
a more massive unstable neutrino, then galaxy formation is facili-
tated by massive neutrinos. If the universe has almost critical
density, then neutrino halos also ease the constraints on “Big
Bang” nucleosynthesis. Baryon halos would produce too much
helium and too little deuterium. Contributions from many astro-
physicists on this and closely related topics were presented at a
“Neighborhood Meeting” on Dark Matter in Galactic Halos and
Clusters of Galaxies, which was organized by a division scientist
in May 1981.

An investigation of the equilibria and behavior of relativistic,

148 / Smithsonian Year 1981
thermal plasmas has led to the finding that such plasmas, in their
optically thin regime, have a maximum temperature for each
physical size and develop a negative specific heat at high lumi-
nosity.

Work on composite particle models of quarks and leptons led
to the discovery of a mechanism whereby composite states, which
are kept massless by chiral symmetries in the absence of weak
and electromagnetic interactions, could be given a rich mass
spectrum by these interactions.

This year, valuable progress was achieved in the understanding
of magnetic fields, photodissociation processes, interstellar clouds,
accretion flows and mass outflows, radiation processes and the
effects of X-rays, the clustering of galaxies, and the hydrodynamics
of the solar interior.

Other division members have carried out basic studies of stellar
and galactic dynamics, stellar and galactic structure, gravitational
theory, radiative transfer, kinetic theory, hydrodynamics, and
scattering theory.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

The tropical forests and seas are where the preponderance of life
evolved, and the tropics are being altered by human activity at an
alarming rate. We find increasing evidence that anthropogenic
impacts may be contributing to the worldwide increase in atmos-
pheric COz and to the gradual heating of the earth. Research at
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (stR1) is focused on
the evolution, ecology, and behavior of tropical organisms. Studies
in Panama and other tropical regions provide a basis for explaining
how plants and animals survive, cooperate or compete, interact
with their environment and propagate their kind. The richness
and diversity of tropical life, and lucid examples of adaptation,
provide an essential perspective that shows the intricate balance
of the natural world. The basic research carried out at str1, both on
Barro Colorado Island and elsewhere, has for more than fifty
years enhanced our understanding of the tropical biota and its
critical interaction with human populations.

Facilities supporting tropical research at sTRI were augmented

Science / 149
during the year. Dr. Michael Robinson, Acting Director, signed
an agreement with the University of Panama that will engender
mutual cooperation and sharing of facilities. In addition, the
government of Panama has announced plans to construct a Na-
tional Library and archive near stri offices in Panama City. The
new library will form an impressive cultural center, along with
sTRI’s new library to be built on the same site. On Barro Colorado
Nature Monument—a fifty-four-hundred hectare tract that includes
the island and adjacent mainland—the Panamanian National Guard
has cooperated in training thirteen game wardens and patrolling
the area. Gilberto Ocafia, str1 Superintendent of the Nature
Monument, has succeeded in enlisting the support of local farmers
in protecting this forest preserve. With funds from a James
Smithson grant, Dr. Alan Smith coordinated the construction of a
large plant-growing house, which is now a permanent installation
on Barro Colorado Island (scr). This facility will allow scientists
to conduct controlled physiological and ecological studies of the
island plants. Joining the str1 staff was Dr. Mark Denny, as
marine coordinator and researcher in the area of biomechanics.
Dr. Frank Morris, former environmental officer of the Panama
Canal Commission, took over administrative duties as Executive
Officer, and Ramon Ely is now str Facilities Manager.

The studies of 213 visiting scientists and students, as well as
those of twenty-four permanent staff members, were aided by ef-
forts of the str1 support staff, grants from the Scholarly Studies
program of the Smithsonian Institution, the Edward John Noble
Foundation, the Educational Outreach Program of str, and the
EXXON Corporation. From September, 1980, to September, 1981, a
total of fitfy-nine pre- and postdoctoral students obtained support
from the above agencies, performing independent or cooperative
research with the guidance of str staff members (see Appendix 4).
Results of this research were reported at over seventy-five seminars
given at str1 and in numerous scientific journals (see Appendix 6).

Senior scholars who visited str1 with Smithsonian support in-
cluded Drs. Richard Dawkins, John Maynard Smith, Charles D.
Michener, Robert D. Martin, and Edwin Willis. Dr. Robert Trivers
spent a year at stRI as a Smithsonian Regents Fellow, and, along
with several of the senior scientists, contributed to seminal dis-
cussions of evolution and behavior.

150 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Scientists working with strr carefully search for parasites and check physiological
condition of a black vulture before tagging and releasing it as one of the 1,524 birds
under study. Below. Dr. Michael Robinson, Acting Director of stri (left), and
University of Panama Rector Dr. Cedefio Cenci (center) sign a mutual cooperation
agreement for advancing knowledge of tropical biology.

Sane

str1 Director, Ira Rubinoff, returned from sabbatical year as
visiting fellow at Wolfson College, Oxford, England, where he
completed work on a strategy for preservation of some of the
world’s remaining tropical moist forests. The plan would provide
direct economic incentive for conservation. Funded by proposed
contributions from the developed nations, the plan would support
a system of one-thousand reserves approximately one-hundred-
thousand hectares each, thereby insuring the preservation of
approximately ten percent of the world’s remaining tropical forests.

The primary goal of the Environmental Studies Program, headed
by Dr. Donald Windsor, is the analysis of marine and terrestrial
ecosystems. Basic data are being gathered to describe physical
and biotic environments of coral reefs and tropical forests. On
Barro Colorado Island, seasonal variations in meteorological and
soil factors are studied in conjunction with the phenology of
forest trees and the fluctuations in selected animal and plant
populations. For instance, Dr. Charles Handley is studying the
foraging habits and abundance of frugivorous bats, many of
which eat mostly figs when available. Allen Herre is studying
how the availability of agaonid wasps, the sole pollinators of figs,
affects fig production, and whether this is related to the shortage
of figs detected in the midrainy season. At Galeta Reef, at the
str1 Caribbean Marine Laboratory, Dr. John Cubit is working
with Judy Connor, in conjunction with the Ecosystem Analysis
Project, and Dr. Roy Caldwell and students. Their work is pro-
viding basic descriptions of the coral-reef environment and the
distribution and abundance of its biota. These projects yield useful
information for formulating resource management policies for
Caribbean reefs, as well as a wealth of information on the natural
history of reef plants and animals.

The individual research project is still the mainstay of much
of the str scientific effort. In 1981 Dr. Alan Smith continued
his comparative studies of high-altitude, long-lived tropical plants
above the treeline, and initiated a study of the elimination of one
such species by elephants on Mount Kenya. In the forest of sect,
Dr. Smith began studies on the response of understorey herbs to
variation in microenvironment influenced by rainfall, treefalls, and
topography. Stri to postdoctoral fellow Lucinda McDade studied
the pollination and flowering dynamics of Pentagonia macrophylla

152 / Smithsonian Year 1981
and Pavonia dasypetala, two species pollinated by hermit hum-
mingbirds. Postdoctroal fellow S. Joseph Wright completed studies
of bird species diversity and abundance on eight islands in Gatun
Lake, Panama, and predoctoral fellow Francis Putz showed that
lianas slow forest regeneration in tree fall gaps and increase the
chance of death of trees that bear them.

Dr. Mary West-Eberhard wrote a review on the swarming
behavior of tropical social wasps, finding that swarming is co-
ordinated by the deposit of trail pheromones, which are followed
by individuals rather than a coherent group. The pheromone is
probably derived from glandular products that serve in dominance
communication between females in nonswarming social species.
The evolution of swarming appears to have arisen from reproduc-
tive competition among the queens in populous colonies. Dr. West-
Eberhard was invited speaker at the International Symposium on
Social Insects in the Tropics in Coccoyoc, Mexico.

The year 1981 saw publication of Dr. Robert L. Dressler’s book,
The Orchids, Natural History and Classification (Harvard Uni-
versity Press), and he participated in the Thirteenth International
Botanical Congress in Sydney, Australia, and the Symposium of
the International Society for Tropical Ecology in Bhopal, India.
Dr. Dressler completed research on the primitive orchid genus
Palmochris, showing that all plants of a given species flower on
the same day, during a period of a few hours, presumably
attuned to a subtle environmental cue. He has also summarized
and expanded information on humus-collecting shrubs, which
short-circuit the nutrient cycle in wet tropical forests by collecting
their own discarded leaves and inflorescences.

Dr. Robert Silberglied designed a system to measure the inci-
dence of predator attack on butterflies, and also continued study
of hybridization and reproductive isolation in populations of
Anartia. Dr. Silberglied was invited to attend the meeting of the
Royal Entomological Society in London, where he presented new
evidence that the brilliant wing colors of many tropical butterflies
do not serve, as Darwin had believed, to attract females of the
species. Rather, these colors seem to function in communication
with other males, minimizing the reproductive competition between
them by signaling that a particular territory has already been
patrolled for receptive females.

Science / 153
Dr. Olga Linares spent much of the year in the field, studying
the ecological factors which affect agricultural practices and the
society of the Diola peoples of southern Sénégal. With Dr.
Anthony J. Ranere, she edited a volume, Adaptive Radiations in
Prehistoric Panama (Peabody Museum Monograph, No. 5, Harvard
University Press). Senior Scientist Dr. Martin Moynihan concen-
trated on publishing summaries of studies of cephalopod molluscs
in the Caribbean and the social and sexual behavior of coraciiform
birds in West Africa. Dr. Moynihan continued studies of cephalo-
pod behavior in the Southwest Pacific, and applied ideas derived
from game theory and mimicry to the interpretation of animal
behavior.

Dr. David W. Roubik coordinated the activities of fifteen collab-
orating scientists from Panama, Colombia, and the United States
in the study of bee biology and pollination ecology. With assistance
from the Scholarly Studies Program and the Exxon Corporation,
Dr. Roubik continued to monitor the abundance and pollination
preferences of native bees in Panama, to eventually describe the
ecological impact of Africanized honeybees, which are entering
Panama from Colombia. Dr. Roubik was invited lecturer at the
International Symposium on Social Insects in the Tropics and the
Fourth Symposium on Parasitology, both in Mexico.

Exxon fellows from the University of Panama, Orlando Castillo
and Ameth de Leon, both worked in the Gigante Peninsula of
the Barro Colorado Nature Monument, analyzing tree species
composition in young forest. These studies are among many thesis
projects performed by fellows at str1, and their results will be
compared with those of Dr. Stephen Hubbell, of the University of
Iowa, who has coordinated a large-scale study of forest composi-
tion on sci, financed by the National Science Foundation. Dr.
Hubbell, Dr. Robin Foster, and associates have mapped trees
within a fifty-hectare plot of old forest on scr. The tagged trees
are being identified, and their spatial distribution is being analyzed,
which will result in detailed knowledge of forest structure and
species recruitment, as well as provide valuable records for future
studies.

Dr. William Eberhard was invited to the International Meeting
of the American Arachnological Society in Knoxville, Tennessee,
where he also studied the behavior of several temperate spider

154 / Smithsonian Year 1981
genera. Dr. Eberhard conducted field research in Panama on the
web construction behavior of orb-weaving spiders and performed
computer analyses of web photographs, using the computational
facilities of str1. In a departure from his usual studies, he published
a major theoretical article in the Quarterly Review of Biology,
considering the possible role of competition amongst intracellular
organelles as an evolutionary force.

Dr. Egbert F. Leigh, Jr., made comparative studies of architec-
ture and leaf arrangements of trees in wind-planed elfin forest of
mountain tops in Costa Rica and Malaysa. Drawing from compara-
tive studies of nutrient-starved scrub and mangrove communities,
and normal wet lowland tropical forest, Dr. Leigh expects to
resolve which architectural features of elfin forest reflect nutrient
starvation and which may be related to the unique aspects of elfin
forest climate. Dr. Leigh also worked on the mathematical theory of
population genetics to try to construct a falsifiable hypothesis of
the theory of evolution by natural selection.

Dr. Michael H. Robinson, in addition to serving as deputy
director, presented an invited paper at the International Ethology
Congress in Oxford, England, entitled ‘The Evolutionary Arms-
Race.” Dr. Neal Smith attended the Bird Census Symposium at
Asilomar, California, and in addition to two papers presented
there, gave fourteen seminars at North American universities. In a
study aimed at answering questions of population structure and
social organization, Dr. Smith and two collaborators from the
University of Panama—Carlos Ayarza and Guillermo Garcia de
Paredes—completed a second year of research on the black vulture,
Coragyps atratus. This scavenging bird is the principal bird species
associated with Central and South American cities. Smith and co-
workers are endeavoring to document the natural history and
dispersal habits of the birds, and have tagged 1,524 birds in the
course of their study.

Dr. Peter Glynn gave a graduate seminar course in coral reef
ecology at the University of Guam and attended the Fourth Inter-
national Coral Reef Conference in Manila. In continuing studies
of the sea star Acanthaster, Dr. Glynn showed that this predator
tends to increase the number of species coexisting on the reef
where its preferred food comprised the dominant species, but that
it has the opposite effect where nonpreferred corals predominated.

Science / 155
This finding is similar to that of Glynn’s studies on species-poor
Pacific reefs of Panama.

Dr. G. Gene Montgomery worked with Brazilian collaborators
in a project designed to conserve populations of the manatee in
man-made lakes. Manatee-hunters were hired to locate the aquatic
mammals, which were then transported to protected lakes where
their presence is deemed beneficial in the control of aquatic vege-
tation. A second major research project, to census Brown Pelicans
in the Pearl Island Archipelago and on Taboga and Uruva Islands
in Panama, was carried out by Dr. Montgomery with the assistance
of three Exxon fellows from Panama and Colombia. The study
gave strong indication that pelican-breeding colonies in the Bay
of Panama are of international significance, and that these sites
deserve protection as national sea bird refuges.

Senior scientist Dr. A. Stanley Rand attended the Ethology
Congress at Oxford, England, and also pursued comparative
studies of iguana nesting behavior on San José Island, in the Bay
of Panama, and at several nesting sites within the Barro Colorado
Nature Monument. Dr. Rand and collaborator Gordon Burghardt
initiated studies on natural populations of the iguana in Venezuela,
and Katherine Troyer, str fellow, worked out the relation between
the diet of young iguanas and their gut flora. The flora necessary
to assimilate nutrients from a strictly vegetarian diet appear to be
derived in part by coprophagy by young iguanas. Michael Ryan
completed a Smithsonian Fellowship, with Dr. Rand as advisor,
and continued to elucidate the risk due to predation by bats that
accompanies the mating calls of male frogs. Collaborating with
Dr. Merlin Tuttle of the Milwaukee Public Museum, Ryan showed
that the calls of males are subtly adjusted to avoid attracting
the bats.

Research by Dr. D. Ross Robertson continued to focus on the
birth and death schedules of larval sturgeonfishes and damselfishes,
and the lunar perodicity of spawning in the latter. Dr. Robertson
also studied the population fluctuations of several species of reef
fishes in the Caribbean.

The successional process of tropical vegetation was assessed by
strI fellow Thomas Barringer, based on aerial photos, LANDSAT
satellite imagery, and field studies in the Barro Colorado Nature
Monument. These data are being used with comparable informa-

156 / Smithsonian Year 1981
tion from lowland tropical forests in the Philippines, to test a
mathematical model of tropical forest succession. Diane DeStephen,
str1 fellow, also addressed a facet of tropical succession by
studying predispersal seed predation on sci. Dr. Raymond C.
Highsmith, str1 postdoctoral fellow, completed research of the
bioerosion of corals and mollusc shells in the coastal reefs of
Panama.

Dr. Hindrik Wolda continued his multi-year program to monitor
the stability and seasonality of insect species on sci. Dr. Wolda
pursued taxonomic studies of cicadellids, in collaboration with Dr.
Dwight DeLong of Ohio State University.

Research Associate and former fellow, Dr. Katharine Milton,
published a book on her long-term studies of the Barro Colorado
howler monkey population: The Foraging Strategy of Howler
Monkeys (Columbia University Press).

As a note of historical and zoological interest, the longest-lived
howler monkey in captivity “Bully” escaped from his residence of
twenty-three years on sci. Dr. Martin Moynihan hand-reared
Bully in 1958; the diet devised for howlers by Dr. Moynihan has
been adopted at many zoological parks.

Science / 157
This major sculpture, Paul Gauguin’s Cylinder Decorated with Figure of Hina, was
an important acquisition this year by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

Smithsonian Year - 1981

HISTORY AND ART

CHARLES BLITZER,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HISTORY AND ART

Archives of American Art

The annual harvest of Archives of American Art (Aaa) acquisitions
brought in a bumper crop this year. Each new collection of papers
offers sustenance to some eager researcher, and certain particularly
rich ones could feed a whole detachment of scholars for years to
come. Of the 262 collections received in 1981, several are especially
worthy of note and will serve to represent the entire body of
acquisitions.

Following the usual pattern of aaa collecting, the papers of
artists were more prevalent than those of art dealers, curators,
collectors, and critics. There was relatively little from the nine-
teenth century—chiefly, a small but choice group of George
Catlin correspondence, several Frederick MacMonnies letters, and
a few contemporary items relating to John Goffe Rand, whose
contribution to art (and to dental hygiene) was less his paintings
than his invention of the squeezable paint tube. A larger collection,
which begins in the nineteenth century and ends in the twentieth,
is the papers of Walter Gay, an American painter who went to
France to study in 1876 and remained there for the rest of his
long and successful life. His correspondence and that of his wife
is full of enlightening references to his work, to other American
expatriates, and to fashionable French and English society. “I
dined with Edith Wharton on Sunday,” his wife writes on July 5,

159
1910, “where I met the usual literary crowd, with Berenson thrown
in.” There are letters from Rodin and John Lafarge, from Henry
James, Gari Melchers, Elsie de Wolfe, and Sarah Cooper Hewitt,
one of the three sisters who founded the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
The collection also includes photographs and a series of early
sketchbooks.

The voluminous papers of Andrew Dasburg, an early twentieth-
century modernist painter who lived and worked into his ninety-
second year, are a source of much useful information on a variety
of subjects. The artist communities of New York City and of
Woodstock in the years before and during World War I, and of
Taos, New Mexico, after 1918, come vividly to life in hundreds
of letters exchanged between Dasburg and his first wife, the
sculptor Grace Mott Johnson. The Armory Show, the Mabel
Dodge menage, early psychoanalysis, Paris in the summer of 1914,
and several prominent painters and sculptors are described and
discussed in this absorbing correspondence. Letters from other
artists, some fine photographs, and rare publications are also of
interest.

An unusually contemporary note for the aaa was struck this
year with the gift and loan of two groups of Red Grooms’s papers,
some of them dating from his early painting career in Nashville.
Chiefly family correspondence, the letters throw light on Grooms’s
developing reputation and later international success. Much of
this material, including letters from his wife Mimi Gross, is illus-
trated with wildly colorful drawings.

The records of art collectors are often of interest, not least for
the documentation they carry on individual works of art. This
year the aaa filled a major gap in its holdings on the decorative
arts by acquiring the Francis Patrick Garvan papers, which thor-
oughly cover the activities of one of our nation’s leading collectors
in that field. The papers include a substantial quantity of cor-
respondence with dealers, curators, art historians, and conservators,
as well as detailed inventories and other business records relating
to the purchase of furniture, silver, paintings, ceramics, and rare
books. The settlement of the Garvan estate after his death in 1937
is recorded in great detail.

Art dealers’ papers are also a major source of information for

160 / Smithsonian Year 1981
researchers. The top example of 1981 is business records of the
Henri Gallery, Washington, D.C.’s most active dealership handling
the work of contemporary artists over the past twenty-five years.
Correspondence, notebooks, ledgers, photographs, and scrapbooks
all in great profusion, provide a thorough record of the gallery’s
work and important information on local artists and on the Wash-
ington art market during a period of rapid growth.

The papers of two distinguished art historians make an impres-
sive addition to the aaa’s holdings of prominent scholars’ records.
Erwin Panofsky, the great iconographer and one of the most
influential figures in the development of American academic art
historiography, conducted an extensive and wide-ranging corre-
spondence with hundreds of scholars, curators, critics, collectors,
universities, organizations, and fellow members of the Institute
for Advanced Study at Princeton during his forty-year residence
in this country. As befits a meticulous record keeper, he made
and preserved carbon copies of his own letters. The collection
also contains the manuscripts of his books, articles, and lectures,
including his famous “Ideological Antecedents of the Rolls-Royce
Radiator.”

Joshua C. Taylor’s papers chiefly reflect his teaching career at
the University of Chicago and his published work on the Italian
Futurists, on the nineteenth-century American painter William
Page, and on the visual arts in America. A large quantity of notes,
photographs, and other background material on those subjects
constitute much of the collection, which also includes correspond-
ence with former students, other art historians, curators, and
friends and associates, most of it dating from prior to his appoint-
ment as Director of the National Collection of Fine Arts (now the
National Museum of American Art). A series of letters written
during World War II and several later travel diaries reveal a dis-
ciplined intellect; and a small group of sketches shows his early
interest in ballet and theater design. Taylor played an active role
in the formation of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago,
and his influential work in that connection is clearly recorded in
his papers.

The most complete set of institutional records received by the
Archives of American Art in 1981 are the papers of the Print

History and Art / 161
Council of America (pca). This organization was founded in 1956
by a group of curators, collectors, and makers of fine-art prints,
in an effort to set standards for print production and distribution
and to increase the knowledge of the American public concerning
prints. Included in the collection are the correspondence and
distribution material concerning the pca’s two most important
publications, The Care and Collecting of Original Prints, by Car]
Zigrosser and Christa Gaehde, and What is an Original Print,
by Joshua Binion Cahn. The collection also includes correspondence
from noted print curators and collectors such as Lessing Rosen-
wald, Karl Kup, and Zigrosser. There are several hundred photo-
graphs of prints sent out by the rca in traveling exhibitions across
the country, as well as copies of the calendars they published once
a year on print exhibitions in America. Financial information and
criteria for certification as a dealer round out the collection.

A new surge of productive activity took place in the aaa’s Oral
History Program in 1981. A grant from The Cleveland Foundation
subsidized videotaped interviews conducted by the Archives Mid-
west Regional Director with five leading Ohio artists. Two addi-
tional video interviews, both made in Detroit, with Brian O’Doherty
and Gene Davis, reflect an effort to build this visual, as well as
verbal, form of documentation. Several grants from California
agencies enabled the aaa to continue its systematic oral history
project in that state. Among the thirty-one interviews completed
this year, those with Ray Kaiser Eames, Armand Hammer, and
the artists Larry Bell, Robert Irwin, Helen Lundeberg, and Bruce
Nauman are of particular interest. The Wyeth Foundation sup-
ported interviews in New York with Chaim Gross, Raphael Soyer,
and Dorothy Varian; and the Mark Rothko Foundation provided
funds to undertake a two-year project to record reminiscences of
Rothko by several dozen friends and associates. Other notable
figures, whose recollections were taped this year, include Lois Bing-
ham, Mrs. Walter Gropius, Reuben Nakian, and Annemarie Pope.

Since the Archives of American Art exists to promote scholar-
ship by making research in its field possible, the extent to which
it is used is a measure of its success. In 1981, 2,950 research visits
were made to the five regional centers, a modest increase over the
previous year, and 1,050 microfilm rolls were lent to researchers
throughout the country.

162 / Smithsonian Year 1981
The aaa lent several items to exhibitions held in 1981. Among
those were two exhibitions in Germany; one on American Realism
at the Neue Gesellschaft fiir bildende Kiinste, to which copies of
a rare periodical, Art Front, were lent. Several Lyonel Feininger
drawings were lent to another German museum, the Museum fiir
Kunst und Gewerbe. In America, the DeYoung Museum borrowed
several works on paper by Henry Alexander, and a selection of
David Smith photographs were lent to the Detroit Institute of Arts.

Two symposiums sponsored by the aaa reflected the continual
growth of interest in American art. In Boston, a one-day sym-
posium was held on the subject of Arthur B. Davies and modern-
ism in conjunction with a show at the Institute of Contemporary
Art, where several of the aaa’s Davies documents were also dis-
played. Garnett McCoy, senior curator, gave a paper on Davies at
this symposium. A Washington symposium “Other People’s Mail’
featured writers who have published books in the past year utiliz-
ing the resources of the Archives, and included lectures by John
Wilmerding, on John Frederick Peto, and Meryle Secrest, on
Romaine Brooks and Bernard Berenson.

In the area of publications this past year, the card catalogue of
the aaa was published by Scholarly Resources, Inc., in ten volumes,
for distribution to college and university libraries as a finding
guide. The Archives of American Art Journal continued its quar-
terly publications with articles on Abraham Rattner, John Ferguson
Weir, Henry Alexander, Charles Green Shaw, and excerpts from
an oral history with Lloyd Goodrich.

The results of earlier work conducted at the Archives appeared
in an impressive number of books, exhibition catalogues, and
articles published in 1981. Books on Dorothea Lange and Ad
Reinhardt, and major catalogues of the work of Berenice Abbott,
Arthur B. Davies, Guy Pene duBois, Lyonel Feininger, Walter Gay,
Childe Hassam, Hugo Robus, David Smith, and Benjamin West
leaned heavily on aaa material. Substantial catalogues on Futur-
ism, the Library of Congress building, sculptors’ drawings, and
American art of the 1920s and 30s, among others, all contain
acknowledgements to the Archives of American Art.

History and Art / 163
Cooper-Hewitt Museum

In fiscal year 1981, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum continued its
wholehearted committment to excellence in exhibitions, educa-
tional programs, and special events, garnering considerable public,
press, and professional interest.

Among exhibitions was a major presentation in the fall entitled,
Now I Lay Me Down to Eat: A Salute to the Unknown Art of
Living, conceived and organized by the museum’s scholar-in-
residence, Bernard Rudofsky, the exhibition received wide critical
and public attention. It was an exercise in observation, exploring
attitudes toward everyday domestic manners and filling the museum
with familiar objects relating to such subjects as bathing, sitting,
sleeping, eating, and cleansing.

Another exhibition, Central Park, offered the unique opportunity
to view a large selection of original drawings and designs by
Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, recording the rich
record of mid-nineteenth century taste, vision, and the planning
of a great urban park.

Contemporary graphic design—the American poster of the past
decade—was the subject of the exhibition Ephemeral Images,
which surveyed the work of America’s foremost graphic designers.

Special collection exhibitions continued to emphasize the mu-
seum’s rich holdings in the field of the decorative arts. Silver,
Matchsafes, and Pottery displayed the Cooper-Hewitt’s finest
examples within each category.

Two loan exhibitions concentrated on furniture design and
technology. Shown concurrently, John Henry Belter and the Rococo
Revival and Innovative Furniture afforded museum visitors the
opportunity to study furniture designs of the past two centuries.
The landmark Belter exhibition assembled many rare works from
the nineteenth-century cabinetmaker’s New York workshop. Inno-
vative Furniture, circulated by the Smithsonian Institution Travel-
ing Exhibition Service (sites), examined the development of the
American furniture industry and its ever-changing notions of
function, design, and construction.

German Stage Design in the 19th Century, selected from the
holdings of the Deutsches Theatermuseum, Munich, served as an
important document of theater production from the German court

164 / Smithsonian Year 1981
theaters at Weimar, Berlin, Vienna, Munich, and Bayreuth. The ex-
hibition emphasized the familiar operatic repertory of von Webern,
Mozart, Rossini, and Wagner as well as designs for dramatic pro-
ductions by Shakespeare, Goethe, and Schiller.

The Moving Image: The Art of Animation displayed a diverse
selection of original animation cels and drawings. Special emphasis
was given to landmark productions by Disney—Snow White and
Fantasia—as well as to other major animation studios: Warner
Brothers, Hanna Barbera, Fleischer, Ub Iwerks Studio, and others.

In celebration of summer, two floors of the museum were given
over to Gardens of Delight, a major exhibition on horticulture and
its many reflections in art. Apart from a number of important
loans, the show was drawn primarily from the museum’s own
resources. Hundreds of decorative objects, paintings, prints, draw-
ings, books, and textiles with floral themes were included. The
museums conservatory and garden were specially planted for the
occasion. New York Times critic, Ada Louise Huxtable, described

Mh

the shown as . a splendid potpourri of treasures . . . the
delights are endless.”

In 1981, sires continued to circulate nationwide both Urban
Open Spaces and The Shopping Bag: Portable Graphic Art.

The ongoing series of collection handbooks was enlarged by
four volumes: Silver, Matchsafes, Pottery, and Wallpaper. Also,
four more volumes in the series The Smithsonian Illustrated
Library of Antiques Prepared by the Cooper Hewitt Museum were
completed. They were: Jewelry, Silver, Toys & Games, and
Pottery. These brought the series to a total of twelve volumes; an
additional three have been commissioned. In association with
Doubleday, Now I Lay Me Down to Eat: Notes and Footnotes on
the Lost Art of Living was published in conjunction with the
exhibition. More Than Meets the Eye: The History and Collection
of Cooper-Hewitt Museum was published both in hard and soft
cover. Rizzoli published Urban Open Spaces in book form. In
connection with the exhibition, a series of Central Park Postcards
was printed as well as two colorful paper constructions, Horti-
cultural Hall and Kiosque, reprinted from lithographs in the
museum’s collection.

Both brochures on the history of the Carnegie Mansion and
the Cooper-Hewitt Collections were reprinted and revised. To aid

History and Art / 165
The conservatory of Cooper-Hewitt’s Carnegie Mansion brought to life the very title of
the museum’s summer exhibition, Gardens of Delight. Shown in light and shadow
(below) is the Hirshhorn’s Sculpture Garden, renovated, redesigned, recently reopened.

the handicapped, a Guide to the Cooper-Hewitt Museum was
published in Braille and in large type-face, the latter funded by
The President’s Committee on Employment for the Handicapped.

The museum accessioned 1,174 works of art from sixty-five
donors. The collections were enhanced by three purchases from
restricted acquisitions funds. Of particular importance was the
gift of rare books on the work of Robert and James Adam by the
James Smithson Society. The museum borrowed 1,317 works from
210 public and private collections and lent 198 works to forty-one
museums, galleries, and institutions. The inventory of the Cooper-
Hewitt collections, begun in 1979 with an appropriation from
Congress, continued. Over 134,000 articles have been inventoried
and recorded on computer.

The museum undertook several construction projects in order
to facilitate and enlarge storage capacity in the various depart-
ments. To house the decorative arts collections more efficiently,
storage shelves in eight rooms of the townhouse were built;
particular emphasis was given to the storage of the ceramics col-
lection. The Office of the Registrar was relocated, and reconstruc-
tion was done to accommodate the registrar’s receiving and storage
areas. An extensive air-vacuum system was installed in the work-
shop to promote ventillation and remove sawdust. The guard desk
and security room were relocated and renovated to accommodate
the expanded security systems.

During four semesters beginning in the fall of 1980, nearly six
thousand students participated in the educational programs offered
by the Cooper-Hewitt. Over four thousand took part in tours and
special events. Total programs attendance was sixteen percent
higher than the previous year’s total.

Coinciding with several of the exhibitions, the Programs Depart-
ment organized special events and courses relating to design, archi-
tecture, and the decorative arts. Several popular programs included:
Directions in Graphic Design and Architecture, Russian Construc-
tivism, James Ackerman’s film on Palladio, McKim Mead & White,
and Landscape Architecture. Extremely popular was an animated
film series, and, in conjunction with Gardens of Delight, a variety
of lectures, workshops, and tours.

Four credit classes on the subjects of European and American
Decorative Arts were successfully instituted for undergraduates of

History and Art / 167
the Parsons School of Design. Classes tailored for children and the
adult workshops continued to be well attended.

The museum benefited from the generous service of sixty-five
volunteers and forty interns, who devoted their energies in all de-
partments. The Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellowship Program pro-
vided stipends for three exceptionally qualified summer interns.

Membership support remained constant in the form of member
renewals; new applicants increased substantially.

As one of ten member institutions of Museum Mile—initiated by
the Cooper-Hewitt three years ago—the museum was honored by
the Mayor of New York’s proclamation to affix the title “Museum
Mile” to street signs within the designated mile area.

The Cooper-Hewitt was selected as one of ten New York Muse-
ums to participate in the Cultural Vouchers Program, instituted by
Museum’s Collabcrative. This allowed the Education Department to
undertake additional programming involving both outreach and
extensive school programs.

Several special fundraising events were held at the museum dur-
ing the spring and summer. “Crafts in the Carnegie Mansion” was
the first major crafts fair to be held in a New York City museum.
More than one-hundred-twenty artisans from across the United
States impressed thousands of museum-goers and crafts aficionados
with a vast range of contemporary objects in all media. Coinciding
with the summer exhibition, Gardens of Delight, a special sales
shop, ‘The Trellis,” was initiated. All manner of donated merchan-
dise with floral and botanical themes was available for sale. The
museum was host for a spring gala benefit ball for over eight hun-
dred guests. For this occasion, a Junior Committee, composed of
friends of the museum under the age of thirty-five, was formed.
This committee will continue to work with the museum and to plan
other events throughout the year.

The museum received several important grants, both from foun-
dations and private individuals. The extraordinary support of the
Carnegie Corporation for the museum’s expansion, the Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation for the establishment of a “revolving” fund for
special projects, and the Ford Foundation for a two-year minority
scholarship within the Cooper-Hewitt/Parsons graduate program in
the decorative arts were among the most noteworthy.

Several museum publications received awards. The Art Libraries

168 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Society of New York awarded a citation of merit to the Museum
for four catalogues: Hair, Tsuba, Tiles, The Oceanliner. Tsuba re-
ceived an additional award of merit from The Art Directors Club
for excellence in design.

The Freer Gallery of Art

The Freer Gallery of Art continued to expand its public-service pro-
gram despite being partially closed for renovations for much of the
year. A major step was initiated with the Freer’s first full-scale vol-
unteer docent program to inform visitors through tours of the
museum. This was supported with an expanded distribution pro-
gram of free leaflets describing aspects of the Freer and its collec-
tions.

From over 125 inquiries and applications, twenty-four people
were selected to participate in an extensive docent training program.
The program included the history of the museum and of Charles
Lang Freer as well as detailed surveys of the major parts of the
collections and training in tour methods. Twenty-three volunteers
were accepted provisionally into the newly established docent
program.

The Freer now offers eight free leaflets to visitors and to those
inquiring by mail to explain aspects of oriental art exhibited at the
museum. As part of a general effort to assist smaller museums that
do not have curators specializing in oriental art, the Freer made
available one hundred thousand leaflets to a Texas museum this
year.

Other elements in the Freer public-service program continued at
the usual active pace: the Freer oriental art lecture series, special
tours for various groups, identification of objects owned by the
public, and staff lectures and publications.

The Freer’s twenty-eighth annual lecture series included ‘Four
Popular Beauties of the ‘Floating World’ ’”” by Money L. Hickman,
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, which was jointly sponsored with the
Embassy of Japan, and the Rutherford J. Gettens Memorial Lecture,
“Ancient Glass: Its Marvels and Mysteries,” delivered by Robert
H. Brill of the Corning Museum of Glass.

The exhibition year began with a special show of twelve Japanese
screens from the Rimpa School, a major tradition that arose in

History and Art / 169
Smithsonian Under Secretary Hughes, Mrs. Chun and President Chun Doo Hwan of
the Republic of Korea, NMNH translator Houchins, and Assistant Secretary for His-
tory and Art Charles Blitzer point to the Freer Gallery in this Quadrangle model.
Below. Shen Fu, curator of Chinese art at the Freer, demonstrates calligraphy
techniques in a training session for the Freer’s first large-scale docent program.

Kyoto during the final decades of the sixteenth century and con-
tinued through the nineteenth century. The museum's curator of
Japanese art, Yoshiaki Shimizu, organized the exhibition. A leaflet
explaining the history and development of Japanese screens was
first provided to the public when the exhibition opened.

The climax of the exhibition year was a showing of seventy-four
Indian miniatures in The Imperial Image: Paintings for the Mughal
Court. This collection of works is from the period 1560-1640,
which represents the most important span of Islamic art in India.
The definitive catalogue was prepared by Professor Milo Cleveland
Beach of Williams College, the fourth Smithsonian Regents Fellow.

Other major exhibitions at the Freer included: Ancient Egyptian
Art for the “Egypt Today” program; Turkish Art; Japanese Fans;
Art of the Mamluks; Eastern Kufic Calligraphy; Korean Aint
Japanese Ceramics; and Ceramics from the World of Islam. Since
the building renovations displaced the Chinese and American art
exhibitions, a representative selection was shown in the galleries on
the west side of the building.

Research for the 1984 James McNeill Whistler exhibition began
after the term appointment of David Park Curry as the Freer’s
American art curator for a year and a half. The Freer also appointed
Ellen A. Nollman as librarian. She replaced Priscilla P. Smith, who
retired after fifteen years of service. Gayle Southworth was also
named as docent chairman on a volunteer basis.

Among the well-known visitors to the museum this year were
President and Mrs. Chun Doo Hwan ofthe Republic of Korea. They
presented a gift of $1 million from the people of Korea for a new
center for Eastern art. Mrs. Anwar El-Sadat, wife of the Egyptian
president, again visited the Freer, this time in connection with the
“Egypt Today” program. Prime Minister Suzuki of Japan was at the
Freer to plant a rare white weeping Fuji cherry tree, acknowledging
the Institution’s gratitude for Japan’s earlier gift toward the con-
struction of the proposed center. A number of museum officials from
the People’s Republic of China visited at various times during the
year. They included Xia Nai, Director of the Institute of Archeol-
ogy, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Sun Yi-qing, Vice Direc-
tor of the State Administration Bureau of Museums and Archeo-
logical Data; Lii Ji-ming, Chief of the Museum Department of the
State Administration Bureau for Museums and Archeological Data;

History and Art / 171
Yang Po-ta, Deputy Director of the Peking Palace Museum; Shen
Chih-yii, Director of the Shanghai Museum; and Ma Cheng-yuan
of the Shanghai Museum.

Notable donations to the Freer collection this year included a
work of Chinese calligraphy from John M. Crawford, a Japanese
lacquer drum body from the James Smithson Society, a Chinese
metalwork and jar from the Honorable and Mrs. Hugh Scott, as
well as a Chinese bronze from General and Mrs. Albert A. C. Wede-
meyer. Mr. Joseph Upton donated one hundred items to the Freer
Study Collection. The Hagop Kevorkian Fund contributed to the
publication of the catalogue, The Imperial Image: Paintings for the
Mughal Court. The National Committee to Honor the Fourteenth
Centennial of Islam awarded a grant for the organization of the
Myron Bement Smith archives.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

The Smithsonian Institution, and especially the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden, were saddened by the death of the museum’s
principal donor, Joseph H. Hirshhorn, on August 31. His death is a
tragic loss to the museum that bears his name, to its board of
trustees, and to everyone at the Smithsonian as well as to the world
of art.

A dynamic man with an extraordinary passion for art, Mr.
Hirshhorn gave his splendid collection to the nation in 1966 and
continued thereafter to add to his gift until the day he died. The
spirit that motivated his collecting was his conviction that art
serves an ennobling and civilizing purpose, and, toward that ideal,
he generously gave to his fellow-countrymen.

At the memorial service held in Washington on September 13,
eulogies were delivered by, among others, S. Dillon Ripley, Senator
and Board Chairman Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Abe Fortas, former
Supreme Court Justice, and the artist Larry Rivers.

At the Smithsonian’s Board of Regents meeting on September 14,
1981, the following resolution was adopted, after which the Secre-
tary and the Regents stood for a moment of silence in tribute:

Resolved that the members of the Board of Regents ex-
press their deep regret at the irreparable loss of Joseph H.

172 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Hirshhorn, a friend, a colleague, and an incomparable
patron who shared with us all his passion for art. The
Regents recall with profound appreciation his generous
and lasting contributions to the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, which will stand forever as testimony
to this extraordinary man.

As one of the major museums of contemporary art in the coun-
try, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden (HMscG) maintains
an active exhibition schedule and acquisitions program. In support
of these are related programs of lectures, films, concerts, and educa-
tional activities involving audiences of all ages. Technical and sup-
port units include offices of conservation, registration, photography,
and a reference library.

Acquisitions are vital to any museum but especially to a contem-
porary art museum. During 1981 the museum acquired 323 works
of art, including sixteen as gifts from Joseph H. Hirshhorn, and
thirteen as joint gifts from the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Foundation and
Lily Harmon. Other important gifts were received from Raphael
and Rebecca Soyer, who gave the museum 192 works on paper,
spanning the artist’s career from 1917 to 1981, and from Mr. and
Mrs. David K. Anderson, who gave the museum forty-two paint-
ings and sculptures in memory of Mr. Anderson’s mother, Martha
Jackson. A major piece of sculpture by Paul Gauguin, Cylinder
Decorated with Figure of Hina, was acquired with funds from the
Regents Collections Acquisition Program and partially matched by
funds raised by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Board of Trustees. Other important purchases included works by
Robert Birmilin, Gregory Gillespie, and Rodrigo Moynihan.

A major exhibition during the year was The Avant-Garde in
Russia, 1910-1930: New Perspectives (November 6, 1980—Febru-
ary 16, 1981), organized by Stephanie Barron and Maurice Tuch-
man of the Los Angeles County Museum and first shown there.
Consisting of approximately 450 objects, it documented a period
when revolutionary art and society achieved an effective, if brief,
fusion. The exhibition was surrounded by a number of related
events, including films, lectures, concerts, an all-day symposium,
and a fashion show—sponsored by the Smithsonian Resident Asso-
ciate Program—that featured costumes designed by several of the
artists of the period. A highlight was a revival of the avant-garde

History and Art / 173
opera, Victory Over the Sun, produced by the Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program and the umsc, and presented by the students and
faculty of the California Institute of the Arts. The Washington,
D.C., performances were made possible by a grant from the Shubert
Foundation and an auxiliary grant from the Regents Educational
Outreach Program.

Directions 1981 (February 11—May 3, 1981), the second exhibi-
tion in a series meant to show divergent tendencies in contemporary
art, included the works of sixteen artists working in three “direc-
tions”: Artistry, Myth and Metaphor, and Social Observation.
Twelve of the artists in the exhibition participated in a forum held
at the museum on February 11, 1981.

Kenneth Snelson (June 4—August 9, 1981), was a retrospective
exhibition, shown both outdoors and in the HMsc’s lower-level gal-
lery, that brought together works done by this artist over twenty
years. It was organized by the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo
but was first seen in Washington.

Another retrospective exhibition, R. B. Kitaj, was held (Septem-
ber 17—November 15, 1981). It was the first comprehensive retro-
spective of his work to be seen in the United States and included
104 works dating from the late 1950s. Subsequent showings are
scheduled at the Cleveland Museum of Art (December 15, 1980-
January 24, 1982) and at the Stadtische Kunsthalle, Dusseldorf,
West Germany (February 5—March 21, 1982). The artist gave a
public lecture in the museum on September 17, 1981.

Smaller exhibitions, based on the museum’s holdings, were of
works by Jacques Lipchitz, André Masson, Robert Natkin, Barbara
Hepworth, and Larry Rivers. The last had an accompanying cata-
logue.

A small loan exhibition of sculpture, Mahmoud Moukhtar, drawn
from the Moukhtar Collection of the National Center of Arts and
Letters in Cairo was presented in conjunction with “Egypt Today”
from March 16 to April 30, 1981.

The Sculpture Garden was reopened to the public on September
14, 1981. Lester Collins, the Washington-based landscape architect
who redesigned the garden to facilitate the entrance of the handi-
capped via a set of ramps, also incorporated additional planting
areas and grass. Approximately seventy pieces of sculpture, all
drawn from the museum’s collection, were installed.

174 / Smithsonian Year 1981
The HMscG continued its three-part film series: Lunchtime Films
about Artists, Evening Films by Artist Filmmakers, and Saturday
Films for Young People. Other events held in the auditorium were
concerts by the 20th Century Consort and the Cantilena Chamber
Players.

Hirshhorn Holiday, a special Saturday program presented each
year early in December, again met with enthusiasm from area chil-
dren and their parents. This special day, sponsored in part by the
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates, included per-
formances and music.

The usc provided visitors with a variety of educational mate-
rials, including wall labels and brochures that ranged from a single
page to more ambitious illustrated ““mini-catalogues,” all distributed
free to the public. It is the museum’s practice to accompany all
major exhibitions and selected small exhibitions with well-docu-
mented and illustrated catalogues that serve the general public as
well as students and scholars.

The museum makes extensive loans from its collection to other
institutions around the world; in 1981, 181 objects were lent to
seventy-one institutions. Among the works lent were ten paintings
to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum for its Gorky Retrospec-
tive; and four sculptures to the National Gallery of Art for Rodin
Rediscovered. The umsc made significant loans to a number of for-
eign exhibitions, including Paris-Paris at the Centre Georges Pom-
pidou, Paris; American Realism at the Akademie der Kunst, Berlin;
and Matisse at the Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo. Through the
International Communication Agency and the National Museum of
American Art, the museum lent thirty-two paintings to the
Museo de Bellas Artes, Mexico City, for an exhibition entitled,
Painting in the United States from Public Collections in Washing-
ton, D.C. Besides individual loans, exhibitions from the permanent
collection are regularly circulated by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service.

The usc continued the annual inventory of its collection. Sculp-
ture was fully inventoried in the second three-year cycle.

Augmenting the museum’s exhibition program was a series of
lectures on various aspects of contemporary art and art history, by
R. B. Kitaj, Dr. Peter Lizon, Robert Natkin, and Kenneth Snelson.

The Directions speakers were Conrad Atkinson, Bill Beckman,

History and Art / 175
James Byrne, Rosemarie Castoro, Debora Hunter, Alain Kirili,
Grover Mouton, Tom Rose, Ulrich Ruckriem, Earl Staley, Michelle
Stuart, and Jerry Zenium.

Joseph Henry Papers

During the past year, the Smithsonian Institution Press has pub-
lished two major products of the Joseph Henry Papers. The first
was A Scientist in American Life: Essays and Lectures of Joseph
Henry, a collection of writings that express Henry’s viewpoint re-
garding a variety of scientific and public policy issues. Also, appear-
ing this year was the fourth volume of The Papers of Joseph Henry.
This volume covers the Princeton years 1938-40, years of intensive
activity in the laboratory and rising concern for the organization of
the American scientific community.

The fifth volume of The Papers of Joseph Henry is well on its
way towards completion. Covering the years 1841-43, this volume
represents a continuation of the two major themes of the preceding
volume.

The staff of the Joseph Henry Papers has engaged in a wide range
of other professional activities. Nathan Reingold served as a mem-
ber of the Oversight Committee for the History and Philosophy of
Science Program of the National Science Foundation and as Direc-
tor of Publications of the Association for Documentary Editing. He
was co-sponsor of the conference on “Scientific Colonialism, 1800—
1930: A Cross-Cultural Comparison,” held at the University of
Melbourne in May under the auspices of the United States-Austra-
lian Cooperative Science Program and was co-chair of ‘Muses Flee
Hitler II: Cultural Adaptation in World-Wide Perspective,” held at
the Smithsonian in December. At the sixteenth International Con-
gress of the History of Science, Dr. Reingold delivered an invited
address on Henry’s reaction to Charles Darwin. He was also elected
chairman of the Commission on Documentation of the International
Union for the History and Philosophy of Science. Dr. Reingold con-
tinued his sponsorship of the monthly Nineteenth-Century Semi-
nar, which explored a broad gambit of historical issues. Kathleen
Waldenfels served as editor of the Newsletter of the Association for
Documentary Editing. Marc Rothenberg chaired the Seminar on

176 / Smithsonian Year 1981
Science and its Social Context, held monthly at the Smithsonian,
and addressed the Society for the Social Study of Science during its
annual meeting in Toronto.

National Museum of African Art

The creation of educational, intellectually stimulating, and attrac-
tive exhibitions is a goal of all museums. But as public institutions,
museums also bear the burden of making their exhibitions physi-
cally accessible to as large an audience as possible.

For the National Museum of African Art (NMAfA), 1981 has been
a year concerned with the planning and implementation of access to
the museum for handicapped persons, and the upgrading of all
museum areas with attention to aspects of health and safety for the
staff and museum visitors. New, enlarged restrooms and a ramp
permitting wheelchair access to workshops and classrooms have
already been completed. Future plans include the construction of
an elevator, to serve all three floors of the museum, and special
exhibitions incorporating ‘“hands on” concepts. The museum bulid-
ings have been brought up to code specifications with regard to
lighting, safety, and fire protection procedures and equipment.
Other areas of the museum’s endeavors—acquisition, exhibition,
research and programs—were also advanced during this period.

The nmafa continued to build its collection, primarily through
donations. In fiscal year 1981, 278 objects were donated to the
museum’s collection, including large numbers of items from the
collections of Harold Rome, Robert and Nancy Nooter, and
Benjamin Weiss. Through a generous bequest from the James
Smithson Society, the museum was able to purchase a major work
of Cameroon sculpture. In addition to works of African art the
NMAfa received donations of twelve paintings by Afro-American
artists, including six by E. M. Bannister, two by J. Johnston, and
others by H. O. Tanner, C. E. Porter and R. S. Duncanson. The
comprehensive inventory of the museum’s collection, begun in
1980, continues; it is presently sixty percent complete.

The Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives received donations of
fifty black-and-white photographs of African art by Walker Evans
and approximately two hundred slides of African life and culture.

History and Art / 177
Archives projects during 1981 included the expansion of the muse-
um’s teaching slide collection by more than one thousand slides and
the documentation of an important collection of black-and-white
photographs of Liberia taken by Tom Weir during the 1960s.

The nmafa collaborated with several museums and cultural insti-
tutions during 1981 to cosponsor and produce major exhibitions.
With the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the museum sponsored the major
international exhibition, Treasures of Ancient Nigeria. Museum staff
members coordinated the production of a gallery brochure and con-
ceived, coordinated, and presented the film and lecture series that
accompanied the exhibition. In another cooperative program, the
nMAfa presented the exhibition Traditional Costumes and Jewelry
of Egypt. This exhibition was part of a nationwide Egypt Today pro-
gram coordinated by the Smithsonian Resident Associates Program.
And in conjunction with the Egyptian exhibition, the nmafa pre-
sented Traditional Costumery and Jewelry of Africa, displaying
jewelry of the Maasai people of Kenya and Tanzania, mask cos-
tumes of the Edo people of Nigeria and similar arts from other sub-
Saharan peoples. Other exhibitions presented during fiscal year
1981 included the Art of Gabon, Angola and Cameroon; Selections
from the Permanent Collection; and Out of the Ordinary: Ritual
and Domestic Furnishings of Africa.

Numerous extension exhibitions were prepared and mounted by
the nmafa during 1981. They included exhibitions at the U.S. De-
partment of State, the Bethune Memorial Museum, the Museum of
African-American Life and Culture, Illinois State University, the
Kennedy Center, the College Museum of Hampton Institute, and
the American Numismatic Association.

Public education with regard to Africa, its art and its peoples, is
one of the primary goals of the nmafa. This is accomplished not
only through didactic and aesthetically appealing exhibitions, but
through the museum’s wide range of courses, workshops, seminars,
public lectures, and performances, in addition to outreach programs
and tours conducted by a highly trained, effective docent corps.

In fiscal year 1981, the museum’s Department of Academic
Studies offered seven courses at universities and educational insti-
tutions in the Washington area: Georgetown University (“Art of
Black Africa’); the United States Department of Agriculture Grad-
uate School (“Masks in African Art,” “Collecting African Art,” and

178 / Smithsonian Year 1981
“Understanding Africa through Its Art’’); and a workshop, “ Afri-
can Art Conservation.” In addition, special intensive lectures and
tours were presented to other university groups, including, for the
fourth successive year, a class in “Aesthetics and Education” for the
University of Virginia.

The nmafa was host for three visiting scholars during 1981. Pro-
fessor Sylvia Boone (Yale University) consulted with staff members
on various exhibitions and projects. Professor Berlings Kaunda from
the University of Malawi spent four months in residence at the
museum with the aid of a Fulbright program grant, and Ms. Wendy
Wilson of Howard University spent ten weeks in residence while
researching cultural and historical aspects of Fulani facial tattooing.
Professor Kaunda, a practicing sculptor as well as a scholar, demon-
strated his craft in NMAfA programs and presented public lectures
on East African masking traditions.

In cooperation with the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced Inter-
national Studies, the museum continues to cosponsor a monthly
series of lectures entitled, ““The Africa Roundtable.” Presentations
by international and local scholars focus on all aspects of African
political, economic, and social life. Noted scholars who have pre-
sented papers during 1981 included: Akinjide Osuntokum (Nigerian
Universities Commission), Joseph Smaldone (U.S. Department of
State), Professor Sulieman Nyang (Howard University), Professor
William Zartman (Johns Hopkins S.A.I.S.), and Mr. Curtis Huff
(International Communication Agency).

Twelve students served in the nmafa’s internship program during
fiscal year 1981. A special effort was made during the year to recruit
minority students and students from historically black colleges, rec-
ognizing the special role the nmMafa should play in using its collec-
tion to train these students as museum professionals. Four such
students served as interns during the year; two of them received
financial support through the Smithsonian Institution’s Collabora-
tive Education Program.

The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and
Public Programs had an active year, presenting school and group
tours, workshops, and public lectures, performances, and demon-
strations. The activities of this department also include the training
and coordination of the docent corps and coordination of certain
collaborative activities with local institutions.

History and Art / 179
”
ek)

The African Experience is part of the
general tour program conducted by the
Museum of African Art. Children from
a local school (upper right) dance to
music of African instruments, while
(upper left) Alex Akoto, museum staff,
assists a young man in wrapping his
traditional East African clothing. The
wood figure (lower left) from the Bangwa
people of Cameroon represents a royal
ancestor. Such figures were displayed at
funerals to symbolize family power.

Of particular importance during 1981 was the inauguration of a
pilot program, the Collaborative Education Outreach Program
(ceor), conducted in conjunction with the National Museum of
Natural History and the National Zoological Park with funds made
available through the Smithsonian Office of Public Service. Ninety-
eight outreach presentations were offered during the year to tar-
geted audiences of the elderly, handicapped, and institutionalized
persons.

In January and February, the Education Department focused
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and

‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
¥ y; p
Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
‘In Jantiary “and ‘Febriary7 "me ‘iaiicktin? DepAtubiented RUSE
¥ y; p

Black History Month efforts on outreach activities to schools and
ope i ee bee san Aaniane in tho ancaba limited access
