hint

OREGON

acceharels

ay ,
35) Nees re

areas

ciate aacomnnatee

BPD tal erar ore
toserae
aghie Ce Oe pr noo
Mei tsanabaagt ates
ea hoki BEZEL TE tacm catch

een
Gegiare phat Reece
prec aT 2

Biate

saa msasi
tite neck
ath

ecashie 820)

aa iee ace bee atin te
Mia intr eke LOtes ERs RES eee
eae RTM Vara ean a et
glare eemem Aa 958% Sih ek Sore ok ahap stun Ae

tonne
Ay

uo

parks
Ss dod dete

Lene
slkelgtatiee
Pea eealne dy
He

ieee tats

ecu ehiae marek

Terres
Mies
ete

eo eases
NOT ea a vocavis abel
agement ef

aan ty
Fr tn)

Pan
Poe errs

toes
Li iasectim,

dost = ont Om
ee

inks

Tat

ag?
tee et

ee
Fogesite

iathaee
Aeterna!
Ms,

Hines
S) a

axes
ds

Sears

So ereaptes este

cigtnne eh

- oe ae ue . Vereiets ee
Y : 2 > , eH Pet pte aal
Hi Be ea
pare : at * n Sipe ile
y z K cf A DS ate tes
: Hp Edits
ee fp be ma ” + y woe ‘
£ 3g igh Vf pare - f peat i.
Te Hs ‘ 5 yey
, pete wage see Sty
ie, aot ss Hh ae
4 (1 oe oer qeeeas cnn: be bea
2 rad ‘ iiheaeesenieaoendiatt race ——
ier G if (and ares
; ; : ; Sipe ed ye aaeet
; et 7 pi are viene
. - E 3 ; iene e hot OR ; eee
7 Bi ry 2 H ra! east probs
eae Sia i Beate reno S
eae RA Hn
; : ied , oo Sotenerere™
; ; i fied a tatiana:
oa a i vi eee pccbe pacmenanaret orer een
z : a f ‘ r Werte “ pene ae
; fen senna seta eiearecereees
i , wy re ay Ren petedenced se ary
f et : 4 Ua ericert 1
: : 4 th é : at
" : y af ae
‘ sep ing eeine eS
‘ ‘ Loh we
‘ : , f astern
3 : é :
7
yh)

ee ¢

=
\N INSTITUTION

ge

&
VS S31Iuvugit

rsa Cr

S3IYVYUaIT_LIBRARIES

SN

INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUgIT

——— AP a

INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI N

Waa.

N

Oheoroe oma iW fy
NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS SMITHSONIAN

s Ss
if

NVINOSHLINS S

SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINNS S$

—S—7
SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN LIBRARIES SI

Ss

LIBRARIES
LIBRARIES
LIBRARIES

NOILALILSNI NOSHLINS S3JI¥VY¥IT_ LIBRARIES

RARIES
ud
< \s
/ : 2
INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIW

AN INSTITUTION NY SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION _ NOILALILSNI_N'

SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S

INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
SAJIYVUSITLIBRARIE

s’saruvagiq

NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS

NVINOSHLINS S31IYvVuaiT_LliB

NVINOSHLINS S31¥vysit
NVINOSHLINS SAiuvagiy

NS SJIMWUGIT_LIBRARIES Saluvugia_LIBRARIES S
a z z de 2 2

Zz z * Zz Ss z 5

) : 2 3 wD Poe. VA
E = AS c 2 E Wy" 2
\N_INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S3luvua IT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_N
Zz 2 Zz bf 2 " = ” 2
n = n as n Ll, ” = on
yt a = = = ot ce =
S| < a < | < | < bal
ig : S e 5 & MF fs z S
fo) = fe) 2 fo) = fe) a ro)
z o] =a =! <a pal =z a =
NS SASIYVUEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVYSIT LIBRARIES S
= Ly z te z2 - : = Fr Zz
5 3 cS) = S wo s< 2 ow 2
= me E ees - NSS OE = E
5 3 > 3 5 2 CR 5 3 2
Lax} x — 2 Fs) = x a ae
7 + 7 = F = » = ;
z o z @ o = o _ z o Zz
\N INSTITUTION. NOILOALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYaIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION. NOILNLILSNI N
z Xe: n = 2) z Se 2) aon on z
< .  =S < = < Ks = cs =<
Nera ~ a Zz = 2 WS 5 Aone Sy =
Meyer MS ois re) aH DS QB = / ae ae ro)
JEWS 3 2 SY ZR 8 g z
= » 2 Ee z a NS z= z =
= of <= = > = > > =
” ae w hen iP) = = i??)

NS SAIYVUGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYGIT LIBRARIES SI

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

4 : “s : 2 NX z =
< = <i}; = < GS WN qi <i
S : = ec e x
oc = ree oa cc = \ = oc
a = [ea] a a = ‘ = faa}
= 2 erg ias 3 x = : g a
AN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31uYvu¥dgit LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN_INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_N
: : See : : : g :
o = o \ = o = Yi, = o
4.2 5 a YX = z 5 Gy, a 5) 2
“> = = SW — > = t fof > = =
2 = = KS - 2 = 7 £4 °2 = a
m = m SN w ca = Oe a = no ee
o = o ao = rz) z on = o
Ns jSalavugiy LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31uvugit S|
= ee = ‘ = = 2 g thi z Zz
= ea = = > = Vy Gre =
E 5 NA: : 2S 5 efi ® NN3|
9 Z WN ¢ o = Ss tii EZ YxXS8N 9
<i = ~~ S = a = 2, = ~~ =
2 TA as ae S z z 5 eg

\N INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NWINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_N

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARIES

aS
NOILMLILSNI
NOILNLILSNI
LIBRARIES
NOLLALILSNI

ASC CIINWNAID LIRPAPRPIELC CRAITUCONIAN INCTITIITION RIOTINITICNE NYVINOCHIIWNG CAIINYWNAIT timrpapire «
a ee

2 Te

nw = (77) a = wo ant — n i WN Ta
IWS S3INVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHIINS S31NV4YaIT LIBRARIES:
n z Pe 7) z ea no z 7) z= ae n
= = K = < cS = = = =
= = NS =| z = he ny = is =
Soe rome SA ae S eee ro) Cae rou se
gi 2 8 BNR 2 ff 2 By a g
z = » z i 2 ay, = = = 3
> = eee) S > 4 Ll S > . = >
a (7) = me [%) =e rd 4 (7) 2 77) * r4
IAN_ INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3INVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI |
z wo = us Zz w z wy z
ot = g — Z Se gg eaaa Oy = Z
Aa = =, = ee) a e =
= & = ce S « Gig Ss c e
= ao = fra) = fe} Vy = oa =
oO = oO = oO — oe {e) —_ Oo
= a Zz Slane | Pra a] a =) ad
IWS_S3IYVYUSIT_ LIBRARIES. SMITHSONIAN_INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS. S314VYGIT_ LIBRARIES
z az SR Bel gic s = * S = S
= o = 8 = ~ E x =
= =] = 2 =)
‘ = z = Ke E a i = =
VaR 2 Ey a = 2 = a =
: 5; Z z Z ; - 5; :
= (27) ae (7) — wn — a7) =
IAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS SatyvYgi7_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
pad ake n Zz on ; ee “= o Ze n z
< = < = Ws < = < = gt,
z = Zz a ty, = 4 2 aS 3 Gi, =
: a MG? a aN Y a Na F:
= 2 = 2/7 PF” 2 NS 2 = KS 2,9 =
2 3 z 2 ys zo z
IWS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S3INVUSIT LIBRARIES |
n S 2) S 2) S * n S 2)
oe a [acd % a ao a a = load
< a < ca < Ge WN 2 5
en a e = a zi WS 5 = is
= o) = Oo = ie) DN = fo) =
a 2 =) 2 ol) 2 a 4 =a
IAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI |
= = c z c cS z ~
oO = a ° w “wo 2 =
ae 5 D = =) Oe 5 s
= = Tg = > > = >
= - Zz E z 2 = a
m a m n m m a m
on Zz rm) yee no w z o
INS S3IXVYGIT_LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION S S3INVYGIT LIBRARIES
z oy: 77) z ren n z o ra eae n
= £ & ££ = @&. = = = rs 2S
Ss = NS Sj > 5 par Ae ade a = Maire o
z GMX F PENS 2 SY § z 8 Z
o x KS 2 . 6 Ge 2 3? 2 Sg
2 E MO 2 = . 2a = = E :
2 a » B 2 ~~ i é 3 5 re _ 3
IAN_ INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_ S3IUVYGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI
2 sy 2 a Zz a z 4 2
hd = ” = pl = 2 = a)
y= a =! fo = ce. = fae =!
= cc = fod = ce =r & S
3 = 3 e ro} a : 3 = iS
2 = Zz Sa ET we =i ie 2 = 2
INS [S31YVEGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES
z i z c z cs z E z
= z = 2 = 2 \, = 0 E
es) Ps) ) es)
Le : = 2 : = Se : :
" & = aS Be i. a NS E 2 =
Z 7 a nm 2 nr SW 8 ; :
JAN _INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31YVUdIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_
a g z g g an z 2. 5 g z
< = y < = , mG = = = Uy =
2 Xai Ye? 2 YY? = 5 2 Gy,2
2 WN 8 JG 2 8 hol; ? g 2 I
E QZ. 7 fe = Se FO ts Zz 2 YX ©
eee 3 : Zz NS 5 = 2
IWS S31XYVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES
z 2 = Gey, z + YG z 2 z
Ni < = Yp' ffi A a WEL =A
\: : < Of 2 < 2 WE E <
S a ie f? ‘ =a a “s SS =
tee rs} al 3 a fe) S\N = S =
a = oad A J) =z a Zz =)

een ad SRIF Pr Trarima

arrmmr;+e mt )t tema

BRILSTRTAVCOL ae Trae. ome arwariemseasa

‘on ies @ ie ‘ate,
or |
Dy? Wa, i ub
Smithsonian Year 1991
Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes
eT ith ae
PURINA gat

AM Tud\ oe
5 y

Pint
a

mh

ht A (ml :

rn
a+)

yy

Wy

i" ra my
At toe

i Ps,

$

te .
Nye ey >
Mb Va teat a i
iy 4

Patty

by
ome

. che

Tf
VT SD
hie et oe

ie

i ob: 7

we
\ Cae

rus
wd VAR
y

Smithsonian Year 1991
Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C.
Enid

Aa 9)

~

Contents

Chronology 5

Appendix 1. Members of the Smithsonian Councils,
Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1991
33

Appendix 2. Visits to Smithsonian Institution
Museums and Galleries in Fiscal Year 1991 45

Appendix 3. Academic, Research Training, and
Internship Appointments and Research
Associates in Fiscal Year 1991 46

Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian
Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1991 88

Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff of the
Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries in
Fiscal Year 1991 92

Appendix 6. The Smithsonian Institution and Its
Subsidiaries, September 30,1991 120

Appendix 7. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution
in Fiscal Year 1991 144

Appendix 8. Contributing Members of the
Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1991 197

Note: The arrangement of bureau and office listings within appendixes 1, 3, 5, 6, and 7 is not alphabetical but rather follows as
closely as possible the organization of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.
The contents of this Supplement were produced from electronic files provided by the bureaus and offices.
Smithsonian
Institution

Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive
Committee, and the Secretary

Office of the Secretary

Office of the Under Secretary
Office of the Inspector General
Office of the General Counsel

Research

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research
International Center

National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Museums

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Museums
Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery of Art
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
Institutional Studies Office

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art

4

National Museum of American History

National Museum of the American Indian

National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibics Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service
National Science Resources Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Folklife Programs

Office of Public Affairs

Smithsonian Office of Wider Audience Development
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs

National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies

Office of Development

Office of Government Relations

Office of Special Events

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian National Associate Program

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

“Smithsonian World”

Women's Committee of the Smithsonian Associates

Institutional Initiatives

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Institutional Initiatives

National Museum of the American Indian National
Campaign Office

Finance and Administration

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Finance and
Administration

Affiliated Organizations

John FE. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
National Gallery of Art

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Chronology

The following listing is a representative selection of
Smithsonian events during fiscal year 1991.

Fall

w Special Project The Inter-Institutional Task Force on
Cultural Pluralism was established by the Smithsonian,
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
the Library of Congress, and the National Gallery of Art
to explore joint conferences, fellowships, teacher train-
ing programs, and other initiatives.

October

w Meeting The National Museum of the American In-
dian held the first of 11 fiscal year 1991 consultations in
Kahneeta, Warm Springs, Oregon. The consultations with
Native Americans and others are designed to help the mu-
seum and its architectural consultants plan for the
museum's new facilities on the National Mall and in Suit-

land, Maryland.
October

m Collection Information The Mitre Corporation, under
contract, began systems engineering for a new collection

information system at the National Museum of Natural
History.

October

@ Research A delegation from the National Museum of
the American Indian and the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for External Affairs visited European museums
with holdings of Native American collections.

October

@ Research Ina landmark exchange of East-West time-
keeping technology, Soviet-built atomic hydrogen
maser clocks were brought to Cambridge, Massachu-
setts, to be compared for stability against similar de-
vices built at the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory for applications in space tracking, radio as-
tronomy, and global navigation.

October

@ Publications Two brochures were published by the
Office of Public Affairs—an updated version of “Re-
sources at the Smithsonian for Native Americans” and a
brochure on the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

October

w Exhibition The Smithsonian Institution Libraries
opened its first public exhibition gallery with “Turning
Over Old Leaves: A Sampler of Writings in the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries,” supported by the
Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund.

October

@ Publication The inaugural issue of the Newsletter on
African American Archeology, the first of its kind, was
published by the National Museum of Natural History.

October

@ International Projet At the Museo Nacional David J.
Guzman in San Salvador, Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory objects conservator Harriet Beaubien set up a conser-
vation laboratory for treatment of artifacts excavated at
Ceren, El Salvador, and gave museum staff and volunteers
notes on cleaning finds and use of adhesives for ceramics.

October

w@ Publicity/Marketing The Smithsonian National Asso-
ciate Program successfully tested telemarketing as a
Contributing Membership fund-raising vehicle. The me-
dium continued to be profitable in three fiscal year 1991
special fund-raising appeals.

October

w Endowment The Smithsonian National Associate Pro-
gram and the Office of Development confirmed the
Institution's first James Smithson Society Endowed Life
Members, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Gilbert of Alexan-
dria, Virginia.

October

@ Publication Sharing Innovation: Global Perspectives on
Food, Agriculture, and Rural Development, the proceedings
of the third world food and agriculture colloquium or-
ganized by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, was
published and distributed worldwide.

October 1990-September 1991

w Special Project The Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Public Service and the Office of Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education participated in meetings with the
Federal Coordinating Council on Science, Engineering,
and Technology Committee on Education and Human
Resources, which was established to coordinate the ef-
forts of 16 federal agencies to address President Bush's
goals for improving math and science education by the
year 2000.

October 1990-September 1991

@ Cultural Diversity The Smithsonian's various ethnic
committees and its Women’s Council received grants
from the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program to
organize pan-Institutional ethnic and women’s events
for federally designated commemorations throughout
the year.

October I-27

a Workshop The Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Diversity Program conducted its
second annual regional training workshop in Ecuador
on biological diversity conservation and management of
protected areas. The workshop involved more than 20
participants and I5 national and international

imstructors.

6

October 2

a Visitor Three officials of The Netherlands—minister
of welfare, health, and culcure H. d’Ancona; director
general for cultural affairs J. Reizenkamp; and third sec-
retary of the royal embassy R. J. Sieben—visited the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

October 3

@ Appointment Secretary Adams announced his appoint-
ment of Carmen E. Turner, general manager of the
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, as
under secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, effective
mid-December.

October 4

w Seminar The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies held
the first in a series of staff seminars devoted to sharing
information about Smithsonian research activities and
identifying new ways to link research with exhibits and
public programs.

October 5

w Award The Office of Horticulture received two
American Orchid Society awards.

October §

w Exhibition “Childe Hassam: An Island Garden
Revisited” opened at the National Museum of American
Art, showing landscapes by America’s foremost im-
pressionist painter.

October 5-6

w Conference “Environmental Reporting: A Conference
for Southern California Journalists” was held in Los An-
geles, cosponsored by the Las Angeles Times, Island Press,
and the Smithsonian through the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs and the Office of Environ-
mental Awareness.

October 7

w Research The Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, in collaboration with staff from Harvard and
Princeton universities, established the Center for Tropi-
cal Forest Science to coordinate long-term research on
the ecology and management of tropical forests at sites
around the world.

October 7

w Staff Richard Louie, associate director of the Freer
Gallery of Art and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, died
as the result of head injuries sustained in an accident.
Mr. Louie, who joined the staff of the Freer Gallery of
Art as assistant director in 1978, had served as associate
director of the Freer and Sackler galleries since 1989.

October 10

w Symposium With National Air and Space Museum
conservator Edward McManus, Conservation Analytical
Laboratory metallurgist Martha Goodway presented a
symposium titled “Preserving America’s Space Legacy
for the Future” at the annual Materials Congress of
ASM International. CAL research organic chemist Mary
Baker spoke on her current research on the deterioration
of the Gemini space suits.

October 10

w Public Program “An Evening with Agnes de Mille”
was held at the National Portrait Gallery. In this contin-
uation of the gallery’s living self-portrait series, Marc
Pachter interviewed the distinguished pioneer of 20th-
century choreography who is credited with changing

the look of the American musical theater.

October 11

w Cultural Diversity The Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies launched a two-year bimonthly seminar series
on the theme of cultural diversity, designed to exem-
plify the nation’s pluralism and discuss strategies to ex-
pand the cultural diversity policy ar the Smithsonian.

October I1

w Benefit
first comprehensive art and design exposition, benefited
the New England Regional Center of the Archives of
American Art.

A preview of “Images & Objects,” Boston's

October 16-February 24, 1991

w Exhibition Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of De-
sign mounted “Mondo Materialis,” an exhibition of

more than 100 diverse and innovative collage panels
that explore both new and old materials. The panels
were created by leading international architects and

designers.

October 17

@ Colloquium The fourth colloquium held in conjunc-
tion with che presentation of the World Food Prize at
the Smithsonian, “Frontiers of Nutrition and Food
Security,” featured scientists from China, India,
Botswana, Chile, and the Philippines. The collo-
quium was organized by the Office of Institutional
Studies.

October 18

@ Exhibition “John Baldessari,” a retrospective honor-
ing a West Coast artist who is considered a seminal
figure in the use of mass-media imagery to challenge
conventional attitudes about art and contemporary
culture, opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden in its first East Coast venue in a national
tour organized by the Museum of Contemporary Arc,
Los Angeles.

October 18

@ Benefit The National Museum of American Art
hosted its first benefit dinner at the Equitable Center in
New York City for 250 guests and museum patrons.

October 18-19
w Symposium “Application of Autoradiography to Re-
search in Art History” brought together curators, art
history professors, and conservators whose institutions
have collections that they might wish to study using au-
toradiography. The symposium was organized by Ingrid
Alexander, research art historian with the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory, and funded by the Office of Fel-
lowships and Grants.

October 19
w@ Premiere The Smithsonian Resident Associate Pro-
gram cosponsored the gala benefit world premiere of
Dances with Wolves with the National Museum of the
American Indian. Kevin Costner and other members of
the cast and production attended the premiere.
October 19

w Endangered Species Endangered red wolves were
brought to the National Zoological Park to breed as
part of a reintroduction program.

October 20

w Premiere The Office of Quincentenary Programs,
working with the Organization of American States, or-
ganized the opening for the Americas Film Festival,
screening Yo, La Peor de Todas at Baird Auditorium, Na-
tional Museum of Natural History, and hosting a recep-
tion in the museum's Great Hall.

October 22-24

@ Course A pilot course in a new subject area, “Mechan-
ics of Materials and Structure of Culcural Objects,” was
organized and conducted at the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory by Assistant Director for Conservation Re-
search Marion Mecklenburg.

October 26

@ Sympostum The Archives of American Art organized
the symposium “Cult, Culture, and Consumers: Collect-
ing the Work of Self-Taught Artists in Twentieth-
Century America” in cooperation with the National
Museum of American Art.

October 28—November 24

@ Milestone The Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Diversity Program marked its
fourth year of work in Bolivia with a regional training
course on ecology, conservation, and management of bio-
logical diversity of protected areas, which included ap-
proximately 25 participants and 15 national and

international instructors.

November

@ Cultural Diversity The Smithsonian celebrated
National American Indian Heritage Month with a va-
riety of performances, demonstrations, films,
children’s activities, and speakers, including Beatrice
Medicine (Standing Rock Sioux) discussing “A Recur-
rent Theme: Women Are the Carriers of Indian
Culture.”

8

November

@ Agreement The Smithsonian Early Enrichment Cen-
ter and IBM agreed to develop jointly a multimedia
computer software package with a museum-based cur-
riculum, using the many resources of the Smithsonian
and giving special emphasis to multicultural education.

November

w Exhibition The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service opened “Moscow: Treasures and Tra-
ditions,” a major exhibition of art objects from Moscow
museums, in the International Gallery at the Smithson-
ian, one of only two U.S. venues. At the time of the
opening, U.S.S.R. Minister of Culture Nicolai Gubenko
visited the Smithsonian to discuss cooperative activities.

November

@ Awards The Smithsonian's underground museum,
research, and educational complex and the Enid A.
Haupt Garden, both of which opened in 1987, were se-
lected for architectural honor awards by the Design
Awards Program of the General Services Administration.

November—December

@ Cultural Diversity
Carmen Turner's request, the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for Public Service organized two focus meetings,
one on cultural pluralism (November 30) and the other

In response to Under Secretary

on education (December 4).

November 1

@ Research Findings published in the November 1 issue
of Nature by National Museum of Natural History geol-
ogist Kenneth Towe suggest that the evolution and
worldwide use of oxygen respiration by early life forms
began at least a billion years earlier than scientists pre-

viously believed.

November I

w Exhibition The Directions series of small-scale solo
exhibitions at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden was launched for the 1990—9I season with a se-
lection of set-up color photographs of artificial land-
scapes by the London-based artist Boyd Webb, followed
by metaphoric stuffed-animal sculptures from the “Half
A Man” series by Mike Kelley of Los Angeles, and, dur-
ing the summer of 1991, an installation on the theme of
racism titled “What It’s Like, What It Is #2,” by the
Massachusetts-based artist Adrian Piper.

November 2-4

@ Anniversary The centennial of the Smithsonian As-
trophysical Observatory and the sesquicentennial of the
Harvard College Observatory, its partner in the Center
for Astrophysics, were celebrated jointly with a scien-
tific symposium and open house in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.

November 3-4

a Symposium A two-day symposium, “The Modernist
Impulse in the Landscape of Invention: Los Angeles Ar-
chitecture, 1920-1990,” was created by the Education
Department of Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design. Participants discussed the effect of proponents
of the International Style, who emigrated from Europe
to Los Angeles in the 1920s and 1930s, on Southern Cali-
fornia architecture.

November 6
w Agreement The National Postal History and Phila-
telic Museum, a satellite of the National Museum of
American History, was created with the signing of a
joint agreement by Secretary Robert McC. Adams and
Postmaster General Anthony M. Frank. The museum
will open to the public in 1993 following a $15.4 million
renovation and construction program in the former
Washington, D.C., main post office next to Union
Sration.

November 7 and June 13
@ Collection Information The Office of Printing and Pho-
tographic Services opened the first on-line libraries of
Smithsonian digital photographs in the Art Gallery
Forum of CompuServe and the Photography Round
Table of GEnie.

November 7-8

a Workshop A workshop cosponsored by the Office of
Environmental Awareness and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service brought together 20

experts on education, exhibitions, and solid waste to
start planning an exhibition on the solid waste crisis.

November 9

w Exhibition “Glassworks” opened at the Renwick Gal-
lery, showing room-size works by artists challenged by
this material.

November 9

w Exhibition “Old Hickory: A Life Sketch of Andrew
Jackson” opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
Coorganized with the Tennessee State Museum, this ex-
hibition included portraits of Andrew Jackson as sol-
dier, hero, politician, and American icon. Members of
his family, his “Kitchen Cabinet,” and political friends
and enemies were also represented. Sponsored in part by
the Tennessee General Assembly, this was the last in a
series of exhibitions celebrating the bicentennial of the
U.S. Consticution.

November 9

@ Lecture To mark the 50th anniversary of the Battle of
Britain, the National Air and Space Museum convened
a panel of four RAF pilots and four Luftwaffe pilots to
share their memories of the battle. The panel was mod-
erated by Air Vice-Marshal Ron Dick.

November 10

w Exhibition The National Air and Space Museum
opened a new exhibit supporting the German V-2
rocket, examining this first ballistic missile in its broad
historical and technological contexts.

November 11

@ High School Project The Office of Printing and Photo-
graphic Services hosted and cosponsored with the
White House News Photographers Association the
nation’s only free high school seminar in still and video
news photography.

November 13

@ Colloquium Several members of Congress partici-
pated ina Woodrow Wilson Center Evening Dialogue
entitled “Government, Power and Prophecy: Lessons of
the Talmud for Our Time,” in which renowned scholar
Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz analyzed how the ancient Talmud
might illuminate contemporary understanding of the
challenges of justice, statecraft, and authority.

November 13-14

@ Conference In collaboration with the Exxon Educa-
tion Foundation, the Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Public Service cosponsored a national teacher educa-
tion conference in Washington, D.C.

November 15

w Regent Ira Michael Heyman, former chancellor of the
University of California at Berkeley, became a member
of the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

November 18

w@ Exhibition “The Arts of China,” a new installation
featuring 228 masterworks of Chinese art dating from
the fourth millennium B.C. into the 20th century,
opened at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Largely drawn
from the gallery’s permanent collection, the ancient rit-
ual jades and bronzes, Buddhist sculpture and wall
paintings, glass, lacquer, furniture, and paintings reflect
the complex artistic heritage of China.

November 19

u Seminar To observe International Literacy Year, the
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies organized a day-long
public seminar, “Issues of Literacy,” in cooperation with
the Washington, D.C., Public Library and PLAN, Inc.
(Push Literacy Action Now).

November 22

w Exhibition “Harlem: Photographs by Aaron Siskind,
1932-1940” opened at the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art, presenting a major new photography collection
of the museum.

November 27

At the Pueblo Cultural Center in Albu-
querque, New Mexico, members of the Zuni Tribal

w@ Zuni Project

Council were presented copies of 3,500 historic black-
and-white photographs of their people and pueblo from
the National Museum of Natural History's National An-
thropological Archives. JoAllyn Archambault, director

IO

of the museum's American Indian Program, made the
presentation and a similar one the next day at the Tribal
Building in Zuni, New Mexico.

November 27-30

@ Seminar The Smithsonian National Associate Pro-
gram offered the Smithsonian Seminar “Update: Eastern
Europe,” attended by more than 100 Associates. Speak-
ers included journalists Peter Jennings and Hedrick
Smith.

November 28

w Exhibition The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden's 1990-91 series of WORKS site-specific pro-
jects, supported by a $30,000 grant from the Andy
Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Inc., was
launched with “Lawrence Wiener WORKS,” a text
piece developed by this Amsterdam-based American art-
ist for the coffers above the third-floor escalator lobby.
Later in the year, the collaborative team of Ann Hamil-
ton and Kathryn Clark applied a translucent wax skin
over the third-floor windows to create “view,” a meta-
phor about extinction and loss.

November 29

w Benefit The Archives of American Art cosponsored
“An Artist’s Christmas: Holiday Images by American
Artists, 1880-1990” with Midtown Payson Galleries,
New York City, to benefit the Archives’ Oral History
Program.

November 29

w Visitor Panama Vice-President Arias Calderon vis-
ited the Smithsonian to discuss activities of the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama and
other opportunities for Smithsonian-Panamanian
cooperation.

December

w Project The Visitor Information and Associates’ Re-
ception Center completed the first update of the Quad-
rangle Patrons’ Register.
December

wg Publication The National Portrait Gallery published
The Selected Papers of Charles Willson Peale and His Family,
Volume 3: The Belfield Years, 1810-1820, edited by the
gallery’s Peale Family Papers Office staff, Lillian Miller,
Sidney Hart, David Ward, and Rose Emerick. The third
volume of this highly acclaimed series, arranged chrono-
logically and accompanied by an introductory essay and
annorations, illuminates Peale’s personality, ideas, art,
and activities as well as the art and culture of the

United States during the early stages of its development.

December

w Volunteers The Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center held its annual appreciation event for
volunteer information specialists.

December

@ Acquisition The National Museum of African Art ac-
quired an extraordinary Baga figure of a kneeling
woman supporting a drum on her head. The Baga drum
went on view as part of the museum's permanent collec-
tion in July.

December

w Publication Climate and Moisture Variability in a Tropi-
cal Forest: Long Term Records from Barro Colorado Island,
Panama, by Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
staff member D. M. Windsor, summarized and analyzed
one of the longest climate records from any tropical lo-
cality. Rainfall in the area has significantly declined
over the past 60 years, a finding that may prove to be of
much broader geographical significance.

December

m Meeting The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Ex-
ternal Affairs cohosted delegations from Soviet Ministry
of Culture for discussions with American art figures.

December 1990-August 1991
w Special Project The Office of the Assistant Secretary
for External Affairs conducted a review of Smithson-
ian media activities and created the Media Review

Board.

December 1990-August 1991

@ Quincentenary The Office of the Assistant Secretary
for External Affairs and the Office of Quincentenary
Programs coordinated the Smithsonian Institution's rela-
tionship to the television series “The Buried Mirror: Re-
flections on Spain and the New World by Carlos
Fuentes.”

December 1

@ Broadcast “The Louis Armstrong Jazz Trumpet Com-
petition,” hosted by Bill Cosby and coproduced by
Radio Smithsonian and Washington, D.C., public radio
station WETA-EM, presented two hours of highlights
from this distinguished competition, which was held at
the Smithsonian.

December 1 and January 26

@ Special Events The Office of Development held two
donor cultivation events in conjunction with the SITES
exhibition “Moscow: Treasures and Traditions.”

December 5

@ High School Project The Education Department at
Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design initiated
Design Career-Day Programs with “Homes for the
Homeless.” High school students were given the chance
to work with professional designers as they explored so-
cial issues and participated in design activities.

December 6

@ Awards Smithsonian News Service, a service of the
Office of Public Affairs, won first, second, and third
place and honorable mention awards in the Blue Pencil
competition of the National Association of Government
Communicators. A brochure on the Marine Station at
Link Port, coproduced by OPA and Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, won first place in the General Brochure cate-
gory, and a news release on Smithsonian acquisitions in
1989 won honorable mention in the News Release

category.
December 11

@ Exhibition “Comparisons—An Exercise in Looking,”
an innovative exhibition pairing objects to hone

visitors’ appreciation of art, opened at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, proving so popular that
its run was extended twice. The exhibition was sup-
ported in part by the Smithsonian Special Exhibition
Fund.

December 14

w Research The Office of International Relations and
the Office of Sponsored Projects organized a grants
forum for Smithsonian research staff to learn about the
funding of international research and exchanges sup-
ported by the Council on International Exchange of
Scholars, the International Research and Exchanges
Board, the National Science Foundation, and the U.S.
Agency for International Development.

December 14

@ Exhibition “Camera Portraits: Photographs from the
National Portrait Gallery, London, 1839-1989” opened at
the National Portrait Gallery. Likenesses of distinguished
British personalities from the gallery's sister institution
illustrated the development of portrait photography from
the age of the daguerreotype to the present day. Key fig-
ures in British history—from Queen Victoria to the
Beatles—were represented in works by leading British and
American photographers. The exhibition was made possi-
ble by a grant from Mobil.

December 15

@ Announcement Friends of Asian Arts at the Freer and
Sackler Galleries was established to encourage new inter-
est in the galleries and to support their collections acqui-
sition programs. Forty-two friends joined the
membership group in its charter year, and their benefac-

tions totaled $65,500.
December 19

@ Exhibition “300 Years of American Papermaking”
opened in the National Museum of American History's
Hall of Graphic Arts. The exhibition commemorates the
building of the first paper mill in the American colonies in
1690 near Germantown, Pennsylvania, by William Ritten-
house and his partners; the men and women who contrib-
uted to the industry's astonishing growth; and the
manifold utilitarian and artistic uses of paper products.

December 19

wGrant The Harry Winston Research Foundation an-
nounced a gift of $1 million toward the complete renova-
tion of the National Museum of Natural History’s

Geology, Gems, and Minerals Hall.

December 24

@ Broadcast J.S. Bach's “Christmas Oratorio,” copro-
duced by Radio Smithsonian and Washington station
WETA-FM and featuring the Smithsonian Chamber Or-
chestra, was broadcast over public radio.

January

w Exhibition The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service added to its 1991 program the exhibi-
tions “Songs of My People,” “Capturing the Spirit: Por-
traits of Contemporary Mexican Artists,” “Saynday was
coming along...Silverhorn’s Drawings of the Kiowa
Trickster,” and “Strength and Diversity: Japanese Amer-
ican Women, 1885-1990,” thus continuing its commit-
ment to presenting exhibitions that celebrate the many
voices of the steadily growing multicultural society in
the United States.

January

w Research A previously unknown species of beaked
whale was discovered—a very rare event—off the coast
of Peru by a team of scientists from the National Mu-
seum of Natural History, the Center for the Study of Ce-
taceans in Lima, and the Royal Institute of Natural
Sciences in Belgium.

January

w Publicity/Marketing The Office of Public Affairs or-
ganized and implemented a comprehensive publicity
plan in connection with the publication of the biogra-
phy Benjamin O. Davis, Jr.: American that resulted in ex-
tensive publicity and the highest sales for any book
published by Smithsonian Institution Press. Among
General Davis's many local and network television ap-
pearances were those on “Good Morning, America”
(ABC), “CBS This Morning” and “The World Today”

(CNN).
January

g Award Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings won the
American Library Association's award for Children’s
Notable Recordings in 1990 for the recording A Fish
That's a Song: Songs and Stories for Children Inspired by
the Hemphill Collection of the National Museum of Ameri-

can Art.

January

w Education
Science and Technology for Children project began trial

The National Science Resources Center's

teaching two new units of hands-on science instruc-
tion—Weather and Me (grade 1) and Sounds (grade 3)—in
Washington, D.C., public schools.

January

wu Workshop
tional tour of the Anacostia Museum's exhibition, “The

In conjunction with the long-awaited na-

Real McCoy: African American Invention and Innova-
tion,” the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service held a preparatory workshop for educators, cura-
tors, content specialists, and representatives from host
museums in the field.

January

w Research Researchers at the Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory’s Whipple Observatory made the first
confirmed detection of gamma rays from the Crab Neb-
ula, thus establishing that object as a “standard candle”
for ground-based observers.

January

w Special Project The Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Public Service helped establish a pan-Smithsonian as-
sociation with the Quality Education for Minorities
Network to foster educational science programs for mi-

norities and women.

January-March

w International Project The Office of the Assistant Secre-
tary for External Affairs worked with the U.S. Agency
for International Development to plan the U.S. position
for the indigenous peoples section of an international
forestry convention.

January—S eptember

@ International Project The Office of the Assistant Secre-
tary for External Affairs served as consultant for federal
agencies with respect to the 1992 United Nations Con-
ference on Environment and Development. The office
will cochair the Biodiversity Roundtable for the partici-
pation of nongovernmental organizations in the process.

January I

w New Facility The Infant and Toddler Center opened
in the Arts and Industries Building for 30 children rang-
ing in age from three months to two years. The Office
of Design and Construction supervised design and
construction.

January 7

w Milestone A full-page advertisement signed by celebri-
ties from all walks of life appeared in the New York Times,
the Washington Past, the Las Angeles Times, and the Chicago
Tribune launching the fund-raising campaign for the
Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian.

January 14

@ Collection Information The Office of Horticulture
began the cataloging onto laser disc of 20,000 glass and
35mm slides in the Archives of American Gardens.

January 16

w Lecture A Woodrow Wilson Center session on “Lessons
of Eastern Europe for China” featured world-renowned
Chinese dissident Liu Binyan, who summarized the lesson
of Eastern Europe for China. By demonstrating that the
lines between these two reform movements were parallel,
he depicted the 1989 political upheavals in Eastern Europe

as a key and continuing source of influence in China.

January 16

@ Awards The local chapter of the Society for Techni-
cal Communication honored a number of Office of Pub-
lic Affairs products in its annual publications
competition. Smithsonian News Service feature stories
won three second-place awards and one third place, Re-
search Reports won third place for the newsletter as a
whole and for an individual story; a Torch article won a
third-place award; and a brochure coproduced by OPA

13
and Smithsonian Institution Press on the Smithsonian
Marine Station at Link Port won a second-place award.

January 17
m Premiere A screening, panel discussion, and recep-
tion were held at che National Museum of American
History celebrating the “Smithsonian World” season
premiere program, “Gender: The Enduring Paradox.”

January 20

w Exhibition The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery exhibition
“Paper and Clay from Modern Japan” offered the first
public presentation of the gallery's growing collection
of modern Japanese graphic arts and ceramics. Four pot-
ters designated as Japanese Living National Treasures
were among the artists whose works were featured.

January 21

w Public Program The annual Martin Luther King,
Jr., Birthday Celebration was sponsored by the
Smithsonian's Cultural Education Committee at the
National Museum of Natural History. Johnnetta
Cole, president of Spelman College, delivered the key-
note address on “The Struggle for Equity in Ameri-
can Education.”

January 23

@ Colloquium A Woodrow Wilson Center Evening Dia-
logue entitled “The Roles of the Congress and the Exec-
utive in the Formulation and Conduct of U.S. Foreign
Policy” was particularly timely in the wake of the Per-
sian Gulf War.

February

w Publicity/Marketing The Office of Telecom-
munications concluded a distribution contract with
Public Media, Inc., one of the foremost distributors
of video programs, to market Smithsonian video

products.

February

w Exhibition The National Museum of African Art
opened a new gallery devoted to small, innovative exhi-
bitions on unique topics, generally focusing on a single
object or theme. The first exhibition was “A Cloth of

14

Honor,” a large, vibrantly colored cloth made by an

Annang artist.

February

w Bequest The National Museum of American Art was
named the major beneficiary of the estate of Florence
Davis, widow of noted Washington, D.C., color school
artist Gene Davis.

February

w Cultural Diversity Publicity for Black History
Month events at the Smithsonian included an
extensive press release on the exhibits, events, and
special programs of seven museums and the Resident
Associate Program. Paid radio advertisements were
aired on four Washington, D.C., radio stations. Re-
sponse calls resulted in more than 1,000 packets of
Smithsonian information being sent to listeners.
Memberships in RAP were purchased by OPA and
given to listeners through a call-in promotion at

radio station WHUR.

February

a Film A 50-minute film, Nagayati (Be in Peace), was
produced by Peter Oud, Film and Photography for
Development Work, for the National Museum of Afri-
can Art. The film explores the arts and architecture of
the Gabra nomads in northern Kenya, East Africa.

February—August

w Public Programs +The National Museum of African
Art presented a series of free public programs on the
Gullah people, a distinctive group of African Americans
whose artistic traditions, customs, language, and folk-
lore can be traced to West Africa. The series was held in
conjunction with the exhibition “Paramount Chiefs of
Sierra Leone: Photographic Portraits by Vera Viditz-
Ward.”

February I

m Opening The Experimental Gallery opened in the
Arts and Industries Building. This new gallery will
experiment with different exhibition styles and tech-
niques. Inaugural exhibitions were “Project Face to
Face,” an exhibit about AIDS; “Principles of Flight”;
and “Casitas: An Urban Cultural Alcernative.”
February I
w Acquisition The Atlanta Interfaith Broadcasters
presented the Anacostia Museum with 25 videotapes
of church sermons, church and family histories, and
individual oral history interviews. These materials
have contributed to the museum’s leadership in docu-
menting African American religious tradition.

February 2-March 3

The Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Diversity Program and the

@ Course

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute held a regional
training course in Panama on conservation of natural re-
sources and the management of wildlands. The course
included 23 participants and I5 national and interna-
tional instructors.

February 4

@ Announcement The Smithsonian Board of Regents ap-
proved the naming of the Freer Gallery of Art audito-
rium as the Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Auditorium
when the gallery reopens. The decision was made in rec-
ognition of a gift of more than $1 million to renovate
and equip the 300-seat auditorium and to provide for
public programming. The donation came from Katha-
rine Graham, chairman of the board of the Washington
Post Company; the Philip L. Graham Fund; the Eugene
and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation; and the Island Fund

in the New York Community Trust.

February 5

w Leture To celebrate Black History Month, the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum invited Lr. Gen. Benja-
min O. Davis, Jr., to talk about his extraordinary life,
from enduring discrimination as the only black at West
Point, to leading Tuskegee Airmen fighter squadrons
during World War II, to his experiences as a general in

the U.S. Air Force. An overflow audience of 1,500
attended.

February 5 and February 7

gw Lectures In collaboration with the American Insti-
tute of Architects and the American Architectural Foun-
dation, the Resident Associate Program celebrated the

second annual Accent on Architecture Week, with I. M.

Pei and his staff and director of the Louvre Michel
Laclotte among the speakers.

February 8

w@ Exhibition “Winslow Homer in the 1890s: Prout’s
Neck Observed” opened at the National Museum of
American Art, presenting Homer's late seascape
masterworks.

February 8

w Facility Design The Office of Design and Construc-
tion completed design for the National Museum of the
American Indian at the Old U.S. Custom House in
New York Cicy.

February 12

w Meeting The 12-member Japanese delegation of the
SI-Bunkacho (Tokyo National Research Institute of Cul-
tural Properties) arrived to begin four days of sessions
with Smithsonian curators, conservators, and scientists,
including participants from the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory.

February 13

w Exhibition “Sigmar Polke,” a full-fledged retrospective
honoring this widely influential German artist who has ex-
hibited frequently in Europe but seldom in the United
States, opened its first East Coast venue at the Hirshhorm
Museum and Sculprure Garden in a national tour organ-
ized by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.

February 14

@ Course The Office of Museum Programs began its

first museology training program for Smithsonian staff.
February 14-15

@ Symposium With the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, the Office of International Re-
lations sponsored a symposium on “Science in Africa”
and a reception at the National Museum of African Art.

February 15

@ Acquisition First Lady Barbara Bush gave the camou-

flage uniform shirt she wore during her November 1990

15
visit wich American troops in the Persian Gulf to the
National Museum of American History's Division of
Armed Forces History, which also received prisoner-of-
war uniforms worn by American servicewomen in the
Persian Gulf War.

February 17

@ Public Program The National Museum of American
Art hosted 600 people at a parade and reception preced-
ing the Washington, D.C., Chinese Lunar New Year pa-
rade in the museum's Chinatown neighborhood.

February 21

“Smart Bricks, Useful Trash, and Elastic
Chairs: Reinventing the Material World,” a symposium
devoted to the discussion of new materials, was held in
conjunction with Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design's exhibition “Mondo Materialis.”

w Symposium

February 22-24

@ Benefit A preview of “USArt,” an art exposition and
sale of exclusively American art, benefited the West
Coast Regional Center of the Archives of American Art.

February 26
Grant The American Chemical Society presented a
$5 million grant to the National Museum of American
History for the major new exhibition “Science in Ameri-

can Life,” scheduled to open in late 1993.

February 28
@ Acquisition The bronze portrait bust of Rosa Parks
by sculptor Artis Lane was unveiled at the National
Portrait Gallery. A gift of the Anheuser-Busch Com-
panies, Inc., the bust was presented in recognition of
Rosa Parks’s role as a civil rights leader. Her refusal
to move to a seat in the back of a bus in Montgomery,
Alabama, in 1955 sparked a national movement for ra-
cial justice.

March

w Exhibition “African Reflections: Art from Northeast-
ern Zaire,” featuring several hundred extraordinary
works by artists from the Mangbetu, Azande, and other
peoples of northeastern Zaire, organized and sponsored

16

by the American Museum of Natural History, New
York City, went on view at the National Museum of Af-
rican Art.

March

w Membership The National Museum of the American
Indian launched a highly successful series of test mail-
ings for the museum's national membership program.

March

w Publication The National Science Resources Center
announced publication of the first units of hands-on sci-
ence instruction from its innovative elementary science
curriculum development project, Science and Technol-
ogy for Children. One thousand educators, scientists,
and representatives of scientific and educational organi-
zations attended the NSRC’s reception launching the
units at the National Science Teachers Association an-
nual meeting in Houston.

March

w Exhibition The National Museum of the American
Indian completed a series of three meetings with Native
American artists, writers, and performers to review the
concept for “Celebrations,” one of the inaugural exhibi-
tions of the museum's George Gustav Heye Center in
New York City.

March

@ Research The Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute's project on domestication of the paca, a large
tropical forest rodent, entered a new phase when two do-
mesticated groups were turned over to a local farmer.
The paca, a favorite local game animal, will provide an
alternative protein source for small farmers.

March

w Planning The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service completed a staff-generated perfor-
mance plan designed to strengthen its program mission
and the role of cultural diversity in exhibition interpre-
tation, format and evaluation.
March

w Publication The Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center produced and distributed foreign lan-
guage floor plans in French, German, Spanish, and Jap-

anese to Smithsonian museums.

March

w Exhibition A photo—text panel exhibit on Senegal
and its cultural traditions, organized by the Office of
Folklife Programs and originally mounted at the Festi-
val of American Folklife, was displayed at Bethesda—
Chevy Chase High School, Bethesda, Maryland.

March

w Planning The firm of Venturi, Scott Brown & Asso-
ciates began development of the architectural pro-
gram for the National Museum of the American
Indian facilities on the National Mall and in Suit-
land, Maryland.

March

@ Cultural Diversity Four multicultural versions of a
portable exhibit with the theme “The Smithsonian Is
for Everyone” were produced by the Office of Public
Affairs with grants from the Special Exhibition Fund
and the Educational Outreach Program. Highlighted
were Asian American, African American, Native
American, and Hispanic communities. The exhibits
were used at the National Association of Hispanic
Journalists, the National Association of Black Jour-
nalists, the Asian American Journalists Association,
and the African American Museum Association. One
generic version of the exhibit was produced featuring
teenage visitors.

March 1

gw New Facility The Office of Design and Construction
began supervising the design of the 60,000-square-foot
National Postal History and Philatelic Museum, a satel-
lite of the National Museum of American History on
the ground floor of the former city post office next to
Union Sration in Washington, D.C. Exhibit installation
is scheduled for 1993.

March 1

@ Appointment Steven Newsome was appointed the
new director of the Anacostia Museum. He was pre-
viously director of the Banneker-Douglass Museum in
Annapolis, Maryland, and chief of cultural and educa-
tional services for Maryland’s Division of Historical

and Cultural Programs.
March 1
Eleven Scholarly Studies awards were an-

w@ Grants
nounced by the Office of Fellowships and Grants.

March 3

w Public Programs The National Zoological Park spon-
sored educational activities for the public in honor of
Seal Day.

March 4-25

w Exhibition “Tirarloa la Calle/Taking to the Streets,”
organized by the Office of Folklife Programs, went on
exhibit at American University, Washington, D.C. The
exhibition views the local Latino community through
its annual festival.

March 5

w Press Conference The new repatriation policy of the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian was announced
and presented to the media by Secretary Robert McC.
Adams and Richard West, director of the museum. Organ-
ized by the Office of Public Affairs, the conference resulted
in major media coverage, including articles in the Washing-
ton Past, New York Times, and USA Today and a nationally
syndicated Associated Press article.

March 7

@ Exhibition/Public Programs The Anacostia Museum
responded to the AIDS crisis in the African American
community by showing the video “When It Hits
Home: Coming Out in the Age of AIDS” and mount-
ing the photographic exhibit “Reaching the Other
World: Portraits and Stories of Americans Fighting
Drug Addiction and AIDS.”
March 8-10

w@ Meeting The Smithsonian National Board spring
meeting was held in Los Angeles, with a special focus
on the new demographics of the United States and how
the Smithsonian could be positioned to serve the chang-
ing American and international publics.

March 13

w Species Survival The National Zoological Park's fe-
male Asian elephant, Shanti, was sent to Burnet Park
Zoo in Syracuse, New York, for breeding.

March 15

w Exhibition “The West as America: Reinterpreting
Images of the Frontier, 1820-1920” opened at the Na-
tional Museum of American Art to a wave of national
press attention and record attendance.

March 19

w Visitor Service The National Air and Space Museum
installed an electronic Visitor Information Center. The
center's four kiosks are activated by the visitor to offer
up-to-date information in seven languages and cap-
tioned English about exhibits and programs in the mu-
seum and at other Smithsonian bureaus; museum shops
and restaurants in the area; and other Washington tour-
ist attractions.

March 19

a Symposium Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of De-
sign sponsored an acclaimed symposium, “Design Nar-
rative: Nature 2000,” which looked at the change in
human attitudes toward nature over the past century
and what we must do to protect the environment from
ourselves.

March 20

@ Quincentenary The Office of Quincentenary Programs
hosted the Washington, D.C., Quincentenary Roundt-
able at the National Museum of American Art. Local, re-
gional, and national quincentenary organizations
attended the meeting to give the group updates on their
activities.

March 21

@ Announcement The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration selected the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory to plan, develop, and operate the interna-
tional science center that will receive, analyze, and ar-
chive data from the Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics
Facility (AXAF), now scheduled for launch in 1998. The
value of the contract is expected to be approximately

$87 million for the initial 10-year period of operation.

March 22-23

w Meeting The Office of Folklife Programs and the
George Washington University Folklife Association co-
sponsored the annual meeting of the Middle Atlantic
Folklife Association focusing on “Mass-Mediating the
Folk.”

March 25
w Seminar The first ina series of “Ways of Knowing”
staff seminars exploring the process of collaboration
in different fields, organized by the Office of Interdis-
ciplinary Studies, concentrated on the creative arts.
Subsequent programs, in June and September, dis-
cussed the sciences and humanities and social science

research.

March 26

w Exhibition “The Cooper-Hewitt Collections: A De-
sign Resource” opened at Cooper-Hewitt, National Mu-
seum of Design to favorable reviews. The exhibition
chronicles the formation of the museum's collection
from 1897 to the present.

March 29
w Conference The Office of Printing and Photo-
graphic Services sponsored a panel discussion,
“Through North American Eyes,” at the annual con-
vention of the National Hispanic Journalists Associa-
tion, New York City.

March 29

w Exhibition Only a few weeks after the conclusion of
the Persian Gulf War, the National Air and Space Mu-
seum opened a small exhibit on the role of air power in
Operation Desert Storm, written by Richard Hallion,
the museum’s Lindbergh Professor.

March 30
a Symposium “The African-American Aesthetic in
the Visual Arts and Postmodernism,” organized by
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden with
Howard University’s College of Fine Arts, was pre-
sented in conjunction with the Washington, D.C., an-
nual meeting of the National Conference of Artists.
Papers by 10 distinguished scholars and artists were
presented at the all-day symposium, which was made
possible in part by the Smithsonian Educational Out-
reach Fund.

Spring

w Research A high-resolution imaging instrument
built by the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory for
the ROSAT satellite made detailed observations of x-ray
objects selected from the satellite's initial all-sky survey.
Striking images of the Andromeda Galaxy suggest that
x-ray sources there may be highly variable, since many
seen a decade earlier by the Einstein Observatory had
disappeared and other new sources now glowed brightly.

April

@ Broadcast Radio Smithsonian joined forces with
Washington, D.C., public radio station WETA-FM to
present “Folk Masters: Traditional Music in the Ameri-
cas,” 13 one-hour programs featuring virtuosos of folk
music in concert at Carnegie Hall.

April

m Public Program The Anacostia Museum sponsored
“Straight Up: AIDS, Teens, and Denial,” an outdoor
health fair designed to provide teens with an opportu-
nity to gain access to subject-related materials in a non-
judgmental environment. The health fair was featured
on WYJLA-TV news and radio stations WHUR and
WKYS and attracted more than 500 junior and senior
high school students.

April

= Tour A members’ art tour of museums and private

collections in St. Louis and Kansas City was organized

by the New York Regional Center of the Archives of
American Art.

April
@ Volunteers The Visitor Information and Associates’

Reception Center held its annual appreciation event for
behind-the-scenes volunteers.

April

@ Exhibition The Smithsonian Institution Libraries
opened “Nusantara: Lands and Peoples of Indonesia” in
its exhibition gallery in conjunction with the interna-
tional Festival of Indonesia. The exhibition was funded
by the James Smithson Society.

April 4-7, April 10-11

@ Conference The Office of Folklife Programs sponsored
a conference, “Other Orients: Soviet and American Per-
spectives on Muslim and Middle Eastern Societies and
Politics” with Dartmouth College and the Soviet Acad-
emy of Sciences in Hanover, New Hampshire, and ac
the Smithsonian.

April 5

w Exhibition “Magical Mixtures: Marisol Portrait
Sculpture” opened at the National Portrait Gallery. The
exhibition—the first museum show devoted to the por-
traits of the Venezuelan-American sculptor—included
21 images created between 1961 and 1989 of such interna-
tionally known figures as John Wayne, Georgia
O'Keeffe, Lyndon Johnson, and Bishop Desmond Tutu.

April 6

@ Broadcast “Our Biosphere: The Earth in Our
Hands,” a one-hour film narrated by Robert Redford
and focusing on the work of the Smithsonian's Marine
Systems Laboratory, premiered on the Discovery Chan-
nel. The film was produced by the Smithsonian's Office
of Telecommunications.

April 8

a Workshop The Office of Museum Programs inaugu-
rated the American Indian Museum Studies Program
with a five-day workshop on planning and management

of tribal cultural facilities.

19
April 8

w Award Julie Johnson Kidd, former chairman of the
board of trustees of the Museum of the American In-
dian, Heye Foundation, was awarded the James Smith-
son Medal.

April 8

w Special Event The Office of International Relations
hosted a reception for the acting secretary general of the
International Council of Museums (ICOM) and mem-
bers of the ICOM planning committee for the confer-
ence “What Museums for Africa: Heritage in the
Fucure?”

April 11

w Special Event The Office of Development held a
donor cultivation event in conjunction with the Na-
tional Museum of American Art exhibition “Prout’s
Neck Observed: Winslow Homer in the 1890s.”

April 11

w Benefit Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of De-
sign; Vitae Publishing; and Parsons School of Design
hosted a tribute to Mrs. Henry Parish II and Albert
Hadley of the interior design firm Parish-Hadley Associ-
ates, Inc. The event raised $3,000 for the Parsons/Coo-
per-Hewitt Master's Degree Program in the History of
Decorative Arts.

April 12
w Exhibition

the United States’ foremost fiber artist, opened at the
Renwick Gallery.

“Lenore Tawney Retrospective,” showing

April 15

@ Awards The Office of Fellowships and Grants of-
fered 121 Smithsonian pre- and postdoctoral fellowships
this year.

April 15

@ Award Paul E. Ewald of Amherst College was
awarded the first George E. Burch Fellowship. The
award was announced by the Office of Fellowships and
Grants.

20

April 17

w Lecture A Woodrow Wilson Center meeting on the
foreign policy legacies of Woodrow Wilson featured
U.S. Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s address on the ap-
plicability of Wilsonian ideals to contemporary interna-
tional conflicts.

April 17

w Lecture The Dalai Lama delivered his first Washing-
ton public address since receiving the 1989 Nobel Peace
Prize. The lecture, organized by the Resident Associate
Program, commemorated the International Year of
Tibet. The event attracted more than 2,200 participants.

April 19

w Exhibition “Beyond the Java Sea: Art of Indonesia's
Outer Islands” opened in the National Museum of Natural
History Thomas Evans Gallery, continuing through July 14.

April 19

w Exhibition “Annie Leibovitz Photographs 1970-1990”
opened at the National Portrait Gallery. Organized by the
International Center of Photography, New York Cicy, in
conjunction with the gallery, this exhibition surveyed 20
years of Leibovitz's portraits of figures in American popu-
lar culture, from her earliest photojournalism for Rolling
Stone to her present work for Vanity Fair.

April 19-20

ua Symposium The fifth symposium of the American Com-
mittee for South Asian Art, “Current Research in South
and Southeast Asian Art and Archaeology,” was sponsored
by the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of
Art. The public symposium included papers by 66 schol-

ars as well as museum visits and receptions.
April 23-25

@ Course “Exhibition Materials,” a new pilot course for
exhibition designers organized by senior textile conser-
vator Mary Ballard, was held at the Conservation Ana-
lytical Laboratory.
April 24

gw Tour The Smithsonian National Associate Program's
first Smithsonian Odyssey Tour, “Silver Cities of Mex-
ico,” departed.

April 24

m Announcement Jerome L. Greene, a New York attor-
ney and art collector who has served on the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden’s Board of Trustees since
1978, was elected as board chairman, succeeding Syd-
ney Lewis, a 15-year board veteran who continues to
serve as vice-chairman.

April 26

mw Public Program More than 100 Washington, D.C., ju-
nior and senior high school students presented music
and dance performances, poetry, essays, and works of art
inspired by the life and genius of Duke Ellington to an
overflow crowd in the National Museum of American
History's Carmichael Auditorium, the triumphant fi-
nale of a Duke Ellington Youth Festival organized by
the museum’s Program in African American Culture.
April 26-27
m Conference Asa newly elected member of the Associa-
tion of Graduate Training Programs in the Conservation
of Cultural Property, the Conservation Analytical Labo-
ratory Furniture Conservation Training Program partici-
pated in the 17th Annual Conservation Training
Programs Conference. Student John Driggers presented
a paper, “The Use of Fluorescent Microscopy on a Gilt

and Decorated Classical Revival Table: A Cautionary
Tail.”

April 28-30

m Planning A retreat sponsored by the Office of Envi-
ronmental Awareness, held at the Donaldson Brown
Center in Port Deposit, Maryland, initiated planning
for a National Museum of Natural History exhibition
on environmental issues that affect coastal and marine
peoples and habitats.

April 29

@ Grant
received a grant from the Hasselblad Foundation for the

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

purchase of an electron microscope, a research tool that
will greatly enhance the capabilities of STRI’s Center
for Tropical Paleoecology.

April 30

w Cultural Diversity The opening event of the
Smithsonian observance of Asian/Pacific American Heri-
tage Month featured a keynote address by Ronald
Takaki, professor of ethnic studies at the University of
California at Berkeley, and a performance by comedian
Phil Nee. Exhibitions, films, lectures, and demonstra-
tions were scheduled during May.

May

w Publication A new souvenir guidebook, A Picture
Tour of the National Museum of Natural History, written
and illustrated by museum staff, was published by
Smithsonian Institution Press.

May

m Award The Smithsonian Information Center orienta-
tion video, produced by the Office of Telecommunica-
tions, won second place in the Second Annual Muse
Awards from the American Association of Museums.

May

a Visit The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Exter-
nal Affairs assisted in planning the state visit of the
president of Brazil to the United States.

May

w Video Production was completed on a 30-minute ed-
ucational video documentary for junior and senior high
schools. “Citizen Stories: Democracy and Responsibility
in American Life” is a companion to the earlier “Democ-
racy and Rights: One Citizen’s Challenge”; both derive
from the 1987 international symposium commemorat-
ing the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution that was
organized by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies.

May

w Award “American Abstraction, 1930-1945: The Art-
ists Speak,” an interactive video produced by the Office

of Telecommunications for the National Museum of

2I
American Art, won a blue ribbon at the American Film
and Video Association’s annual festival.

May

@ Collections Smithsonian Institution Libraries Direc-
tor Barbara J. Smith initiated an appeal to donors to the
libraries’ collections. A brochure on Gift Information for
Donors and Honorary and Memorial Gifts was distributed
to donors to the libraries and to the Institution's profes-
sional staff.

May

w Awards The “Information Age” videowall, the
Smithsonian's first such presentation, received gold
medals from the International Film and TV Festival of
New York and the Houston International Film Festival
and first place in the Second Annual Muse Awards from
the American Association of Museums. The videowall
was produced by the Office of Telecommunications.

May

w Publication The Smithsonian Institution Libraries
published the 263rd book in its Translation Publishing
Program. Donald R. Davis, curator of entomology at
the National Museum of Natural History, served as sci-
entific editor for Fundamentals of Paleontology, volume 9,
edited by B. B. Rohdendorf (originally published in
Moscow in 1962).

May

@ New Facility The staff of the Fred Lawrence Whip-
ple Observatory moved into a new 19,000-square-foot
administrative support facility at the base of Mt. Hop-
kins in Arizona. The facility includes a visitor center for
the observatory and the surrounding national forest.
The Office of Design and Construction supervised de-
sign and construction.

May

@ Grant In addition to an original grant of
$300,000, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation will provide additional funding to sup-
port future education programs in conjunction with
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice exhibition “Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing
Treasure.”

22

May

w Lectures The Woodrow Wilson Center sponsored a se-
ries of leccures on modernism and modern literature by
the distinguished Irish literary scholar Denis

Donoghue. Topics addressed in the series were “The
Man of the Crowd: The Beginnings of Modernism in
Literature”; “Literature Beyond Culture”; “Modern Lit-
erature: Towards a Better Life”; and “Reading The
Wasteland.”

May

w Special Event Joseph Carper, director, Smithsonian
National Associate Program, addressed members of the
Young Benefactors at their first annual meeting and con-
gratulaced them on a successful inaugural year.

May—June

@ Conference The Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs represented the Smithsonian at the
United States Global Change Mitigation Adaptation Re-
sponse Strategies.

May I

a Internships The Office of Fellowships and Grants
awarded 39 summer Minority Internships after receiv-
ing a record 127 applications.

May 3

w Lecture “Focus on Biodiversity,” a public briefing on
important elements of the National Museum of Natural
History's biodiversity programs, was presented in Baird
Auditorium by six of the museum's scientists.

May 6

w Research The Smithsonian Board of Regents ap-
proved the recommendation of an independent scien-
tific and technical review committee that the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory begin negotia-
tions to place its unique array of submillimeter tele-
scopes on Mauna Kea, Hawaii.

May 6

w Milestone The Smithsonian Board of Regents ap-
proved in principle the establishment of a National Afri-
can American Museum on the National Mall, contin-
gent on the identification of collections that would di-
rect the research and exhibitions of such a museum.

May 9

a Benefit Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design
received the proceeds from the 20th annual Roscoe
Awards. The awards, which are sponsored by Interior De-
sign magazine, honor outstanding achievement in resi-
dential and contract product design.

May 10

= Birth A four-pound western lowland gorilla was
born at the National Zoological Park, the first gorilla
birth there in 19 years.

May 10

mw Award The Charles C. Eldredge Prize for outstand-
ing scholarship in the history of American art was
awarded to Michele Helene Bogart, associate professor
of art history at the State University of New York at
Stony Brook.

May 10

w Exhibition “Group Portrait: The First American
Avant-Garde” opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
This exhibition focused on the circles of four individu-
als who were essential to the creation of an American
avant-garde movement from 1913 to 1917: Alfred
Stieglitz, Marcel Duchamp, Gertrude Stein, and Ezra
Pound. Emphasis was on the group’s portrayal of itself
through photographs, paintings, sculpture, and draw-
ings of and by its members.

May 10

mw Exhibition “Giants,” an interactive exhibit on body
size, opened in the Elephant House at the National Zoo-
logical Park.

May 13

m Appointment James Early was appointed assistant
secretary for public service to oversee a number of de-
partments, including the offices of Folklife Programs
and Public Affairs, the Visitor Information and

Associates’ Reception Center,and educational outreach

activities.
May 15

w Exhibition The National Air and Space Museum
opened “Art of the Cosmic Age,” which brought to-
gether more than 70 paintings, drawings, and other
works by Soviet, North American, and Western Euro-
pean artists for whom the universe is a source of
inspiration.

May 16

w Benefit Friends of the National Zoo held ZooFari—
Feline Fantasia, a gala evening event to raise funds for
the Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund.

May 17

@ Concert The Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orches-
tra, funded by Congress and led by conductors David

N. Baker and Gunther Schuller, premiered its first sea-
son of concerts in the National Museum of American
History's Carmichael Auditorium to a standing-room-
only audience, becoming the first jazz orchestra resident
in a museum.

May 17-25

@ International Public Program The Smithsonian Na-
tional Associate Program sponsored the third Smithson-
ian program in Japan. Events were held in Tokyo, Nara,
and Osaka and included public lectures and special pro-
grams in Japanese junior high schools.

May 18-20

w Endangered Species National Zoological Park staff car-
ried out the first successful artificial insemination of
black-footed ferrets.

May 19

w Exhibition The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery joined the
nationwide 18-month Festival of Indonesia with the
opening of “Court Arts of Indonesia,” an exhibition or-
ganized by the Asia Society, New York City, in associa-
tion with the Sackler Gallery. As a part of the
exhibition, the Education Department organized free
daily performing arts events, including Indonesian

23
shadow puppet plays accompanied by a gamelan orches-
tra of artists from Central Java who delighted audiences
with their traditional performances.

May 20

@ Acquisition The National Museum of Natural His-
tory acquired the fossilized thigh bone of a 110-million-
year-old adult sauropod—the largest dinosaur bone ever
found in the northeastern United States.

May 20
@ Seminar An evening seminar on “quality” in art initi-
ated a program of issues forums for debate on controver-
sial topics, organized by the Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies.

May 23

@ Conservation The Office of Printing and Photo-
graphic Services participated in ongoing meetings of
Subcommittees IT9-2 and IT9-3 of the American Na-
tional Standards Institute to develop test methods to de-
termine archival permanence in photographic materials.

May 30

@ Renovation Gravel walkways in the Enid A. Haupt
Garden were replaced with brick, thus greatly improv-
ing accessibility.

Summer

w Workshops Workshops for middle- and secondary-
school science teachers were held in Arizona, Minnesota,
Wisconsin, and Massachusetts under the auspices of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory's Project STAR,
an innovative curriculum development program based
on examples from astronomy.

June

@ Research Smithsonian Institution Libraries issued an
international call for applicants to its new SIL/Dibner
Library Resident Scholar Research Program. Established
to support research into the history of science and tech-
nology, the program is funded by The Dibner Fund and
will support one or two scholars a year for up to three
months each.

24

June

w Conference National Science Resources Center Execu-
tive Director Doug Lapp was one of 40 science educa-
tion experts to participate by invitation in the Johnson
Foundation-sponsored national conference on “Science
Education for the 1990s: Strategies for Change.”

June

@ Expansion Construction began on the annex to che
National Museum of the American Indian’s Research
Branch in the Bronx, New York.

June

@ Exhibition Smithsonian Institution Libraries hosted
a reception with the National Museum of African Art
for “Africa Illustrated: Fantasy and Reality Before
1900,” an exhibition of books organized by SIL and the

museum.

June

w Publication The inaugural issue of the Contributor, a
semiannual membership newsletter and update on insti-
tutional activities and funding needs, was distributed to
Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National As-
sociate Program.

June

@ Appointment Stephen Polcari, author of Abstract Ex-
pressionism and the Modern Experience, joined the Archives

of American Art as New York regional director.

June

w Collection Information The Archives of American Art
entered its catalog database in the Research Library In-
formation Network (RLIN) system.

June

w Special Audiences A public service announcement on
accessibility at the Smithsonian for disabled visitors was
videotaped in the museums with Dianne Pilgrim, direc-
tor of Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design, par-
ticipating as the on-camera spokesperson. The television
spot was close-captioned and distributed nationally.
June

w Publication
uted its new Users Guide to all 16 branch library locations

Smithsonian Institucion Libraries distrib-

and to the Institution's 750 permanent research staff.

June

w Release The recording “World Music of Struggle: We
Shall Overcome,” produced by Smithsonian/Folkways Re-
cordings and Columbia Records from the Festival of Amer-
ican Folklife program “Musics of Struggle,” was released.

June

mw Research The extremely powerful signal of an inter-
stellar maser, representing the second strongest emis-
sion line ever seen at microwave frequencies, was
detected from methanol molecules by a Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory scientist using the 140-foot
radio antenna at Green Bank, West Virginia. The dis-
covery has important implications for radio astronomy
studies of newly formed stars.

June

w Collection Smithsonian Institution Libraries com-
pleted analysis of its collections for the National Shelf-
List Count conducted by the American Library
Association. Compared to the other §6 institutions re-
porting, SIL ranked first in museums, collectors, and
collecting; numismatics; decorative arts; motor vehicles;
and naval ordnance.

June-July

gw Research The Office of Folklife Programs initiated
the Smithsonian Folklife Studies project on
“Muharram,” a worldwide Islamic mourning ritual,
with a research and documentation trip to Trinidad.

June 2-8

mw Endangered Species The National Zoological Park
sponsored a Panda Conservation Workshop in a last-
ditch effort to develop a worldwide strategy to save the
giant panda.

June 3

w Dedication A benefit was held to honor Arthur Ross
and his contribution to restore and renovate the garden
at Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design and to
formally dedicate the garden in his name. Over 300 peo-
ple attended the gala event, which raised more than
$75,000 for Cooper-Hewitt’s general operating funds.

June 4

m Seminar The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies spon-
sored a seminar on the medical, social, and legal issues
surrounding AIDS. The session was videotaped for use
in health education.

June 4

w Preview A preview reception and screening for
Smithsonian World’s “The Doors of Perception” was
held in Baird Auditorium and the Associates Court of
the National Museum of Natural History. The event
was hosted by Sharon P. Rockefeller, president and CEO
of Washington, D.C., public television station WETA,
and Sandra Wentworth Bradley, executive producer of
Smithsonian World. The reception was made possible
through additional support from Eastman Kodak
Company.

June 6

w Cultural Diversity The fourth and final regularly
scheduled meeting of the Ad Hoc African American
Media Advisory Committee was held, completing a pro-
ductive year and a half of discussions berween the Office
of Public Affairs and local and national journalists as
well as Smithsonian staff on how the Smithsonian can
best reach our to the African American community.

June 12

w Exhibition “Awards in the Visual Arts 10,” an annual
exhibition featuring the work of 10 American artists
from 10 regions who have won this prestigious award,
opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den for its first venue of a national tour under the aegis
of the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Arc. An
artists’ forum was made possible by one of the

program's sponsors, BMW of North America, Inc.

25
June 14

@ Grant The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
received a five-year grant of $1.1 million from the John
D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to support
the activities of the new Center for Tropical Forest Sci-
ence.

June 4

@ Broadcast “Cole Porter's 100th Birthday Gala Cele-
bration,” coproduced by Radio Smithsonian and Wash-
ington, D.C., radio station WETA-FM and recorded at
Carnegie Hall, was presented over member stations of
American Public Radio.

June I5

@ Collection Restoration was completed on a Rumley
tractor, owned since 1916 by an Indiana farm family. The
tractor arrived at its new home, the National Museum
of American History, in time to roll onto the National
Mall and entertain visitors at the 1991 Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife.

June 18July 16
@ Public Programs A highlight of the summer educa-
tional programs at Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design was “Ritual and Celebration: African Cultures

in the New World”, a series of four lectures and con-
certs that explored the transference, adaptation, and
transformation of the Yoruba, Bakongo, and Ejagham-
Abakua civilizations to the Americas as a result of the
African slave trade.

June 19

w Special Event The Office of Development held a
donor cultivation event cooperatively with the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery in conjunction with the exhibition

“Court Arts of Indonesia.”

June 19

a Planning The Office of Design and Construction se-
lected an architect/engineer firm to develop a master
plan for research, educational, and support facilities at
the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center in

Edgewater, Maryland.
26

June 20-22

@ Conference The Woodrow Wilson Center held the
fifth in a series of conferences with the Atlantik-Brucke
of Bonn at Cape Elizabeth, Maine. “Europe and the
United States in the Post-Cold War Era” included ses-
sions on domestic political developments in Germany
and the United States; che German-American relation-
ship after the Gulf War; the break-up of the Soviet em-
pire and its implications for the Atlantic Community;
and new economic demands on Germany and the
United States.

June 22

w Public Program More than 2,000 people attended the
Anacostia Museum's celebration, “Juneteenth '91: Free-
dom Revisited,” part of the annual observance of the
emancipation of slaves in Texas in 1865. The holiday has
evolved into a major summer commemoration of Afri-
can American culture. More than 75 volunteers from
other bureaus of the Institution and the Washington,
D.C., community assisted the staff in program planning
and implementation. African dance, traditional and con-
temporary music, craft demonstrations, and a market-
place all attracted attention.

June 22

w Exhibition The Anacostia Museum opened a major
photographic exhibition, “Kaleidoscope: African Ameri-
can Photography in Washington.” The 100 works by 35
local photographers provided a spectrum of photo-
graphic expression. The exhibition was curated by
Maricia Battle, assistant curator of photography, Na-
tional Museum of American Art. In conjunction with
the exhibition, a meeting of Exposures, the African
American photographers’ group, was held at the mu-
seum on August 5.

June 25

@ Conference The Office of Museum Programs hosted
“Purse Strings,” a national conference on marketing and
development for museums.

June 25

@ Public Program “An Evening with Gordon Parks,”
the latest of the National Portrait Gallery's popular self-

portrait series, took place. Parks, a pioneer of contempo-
rary photojournalism, was interviewed by Marc Pachter.
A celebrated author, filmmaker, and composer, Parks re-
ceived the National Medal of Arts from President
Reagan in 1988.

June 25

m Conference The Office of Museum Programs held a
collections care conference in San Jose, Costa Rica, in
collaboration with United States Information Agency

and the Council for International Exchange of Scholars.

June 25

@ Tribute Secretary Robert McC. Adams presided at a
reception in honor of Freer Gallery of Art benefactor
Prof. Ikuo Hirayama of Tokyo in the renovated Freer
Gallery of Art courtyard. The tribute was given in grati-
tude for Hirayama’s major role in arranging a gift of
$1.5 million toward the reinstallation of the Freer collec-
tion following the gallery’s renovation. The celebrated
Japanese artist, who is also president of the National
University of Fine Arts and Music, Tokyo, was the
major donor in a consortium he organized. The group
also included the Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. and the
Nomura Cultural Foundation.

June 25-September 20

w Exhibition “Blanche Lazzell: A Modernist Rediscov-
ered” was on view at the New York Regional Center of
the Archives of American Art. The exhibition was
curated by Nancy Malloy and Dominic Madormo and
was accompanied by a small catalog.

June 26-28

w Workshop A new Conservation Analytical Laboratory
workshop, “Modern Artists’ Materials and Their Conser-
vation Implications,” included 11 lecturers and attracted

21 participants from throughout the United States and
Canada.

June 28—July 7

w Folklife Festival The 25th annual Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife, produced by the Office of Folklife Pro-
grams, featured programs on “Roots of Rhythm and
Blues: The Robert Johnson Era,” “Family Farming in
the Heartland,” “Forest, Field, and Sea: Folklife in Indo-

nesia,” and the Columbus Quincentenary program,
“Land in Native American Cultures.”

July

@ Conference The second Natural Science Institute for
Teachers of Minority Students, organized by the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History's education specialist
Carmel Ervin, was held for elementary and secondary
school teachers in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan
area. This year's institute included a component for
teachers interested in geology.

July

w Cultural Diversity The Office of Public Affairs parcic-
ipated in the Washington, D.C., Latin American Festi-
val with a paid ad in the brochure/program and a
two-page story on an exhibition then installed in the
Smithsonian Experimental Gallery of works by Chicana
artist Judy Baca.

July

w Broadcast “Speakers Corner,” hosted by Roger
Mudd, debuted on public radio stations nationwide.
This weekly series of lectures and discussions on the
arts and humanities, the sciences, politics, and public
affairs is a coproduction of the William Benton Broad-
cast Project of the University of Chicago and Radio
Smithsonian.

July

@ Quincentenary The Office of Telecommunications
completed production of “Montserrat” and “Crow Fair,”
two videos for the exhibition “Seeds of Change” at the
National Museum of Natural History.

July

@ Automated Circulation The Smithsonian Institution
Libraries issued borrowers’ cards to its users when it
implemented the automated circulation module of
the online system at the Botany Branch and the
Mollusks Library of the National Museum of
Natural History Branch. Borrowers’ cards are also
being used with automated circulation support at
nine other SIL branches. SIL circulates some 50,000
items annually.

27
July

@ Toxr A members’ art tour, “A Splash of Sunshine in
Santa Fe,” was organized by the Midwest Regional Cen-
ter of the Archives of American Art.

July

w@ Publication A Smithsonian Snapshot, a concise booklet
of facts about the Institution, and Building a Case for Re-
gional Support: Smithsonian Services to the Nation 1988-
1992, a state-by-state synopsis of institutional activity
across the country, were published by the Office of
Development.

July

@ Cultural Diversity The Office of the Assistant Secre-
tary for Public Service assisted the Office of Fellowships
and Grants in developing programs to support outreach
for minority fellowships and internships.

July

@ Volunteers The Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center reinstituted publication of Info Special,
a newsletter for volunteer information specialists.

July

@ Volunteers The Visitor Information and Associates’

Reception Center created volunteer emeritus status for
volunteer information specialists who retire after 15 or

more years of service.

July

@ Special Event The Office of the Assistant Secretary
for External Affairs hosted a reception and dinner for
the President's Commission on Environmental Quality.

July

w Publication The Anacostia Museum published a re-
vised edition of “A Walk Through Old Anacostia,” a
publication that introduces young readers to historically
and culturally significant sites as well as community re-
sources in the Anacostia Historic District and the
greater Anacostia community. Publication was made
possible through partial funding from the Smithsonian
Women's Committee.

28

July

@ Grant
bition Service received a $465,000 grant from the Lila
Wallace—Reader's Digest Fund for “Beyond Category:
The Musical Genius of Duke Ellington,” an exhibition
and related programs being developed with the Na-
tional Museum of American History.

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi-

July

w Renovation Construction documents were completed
for the renovation of the Old U.S. Custom House in
New York City, which will house the George Gustav
Heye Center of the National Museum of the American
Indian.

July-August

w Public Programs “SuperSummer” activities at the Na-
tional Zoological Park featured experimental interactive
education programs including techniques such as street
theater.

July 1

= Grants Ten Research Resources awards were an-
nounced by the Office of Fellowships and Grants.

July 1

w Broadcast Vice-President Dan Quayle participated in
a live radio program broadcast over a midwestern sta-
tion from the “Family Farming in the Heartland” pro-
gram at the Festival of American Folklife.

July &-12

uw Workshop The National Science Resources Center
conducted its annual Elementary Science Leadership In-
stitute. Teams of teachers, science supervisors, school ad-
ministrators, scientists, and business and industry
representatives from 16 school districts across the coun-
try participated in workshops and discussions on how to
implement improvements in their elementary science
programs.

July 9-Fall

w Exhibition For “A Bridge to Learning,” an exhibition
in the garden of Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design, New York City junior high school students
began constructing a 36-foot model of a suspension
bridge. The bridge was finished July 26 and remained
on view through the fall.

July 10
a Grant The National Museum of American History
received a $1 million gift from the Occidental Chemical
Corporation to work with teachers in secondary schools
and colleges to develop a national prototype model and
curriculum materials for science education at the
middle-school level.

July 11

m Research On the day of the total solar eclipse, a
rocket-borne x-ray telescope developed by the Smithson-
ian Astrophysical Observatory and IBM gathered data
that will help create a three-dimensional model of the
solar corona linking density and temperature variations
with structure in the sun’s extended atmosphere. A sec-
ond, ground-based, Smithsonian experiment the same
day produced infrared images of the solar corona.

July 15

ag Facility Design The Office of Design and Construc-
tion selected an architect/engineer firm to design a new
seven-story building in the East Court of the National
Museum of Natural History.

July 15-26, July 28-August 9

m Expedition During the Smithsonian National Associate
Program's Research Expedition “PaleoIndians and Large
Mammals,” Associates helped scientists in the discovery of
footprints in Saltville, Virginia, of a prehistoric giant
ground sloth, only the second set of such prints found.

July 19-24

m Public Programs The Smithsonian National Associate
Program's U.S. & International Events Division held a
highly successful series in San Diego, the fifth Smithson-
ian series of events in that city. Lt. Gen. Benjamin O.
Davis, Jr., the first black graduate of West Point in this
century and author of the Smithsonian Institution Press
book Benjamin O. Davis, Jr.: American, was a featured

speaker.

July 30

w Buildings and Grounds The Office of Horticulture
hired an entomologist to identify plant pest problems
and suggest alternatives to environmentally harmful
chemicals. The installation of a centrally controlled irri-
gation system throughout the Smithsonian will meet de-
mands for cost savings and conservation of human and
natural resources.

July 31

mw Milestone Attendance at the National Museum of
American Art for the first half of 1991 showed a dra-
matic 60 percent increase over the same period in 1990
due to efforts to expand the visibility of the museum.

August

w Exhibition Thirty-two Native American selectors
completed object selection for “Points of View,” the
major inaugural exhibition for the George Gustav Heye
Center of the National Museum of the American Indian
in New York City.

August

m Publication Long-Term Assessment of the Oil Spill at
Bahia Las Minas, Panama: Interim Report summarized
the first three years of a five-year study on the effects of
a major oil spill near the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Inscicute’s Galeta field station in Panama.

August

@ Publication Smithsonian Institution Press published
The Presidents, by National Portrait Gallery historian
Fred Voss. The book offers biographical information
and related facts on all the United States presidents in-
cluding George Bush.

August

w Acquisition The Anacostia Museum acquired more
than 300 objects reflecting the life of Ethel Payne, an in-
ternationally known journalist who wrote for the Ch:-
cago Defender and the Washington Afro-American
newspapers. She was also involved in a number of politi-
cal and women’s organizations.

29
August

@ Collection Laan A set of John James Audubon’s four-
volume Birds of America, his Viviparous Quadrupeds of
North America (the complete 155 color lithographs), and
manuscript materials are on long-term loan to the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries from the National Au-
dubon Society. These materials, appraised at nearly $3
million, are housed in the Dibner Library.

August

w Milestone For the first time in the 40-year history of
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice, federal funds will allow SITES to offer exhibitions
at substantially lower fees, thus enabling more people
nationwide the opportunity to experience the full range
of Smithsonian programs.

Axgust 3-4

A team of National Museum of Ameri-
can History archivists and curators traveled to New
York City to receive the gift of music manuscripts, pho-
tographs, recordings, business records, and other memo-
rabilia of Edward Kennedy “Duke” Ellington, presented
by the composer's sister, Ruth Kennedy Boatwright.
With this gift, che museum's Duke Ellington Collection
became the world's largest repository of Ellington

@ Acquisition

materials.
August 9

w Special Project At the National Zoological Park, art-
ists from the Latin American Youth Center in Washing-
ton, D.C., completed an Amazonia Wildlife Mural on a
huge concrete wall near parking lor C.

August 9
@ Grant

received a planning grant from the Smithsonian Special
Exhibition Fund to establish an exhibition and public

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

education program on marine resources in Panama. The
exhibition will be located on Culebra Island near STRI's
Naos Island Laboratory.

August 16

a Grant A gift from the Folger Fund will help the Of-

fice of Horticulture restore the 19th-century cast-iron

30

fountain and fabricate interpretive signs in the Mary L.
Ripley Garden.

August 23

w Expansion and Renovation Staff of the Freer Gallery of
Art completed the four-month relocation and subse-
quent inventory of the gallery's entire collection of ap-
proximately 27,000 objects to a 13,300-square-foot
research and storage facility on the newly excavated
lower level. With completion of the gallery's expansion
and construction on its lower levels, the Department of
Conservation and Scientific Research moved from tem-
porary quarters in the Sackler Gallery, which it had oc-
cupied since 1987, to a new 10,000-square-foot lab at
the Freer. The facility offers expanded and modernized
facilities for art conservation and research on ancient ma-
terials and technology.

September

@ Cultural Diversity National Hispanic Heritage
Month was celebrated by the Smithsonian with con-
certs, lectures, demonstrations, and tours. Highlights
were the keynote address by Luis Cancel, executive di-
rector of the Bronx Museum of the Arts; Fun Fiesta Mu-
sical, an afternoon of festive music and dance at the
National Zoo; and a lecture by Latina astronaut Ellen
Ochoa. A comprehensive publicity campaign organized
by the Office of Public Affairs included newspaper ad-
vertisements in three local Hispanic newspapers, paid
commercials on two Spanish-language radio stations,
and a remote broadcast by radio station WMDO from
the pan-Institution community event held at the Na-
tional Zoo.

September

w Exhibition During fiscal year 1991, the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service circulated 268
exhibitions to 40 states, including the District of Co-
lumbia, and to Canada, Ethiopia, Madagascar,
Mauritius, Rwanda, and Uganda.

September

@ Quincentenary The opening events of the

Smithsonian's Quincentenary commemoration were pro-
moted by the Office of Public Affairs with a broad-scale
campaign. In addition to basic media activities, contacts
with social and food editors resulted in wide coverage of
the opening reception, including an article in the New
York Times. As a result of contacts with the Hispanic
media in the United States and with the correspondents
of the media of Latin America, the Caribbean, Canada,
Portugal, Spain, and Italy, extensive local and interna-
tional coverage of the “Symposium of the Americas”

resulted.
September

w Education The Anacostia Museum's George Wash-
ington Carver Nature Trail opened informally. The trail
provides an opportunity for greater understanding and
appreciation of natural resources in an urban environ-
ment. The development of the trail and an environmen-
tal study kit was assisted by funding from the
Smithsonian Women’s Committee and the Educational
Outreach Program.

September

@ Agreement The National Museum of the American

Indian reached an agreement with New York City and
New York state regarding funding for construction at

the museum's George Gustav Heye Center in the Old

U.S. Custom House in lower Manhattan.

September
@ Cultural Diversity In response to a request by the
Smithsonian Council, the Smithsonian's Cultural Educa-

tion Committee published a status report on “Culrural
Diversity at the Smithsonian.”

September

m Publication The National Science Resources Center
published the second units of hands-on science instruc-
tion for elementary schools in its Science and Technol-
ogy for Children program: The Life Cycle of Butterflies
(grade 2), Experiments with Plants (grade 6), and Magnets
and Motors (grade 6).

September

m Ceremony Jake Swamp, chief of the Wolf Clan of the
Mohawk Nation, conducted a blessing ceremony for the
George Gustav Heye Center of the National Museum of
the American Indian, which will be housed in the Old
U.S. Customs House in New York Ciry.

September 4-7

@ Quincentenary The “Symposium of the Americas,” a
hemisphere-wide overview of cultural identity in the
Americas, was organized by the Office of Quincentenary
Programs and produced by the Office of Conference
Services.

September 6-14

@ International Programs The Smithsonian National As-
sociate Program sponsored events in celebration of the
Festival of Indonesia held in Jakarta, Yogyakarta, and
Bali.

September 15

w Research The Magellan spacecraft began extensive
radar mapping of the surface of Venus from its orbit
around the planer. At the National Air and Space Mu-
seum, scientists Jim Zimbleman and Tom Watters of
the museum's Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
began a study of images of tectonic and volcanic land-
forms provided by the spacecraft. An exhibit in the
museum's Milestones of Flight gallery displays com-
puter-simulated flights over the complex surface re-
vealed by Magellan.

September 15

@ New Facility Construction of the new Costumes, Tex-
tiles, and Fragile Organics Laboratory for the National
Museum of American History's Department of Conser-
vation was completed, providing state-of-the-art facili-
ties to treat the museum's 40,000 costumes and textile
objects and to rehouse paper and three-dimensional
objects.

September 19

@ Special Event The first event launching the Smithson-
ian Benefactor’s Circle, a distinguished recognition soci-
ety for the Institution's top donors, was held in the Arts
and Industries Building rotunda.

September 20-22

@ Meeting The Smithsonian National Board fall meet-
ing held in Washington, D.C., focused on the changing
role of the board, research at the Smithsonian, and

Quincentenary programs.
September 25

@ Exhibition The National Museum of African Art
opened a new permanent exhibition, “The Art of the
Personal Object,” featuring more than 100 ingeniously
conceived utilitarian objects principally from eastern
and southern Africa.

September 26

@ Film Series The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculprure
Garden’s free film series launched its 1991-92 season of
documentaries about artists, independently produced
American and foreign feature films, and shorts—many
in advance of their commercial release in the United
States—as well as animated works for young audiences.

September 30

@ Grant The Office of Horticulture received a grant
from the James Smithson Society that will enable the of-

32

fice to purchase equipment to facilitate cataloging of
the Archives of American Gardens collection onto laser

disc.
September 30

@ Conservation Cleaning was completed of Harmony in
Blue and Gold: The Peacock Room, the celebrated dining
room by James McNeill Whistler that is permanently
installed in the Freer Gallery of Art. In preparation for
the room's public display at the time of the gallery's re-
opening, the Freer's director launched a campaign to ac-
quire appropriate pieces of Chinese blue-and-white
porcelain of the Kangxi period, similar to the wares dis-
played in the room when it was part of the London
townhouse of Whistler's patron, Frederick R. Leyland.
Appendix I

Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards,

and Commissions,

September 30, I99I

Boards, councils, and commissions that serve the Institution as a whole are
listed first. Those that are connected with individual bureaus or offices are
listed in order according to the position of the sponsoring bureau or office

within the organization list on page 4.

Smithsonian Institution
Board of Regents

Hon. William H. Rehnquist, Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States

Hon. J. Danforth Quayle, Vice
President of the United States

Members of The Senate

Hon. Edwin Jacob Garn
Hon. Daniel P. Moynihan
Hon. James R. Sasser

Members of The House of
Representatives

Hon. Joseph M. McDade
Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Hon. Jamie L. Whitten

Citizen Members

Hon. David C. Acheson
Hon. Anne L. Armstrong
Dr. William G. Bowen
Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark
Prof. Ira Michael Heyman
Mr. Samuel C. Johnson
Dr. Homer A. Neal

Hon. R. James Woolsey

Ad Hoc African American
Media Advisory Committee

Ms. Phyllis Crockett
Ms. Marcia Gillespie
Ms. Frances Hardin
Mr. Mark Lloyd

Mc. Barry Murray
Ms. Brenda Otis

Ms. Angela Owens
Ms. Rosetta Robinson
Mr. Clarence Smith

African American
Institutional Advisory
Board

Ms. Mary Schmidc Campbell, Chair
Ms. Joy Ford Austin

Mr. Thomas Battle

Mr. Lerone Bennect

Mr. Donald Bogle

Dr. Elizabeth Broun

Robert B. Burke, Jr. (deceased)
Mrs. Alice Green Burnette
Ms. Peggy Cooper Cafritz
Ms. Linda Earley Chastang
Mr. Spencer R. Crew

Mr. Howard Dodson

Prof. David C. Driskell

Mr. James C. Early

Dr. Rex M. Ellis

Mr. Joel L. Flatow

Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Ms. LaQuietta J. Hardy-Davis
Ms. Alfredceen Harrison
Ms. Terry Holloman

Mr. James L. Hudson

Ms. Chery! L. Johnson

Mr. Roger G. Kennedy

The Honorable John Lewis
Ms. Samella Lewis

Mr. James E. Mayo

Dr. Shirley M. McBay

Mr. A. Bradley Mims

Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon
Ms. Gwendolyn Keita Robinson
Mr. Peter Rutledge

Ms. Ruth O. Selig

Mr. A.B. Spellman

Ms. Nancy D. Suttenfield
Ms. Beverly Swain

Mrs. Carmen Turner

Mr. Cornel West

Mr. W. Richard West, Jr.
Ms. Arlene Williams

Ms. Deborah Willis

Ms. Kristina Zahorik

Asian/Pacific American
Heritage Committee

Ms. Manjula Kumar, Chair

33
Council of Administrative

Service Directors

Mrs. Lorie H. Aceto

Mr. Philip Babcock

Mr. F. William Billingsley
Mr. John Clarke

Mr. Robert Dillman

Ms. Shireen L. Dodson
Mr. William Douglas
Dr. Cynthia Field

Ms. Ardelle G. Foss

Mrs. Margaret C. Gaynor
Mrs. Katherine S. Kirlin
Ms. Cheryl LaBerge

Mr. Michael League

Ms. Marilyn Marton

Ms. Kathryn Meehan
Mr. William W. Moss
Mr. John G. Motheral
Mr. Marc J. Pachter

Mr. Robert P. Perkins
Ms. Judith Petroski

Mr. Peter G. Powers

Mr. Richard Siegle

Dr. Barbara J. Smith

Ms. Barbara Spraggins
Mr. James H. Wallace, Jr.

Council of Bureau
Directors

Dr. Elizabeth Broun, Chair
Mr. Milo Cleveland Beach
Mr. David Correll

Mr. James T. Demetrion
Mr. Alan Fern

Dr. Martin Harwit

Mr. Roger G. Kennedy
Mr. Steven Newsome

Ms. Dianne H. Pilgrim
Dr. Michael H. Robinson
Mr. Ira Rubinoff

Ms. Roberta W. Rubinoff
Dr. Irwin Shapiro

Dr. Frank H. Talbot

Mr. Richard Wattenmaker
Mr. W. Richard West, Jr.
Mrs. Sylvia H. Williams

34

Council of Information

and Education Directors

Ms. Ann P. Bay, Chair
Ms. Francine C. Berkowitz
Mr. Joseph Carper

Ms. Mary E. Case

Mr. James J. Chmelik
Ms. Anna R. Cohn

Mrs. Zahava D. Doering
Mrs. Madeleine Jacobs
Mr. Paul B. Johnson

Mr. Richard Kurin

Ms. Teresa Lamaster

Mr. Douglas M. Lapp
Mr. Felix C. Lowe

Mr. Vincent J. Marcalus
Mr. William W. Moss
Ms. Mary Grace Potter
Mr. Ross B. Simons

Dr. Barbara J. Smith

Ms. Janet W. Solinger
Mr. Lambertus Van Zelst
Mr. Ronald Walker

Mr. James H. Wallace, Jr.

Cultural Education
Committee

Ms. Peggy Cooper Cafritz, Chair
Mr. Luis R. Cancel

Ms. Dorothy B. Gilliam

Mr. Antonio Guernica

Mr. Stewart Kwoh

Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury

Dr. Shirley M. Malcom

Dr. Shirley M. McBay

Ms. Cheryl McClenney-Brooker
Hon. Norman Y. Mineta

Prof. Sidney W. Mintz

Ms. Beatriz Otero

Mrs. Marvin Patterson

Ms. Juanita Tamayo Lott

Ms. Margaret Batchelor White
Ms. Patricia Zell

Latino Working Committee

Ms. Maria Del Rosario Basterra,
Co-Chair

Mr. Dennis Medina, Co-Chair

Ms. Elba Arrocha

Mrs. Margaret A.H. Bertin

Ms. Olivia Cadaval

Ms. Cecilia Carvasal

Dr. Francisco Gomez Dallmeier

Ms. Georgina de Alba

Ms. Irene Zimmerman de la Torre

Ms. Margarita Decierdo

Mr. James C. Early

Ms. Gayle Edmunds

Ms. Evelyn Figueroa

Mr. John W. Franklin

Ms. Denise Freeland

Ms. Gabriela Frings

Ms. Maria Christina Garcia

Ms. Brenda Gause

Ms. Joanne Gigliotti

Ms. Deborah A. Gomez

Ms. Laura Gomez

Dr. Alicia Gonzalez

Ms. Carol Gover

Ms. Celia Heil

Ms. Betty Sue Hertz

Ms. Manjula Kumar

Ms. Paulina Lederberger

Mr. David Liston

Mr. and Mrs. Donald S. Lopez

Ms. Olga MacBryde

Mr. Bob Manning

Ms. Kathie McClesky

Mr. Manuel J. Melendez

Ms. Laura Neal

Ms. Susan Nogas

Mr. Rafael Pena

Mr. Roberto Phillips

Mr. Javier Piedra

Ms. Mayda Riopedre

Ms. Doris Rios

Mr. Amador Rivera

Ms. Lyssette J. Rivera-Garcia

Ms. Barbara Schneider

Mr. Luis Tassara

Ms. Carmen Thorndike

Mr. Amparo Torres

Mrs. Carmen Turner

Mr. Ricardo Vargas

Mr. Joe Vasquez

Ms. Lydia Wallick

Mr. Marshall Wong
Quincentenary
Development Board

Mr. Leveo V. Sanchez, Chair
Ms. Aida Alvarez

Mrs. Gloria Bonilla-Santiago
Mr. Jorge Emilio Carnicero
Mr. John V. Connorton, Jr.
Mrs. Robert J. Donner

Mr. William E. Kimberly
Hon. Ignacio E. Lozano, Jr.
Mr. Robert M. McGee

Mr. Gustavo Pupo-Mayo
Mr. Carlos E. Salguero

Mr. Miguel Uria

Mr. Charles Uribe

Mr. Arturo Villar

Smithsonian African
American Association

Executive Committee

Ms. Michelle Carr

Ms. Montrose R. Cones
Mr. John W. Franklin
Mr. Craig A. Reynolds

Smithsonian Institution
Council

Prof. Neil Harris, Chair
Dr. Mary Frances Berry
Mr. Luis R. Cancel

Dr. Johnnetta B. Cole
Dr. Michael A. Dorris
Mr. Martin Friedman
Prof. Paul Fussell

Prof. Robert Garfias
Mr. David R. Gergen
Ms. Dorothy B. Gilliam
Prof. James W. Head III
Prof. John P. Holdren
Dr. Miguel Leon-Portilla
Dr. Shirley M. Malcom
Prof. Robert M. May
Dr. Shirley M. McBay

Ms. Cheryl McClenney-Brooker
Prof. Matthew S. Meselson
Prof. Sidney W. Mintz

Dr. Jaime E. Rodriguez

Dr. Maxine F. Singer

Dr. John Walsh

Dr. Katherine J. Watson

Mr. Thomas G. Wicker

The Smithsonian
Institution Women’s
Council

Ms. Janice Kaplan, Chair
Ms. Kathleen Baxter
Ms. Liz Marie Bettis
Ms. Ann Bissell

Mr. Dwight R. Bowman
Ms. Kathleen Fleming
Ms. Ellen Fluetsch

Ms. Nancy Fuller

Ms. Joanne Gigliotti
Ms. Ann Kaupp

Ms. Beth Lancianese
Ms. Josephine Lensler
Ms. La’Vonda Mosley
Ms. Shoshana Rosenthal
Ms. Katherine Sprague
Ms. Ellen V. Sprouls
Ms. Miriam Weissman
Ms. Zufan Yohannes
Ms. Sara Yorke

Smithsonian Internship
Council

Ms. Dorothy Blaska, Co-Chair
Ms. JoAnn Hinkel, Co-Chair
Ms. Victoria Avera

Ms. Myra Banks

Mr. Arthur J. Breton

Dr. Claudine Brown

Mrs. Linda Chick

Mrs. Patricia Chieffo

Mr. Colin Murray

Ms. Ginny Cornett

Mr. William E. Cox

Mr. Zdenek V. David

Ms. Georgina de Alba

Mrs. Elizabeth Beuck Derbyshire
Ms. Mary W. Dyer

Ms. Heather Ewing

Mrs. Zora M. Felton

Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Ms. Carol Grover

Ms. Carolyn G. Harper
Mes. Ruch Hill

Mrs. Judith H. Houston
Mr. Harry Jackson

Ms. Veronika o. Jenke

Ms. Teresa Johnson

Mrs. Eileen Jones

Mr. Peter Kibbee

Ms. Betty J. Lathern

Mr. Edward P. Lawson

Dr. Thomas E. Lowderbaugh
Ms. Eleanor McMillan

Mr. John Meehan

Ms. Carolyn Mills

Ms. Susan Mond

Mr. Bruce Morrison

Ms. Lauranne C. Nash

Mr. Stephen Ostrander

Ms. Lucia Pierce

Mr. Alan Postlewaite

Ms. Arlene Reiniger

Mr. Argelis Roman

Mr. John C. Rumm

Ms. Barbara Russell

Ms. Bernadette Schadewald
Mrs. Magdalene C. Schremp
Ms. Lisa M. Stevenson

Mr. Theodore Taranovski
Mr. William G. Tompkins
Dr. Wilcomb E. Washburn
Ms. Esther Washington
Ms. Betty J. Wingfield

Smithsonian Luncheon
Group

Frank N. Ikard, Chair (deceased)
Mrs. Tyler Abell

Mr. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. Martin Atlas

Mr. Kenneth H. Bacon

Mr. Albert J. Beveridge III
Hon. Robert O. Blake

Ms. Janet H. Brown

Mr. Winthrop N. Brown
Mr. Louis W. Cabot

Mr. Carroll J. Cavanagh
Hon. John E. Chapoton
Mr. Roger A. Clack

Mr. W. Graham Claycor, Jr.
Mr. Milo G. Coerper

Mr. Kent T. Cushenberry
Mr. J. Edward Day

Mrs. Charles J. DiBona
Mrs. Robert W. Duemling
Mr. LeRoy Eakin III

Mr. George M. Elsey

Mr. Norman Farquhar

Mr. Reed M. Fawell III

Mr. Robert W. Fleming
Mr. Lee Merritt Folger
Hon. Rockwood H. Foster
Mr. David R. Gergen

Hon. Gerard A. Gesell

Mr. John Gibson

Mr. Jackson B. Gilbert

Mr. Philip L. Gore

Mr. Rufus K. Griscom

Mr. Patrick W. Gross

Mr. George W. Grosz

Mr. George E. Hamilton III
Rev. John C. Harper

Mr. John W. Hechinger, Sr.
Mrs. Richard Helms

Mr. Luther H. Hodges, Jr.
Mr. Fisher Howe

Mrs. Paul Ignatius

Mrs. F. W. M. Janney

Mrs. Donald Jeffries

Mr. Freeborn Jewett, Jr.
General P. X. Kelley, USMC Ret.
Hon. Randolph A. Kidder
Hon. Edward G. Lewis

Mr. J. Robert MacNaughton
Mrs. John Macomber

Mr. Martin F. Malarkey, Jr.
Mr. J. T. Martin, Esq.

Hon. George C. McGhee
Monsignor Joseph Joshua Mundell
Mr. Patrick Munroe

Mr. William S. Norman
Mr. Mandell J. Ourisman

Lt. Col. Norman S. Portenoy, USAF Ret.

Hon. S. Dillon Ripley I
Hon. Paul G. Rogers

Mr. John W. Rollins, Jr.
Mr. Christopher S. Sargent
Mr. B. Francis Saul II

Dr. Jayne B. Spain

Mr. Samuel B. Sterrett

36

Mr. Henry M. Strong

Mr. Edward C. Sylvestor, Jr.
Mr. James McK. Symington
Hon. James W. Symington
Mrs. Russell E. Train

Mr. Peter van Roijen

Count Wilhelm Wachtmeister
Mr. Anthony Welters

Mr. George Y. Wheeler, III
Mr. Wesley S. Williams, Jr.
Hon. Edward F. Wilson
Admiral Jerauld Wright

Smithsonian National

Board

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer, Chair

Active Members

Mr. Philip F. Anschutz
Mrs. Robert M. Bass

Mr. George B. Bingham, Jr.
Mr. W. J. Bowen

Mr. Dan W. Burns

Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr.

Mr. Ivan Chermayeft
Mr. Jeffrey A. Cole

Mr. Thomas G. Cousins
Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mr. Peter E. Haas, Sr.
Mr. John M. Harbert III
Mr. Gerald D. Hines
Mr. Frank W. Hoch

Mr. S. Charles Kemp
Mr. Thomas M. Keresey
Mr. Robert V. Lindsay
Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury
Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan
Mr. Antony M. Merck
Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan
Mr. John W. Morrison
Dr. George E. Mueller
Mr. Jack S. Parker

Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker
Dr. Alvin N. Puryear
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
Mr. Leveo V. Sanchez
Mr. Charles W. Schmidt
Dr. Ivan Selin

Mrs. E. Maynard Smith
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman

Mrs. James M. Walton
Mr. John C. Whitehead
Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff

Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

The Honorable Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

The Honorable William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Mr. Seymour H. Knox III

Mr. Lewis A. Lapham

The Honorable George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra D. O'Connor

The Honorable S. Dillon Ripley II
Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

The Honorable Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

Resource Members

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. Thomas M. Keresey

Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan
Mr. Charles W. Schmidt

Steering Committee of the
American Indian Council

Ms. Liz Hill, Presidenc

Ms. Helen Morrill, Treasurer

Mrs. Carol S. Nottingham, Secretary
Mr. Jerry E. Williamson, Vice President
Ms. Pablita T. Abeyta

Ms. Alyce Sadongei

Mr. Robert W. Tenequer

Ms. Marjorie R. Wilkov

Task Force on Cultural
Pluralism

Archie Buffkins, Chair
Mr. James C. Early
Mr. Prosser Gifford
Mr. Roger Mandle

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury, Chair
Mrs. J. Edward Day, Vice-Chair
Mrs. Arthur K. Mason, Secretary
Mrs. Doniphan Carter, Treasurer

Active Members

Mrs. David C. Acheson

Mrs. Martin Atlas

Mrs. James M. Beggs

Mrs. George Bush

Mrs. H. Hollister Cantus
Mrs. Frank B. Clay

Mrs. Brian Collins

Mrs. Thomas B. Cookerly
Mrs. William Gruman Cox
Mrs. Thomas Edward Crocker
Mrs. Fritz Daguillard

Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner

Mrs. Bernard Fensterwald, Jr.
Mrs. William F. Gorog

Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr.

Mrs. Henry L. Heymann
Mrs. Stanford R. Hicks

Mrs. Vernon Wilson Holleman, Jr.
Mrs. Richard C. Hotvedt
Mss. Enid T. Johnson

Mrs. James M. Johnston III
Mrs. G.W. Kauffmann

Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III
Ms. Polly Krieger

Mrs. Keith M. Lindgren
Mrs. William S. Mailliard
Mrs. Alexander M. Maish
Mrs. V. Cretella Mars

Mrs. Lucio A. Noto

Mrs. Horace White Peters
Mrs. John Ely Pflieger

Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Mrs. Thomas Malcolm Price
Mrs. C. Michael Price

Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II

Mrs. Robert Edmund Rogers
Mrs. Robert S. Ross, Jr.

Mrs. William C. Rountree

Mrs. Peter Talbot Russell
Mrs. John A. Sargent

Mrs. Leonard Silverstein
Mrs. Henry P. Smith III
Mrs. Michael P. W. Scone
Mrs. John S. Sullivan

Mrs. Mark Sullivan III
Mrs. Frank H. Talbot

Mrs. Richard L. Thompson
Mrs. Robert D. Van Roijen
Mrs. Robert L. Walsh, Jr.
Mrs. Charles Swan Weber
Mrs. Edwin M. Wheeler
Mrs. Thomas B. Wilner
Mrs. Ellis Wisner

Research

Joint Committee of the
Sponsoring Institutions of

The Papers of Joseph Henry

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Dr. Herbert Friedman

Dr. Charles Gillispie

Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann

Mr. David J. E. Saumweber
Dr. Frederick Seitz

National Zoological Park
Resource Council

Dr. David Challinor, Chair

Council Members

Mr. Peter C. Andrews

Mr. Robert Bartlect

Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark
Mr. George A. Didden III
Mrs. Robert J. Donner

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg
Ms. Laura Howell

Mrs. Withrow Weir Meeker
Mr. Richard Norman

The Honorable S. Dillon Ripley II
Mr. Jeffrey R. Short, Jr.

Mr. Henry M. Strong

Friends of the National
Zoo (FONZ) Board of
Drectors

Mr. Richard D. Buckner, President
Mr. Peter C. Andrews

Mr. William H. Berman
Mr. Montgomery S. Bradley
Mr. William C. Bryant
Mrs. Josephine Burman

Ms. Miriam Carmack

Mr. George A. Didden III
Mr. Timothy A. Dillon
Mrs. Rockwood H. Foster
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Frazier
Mr. Thomas H. Goss

Mr. William D. Hawkins III
Mr. Patrick Healy ITI

Dr. Stephen T. Hosmer

Mr. Mitchell A. Johnson
Ms. Suzanne Mink

Dr. Roscoe M. Moore, Jr.
Mr. Robert L. Nelson

Mrs. Ine N. Noe

Hon. Robert A. Peck

Ms. Anne Shultz

Dr. Ross B. Simons

Mr. Kenneth Sparks

Mr. Lee Sutherland

Smithsonian Institution
Archives and Special
Collections Council

Mr. William W. Moss, Chair
Mrs. Rachel M. Allen

Mr. James B. Byers

Ms. Mary E. Case

Ms. Cecilia A. Chin

Ms. Susan Ewing

Mr. John A. Fleckner

Mr. Christraud Geary

Mr. James R. Glenn

Mrs. Susan Gurney

Mr. Robert Harding

Ms. Colleen A. Hennessey

37
Ms. Judith L. Luskey
Mr. William L. Merrill
Dr. Lillian B. Miller

Mr. C. Jeffrey Place

Mr. Marc Rothenberg
Ms. Wendy Shay

Mr. Ross B. Simons

Dr. Barbara J. Smith
Mr. Thomas F. Soapes
Ms. Linda A. Thrift

Mr. James H. Wallace, Jr.
Ms. Courtney Wilkerson
Dr. Judith K. Zilczer

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries Users Advisory
Committee

Dr. Barbara J. Smith, Chair

Ms. Nancy L. Matthews, SI Liaison
Mr. Spencer R. Crew

Ms. Betsy Eisendrath

Mr. Frank Ferrari

Ms. Sally Maran

Dr. Arthur P. Molella

Mr. Victor G. Springer

Museums

Experimental Gallery
Advisory Committee

Dr. Amalia Mesa Bains
Dr. Claudine Brown

Ms. Kimberly Camp

Ms. Amina Dickerson
Ms. Elaine Heumann Gurian
Dr. Ivan Karp

Mr. Steven Levine

Ms. Nilda Peraza

Dr. Michael H. Robinson
Mr. James Sims

Mr. Ed Spriggs

Dr. Jeffrey Stewart

Dr. George Tressel

Mr. Shawn Wong

38

Anacostia Museum
Board of Trustees

Mrs. Cecelia Matthews, Chair
Mrs. Helen Allen

Mr. Stanley Anderson
Mr. Grover Bulluck
Ms. Irene Carter

Mrs. Marie Dale

Mrs. Alice B. Finlayson
Mrs. Iris Harris

Mrs. Concha Johnson
Mr. Alton Jones

Mrs. Theresa Jones
Mrs. Della Lowery

Mr. David Lyons

Mrs. Caryl Marsh

Mrs. Alenitha J. Qualls
Mrs. Edith Shephard

Archives of American Art
Board of Trustees

Officers

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman Emeritus

Mr. Richard J. Schwartz, President
Mrs. Keith S. Wellin, Vice President
Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President
Hon. Max N. Berry, Vice President
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Secretary
Mrs. Abbort K. Schlain, Treasurer

Members

Dr. Charles Blitzer

Mr. Eli Broad

Mr. Gerald Buck

Ms. Gabriella De Ferrari
Mrs. Francis de Marneffe
Mr. Gilbert S. Edelson
Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun
Mrs. Arthur A. Feder
Mr. Miles Q. Fiterman
Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Mrs. Eugenio Garza Laguerra
Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr.

Mr. John K. Howat

Dr. Helen I. Jessup

Mr. Maurice H. Katz

Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall
Mr. Alan D. Levy

Mr. Meredith J. Long

Mr. Richard Manney

Mr. Richard A. Manoogian
Miss Julienne M. Michel
Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin
Mrs. Richard Roob

Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.
Mr. Alan E. Schwartz

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman
Mr. R. Frederick Woolworth

Honorary Trustees

Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton
Mr. Howard W. Lipman
Mr. J. Russell Lynes (deceased)
Mrs. Bertha Richards

Founding Trustees

Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman

Ex Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Dr. Milton Brown

Archives of American Art
Advisory Committees

New England Regional Center

Mr. Harley P. Holden, Chair
Ms. Georgia Barnhill

Mr. David S. Brooke

Ms. Theresa Cederholm
Mr. Wolfgang Freitag
Mr. Edmund B. Gaither
Mr. Hugh Gourley

Mr. Elton W. Hall

Ms. Patricia Hills

Mr. Sinclair Hitchings
Ms. Elizabeth Kornhauser
Mr. William Lipke

Ms. Laura Luckey

Mr. Paul Master-Karnik
Ms. Eva Mosely

Mr. James M. O'Gorman
Mr. James M. O'Toole

Mr. Elliot Offner

Mr. Ronald Onorato

Mr. Stephen Riley

Mr. Daniel Rosenfeld

Mr. Theodore Stebbins

Ms. Susan Strickler

Mr. Michael Wentworth

Ms. Margaret Craver C. Withers

New York Regional Center

Dr. Milton W. Brown, Chair
Mr. William Agee

Mr. Thomas M. Armstrong III
Mrs. Ruth Bowman

Ms. Anne d’ Harnoncourt
Mr. John Dobkin

Ms. Linda S. Ferber

Mr. William H. Gerdts

Mr. Eugene Goossen

Mr. John K. Howat

Mr. James Humphry III
Mr. Abram Lerner

J. Russell Lynes (deceased)
Mr. Porter A. McCray

Prof. Barbara Novak

Mr. Clive Phillpot

Dr. Jules D. Prown

Mr. William Walker

Ms. H. Barbara Weinberg
Mr. John Wilmerding

Mr. William E. Woolfenden

Southeast Regional Center

Mr. Marc J. Pachter, Chair
Hon. Max N. Berry
Dr. Elizabeth Broun
Ms. Lorraine Brown
Mr. Paul Chestnut
Mr. Nicolai Cikovsky
Mr. Alan Fern

Ms. Lois Fink

Mr. William I. Homer
Dr. Helen I. Jessup
Mr. Bernard Mergen
Mr. John Vlach

Dr. Judith K. Zilczer

Southern California Regional Center

Mr. Henry Hopkins, Chair
Mrs. Ruth Bowman
Mr. Charles Desmarais

Mr. Bram Dijkstra

Ms. Beatrice Farwell

Ms. Noriko Fujinami

Ms. Constance Glenn

Ms. Josine Ianco-Starrels
Mr. Christopher Knight
Mr. Richard Koshalek

Ms. Susan Larsen-Martin
Ms. Lizzetta LeFalle-Collins
Ms. Amy Meyers

Ms. Marguerita Nieto

Mr. Edward Nygren

Mr. Earl A. Powell III

Mr. Michael Quick

Mr. Richard Candida Smith
Mr. Maurice Tuchman
Prof. Cecile Whiting

West Coast Regional Center

Dr. Whitney Chadwick, Chair

Mr. Roger Birt

Mr. Gerald D. Bolas
Dr. Herschel Chipp

Dr. Wanda M. Corn
Dr. John Dillenberger
Dr. Charles C. Eldredge
Dr. Albert Elsen

Mr. Harvey Jones

Dr. John R. Lane

Ms. Connie Lewallen
Dr. Margaretta Lovell
Dr. Harry S. Parker III
Dr. Moira Roth

Dr. Peter Selz

Mr. Marc Simpson

Mr. Patterson Sims

Mr. Donald Stover

Mr. Richard West

Mr. Ian McKibbin White

Arthur M. Sackler
Visiting Committee

Dr. Charles Blitzer, Chair
Mrs. Cynthia Helms

Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan
Mr. Porter A. McCray

Mr. Henry Millon

Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Dr. Edith Porada

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu
Mr. Michael R. Sonnenreich

Freer Visiting Committee

Mrs. Jackson Burke, Chair
Mr. Willard G. Clark
Prof. Marvin Eisenberg
Mr. John Gilmore Ford
Mrs. Katharine Graham
Mr. Joseph E. Hotung
Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney
Dr. Sherman Lee

Mr. Porter A. McCray
Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Prof. Frederick W. Mote
Mrs. Daniel P. Moynihan
Prof. Martin Powers

Prof. John M. Rosenfield
Dr. Priscilla Soucek

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design Board
of Trustees

Mr. Donald Bruckmann, Chair
Mrs. Marietta Tree, Vice-Chair
(deceased)

Members

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd
Mrs. Joan K. Davidson
Ms. Joanne F. du Pont

Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Mr. Harmon H. Goldstone
Mr. August Heckscher

Mr. Kenneth Miller

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. Robert Sarnoff

Honorary Member

Mr. J. Russell Lynes (deceased)

Ex Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams

39
Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden Board of

Trustees

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Edward R. Broida

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T. Buck, Jr.
Ms. Peggy C. Davis

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

Ms. Agnes S. Gund

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Mr. Sydney Lewis

Hon. William H. Rehnquist
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rosenblum

National Air and Space
Museum Advisory Board

Mr. Theodore C. Barreaux

Lt. Gen. August M. Cianciolo
Vice Adm. Martin H. Daniell
Vice Adm. Richard F. Dunleavy
Mr. Barry L. Harris

Mr. Samuel W. Keller

General Merrill A. McPeak

Mr. Peter F. Schabarum

Mr. James Thompson

Lt. Gen. Duane A. Wills

Research Advisory Committee

Dr. Lew Allen

Prof. Henry Bauer

Dr. Robin Brett

Dr. Herbert Friedman
Admiral Noel Gayler
Prof. James R. Hansen
Prof. Otto Mayer

Prof. John Morrow
Prof. Alex Roland

Ms. Helen W. Samuels
Prof. Joseph Veverka
Ms. Joan Warnow

Collections Management Advisory
Committee

Mr. Don Cumberland
Mr. Jack Hilliard

40

Dr. Richard Kohn

Ms. Marie C. Malaro
Mr. Ed McKellar

Mr. Dennis Parks

Ms. Helen W. Samuels
Mr. Alfred J. Shortt
Ms. Joan Warnow

Public Programming Advisory
Committee

Dr. Hans O. Andersen

General Benjamin O. Davis, USAF Ret.

Mr. Thomas Hoving

Ms. Linda M. Johnson

Mr. Louis R. Purnell

Mr. Harold K. Skramstad, Jr.
Mr. Michael Spock

Dr. Sondra Gayle Stein, Ph.D.
Ms. Marie Tibor

Dr. Mitchell Waldrop

National Museum of
African Art Commission

Mr. Robert H. Nooter, Chair

Mrs. Frances Humphrey Howard,
Vice-Chair

Mr. James L. Hudson, Vice-Chair

Mr. Charles B. Benenson

Hon. John Conyers, Jr.

Prof. David C. Driskell

Mr. John A. Friede

Mrs. Helen Kuhn

Mr. Brian S. Leyden

Dr. Michael L. Lomax

Mr. Robin B. Martin

Hon. Frank E. Moss

Mrs. Frieda Rosenthal

Prof. Robert Farris Thompson

Hon. Walter E. Washington

Ex Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim

National Museum of
American Art Commission

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Chair
Mr. Ronald D. Abramson, Vice-Chair

Members

Mr. Norman Bernstein
Mr. Frederick Brown
Mr. Wendell K. Castle
Mr. Edwin I. Colodny
Dr. Wanda M. Corn

Mr. Thomas G. Cousins
Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth
Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Dr. Phillip Frosc

Mrs. Johnson Garrett
Mr. Jacob Lawrence

Mr. Melvin Lenkin

Mr. Jacques E. Lennon
Mr. Owen M. Lopez
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Charles Parkhurst
Mr. Frank K. Ribelin
Mr. Richard J. Schwartz

Ex Officio Members

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Mr. James T. Demetrion

Emeritus Members

Mr. Walker Hancock
Mr. Charles Sawyer

Center for Advertising
History Board

Mr. Herbert Baum

Mr. Howard Bell

Mr. Earle Palmer Brown
Ms. Carolyn Carter

Mr. S. Watson Dunn
Mr. Amil Gargano

Mr. Roy Grace

Mr. DeWitt Helm

Ms. Caroline Jones

Mr. Alexander S. Kroll
Mr. Joseph Landy
Mr. Hilary Lipsitz
Mr. Rass L. Love
Mr. Norman Muse
Mr. William O'Barr
Mr. John E. O'Toole
Mr. Jerry Siano

National Postal Museum
Coordinating Committee

Mr. Anthony M. Frank
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Mr. Roger G. Kennedy
Mr. Gordon C. Morison
Mr. Robert Setrakian

Ms. Nancy D. Suttenfield

National Museum of the
American Indian Board of
Trustees

Mr. Alvin M. Josephy, Jr., Chair
Mr. Vine Deloria, Jr., Vice-Chair
Dr. Ernest L. Boyer

Hon. Barber B. Conable, Jr.

Ms. Suzan Shown Harjo

Dr. Norbert S. Hill, Jr.

Dr. Frederick E. Hoxie

Hon. Daniel K. Inouye

Dr. Jennie Joe

Mrs. Julie Johnson Kidd

Dr. Clara Sue Kidwell

Dr. N. Scott Momaday

Mr. Curt Muser

Mr. Waldemar A. Nielsen

Ms. Janine Pease-Windy Boy
Mr. David Rockefeller

Dr. Helen M. Scheirbeck

Dr. David Hurst Thomas

Hon. Thomas R. White

Dr. Rosita Worl

National Museum of
Natural History National
Council

Mr. Robert H. Maloct, Chair
Mr. Henry Loomis, Vice-Chair
Ms. Juanita P. Baranco

Mr. Xuan Chi Diep

Dr. Paul R. Ehrlich

Mr. John S. Hendricks

Mr. David M. Hicks

Mrs. Jean Lane

Mr. John C. Meeker

Mr. Jeffrey W. Meyer

Dr. Homer A. Neal

Dr. David R. Pilbeam

Hon. S. Dillon Ripley II

Mr. Ambassador Nicolas M. Salgo
Mr. Donald M. Simmons
Dr. James W. Valentine

Dr. Warren H. Wagner, Jr.
Dr. David B. Wake

Mr. Milton H. Ward

Mr. Ronald H. Winston

Dr. E-an Zen

Ex-Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Dr. Frank H. Talbot

National Portrait Gallery
Commission

Mrs. Jeannine Clark, Chair
Mr. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. Stephen Jay Gould

Ms. Marta Istomin

Prof. David Levering Lewis
Prof. R. W. B. Lewis

Hon. Robert B. Morgan
Prof. Barbara Novak

Dr. Frank Stanton

Ex Officio

Secretary Robert McC. Adams
Mr. J. Carter Brown
Hon. William H. Rehnquist

Public Service

National Science Resources
Center Advisory Board

Dr. David Sheetz, Chair
Dr. Bruce M. Alberts
Dr. Albert Baez

Ms. Ann P. Bay

Ms. DeAnna Banks Beane
Mr. F. Peter Boer

Ms. Martha A. Darling
Dr. Hubert Dyasi

Dr. James Ebert

Mr. Douglas E. Evelyn
Mr. Samuel Fuller

Mr. Charles Hardy

Dr. Martin Harwic

Dr. Robert M. Hazen
Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann
Ms. Ann Kahn

Mr. Manert Kennedy
Ms. Sarah Lindsey

Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy
Ms. Phyllis Marcuccio
Dr. Lynn Margulis

Mr. William McCune, Jr.
Dr. Philip Morrison
Ms. Phylis Morrison
Dr. Philip Needleman
Dr. Jerome Pine

Dr. Frank Press

Dr. Wayne Ransom

Dr. Peter Raven

Ms. Lynn Strieb

Dr. Melvin Webb

Ms. Karen Worth

Ex Officio Members

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary,
Smithsonian Institution

Mr. James C. Early, Assistant Secretary
for Public Service, Smithsonian
Institution

Mr. Philip Smith, Executive Officer,
National Academy of Sciences

41
Folklife Advisory Council

Prof. Richard Bauman, Chair
Dr. Roger Abrahams

Dr. Henry Glassie

Dr. Rayna Green

Mr. John Langston Gwaltney
Dr. Charlotte Heth

Dr. Adrienne Kaeppler

Dr. Ivan Karp

Dr. Bernice Johnson Reagon

Mr. John Tchen

Dr. Carlos Velez-Ibanez

Folkways Advisory Board

Mr. Michael Asch
Ms. Marilyn Averett
Mr. Ossie Davis

Mr. Mickey Hart
Mr. Rene Lopez

Ms. Carol Robertson
Mr. Pete Seeger

Ms. Toshi Seeger

Affiliated

Organizations

The John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing
Arts Board of Trustees

Honorary Chairmen

Mrs. George Bush

Mrs. Ronald W. Reagan
Mrs. Jimmy Carter

Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Officers

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn, Chair
Mr. James H. Evans, Vice-Chair

42

Hon. Leonard L. Silverstein, Vice-Chair

Mrs. Jean Kennedy Smich, Secretary

Ms. Charlotte A. Woolard, Assistant
Secretary

Mr. King Lowe, Treasurer

Mr. Henry M. Strong, Assistant
Treasurer

Mr. Kenneth M. Kaufman, General
Counsel

Mr. William Becker, Associate Counsel

Members Appointed By The
President Of The United States

Mr. Philip F. Anschutz
Mrs. Bennett Archambault
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Mrs. William Cafritz

Mr. Ralph P. Davidson

Mr. Kenneth M. Duberstein
James. H. Evans

Mrs. Max M. Fisher

Mr. Robert Fryer

Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn
Mr. Lionel Hampton

Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr.
Mrs. Dina Merrill Hartley
Mrs. Helen Joan Holt

Ms. Caroline Rose Hunt
Mrs. Earle M. Jorgensen
Mr. Donald M. Koll

Hon. Melvin R. Laird

Mrs. J. Willard Marrioct, Sr.
Mrs. Abraham A. Ribicoff
Mrs. Joy A. Silverman
Leonard L. Silverstein

Jean Kennedy Smith

Mr. Roger B. Smith

Mr. Dennis Stanfill

Hon. Roger L. Stevens

Mr. Jerry Weintraub

Hon. Charles Z. Wick
James D. Wolfensohn

Members Ex Officio Designated By
Act Of Congress

Hon. Louis W. Sullivan
Hon. Lamar Alexander
Hon. Henry E. Catto, Jr.
Hon. Edward M. Kennedy
Hon. George J. Mitchell
Hon. Mark O. Hatfield
Hon. Joseph M. McDade
Hon. Charles Wilson

Hon. Sidney R. Yates
Hon. Sharon Prate Dixon
Robert McC. Adams

Dr. James H. Billington
Mr. J. Carter Brown
Hon. James M. Ridenour

Founding Chairman

Roger L. Stevens

Honorary Trustees

Hon. Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. John Clifford Folger
Hon. J. William Fulbright
Mrs. Albert D. Lasker

Mrs. Catherine Filene Shouse
Mr. Lewis R. Wasserman
Mr. Lawrence J. Wilker

National Gallery of Art
Board of Trustees

Dr. Franklin D. Murphy, Chair
Mr. Alexander M. Laughlin
Mr. Robert H. Smith

Mr. John R. Stevenson, Esq.
Mrs. Ruth Carter Stevenson

Ex Officio

Hon. William H. Rehnquist, Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States

Hon. James A. Baker III, Secretary of
State

Hon. Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the
Treasury

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

National Gallery of Art
Trustees Council

Mr. John C. Whitehead, Chair
Ms. Lois de Menil, Vice-Chair
Mr. Perry R. Bass
Mr. Robert M. Bass

Mr. Donald M. 'Blinken
Mr. Edward W. Carter
Mr. Carroll J. Cavanagh
Mr. James T. Dyke

Mr. Edward E. Elson

Mr. Robert FE Erburu

Mr. Thomas M. Evans
Mr. John C. Fontaine

Mr. John R. Gaines

Mrs. Jo Ann Ganz

Mrs. Evelyn D. Haas

Mr. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. W. Averell Harriman
Lore Heinemann

Mr. R. L. Ireland III

Mr. George EF Jewett, Jr.
Mrs. Ruth C. Kainen

Mr. Stephen M. Kellen
Mr. Peter Kimmelman
Mr. Richard A. Kirstein
Mr. Leonard A. Lauder
Mrs. Judith W. Laughlin
Mr. Sydney Lewis

Mr. Richard A. Manoogian
Mr. Frederick R. Mayer
Mrs. Louise Mellon

Dr. Franklin D. Murphy
Mr. Raymond D. Nasher
Ms. Diana Prince

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
Mr. James S. Smith

Mr. Benjamin F. Stapleton III
Ms. Eleanor Wood-Prince
Mr. Dian Woodner

Trustees Ex Officio

Hon. William H. Rehnquist, Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States

Hon. James A. Baker III, Secretary of
State

Hon. Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the
Treasury

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary of the
Smithsonian Institution

Reading Is Fundamental,
Inc. Board of Directors

Mrs. Ellior Lee Richardson, Chair
Mrs. Ruth Graves, President

Mr. Edward A. Fox, Vice President
Mr. Samuel B. Ethridge, Secretary
Mrs. Jean Head Sisco, Treasurer

Board of Directors

Ms. Loretta Barrett

Mr. Leo Beebe

Mr. Daniel Burke

Mr. James C. Curvey

Ms. Patricia Diaz Dennis
Mr. Lloyd Derrickson
Mr. Robert S. Diamond
Mr. Charles Harris

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg
Mrs. Kathryn W. Lumley
Dr. Florecta McKenzie
Mr. Edward J. Meade, Jr.
Ms. Lois D. Rice

Mrs. Lynda Johnson Robb
Mr. Arthur H. White

Advisory Council

Mrs. George Bush, Honorary Chair
Mr. Robert McC. Adams
Mc. Arthur Ashe, Jr.

Ms. Letitia Baldridge
Mrs. Evan Bayh

Mrs. Daniel Boorstin

Mr. Jack Brown, Esq.
Mrs. Jessica Oveta Catto
Mr. Charles A. Cumello
Mr. Jimmy Dean

Mr. Robert G. Diforio
Mrs. Barbara J. Easterling
Mr. Edward E. Elson

Mr. Julian T. Euell

Mr. Walter A. Haas, Jr.
Mr. Andrew Heiskell

Mr. Lee Iacocca

Mr. W. Thomas Johnson
Dr. Elizabeth Karnes

Ms. Ann Landers

Ms. Natalie Lang

Ms. Ann R. Leven

Mr. Vincent MacDonnell
Hon. Robert S. McNamara

Dr. Peter P. Muirhead

Mr. Steven S. Reinemund
Mr. Eugene F. Rowan, Esq.
Mrs. Andy Stewart

Mr. Alberto Vitale

Mr. Donald Wilson

Ms. Oprah Winfrey

Woodrow Wilson
International Center for
Scholars Board of Trustees

Mr. William J. Baroody, Jr., Chair
Mr. Dwayne O. Andreas, Vice-Chair
Hon. Lamar Alexander

Mr. J. Burchenal Aulc

Hon. James A. Baker III

Mr. Theodore C. Barreaux

Dr. James H. Billingcon

Hon. Henry E. Catto, Jr.

Mrs. Lynne V. Cheney

Dr. Gertrude Himmelfarb

Mr. Eli Jacobs

Mr. John S. Reed

Mr. William L. Saltonstall

Hon. Louis W. Sullivan

Mr. John H. Sununu

Mr. Robert H. Turtle

Mr. Don W. Wilson

Woodrow Wilson
International Center for
Scholars Council

Mr. Stanley R. Klion, Chair
Mr. Charles F. Barber

Mr. Conrad Cafritz

Mr. Edward W. Carter

Mr. Peter B. Clark

Hon. William T. Coleman, Jr.
Hon. Kenneth Dam

Mr. Michael D. DiGiacomo
Mr. Robert R. Harlin

Hon. William A. Hewitt
Mr. James H. Higgins

Mr. Eric Hotung

Mr. Donald M. Kendall
Mr. Christopher Kennan

43
Mr. Franklin A. Lindsay
Mr. Sol M. Linowitz
Mr. Minoru Makihara
Mr. Plato Malozemoff
Mr. Edwin S. Marks

Mr. C. Peter McColough Mr. Raja W. Sidawi

Ms. Martha T. Muse Mr. Roberc R. Slaughter
Mr. David Packard Mr. S. Bruce Smart, Jr.
Mr. L. Richardson Preyer

Mr. Robert L. Raclin
(‘saista Jo Jaqumu ay UO $913SI38IS 3FeXa UTBIGO 0} ajqissod wr

V1 sayeW ‘saoue33Ua UeIIIsapad pu Je[NIIYaa [wWanas 31 PUB SIIqIYXa JOOpyNo puB JoOpUr si! YItm ‘zed ay3 jo amnaeU Auaa ay) ‘000'0So'f [e302 xe [er!BojooZ PeuoneNy aya 0} syista Jo Jaquinu payBusysy
‘pouad 8urzsodas siya Surznp paso[> sem asy jo Aaayyey 39234 aL

NE

‘Aapeg
Japp2Ug “WW INyY ‘OSV ‘(aj3IseD) Surlpying UorniNsuy UeluOsYyII WS ‘Tg ‘Ja9UaD Aajdry voyig *s ‘Ou f Mayen xrrmuay ‘OY ‘AsoasiP{ fesnaeyy jo whasnyy feuoneny ‘HNWN ‘uapsed amnadjnog pus wnasnyy
UJOYYSIIH ‘OSWH ‘USisaq jo wmasnpy [euoneNY *331map{-Jedooy ‘YD ‘8urpjing saiasnpuy pus sy ‘pey ‘umasnp] Blasco dwUY ‘WY ‘UEIpUy UEDJaWYy 243 jo Wnasny [eUOLIeNY ‘IVWN ‘Goisipq uray jo
umasny JeUoneN ‘HVAWIN ‘ayes aresazog Jeuolyeny pus yyy UB aUTy Jo UMasnW [eUONBN ‘Oq@eVvV ‘wasn aoedg pur sty [buONEN ‘WSWN ‘33V UByy jo wasn [euoneNy ‘VJVIWN ‘suoreiasgqgy

Ss Se SS SS SS 000

€1Z'1z$'tz = gdt'ggb'1 ~— HS ‘ES O'E ggGiZze—  G6Gr'goG't oGg'zSZiz = fhI'Sgg't = ILO‘EQO'T TOI'G$o'r 6IT'988 tLigdt1 = LeU 1v9'T 126‘00$'I ]e10.L
106‘€gz $og‘gt 1th‘67 o9o'lt 6tH'I€ £09‘gt vit‘Lt TOL'TE $66'21 $Z9‘vI TeI'gt 6g6'I7% Logit Sv
1gg‘tot't $6%'6 gor'szi t9L'ggl IIE‘7gl 96L'971 gSh‘otr ££$'S6 £¥6'09 6or'es LiZ‘gL 7g6'68 Lor rit Is
got'ore TET 21661 L9S‘ET 096'bt ¥7RB‘Bz 065'gz geez giZ‘zz ogZ'9$ Lor‘t$ tL6'9£ 167‘ST aN
tor‘Zolr 6Sh'g L1$‘g goz'g 799'8 6%6'g £g5‘6 110'g 09S'Z £F0'6 vES‘6 6y0'IT tHS'6 a
Szz‘Loz'9 §—- 9 9S‘ Hgt Ler‘olg £S£'9S6 $$t'062 €b1'foZ gb6‘gt9 8g9‘'9Sh £6L‘SI1Z $oZ‘Soz 186'¥67 9Gr‘ ter ogo‘ Zit HNWN
g7g‘tBs trro'lg GIO‘TOI th6‘901 g85‘Zg g61't6 S9€‘OoI 66€'S2Z 6g0'S? Sgz‘Ze €gS‘b 601'69 Loz'6$ SSWH
956'€6 $or'Z grb‘Z oS ZZ 6746 ygl'g $Sg‘o1 mZ‘$ 607s 67L'S Lrv‘Z osh‘g 1vo‘o! HD
¥g1'696 610'tZ VIS‘€1I g6g‘Ot! 696‘goI o10'96 £08‘96 gbt'gl TIN6¥ tggZt 062'9$ gos'i9 €¢¢‘Lo [PV
6zt‘ee gs9'z LSS‘E vely ¥g6't g90'T gZo‘t 899'T tov'y £or'z 760'T 10L‘t Fgo'r WV
6gS‘9£ TOUT gI19'€ beS'€ fort OSE'E Gvi't TIg‘€ gzZ'z £6g'7 TEL‘T 9Li't $66'% IVWN
TOL‘EIS'S 766'I1E £ol'I79 g$0'639 gtb'sg9 $26‘L79 tou's¢9 Seesris goo‘Ztz 9¢9'991 760‘90£ Sgo'gs¢ 176‘ESE HYWN
989'1S9 orb‘ + tZ9't9 ggziZZ Sov‘99 off'9g gLi‘Zg gGg'Ir 6Lg‘th E7S‘SE TROBE gstior S99‘gt )deVV
t90'r69'Z  L19‘Los 69T'GFO'T ~—-g EG‘TSO'T 9LS'zZg gv L‘668 LSz‘tbg 6b6'I79 Sog‘git 196‘ ET 9It Gre gshiglt 6FE'Sor WSYN
7L6'96E b19‘St gZ9'Lr 906‘Lb TOM'SE tLi‘ov 19¢‘ov 1i'Z¢ O9t'6t% Sor‘ot QIT'Iz b6g‘Lt 6go'rz VIVWN
[B10], 16 dag 16 8ny 16 [nf 16 unf 16 ke; 16 ady 16 3eyy 16 qaj 16 uel 06 229q 06 AON 06 290

TOOT 40aX [BIST] UL Sat4a]]VL) PUY SULMASHYA] UOLINILISU] UVIUOSYILUUG Of SISTA

z xIpuaddy

45
Appendix 3

Academic, Research Training,
and Internship Appointments
and Research Associates in
Fiscal Year 1991

The first section of this Appendix lists recipients of
fellowships and other appointments awarded to schol-
ars and advanced students under the auspices of the
Office of Fellowships and Grants. Students and mu-
seum professionals who held internships or partici-
pated in special projects administered by the Office
of Museum Programs are listed in the second section.
The third section contains a listing of Smithsonian
Research Associates.

Academic and Research
Training Appointments

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants, research and study appointments to
visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The ap-
pointees are provided access to the Institution's facili-
ties, staff expertise, and reference resources. The persons
listed in this Appendix assumed their appointments be-
tween October I, 1990, and September 30, 1991, and
have been in residence for three months or longer. Pre-
doctoral and Postdoctoral Fellows, Visiting Scientists or
Scholars, and other awardees and participants in special
programs are so listed. Also noted for each fellow or visi-
tor are the institution where each received, or expects to
receive, a degree or the home university or institution; a
brief description of the project undertaken at the
Smithsonian; the name of the Smithsonian advisor; and
dates of residency.

46

Research
National Zoological Park

Robert Davis, Faculty Fellow, Tuskegee Institute. “Embryo
Transfer in Large Exotic Felidae (Cats),” with David Wilde,
from June 1, 1991 to September 30, 1991.

Theodore Grand, Visiting Scientist, Washington, D.C. “Pat-
terns of Muscular Growth in the African Bovidae,” with
Edwin Gould, from October 1, 1990 to March 31, 1992.

Muralidharan Kasinathan, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indian Insti-
tute of Science, India. “Population Genetics of Captive
Asian Elephants,” with Chris Wemmer, from January 1,
1991 to December 31, 1991.

Judith Rhymer, Visiting Scientist, Florida State University.
“Genetic Variation Within and Among Three Neotropical
Migrant Warbler Species,” with Robert Fleischer, from Sep-
tember 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Bridget J. Scutchbury, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University.
“Bright Coloration and Status Signalling in Female War-
blers,” with Eugene Morton, from October 1, 1990 to Sep-
tember 30, 1991.

Cheryl Tarr, Graduate Student Fellow, University of North
Dakota. “Geographic Variation in Mitochondrial DNA in
the Common Amakihi (Hemignathus virens),” with Robert
Fleischer, from June 3, 1991 to August 9, 1991.

Richard H. Wagner, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Ox-
ford, England. “Extra-Pair Copulations and the Evolution
of Coloniality: The Role of Females,” with E.S. Morton,
from May 15, 1991 to May 14, 1992.

Paul Weldon, Research Development Fellow, University of
Tennessee. “Responses by Zoo Predators to Chemicals from
Reptiles,” with Dale Marcellini, from January 1, 1991 to De-
cember 31, 1991.

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Javier Alcolea, Visiting Scientist, Universidad Autonoma de
Madrid, Spain. “Masers in the Envelopes of Late-type
Stars,” with Karl Menten from April 1, 1991 to March 31,
1992.

Maria Victoria Alonso, Visiting Student, Observatorio Nacio-
nal (BRAZIL). “Surface Photometry of Galaxies to Map the
Peculiar Velocity Field in the Equatorial Region,” with
David Latham, from August 14, 1991 to December 15, 1991.

Joaquim Azcon-Bieto, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University
of Barcelona, Spain. “Effects of Atmospheric CO, on Plant
Respiration,” with Bert G. Drake, from June 20, 1991 to
September 20, 1991.

Yehuda Band, Visiting Scientist, Ben-Gurion University.
“Nonlinear optical processes for multimode radiation
fields,” with Alexander Dalgarno, from August I, 1991 to
May 31, 1992.

tion,” with William Forman, from October 22, 1990 to
April 22, 1991.
Zdenek Ceplecha, Visiting Scientist, Czechoslovak Academy

of Sciences. “Atmospheric Fragmentation of Meteroids,”
with Brian Marsden, from July 4, 1991 to April 26, 1991.

P.M. Mathews, Visiting Scientist, University of Madras. “For-
Allan Shi-Chung Cheung, Visiting Scientist, University of

mulation of the Elastogravitational Equations of Motion

for the Earth in the Presence of Dissipation,” with Irwin
Shapiro, from July 21, 1991 to March 30, 1992.

Hong Kong. “Predissociation line widths of the Schumann- —- Vincent McIntyre, Smithsonian Predoctoral Fellow, Univer-

Runge bands of O, molecule,” with W.H. Parkinson, from sity of Wollongong. “Extended Bursts of Star Formations

July 7, 1991 to August 21, 1991. in Irregular and Ring Galaxies,” with John Huchra, from

Robert Danen, SAO Predoctoral Fellow, University of Califor- November 1, 1990 to October 31, 1992.

nia. “Mid-Infrared Imaging of Compact Sources,” with E.
Bloemhof, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Jerry Mitrovica, Visiting Scientist, University of Toronto.
Robert Donahue, SAO Predoctoral Fellow, New Mexico State

“Very-Long-Baseline Interferometry and Earth rheology,”
with James Davis, from March 1, 1991 to September 30,

1991.
Stars,” with Sallie Baliunas, from July 1, 1991 to June 30,
1992.

University. “Differential Rotation in a Sample of Cool

John Morrison, Visiting Scientist, University of Louisville.
“Theoretical Atomic and Molecular Physics,” with A.

Dalgarno, from September 1, 1991 to May 31, 1992.
Herve Partouche, Visiting Student, Ecole Normale Superie-
namics of Galaxies,” with W. Press from September 9, 1991
to September 8, 1993.

John Dubinski, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Toronto.
“Galaxy Formation: Dark Halos and the Formation and Dy-

ure, Paris. “Study of atomic procession millikelvin tempera-
tures beginning with the spin charge in alkali metals,”
Robert Forrey, SAO Predoctoral Fellow, University of Dela- with A. Dalgarno, from January 1, 1991 to June 30, 1991.
ware. “Calculation of Bethe Logarithms” with A. Leandros Perivolaropoulos, Postdoctoral Fellow, Brown Uni-
versity. “Macrophysics of Toplogical Defects,” with G.
Field, from September 1, 1991 to October 31, 1993.

Dalgarno, from September 1, 1991 to February 28, 1992.
Daniel O. Gomez, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Buenos
Aires, Argentina. “Dynamical Processes in the Solar Co-

Vladimir Popov, Visiting Scientist, Insticute for Theoretical
rona,” with Petrus Martens and Leon Golub, from October
I, 1990 to September 30, 1991.

and Experimental Physics, Moscow. “Theoretical Atomic
Jose Gomez, Predoctoral Fellow, Universidad de Granada,

and Molecular Physics,” with Alexander Dalgarno, from
September 24, 1991 to October 23, 1991.

Spain. “Radioastronomy,” with, from October 1, 1990 to

September 30, 1992.

Michael Punch, Predoctoral Fellow, University College,

Belfield. “Application of Transputer-Based Parallel Process-
Mercedes Gomez, Predoctoral Fellow, National University of
Cordoba. “A Proper Motion Survey of Post-T Tauri Stars in

ing in Gamma-Ray Astronomy,” with Trevor Weekes, from
October 1, 1990 to September 30, 1991.

the Taurus-Auriga,” with, from October 1, 1990 to August

31, 1992.

Somak Raychaudhury, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Cambridge. “A Study of the Extragalactic Distance Scale

Shawn Gordon, SAO Predoctoral Fellow, University of New and the Large-scale Distribution of Galaxies in the Uni-

Mexico. “Long-Term Evolution of Supernova Remnants,” verse,” with J. Huchra, from September 17, 1991 to Septem-
with John Raymond, from July 21, 1991 to July 20, 1992. ber 16, 1993.

Saiyid Hasan, Visiting Scientist, Indian Institute of Astro-
physics. “Radiative Transfer in Intense Flux Tubes on the

Sun,” with Wolfgang Kalkofen, from August 1, 1991 to Jan-

Mary Beth Ruskai, Visiting Scientist, University of Lowell.
uary 31, 1992.

“Wavelets in Atomic and Molecular Physics,” with A.
Dalgarno, January 1, 1991 to May 31, 1991.
Dimitar Sasselov, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Toronto.
“Study of Problems in Solar and Stellar Physics,” with Andrea
K. Dupree, from October 1, 1990 to September 30, 1992.
Tony C. Scott, Visiting Scientist, University of Waterloo.
“Using the Polarization Wave Function for Systematically
Calculating the Exchange Energies (due to symmetry) in

Molecular,” with A. Dalgarno, from September 1, 1991 to
August 31, 1992.
Jane Luu, Postdoctoral Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of

Technology. “The Primitive Bodies of the Solar System,”

with Irwin Shapiro, from October 1, 1990 to September 30,
1992.

Roderick Jensen, Visiting Scientist, Yale University. “Quan-
tum Chaos,” with A. Dalgarno, from September 1, 1991 to
December 31, 1991.

Victor H.S. Kwong, Visiting Scientist, University of Nevada.
“Measurement of A-values with the Jon Trap and Laser Fa-

cilities,” with W.H. Parkinson, from August 1, 1991 to Jan-
uary 31, 1992.

T.A.A. Sigut, SAO Predoctoral Fellow, University of Toronto
“Electron Impact Excitation of Mgl and II,” with A.
Dalgarno, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

David Syer, Visiting Student, University of Cambridge. “Srel-
lar Dynamical Aspects of Problems Involving Massive

Black Holes,” with George Field, from September 1, 1991 to
May 31, 1992.

Maxim Markevich, International Exchange Visitor, Space Re-
search Institute. “Fluctuations Lmprinted by Hot Gas in
Clusters of Galaxies on the Cosmic Background Radia-

47
Guogiang Tang, Visiting Scientist, Chalmers University of
Technology, Sweden. “Study of Millisecond Pulsars in
High-Precision Astronomy,” with James Moran, from De-
cember 1, 1990 to March 31, 1991.

Jathindas Tharamel, ITAMP Predoctoral Fellow, University of
New Hampshire. “Theoretical Physics,” with A. Dalgarno,
from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Richard H. Tipping, Visiting Scientist, University of Ala-
bama. “Theoretical Problems in Molecular Spectroscopy,”
with A. Dalgarno, from September 1, 1991 to January 31,
1992.

Han Uitenbroeck, Visiting Student, University of Utrect,
Netherlands. “Computer Modeling Calculations of Spectral
Line Formation in the Solar Atmosphere,” with Eugene
Avrett, from June 1, 1991 to May 31, 1992.

Terry Whitaker, Visiting Student, University of Arizona. “Air
Shower Array and Data Analysis for Gamma Ray Sources,”
with Trevor Weekes, from June 1, 1991 to May 31, 1992.

Zheng Xing-Wu, Visiting Scientist, Nanjing University.
“VLA and VLBI observational programs,” with James
Moran, from July 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991.

Janusz Zielinski, Visiting Scientist, Polish Academy of Sci-
ences, Poland. “Comparison of Mapping methods, Satellite-
to-Satellice Doppler Tracking Technique and Gradiometer,”
with Enrico Lorenzini, from September 1, 1991 to Novem-
ber 30, 1991.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Martin L. Cipollini, Postdoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University.
“Costs of Reproduction, Resource Allocation, and Selective
Abortion in Lindera benzoin,” with Dennis Whigham and
James Lynch, from May 1, 1991 to April 30, 1992.

John R. Dolan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland,
College Park. “Carbon Flux in the Rhode River Estuary:
the Relationship between Metazoan Zooplankton and the
Microbial Loop,” with Charles Gallegos, from August 1,
1991 to July 31, 1992.

Richard Everett, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. “Project 1: An Experimental Study of the Effect of
the Introduced Bivalve Rangia cuneata on the Structure
and Dynamics of an Infaunal Community,” with Gregory
Ruiz, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Daniel Niven, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois. “The
Role of Neighbors in the Habitat Selection of a Neotropi-
cal Avian Migrant,” with James F. Lynch, from May 1, 1991
to April 30, 1992.

Kevin Peters, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. “An
Analysis of Prey-Patch Choices of the Cucumber Rock
Crab, Cancer irroratus,” with Anson Hines, from July 1, 1991
to May 31, 1992.

48

Hanne Rasmussen, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Copenhagen, Denmark. “Importance of Mycorrhiza for
Growth and Reproductive Success of Terrestrial Orchids
with Different Life-History Strategies,” with Dennis
Whigham, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

L. David Smith, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland,
College Park. “Sexual Selection and Mating System of the
Blue Crab, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun,” with Anson Hines,
from February 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991.

Nancy Staub, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. “The Relationship Between Sexual Dimorphism
and Steroid Levels in the Salamander genus Aneides,” with
James Lynch, from April 1, 1991 to August 31, 1991.

Guy Thompson, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cambridge University.
“The Indirect Effects of CO, on Salt Marsh Plant Patho-
gens, Herbivores, and Decomposers,” with Bert Drake,
from July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1992.

Zhigang Wang, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cam-
bridge, England. “Population Ecology of Epifagus virgini-
ana,” with Dennis Whigham, from October 1, 1990 to
September 30, 1991.

Jaques R. White, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Mary-
land, Cambridge. “Seasonal Variability in Trophic Level Ex-
ploitation by Estuarine Zooplankton,” with D. Wayne
Coats, from July 1, 1991 to July 1, 1992.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Mark V. Barrow, Jr., Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard Uni-
versity. “The Social, Instirutional, and Intellectual History
of North American Ornithology, 1880 to 1930,” with Wil-
liam A. Deiss, from June 4, 1991 to August 9, 1991.

Daniel Goldstein, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa.
“The Place of Midwestern Academies of Sciences in the
Natural Scientific Community, 1850-1900,” with Pamela
Henson, from January 4, 1990 to September 30, 1990.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Gregory H. Adler, Postdoctoral Fellow, Boston University.
“Perturbation Analysis of Tropical Rodent Populations,”
with S. Joseph Wright, from October 1, 1990 to March 31,
1992.

Patricia Backwell, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Wirwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa. “Aspects of
Male Spacing and Calling Persistence in Some Neotropical
Anurans,” with A.S. Rand, from April 1, 1991 to April 30,
1992.
Eddar Brunetti, Short Term Fellow, Universidad Simon Boli-
var. “Genetic and Morphological Variation in Tubastre (An-
thozzooa, Scleractinia), from both Sides of the Isthmus of
Panama,” with H. Lessios, E. Bermingham, from October
21, 1990 to January 21, 1991 and from February 5, 1991 to
May 5, 1991.

Mark Bush, STRI Postdoctoral Fellow, Ohio State University.
“Environmental Ecological History of Panama Including
Anthropogenic Influences on Ecosystems,” with Paul Col-
invaux, from September 6, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Justine Cruz, Short-term Fellow, Duke University. “Bird, Bee-
tle, Paca and Plant Interactions on the Small Island of
Gatun Lake,” with Joseph Wright, from September 1, 1991
to November 30, 1991.

Janna Ellingson, Short-term Fellow, University of Texas. “Evo-
lution of Visual Communication in a Diurnal Gecko: Color
and its Role as a Social Signal, with Standly Rand, May 20,
1991 to August I5, 1991.

Manuel Guariguata, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Me-
chanical Damage and the Recruitment of Tree Saplings in a
Tropical Moist Forest,” with Alan P. Smith, from July 1,
1991 to June 30, 1992.

Preston Hardison, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Washington. “Variation in Sex Allocation in the Lantern
Bass Serranus baldwini,” with Ross Robertson, from June 1,
1991 to August 9, 199I.

Edward A. Herre, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa.
“Molecular Phylogenies of New and Old World Figs,
Wasps, and Nematodes,” with E. Bermingham and Donald
Windsor, from May 1, 1991 to April 30, 1991.

Michael Kaspari, Short-term Fellow, University of Arizona.
“Patchiness in Tropical Litter Ants,” with Donald Windsor,
from June 1, 1991 to August 31, 1991.

Juan Laurentino Mate, Short Term Fellow, University of Pan-
ama. “Variations in Zooxanthelen Concentrations of Differ-
ent Species of Hermatypic Corals,” with Dr. H. Lessios,
from October 15, 1990 to January 15, 1991.

Ann Oliver, Short-term Fellow, Duke University. “Hormonal
Control of Social and Reproductive Status in Simultaneous
Hermaphrodites of the Genus Serranus (Perciformes:
Serranidae),” with Ross Robertson, from September 1, 1991
to October 31, 1991.

Yves A. Roisin, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Brussels,
Belgium. “Caste Systems in Neotropical Nasucitermitinae:
Ecology and Evolution,” with Mary Jane Eberhard, from
December 1, 1990 to September 30, 1991.

Kyle Summers, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan.
“The Evolution of Female Parental Care in Dart-Poison
Frogs,” with A. Stanley Rand, from June 15, 1991 to June
14, 1992.

Michael Swaine, Andrew W. Mellon Fellow, University of Ab-
erdeen. “Soil Seed Bank Dynamics,” with Alan Smith, from
January 1, 1991 to December 31, 1993.

Leeanne Tennant, Short-term Fellow, Harvard University. “In-
vestigations of the Effects of Ecological Factors on Faculta-

tive Anc-Plant Murualism,” with Donald Windsor, from
September 16, 1991 to November 20, 1991.

Denise Thorin, Short Term Fellow, Universidad de los Andes,
Columbia. “Growth and Carbon Translocation Under Het-
erogeneous Light Conditions in the Clonal Herb Geaphila
rapens," with Dr. A. Smith, from October 1, 1990 to January
31, 1991.

Ana Cristina Villegas, Short-term Fellow, University of Mis-
souri. “Effects of Water and Light Availability on the
Source Sink Relationship amoung Parental Clone and
Emerging Ramet of Aecmia magdalenae and its Significance
on Establishment,” with Alan Smith, from May 15, 1991 to
August I5, 1991.

Museums
Archives of American Art

Avis Berman, Visiting Scholar, New York, New York. “Whis-
tler and the World of Letters: A Study of James McNeill,”
with Richard Wattenmaker, from July 1, 1991 to March 1,
1992.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Kathleen Ryor, Predoctoral Fellow, New York University.
“The Art of Xu Wei (1521-1593) and Its Place in the His-
tory of Ming Painting,” with Shen C.Y. Fu, from Septem-
ber 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Freer Gallery of Art

Barbara Ventresco, Visiting Scholar, Philadelphia, Pennsylva-
nia. “Technical Examining of Abbott Thayer's Painting’s,”
with Linda Merrill, from November 1, 1990 to December
31, 1992.

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Cathrine Anderson, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Win-
terthur/University of Delaware. “The Care of Architectural
Collections in the National Museum of American History,”

49
with Martin Burke, from October 1, 1990 to September 30,
1991.

Richard Barden, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Scate Uni-
versity of New York at Buffalo. “Desalination of Clazed Ce-
ramics,” with W. Thomas Chase and Paul Jett, from
September 23, 1991 to September 22, 1992.

Martine Barras, Mid-Career Conservation Fellow, Geneva,
Switzerland. “Solvent Effects on Paint Flow, with Emphasis
on the Study of Water Based Soaps and Gels,” with Jia-sun
Tsang, from December 1, 1990 to November 30, 1992.

Petar D. Glumac, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley. “The Raw Materials Basis of Incipient Metal-
lurgy in Prehistoric Southeast Europe,” with James
Blackman, from November 1, 1990 to October 31, 1991.

James Feathers, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Washing-
ton. “Determining Prehistoric Firing Temperatures of Low
Fired Ceramics From Southeast Missouri,” with Pamela
Vandiver, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Mark Fenn, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, University of
Delaware. “Archaeological Conservation” with Carol
Grissom, from September 2, 1991 to September 1, 1992.

Christa Hofmann, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Acad-
emy of Fine Arts, Vienna. “American Conservation Prac-
tices and Ethics,” with Dianne van der Reyden, from
October 15, 1990 to October 14, 1991.

Jessica Johnson, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Institute
of Archaeology, London. “Consolidation of Archaeological
Bone,” with Natalie Firnhaber and Greta Hansen, from Oc-
tober 3, 1991 to September 2, 1992.

Eric Lang, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, University of
Wales, Cardiff. “Space Suits: Effects of Oxidation on the
Crytallization of Rubber,” with Edward McManus, from
September 3, 1991 to September 2, 1992.

Paul Messier, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, State Univer-
sity College at Buffalo. “The Effects of Water on Albumen
Photographs; Washing and Drying of Paper,” with Timo-
thy J. Vitale, from October 1, 1990 to September 30, 1991.

Erike Mosier, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Queen's Uni-
versity, Kingston, Ontario. “Solvent Treatment of Selected
Chromolithographic Papers,” with Dianne van der Reyden,
from September 16, 1991 to September 15, 1992.

Michael O'Malley, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow,
Queen"s University, Kingston, Ontario. “Study of Work by
19th Century American Artist, William Page,” with
Stefano Scafetta and Ann Creager, from October 1, 1990 to
September 30, 1991.

K. Aslihan Yener, Visiting Scientist, Bosphorous University,
Istanbul. “Lead Isotope Analysis of Eastern Mediterranean
Artifacts and Black Sea Ores: Production and Exchenge
3800-1500 B.C.,” with W. Thomas Chase and Edward V.
Sayre, from January 1, 1990 to March 31, 1991.

bie)

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design

James Elliote Benjamin, Peter Krueger-Christie's Fellow, Cor-
nell University. “Don Wallance: The Designer as Industrial
Craftsman,” with David McFadden, from September 1, 1991
to August 31, 1992.

Bruce Hannah, Designer-in-Residence, Chair of Industrial De-
sign, Pratt Insticute. “You Are A Designer” programs for
school audiences were developed with Dorothy Dunn, from
June 1, 1991 to December 30, 1991.

National Air And Space Museum

Yanping Chen, NASM International Fellow, George Washing-
ton University. “History of the Chinese Space Program,”
with Frank Winter, from September 1, 1991 to August 31,
1992.

Michael Dennis, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow, The Johns
Hopkins University. “A Change of State: Technical Practice
and Politics at che MIT Instrumentation Laboratory and
the Johns Hopkins Applied,” with David DeVorkin, from
October 15, 1990 to October 14, 1991.

Deborah Douglas, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsyl-
vania. “Airports and American Urban Development Before
World War II,” with Tom Crouch and Dominick Pisano,
from August I5, 1991 to August 14, 1992.

Alexander P. Drozhilov, NASM International Fellow, USSR
Academy of Sciences. “Genesis and Development of Ameri-
can Supersonic Transport,” with Von Hardesty, from July 1,
1991 to September 30, 1991.

Joann Eisberg, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard
University. “Anglo-American Observers and Theorists and
the Development of Early 2orh Century Stellar Models,”
with David DeVorkin, from October 1, 1990 to September
30, 1991.

Sharon Helsel, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Califor-
nia. “Herman Kahn's Rhetoric of Uncertainty,” with Mar-
tin Collins, from July 1, 1991 to September 6, 1991.

Nick Komons, A. Verville Fellow, Potomac, Maryland. “The
Air Traffic Controllers Strike of 1981," with Thomas
Crouch, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Eric Lang, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, University of
Wales, Cardiff. “Space Suits: Effects of Oxidation on the
Crytallization of Rubber,” with Edward McManus, from
September 3, 1991 to September 2, 1992.

Kathleen Nicoll, Graduate Student Fellow, Bryn Mawr Col-
lege. “Analysis of Inactive Spring Deposits as a Base for
Paleoclimatic Interpretation: Recognition and Location of
Fossil Spring Travertine Using,” with Ted Maxwell, from
June 1, 1991 to August 9, 1991.
Claudio Segre, Lindbergh Chair, University of Texas at Aus-
ton. “Italian Aviation with Emphasis on the Career of G.
Douber,” with Von Hardesty and Dom Pisano, from Sep-
tember 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

S. Fred Singer, Visiting Scholar, University of Virginia. “Space
History,” with David DeVorkin, from January 2, 1991 to
April 30, 1991.

Viktor Sokolsky, NASM International Fellow, USSR Academy
of Sciences. “The Progress of Rocketry and Space Science
Technology in Different Countries,” with Von Hardesty,
from July 1, 1991 to September 30, 1991.

Francesco Strafella, NASM International Fellow, University of
Lecce. “The Interaction Between Stars and Circumstellar
Medium,” with Howard Smith, from October 1, 1990 to
December 22, 1990.

Jacob Vander Meulen, NASM International Fellow, Univer-
sity of Toronto. “Building Airpower: The American Air-
craft Industry Durring WWII,” with Von Hardesty and
Dom Pisano, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1993.

Charles Woodward, Faculty Fellow, University of Rochester.
“Studies of the Spatial Distribution of Infrared [Fe II] Emis-
sion in External Galaxies,” with M.A. Greenhouse, from
September 15, 1991 to November 14, 1991.

National Museum of African Art

Vincent Boulore, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Paris I, France. “Les Masques Baoule: Une Double
Approche Comparative (Baule Masks: A Double Compara-
tive Approach),” with Philip Ravenhill, from June 1, 1991
to August 9, 1991.

Jean Graham Fritts, Graduate Scudent Fellow, Oxford Univer-
sity. “Islamic Architecture in East Afric: Some Anthropo-
logical Considerations Dealing with the Nature of the
Built Environment,” with Philip Ravenhill and Massumeh
Farhad, July 15, 1991 to September 20, 1991.

Patrick R. McNaughton, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana
University. “What Can Art Possibly Mean?: An Examina-
tion of Form in Africa and Beyond,” with Roy Sieber, from
March 1, 1991 to February 29, 1992.

Dafton Njuguna, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles. “The Physical and Aesthetic Organiza-
tion of the Transhumant and Built Environment in
Northern Kenya,” with Roy Sieber, from June 20, 1991 to
August 29, 1991.

Clarke Speed, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Washington,
Seattle. “African Aesthetics as Philosophies of Power,” with
Roy Sieber and Philip Ravenhill, from September 15, 1991
to September 14, 1992.

National Museum of American Art

Christine Bell, Predoctoral Fellow, Northwestern University.
“A Family Conflict: Visual Lmagery of the Home Front in
Depictions of the American Civil War,” with Wendy Wick-
Reaves and William Truettner, from September 16, 1991 to
March 15, 1992.

Dorinda Evans, Visiting Scholar, Emory University. “Gilbert
Stuart: The Making of An Image,” with William Truettner,
from June 3, 1991 to August 30, 1991.

Douglas Hyland, Senior Visiting Scholar, Birmingham Mu-
seum of Art. “Albert Bloch (1882-1961),” with Lois Fink,
from September 1, 1991 to February 29, 1992.

Susan L.E Issacs, Renwick Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Pennsylvania. “’ Authenticity’ and “Tradition’: The Meaning
of Hand-made Objects in Contemporary Society,” with Mi-
chael Monroe, from April 15, 1991 to March 15, 1992.

Laura Katzman, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Artist
as Photographer: The Photographic Vision of Ben Shahn,
1930-1960,” with Virginia Mecklenburg, from September
I, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Theresa Leininger, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “Afri-
can American Artists in Paris, 1922-1932,” with Lois Fink,
from August 1, 1991 to July 31, 1992.

Carol M. Osborne, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford Uni-
versity. “American Artist in Spain, 1860-1910,” with Lois
M. Fink, from February 1, 1991 to April 30, 1991.

Michael O'Malley, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Queen's
University, Kingston, Ontario. “Study of Work by 19th
Century American Artist, William Page,” with Stefano
Scafetta and Ann Creager, from October 1, 1990 to Septem-
ber 30, 1991.

Annie Storr, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. “Uc
Pictura Rhetorica: Classical Humanism, The Art of Rheto-
ric, and the Origins of American Values in the Visual Arts
1765-1835,” with Lois Fink, from September 15, 1991 to Sep-
tember 14, 1992.

Alan Wallach, Visiting Scholar, William and Mary College.
“The View from the Top: Thomas Cole and the Rise of the
Panoptic Sublime,” and a catalog essay Cole exhibition at
the NMAA, with William Trueccner, September 1, 1991 to
May 31, 1991.

National Museum of American History

Cathrine Anderson, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Win-
terthur/University of Delaware. “The Care of Architectural
Collections in the National Museum of American History,”
with Martin Burke, from October 1, 1990 to September 30,

1991.

5!
Elizabeth EF Arroyo, Graduate Srudent Fellow, Columbia Uni-
versity. “Antebellum Yeoman Farmers of East Tennessee,”
with Pete Daniel, from June 15, 1991 to August 23, 1991.

Jane S. Becker, Predoctoral Fellow, Boston University. “Sell-
ing Tradition: Southern Appalachian Culture and Con-
sumer America, 1929—425§2," with Charles McGovern and
Pete Daniel, from June 10, 1991 to June 30, 1992.

Nancy D. Bercaw, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsyl-
vania. “The Politics of Household: Domestic Battlegrounds
in the Struggle for Freedom in the Yazoo- Mississippi
Delta, 1850-1880,” with Susan Myers, from April 15, 1991 to
March 14, 1992.

Amy S. Bix, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University.
“A New Deal For Science: Government Perspectives on Sci-
ence and Technology,” with Arthur Molella, from Septem-
ber 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Cynthia Blair, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University.
“Modernizing Womanhood: Race, Class, and Gender Be-
tween the Wars,” with Charles McGovern, from June 10,
1991 to August 16, 1991.

Oscar Campomanes, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University.
“Orientalized Filipinos and American Orientalists at the
Turn of the Century,” with Gary Kulik and Charles McGov-
ern, from September 15, 1991 to May 15, 1992.

John Cheng, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Berkeley. “Amazing, Astounding, Wonder: Popular Sci-
ence, Culture, and the Emergence of the Science Fiction
Magazine in the United States, 1926-1938," with Arthur
Molella and Charles McGovern, from September 1, 1991 to
August 31, 1992.

Hans-Liudger Dienel, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Munich, Germany. “Refrigeration in Germany and the US,
1870-1930,” with Steve Lubar, from July 29, 1991 to Octo-
ber 8, 1991.

Benjamin Filene, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University.
“Defining an American Heritage: Moses Asch, John and
Alan Lomax, John Hammond, and the Construction of an
American Folk-Music Tradition,” with Anthony Seeger and
Charles McGovern, from June 3, 1991 to August 9, 1991.

Randy Finley, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Arkansas.
“Changes and Continuities in Structures of Daily Life: A So-
cial History of Reconstruction in Arkansas,” with Pete Dan-
iel, from August 1, 1991 to July 31, 1992.

Brett Gary, Faculty Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. “The
Wartime Mobilization of Intellectual and Institutional Re-
sources in the United States, 1939-1946,” with Pete Daniel,
from August 14, 1991 to August 13, 1992.

Carolyn Goldstein, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Dela-
ware. “Mediating Consumption: Home Economics and the
Making of the American Consumer, 1900-1940,” with Ste-
ven Lubar, from September 1, 1991 to August 8, 1992.

Daniel Goldstein, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. “The
Place of Midwestern Academies of Science in the National Sd-
entific Community, 1850-1900,” with Pamela M. Henson and
G. Terry Sharrer, from January 7, 1991 to August 16, 1991.

§2

Ian L. Gordon, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Rochester.
“Comics and Consumption: The Visual in American Cul-
ture, 1890-1955,” with Charles McGovern, from July 1, 1991
to June 30, 1992.

MaryAnn Hellrigel, Graduate Scudent Fellow, Case Western
Reserve University. “The State of Art?: Electricity at the
Paris Universal Exposition of 1900,” with Bernard Finn,
from September 9, 1991 to November 15, 1991.

Thomas MacCracken, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Chi-
cago. “The Viola da Gamba and Its Makers, 1500-1900,” with
James Weaver, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

David Morton, Graduate Student Fellow, Georgia Institute of
Technology. “European-American Technology Transfer and
the History of Magnetic Recording,” with Elliot Sivowitch,
from July 1, 1991 to September 6, 1991.

Rodney Olsen, Visiting Scholar, Arlington, Virginia. “The Vi-
sual Culrure of Civilized Morality,” wich Susan Myers, from
July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1992.

Richard Powell, Graduate Student Fellow, College of William
and Mary. “American Carriage and Sleigh Design,” with
Paul Johnston, from June 1, 1991 to August 9, 1991.

Douglas Rossinow, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity. “The New Left in America: Cultural Context and
Local Development,” with Edith Mayo, from August 1,
1991 to May 31, 1992.

Marguerite Shaffer, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard Univer-
sity. “See America First: The Rise of Tourism in the United
States,” with Charles McGovern, from June 2, 1991 to Au-
gust 10, 1991.

Bryant Simon, Graduate Student Fellow, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill. “Politics and Power in the New
Deal Era: South Carolina, 1930-1941," with Pete Daniel,
from June 3, 1991 to August 9, I99I.

Brett Steele, Graduate Seudent Fellow, University of Minne-
sota. “Pressure Vessels: Overcoming the Conflict Between
Safety and Performance,” with William Worthington, from
June 12, 1991 to August 21, 1991.

Thomas Summerhill, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
California, San Diego. “The Farmers’ Vision: Agrarian Pro-
test and the Capitalist Transformation of Upstate New
York, 1840-1990,” with Gary Kulik, from January 1, 1991 to
March 12, 1991.

Yuzo Takahashi, Visiting Scholar, Tokyo University of Agri-
culcure and Technology. “History of High Voltage Power
Transmission,” with Bernard Finn, from August 1, 1991 to
July 31, 1992.

Tracey Weis, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. “The Re-
construction of Domestic Labor and Domesticity in Rich-
mond, Virginia, 1850-1880,” with James Horton, from
September 3, 1991 to September 2, 1992.

Sara E. Wermiel, Graduate Student Fellow, Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology. “Development of Fireproof Construc-
tion Technology in the Nineteenth and Early Twentieth
Centuries,” with Steven Lubar, from December 17, 1990 to
February 25, 1991.
Elizabeth White, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University.
“Sentimental Entrepreneurs: Profit and the Culcural Rheto-
ric of the Middle Class, 1840-1890,” with Charles McGov-
ern, from September 16, 1991 to November 22, 1991.

National Museum of Natural History

M. Adimado Aduayom, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Sorbonne,
Paris, France. “Atlantic Trade and Culcural Evolution in
the Bight of Benin: 16th—19th Centuries,” with Mary Jo
Arnoldi, from October 1, 1990 to September 30, 1991.

Fernando Alvarez, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Maryland, College Park. “Parasitic Castration in Crabs and
the Evolution of Increased Virulence,” with Anson Hines,
from June 3, 1991 to August 9, 1991.

Kristina Arnold, Visiting Student, Indiana University.
“Giveaway Ceremony of the Plains,” with JoAllyn
Archambault, from June 3, 1991 to August 16, 1991.

Susan Bandoni, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New Mex-
ico. “Phylogenetic Analysis of the North American
Planorbidae (Mollusca: Gastropoda: Basommatophora),”
with Robert Hershler, from August 1, 1991 to July 31, 1992.

Nestor Basso, Visiting Scientist, National Univerity of La
Plata, La Plata, Argentina. “The Phylogenetic Relation-
ships with the Tematobine Frogs (Leptodactylidae),” with
W. Ronald Heyer and George R. Zug, November 1, 1990 to
November 1, 1991.

Douglas Begle, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan.
“Intra-relationships of the Argentoid Fishes with an Analy-
sis of Reductive Evolution,” with Stanley Weitzman, from
September 15, 1991 to September 14, 1992.

Carlo Bonfiglioli, Graduate Student Fellow, Escuela Nacional
de Antropologia e Historia, Mexico. “Pharisees and
Matachines in the Sierra Tarahumara: Symbolic Appropria-
tion of the Dances of the Conquest,” with William L. Mer-
rill, from January 1, 1991 to March 12, 1991.

Eve Boucaud-Camou, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University
of Caen, France. “Feeding and Digestion in Paralarval
Cephalopods,” with Clyde Roper, from October 1, 1990 to
February 2, 1991.

Brunella Bowditch, Visiting Scientist, Alexandria, Virginia.
“Application of RAPD Technology to Biological Questions
Involving Angiosperms,” with Elizabeth Zimmer, from Au-
gust 1, 1991 to January 31, 1992 and February 1, 1991 to June
30, 1991.

Robyn Burnham, SWAMP Visiting Scientist, “Source and
Distribution of Drifted Fruits and Seeds on Twin Cays and
Surrounding Mangrove Islands,” with Scott L. Wing, from
May 1, 1991 to September 30, 1991.

Julia Bucterfield, Graduate Student Fellow, City University of
New York. “The Colonizing Camera: Representations of

British India and the 19th Cencrury Photograph,” with
Paula Fleming, from June 10, 1991 to August 16, 1991.

Zhongyuan Chen, Postdoctoral Fellow, East China Norman
University. “Holocene Delta Sedimentary Processes: A
Comparative Study Between the Yangtze and the Nile,”
with Daniel J. Stanley, from October 15, 1990 to February
15, 1992.

Gregory W. Courtney, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Al-
berta, Canada. “Morphology and Systematics of the
Nymphomyiidae (Insecta: Diptera),” with Wayne N.
Mathis, from October 1, 1990 to September 30, 1991.

Melanie DeVore, Graduate Scudent Fellow, Ohio State Univer-
sity. “Phylogenetics of Calyceraceae,” with Vicki Funk,
from July 1, 1991 to September 6, 1991.

Susan Diduk, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. “Twin-
ship, Agriculcure, and Local Knowledge: The Socializing of
Agricultural Production,” with Mary Jo Arnoldi, from Sep-
tember 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Jay Fikes, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan.
“Stress and Development in Huichol Indian Ritual and
Cosmology,” with John Homiak and William Scurtevant,
from July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1992.

Natalia Florenskaya, International Exchange Visitor, Zoological
Institute, Leningrad. “Scientific [lustration,” with Elaine R.S.
Hodges, from March 1, 1991 to Sepcember 1, 1991.

George C. Frison, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Michigan. “Changing Relationships in Archaic and Late
Paleoindian Subsistence Between Foochill/Mountain and
Open Plains Culcural Groups,” with Dennis J. Stanford,
from February 1, 1991 to April 30, 1991.

Jean Fritts, Graduate Student Fellow, Oxford University, En-
gland. Islamic Architecture in East Africa: Some Anthropo-
logical Considerations Dealing with the Nature of che
Builc Environment," with Philip Ravenhill, from July 1,
1991 to September 6, 1991.

Mario Giaramita, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Califor-
nia-Davis. “Tectonic Implications of the Geochemistry of
Greenstone Blocks in the Franciscan Complex and Pillow
Basalts of Coast-Range Ophiolites,” with Glenn J. Mac-
Pherson, from September 1, 1991 to October 1, 1992.

Anthony C. Gill, Postdoctoral Fellow, the Australian Mu-
seum. “Taxonomic revision of the Gobioid Fish genus
Xenisthmus, with a Phylogentic and Biographic Analysis
of the Xenisthmidae,” with Victor G. Springer and G.
David Johnson, from January 15, 1991 to January 14, 1992.

Lynn Gillespie, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Davis. “A Phylogenetic Study of the Gnetales Based on
Morphological and Molecular Characters,” with Elizabeth
Zimmer and Scott Wing, from September 15, 1991 to Sep-
tember 14, 1992.

Antony Harold, Postdoctoral Fellow, Memorial University of
Newfoundland. “Phylogenetic Relationships of the
Gonostomatid and Photichthyid Fishes (Teleostei:
Stomiiformes),” with Stanley Weitzman, from December 1,
1990 to November 30, 1992.

53
Elizabech M. Harris, Postdoctoral Fellow, Louisiana State Uni-
versity. “Applied Ontogenetic Studies of the Heliantheae
(Asteraceae),” with Vicki Funk, from February 1, 1991 to
February 29, 1992.

Alan W. Harvey, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona.
“Settlement and Metamorphosis Cues in Hermit Crabs,”
with Mary E. Rice, from July 1, 1991 to June 30, 1992.

Winston Hide, Postdoctoral Fellow, Temple University. “A
Molecular-Phylogenetic Analysis of the Sea Stars,” with
David Pawson, from April 1, 1991 to March 31, 1992.

Bert W. Hoeksema, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Ledien,
The Netherlands. “Ecofunctional Morphology of Free-Liv-
ing Scleractinia: A Phylogenetically Based Comparative
Morphometric Analysis,” with Stephen Cairns, from Octo-
ber 1, 1990 to September 30, 1991.

Gustavo Hormiga, MCSE Curatorial Fellow, University of
Maryland. “Systematics of Linyphiidai (Araneau)” with Jon-
athan Coddington, from October 1, 1990 to September 30,
1991.

Carol Hotton, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Davis. “Phylogeny of Devonian Pteridophytes and the Ori-
gin of Major Vascular Plants Clades,” with Francis Hueber,
from September 15, 1991 to September 14, 1992.

William B. Jaeckle, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of South-
ern California. “Determination of the Level of Nutritional
Integration in Larvae of Benthic Marine Invertebrates,”
with Mary E. Rice, from February 1, 1991 to January 31,
1992.

Jessica Johnson, Postgraduate Conservation Fellow, Institute
of Archaeology, London. “Consolidation of Archaeological
Bone,” with Natalie Firnhaber and Greta Hansen, from Oc-
tober 3, 1991 to September 2, 1992.

Elisabeth Kalko, Visiting Scientist, University of Tubingen.
“Comparative Field Studies on the Echolocation and Hunt-
ing Behavior of Neotropical Insectivorous Bats,” with
Charles Handley, from June 15, 1991 to June 14, 1993.

Mari Kallersjo, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Stockholm,
Sweden. “Phylogenetic Studies Within the Asteridae Using
Nuclear rRNA and RDNA Sequence Data,” with Elizabeth
Zimmer, from April 1, 1991 to October 1, 1992.

Margaret Keenleyside, Graduate Student Fellow, McMaster
University, Canada. “The Effects of European Contact on
the Health of the Alaskan Eskimos and Aleuts as Reflected
in their Skeletal Remains,” with Doug Owsley, from June
3, 1991 to August 12, 1991.

Steven Keffer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Southern Illinois Univer-
sity. “What Can Male Genitalia Tell Us About the Evolu-
tion of Waterscorpions (Heteroptera: Nepidae)?” with R.
Froeschner and Thomas Henry, from September 1, 1991 to
August 31, 1992.

Gladys-Marie Fry, Faculty Fellow, Howard University. “In
Them Days Everyone Wore Beads,” with Theresa Single-
ton, from May 1, 1991 to August 31, 1991.

Jean Mariaux, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Neuchatel,
Switzerland. “Molecular Systematics of the Nyctibiidae and

54

other Caprimulgiformes Using Mitochondrial Cyt-b Se-
quence Analysis,” with Michael Braun, from April 1, 1991
to October 1, 1992.

Michael J. Mehlman, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Illinois. “East/Central Africa: Middle Stone Age Artifact
Assemblages and Chronometric Precision,” with Alison
Brooks, from September 1, 1991 to August 31, 1992.

Jin Meng, Postdoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. “The
Postcranial Skeleton of Lambdopsatis (Multicuberceilater
Mammalia) and its Functional and Systematic [m-
plications,” with Robert Emry, from July 1, 1991 to June 30,
1992.

Randall D. Mooi, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Toronto,
Canada. “Larval Development in the Genus Kali and the
Role of Heterochrony in the Evolution of the Family
Chiasmodontidae (Pisces: Perciformes: Blenniodi:,” with
G.D. Johnson, from January 1, 1991 to December 31, 1991.

John D. Oswald, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University.
“Phylogeny and Biogeography of Silky Lacewings (Insecta:
Neuroptera: Psychopsidae),” with Oliver S. Flint Jr., from
December 1, 1990 to November 30, 1991.

Jose Luis Panero, Faculty Fellow, University of Miami. “Mor-
phological Studies of Verbesina (Asteraceae: Heliancheae),”
with Harold Robinson, from July 1, 1991 to August 2, 1991.

Sergio J.N. Pellicer, Visiting Student, University of Mary-
land. “Ethnomusicology,” with Robert Laughlin, from May
15, 1991 to August 14, 1991.

Jacinto Regalado, Jr., Graduate Student Fellow, Universicy of
California, Berkeley. “Taxonomic Study of the Philipine
Species of Medinilla (Melastomataceae),” with Warren
Wagner, from June 1, 1991 to August 31, 1991.

Carl M. Reinschmidt, Graduate Student Fellow, Gottingen
University, West Germany. “Diachronical Ethnography of
the Sauk Indians of Oklahoma, 1929-1989: Continuity and
Change,” with Ives Goddard, from October 1, 1990 to De-
cember 15, 1990.

Greg Rouse, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Queensland,
Australia. “Reproductive Structures and the Taxonomy of
the Sabellidae (Polychaeta),” with K. Fauchald, from Janu-
ary I, 1991 to December 31, 1991.

Edmund Russell III, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Michi-
gan. “War on Pests: Military Influences on Modern Pesti-
cides,” with Pete Daniel, from June 1, 1991 to May 31, 1992.

Hector Severeyn, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
Maryland, College Park. “Taxonomic Review and Phylog-
eny of Polymesoda (Bivalvia-Corbiculidae),” with Thomas
Waller, from June 3, 1991 to August 9, 1991.

Joseph B. Slowinski, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Miami. “A Phylogenetic Analysis of the genus Bungarus
(Serpentes: Elapidae) Using Osteological and Hemipenial
Data,” with Roy McDiarmid and George Zug, from Sep-
tember 15, 1991 to September 14, 1992.

James Smith, Visiting Scientist, University of Wisconsin-
Madison. “Molecular Systematics of the Zingiberales,” with
John Kress, from March 15, 1991 to March 15, 1993.
Masaki Takahashi, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow. “Comparative
Study of Relationships Between Volcanism and Regional Tec-
tonic Stress Fields: Japanese Islands vs. the Western United
States,” with R.S. Fiske, from July 1, 1991 co December 31, 1991.

Edmund Tanner, Andrew W. Mellon Fellow, The Botany
School. “Research on the ecology of tropical forests in Car-
ibbean and South America,” with W. John Kress, from July
I, 1991 to December 31, 1991.

Andre Uj, Visiting Scientist, University of Geneva. “Phyloge-
netic Relationships within the Order Characiformes,” with
Richard Vari, from November 1, 1990 to November 15, 1991.

Peter Wagner III, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Chi-
cago. “Phylogenetic Analysis of the Early Paleozoic
Pleurotomariina and Murchisoniina (Gastropoda),” with
Douglas Erwin, from July 1, 1991 to September 6, 1991.

Andrea Walton, Graduate Student Fellow, Columbia Univer-
sity. “Alma Mater’s Daughters: Women Anthropologists at
Columbia University,” with Deborah Warner, from June 3,
1991 to August 12, 1991.

Kenneth I. Warheit, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley. “Functional Morphology of the Shoulder
and Wing in Wing-Propelled Diving Seabirds,” with Rich-
ard L. Zusi, from March 1, 1991 to February 29, 1992.

Andrew Warne, Visiting Scientist, University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill. “Facies Distribution and Paleography,”
with D.J. Stanley, from February 1, 1991 to January 31, 1992.

Kelly West, Graduate Scudenc Fellow, University of Arizona.
“Resolution and Congruence of Paleontological and Biolog-
ical Data Sets in the Reconstruction of Tanganyikan Gastro-
pod Phylogeny,” with Richard Houbrick, from July 8, 1991
to September 13, 1991.

John Wise, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington Univer-
sity. “The Anatomy and Phylogeny of the Gastropod Fam-
ily Pyramidellidae,” with Richard S. Houbrick, from June
I, 1991 to May 31, 1992.

Lin Yonglie, Visiting Scientist, Academy of Sciences. “Mam-
mals of South West China,” with Chris Wozencraft, from
April 1, 1991 to January 31, 1992.

National Portrait Gallery

David R. Brigham, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsyl-
vania. “The Audience and Supporters of Charles Willson
Peale’s Philadelphia Museum, 1784-1827," with Lillian B.
Miller, from April 15, 1991 to April 14, 1992.

Charlotte Moore, Graduate Srudent Fellow, Boston Univer-
sity. “The Art Gallery of The Metropolitan Fair, New York
City, 1864,” with Lillian Miller, from September 30, 1991 to
December 6, 1991.

William Oedel, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Mas-
sachusetts, Amherst. “The Portraiture of John Vanderlyn,”
with Ellen Miles, from August 15, 1991 to June 15, 1992.

Norma S. Steinberg, Graduate Student Fellow, Boston Univer-
sity. “William Gropper (1897-1977) and American Progres-
sive Caricature,” with Wendy Wick Reaves, from October
9, 1990 to December 14, 1990.

Public Service

Office of Folklife Programs

Manuel FE. Alemany, Visiting Student, University of Mary-
land. “Ethnomusicology,” with Anthony Seeger, May 15,
1991 to August 14, 1991.

Ernest Brown, Faculty Fellow, University of Washington. “Af-
rican Inspirations: The Re-Africanization of American
Music and Dance Since 1959,” with Diana N'Diaye, from
June 1, 1991 to July 31, 1991.

Benjamin Filene, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University.
“Defining an American Heritage: Moses Asch, John and
Alan Lomax, John Hammond, and the Construction of an
American Folk-Music Tradition,” with Anthony Seeger and
Charles McGovern, from June 3, 1991 to August 9, 1991.

Laura Larco-Gentile, Visiting Student, University of Mary-
land. “Lowland South American Indian recordings and ma-
terials,” with Anthony Seeger, from May 15, 1991 to August
14, 1991.

Ashok Rajput, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Wash-
ington. “Annotation and Documentation of Literature and
Sound Recordings Related to Music of Pakistan,” with An-
thony Seeger, from July 1, 1991 to September 9, 1991.

Yisa Yusuf, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Lagos, Ni-
geria. “English and Yoruba Proverbs About Women: A
Speech Act Study,” with Peter Seitel, from July 1, 1991 to
September 9, 1991.

Internships and Other
Appointments

The Smithsonian offers internships and other special ap-
pointments to undergraduate and graduate students and
to museum professionals. The interns included in this
Appendix began their appointments between October I,
1990, and September 30, 1991. Those who received spe-
cial awards or participated in special programs are so
listed. Wherever possible the home institution, a brief
description of the project undertaken at the Smithson-
ian, and the dates of service are given.

5S
Office of the General Counsel

Agnes Tabah, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Assist the Office of the General Counsel and the Na-
tional Museum of American History with the problem of
unclaimed loans of objects, August 26, 1991 through De-
cember 31, 1991.

Research

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Research

Eliza Hetherington, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton Univer-
sity. Joseph Henry Papers Project, research and write a
paper on Joseph Henry and religion and science during the
19th century, June 3, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Silvia Simpson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Georgia.
Joseph Henry Papers Project, research for Volume 7 of the
Papers of Joseph Henry, June 26, 1991 through August 18,
1991.

International Center

Yolani Aceituno, Bachelors Candidate, Augustana College.
Smithsonian Man and the Biosphere, assist in preparation
of the User Guide and Field Guide to the Bisley Biodivers-
ity Plots, Luquillo Biosphere Reserve, Puerto Rico, which
provide detailed information on the methodology used to
set up the plot and maps of trees in it, June 10, 1991
through August 12, 1991.

Laura Miller, Bachelors Degree. Quincentenary Program, as-
sist with planning the Quincentenary Program, June 24,
1991 through August 30, 1991.

John Phoenix, Bachelors Degree. Environmental Awareness,
research, phone interviews, and information gathering on
environmental issues that affect marine systems, June 3,
1991 through March 9, 1991.

Nadia Rabesahala, Masters Degree. International Relations,
enter information into the electronic database for the inter-
national travel of SI staff members and certain foreign trav-
elers to the Smithsonian, December 10, 1991 through June
10, 1991.

Luyi Shao, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Office of International Relations, background research
on past visiting Chinese Scholar, May 15, 1991 through Au-
gust 15, L991.

56

National Zoological Park

Tracy Anderson, High School Graduate. Golden Lion Tamarin
Project, participant in “Intern 91"—observation and care of
Golden Lion Tamarins, June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Amanda Burgener, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Education Office, museum education intern,
January 7, 1991 through April 30, 1991.

Kimberly Davis, Bachelors Candidate, Amherst College.
Mammalogy, research to identify projects for environmen-
tal enrichment for zoo animal habitats, June 3, 1991
through August 2, 1991.

Roderick Diggs, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M. Herpetol-
ogy, study responses by predator zoo animals to natural
chemicals in reptiles, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Patrick Fau, High School Graduate. Small Mammal House,
work alongside an animal keeper, carry out prescribed daily
schedule to clean animal area and to prepare and distribute
food; help maintain animal enclosure materials, such as
plants, perches, nest boxes, food containers, and decorative
materials, June 17, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Tamara Fine, Masters Candidate, University of Cincinnati. De-
velopment, development work including fundraising pro-
jects, corporate research, and donor solicitation, April 8,
1991 through August 23, 1991.

Gustaf Hannula, High School Graduate. Small Mammal
House, participant in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through
July 17, 1991.

Timonthy Hanson, Doctoral Degree. Design and Exhibits
Planning, archival intern for cataloging slides and photo
collections, September 3, 1991 through May 29, 1992.

Michael Helling, Bachelors Degree. Work with Neotropical
Migratory Bird, December 10, 1990 through June 23, 1991.

Lisa Holden, Bachelors Candidate, Coppin State College. Con-
servation Research Center, study the effects of deer on birds
and smal] mammals—mostly field work (bird samples,
mammal trappings, setting up grids, and vegetation sam-
pling), June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Keri Leach, High School Graduate. Animal Health, partici-
pant in “Intern 91"—assist staff in Department of Animal
Health, June 6, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Nicole Lee, High School Graduate. Invertebrate Exhibit, par-
ticipant in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through August 16,
1991.

Yeun Shun Lee, Bachelors Degree. Department of Zoological
Research, analyze data on the behavior of the female Giant
Panda during pregnancy and pseudo pregnancy, May 28,
1991 through August 2, 1991.

Terri Roth, Bachelors Degree. Animal Health, reproductive
physiology program, August 15, 1991 through August 31,
1993.

Claire Schuster, High School Graduate. Publications Office,
participant in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through August 16,
1991.
James Wilson, High School Graduate. Primate House, partici-
pant in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Mine Berg, Bachelors Candidate, Cook College—Rutgers
University. Examination of Tintinnine parasite life history,
morphology, and developmental process, June 10, 1991
through August 30, I99I.

Janet Coffee, Masters Candidate, University of Texas. Develop
hydrology component of landscape simulation model, Sep-
tember 16, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Wendy Cox, Bachelors Degree. Environmental Biology, estua-
rine ecology of fish and crustaceans, May 20, 1991 through
October u, 1991.

Marjorie Dial, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Partici-
pate in and develop new environmental education pro-
grams; help start a seasonal newsletter, May 27, 1991
through August 23, 1991.

Wendy Doherty, Bachelors Degree. Research regarding the re-
sponses of C3 and C4 coastal marsh plants and trees to ele-
vated levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide which simulates
global change models, June 10, 1991 through August 30,
1991.

Maria Fernandez, Bachelors Degree. Light measurements in
the forest with computer modelling, September 9, 1991
through December 20, 1991.

Laurie Geller, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University.
General Administration, nutrient retention and cycling in
cropside reparian forests, May 20, 1991 through August 9,
1991.

Melissa Hayes, Bachelors Degree. Habitat Utilization by Mi-
gratory Warblers, April 29, 1991 through July 19, 1991.

Sharon Kissling, Bachelors Candidate, Long Island Univer-
sity—Southampton Campus. Studies in ecological parasi-
tology, June 3, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

April Mills, Bachelors Candidate, Hampshire College. De-
velop a two-sex matrix transition model for determining
patterns of population and sex-ratio development by col-
lecting data concerning size, flower and fruit production,
and distance between males and females of the dioecons
shrub Lindera benzoin, May 27, 1991 through August 9,
1991.

Nathaniel Posner, Bachelors Degree. Forest Canopy Project,
February 18, 1991 through May 10, 1991.

Jennifer Powers, Bachelors Degree. Nutrient cycling and re-
tention in cropside riparian forests, September 30, 1991
through February 28, 1992.

Andrea Schindler, Bachelors Candidate, FH-Rheinland-Pfatz.
Study how the physical structure of the forest canopy

changes as the forest grows older, June 10, 1991 through Au-
gust 30, 1991.
Margo Temple, Bachelors Degree. Invertebrate Population Dy-
namics—effects of woody debris as a refuge for grass
shrimp predation, August 5, 1991 through October 25, 1991.
Wendy Yun, Bachelors Degree. Investigate and compare the
photosynthetic quantum yield of phytoplankton at the sur-
face and bottom of a stratified water column, June 3, 1991
through November 1, 1991.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Sami Malouf R, Bachelors Degree. Participate in the creation
of a computerized database system which would speed up
and facilitate access to Smithsonian photographic collec-
tions database and architectural drawings database, January
28, 1991 through April 19, 1991.

Monica von Drasek, Bachelors Degree. Photo Survey Project,
finish cataloging architectural drawings; complete design
of database; create guide to collection, October 1, 1990
through September 18, 1991.

Michael Vaden, Bachelors Candidate, Methodist College. Ana-
lyze pattern of correspondents in Spencer F. Baird collec-
tion, September 9, 1991 through December 21, 1991.

Frances Vanderburg, Bachelors Candidate, Salish-Kootenai
College. Learn the fundamentals of archival processing and
process a small collection, June 24, 1991 through August
23, 1991.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Jennifer Evers, High School Graduate. Museum Reference
Center, participant in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through Au-
gust 16, 1991.

Michelle Moriarty, Masters Candidate. Natural History
Branch, study of the methodology and feasibility of compil-
ing an international directory of natural history libraries,
July 15, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Ghisselle Alvarado, Bachelors Degree. Gamboa, assist with
project: “Evolution of Vocal Communication of the
Tungara Frog,” June 15, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Oriana Batista, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama.
Gamboa, assist with project: “Breeding Biology of Social

57
Behavior of Wattled Jacanas,” April 15, 1991 through June
31, 1991.

Maria Argenis Bonilla, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad
Nacional de Colombia. Naos Marine Laboratory, assist with
project: “Genetics of Euglossine Bees, January 30, 1991
through April 30, 1991.

Gustavo Bravo, Bachelors Degree. Naos Marine Laboratory, as-
sist with project: “Reproductive Biology of Reef Fishes,”
February 15, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

Wendi Carlton, Medical Student, University of North Caro-
lina—Chapel Hill. Naos Marine Laboratory, assist with
project: “Molecular Evolution of Amerindians,” December
25, 1990 through June 8, 1991.

Luis Fernando Garcia, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad
Nacional de Colombia. Naos Marine Laboratory, assist with
project: “Molecular Genetics Populations and Evolutionary
Relationships of the fish Abudefduf,” May 15, 1991 through
November 15, 1991.

Nimiadina Gomez, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Nacio-
nal de Panama. Barro Colorado Island, assist with project:
“Variation in Secondary Metabolites and Some Effects on
Plant Fitness,” November 15, 1990 through July 15, 1991.

Pablo Monsivais, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas.
Gamboa, assist with project: “Evolution of vocal communi-
cation in the Tungara Frog,” June 15, 1991 through August
30, 1991.

Monica Medina, Bachelors Degree. Naos Marine Laboratory,
to assist with project: “Biogeography of West Indian Birds,
Reconstruction of Phylogeny by Molecular Techniques,”
March 5, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Katherine Myint-Hpu, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College.
Naos Marine Laboratory, assist with project: “Analysis of
Dietary Remains from Archeological Sites in Panama and
Costa Rica,” July 15, 1991 through January 15, 1992.

Sandra Patifio, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, assist
with project: “Seasonality of Xylem Embolism in Tropical
Trees,” February 15, 1991 through August 14, 1991.

Ernesto Arturo Pefia, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de
Panama. Naos Marine Laboratory, to assist with project:
“Quantitative Genetics of Morphological Characters of
Bryozoans,” July 8, 1991 through October 8, 1991.

Miguel Pineros, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, as-
sist with project: “Ecophysiology of Clusia odorata’; assist
with project: “Ecology, Physiology, and Biochemistry of
Plants,” August 15, 1991 through December 15, 1991.

Martha Prada, Bachelors Degree, Universidad Jorge Tadeo
Lozano. Oil Spill Project, assist with project: “Mangrove
Forest Project,” May 9, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Lenin Prado, Bachelors Degree, Estacion Charles Darwin.
Barro Colorado Island, assist with: “Forest Dynamics Proj-
ect,” December 5, 1990 to March 5, 1991.

Milagro Ruiz, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama.
Barro Colorado Island, assist with project: “Taxonomic
Studies of the genus Psychotria,” May 20, 1991 through Au-
gust 31, 1991.

58

Dilia Santamaria, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Nacional
de Panama. Tupper Center, assist with project: “Estudio de
especies briofitas que crecen en los arboles y troncos en
descomposicion en un transecto altitudinal en el Sendero de
Cerro Cruz, Parque Altos de Campana,” July 15, 1991
through October 15, 1991.

Laura Schneider, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Nacional
de Colombia. Barro Colorado Island, assist with project:
“Caste System in Neotropical Nasutetirmitinae: Ecology
and Evolution,” May 7, 1991 through November 7, 1991.

Luis Solorzano, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Nacional de
Colombia. Naos Marine Laboratory, assist with project:
“Cryptic and sibbling species among the genus A/phexs,”
December 1, 1990 through October 31, 1991.

Bernardo Vargas, Bachelors Degree. Naos Marine Laboratory,
assist with: “Oil Spill Project,” August 26, 1991 through
November 26, 1991.

Ana Villarreal, Bachelors Degree. Barro Colorado Island, assist
with: “Forest Dynamics Project,” October 17, 1990 through
January 17, 1991.

Museums

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Museums

Vicki Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University.
Accessibility Program, develop a plan for coordinated out-
reach to deaf audiences; work with bureaus/offices around
the SI to advertise and expand existing programs as well as
develop new ones, September 9, 1991 through December 11,
1991.

Carine Blanchet, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsyl-
vania. Research in the African American Museum Commu-
nity, careers, and collections, June 3, 1991 through August
9, 1991.

Francisco Corrales-Ulloa, Masters Candidate, Museo Nacio-
nal de Costa Rica. Experimental Gallery, assist the exhib-
itor-in-residence and Office of Exhibits Central team
with the installation of the “Las Casitas” exhibition and
work on public programming for the exhibition; assist
the National Air and Space Museum team with the in-
stallation of the “Principles of Flight” exhibition and
conduct visitor interviews, October 22, 1990 through Oc-
tober 22, 1991.

Natalia Gabrea, High School Graduate. Experimental Gallery,
assist exhibition interpreters and educators in creating and
developing exhibition tour materials; provide tours Co visi-
tors and special interest groups, June 17, 1991 through Au-
gust 9, 1991.
Elizabeth Hellman, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College.
Experimental Gallery, assist with fabrication, installation
and development of educational, public programs and bro-
chures for the World Wall: A Vision of the Future Without
Fear exhibition; develop an Experimental Gallery Resi-
dency Orientation packet; assist with administrative tasks,
June 17, 1991 through September 6, 1991.

Jonathan Holloway, Bachelors Degree. Community education
and research regarding African American Museum project,
June 3, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Mary Martin, Bachelors Candidate, Rhode Island School of
Design. Experimental Gallery, work with the Office of Ex-
hibits Central to fabricate plans for the implementation of
a new entrance way for the Experimental Gallery; fabricate
a design for invitations for exhibition opening receptions;
develop a teacher's package for those who instruct elemen-
tary and secondary education programs; conduct visitor in-
terviews in the gallery; assist with administrative tasks,
June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Karen Pierson, Bachelors Candidate, Morgan State University.
Research in the African American Museum Community, ca-
teers, and collections, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Robert Poarch, Bachelors Degree. Research for the free-stand-
ing African American Museum, June 3, 1991 through Au-
gust 9, 1991.

Alice Scott, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Experi-
mental Gallery, develop an Experimental Gallery Intern-
ship Orientation Packet for the newly implemented gallery
intern program; assist the gallery office with administrative
tasks, August 12, 1991 through September 6, 1991.

Kate Stockwell, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard University. Ac-
cessibility, assist in the development of a comprehensive as-
sessment of accessibility issues, June 3, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Anacostia Museum

Stephanie Felix, Masters Candidate, University of Wiscon-
sin-—Madison. Office of Education, oral history project doc-
umenting the conception and early history of the Anacostia
Museum, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Helene Fisher, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Of-
fice of Education, development of a docent training pro-
gram for a new exhibit, “To Achieve These Rights...,”
September 3, 1991 through November 8, 1991.

Lara Goldstein, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Office of the Registrar, assist in collections manage-
ment and registrarial duties at the Anacostia Museum, May
6, 1991 through June 12, 1991.

Dana Powell, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Office
of Education, develop oral history on the creation and early

years of the Anacostia Museum, June 3, 1991 through Au-
gust 9, 1991.

Trina Reed, Masters Candidate, University of Texas. Office of
Education, assist the supervisor in preparation of an exhibi-
tion celebrating the Museum's 25th anniversary; analyze the
Afrocentric curriculum thrust of DC Schools and recom-
mend ways in which the museum can better correlate its ed-
ucational offerings, September 16, 1991 through November
30, 1991.

Samantha Robinson, High School Student, Eastern High
School. Education Department, assist the registrar in the
cataloguing, filing, and conservation of museum collection,
July 9, 1991 through August 8, 1991.

Layn Saint Louis, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Re-
search the African diaspora in the Caribbean and Southern
United States; African cultural retention and emigration
from the Caribbean to the United States of Haitians. Janu-
ary 7, 1991 through March 29, 1991.

Sabrina Washington, High School Graduate. Education De-
partment, participanc in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Crystal Williams, High School Scudenc. Research, clerical du-
ties: answering phones, typing, filing, assisting research
staff, July 1, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Archives of American Art—Washington

Anna Athanasopoulou, Masters Candidate, George Washing-
ton University. Identify papers to be included in a guide to
Italian-American sources in the Archives, May 28, 1991
through July 19, 1991.

Wendy Bellion, Bachelors Degree. Work on a guide to papers
of American Artists who worked in Italy in the 19th and
20th centuries, September 16, 1991 through January 31,
1992.

Heather Campbell, Bachelors Degree. Work on a guide to pa-
pers of American Artists who worked in Italy in the 19th
and 20th centuries, September 9, 1991 through December
31, 1991.

Ingrid Denis, Masters Candidate, University of Cincinnati.
Research for in-depth analysis of the Archives of American
Art's operations for the past six to ten years, June 17, 1991
through August 23, 1991.

Kathryn Ellis, Bachelors Degree. Curator of Manuscripts, as-
sist in compiling a guide to diaries and memoirs of Ameri-
can artists, July 16, 1991 through October 1, 1991.

Evelyn Kassouf, Bachelors Degree. Assist in publishing a
book, May 19, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Carmella Pennington, Bachelors Candidate, Bryn Mawr Col-
lege. Prepare descriptions of artist's papers to be printed in
a Guide to Art-related Papers in Southern California, May
21, 1991 through August 3, 1991.

59
Susan Spaulding, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Work on a guide to papers of American Artists
who worked in Italy in the 19th and 20th Centuries, Janu-
ary 7, 1991 through April 26, 1991.

Deborah White, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Work on a guide to papers of American Artists who
worked in Italy in the 19th and 20th Centuries, May 28,
1991 through August 31, 1991.

Archives of American Art—Boston

Jane Donnelly, Bachelors Candidate, Emmanuel College. New
England Regional Center, assist researchers at the micro-
film library; help with recordkeeping; participate in the
processing of unsorted archival collections, September 10,
1991 through December 3, 1991.

Kristin McGrath, Bachelors Candidate, Emmanuel College.
New England Regional Office, maintain data base of Ar-
chives collections; assist in preparations for membership
events; transcribe lectures for distribution to members, Feb-
ruary 1, 1991 through May 10, 1991.

Arthur M. Sackler and Freer
Gallery of Art

Leta DeFee, Bachelors Candidate, Northern Virginia Commu-
nity College—Alexandria. Graphic Design, assist graphic
designer in the design and producation of graphic identi-
ties for exhibitions, metro and bus dioramas, and direc-
tional signage, June 11, 1991 through September 3, 1991.

Emily Edmondson, Bachelors Candidate, Occidental College.
Education Department, work with Indonesian exhibit and
teachers packets for Arts of China, June 17, 1991 through
September 30, 1991.

Jacqueline Eyl, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Education, educational materials for “The Arts of
China,” January 14, 1991 through April 25, 1991.

Chandra Flint, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wiscon-
sin—Madison. Southeast Asian Art, assist in multi-faceted
project on the reinstallation of the South Asian Art collec-
tion at the Freer Gallery, June 3, 1991 through August 9,
1991.

Pia Geusau, Masters Candidate, Academy of Fine Arts. Ameri-
can Art, assist conservation team with cleaning, varnishing,
in painting, and restoring Whistler's “Harmony in Blue
and Gold: The Peacock Room” in the Freer Gallery of Art,
February 14, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Hsiao-Kuei Hsu, Masters Candidate, New York University.
Chinese Art/Curatorial, assist with curatorial affairs, espe-

60

cially in the research of Ming and Qing dynasty porcelain
history for a possible exhibition, June 3, 1991 through Sep-
tember 1, 1991.

Judith Knudsen, Masters Candidate, Catholic University of
America. Library/Archives, work on papers of Charles Freer,
May 30, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Victoria Lepka, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Educa-
tion, arts of China and Chiang Dai Chien program develop-
ment, September 17, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Laura Maldonado, Bachelors Candidate, University of Massa-
chusetts. Help with information dealing with the Selijuks,
February 4, 1991 through April 26, 1991.

Medea Minnich, Bachelors Candidate, Hood College. South
and Southeast Asian Art, research to develop a proposed ex-
hibit of Krishna paintings, September 10, 1991 through De-
cember 24, 1991.

Sianne Ngai, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Educa-
tion, research for educational programs related to
Mesopotami; shared responsibility for summer program-
ming logistics for Court Arts of Indonesia, May 21, 1991
through September 2, 1991.

Oya Pancaroglu, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown Univer-
sity. South Asian, help with various upcoming projects; es-
pecially, library research and object identification, October
5, 1990 through January 31, 1991.

Oya Pancaroglu, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown Univer-
sity. South and Southeast Asian Art, assist in research and
bibliography of Indian Art in the collection, February 8,
1991 through June 30, 1991.

Quynh Pham, High School Graduate. South and Southeast
Asian Art, participant in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Belen Ponferrada, Masters Candidate, College of William and
Mary. Secretary's of Wider Audience Development, assist in
coordinating the Asia/Pacific American Heritage month in-
cluding content development, logistics, audience outreach,
and evaluation, February 14, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Patricia Seipel, Bachelors Candidate, Towson State University.
Public Affairs, organize and assemble press clippings of
Sackler Gallery exhibitions into archives; writing assign-
ments for internal and external publications; participate in
ongoing activities of the public affairs office, September 10,
1991 through January 31, 1991.

Maria Villafane, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University.
Library/Archives, construction of sink mats to house bro-
ken glass plate negatives of photographer Antoin
Sevruguin, and rehousing of selected documents in the
Charles Lang Freer Papers, June 17, 1991 through August
23, 1991.

Frances Yuan, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Curato-
rial, research for Freer Gallery of Art exhibition on Chinese
ceramics, June 20, 1991 through September 13, 1991.
Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Johanna Bernstein, Masters Candidate, University of Dela-
ware. Furniture Conservation Laboratory, conservation treat-
ments of furniture and wooden objects, September 16, 1991
through August 14, 1992.

Judith Bischoff, Doctorate. Organic Chemistry Laboratory, in-
vestigation into the effects of aqueous cleaning agents on
oil paint films, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Crystal Dawley, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta.
Textiles Conservation Laboratory, examination and re-stor-
age of 19th century American wool and corton flags, includ-
ing spot-cleaning and dry-cleaning certain representative
examples, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Ayesha Ercelawn, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Tex-
tiles Conservation Laboratory, examination and re-storage
of 19th century American wool and cotton flags, including
spot-cleaning and dry-cleaning certain representative exam-
ples, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Margaret Gleason, Masters Candidate, University of Dela-
ware. Objections Conservation Laboratory, treatment of
"Ain Ghazal plaster figures dating from 6000 - 7000 B.C.,
June 17, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Marycolette Hruskocy, Masters Candidate, New York Univer-
sity. Paintings Conservation Laboratory, treatment and re-
search in paintings conservation, September 30, 1991
through September 30. 1992.

Lisa Kronthal, Masters Candidate, Buffalo Scate College. Ob-
jects Conservation Laboratory, treatment of ‘Ain Ghazal
plaster figures dating from 6000 - 7000 B.C., June 17, 1991
through August 23, 1991.

Dorene Randolph, Masters Degree. Paintings Conservation
Laboratory, projects in paintings conservation, using new
materials; both traditional and more recent treatment tech-
niques; and studying analytical techniques as applied to
canvas and panel paintings, September 16, 1991 through
September 16, 1992.

Claire Ruriser, Bachelors Degree. Biogeochemistry Labora-
tory, work with DNA from archaeological bone samples,
April 22, 1991 through September 1, 1991.

Amy Schoenberg, Bachelors Candidate, Skidmore College.
Archeaometry Department, research and examination of
the paintings of Albert Pinkham Ryder through autoradio-
gtaphs and x-ray radiographs within the application of sci-
ence to art history, September 23, 1991 through December
31, 1991.

Jane Smith, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Paper Conservation Laboratory, treatment work on col-
lections from SI Archives, NASM, etc; involvement in
ongoing research project on speciality papers, September
16, 1991 through September 16, 1992.

Olga Souza, Masters Candidate, Columbia School of Library
Service. Paper Conservation Laboratory, treatment of archi-
tectural drawings on tracing paper, as well as other objects;

participation in a survey of photographic materials, and on-
going research projects, October 1, 1990 through May 10,
1991.

Mei-An Tsu, Bachelors Degree. Paper and Furniture Labora-
tories, treatment of objects and work with ongoing research
on the effects of water on the mechanical properties of
paper; development of manual skills and treatment of furni-
ture, September 3, 1991 through September 3, 1992.

Julie Tu, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Materials Sci-
ence Laboratory, conducting the chemical analyses on an-
cient Chinese glass, September 9, 1991 through November
15, 1991.

Sarah Zepeda, Bachelors Candidate, Occidental College.
Archaeometry Department, application of scientific meth-
ods to art history with an emphasis on the study of Albert
Pinkham Ryder's painting methods, September 23, 1991
through October 31, 1991.

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design

Melissa Allen, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Paper
Conservation, Introduction to Paper Conservation, January
2, 1991 through January 24, 1991.

John Badgley, Bachelors Candidate, Alfred University. Spe-
cial Events and Membership, research for corporate mem-
bership solicitation and CHM member survey and
professional designer solicitation, June 10, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Johanna Baker, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth
University. Office of the Registrar, learn museum registra-
tion methods by assisting staff in duties related to the man-
agement of objects in permanent collection and on loan;
assist in re-inventory of 6766 objects in Wallcoverings De-
partment, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Carol Baum, Masters Candidate, University of Toronto. Educa-
tion Department, assist in the development of school tours
for special exhibitions; research and plan adult lectures and
courses; assist in all day-to-day office activities, January 14,
1991 through April 5, 1991.

James Benjamin, Masters Degree. Decorative Arts, as the
Peter Krueger/Christie’s Fellow, work with the Archive of
American

Industrial Designer, September 6, 1991 through August 31,
1992.

Caitlin Cahill, Bachelors Degree. Drawings and Prints, train
in various curatorial duties: proper handling of drawings
and prints, cataloguing skills, research selected drawings,
pints, posters, assist in safe movement of drawings during
storage room renovations, June 10, 1991 through August 16,
1991.

61
Sue Ann Chui, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College. Draw-
ings and Prints, assist in cataloguing of Donald Deskey
drawings, December 26, 1990 through January 17, 1991.

Allison Cross, Masters Degree. Drawings and Prints, inven-
tory of Felice Giani Collection; begin computer cataloging
of the information, July 1, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Jeremiah Daly, Bachelors Candidate, University of Notre
Dame. Wallcoverings, mail slides of objects in the
wallcovering collection to increase both general public's
and designers’ access to the collection, May 30, 1991
through December 30, 1991.

Rachel Danzing, Masters Candidate, New York University.
Design and Paintings, assist paper conservator with the
preparation of lab and objects for exhibition, October 2,
1990 through January 30, 1991.

Nicole Delfino, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College. Paper
Conservation, edit and reorganize files; assist with the rota-
tions for the Design Resource exhibit; catalogue oval 18th
century paintings; work with conservators on examinations,
June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Laura Erdos, Masters Candidate, New York University. Devel-
opment, work on theater benefit corporate patron program,
exhibition, and special project research for funding, Janu-
ary 28, 1991 through May 1, 1991.

Deborah Fung, High School Student, Hunter College High
School. Program/Education, assist with registration and
tours, September 5, 1991 through May 31, 1992.

Kristin Hampton, Bachelors Candidate, College of New Ro-
chelle. Department of Drawings and Prings, assist in gen-
eral department duties; research and catalogue prints and
drawings, September 19, 1991 through November 29, 1991.

Mia Hatgis, Bachelors Degree. Exhibitions, assist in prepara-
tion of a project on maps: research, documentation, and as-
sistance in day to day administration, June 10, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Joris Kila, Doctoral Candidate, Ryks Universiteit Leiden.
Prints and Drawings, Donald Deskey Exhibition, Septem-
ber 3, 1991 through November 1, 1991.

May Kuckro, Bachelors Candidate, Columbia College. Pro-
grams Office, assist with symposia planning; conduct visi-
Cor surveys; assist with organization of fall programs, June
10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Julia Lenney, Bachelors Candidate, Sarah Lawrence College. Exhi-
bitions, assist in preparation of a project on maps: research,
documentation, and assistance in day to day administration of
ongoing work, June 20, 1991 through August I, 1991.

Sigal Levy, Bachelors Degree. Paper Conservation, introduc-
tion to paper conservation, February 13, 1991 through
March 31, 1991.

Christine McKee, Bachelors Degree. Exhibitions, assist in
preparation of a project on maps, September 24, 1991
through December 31, 1991.

Leon McKinley, Bachelors Degree. Decorative Arts, objects
conservation/cataloguing of gilded objects, September 6,
1991 through January 31, 1992.

62

Kate Milkins, High School Scudent, Hunter College High
School. Wallcoverings, assist in che assembling of a source
book of William Morris wallpaper in Cooper-Hewitt's per-
manent collections, September 12, 1991 through June 30,
1992.

Denyse Montegut, Masters Candidate, New York University
Institute of Fine Arts. Department of Conservation, assist
in laboratory work and installation of exhibition, Sepcem-
ber 10, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Bradley Nugent, Masters Candidate, New York University.
Registrar/Wallcovering Departments, function in all re-
spects as a museum technician (inventory/curatorial) in the
Registrar Department and Wallcoverings Department; as-
sist in exhibition preparation and collections research, con-
servation and documentation, October 22, 1990 through
October 21, 1991.

Mayda Perez, Masters Candidate, New York University. Exhi-
bitions, research and assist on project “Maps—Ways to
Read Them,” February 19, 1991 through April 30, 1991.

Michelle Piccora, Masters Candidate, Fashion Institute of
Technology. Wallcoverings, research primary source mate-
rial for upcoming exhibit, December 13, 1990 through De-
cember 31, 1991.

Carolyn Pinching, Masters Candidate, New York University.
Exhibitions, assist in the preparation of a project on maps;
research, documentation, and assistance with general de-
partmental duties, September 24, 1991 through December
31, 1991.

Janet Snyder, Masters Degree. Exhibitions, assist in prepara-
tion of a project on maps: research, documentation, and as-
sistance in day to day administration of ongoing work,
June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Ellen Terry. Exhibitions, research and assist on project
“Maps—Ways to Read Them,” February 19, 1991 through
May 31, 1991.

Peter Trippi, Masters Candidate, New York University. Pro-
grams/Special Events, develop a “Behind the Scenes” tour
and assist with school group tours, September 9, 1991
through December 20, 1991.

Robin Wallace, Bachelors Candidate, University of California
at Santa Cruz. Programs, assist with research on career days
for high school students, June 19, 1991 through September
14, 1991.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Theresa Bondurant, Bachelors Candidate, University of Vir-
ginia. Painting and Sculpture, assist the curators of paint-
ing and sculpture, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Lisa Dent, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Depart-
ment of Education, assist the assistant to the chief of the
Department, June 10, 1991 through August 9, 1991.
Laurie Ginsberg, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Li-
brary, assist in the library, June 10, 1991 through August 16,
1991.

Eric Gurtner, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth
University. Conservation/Exhibits, assist sculpture conserva-
tor in condition maintenance, cleaning, etc.; work with the
exhibition department in installation and de-installation of
exhibits; assist with exhibition graphics, May 20, 1991
through September 30, 1991.

Stephanie Jacoby, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Department of Education, duties as assigned,
June 10, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Marya Jones, Bachelors Candidate, Tallahassee Community
College. Survey certain aspects of the collection, January 7,
1991 through March 30, 1991.

Sarah Kennel, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. De-
partment of Education, assist in the department, June 10,
1991 through August 16, 1991.

Frances Marabelli, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University.
Education, work with on going projects, January 28, 1991
through May 2, 1991.

Irina Verona, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University.
Sculpture Conservation, work with laboratory to maintain
and preserve the sculpture both in the museum and in the
sculpture garden, including cleaning, particular pieces,
washing and drying, applying wax and polishing it, May
30, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

National Air and Space Museum

Thomas Adams, Bachelors Degree. Archives, assist in estab-
lishing physical, intellectual, and legal control of archival
collections; write descriptions, arrange, and rehouse collec-
tions; perform preservation tasks to make incoming collec-
tions accessible for research use, September 30, 1991
through December 13, 1991.

Ilana Addis, Bachelors Candidate, University of Chicago. Edu-
cation Division, perform public science demonstrations; as-
sist in the development of interactive devices for the
hands-on gallery; research air- and space-related topics,
June 13, 1991 through August 21, 1991.

Luke Arant, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University. Restoration and Preservation Unit, assist with
assembly and disassembly/reassembly of aircraft and space-
craft; specialty work as machining, welding, chemical
cleaning, and fabric work; installation of artifacts, July 8,
1991 through September 3, 1991.

Anjula Batra, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Com-
munications Department, prepare daily news digest for
staff; assist with promotion for exhibition openings; write
public service announcements, answer press and public in-

quiries, and organize data and photo files, June 10, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

James Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aero-
nautical University. Preservation and Restoration Unit, in-
dependently perform tasks associated with major
restoration projects on such systems as propellers, landing
gear, instruments, and other aircraft or spacecraft parts; as-
sist with installation of artifacts, May 20, 1991 through Au-
gust 16, 1991.

Andrea Chang, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, process Viking
Thermal infrared data from Scytes Major and Hespera
Planum regions of Mars and compare thermal properties to
geology and morphology visible in images, June 10, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

William Cherry, High School Graduate. Computer Service,
participant in “Intern 91"—work onsite with computer sys-
tems with regard to assistance and/or repairs, June 10, 1991
through July 12, 1991.

Julie Clyman, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Education Division, assist in the science demonstration
project and the Principles of Flight interactive gallery, Jan-
uary 28, 1991 through May 13, 1991.

David Conroy, Masters Degree. Space History, research and or-
ganize background information on the history of the con-
cept of the Space Station, September 30, 1991 through
December 13, 1991.

Michelle Corey, Bachelors Candidate, University of California
at San Diego. Archives, reorganize and rehouse aircraft
files, working with documents from one manufacturer at a
tume, research and write a brief synopsis of each manufacturer's
history, June 17, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Ramon Danely, High School Student, Largo High School.
Production and Exhibits, perform casks of a technical na-
ture in support of collections maintenance program and/or
the preservation/restoration program, June 10, 1991 through
August 18, 1991.

Amy DePerro, High School Graduate. Department of Exhib-
its, participant in “Intern 91"; work with museum's CAD
system to update lighting circuits database, July 15, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

Sarah Donald, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New
York—Purchase. Exhibits, assist with lighting installation
for World War I gallery and work with museum's CAD sys-
tem to update lighting circuits data base.

Nathan Drake, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Ar-
chives Division, assist archivist on photographs and docu-
ments relating to aviation collections, June 10, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

Rachael Drenovsky, Bachelors Candidate, Aquinas College.
Archives, aid in description, arrangement, rehousing, and
preservation of document collections, June 10, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Walter Evans, High School Student, North Western High
School. Collections Management, assist with the senior ex-

63
hibits specialist in the fabrication and maintenance of ex-
hibits, June 10, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Livia Fussi. Exhibits Department, design poster about exhibi-
tion of World War I in the air, July 23, 1991 through Au-
gust 9, 1991.

Christina Gild, Bachelors Degree. Exhibits Department, assist
in audience evaluation of exhibit devices for a new gallery
on the principles of flight; assist in drafting of a grant pro-
posal, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Caitlin Gorman, Bachelors Candidate, Beloit College. Center
for Earth and Planetary Studies, organize, document, and
map location of desert sand samples from locations in
North America and Africa, enter data on a PC data base
and write a basic geologic description of samples, June 10,
1991 through August 16, 1991.

Robert Hanson, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronau-
tical University. Collections Management, Preservation/Res-
toration Unit, undertake restoration and preservation of
artifacts in che museum's collections, September 16, 1991
through December 13, 1991.

Girija Harikar, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Education Division, assist teachers visiting Educa-
tional Resource Center (ERC) in previewing and copying
computer software; evaluate software and make recommen-
dations for expanding collection; design and produce a bro-
chure for the ERC, June 17, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Clayton Harris, Bachelors Candidate, Middle Tennessee State
University. Minority Outreach Office, assist in a summer
program which teaches elementary school students aero-
space theories/principles; gather and research materials
abour African Americans in aviation for further use by the
aeronautics department in the publishing of materials;
enter data and maintain files in database, June 17, 1991
through August 30, 1991.

Robert Hunter, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio University. Ar-
chives, assist with cataloging, preservation, and conserva-
tion of aviation photographic collections; work with
computer databases doing condition surveys, and caption-
ing images, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Charles Hyman, High School Student, North Western High
School. Exhibits/Collections, support collections mainte-
nance program and the preservation/restoration program,
June 17, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

James Kohan, Bachelors Candidate, Hiram College. Archives,
assist in the reference work and daily operation of the
NASM'’s Archival Support Center, December 3, 1990
through December 21, 1990.

Chulbom Lee, Bachelors Candidate, Yale College. Department
of Space History, assist with formative evaluation of proto-
type computer survey; perform pictorial research for that
gallery, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Janet Lopez, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas. Educa-
tion Division, assist teacher workshop coordinator in organ-

izing and conduction teacher workshops; present astronomy
lecture, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

64

Rochelle Loyola, High School Graduate. Education Division,
participate in a summer program that teaches inner-city
youth about the scientific principle about air and space
flight; help prepare, implement, and operate the summer
program, June 17, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

John McBride, Bachelors Candidare, Carleton College. Garber Fa-
cilicy, Preservation/Restoration Unit, work on restoration of
the Enola Gay; create a hands on model of the Wright Flyer for
the use of blind visitors, January 7, 1991 through April 8, 1991.

Anastasia Mensah, University of the District of Columbia.
Aeronautics, work with Rodina Collection materials (Rus-
sian aviation artifacts), identifying and classifying them,
preparing inventory sheets, and a finder's guide. January 7,
1991 through August 16, 1991.

Erin Miller, Bachelors Candidate, Bowdoin College. Educa-
tion Division, perform public science demonstrations; assist
in the development of interactive devices for a new gallery
installation; and research air and space related topics, June
10, 1991 through December 16, 1991.

John Neville, Masters Candidate, Catholic University of
America. Archives, aid in establishing physical, incellec-
tual, and legal control of archival collections; participate in
a full range of professional archival duties, January 10, 1991
through April 18, 1991.

George Newman, Masters Candidate, George Mason Univer-
sity. Aeronautics, translation of documents from French to
English, January 17,1991 through April 30, 1991.

Mark Patterson, Masters Degree. Space History Department,
assist Curator with research on exhibit, “Where Next Co-
lumbus” exhibit; develop and test audience survey for ex-
hibit labels/concepts, May 28, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Victoria Portway, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia—San Diego. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, as-
sist in preparation of Looking at Earth, the SI book of
satellite images of the world, drafting map figures, plotting
photo foorprints, organizing photofiles and writing appen-
dix materials, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Gerard Precilla, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Ar-
chives, reorganize and rehouse aircraft files, working with
products of one manufacturer at a time, documenting files,
producing labels, and writing a brief synopsis of each
manufacturer's history, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Jennifer Pulos, Bachelors Candidate, St. Mary's College. Cen-
ter for Earth and Planetary Studies, assist with the SI book
of satellite images of the world, Looking at Earth, drafting
map figures, plotting photo footprints, organizing photo
files, and conducting background research, June 10, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

John Regino, High School Graduate. Department of Space
History, participant in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Alvin Richards, High School Student, Largo High School.
Collections Management, support collections maintenance
program and/or the preservation/restoration program, June
17, 1991 through August 30, 1991.
Eric Sandquist, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia.
Laboratory for Astrophysics, assist in astrophysics data anal-
ysis on Sun workstation and do some modeling work; par-
ticipate in laboratory tests and measurements using lasers,
electronics, and optics, June 10, 1991 through August 16,
1991.

Nartnapa Sankanung, Masters Candidate, Pratt Institute. Ex-
hibits Department, design an intern program brochure;
work on designing a lift for disabled visitors and children's
corner of new gallery installation, June 10, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Amy Singel, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Office of Education, assist staff of “Principles of
Flight” exhibit team; create a pathfinder for museum visi-
tors; assist team members in developing and administering
visitor surveys, January 14, 1991 through August 25, 1991.

Keith Soares, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Exhibits, design charts and graphics for
“Where Next, Columbus?” gallery, September 16, 1991
through December 13, 1991.

Paul Stronski, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Department of Space History, survey daily press reports on
Soviet/European space activities and translate Russian lan-
guage news articles; design and create a database of events
in Soviet/European space exploration, September 16, 1991
through December 13, 1991.

Erica Sweetland, Bachelors Candidate, Skidmore College. Edu-
cation Division, assist staff with public programs, June 10,
1991 through August 16, 1991.

Mark Warren, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Col-
lections Management, perform technical duties in support
of the Restoration/Preservation Unit, June 17, 1991 through
August 23, 1991.

Christopher Welbon, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Pennsylvania. Photographic Services, assist photo lab staff
with black-and-white printing, reproducing work, and
film processing; do studio shoots and document museum
artifacts, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Sydnye White, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Ex-
hibits Department, assist with the videotaping of special
events, lectures, and seminars; duplicate video and audio
tapes for on-line use in exhibits; assist with audio-video in-
stallation, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Matthew Wittig, Bachelors Candidate, Roger Williams Col-
lege. Exhibits Department, assist media coordinator with
research for audiovisuals for forthcoming museum exhibi-
tions, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Elizabeth Wolfe, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College.
Aeronautics Department, conduct research in support of
forthcoming World War I exhibition; assist with minor res-
toration of World War I aircraft; perform accessioning du-
ties, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Jane Wu, Masters Candidate, Clarion University. Archives, as-
sist with the Rudy Arnold Photo Collection, work with
computer databases, rejacket negatives, transcribe captions,

and produce an accession report, June 10, 1991 through Au-
gust 16, 1991.

National Museum of African Art

Jame Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, Wake Forest Univer-

sity. Exhibits, assist design coordinator and design team in
project development of two upcoming exhibitions as well
as other assignments under the chief designer, May 28, 1991
through July 29, 1991.

Amanda Carlson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Mary-

land. Archives, assist in archival housing and cataloguing
remainder of the Postcard Collection; assist in the compil-
ing and analyzing visual materials on the Mangbetu; pro-
duce copy slides of the images and research their context,
June 3, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Indra Caudle, Bachelors Degree. Administration, preliminary

research for a possible exhibition of contemporary Ethiop-
ian artists in Washington, DC by compiling illustrative
material, organizing research notebooks, biographies, and
identifying artists in Washington, DC, January 28, 1991
through May 31, 1991.

Andrea Fraley, Bachelors Degree. Archives, assist the curator

of the Eliot Elisofon Archives with inventory control of the
permanent collection photographs; do guided reading on
aspects of African art and gain insight into the various
styles of African art, August 26, 1991 through October 28,
1991.

Susanne Fuchs-Nebel, Doctorate Degree. Archives, catalogue

two collections in the archives, July 7, 1991 through Au-
gust 28, 1991.

Jeffrey Girardo, Bachelors Candidate, American University.

Photo Archives, assist with writing a finding aid for the
Burton E. Ashley Collection, January 7, 1991 through
March 15, 1991.

Kachryne Gambrell, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford Univer-

sity. Archives/Curatorial, assist with cataloguing and re-
searching two photographic collections in Archives:
Ravenhill field photographs of Dogon architecture and
Bamana performance, and Ashworthy field photographs on
weaving in Mali and Cote d'Ivoire, January 7, 1991 through
March 29, 1991

Lauri Hinksman, Masters Candidate, George Washington

University. Office of the Registrar, assist in a number of col-
lection management projects and participate in the prepara-
tions for two upcoming exhibitions, June 3, 1991 through
August 23, 1991.

Roshini Kempadoo. Eliot Elisofon Archives, work on the

Judge E.O. Gorlia photographs, March 4, 1991 through
March 29, 1991.

Lynn LaMontagne, Masters Candidate, George Washington

University. Registrar, work on de-accession and accession

65
records for permanent collection; assist with registrarial
work for new exhibition, “African Reflections”; assist with
day to day registrarial work of the department, January 14,
1991 through May 5, 1991.

Bronwyn Lloyd, Bachelors Candidate, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign. Conservation, basic conservation tech-
nique, ethics and responsibilities, preventative mainte-
nance, and environmental control, July 29, 1991 through
October 4, 1991.

Jane Lusaka, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Registrar, work on various collection management pro-
jects in preparation for museum re-accreditation; assist
with on-going registrarial practices, September 24, 1991
through December 24, 1991.

Daniela Perkins, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial, assist with re-
search on new exhibition on Central African pottery, Janu-
ary 7, 1991 through May 24, 1991.

Oya Pancaroglu, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown Univer-
sity. Curatorial, assist with research and identify objects of
potential interest for a proposed exhibition on the arts and
cultures of the Islamic world, September 30, 1991 through
January 10, 1991.

Naledi Saul, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman College. Archives,
assist with archival housing of maps and engravings in the
Elisofon Archives, June 17, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Sandra Wilson, Visiting Professional. Education, develop con-
tent of future workshop programs for school group tours,
July 1, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Marieka Yoder, Bachelors Degree. Museum Education, assist
with research to be used in new summary catalogue, Sep-
tember 3, 1991 through December 30, 1991.

National Museum of American Art

Mark Baumann, Bachelors Candidate, Grinell College. Curato-
rial, project with the curator of photography, June 3, 1991
through July 26, 1991.

Concepcion Benitez, High School Student, Benjamin Banne-
ker High School. Education, work through DC Cultural
Consortium, July 15, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Jennifer Carter, High School Graduate. Office of the Regis-
trar, participant in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through July
12, I991.

Adam Cave, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut College. De-
sign and Production, project in the Office of Design and
Production, June 3, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Toby Chieffo, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Department of Frame Conservation, research project on
Stanford White and restoration of a Stanford White frame,
September 6, 1991 through April 24, 1992.

Suzanne Clark, High School Student, Oldfields School. Julie
Photographic Collection, sore correspondence, memos, and

66

photographs; check the uncataloged slides againsc the artist
authority index, May 10, 1991 through May 24, 1991.

Maria Cuzzocrea, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial, assist the exhi-
bitions coordinator at the Renwick Gallery and the curato-
rial department at NMAA, September 9, 1991 through
April 24, 1992.

Cybele Diamandopoulas, Masters Candidate. Curatorial, pro-
jects involving general curatorial research, June 3, 1991
through July 26, 1991.

Denise Dougherty, Bachelors Degree. Office of the Registrar,
project with the collection manager for the graphics divi-
sion, June 3, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Rita Eisner, Bachelors Degree. Office of Design and Produc-
tion, project with the graphics illustrator, June 3, 1991
through July 26, 1991.

SueAnn Griffin, Masters Candidate, American University. Cu-
ratorial/Registrars, assist the curator in the graphics depart-
ment; work with registrar, September 10, 1991 through
April 24, 1992.

Abigail Grotke, Bachelors Degree. Publications/Museum Pro-
grams, assist in production of American Art magazine and
other projects such as books, catalogues, etc.; assist in orga-
nization of special projects for the William Johnson exhibi-
tion, September 6, 1991 through May 30, 1992.

Amy Hollander, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial/Museum Pro-
grams, W.H. Johnson Educational materials, January 14,
1991 through April 27, 1991.

Nancy Holst, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Curato-
rial, project with the sculpture curator, June 3, 1991
through July 26, 1991.

Amelia Hougen, High School Student, The Potomac School.
Registrar's Office, Registrar Office Intern for senior project,
May 6, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Sandra Howe, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University.
Publications office, edit footnotes, read essays, type foor-
notes, September 6, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Erika Jarem, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Curatorial/Office of Museum Programs, research for
pending “Kenyon Cox” exhibic; assist in coordination of
special events for “William Johnson” exhibit, September 9,
1991 through May I, 1991.

Patricia Jenkins, Masters Candidate, Eastern Montana Col-
lege. Museum Programs, assist in organizing and planning
programs for an up-coming exhibition on William H. John-
son, July 1, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Jessica Johnston, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial/Production and
Design, assist the curator of the Art of The 1893 World's
Fair Exhibition and participate in activities in the Exhibi-
tion and Production Department, Seprember 9, 1991
through May 1, 1992.

Erin Keever, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas. Regis-
trar/Publications, assist with inventory and organization of
works of art from the graphic arts collections; assist in edi-
torial and production processes, September 9, 1991 through
December 8, 1991.
Rina Kundu, Masters Candidate, University of Illinois—Ur-
bana-Champaign. Department of Graphic Arts, research on
objects in the permanent collection primarily drawings and
monotypes, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Thea Lehming, High School Student, The Potomac School.
Registrar's Office, Registrar Office Intern for senior proj-
ect, May 6, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Mary Lenihan, Masters Candidate, University of Southern Califor-
nia. Curatorial, research on a mural project and up-coming
Kenyon Cox exhibition, June 26, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Robert Marsh, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, Wofford College.
Registrar, general training within the registrar's office, Jan-
uary 7, 1991 through February 1, 1991.

Ellen McBreen, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Publi-
cations Office, assist in the production of both the NMAA
journal and the exhibition catalogue for the museum's up-
coming William Johnson exhibit, June 3, 1991 through
July 26, 1991.

Kele McComsey, Bachelors Candidate, Pennsylvania State
University. Office of the Registrar, project in the Office of
the Registrar, June 3, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Joyce Nice, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Department of Exhibition & Design/Office of Mu-
seum Programs, 20 hours each per week in the exhibition
and design and the office of museum programs, May 6,
1991 through June 14, 1991.

Judith Nyhus, Bachelors Degree, University of South Florida.
Curatorial/Registrar, research for Edward Hopper Exhibi-
tion, September 9, 1991 through April 30, 1992.

Joyce O’Brien, Masters Candidate, American University. Reg-
istrar/Curatorial, assist the registrar and the curator, Sep-
tember 9, 1991 through May 30, 1991.

Dona Portmann, Bachelors Degree. Museum Programs/De-
sign Preparation, graphic design and exhibition design pro-
duction, January 14, 1991 through April 27, 1991.

Amy Prochowski, Bachelors Degree. Curatorial/Education,
participation in advanced museum studies program, Octo-
ber 1, 1990 through June 30, 1990.

Sallie Sanders, Bachelors Degree. Education, assist in educa-
tional projects; work at the Renwick Gallery; work in exhi-
bition design, September 6, 1991 through April 26, 1992.

Ursula Sherard, Visiting Professional. Education, produce a
written guide of resources about African American art and
artists, July 1, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Deborah Silverman, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College.
Curatorial, assist with research on an up-coming exhibition
on the World Columbian Exposition, July 16, 1991 through
August 23, 1991.

Shelly Smith, Bachelors Candidate, St. Francis College. Office
of Design and Production, project in department of design
and production, June 3, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Michelle Spiegel, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia at Santa Cruz. Curatorial, research on an up-coming ex-
hibition dealing with Hispanic and Native American
artists, June 10, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Telina Williams, High School Student, Calvin Coolidge High
School. Education, work through DC Cultural Consortium,
July 15, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Yoon Kim, High School Graduate. Library, assist the profes-
sional staff in standard library duties in helping determine
whether incoming materials are co be catalogued or dis-
carded, sorting materials, eliminating backlog of materials,
July 17, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

National Museum of American History

Lindsey Adams, Bachelors Degree. Publications, study and
participate in as many functions of Museum graphic design
and publications as possible, including, but not limited to,
papers, layout and design, desktop publishing, and interac-
tion with vendors, curators, editors, and other designers,
January 14, 1991 through June 14, 1991.

Nirva Ahuja. Office of Design, graphic design for “First La-
dies” exhibit, July 22, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Sandra Alger, Masters Candidate, Towson State University.
Public Programs, assist in exhibit research and design for
Hands-on-History Room; advise on educational interests
and abilities of children, July 19, 1991 through August 9,
1991.

Leith Alvaro, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Division of Community Life, assist staging manager in vari-
ous activities necessary to prepare objects for installation in
“American Encounters” show, June 3, 1991 through August
2, 1991.

Elena Amatangelo, Bachelors Candidate, University of Cen-
tral Florida. National Numismatic Collection, work with
registrar to assist with the development of the exhibition in
honor of the 100th anniversary of the American Numis-
matic Association, May 20, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Catherine Anderson, Bachelors Degree. Conservation, develop-
ment of guidelines on the care and handling of the architec-
ture and architectural objects in NMAH collection,
October 9, 1990 through October 9, 1991.

Jamee Appelson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wiscon-
sin—Madison. Division of Armed Forces History, assist
with collections management of the uniforms collections,
focusing on those from the Civil War period related mate-
rial; directed research, January 24, 1991 through April 26,
1991.

Corinne Barger, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, work on
the DeVincey Collection; start moving pictures/movie stars
series, April 29, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Ellen Bergan, Bachelors Degree. Public Programs, pursue di-
rected research for the American Encounters project, Janu-
ary 29, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

John Bickel, Bachelors Candidate, Luther College. Division of
Armed Forces History, catalogue objects, research assistant,

67
and artifacts detailing, May 27, 1991 through August 29,
1991.

Jeff Biersach, Bachelors Degree. Department of Social and Cul-
tural History, assist with research on “History of Rock 'n’
Roll” and “Youth Experience in the ‘50's and "60's," August
26, 1991 through December 13, 1991.

Aimee Bishop, Bachelors Candidate, Covenant College. Divi-
sion of Armed Forces History, pursue directed research on
the primary transition points in the life of the citizen sol-
dier during WWII; assist with preparations for an exhibit
on women during the Civil War and with collection man-
agement of the uniform collection; participate in present-
ing demonstrations about the cotton gin, early sound
recordings, and time keeping to museum visitors, January
29, 1991 through May 8, 1991.

Melanie Booth, Bachelors Candidate, Humboldt State Univer-
sity. Internship Office, gather information for, organize,
edit, and produce the sixth edition of Intern Opportunities,
May 28, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Ina Bort, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Division of
Political History, research various topics for the western sec-
tion of an upcoming exhibit on the 19th century: focus on
the People’s Party in the elections of 1892 and 1896, June 13,
1991 through August 7, 1991.

Mara Bralove, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylva-
nia. Division of Musical History, assist on production of the
Smithsonian Jazz, Orchestra Masterworks, June 4, 1991
through August 31, 1991.

Jennifer Bride, Bachelors Candidate, Scripps College.
Registrar's Office, focus on the legal, ethical, and other col-
lections management policies and procedures related to ac-
quiring an object; participate in reviewing individual cases;
research public inquiries and rehouse accession files as part
of office's preservation program, January 31, 1991 through
April 26, 1991.

Valerie Bronstein, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia at Davis. Division of Engineering and Industry, build
files for the history of environmental engineering, June 25,
1991 through August 31, 1991.

Alexandria Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Divi-
sion of Engineering and Industries, history of robotics and
what people thought about robots and computers, Septem-
ber 3, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Carol Bryant, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Division of Community Life, collections management for
the “American Encounter,” September 4, 1991 through May
31, 1992.

Karen Bryant, Bachelors Degree. Division of History and
Technology, Archival research and collection of documents
pertaining to the Smithsonian Gallery of Art Competition
Project of 1939; background research for architecture in the
1930's in America and abroad, November 9, 1990 through
April 30, 1991.

Jill Buchwalter, Bachelors Candidate, University of Massachu-
setts. Division of Community Life, work with collection of

68

Judairs; assist with object processing, storage, exhibitry,
transfer from other Smithsonian units; independent project,
June 4, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Dung Tien Bui, High School Graduate. Division of Political
History, participant in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Joseph Cahoon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas.
Public Programs, assist the “American Encounters” team in
producing an exhibition on the continual intersection be-
tween Hispanic and Pueblo peoples in the Rio Grande Val-
ley; research related to label writing and film script
writing, June 3, 1991 through August 5, 1991.

Tad Casper, High School Graduate. Division of Military His-
tory, participant in the Intern 91 program, June 10, 1991
through July 12, 1991.

Meredith Cernuda, Bachelors Candidate, Tulane University.
Public Affairs, assist in preparation and execution of promo-
tion and publicity of museum exhibitions; draft correspon-
dence, conduct photo research and develop media targets
list, June 3, 1991 through August I, 1991.

Amy Cheffy, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Exhibits, fabrication, detail drawings, and
model making for “First Ladies” exhibition, June 6, 1991
through September 6, 1991.

Abigail Chiles, Bachelors Candidate, Denison University. Na-
tional Numismatics Collection, reorganization of the collec-
tion of Byzantine coins and collections management
assistant, June 3, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Katherine Clifford, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke Col-
lege. Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources, per-
form photographic and media research relating to the
“Science in American Life” exhibit; help prepare script, Sep-
tember 23, 1991 through December 10, 1991.

Ezra Cohen, High School Student, Richard Montgomery
High School. Office of the Registrar, work with organizing
and cataloguing posters for the Princeton Poster Project,
June 24, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Jamie Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, University of Vermont.
Internship and Fellowship Office, assist internship and
fellowship coordinator, organize the ten-week lunch se-
ries (brown bag series), May 20, 1991 through July 18,
1991.

Wylie Cohn, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Archives
Center, research assistant with particular responsibilities for
organizing and developing finder's aids for the Naff Collec-
tion, May 22, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

John Colter, Bachelors Candidate, University of California—
Berkeley. Department of the History of Science and Tech-
nology, research the architecture of Washington, DC, June
6, 1991 through August 10, 1991.

Cathy Conway, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-
Davis, assist with projects relating to the Youth Interpret-
ers Program, “Go Forth and Serve” exhibition; work on a
newsletter and transcribe oral histories, September 17, 1991
through December 5, 1991.
Kate Conway, Bachelors Degree. Division of Armed Forces
History, work on exhibit about GI's in World War II; work
with military uniforms and headgear from Revolutionary
War to present, June 3, 1991 through September 1, 1991.

Cynthia Cooper, Masters Candidate, University of Rhode Is-
land. Conservation, conservation of First Ladies Project,
July 8, 1991 through September 16, 1991.

Vickie Crawley, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason Univer-
sity. Archives Center, African-American Project—help or-
ganize and survey various audio tapes and photographs, etc,
October 10, 1990 through September 30, 1991.

Frances Davey, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division
of Costumes, history of the T-Shirt, September 3, 1991
through December 20, 1991.

Angela Davis, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison Univer-
sity. Division of Political History, research on selected top-
ics in lifestyles in 19th century American history; assist in
management of appropriate collections, May 20, 1991
through August 30, 1991.

Kylie Dixon, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Division of Political History, comparison between life of
Anglo women and Indian women in the move westward,
June 17, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Marjorie Douglas, Bachelors Candidate, Lee College. Depart-
ment of Social and Cultural History, picture research for ex-
hibit on slavery and Native Americans, June 26, 1991
through August 6, 1991.

Smita Dutta, Masters Candidate, Johns Hopkins University.
Department of the History of Science and Technology,
work with curators on ongoing project, “Science in Amer-
ica,” September 3, 1991 through November 9, 1991.

Shannon Emamali, High School Student, Georgetown Day
High School. Division of Musical Historical, work on press
release packages, fundraisers, and regular office duties (typ-
ing, answering phone, etc.), May 8, 1991 through December
31, 1991.

Beth Engelman, Bachelors Degree. Academic Programs, assis-
tant copy editor: edit and revise manuscripts for “American
Quarterly,” September 23, 1991 through January 1, 1991.

Amy Fitzpatrick, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Di-
vision of Community Life, assist staging manager in vari-
ous activities necessary to prepare objects for installation in
“American Encounters” exhibit, May 28, 1991 through July
26, 1991.

Michael Fox, Masters Candidate, University of Wyoming. Di-
vision of Science and Technology, participate in a sequence
of activities designed to provide a comprehensive overview
of procedure and policy issues pertaining cto the manage-
ment of collections, June 24, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Paul Frazier, Bachelors Degree. Division of Firearms, assist
with collection management procedures for the Naval His-
tory collection, June 3, 1991 through August 10, 1991.

Robert Fridovich, High School Student, The Newport
Schools. Office of Public Affairs, assist in the design and
production of the First Ladies Newsletter; help update

mailing lists and other promotional and publicity materi-
als, June 17, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Jennifer Gaillard, Bachelors Degree. Office of Museum Pro-
grams/Education, collaborate in research on “American Mu-
sical Theater,” “Oklahoma,” and a traveling version of
“Perpetual Campaign,” June 27, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Jennifer Gallo, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Duke El-
lingcon Collection, assist in Duke Ellington Collection,
September 3, 1991 through December 27, 1991.

Terrence Gee, High School Graduate. Office of Public Pro-
grams, participate in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through Au-
gust 16, 1991.

Gretchen Gebhardt, Bachelor Candidate, State University of
New York—Oswego. Division of Agriculture, research for
“Science in American Life”; collections management, June
3, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Robin Gerrell, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Car-
olina. Afro-American Program, concentrate on preliminary
research for and organization of a conference on health and
healing philosophies and procedures scheduled for 1993,
June 4, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Noelle Giguere, Bachelors Candidate, Albion College. Divi-
sion of Political History, catalogue the Truman-White-
house blueprints; assist in the installation of the First
Ladies exhibit, Sepcember 19, 1991 through December 6, 1991.

Margaret Gleason, Masters Candidate, University of Dela-
ware. Department of Conservation, examination and treat-
ment of a variety of objects from the collection of NMAH,
September 9, 1991 through August 9, 1992.

Tracy Goldsmith, Bachelors Candidate, College of William
and Mary. Department of the Science and Technology, as-
sist the project curator for the exhibit “Science in American
Life” scheduled to open in the fall of 1993, May 29, 1991
through August 9, 1991.

Tosha Grantham, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown Univer-
sity. Office of Public Programs, work on various facets of
coordinating the program American Encounters, January
29, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Kristina Hamel, Museum Professional. Division of Agricul-
ture, work with a tin collection and a project on pro-Ameri-
can Marketing of automobiles in the Agriculture
Department, November 15, 1990 through March 31, 1991.

Sandra Hammack, Bachelors Degree. Division of Transporta-
tion, assist in the transfer and rehousing of approximately
150 pieces of scrimshaw, their records, and photographs
from the division of Domestic Life to the Division of Trans-
portation, May 25, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Kristen Haring, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsyl-
vania. Department of the History of Science and Technol-
ogy, catalogue mathematical models; work on metric
system exhibit; conduct guided research in the history of
mathematics, June 3, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Michael Harrison, High School Graduate. National Numis-
matic Collection, participant in “Intern 91," July 15, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

69
Lisa Hartenberger, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia, Los Angeles. Internship Office, assist in a variety of ac-
tivities designed to foster a sense of community among
interns and to enlarge their understanding of the major re-
sponsibilities and functions of the museum, June 10, 1991
through December 13, 1991.

Melissa Hartzell, High School Graduate. Office of Public Pro-
grams, participant in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through
July 12, 1991.

Pamela Havert, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Education, assist with design, fabrica-
tion, installation, and evaluation of prototype exhibits in
the hands on science preview area for Science in American
Life, May 15, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Robert Haynes, Masters Candidate, San Francisco State Uni-
versity. Division of Community Life, organize and imple-
ment a cataloguing system of photographic records for the
Black College Project, June 3, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Brigitta Heikens, Bachelors Degree. National Numismatic
Collection, reorganize the numismatic collection, August 5,
1991 through January 31, 1992.

Kristen Hinrichs, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Divi-
sion of Architectural History, effects of WPA legislation
upon the architectural development of DC; specifically
upon the building of the east wing of the National Gallery
of Art, September 3, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Katherine Holbrow, Masters Degree. Department of Conserva-
tion, pre-program conservation internship, concentrating
on both objects and paper projects (rehousing, research, and
treatment of works), October 9, 1990 through June 30, 1991.

Mark Holmfeld, Bachelors Candidate, New England College. Di-
vision of Engineering, assist curator with research on environ-
mental engineering, May 28, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Noel Holton, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Public Pro-
gtams, production assistant—write letters to African Amer-
ican Historical Culcural Program ‘92 recipients, June 10,
1991 through December 31, 1991.

Douglas Homer, Bachelors Candidate, Davis and Elkins Col-
lege. Division of Science and Technology, assist, document,
and provide fellowship in the engineering and industries di-
vision project, the Heinz Collection, June 13, 1991 through
August I5, 1991.

Barbara Hoyniak, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, assist in
creating a detailed photographic index for 21 bound photo-
graph volumes in the collection #156, the Jackson and
Sharp and American Car and Foundry records; photos will
be surveyed and data recorded about each, September 18,
1991 through December 31, 1991.

Dottie Huntress, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University.
Internship Office, assist with orientation of incoming in-
terns for the summer of 1991; review current process, make
recommendations for improvement, and implement those
recommendations, May 22, 1991 through July 5, 1991.

Kimberly Jacobsen, Bachelors Candidate, University of
[llinois—Urbana-Champaign. Office of the Registrar, cata-

7O

logue and organize Princeton Poster Collection, June 17,
1991 through August 2, 1991.

Rolanda Jefferson, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Project in African American Culture, program coordination
for the 1992 season, September 9, 1991 through December
31, 1991.

Jean Johnson, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Public
Programs, production assistant for Program in African-
American Culcures—Civil Rights Movement History, June
10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Steven Johnson, Bachelors Candidate, North Dakota State
University. Division of Architecture History, research on
2oth century architecture in Washington, DC, June 3, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

Victoria Kane, Bachelors Candidate, Loyola University—New
Orleans. Office of Education, locate, procure, research, and
interpret materials/artifacts for Science in American Life ex-
hibit; develop educational strategies/materials; prototype
label copy/historic presentation material; other administra-
tive duties, May 22, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

John Kelly, Bachelors Degree. Academic Programs, Editorial in-
tern for American Quarterly, May 9, 1991 through June 29, 1991.

Vicky King, Bachelors Candidate, Lee College. Department of
Social and Cultural History, archive research with photos
for exhibit “19th Century Black Americans and Cherokee
Indians, June 26, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Heung Lan Kot, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Registrar's Office, gain an overview of the collec-
tion management function of the registrar's office by
working in each of the major units of the office including:
accessions, loans, OPF, master plan, and off-site storage; ad-
dress issues related to administration, budget, policy, and
inventory and audit requirements, May 13, 1991 through
August 8, 1991.

Matthew Kowalczyk, Bachelors Candidate, University of De-
troit. Office of Education, Science in American Life Curric-
ulum Project, June 25, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Paul Kramer, Masters Degree. Archives Center, compile a cata-
logue of the N.W. Ayer Collection of advertising history,
July 8, 1991 through September 15, 1991.

Peter Lachmann, Bachelors Candidate, Hartwich College. De-
partment of Social and Cultural History, exhibit dealing
with sports artifacts, June 24, 1991 through August 3, 1991.

Kendra Lambert, Bachelors Candidate, Auburn University. Ex-
hibits Design, assist in the finished stages of American En-
counters: create symbol sets and graphic techniques,
colorations of environments and imagery, create camera ready
art, color separations, June 17, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Kristina Lassen, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Housing and Design, assistant to designer;
drawing, building models, and working with CAD, Janu-
ary 29, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Kristianna Ledesma, High School Graduate. Smithsonian
Early Enrichment Center, participant in “Intern 91,” July
15, 1991 through August 16, 1991.
Karen Lee, High School Graduate. Division of Armed Forces
History, assist in sorting, recording, and mailing of objects;
return the reference collection artifacts excavated from un-
derwater wrecks, June 17, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Brenda Levy, Bachelors Degree. Research for “Science in
American Life” exhibit, September 4, 1991 through Septem-
ber 4, 1992.

Cheryl Levy, Bachelors Candidate, University of Rhode Is-
land. Office of Education, assistant program coordinator;
focus on organization and research related to a future travel-
ing exhibition entitled “The Perpetual Campaign,” January
31, 1991 through May 3, 1991.

Deborah Linn, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University. Na-
tional Numismatics Collection, assist two collections man-
agers with rehousing and conservation, June 3, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

Karen Lund, Bachelors Degree. Office of the Registrar, assis-
tance to ongoing collections management program of the
“1876: A Centennial Exhibition” in the Arts and Industries
Building, January 21, 1991 through May 5, 1991.

Joshua Lupkin, Bachelors Candidate. Division of Political His-
tory, work on land policy in 19th century west, especially
government distribution, June 24, 1991 through August 17,
1991.

Robert MacSweeney, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wis-
consin-Madison. Division of Political History, photo and
object research for the Presidency exhibit and publications,
April 15, 1991 through June 7, 1991.

Nadine Maleh, Bachelors Degree. Division of Architectural
History, conduct research on the architecture of Washing-
ton, DC; archival research on various libraries, May 28, 1991
through May 1, 1992.

Jean Mansavage, Doctoral Candidate, Texas A&M University.
Department of Social and Cultural History, assist with re-
search on Children in the Cold War Era and Rock and
Roll, May 28, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Amigh Mariani, Masters Candidate, University of Pittsburgh.
Office of Education, activity development for the new
hands-on-history room, June 3, 1991 through September 13,
1991.

Charlotte Marshall, Bachelors Degree. Academic Programs,
edit American Quarterly, August 28, 1991 through December
31, 1991.

Ken Masters, Bachelors Candidate. American Indian Pro-
gram, research design and design techniques of traditional
Southeastern Cherokee pottery, January 16, 1991 through
March 29, 1991.

Paul Martin, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Division of Armed Forces History, participate
in an inventory and reorganization of the National Fire-
arms Collection, September 4, 1991 through December 15,
1991.

Rossella Matamoros, Masters Degree. Public Programs, re-
search outreach hands-on projects for “ American Encoun-
ters Exhibition,” June 17, 1991 through August 17, 1991.

Lisa Mattoni, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at
Davis. Office of Exhibits, assist in current exhibit produc-
tion projects, July 1, 1991 through August 27, 1991.

Maudi Matz, High School Graduate. Office of the Registrar,
participant in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through July 12,
1991.

Amy Mendel, Bachelors Degree. Office of Public Affairs, par-
ticipate in several major functions of public affairs work, in-
cluding drafting press releases, preparing photo files, and
responding to press inquiries and requests, January 7, 1991
through May 17, 1991.

Naomi Mezey, Masters Candidate, University of Minnesota.
Division of Community Life, 1939 World's Fair Collection
and “Origins of Rock ‘n’ Roll in Memphis” exhibit, June
17, 1991 through August 20, 1991.

Lara Milauickas, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio University. Office
of Education, assist in development of education programs
for the American Encounters project, September 9, 1991
through December 20, 1991.

Barbara Miles, Bachelors Degree. Division of Printing, press
and printing demonstrations, June 24, 1991 through Au-
gust 22, 1991.

David Miller, Masters Candidate, George Mason University.
Division of Domestic Life, work on revising the “After the
Revolution” exhibition, February 12, 1991 through April
30, 1991.

Laura Minkin, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives
Center, work with the Duke Ellington Collection, Septem-
ber 3, 1991 through December 22, 1991.

Valerie Moses, Bachelors Degree. Office of Internship and Fel-
lowship, increase outreach to diverse populations by visit-
ing appropriate personnel in area colleges and universities,
June 4, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Gregory Mueller. Division of Transportation, research and ex-
hibits, June 17, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Matthew Mullaney, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College.
Division of Community Life, Black Colleges—securing
loan objects, assist in preparing for traveling show; “Field
to Factory”—compile reference booklet for new designer of
children’s track; assistant for 19th or 18th century project,
November 26, 1990 through January 21, 1991.

Erica Myers, Bachelors Candidate. Division of Community
Life, research on gender and racial stereotypes in cover
graphics and lyrics of popular music relating to sport be-
tween 1840 and 1960, June 10, 1991 through August 16,
1991.

Laurie Nagy, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives
Center/Advertising History, research the creative revolu-
tion in advertising and design, September 3, 1991 through
December 22, 1991.

Theresa Napson, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Program in African American Culture, develop a file on

19th and 20th century black protest traditions and black
women in U.S. History, September 9, 1991 through Novem-
ber 30, 1991.

7!
Anna Nariani, High School Graduate. Division of Electricity
and Modern Physics, participant in “Intern 91,” June 10,
1991 through July 12, 1991.

Sandra Narva, Bachelors Degree. Division of Political History,
assist on preparation of materials, and organization of logis-
tical details for the First Ladies exhibition, June 3, 1991
through August 30, 1991.

Aaron Nawrocki, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State Univer-
sity. Office of Internships and Fellowship, assistant intern-
ship and fellowship coordinator, October 1, 1990 through
December 4, 1990.

Elizabeth Nephew, Masters Candidate, University of Wiscon-
sin-Madison. Department of History of Science and Tech-
nology, research Seneca images, March 4, 1991 through
April 26, 1991.

Clinton Neuguth, Bachelors Candidate, State University of
New York—Oneonta. Division of Musical History, restora-
tion, preservation, and display of rare musical instruments,
January 22, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Alexandra Ogilvie, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conser-
vation, general conservation projects, August 5, 1991
through August 31, 1991.

Sarah Orndorff, Bachelors Degree. Office of Education, research to
help develop educational curricula for the “Science in American
Life” exhibit, September 30, 1991 through November 29, 1991.

Scot Orriss, Bachelors Candidate, Marymount University. Of-
fice of Exhibits and Design, analyze and interpret lighting
design found in museum exhibits, July 2, 1991 through No-
vember 1, 1991.

Christopher Page, Bachelors Candidate, University of Mary-
land. Office of Public Programs, production assistant on
several programs in African American culture, March 18,
1991 through May 31, 1991.

Paul Pallansch. Office of Exhibit Design, participate in all
major meetings pertaining to the First Ladies Project;
construct four scale models that will serve as the primary
elements in the fundraising campaign for the project,
February 19, 1991 through April 19, 1991.

Irene Papanestor, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Di-
vision of Architectural History, research on 20th century ar-
chitecture in Washington, DC, June 3, 1991 through
August 16, I99I.

Melissane Parm, Bachelors Degree. Program in African-Amer-
ican Cultures, assist with bibliographic research and plan-
ning for the 1992 conference on the African diaspora, June
3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Caroline Pelton, Masters Degree. Office of Museum Pro-
grams, develop curriculum and learn the process for exhib-
its and program development for Museum Studies
Programs at Ellington School of the Arts, June 20, 1991
through August 30, I99I.

Ann Pfau, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Division of Political History, research on industrialization
in the United States during the late 19th century, Septem-
ber 3, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

72

Leah Pisano, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Department of the History of Science and Technology, ar-
chitectural research related co the architectural history of
Washington, DC, May 29, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Scott Poole, Bachelors Degree. Division of Community Life,
research and develop projects for the Division of Commu-
nity Life, January 7, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Scott Poole, Bachelors Degree. Division of Public Programs,
assist in the development and implementation of the cul-
tural reporter outreach project, September 27, 1991 through
December 31, 1991.

Molly Powell, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Caro-
lina. Division of Armed Forces History, assist in organizing
a temporary exhibit of NATO mannequins; permanent ex-
hibit on World War II soldiers; individual project for stor-
ing various artifacts, July 8, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

John Prokos, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Division of Armed Forces History, assist in various tasks re-
lating to the Naval History and Marine Corps History sec-
tions of the Museum, June 17, 1991 through August 17, 1991.

Paige Purcell, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Office of
Public Programs, general intern for programs concerning
race relations over the past 500 years in the Rio Grande area
of New Mexico, June 7, 1991 through August 27, 1991.

Mindy Putterman, Bachelors Candidate, University of Mary-
land. Design, assist the designer with a variety of exhibit
fabrication, detailing work on “American Encounters,” Au-
gust 13, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Rama Ramakrishna, Bachelors Degree. African American
Communities Project, assist research in Afro-American
Communities Project—focusing on social, political, and
economic structure and activities of northern black commu-
nities before the 18th Century, January 7, 1991 through
April 26, 1991.

Christian Ramey, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio Wesleyan Uni-
versity. Office of the Registrar, assist on a major rehousing
project of collections from the Division of Music History,
June 3, 1991 through August 20, 1991.

Sridhar Rao, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of the History of Science and Technology, as-
sist with “Science in American Life” exhibition with focus
on developing a computer-based interactive display, June 3,
1991 through August 9, I99I.

Paul Retzbach, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Office of Exhibit Design, assist in exhibit design (Colum-
bus) as assistant to the designer; concentrate on the se-
quence of design responsibilities for the American
Encounters Exhibition; responsibilities include preparation
of site, documentation drawings, selection of materials, etc,
January 8, 1991 through April 26, 1991.

Nicole Renvent, Bachelors Candidate, Haus der Gestidte.
Division of Political History, research for the forthcom-
ing installation devoted to life in the U.S. during the
late 19th century, August 5, 1991 through September 10,

1991.
James Rhoderick, Bachelors Candidate, Swarthmore College.
Division of Political History, assist with research on pro-
jects relating to the American presidency and its social ac-
tivist role in the 20th century; research concerning

westward expansion, June 10, 1991 through August 20, 1991.

Heidi Robinson, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Divi-
sion of Engineering and Industry, assist in development of
a window display on the heating and cooling of homes and
how these considerations affect the architecture of build-
ings, September 3, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Cynthia Rose, Bachelors Degree. Internship Office, assist in
building a sense of community among interns and serve as
a peer advisor for them, September 13, 1991 through Decem-
ber 31, 1991.

Claire Ryan, Bachelors Candidate, Kenyon College. Division
of Museum Programs, pursue directed research in the devel-
opment of music as an element in American advertising on
radio and television, January 28, 1991 through April 23,
199.

Gretchen Schneider, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Di-
vision of Architectural History, research for projects related
to architectural history of Washington, DC, May 26, 1991
through August 25, 1991.

Karen Seese. Division of Political History, First Ladies Ex-
hibit: assist with all aspects of exhibit production—loca-
tion and coordination of objects, transporting paper objects
to photo service, assist photo researcher with photo re-
quests, January 8, 1991 through March 31, 1991.

Kevin Sheets, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Divi-
sion of Political History, directed research on a Baltimore
parade of Whigs and their supporters held in 1844; address
the reasons for the parade, the political and culrural make-
up of the group, and the significance of the event at that
time, January 31, 1991 through April 26, 1991.

Ari Sheinkin, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Division of Armed Forces History, catalogue and re-
search, September 5, 1991 through December 15, 1991.

Laura Shepherd, Bachelors Candidate, University of Georgia.
Division of Armed Forces History, rehouse and photograph
collections of 19th century U.S. Military headwear; research
and document objects, June 17, 1991 through August 28,
1991.

Kristen Slater, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Caro-
lina—Greensboro. Division of Armed Forces History, re-
search and documentation on development of women’s
military uniforms in the US, June 3, 1991 through August
9, 1991.

Carol Slatick, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Division of Armed Forces History, day-to-day activ-
ity; catalogue and research, September 4, 1991 through
December 9, 1991.

Jessica Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman College. Pro-
gram of African-American Culture, assist with completion
of annotated bibliography on the African diaspora, June 3,
1991 through August 9, 1991.

Pamela Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Tulane University. Publi-
cations Division, develop skills on desktop publishing; ex-
plore museum graphic opportunities; produce publications
related to Quincentenary programs, June 26, 1991 through
August 20, 1991.

Sarah Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives
Center, assist in the cataloging of the Underwood and Un-
derwood Glass and Stereograph Collection, September 3,
1991 through December 20, 1991.

Jennifer Songster-Burnett, Masters Candidate, University of
Maryland. Archives Center, concentrate on the stereographs
in the Warshaw Collection; organize the collection; com-
plete documentation; and develop a finder's aid, February
7, 1991 through May 17, 1991.

Steven Stark, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland-
Baltimore. National Numismatics Collection, assistant to
collections manager; participate in all phases of the collec-
tions management with special focus on coins, tokens, and
archival materials, March 1, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Steven Stark, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland-
Baltimore. National Numismatic Collection, participate in
all aspects of collection processes, September 31, 1991
through December 17, 1991.

Daryl! Stuart, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Department of Social and Cultural History, collections
management assistant in Conservation, Registration, Exhib-
its Project Management, and Storage; apply collections
management principals to daily activities, to observe the re-
lationship between activities, and to identify management
problems and solutions, May 1, 1991 through August 2,
1991.

Hillery Scubbs, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and
Mary. Division of Musical History, assise in research in
preparation for the upcoming exhibit on Duke Ellington,
June 3, 1991 through August 21, 1991.

Samuel Stueland, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University.
Department of Social and Cultural History, photographic
research for lecture on the Afro-American community in
Washington, DC from 1925-1960, May 28, 1991 through
August 16, I99I.

Samuel Stueland, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University.
Division of Engineering and Industry, research environmen-
tal engineering, September 11, 1991 through December 31,
1991.

Yuka Sugiura, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Divi-
sion of Architectural History, research on 20th century ar-
chitecture in Washington, DC, June 3, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

John Summerford, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Education, member of the design
team for the Learning Center of the “Science in American
Life” exhibit, November 1, 1990 through May 30, 1991.

Harmonos Swan III, Bachelors Candidate, George Washing-
ton University. Division of Armed Forces History, identifi-
cation of Marine artifacts; study and research maritime

73
history; assist in rehousing of artifacts dismantled from past
exhibitions and record the new location, June 3, 1991
through August 3, 1991.

Jeffrey Sweet, Bachelors Degree. Division of Armed Forces
History, assist administrator for social, cultural, science,
and technology in the day-to-day running of both depart-
ments: procurement, budgets, finance, personnel, etc.;
work with assorted computer programs; assist in computer
training; set up both computerized and hard copy files and
databases, September 23, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Kathryn Tarleton, Masters Candidate, University of Rhode Is-
land. Department of Conservation, work with First Ladies
gowns collection, July 8, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Stefanie Thielemann, Bachelors Candidate, University of Cali-
fornia-Davis, assist on the “First Ladies—Political Role,
Public Image” exhibit; learn the process of designing, pro-
ducing, and installing a museum exhibit, specifically pro-
duction notes, drawings, schedules, template and model
making, September 25, 1991 through December 16, 1991.

Lisa Thompson, Bachelors Degree. Division of Community
Life, assist with graphics for the American Encounters proj-
ect, September 11, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

Kristin Tichy, Bachelors Candidate, Hope College. National
Numismatics Collection, assist with acquisition procedures
for two collections of Greek coins; assist with cataloguing
and another collections management procedures for the col-
lection of US coins and for foreign medals, January 21, 1991
through March 1, 1991.

Helen Todd, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Office of Computer Services, assist with computer systems
administration and applications programming for the SUN
network, May 20, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Herbert Toler, Bachelors Degree. Archives Center, research
and preliminary indexing of the Duke Ellington scrap-
books; assist with several appearances of the SI orchestra,

June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Sheila Torres, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University. De-
partment of the History of Science and Technology, assist
with preparation of scripts for three exhibits in the “Science
in America” exhibit, June 24, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Rebecca VanDyck, Bachelors Degree. Division of Commu-
nity Life, assist in “History of Rock 'n’ Roll” and “Life
in the 20th Century,” August 5, 1991 through November
30, 1991.

Alyx Vu, High School Graduate. Archives Center, partici-
pant in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Denise Wagner, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New
York-Purchase. Office of Exhibits, Work in exhibit produc-
tion graphic shop, June 10, 1991 through June 28, 1991.

Monika Wahi, Bachelors Candidate, University of Minne-
sota—Twin Cities. Division of Costume, research/display
with 18th and 19th century gowns, April 8, 1991 through

June 14, 1991.

Sylvia Wall, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of
Musical History, research of religion in the life of Duke El-

74

lington, especially his sacred concert pieces, June 3, 1991
through August 9, 1991.

Wendy Wallace, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Common-
wealth University. National Numismatic Collection, orga-
nize camera room; plan for storage of large equipment;
label microphotographic slides, May 20, 1991 through Au-
gust 16, 1991.

Brad Weaver, Bachelors Candidate, Perdue University. Assist
Director of Budget and Finance, budget, accounting, and
personnel analyses to support the work of the central ad-
ministrative office, June 3, 1991 through August 10, 1991.

Abby Williams, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Di-
vision of Architectural History, research of architecture of
Washington, DC in the 20th century, June 18, 1991 through
August 22, 1991.

Reginald Wills, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Archives Center, research and preliminary indexing
of the Duke Ellington Scrapbooks, June 3, 1991 through Au-
gust 9, 1991.

Leslie Womble, Bachelors Degree. Office of Education, assist
in preparation and execution of promotion and publicity
for museum exhibitions; draft correspondence, conduct
photo research, and develop target lists, June 4, 1991
through September 1, 1991.

Amy Woods, Bachelors Candidate, Huntington College. Mu-
seum Programs, assist in the development and production
of public programs and educational audio-visual products,
January 22, 1991 through May 3, 1991.

Bonnie Wuthener- Wadsworth, Museum Professional,
Shoshone-Bannock Tribal Museum. Department of the His-
tory of Science and Technology, exhibit design, February 11,
1991 through May 3, 1991.

Eugene Yancey, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conserva-
tion, participate in the conservation of mats composed of
woven plant material, November 5, 1990 through Novem-
ber 5, 1991.

Daria Young, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman College. Depart-
ment of Social and Cultural History, assist in developing
and organizing the Quincentenary exhibit; object acquisi-
tion, storage, and indexing, June 3, 1991 through August 9,
1991.

Helen Young, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conservation,
assist in preparation of objects for exhibition; participate in
treatment of collection materials, October 9, 1990 through
October 9, 1991.

National Museum of the American Indian

Ella-Christine Fischer-White, Bachelors Candidate,
Hochschule der Kunste. National Campaign Office,
fundraising as research, public relations, and help plan spe-
cial events, August 8, 1991 through October 11, 1991.
National Museum of Natural History

Anthony Altucher. Department of Anthropology, assist the cu-
rator of Asian ethnology, September 9, 1991 through De-
cember 27, 1991.

George Bennett III, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington
College. Department of Paleobiology, identification of
Lower Permian fossils extracted from matrix, to determine
makeup of fauna as preserved and concentration of fossils in
the sediment, September 13, 1991 through December 31,
1991.

Andrew Bickford, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason Uni-
versity. Department of Anthropology, lithic analysis of a
stone tool assemblage from a Mississippian village site,
Snodgrass, dating to ca. 1300 AD, January 24, 1991 through
May 14, 1991.

Christopher Blalock, High School Student, Bolles School. Ma-
rine Systems Laboratory, plankton research, June 20, 1991
through August 30, 1991.

Jennifer Brathovde, Masters Candidate, University of Wash-
ington. Department of Anthropology, process the papers of
Helen White Peterson; organize, describe, and produce in-
ventory of Peterson's manuscript materials, April 15, 1991
through July 5, 1991.

Jim Breiler, Masters Candidate, University of Washington.
Department of Anthropology, research on museum design
for planning building layout; research on material related
to Plateau Tribes, in particular, those from the Confeder-
ated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, April 8, 1991
through June 14, 1991.

Cathleen Brown, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Mineral Science, detailed mineralogical and
geochemical study of gem-bearing pegmatites of western
Maine, March 25, 1991 through September 30, 1991.

Wendi-Starr Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth Col-
lege. Department of Anthropology, research and editorial
work on the Handbook of North American Indians, June
10, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Marcus Burrowes-Birhan, High School Graduate. Office of Ex-
hibits, participanc in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through
July 12, 1991.

Judith Buzzi, Visiting Professional. Office of Education, de-
velop biographies of minority natural scientist, with class-
room activities for elementary school teachers, July 1, 1991
through August 9, 1991.

Julie Carlton, Bachelors Candidate, University of Arizona. De-
partment of Paleobiology, work with various collections
and projects concerning the paleobotany of Illinois, May
28, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Mitchell Carmona, Masters Candidate, Indiana University. De-
partment of Anthropology, Omaha Tribal Catalogue, May
28, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Carrie Carrel, Bachelors Candidate, New College of the Uni-
versity of South Florida. Department of Botany, review the

collection of Edgar Anderson and confirm vouchers
through chromosome description in the literature, May 27,
1991 through August 2, 1991.

Emilia Casillas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas at
El Paso. Department of Botany, compilation of Illustrations
for the Medicinal Flora of the Philippines as well as the
Guianas, May 28, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Angela Cavender, Bachelors Candidate, University of Minne-
sota. Department of Anthropology, research on U-S.-
Dakota conflict and the Christianization of the Dakota
people, July 1, 1991 through September 6, 1991.

Darika Chanachote, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthro-
pology, set up bibliographic database on Indonesian mate-
rial, January 14, 1991 through April 5, 1991.

Kisha Chase, High School Student, F.W. Ballou Senior High
School. Office of Education, participate in workshops and
assist with workshops in the Summer Teacher Institute,
June 27, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Ann Chipperfield, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthro-
pology, collection of source materials and data for database
on the ecological characteristics of modern environments
for comparison with ancient ecosystem, June 13, 1991
through December 31, 1991.

Meng Choo, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Labora-
tory of Molecular Systematics, analysis of genetic and mor-
phological relationships between species of Manakin in
Panama, May 27, 1991 through August 4, 1991.

Juanita Cole, High School Student, F.W. Ballou Senior High
School. Office of Education, participate in workshops and
assist with the workshops in the Summer Teacher Institute,
June 27, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Pamela Conrad, Doctoral Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Global Volcanism, help gather and disseminate in-
formation about volcanic activity and earthquakes; help
prepare illustrations and other material for the Bulletin of the
Global Volcanism Network and the book of Global Volcanism,
1986-1990, September 10, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Geronima Cortese, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason Uni-
versity. Office of Quincentenary Programs, work on a trav-
eling panel exhibit that discusses how, when Columbus
arrived in the New World, two worlds met and changed
the world, May 28, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Michael Crockett, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.
Division of Amphibians and Reptiles, age determination in
the green sea turtle, using skeletochnenology and investiga-
tion into evolution of skink genus Emola using cladistics,
June 3, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Nick Dechman, High School Student, Jefferson High School.
Laboratory of Molecular Systematics, assist on various pro-
jects, June 17, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Elizabeth DeFilippo, Bachelors Candidate, George Washing-
ton University. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, collate,
edit, and enroll cetacean strandings information for the ma-
rine mammal events program, February 11, 1991 through
August 30, 1991.

75
Dianna Drummond, Masters Degree. Department of Anthro-
pology, experience in textile conservation in an ethno-
graphic collection, July 9, 1991 through October 4, 1991.

Ladda Duckworth, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Department of Anthropology, help in final prep-
arations for “Beyond the Java Sea,” January U1, 1991 through
March 31, 1991.

Laura Evans, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Physical Anthropology, study of prehistoric skull
surgery in South America, May 28, 1991 through August
30, 1991.

Virginia Feria, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, work with
visitors conducting feedings, insect handlings, and public
demonstrations; daily preparation of exhibits and the care
of insect cultures in the rearing room, June 17, 1991
through August 9, 1991.

Gina Fuentes, Masters Candidate, George Mason University.
Department of Anthropology, catalogue Latin American
film collections, January 7, 1991 through March 29, 1991.

Holly Ganz, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Department of Botany, projects in Pacific Island
plants: x-ray analysis of venation patterns to determine phy-
logenetic relationships becween two genera in the Com-
positae, May 28, 1991 through August 4, 1991.

Jose Garcia-Lopez, Bachelors Candidate, University of Puerto
Rico. Department of Vertebrate Zoology/Herpetology, ana-
lyze advertisement call variation in frog species, May 28,
1991 through August 2, 1991.

R. Douglas Gitar, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wiscon-
sin—Superior. Department of Botany, Commelinaceae Re-
search/X-tay of leaves; study of anatomical and morphological
features of leaf venation of fresh pressed, dried, and rehydrated
specimens, May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Heidi Gjerset, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Department of Anthropology, collections manage-
ment projects with a conservation oversight, February 25,
1991 through May I, 1991.

Grace Haggerty, Bachelors Degree. Department of Mineral
Sciences, Fluid inclusion, geochemical, and petrologic in-
vestigation of type-c eceogitis of the circumpacific and car-
ibbean, January 15, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Jamel Harvey, High School Scudent, T.C. Williams High
School. Office of Education, participate in workshops and
assist with workshops in the Summer Teacher Institute,
June 28, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Laura Hill, Visiting Professional. Naturalist Center,
illustrations for booklet on comparative human osteology,
July 15, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Tristram Hill, Bachelors Candidate, University of Vermont.
Department of Botany, biological diversity of the Guianas;
Werneria research, May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

James Himphill, Bachelors Degree. Human Studies Film Ar-
chives, assist in cataloging the film archives collections of
Oceanic film; help process a small film collection, June 3,
1991 through August 9, 1991.

76

Huey-ing Jeng, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Deparcment of Ancthropology/Conservation Labora-
tory, hands on experience on ethnological collections
within collection management concentration, September 3,
1991 through November 13, 1991.

Micah Jenkins, High School Graduate. Museum Support Cen-
ter Move Office, participant in “Intern 91"—moving and
cleaning Southwest pottery, June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Mary Jennings. Department of Anthropology, assist in the
North American Hall project and in the administration of
the American Indian Program, September 16, 1991 through
January 31, 1992.

Karen Jones, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthropology,
assist in gathering background information on the history
of African-American settlements in the Eastern Shore of
Maryland, June 3, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Mark Jordan, Bachelors Candidate, Luther College. Depart-
ment of Vertebrate Zoology/Herpetology, determination of
sex and its relation to the biology of the Brown Tree Snake
(Boiga irregularis), May 27, 1991 through August 21, 1991.

Senain Kheshgi, Bachelors Degree. Human Study Film Ar-
chives, film cataloging and preservation.

Maria Kiriakiou, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Department of Anthropology, study of the archaeo-
logical Greek collections and of an American lithic
collection, September 3, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Wendy Kline, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Hand-
book of North American Indians, research of photographs
of Native Americans at che turn of the century by
Benedecte Wrensted, September 3, 1991 through December
20, 1991.

Teal Krech, High School Student, Miss Porter's School. Move
Office, assistant to museum technicians and conservators,
January 7, 1991 through February 1, 1991.

Erica Krug, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Of-
fice of Education, research and interviews pertaining to ele-
mentary and secondary school curriculum as it relates to
“Seeds of Change” exhibit; assist in workshop preparations,
September 23, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Scott LaGreca, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, Flora
of St. John's Island: includes processing field collections,
making labels, distributing duplicates, and locating recent
and historical St. John’s Island collections, May 27, 1991
through August 2, 1991.

Edward Lippert, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Department of Anthropology, research assistant investigat-
ing chiefdom, theories, applied specifically to the
ethnohistorical literature on the Tupinumba, April 2, 1991
through June 22, 1991.

Dana Lipscomb, High School Student, Northwestern High
School. Office of Education, participate in workshops and
assist with workshops in the Summer Teacher Institute,
June 28, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Lynda Liu, Bachelors Candidate, Yale College. Department of
Entomology, produce scientific illustrations in the field of
entomology suitable for publication in research papers,
June 11, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Richard Lupia III, Bachelors Candidate, University of Penn-
sylvania. Department of Paleobiology, Landscape heteroge-
neity in the Permian, May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Carlos Maldonado, Bachelors Candidate, University of Puerto
Rico. Department of Botany, research the importance of the
reproductive structures in the systematics of Halimeda,
May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Audrey Manring, High School Student, Thomas Jefferson
High School. Office of Education, assist in organization of
Summer Teacher Institute, June 27, 1991 through August
9, 1991.

Heidi Marse, Bachelors Candidate, Scripps College. Office of
Public Affairs, assist with publicity, media relations, and
special events/feacures, September 18, 1991 through Decem-
ber 20, 1991.

Amy Mauldin, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Of-
fice of Public Affairs, assist the Public Relations Depart-
ment with publicity, media relations, and special
events/features, January 24, 1991 through April 19, 1991.

R.J.R. McCleary, Bachelors Candidate, Western Michigan
University. Department of Vertebrate Zoology/Herpetol-
ogy, Catalogue of American Amphibians and Reptiles, May
27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Marta McCormick, High School Graduate. Marine Systems
Laboratory, participate in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Christopher McDermott, Bachelors Candidate, Appalachian
State University. Physical Anthropology, catalogue, inven-
tory, and preserve skeletal collections; analysis of archaeo-
logical Great Plains skeletal collection, May 27, 1991
through August 20, 1991.

Jill McElderry, Bachelors Candidate, Swarthmore College. De-
partment of Paleobiology, paleobiology in Wyoming; labo-
ratory technique work including x-ray analysis, and field
work, May 27, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Jay McGirt, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthropology,
research southeastern clothing and textiles, November 5,
1990 through December 14, 1990.

Jay McGirt, Community Scholar. Department of Anthropol-
ogy, research southeastern clothing and textiles, March 10,
1991 through March 30, 1991.

Jon Mellis, Bachelors Candidate, Johns Hopkins University.
Fellowship Office, research and explore topics in American
history that historiographical interpretation has greatly var-
ied during different time periods; specifically look at how
history text books have depicted certain experiences in the
American story, February 7, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

Heidi Miner, High School Graduate. Department of Anthro-
pology, participant in “Intern 91”—assist in research of a
photographer, June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Sarah Mitchell, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthropol-
ogy, research expatriate communities in colonial Africa,
June 3, 1991 through August 31, 1991.

Mary Jean Mund, Bachelors Degree. Department of Verte-
brate Zoology/Mammnals, food habits of Scalomys
melanops: study the stomach contents of preserved speci-
mens of a South American mouse to determine whether or
not it eats, and therefore is a transporter of mycorrhizal
fungi, May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Zain Muse, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman College. Office of
Education, assist with Native American Public Program-
ming, June 3, 1991 through August 24, 1991.

Carolyn Myers, Bachelors Candidate, Dickinson College.
Move Office, assist with packing, transport, and restorage
of anthropology collections, January 3, 1991 through Janu-
ary 25, 1991.

Tracey Neese, High School Graduate. Department of Anthro-
pology, participate in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through Au-
gust 16, 1991.

Elizabeth Obee, Bachelors Candidate, Louisiana State Univer-
sity. Department of Botany, analyze Werneria nubigena for
variability in specimens which may determine varieties or
species, May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Sonja Olsen, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Move
Office, assist with packing, transport, and restorage of an-
chropology collections, January 7, 1991 through March 15, 1991.

Lori Olson, Bachelors Candidate, Sc. Olaf College. Develop-
ment Office, assist in researching potential donors for pro-
jects in NMNH; work with special events office to
coordinate cultivational receptions, January 25, 1991
through May 30, 1991.

Illena Ortegon, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, ma-
rine algae of the Yucatan Peninsula, May 27, 1991 through
August 2, 1991.

Ashley Pierce, Bachelors Candidate, Haverford Coilege. De-
partment of Anthropology, research education in colonial
East Africa, June 3, 1991 through August I, 1991.

Raul Puente, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, plant
conservation in Latin America: the endangered cacti of
Mexico, May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Marcy Resnick, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Office of Public Affairs, assist with publicity, media rela-
tions, and special events/features, June 7, 1991 through Au-
gust 2, 1991.

George Rosario, Bachelors Candidate, Long Island University.
Office of Exhibits, various projects relating to the mainte-
nance and monitoring of living marine ecosystems, June 3,
1991 through August 9, 1991.

Karen Rosenblatt, Masters Degree. Department of Anthropol-
ogy, Conservation projects on Polynesian barkcloth: move
collections to the Support Center, rehouse physical collec-
tion, June 14, 1991 through December 14, 1991.

Steven Ross, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. An-
thropological Archives, investigation into the papers of
Ales Hrdlicka, with emphasis on photographs relating to
the Panama-California Exposition of 1915, and the manu-
script autobiography, My Journeys, June 27, 1991 through
December 31, 1991.
Benjamin Salisbury, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. De-
partment of Vertebrate Zoology/Mammals, morphometric
analysis of cranial development in two species of opossum,
May 27, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Pamela San Miguel, Bachelors Degree. Department of Pale-
obiology, study evolution of terrestrial Ecosystems, March
4, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

Jan Schlamp, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, assist
in the production of the Biological Conservation newslet-
ter; write feature articles and scanning new books and jour-
nals for references; compile an index of articles from
previous issues and transfer bibliographic information from
a word-processing program into a database, March 1, 1991
through July 26, 1991.

Lori Schlenker, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maine.
Move Office, assist with the project to move the Anthropol-
ogy collection from old storage facilities to a new storage
building; work with collections management, technicians,
conservation staff, and the move office, January 28, 1991
through May u, 1991.

Michelle Schneider, High School Graduate. Department of
Anthropology, participant in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991
through July 12, 1991.

Aaron Seliquini, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. De-
partment of Anthropology, Archaeological Cataloguing —
Panama (Stirling)-processing laboratory, January 2, 1991
through January 29, 1991.

Diana Shia, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia.
Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, sort and iden-
tify copepods, May 13, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Kathy Short, Bachelors Candidate, Rhodes College. Move Of-
fice, museum technician, general, and anthropology, Sep-
tember 3, 1991 through December 14, 1991.

Maria Slaboda, Bachelors Degree. Department of Mineral Sci-
ence, Global Volcanism Report; weekly and 5-year compila-
tion, May 13, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Dena Smith, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at
Santa Cruz. Department of Paleobiology, chart localities
from last year's collections, x-ray leaves from Herbarium,
collect fossil plants in Wyoming, June 17, 1991 through Au-
gust 4, 1991.

Katherine Spilde, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Department of Anthropology, standardize and
update Samoan Collection; research unlabeled or unidenti-
fied objects that are linked to Oleania or Samoa Island
Group, August 26, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Cynthia Stapp, Masters Candidate, Johns Hopkins University.
Office of Public Affairs, write, prepare, and disseminate
press materials, pitch and service media, plan and staff
press events, coordinate and staff film shoots, develop strat-
egy for upcoming exhibits, June 10, 1991 through October
26, 1991.

Brian Stone, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthropology,
cataloguing archaeology, January 4, 1991 through August
31, 1991.

78

Hong Suh, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania.
Department of Anthropology, assist with preparation of an-
notation for items in the Korean ethnology collections and
compilation of bibliography of published sources, June 3,
1991 through August 9, 1991.

Christine Uberti, Masters Candidate, University of Tennes-
see—Knoxville. Department of Anthropology, assist in cat-
aloging, inventory, and preservation of skeletal collection,
June 3, 1991 through August 10, 1991.

Allison Wagner, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Office of Development, research prospective donors for vari-
ous projects, September 12, 1991 through December 20,
1991.

Michael Walsh, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Department of Anthropology, study and analysis of archaeo-
logical collections and ethnohistorical materials pertaining
to Native Alaskan Eskimo and Indian groups, June 3, 1991
through July 31, 1991.

Susannah Wilson, Bachelors Degree. Department of Anthro-
pology, museum technician, general anthropology, Septem-
ber 3, 1991 through December 1, 1991.

Vern Woodruff, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, partici-
pant in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Ingrid Wright-Rich, Masters Candidate, Howard University.
Naturalist Center, teach NC classes, develop NC activities,
work with teachers, assist the educational specialise with ad-
ministrative activities related to the project. January 28,
1991 through September 30, 1991.

Ho Jung Yoo, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Vertebrate
Zoology, assist in studies of how skull morphology changes
with size; using a 3-dimensional digitizen, intern will com-
pare dara on SE Asian flying squirrels with those of tree
and ground squirrels, May 13, 1991 through July 19, 1991.

National Portrait Gallery

John Arlotto, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Office
of Education, assist with the overall coordination of the
“How Do You Look?” and “Making a Marisol” family work-
shops; photo documentation; design program notes for
CIM programs, June 3, 1991 through August 15, 1991.

Rico Barnes, High School Student, H.D. Woodson. Office of
Education, daily office duties: xeroxing, filing, typing, etc;
research of portraiture and historical dramatizations, July 8,
1991 through August 9, 1991.

Nicole Becks, Bachelors Candidate, Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity. Library, assist with vertical files, book processing,
and filing, May 28, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Hazel Brown, Visiting Professional. Office of Education, write
teacher resource booklet highlighting collections, archives,
library, and program resources available to teachers, July 1,
1991 through August 9, 1991.
Maren Deiters, Bachelors Degree. Library, bibliographic
checking; organize vertical file material; behind-the-scenes
research projects, June 17, 1991 through September 13, 1991.

Lisa Eveland, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Education, museum education programs for ethnically di-
verse and underserved audiences, February 4, 1991 through
April 5, 1991.

Lucy Fazzino, Bachelors Degree. Peale Papers, research on
Rembrandt Peale’s visit to Italy (1828-30): topics include
indexing “Notes on Italy”; research possible patrons, June
3, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Kathryn Fenn, Bachelors Candidate, University of Chicago.
Department of Education, Cultures in Motion public pro-
gram series, July 1, 1991 through September 20, 1991.

Amy Flynn, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Depart-
ment of Prints and Photographs, office and research assis-
tant, June 3, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Christopher Gaye, High School Student, W. Bruce Evans. De-
partment of Education, daily office duties: xeroxing, filing,
typing, etc.; research of portraiture and historical dramati-
zation, July 8, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Leah Glaser, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University. Depart-
ment of Education, assist workshop coordinator and art in-
structor in conducting a family workshop series titled
“Making a Marisol”; plan a cour; design registration forms;
conduct hands-on activities of the workshops, June 3, 1991
through August 12, 1991.

Abigail Gobble, Bachelors Candidate, University of Delaware.
Catalog of American Portraits, verifying and updating in-
formation concerning American portraits in major public
and private collections in the southern United States; basic
biographical research on subject and artist and catalog data;
corresponding with institutions, obtaining photos, basis
typing, January 7, 1991 through February 1, 1991.

Elizabeth Goodwin, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilc Univer-
sity. Department of Education/Photography, assist educa-
tion department in development of public relation
slide/lecture presentation; assist in photographic depart-
ment by taking photos of programs and developing them
to include in slide/lecture program, June 3, 1991 through
August I, 1991.

Billie Gutgsell, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Peale Papers, exhibition research; research for cata-
logue, Rembrandt Peale, 1778-1860: The Life of an
American Artist, September 9, 1991 through December 10,
1991.

Vicki Hallas, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Pub-
lic Relations, support for press and opening receptions for
Rosa Parks bust presentation, “Magical Mixcures: Marison
Portrait Sculpture,” and “Annie Liebovitz Photographs
1970-1990,” February u, 1991 through April 22, 1991.

Mary Hammond, Masters Candidate, Western Carolina Uni-
versity. Office of Exhibition, research drawing collection in
preparation for exhibition; assist in Office of Public Affairs,

January 14, 1991 through March 31, 1991.

Ramona Hinton, Bachelors Candidate, University of Califor-
nia-Davis. Department of Education, identify and do bio-
graphical research on prominent African Americans who
made contributions in literature, music, and the visual arts
from 1919 to 1940, September 17, 1991 through December
18, 1991.

Karen Hutchinson, Bachelors Candidate, Syracuse University.
Catalog of American Portraits, assist in updating of files,
June 10, 1991 through August 15, 1991.

Elizabeth Lipman, Bachelors Degree. Office of Design and
Production, assist the production manager and assistant
chief of design wich the graphic and administrative work
required for the design and/or production of exhibits, Au-
gust 21, 1991 through December 21, 1991.

Ashley Marsh, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Ex-
hibits, devise a new system for maintaining copies of labels;
update label system, June 10, 1991 through August 2, 1991.

Aimee McElroy, Bachelors Candidate, University of the Arts.
Catalog of American Portraits, verify and update informa-
tion concerning American portraits in major public and pri-
vate collections—basic biographical information on subject
and artist; order photos form owning institutions, June 3,
1991 through August 9, 1991.

Travlayn Moulton, High School Scudenc, Park Mont High
School. Department of Education, assist in preparing pro-
gram announcements, invoices, correspondence for schools,
intern, and docent programs; assist with xeroxing, filing,
and distributing mail, September 19, 1991 through Decem-
ber 17, 1991.

Rosaura Nolasco, High School Graduate. Library, participant
in “Intern 91,” June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Erin O'Keefe, Bachelors Candidate, Boston College. Cata-
logue of American Portraits, verify and update information
concerning American portraits in major public and private
collections across the country; basic biographical research
on subject and artist and catalog data; correspond with in-
stitutions, obtain photos and data, June 24, 1991 through
October 30, 1991.

Elizabeth Olesker, Bachelors Degree. Catalogue of American
Portraits, Portrait of artists from Southern United States,
October 29, 1990 through May 24, 1990.

Leslie Olson, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Painting and Sculpture, research for an exhibition of Ameri-
can paintings and sculpture originally shown at the 1893
World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, January 14,
1991 through May 31, 1991.

Edras Ortiz, High School Student, Cardozo High School. De-
partment of Education, daily office duties: xeroxing, typ-
ing, filing, etc.; research of portraiture and historical
dramatizations, July 8, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Stephanie Parrish, Bachelors Candidate, New York Univer-
sity. Department of Education, assist in education, June 10,
1991 through August 16, 1991.

Lori Pisano, Bachelors Candidate, Lafayette College. Catalog
of American Portraits, verify and update information con-

79
cerning American portraits in major public and private col-
lections across the country; correspond with institutions,
obtain photos, computer data entry and answer reference re-
quests, June 10, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Stephanie Pritchard, Bachelors Degree. Catalog of American
Portraits, verify and update information concerning por-
traits in major Washington area collections; add or verify
basic biographical information on subject and artist and cat-
alog data using available research resources; order photos
from owning institutions; answer reference requests from
scholars and general public, May 22, 1991 through August
30, 1991.

Tej Rae, Bachelors Candidate, Barnard College. Design and
Production, assist graphic production with upcoming pro-
jects such as Kiosk directories, Hall of Presidents reinstalla-
tion, and Ralph Earl show, August 26, 1991 through
December 1, 1991.

Johnna Rizzo, Bachelors Candidate, Wake Forest University. De-
partment of Design and Production, assist production man-
ager and assistant chief of design with the preparation of both
scheduling and graphic production work necessary to com-
plete upcoming exhibits, June 10, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Michine Saitoh, Bachelors Degree. Exhibitions, assist in the
production and installation of exhibit graphics, March 4,
1991 through June 31, 1991.

Edith Scoct, Bachelors Candidate, Converse College. Office of
Public Affairs, assist director and assistant with press re-
lease mailings, updating files and lists by working on Mac
computer, January 8, 1991 through February 15, 1991.

Daniel Sharfstein, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. Ex-
hibitions, research into current method of information dis-
tribution into local business community and potential
markets and sponsorship; research future exhibitions: locate
artwork, order photography, etc., May 17, 1991 through Au-
gust 31, 1991.

Judy Shindel, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Collec-
tions, research on artists and sitters for paintings and sculp-
tures shown in the Fine Arts Building ac World's
Columbian Exposition held in Chicago in 1893, September
3, 1991 through December 31, 1991.

Emily Smachetti, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. His-
tory, work on the history of musical theater, September 3,
1991 through December 26, 1991.

Kathleen Smith, Bachelors Degree. Department of History,
portrait, object, and biographical research for exhibition
and book on history of American musical theater, May 23,
1991 through August 31, 1991.

Glovenia Snead, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Curatorial, assist with research on American paintings, par-
ticularly portraits, that were shown at the World's Colum-
bian Exposition of 1893, in preparation for an exhibition,
organized jointly by NPG and NMAA, May 28, 1991
through July 12, 1991.

Katherine Spahn, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity University. Li-
brary, assist with the publication exchange mailing; process

80

Seymour Lepton book collection; check SIBIS for records of
duplicates, July 22, 1991 through August 13, 1991.

Darren Tarr, Bachelors Candidate, University of Massachu-
setts. Publications, assist publications office, February 4,
1991 through May 1, 1991.

Monica Testa, Bachelors Candidate, University of Delaware.
Administration, research information on Sarah Hollowell
(1856-1924), the first important American woman curator
and art agent, June 5, 1991 through August 3, 1991.

Jenny C. Thompson, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Photography, Re-housing a collection
of 112 carte de visite portrait photographs; requires verifica-
tion of existing sitter identification; neatly hand-labeling
each archival enclosure and transferring photographs to the
new archival housings; assist curator in exhibitions-related
research, October 24, 1990 through January 25, 1991.

Stephanie Topolgus, Masters Candidate, American University.
Public Affairs, update press and special event files; assist in
developing invitation lists for fucure events; compile press
materials, correspond to press and public inquiries; help in
general office organization, June 3, 1991 through August 28,
1991.

Catherine Uram, High School Graduate. Office of the Histo-
rian, participate in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through Au-
gust 16, 1991.

Deborah Waller, Bachelors Degree. Charles Willson Peale Pa-
pers, edit and publication of the Papers of Charles Willson
Peale and his family; preparation of transcripts, annotation
of documents, historical research, preparation of manu-
scripts for the press, August 5, 1991 through October 31,
1991.

Office of Exhibits Central

Stephen Awoniyi, Masters Candidate, California State Univer-
sity at Sacramento. Fabrication Unit, work in paint shop,
cabinet shop, and sheet plastic shop crafting and specimen
handling, July 15, 1991 through December 15, 1991.

Melissa Barlow, High School Graduate. Fabrication Unit, par-
ticipate in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through August 16,
1991.

Margie Bond, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Caro-
lina at Greensboro. Graphic Production, involvement with
graphic production for the American Festival of Folklife,
June 24, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Amy Felix, Bachelors Degree. Graphics Unit, produce graph-
ics for exhibits (temporary, traveling, permanent) using
photo silkscreen techniques, mounting two dimensional
art; graphics and computerized sign making equipment,
March 4, 1991 through June 1, 1991.

Dawn Jackson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Washing-
ton. Rotate between three exhibit production shops: graph-
ics, models, and fabrication, June 24, 1991 through August
23, 1991.

Sebastian Soto-Olmos, Visiting Professional, C.Culcural-Arce
Contemporaneo. Graphics, Model Shop, and Fabrication,
rotate between three different exhibit production shops and
receive training in the three, September 23, 1991 through
December 19, 1991.

Office of Horticulture

Janet Aldrich, Bachelors Candidate, Spokane Falls Commu-
nity College. Greenhouse, general greenhouse work includ-
ing watering, weeding, potting, mixing soil, propagating,
grooming, and assisting with scheduling deliveries, June
17, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Randall Barnes, Bachelors Candidate, California Polytechnic
State University. Landscape Architect, identify, inventory,
and measure location of plants on the grounds; update
planting plans with information gathered on the grounds,
June 24, 1991 through August 30, 1991.

James Cannata, Bachelors Candidate, Montgomery College.
Landscape Architect, identify, inventory, and measure loca-
tion of plants on the grounds; update planting plans with
information gathered on the grounds, June 17, 1991
through August 23, 1991.

Bernard Hawkins, High School Graduate. Participant in “In-
tern 91,” July 15, 1991 through August 16, 1991

Patricia Jasaitis, Bachelors Candidate, University of Chicago.
Landscape Architect, identify, inventory, and measure loca-
tion of plants on the grounds; update planting plans with
information gathered on the grounds, June 10, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

Owen Lagle, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Grounds Management Division, various grounds manage-
ment techniques will be applied in the Enid A. Haupt Gar-
den, including turf management, formal flower bed
planting and maintenance, and maintenance of urns and
baskets, June 17, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Office of Museum Programs

Susanne Fabricius, Masters Degree. Study community muse-
ums in North America; organize information on tribal mu-
seums, November 29, 1990 through November 30, 1991.

Edward C. Harp, Masters Candidate, Indiana University. De-
velop two workshops in marketing/development for 1991
Training Congress, January 7, 1991 through June 30, 1991.

Sarah Landon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland—
Baltimore County. Intern Programs, assist in organizing

Museum Careers Program, June 10, 1991 through August 9,
1991.

Megan Manion, Bachelors Candidate, University of California
at Los Angeles. Intern Programs, update the Internship Op-
portunities at the Smithsonian book, June 17, 1991 through Au-

gust 9, 1991.

Office of the Registrar

Kim Saito, Law Degree Candidate, George Mason School of
Law. Write an information booklet on items chat fall
within the Endangered Species Act and other related laws;
permits and other requirements, June 3, 1991 through Au-
gust 2, 1991.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Letitia Doggett, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Museum education internship; team exhibition
work and planning; workshop evaluation, January 14, 1991
through June 21, 1991.

Stephanie Fullen, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Program, education research and catalogue development for
“Art as Activisc” traveling exhibition, June 17, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

Sara Geelan, Bachelors Candidate, Johns Hopkins University.
Team member in exhibition development of “Seeing With-
out Sight,” January 22, 1991 through May 29, 1991.

Zuraidah Hashim, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Public Relations Intern, January 28, 1991
through April 28, 1991.

Heather Hayduk, Bachelors Degree. Program Team, newslet-
ter editor for Tropical Rainforest exhibition; assist team
with Tropical Rainforest Refurbishment, June 3, 1991
through August 30, 1991.

Britt Raphling, Masters Candidate, George Washington Uni-
versity. Education, research resource guide for “Perpetual
Campaign,” January 14, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Gretchen Schellstede, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Program, plan, research, and development of in-
ternational art exhibitions, June 10, 1991 through October
16, 1991.

81
Public Service

National Science Resources Center

Basheera Abdus-Sabur, Bachelors Candidate. Assist with exe-
cution of the NSRC Elementary Science Leadership Insti-
tute for 16 school districts from 11 states to help them
improve the teaching of science in their districts, June 3,
1991 through August 23, 1991.

Nancy Moorachian, Bachelors Candidate, Simmons College.
Assist with execution of the NSRC Elementary Science
Leadership Institute for 16 school districts form U states to
help them improve the teaching of science in their dis-
tricts, June 3, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

Kendra Jones, Bachelors Degree. Projects in curriculum devel-
opment and educational policy, June 4, 1991 through Au-
gust 23, 1991.

Terry Lee, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman College. Assist in on-
going projects, June 3, 1991 through August 23, 1991.

Elisabeth Mills, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Assist with intern alumni newsletter for and by
former interns of the OESE Summer Intern Program, Feb-
ruary 11, 1991 through April 30, 1991.

Office of Folklife Programs

Carmen Angulo, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Research, production, and presentation for
Quincentenary program at the Festival of American
Folklife, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Katrinka Ebbe, Masters Degree. Work with Indonesia compo-
nent of the Festival of American Folklife, February 11, 1991
through July 31, 1991.

Suzan Harada, Kapi‘olani Community College. Assist and ob-
serve in coordination of Indonesian program of Festival of
American Folklife, June 12, 1991 through July 8, 1991.

Olukayode Kolade, High School Graduate. Work with Festi-
val of American Folklife in planning and production; assist
with participants packets and crew in preparing festival
site; assist the craft participants during festival and post-fes-
tival wrap-up, June 17, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

82

Jeffrey Leinaweaver, Bachelors Candidate, University of Ari-
zona. Work with Quincentenary program for the Festival of
American Folklife, May 22, 1991 through July 31, 1991.

Laurie Manos, Bachelors Candidate, St. Mary's College of
Maryland. Assist with design and graphics of the Festival
of American Folklife, June 3, 1991 through July 26, 1991.

Ilsia Mercedez, High School Graduate. work with Folklife Fes-
tival in planning and production of festival; assist with
packages and crew in preparing festival site; assist craft par-
ticipants during festival and post-festival wrap-up, June 14,
1991 through August 9, 1991.

Omar Ndoye, Masters Candidate, George Washington Univer-
sity. Organization of field material for Smithsonian ar-
chives; assist in compiling Senegal/USVI educational
materials, October 2, 1990 through June 30, 1991.

Susan Ratcliffe, Bachelors Candidate, College of St. Mary and
St. John. Assist with the design of tent interiors; assist in
craft area of Festival of American Folklife Family Farm pro-
gram, June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Ernestine Sandoval, High School Graduate. Participant in “In-
tern 91,” June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Era Schrepfer, Bachelors Candidate, University of Washing-
ton. Assist designer in setting up an exhibit of Bolivian tex-
tiles for the Festival of American Folklife, June 7, 1991
through September 30, 1991.

Rebecca Simons, Bachelors Degree. Assist with design and
graphics of the Festival of American Folklife, June 17, 1991
through July 31, 1991.

Leslie Spitz-Edison. Archival work, cataloguing and organiz-
ing the Folkways collection; log videotape taken at the Fes-
tival of American Folklife, March 20, 1991 through July 31,
1991.

Alexander Sweda, Bachelors Degree. Archival work, assist ar-
chivist with preservation and cataloging project with 2000—
3000 glass lacquer audio discs in the archives, May 6, 1991
through July 15, 1991.

Karen Weinstein, Bachelors Degree. Work with the African
Immigrant Folklife Study, and the 1992 Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife Maroon program, September 6, 1991 through
September 5, 1992.

Laura Willson, Bachelors Degree. Assist with the Quincenten-
ary program at the Festival of American Folklife June 10,
1991 through July 30, 1991.

Office of Public Affairs

Nancy Kapcia, High School Graduate. Participant in “Intern
91," June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.
External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Jeffrey McAndrews, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown Univer-
sity. Debt Swap Team, work on coordinating approaches to
corporate and institutional donors in various countries; de-
veloping information pertaining to Smithsonian programs,
January 22, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Office of Development

Charlene Haskell, Bachelors Degree. Development, develop a
Smithsonian Training Manual for performing research tasks
with corporations, foundations, and individuals for fund
raising efforts, September 30, 1991 through June 30, 1992.

Margaret Kauffmann, Masters Candidate, Indiana University.
Development, comprehensive study to determine scope of
Smithsonian outreach programs across the country for the
publication compiled: “Smithsonian Services to the Na-
tion,” February 1, 1991 through April 30, 1991.

Lyselle Kendall, Bachelors Degree. Conduct research on indi-
viduals, corporations, and organizations for the MPALA
Ranch Project in Kenya, September 16, 1991 through Janu-
ary I, 1992.

Elizabeth Mavar, Bachelors Candidate, Southern Methodist
University. Development of resource center with materials
about programs and activities of offices and bureaus
throughour the Smithsonian; fundraising research; addi-
tional projects that may include writing or be involved
with special events, June 10, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Yoram Wurmser, Bachelors Degree. Conduct research on
sources for MPALA Ranch project in Kenya, September 16,
1991 through December 31, 1991.

Office of Telecommunications

Francesca Raimond, Bachelors Candidate, University of Mary-
land—Baltimore. Assist on Radio Program entitled “Spir-
its of the Present—The Legacy from Native America.”
January 22, 1991 through October 21, 1991.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Jennifer McCartney, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College.
Smithsonian Books Division, research various aspects of the
popular books in production, i.e. Books of Books—photo-
graphs, captions, miscellaneous facts and assist with other
editorial functions including: proofreading, editing, and li-
aison with marketing as they relate, June 3, 1991 through
August 2, 1991.

Eleanor McMillan, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton Univer-
sity. Book Development Section, create a permanent record
of all Book Development projects’ transparencies and art
gathered from various museums: log in, return art, picture
and text research for six ongoing and future Book Develop-
ment projects, June 17, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

John Poirier, Bachelors Candidate, Colby College. University
Press Division, assist the natural sciences acquisition editor
with the correlation and preparation for publication of
book projects in science, technology, and natural history,
June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Smithsonian National Associate Program

Elizabeth England, Bachelors Degree. Young Benefactors,
work in list management, newsletters, and special events,
September 23, 1991 through December 23, 1991.

Mara Slaughter, Bachelors Candidate, Florida Internacional
University. Contributing Membership, work on special
membership activities of the James Smithson Society and
the Young Benefactors. May 14, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

James Caparas, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University. Stu-
dio Arts, assist the supply manager for Studio Arts and
Young Associates with general office work as well as work
on special projects, May 15, 1991 through August 30, I99I.

Michelle Dalimot, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
International Center, general assistance in public affairs de-
partment, January 23, 1991 through May 31, 1991.

Tyna Edelin, High School Student, Eastern Senior High
School. Young Associates Program, serve as a liaison be-
tween the instructors of the Smithsonian Summer Camp
and the Resident Associate Programs office, July 8, 1991
through August 9, 1991.

Felicia Gaines, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Public Affairs Office, keep archival record current by assem-

83
bling clippings, photographs, and other material, May 13,
1991 through August 16, 1991.

Quincy Hicks, Bachelors Candidate, University of Oklahoma.
Public Affairs, learn the essentials of public affairs includ-
ing archiving, filing, writing of reports, and directing
media, May 19, 1991 through July 20, 1991.

Carrie Higginbotham, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut Col-
lege. Studio Arts, learn about the business aspect behind
the arts world, May 28, 1991 through August 15, 1991.

Perre Magness, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College. Public
Affairs, assist with public affairs and membership pro-
grams, June 10, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Susan Mordan, Masters Candidate, Simpson College. Public
Affairs, work with the handling of publicity of special
events, September 9, 1991 through December 20, 1991.

Victoria Moreno, High School Graduate. Discovery Theater,
participate in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991 through August 16,
1991.

Sandra Park, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Public Affairs, participate in daily activities of public af-
fairs office with archiving, preparation of publicity and in-
formation for events, October 9, 1990 through December
31, 1990.

Joanna Pulcini, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University of
America. Young Associates, liaison with summer camp in-
structors; analyze and research other local summer camps,
potential family films, prospective tours, and prospective
foundations and corporations for funding; prepare scholar-
ship materials, May 20, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Maria Rodriguez-Ema, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown Uni-
versity. Public Affairs, archiving, filing, etc., June 10, 1991
through Augusc 15, 1991.

Kevin Walker, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Washington Col-
lege. Office of Public Affairs, assist in the duties of the Res-
ident Associate Program, September 3, 1991 through
December 31, 1991.

Debra Wood, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Dis-
covery Theater, sales-caking, reservations, distributing pro-
motional, and education materials, customer assistance;
assist house manager; research for fall production of Benja-
min Ranneker; other duties as needed, January 23, 1991
through May 12, 1991.

Amelia Yeager, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Vol-
unteers, assist docent/volunteer coordinator in all phases of vol-
unteer programs, October 5, 1990 through December 15, 1990.

Finance and Administration
Business Management Office
Poornima Indu Nair, Bachelors Candidate, University of Vir-

ginia. Product Development and Licensing Division, assist

84

in research and developing products, May 20, 1991 through
August 16, 1991.

Sandra Narva, Bachelors Degree. Product Development and
Licensing Division, assist on collections research and re-
search for product provenance; identify, classify, and archive
collections photographs and information, September 2, 1991
through October 31, 1991.

Office of Architectural History and
Historic Preservation

Kristin Hall, Bachelors Degree. Prepare a study based on the
proposal to place an African American Museum in an his-
toric building, June 3, 1991 through August 9, 1991.

Office of Information Resource
Management

Christopher Powell, High School Graduate. Academic Sys-
tems Group, participate in “Intern 91,” July 15, 1991
through August 16, 1991.

Tran Thai, High School Graduate. Research Systems Division,
work with an electronic printing specialist and a scientific
workstation specialist; use several microcomputer based
graphic and desktop publishing to produce logos,
typefonts, documents and drawings, June 17, 1991 through
August 9, 1991.

Office of Printing and
Photographic Services

Nickole Busby, High School Graduate. Participant in “Intern
91,” June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Lynette Chewning, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison Uni-
versity. Photo Services, assist photographers in photograph-
ing museum pieces; document historical events; caption
laser disc application; reproducing photographs and slides,
July 1, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

John Farrell, High School Graduate. Participate in “Intern
91,” July 15, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Jason Hacker, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University.
Rehouse and identify historic negatives, June 3, 1991
through August 20, 1991.

William Kendrick, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison Uni-
versity. Photo Services, assist photographers in document-
ing museum pieces and historic events; captioning laser
disc information and applications; reproduce photographs
and slides, July 1, 1991 through August 16, 1991.

Damon Parrish, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Photography, studio, location, and historic docu-
mentation photography, October 9, 1990 through Novem-
ber 16, 1990.

Heidi Pendergast, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Commu-
nity College. Photographic Services, photographic intern-
ship, April 8, 1991.

Sharifah Ramsay, High School Graduate. Participant in “In-
tern 91,” June 10, 1991 through July 12, 1991.

Michael Traister, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Photography, studio, location, and historic docu-
mentation photography. October 9, 1990 through Novem-
ber 16, 1990.

Amy Wilkinson, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Photographic Services, photographic internship.
April 8, 1991 through May 17, 1991.

Anne Yoakum, Bachelors Candidate, University of Oklahoma.
Work on the development of a database; work on the cata-
loguing and inventory of the George Thames Collection of
Photographs, July 16, 1991 through August 11, 1991.

85
Research Associates

Research Associate status is conferred by the Secretary on individuals from

outside the Institution who are conducting ongoing research in areas in

which the Smithsonian has collections or expertise. Research Associates are

granted access to the Institution’s facilities and reference resources and often

consult or collaborate with Smithsonian researchers. Most appointments of

Research Associates are for a duration of three years and are renewable. The

following list includes all those individuals who were Research Associates

during the fiscal year.

Research

National Zoological Park

Dr. Mary E. Allen

Dr. Joel Berger

Dr. Adelmar Coimbra-Filho
Dr. Carolyn M. Crockett
Dr. Priya Davidar

Dr. John E. Eisenberg
Dr. John G. Frazier

Dr. Karen L. Goodrowe
Dr. Theodore I. Grand
Dr. Susan M. Haig

Dr. Sara J. Iverson

Dr. William J. McShea
Dr. Charles Menzel

Dr. Brian Miller

Mr. Steven L. Monfort
Dr. Stephen J. O'Brien
Dr. William EF Rall

Dr. Mitchel Schiewe
Dr. George Schwede
Dr. Michael Stuwe

Dr. Melvin E. Sunquist
Dr. Samuel K. Wasser

Office of Interdisciplinary
Studies

Dr. Wilton S. Dillon

86

Smithsonian
Environmental Research
Center

Dr. Richard Smucker

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Dr. Silvio A. Bedini
Miss Jean Chandler Smith

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Dr. Peter Shaw Ashton
Dr. Stephen P. Hubbell

Museums

Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery and Freer Gallery
of Art

Mrs. Elizabeth Fitzhugh

Conservation Analytical

Lab

Dr. Velecca Canouts
Dr. Rita P. Wright (NMNH)

National Museum of
African Art

Dr. Labelle Prussin

National Museum of
American Art

Dr. Wanda M. Corn
Dr. Charles C. Eldredge

National Museum of
Natural History

Dr. Ronald Alcig

Dr. Richard B. Aronson
Dr. William P. Barse
Dr. Aaron M. Bauer
Dr. David Begun

Dr. Raymond L. Bernor
Dr. Annalisa Berta

Dr. William E. Bickley
Dr. Rudiger Bieler

Dr. Alison S. Brooks
Dr. Harley P. Brown
Dr. Robert L. Brownell
Dr. Robyn Burnham
Dr. John E. Cadle

Mr. Roger B. Clapp
Dr. Margaret S. Collins
Dr. Jose Cuatrecasas
Dr. Steven J. Culver
Dr. John D. Damuth
Dr. Kenneth Dodd

Dr. Eduardo Dominguez
Dr. Daryl P. Domning
Dr. Jean-Paul Dumont
Dr. Lance Durden

Mr. J. Thomas Dutro, Jr.
Dr. Robert L. Edwards
Dr. Robert M. Ehrenreich
Dr. Louise Emmons

Mr. Carl H. Ernsc

Dr. Ralph E. Eshelman
Dr. Neal L. Evenhuis

Dr. Jerzy Fedorowski

Dr. John W. Fisher

Dr. Catherine S. Fowler
Dr. Don Fowler

Dr. Amnon Freidberg

Dr. Timothy P. Friedlander
Dr. George C. Frison

Dr. John M. Fritz

Dr. Bruno Frohlich

Dr. Alfred L. Gardner

Dr. J. Whitfield Gibbons

Dr. James Lowell Gibbs, Jr.

Dr. Thomas G. Gibson
Dr. James B. Griffin

Dr. Ralph E. Harbach
Dr. Bruce A. Harrison
Mrs. Catharine A. Hawks

Dr. Miriam H. Muedeking Heyer

Dr. Richard Highton
Dr. Robert S. Hoffmann
Dr. Aleta Hohn

Dr. John R. Holsinger
Dr. Peter W. Houde

Dr. Yiau-Min Huang

Mr. Morton L. Isler

Mrs. Phyllis R. Isler

Mr. Joseph H. Kirkbride, Jr.
Dr. Carl F. Koch

Dr. Silvard Kool

Dr. Richard T. Koritzer, D.D.S.

Mrs. Roxie Laybourne
Ms. Diane S. Littler

Dr. Linda E. Resnik Maxson
Dr. Jerry N. McDonald
Dr. D. Bruce Means

Dr. Betty J. Meggers

Dr. Ronald I. Miller

Mr. Score E. Miller

Dr. John D. Milliman

Dr. Guy G. Musser

Dr. Christopher Nagle
Dr. Richard T. O'Grady
Dr. William A. Oliver, Jr.
Dr. Paul A. Opler

Dr. Hidetoshi Ora

Dr. Jacqueline Marie Palmer
Dr. Philip D. Perkins

Dr. William Perrin

Dr. John J. Pipoly III

Dr. John Pojeta, Jr.

Dr. Dan A. Polhemus

Dr. John T. Polhemus

Dr. Patricia Poole

Dr. Stephen R. Potter

Dr. Bruce D. Ragsdale
Dr. Marjorie L. Reaka

Dr. Janet W. Reid

Dr. John F. Reinert
Hon. S. Dillon Ripley II
Dr. Kenneth D. Rose
Dr. Velva E. Rudd

Dr. Bruce Runnegar

Dr. William J. Sando
Dr. Silvia Santiago

Dr. Jay C. Schaffer

Dr. David E. Schindel
Dr. Judich Skog

Dr. Anthony Socci

Dr. Norman F. Sohl

Mr. Theodore J. Spilman
Dr. David L. Stein

Dr. William Louis Stern
Dr. Paul Scoller

Dr. Hans-Dieter Sues
Prof. Katsuji Tsuneki
Dr. Michael Vecchione
Dr. John W. Verano

Dr. George B. Vogt

Dr. Alan C. Walker
Mrs. Mildred Wort Wedel
Dr. Don Wilson

Dr. Christopher Wnuk
Dr. David P. Wooldridge

Dr. W. Christopher Wozencraft

Dr. John E. Yellen
Dr. Frank N. Young

87
Appendix 4

Publications of the Smithsonian
Institution Press in
Fiscal Year 1991

During fiscal year 1991 the Smithsonian Institution
Press released over 150 publications, including trade
books, exhibition catalogs, museum guides, mono-
graphs, brochures, pamphlets, videos, and sound record-
ings, the most important of which are listed below.

University Press

Ahlborn, Richard Eighme, and Vera Beaver-Bricken Espinola,
eds., Russian Copper Icons and Crosses from the Kunz Collection:
Castings of Faith, trade edition of Smithsonian Studies in
History and Technology, 51. July 1991.

Baidukov, Georgiy, translated by Peter Belov, edited by Von
Hardesty, Russian Lindbergh: The Life of Valery Chkalov. Sep-
tember 1991.

Barber, Karen, I Could Speak until Tomorrow: Oriki, Women, and
the Past in a Yoruba Town. Copublished with Edinburgh
University Press, June 1991.

Barger, M. Susan, and William B. White, The Daguerreotype:
Nineteenth-Century Technology and Modern Science. August
1991.

Barney, Tina, Friends and Relations: Photographs by Tina Barney.
July 1991.

Beamont, Roland, Testing Early Jets: Compressibility and the Su-
personic Era. Copublished with Airlife Publishing Lrd.,
Shrewsbury, England, June 1991.

Berry, Fred, and W. John Kress, Heliconia: An Identification
Guide. March 1991.

Biersack, Aletta, ed., Clio in Oceania: Toward a Historical An-
thropology. December 1990.

Borowitz, Helen and Albert, Pawnshop and Palaces: The Fall
and Rise of the Campana Art Museum. March 1991.

Brazil, Mark A., The Birds of Japan. Copublished with Christo-
pher Helm Ltd., Londoa, April 1991.

88

Brooks-Pazmany, Kathleen, United States Women in Aviation
1919-1929, trade edition of Smithsonian Studies in Air and
Space, 5. June 1991.

Caffery, Debbie Fleming, Carry Me Home: Louisiana Sugar
Country in Photographs by Debbie Fleming Caffery. October
1990.

Collins, Martin J., and Sylvia D. Fries, eds., A Spacefaring Na-
tion: Perspectives on American Space History and Policy. Febru-
ary 1991.

Croker, Robert A., Pioneer Ecologist: The Life and Work of Victor
Ernest Shelford, 1877-1968 September 1991.

Davis, Benjamin O., Jr., Benjamin O. Davis, Jr., American: An
Autobiography. December 1990.

DeVos, Louis, Klaus Ratzler, Nicole Boury-Esnaulc, Claude
Donadey, and Jean Vacelet, Asdas of Sponge Morphology. June
1991.

Douglas, Deborah G., United States Women in Aviation 1940-
1985, trade edition of Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space,
7. June 1991.

Falk, Lisa, ed., Historical Archaeology in Global Perspective. Feb-
ruary 1991.

Fardon, Richard, Between God, the Dead, and the Wild: Chamba
Interpretations of Ritual and Religion. Copublished with Edin-
burgh University Press, May 1991.

Feeley-Harnik, Gillian, A Green Estate: Restoring Independence in
Madagascar. September 1991.

Ford, Daniel, Flying Tigers: Claire Chennault and the American
Volunteer Group. August 1991.

Fredette, Raymond H., The Sky on Fire: The First Battle of Brit-
ain, 1917-1918 February 1991.

Gjording, Chris, Conditions Not of Their Choosing: The Guaymi
Indians and Mining Multinationals in Panama. June 1991.

Gravalos, Mary Evans O'Keefe, and Carol Pulin, Bertha Lum.
March 1991.

Grove, Nancy, Magical Mistures: Marisol Portrait Sculpture.
Copublished with the National Portrait Gallery, April
1991.

Gwynn-Jones, Terry, Farther and Faster: Aviation’s Adventuring
Years, 1909-1939. August 1991.

Hall, R. Cargill, Lightning over Bougainville: The Yamamoto Mis-
sion Reconsidered. May 1991.

Hansen, Jens Peder Hart, Jorgen Meldgaard, and J¢rgen
Nordqvist, eds., The Greenland Mummies. Copublished with
the British Museum, April 1991.

Hardesty, Won, Red Phoenix: The Rise of Soviet Air Power, 1941-
1945. Paper reprint, April 1991.

Harley, Richard M., Breakthroughs on Hunger: A_Journalist’s En-
counter with Global Change. January 1991.

Hill, Janice, Weather from Above: America's Meteorological Satel-
lites. January 1991.

Howson, Gerald, Aircraft of the Spanish Civil War, 1936-1939.
November 1990.

Inskipp, Carol and Tim, A Guide to the Birds of Nepal, second
edition. Copublished with Christopher Helm Ltd, London,
June 1991.
Jackson, Michael, and Ivan Karp, eds., Personboad and Agency:
The Experience of Self and Other in African Societies.
Copublished with Almquist and Wiksell International,
Stockholm, November 1990.

Johnston, A. M. “Tex,” and Charles Barton, Tex Johnston: Jet-
Age Test Pilot. May 1991.

Kapferer, Bruce, A Celebration of Demons: Exorcism and the Aes-
thetics of Healing in Sri Lanka, revised edition. April 1991.

Karp, Ivan, and Steven D. Lavine, eds., Exhibiting Cultures:
The Poetics and Politics of Museum Display. May 1991.

Kirlin, Katherine S., and Thomas M. Kirlin, Smithsonian
Folklife Cookbook. September 1991.

Kohlstedt, Sally Gregory, The Origins of Natural Science in
America: The Essays of George Brown Goode, September 1991.

Kotler, Neil G., ed., Sharing Innovation: Global Perspectives on
Food, Agriculture, and Rural Development. October 1990.

Kichler, Susanne, and Walter Melion, eds., Images of Memory:
On Remembering and Representation. July 1991.

Lhamon, W. T., Jr., Deliberate Speed: The Origins of a Cultural
Style in the American 19505. October 1990.

Lindstrom, Lamont, Knowledge and Power in a South Pacific Soci-
ety. October 1990.

Lovell, Nancy C., Patterns of Injury and Illness in Great Apes: A
Skeletal Analysis. October 1990.

Mason, Tim, and Lynn Mason, Helen Hyde. January 1991.

Melosh, Barbara, Engendering Culture: Manhood and Womanhood
in the New Deal Public Art and Theater. September 1991.

Meyer, Henry Cord, Airshipmen, Businessmen, and Politics, 1890-
1940. August 1991.

National Museum of Natural History, “Smithsonian Chart of
Animal Evolution,” poster. Copublished with the
Naturhistorisk Museum Arhus, Denmark, February 1991.

Naveen, Ron, Colin Monteath, Tui DeRoy, and Mark Jones,
Wild Ice: Antarctic Journeys. October 1990.

Nijhout, H. Frederik, The Development and Evolution of Butter-

fly Wing Patterns. August 1991.

Nixon, Nicholas, People in Life: Photographs by Nicholas Nixon.
July 1991.

Oakes, Claudia M., U.S. Women in Aviation, 1930-1939, trade edi-
tion of Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space, 6. June 1991.
Oja, Carol J., Colin McPhee: Composer in Two Worlds. Novem-

ber 1990.

Ortner, Donald J., and Arthur C. Aufderheide, eds., Human
Paleopathology: Current Syntheses and Future Options. May 1991.

Peebles, Curtis, The Moby Dick Project: Reconnaissance Balloons
over Russia. April 1991.

Robinson, Michael H., and Lionel Tiger, eds., Man and Beast
Revisited. April 1991.

Rogers, J. Daniel, Objects of Change: The Archaeology and History
of Arikara Contact with Europeans. October 1990.

Rummel, Robert W., Howard Hughes and TWA. May 1991.

Rirzler, Klaus, ed., New Perspectives in Sponge Biology. January
1991.

Shafer, Craig L., Nature Reserves: Island Theory and Conservation
Practice. February 1991.

Siskind, Aaron, Harlem: Photographs by Aaron Siskind, 1932-
1940. Copublished with the National Museum of American
Art, December 1990.

Smith, Henry Ladd, Airways: The History of Commercial Avia-
tion in the United States. May 1991.

, Airways Abroad: The Story of American World Air
Routes. May 1991.

Thomas, David Hurst, ed., Columbian Consequences, Volume 3:
The Spanish Borderlands in Pan-American Perspective. May
1991.

Truettner, William H., ed., The West as America: Reinterpreting
Images of the Frontier. February 1991.

Viola, Herman J., and Carolyn Margolis, eds., Seeds of Change:
A Quincentennial Commemoration. August 1991.

Vogt O'Connor, Diane, Guide to the Photographic Collections at
the Smithsonian Institution, Volume II. August 1991.

Williams, Brett, ed., The Politics of Culture. March 1991.

Young, Allen M. Sarapiqut Chronicle: A Naturalist in Costa
Rica. June 1991.

Zeder, Melinda A., Feeding Cities: Specialized Animal Economy in
the Near East. September 1991.

Zemke, Hubert, as told to Roger A. Freeman, Zemke's Stalag:
The Final Days of World War II. February 1991.

Book Development Division

Bowman, Doris, The Smithsonian Treasury of American Quilts.
Copublished with Random House, August 1991.

Embury, Barbara, The Dream is Alive: A Flight of Discovery
Aboard the Space Shuttle, December 1990. (Distribution to
the trade by HarperCollins.)

Guide Officiel de la Smithsonian. November 1990.

Guia Official del Smithsonian. November 1990.

Japanese translation of Official Guide to the Smithsonian. No-
vember 1990.

Official Guide to the National Musexm of American History. Feb-
ruary 1991.

Official Guide to the Smithsonian. November 1990.

Offizieller Fiibrer durch das Smithsonian. November 1990.

Sullivan, Robert D., A Picture Tour of the National Musexm of
Natural History. July 1991.

Voss, Frederick, The Smithsonian Treasury of the Presidents.
Copublished with Random House, August 1991.

White, John, The Smithsonian Treasury of Minerals and Gems.
Copublished with Random House, August 1991.

Smithsonian Recordings

Jelly Roll Morton, volume 1: The Pianist and Composer, eighteen
selections composed and performed by Jelly Roll Morton,
single compact disc, No. RD 043. June 1991.

Folk Song America: A 20th Century Revival, ninety-nine selec-
tions performed by various artists, four-compact disc, four-
cassette, or six-LP set, including 106-page booklet; No. RD
046. July 1991.

89
Smithsonian Video Division

Benjamin O. Davis, Jr.: American, video. September 1990.

Krapp’s Last Tape by Samuel Beckett, Beckett Directs Beckett
series video. Coproduced by the University of Maryland Vi-
sual Press, Cameras Continentales, S.F.P., La Sept, FR3,
RTP, WGBH Boston, and PBS; distributed by Smithson-
ian Video Division.

Waiting for Godot by Samuel Beckett, Beckett Directs Beckett
series video. Coproduced by the University of Maryland Vi-
sual Press, Cameras Continentales, S.F.P., La Sept, FR3,
RTP, WGBH Boston, and PBS; distributed by Smithson-
ian Video Division.

Federal Series Publications

Contributions to Anthropology

33. Crocker, William H. “The Canela (Eastern Timbira), I: An
Ethnographic Introduction.” 13 December 1990.

Contributions to Botany

74. Hale, Mason E. “A Synopsis of the Lichen Genus
Xanthoparmelia (Vainio) Hale (Ascomycotina:
Parmeliaceae).” 25 October 1990.

76. Faden, Robert B. “The Morphology and Taxonomy of An-
eilema R. Brown (Commelinaceae).” 15 April 1991.

77- Nicolson, Dan H., with Robert A. DeFilipps, Alice C.
Nicolson, and Others. “Flora of Dominica, Part 2:
Dicotyledoneae.” 19 February 1991.

78. Pizzolato, Thompson Demetrio. “Vascular System of the
Male and Female Florets of Raddia brasiliensis (Poaceae:
Bambusoideae: Olyreae.” 28 December 1990.

Contributions to the Earth Sciences

29. Windsor, Donald M. “Climate and Moisture Variability in
a Tropical Forest: Long-term Records from Barro Colorado
Island, Panamé.” 18 December 1990.

Contributions to Zoology

497. Cressey, Roger. “Parasitic Copepods from the Gulf of
Mexico and Caribbean Sea, III: Caligus.” 24 April 1991.

498. Robbins, Robert K. “Evolution, Comparative Morphol-
ogy, and Identification of the Eumaeine Butterfly Genus
Rekoa Kaye (Lycaenidae: Theclinae).” 10 May 1991.

499. Barnard, J.L., and Camilla Ingram. “Lysianassoid
Amphipoda (Crustacea) from Deep-Sea Thermal Vents.” 21
November 1990.

sor. Erwin, Terry L. “The Ground-Beetles of Central America
(Carabidae), Part II: Notiophilini, Locicerini, and Car-
abini.” 30 January 1991.

90

502. Spangler, Paul J. “A Revision of the Neotropical Aquatic
Beetle Genus Stegoe/mis (Coleoptera: Elmidae).” 29 Novem-
ber 1990.

503. Manning, Raymond B., and Fenner A. Chace, Jr. “Deca-
pod and Stomatopod Crustacea from Ascencion Island,
South Atlantic Ocean.” 18 December 1990.

504. Cairns, Stephen D. “A Revision of the Ahermatypic
Scleractinia of the Galapagos and Cocos Islands.” 22 March
1991.

505. Kornicker, Louis S. “Myodocopid Ostracoda of Enewetak
and Bikini Atolls.” 30 January 1991.

506. Freidberg, Amnon, Lloyd Knutson, and Jay Abercrom-
bie. “A Revision of Sepedonea, a Neotropical Genus of Snail-
killing Flies (Diptera: Sciomyzidae).” 6 March 1991.

507. Vari, Richard P. “Systematics of the Neotropical Characi-
form Genus Steindachnerina Fowler (Pisces: Ostariophysi).”
24 May 1991.

508. Olson, Storrs L., Gregory K. Pregill, and William B.
Hilgartner. “Studies on Fossil and Extant Vertebrates from
San Salvador (Watling’s) Island, Bahamas.” 11 December
1990.

509. Hershler, Robert, John R. Holsinger, and Leslie
Hubricht. “A Revision of the North American Freshwater
Snail Genus Fontigens (Prosobranchia: Hydrobiidae).” 27 De-
cember 1990.

512. Nakamura, Koichiro, and C. Allan Child. “Pycnogonida
from Waters Adjacent to Japan.” 16 May 1991.

514. Cairns, Stephen D. “Catalog of the Type Specimens of
Stony Corals (Milleporidae, Stylasteridae, Scleractinia) in
the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian In-
stitution.” 9 April 1991.

516. Kornicker, Louis S. “Myodocopid Ostracoda of Hydrother-
mal Vents in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.” 24 May 1991.

517. Wari, Richard P., and Jeffrey C. Howe. “Catalog of Type
Specimens of Recent Fishes in the National Museum of
Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, 1: Characiformes
(Teleostei: Ostariophysi).” 28 August 1991.

518. Frost, Darrel R., W. Chris Wozencraft, and Robert S.
Hoffmann. “Phylogenetic Relationships of Hedgehogs and
Gymnures (Mammalia: Insectivora: Erinaceidae).” 16 Au-
gust 1991.

519. Springer, Victor G., Jeffrey T. Williams, and Thomas M.
Orrell. “Catalog of Type Specimens of Recent Fishes in the
National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 2: Bleniidae.” 12 April 1991.

§22. Mathis, Wayne N. “Studies of Gymnomyzinae (Diptera:
Ephydridae), LI: A Revision of the Shore Fly Subgenus
Pseudohecamede Hendel of the Genus A/lotrichoma Becker.”
16 August I99I.

Folklife Studies

6. Fowler, Catherine S. “Tule Technology: Northern Paiute
Uses of Marsh Resources in Western Nevada.” 30 April
1991.
Studies in History and Technology

51. Ahlborn, Richard Eighme, and Vera Beaver-Bricken Es-
pinola, editors. “Russian Copper Icons and Crosses from
the Kunz Collection: Castings of Faith.” 24 June 1991.

Publications for Museums, Bureaus, and
Related Organizations

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, calendar of events,
published three times a year.

James Smithson Society, “A Year in Review 1991,” booklet.
September 1991.

National Museum of African Art, calendar of events, pub-
lished four times a year.

, “The Art of the Personal Object,” booklet by Philip
Ravenhill. September 1991.

National Museum of Natural History, “Scientific Evenc Alert
Network,” monthly bulletin.

, Atoll Research Bulletin 339-346. December 1990.

, Atoll Research Bulletin 347. May 1991.

, Atoll Research Bulletin 348-354. July 1991.
National Portrait Gallery, calendar of events, published four

times a year.

National Zoological Park, Asian Elephants, edited by John
Seidensticker and Susan Lumpkin. December 1990.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Art to Zoo,
quarterly newsletter.

, “Research Guide for Teachers,” booklet by Thomas
Lowderbaugh. September 1991.

Office of Fellowships and Grants, “Smithsonian Opportuni-
ties for Research and Study,” booklet. September 1991.

, “Fellowships in Residence at the Smithsonian Insti-
tution,” poster. August 1991.

Office of Information and Resource Management, Smithsonian
Institution Telephone Directory. March 1991.

Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Year 1990. May 1991.

Smithsonian Institution, Smithsonian Year 1990 Supplement:
Chronology and Appendixes. May 1991.

Smichsonian Institution Women's Council, The Four Star,
newsletter published three times a year.

91
Appendix 5

Publications of the Staff of the
Smithsonian Institution and
Its Subsidiaries in

Fiscal Year 1991

Research

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Research

Joseph Henry Papers Project

Rothenberg, Marc, and Peter Hoffenberg. “Australia at the
1876 Exhibition in Philadelphia.” Historical Records of Aus-
tralian Science, 8 (1990): 55-62.

American Studies Program

Washburn, Wilcomb E. “Comment on Richard Stoffle’s Com-
mentary, “The Hopi, Navajo, Paiute, Zuni Land Disputes,”
American Anthropologist 92 (3), September 1990, p. 745.

. “An Interview with Wilcomb Washburn,” Continu-

ity: A Journal of History, No. 14, Spring/Fall 1990, pp. 1-19.

. “American Historians Should Acknowledge Their

Failure to Oppose Soviet Distortions,” The Chronicle of

Higher Education, Section 2, Opinion, Vol. XX XVII, No. 15,

December 12, 1990.

. “Ceci N’est Pas Une Pipe’: Or How to Deconstruct

the Civil Rights Act of 1991,” /deasure, No. 93 (March 1991),

PP: 6-9.

- “Of Dead Bulls and Dead Historians,” Perspectives,

American Historical Association Newsletter, Vol. 29, No. 5,

May/June 1991, pp. 24-25.

. “Material Culcure and Public History: Maturing To-

gether?,” [review essay] The Public Historian, A Journal of

Public History, Vol. 13, No. 2, Spring 1991, pp. 53-60.

92

International Center

Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Diversity Program

Dallmeier, Francisco. Biology Conservation and Management of
Waterfowl in Venezuela. Caracas: Editorial Ex Libris, 1991.
. “Preliminary results of the effect of Hurricane Hugo
on the Biosphere Reserve of Luquillo, Puerto Rico: A Case
Study” in Future Research Trends in MAB, edited by Yusho
Aruga. Tokyo: Tokyo University of Fisheries, 1991, 53-66.
. “Whistling-ducks as a Manageable and Sustainable
Resource in Venezuela: Balancing Economic Costs and Ben-
efits” in Neotropical Wildlife Use and Conservation, edited by
John G. Robinson and Kent H. Redford. Chicago and Lon-
don: University of Chicago Press, 1991, 266-287.
, M. Kabel, C. Taylor, R. Rice, J. Mayne, C. Romano.
User's Guide to the Bisley Biodiversity Plots Luquillo Biosphere
Reserve - Puerto Rico. Washington: Smithsonian Institution,

1991.

, M. Kabel, C. Taylor, R. Rice, J. Mayne, C. Romano.
Field Guide to the Bisley Biodiversity Plots Luquillo Biosphere
Reserve - Puerto Rico. Washington: Smithsonian Institution,
1991.

Office of Quincentenary Programs

The New World Newsletter 2 (Spring/Summer 1991)

National Zoological Park

Department of Mammalogy

Galloway, M. 1991. Chaining for the times. Proceedings. 1h An-
nual Elephant Workshop. Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

Gould, E. (consulting editor). 1990. Encylopedia of Animals,
Mammals. Gallery Books, New York. 240 pgs.

. 1990. Hunters in the night. Zoogoer and Bats (Bat
Conservation International). Fall issues.

Goldsmith, N.E. and E. Gould. 1990. Sumerian bats, lion-
headed eagles and iconographic evidence for the overthrow
of a female-priest hegemony. Biblical archaeologist. 53:142-156.

Department of Ornithology

Stevens, E.F. 1991. Flamingo breeding: the role of group dis-
plays. Zoo Biology. 10:53-63.

Department of Herpetology

Frankenberg, E. and D. Marcellini. 1991. Comparative analysis
of the male multiple click calls of colonizing house geckos
(Hemidactylus turcicus) from the Southern U.S.A. and Israel.
Israel Journal of Zoology. 37:197-118

Marcellini, D. and T.A. Jenssen. 1991. Avoidance learning by
the curly-tailed lizard, Leiocephalus schreibersi; Lmplications
for anti-predator behavior. Journal of Herpetology. 25:238-241.

Department of Zoological Research

Boness, D.J. 1990. Fostering behavior in Hawaiian monk
seals: is there a reproductive cost? Behavioral Ecology and
Sociobiology. 27:113-122. 5

. 1991. Determinants of mating systems in the Otarii-
dae (Pinnipedia). In: The Behavior of Pinnipeds, D. Renoug,
Ed. Chapman & Hall. London. pp. 1-44.

Fleischer, R.C., S.I. Rothstein and L. Miller. 1991. Mitochon-
drial-DNA variation indicates gene flow between subspe-
cies of the brown-headed cowbird. Condor, 93:185-189.

Fleischer, R.C., S.C. Conant and M. Morin. 1991. Population
bottlenecks and genetic variation in native and introduced
populations of the Laysan finch (Telespiza cantans). Heredity.
125-130.

Fleischer, R.C., R.N. Williams and A.J. Baker. 1991. Genetic
variation within and among populations of the common
mynah (Acridotheres tristis). Journal of Heredity. 82.

Grand, T.I. 1990. The functional anatomy of body mass. In:
Body size in mammalian paleobiology: Estimation and bilogical
implications, J. Damuth and B. MacFadden, Eds., Cam-
bridge University Press.

Greenberg, R. 1991. El Sur de Mexico: Cruce de caminos para
Pajaros migratorios. 32 page booklet.

Haig, S.M., J.D. Ballou and S.R. Derrickson. 1990. Manage-
ment options for preserving genetic diversity: reintroduc-
tion of Guam rails to the wild. Conservation Biology.
4:290-300.

Kleiman, D.G. 1990. Decision making about a reintroduc-
tion: Do appropriate conditions exist? Endangered Species Up-
date. 8:18-19.

Kleiman, D.G., B. Beck, A.J. Baker, J. Ballou, J. Dietz and L.
Dietz. 1990. The conservation program for the golden lion
tamarin. Endangered Species Update. 8:82-85.

Ralls, K. 1990. Review of “The Biology of Weasels and
Stoats” by C. King. Quarterly Review of Biology. 65(4):517.

Ralls, K. and R.L. Brownell. 1991. A whale of a new species.
Nature. 350:560.

Ralls, K. and D.B. Siniff. 1990. Sea otters and oil: ecological
perspectives. Pp. 199-210. In: Sea Mammals and Oil: Confront-
ing the Risks, edited by J. Gerachi and D.J. St. Aubin. Aca-
demic Press, New York.

Roberts, M. and M. Hutchins (eds.). 1990. The Biology and
Management of Tree Kangaroos. AAZPA Monotreme and Mar-
supial Taxon Advisory Group (Technical Bulletin Number
1), 38 pp.

Roberts, M. and F. Kohn. 1991. Technique for obtaining early
life history data in pouched marsupials. Zoo Biology. 10:81-
86.

Warkentin, I.G. and P.C. James. 1990. Winter roost-site selec-
tion by urban merlins (Falco columbarius). Journal of Raptor
Research. 24:5-11.

Warkentin, I.G. and L.W. Oliphanc. 1990. Habitat use and
foraging behavior of urban Merlins (Falco columbartus) in
winter. Journal of Zoology (London). 221:539-565.

Department of Animal Health

Banish, L., M. Bush, R.J. Montali and D. Sack. 1990. Shigello-
sis in a zoological collection of primates. Journal of Zoo Wild-
life Medicine, 21:302-309.

Brown, J.L., D.E. Wildt, C.R. Raath, V. de Vos, J.G. Howard,
D.L. Janssen, S. Citano, and M. Bush. 1991. Lmpact of sea-
son on seminal characteristics and endocrine status of adult
free-ranging African buffalo (Syncerus caffer). Journal of Repro-
duction and Fertility. 92:47-57.

Brown, J.L., M. Bush, C. Packer, A.E. Pusey, S.L. Monforc,
S.J. O'Brien, D.L. Janssen and D.E. Wildt. 1991. Develop-
mental changes in pituitary-gonadal function in free-rang-
ing lions (Panthera leo) of the Serengeti Plains and
Ngorongoro Crater. Journal of Reproduction and Fertility.
91:29-40.

Bush, M., J.A.M. Graves, S.J. O’Brien and D.E. Wildt. 1990.
Dissociative anaesthesia in free-ranging male koalas and se-
lected marsupials in captivity. Australian Veterinary Journal.
67:449-451.

Bush, M., R.J. Montali, LG. Phillips and P.A. Holobaugh.
1990. Bovine tuberculosis in a bactrian camel herd: Clinical
therapeutic and pathologic findings. Journal of Zoo and
Wildlife Medicine. 21:171-179.

Carvalho, C.F, J.G. Howard, L. Collins, C. Wemmer, M.

Bush and D.E. Wilde. 1991. Captive breeding of black-
footed ferrets (Mustela migripes) and comparative reproduc-
tive efficiency in 1-year old versus 2-year old animals.
Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine. 22:96-106.

Donoghue, A.M., L.A. Johnston, U.S. Seal, D.L. Armstrong,
R.L Tilson, P. Wolf, K. Pecrini, L.G. Simmons, T. Gross
and D.E. Wilde. 1990. In vitro fertilization and embryo de-
velopment in vitro and in vivo in the tiger (Panthera tigris).
Biology of Reproduction. 43:733-747-

Fayer, R., L.G. Phillips, B.C. Anderson and M. Bush. 1991.
Chronic cryptosporidiosis in a bactrian camel (Camelus bac-
trianus). Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine. 22:228-232.

Heeney, J.L., J.E Evermann, A.J. McKeirman, L. Marker-
Kraus, M.E. Roelke, M. Bush, D.E. Wildct, D.G. Meltzer,
L. Colly, J. Lucas, V.J. Manton and S.J. O'Brien. 1990. Prev-
alence and implications of coronavirus infections of captive
and free-ranging cheetahs (Acinomyx jabatus). Journal of Virol-
ogy. 64:1964-197 10042.

Howard, J.G. and D.E. Wilde. 1991. Ejaculate-hormonal traits
in the leopard cat (Felis bengalensis) and sperm function as
measured by in vitro penetration of zona-free hamster ova
and zona-intact domestic cat oocytes. Molecular Reproductive
Development. 26:163-174.

93
Howard, J.G., J.L. Brown, M. Bush and D.E. Wilde. 1990.
Teratospermic and normospermic domestic cats: Ejaculate
traits, pituitary-gonadal hormones and improvement of
sperm viability and morphology after swim-up processing.
Journal of Andrology. 11:204-215.

Howard, J.G., M. Bush, C. Morton, FE. Morton, K. Wentzel
and D.E. Wilde. 1991. Comparative semen cryopreservation
in ferrets (Mustela putorius furo) and pregnancies after laparo-
Scopic intrauterine insemination with frozen-thawed sper-
matozoa. Journal of Reproduction and Fertility. 92:109-118.

Janssen, D.L. and M. Bush. 1990. Review of medical literacure
of great apes in the 1980s. Zoo Biology. 9:123-134.

Division of Pathology

Banish, L.D., M. Bush, R.J. Montali and D. Sack. 1990. Shig-
ellosis in a zoological collection of primates. Journal of Zoo
and Wildlife Medicine. 21(3):302-309.

Bush, M., R.J. Moncali, L.G. Phillips, Jr. and P.A.
Holobaugh. 1990. Bovine tuberculosis in a bactrian camel
herd: clinical, therapeutic and pathologic findings. Journal
of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine. 21(2):171-179.

Doi, S.Q., S. Shifrin, P. Santisteban, E.E Grollman, RJ:
Montrali, C. Schiller and M. Bush. 1990. Familial Goiter in
Bongo Antelopes (Tragelaphus exrycelus). Endocrinology.
127(2):857-864.

Montali, R.J. 1990. Taming the new zoo and wildlife litera-
ture. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine. 21(3):257-258.

Montrali, R.J. and P.G. Hirschel. 1990. Survey of tuberculin
testing practices at zoos. Proceedings. American Association of
Zoo Veterinarians, South Padre Island, Texas, pp. 105-109.

Munson, L. and R.J. Montali. 1990. Pathology and diseases
of great apes at the National Zoological Park. Zoo Biology.
9:99-105.

. 1991. High prevalence of ovarian tumors in maned
wolves (Chrysocyon brachyurus) at the National Zoological
Park. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine. 22(1):125-129.

Nichols, D.K. and R.J. Montali. 1990. Disseminated non-tu-
berculous mycobacteriosis in two species of zoo birds. Pro-
ceedings. American Association of Zoo Veterinarians, Annual
Meeting Oct. 21-26, South Padre Island, Texas.

Scort, R.A., K.V. Holmes, C.A. Scanga, C.B. Cardellichio, M.
Vincent and R.J. Montali. 1990. An update on the epizooti-
ology of callitrichid hepatitis. Proceedings. American Associa-
tion of Zoo Veterinarians, Oct. 21-26, South Padre Island,
Texas, pp. 261-262.

Stephensen, C.B., R.J. Montali, E.C. Ramsay and K.V.
Holmes. 1990. Identification, using sera from exposed ani-
mals, of putative viral antigens in livers of primates with
callitrichid hepatitis. Journal of Virology. 64:6349-6354.

Stephensen, C.B., J.R. Jacob, R.J. Montali, K.V. Holmes, E.
Muchmore, R.W. Compans, E.D. Arms, M.J. Buchmeier
and R.E. Lanford. 1991. Isolation of an Arenovirus from a
marmoset with callitrichic hepatitis and its serologic associ-
ation with disease. Journal of Virology. 65(8):pp. 3965-4000.

94

Wolff, M.J., M. Bush, R.J. Moncali and C. Gardiner. 1989.
Clinical Challenge (red-ruffed lemur). Journal of Zoo and
Wildlife Medicine. 20(3)383-385.

Wolff, M.J., A. Bracthauer, D. Fischer, R.J. Moneali, L.D. Ban-
ish and M. Bush. 1990. Hematologic and serum chemistry
values for the red panda (Aiél/uris fulgens): variation with sex,
age, health status and restraint. Journal of Zoo and Wildlife
Medicine. 21(3):326-333-

Conservation and Research Center

Berger, J. 1990. Behavioral insights and endangered species
conservation: Book Review of Behavior of Przewalski
Horses, K. A. Houpt and A. F. Fraser, Eds. in Applied Ani-
mal Behavior Science 21: 1-190, 1988. Zoo Biology. 9:331-333.

. 1990. Persistence of different-sized populations: an

empirical assessment of rapid extinctions in bighorn sheep.

Conservation Biology. 4(1): 91-98.

. 1991. Funding asymmetries for endangered species,

animals, and livestock. BioScience. 41(2):105-106.

. 1991. Pregnancy incentives, predation constraints and
habitat shifts: experimental and field evidence for wild big-
horn sheep. Animal Behaviour. 41:61-77.

Biggins, D., L. Hansbury, B. Miller and R. Powell. 1990. Re-
lease of Siberian polecats (Mustela eversmanni) on a prairie
dog colony. Proceedings. 7oth Annual Meeting of the American
Society of Mammalogists.

Blouch, R.A. and C.P. Groves. 1990. Naturally occurring suid
hybrid in Java. Zeitschrift fuer Saupetierkunde. §§:270-275.

Collins, L.R. 1990. Front Royal ferrets: the first year. Zoogoer.
19{1):24-25.

Cunningham, C. and J. Berger. 1990. Sex and survival in bad-
lands bison. Zoogoer. 19(4):22-25.

Derrickson, S.R. and N.ER. Snyder. 1991. Potentials and lim-
its of captive breeding in parrot conservation. Pp. 133-163.
In: New World Parrots in Crisis: Solutions from Conservation Bi-
ology. S.R. Beissinger and N.ER. Snyder, Eds. Washington,
D.C. Smithsonian Institution Press.

Dinerstein, E. and G.E McCracken. 1990. Endangered greater
one-horned rhinoceros carry high levels of genetic variation.
Conservation Biology. 4(4):417-422.

Dinerstein, E., S. Shrestha and H. Mishra. 1990. Capture,
chemical immobilization, and radio-collar life for greater
one-horned rhinoceros. Wildlife Society Bulletin. 18:36-41.

Giles, R. H., Jr. and MS. Fujita. 1990. Computer applications
for wildlife management in national parks and protected
areas. Pp. 1-18 in Proceedings, International Conference on
Parks and Protected Areas, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (Nov.
1989).

Haig, S. M., J. D. Ballou, and S. R. Derrickson. 1990. Manage-
ment options for preserving genetic diversity: reintroduc-
tion of Guam rails to the wild. Conservation Biology. 4(3):
290-300.

McClenaghan, L. R., J. Berger, and H. D. Truesdale. 1990.
Founding lineages and genetic variability in plains bison

(Bison bison) from Badlands National Park, Souch Dakota.
Conservation Biology. 4(3):285-289.

McDonald, M.V. 1990. Gulf coast salt marsh. Journal of Field
Ornithology (Suppl.). 61(1):77

McDonald, M.V. and W.J. McShea. 1990. Tulip tree-hickory
forest. Journal of Field Ornithology. 61(1): 45-46 (Suppl.).

McDonald, M.V. and R. Greenberg. 1991. Nest departure calls
in female songbirds. The Condor. 93:365-373.

McKinney, EF, D. Buitron and $.R. Derrickson. 1990. Persis-
tent quacking in dabbling ducks: a predator-luring signal?
Wildfowl. 41:92-98.

McShea, W.J. 1990. Predation and its potential impact on the
behavior of microtine rodents. Pp. 101-110 In: Social Systems
and Population Cycles in Voles. R.H. Tamarin, et. al. (eds.). F.
R. Germany: Birkhauser Verlag.

. 1990. Social tolerance and proximate mechanisms of

dispersal among winter groups of meadow voles (Microtus
pennsylvanicus). Animal Behaviour. 39:346-351.

Miller, B.J. 1991. Back home on the range. Zoo Life. Spring.
46-50.

Miller, B.J., C. Wemmer and D. Biggins. 1990. Ferret futures.
Zoogoer. 19{1):20.

Miller, B.J. and S.H. Anderson. 1990. Comparison of black-
footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) and domestic ferret (M.
pxtorius furo) courtship activity. Zoo Biology. 9:201-210.

Miller, B.J., C. Wemmer, D. Biggins and R. Reading. 1990.
A proposal to conserve black-footed ferrets and the prairie
dog ecosystem. Environmental Management. 14(6):763-769.

Miller, B.J., D. Biggins, C. Wemmer, R. Powell, L.
Hanebury, D. Horn and A. Vargas. 1990. Development of
survival skills in captive-raised Siberian polecats (Mustela
eversmanni) I: locating prey. Journal of Ethology. 8:89-94.

Miller, B.J., D. Biggins, C. Wemmer, R. Powell, L. Calvo, L.
Hanebury and T. Wharton. 1990. Development of survival
skills in captive-raised Siberian polecats (Mustela eversmanni)
II: predator avoidance. Journal of Ethology. 8:95-104.

Monfort, S.L., C. Wemmer, J.L. Brown, and D.E. Wilde.
1990. Use of urinary hormone assays for evaluating endo-
crine patterns associated with the long-day breeding season
in Eld’s deer (Cervus eldi). Journal of Experimental Zoology.
(Suppl.) 4:215-218.

Monfort, S.L., C. Wemmer, T.H. Kepler, M. Bush, J.L. Brown
and D.E. Wildt. 1990. Monitoring ovarian function and
pregnancy in Eld’s deer (Cervus eldi thamin) by evaluating
urinary steroid metabolite excretion. Journal of Reproduction
and Fertility. 88:271-281.

Monfort, S.L., C. Martinet and D.E. Wildt. 1991. Urinary ste-
roid metabolite profiles in female Pere David's deer
(Elapharus davidinus). Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine.
22(1):78-85.

Monfort, S.L., N.P. Arthur and D.E. Wildc. 1991. Monitoring
ovarian function and pregnancy by evaluating excretion of
urinary conjugates in semi- and free-ranging Przewalski’s
horses (Equus przewalski). Journal of Reproduction and Fertil-
iby. 91:155-164.

Rudran, R., C. Wemmer and M. Singh. 1990. Teaching ap-
plied ecology to nationals of developing countries. Pp. 125-
140 (Chapt. 6). In: Race to Save the Tropics: Ecology and
Economics for a Sustainable Future. E.R. Goodland, Ed. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Island Press.

Sader, $.A., G.V.N. Powell and J.H. Rappole. 1991. Migratory
bird habitat monitoring through remote sensing. Pp. 363-
372. In: International Journal of Remote Sensing. Denver, CO.
Taylor and Francis, Ltd.

Schwede, G., S. Holzenbein and H. Hendrichs. 1990. Sparring
in white-tailed deer (Odocoilleus virginianus). Zeitschrift fuer
Saugetierkunde. 55: 331-339.

Stuewe, M. and B. Nievergelt. 1991. Recovery of alpine ibex
from near extinction: the result of effective protection, cap-
tive breeding, and reintroductions. Applied Animal Bebavi-
our Science. 39:346-351.

Wasser, S.K. 1990. Infertility, abortion, and biotechnology:
When it's not nice to fool mother nature. Haman Nature
1(1):3-24 5.

Wemmer, C. 1990. International zoo biology training: a
method, progress, and revelations. Proceedings. American As-
sociation of Zoological Parks and Aquariums Annual Conference.
409-415.

. 1990. Keeping score. Zoogoer. 19{2):12.

. 1990. The zoo biology training course in Guatemala

City. Zoogoer. 19(3):9.

. 1991. Lessons from a Javanese garden. Zoogoer 20(1):10-

14.

Wemmer, C., C. Pickett and J.A. Teare. 1990. Training zoo bi-
ology in tropical countries: a report on a method and prog-
ress. Zoo Biology. 9:461-470.

Winker, K., J.H. Rappole and M.A. Ramos. 1990. Population
dynamics of the wood thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) in south-
ern Veracruz, Mexico. Condor. 92:444-460.

Witteman, G.J., R.E. Beck, S.L. Pimm and S.R. Derrickson.
1991. The decline and restoration of the Guam rail, Rallus
owstoni. Endangered Species Update. 8(1):36-39.

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies

Borden, Carla M., ed., Interdisciplinary Studies at the Smithso-
nian newsletter, published winter and summer.

Kotler, Neil G., ed., Sharing Innovation: Global Perspectives on
Food, Agriculture, and Rural Development (Washington and
London: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1990).

Robinson, Michael H., and Lionel Tiger, eds., Man and Beast
Revisited (Washington and London: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1991).

95
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

deFur, Peter L. “Respiration during ecdysis at low salinity in
blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun.” Bulletin of Marine
Science 46 (1990): 48-54.

de Kroon, Hans, with Dennis F. Whigham and Maxine A.
Watson. “Effects of rhizome severing, fertilization and tim-
ing of shoot senescence on clonal growth of mayapple.”
Functional Ecology 5 (1991): 360-368.

Dolan, John R., with D. Wayne Coats. “Seasonal abundances
of planktonic ciliates and microflagellates in mesohaline
Chesapeake Bay waters.” Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science
31 (1990): 157-175.

. “Changes in fine-scale vertical distributions of ciliate

microzooplankton related to anoxia in Chesapeake Bay wa-
ters." Mar. Microb. Food Webs 5 (1991): 81-93.
. “A study of predacious ciliate feeding using prey cili-

ates labeled with fluorescent microspheres.” J. Plankton Res.

13 (1991): 609-627.

. “Preliminary prey digestion in a predacious estuarine
ciliate, Explotes woodruffi, and the use of digestion data to es-
timate ingestion.” Limnol. Oceanogr. 36 (1991): 558-565.

Dolan, John R. “Guilds of ciliate microzooplankton in the
Chesapeake Bay.” Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science 32
(1991): 1-16.

Drake, Bert G. “Photosynthesis of salt marsh species.” Aquatic
Botary 34 (1989): 167-180.

Gallegos, Charles L., with David L. Correll and Jack W.
Pierce. “Modeling spectral diffuse attenuation, absorption,
and scattering coefficients in a turbid estuary.” Limnol. Oce-
anogr 35 (1990): 1486-1502.

Hines, Anson H. “Fecundity and reproductive output in

Chaceon fenneri and C. quinquedens, in Geryonid crabs and asso-
ciated continental slope fauna: a research workshop report, edited
by W. J. Lindberg and E. L. Wenner. Gainesville: Florida
Sea Grant College Technical Report No. 58, 1990, 12-13.

. “Rapporteur’s commentary on life history and ecol-
ogy of deep-sea crabs of the family Geryonidae™, in Geryonid
crabs and associated continental slope fauna: a research workshop
report, edited by W. J. Lindberg and E. L. Wenner. Gaines-
ville: Florida Sea Grant College Technical Report No. 58,
1990, 30-38.

. “Fecundity and reproductive output in nine species

of Cancer (Crustacea, Brachyura, Cancridae).” Canadian Jour-
nal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 48 (1991): 267-275.

Hines, Anson H., with A. Mark Haddon and Lynn A.
Wiechert. “Guild structure and foraging impact of
epibenthic fish and blue crabs in a subestuary of Chesa-
peake Bay.” Marine Ecology Progress Series 67 (1990): 105-126.

Hines, Anson H., with David L. Correll and Jay O'Dell. “Pas-
sive stream liming and yellow perch reproductive success in
certain Maryland tributaries of Chesapeake Bay: Summary

96

of 1988 research.” Maryland Department of Natural Re-
sources Tidewater Administration, 1990, §1 p.

Jordan, Thomas E., with David L. Correll. “Continuous auco-
mated sampling of tidal exchanges of nutrients by brackish
marshes.” Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science 32 (1991): §27-
545.

Jordan, Thomas E., with David L. Correll, Joseph Miklas and
Donald E. Weller. “Nutrient and chlorophyll ac the inter-
face of a watershed and an estuary.” Limnology and Oceanogra-
phy 36 (1991): 251-267.

Long, Steven, with Bert G. Drake. “The effect of the long-
term elevation of CO, concentration in the field on the
quantum yield of photosynthesis of the C, sedge: Scirpus
olneyi.” Plant Physiology 96 (1991): 221-226.

Maloof, Joan. “Photosynthesis in Hibiscus moscheutos and the ef-
fects of environmental factors.” M.S. Thesis, University of
Maryland, Eastern Shore, 30 pp. (1991).

Mooney, Harold A., with Bert G. Drake, Richard J. Luxmore,
Walter C. Oechel and Louis F. Pitelka. “Predicting ecosys-
tem responses to elevated CO, concentrations.” BioScience 41
(1991): 96-103.

Posey, Martin H. “Functional approaches to soft sub-strate
communities: How useful are they?” Reviews in Aquatic Sci-
ences 2 (1990): 343-356.

Smith, L. David. “Patterns of limb loss in the blue crab,
Callinctes sapidus Rathbun, and the effects of autotomy on
growth.” Bulletin of Marine Science 46 (1990): 23-36.

Smith, L. David, with Anson H. Hines. “Autotomy in blue
crab (Callinectes sapidus Rathbun) populations: Geographic,
temporal, and ontogenetic variation.” Biological Bulletin 180
(1991): 416-431.

Spira, Timothy P. “Reproductive biology of Hibiscus moscheutas
(Malvaceae)” in The evolutionary ecology of plants, edited by J.
H. Bock and Y. B. Linhart. Boulder: Westview Press, 1989,
247-255.

Townsend, Edward C. “Depth distribution of the grass shrimp
Palaemonetes pugio in two contrasting tidal creeds in North
Carolina and Maryland.” M.S. Thesis, University of North
Carolina at Wilmington, 1991, 62 pp.

Wagner, Lisa K. “Size dependent reproduction in Poa annua
and Poa praetensis”, in The evolutionary ecology of plants, edited
by J. H. Bock and Y. B. Linhart. Boulder: Westview Press,
1989, 273-284.

Weller, Donald E. “The self-thinning rule: dead or unsup-
ported?” Ecology 72 (1991): 747-750-

Whigham, Dennis EF. “The effects of experimental defoliation
on the growth and reproduction of a woodland orchid -
Tipularia discolor (Otchidaceae).” Canadian Journal of Botany
68 (1990): 1812-1816.

Whigham, Dennis F, with Mark M. Brinson. “Wetland value
impacts”, in Wetlands and shallow continental water bodies, ed-
ited by B. C. Patten et al. The Hague: SPB Academic Pub-
lishing, 1990, 401-421.

Wolcott, Thomas G. and Anson H. Hines. “Ultrasonic biote-
lemetry of muscle activity from free-ranging marine ani-
mals: a new method for studying foraging by blue crabs
(Callinectes sapidus).” Biological Bulletin 176 (1989): 50-56.

Ziska, Lewis H., with Bert G. Drake, and Sarah Chamberlain.
“Long-term photosynthetic response in single leaves of a C3
and C4 salt marsh species grown in elevated atmospheric
CO, in situ.” Oecologia 83 (1990): 469-472.

Ziska, Lewis H., with Kevin P. Hogan, Alan P. Smith, and
Bert G. Drake. “Growth and photosynthetic response of
nine tropical species with long-term exposure to elevated
carbon dioxide.” Oecologia 86 (1991): 383-389.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Bain, Alan L. “An Archivist's Perspective on Natural History
Archives.” Association of Systematics Collections Newsletter 18
(December 1991):86-87.

Bain, Alan L, editor. “Archives in Natural History Museums:
Reports from the Association of Systematics Collections.”
Museum Archivist 5 (February 1991):14-20.

, editor. Museum Archivist Directory. Smithsonian Insti-
tution Archives. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Archives,
1991.

Brownell, Joan, and James A. Steed, editor. Guide to Exposition
Records of the United States National Museum. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Archives, 1991.

Henson, Pamela M. and Terri A. Schorzman. “Videohistory:
Focusing on the American Past.” Journal of American History
(September 1991):374-381.

Moss, William W. “Archives Law of the People’s Republic of
China.” The American Archivist 53 (Fall 1990).

. “Disposable Archives in the Interactive Global Vil-

lage of Hypermedia.” The American Archivist 53 (Fall 1990).

. Review of Reference Guide to the Iranian Oral History

Collection, by Habib Ladjevardi, for the Center for Middle

Eastern Studies, Harvard University, a report to the direc-

tor of the center, May 1991.

. Review of Guide to China's First Historical Archives

[Zhongguo Divi Lishi Danganguan Guancang Dangan

Gaishu}. Compiled by staff of the First Historical Archives.

Beijing: Archives Publishing House [Dangan Chubanshe],

1985, in The American Archivist 53 (Fall 1990).

. Reviews of An Interview with Phillips Thygeson, M.D.,
by Sally Smith Hughes and Aa Interview with Dohrmann
Kaspar Pischel, M.D., by Sally Smith Hughes. Berkeley: Re-
gional Oral History Office, and Foundation for the Ameri-
can Academy of Ophthalmology, 1988; and Monsignor
Donohoe, a memoir as told to and edited by Gordon A. Sa-
bine, Tempe: Arizona State University Library, 1988, in The
Oral History Review 18 (1990).

Vogt-O’Connor, Diane L., editor. Guide to Photographic Collec-
tions at the Smithsonian Institution: National Museum of Natu-

ral History, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian

Astrophysical Observatory, and Smithsonian Tropical Research In-
stitute, Volume II. Washington, D.C. and London: Smithson-
ian Institution Press, 1991.

_ “Smithsonian Guide.” The Picture Professional. Ameri-
can Society of Picture Professionals 29 (1991):11-12.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Nancy E. Gwinn and Michael R. League. “The Challenge of
Communication” in Preservation of Archive and Library Mate-
rials (Alexandria, Va.: Association of Higher Education Fa-
cilities Officers, 1991), pp. 56-62.

Kay A. Kenyon. Directory of Zoo and Aquarium Libraries (Wash-
ington, D.C.: NZP, 1990), 3rd edn.

. “The Zoo Library - Finding Its Niche” in AAZPA

1990 Conference Proceedings (Indianapolis: American Associa-

tion of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, 1990), pp. 458-62.

. “The Zoo Library - What Can It Do For Your Zoo?”

in International Zoo News 36/6 (No. 223): 9-10 (1990).

. Review. Grzimek's encyclopedia of mammals, 5 vols. by
Bernhard Grzimek. Sci-Tech News, 44 (3): 62. August 1990.

Sheila M. Riley. Review. Holding On to the Air: An Autobiogra-
‘phy by Suzanne Farrell. Library Journal us (15): 84. Septem-
ber 15, 1990.

. Review. Vaslay Nyinsky: A Leap into Madness by Peter

Ostwald. Library Journal 115 (19): 92. November 1, 1990.

. Review. Something Blue by Ann Hood. Library Journal

LI5 (21): 163. December 1990.

. Review. Heart’s Desires by Katharine Marlowe. Li-

brary Journal 116 (1): 154. January 1991.

. Review. A/l You Need by Elaine Feinstein. Library

Journal 116 (2): 102. February 1, 1991.

. Review. The Fireman’s Fair by Josephine Humphreys.

Library Journal 116 (6): 152. April 1, 1991.

. Review. Out of Time by Helen Schulman. Library Jour-

nal 116 (11): 107. June 15, 1991.

. Review. What's Eating Gilbert Grape? by Peter

Hedges. Library Journal 116 (12): 135. July 1991.

. Review. A House of Secrets by Patti Davis. Library Jour-
nal 116 (13): 141. August 1991.

Janet L. Stanley. “African Material Culture and the Art and
Architecture Thesaurus: Challenges to the AAT” in Termi-
nology for Museums; proceedings of an International Conference
held in Cambridge, England, 21-24 September 1988, Andrew
Roberts, ed. (Cambridge, England: The Museum Documen-
tation Association, 1990), pp. 290-297.

and Margarita Dobert. Africa Illustrated: Fantasy and

Reality before 1900 (Washington, D.C.: 1991). Exhibition cac-

alogue. 16 pp., illus.

. Review. Serials Guide to ethnoart: a guide to serial publi-

cations on visual arts of Sfrica, Oceania and the Americas (1990)

97
comp. by Eugene C. Burt. Art Libraries Journal (Preston,

UK) 16 (2): 43-44. 1991.

. Review. Kenyan pots and potters by Jane Barbour and

Simiyu Wandibba, eds. African book publishing record (Ox-

ford) 16 (4). 1990.

. Review. Resistance art in South Africa (1989) by Sue
Williamson. African book publishing record (Oxford) 16 (4).
1990.

Joyce M. Watson. “Astronomical Bibliography from Commer-
cial Databases,” in Databases and On-Line Data in Astronomy,
Miguel A. Albrecht and Daniel Egret, eds. (Dordrecht, The
Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991) pp. 199-

210. Astrophysics and space science library, v. 171.

Ellen B. Wells [and R. A. Gilbert]. “J. G. Wood: Popular Nat-
ural Historian” in Books and Magazine Collector 79: 56-64.
October 1990. illus.

. “The birth of a bookend” in Books and bookends: Sculp-

tural Approaches, Carol Barton and Henry Barrow (Bethesda,

Maryland: Popular Kinetics Press, 1990), pp. 9-11. illus.

. “Poll position” letter in “Notes and Queries” section
of ABMR Antiquarian Book Monthly Review, 18 (2): 56. Feb-
ruary 1991.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Adams, Eldridge S. “Nest-Mate Recognition Based on Herita-
ble Odors in the Termite Microcerotermes arboreus.” Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences 88: 2031-2034 (1991).

Adler, Gregory and Seamon, Joshua. Distribution and abun-
dance of a tropical rodent, the spiny rat, on islands in Pana-
ma. Journal of Tropical Ecology 7: 349-360 (1991).

Aide, T. Mitchell and Zimmerman, Jess K. “Patterns of Insect
Herbivory, Growth, and Survivorship in Juveniles of a
Neotropical Liana.” Ecology 71(4): 1412-1421 (1990).

Aiello, Annette. “Saving Seeds: The Gardener's Guide to Growing
and Storing Vegetables and Flower Weeds, by Marc Rogers”
(Book Review)." Library Journal (1990).

. “Gardening from the Heart, by Carol Olwell” (Book Re-

view). Library Journal 115(12): 118 (1990).

. “Dactor's Adventures Among the Famous and the Infamous

Jrom the Jungles of Panama to a Park Avenue Practice, by B.H.

Kean and Tracy Dahlby” (Book Review). Library Journal

11§(2): 90 (1990).

. “Ticks and What You Can do About Them, by Roger
Drummond” (Book Review). Library Journal 115(8): 108
(1990).

Anderson, Alun. “The Smithsonian's Tropical Niche.” Nature
34% 6311): 647-648 (1991).

Andrews, Robin M. and Kinney, B.S. “Diel Pattern of Activ-
ity and Selected Ambient Temperature of the Sand-Swim-
ming Lizard Sphenops sepsoides (Sauria: Scincidae). Israel
Journal of Zoology 37: 65-73 (1990).

98

Arosemena, Fernando. “Los Anolis de Fortuna.” Publicaciones
Técnicas, No. 0, Agosto: 5-31 (1990).

Becker, Peter and Castillo, Anayansi. “Root Architecture of
Shrubs and Saplings in the Understory of a Tropical Moist
Forest in Lowland Panama.” Biotropica 22(3): 242-249
(1990).

Becker, Peter and Smith, Alan P. “Spatial Autocorrelation of
Solar Radiation in a Tropical Moist Forest Understory.” Ag-
ricultural and Forest Meteorology 52: 373-379 (1990).

Belwood, Jacqueline J. “Anti-Predator Defences and Ecology
of Neotropical Forest Katydid, Especially the
Pseudophyllinae.” In: The Tettigoniidae: Biology, Systematics
and Evolution: 8-26, edited by W.J. Bailey and D.C.F.
Rentz. Bathurst: Crawford House (1990).

Bermingham, Eldridge. “Mitochondial DNA and the Analy-
sis of Fish Population Structure.” In: Electrophoretic and Iso-
electric Focusing Techniques in Fisheries Management: 197-201,
edited by D. Whitmore. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

Blest, A.D., O'Carroll, D.C. and Carter, Margrit. “Compara-
tive Ultrastructure of Layer I Receptor Mosaics in Principal
Eyes of Jumping Spiders: the Evolution of Regular Arrays
of Light Guides.” Cell and Tissue Research 262: 445-460
(1990).

Brawn, Jeffrey D. “Interspecific Competition and Social Be-
havior in Violet-Green Swallows.” Auk 107: 606-608 (1990).

. “Environmental Effects on Variation and Covariation
in Reproductive Traits of Western Bluebirds.” Oecologia 96:
193-201 (1991).

Broadhead, Elcy C. “The Species of Poecilominettia,
Homoeominettia and Floriminettia Diptera: Lauxaniidae)
in Panama.” Bulletin of the British Museum (Natural History):
Entomology Series 58(2): 185-226 (1989).

Britcher, Enrique H. “The Migration and Dispersal of Useful
Plants over the Isthmus of Panama.” Plant Research and De-
velopment 30: 47-61 (1990).

Bush, Mark B., Colinvaux, Paul A., Wiemann, Michael C.,
Piperno, Dolores R. and Liu, Kam-Biu. “Late Pleistocene
Temperature Depression and Vegetation Change in
Ecuadorian Amazonia.” Quaternary Research 34: 330-345
(1990).

Caldwell, Roy L., Roderick, George K. and Shuster, Stephen
M. “Studies of Predation by Gonodactylus bredini.” In: Biol-
ogy of Stomatopod: 117-131, edited by E.A. Ferrero. Modena:
U.Z.I Mucchi (1989).

Caldwell, Roy L. and Childress, Michael J. “Prey Selection
and Processing in a Stomatopod Crustacean.” In: Behavioral
Mechanisms of Food Selection, edited by R.N. Hugues. NATO
ASI Series, Vol G20: 143-164 (1990).

Carlson, D.A., Roubik, David W. and Milstrey, K. “Distinc-
tive Hydrocarbons Among Giant Honey Bees, the Apis
dorsata group (Hymenoptera: Apidae).” Apidologie 22: 169-
181 (1991).

Carrier, David. “Activity of the Hypaxial Muscles During
Walking in the Lizard Iguana iguana.” Journal of Experimen-
tal Biology 152: 453-470 (1990).

Carroll, Scott P. and Loye, Jenella E. “Male-Biased Sex Ratios,
Female Promiscuity and Copulatory Mate Guarding in an
Aggregating Tropical Bug, Dysdercus bimaculatus.” Journal
of Insect Behavior 31): 33-48 (1990).

Christy, John H. and Salmon, Michael. “Comparative Studies
of Reproductive Behavior in Mantis Shrimps and Fiddler
Crabs.” A merican Zoologists 31: 329-337 (1991).

Ciochon, Russell L., Piperno, Dolores R. and Thompson, Rob-
ert G. “Opal Phytoliths found on the Teeth of the Extinct
Ape Gigantopithecus blacki: Lmplications for Paleodietary
Studies.” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 87:
8120-8124 (1990).

Clifton, K.E. “The Costs and Benefits of Territory Sharing for
the Caribbean Coral Reef Fish, Sacrus iserti.” Behavioral Ecol-
ogy and Sociobiology 26: 139-147 (1990).

Coates, Anthony G., Jackson, Jeremy B.C., Collins, Laurel C.,
et al. “Closure of the Isthmus of Panama: The Near-Shore
Marine Record in Costa Rica and Panama.” (Abstract). Ab-
stracts with Programs, Geological Society of America, Annual
Meeting, Dallas, 1990 A365 (1990).

Coffroth, Mary A. “Mucous Sheet Formation on Poritid Cor-
als: An Evaluation of Coral Mucous as a Nutrient Source on
Reefs.” Marine Biology 105: 39-49 (1990).

Coffroth, Mary A., Lasker, H.R. and Oliver, J.K. “Coral Mor-
tality outside of the Eastern Pacific During 1982-1983: Rela-
tionship to El Nifio.” In: Global Ecological Consequences of the
1982-83 El Nino-Southern Oscillation, edited by Peter W.
Glynn: 141-182. Amsterdam: Elsevier (1990).

Cohen, A.C. and Morin, J.G. “Six New Luminescent Ostra-
codes of the Genus Vargula (Myodocopida, Cypridinidae)
from the San Blas Region of Panama.” Journal of Crustacean
Biology 9: 297-340 (1989).

Collins, Laurel S. “Pliocene Benthic Foraminifera of Carib-
bean Panama: Implications for the Closure of the Isthmus.”
(Abstract). Abstracts with Programs, Geological Society of Amer-
ican Annual Meeting, Dallas, 1990: A199 (1990).

Collins, Timothy. Rates of Mitochondrial DNA Evolution in
Transisthmian Geminate Species. Ph.D. Dissertation, Yale
University, New Haven (1989).

Condit, Richard and Hubbell, Stephen P. “Abundance and
DNA Sequence of Two-Base Repeat Regions in Tropical
Tree Genomes.” Genome 34: 66-71 (1991).

Cooke, Richard G. “Anurans as Human Food in Tropical
America: Ethnographic, Ethnohistoric and Archaeological
Evidence.” ArchaeoZoologia 3(1.2): 123-142 (1989).

Correa A., Mireya D. “Panama.” In: Especies Vegetales Pro-
misorias de los Paises del Convenio Anarés Bello, Tomo III, ed-
ited by Jaime Enrique Correa Q. and Henry Yesid Bernal.
Bogota: Editora Guadalupe (1990).

. “Bosques Tropicales: Nuestra Herencia Biolégica.”

Revista del TV Congreso Nacional y | Centroamérica Sur de Pro-

ductores de Seguros, 11, 12, 13 de Octubre de 1990: 41 (1991).

Corton, Mathew A. and Dowsert, Harry J. “Neogene Plank-
tonic Foraminiferal Biostratigraphy from the Pacific and
Caribbean Sides of the Lower Central American Isth-

mus.” (Abstract). Abstracts with Programs, Geological
Society of America, Annual Meeting, Dallas, 1990: A20O
(1990).

Craig, Catherine L. “Effects of Background Pattern on Insect
Perception of Webs Spun by Orb-Weaving Spiders.” Aai-
mal Behaviour 39: 135-144 (1990).

Craig, Catherine L. and Bernard, Gary D. “Insect Attraction
to Ultraviolet-Reflecting Spider Webs and Web Decora-
tions.” Ecology 71(2): 616-623 (1990).

Davidson, Diane W., Foster, Robin B., Snelling, Royc R.
and Lozada, Pedro W. “Variable Composition of Some
Tropical Ant—Plant Symbioses.” In: Plant-Animal Inter-
actions: Evolutionary Ecology in Tropical and Temperate Re-
gions: 145-162, edited by P.W. Price, T.M. Lewinsohn,
G.W. Fernandes and W.W. Benson. John Wiley and Sons
(1991).

De Steven, Diane. “Genet and Ramet Demography of
Ocnocarpus mapora spp. mapura, a Clonal Palm of Panama-
nian Tropical Moist Forest.” Journal of Ecology 77: 79-596
(1989).

Denlinger, David L., Tanaka, Seigi, Downes, William L.,
Wolda, Henk and Guardia, Modesto. “Does Lack of Dia-
pause Result in Less Insect Seasonality?” Oecologia 87: 152-
154 (1991).

DeVries, Philip J. “Enhancement of Symbioses Between But-
terfly Caterpillars and Ants by Vibrational Communica-
tion.” Science 248: 1104-1106 (1990).

DeVries, Philip J. and Stiles, FG. “Attraction to Pyrrolizidine
Alkaloid Seeking Lepidoptera to Epidendrum paniculatum Or-
chids.” Biotropica 22(3): 290-297 (1990).

Dressler, Robert L. “Acrorchis, a New Genus from the Moun-
tains of Panama and Costa Rica.” Orquidea 12(1): U-17 (1990).

Dudley, Robert. “Chaotic Dynamics of an Insect Flight
Motor.” American Zoologist 30: 97A (1990).

. “Thanatosis in the Neotropical Butterfly Caligo

illioneus (Nymphalidae: Brassolinae).” Journal of Research on

the Lepidoptera 28(1-2): 125 (1990).

. “Thermoregulation in Unpalatable Danaine Butter-

flies.” Functional Ecology 5: 503-506 (1991).

. “Biomechanics of Flight in Neotropical Butterflies:
Aerodynamics and Mechanical Power Requirements.” Joxr-
nal of Experimental Biology 159: 335-357 (1991).

Dudley, Robert and Gans, C. “A Critique of Symmorphosis
and Optimality Models in Physiology.” Physiological Zoology
64: 627-637 (1991).

Dudley, Robert and Stanley Rand. “Sound production and
vocal sac inflation in the tungara frog (1991). Physalaemus
pustulosus (Leptodactylidae).” Copeia, 2: 460-470.

Dudley, Robert and DeVries, Philip J. “Tropical Rain Forest
Structure and the Geographica (1990). Distribution of Glid-
ing Vertebrates.” Biotropica 22(4): 432-434.

Dudley, Robert, King, V.A. and Wassersug, R.J. “The Im-
plications of Shape and Metamorphosis for Drag Forces on a
Generalized Pond Tadpole (Rana catesbina). Copeia 1991:

240-245 (1991).

99
Duke, Norman C. “Morphological Variation in the Mangrove
Genus Avicennia in Australasia: Systematic and Ecological
Considerations.” Aust. sys. Bot. 3: 221-239 (1990).

. “Phenological Trends with Latitude in the Mangrove
Tree Avicennia marina.” Journal of Ecology 78: 113-133 (1990).

Eberhard, William G. “Animal Genitalia and Female choice.”
American Scientist 78: 134-141 (1990).

. “Copulatory Courtship in the Wasp Eumenes con-

sorbrinus (Hymenoptera, Eumeninae)” (Abstract). Journal of

the Kansas Entomological Society 63: 342-343 (1990).

. “Early Stages of Orb Construction by Pdiloponella,

Leucauge, and Nephila spiders (Araneae: Uloboridae and

Araneidae). Journal of Arachnology 18: 205-234 (1990).

. “Function and Phylogeny of Spider Webs.” Annual

Review of Ecology and Systematics 21: 341-372 (1990).

. “Genitalic Courtship in Acmaeodera impluviata (Col-

eoptera: Buprestidae).” Journal of the Kansas Entomological So-

ciety 63: 344-346 (1990).

. “Inadvertent Machismo?” (Letter to the Editor).

Trends in Ecology and Evolution 5: 263 (1990).

. “Niche Expansion in the Spider Wendilgarda
galapagensis (Araneae, Theridiosomatidae) on Cocos Island.”
Revista de Biologia Tropical 37: 163-168 (1989).

Fausch, Kurc D., Lyons, John, Karr, James R. and Angerme-
ier, Paul L. “Fish Communities as Indicators of Environ-
mental Degradation.” American Fisheries Society Symposium 8:
123-144 (1990).

Fincke, Ola M., Higgins, Linden and Rojas, Edgar. “Parasit-
ism of Nephila clavipes (Araneae, Tetragnathidae) by an
Ichneumonid (Hymenoptera, Polysphinctini) in Panama.”
Journal of Arachnology 18: 321-329 (1990).

Fontaine, Roy. “Positional Behavior in Saimiri boliviensis and
Ateles geoffroyi.” American Journal of Physical Anthropology
82(4): 485-508 (1990).

Forget, Pierre Michel. “Seed-Dispersal of Vouacapoua americana
(Caesalpiniaceae) by Caviomorph Rodents in French Gui-
ana.” Journal of Tropical Ecology 6: 459-468 (1990).

Foster, Robin. “The Floristic Composition of the Rio Manu
Floodplain Forest.” In: Four Neotropical Rainforests: 99-111,
edited by A.H. Gentry. New Haven, Yale University Press
(1990).

. “Long-Term Change in the Successional Forest Com-
munity of the Rio Manu Floodplain.” In: Four Neotropical
Rainforests: §65-572 (1990).

Foster, Robin B. and Hubbell, Stephen P. “The Floristic Com-
position of the Barro Colorado Island Forest.” In: Four
Neotropical Rainforests: 85-98, edited by A.H. Gentry. New
Haven, Yale University Press (1990).

Gadagkar, Raghavendra. “Evolution of Insect Societies: Some
Insights from Studying Tropical Wasps.” In: Social Insects:
An Indian Perspective, edited by G.K. Veeresh, A.R.V.
Kumar and T. Shivashanker. Bangalore: IUSSI (1990).

Fischer, Brian L., Sternberg, Leenel da Silveira Lobo and Price,
David. “Variation in the Use of Orchid Extrafloral Nectar
by Ants.” Oecologia 83(2): 263-266 (1990).

100

Garrity, Stephen D. and Levings, Sally C. “Effects of an Oil
Spill on the Gastropods of a Tropical Intertidal Reef Flac.”
Marine Environmental Research 30(2): 119-153 (1990).

Garwood, Nancy C. and Lighton, John R.B. “Physiological
Ecology of Seed Respiration in Some Tropical Species.: The
New Phytologist 115(3): 549-558 (1990).

Glanz, William E. “Neotropical Mammal Densities: How Un-
usual is the Community on Barro Colorado Island, Pan-
ama?” In: Four Neotropical Rainforests: 287-313, edited by
A.H. Gentry. New Haven, Yale University Press (1990).

Glynn, Peter W. “Coral Mortality and Disturbances cto Coral
Reefs in the Tropical Eastern Pacific.” in Global Ecological
Consequences of the 1982-83 El Nitio-Southern Oscillation, edited
by Peter W. Glynn: 55-126. Amsterdam: Elsevier (1990).

. “Feeding Ecology of Selected Coral-Reef
Macroconsumers: Patterns and Effects on Coral Community
Structure.” In: Coral Reefs: 365-400, edited by Z. Dubinsky.
Amsterdam: Elsevier (1990).

Gémez Z., Adalberto. Efectos Directos de NemAtidos en Avi-
spas Polinizadoras de Ficus citrifolia y Efectos Indirectos en
sus Frutos. Tesis, Universidad de Panama (1991).

Greenfield, Michael D. “Evolution of Acoustic Communica-
tion in the Genus Neoconocephalus: Discontinuous Songs,
Synchrony, and Interspecific Interactions.” In: The
Tattigoniidae: Biology, Systematics and Evolution: 71-97, edited
by WJ. Bailey and D.C.F. Rentz. Bathurst: Crawford
House (1990).

Guzmin, Héctor M. “Restoration of Coral Reefs in Pacific
Costa Rica.” Conservation Biology 5(2): 189-195 (1991).

. “Restoration of Coral Reefs in Pacific Costa Rica.”
Conservation Biology 5(2): 189-195 (1991).

Hagen, Joel B. “Problems in the Institutionalization of
Tropical Biology: The Case of the Barro Colorado Island Bi-
ological Laboratory.” Hist. Phil. Life Science 12: 225-247
(1990).

Hamrick, James L. and Loveless, M.D. “The Genetic Structure
of Tropical Tree Populations: Associations with Reproduc-
tive Biology.” In: The Evolutionary Ecology of Plants: 129-146,
edited by Jane H. Bock and Yan B. Linhard. Boulder:
Westview Press (1989).

Hayes, Joshua A. “Distribution, Movement and Impact of the
Corallivorous Gastropod Coralliophila abbreviata (Lamarck)
on a Panamanian Patch Reef.” Journal of Experimental Ma-
rine Biology and Ecology 142: 25-42 (1990).

Heckadon Moreno, Stanley. Madera y Lefia de las Milpas. Los
Viveros Comunales: Una Alternativa para el Desarollo
Forestal en El Salvador. Turrialba, Costa Rica: CATIE
(1990).

Heckadon Moreno, Stanley, et al. Hacia una Centroamérica
Verde: Seis Casos de Conservacion Integrada. San José, Costa
Rica: DEI (1990).

Henry, Charles S. and Wells, Marta Martinez. “Geographical
Variation in the Song of Chrysoperla plorabunda (Neuroptera:
Chrysopidae) in North America.” Annals of the Entomological
Society of America 83(3): 317-325 (1990).

Herbert, Thomas J. “Variation in Intervention of the Direct
Solar Beam by Top Canopy Layers.” Ecology 72(1): 17-22
(1991).

Herrera, Heraclio. Plantas Usadas en la Midicina Tradicional
en el Oeste de Kuna Yala (San Blas, Panama). Tesis, Uni-
versidad de Panama (1991).

Heyer, W. Ronald, Rand, A. Stanley, Goncalves da Cruz,
Peixoto, Oswaldo L. and Nelson, Craig E. Arquivos de
Zoologia (Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de Sao Paulo)
31(4): 231-410 (1990).

Howe, Henry F. “Habitat Implications of Gap Geometry in
Tropical Forests.” Oikos 59{1): 141-144 (1990).

Howe, Henry F., Hubbell, Stephen P. and Blockstein, D-E.
“Rationale for the National Institutes for the Environ-
ment.” The Environmental Professional 12: 360-363 (1990).

Howe, Henry F. and Hubbell, Stephen P. “Towards the Na-
tional Institutes for the Environment.” Global Environmen-
tal Change: Human and Policy Dimensions 1: 71-74 (1990).

Hubbard, Michael H. and Flowers, R. Wills. “Intersexuality
and Homeotic Manifestation of Secondary Sexual Charac-
ters in Baetodes (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae: Baetinae)” in
Mayflies and Stoneflies, edited by I.C. Campbell: 351-355.
(1990).

Hubbell, Stephen P. and Foster, Robin B. “The Fate of Juve-
nile Trees in a Neotropical Forest: Implications for the Nat-
ural Maintenance of Tropical Tree Diversity.” In:
Reproductive Ecology of Tropical Forest Plants: 317-341, edited
by K.S. Bawa and M. Hadley. Paris: Man and the Biosphere
Series Vol 7, IUBS and Carnforth: Parthenon Publishing.
(1990).

. “Structure, Dynamics, and Equilibrium Stacus of
Old-Growth Forest on Barro Colorado Island.” In: Four
Neotropical Rainforests: 522-541, edited by A.H. Gentry. New
Haven, Yale University Press (1990).

Hubbell, Stephen P., Condit, R. and Foster, Robin B. “Pres-
ence and Absence of Density Dependence in a Neotropical
Tree Community.” Transactions or the Royal Society of London,
Series B 330: 269-281 (1990).

Hughes, D.J. and Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Do Constant Envi-
ronments Promote Complexity of Form? The Distribution
of Bryozoan Polymorphism as a Test of Hypotheses.” Evolu-
tion 44: 889-905 (1990).

Ibafiez, Roberto and Rand, A. Stanley. “Geographic Distribu-
tion: Eleutherodactylus johnstonei.” SSAR Herpetological Review
21(2): 37 (1990).

Inoue, Tamiji. “Studies of Natural History in STRI.” Setbutu-
Kagaku 42: 27-36 (1990).

. “A Trip in Yucatan —Milipoculcure of Maya.” Honey-
bee Science 11(2): 49-58 (1990).

Inoue, Tamiji and Roubik, David W. “Kin Recognition of
Stingless Bee, Melipona fasciata.” In: Social Insects and the En-
vironment: Proceedings of the 1h International Congress-[USSI
1990, India: 517-518 (1990).

Jackson, Jeremy B.C. “Adaptation and Diversity of Reef Cor-
als.” BioScience 41(7): 475-482 (1991).

Jackson, Jeremy B.C. and Cheetham, Alan H. “Evolutionary
Significance of Morphospecies: A Test with Cheiloscome
Bryozoa.” Science 248: 579-582 (1990).

Johnson, Mark J. “Overlooked Sedimentary Particles from
Tropical Weathering Environments.” Geology 18(2): 107-110
(1990).

Joyce, Christopher. “A Crane's Eye View of Tropical Forests.”
New Scientist 21 September 1991: 40-42 (1991).

Karr, James R. “Avian Survival Rates and the Extinction Pro-
cess on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Conservation Biol-
ogy 4(4): 391-397 (1990).

. “The Avifauna of Barro Colorado Island and the Pipe-

line Road, Panama.” In: Four Neotropical Rainforests: 183-198,

edited by A.H. Gentry. New Haven, Yale University Press

(1990).

. “Biological Integrity and the Goal of Environmental

Legislation: Lessons for Conservation Biology.” Conservation

Biology 4{3): 244-250 (1990).

. “Birds of Tropical Rainforest: Comparative Biogeog-

raphy and Ecology.” In: Biogeography and Ecology of Forest

Bird Communities: 215-228, edited by A. Keast. The Hague,

The Netherlands: SPB Academic Publishing (1990).

. “Interactions Between Forest Birds and their Habi-
cats: A Comparative Synthesis.” In: Biogeography and Ecology
of Forest Bird Communities: 379-386, edited by A. Keast. The
Hague: SPB Academic Publishing (1990).

Karr, James R., Robinson, Scott, Blake, John G. and
Bierregaard, Jr., Richard O. “Birds of Four Neotropical
Forests.” In: Four Neotropical Rainforests: 237-272, edited
by A.H. Gentry. New Haven, Yale University Press
(1990).

Karr, James R., Nichols, James D., Klimbiewicz, M. Kath-
leen and Brawn, Jeffrey D. “Survival Rates of Tropical and
Temperate Forests: Will the Dogma Survive?” The American
Naturalist 1363): 277-291 (1990).

King, D.A. “Allometry of Saplings and Understory Trees of a
Panamanian Forest.” Functional Ecology 4: 27-32 (1990).

Kirkpatrick, Mark and Ryan, Michael J. “The Evolucion of
Mating Preferences and the Paradox of the Lek.” Nature
350(6313): 33-38 (1991).

Knowlton, Nancy, Lang, J.C. and Keller, Brian D. “Case
Scudy of Natural Population Collapse: Post-Hurricane Pre-
dation on Jamaican Staghorn Corals.” Smithsonian Contribu-
tions to Marine Science 31: 1-25 (1990).

K6niger, Martina and Winter, Klaus. “Carotenoid Compasi-
tion and Phoron-Use Efficiency of Photosynthesis in Gossyp-
ium hirsutum L. Grown Under Conditions of Slightly
Suboptimum Leaf Temperatures and High Levels of Irradi-
ance.” Oecologia 87: 349-356 (1991).

Lasker, Howard R. “Clonal Propagation and Population Dy-
namics of a Gorgonian Coral.” Ecology 71(4): 1578-1589
(1990).

Leigh, Jr., Ebgert Giles. “Genes, bees and ecosystems: the evo-
lution of a common interest among individuals.” Trends in
Ecology and Evolution 68): 257-262 (1991).

IOI
. “Introduction”. In The Causes of Evolution: ix-xxvi, by
J.B.S. Haldane ER.S. (1990). Princeton, Princeton Univer-
sity Press.

. “Afterward”. In: The Causes of Evolution: 130-212, by

J.B.S. Haldane ER.S. Princeton: Princeton University Press

(1990).

. “The Varieties of Order in Tropical Rainforest”
(Book review of Tropical Rain Forest Ecosystems: Biogeographi-
cal and Ecological Studies edited by H. Leith and M.J.A. Wer-
ger). Ecology 71(6): 2396-2397 (1990).

Leigh, Jr., Egbert G. and Wright, S. Joseph. “Barro Colorado
and Tropical Biology.” In: Four Neotropical Forests: 28-47, ed-
ited by A.H. Gentry. New Haven: Yale University Press
(1990).

Lessios, Harilaos A. “A Program for Calculating Nei’s Genetic
Distances and their Jackknifed Confidence Intervals.” The
Journal of Heredity 81(6): 490 (1990).

Lessios, Harilaos A. and Cunningham, C.W. “Gametic Incom-
patibility Becween Species of the Sea Urchin Echinometra on
the Two Sides of the Isthmus of Panama.” Evolution 44(4):
933-941 (1990).

Linares, Olga F. “Pascal Labazée. Enterprises et Entrepreneurs du
Burkina Faso. Vers une Lecture Anthropologique de l’Entreprise
Africaine” (Book Review). African Studies Review 33(1): 161-
163 (1990).

Losos, Johathan B. “The Evolution of Form and Function:
Morphology and Locomotor Performance in West Indian
Anolis Lizards.” Evolution 4.4(5): 1189-1203 (1990).

Manasse, Robin S. “Seed Size and Habitat Effects on the
Water-Dispersed Perennial, Crinum erubescens
(Amaryllidaceae).” American Journal of Botany 77(10): 1336-
1341 (1990).

Martin, Thomas E. and Karr, James R. “Behavioral Plasticity
of Foraging Maneuvers of Migratory Warblers: Multiple Se-
lection Periods for Niches?” Studies in Avian Biology 13: 353-
359 (1990).

Mielke, Wolfgang. “A New Species of Psammotopa (Copepoda)
from the Pacific Coast of Panama.” Crustaceana 51): 69-75
(1990).

. “Zasusodes septimus Lang, 1965 und Enhydrasoma peri-
coense Nov. spec., zwei benthische RuderfuBkrebse (Crusta-
cea, Copepoda) aus dem Eulitoral von Panama.” Microfauna
Marina 6: 139-156 (1990).

Milton, Katharine. “Annual Mortality Patterns of a Mammal
Community in Central Panama.” Journal of Tropical Ecology
6: 493-499 (1990).

Moynihan, Martin H. “Structures in Animal Com-
munication.” In: Man and Beast Revisited: 193-202, edited by
Michael H. Robinson and Lionel Tiger. Washington:
Smithsonian Institution Press (1991).

Mulkey, Stepehn S., Wright, S. Joseph and Smith, Alan P.
“Drought Acclimatation of an Understory Shrub (Psychot-

ria limnensis; Rubiaceae) in a Seasonality Dry Tropical
Forest in Panama.” American Journal of Botany 78(4): §79-
587 (1991).

102

Murawski, Darlene A. and Hamrick, J.L. “Local Genetic and
Clonal Structure in the Tropical Terrestrial Bromeliad,
Aechmea magdalenae.” American Journal of Botany 77(9): 1201-
1208 (1990).

Murawski, Darlene A., Hamrick, J.L., Hubbell, S.P. and Fos-
ter, Robin B. “Mating Systems of Two Bombacaceous Trees
of a Neotropical Moist Forest.” Oecologia 82(4): 501-506
(1990).

Nates, G. and Roubik, David W. “Sympatry Among Subspe-
cies of Melipona favesa in Colombia and a Taxonomic Revi-
sion.” Journal of the Kansas Entolomogical Society 63: 200-203
(1990).

Ochi, Harumi and Salazar Allen, Noris. “Bryum in-
crassatolimbatum New to Panama, with First Description of
Its Sporophyte.” The Bryologist 93(3): 286-287 (1990).

Pearsall, Deborath M. and Piperno, Dolores R. “Antiquity of
Maize Cultivation in Ecuador: Summary and Reevaluation
of the Evidence.” American Antiquity 55(2): 324-33 (1990).

Peckol, P., Levings, Sally C. and Garrity, Stephen D. “Kelp Re-
sponse Following the World Prodigy Oil Spill”. Marine Pollu-
tion Bulletin 21(10): 473-476 (1990).

Petersen, Christopher W. “The Occurrence and Dynamics of
Clutch Loss and Filial Cannibalism in Two Caribbean
Damselfishes.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and
Ecology 135: 117-133 (1990).

“The Relationships Among Population Density, Indi-

vidual Size, Mating Tactics, and Reproductive Success in a

Hermaphroditic Fish Serranus fasciatus.” Behaviour 113: 57-80

(1990).

“Sex Allocation in Simultaneous Hermaphrodites:

Testing Local Mate Competition Theory.” In: Some Mathe-

matical Questions in Biology: 183-205, edited by M. Rangel

(1990).

. “Variation in Reproductive Success and Gonadal Al-
location in the Simultaneous Hermaphrodite, Serranus
fasciatus. Oecologia 83: 62-67 (1990).

Piperno, Dolores. “Aboriginal Agriculture and Land Usage in
the Amazon Basin, Ecuador.” Journal of Archaeological Science
17: 665-677 (1990).

. “The Status of Phytolith Analysis in the American
Tropics.” Journal of Wold Prehistory 5(2): 155-191 (1991).

Piperno, Dolores R. and Ciochon, Russell. “Scratching the
Surface of Evolution.” New Scientist 128(1742): 47-49
(1990).

Piperno, Dolores R., Bush, Mark B. and Colinvaux, Paul A.
“Paleoecological Perspectives on Human Adaptation in
Central Panama. I. The Pleitocene.” Geoarchaeology 6:201-
226 (1991).

. “Paleoenvironments and Human Occupation in Late-

Glacial Panama.” Quarterly Research 33(1): 108-116 (1990).

. Paleoecological Perspectives on Human Adaptation
in Central America. II The Holocene. Geoarchaeology 1991
6:227-250 (1991).

Poinar, Jr., George O. and Herre, Edward A. “Speciation and
adaptive radiation in the fig wasp nematode, Parasitad-

iplogaster (Diplogasteridae: Rhabditida) in Panama.” Revue
Nématologie 14(3): 361-374 (1991).

Priede, Monty. “The Sea Snakes are Coming.” New Scientist
1742: 29-33 (1990).

Putz, Francis E. “Liana Stem Diameter Growth and Mortality
Rates on Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” Biotropica 22(1):
103-105 (1990).

Putz, Francis E., Leigh Jr., Egbert G. and Wright, S. Joseph.
“Solitary Confinement in Panama.” Garden Magazine 14(2):
18-23 (1990).

Rand, A. Stanley. “The Diet of a Generalized Folover: Iguana
iguana in Panama.” Journal of Herpetology 24(2): 211-214
(1990).

Rand, A. Stanley and Myers, Charles W. “The Herpetofauna
of Barro Colorado Island, Panama.” In: Four Neotropical
Rainforests: 386-409, edited by A.H. Gentry. New Haven,
Yale University Press (1990).

Rich, Paul. A Manual for Analysis of Hemispherical Canopy Pho-
tography. Los Alamos-11733-M Manual (1989).

Rich, Paul M., Ranken, Douglas M. and George, John S. A
Manual for Microcomputer Image Analysis. Los Alamos-11732-
M Manual (1989).

Richmond, Robert H. “The Effects of The El Nifio/Southern
Oscillation on the Dispersal of Corals and other Marine Or-
ganisms.” In: Global Ecological Consequences of The 1982-83 El
Nino-Southern Oscillation, edited by P.W. Glynn: 127-140.
Amsterdam: Elsevier (1990).

Robertson, A.I. and Duke, Norman C. “Mangrove Fish-Com-
munities in Tropical Queensland, Australia: Spatial and
Temporal Patterns in Densities, Biomass and Community
Structure.” Marine Biology 104: 369-379 (1990).

Robertson, D. Ross. “Differences in the Seasonalities of
Spawning and Recruitment of Some Small Neotropical
Reef Fishes.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecol-
ogy 135: 117-133 (1990).

Robertson, D. Ross, Petersen, Christopher W. and Brawn, Jef-
frey D. “Lunar Reproductive Cycles of Benthic-Brooding
Reef Fishes: Reflections of Larval Biology or Adult Biol-
ogy? Ecological Monographs 60(3): 311-329 (1990).

Robinson, Michael H. “A Mecca for Tropical Biologists.” The
World and I: March 1991: 299-307 (1991).

Roubik, David W. “Aspects of Africanized Honey Bee Ecol-
ogy in Tropical America.” In: The “African” Honey Bee: 259-
281, edited by M. Spivak, D.J.C. Fletcher and M.D. Breed.
Boulder: Westview (1991).

. “Biogeographical Ecology of Melipona (Apidae:

Meliponinae).” In: Social Insects and the Environment: Proceed-

ings of the 11h International Congress-IUSSI 1990, India: 579-

580 (1990).

. “How Real are Temperate-Tropical Honey Bee Dif-

ferences?” In: Social Insects and the Environment: Proceedings of

the 11th International Congress-IUSSI 1990, India: 111-112

(1990).

. “Nesting and Defence in Tropical Honeybees and

Stingless Bees: You Are What Eats You?” In: Social Insects

and the Environment: Proceedings of the 11th International Con-
gress-IUSSI 1990, India: 662-663 (1990).

Roubik, David W. and Moreno, Jorge Enrique. “Social Bees
and Palm Trees: What Do Pollen Diets Tell Us?” In: Social
Insects and the Environment: Proceedings of the 1th International
Congress-IUSSI 1990, India: 427-428 (1990).

Roubik, David, Villanueva, Rogel, Cabrera, Edgar Fco. and
Colli Ucdn, Wilberto. “Abejas Nativas de la Reserva de la
Biésfera de Sian Ka'an.” In: Diversidad Biolégica en la
Reserva de la Bitsfera de Sian Ka’an, Quintana Roo, México:
317-320, edited by L. Navarro and John G. Robinson (1991).

Ryan, Michael J. “Sexual Selection, Sensory Systems and Sen-
sory Exploitation.” In: Oxford Surveys in Evolutionary Biology
Volume 7: 157-195 (1990).

. “Signals, Species, and Sexual Selection.” American
Scientist 78: 46-§2 (1990).

Salazar Allen, Noris. “Bryophyte Ecology in Panama.” The
Bryological Times 57-58: 12-13 (1990).

. “Editorial.” Briolatina 24: 1-2 (1991).

Sanjur Fonseca, Oris Imperio. Estudio del Cariotipo de Cuatro
Especies de Peces Pomacéntrido (1991). (Pomacentridae, Pis-
ces) del Pacifico de Panam4 y Algunas Consideraciones
Evolutivas. Tesis, Universidad de Panama.

Santana, M., Eberhard, William G., Bassey G. and Prestwich,
K. “Low Predation Rates in the Field by the Tropical Spi-
der Tengella radiata (Araneae: Tengellidae).” Biotropica 22:
305-309 (1990).

Sarmiento, E., Ludmila E. and Tapia R., Gonzalo. Andlisis
Cuantitativo e Identificacién de la Poblacién de Diatomeas
y Algas Verdeazules en Estanques de Cria del Camarén Pen-
aeus vannainei. Tesis, Universidad de Panama (1990).

Schlinger, B.A. and Adler, Gregory H. “A Non-Parametric
Aid in Identifying Sex of Cryptically Dimorphic Birds.”
The Wilson Bulletin 102(3): 545-550 (1990).

Schulcz, Eric T. and Warner, Robert R. “Phenotypic Plasticity
in Life-History Traits of Female Thalassoma bifasciatum (Pis-
ces: Labridae). 1. Manipulations of Social Structure in Tests
for Adaptive Shifts on Life-History Allocations.” Evolution
43(7): 1497-1506 (1989).

Schultz, William G. “Cientificos Estudian el Ecasistema de
los Bosques Nebulosos.” La Prensa, 1 de julio de 1991: 14b
(1991).

Shulman, M.J. “Aggression Among Sea Urchins on Caribbean
Coral Reefs.” Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecol-
ogy 140: 197-208 (1990).

Shuster, Stephen M. and Caldwell, Roy L. “Male Defense of
the Breeding Cavity and Factors Affecting the Persistence
of Breeding Pairs in the Stomatopod, Gonodactylus bredini
(Manning) (Crustacea: Hoplocarida).” Ethology 82: 192-207
1989).

Smythe, Nicholas. “Conejo Pintado: un Conejo que no es Con-
ejo.” Mi Campo #16 (1990).

. “Steps Toward Domesticating the Paca (A gouti =

Cuniculus paca) and Prospects for the Future.” In: Neotropical

Wildlife Use and Conservation: 202-216, edited by John G.

103
Robinson and Kent H. Redford. Chicago: The University
of Chicago Press (1991).

Sporle, Jorg, Becker, Hans, Salazar Allen, Noris and Gupta,
Mahabir P. “Occurrence of (-) Geosmin and Other Terpe-
noids in an Axenic Culture of the Liverwort Symphyogyna
brongniartii.” Zeitschrift fur Naturforschung 46: 183-188 (1991).

Srygley, Robert B. and Chai, Peng. “Flight Morphology of
Neotropical Butterflies: Palatability and Distribution of
Mass to the Thorax and Abdomen. Oecologia 84: 491-499
(1990).

Stern, D.L. and Dudley, Robert. “Wing Buzzing by Territorial
Male Orchid Bees, Eulaema eriana (Hymenoptera: Apidea).”
Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 64: 88-94 (1991).

Stotler, R., McGuinness, W., Salazar-Allen, Noris, and
Whittemore, A. “The Hepatics of Panama.” (Abstract). In:
American Bryological and Lichenological Society 1990 Meeting,
Wakulla Springs, Florida, 27 December 1990- 1 January 199 18
(1990).

Summers, Kyle. Paternal Investment and Sexual Selection in Dart-
Potson Frogs (genus Dendrobates). Ph.D. dissertation, Biolog-
ical Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor (1990).

Tanaka, Seiji, Guardia, Modesto, Denlinger, David L. and
Wolda, Henk. “Relationships Between Body Size, Repro-
ductive Traits, and Food Resource in Three Species of Tropi-
cal Flesh Flies.” Researches in Population Ecology 32: 303-317
(1990).

Telford III, S.R., Mather, Thomas N., Adler, Gregory H. and
Spielman, Andrew. “Short-Tailed Shrews as Reservoirs of
the Agents of Lyme Disease and Human Babesiosis.” Jour-
nal of Parasitology 76(5): 681-683 (1990).

Ventocilla, Jorge. Anmar Napguana Mimmigana (Nosotros, los
Aijos de la Madre Tierra. llustrations by Ologuagdi. Panamé:
Impresora Educativa (1991)

. Caceria y Subsistencia en Cangandi: Una Comunidad
de los Indigenas Kunas. Costa Rica: Universidad Nacional
Heredia. M.S. Thesis (1991).

Ventocilla, Jorge and Gonzalez, Alvaro. “Cazadores y Con-
servacionistas: Juntos en Comin o Eterna Discrepancia.”
Tabla de Mareas: (1991).

Vermeij, Geerat J. “Interoceanic Differences in Adaptation: Ef-

’

fects of History and Productivity.” Marine Ecology Progress Se-
ries §7(3): 293-305 (1990).

Villalobos, Ethel M. Reproductive Strategies in Solitary Hy-
menoptera: Plasticity in Mating and Nesting Behaviors.
Ph.D. dissertation. Los Angeles, University of California
(1990).

Wade, Michael and Kalisk, Susan. “The Additive Partition-
ing of Selection Gradients.” Evolution 43(7): 1567-1569
(1989).

Warner, Robert R. “Male versus Female Influences on Mating-
Site Determination in a Coral Reef Fish.” Animal Behaviour
39: §40-548 (1990).

. “Resource Assessment Versus Tradition in Mating-

Site Determination.” The American Naturalist 135: 205-217

(1990).

104

Weislo, William T. “A New Species of Lasioglossum from
Costa Rica (Hymenoptera: Halictidae).” Journal of the Kan-
sas Entomological Society 6}(3): 450-453 (1990).

. “Olfactory Cues in Nest Recognition by Solitary
Bees (Lasioglossum figueresi; Halictidae) as a Preadaptation
for the Evolution of Kin Association.” In: Social Insects and
the Environment: Proceedings of the 1th International Congress-
IUSSI 1990, India: 412 (1990).

Welden, C.W., Hewett, S.W., Hubbell, Scephen P. and Foster,
Robin B. “Sapling Survival, Growth, and Recruitment —
Relationship to Canopy Height in a Neotropical Forest.”
Ecology 72(1): 35-50 (1991).

Weldon, Paul J. “Responses by Vertebrates to Chemicals from
Predators.” In: Chemical Signals in Vertebrates ¢ 500-521, ed-
ited by D.W. MacDonald, D. Miller-Schwarze and S.E.
Natynczuk. Oxford: Oxford University Press (1991).

Werner, Dagmar I. “The Rational Use of Green Iguanas.” In:
Neotropical Wildlife Use and Conservation: 181-201, edited by
John G. Robinson and Kent H. Redford. Chicago: The Uni-
versity of Chicago Press (1991).

West-Eberhard, Mary Jane. “Chemical Communication in Sex-
ual and Social Selection.” Entomol. Gener. 15(2): 81-82.

. “Introduction.” In: The Social Biology of Wasps: 1-4, ed-

ited by K.G. Ross and R.W. Matthews. Ithaca: Cornell Uni-

versity Press.

. “Parallel Size-Related Alternatives in Males and Fe-

males and the Question of Sympatric Speciation in Hyme-

nopteran Social Parasites.” In: Social Insects and the

Environment: Proceedings of the 1th International Congress-

IUSSI 1990, India: 162-163 (1990).

. “Primitively Eusocial Insects: Why They Play a Spe-

cial Role in Studies of Social Evolution?” In: Social Insects

and the Environment: Proceedings of the 1th International Con-

gress-IUSSI 1990, India: 63-64 (1990).

. “Sexual Selection and Social Behavior.” In: Man and

Beast Revisited: 159-172, edited by Michael Robinson and L.

Tiger. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

. “The Genetic and Social Structure of Polygynous So-

cial Wasp Colonies (Vespidae: Polistinae).” In: Social Insects

and the Environment: Proceedings of the 12h International Con-

gress-IUSSI 1990, India: 254-255 (1990).

. “The Relationship Between Behavioral-Develop-
ment Switches and Major Steps in Social Insect Evolu-
tion.” In: Social Insects and the Environment: Proceedings of
the 1h International Congress-IUSSI 1990, India: 12-14
(1990).

Wheeler, Diana W. “The Developmental Basis and Evolution
of Worker Polymorphism in Ants.” In: Social Insects and the
Environment: Proceedings of the 1h International Congress-
IUSSI 1990, India: 169-170 (1990).

Wiley Jr., John P. “Phenomena, Comment and Notes.”
Smithsonian 22(3): 29-32 (1991).

William-Linera, Guadalupe. “Origin and Early Development
of Forest Edge Wegetation in Panama.” Biotropica 22(3): 235-
241 (1990).

. “Vegetation Structure and Environmental Condi-
tions of Forest Edges in Panama.” Journal of Ecology 78(2):
356-373 (1990).

Windsor, Donald M. “Climate and Moisture Variability in a
Tropical Forest: Long-term Records from Barro Colorado Is-
land, Panama.” Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences
29: 1-146 (1990).

Winter, Klaus, and Gademann, R. “Daily Changes in CO,
and Water Vapor Exchange, Chlorophyll Fluorescence, and
Leaf Water Relations in the Halophyte Mesembryantemum cys-
tallinum during the induction of Crassulacean Acid Metabo-
lism in Response to high NaCl salinity.” Plans Physiology
95: 768-776 (1991).

Winter, Klaus and Kéniger, Martina. “Dry matter production
and photosynthetic capacity in Gossypoium birsutum L. under
conditions of slightly suboptimum leaf temperatures and
high levels of irradiance.” Oecologia 87: 190-197 (1991).

Wolda, Henk. “The Czechoslovak-Vietnamese Expedition to
the Nam Cat Tien Reserve: A Commence.” In: Nam Cat
Tien: Czechoslovak Vietnamese Expedition, November 1989, Re-
search Report. Institute of Entomology, Czechoslovak Academy of
Sciences, Ceske Budejovice: 44-45, edited by K. Spitzer, J. Leps
and M. Zacharda (1990).

. “The Usefulness of the Equilibrium Concept in Pop-
ulation Dynamics. A Reply to Berryman.” Oecologia 86: 144-
145 (1991).

Wong, M., Wright, S. Joseph, Hubbell, Stephen P. and Fos-
ter, R.F. “The Spatial Pattern and Reproductive Conse-
quences of Outbreak Defoliation in Quararibea asterolepsis, a
Tropical Tree.” Journal of Ecology 78: 579-588.(1990).

Wong, Marina. “The Implications of Germinating Acorns in
the Granaries of Acorn Woodpeckers in Panama.” The Con-
dor 91: 724-726 (1989).

Wright, S. Joseph. “Conservation in a Variable Environment:
The Optimal Size of Reserves.” In: Living in a Patchy Envi-
ronment: 187-196, ed. by B. Shorrocks and A. Swingland. Ox-
ford University Press (1990).

- “Cumulative Satiation of a Seed Predator over the
Fruiting Season of its Host.” Oikos 58: 272-276 (1990).

Wright, S. Joseph and Cornejo, FH. “Seasonal Drought and
the Timing of Flowering and Leaf Fall in a Neotropical For-
est.” In: The Reproductive Biology of Tropical Forest Plants: 49-
61, ed. by K. Bawa and M. Hadley. Paris: UNESCO (1990).

Zeh, Jeanne A. and Zeh, David W. “Cooperative Foraging for
Large Prey by Paratemnus elongatus (Pseudoscorpionida,
Atemnidae).” Journal of Arachnology 18: 307-31 (1990).

Ziska, L.H., Hogan, Kevin P., Smith, Alan P. and Drake, B.G.
“Growth and Photosynthetic Response of Nine Tropical
Species with Long-Term Exposure to Elevated Carbon Diox-
ide.” Oecologia 86: 383-389 (1991).

Museums

Archives of American Art

New England Regional Center

Brown, Robert FE. “Archives of American Art,” The Studio Pot-
ter, Vol 19, Number 2, June 1991 pages 17-18.

New York Regional Center

Polcari, Stephen. Abstract Expresstonism and the Modern Expert-
ence. Cambridge University Press, New York: 1991.

. “Jackson Pollack,” Art Journal. Fall, 1990.

.““Righting’ Today's Art History,” American Art. Win-

ter/Spring 1991.

. Adolph Gottleib Epic Art. State University of New

York; Summer, 1991. (Catalogue)

Office of the Director

Wattenmaker, Richard J. “Maurice Prendergast at the Whit-
ney,” The New Criterion, Vol 9, Number 3, (November 1990)

pages 33-40.
. William Glackens The Formative Years, Kraushaar Gal-
leries, New York, May 1991.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/Freer
Gallery of Art

Office of the Director

Beach, Milo C., with Andrew Topsfield. Indian Paintings and
Drawings from the collection of Howard Hodgkin. New York:
Thames and Hudson, 1991.

Curatorial Department

Bolon, Carol. “Images of Agastya in Nepal.” Artibus Asiae,
Fall 1991.

Fu, Shen, with Jan Stuart. Challenging the Past: The Paintings of
Chang Dai-chien (1899-1983). Seattle: University of Washing-
ton Press, 1991.

Fu, Shen, with Stephen Allee. Contemporary Calligraphy and
Paintings from the Republic of China, 3 vols. Arlington: Inter-
national Council on Education for Teaching, 1990.

Fu, Shen. “A Brief Discussion of Japanese Influence on Chi-
nese Painting in the Modern Era,” in Zhongguo xiandai
meishu, jian lun Ri Han xiandai meishu: guoji xueshu yantaohut
/unwenji (International Conference, China: Modernity and
Art, and a Discussion of Modern Art in Japan and Korea).

105
Taipei: Fine Arts Museum, 1991, 31-56 (English summary 57-
59).

. “Princess Sengge Ragi: Collector of Painting and Cal-
ligraphy,” in Flowering in the Shadows: Women in the History of
Chinese and Japanese Painting. Honolulu: University of Ha-
waii Press, 1990, 55-80. Translated and adapted by Marsha
Weidner.

Stuart, Jan. “Cats in Asian Art,” in Great Cats, John
Seidensticker, ed. Pennsylvania: Rodale Press, 1991.

. A Young Painter-Wang Yani, preface. New York:

Bryon Preiss Visual/Scholastic, Inc., 1991.

. “Collaborative Endeavors in Chinese Art,” in Knowl-
edge: Creation, Diffusion and Utilization. Autumn, 1991.

Guncer, Ann. Gordion Excavations Final Reports III. The Bronze
Age. University Museum Monograph 71. Philadelphia: Uni-
versity Museum, 1991.

Bruschke-Johnson, Lee. “Studies in Provenance: Japanese
Wood Carvings and Sculpture from the Matsuki Sale of
1906,” in Orientations. Volume 22, Number 4, April, 1991.

Atil, Esin. Islamic Art and Patronage: Treasures from Kuwait.
New York: Rizzoli, 1990.

. “Treasures of Islamic Art and Patronage,” World & I,

February, 1991, 202-209.

. “Islamic Treasures from Kuwait,” USA Today, May,
1991, 30-33.

Cort, Louise. “Shigaraki Taro's Future”, Tanko 542, April 1991,
30-33.

. “Word in Flower: The Visualization of Classical Litera-
ture in Seventeenth-Century Japan, ed. by Carolyn Wheel-
wright, The Journal of Asian Studies, vol. 50, no.1, February
1991, 171-173.

Merrill, Linda. An Ideal Country: Paintings by Dwight William
Tryon in the Freer Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., 1990.

Department of Conservation
and Scientific Research

Chase, W. T. “Research on Powdery Corrosion of the Ancient
Bell from the Tomb of Cai Hou” in Zhongguo Kexue (Chinese
Science), part B, Volume 6, with Wang Changsui, Fan
Chongzheng, Wang Shengjun, Zhang Maosen and Zhang
Jingguo, 1990.6, 639-644.

. Ancient Chinese Bronze Art- Casting the Precious Sacral

Vessel, China House Gallery, China Institute in America,

New York, 1991.

Jett, Paul. “Technologische Studie zu den Vergoldeten
Guanyin-Figuren aus dem Dali-Konigreich.” Der Gola-
schatz der Drei Pagoden. Zurich: Gebunden, 1991.

. “An Example of the Use of Brass in Chinese Lacquer
Ware.” Archives of Asian Art. Volume XLILI, 1990.

Koob, Stephen. “The use of Acryloid B-72 in the treatment of
archaeological ceramics: minimal intervention,” Materials Is-
sues in Ast and Archaeology II, Materials Research Society
Symposium Proceedings, Materials Research Society, 1991.

106

Winter, John. Review of Chinese Painting Colors: Studies of their
Preparation and Application in Traditional and Modern Times,
by Yu Feian (translation by J. Silbergeld and A. McNair).
Ars Orientalis, Vol. 19, 1989 (appeared in February 1991).

Library

Yoshimura, Reiko. “Problems in descriptive cataloging of Jap-
anese materials with AACR2,” Committee on East Asian Li-
braries bulletin; no. 93, June 1991.

Kecskes, Lily. Dictionary Catalog of the Library of the Freer Gal-
lery of Art, Smithsonian Institution, 2nd enlarged ed., on
microfiche, April 1991. Preface.

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Abel-Vidor, S., C. Baudez, R.L. Bishop, L. Bonilla V., M.
Calvo M., W. Creamer, J. Day, J.V. Guerrero, P. Healy, J.
Hoopes, F.W. Lange, S. Salgado, R. Stroessner, and A. Til-
lec. “Principales Tipas Cerémicos y Variedades de la Gran
Nicoya.” Vinculas 13 (1-2) (1991): 35-327. [1987]

Alexander, Ingrid. “Some Observations on the Use of Autora-
diography in the Study of Underdrawings in American
Painting,” Le Dessin Sous-jacent dans la peinture. Colloque
VIII, Louvain-la-Neuve, 1991, 161-165.

Arah, C.O., D.K. McNamara, H.M. Hand, M.F. Mecklen-
burg, A. Dasgupta, and B.K. Hornbeck. “Structural Analy-
sis of Adhesively Bonded Joints of Tubular Geometry” in
Preprints from the 34h International SAMPE Symposium, San
Diego, 1991, 372-382.

Arnold, D.E., H. Neff, and R.L. Bishop. “The Compositional
Analysis of Poctery: an Ethnoarchaeological Approach.”
American Anthropologist 93 (1991): 70-90.

Aronson, Meredith, and W. David Kingery. “Patination of Ce-
ramic Objects, Modern and Prehistoric: A Case from West
Mexico” in Materials Issues in Art and Archaeology II, Sympo-
sium Proceedings 185, Spring Meeting, edited by P.B.
Vandiver, J. Druzik, and G.S. Wheeler. Pittsburgh: Materi-
als Research Society, 1991, 561-570.

, James M. Skibo, and Miriam Stark. “Use Technolo-
gies: an Ethnoarchaeological Study of Kalinga Pottery” in
Materials Issues in Art and Archaeology II, Symposium Pro-
ceedings 185, Spring Meeting, edited by P.B. Vandiver, J.
Druzik, and G.S. Wheeler. Pittsburgh: Materials Research
Society, 1991, 415-428.

Bishop, R.L., and EW. Lange, editors. Anna O. Shepard: A Ce-
ramic Legacy. Boulder: University of Colorado Press, 1991.

. “Anna O. Shepard: A Correspondence Portrait” in

Anna O. Shepard: A Ceramic Legacy, edited by R.L. Bishop

and EW. Lange. Boulder: University of Colorado Press,

1991, 42-87.

. “Greek and Cypriot Pottery: A Review of Scientific
Studies,” edited by R.E. Jones. Reviewed in Society for Ar-
chaeological Sciences SAS Bulletin 14 (1) (1991): 9-10, 14-15.

Canouts, Veletta. “A Formal Approach to Design: Symmetry
and Beyond” in Anna O. Shepard: A Ceramic Legacy, edited
by R.L. Bishop and F.W. Lange. Boulder: University of Col-
orado Press, 1991, 280-320.

. NADB-Reports Online Users Manual: Beta Version, a

technical manual. Washington, D.C.: Archeological Assis-

tance Division, Cultural Resources, National Park Service,

U.S. Department of the Interior, 1991.

. NADB-Reports, Version 2 01, User's Manual, a techni-
cal manual. Washington, D.C.: Archeological Assistance
Division, Cultural Resources, National Park Service, U.S.
Department of the Interior. Preview Copy distributed 1989.

De Atley, S.P., and R.L. Bishop. “Toward an Integrated Inter-
face for Archaeology and Archaeometry” in Anna O. Shep-
ard: A Ceramic Legacy, edited by R.L. Bishop and F.W.
Lange. Boulder: University of Colorado Press, 1991, 358-382.

Erhardt, David. “Art in Transit: Material Considerations” in
Art in Transit: Studies in the Transport of Paintings, edited by
M. Mecklenburg. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of
Art, 1991, 25-36.

, David W. von Endt, and Jia-sun Tsang. “Condition,

Change, and Complexity: The Media of Albert Pinkham

Ryder” in Postprints of the Paintings Group 3, the Richmond

Conference of the American Institute for Conservation,

1990: 28-36.

. “Environmental Control: Pollution” in Collections

Care: A Selected Bibliography. Washington, D.C.: National

Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property, 1990,

80-86.

, and Jia-sun Tsang. “The Extractable Components of
Oil Paint Films” in Cleaning, Retouching and Coatings, Pre-
prints of the Contributions to the Brussels Congress, The
International Institute for the Conservation of Historic and
Artistic Works, September 1990, 93-97.

Gianno, Rosemary, David Erhardt, David W. von Endc, Wal-
ter Hopwood, and Mary T. Baker. “Archaeological Resins
from Shipwrecks off the Coasts of Saipan and Thailand” in
Organic Contents of Ancient Vessels: Materials Analysis and Ar-
chaeological Investigations, edited by William R. Biers and
Patrick E. McGovern. MASCA Research Papers in Science
and Archaeology 7, MASCA, University of Pennsylvania,
1990, 59-67.

Goodfriend, G.A., David W. Von Endt, and PE. Hare.
“Rapid Racemization of Aspartic Acid in Mollusk and Os-
trich Egg Shells: a New Method for Dating on a Decadal
Time Scale.” Carnegie Institution of Washington Yearbook,
1990, 171.

Goodway, Martha. “Archaeometallurgy: Evidence of a Para-
digm Shift?” in Materials Issues in Art and Archaeology II,

Symposium Proceedings 185, Spring Meeting, edited by
P.B. Vandiver, J. Druzik, and GS. Wheeler. Pittsburgh:
Materials Research Society, 1991, 705-712.

. “Materials Choices for the Statue of Liberty” in The
Statue of Liberty Restoration, edited by Robert Baboian, E.
Blaine Sliver, and E. Lawrence Bellante. Proceedings of the
conference, The Statue of Liberty — Today for Tomorrow, Octo-
ber 20-22, 1986. New York City, Houston Texas, 1990, 37-

42.

. “News of Archaeometallurgy.” Society for Archaeologi-

cal Sciences Bulletin 13 (4) (Fall 1990): 9.

. “News of Archaeometallurgy.” Society for Archaeologi-

cal Sciences Bulletin 14 (1) (January-March 1991): 4-5.

. “News of Archaeometallurgy.” Society for Archaeologi-

cal Sciences Bulletin 14 (2) (April-June 1991): 3, 10.

. “Ronald Tylecote” (obituary), Society for Archaeological
Sciences 14 (1) (January-March 1991): 6.

Grissom, C.A. “The Deterioration and Treatment of Volcanic
Stone: a Review of the Literature” in Lavas and Volcanic
Tuffs, edited by A. Elena Charola. Preprints of the Contri-
butions to the International Meeting, Easter Island, Chile,
October 1990, 103-122.

Hand, H.M., C.O. Arah, D.K. McNamara, and M.F. Mecklen-
burg. “Effects of Environmental Exposure on Adhesively
Bonded Joints.” International Journal of Adbesion and Adhe-
sives UW (1) (1991): 15-23.

Henrickson, Robert C. “Wheelmade or Wheel-Finished? In-
terpretation of ‘Wheelmarks’ on Pottery” in Materials Issues
in Art and Archaeology II, Symposium Proceedings 185,
Spring Meeting, edited by P.B. Vandiver, J. Druzik, and
G.S. Wheeler. Pittsburgh: Materials Research Society, 1991,
523-542.

Hobbs, S., Y.T. Cheng, and J.S. Olin. “Thomas Wilmer Dew-
ing: A Look Beneath the Surface” in Smithsonian Studies in
American Ast 4, (3/4). Oxford University Press, in associa-
tion with the National Museum of American Art, 1990, 63-
85.

Joel, Emile. “Lead Isotope Ratio Program: Current Lead Iso-
tope Projects at the Smithsonian Institution” in Memoran-
dum of the Research Exchange between Japan A gency for Cultural
Affairs and the Smithsonian Institution, 1990. Tokyo: National
Institute of Culcural Properties, 1991, 90-92.

Lake, Susan, and Jia-sun Tsang. “The Conservation of ‘Le
Cirque’ by Daniel Barinoff-Rossine” in Postprints of the
Paintings Group 3, the Richmond Conference of the Ameri-
can Institute for Conservation, 1990, 41-44.

Lange, W.E,, R.L. Bishop, and P.C. Lange. “La Geologia y
Arqueologia de la CerAmica Prehistéria de la Gran Nicoya.”
Vinculos 13 (1-2) (1991): 7-34. [1987]

McCarthy, Blythe, and P.B. Vandiver. “Ancient High-
Strength Ceramics: Faience Manufacture at Harappa (Paki-
stan), ca. 2300-1800 B.C.” in Materials Issues in Art and

Archaeology II, Symposium Proceedings 185, Spring Meet-
ing, edited by P.B. Vandiver, J. Druzik, and G.S. Wheeler.
Pittsburgh: Materials Research Society, 1991, 495-510.
Mecklenburg, M.F. “Applied Mechanics of Materials in Con-
servation Research.” Materials Issues in Art and Archaeology
II, Symposium Proceedings 185, Spring Meeting, edited by

107
P.B. Vandiver, J. Druzik, and G.S. Wheeler. Pittsburgh:

Materials Research Society, 1991, 105-122.

, editor. Art in Transit: Studies in the Transport of Paint-

ings. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1991.

, and C.S. Tumosa. “An Introduction into the Mechan-

ical Behavior of Paintings under Rapid Loading Condi-

tions” in Art in Transit: Studies in the Transport of Paintings,
edited by M.F. Mecklenburg. Washington, D.C.: National

Gallery of Art, 1991, 137-172.

, and C.S. Tumosa. “Mechanical Behavior of Paintings
Subjected to Changes in Temperature and Relative Humid-
ity” in Art in Transit: Studies in the Transport of Paintings, ed-
ited by M.F. Mecklenburg. Washington, D.C.: National
Gallery of Art, 1991, 173-216.

Messier, P. “An Analysis of the Effect of Water on the Crack-
ing of Albumen Photographs,” Topics in Photographic Preser-
vation 4, Photographic Materials Group of the American
Institute for Conservation, 1991, 170-178.

. “Protein Chemistry of Albumen Photographs,” Topics
in Photographic Preservation 4, Photographic Materials Group
of the American Institute for Conservation, 1991, 124-135.

Murray, A., R.E. Green, M.E Mecklenburg, and C.M.
Fortunko. “Nondestructive Evaluation of Works of Art” in
Art in Transit: Studies in the Transport of Paintings, edited by
M.E. Mecklenburg. Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of
Art, 1991, 249-260.

Neff, H., R.L. Bishop, and D.E. Arnold. “A Reexamination of
the Compositional Affiliations of Formative Period
Whiteware from Highland Guatemala.” Ancient
Mesoamerica 1 (1991): 171-180.

Neitzel, J.-E. and R.L. Bishop. “Neutron Activation of Dog-
oszhi Style Ceramics: Production and Exchange in the
Chacoan Regional System.” The Kiva 56 (1991): 67-85.

Olin, J.S. “Postscript” in Organic Contents of Ancient Vessels:

Materials Analysis and Archaeological Investigation, edited
by W.R. Biers and P.E. McGovern. MASCA Research Pa-
pers in Science and Archaeology 7. Philadelphia: The
University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology,
1990, 77-78.

Richard, M., M.E Mecklenburg, and R. Merrill, editors. Art
in transit: Handbook for Packing and Transporting Paintings.
Washington, D.C.: National Gallery of Art, 1991.

Schrenk, Janet. “Corrosion and Past ‘Protective’ Treatments of
the Benin 'Bronzes’ in the National Museum of African
Art” in Materials Issues in Art and Archaeology II, Sympo-
sium Proceedings 185, Spring Meeting, edited by P.B.
Vandiver, J. Druzik, and G.S. Wheeler. Pittsburgh: Materi-
als Research Society, 1991, 805-812.

Shau, Yen-Hong, Melanie E. Feather, Eric J. Essene, and Don-
ald R. Peacor. “Genesis and Solvus Relations of Submicro-
scopically Intergrown Paragonite and Phengite in a
Blueschist from Northern California.” Mineralogy and Petrol-
ogy 106 (1991): 367-378.

Sheets, Payson D., Harriet F. Beaubien, Marilyn Beaudry, An-
drea Gerstle, Brian McKee, C. Dan Miller, Harmuc

108

Spetzler, and David B. Tucker. “Household Archaeology ac
Ceren, El Salvador.” Ancient Mesoamerica 1 (1990): 81-90.

Stathoplos, L., and N. Tuross. “Mineral Associated Proteins
from Modern Planktonic Foraminifera” in Proceedings of the
Gh International Symposium on Biomineralization, edited by S.
Suga, 1991, 17-22.

Tsang, Jia-Sun, and David Erhardc. “The Measurement of Sol-
vent Effects on Oil Paint Films” in Postprints of the Paintings
Group 3, for the Richmond conference of the American Insti-
tute for Conservation, 1990, 45-50.

, and Ronald Cunningham. “Some Improvements in
the Study of Cross-sections.” Journal of the American Institute
Sor Conservation 30 (1991): I-14.

Tumosa, C.S. “Anatoli Leopoldovich Durov.” Journal of the Rus-
sian Numismatic Society 38 (1990): 44-45.

. “A Preliminary Analysis of Some 19th and 20th Cen-
tury Russian Copper Coins.” Journal of the Russian Numis-
matic Society 39 (1990): 6-8.

Tuross, N. “Recovery of Bone and Serum Proteins from
Human Skeletal Tissue: IgG Osteonectin and Albumin” in
Human Paleopathology: Current Synthesis and Future Options,
edited by D.J. Ortner and A.C. Aufderheide, 1991, 51-54.

Vandiver, P.B., O. Soffer, B. Klima, and J. Svoboda. “Les Plus
Anciennes Ceramiques du Monde.” La Recherche 226, Vol. 21
(November 1990): 1418-1419.

, J. Druzik, and G.S. Wheeler, editors. Materials Issues

in Art and Archaeology II, Symposium Proceedings 185,

Spring Meeting . Pittsburgh: Materials Research Society,

1991.

. “Preliminary Report on Shinpukuji Kaizuka,” in
Memorandum of the Research Exchange between Japan Agency for
Cultural Affairs and the Smithsonian Institution, 1990. Tokyo:
National Institute of Culcural Properties, 1991, 116-135.

, C.P. Swann, and D.C. Cranmer. “A Review of Mid-

Second Millenium B.C. Egyptian Glass Technology at Tell

el-Amarna” in Materials Issues in Art and Archaeology II,

Symposium Proceedings 185, Spring Meeting, edited by

P.B. Vandiver, J. Druzik, and G.S. Wheeler. Pittsburgh:

Materials Research Society, 1991, 609-616.

. “Technological and Compositional Aspects of Jomon
Pottery” in Memorandum of the Research Exchange between
Japan Agency for Cultural Affairs and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1990. Tokyo: National Institute of Culcural Properties,
1991, 9-48.

Vetter, U., LW. Fisher, K.P. Mintz, J.B. Kopp, N. Tuross,
J.D. Termine, and P. Gehron Robey. “Osteogenesis Im-
perfecta: Changes in Noncollagenous Proteins in Bone.”
Journal of Bone and Mineral Research 6 (1991): 501-505.

Wachowiak, Melvin. “New Directions in the Study of Chinese
Furniture.” Asian Art IV, 3 (Summer 1991). Oxford Univer-
sity Press in Association with the Arthur M. Sackler Gal-
lery, 1991, 35-§2-

Yener, A., E.V. Sayre, E.C. Joel, H. Ozbal, I.L. Barnes, and
R.H. Brill. “Stable Lead Isotope Studies of Central Taurus
Ore Sources and Related Artifacts from Eastern Mediterra-

nean Chalcolithic and Bronze Age Sites.” Journal of Archaeo-
logical Science 18 (1991): 541-577.

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design

McFadden, David. “Points of View: Three Decades of Vignelli
Design,” in monograph Massimo and Lella Vignelli, New
York: Rizzoli International Publications, Inc., (in press).

- “Turning 21: Is Design Finally Growing Up?” Elle

Decor (Winter 1990), p. 200.

. “Inspired by Nature, Perfected by Art: Two Centu-

ties of Danish Porcelain,” American Scandinavian Review,

New York: American-Scandinavian Foundation, (in press).

- “Conversation: Douglas Heller and David

McFadden,” Glass, no. 44 (Summer 1991), pp. 12-15.

. “Vignelli Design: Contra la Contaminacio Visual,”

Cultura (Barcelona), no. 21 (March 1991), pp. 54-61.

. “Light Fantastics: Matchsafes at the Cooper-

Hewitt Museum,” FMR International, no. 49 (April 1991),

PP- 133-44-

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Office of the Director

Weil, Stephen E. “Accident or Destiny—Reflections on 23
Years in Museums.” Courier 11 (January/February 1991): 1-3.

. “The Art World Olympics.” The Journal of Art 3 (De-

cember 1990): 6.

. “Objects of Knowledge (New Research in Museum

Studies: An International Series, Volume I).” Museam News

70 (July/August 1991): 63-64 [book review].

- “Resale Royalties: Boon or Boondoggle.” ARTnews

90 (May 1991): 172.

- “Tax Policy and Private Giving.” In Public Money and

the Muse. New York and London: W. W. Norton & Com-

pany, 1991.

, and James R. Glenn, Jr. Two entries, “Pat Barga’s

Discovery” and “Rob Roy's Gift,” in Ethics in Nonprofit

Management. San Francisco: University of San Francisco,

1990.

Office of Public Affairs

Lawrence, Sidney. “Art in the Garden.” Vista USA 27, no. 6
(Summer 1991): 18-23.

. Directions —Boyd Webb. Washington, D. C.: Hirshh-
orn Museum and Sculprure Garden, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1990 [exhibition brochure].

. “Houston Conwill, Markings on the Sand.” In Law-
rence, Sidney, Ned Rifkin, and Phyllis Rosenzweig. Hirshh-
orn WORKS 89: Daniel Buren, Buster Simpson, Houston
Conwill, Matt Mullican: 36-47. Washington, D. C.: Hirshh-
orn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1990.

, ed. Sigmar Polke. Washington, D. C.: Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution, 1991
{exhibition brochure].

Department of Painting and Sculpture

Cruz, Amada. Awards in the Visual Arts 10. Washington, D. C.:
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian In-
stitution, 1991 {exhibition brochure].

. Directions—Mike Kelley: Half A Man. Washington,

D. C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
Smithsonian Insticution, 1991 [exhibition brochure}.

Gettings, Frank. Dialogue and Expression: Eight from Wyoming.
A Traveling Exhibition of the 1990/91 Visual Arts Fellowship
Artists. Cheyenne: Wyoming State Museum, 1991 [exhibi-
tion catalog].

Rifkin, Ned. Ann Hamilton/Kathryn Clark WORKS. Washing-
ton, D. C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
Smithsonian Institution, 1991 [exhibition brochure].

. “Balkon: Between the Leap and the Fall.” Parkest no.

27 (1991): 163-65.

. Divections—Adrian Piper. W/ashington, D. C.: Hirshh-

orn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institu-

tion, 1991 {exhibition brochure].

. “Matt Mullican, Untitled.” In Lawrence, Sidney, Ned
Rifkin, and Phyllis Rosenzweig. Hirshhorn WORKS 89: Dan-
iel Buren, Buster Simpson, Houston Conwill, Matt Mullican: 50-
59. Washington, D. C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, Smithsonian Institution, 1990.

Rosenzweig, Phyllis. “Daniel Buren: Diagonal for a Cylinder.
Work in Situ. Inside/Outside and A Frame in a Frame in a
Frame for a Frame. Work in Situ. Inside/Outside.” In Lawrence,
Sidney, Ned Rifkin, and Phyllis Rosenzweig. Hirshhorn
WORKS 89: Daniel Buren, Buster Simpson, Houston Conwill,
Mast Mullican: 10-21. Washington, D. C.: Hirshhorn Mu-
seum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution, 1990.

. John Baldessari. Washington, D. C.: Hirshhorn Mu-

seum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institution, 1990

{exhibition brochure].

. Lawrence Weiner WORKS. Washington, D. C.: Hirshh-
orn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institu-
tion, 1990 [exhibition brochure].

Zilczer, Judith. Comparisons: An Exercise in Looking. Washing-
ton, D. C.: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
Smithsonian Institution, 1990 [exhibition brochure].

109
National Air and Space Museum

Department of Aeronautics

Crouch, T. “Otto Lilienthal and the Birth of Aeronautical
Engineering.” In Aeronautical Design Symposium: The Lessons
Learned (H. Bunind, editor). Ann Arbor: University of
Michigan, 1991.

. “In a Flight of Words: Robert Frost's Outer Banks.”

Outer Banks Magazine, 1991-1992 Annual.

. “Foreword: Yamamoto Then and Now.” In Lightning

Over Bougainville (R.C. Hall, editor), Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1991.

. “Introduction to the Smithsonian Edition.” The Sky
on Fire :The First Battle of Britain. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1990.

Davies, R. Delta: An Airline and Its Aircraft. Miami: Palador
Press, 1990.

. Lufthansa: An Airline and Its Aircraft. New York:

Orion Books, 1991.

. Parts III and IV of Series on U.S. Airline History,

Putnam Aeronautical Review, September, December 1990.

. “Aerofloc: An Airline Like No Others.” Exxon Air

World, December 1990.

. “Supersonicos e Hipersonicios.” Revista Aérea, March

1991.

. “By The Numbers.” Airlines, April 1991.
. “Aeroflot's Far Eastern Region.” Airliners, September

1991.

——. “No Rest in the Restroom.” Airliners, September
1991.

Hardesty, V. (editor), Georgiy Baidukov, Russian Lindbergh:
The Life of Valery Chkalov. Smithsonian Institution Press,
1991.

. “Lev Tikhomirov, 1852-1923,” A alomoye jadis (Publi-
cation de la Société Historique du Raincy et du Pays
d’Aulnoye), No. 20 (1991), pp. 54-63

Neufeld, M. “Wermar Culture and Futuristic Technology:
The Rocketry and Spaceflight Fad in Germany, 1923-1933.
Technology and Culture 31 (Oct. 1990), 728-752

Pisano, D. Introduction to Henry Ladd Smith, Airways: The
History of Commercial Aviation in the United States. Smith-
sonian Institution Press, 1991.

Department of Space History

Ceruzzi, Paul E. “When Computers Were Human.” Annal of
the History of Computing 13, no. 3 (1991): 237-44.

Collins, Martin J. [Editor]. Preserving the History of the Aero-
space Industry. Proceedings. Washington, D.C.: National
Air and Space Museum, 1990.

[Editor]. Spacefaring Nation: Perspectives on American

Space History and Policy. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1991.

IIO

Needell, Allan A. “The Carnegie Insticution of Washington
and Radio Astronomy: Prelude to an American National
Observatory.” Journal for the History of Astronomy 22 (1991):
55-67.

Winter, Frank H. The First Golden Age of Rocketry: Congreve and
Hale Rockets of the Nineteenth Century. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1990.

. Rockets Into Space. Edited by Herbert Friedman. Fron-

tiers of Space, vol. 1. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University

Press, 1990.

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Craddock, R. A., Zimbelman, J. R., and Greeley R. “Volatile
History of Mangala Valles, Mars.” Lunar and Planetary Scic-
ence XXII, pp. 249-250. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Insti-
tute, 1991. [Abstract]

and Maxwell, T. A. “Plains Emplacement and tec-

tonic History of Northern Lunae Planum, Mars.” Geological

Society of America Abstracts with Programs 22 (1990): A80.

{Abstract}

and Maxwell, T. A. “Geologic and Tectonic History

of Northern Lunae Planum, Mars”. Lunar and Planetary Sci-

ence XXII, pp. 247-248. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Insti-
tute, 1991. [Abstract]

and Maxwell, T. A. “Ancient Fluvial Processes in the

Equatorial Highlands of Mars.” Reports of Planetary Geology

and Geophysics Program - 1990, pp. 143-145. NASA TM-4300,

1991. [Abstract]

and Maxwell, T. A. “Geologic Mapping of Northern

Lunae Planum, Mars.” Reports of Planetary Geology and Geo-

physics Program - 1990, pp. 462-464. NASA TM-4300, 1991.

{Abscracr]

, Crumpler, L. S., and Aubele, J. C. “Preliminary Geo-
logic Mapping of Central Chryse Planitia, Mars.” Reports of
Planetary Geology and Geophysics Program - 1990, pp. 459-461.
NASA TM-4300, 1991. [Abstract]

Dollfus, A., Deschamps, M., and Zimbelman, J. R. “Sensing
the Soil Physics Properties at the Surface of Mars.” Lunar
and Planetary Science XXII, pp. 321-322. Houston: Lunar and
Planetary Institure, 1991. [Abstract]

Forsythe, R. D., Zimbelman, J. R., and Barlow, N. G. “Com-
parison of Data Sets (topography, geology, geophysics, cra-
tering) for Mars’ Western Equatorial Transition Zone.”
Lunar and Planetary Science XXII, pp. 403-404. Houston:
Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1991. [Abstract]

, Schultz, R. A., and Watters, T. R. “Distributed Low
Strain Regimes of the Terrestrial Planets.” Lunar and Plane-
tary Science XXII, pp. 401-402. Houston: Lunar and Plane-
tary Institute, 1991. [Abstract]

Jacobberger, P. A. “Changes in Morphologic and Aeolian Pro-
cesses n the Upper Inland Niger Delta of Mali as a Func-
tion of Drought.” Sand Transport and Desertification in Arid
Lands, pp. 66-78, (ed. FE. El-Baz, I. A. El-Tayeb, and M. H.

A. Hassan). World Scientific Publishing Co. Pte. Ltd., Sin-

gapore, 1990. [Abstract].

. “Reddening in Dune Sands: An Alternate Mecha-

nism.” Geological Society of America Abstracts with Programs

22 (1990): 218.

and Hooper, D. M. “Geomorphology and Reflectance
Patterns of Vegetation-covered Dunes at the Tsodilo Hills,
Northwest Botswana.” International Journal of Remote Sensing
12 (1990): I-22.

Solomon, S. C., Sharpton, V. L., and Zimbelman, J. R. [Edi-
tors]. “Scientific Results of the NASA-sponsored study proj-
ect on Mars: Evolution of Volcanism, Tectonics, and
Volatiles.” Technical Report 90-96, 322 pp. Houston: Lunar
and Planetary Institute, 1990.

Vaughan, D. F. and Zimbelman, J. R. “Emissivity Effects on
the Surface Temperature of Mars as Measured by the Infra-
red Thermal Mapper.” Lunar and Planetary Science XXII,

PP- 1433-1434. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute,
1991. [Abstract]

Watters, T. R. “Domains of Regional Pure Shear on the Terres-
trial Planets.” Geological Society of America Abstracts with Pro-
grams (1990): A8o. [Abstract]

. “The Origin of Periodically Spaced Wrinkle Ridges

on the Tharsis Plateau on Mars.” Journal of Geophysical Re-

search Planets, 96 (1991): 15,599-616.

and Craddock, R. A. “Nature and Origin of Wrinkle

Ridges in the Floor Material of Kasei Valles, Mars.” Lunar

and Planetary Science XXII, pp. 1475-1476. Houston: Lunar

and Planetary Instirure, 1991. [Abstract]

, Turtle, M. J., and Simpson, D. “Wrinkle Ridge - Up-
land Scarp Transitions: Implications for the Mechanical
Properties of the Deformed Materials.” Lunar and Planetary
Science XXII, pp. 1477-1478. Houston: Lunar and Planetary
Institute, 1991. [Abstract]

Whipple, K. X. and Zimbelman, J. R. “Field Constraints on
Remote Observations of Debris Flows and Lava Flows.”
Lunar and Planetary Science XXII, pp. 1497-1498. Houston:
Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1991. [Abstract]

Williams, S$. H. and Zimbelman, J. R. “Geologic Mapping of
MTM Quads 40292 and 40297 in the Utopian Lowlands
North of the Nilosyrtis Mensae, Mars.” Reports of the Plan-
etary Geology and Geophysics Program - 1990, pp. 471-
473. NASA TM-4300, 1991. [Abstract]

Zimbelman, J. R. “Where were YOU When the Lights Went
Out?” Lunar and Planetary Institute Bulletin, p. 2. Lunar and
Planetary Institute, 1991, Houston.

“Geologic History of Arsia Mons Volcano, Mars: Pro-

longed Effusive and Explosive Activity?” Transactions A meri-

can Geophysical Union 72 (17) (1991): 182. [Abstract]

“Preliminary 1:500,000-scale Geologic Mapping of Arsia

Mons, Mars.” Lunar and Planaary Science XXII, pp. 1551-1552-

Houston: Lunar and Planetary Insuture, 1991. [Abstract]

. “Preliminary Geologic Mapping of Arsia Mons,

Mars.” In Reports of Planetary Geology and Geophysics Program

- 1999, pp. 457-458. NASA TM-430, 1991. [Abstract]

and Williams, S. H. “Interbasin Transport of Aeolian
Sand, Mojave Desert, California.” Transactions American
Geophysical Union 71(43) (1990): 1245. [Abstract]

and Vaughan, D. FE. “Emissivity Effects on the Surface
Temperature of Mars as Measured by the Viking Infrared
Thermal Mapper.” Geological Society of America Abstracts with
Programs 22 (1990): A80. [Abstract]

, Solomon, S. C., and Sharpton, V. L. “The Evolution
of Volcanism, Tectonics, and Volatiles on Mars: An Over-
view of Recent Progress.” Proceedings Lunar and Planetary
Science Conference XXI, pp. 613-626. Lunar and Planetary In-
scicuce: Houston, 1991.

and Craddock, R. A. “Bedrock Exposure in the Sinus
Meridiani Region of the Martian Highlands.” Proceedings
Lunar and Planetary Science Conference X XI, pp. 645-655.
Lunar and Planetary Institute: Houston, 1991.

Laboratory for Astrophysics

Buhl, D., Chin, G., and Goldstein, J. “Discovery of a Doppler-
Limited CO Line in the Venus Upper Mesosphere.” As-
trophys. J. Lett. 369 (1991), L17.

Fischer, J., Smith, H.A., and Glaccum, W. “Fabry-Perot Imag-
ing Spectroscopy of Interacting and Merging Galaxies:
NGC 3690 and NGC 6240.” In Proceedings of the Conference
on IR Arrays (R. Elston, editor), 1990. Tucson, Arizona.

Forden, C., Glaccum, W., Fischer, J., and Smith, H.A. “A
FringeCounting System for Control of Fabry-Perot Spec-
trometer.” Optical Engineering 29 (1990), 1143.

Greenhouse, M.A., Grasdalen, G.L., Woodward, C.E., Ben-
son, J., Gehrz, R.D., Rosenthal, E., and Skrutskie, M.F.
“The Infrared Coronal Lines of Recent Novae.” Astrophys. J.
352 (1990), 307.

Harwit, M. “Chemical Analyses with the Infrared Space Ob-
servatory (ISO).” In Chemistry in Space, NATO Advanced
Study Series C, Vol. 323 (J.M. Greenberg and V. Pirronello,
editors). Dordrecht: Kluwer, 1991.

. “Submillimeter Observations with the Kuiper Air-

borne Observatory.” From Ground-Based to Space-Borne Sub-

mm Astronomy, 29th Liege International Astrophysical

Colloquium (B.H. Kaldeich, editor), European Space

Agency SP-314. December 1990.

. “The Great Observatories for Space Astrophysics,”

2nd Edition (C.J. Pellerin, M. Harwit, and V. Neal). NASA

Astrophysics Division, NP-128, 1991.

. “Billion-Dollar Space Instruments.” Air & Space, Oc-

tober/November 1990.

. “Space Station: Propagating the Species.” Air &

Space, December 1990/January 1991.

. “Space Hurdle.” Air & Space, February/March 1991.

———_.. “Truth in Labeling.” Air & Space, April/May 1991.

. “Smart Versus Nuclear Bombs.” Air & Space,

June/July 1991.

. “Essay: The Decades Past, the Decade Ahead.” Air &

Space, August/September 1991.

III
Kostiuk, T., Espenak, F., Romani, P., Zipoy, D., and Goldst-
ein, J. “Ethane Abundance on Neptune” Icarus 88 (1990), 87.

Melnick, G.J., Dalgarno, A., Erickson, N.R., Fazio, G.G.,
Goldsmith, P.F, Harwit, M.H., Hollenbach, D.J., Koch,
G., Neufeld, D.A., Schieder, R., Snall, R.L., Thaddeus, P.,
and Winnewisser, G.F. “The Submillimeter Wave Astron-
omy Satellite.” From Ground-Based to Space-Borne Sub-mm As-
tronomy, 29th Liege International Astrophysical Colloquium
(B.H. Kaldeich, editor), European Space Agency SP-314.
December 1990.

Smich, H.A., Beall, J., and Swain, M. “Infrared Emission from
X-Ray Binaries: IRAS Observations.” Astronom. J. 99
(1990), 273.

National Museum of African Art

Curatorial Department

Freyer, Bryna M. “The National Museum of African Art, a
Curator's view” in Arte in Africa 2, Raccogliere, Documentare,
conservare, Restaurare ed Esporve le Opere d’Arte Tradizionale
Africana, edited by Ezio Bassani and Gaetano Speranza.
Florence: Centro di Storia delle Arti Africane, 1991, 56-62.

Nicolls, Andrea. A Cloth of Honor. Gallery brochure. Washing-
ton, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, February 1991.

Ravenhill, Philip L. “The Challenge of History,” African Arts
23(3):1,6,8, 1990.

. “The Passive Object and the Implicit Paradigm: Co-
lonial Museography in French West Africa” in Mary Jo
Arnoldi, Christraud Geary, & Kris Hardin (eds.) Proceedings
of the May 1988 Conference and Workshop on African Material
Culture. Joint Committee on African Studies - ACLS/SSRC
pp. 99-101 [published abstract of yet-to-be published
paper], 1990.

Sieber, Roy. Co-editor of two special issues of African Arts, a
tribute to Arnold Rubin. Vol. XXIV. 2-3 (April, July, 1991).

Walker, Roslyn Adele. “The Ikere Palace Veranda Posts by
Olowe of Ise” in African Arts 24 (January 1991): 77-78;104.

. “Chokwe Snuff Mortars” in Journal (The International

Chinese Snuff Bortle Society) 23 (Spring 1991): 21-23.

Eliot Elisofon Archives

Geary, Christraud M. “Photographie als kunsthistorische
Quelle” in Der Sinn des Schonen: Asthetik, Soziologie und
Geschichte der afrikanischen Kunst, (“Photography as Source
for Art History” in The meaning of Beauty: Aesthetic, Sociology
and History of African Art), edited by Miklés Szalay. Mu-
nich: Trickster, 1990, 113-177.

. “Text and Kontext: Zu Fragen der Methodik bei der

quellenkritischen Auswertung historischer Photographien

aus Afrika.” [Text and Context: On Questions Concerning

Methodology When Using Historical Photographs from Af-

112

rica as Sources}. Zestschrift fiir Kulturaustausch 40, 3 (1990):

426-439
. “Art of Central Africa.” Exhibition review in African

Arts 24, 2 (April 1991): 78-79.

. “African Reflections” by Enid Schildkrout and Cur-
tis M. Keim. Book review in African Arts 24, 3 (July 1991):
14-25.

National Museum of American Art

Elizabeth Broun, “Redefining National Culture”, in American
Art; vol.5, n. 1-2 (Winter/Spring 1991).

Andrew Connors, “One View of Folk Art” in Artlink Letter;
Fall/Winter 1991.

, “Norte/Sur” in Journal of American Folklore; Summer

1991.

Gwen Everett, Li’/ Sis and Uncle Willie, Rizzoli International,
1991.

Lois Marie Fink, “American Art at the 1889 Paris Exposition:
The Paintings They Love to Hate”, in American Art; vol. 5,
n. 4 (Fall 1991).

George Gurney, “Doomsday 1992," in National Sculpture Re-
view; vol. 39 (winter 1990).

Lynda Roscoe Hartigan, “Who is Roger Brown?”, in Perfor-
mance Series, 1991-1992, Opelika Arts Association, 1991.

. “Edmonia Lewis”, in Notable Black American Women,
Gale Research Institute, 1991.

Karol Lawson, “Personal Selection”, in American Art; vol. 5, n.
3 (Summer 1991).

Patricia Lynagh, with Cecilia Chin, “Reference Materials for
Art Library Collections” in AB Bookman’s Weekly; vol. 87
(March 25, 1991): 1130-46.

Richard Murray, “John Norton: Mural Painter”, in John Nor-
ton; Illinois State Museum, Lockport Gallery, 1991.

Alex Nemerov, “Frederic Remington: Within and Without
the Past”, in American Art; vol. 5, n. 1-2 (Winter/Spring,
1991).

, “Doing the ‘Old America’: The Lmage of the Ameri-

can West, 1880-1920,” The West as America, Smithsonian In-

stitution Press, 1991.

Harry Rand, “Torah's Incipient Esthetics” in Religious Educa-
tion; vol. 86, n. 1 (Winter 1991).

, “The Betrothal I", in The Rita and Taft Schreiber Col-

lection, Los Angeles: The Museum of Contemporary Art.

, Friedensreich Hundertwasser, (Cologne, Germany):
Taschen Verlag, 1991.

William Truettner, editor, “Ideology and Lmage: Justifying
Westward Expansion”, The West as America, Smithsonian In-
stitution Press, 1991.

National Museum of American History

Archives Center

Fleckner, John A. “Dear Mary Jane: Some Reflections on
Being an Archivist.” American Archivist 53, Number 4
(1990).

. “Archives and Museums.” The Midwestern Archivist
XV, Number 2 (1990).

Harding, Robert S. Register of the Western Union Telegraph Com-
pany Collection, 1848-1963 Washington, D.C.: Archives Cen-
ter, National Museum of American History, Smithsonian
Institution, 1990.

Hazen, Margaret Hindle. Register of the Hazen Collection of
Band Photographs and Ephemera, ca. 1818-1931 Foreword by
David E. Haberstich. Washington, D.C.: Archives Center,
National Museum of American History, Smithsonian Insti-
tution, 1990.

Collections Management Program

Spiess, Katherine, and Philip Spiess. “Museum Collections.”
In The Museum, A Reference Guide, edited by Michael Sha-
piro and Louis Ward Kemp. Greenwood Press, 1990.

National Numismatic Collection

Clain-Stefanelli, Elvira Eliza. “From the Drawing Board of a
Coin-Engraver: Sketches by Christian Gobrecht for the
Coinage of 1836-1839.” The American Numismatic Association
Gentennial Anthology. 79-98, illus. Wolfeboro, New Hamp-
shire: Bowers and Merena, 1991.

. “My Story Envelopes $50 Gold Half Union Piece,

Two Unique Gold Pieces,” Coin World. Sidney, Ohio: (Janu-

ary 1991): 37, 70, illus.

. “Old Friends—Common Goals: The Evolution of

Numismatics in the United States,” The American Numis-

matic Association Centennial Anthology. 293-299, illus.

Wolfeboro, New Hampshire: Bowers and Merena, 1991.

. “1873 Trade Dollar Competition for Peso Sketchbook
Reveals Plans,” Coin World. (February 1991): 72-73, illus.
Doty, R. G. “An Onerous and Delicate Task’: Franklin Peale’s
Mission South, 1837,” America’s Gold Coinage. Proceedings

of the Sixth Coinage of the Americas Conference, New
York, November 4-5, 1989. New York: American Numis-
matic Society, 1990. 67-82.

. “Coin Stand-ins: The Colorful Story of Tokens in

American Commerce.” Coinage 26, 12. (December 1990): 17,

ff.

. Review of Money in the Bank: An Illustrated Introduc-
tion to the Money Collection of the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation, by Joe Cribb. Numismatic Chronicle. 150
(1990): 306-309.

. “Unofficial Money: Tokens are a Colorful American
Heritage.” Coinage. 26, 12 (December 1990): 17, ff.

. “Western Hemisphere,” A Survey of Numismatic Re-
search, 1984-1989. Brussels: International Numismatic Com-

mission, 1990.

Gillilland, Cory. “Public Opinion and the Nation's Coinage,”
American Numismatic Association Centennial Anthology.
Wolfeboro, New Hampshire: Bowers and Merena, 1991. 301-
319, illus.

. “U.S. Gold Bullion Coins—A Nineteenth-Century

Proposal,” America’s Gold Coinage. (Coinage of the Ameti-

cas Conference, proceedings No. 6. New York: The Ameri-

can Numismatic Society, 1990). 17-32, illus.

. “United States Medals,” A Survey of Numismatic Re-

search, 1985-1990. Brussels: International Numismatic Com-

mission, 1990.

Department of Social and Cultural History

Adrosko, Rita J. “A ‘Little Book of Samples’: Evidence of Tex-
tiles Traded to the American Indians,” Textiles in Trade (Pro-
ceedings of The Textile Sociery of America Biennial
Symposium). Washington, D.C., Sept. 14-16, 1990.

Ahlborn, Richard E. “The 1762 Will of a New Mexico
Woman,” in the New Mexico Historical Review.

and Vera Beaver-Bricken Espinola. Russion Copper Icons
Jrom the Kunz Collection: Castings in Faith. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Bowman, Doris. American Quilts. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1991.

Bunch, Lonnie G. “A Past Not Necessarily Prologue: The Af-
rican American in 20th Century Los Angeles,” in Klein and
Schleissel, 20th Century Las Angeles: Power, Promotion G Place.
1991.

Bunch, Lonnie G., and Spencer R. Crew. “Museums and the
Academy,” Perspectives. November 1990.

Crew, Spencer R., and Lonnie G. Bunch. “Museums and the
Academy,” Perspectives. November, 1990.

, and James E Sims. “Locating Authenticity: Frag-
ments of a Dialogue,” in Exbibiting Cultures, Ivan Karp and
Steven D. Lavine, eds.; Washington, D.C., and London:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Fesperman, John. “Hymnody and Liturgy,” in Liturgy, 9, 1
(January 1991):.55-59.

Foote, Shelly. “What's in a name? A classification and name,”
Terminology for Museums, edited by D. Andrew Roberts.
Cambridge, England: Museum Documentation Associa-
tion, 1990.

Hasse, John Edward. “Preface: The Achievement and Human-
ity of Frank J. Gillis,” in Discourse in Ethnomusicology: Essays
in Honor of Frank J. Gillis, ed. Nancy Cassell McEntire, xi-
xiv. Bloomington, Indiana: Ethnomusicology Publications
Group, 1991.

, ed. “A Discography of Frank J. Gillis as Performer,

Producer, and Fieldworker,” in Discourse in Ethnomusicology:

Essays in Honor of Frank J. Gillis, ed. Nancy Cassel

113
McEntire, 175-217. Bloomington, Indiana: Ethnomusicol-
ogy Publications Group, 1991.

Reagon, Bernice Johnson. “Nobody Knows the Trouble I See”;
or, “By and By I'm Gonna Lay Down My Heavy Load,” The
Journal of American History, June 1991.

Wright, Helena E. “Bierstadc and the Business of Printmak-
ing,” in Albert Bierstadt: Art & Enterprise. Brooklyn, N.Y.:
Brooklyn Museum, 1991.

. 300 Years of American Papermaking. Washington, D.C.:
National Museum of American History, 1991.

Recordings featuring Smithsonian Chamber Music Ensembles

The Castle Trio

“Beethoven: The Piano Trios,” Vol. 1, with Op. 1 Nos. 1-3 and
Variations Op. 44. Virgin Classics (Veritas); London, En-
gland. VC 7 91126255-2.

The Smithsonian Chamber Players

Luigi Boccherini: String Quintets, Op. 11 Nos. 4-6. deutsche
harmonia mundi/BMG Classics; Freiburg, Germany. RD
77159255

Schubert, Quintet in C Major, D956; and Rondo in A Major,
D438, feacuring Stradivarius Instruments from the
Smithsonian Institution. Sony Classical (Vivarte); Ham-
burg, Germany. SK 46 669.

“Sweet Was the Song,” Traditional Carols Performed by the
Smithsonian Chamber Players with Max van Egmond, bari-
tone. Smithsonian Collection of Recordings; Washington,
D.C., ND o4o.

Marin Marais: Pieces for 2 violes (1686) and 2 Suites and
Tombeau for 2 Violes. deutsche harmonia mundi/BMG
Classics; Freiburg, Germany. RD 77146255.

Department of the History of
Science and Technology

Davis, Audrey B. with Richard Glenner. “Collecting Dental
Antiques.” Bulletin for the History of Dentistry 39 (1991): 1-16.

Daniel, Pete. “Going Among Strangers: Southern Reactions to
World War II,” Journal of American History 77 (December
1990).

Ezell, Edward, and David Th. Schiller. “Der Multi-Millionar”
{Kalashnikov and his weapons]. Visier: Internationale Waffen-
Magazine (January 1991): 12-18, 20-24, 26-27.

Ezell, Edward, and Matthias Recktenwald. “Den Drehraus”
[Patrick Ferguson and his breech-loading rifle]. Visier: Inter-
nationale Waffen-Magazin (July 1991): 74-78.

Finn, Bernard. “The Museum of Science and Technology,” in
Michael Shapiro (ed.). The Museum: A Reference Guide, 59-83.
Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1990

Forman, Paul. “Independence, Not Transcendence, for the His-
torian of Science.” Isis 82 (1991): 71-86.

Green, Rayna. “The Mickey Mouse Kachina.” American Art
Magazine 1, 1 (1991).

. American Indian Women in American Society. New York:
Chelsea House, 1991.

114

Green, Rayna, K. Stallard, and J. Vigil. The Killing of the Wa-
ters: A Report on Dams, Development and American Indians.
Washington, D.C.: The American Indian Program/NMAH,
1991.

Green, Rayna, and J. Vigil. Issues In Contemporary American In-
dian Art: A Report on a Symposium. Jointly issued with AL-
TATL: A Native Arts Network, 1990.

Green, Rayna, and N. Mitchell. American Indian Sacred Objects,
Sketetal Remains, Repatriation and Reburial: A Resource Guide.
2nd Edition, American Indian Program, 1991.

Harris, Michael R. “American Homeopathic Medicine Dosage
Forms; 1840 to 1920.” Master's thesis, University of Wiscon-
sin, Madison; May, 1991.

Johnston, Paul F. “The Smithsonian Institution: Museums on
the Mall,” in Peter Neill, (ed.). Great Maritime Museums of
the World. New York: Harry Abrams and Balsam Press, 1991.

Kidwell, Peggy A. “Publicizing the Metric System in Amer-
ica—From EF. R. Hassler to the American Metric Bureau.”
Rittenbouse § (1991): W1-117.

Kondratas, Ramunas A. “The Artifactual Legacy of AIDS,” in
Victoria Harden and Guenter Risse (eds.). AIDS and the His-
torian. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
NIH Publication No. 91-1584, March, 1991.

LaFollette, Marcel C., and Jeffrey K. Stine, (eds.). Technology
and Choice: Readings from Technology and Culture. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1991.

Langley, Harold D. “Winfield Scott Schley: The Confident Com-
mander,” in Admirals of the New Steel Navy. Annapolis, 1991.

. “The Quest for Peace in the War of 1812,” in William
Jeffrey Welsh and David Curtis Shaggs (eds.). War on the
Great Lakes: Essays Commemorating the 17gh Anniversary of the
Battle of Lake Erie. Kent, Ohio, 1991.

Lubar, Steven. “West Old Baltimore Road.” Landscape (Spring
1991).

. ““Relicts’ and “A ton of significant Attitude’: History

at Museums and Universities.” Organization of American His-

torians Newletter.

. “Historic American Building Survey/Historic Ameri-
can Engineering Record/America’s Industrial History Proj-
ect: Some Recent Publications.” The Public Historian
(Summer 1991).

Mayr, Otto, and Carlene Stephens. American Clocks: Highlights
from the Collections. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of
American History, 1990.

Molella, Arthur P. “John U. Nef, A Memorial.” Technology and
Culture (October 1990): 916-920.

. “Mumford in Historiographical Context,” in Thomas

P. Hughes and Agatha C. Hughes (eds.). Lewis Mumford,

Public Intellectual, 21-42. New York and Oxford: Oxford

University Press, 1990.

. “The Museum That Might Have Been: The
Smithsonian's National Museum of Engineering and Indus-
try.” Technology and Culture 32 (April 1991): 237-263.

Post, Robert. “Transportation.” World Book Encyclopedia 19
(1991): 380-97.

. “Some Traction Prehistory: Robert Davidson and
Charles Grafton Page.” Headlights, Streetcar Centennial Issue
(1991).

. “A Life With Trains: An Interview With John H.
White, Jr.” American Heritage 6 (Fall 1990): 34-40

Reingold, Nathan. “Tales from the Archives,” in Nathan
Reingold (ed.). Symposium on Documents, Interpretations and
the History of the Sciences. In Proceedings of the American Philo-
sophical Society (December 1990).

. “The Peculiarities of the Americans, or Are There
National Styles in the Sciences?” Science in Context (Fall,
1991).

Reingold, Nathan (ed.). Symposium on Documents, Interpretations
and the History of the Sciences, in Proceedings of the American
Philosophical Society (December 1990).

Sherman, Roger. “The Electrical Lecture of Isaac Greenwood
III.” Rittenbouse 5 (1991): 46-52.

. “Charles Came, Itinerant Science Lecturer, and His
‘Splendid Apparatus.’” Rittenhouse 5 (1991): 18-128.

Stine, Jeffrey K. “Environmental Politics in the American
South: The Fight over the Tennesse-Tombigbee Waterway.”
Environmental History Review 15, No. 1 (1990).

Turner, Steven. “William Wurdemann. First Mechanician of
the U.S. Coast Survey.” Rittenhouse 5 (1991): 97-110.

Warner, Deborah. “American Hydrometers, 1753-1876.” Ritten-
ouse § (1991): 33-45.

. “Everything from Watch to Locomotive.” Rittenhouse
5 (1991): 81-93.

White, Roger B. “Fisher Body Corporation.” Encyclopedia of
American Business History and Biography (1990): 187-192.

Withuhn, William L. “The 1990 Railroad History Awards.”
Railroad History 163 (Autumn 1990): 7-12.

National Museum of the American Indian

King, Duane H., Ph.D. In the Spirit of Sequoyah, The Tennessee
Valley Authority, 1991.

. Trail of Tears: National Historic Trail, edited by Jere

Krakow, U.S. Department of the Interior - National Park

Services, 1991.

National Portrait Gallery

Office of the Director

Fern, Alan. “Ahead of Its Time.” Gazette of the Grolier Club
New Series, No. 42 (1990).

. “The Project.” Four Decades of Change: Photographs by

Jak Delano. Washington, D.C., and London: Smithsonian

Institution Press, 1990, pp. 11-16.

.“A Special Vision.” Contrasts: Forty Years of Change
and Continuity in Puerto Rico. Photographs by Jack Delano.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1990,

Pp. 21-27.

Office of the Historian

Barber, James G. Andrew Jackson: A Portrait Study. Washing-
ton, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institu-
tion; Nashville: Tennessee State Museum; Seattle and
London: University of Washington Press, 1991.

. Old Hickory: A Life Sketch of Andrew Jackson. W/ashing-
ton, D.C.: National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institu-
tion; Nashville: Tennessee State Museum; Seattle and
London: University of Washington Press, 1990.

Voss, Frederick S. The Smithsonian Treasury: The Presidents.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1991.

Library

Chin, Cecilia, with Patricia Lynagh. “Reference Materials for
Art Library Collections.” AB Bookman’s Weekly 87 (March
25, 1991): 1130-46.

Painting and Sculpture

Fortune, Brandon Brame. “Charles Willson Peale’s Portrait
Gallery: Persuasion and the Plain Style,” Word and Image 6,
No. 4 (October-December 1990): 308-24.

Peale Family Papers

Miller, Lillian B. and David C. Ward, editors. New Perspectives
on Charles Willson Peale. Pittsburgh: University of Pitts-
burgh Press, 1991.

Miller, Lillian B., Sidney Hart, and David C. Ward, editors.
The Selected Papers of Charles Willson Peale and His Family.
Volume 3: The Belfield Farm Years, 1810-1820. New Haven:
Yale University Press, 1991.

Ward, David C. “Charles Willson Peale’s Farm Belfield: En-
lightened Agriculture in the Early Republic” in New Per-
spectives on Charles Willson Peale, edited by Lillian B. Miller
and David C. Ward. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh
Press, 1991, pp. 283-301.

. “Poor Sports: Hemingway, Jake Barnes and the Sport-

ing Life in The Sun Also Rises.” Aethlon: The Journal of Sport

Literature 6 (Spring 1989 [October 1990]): 21-25.

. [Essay Review] John C. Van Horne et al eds., The

Correspondence and Miscellaneous Papers of Benjamin Henry La-

trobe, Volume 3 (New Haven, 1988). Winterthur Portfolio 25

(1990): 297-300.

. [Review] Harry M. Ward, Major General Adam Ste-

phen and the Cause of American Liberty (Charlottesville, 1989).

Maryland Historical Magazine 85 (Fall 1990): 309-11.

Ils
. [Review] David R. Contosta, A Philadelphia Family.
The Houstons and Woodwards of Chestnut Hill (Philadelphia,
1988). Pennsylvania History 58 (April 1991): 158-159.

- [Review] Wallace J. Schutze and Walter N. Trenerry,
Abandoned by Lincoln: A Military Biography of General John
Pope (Champaign, Illinois, 1990) and Robert K. Krick, Stone-
wall Jackson at Cedar Mountain (Chapel Hill, 1990). Mary-
land Historical Magazine 86 (Fall 1991).

Office of Prints and Drawings

Reaves, Wendy Wick. “Effigies Curiously Engraven: Eigh-
teench-Century American Portrait Prints” in Prints of New
England, edited by Georgia Brady Barnhill. Worchester,
Mass.: American Antiquarian Society, 1991, pp. 39-67.

Stapp, William F. “Annie Leibovitz and the Portrait Tradition
in Photography” in Annie Leibovitz Photographs 1970-1990 [ex-
hibition brochure] 1990, pp. 9-10.

Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Public Service

Cole, Johnnetta B. “The Struggle for Equity in American Edu-
cation.” Keynote address delivered January 21, 1991 at the
1991 Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Celebration,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. 1991.

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Eisendrath, Betsy, ed. “Kiting Up the Sky: The Vehicles of
Understanding,” Art to Zoo. September 1991.

. “What Makes Time Tick, or Has The Industrial Rev-

olucion Really Made Clocks Go Faster?” Art to Zoo. April

1991.

. “Life in the Promised Land’: African-American Mi-
grants in Northern Cities, 1916-1940,” Art to Zoo. December
1990.

. “Turn About's Fair Play! Mirrors and How They Re-
flect,” Art to Zoo. October 1990.

116

Office of Folklife Programs

Printed Materials

Belanus, Betty. “Family Farm Folklore.” In Festival of American
Folklife Program Book, edited by Peter Seitel, 32-35. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

Cadaval, Olivia. “Knowledge and Power: Land in Native
American Cultures.” In Festival of American Folklife Program
Book, edited by Peter Seitel, 76-80. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Insticution.

Chen, Vivian. “Music, Dance and Puppets of Indonesia,” a
guide for teachers. Washington, D.C.: The John FE. Ken-
nedy Center for the Performing Arts.

Kennedy, Richard. “Forest, Field and Sea: Cultural Diversity
in the Indonesian Archipelago.” In Festival of American
Folklife Program Book, edited by Peter Seitel, 55-60. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

. Review of The Chinese of Early Tucson: Historical Arche-
ology from the Tucson Urban Renewal Projet, by Florence C.
and Robert H. Lister. Ethnobistory 38.

Kurin, Richard. “The Festival of American Folklife: Building
on Tradition.” In Festival of American Folklife Program Book,
edited by Peter Seitel, 7-20. Washington, D.C.: Smithson-
ian Institution.

——.. “Turbans, Skirts and Spirit: Folk Models of a Punjabi
Muslim Brotherhood.” Social Analysis special issue, 97-113.

. Cultural Conservation Through Representation: Festival of

India Folklife Exhibitions at the Smithsonian Institution. W/ash-

ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

. “Cultural Conservation Through Representation: Fes-

tival of India Folklife Exhibitions at the Smithsonian Insti-

tution.” In Exhibiting Cultures: The Poetics and Politics of

Museum Display, edited by Ivan Karp and Steven D. Lavine,

315-343. Washington and London: Smithsonian Institution

Press.

. “Regar Semillas de Fucura Comprension y Coopera-
cion Intelectuales.” Tradicci6n por Eder E. G6mez Salgado.
Del Caribe V1(16-17):004 4-5.

Rinzler, Ralph and Worth Long. “Blues at the Festival: A
Community Music with Global Impact.” In Festival of A mer-
ican Folklife Program Book, edited by Peter Seitel, 21. Wash-
ington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution.

Seeger, Anthony. “When Music Makes History.” In Erhnomusi-
cology and Modern Music History, edited by Philip V. Bohl-
man and Daniel M. Neuman, 23-34. Urbana and Chicago:
University of Illinois Press.

. “Styles of Musical Ethnography.” In Comparative Mu-

sicology and Anthropology of Music: Essays on the History of Eth-

nomsusicology, edited by Bruno Netti and Philip Bohlman,

342-355. Chicago and London: The University of Chicago

Press.

. “After the Alligator Swallows Your Microphone: The

Future of Field Recordings.” In Discourse in Ethnomusicology

III: Essays in Honor of Frank J. Gillis, edited by Nancy

Cassell McIntire, 37-49. Bloomington: Ethnomusicology

Publications Group.

. “Creating and Confronting Cultures: Issues of Edit-
ing and Selection in Records and Videotapes of Musical Per-
formances.” In Music in the Dialogue of Cultures: Traditional
Music and Cultural Policy, edited by Max Peter Baumann,
290-302. Intercultural Music Studies 2. Germany: Florian
Noetzel Verlag, Wilhelmshaven.

Vennum, Thomas Jr. “In Tune with Tradition: Wisconsin
Folk Musical Instruments.” Exhibition review. Journal of
American Folklore 104(Summer 1991):345-34F 10048.

. “The Alice C. Fletcher Ojibway Cylinder Record-

ings.” In Discourse in Ethnomusicology III: Essays in Honor of

Frank J. Gillis, edited by Nancy Cassell McIntire. Bloom-

ington: Ethnomusicology Publications Group.

Sound Recordings

Bukhara: Musical Crossroads of Asia. Smithsonian/Folkways
SF40050.

Classical Music of Iran. Smithsonian/Folkways SF40039.

The Country Gentlemen. Folk Songs and Bluegrass. Smithson-
ian/Folkways SF40022 (reissue).

Cowboy Songs on Folkways. Smithsonian/Folkways SF40043.

Davis, Reverend Gary. Pure Religion and Bad Company.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF40035 (reissue).

Jenkins, Ella. Live! At the Smithsonian. Videocassette.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF48001.

McGhee, Brownie. The Folkways Years: 1945-1959. Smithson-
ian/Folkways SF40034.

Mountain Music Bluegrass Style. Smithsonian/Folkways
SF40038 (reissue).

Mountain Music of Peru, Volume 1. Smithsonian/Folkways
SF40020 (reissue).

Music of Indonesia x Songs Before Dawn. Smithsonian/Folkways
SF40055.

Music of Indonesia z Indonesian Popular Music. Smithson-
ian/Folkways SF40056.

Music of Indonesia 3: Music from the Outskirts of Jakarta.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF40057.

The New Lost City Ramblers. The Early Years: 1958-1962.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF40036.

Seeger, Pete. Birds, Beasts, Bugs and Little Fishes. Smithsonian/
Folkways SF45021 (reissue).

. Birds, Beasts, Bugs and Bigger Fishes. Smithson-

ian/Folkways SF45022 (reissue).

Terry, Sonny. The Folkways Years: 1944-1963 Smithsonian/Folk-
ways SF40033.

Vennum, Thomas Jr., co-producer. Honor the Earth Powwow:
Songs of the Great Lakes Indians. Ryko Disc RCD10199.

Woody Guthrie. Songs to Grow on for Mother and Child.
Smithsonian/Folkways SF 45035 (reissue).

World Music of Struggle: We Shall Overcome. Columbia CK
47850255.

Office of Public Affairs

The Torch. A monthly newsletter for Smithsonian employees,
featuring profiles, question-and-answer columns about in-
teresting jobs, previews of upcoming events, classified ads,
and more. Circulation is 10,300, which includes staff and a
list of interested individuals and organizations outside the
Smithsonian. Editor: Mary Combs

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports. A quarterly newsletter
that disseminates information on Smithsonian research to
an audience of about 79,000 readers (10,000 scientists, li-
braries, museums, universities, journalists, and others and
69,000 Contributing Members of the National Associate
Program). Editor: Jo Ann Webb

Smithsonian Runner. A bimonthly newsletter for Native Ameri-
cans, featuring informational updates on the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian and articles on research and
other projects, activities and events at the Smithsonian that
are of particular interest to Native Americans. Circulation
is more than 8,000, which includes Native American jour-
nalists and community leaders, as well as members of the
National Museum of the American Indian. Editor: Kathryn
Lindeman

Accessibility for Disabled Visitors. A 30-second public service an-
nouncement for television, fearuring Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Director Dianne Pilgrim, encourages visitors with physical dis-
abilities to take advantage of the Smithsonian's facilities. The
PSA offers a copy of che brochure “Guide for Disabled Visi-
tors” to viewers on request. Coordinator: Lilas Wiltshire

Smithsonian News Service. A feature-story service that provides
four articles and appropriate art work each month to more
than 1,000 daily and weekly newspapers and other media in
the United Scates and abroad. Syndicated internationally by
the New York Times Syndication Sales, Inc. Executive Edi-
cor: Madeleine Jacobs.

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Lovejoy, T.E. 1990. 1990 Editorial in UNESCO Sources. Also
reprinted in Nature & Resources.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1990. “Consider their ways and be wise.” Review
of The Ants by B. Holldobler and E. O. Wilson (1990, The
Belknap Press/Harvard Univ. Press, 732 pp.). The New
York Times Book Review, 29 July 1990, p. 3.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1990. Remarks in 1990 Earth Observations &
Global Change Decision Making: A National Partnership. Krie-
ger Publishing.

117
Lovejoy, T.E. 1990. Foreword to The New Zoo by Jake Page.
Smithsonian Institution Press

Lovejoy, T.E. and Richard Bierregaard, Jr. 1990. Central
Amazonian Forests and the Mininum Critical Size of Eco-
systems Project A. Gentry, Editor. Four Neotropical Forests,
Yale University Press, Pp. 60-71

Lovejoy, T.E. 1991. “1991 Global Report: deforestation.”
Buzzworm: The Environmental Journal Jan/Feb 1991, p. 36.

Lovejoy, T.E. 1991. Keynote address and remarks in T.D. Nich-
olson, Preserving the earth's biological diversity: the role of
museums. Curator 34/2:85-108.

Moran, Katy. Spring 1991 “Debt-for-Nature Swaps: U.S. Pol-
icy Issues and Options” Pp. 16-21 in Renewable Resources
Journal

Office of Telecommunications

Programs Presented on Radio Smithsonian

“The Paragon Ragtime Orchestra” Rick Benjamin and his en-
semble perform ragtime favorites.

“The Decorative Designs of Frank Lloyd Wright” A touring
exhibition examines the importance of Wright's decorative
designs and the challenges of preserving them.

“Senegalese, If You Please” The 1990 Festival of American
Folklife reveals the music and culture of Senegal.

“English Dance and Song” Concert tribute to English folklor-
ist Cecil Sharp who documented the dance and song of his
native country.

“From Whom the Bells Toll” The ancient art of “changering-
ing” from England's grand cathedrals and small country
churches.

“The Duke's Treasures” Ellington's personal collection of sheet
music, papers, photographs, and memorabilia sheds new
light on his life and career.

“Deep River: Praise Songs from My People” Composer/ar-
ranger David Murray and his jazz quartet and the Wesley
Boyd Gospel Choir explore the common roots of jazz and
gospel music.

“Songs of Struggle” Veterans of the U.S. Labor, Civil Rights,
and South African Anti-Apartheid Movements demonstrate
the use of music in their struggle for social change.

“Parting the Green Curtain” STRI's director reviews research
on deforestation, global warming, and species preservation.

“Beni Biological Reserve” Touring a refuge for animals of the
Amazon basin where SI and other international researchers
work.

“Cole Porter, Seriously” Pianist John Eaton explores the com-
positional style and artistic side of a light-hearted legend.

“Into the Future” On the occasion of the last weekly program
in the Radio Smithsonian magazine series, a look ahead to
what the future holds at the Smithsonian, including the Co-
lumbus Quincentenary, the new National Museum of the

118

American Indian, and the battle to save the biological diver-
sity of planet Earth.

Special Programs Produced by
Radio Smithsonian

“The Louis Armstrong Jazz Trumpet Competition” 2-hour
special hosted by Bill Cosby presents highlights from this
annual competition. Co-production with WETA-FM.

“Christmas Oratorio” 3-hour holiday special of J.S. Bach's
work performed by the Smithsonian Chamber Orchestra
and Chorus on period instruments and heard as it sounded
during Bach's time. Co-production with WETA-FM.

“Cole Porter's 100th Birthday Gala Celebration at Carnegie
Hall” Stars of musical theater and popular song including
Kaye Ballard, William Bolcolm, Michael Feinstein, Celeste
Holm, Marilyn Horne, Maureen McGovern, Rita McKen-
zie, Joan Morris, Juliet Prowse, Bobby Short, Gwen Ver-
don, and Margaret Whiting in a 2-hour opening night
concert of the New York International Festival of the Arts.
Co-production with WETA-FM and American Public
Radio.

Series Programs Produced by
Radio Smithsonian

“Folk Masters: Traditional Music in the Americas” 13 1-hour
programs feature virtuosos of folk music in concert at Car-
negie Hall. Co-produced with WETA-FM.

“Speakers Corner” A 52-week series of lectures and discussions
presents scholars and experts from the University of Chi-
cago, the Smithsonian, and the University of Oxford.
Hosted by Roger Mudd.

TV Film Production

“Our Biosphere: The Earth in Our Hands,” a new one-hour en-
vironmental film narrated by Robert Redford, premiered in
April on the Discovery Channel.

Exhibition Videos

Two videos, “Montserrat” and “Crow Fair,” were produced for
the Seeds of Change Quincentenary exhibition at the NMNH.
“As They Really Are,” a 5-minute video for the SITES exhibi-
tion Human Attitudes toward Animals, was completed for the
Experimental Gallery and will tour with this SITES show.
“Moving America's Mail,” was completed for installation in
the new National Postal History and Philatelic Museum.
“300 Years of American Papermaking,” an interactive video
for the exhibition of the same title, was installed in NMAH.
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Solinger, Janet W., ed., MPR News published by the Museum
Public Relations Committee, International Council of Mu-
seums (ICOM), Vol. I, No. 1, 1990

Solinger, Janet W. and Lytle, Cheryl, “Anatomy of an Anniver-
sary: 25 Years of the Smithsonian Resident Associate Pro-
gram, MPR News, Vol. I, No. 2, 1991

Cole, Joan, “Kite Festival,” MPR News, Vol. I, No. 1, 1990

“Smithsonian World”

Season Six Public Television Programs

Bradley, Sandra Wentworth. “Gender: The Enduring Para-
dox,” a 60-minute Smithsonian World television special co-
produced by WETA-TV and the Smithsonian Institution,
1991.

. “The Doors of Perception,” a 60-minute Smithson-
ian World television special co-produced by WETA-TV
and the Smithsonian Institution, 1991.

Goodwin, Neil. “A Certain Age: A Celebration of Experi-
ence,” a 60-minute Smithsonian World television special
co-produced by WETA-TV and the Smithsonian Insticu-
tion, 1991.

Schumann, Werner. “From Information to Wisdom?,” a 60-
minute Smithsonian World television special co-produced
by WETA-TV and the Smithsonian Institution, 1991.

York, Steven. “Selling the Dream,” a 60-minute Smithsonian
World television special co-produced by WETA-TV and
the Smithsonian Institution, 1991.

Finance and Administration

Office of Printing and
Photographic Services

Wallace, Jim; Goulait, Joe; Talman, Hugh. “The Bourges-
Bruehl Collection. Reproducing Color From Glass Separa-
tion Negatives” in Topics in Photographic Preservation
Washington: American Institution for Conservation, 1991.

Wallace, Jim. “The Use of Commercial Scanners To Restore
Dark-Faded Color Transparencies” in The Journal of Imaging
Technology 17: 107-114 (1991).

. “Archiving: An Examination of Problems Regard-

ing the Storage and Retrieval of Electronic Lmages” pre-

sented: Digital Photography Conference 1991, Dallas,
Texas, February 8, 1991.

Affiliated Organizations

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

RIF Newsletter. Published three times a year, the Newsletter re-
ports on RIF activities nationwide. A technical assistance
insert, addressing local projects’ requests for information on
how to motivate youngsters to read, is included in News/et-
ters sent to RIF projects. The Newsletter reaches 18,000 peo-
ple throughout the United States and offshore territories.

The RIF Guide to Encouraging Young Readers (Doubleday, 1987).
A sourcebook of activities, children’s book suggestions, and
resources for parents.

Eight Million Times a Year. A brochure describing the RIF orga-
nization, its goals, and its programs.

“Parent Guide” Brochures. A series of 12 brochures on the topics
“Choosing Good Books for Your Children,” “TV and Read-
ing,” “Reading Aloud to Your Children,” “Upbeat and Off-
beat Activities to Encourage Reading,” “Teenagers and
Reading,” “Children Who Can Read, But Don't...,” “En-
couraging Soon-To-Be Readers,” “Magazines and Family
Reading,” “Family Storytelling,” “Building a Family Library,”
“Encouraging Young Writers,” “Summertime Reading.”

Books to Grow On: A Parent's Guide to Encouraging Young Read-
ers. A resource for parents of children from infancy to age
eleven.

The RIF Handbook: How to Run a Successful Reading Is Fundamen-
tal Project. A technical assistance manual to help RIF volun-
teers organize and operate an effective reading motivation
program. Includes an overview of RIF as well as sections on
fundraising, book selection and ordering, and activities to
motivate reading.

I Want You. A brochure to assist RIF projects in recruiting and
training volunteers.

Reading Is Fun! Tips for Parents. A booklet offering suggestions on
how to encourage children up to the age of eight to read.

Children’s Bookshelf. An annotated list of 106 books for chil-
dren up to the age of eleven.

Profiles. Descriptions of the publishers and distributors that
serve RIF projects. The Profiles list special discounts and
services offered by each supplier and are distributed annu-
ally co all projects.

When We Were Young: Favorite Books of RIF Kids, RIF Volunteers, and
Readers of Renown. Forty-page list of favocite children’s books. In-
cludes personal recommendations of some 80 public figures.

Helping Your Children Become Readers/Como Ayudar a Que Sus
Ninos Sean Buenos Lectores. Available in English or Spanish,
this reproducible, illustrated brochure features 10 reading
tips in simple language.

119
Appendix 6

The Smithsonian Institution and
Its Subsidiaries, September 30, 1991

Office of the

Secretary

The Secretary
Robert McC. Adams
Executive Assistant
James M. Hobbins
Special Assistant
Kathy A. Boi
Special Assistant for
Appointments
Mary Lee Nissley
Supervisor, Secretary's Files
Betty J. Russell
Administrative Specialist
Susan Bradley

Office of the Under

Secretary

Under Secretary
Carmen E. Turner

Executive Assistant
Anna B. Martin

120

Office of the

Inspector General

Inspector General
Thomas D. Blair
Deputy Inspector General
John C. Fawsett
Assistant Inspector General for
Audits
Jerry L. Chandler
Assistant Inspector General for
Investigations
Vacant
Administrative Officer
Mary Brough Emond

Office of the

General Counsel

General Counsel
Peter G. Powers

Associate General Counsels
George S. Robinson
Alan D. Ullberg

Assistant General Counsels
Rachelle V. Browne
Ildiko P. DeAngelis
James D. Douglas
Lauryn Guttenplan Grant

Elaine L. Johnston
Marsha S. Shaines
Christine Steiner
James [. Wilson

Research

Office of the
Assistant Secretary

for Research

Assistant Secretary for Research

Robert S. Hoffmann
Deputy Assistant Secretary for

Research

Ross B. Simons
Executive Officer

Rita R. Jordan
Special Assistant

Ruth O. Selig
Administrative Officer

Joan R. Zavala
Research Assistant

Chris Wozencraft
Program Assistants

Maria Ballantyne

Suzanne Pender
Secretaries

Sandra K Blake

Jameen Michelle

Alexander

Senior Scholar

Wilton Dillon

Joseph Henry Papers
Project

Editor
Marc Rothenberg
Assistant Editors
Kathleen W. Dorman
John C. Rumm
Paul H. Theerman
Research Assistant
Joel Hodson

American Studies
Program

Director
Wilcomb E. Washburn

Secretary
Ruby Hamblen

International
Center

Coordinator
Francine C. Berkowitz
AdministrativelLiaison Officer
Saundra A. Thomas
Special Assistant for
Afro-Caribbean Activities
Vera H. Hyatt

Office of
International
Relations
Director
Francine C. Berkowitz
Deputy Director
Brian W. J. LeMay
International Liaison Officer
Leonard P. Hirsch
International Liaison Officer
Judy Rodgers Johnson
International Exchanges Officer
Raymond W. Seefeldt

Office of Conference
Services

Director
Cheryl B. Laberge

Office of
Environmental
Awareness

Director

Judith A. Gradwohl

Office of
Quincentenary
Programs
Director

Alicia M. Gonzalez
Deputy Director

Jewell S. Dulaney
Executive Officer
Audrey M. Archer

Research Assistant
Dennis G. Medina

Smithsonian
Institution Man and
the Biosphere
Biological Diversity
Program

Director
Francisco G. Dallmeier

National
Zoological Park

Director
Michael H. Robinson
Registrar
Judith Block
Associate Director for Biological
Programs
Benjamin B. Beck
Associate Director for Facilities
and Administration
Gretchen Gayle Ellsworth
Associate Director for
Conservation
Christen M. Wemmer

Animal Exhibit
Departments

Department of
Mammalogy

Curator
Edwin Gould
Associate Curator
John Seidensticker
Collection Managers
Edward Bronikowski
John Lehnharde
Lisa Stevens
William Xanten

Department of Herpetology

Curator
Dale Marcellini

Collection Manager
Michael Davenport

Department of Ornithology

Assistant Curator and Head
Charles Pickett
Collection Manager
Paul Tomassoni

Department of
Invertebrates

Curator
Jaren Horsley
Collection Manager
Alan Peters

NZP Commissary

Manager
Mary Allen

Zoological Research

Assistant Director for Research
Devra G. Kleiman
Deputy Head, Research
Mammalogist
Miles S. Roberts
Scientific Staff
Daryl J. Boness
Robert Fleischer
Eugene S. Morton
Olav T. Oftedal
Katherine S. Ralls
Population Manager
Jonathan Ballou
Research Associates
Perry Barboza
Kim C. Derrickson
Wolfgang P. J. Dictcus
John M. Francis
Theodore I. Grand
Harry Power
Alfred Rosenberger
Bridget J. Scucchbury
Richard Wagner
Ian G. Warkentin

Animal Health

Assistant Director for Animal
Health
R. Mitchell Bush

Associate Veterinarian
Scott Citino
Head, Reproductive Physiology
Program
David E. Wilde
Research Veterinarian
Steve L. Monfort
Reproductive Physiologist
Janine L. Brown

NOAHS Center

Director
Ruth Stolk
Research Associates
Mark Barone
Ann Byers
Robert Davis
Ann M. Donoghue
JoGayle Howard
William F. Rall
Mitch Schiewe
Lisa Tell
Sam Wasser

Department of
Pathology

Pathologist-in-Charge
Richard J. Montali

Associate Pathologist
Donald Nichols

Research Associates
Richard Alsaker
Max J. G. Appel
Chris Gardiner
Kathryn Holmes
John Pletcher
John Strandberg
Anton Steuer
Bernard Zook

Facilities and
Administration

Office of Facilities
Management

Assistant Director for
Maintenance
and Construction

David Boothe

Office of Management

Services

Head
James E. Fitzpatrick

Office of Police and

Communications

Head (Acting)
George P. Day, Jr.

Interpretive Services

Associate Director for
Interpretive Services
(vacant)

Office of Public Affairs

Chief
Robert J. Hoage

Office of Education

Chief
Judith White

Office of Design and
Exhibits Planning

Chief (Acting)
Virginia A. Mahoney

Department of
Conservation

Associate Director for
Conservation

Christen M. Wemmer

Deputy Associate Director
Scott Derrickson

Research Coordinator
John Rappole

Conservation Officer
Martha Fujita

Collection Manager
Larry Collins

Fellows and Associates
Lee Boyd
Eric Dinnerstein
Hemanta Mishra
George Schwede

I2I
Research Associates
Peter August
Joel Berger
Illar Muul
J. L. David Smith
Michael Stuwe
Richard Watling

Friends of the
National Zoo

Executive Director
Clint Fields

Deputy Director
James Schroeder

Office of
Fellowships and

Grants

Director
Roberta W. Rubinoff
Assistant Director
Elizabeth W. Veatch
Administrative Officer
Catherine F. Harris
Academic Program Specialist
Bruce W. Morrison
Academic Program Specialist
Sharon K. Nishizaki
Program Assistant
Marika Carley
Program Assistant
Pamela Hudson

Office of
Interdisciplinary
Studies

Acting Director
Ross Simons
Program Specialists
Carla M. Borden
John W. Franklin

122

Neil G. Kocler
Assistant
Taneesha V. Barnes

Smithsonian
Astrophysical
Observatory

Director
Irwin Shapiro

Associate Directors:

Planning
Bruce Gregory

Atomic and Molecular Physics
Kate Kirby

High Energy Astrophysics
Harvey Tananbaum

Optical and Infrared Astronomy
John P. Huchra

Planetary Sciences
Brian G. Marsden

Radio and Geoastronomy
James M. Moran

Solar and Stellar Physics
John C. Raymond

Theoretical Astrophysics
Alastair G.W. Cameron

Administrative Department
Heads:

Central Engineering

Richard B. Dias
Contracts and Procurement

George D. Dick
Controller's Office

Robert T. Ayer
Library

Donna Coletti (Acting)
Human Resources

Marion R. Aymie
Publications

James Cornell

Scientific Staff
Fred Adams
Yakov Alpert
Alice L. Argon
Eugene H. Avrett
James Babb
Robert W. Babcock
Sallie L. Baliunas
Eric E. Bloemhof

Raymond Blundell
Jay A. Bookbinder
Gerald J. Bortrell
Donato Bramanti
Roger J.V. Brissenden
Nelson Caldwell
Nathaniel P. Carlecon
Frederic H. Chaffee
Kelly V. Chance
John F. Chandler
Jon H. Chappell
Allan F. Cook, II
Andrew Cooksy
Mario L. Cosmo
Luiz A.N. daCosta
Alexander Dalgarno
Thomas M. Dame
Lawrence P. David
James L. Davis
Robert J. Davis
Seth Digel

Marino Dobrowolny
Andrea K. Dupree
Martin S. Elvis

Paul Eskridge
Robert D. Estes
Giuseppina Fabbiano
Daniel G. Fabricant
Emilio E. Falco

Ron Farren
Giovanni Fazio
George B. Field
Kathryn Flanagan
Craig Foltz

Christine Jones Forman

William R. Forman
Fred A. Franklin
Marijn Franx
Franco Fuligni
Gary A. Fuller
Michael R. Garcia
Larry D. Gardner
John C. Geary
Margaret J. Geller
Owen J. Gingerich
Isabella M. Gioia

Dalia Goldworth-Piran

Leon Golub

Daniel Gémez

Paul Gorenstein

Dale E. Graessle
Marto D. Grossi
Gordon E. Gullahorn
Shadia R. Habbal

F. Rick Harnden, Jr.

Daniel E. Harris
Lee Hartmann
Akihiko Hashimoto
Paul T.P. Ho

Darrel Hoff

John P. Hughes
David Johnson
Kenneth W. Jucks
Kenneth Kalata
Wolfgang Kalkofen
Thomas Kane
Margarita Karovska
Edwin M. Kellogg
Almus Kenter

Scott Kenyon

Eric Keto
Dong-Woo Kim
John L. Kohl
Bon-Chul Koo
Michael Kurtz
Robert Kurucz
Sylvain Korzennik
Charles J. Lada
Elizabeth A. Lada
David W. Latham
Mark Lawrence
Myron Lecar
Stephen Lepp
Martin Levine
Robert Lewis

Alan Lightman

A. Edward Lilley
Enrico Lorenzini
Jane Luu

Tommaso Maccacaro
Ursula Marvin
Colin Masson
Edward Mattison
Jeffrey E. McClintock
Richard E. McCrosky
Jonathan C. McDowell
Gary J. Melnick
Karl Menten

Arun Misra

Bijoy Misra

Vadilal Modi

Marc A. Murison
Stephen S. Murray
Philip C. Myers
Tadashi Nakajima
Peter Nisenson

M. Charley Noecker
Robert W. Noyes
Costas Papaliolias
William H. Parkinson
Michael R. Pearlman
Reynier Peletier
James D. Phillips
Philip Pinto
William A. Podgorski
Preethi Pratap
Francis A. Primini
Harrison Radford
Michael Ratner
Robert D. Reasenberg
Mark J. Reid

Robert Rosner
Michael Rupen
George B. Rybicki °
Steven H. Saar

Bruce Sams

Dimitar Sasselov
Jonathan Schachter
Rudolph Schild
Matthew H. Schneps
Daniel A. Schwartz
Joseph Schwarz
Frederick D. Seward
Eric Silverberg
Patrick O. Slane
Jack W. Slowey
Noam Soker

Clive Standley

John R. Stauffer
Robert Stefanik
Clifford Stoll
Andrew Szentgyorgyi
Guogiang Tang
Patrick Thaddeus
Eric V. Tollestrup
Edward Tong
Wesley A. Traub
Ginevra Trinchieri
Wallace H. Tucker
Giusseppe S. Vaiana

Adriaan van Ballegooijen

Leon P. Van Speybroeck
Shoba Veerarghavan
Robert F.C. Vessot
George A. Victor
Jan Vrtilek

Saeqa Dil Vrtilek
Terrence Walker
Ronald Walsworth
Trevor Weekes
Steven Weinberg
Heinz Weiser

Fred L. Whipple
Barbara A. Whitney
Charles A. Whitney

Lawrence Widrow
Belinda J. Wilkes
Steven P. Willner
George L. Withbroe
Anna Wolter

John A. Wood
Diana M. Worrall
Kouichi Yoshino
Ping Zhao

Martin Zombeck

Smithsonian
Environmental
Research Center

Director
David L. Correll
Assistant Director
Anson H. Hines
Administrative Officer
Helen M. Dalaski
Facilities Manager
Paul Tavel
Education Specialist
A. Mark Haddon
Docent Coordinator
Linda M. Chick
Animal Ecologists
Joseph Dineen
Richard Everect
Edwin Grosholz
James F. Lynch
Daniel Niven
Kevin Peters
Gregory M. Ruiz
L. David Smith
Nancy Staub
Chemical Ecologist
Panchabi Vaithiyanathan
Richard Smucker
Environmental Engineer
Gary Peresta
Peter Stone
Ecologists
Thomas E. Jordan
Geoffrey G. Parker
Microbial Ecologist
D. Wayne Coats
John R. Dolan
Charles L. Gallegos
Jacques White

Modeler
Donald E. Weller

Plant Ecologists
Martin Cipollini
Lucia Dillenberg
Shoichi Kawano
Hanne Rasmussen
Timothy Spira
Lisa K. Wagner
Zhigang Wang
Dennis F Whigham
Jess Zimmerman

Plant Physiologists
Bert G. Drake
Grace Ju
Guy Thompson

Smithsonian
Institution Archives

Director
William W. Moss
Associate Archivists
Alan L. Bain
William A. Deiss
Diane L. Vogt-O'Connor
Historian
Pamela M. Henson
Assistant Archivists
William E. Cox
Susan W. Glenn
R. Shawn Johnstone
James A. Steed

Sloan Videohistory
Program

Program Manager
Terri A. Shorzman

Smithsonian
Institution
Libraries

Director
Barbara J. Smith
Deputy Director
Vija L. Karklins

Assistant Director
Bonita D. Perry
Assistant Director
Nancy E. Gwinn
Assistant Divector
Mary A. Rosenfeld
Special Assistant to the Director
and Publications Officer
Nancy L. Matthews

Planning and
Administration
Division
Assistant Director and Division
Head

Mary Augusta Rosenfeld
Administrative Officer

Laudine L. Creighton

Systems and
Technical Services
Division
Deputy Director and Division
Head
Vija L. Karklins

Systems Department

Department Head
Thomas Garnett

Assistant Systems Administrator
Marcia Adams

Computer Equipment Analyst
Mimi Scharf

Automated Bibliographic
Control Department

Department Head
Victoria Avera

Catalogue Records
Department

Department Head
Sheila Riley

Catalog Records Librarian
Thomas Baker

123
Original Cataloging
and Indexing
Department

Department Head
Helen Nordberg
Librarian-Cataloguer
Margaret A. Sealor
Librarian-—Cataloguer
Margaret D'Ambrosio
Librarian-Cataloguer
Vacancy
Special Collections Cataloguer
Vacancy

Research Services
Division

Assistant Director and Division

Head
Bonita D. Perry

Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Branch

Branch Librarian
Stephen Van Dyk

Center for Astrophysics
Branch

Branch Librarian (Acting)
Donna Coletti

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute Branch

Branch Librarian
Vielka Chang-Yau

Central Research Services
Department

Central Reference and
Loan Services

Department Head and Branch
Librarian
Martin A. Smith
Reference Librarian
Nancy Seeger
Reference Librarian
Catherine D. Scott

124

Circulation and Loan Librarian Reference Librarian

Patricia Lasker

Museum Reference Center

Branch Librarian
Sylvia Churgin

Museum Support Center
Branch

Branch Librarian
Kimberly B. Kelley

Reference Librarian
Angela N. Haggins

History, Technology,
and Arc Department

National Museum of
American History Branch

Department Head and Branch
Librarian
Rhoda S. Ratner
Reference Librarian
Bridget Mathews
Reference Librarian
James Roan
Anacostia Librarian
Timothy Carr

National Museum of
African Art Branch

Branch Librarian
Janet L Stanley

National Air and Space

Museum Branch

Branch Librarian
David M. Spencer
Reference Librarian
Amy E. Levin
Reference Librarian
Vacancy
Technical Information Specialist
Philip D. Edwards

Horticulture Branch

Branch Librarian
Susan R. Gurney

Marca Woodhams

Natural and Physical
Sciences Department

National Museum of
Natural History Branch

Department Head and Branch
Librarian
Ann Juneau
Reference Librarian
Robert J. Skarr
Reference Librarian
David T. Steere, Jr.
Reference Librarian
E. Gilbert Taylor

Anthropology Branch

Branch Librarian
Mary Kay Davies

Botany Branch

Branch Librarian
Ruth E Schallert

National Zoological
Park Branch

Branch Librarian
Kay A. Kenyon

Smithsonian
Environmental Research
Center Branch

Branch Librarian
Angela N. Haggins

Collections

Management Division

Assistant Director and Division
Head
Nancy E. Gwinn

Acquisitions Services
Department

Department Head
Pauline T. Lesnik

Assistant Librarian
Lucien R. Rossignol

Special Collections
Department

Dibner Library Branch

Department Head, Branch
Librarian, and
Exhibitions Officer

Ellen B. Wells

Reference Librarian

Leslie Overstreet

Book Conservation
Laboratory

Conservator
John H. Hyleoft

Preservation Services
Department

Department Head
Susan F. Blaine

Research Associates

Silvio A. Bedini
Jean Chandler Smith

Smithsonian
Tropical Research

Institute

Director
Ira Rubinoff
Deputy Director
Anthony Coates
Assistant Director for
International and
External Affairs
Elena Lombardo
Assistant Director for Marine
Research
John H. Christy
Assistant Director for
Terrestrial Research
Alan P. Smith
Conservation Resources Manager
Gilberto Ocafia

Executive Officer
Leonor Motta

Accounting Office

Accounting Officer
Carlos Urbina

Budget Office

Budget Analyst
Leopoldo Leén

Human Resources
Office

Personnel Management Specialist
Carmen Sucre

Procurement Office

Procurement Specialist
Mercedes Arroyo

Office of
Development

Development Officer
Edgardo Maravi

Scientific Liason
George Angehr
Washington Office Coordinator
Mary Ann Lindren

Office of Education
and Conservation

Information Specialist
Georgina de Alba

Office of Facilities
Management

Facilities Manager
Carlos Tejada

Protocol Office

Protocol Officer
Mé6nica Alvarado

Visitor Services Office

Visitor Services Manager
Gloria Maggiori

Scientific Staff

Senior Scientist
Martin H. Moynihan
A. Stanley Rand

Staff Scientists
Eldredge Bermingham
Richard G. Cooke
Paul Colinvaux
Mireya Correa
William G. Eberhard
Robin Foster
Jeremy B.C. Jackson
Nancy Knowlton
Egbert G. Leigh, Jr.
Harilaos Lessios
Olga F. Linares
Dolores Piperno
D. Ross Robertson
David W. Roubik
Noris Salazar Allen
Neal G. Smith
Nicholas Smythe
Mary Jane West-Eberhard
Donald M. Windsor
Hindrik Wolda
S. Joseph Wright

Coordinator of Center for

Tropical Forest Science

Peter Ashton
Richard Condit
Llewellya Hillis
Stephen Hubbell
James LaFrankie

Associate Staff Scientist
Eric Fischer
Robert Stallard
Melvin Tyree

Oil Spill Project Scientist
John Cubit
Norman Duke
Hector Guzman
Brian Keller

Research Associate
Annette Aiello
Robin Andrews
Carlos Arellano Lennox
Tomas Arias
Gordon M. Burghardt
Luis D’Croz
Philip DeVries

Stanley Heckadon
Anthony Ranere
Myra Shulman
Henry Stockwell

Museums

Office of the

Assistant Secretary
for Museums

Assistant Secretary for Museums

Tom L. Freudenheim
Deputy Assistant Secretary for

Museums

Claudine K. Brown
Program Manager

Beverly Lang Pierce
Program Manager

Barbara K. Schneider
Program Analyst

Patricia DuVall Bonds
Program Analyst

Thomas J. Peyton
Director, Experimental Gallery

Kimberly Camp
Smithsonian Institution

Accessibility Coordinator

Janice Majewski
Special Assistant

Jane Glaser

African American
Institutional Study
Project Director

Claudine K. Brown

Program Analyst
Karen Harmon

Anacostia
Museum

Director

Steven C. Newsome
Senior Designer

Sharon Reinckens

Supervisor Exhibit Specialists
James Mayo
Supervisor Education
Zora Felcon
Historian
Portia James
Registrar
Jennifer Kilman
Librarian
Timothy Carr

Archives of
American Art

Director
Richard J. Wattenmaker
Deputy Director
Susan Hamilton
Assistant Director for Archival
Programs
James B. Byers
Curator Emeritus and Journal
Editor
Garnett McCoy
Curator of Manuscripts
Arthur J. Breton
Research Services Chief
Judith E. Throm
Southeast Regional Collector
Elizabeth S. Kirwin
Membership Manager
Nancy Palubniak
New York Regional Director
Stephen Polcari
New England Regional Director
Robert F. Brown
Midwest Regional Program
Director
Judith A. Gustafson
West Coast Regional Director
Paul J. Karlstrom

125
Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery/Freer
Gallery of Art

Office of the Director

Director
Milo C. Beach
Executive Assistant to the
Director
Toni C. Lake
Head, Public Affairs
Department

Susan Bliss

Administration
Division
Assistant Director
Sarah Newmeyer
Special Events Coordinator
Patricia Bragdon
Development Officer
Laurel Muro
Head, Photography Department
John Tsantes
Director, Freer/Sackler Shops
Rosaria Guaragna

Public Programs

Division

Assistant Director, Exhibitions

and Facilities

Patrick Sears

Head, Design and Installation
John Zelenik

Head, Education Department
Lucia Pierce

Head, Facilities Department
Robert Evans

Research and
Collections Division

Historian
Esin Acil
Head, Conservation and
Scientific Research
Department
Thomas Chase
Curator, Chinese Art
Fu Shen

126

Associate Curator, Ancient
Chinese Art
Jenny So
Associate Curator, Japanese Art
Ann Yonemura
Associate Curator, American Ast
Linda Merrill
Assistant Curator, South and
Southeast Asian Art
Carol Bolon
Assistant Curator, Ancient
Near Eastern Art
Ann Gunter
Assistant Curator, Ceramics
Louise Cort
Assistant Curator, Traditional
Chinese Art
Jan Stuart
Senior Researcher
Thomas Lawton
Head, Library
Lily Kecskes
Head, Publications Department
Karen Sagstetter
Registrar, Freer Gallery
Eleanor Radcliffe
Registrar, Sackler Gallery
Bruce Young

Conservation
Analytical
Laboratory

Director
Lambertus van Zelst
Deputy Director
Alan W. Postlethwaite
Administrative Officer
Vernetta M. Williams
Deputy Administrative Officer
Beverly M. Smith

Archaeometry

Assistant Director for
Archaeometry
Jacqueline S. Olin
SARCAR Manager & Senior
Research Archaeologist
Ronald L. Bishop
Research Art Historian
Ingrid C. Alexander

Senior Research Chemist
M.James Blackman
Senior Research Physicist
Yu-Tarng Cheng
Metallurgist
Martha E. Goodway
Chemist
Emile C. Joel
Senior Ceramic Scientist
Pamela B. Vandiver

Conservation
Research

Assistant Director for
Conservation Research
Marion F. Mecklenburg
Head, Analytical Services
Charles S. Tumosa
Electron Micrascopist
Melanie T. Feather
Senior Research Organic Chemist
David W. von Endt
Senior Research Organic Chemist
W. David Erhardt
Research Organic Chemist
Mary T. Baker
Organic Chemist
Walter H. Hopwood
Senior Research Photographic
Scientist
Mark H. McCormick-
Goodhart
Research Biochemist
Noreen C. Tuross

Conservation
Treatment and
Training
Senior Furniture Conservator
Donald C. Williams
Furniture Conservator
Melvin J. Wachoviak
Senior Objects Conservator
Carol A. Grissom
Objects Conservator
Harriet F. Beaubien
Senior Painting Conservator
Roland H. Cunningham
Painting Conservator
Jia-Sun Tsang
Senior Paper Conservator
Dianne van der Reyden

Senior Paper Conservator
Timothy J. Vitale
Senior Textile Conservator
Mary W. Ballard
Coordinator of Education &
Training
Eleanor McMillan

Information

Senior Technical Information
Specialist
Marjorie W. Cleveland
Technical Information Specialist
Ann B. Johnson
Technical Information Specialist
Gail L. Goriesky
Conservator
Mary Lou Garbin

Cooper-Hewitt,
National Museum
of Design

Director

Dianne H. Pilgrim
Assistant Director for

Administration

Linda Dunne
Special Assistant to the Director

Caroline Mortimer
Program Specialist

Nerissa Tackett
Computer Specialist

Jay Vanatta
Business Office Manager

Belynda Roebuck
Membership & Special Events

Manager

Michele Raphoon
Museum Shop Manager

Macc Hahn
Operations Manager

Barry Johnson
Public Information

Arthur Lindo
Registrar

Cordelia Rose
Security

Luis Palau
Curatorial

Curator of Decorative Arts
David McFadden
Assistant Curator of Decorative
Arts
Deborah Shinn
Curator of Drawings and Prints
Marilyn Symmes
Assistant Curator of Drawings
and Prints
Gail Davidson
Paper Conservator
Konstanze Bachmann
Curator of Textiles
Milton Sonday
Assistant Curator of Textiles
Gillian Moss
Teciles Conservator
Lucy Commoner
Assistant Curator of
Wallcoverings
Joanne Warner

Exhibitions

Curator of Exhibitions
Dorothy Globus

Exhibition Researcher
Lucy Fellowes

Editorial

Editor
Nancy Aakre

Library
Librarian

Stephen Van Dyk
Education

Head of Education
Susan Yelavich

Photo Services

David Black

Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture
Garden

Director

James T. Demetrion
Deputy Director

Stephen E. Weil
Assistant Director

Nancy F. Kirkpatrick
Chief Curator

Ned Rifkin, resigned,

July 1, 1991

Curators

Amada Cruz

Valerie J. Fletcher

Frank B. Gettings

Phyllis D. Rosenzweig

Judith K. Zilczer
Publications Manager

Barbara J. Bradley
Librarian

Anna Brooke
Chief Conservator

Laurence Hoffman
Conservators

Leland Aks

A. Clarke Bedford

Susan Lake
Registrar

Douglas Robinson
Chief, Exhibits and Design

Edward Schiesser
Chief, Education

Edward Lawson
Public Information Officer

Sidney Lawrence
Photographer

M. Lee Stalsworth
Building Manager

Frank Underwood

Institutional

Studies Office

Director
Zahava D. Doering
Senior Social Science Analyst
Robert D. Manning

Social Science Analyst
Elizabeth K. Ziebarth

Survey Operations Specialist
Thalassa W. Skinner

Social Science Technician
Ann Ziebarth

National Air and
Space Museum

Director
Martin Harwit

Associate Director
Wendy Stephens

Special Assistant to the Director
Steven L. Soter

Department of
Aeronautics

Chairman
Tom Crouch
Deputy Chairman
Dominick A. Pisano
Curators
Dorothy Cochrane
R.E.G. Davies
Von D. Hardesty
Peter Jakab
Richard Leyes
Frank van derLinden
Howard Wolko
Emeritus, Historian
Paul E. Garber
Assistant Emeritus, Historian
E.T. Wooldridge

Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies

Acting Chairman
Thomas G. Watters
Geologists
Robert A. Craddock
Patricia Jacobberger
Ted Maxwell
Michael J. Tuttle
James R. Zimbelman
Program Manager
Priscilla L. Strain

Development Office

Assistant Director
John M. Carlin

Development Officer
Susan Beaudette

Special Events Division

Special Events Coordinators
Bridget McMinn
Darlen Rose-Barge
Kathy Spraggins

Department of Space
History

Chairman
Gregg Herken
Curators
Paul E. Ceruzzi
Derek Elliott
David DeVorkin
Cathleen S. Lewis
Allan A. Needell
Frank Winter
Historian
Robert W. Smith

Laboratory for
Astrophysics
Chairman

Howard A. Smith
Astrophysicists

Jeffrey J. Goldstein

Matthew Greenhouse

Department of
Interpretive Programs

Assistant Director
James H. Sharp
Cooperative Programs
Division
Manager, Coopertive Programs
Helen C. McMahon

Education Division

Special Assistant
Ellen Sprouls

127
Minority Outreach
Division

Special Assistant
M. Antoinette Amos

Planetarium

Chairman
James H. Sharp

Department of Art

Chairperson
Mary S. Henderson

Office of

Communications
Acting Chairperson
Patricia Graboske

Office of Publications

Patricia J. Graboske

Department of
Collections
Management

Assistant Director
Linda N. Ezell

Archives Division

Supervisor Archivist
Thomas Soapes

Collections Maintenance
Division

Supervisory Museum Specialist
Alfred J. Bachmeier

Conservation Labratory

Conservationist

Ed McManus

128

Preservation and
Restoration Division

Supervisory Museum Specialist
Richard D. Horigan

Facilities Maintenance
Division

Facilities Management Specialist
Cleo Williams

Office of the Registrar

Acting Registrar
Linda N. Ezell

Department of
Administration

Administrative Officer
Alice M. Adams
Administrative Specialist
Theresa A. Cecil
Budget Analyst
Samuel Dargan

Department of

Exhibits

Assistant Director
Nadya A. Makovenyi

Audiovisual Unit

Supervisory Electronic Technician
David N. Heck

Production Unit

Supervisory Exhibits Specialist
Derek P. Fiedler

Department of
Museum Operations

Assistant Director
Ronald Wagaman
Deputy Assistant Director
Vacant
Special Assistant for Plans and
Programs
Claude D. Russell

Department of Building
Managment

Museum Facilities Manager
Ida Cleckley

Computer Services
Division

Manager, Computer Services
Alfred T. Kincaid

Samuel P. Langely Theater

Acting Theater and
Planetarium Operations
Manager

James Hyder

National Museum
of African Art

Director

Sylvia H. Williams
Associate Director for

Collections and Research

Roy Sieber
Assistant Director

Patricia L. Fiske
Chief Curator

Philip L. Ravenhill
Curators

Lydia Puccinelli

Roslyn A. Walker
Public Affairs Officer

Janice L. Kaplan
Curator of Education

Edward Lifschitz
Chief, Exhibits Department

Alan Knezevich
Registrar

Grace Eleazer
Conservator

Stephen Mellor
Curator of Archives

Christraud M. Geary
Librarian

Janet Stanley
Writer/Editor

Dean Trackman

Founding Director Emeritus
and Senior Scholar
Warren Robbins

National Museum
of American Art

Director

Elizabeth Broun
Deputy Director

Charles Robertson
Development Officer

Florence Miller
Chief Curator

Virginia M. Mecklenburg
Conservator

Fern L. Bleckner
Conservator

Ann M. Creager
Curator

Janet L. Flin
Curator

Merry A. Foresta
Conservator

Helen B. Ingalls
Conservator

Catherine I. Maynor
Curator

Joann G. Moser
Curator

Richard N. Murray
Curator

Harry Z. Rand
Conservator

Quentin R. Rankin, Jr.
Senior Conservator

Stefano Scafetta
Curator

William H. Truettner
Curator-in-Charge, Renwick

Gallery

Michael Monroe
Public Programs Coordinator

Allen B. Bassing
Acting Chief, Research and

Scholars Center

Rachel M. Allen
Intern Program Officer

Patricia H. Chieffo
Research Curator

Lois M. Fink
Acting Chief, Educational
Programs
Nora M. Panzer
Assistant Public Programs
Coordinator
N. Faye Powe
Registrar
Melissa L. Kroning
Associate Registrar
Abigail Terrones
Assistant Registrar
Michael Smallwood
Exhibitions Coordinator
Kathleen McCleery
Chief, Office of Design and
Production
Val E. Lewton
Designer
Claire Larkin
Administrative Officer
Maureen Damaska
Administrative Assistant
James R. Gaglione
Chief, Office of External Affairs
W. Robert Johnston
Special Events Assistant
Barbara M. Cox
Public Affairs Officer
vacant
Chief, Office of Publications
Steve Dietz
Editor
Richard E. Carter
Senior Editor
Lisa C. Siegrist
Senior Editor
Terence P. Winch

National Museum
of American
History

Office of the Director

Director
Roger G. Kennedy
Deputy Director
Douglas E. Evelyn
Associate Director
Ronald E. Becker

Assistant Director for
Administration
Elizabeth E. Greene
Administrative Specialist
Francis D. Roche
Budget Analyst
Sandra G. Dunnigan
Special Assistants
Naomi Glass
James D. Whoolery

Office of External
Affairs
Director
Marilyn Lyons
Public Affairs
Susan Foster
Special Events
Elizabeth Little
Anne Spivak

National
Numismatic
Collection

Executive Director

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli
Deputy Executive Director

Cory C. Gillilland
Curator

Richard Doty

National Philatelic
Collection and
National Postal
Museum

Executive Director
Herbert R. Collins
Acting Director, National
Postal Museum

James H. Bruns

Afro-American
Communities Project

Director
James O. Horton

Archives Center

Chief Archivist
John Fleckner

Deputy Archivist
Robert Harding
Archivists
Craig Orr
Barbara Humphrys
David Haberstich
Marilyn Graskowiak
Reuben Jackson
Deborah A. Richardson
Historian
Fath Davis Ruffins

Office of Building
Management

Building Manager
Richard A. Day
Assistant Building Manager
William Prebble

Computer Services
Center

Chief
Dennis S. Dickinson

Department of
Conservation

Head Conservator
J. Scott Odell
Conservators
Martin Burke
Antoinette Dwan
Lynne Gilliland
Nikki Horton
Carolyn M. Long
Ingrid A. Neumann
Beth Richwine
Suzanne
Thomassen-Krauss
Paulecte Willman

Department of
Exhibits

Assistant Director for Exhibits
and Public Spaces
J. Michael Carrigan
Deputy Assistant Director for
Exhibits and Public Spaces
Richard J. Nicastro
Chief, Design Division
Dru Colbert

Chief, Exhibits Production
Robert H. Norton

Chief, Historic Restoration
Terrence K. Conable

Chief, Cabinet Shop
John Ondish

Chief, Graphics Production
Ralph D. Logan

Chief, Audio-Visual Section
William T. Tearman

Department of Public
Programs

Assistant Director for Public
Programs
Lonn Taylor
Deputy Assistant Director for
Public Programs
Elizabeth Sharpe
Deputy Assistant Director for
Public Programs
Harold Closter
Director, Program in African
American History
Gwendolyn Robinson
Director, Division of Museum
Programs
Dwight Blocker Bowers
Director, Publications Division
Robert D. Selim
Coordinator, Columbus
Quincentenary Program
Lisa Falk
Intern Program Coordinator
Mary Dyer

Office of the Registrar

Assistant Director for
Collections Management
Martha Morris
Deputy Registrar
Katherine P. Spiess
Assistant Registrar for Central
Catalog
Thomas Bower
Assistant Registrar for
Collection Records
Jeanne Benas
Assistant Registrar for Offsite
Storage
Patrick Ladden
Assistant Registrar for Objects
Processing
Catherine Perge

129
Office of Academic

Programs

Director
Gary Kulik

Department of the
History of Science
and Technology

Chairman
Arcchur P. Molella
Collections Manager
Ray A. Hutte

American Indian Program

Director
Rayna Green

Diviston of Agriculture
and Natural Resources

Curators
Pete Daniel
G. Terry Sharrer

Division of Armed Forces
History

Curators
Edward C. Ezell
Donald E. Kloster
Harold D. Langley
Historian
James Hutchins
Curator Emeritus

Philip Lundeberg

Division of Biological

Sciences

Curators
Patricia Gossel
Linda Tucker

Division of Computers,
Information, and Society

Curators
David Allison
Jon B. Eklund

130

Division of Electricity and
Modern Physics

Curators
Bernard Finn
Paul Forman

Division of Engineering

and Industry

Curators
Carlene E. Stephens
Steve Lubar
Jeffrey Stine

Division of Medical

Sciences

Curators
Audrey B. Davis
Ramunas A. Kondratas

Division of Physical

Sciences

Curator
Deborah J. Warner

Division of Transportation

Curators
William L. Withuhn
Paul Johnston
Curator Emeritus

John H. White
Senior Historian’s Office

Senior Historian

Nathan Reingold

Technology and Culture

Editor
Robert Past

Department of Social
and Cultural History

Chairman
Spencer Crew
Collections Manager
Barbara J. Coffee

Afro-American Index
Project

Program Specialist
Vacant

Division of Ceramics and
Glass

Curator

Susan H. Myers

Division of Community
Life

Curators
Richard E. Ahlborn
Lonnie Bunch
Charles McGovern
Marvette Perez
Bernice Johnson Reagon

Division of Costume

Curator

Claudia B. Kidwell
Curator Emeritus

Anne W. Murray

Division of Domestic Life

Curators
Anne C. Golovin
Rodris C. Roth
Barbara C. Smith

Division of Graphic Arts

Curators
Elizabeth M. Harris
Helena C. Wright

Division of Musical
History

Curators
John T. Fesperman
John E. Hasse
Cynthia A. Hoover
James Weaver

Division of Photographic
History

Curator

Eugene Ostroff

Division of Political
History

Curators
William L Bird
Edith P. Mayo
Keith E. Melder
Curator Emeritus
Margaret B. Klapthor

Division of Textiles

Curator
Rita J. Adrosko

National Museum
of the American
Indian

Washington, D.C.

Director
W. Richard West, Jr.
Acting Deputy Director
Jean M. Salan
Acting Assistant Director for
Program Planning
James Volkert
Congresstonal Liaison
Pablita Abeyta

New York City

Assistant Director

Duane King
Exhibitions

Peter Brill
Film & Video

Elizabeth Weatherford
Education

Judy Brundin
Resource Center

Martha de Montano
Associate Curator

Mary Jane Lenz
Conservator
Marian Kaminitz
Photo Archivist
Sharon Dean
Registrar
Lee Callander
Administrative Officer
Tamara Levine

National Museum
of Natural History

Director
Frank H. Talbot
Deputy Director
Stanwyn G. Shetler
Special Assistant to the Director
Margaret P. Anderson
Special Assistant to the Deputy
Director
Dianne Niedner
Writer-Editor
Laura Kennedy
Associate Director for
Administration
Mary R. Tanner
Administrative Specialists
Danielle Bielenstein
Les Cauthern
Nella E Lloyd
Associate Director for Science
Daniel E. Appleman
Associate Director for Public
Programs
Robert D. Sullivan
Associate Director for Special
Projects
Catherine J. Kerby
Associate Director for
Development
T. C. Benson
Development Officer
Anne Parks
Public Information Officer
Thomas R. Harney
Public Affairs Specialist
Pamela Baker
Special Events Coordinators
Judith Cash
Diana K. Wyatr

Project Director, Neotropical
Biodiversity Program
Don E. Wilson
Project Director, Biological
Dynamics of Forest
Fragments
Richard O. Bierregaard, Jr.
Assistant Director for Collections
Janet Gomon
Acting Registrar
Margaret Green
Assistant Director for
Automatic Data Programs
T. Gary Gautier
Assistant Director for Education
Laura L. McKie
Assistant Director for Exhibits
Laurence P. O'Reilly
Physical Plant Administrator
Jerome A. Conlon
Director, NMNH
Quincentenary Program
Herman J. Viola
Museum Facilities Manager
Edward McCoy
Supervisory Museum Specialist,
Scanning Electron
Micrascope Laboratory
Walter Brown

Department of
Anthropology

Chairman
Donald J. Ortner
Deputy Chairman
Melinda A. Zeder
Administrative Specialist
Carole Lee Kin
Public Information Specialist
P. Ann Kaupp

Collections Management

Collections Manager (Acting)
James J. Krakker

Handbook of North

American Indians

Managing Editor
Karla Billups
Production Manager
Diane Della-Loggia

Bibliographer

Lorraine H. Jacoby
Linguist

R. H. Ives Goddard, III

Human Studies
Film Archives

Division Head
Wendy Shay
Archivists
Jake Homiak
Pamela Wintle

National Anthropological
Archives

Divector
Mary Elizabeth Ruwell
Archivists
Kathleen Baxter
Paula R. Fleming
James R. Glenn

Ethnology Division

Division Head
Mary Jo Arnoldi
Curators
William Crocker
Ives Goddard
Adrienne Kaeppler
Ivan Karp
Robert Laughlin
William Merrill
William C. Scurtevant
Paul M. Taylor

Native American
Indian Program

Director
JoAllyn Archambault

Archaeology Division

Division Head
Dennis J. Stanford
Curators
William W. Fitzhugh
J. Daniel Rogers
Theresa Singleton
Bruce D. Smith
William Trousdale

Gus W. VanBeek

Arctic Program

Director

William W. Firzhugh
Archaeologist

Stephen R. Loring

Physical Anthropology

Division

Division Head
Douglas H. Ubelaker
Curators
Donald J. Ortner
Douglas Owsley
Richard B. Ports

Department of
Botany

Chairman

Laurence E. Skog
Administrative Specialist

Linda M. Moreland
Associate Curator

Pedro Acevedo
Associate Curator

Robert B. Faden
Associate Curator

Maria A. Faust
Curator

Vicki A. Funk
Associate Curator

W. John Kress
Curator

David B. Lellinger
Senior Botanist

Mark M. Littler
Curator

Dan H. Nicolson
Curator

James N. Norris
Curator

Joan W. Nowicke
Associate Curator

Paul M. Peterson
Curator

Harold E. Robinson
Curator

Stanwyn G. Shetler
Curator

Laurence E. Skog

131
Curator
Warren L. Wagner
Curator

Dieter C. Wasshausen

Associate Curator
Elizabeth Zimmer

Research Associates,

Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists

Mones Abu-Asab
Katina Bucher
Loren Coen
Jose Cuatrecasas
Wade Davis
Christian Feuillec
Raymond Fosberg
Suzanne Fredericq
Aaron Goldberg
Charles Gunn
Octo Huber
Joseph Kirkbride
Elbert Little
Diane Littler
Ximena Londono
Alicia Lourteig
Susan Mazer
Larry Morse
Yun-Sil Park
John Pipoly
Thompson Pizzolato
Muriel Poston
Robert Read
Amy Rossman
Velva Rudd
Edward Salgado
Edith Scott
Richard Spjut
William Stern
Phillip Taylor
Anna Weitzman
John Wurdack

Department of
Entomology

Chairman
Ronald J. McGinley

Collections Manager

Gary F. Hevel
Senior Scientist

Karl V. Krombein
Curators

John M. Burns

Jonathan A. Coddington

132

Don R. Davis

Terry L. Erwin

Oliver S. Flint, Jr.
Richard C. Froeschner
‘Wayne N. Mathis
Robert K. Robbins
Paul J. Spangler

Research Associates,

Collaborators, and

Affiliated Scientists
Joachim Adis
David H. Ahrenholz
Annette Aiello
Donald W. Anderson
Edward W. Baker
William E. Bickley
Harley P. Brown
Robert W. Carlson
Margaret S. Collins
Terhune S. Dickel
Lance Durden
Robert L. Edwards
Neal F. Evenhuis
John H. Fales
Candida Feller
Douglas C. Ferguson
Richard H. Foote
Amnon Freidberg
T. P. Friedlander
Raymond J. Gagné
Patricia Gentili-Poole
Robert D. Gordon
E. Eric Grissell
Ralph E. Harbach
Bruce A. Harrison
Thomas J. Henry
Ronald W. Hodges
Yiau-Min Huang
James E. Keirans
John M. Kingsolver
Paul M. Marsh
Arnold S$. Menke
Douglass R. Miller
Scott E. Miller
Steve Nakahara
David F. Nickle
Allen L. Norrbom
Paul A. Opler
James Pakaluk
David Pearson
Philip Perkins
Robert V. Peterson
Dan A. Polhemus
John T. Polhemus
Robert W. Poole

John F. Reinert
Mary L. Ripley
Mark J. Rothschild
Louise M. Russell
Curtis W. Sabrosky
Silvia Santiago
Michael E. Schauff
Petra Sierwald
Robert L. Smiley
David R. Smith

M. Alma Solis
Theodore J. Spilman
Charles Staines
George C. Steyskal
Manya B. Stoetzel

F. Christian Thompson

John E. Tobin
Robert Traub
Katsuji Tsuneki
Natalia Vandenberg
Ronald A. Ward
Richard E. White
Willis W. Wirth
Norman E. Woodley
David Wooldridge
Frank N. Young

Department of

Invertebrate Zoology

Chairman
Brian Kensley
Administrative Assistant
Martha V. Joynct
Collections Manager
Patricia L. Nutter
Purchasing Agent
Roland H. Brown
Emeritus Zoologists
Thomas E. Bowman
Fenner A. Chace, Jr.
Sing Chen Chang
Roger F. Cressey

Horton H. Hobbs, Jr.

Meredith L. Jones
Marian H. Pettibone
Harald A. Rehder

Crustacea

Curators
J. Laurens Barnard
(deceased 8/91)
Thomas E. Bowman
(retired 5/91)

Roger F. Cressey (retired
10/90)

C.W. Hart, Jr.

Robert P. Higgins

Brian Kensley

Louis S. Kornicker

Raymond B. Manning

Echinoderms and Lower
Invertebrates

Curators
Frederick M. Bayer
Stephen D. Cairns
David L. Pawson
Klaus Ruetzler

Mollusks

Curators
M. G. Harasewych
Robert Hershler
Richard S. Houbrick
Clyde FE. E. Roper

Worms

Curators
Kristian Fauchald
W. Duane Hope
Mary E. Rice

Registry of Tumors in
Lower Animals

Director
John Harshbarger
Biological Research Technician
Norman Wolcott
Biological Lab Technician
Kathy Price
Research Assistant
Marilyn Slatick
Museum Specialist
Phyllis Spero
Research Associates,
Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists
J. Bruce Bredin
Steven Chambers
Elizabeth Chornesky
Maureen E. Downey
Joan D. Ferraris
Stephen J. Gardiner
Terrence M. Gosliner
John Holsinger
Lipke B. Holthuis
J. Ralph Lichtenfels
Patsy McLaughlin
Charles G. Messing
John E. Miller
Isabel Perez-Farfante
(Canet)
Esther C. Peters
Richard E. Petit

Anthony J. Provenzano, Jr.

Janet W. Reid

L.G. Sohn

Ronald B. Toll
Michael Vecchione
Geerhart J. Vermeij
Austin B. Williams
David K. Young

Department of
Mineral Sciences

Chairman
Jeffrey Post
Administrator
Ellen Thurnau

Meteorites

Curator

Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Associate Curator

Glenn J. MacPherson
Geochemist

Kurt Frederiksson

Mineralogy

Curator

John Sampson White
Associate Curator

Jeffrey Post
Crystallographer

Daniel E. Appleman
Associate Curator

Michael A. Wise

Petrology and Volcanology

Curators
Richard S. Fiske
William G. Melson
Tom Simkin

Associate Curator
Sorena Sorensen

Physical Sciences
Laboratory

Chemists
Eugene Jarosewich
Joseph A. Nelen
Electronics Technician
James E. Collins

Scientific Events Alert
Network

Museum Specialist
Lindsay R. McClelland

Research Associates,

Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists

Vagn FE. Buchwald
Cathy Busby-Spera
Gary R. Byerly
Felix Chayes
Robert T. Dodd
John Filson
Michael Fleischer
Martin Flower
Edward Henderson
Peter Levens
Brian H. Mason
Paul B. Moore
Debra S. Statkes
Geoffrey Thomson
Othmar T. Tobisch

Department of
Paleobiology

Chairman
Jack W. Pierce
Curators Emeritus (Not in
Residence)
Richard S. Boardman
G. Arthur Cooper
Porter M. Kier
Administrative Assistant
Betty M. Lomax
Collections Manager
Frederick J. Collier
Deputy Collections Manager
Jann W. M. Thompson
Paleobiological Information
Specialist
Raymond T. Rye II

Scientific Ulustrator
Mary A. Parrish
Vertebrate Paleontology
Preparation Laboratory,
Acting Supervisor
Frederic V. Grady
Sensor Scientists
Richard H. Benson
Alan H. Cheetham
Richard E. Grant
Daniel J. Stanley
Kenneth M. Towe
Geologist
Ian G. Macintyre
Curators
Anna K. Behrensmeyer
Martin A. Buzas
William A. DiMichele
Robert J. Emry
Nicholas Horton III
Francis M. Hueber
Jack W. Pierce
Clayton E. Ray
Thomas R. Waller
Scoct L. Wing
Associate Curators
Douglas H. Erwin
Brian T. Huber
Research Associates,
Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists
Jean M. Berdan
Raymond L. Bernor
Annalissa Berta
Robyn Burnham
Sankar Chatterjee
James M. Clark
Stephen J. Culver
John D. Damuth
Sherri L. DeFauw
Daryl P. Domning
Raymond C. Douglass
J. Thomas Dutro, Jr.
Ralph E. Eshelman
Jerzy Federowski
Karl W. Flessa
Thomas G. Gibson
Mackenzie Gordon, Jr.
Peter J. Harmatuk
Carl F Koch
Jerry P. MacDonald
Sergius H. Mamay
Jerry N. McDonald
John D. Milliman
Robert B. Neuman

William A. Oliver, Jr.
John Pojeta, Jr.
Kenneth D. Rose
Bruce Runnegar
William J. Sando
David Schindel
Judith Skog

Anthony Socci
Norman EF. Sohl

I. Gregory Sohn
Hans-Dieter Sues
Joshua I. Tracey, Jr.
Frank C. Whitmore, Jr.
Druid Wilson
Christopher Wnuk
Ellis L. Yochelson

Department of
Vertebrate Zoology

Chairman
Richard W. Thorington,
Je.
Administrative Assistant
Sybil Descheemaeker
Technical Information Specialist
Joy P. Gold

Division of Amphibians
and Reptiles

Curators
W. Ronald Heyer
George R. Zug
Assistant Curator
Kevin de Queiroz
Collections Manager
Elyse J. Beldon

Division of Birds

Curators
Storrs L. Olson
Richard L. Zusi
Assistant Curator
Michael J. Braun
Associate Curator
Gary R. Graves
Collections Manager
J. Phillip Angle

133
Division of Fishes

Curators
G. David Johnson
Victor G. Springer
Richard P. Vari
Stanley H. Weitzman
Associate Curator
Lynne R. Parenti
Zoologist
Wayne C. Starnes
Collections Managers
Susan L. Jewett
Jeffrey T. Williams
Curators Emeritus
Ernest A. Lachner
William R. Taylor

Division of Mammals

Curators
Michael D. Carleton
Charles O. Handley, Jr.
James G. Mead
Richard W. Thorington,

Je.

Collections Manager
J. Phillip Angle
Linda K. Gordon
Charles W. Potter

Office of the
Secretary Emeritus

Secretary Emeritus
S. Dillon Ripley
Zoologist
Bruce M. Beehler
Administrative Assistant
Mary T. Pacaro
Research Associates,
Collaborators, and
Affiliated Scientists
Ronald G. Altig
Richard C. Banks
Aaron M. Bauer
Jonathan J. Becker
Heraldo A. Britski
Eleanor Brown
Robert L. Brownell
John E. Cadle
Peter Cannell
Bruce B. Collette
Kenneth C. Dodd, Jr.
Louise H. Emmons

134

Carl H. Ernst

Sara V. Fink

William L. Fink
Mercedes S. Foster
Thomas H. Fritts
Alfred L. Gardner

J. Whitfield Gibbons
Catherine A. Hawks
Lawrence R. Heaney
Miriam H. Heyer
Richard Highton
Regina M. Hirsch
Robert S. Hoffmann
Aleta Hohn

Peter W. Houde
Morton L Isler
Phyllis R. Isler
Roxie Laybourne
John M. Legler
Antonio Machado-Allison
Francisco Mago-Leccia
Joe T. Marshall, Jr.
Linda R. Maxson
Roy W. McDiarmid
Bruce D. Means
Naercio A. Menezes
Ronald I. Miller
Joseph C. Mitchell
Thomas A. Munroe
Guy G. Musser
Hidetoshi Ora
William EF Perrin
Gregory K. Pregill
John E. Randall
Mary Rauchenberger
Sentiel A. Rommel
Alan H. Savitsky
Albert Schwartz
Norman J. Scott
Darrell Seibert
Andrew C. Smart
Michael L. Smith
William F. Smith-Vaniz
David L. Stein

Ian R. Swingland
Stephen G. Tilly
Merrill Varn

Richard J. Wassersug
Marilyn Weitzman
Edward O. Wiley
Timothy R. Williams
W. Chris Wozencraft

Smithsonian
Oceanographic
Sorting Center

Director
Ernani G. Menez
Marine Biologists
Frank D. Ferrari
Leslie W. Knapp
Rafael Lemaitre
Jon L. Norenburg

Smithsonian Marine
Station at Link Port

Director
Mary E. Rice

Administrative Assistant
Joan L. Kaminski

Research Assistants
William D. Lee
Julianne Piraino
Sherry Anne Reed
Hugh F. Reichardt

Marine Systems
Laboratory

Director
Walter H. Adey

Laboratory of
Molecular Systematics

Director
Michael J. Braun
Principal Investigator
Elizabeth A. Zimmer
Scientific Program
Administrator
Judith A. Blake
Fund Manager
JoAnne Ciprich

Repatriation

Case Officers
Timothy G. Baugh
Tamara L. Bray
Thomas W. Killion

Museum Support
Center

Director
U. Vincent Wilcox
Administrative Specialist
Patri B. Young
Data Administrator
Joan B. Andrews
Facility Manager
Charles E. Dunn
Chief, Information Management
Section
David Bridge

National Portrait
Gallery

Director
Alan Fern
Deputy Director
Carolyn K. Carr
Associate Director for
Administration
Barbara A. Hart
Curator of Painting and
Sculpture
Robert G. Stewart
Curator of Exhibitions
Beverly J. Cox
Curator of Prints
Wendy Wick Reaves
Acting Curator of Photographs
Ann Shumard
Curator of Education
Harry Jackson
Editor of Publications
Frances K. Stevenson
Chief, Design and Production
Nello Marconi
Keeper, Catalog of American
Portraits
Linda Thrift
Editor of the Charles Willson
Peale Papers and
Historian of American
Culture
Lillian B. Miller
Librarian
Cecilia Chin
Senior Photographer
Rolland White
Registrar
Suzanne Jenkins
Public Affairs Officers
Sue Ann Prince and
Brennan Rash
Facilities Manager
Wayne Wiggins

Office of Exhibits
Central

Director
Vacant
Chief of Design and Editing
Karen Fort
Chief of Production
Walter G. Sorrell
Administrative Officer
Eva Clark

Office Of

Horticulture

Director (acting)
Kathryn R. Meehan
Administrative Officer
Fred Burnette
Greenhouse Manager
Barbara Faust
Grounds Manager
Kenneth Hawkins
Landscape Architect
Paul Lindell
Horticulture Service Division
Manager
Lauranne Nash

Office of Museum

Programs

Acting Director
Teresa K. LaMaster
Professional Services Manager
Bruce C. Craig

Research Manager
Nancy J. Fuller
Curriculum Programs Manager
Alyce Sadongei

Office of the

Registrar

Director
Mary Case
Assistant to the Director
William G. Tompkins
Administrative Assistant
Paulette Hughes
Collections Information System
Administrator
vacant

Smithsonian
Institution
Traveling
Exhibition Service

Director
Anna R. Cohn
Administrative Manager
Allegra Wright

Program

Acting Associate Director
Myriam Springuel

Scheduling and
Exhibitor Relations

Director
Kelli Roberts

Public Relations

Director
Liz Hill

Publications

Director
Andrea Stevens

Public Service

Office of the
Assistant Secretary
for Public Service

Assistant Secretary
James Early
Administrative Officer
Linda Solomon
Special Assistant
Margaret Bertin
Program Specialist
Manjula Kumar
Administrative Specialist
Toni Brady
Secretary
Jenelle Cooper
Typist
Candice Robinson

National Science
Resources Center

Executive Director

Douglas M. Lapp
Deputy Director

Sally G. Shuler
Director of Publications

Kathleen S. Johnston
Financial Officer

Karen Fusto
Director of Outreach

Olive Covington
Publications/Technology

Specialist

Timothy Falb
Executive Assistant

Gail Greenberg
Administrative Assistant

Laura Pierce
Administrative Assistant

Terrye Rodgers

Director of the Science and
Technology for Children
(STC) Project

Joe H. Griffith

Research Specialist, STC Project
Wendy R. Binder

Research Specialist, STC Project
Debby Deal

Research Specialist, STC Project
David T. Hartney

Research Specialist, STC Project
Patricia L. McGlashan

Research Specialist, STC Project
Lynn Miller

Research Specialist, STC Project
Katherine E. Stiles

Office of

Elementary and
Secondary
Education

Director
Ann Bay
Deputy Director
Thomas A. Lowderbaugh
Publications Director
Michelle Knovic Smith

Office of Folklife

Programs

Director
Richard Kurin
Special Assistant/Assistant
Secretary Emeritus
Ralph Rinzler
Director, Smithsonian/Folkways
Recordings
Anthony Seeger
Senior Folklorist
Peter Seitel
Senior Ethnomusicologist
Thomas Vennum, Jr.
Festival Director
Diana Parker
Director, Quincentenary Projects
Olivia Cadaval

135
Administrative Officer
Barbara Scrickland
Program Analyst
Richard Kennedy
Folklorists
Betty Belanus
Vivian Chen
Diana N'Diaye
Research Collaborators
Marjorie Hunt
Frank Proschan
Nicholas Spitzer
Designer
Joan Wolbier
Technical Coordinator
Pete Reiniger
Program Specialist
Arlene Reiniger
Archivist
C. Jeffrey Place
Media Specialist
Guha Shankar
Folkways Specialist
Dudley Connell
Assistant Archivist
Lori Taylor
Quincentenary Coordinator
Celia Heil

Office of Public
Affairs

Director
Madeleine Jacobs
Associate Director
Eileen Jones
Administrative Officer
Carolyn Amundson
Secretary to the Director
Michelle Carr

Publications

Associate Director
Kathryn Lindeman
Staff
John Barrat
Mary Combs
Holly Hammect
Peggy Langrall
Jo Ann Webb
Lilas Wiltshire

136

News

Associate Director
Linda St.Thomas

Staff

Jacqueline Bouquet
Natalie Fielman
Rebecca Higbee
David Maxfield
Vicki Moeser
Hamlet Paoletti
William Schulz
Rachel Sears

Smithsonian Office
of Wider Audience
Development

Director
Marshall J. Wong

Visitor Information
and Associates’
Reception Center

Director
Mary Grace Potter
Deputy Director
Elizabeth Bennett

Information
Resources Division

Unit Manager
Jane Gardner

Public Inquiry Mail
and Telephone
Information Services
Unit
Unit Manager

Katherine Neill Ridgley

7-Day Information
Service Unit

Unit Manager
Sherrie Chapman

Behind-the-Scenes
Volunteer Program

Acting Program Coordinator
Catherine Morris

Telephone
Information Service

Program Coordinator
Cordelia Benedict

Central Services

Program Coordinator
Sheila Myers

External
Affairs

Office of the

Assistant Secretary
for External
Affairs

Assistant Secretary
Thomas E. Lovejoy
Deputy Assistant Secretary
Marc J. Pachter

Program Assistant
Katy Moran

Administrative Officer
Debbie Yang

National
Demonstration
Laboratory for
Interactive
Educational
Technologies

Executive Director
Jacqueline Hess
Deputy Director
M. Ellyn Blanton

Office of

Development

Director
Marie A. Mattson
Director of Development
Activities
Diana D. Duncan
Manager, Individual Giving
Center
Donna B. Ari
Manager,
Corporate/ Foundation
Center
Nancy J. Fischer
Manager, Information Center
Margo H. Knight
Planned Giving Officer
Margaret D. Turner
Development Officers
Elba B. Arrocha
Lucy B. Dorick
Barbara W. Freeman
Michael B. Syphax
Special Services Officer
Arthur W. Gardner
Development Communications
Officer
Gwendolen R. Leighty
Administrative Officer
Carol S. Nottingham
Information Resource Specialist
James R. Stone
Constituency Information
Project Coordinator
Christine E. Louron
Database Coordinator
Ann Bissell

Office of

Government
Relations

Director
Margaret C. Gaynor
Congressional Liaison Officer
Pablita Abeyta
Congressional Liaison Officer
Claire L. Fronville
Congressional Liaison Officer
Manuel J. Melendez
Congressional Liaison Officer
A. Bradley Mims
Congressional Liaison Specialist
Carey A. Wilkins

Office of Special

Events

Director
Barbara Spraggins
Assistant Director
Vacant
Special Event Cooridinators
Edmund B. Anderson
Cheryl Gibney
Mary Thomson
Secretary
Angela Papa

Office of

Telecommunications

Director
Paul Johnson
Deputy Director
Karen Loveland
Media Project Development
Specialist
Elizabeth Brownstein

Motion Picture Production
Specialist
John W. Hiller
Audio/Visual Production
Specialists
John P. Meehan
Lee W. Cioffi
Laura Schneider
Peter R. C. Erikson
Jean B. Quinnette
Marketing & Promotion
Manager
Denise Freeland
Marketing Assistant
Martha Knouss
Radio Production Specialists
Wesley Horner
John Tyler
Administrative Officer
Charlotte Brown
Administrative Assistant
Myra Banks

Smithsonian
Institution Press

Director
Felix Lowe
Deputy Director
Vincent MacDonnell
Financial Manager
John Ouellette
Marketing Director
Gail Grella
Administrative Officer
Dorothy Blaska

University Press
Division
Editorial Director
Daniel Goodwin
Managing Editor
Ruth Spiegel
Managing Editor, Series
Publications
Barbara Spann
Production Manager
Kathleen Brown
Design Manager
Alan Carter

Book Development Editor
Caroline Newman

Video Acquisitions Director
Andrew Ferguson

Smithsonian Books
Division
Editor-in-Chief

Patricia Gallagher

Senior Editor
Alexis Doster III

Recordings Division

Executive Producer
Bruce Talbot

Smithsonian
Magazine

Editor

Don Moser
Illustrations Editor

Caroline Scott Despard
Board of Editors

Constance A. Bond

Jim Doherty

Timothy Foote

Marlane A. Liddell

Sally Scott Maran

Edgar Rich, Pictures

Nancy Seaman

John P. Wiley, Jr.
Publisher

Ronald C. Walker
Associate Publisher, Advertising

Thomas H. Black
Associate Publisher, Circulation

John O'Donnell
Associate Publisher,

Administration

Carey O. Randall
Circulation Director

Adeline Sherr
Director of Production

E. Cherry Doyle
Publisher Emeritus

Joseph J. Bonsignore
Founding Editor and Publisher

Edward K. Thompson

Air &
Space/Smithsonian
Magazine

Editor
George C. Larson
Managing Editor
Tom Huntington
Picture Editor
Lee Battaglia
Senior Editor
Linda Musser Shiner
Departments Editor
Patricia Trenner
Publisher
Ronald C. Walker
Advertising Director
Louis C. Kolenda
Circulation Director
Gale Page
Associate Publisher,
Administration
Carey O. Randall
Business Manager
Shelia Perry-Brannum
Production Manager
Sarah D. Kingsley
Publisher Emeritus
Joseph J. Bonsignore

Smithsonian
National Associate
Program

Director
Joseph Carper
Assistant Director for Programs
and Marketing
Stephen J. Pike

Contributing
Membership/James
Smithson
Society/Young
Benefactors

Program Manager
Fern Segerlind

<-

137
Study Tours and
Seminars

Program Manager
Barbara S. Tuceling
Deputy Program Manager
Prudence Clendenning

U.S. and
International Events

Acting Program Manager
Ann Post

Research Expeditions

Program Manager
Charlene James-Duguid

Smithsonian
Resident Associate
Program

Director
Janet W. Solinger

Special Assistant to the Director

Chery! Ann Lytle
Associate Director for
Administration
Michael Cassidy
Associate Director for
Programming
Edmund H. Worthy, Jr.
Program Managers
Roslyn C. Beitler
Anna Caraveli
Joanne Gigliotti
Jacqueline H. Grazette
Moya B. King
Marcus L. Overton
Michael A. Caplin
Susan Lee Swarthout
Program Coordinators
Faye Browning
Thomas Crain
Penelope Pigoct Dann
Margo Del Vecchio
Karen M. Gray
Editor
Cecelia Reed

138

Assistant Editor
Reed Isbell
Public Affairs Officer
Joan Cole
Membership and Registration
Manager
Dennis R. Smoot
Assistant Membership and
Registration Manager
Claudette E. Moore
Assistant Registration Manager
Xenia Sorokin Arnelle
Business Office Manager
Crystal Pruitt Fleary
Volunteer Coordinator

Susan R. Mond Carpenter

“Smithsonian
World”

Executive Producer
Sandra Wentworth Bradley
Program Producers
Sandra Wentworth Bradley
Neil Goodwin
Werner Schumann
Steven York

Women’s Committee
of the Smithsonian
National Associates

Program Coordinator
Paula Duncan

Institutional
Initiatives

Office of the
Assistant Secretary
for Institutional
Initiatives

Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives
Alice Green Burnette

Special Assistant

Daniel K. Stevenson
Program Manager
Lois A. Noack

National Museum
of the American
Indian National
Campaign Office

National Campaign Director
John L. Colonghi
Assistant Director for Public
Relations and Special
Events
Susannah Kellums
Program Manager
Ernestine Potter

Finance and

Administration

Office of the
Assistant Secretary
for Finance and
Administration

Assistant Secretary
Nancy D. Suttenfield
Deputy Director for Finance
Rick R. Johnson

Deputy Director for
Administration
D.J. Jack) Hall
Special Assistant
Aileen E. Wakefield
Ombudsman
Chandra Heilman

Office of
Accounting and
Financial Services

Comptroller
Shireen L. Dodson
Deputy Comptroller
Robert A. Mills

Operations

Manager
Phillip FE Norton

Financial Analysis
and Reporting

Manager
Elard J. Phillips

Financial and Payroll
Systems

Manager
Edward J. Ballotta

Office of
Architectural
History and
Historic
Preservation

Director
Cynthia R. Field
Keeper of the OAHP “Castle”
Collection
Richard E. Stamm

_
Historic Preservation Specialist
Amy Ballard

Architectural Historian
Heather P. Ewing

Office of Contracts
and Property
Management

Director
Robert P. Perkins
Deputy Director
John W. Cobert
Federal and Trust Contracts
Division Manager
Lynn R. Spurgeon
Procurement Division Manager
Helen L. Donaldson
Adminsitrative, Program
Analysis and Property
Management Division
Manager
Robert J. Lewin
Revenue, Concessions and
Business Activity
Contracts Division
Manager
Ronald F. Cuffe

Office of Design
and Construction

Director
Robert P. Dillman
Associate Director
William L. Thomas
Acting Chief, Project
Management
Donald W. Dormstetter

Chief, Planning, Programming,

and Budget
Harry J. Rombach
Acting Chief, Project and

Construction Management

Loren D. Raap
Acting Chief, Engineering and
Design
Thomas P. Myers

Chief, Support
Laura O. Hoing

Office of

Environmental
Management and

Safety

Director
E William Billingsley

Environmental
Management Division
Division Chief

Ruth E. McCully

Safety Division
Division Chief
Walter G. Bailey

Fire Protection
Division
Division Chief

J. Andrew Wilson

Office of Equal
Opportunity

Acting Director
Robert L. Osborne
Complaints Program Manager
Robert L. Osborne
Special Assistant to the Director
McKinley Harris
Upward Mobility and Disabled
Employees Program
Manager
Carol Gover

Office of Facilities

Services

Director of Facilities Services
Richard L. Siegle

Office of Financial
and Management
Analysis

Acting Director
Jack Zickafoose
Special Assistant
John Howser
Assistant Director for
Management Analysis
Mike Young
Assistant Director for
Financial Analysis
Fran Rooney
Assistant Director for Policy
Administration
Jack Zickafoose

Office of Human
Resources

Director
Marilyn S. Marton
Assistant Director, Operations
Division
Bernice B. Abram
Assistant Director, Policy
Division

Timothy M. Dirks

Office of
Information
Resource
Management

Director
Vincent J. Marcalus
Associate Director for
Administration
Betty Beuck Derbyshire
Assistant Director for
Technology Assessment
and Quality Assurance
John J. Wilson
Manager, Computer Systems
Management Division
George A. Anderson
Manager, Management
Information Systems
Division
Francis J. Bennett
Manager, Information Resources
Division
E. Evanne Browne
Manager, Collections
Information Systems
Division
Susan J. McFarland
Manager, Communications
Management Division
John L. Moreci
Manager, Research Systems
Division
Joseph L. Russo
Manager, Information
Management Division
Rae L. Thompson
Manager, SIBIS Division
Beverly Westermeyer
Financial Manager

Betsey Woods

Office of Plant

Services

Director
Michael R. League
Deputy Director
Michael J. Sofield

139
Computer Services

Chief
Michele L. Thatcher

Administrative
Services

Chief
Judith A. Cooper

Safety

Chief
H. M. Newberry
Assistant Director, Engineering
and Support Services
Lawrence J. Stuebing, Jr.

Support Division

Chief
C. W. Arthur, Jr.

Material Management
Branch

Chief
Thomas J. Bellino

Transportation Branch

Chief
Robert Marshall

Audio Visual Branch

Chief
Carole Bellamy

Mail Services Branch

Chief
Levonia Scancil

Metro Support Branch

Chief
A. C. Clark
Engineering Division

Chief
Howard L. Wink, Jr.

140

Work
Coordination/I nspection
Branch

Chief

Vacant

Facilities Computer
Operations Branch

Chief
Patrick M. O'Neal

Energy Management
Branch

Chief
Robert Weisman

Engineering Branch

Chief
Forrest Andrews
Assistant Director, Physical
Plant Services
William M. Adams

Crafts Division

Chief
John W. Libby, Jr.

Crafts/Trades Branch

Chief
Robert Davis

Operations Division

Chief
Harry I. Goodman

Operations Area I

Chief
Donald A. Pierce

Operations Area II

Chief
William McPhacter

Operations Area III

Chief
Robert E. Pine, Sr.

Office of Planning
and Budget

Acting Director
Mary J. Rodriguez
Assistant Director for Federal
Compliance and Reporting
Mary J. Rodriguez
Assistant Director for
Formulation and
Execution
Richard S. Haas
Assistant Director for Planning
Vacant

Office of Printing
and Photographic
Services

Director/Curator
Jim Wallace
Deputy Director
Lorie H. Aceto
Production Control Officer
Mary Ellen McCaffrey

Special Assignments/
Photography Branch

Chief
Richard Hofmeister

Laboratory Branch
Chief
Edes F. Talman

Services Branch

Chief
Joyce M. Goulaic

NASM Branch

Chief
Mark Avino

NMNH Branch

Chief
Victor Krantz

Color Branch

Chief
Joe A. Goulait

Duplicating Branch

Chief
Herman Thompson

Office of Protection
Services

Director
Robert B. Burke Jr.
Deputy Director for
Administration
G. Clifford Boocks
Deputy Director for Operations
Thomas H. Bresson

Protection Division

Chief
Ronald J. Colaprete

Security Services
Division
Chief

Ralph M. Smith

Security Systems
Division
Chief

Warren J. Danzenbaker

—_—
Health Services
Division
Medical Officer

J. Andrew Armer, M.D.

Employee Assistance
Program

Manager

Verdine Frederick

Cooper-Hewitt
Security

Chief
Luis A. Palau

STRI Security

Chief
Alejandro Arze

Parking Office

Manager
John W. Bausch

OPS Supply

Supply Officer

James D. Fox

Training Branch

Training Officer
David A. Liston

Office of Risk

Management

Direcotor
Phillip H. Babcock,
Director
Assistant Director
Jacqueline C. Young
Disaster Preparedness
Coordinator
Priscilla A. Terry

Office of Sponsored
Projects

Director
Ardelle G. Foss
Grant/Contract Administrator
Ernest L. Duncan Jr.
Karen L. Otiji
J. Scott Robinson
David R. Short
Supervisory Grant/Contract
Accountant
Frantz S. Colon
Grant/Contract Financial
Analysts
Delores Clyburn
Leni Figueiras
Kathleen Hindle

Travel Services

Office

Director

Judith Petroski

Affiliated

Organizations

The John F.
Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts

Chairman
James D. Wolfensohn
Founding Chairman
Roger L. Stevens
Managing Director
Lawrence J. Wilker
General Counsel
Kenneth M. Kaufman

Administration

Director
Charles Meng

Advertising

Director
Joanne B. Steller

Cultural Diversity
Affairs

Director
Archie L. Buffkins

Development

Director Kennedy Center
Corporate Fund and
National Symphony
Orchestra

Marc Breslaw

Director Annual Fund,

Endowment
Barbara A. Hall

Education

Acting Director
David R. Humphrey

Finance

Chief Financial Officer
Clifton B. Jeter
Controller
Nancy H. Fleeter

Friends of the
Kennedy Center

Director
Peg Allen

Government
Relations

Director
Geraldine M. Otremba

Marketing

Director
John H. McAuliffe

Media Relations

Director
Tiki Davies

Performing Arts
Library

Librarian

Peter Fay

Productions and
Theaters

General Manager of Theaters
Max Wood ward

Public Relations

Director
Laura Longley

Special Events

Director
Charlotte Woolard

Television and Special
Projects

Director
Carolyn Reynolds

Very Special Arts

Chief Executive Officer
Eugene Maillard

National Symphony
Orchestra

Executive Director
Stephen Klein

General Manager
Richard B. Hancock

National Gallery
of Art

President
John R. Stevenson

Office of the Director

Director
J. Carter Brown

14!
Special Assistant
Robert Bowen

Executive Assistant
Angela LoRe

Office of the Deputy
Director

Deputy Director
Roger Mandle
Administrative Officer
Carol Kelley
Chief, Design and Installation
Gaillard F. Ravenel
Head, Education Division
Linda Downs
Editor-in-Chief
Frances Smyth
Chief, Exhibition Programs
Dodge Thompson
Chief Librarian
Neal T. Turcell
Head, Research on Collections
Suzannah Fabing
Head, Department of Loans and
National Lending Service
Stephanie Belt
Registrar
Mary E. Suzor
Senior Curator, Paintings
Charles S. Moffett
Curators of American Art
Nicolai Cikovsky
Frank Kelly
Curator of Northern Renaissance
Painting
John Hand
Curator of Southern Renaissance
Painting
David A. Brown
Curator of Southern Baroque
Painting
Diane DeGrazia
Curator of Northern Baroque
Painting
Arthur K. Wheelock
Curators of Twentieth-Century
Jack Cowart
Nan Rosenthal
Mellon Senior Curator
Andrew Robison
Curators of Sculpture
Allison Luchs
Douglas Lewis

142

Curator of French Prints
Diane Russell

Curator of Italian Drawings
Margaret Morgan Grasselli

Curator of Contemporary Prints
Ruth Fine

Curator of Photography
Sarah Greenough

Chief of Conservation
Ross M. Merrill

Head, Exhibitions and Loan

Conservation

Mervin Richard

Chairman, Painting

Conservation

David Bull

Head Painting Conservation
Sarah Fisher

Head, Object Conservation
Shelley Sturman

Head, Paper Conservation
Shelley Fletcher

Head, Scientific Research
René de la Rie

Office of External
Affairs

External Affairs Officer
Joseph J. Krakora
Assistant to the Director for
Special Events
Genevra Higginson
Press and Public Information
Officer
Ruth Kaplan
Corporate Relations Officer
Elizabeth Weil Perry
Development Officer
Laura E. Fisher
Assistant to the Director for
Music

George Manas

Office of the
Secretary-General
Counsel

Secretary-General Counsel
Philip C. Jessup, Jr.
Deputy Secretary-General
Counsel
Elizabeth A. Croog
Chief Archivist
Maygene Daniels

Center for Advanced
Study in the Visual
Arts

Dean
Henry A. Millon
Associate Dean
Marianna S. Simpson

Office of the Treasurer

Treasurer

Daniel Herrick
Deputy Treasurer

Ann R. Leven
Assistant Treasurer

Michael W. Levine

Office of the
Administrator

Administrator
Anne B. Evans
Chief of Administrative
Operations
Darrell R. Willson
Personnel Officer
Michael B. Bloom

Reading Is
Fundamental, Inc.

Chairman of the Board
Mrs. Ellior Richardson
President
Ruth Graves
Director of Special Prosects
Nancy Sullivan
Director of Development
Wade Sc. Clair
Director, Resource Coordination
Azie Taylor Morton
Director of Finance
Christina Mead
Director of Programs
James Wendorf
Director, Systems, Computer,
and Support Operations
Don Perron
Finance Officer
Oriente Arzadon

Senior Writer/Editor
Gail Oerke

Deputy Director, Programs
Victoria J. Heland

The Woodrow
Wilson
International

Center for Scholars

Director
Charles Blitzer
Deputy Director
Samuel F. Wells, Jr.
Deputy Director for Planning
and Management
Dean W. Anderson
Librarian
Zdenek V. David
Director of External Affairs
Moira E. Egan
Director of RADIO
DIALOGUE
George L. Seay
Director of Fellowships
Ann C. Sheffield

International Studies
Division
Director

Robert S. Licwak

Division of Regional
and Comparative
Studies

Director, Asia Program
Mary Brown Bullock
Director, West European Studies
Michael H. Haltzel
Director, East European Studies
John R. Lampe
Director, Kennan Institute for
Advanced Russian Studies
Blair A. Ruble
Director, Latin American
Program
Joseph S. Tulchin
Division of United
States Studies

Director
Michael J. Lacey

History, Culture and
Society Program

Director
James M. Morris

Media Studies Project

Director
Lawrence W. Lichty

The Woodrow
Wilson Center Press

Director of Publications
Glenn W. LaFantasie

The Wilson Quarterly

Editor
Jay Tolson
Publisher
Kathy Read

143
Appendix 7

Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in

Fiscal Year 1991

The Board of Regents and the Secretary of the Smithsonian join with the en-
tire staff in thanking all of the Institution's friends for the generosity they
have shown with their financial support, gifts to the collections, and in-
kind donations. Gifts are recorded under the title of the recipient bureau or
office, with a brief description of the gift where appropriate. If perchance
the name of any donor has been omitted from these lists, it is an inadver-
tence and in no way diminishes the Institution's gratitude. Many gifts were
received from donors who prefer to remain anonymous; the Smithsonian
wishes to thank these people, as well, for their support.

Research International Center

Office of the Assistant

Secretary for Research Donors of Financial Support

Donors to the Joseph Henry $100, 000 or more

Papers Project The Rockefeller Foundation

$1, 000 or more
$ 50,000 or more

Dr. Nathan Reingold
The Pew Charitable Trusts
W. Alton Jones Foundation

$10,000 or more

Ford Foundation
Rockefeller Foundation
W.B. Stroud

Stroud Foundation
Stephen Stroud

$5,000 or more

Anonymous Donor

$1,000 or more

James G. Blaine

Charles Delmar Foundation

Tide Foundation

American Federation of Labor and Con-
gress of Industrial Organization

$250 or more

Denver Museum of New Hampshire
Missouri Botanical Garden

Donors of In-Kind Support

Air Jamaica. Return air fare for two vis-
iting scholars attending the confer-
ence “Race, Discourse and the Origin
of the Americas: A New World View
of 1492”

Smithsonian Institution
Archives

Donors to the Collection

American Association for Zoological
Nomenclature. Records of the
Association.

American Ornithologists’ Union. Re-
cords of the Union.

American Society of Mammalogists. Re-
cords of the Society.

Association of Systematic Collections.
Records of the Association.

Audubon Naturalist Society of the Cen-
tral Atlantic States, Inc. Records of
the Society.

Richard C. Banks. Papers of Richard C.
Banks.

Nancy Clarke. Papers of John Frederick
Gates Clarke.

Colonial Waterbird Group. Records of
the Group.

Crustacean Society. Records of the
Society.

Mark H. Dall. Mark H. Dall Collection.

—_—
Terry L. Erwin. Papers of Terry L.
Erwin.

Edward L. Fireman. Papers of Edward
L. Fireman.

Daniel Goldstein. PhD dissertation,
“Midwestern Naturalists: Academies
of Science in the Mississippi Valley,
1850-1900.”

Brooke Hindle. Papers of Brooke
Hindle.

International Society for the History,
Philosophy, and Social Studies of Bi-
ology. Records of the Society.

International Union of Directors of Zoo-
logical Gardens. Records of the
Union.

Raymond B. Manning. Papers of Ray-
mond B. Manning.

National Geographic Society. Smithson-
ian Centennial Film, 1946.

Estate of George S. Myers. Papers of
George Sprague Myers.

Paul N. Perrot. Papers of Paul N.
Perrot.

Lori W. Prather. Photograph of the
Smithsonian Castle.

Society for Marine Mammalogy. Re-
cords of the Society.

Lawrence H. Walkinshaw. Papers of
Lawrence H. Walkinshaw.

Ellis L. Yochelson. Papers of Ellis L.
Yochelson.

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries
Donors of Financial Support

$10, 000 or more

The Dibner Fund

$ 1,000 or more

Research Publications, Inc.

$250 or more

Robert S. Hoffmann
Karl V. Krombein
World's Fair Magazine

Donors to the Collections

Individual Donors

Kunle Adeyemi
Adimado Aduayom

Babtunde Agbaje-Williams

John Tokpabere Agberia
Johanna Agthe
Bob Allen

El Anatsui

Mary Jo Arnoldi
Herbert R. Axelrod
Mary Ballard

John J. Ballenger
Dorothy Banks
Joan Barkan

Lewis M. Barth
Edward C. Bassett
Chloe Becht
Margaret Bliss
Michel Bloic

Jeff W. Boucher
Mark D. Bogard
Fermin Velez Boza
Joseph Bradley

M. Brett-Surman
Robert Burckhalter
Don Burness
Gloriela Calvo
Ernestine G. Carey
Alfredo Carrasco
Eddie Chambers
Elvira Clain-Scefanelli
Christa Clarke
Robert Clelland

H. T. Clifford
Anna Lue Cook
Roy Cook

Jeremy Coote
Alain J. Coscilhes
Esther Dagan
Glenda Dare
Arunabha Dasgupta
Mary Kay Davies
Alain Derbier

Abi Derefaka
David Dibner
Gaylord Donnelley
Richard Doty

T. Scripps Downing
Pete J. Dunn

J. O. S. Edigbe
Felicia Ema
Lorraine Eyde
Oliver Flint

Leon Fredrich

Jun Fudano

Nancy Fuller

Carl Gans

Pierre Gaudibert
Joanne Gigliotti

Janet Goldner

Jorge Valenzuela Gonzalez
Rebecca Green

David Greenacre
Christiane Groeben
Vinigi L. Grottanelli
Hifumi Hara

Michael Harris
Michael R. Harris
Celia Heil

Maxine Heinz

Lori Hejl

Frank Herreman
Emma Herrera de Lopez
Tanja Hoffmann

C. P. Ten Houten
Omolara Ige

Mike Irrifere

Moses Imoseni

W. Francis Jackson
Paul Jenkins

Helke Kammerer-Grothaus
Girma Kidane

Hans Knopfli-Zingg
Nikolai V. Kokshaysky
Jessie A. Lawton
Paulina Ledergerber
Robert G. Leek
Philippe Leloup

Lucy J. A. Leu

Amy Levin

Limbe M'Puanga Liyolo
N. W. Longmore
Kathryn A. Looney
Carlyle A. Luer

Mark L. Madsen

John D. Marsellus
Teresa Masters

Roy W. McDiarmid
Uta Merzbach

Lynn Robertson Myers
Eduardo Suarez Morales
Michele Moutashar
Conchita Ndege

Doug Nelson

Howard Newcon

Dan H. Nicolson
Barthosa Nkurumeh
Ted Norris

145
Makato Numata
Greg Odo
Wolfgang Oehme
Kawku Ofori-Ansa
Oguibe Olu

Uche Okeke
Tunde Olanipekun
Storrs L. Olson
Austine Omeke
Michael Omoighe
Bruce Onobrakpeya
Marie-Jose Opper
Justus K. Osakwe
Kolade Oshinowo
Lynne Parenti
Marvin B. Patterson
Markus W. Peters
Gigi Pezzoli
George E. Phebus
Allan R. Phillips
Piche, M. Claude

Michael N. Piechocinski

Thomas E. Pinelli
Paul Pohwat

Walter Poscl

Philip Ravenhill
Hans J. Reuter
Russell M. Richards
Warren M. Robbins
Carlos B. Rodriguez
David Root

Civia Rosenberg
Catherine Scott
Evelyn Schwartz
Siegfried Seyfarth
Thomas M. Shaw
Hakeem O. Shitta
Ross B. Simons
Raymond Silverman
Martin A. Smith
Nancy A. Smith
Philip Speiss
Joseph Sperro
Victor G. Springer
Burhan Ssebayigga

Christopher B. Steiner

George Steyskal
Wiebe Stodel

William C. Scurtevant

Papa Ibra Tall

Lisa McQ. Taylor
William H. Truetener
Samson Uchendu
Erjo Uusitalo

James van Sweden

146

Graciela Valery de Velez
Richard Vari

Cosme Vasquez

Duncan A. Vaughan
Teodor Vidal

Charlotte von Graffenried
Mr. and Mrs. William E. von Tagen
Valere Voorhees

Roslyn Walker

Jane Ward

George E. Watson

Ellen B. Wells

Tola Wewe

Dennis Whigham

John White

Peter White

Anne D. Williams
Maureen Zarember

Sergei Zhukov

Mahmoud Abdow Zouber
George R. Zug

Corporate Donors

Aberystwyth Arts Center, The Univer-
sity College of Wales, United
Kingdom

The African Art Museum, Tenafly, New
Jersey

Antiquarian Booksellers’ Association of
America, Inc., New York, New York

The Botswana Society, National Mu-
seum and Art Gallery, Gaborone,
Botswana

Centre International des Civilisations
Bantu, Libreville, Gabon

Centro Wifredo Lam, Havana, Cuba

Centro Studi Archeologia Africana,
Milan, Italy

Department of Parks and Recreation,
Sacramento, California

Etnografisch Museum, Antwerp,
Belgium

The Hymn Society, Texas Christian Uni-
versity, Fort Worth, Texas

Institut fur Auslandsbeziehungen, Scutt-
gart, Germany

Institute for Information Studies, The
Aspen Institute River House, Queens-
town, Maryland

Institute of African and Asian Studies,
University of Kartoum, Sudan

Iraqi Cultural Center Gallery, London,
England

Iwalewa-Haus, Universitat Bayreuth,
Germany

Living Arts and Science Center, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky

Marshall Jones Company, Francestown,
New Hampshire

Musee des Arts d'Afrique et Oceanie,
Paris, France

Museum fur Voelkerkunde, Frankfurt,
Germany

Museum Rietberg Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland

National Archives of Zimbabwe,
Harare, Zimbabwe

National Council for Arts & Culture,
Lagos, Nigeria

New York State Office of Parks, Recre-
ation and Historic Preservation, Wa-
terford, New York

OBAALA (Organization for Black Arts
Advancement and Learning Activi-
ties), London, England

Ogun State University, Ago, Iwoye,
Nigeria

Right Angle Publishing, Los Angeles,
California

Rijksmuseum voor Volkenkunde
Leiden, The Netherlands

Rock Soup, Belmont, California

Roebuch Printing Company, (McFar-
land Press), Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

Rogers Historical Museum, Rogers,
Arizona

“Smithsonian World” Office, Silver
Spring, Maryland

South African National Gallery Library,
Capetown, South Africa

State Historical Museum, Moscow, So-
viet Union

Studio Museum In Harlem, New York,
New York

University of Delaware Library, New-
ark, Delaware

University of Bophuthatswana, Dept. of
Fine Art, Republic of
Bophuthatswana

Williams College Museum of Art,
Williamstown, Massachusetts

Winterthur Museum and Gardens,

Delaware
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Donors of Financial Support

$500, 000 or more

The MacArthur Foundation

$100, 000 or more

Hasselblad Foundation

10,000 or more

Exxon Corporation

Government of Finland through United
Nations Environmental Program

Government of Germany through
United Nations Environmental Pro-
gram

United States Department of
Agriculture

General Service Foundation

$500 or more

Mildred and Harry Silberglied

Museums

Archives of American Art

Donors of Financial Support

$10,000 or more

The Brown Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian
The Pew Charitable Trusts

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Schwartz
John Sloan Memorial Foundation

$5,000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Max N. Berry
Viola Bray Charitable Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Eli Broad

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Buck

Mrs. Walter B. Ford

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Halff, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith J. Long
Mr. and Mrs. Alex Manoogian
Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Steven J. Ross

Mr. Michel Roux

Mr. and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz
Mr. and Mrs. Robert FE. Shapiro
Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Wellin

$1, 000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Mr. Louis C. Baker

The Barra Foundation

Mrs. Edwin A. Bergman

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Biggs
Boston Park Plaza Hotel

Mr. and Mrs. Howard B. Camden
Mr. Leo Castelli

Christie's Associates

Mr. and Mrs. Saul Z. Cohen

Mrs. Robert Coryell

Mr. Douglas Cramer

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
Mr. and Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun
Harvey S. Firestone, Jr., Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Fisher III
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher
Mr. and Mrs. Max M. Fisher

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Mr. Larry Gagosian

Mr. David Geffen

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty
Mr. Arnold B. Glimcher

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas

The Armand Hammer Foundation
Mr. Marshall Hatch

The Hearst Corporation

Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway

Mrs. Philip Iselin

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Janes
Dr. Helen Jessup

Mr. Harry Kahn

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice H. Katz
Mr. Walter Keating

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick A. Klingenstein
Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Landsman
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Lauder

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald S. Lauder
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert C. Lee
Mrs. Harry Lenart

Mr. M. Leonard Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Roy Lichtenstein
Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Lifton
Mrs. William A. Marsteller

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Meyerhoff
Mr. Jack Nash

Mrs. Annalee Newman

The Georgia O'Keefe Foundation
Mrs. Gloria R. Oppenheimer
Mr. Michael Ovitz

Phillips-Van Heusen Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Lester Pollack

Mr. and Mrs. Dana M. Raymond
Mr. and Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain
Dr. and Mrs. Robert R. Silver
Mr. Sanford L. Smith

Sotheby's

Mr. and Mrs. Maury L. Spanier
Alan and Nancy Stone

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman
The Times Mirror Foundation
Mrs. Helen S. Tucker

Mr. Abboc W. Vose

Mrs. William C. Wallstein

Mrs. Shelby White

$500 or more

Mr. Thomas Ammann

Dr. Lourdes V. Andaya

Mr. Andre Emmerich

Dr. Stephen Andrus

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Applebaum

Ms. Betty Asher

Mr. Richard Brown Baker

Mr. W. N. Banks

Mrs. Donna Barnett

Mss. F. Henry Berlin

Mrs. Paul Bernat

Ms. Ruth R. Bettman

Mrs. Peter S. Bing

Mr. Irving Blum

Nancy and Roger Boas

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Brown

Ms. Barbara L. Brubaker

Dr. and Mrs. John M. Carroll

Ms. Elizabeth M. Chapin

Ms. Kathryn Corbin and Mr. Jeffrey
Brown

Mrs. Katherine H. Coudon

Mrs. Therese Crandall

147
Mrs. Zula M. Crichton

Mr. and Mrs. Werner Dannheisser

Mr. Frederick M. Danziger

Mrs. F. Arnold Daum

Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe

Mrs. Maria Mercedes de Medina

Mrs. John de Menil

Mr. Jeffrey Deitch

Michael and Dudley Del Balso

Dr. Charles C. Dickinson III

Mr. and Mrs. Dale F. Dorn

Mr. and Mrs. Howard M. Dubin

Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth

Mr. Christian P. Erdman

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder

Mrs. George R. Fink

Mr. and Mrs. Philip H. Finn

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Fleischer, Jr.

Mr. Christopher Forbes

Mrs. Helena Fraser

Mrs. Frederick Gardner

Mrs. Eugenio Garza Laguera

Mrs. Charles Gilman

Mr. and Mrs. Yale Ginsburg

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Glenn

Dr. and Mrs. Frank C. Glover

Mrs. Faith Golding

Mr. and Mrs. James Goodman

Mr. Richard Gray

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. Green

Mrs. Robert S. Greenbaum

Mr. Ronald K. Greenberg

Mr. Edward Greensfelder

Ms. Agnes Gund and Mr. Daniel
Shapiro

Heidrick and Struggles, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Mr. and Mrs. James Humphry III

Mr. R. P. Berglund

Mrs. Lewis Iselin

Mrs. David Jacknow

Mrs. Morris I. Jaffe

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard C. Jaques

Mr. and Mrs. David Jensen

Mr. Richard H. Jenrette

Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mrs. Victoria Kappel

Cis and Martin Kellman

Dr. and Mrs. Charles Kessler

Mr. and Mes. Gilbert H. Kinney

Ms. Jill B. Knoth

Mrs. Estelle M. Konheim

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kughn

Dr. and Mrs. Richard W. Kulis

Mrs. Roger Kyes

148

Mr. Richard S. Lane

Mrs. Thomas Lee

Dr. and Mrs. Irving H. Leopold
Ms. Sandy Lepore

Mtr. and Mrs. John Levin

Mr. and Mrs. Alan D. Levy
Liberty Mutual Insurance Group
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Linton

Mrs. Russell Lynes

Mr. and Mrs. Martin Z. Margulies
Mr. and Mrs. Tom F. Marsh

Mrs. Barbara M. Marshall

Mr. Stephen Mazoh

Mr. Daniel Melnick

Mrs. John E. Miller

Mr. Edward Minskoff

Dr. Martyna Miskinis

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Oroshnik
Peter-Roberts Antiques, Inc.
Mrs. Herbert Polacheck

Miss Shirley Polykoff

Mr. Robert Rauschenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Chapin Riley

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller

Mr. Wilbur L. Rass, Jr.

Mrs. Gene R. Rouse

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas A. Schubot
Mrs. Carl L. Selden

Mr. and Mrs. Peter L. Sheldon
Mrs. MacL. Sherwood

Dr. Lawrence Shields

Dr. William L. Shumate, Jr.

Mrs. Harriet Simpson

Mr. and Mrs. Alan B. Slifka

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth

Mrs. Elizabeth Strong-Cuevas
Mr. and Mrs. George Strumbos
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Sundell
Mrs. Rebekah A. Taube

The Pace Gallery of New York, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Weed
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Westheimer
Ms. Elaine Wilde

Mr. Eli Wilner

Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. Warren R. Woodward
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Wyeth
Simon and Paula Young

$250 or more

Mr. M. Bernard Aidinoff

Mc. and Mrs. R. Stanton Avery
Mrs. Freda Bakula

Dr. and Mrs. James Bannon

Mr. and Mrs. Bogdan Baynert

Mr. Gifford R. Beal

Mr. and Mrs. Bernhard G. Bechhoefer

Mr. and Mrs. Mandell L. Berman

Dr. and Mrs. John G. Bielawski

Mr. and Mrs. Martin M. Blanck

Mr. John I. Bloom

Mr. and Mrs. Harold Blumenstein

Mr. and Mrs. Johnson S. Bogart

Mrs. Harry Bond

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Borman

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Bortz, Jr.

Mrs. John Lee Bunce

Dr. and Mrs. Irving FE. Burton

Mr. John William Butler, Jr.

Mrs. Martin L. Butzel

Mr. and Mrs. Herman M. Canner

Mrs. Electra M. Carlin

Mr. and Mrs. Richard S. Carroll

Mrs. Joan Hardy Clark

Mr. Thomas Colville

Mr. George Comenos

Mrs. Edith B. Cook

Mrs. Lammot DuPont Copeland

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Cowin

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond M. Cracchiolo

Mrs. Catherine Curran

Mrs. Polly Blakeley Davidson

Mr. Mark G. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. James C. De Woody

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Doerer

Ms. Odile Duff

Mrs. Dorothy Dunitz

Mr. and Mrs. Allan B. Ecker

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert S. Edelson

Egan Associates

Mrs. Beatrice Elkin

Mr. and Mrs. Alex J. Erkin

Mr. Burton D. Farbman

Mr. Alfred Feinman

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Fleischman

Mrs. Lewis Fraad

Mr. and Mrs. Scuart Frankel

Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Fried

Ms. Eileen Fulkus

Miss Elizabeth H. Fuller

Mrs. Viola Goldberg

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Graham, Jr.

Mrs. Bernard A. Greenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Grigg

Mrs. F. V. Grunbaum

Mrs. Lauren Poplack Hallinan

Dr. Susan Harold and Mr. Harold
Schreiber

O. K. Harris Works of Art

—_—
Mrs. Pauline L. Harrison

Mrs. lola S. Haverstick

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton

Jim Herrington and Carol Camiener

Mr. Bernard Hirsch and Mrs. Lillian
Shaye-Hirsch

Ms. Catherine W. Holmes

Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Hovsepian

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Incandela

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert H. Jacob

Mrs. Alfred Jones

Mrs. Earle M. Jorgensen

Ms. Sally Kaplan

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard E. Kingsley

Ms. Joan Peterson Klimann

Mrs. Reva Kogan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Mr. and Mrs. Nat Korash

Mr. Werner H. Kramarsky

Kraushaar Galleries

Martin J. and Cecile Landay

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin S. Lane

Dr. Avelina E. Laxa

Mr. and Mrs. David Leader

Mrs. Robert H. Levi

Dr. and Mrs. Kim K. Lie

Ms. Cheryl Hall Lindsay

Ms. Kathleen Lingo

Mr. C. Richard MacGrath

Mrs. Marion Weber Maker

Mrs. James S. Marcus

Mrs. Susan McClatchy

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Ms. Colleen Messing

Michigan Bell Telephone Company

Mr. Daniel Q. Mills

Mrs. Marian S. Mitchell

Mr. Mayer Mitchell

Benjamin Moore Company

Mrs. Edward P. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.

Mr. Raymond D. Nasher

Mrs. John U. Nef

Mrs. Robert M. Newhouse

Mrs. Barbara Newington

Ms. Louise R. Noun

Mr. and Mrs. Irving Nusbaum

Mrs. Roy Nutt

Dr. and Mrs. Kevin T. O'Donnell

Mr. Calvin W. Odom

Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer

Mrs. Lynda Palevsky

Dr. and Mrs. David B. Pall

Mrs. Henry Pearlman

Ms. Nichole Perk

Mr. Frank Perry and Ms. Barbara
Goldsmith

Gerald Peters Gallery

Mr. John B. Pierce, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. David Pollack

Ms. Kathy Pritchard

Mrs. James A. Rawley

Ms. Elizabeth Richebourg Rea

Mr. Ron Reynolds

Mrs. E. P. Richardson

Mr. and Mrs. John Robinson

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Robinson

Mrs. Tatyana Robson

Mr. David Rockefeller

Mr. and Mrs. Irving Rose

Mrs. Julia F Rosenblum

Mrs. Edwin M. Rosenthal

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Rosowski

Mrs. Harry Rubin

Mrs. Irene Rubin

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen D. Rubin

Mr. Donald Saff

Mr. and Mrs. Ira Sahlman

Dr. Ivan C. Schatten

Mr. Walter Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas L. Schoenith

Mrs. Rudolph B. Schulhof

Mr. Samuel Schwartz

Mr. and Mrs. George Seybolt

Mrs. Stuart R. Shamberg

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Scharf

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome M. Shaw

Ms. Barbara Slifka

Mr. Alan L. Stanzler

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Scollman

Mc. and Mrs. Philip A. Scraus

Mr. and Mrs. David J. Supino

Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Troubh

Mrs. George T. Trumbull

Mrs. G. B. Tweedy

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Usher

Mr. Robert A. Van Driesen

Ms. Rosamond B. Vaule

Mr. Robert C. Vose III

Ms. Ann Kirk Warren

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Wasserman

Mr. and Mrs. Cameron Waterman

Mrs. Elaine G. Weitzen

Mr. Henry Wade White

Mr. John Wilmerding

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred S. Wilsey

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Wineman

Mrs. Enid S. Winslow

Mr. Roy Zurkowski

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

Mrs. Else Sackler
Coordination Council, N. American Af-
fairs Ofc., USA

$10,000 or more

Anonymous
AMS Foundation for the Arts, Sciences
and Humanities

$5,000 or more

Han-Shih Yang

$1,000 or more

The Boeing Co.

M. Knoedler/Div. of Knoedler-Modarco
Inc.

Ms. Cynthia H. Polsky

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Mr. & Mrs. Leo Simon & Stephen Simon

$500 or more

Anonymous
Ms. Elizabeth Bayard Weedon

$250 or more

Dr. Milo C. Beach

Donors to the Collection

Irving Affias and the School of Chinese
Brushwork, from the Estate of Wang
Jiyuan. Wang Jiyuan, Chinese, Three
Sheets of Calligraphy, ink on paper
(S1991.15-147).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryanc.
India, Dowry Bag, cotton thread and
fabric, early 20th century ($1991.15).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Carrying Case, cotton fabric,
2oth century (S1991.16).

149 ~
Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryanc. Pa-
kistan, Sewing Bag, cotton fabric,
20th century (S1991.17).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Carrying Case, cotton fabric,
2oth century (S1991.18).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Carrying Case, cotton fabric,
not date listed ($1991.19).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Money belt, fabric, 20th cen-
tury (S1991.20).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
Pakistan, Camel or horse chestpiece,
cotton fabric, 20th century
(S1991.21).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
Pakistan, Camel or horse chestpiece,
cotton fabric, 2oth century
($1991.22).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Turban wrap or shoulder
cloth, silk and cotton, 20th century
(S1991.23).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Shoulder cloth, corton, 20th
century ($1991.24).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Headpiece for a horse, cotton,
2oth century (1991.25).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kisctan, Cover (?), cotton, silk threads,
20 century (S1991.26).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Baby's hood (nati), cotton,
2oth century (S1991.27).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Purse/pocket, 20th century
(S1991.28).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Door hanging (toran), cotton,
2oth century ($1991.29).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Door hanging (toran), hir (un-
twisted silk flass), indigo cotton, ca.
1900 (S1991.30).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Blouse (kurta), 20th century
(S1991.31).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Front panel of a blouse, no
media listed, no date listed ($1991.32).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
Pakistan, Wall hanging (chakla),
2oth century (S199I.33).

150

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Wall hanging, cotton, 20th
century ($1991.34).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryanc.
India, Wall hanging, cotton, 1900-
1940 (S1991.35).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Skirt (odhani), silk thread, ca.
1900 (S1991.36).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Phulkari/bagh, cotton fabric
and silk thread, 20th century
($1991.37).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Quilt (rilly), no media listed,
20 century ($1991.38).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Quilt (rilly), no media listed,
2oth century (S1991.39).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant. Pa-
kistan, Quilt (rilly), no media listed,
2oth century (S1991.40).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Canopy (chandarvo), dhoti fab-
ric, 20th century (S1991.41).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Tent (shamiana), no media
listed, 20th century ($1991.42).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Canopy (chandarvo), no media
listed, 20th century ($1991.43).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Canopy (chandarvo), printed
dress fabric, 20th century (S1991.44).

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. M. Bryant.
India, Katab work Panel, no media
listed, no date listed ($1991.45).

Ifan Cheng. The Artist's White Cat, 1974,
ink and colors on paper, by Cheng
Jiezi, Chinese ($1990.59).

Ifan Cheng. In the Style of Qia Shumei,
1944, ink and colors on paper, by
Cheng Jiezi, Chinese (S1990.60).

Ifan Cheng. Lofty Scholar in an Autumn
Grove, 1950, ink and colors on
paper, by Cheng Jiezi, Chinese
(S1990.61).

Ifan Cheng. Plum Flowers and a
Beauty, 1960, ink and colors on
paper, by Cheng Jiezi, Chinese
(S1990.62).

Ifan Cheng. Scholars with a Ruan in a
Bamboo Grote, late 1950's, ink and col-
ors on paper, by Cheng Jiezi, Chinese
(S1990.63).

Ifan Cheng. Playing the Bamboo Flute,
1962, ink and colors on paper, by
Cheng Jiezi, Chinese (S1990.64).

Ifan Cheng. Eight Drunken Immortals,
1984, ink and colors on paper, by
Cheng Jiezi, Chinese (S1990.65).

Mr. and Mrs. John Gilmore Ford. Tibet,
Thanka, 17th C., opaque colors on
cloth (S1990.20).

Maureen Jacoby. Chinese, Qianlong Pe-
riod (?), Calligraphy Album, ink on
paper, (S1990.58).

The Honorable and Mrs. William B.
Leonharc. Japan, Group of Five
Prints, Various Artists, 19th Century,
woodblock prints (S1991.148-.152).

Mrs. John A. Pope. Munakata Shiko,
Japanese, Self-portrait, 1959, wood-
block print (S1991.144).

Richard G. Pritzlaff. Group of 97 Chi-
nese Portrait Paintings, Bowls, and
Textiles, 50 of which are the gift of
Mr. Pritzlaff (S1991.46-142).

Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser. Nepali,
Avalokitesvara in the Form of Rato
Matsyendranath, miniature painting
on manuscript folio, opaque paints
on paper, 17-18th C. ($1990.74).

Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser. Nepali,
Dancing Ganesa, miniature painting
on manuscript folio, opaque paints
on paper, 17th-18th C. (S1990.75).

Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser. Nepali,
Three-headed Deity in Skirt of Leaves,
miniature painting on manuscript
folio, opaque paints on paper, 17th-
18th C. (S1990.76).

Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser.
Nepali, Samvara, miniature paint-
ing on manuscript folio, opaque
paints on paper, 17th-18th C.
(S1990.77).

Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser.
Nepali, Untitled, miniature paint-
ing on manuscript folio, opaque
paints on paper, 17th-18th C.
(S1990.78).

Mary Slusser. Tibecan, 18th Century,
Pair of Bookcovers and Two Leaves,
Painted wood, paint and ink on palm
leaves (S1991.143.1-4).

Funasaka Yoshisuke. Japanese, 938,
1986, print, woodblock and silk-
screen on paper, Gift of the Artist
(S1990.22).

—~
Funasaka Yoshisuke. Japanese, M14,
1989, print, woodblock and silk-
screen on paper, Gift of the Artist
(S1990.23).

Funasaka Yoshisuke. Japanese, M 16,
1989, print, woodblock and silk-
screen on paper, Gift of the Artist
(S1990.24).

Funasaka Yoshisuke. Japanese, M 17,
1989, print, woodblock and silk-
screen on paper, Gift of the Artist
(S1990.25).

Donors of In-Kind Support

All Nippon Airways. Seven round-trip
tickets for consulcations between
staff and representatives of the
Bunka-cho regarding the “Ancient
Japan” exhibition.

Freer Gallery of Art

Donors of Financial Support

$500, 000 or more

Foundation for Cultural Heritage
The Phillip L. Graham Fund

$100, 000 or more

Mrs. Katherine Graham

The Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation

Nomura Securities/Nomura Cultural

Foundation
TX. Tsui

$50,000 or more

The Island Fund in the N.Y. Commu-
nity Trust

$10,000 or more
The Richard Louie Memorial Trust

$5,000 or more

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

$1,000 or more
The Boeing Company

Mrs. Raymond E. Cox
Samuel H. Kress Foundation

$500 or more

Cecile E. MacTaggart

Joint Gifts to Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery and Freer
Gallery of Art

Donors of Financial Support

$ 50, 000 or more

Mellon Publications Endowment Fund

$ 1,000 or more

Cosmetic, Toiletry & Fragrance
Association

Friends of Asian Art

$5,000 or more

Mrs. Jackson Burke

C.E. & S. Foundation, Inc.
Mr. & Mrs. James J. Lally
Mrs. John A. Pope
Elizabeth Sackler

$2, 500 or more

Mr. & Mrs. Willard G. Clark
Mr. & Mrs. Hart Fessenden
Mr. & Mrs. John G. Ford

Mr. Joseph E. Hotung

Baron & Baroness Guy Ullens

£ 1,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. & Mrs. John T. Bennett
Mr. & Mrs. John B. Bunker
Mr. & Mrs. John R. Curtis

Mr. & Mrs. Leo A. Daly III

Mr. & Mrs. Richard Danziger

Mr. Robert Ellsworth

Mr. & Mrs. Giuseppe Eskenazi

Dr. & Mrs. Robert S. Feinberg

Mr. & Mrs. Irwin C. Gerson

Dr. Kurt A. Gitter & Ms. Alice Yelen

Mrs. Rolf Jacoby

Mr. Andrew Kahane

Madame Tomo Kikuchi

Ms. Misao Kikuchi

Mr. & Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. Simon Sin-Ming Kwan & Ms.
Penny Shin-Ting Cheung

The Honorable William & Mrs.
Leonhart

Mr. & Mrs. Robert Linowes

Mr. & Mrs. William R. Loomis, Jr.

Mr. & Mrs. Peter Marks

The Honorable George C. McGhee

Dr. & Mes. Stanton Nolan

Mr. & Mrs. David Osnos

Mr. & Mrs. Thomas J. Pritzker

Mr. & Mrs. Douglas Reeves

Dr. & Mrs. Kenneth Robbins

Mr. & Mrs. Benjamin Sokol

Mr. Saburo Takahashi

Mr. & Mrs. John C. Walton

Mrs. William S. Weedon

Ms. Shelby White

Mr. & Mrs. Phillip Zeidman

Mr. Benjamin Zucker

$250 or more

Nien Yuan Yao Cheng

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Donors of Financial Support

$10,000 or more

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Donors of In-Kind Support

Clinical Radiologists, P.A.
Xeroradiography equipment

<x

Ist
Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum Of Design

Donors of Financial Support

$50,000 or more

Barra Foundation

Estate of Helen Buckner
The J.M. Kaplan Foundation
Andrew Mellon Foundation
Steelcase Design Partnership

$10, 000 or more

General Electric Foundation

The Estate of Dona I. Guimaraes
The Hayden Family Foundation
Frank and Lisina Hoch

Mrs. John Jay Ide

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey M. Krueger
New York State Council on the Arts
The Overbrook Foundation

The Arthur Ross Foundation
Royal Copenhagen

Helena Rubinstein Foundation
The Charles E. Sampson Trust

$5, 000 or more

Mr. David Baird, Jr.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

Liz Claiborne Foundation
Consolidated Edison Co. of NY
Charles Engelhard Foundation
Drue Heinz Foundation

Peter Krueger-Christie’s Foundation
McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Herman Miller, Inc.

Newel Art Galleries Inc.

John M. Olin Foundation, Inc.
PRT Corporation of America
Mr. Gregory Wallance

$1, 000 or more

Didier Aaron, Inc.

Mrs. Robert C. Allen

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Altschul
American Portuguese Society
Anonymous Gift

Mrs. Brooke Astor

152

Elmer & Elenore Balaban Fund

William N. Banks Foundation

Ms. Anne H. Bass

Frederick Batrus Foundation

Beazero Materials & Services, Inc.

Mrs. Henry F. Berlin

Charles & Yvette Bluhdorn Charitable
Trust

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Bruckmann

Mrs. Walter Burke

Edward Lee Cave Inc.

Conde Nast Publications

Ms. Priscilla Cunningham

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Five Words, Inc.

Mr. David Fogelson

Lawrence M. Gelb Foundation, Inc.

Patrick A. Gerschel Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. S. Parker Gilbert

Mr. George Gillespie III

Clifford and Katherine Goldsmith Phil-
anthropic Fund

The I. Grace Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Martin D. Gruss

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Guittari

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Gutfreund

Mark Hampton Inc.

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Hearst Magazines

Hermes of Paris, Inc.

Noel Jeffrey, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson

Herman & Ruth Kahn Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Phyllis Lambert

John S. Latsis (USA) Inc.

Joe & Emily Lowe Foundation

Mrs. Maria N. Lyras

Mr. C. Richard MacGrath

Ms. Liselocte Millard

Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

Estate of Marion K. Morgan

Enid & Lester S. Morse Foundation

Ms. Pauline Nunen

The Alexander S. Onassis Center for
Hellenic Studies

Parish-Hadley Associates, Inc.

RWS Foundation

Frederick W. Richmond Foundation

Mr. Arthur Ross

Scalamandre Silks, Inc.

S.H. & Helen R. Scheuer Family
Foundation

F. Schumacher & Co.

Joseph E. Seagrams & Sons

The Sherrill Foundation

Stephen Sills, Inc.

William E. Simon Foundation
Ms. Frances Smyth

The Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund
Mr. and Mrs. Saul P. Steinberg
Robert A.M. Stern Architects
Ms. Nancy Arnot Taussig
Time-Warner, Inc.

Mr. Jonathan M. Tisch

Ms. Anna Glen B. Vietor

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Veronis
Wellington Foundation, Inc.
Pierre J. Wertheimer Foundation
John Wiley & Sons Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Randolph Williams

$500 or more

Mr. Fred M. Alger, III

Mr. and Mrs. O. Kelley Anderson, Jr.

Mr. William N. Banks

Mr. Josef Bartner

Mr. Maurice J. Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Birtley Brant, Jr.

Ms. Emily Bruce

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stafford Bryant

Mr. and Mrs. Carter Burden

Mr. Gregory P. Callimanopulos

Leo Castelli, Inc.

Ms. Judith L. Chiara

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Coumantaros

Mrs. Gardner Cowles

Mrs. Joan K. Davidson

Ms. Elizabeth de Cuevas

Diana Maxtone-Graham Interiors

The David Dreman Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony D. Duke

Mrs. Joanne du Pont

Mr. Albert I. Edelman

Forbes Foundation

Suzie Frankfurt, Inc.

Ms. Katherine A. Fuller

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Garavaglia

Golden Family Foundation

Ms. Joyce Golden

Mr. Harmon Goldstone

Good Neighbor Foundation, Inc.

Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates

Kitty Hawks, Inc.

Innocenti & Webel

Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson

Jed Johnson & Associates, Inc.

Josef Traffic Consulting & Expediting
Service, Inc.

_—
Mr. Harry Kahn

Mr. Peter H. Kaufman

Mr. Thomas L. Kempner

Ms. Kristen L. Kossmann

Mr. Theodore V. Kruckel, III

James A. Lebenthal 1983 Charitable
Lead Trust Fund

Ms. Michelle Smith Liss

Mr. Carl D. Lobell

Loving & Weintraub, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Donald B. Marron

J. Mavec & Company Ltd.

McRoberts Protective Agency, Inc.

Ms. Carol Mehler

Ms. Pauline Metcalf

Mrs. Damon Mezzacappa

Ms. Caroline Rennolds Milbank

Mr. Edward Munves, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. J. Brien Murphy

New York Building Supply Corp.

Mr. and Mrs. Derek Ostergard

Mr. and Mrs. Donald A. Petrie

Mr. William Rayner

Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton Robinson, Jr.

James Robinson, Inc.

Mr. Edwin G. Roos

Dr. and Mrs. Nathan E. Saint-Amand

Ms. Sheri S. Sandler

Ms. Laurie Schechter

Ms. Anne Schirrmeister

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Schoenfeld

Sean West Sculley & Associates
Architect

Dr. Philip Segal

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen R. Seiter

Mrs. Carl L. Selden

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Smith

Ms. Barbara Southerland

Mr. Thomas O. Stanley

Mr. Robert A. M. Stern

Mrs. Jane K. Stubbs

Mrs. Marietta E. Tree

United Industrial Corp.

Valentine Wildove & Co. Inc.

Van Cleef & Arpels, Inc.

Vernay & Jussel

Walker Group/CNI

Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Ward

Mr. Peter Warshaw

Mr. William A. Warshaw

Ms. Harriet Weintraub

Mr. Angus Wilkie

$250 or more

A La Vielle Russie, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Garett J. Albert

Mr. Robinson F. Alford

Mr. Nawaf Attar

Mr. Thomas Barr, IV

Ms. Claire M. Barry

Mr. Jonathan A. Berg

Mr. William Bernhard and Ms.
Catherine Cahill

Mr. Louis H. Blumengarten

Ms. Betty J. Bobrow

Mr. and Mrs. Marco Borghese

Ms. Elizabeth P. Borish

Mario Buatta Inc.

Mr. George Bush

Mr. Demosthenes M. Canakis

Mr. Chester Cleaver

Mr. James Coleman

The Cooper Union for the Advance-
ment of Science and Art

Mr. Niels Diffrient

T.R. Embry

Mr. Thomas P. Espy

Mrs. Thomas W. Estes

Mr. Robert Felner

Ms. Susan P. Firestone

Fonthill, Ltd.

Mr. Walter A. Forbes

Mr. Jamie Gibbs

Glorious Food, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Dudley J. Godfrey

Mr. Yves Gonnet

Mr. William Grant

Mr. James A. Hansen

Mr. August Heckscher

Ms. Vivian G. Heffran

Christopher Hyland, Inc.

Interbank of New York

Mr. Robert Jackson

Ms. Laura Johnson

Mr. Martin R. Kaufman

Ms. Margaret Kelly

Ms. Margaret L. Keon

Mr. Thomas P. Kikis

Ms. Moya B. King

Mr. David W. Knowlton

The H. Frederick Krimendahl II
Foundation

Peter Hans Kunz Company

Mr. Francis A. L Esperance, III

Mr. and Mrs. Treyton N. Laird

Ms. Demetra Lalaounis

Mr. David C. Lamb

Mr. Jack Lerner Larson

The Leslie Fay Companies, Inc.
Mr. David P. Linquist

Mr. Gregory R. Long

Mc. and Mrs. Paul C. Lowerre
Mr. Anthony T.F. Lundy

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Mailer-Howat
Mr. Peter Marino

Ms. Christina Mavrophilippas
Ms. Helen Mavrophilippas

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard McCarthy
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick McGee
Mr. and Mrs. James McGovern
Mitchell Energy & Dev. Corp.
Mr. Jerry Pantelidis

Charles Patteson Associates
Mr. Nicholas M. Pentecost

Mr. Douglas R. Peterson

Mr. James Phelan

Mrs. Beverly Lang Pierce

Ms. Mary Jane Pool

Trevor Potts Antiques, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip A. Powers
Priory Partners

Mr. Alan Quarterman

Ms. Carol Raskind

Mr. and Mrs. Scuart Ray

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore C. Rogers
Mr. Charles M. Royce

Mr. Julian F. Rundle

Mr. Steven Sampson

Mr. Peter Schaffer

Ms. Marilyn Seltzer

Ms. Whitney Sc. John

Ms. Lisa Stevens

Mr. Jeffrey T. Stevenson

Ms. Stephanie Stokes

Ms. Lida D. Sunderlan

Mr. John Tackett

Mr. Alan C. Tanksley

Mr. John H. Theodoracopulos
Ms. Charles D. Urstade

Ms. Alexandra Vartan

Ms. Helene Von Rosenstiel
Christopher Walling, Inc.

Mr. Kevin Ward

Grey Watkins, Ltd.

Dr. and Mrs. Leonard Weingarten
Ms. Eunice Williams

Ms. May Wohlman

Ms. Debra Wollens

Ms. Lisa R. Zenkel

Mrs. Mary Zimbalist

153
Donors to the Collection

Anonymous Donor. Eight fans of vari-
ous types. (1991-83-1-8).

Anonymous Donor. Invitation, Lino
Sabbattini, 1982. (1991-77-1).

Anonymous Donor. Woodcut book
illustrations, 16th century, German.
(1991-79-1-19)

Ms. Garance Aufaure. Inkwell made by
C. Greber ca. 1890, France. (1991-72-
1).

Mr. Hiroshi Awatsuji. Three printed
cottons designed by Hiroshi
Awatsuji, Japan, 1988. (1991-29-1-3).

Mr. Hiroshi Awatsuyji. Plates: “Miki,”
“Seki,” “Hana” designed by Hiroshi
Awatsuji; 1988, Japan. (1991-41-1-3).

Estate of Frederick N. Babbish. 196040
Italian furniture prototypes. (1991-94-
I-14).

Ms. Clothilde Bacri. “Nevada” Bowl; de-
signed by Hilton Mac Connico; 1987-
88, France. “Etrangetes” Table;
designed by Philippe Starck; 1988,
France. (1991-67-1,2).

Mrs. Maurice Benjamin. 25 architec-
tural renderings for furniture and in-
teriors by Jacques E. Kahn.
(1991-43-I-25).

Mrs. Edna Sloan Beron. Brooch by Olaf
Skoogfors, 1972, U.S.A. (1991-56-1)
Ms. Bonnie Bledsoe-Fuchs. Food mold:
“Jel-N-Serve,” manufactured by

Tupperware, 1960s/7s, Florida,
USS.A. (1991-33-1a/g).

Mr. Mel Byars. Wall clock designed by
George Nelson, 1949, U-S.A. (1991-
26-1).

Mr. Mel Byars. Collection of 20th cen-
tury furnishings and tablewares.
(1991-§9-I-178).

Carnegie Fabrics, Inc. Length of
XOREL. (1990-147-1a/e)

Cincinnati Art Museum. Wallpaper
lengths. (1990-129-I-34).

Ms. Marian Clayden. Fabric: “Garden
Path”; Sample; Shaw!: “Mendochino
Drift,” Grid; Bele; produced by Mar-
ian Clayden. (1991-87-1)

Ms. Margaret Corey. Fragment of a bro-
caded silk used and possibly woven
in Russia, 19th c. (1991-24-1)

Mrs. Rosemary Corroon. Pin: Bird and
Floral Spray, 19th century, England.

154

Gift in memory of Elizabeth Lewis
Murray. (1991-50-1).

Creation Baumann. Two fabrics pro-
duced by Creation Baumann, Switzer-
land “Metalon Print” and “Ortis.”
(1991-23-I,2).

Davis, Brody & Assoc. (Mr. Lewis Davis
and William H. Paxson) Doghouse,
plans and model. (1991-16-1-6).

Ms. Michele Oka Doner. Eight silver,
two bronze buttons designed by Mi-
chele Oka Doner and Jorden Doner;
1990. (1991-38-I-10).

Mr. David Dufour. Brass dish, ca. 1884-
90. (1990-144-1)

Mr. Thomas Ettinghausen. Mirror de-
signed by Jim Dine. Gift in memory
of Richard Ettinghausen. (1990-169-
I).

Ms. Georgina von Etzdorf. Four invita-
tions, Stormy Weather, Rhythm,
Fan, and Blue Heaven, designed by
G. von Etzdorf. (1991-36-1-4).

Ms. Frances Ferguson and Mr. Walter
Ben Michaels. 20 panels of a French
scenic paper, “The Races,” produced
by the Zuber Company and designed
by Jean-Julian Delcil. (1991-104-1a/cc)

Ms. Monique Fink. “Cachet” perfume
advertising. (1990-149-I-12).

Ms. Monique Fink. Prototypes of per-
fume bottles. Gift in memory of
Peter Fink. (1991-6I-I-14).

Ms. Jacqueline Fowler. Sample of
printed fabric designed by Josef
Hoffmann, early 20th c. (1991-88-1).

Mrs. Elsa Freund. Three-strand necklace
by Elsa Freund, 1948, Florida, U.S.A.
(1991-40-1).

Gallery 91. Stool designed by Takenobu
Igarashi, 1989. (1990-163-1)

Ms. Cora Ginsberg. Strip of parchment
for the making of needlelace with lace
sull attached, England, late 17th c.

Ms. Dorothy Globus. “Picnic Kit” of
wooden eating utensils. (1990-130-I-
20).

Mr. Edward Goldman. Book of foil and
vinyl wallpaper samples. (1990-30-1-
109).

Mr. Nicholas Goldsmith & Ali Tayar.
Drawings for “Pup Tent” doghouse
design. (1990-154-1).

Mr. and Mrs. Eitel Groetschke. Suite of
jewerly by Frank Rebajes. Gift in

memory of Pauline and Frank
Rebajes. (1990-138-1-3).

Mr. Gerald Gulotta. Drawings, photo-
stats of teapots designed by Gerald
Gulosta, 1985 and 1987, U.S.A. (1991-
78-I-13).

Estate of Dona Guimaraes. Album of
holiday cards/Victorian ephemera.
(1991-20-1).

Estate of Dona Guimaraes. Embossed
card of trophies. (1991-20-2).

Ms. Julia Haiblen. Sugar bowl and
cream pitcher made by A.H. Heisey
& Co. ca. 1913-35, Ohio, U.S.A. (1991-
7-1,2)

Ms. Julia Haiblen. Pair of candlesticks
made by Chase, U.S.A. (199I-13-1,2)

Ms. Julia Haiblen. Toothbrush and
holder designed by Philippe Starck
ca. 1990. (1991-49-1a/c)

Mr. Paul Haigh. Drawings for “All-See-
ing Eye Doghouse” design. (1990-155-
1).

Ms. Titi Halley. Strip of parchment for
the making of needlelace, 17th cen-
cury, England. (1991-85-1).

Ms. Jody Harrow. Samples of furnishing
fabric designed and printed by Jody
Harrow. (1990-160-1)

Heberlein Textildruck. Three lengths of
printed fabric, one sample. (1990-132-
I-4).

Mrs. Jane Hershey. Necklaces, “Totem”
“Abacus,” neckring; by Elsa Freund,
1955-65, Florida, U.S.A. (1991-39-1,2)

Mrs. Eugene Hines. “Murphy” Dinette.
(1990-156-1)

Mr. Paul Hollister. Luncheon cloth with
map of night spots. (1990-146-1)

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Hoockin, Ms.
Maria Friedrich. “Oka Chair” de-
signed by Michele Oka Doner; 1989,
U.S.A. (1991-73-D).

Mrs. John Jay Ide. Drawing, Project for
an English Landscape Garden ca.
1775, French School. Gift in memory
of John Jay Ide. (1991-44-1).

Intair. Two fabrics produced by Intair,
“Shari” and “Random.” (1991-19-1,2)

Interarts. Clothing and maps made of
map-printed tyvek; produced by Es-
selte Map Service; Sweden. (1991-14-1-
7)

Jacques Jugeat, Inc. Glassware,
“Pomerol” pattern. Produced by

—_
Cristalleries de Saint-Louis; 1925,
France. (1991-96-1-5)

Miss Ann Kandel. Peep-show and case,
“Her Majesty's Silver Jubilee.” (1990-
148-1a,b).

Dr. Ellery Karl. Seven labels for to-
bacco, Scotten, Dillon Co., late
19th/early 20th century, U.S.A. (1991-
76-1-7).

Mr. Robert Kelly. Wallpaper label, “Les
Vues De Suisse” manufactured by
Zuber & Cie, 1900-25, France. (199I-
35-1).

Knoll International. Stacking chairs,
chest of drawers, diamond chair,
chair, stool. (1990-139-1-6)

Knoll International. Length of printed
fabric “Grandmother Pattern” de-
signed by Robert Venturi, produced
by Knoll. (1990-162-1)

Knoll International. Venturi “Chippen-
dale” chair designed by Robert Ven-
turi, 1984, U.S.A. (1991-6-1)

Koch & Lowy, Inc. Retracable desk
lamp, “Jazz,” designed by Ferdinand
Alexander Porsche, Milan, Italy.
(1991-12-1)

Koch & Lowy, Inc. Lamp, “Edipo,” de-
signed by Mario Barbaglia and
Marco Colombo, 1990, Italy. (1991-28-
1)

Ms. Lisa Krohn. Prototype wrist com-
puter or “Regional Information and
Communication Port” designed by
Lisa Krohn, 1988, U.S.A. (1991-64-
I).

Mr. Paul Laird. Drawings for poster de-
signs by E. McKnight Kauffer. (1991-
22-I-5).

Mr. Arthur Lindo and Jay Loebel. “Tran-
sistor Phonoradio,” manufactured by
Tact ca. 1960s, Japan. (1991-92-1).

Ms. Suzanne Lipschutz. 278 rolls of
mass produced American and Cana-
dian wallpapers circa 1930-1970.
(1991-89-1-278)

Ms. Elisabeth Little. Cup and saucer of
“American Modern” designed by
Russell Wright, 1939-59, Ohio,
U.S.A. (1991-8-1).

Ms. Phyllis Dearborn Massar. Festival
Designs for July 14 Celebration,
1830's, Felix Duban. Purchase with
assistance from Ms. Massar. (1991-17-
1-20).

Mr. David McFadden. Trade catalogue
for “Mobilitet,” Norwegian Ind. Dev.
Co, 20th century. (1991-I-1).

Mr. David McFadden. Disposable ra-
zors; mousetrap; money clip; tooth-
brush; peeler. (1991-91-1-27)

Mr. David McFadden. Necklace,
1940s/1950s, France. (1991-48-1).

Mr. Charles W. Moore. Four views of
“Flea Folly” doghouse by Charles W.
Moore, 1990, U.S.A. (1991-15-I-4).

Mr. Carlo Moretti. Glasses, “Calici
Natale 1990,” made by Carlo Moretti
Studio, Italy. (1991-75-1-6)

Ms. Gillian Moss. Printed ribbon,
“Smile,” produced by Offray, 1980s,
U.S.A. (1991-5 4-1).

Mr. Josef Mrozek. Milk jug, warming
stand manufactured by Villeroy &
Boch, ca. 1930, Germany. (1991-34-1,2)

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Murgio. Archive
of William Metzig.(1991-80-1).

Ms. Sue Palmer. Fabric: “Chrome City,”
“Jeweled Sky,” “Tree of Life” de-
signed by Sue Palmer. (1991-57-1-3)

Ms. Dianne H. Pilgrim. “Braquette” ad-
juscable frame designed by Nathan
Horwitt ca. 1960-70, U.S.A. (1991-4-
I).

Ms. Cynthia Plaut. A roll of wallpaper
circa 1925.

Mr. Marc Rabun. A fragment of imita-
tion leather paper circa 1880. (1991-82-
1).

Robbe & Berking Silber. Cutlery,
“Edo,” designed by Bibs Hosak-
Robb, Germany. (1991-65-1-4).

Mr. John V. Rowan, Jr. Teapot, by
Gorham, ca. 1880, U.S.A. Gift in
memory of Winifred D. Shrubsole.
(1991-63-1).

Royal Copenhagen A/S Denmark. Cup
and saucer designed by Vivianna
Torun Bulow-Hube, ca. 1989, Den-
mark. (1991-93-1,2)

Mrs. Berta Rudofsky. Printed fabric,
“Fractions” designed by Bernard
Rudofsky U.S.A., 1950-51. (1991-101-
1)

Ms. Deborah S. Shinn. Portable hair
dryer. (1990-131-1a,b)

Mr. William Shopsin. Set of men's toi-
letries, “Nine Flags,” distributed by
Colton Co., late 1960's, U.S.A. (1991-
71-1-7)

Smart Design Inc. (Tucker Viemeister,
Tom Dair, and Peter Stathis). Draw-
ings for “Lassie Come Home” dog-
house. (1991-2-1).

Mc. Harvey Smith. Two fabrics indigo
resist dyed, designed by Harvey
Smith, ca. 1945. (1991-86-1,2)

Mr. Milton Sonday. Four printed rib-
bons produced by Offray, ca. 1990.
(1991-55-1-4)

Mr. Milton Sonday. Invitation from
champagne cocktail. (1991-**-1)

Sophis Systems. Woven images of Pope
John Paul II and a head by Botticelli.
(1990-145-1,2)

Emily and Jerry Spiegel. Festival De-
signs for July 14 Celebration, 1830s,
Felix Duban. Purchase with assis-
tance from the Spiegel. (1991-17-1-20).

Mr. Eddie Squires. Fabric designed and
printed by David Exley, England,
1971-72.

Mr. Eddie Squires. Fabric: “Lunar
Rocket,” “Squash,” “Cat and Tinned
Eye.” (1991-102-1-3)

Mr. Eddie Squires. Printed cotton de-
signed by David Exley for Twigs, San
Francisco, 1984.

Mr. Eddie Squires. Length of printed
fabric with nautical motifs, England,
1950's.

Mr. Eddie Squires. Sample length of
printed fabric: “Bassetts's Licorice
Allsorts,” England, late 1930's or
early 1940's.

Mr. Eddie Squires. Length of printed
fabric “Caylx” designed by Lucienne
Day, England 1951.

Mr. Eddie Squires. Two woven furnish-
ing fabrics produced by Morton Sun-
dour, England, 1930's.

Mr. Eddie Squires. T-shirt designed and
printed by David Exley, 1984-86.

Mrs. Alice Stern. Plate with armorial
devices made by Vieillard & Cie, late
19th century, France. (1991-51-1).

Ms. Margaret Stern. Tartanware, Scot-
land, from the collection of Preston
R. Bassett. (1990-153-I-14).

Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor. “Healy Gold” ta-
bleware manufactured by Chryso Ce-
ramics, ca. 1900, U.S.A. (199I-I-I-7).

Mr. Dalmar Adams Tifft. Collection of
endpapers, 18th, 19th, 20th centuries,

various countries. (1991-3-I-13).

155
Mr. Everett Turk. Samples of fabrics pro-
duced by Auburn Fabrics under the
direction of Everett Turk. (1991-25-I-
26).

Various Donors. Posters, ca. 1970-81,
U.S.A. (1991-69-I-126).

Vereinigte Werkstatten. Sample book of
warp dyed velvet, “Rigato.” (1990-
161-1).

Mr. Dennis Vincelette. Wallpapers
squares circa 1969. (1991-95-1-9)

Mr. David Wallance and Mr. Gregory
Wallance. Archive of Don Wallance.
(1991-81-1)

Mr. Paul FE Walter. Tableware. (1991-30-
1-56)

Mr. Paul F Walter. “Fiesta” tableware
designed by Frederick H. Rhead, ca.
1940-60, U.S.A. (1991-68-1-14).

Warner Fabrics. Selection of fabrics.
(1991-103-I-19)

Ms. Faith D. Waterman. Two embroi-
dered bags, Vienna, 1890's. (1991-74-1,2)

Ms. Faith D. Waterman. Belt slides, buck-
les, 1920-40, France. (1991-70-1-7).

Mr. Henry Walter Weiss. Plate, teapot,
sugarbowl, cream pitcher. Gift in
memory of Eleanor Breckir. (1990-
168-1-4).

Westnofa U.S.A. “Siesta” chair and foor-
stool designed by Ingmar Relling,
1965, Orsta, Norway. (1991-5-1,2)

WMF Aktiengesellschaft. Cutlery, “Park
Avenue" designed by Matteo Thun ca.
1990, Germany. (1991-37-1-4).

WMF Aktiengesellschaft. Flatware,
“Celona” pattern designed by Franz
Lipp, 1991, Germany. (1991-66-1-4).

Donors of In-Kind Support

Mr. Fred M. Alger, III. $500 underwrit-
ing for June 3rd benefic.

Aqua Libra. 10 cases of Aqua Libra for
special events.

Arnell/Bickford Associates. Design and
printing of invitations for the Junior
Committee benefit.

Jim Beam Brands Co. Two cases of whis-
key for special events.

Benetton Cosmetics Corporation. 350
bottles of Male/Female cologne used
as party favors.

Brunschwig and Fils. Fabric for the Ju-
niot Committee benefit decor.

156

Mr. Mario Buatta. 350 samples of honey-
suckle potpourri used as party favors
for che June 3rd benefit.

Carillon Importers, Ltd. Two cases each
of Absolut Citron and Bombay Sap-
phire used for special events.

Crabtree and Evelyn. 350 soap samples
used as party favors.

Greek National Tourist Organization.
350 1990 Greece tourist books.

HG Magazine. 500 magazines for the
June 3rd benefit.

J. Mavec and Company, Ltd. 150 gift
bags.

Pantone Foundation. Speaker fees and
lunch for lecture.

San Pellegrino Sparkling Natural Min-
eral Water. 25 cases of mineral water
for special events.

F. Schumacher & Co. 350 date books
and 350 gift bags for the June 3rd
benefit.

Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden

Donors of Financial Support

$10,000 or more
Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual
Arts

Awards in the Visual Arts
Robert Lehrman

$5, 000 or more

BMW of North America
Washington Past

$1,000 or more

Art Promotion Service Ltd.

$500 or more

James T. Demetrion
Florence Miller
Sigmar Polke

Donors to the Collection

Robert Arneson. General Nuke, 1985,
glazed ceramic and bronze on granite
base, by Robert Arneson (90.12).

Ronald and Fraya Feldman. A Ship of
Fools or A Wooden Skyscraper for the
Jolly Company, 1988-90, etching on
paper, by Alexander Brodsky and Ilya
Uckin (91.10).

Agnes Gund. Ascension, 1945, painted
wood, brass, and metal, by Theodore
Roszak (91.12).

Agnes Gund (50% interest). The
Brueghel Series (A Vanitas of Style)
Monochrome, Second Version, 1982-85,
oil on canvas, by Pat Steir (91.14).

Agnes Gund (50% interest). Contact,
1982, enamel on honeycomb fiber-
glass panel with aluminum fasteners,
by Robert Ryman (91.13).

Agnes Gund. Lure II, 1979, paper and
copper leaf on balsa wood frame, by
Bryan Hunt (91.11).

Olga Hirshhorn. Various books to the
museum's library.

Gordon Locksley and George T. Shea.
Untitled II, 1987, cast iron, by Win
Knowlton (90.25).

Manya Machado. Untitled (Circus Scene),
1936, woodcut on paper, by Chaim
Gross (90.24).

Robert Moskowitz. Untitled, 1961, rab-
bit-skin glue, pure pigment, and col-
lage on canvas, by Robert Moskowitz
(90.20).

Donors of In-Kind Support

Balair. Service gift of director's transpor-
tation to and from Switzerland.

Nathana Josephs. Donation of San Pelle-
grino mineral water for special events.

National Air and
Space Museum

Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

McDonnell Douglas Corporation

—_
Lotus Development Corporation
Alfred Sloan foundation

$ 50, 000 or more

Estate of Pauline Edwards
Fokker Aircraft U.S.A., Inc.

$10, 000 or more

Allstate Insurance Company

Airline Pilots Association

International Association of Amuse-
ment Parks and Attractions

American Society of Neuroradiology

Barnes Group Inc.

The Emil Buehler Trust

Columbia Pictures

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems Inc.

Delsey Luggage Inc.

Fairchild Space & Defense Corporation

Tak Inagaki Productions, Inc.

Johnson & Johnson

Eastman Kodak Company

Lutron Electronics Co., Inc.

Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.

MITRE Corporation

National Space Club

Prudential Asset Management Company

Rockwell International

Romanoff International, Inc.

Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation

SNECMA, Inc.

Telectronics Pacing Systems, Inc.

United AirLines

United States League of Savings
Institutions

Whirlpool Corporation

$5,000 or more

Allied Specialty Insurance, Inc.
Estate of Ralph S. Barnaby
Bob's Space Racers, Inc.

Mr. & Mrs. Milton Brechner
Open Systems Conference Board

$ 1,000 or more

Eaton Foundation
Roderick and Edith McColl

$500 or more

Capital Informer
Ruben E Mettler
Helen J. McCray

$250 or more

American Medical Association
Mildred W. Kirby
Christopher H. Stetser

Donors to Collections

Albert Aikin: Washington Airlines cap-
tain uniform, male, c. 1968 (3 items).

Louise Beatty: Endurance trophy and
plaque.

Jean Begley Bluestien: Continental Air-
lines flight attendant uniform, fe-
male, c. 1941 (7 items).

Madame Chu Ching-ho: Chinese wind
toys (2 items)

Patricia L. Cunnington: Braniff Incerna-
tional flight attendant uniform, fe-
male, c. 1965 (8 items)

Rowland Emmett: Luna Cycle sculp-
ture.

Mrs. Norman Faraldo: Pan American
Airlines pennant, c. 1928.

June Freemazon: Pratt & Whitney R-
4360 B6 engine.

Estate of Constance Morss Fiske: 72 bal-
looning prints.

Victor Hess: Wulf Electroscope

Robert Matheny: Mixed media
sculpture.

Joyce Maxson: German Zeppelin L-49
altimeter.

Victoria McLaughlin: Piedmont Air-
lines summer and winter flight acten-
dant uniforms, female, c. 1989 (16
items).

Robert C, Mikesh: relief map of South
Korea.

National Space Development Agency of
Japan: H-I and H-II launch vehicles.

Northrop Corporation: painting, oil on
canvas.

Raymond E. Oliver: memorabilia from
Eastern Airlines (4 items).

Fred W. Patterson, III: Goodyear
ZPG2K Airship Car Assembly.

Louis R. Purnell: USAAF 99th Squad-

ron memorabilia (9 items); two

Campaigne medals, one Victory
medal, WW II.

Royal Air Force Museum: Four
Hispano-Suiza aircraft cannons.

Herbert Russell: four American Air-
lines flight attendant uniforms,
male, c. 1976-86 (39 items).

San Diego Aerospace Museum: Peugeot
V-8 engine and parts.

Stephanie L. Sands: Delta Airlines
Flight Attendant uniform, c. 1961 (4
items).

Gerald Saxton: Radial Pitcarin Brewer
engine.

William F. Seals: Braniff International
Airlines captain uniform, male, c.
1982 (5 items).

Thomas B. Settle: Radio microphone.

Alan C. Stoddart: Flight clothing and
avionics (18 items)

University of Arizona, Spectra Physics
Lab: Infrared spectrometer (4 items).

US Army Center of Military History,
Museum Division: Hermes A3A
missile.

US Army, Missile Command, MICOM:
Pershing II missile and erector-
launcher.

US Navy: F8D Weapon Systems Trainer

US Ordnance Museum, Aberdeen: Sig-
nal Rocket Parachute, WW I.

Richard Webb: Captain Midnight mem-
orabilia, c. 1954 (13 items)

Jim Webster: US Air Officer uniform,
male, c. 1986 (6 items)

Donors of In-Kind Support

ERDAS, Inc.: ERDAS software to be
utilized by Sun Workstations in the
“Center For Earth And Planetary Sci-
ences” exhibit.

Northwest Airlines: airline tickets for
official travel of “NASM Staff
Members.”

RasterOps Corporation: two RasterOps
SPARC Card TC PIP Boards to im-
prove Sun Sparc Station Equipment for
“The Laboratory For Astrophysics.”

United Airlines: tickets for official
travel of “NASM Staff Member.”

Whirlpool Corporation: two clothes
washers and two clothes dryers “for
fabric washing and drying,” at both
NASM and Garber Facilities.

197
National Museum of
African Art

Donors of Financial Support

$10,000 or more
Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Benenson

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Rosenthal
Shell Oil Company Foundation

$1, 000 or more
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Nooter

Mrs. Delilah Pierce
Mrs. Carl Selden

$500 or more

Noah-Sadie K. Wachtel Foundation

$100 or more

Mrs. Alma Parker
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Pierce

Donors to the Collection

Annie Laurie Aitken Charitable Trust.
Baga drum (1991-O1-001).

Anonymous donor. Textile (1990-11-001).

Anonymous donor. Collection of 10 util-
itarian objects (1991-03-O01-010).

Anonymous donor. Adze (1991-09-001).

Dr. Ernst Anspach. Headdress pair
(1991-08-001.001,.002).

Dr. Ernst Anspach. Cross (1991-10-001).

The Frances & Benjamin Benenson
Foundation. Baga drum (1991-O1-001)

David C. Driskell. Baga drum (1991-01-
ool).

Evelyn A. J. Hall Charitable Trust.
Baga drum (1991-01-00)).

Clive H. Fetzer. Lidded basket (1990-13-
oo1).

Ruth Lippman. Figure of Mother and
Child (1990-12-001).

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Nooter. Baga
drum (199I-O1-001).

Barry and Beverly Pierce. Baga drum
(I99I-OI-O01).

158

Warren Robbins. Portfolio of nine
Bruce Onabrakpeya deep etchings
(1991-11-001—009).

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Silver. Baga drum
(1991-O1-001).

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich.
Baga drum (1991-O1-001).

National Museum of
American Art

Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

National Institute for Conservation of
Culcural Property
The Henry Luce Foundation

$ 50,000 or more

Estate of Pauline Edwards
James Renwick Alliance

£10,000 or more

David Schwartz Foundation, Inc.

Consolidated Natural Gas Company
Foundation

Mobil Foundation, Inc.

The Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L. Rass, Jr.

US West Foundation

Samuel and Anita Kremen

Summers Group

Western Development Corporation

Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher

Sara Roby Foundation

Frost Foundation of Jewish Philanthropy

J. Kent and Marcia D. Minichiello

Abramson Family Foundation

Peter T. Joseph Foundation

Max Kade Foundation

$5, 000 or more

Nan Tucker McEvoy Foundation, Inc.
Winston-Salem Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jon A. Shirley

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin

Me. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul

Overbrook Foundation

Rita and Daniel Fraad Foundation, Inc.

William R. and Nora H. Lichtenberg
Foundation

$1,000 or more

Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald P. Peters

Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Millhouse

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Rambach

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams

Spanierman Gallery

Mr. David S. Purvis

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

The Honorable Joseph P. Carroll and
Mrs. Carroll

Mr. and Mrs. Dale F Dorn

The Douglass Foundation

The Barney Ebsworth Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Mitchell

The Pfeil Family Foundation

Ms. Joan M. Whalen

Mr. Eli Wilner and Ms. Barbara Brennan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Rachlin

Mr. Samuel Rose

Jay R. Scanlon

Mr. Edward Wilson

Michael Altman

Richard A. Miller

Harry N. Abrams Inc.

Karen Johnson Boyd

Bernice and David E. Davis

Raymond and Elizabeth Goetz

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. Stephan Levine

Mr. Frank Ribelin

The Honorable John D. Rockefeller IV
and Mrs. Rockefeller

Joel Simon

Alan B. Slifka Foundation, Inc.

Clune J. Walsh, Jc.

1991 Washington Craft Show

Donors to the Collection

Anne and Ronald Abramson

James E. Allen

Stephen S. Alpert

American Indian Heritage Foundation

Anton Gallery

Art-in-Architecture Program, U.S. Gen-
eral Services Administration

—_
Franz Bader

Patria Baranski

Henry Bauer

Derrick Joshua Beard

Hermine and Lloyd Beck

Annie and Mike Belkin

Bruce Bennett

Dr. and Mrs. David K. Berler

Terry Braunstein

Dr. and Mrs. Warren D. Brill

Thomas and Judith Brody

Byron Burford

Mrs. Martha Ferguson Butler

Campbell-Thiebaud Gallery

C. Philip Cardiero

Carl Hammer Gallery

Gary Cawood

J. B. Chadwick

Harryette and Marcus Cohn

Alice Henderson Colquitt

Carlton Colquitt

Consolidated Natural Gas Company
Foundation

The Joseph and Robert Cornell Memo-
tial Foundation

George Dalsheimer

Robert T. Denton

Helen Williams Drutt English

John and Gail Enns

Ken and Donna Fadeley

Mrs. Richard Fairbanks

Donald Farnsworth

Lorser Feitelson and Helen Lundeberg
Feitelson Arts Foundation

Trudy Luria Fleisher

Glen Foss

Estelle E. Friedman

Nancy Genn

Joseph Goldyne

Mackenzie and Barbara W. Gordon

Paula Hackeling

R. Philip Hanes

Sarah and Edward Hansen

Mrs. Louis Hardin

Mary Peterson Hartzler and James
Hartzler

Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

Lloyd E. Herman

Anthony Louis Hernandez

Jane Hershey

James F. Hilleary

Jem and Betty E. Hom

Naomi Huber-Brown

Mr. Imagination

Connie Imboden

Henderson Inches

James Renwick Alliance

Janet Fleisher Gallery

Bebe Pritam Johnson

Louis and Linda Kaplan

Mr. and Mrs. Kirkeby

Bernard and Shirley Koteen

Howard Kortler

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel Kremem

the Lab School of Washington

Don Lambert

Jane Warren Larson

Mrs. Amy Freeman Lee

Robert Lehrman

Marcia Lewis

William C. Loring

David C. Lund

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Luria

Magnolia Editions

Dr. Frank Mainzer

Salvatore Mancini

Eluid Martinez

Jane and Arthur K. Mason

Dr. Thomas Anthony Mathews

Mrs. Dorothy L. McGuire

Robert E. and Jane Meyerhoff

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher S. Middendorf

Betty Millard

Mr. and Mrs. James Mitchell

Helen Oliver Morriss

Kenneth Noland

Marjorie Nordlinger

Mr. and Mrs. John Ollman

William Paris

Dixie Parker-Fairbanks

Paul and Elmerina Parkman

Beverly Pepper

Mr. and Mrs. Curtis Pepper

Matt Phillips

Pearl E. Phillips

Alexander L. and Frances J. Pickens

Jules D. Prown

Henry Ward Ranger, bequest through
the National Academy of Design

Walter Rich

Doris Rief

Kirby Rodriguez

Jean Rose

Eleanor T. and Samuel J. Rosenfeld

Harold Rubenstein

the Ruhe family

Collection of Dr. and Mrs. Isidore M.
Samuels

Emilio Sanchez

Jay Scanlon

Tennyson Schad

Larry W. Schwarm

Robin Schwartz

Bill Scott

Robert Seder and Deborah Harmon-
Seder

Roger Shimomura

Mrs. Mitchell Siporin

Dr. Alvin Smith

Joshua P. Smith

Norvel and Mary Perry Smith

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Services

John V. Snow

Mr. and Mrs. Vladen Stiha

Cornelia Jane Strawser

Byron and Susan Swift

Nancy Karlins Thoman and Mark
Thoman

Anna Wall Thomas

Mrs. Josephene C. Thornton

Vladimir and Eileen Toumanoff

Charles F. and Robin L. Turner

Rose Mary Wadman

June Wayne

Wight Art Gallery

Donald and Carol Wilken

Mrs. Alice T. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Tessim Zorach

Stanley and Eleanor Zuckerman

National Museum of
American History

Donors to the Collection

Richard E. Ahlborn: badge identifying
a Christian Gypsy “Ambassador for
Christ” (1989.0490); cowhide-covered
wooden trunk with calico lining and
fitted with Spanish style hardware
made in California about 1850
(1989.0551).

John Aiello: silver-plated coin of
Ephesus, 202-133 B.C. (1991.0173).
Government of Aicutaki, Aicucaki Post

Office: 8 stamps, 2 first day covers, 2
souvenir sheets of Aitutaki
(1989.0451); 6 stamps, 2 first day cov-
ers, and 2 souvenir sheets of Aicutaki

199
(1990.0019); first day cover and a sou-
venir sheet of Aitutaki (1990.0518).

Albany International, Appleton Wire
Division (through Philip E. Adessa):
5 samples of woven wire cloth used in
papermaking (1990.0559).

Stephen Album: gold dinar of the
Mongol IIkanid ruler Baidu ibn Ter-
aghai ibn Hulagu, 1295 (1990.0263); 3
medals of the Pomona Valley Coin
Club, 1965, and 2 medals of the Cali-
fornia Numismatic Association, 1976
(1990.0565); gold dinar of Al Sayyida
Arwa, A.D. 1099-138, of Sulayhid,
the post-Abbasid dynasty of Yemen
(1990.0602).

Allegheny County Health Department
(through Lawrence W. Dunn, Pete
Flaherty, and Tom Foerster): 88 in-
structional phonograph records about
health, 5 pharmaceuticals, 2 badges, a
polariscope, sterilizer, and an air sam-
pler (1990.0698).

Darlene J. and James T. Allred: 3 linen
table napkins used on the S.S. United
States (1991.0395).

Alza Corporation (through Clarisa
Peer): 3 different models of the Alzet
osmotic pump and a technical infor-
mation manual (1991.0046).

American Numismatic Association
(through Kenneth L. Hallenbeck): 2
medals commemorating the dedica-
tion of the expanded headquarters of
the American Numismatic Associa-
tion on June 10, 1982 (1991.05).

American Red Cross (through Mary D.
Doering): American Red Cross
librarian’s uniform dress, shirt, and
overcoat of WW II (1990.0386).

American Security Council (through
John M. Fisher): 4 videotape cassettes
and 2 newspaper pages with “Peace
Through Strength” messages
(1986.0143).

Ernest M. Ametistov: WW II era card
marked “Solidarity Greeting From
American Workers” (1990.0560).

Amherst College, Department of The-
ater and Dance (through Prof. Su-
zanne P. Dougan): woman's dress
labeled “Kate Manuel dress reform
artist, Chicago,” 1880-95 (1990.0490).

Bettee-Aynn Amsterdam in honor of
Bernard and Ruth Amsterdam: 50

160

items of woman's clothing and acces-
sories worn by Ruth Miriam Samson
Amsterdam from about 1940 to 1981

(1990.0436).

Rev. John F. Andrews: 2 U.S. Bicenten-
nial first day covers (1988.0786).

Anoka County Historical Society
(through Pat Schwappach): leaflet
from the Dewey-Warren Presidential-
Vice Presidential campaign, 1948
(1991.3007).

Anonymous: 4 fabrics, 2 weaving kits, 2
pattern books, a tablecloth and 6
matching napkins, skirt and sweater
kit, an “acorn” cluster, basket, pack-
age of knitted cuffs and a varnished
white cotton crochetted cup
(1989.0288); linen towel with red em-
broidery labeled “Elizabeth Lehman,
1856” and a pair of linen stockings
hand-knitted by Hannah Judson in
the 19th century (1989.0477);
woman's black jet-beaded jersey
sweater, 1879-89 (1990.0617); alumi-
num and glass candy dish made by
Rodney Kent and Kirscher Metal
Products Company of Brooklyn, New
York, 1950s (1991.0124).

Government of Antiqua, Barbuda De-
pendency, Barbuda Post Office, Phila-
telic Bureau: 62 stamps and 9 first
day covers of Barbuda (1988.0485); 12
stamps and 2 first day covers of Bar-
buda (1989.0317); 16 stamps and 2
first day covers of Barbuda
(1989.0414); 45 stamps and 9 first day
covers of Barbuda (1990.0048); 22
stamps and 4 covers of Barbuda
(1990.0415).

Nicholas Anton: 208 electron tubes and
radiation detection instruments de-
signed and developed by Mr. Anton,
1920s-1970s. (1986.0794).

Amalie A. Ascher: 66 folders and
boxes of archival material related to
Charles Adler, Jr.'s career as an engi-
neer and inventor of traffic control
and safety devices, 1920-80
(1990.3049).

Arthur R. Ashe, Jr.: Head tennis rac-
quet used by Mr. Ashe in worldwide
tennis competition, ca. 1975
(1991.0178).

Burton E. Ashley: Burroughs Wellcome
hypodermic syringe kit and a box of

quinine bihydrochloride ampules,
1930s (1988.0726).

Earsel V. Atchley: cello stand made in
19th-century New England
(1991.0078).

AT&T Bell Laboratories, Archives
(through Sheldon Hochheiser): 3-
piece millimeter wave guide
(1990.0211).

Augustana College, Department of
Physics (through Dr. David Renneke
and Dean Harold W. Sundelius): re-
flecting circle of about 1800, mid-
19th-century wave motion
demonstration lantern slide, ceramic
rule divided into British and Pyra-
mid inches, ca. 1870, and an early
zoth-century celestial globe
(1987.0196).

Australia Post, International Postal Af-
fairs (through K. A. Durbin): mail
delivery staff's hat and a mailbag
used in Australia (1990.0148).

Austrian Mint (through Director Berger
and Director Tichy): silver Austrian
500-schilling commemorating Egon
Schiele, 1990 (1990.0531).

Todd M. Axelrod: violin bow made by
Henryk Kaston, 1989 (1991.0133); vio-
lin bow stamped “W. E. Hill & Sons”
(1991.0231).

Waldemar A. Ayres (through Roderic
R. Dorsett): working prototype of
the Word Writing Machine invented
by Mr. Ayres (1990.0358).

George Bakhchiev: 2 phonograph re-
cord albums of Duke Ellington's
“Second Sacred Concert” issued in
the Soviet Union in 1968
(1990.3173).

Susan Balent: hand towel marked “Pull-
man 1927” (1990.0640).

Guy D. Ball: Sharp Model EL-8 hand-
held electronic calculator, ca. 1971
(1991.0154).

Bally Manufacturing Corporation
(through Neil E. Jenkins): 38
games, pieces of clothing, food, and
personal, household, and school ac-
cessories with the Pac-Man and Ms.
Pac-Man logos (1990.3099).

David W. Bandy: copy of Mr. Bandy’s
thesis titled The History of the Royal
Hawaiian Band, 1836-1980
(1989.3126).

_
Paul Baran and Worthie L. Doyle: 9
sets of punch cards, 3 information
documents, a notebook of programs,
roll of 35mm film, and a set of charts
(1990.3046).

Lewis W. Barber: 47 uniform items,
small personal accessories, and docu-
ments (1979.0427).

Roberta S. Barnes in memory of Alfred
B. and Lillian S. Goodall: 30 steel
and 4 acetate recording discs of the
1930s (1986.3034).

Kermit Baumgartner: 30 pieces of uni-
form clothing, accessories, and mem-
orabilia of Mr. Baumgartner's
attendance at Fork Union Military
Academy, 1961-65, and participation
in the Civil Air Patrol (1978.2212).

Fannie V. and Richard J. Beall: 4
wooden window stops of the 1920s
and a Universal chrome-plated elec-
tric toaster of 1928 (1991.0001).

Dita Davis Beard: 12 documents and a
guidon fragment from the U.S.
Army career of Col. Robert Davis
and a facsimile copy of “The Star-
Spangled Banner” by Francis Scott
Key (1982.0645).

Dr. Barbara Beierl: WW I bond drive
membership flag (1991.0076).

Bell of Pennsylvania (through W. C.
Davis and Karen A. Sweeney): 2 di-
rectory assistance operator head-
phones, ca. 1950 and 1980 (1989.0110).

Edith B. and Frederick R. Bell: 357 cabi-
net prints, 272 cartes de visite, an
album with 65 photographs, 8
mounted photographs, and 2 post-
cards (1986.3178).

William A. Bell, Jr., J. Terrel Green,
Linda L. Green, Thomas M. Green,
and David L. Mincey, Jr.: cotton gin
system made by FE H. Lummus Sons
Company of Columbus, Georgia in-
cluding the gin, elevator and feed sys-
tem, lint condenser unit, and a
blower and oscillating valve with pip-
ing, 1890s (1990.0344).

Bradley F. and Virginia W. Bennett: 88
coins of ancient Spain and Gaul
(1989.0734); 120 coins of the Roman
Republic and of the periods of Mar-
cus Antonius and Augustus
(1989.0738); 76 coins struck by
Roman Emperors from the ist to the

3rd centuries A.D. (1989.0741); 236
bronze and silver coins of ancient
Greece from the southern Italian re-
gions of Apulia, Bruttium, Calabria,
Campania, Lucania, and Samnium
(1990.0354); 50 coins of ancient

Greece from Sicily (1990.0356); 16 sil-

ver and bronze coins of Cyprus dat-
ing from the Ist century B.C. to the
3rd century A.D. (1991.0035); 98

bronze and silver coins of ancient Sic-

ily (1991.0152); 90 bronze and silver
coins of ancient Sicily (1991.0160);
101 bronze and silver coins of Sicily
and mainland Greece (1991.0161); 87
examples of counterfeit, copy, and
fantasy coins (1991.0220).

Clara W. Berwick: 2 woman's oriental-
style robes, 1910-35 (1990.0538).

Bhutan Stamp Agency Ltd: 6 stamps of

Bhutan (1989.0231).

Lenore R. Binzer: pair of U.S. Navy
officer's blue broadcloth uniform
trousers, 1850-60 (1990.0673).

William L. Bird, Jr.: Rolling Stones
“Steel Wheels Tour” program, 1989
(1989.0666).

Adriana and Edwin W. Bitter for the
Bitter Family Collection: 10 saddle
pistol holsters, 4 muskets, and 3 pis-
tols (1988.0051); 7 pistols and a J. H.
Hall breechloading military rifle,
18th and 19th centuries (1988.0518).

Barbara B. and Robert S. Black: desk
from the House of Representatives
used by Congressman Henry Clay
VanVoorhis of Ohio with 2 glass ink
wells and a key, made 1860-79 and
used until 1897-99 (1991.0077).

Joel B. and June B. Bloom: spinning
wheel for wool made in Lee County,
Virginia stamped “HD” and “1833”
(1990.0240).

Philip J. Bochicchio: Kambel machine
section, 2 tools used to pull circuits
from the Kambal machine, and the
earliest computer storage magnetic
drum (1989.0622); 13 photographs of
the Solo and Bombe computer pro-
jects, 3 photographic reproductions
of papers from a celebration for the
Bombe project, and 3 notebooks
(1989.3110).

Sandor Bodo: 8 medals commemorating

the 200th anniversary of the signing

of the Treaty of Peace and the end of
the American Revolution, 1783-1983,
designed by Mr. Bodo (1989.0631).

Neal Bonham and Suzanne Ferris: 2
sheets of handmade paper
(1991.0097).

Clyde N. Bowden: 17 Halloween,
Christmas, and costume party cos-
tumes and decorations of the 1930s
(1991.0176).

Bowers and Merena Galleries, Inc.
(through R. N. Merena): ancient sil-
ver diobol found in the Afganistan
area (1988.0559).

Martha B. Boyd, M.D.: 2 woman's
shawls of jacquard-woven wool, 1850-
1900 (1991.0007); woman's long flo-
ral-patterned silk shawl made in
Spitalfields, England before 1823
(1991.0399).

William S. Boyd, M.D.: painting titled
Poppies by Dr. Boyd from which pho-
tomechanical lichographs were made
(1990.0341).

C. Louise Boyer: Sunbeam electric
travel iron (1990.0522).

Eleanor L. Boyne: silhouette of George
Washington and a cut-out picture of
“George Washington's Cherry Tree”
(1990.3071).

Mary C. Braddock: 2 engraved por-
traits, one of Pres. James A. Garfield
and the other of Lucretia R. Garfield,
made by J. F. Ryder of Cleveland,
Ohio (1990.0597).

John H. Bradford: 2 souvenir script
notes from Japtan Island for use dur-
ing Operation Castle atomic testing
on Bikini Acoll in 1954 (1989.0531).

Reba Miller Brand (through W. Tom
Miller): desk with bookcase made of
inlaid walnut in Shenandoah County,
Virginia in the early 19th century
(1990.0536).

Catherine Brassel: 8 pairs of woman's
gloves and 5 pairs of woman's shoes,
1920-45 (1990.0671).

Dr. Joseph Braunbeck: 7 electron tubes,
a tube base, and a fuse and holder
manufactured in Germany for mili-
tary use during WW II (1990.0298).

Catherine B. Brennan in memory of
George William Sneering: English
Webley army revolver, 1880-1900
(1990.0660).

161
Gary R. Brenner: 10 phonograph re-
cords (1989.0208).

Ellen Harper Bridges: personal papers,
correspondence, and unpublished
manuscripts of advertising executive
Marion Harper, 1916-89 (1990.3225).
Kenneth A. Briers: 3 lapel pins, 3 key
chains, 3 clips, a bandanna, match
book, rubber signature stamp, and a
set of documents from the career of
Malcolm H. Nelson of the Brother-
hood of Locomotive Firemen and En-
ginemen and the United
Transportation Union (1990.3048).
Roderick E. Briggs: Cleveland 69 man’s
safety bicycle made by H. A. Lozier
& Company in the 1890s with an
original B. F. Goodrich tire and origi-
nal leather saddle cover (1989.0648).
The Brinkmann Corporation (through
Louis D. Gill): 2 Q-beam Blue Max
and Black Max flashlamps
(1990.0025).

Scott and Shane Briscoe: Texas Instru-

ments TI-99/4A computer with
power supply, remote control device,
speech synthesizer, and a video modu-
lator, 1982-84 (1990.0494); 19 com-
puter guides, pamphlets, software
module cassettes, and reference manu-
als (1990.3142); Sinclair ZX 81 com-
puter keyboard with adapters, 5
software cassettes, and a manual
(1991.0006).

Marguerite Werghell Broaddus: 2
patches, a veil, badge, certificate,
armband, and an invitation reflecting
Mrs. John T. Werghell's participation
in the Red Cross during WW I
(1990.0433); 2 French dressmaker's
bills, one from Paul Poiret in 1926
and the other from Doucet in 1928
(1991.0023).

Brookhaven National Laboratory, Asso-
ciated Universities, Inc., Department
of Physics (through Vincente R.
O'Leary and David Schweller): 80-
inch liquid hydrogen bubble cham-
ber (1978.2309).

Edith Rae Brown: bronze art medal ti-

tled “One Man's Tranquility” de-
signed by Ms. Brown (1991.0245).
Frederick McLean Bugher (through
Debbie Spinetta Brier): 82 specimens
relating to the life of Admiral and

162

Mrs. George Dewey including uni-
forms, insignia, weapons, photo-
graphs, manuscripts, sheet music,
booklets, scrapbooks, magazines,
other miscellaneous paper items, and
an electric fan (1984.0834); 170 mis-
cellaneous papers and records relating
to Admiral Dewey and General Wil-
liam Babcock Hazen (1987.3083).

Joan H. Bunche: 12 academic honorary
degree hoods awarded to Ralph J.
Bunche (1990.0574).

Bundesministerium fuer Oeffentliche
Wirtschaft und Verkehr,
Generaldirektion fuer die Post- und
Telegraphenverwaltung (through
Christine Kainz, Ph.D.): reproduc-
tion of the post horn used at the post
stable in Bruenn, Austria since 1866
(1990.0169).

Bunker-Ramo Company: 2 racks, a
memory drum, agent's set, and a set
of plug-in components from the
Reservisor reservations computer sys-
tem made by Teleregister Corpora-
tion (1987.0815).

Burdeshaw Associates, Ltd. (through
Leath Burdeshaw): Telex 1 Model 32
machine, ca. 1975 (1986.1032).

Wally Byam Caravan Club Interna-
tional, Inc. (through Esther Garrison
and Morris R. Rich): official blue felc
beret worn by members of the club,
ca. 1961 (1985.0087).

Suzanne W. Byrd: 23 reproducing piano
rolls made by the Ampico Corpora-
tion of New York, 1925-50
(1990.0205).

Chloe Ann Calder-Dellaport: art medal
designed by Ms. Calder-Dellaport ti-
tled “Bird in Hand” (1991.0244).

Campbell Soup Company (through P.
N. Mulcahy): 3 videotape cassettes,
an audiotape cassette, and a set of
slides, all recording Campbell soup
advertisements, 1905-79 (1990.3037);
(through Kevin G. Lowery): video-
tape cassette of Campbell advertise-
ments of 1957-58 and 1961-76
(1990.3038).

Bank of Canada, Department of Bank-
ing Operations (through D. G. M.
Bennett): 10-dollar bank note of Can-
ada, 1989 (1989.0737); 50-dollar bank
note of Canada, 1989 (1990.0161); 100-

dollar bank note of Canada, 1990
(1991.0150).

Leopoldo Cancio: 2 bronze medals of Ar-
gentina, a silver Italian medal of the
Vatican, silver hemiobol of ancient Ju-
daea, and a silver Spanish American 8-
reales cob made at the Potosi Mint
(1990.0398).

Robert A. Capestrain: 3 Waltham main-
springs and a set of Waltham main-
springs in original packaging
(1989.0701).

Dorothy D. Caples: about 22 cubic feet
of personal and business files of John
Caples, 1900-90, recording his career
in advertising (1990.3205).

Walter A. Carpus: 2 pairs of trousers
(1980.0248).

Claude Carriere: 5 photocopies of arti-
cles, 3 issues of Jazz Hot magazine,
and 2 flyers for Sam Woodyard bene-
fit concerts (1990.3181).

Frances O. Carrio: book of line-for-line
sketches of Paris designer collections
of 1963 used by New York designer
Arthur McGee (1991.0027).

Ethel Hanks Carter: 4 radios, a set of 14
burlap bags, set of 10 wall calendars,
set of documents and personal papers,
and a sign from a sharecropper's
house (1990.3016); cupboard and a
chest used in a sharecropper's cabin
in Ringgold, Virginia, 1943-57
(1990.3027).

Dal H. Cass: 2 books about psychologi-
cal testing and a Szondi-Test psycho-
logical test (1990.0569).

Guido Castelli: 252 lantern slides, 149
still photographs, 121 binders, boxes,
and folders of documents, 101 glass
plates, 5 boxes of mutascope cards, 2
brass cranks, a crank shaft, frame,
and a Casler & Marvin motion pic-
ture camera, all used by historian
Gordon Hendricks to document mo-
tion picture photography (1990.3015).

Caterpillar Inc. (through Wayne M.
Zimmerman): Caterpillar weld rep-
lica kit used in industrial inspections
with examples of acceptable and un-
acceptable welds, 1990 (1990.0648).

Howard Cayton: leather scrapbook com-
piled by Leon Henderson, a WW II
Price Coordinator, containing press
clippings dated June-October 1941

_
(1990.0038); 1929 membership card
for the Willow Grove Park Associa-
tion (1990.3023).

Thomas W. Chamberlain: Neva-Clog
stapler (1990.0206).

Dr. George B. Chapman: prototype
ultra-microtome, American Optical
Model 860 sliding anatomical micro-
tome, and a drive motor (1990.0445).

Shirley Cherkasky: spinning wheel
made in the Faroe Islands, 1976
(1990.0495).

Valentine Z. Chilk: 3 hand-colored Ber-
lin embroidery patterns of the 19th
century, 2 lengths of dish toweling ,
ca. 1942, a beaded handbag made by
Ms. Chilk with a set of extra beads,
string, and instructions, ca. 1947, and
a toy Singer Sewing machine, 1957
(1988.0405); composition figure of
Adolph Hitler bending over with a
pin cushion derriere, 1941 (1991.0332).

Government of the Republic of China,
The Philatelic Department, Director-
ate General of Posts: 95 stamps, 20
first day covers, and 6 souvenir sheets
of the Republic of China (1988.0464);
66 stamps and 15 first day covers of
the Republic of China (1989.0031); 71
stamps, 18 covers, and 2 souvenir
sheets of the Republic of China
(1989.0412); 65 stamps and 13 first
day covers of the Republic of China
(1990.0027).

Alice Morrison Clabaugh: drum majo-
rette uniform complete with jacket,
skirt, boots, hat, plume, and whistle
worn by the drum majorettes of the
Newark High School Band, Dela-
ware, 1937-47 (1990.0483).

Elvira Clain-Stefanelli: 3 treasury bonds
with interest coupons attached and 2
bond coupons used as storecards, all
Confederate States of America
(1989.0526); 13 U.S. and foreign med-
als, a bracelet from Nigeria, storecard
from Virginia, Missouri Numismatic
Society “Fare Pass,” and a lapel pin
commemorating the National Mu-
seum of History and Technology
(1990.0258).

Dorothy H. Clark in memory of Col.
William C. Clark, USAF: Forester
cutlass made by Weyersberg,
Kirschbaum & Company of

Solingen-Wald,Germany,1938-45
(1991.0212).

Emma L. Clark: Gap blue denim trou-
sers, tie-dyed T-shirt, blue bandanna
head scarf, and a pair of Converse
high-top tennis shoes, all worn by
Ms. Clark about 1988 (1990.0676).

Howard M. and Kathryn Clark: 31 sam-
ples of handmade paper made at the
Twinrocker Paper Mill in Brookston,
Indiana (1990.0558).

LeBaron A. Clarridge: WW I underwa-
ter microphone, nonsynchronous
motor, mercury switch, and a coil fil-
ament tube (1990.0391).

John H. Claster: Do Bee costume con-
sisting of mask, undershirt, shirt,
gloves, boots, and bee torso with
wings used on the children’s televi-
sion program “Romper Room,”
1960s (1991.0179).

Augusta H. Clawson: 1 photographs, 2
pamphlets, 2 pins, a union card, iden-
tification card, award of merit, certifi-
cate, and a welder's mask all used by
Ms. Clawson when a ship welder dur-
ing WW II (1988.0586); 10 issues of
the newsletter “Bo's'n’s Whistle” and
2 Western Union telegrams, WW II
(1988.3127).

Charles M. Clegg, Jr. (through Francis
R. Breen and Ann Clegg Holloway):
u paintings by Howard Fogg and an
oil painting by Stephen Etnier, all of
railroad scenes and locomotives
(1988.0049).

Lera G. Clymer, Charles Gailey, Hoyt
Gailey, James J. Gailey, Theron
Gailey, and Frances Kinley in mem-
ory of Howard Scott Gailey: 14 pieces
of orange-glazed pottery tableware
made by Ben Owen, 1958-70, and an
orange-glazed pottery bowl made by
Ben Owen III, 1984 (1990.0289).

Abe Cohen: pair of child’s clamp-on
roller skates, ca. 1925 (1991.0317).

Jill Cohen: Roy Rogers cowboy hat
with concealed toy cap gun, ca. 1947
(1991.0419).

Coherent, Inc. (through Edwina
DeRousse): Coherent model 40 car-
bon dioxide laser with power supply
(1990.0383).

Cole Consumer Products, Division of
American Consumer Products, Inc.

(through M. R. Reinschreiber): Ka-
Bar U.S. Marine Corps fighting-util-
ity knife developed for use during
WwW II (1986.0999).

Madelene S. Cole: 47 items of correspon-

dence, 41 ephemera, scrapbooks, and
books, 12 unpublished papers, and 12
WW II era proceedings of the Associ-
ation of National Advertisers, all re-
flecting the career of Gordon E. Cole
(1990.3082).

Coleman: infant's undershirt, child's

dress, and a woman's cape, 1825-74
(1990.0439).

Leah P. Collins: 4 bronze U.S. satirical

political medals, 1977-80 (1990.0459).

Colonial Williamsburg Foundation

(through Margaret B. Pritchard): 4
photolithographic portrait prints
(1990.0342).

Comune di Milano (through Hon.

Giulio Polocti): 3 silver medals com-
memorating the 3 Socialist mayors of
Milan, Italy, 1990 (1991.0188).

Computer Consoles, Incorporated

(through Keith G. Jones): computer
monitor and a Dvorak Keyboard,
1978-80 (1989.0109).

A. A. Conant: 42 video disc movies and

a Hitachi video disc player
(1990.0305).

Anne Conant: U.S. Army Corps of Engi-

neers white hard hat, 1965-70
(1990.0085).

Prof. Robert Connelly: model of a flexi-

ble polyhedron conceived by Profes-
sor Connelly in 1977 and built about
1984 (1990.0492).

Government of the Cook Islands, Phila-

telic Bureau, Post Office: 7 stamps, 2
first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets
of the Cook Islands (1988.0735); 12
stamps, 5 souvenir sheets, and 2 first
day covers of the Cook Islands
(1989.0500); 15 stamps, 4 first day
covers, and 3 souvenir sheets of the
Cook Islands (1990.0013); stamp, first
day cover, and a souvenir sheet of the
Cook Islands (1990.0520).

John Cook: 2 bronze art plaquettes de-

signed by Mr. Cook, 1986 and 1990
(1990.0500).

Elizabeth G. Cooke (through Sandy G.

Patterson): 15 embroidered pictures
and samplers (1989.0343).

163
Mrs. E. E. Cordrey: El-Fonic capacity
pick up, Magnavox tone arm, Wes-
ton vacuum tube voltmeter, and a
Motorola television receiver
(1990.0389).

Cornell University, School of Civil and
Environmental Engineering (through
Arnim H. Meyburg): wrought iron
main link, connecting link, and link
pin from Telford's Menai Straits Sus-
pension Bridge built in 1823
(1991.0153).

Bernard M. Corona: Colt Model 1895
machine gun and tripod with gun
modifications made in 1914
(1990.0573).

Rushton G. Cortelyou: membership
badge of the Bicyclist’s League of
American Wheelmen, ca. 1880
(1988.0578).

Creative Originals (through Larry D.
Mowrey and Michele Mowrey): 2
wooden toy train whistles (1985.0478).

Sandra P. and Spencer R. Crew:
woman's African style caftan, man’s
dashiki shirt, pair of wire rim glasses,
and the original glasses case, all worn
to college graduation in 1971
(1991.0135).

Judith A. Crocker: album with 69 gem
tintypes, 67 cartes de visite, 13 tin-
types, 5 ambrotypes, 3 daguerreo-
types, and a mounted photograph
(1991.0343); 46 folders of papers relat-
ing to Herbert M. Faust's careers at
the Curtis Publishing Company, 1918-
43, the Salvage Division of the War
Production Board, 1943-44, and the
Mutual Broadcasting Company, 1945-
48 (1991.3066).

Betty Cronin: 14 soup labels, 3 cook-
books, 2 advertising proof sheets, and
a pamphlet of recipes in Spanish, all
related to the Campbell Soup Com-
pany (1990.3006).

Eleanor B. Cropley: woman's brown
leather wallet with silver frame and
clasp, 1893-1900 (1990.0665).

Gwendolyn M. Crusor: Master Model 4
stenotype machine with accessories
(1991.0271).

Government of Cuba, Coprefil: 39
stamps and a souvenir sheet of Cuba
(1988.0521); 53 stamps, 31 first day
covers, and 2 souvenir sheets of Cuba

164

(1989.0391); 37 stamps, 20 first day
covers, and 4 souvenir sheets of Cuba
(1989.0750); 30 stamps, 21 first day
covers, and 3 souvenir sheets of Cuba
(1990.0299).

Paul Culberg: 13 sketches, a hand-

painted regimental flag of the Massa-
chusetts 54th used in the movie

Glory, and a hat, shirt, pants with sus-
penders, and pair of shoes worn by
Morgan Freeman in the movie Glory
(1991.0279).

Government of the Republic of Cyprus,

Ministry of Communications and
Works, Department of Postal Ser-
vices (through G. Antoniou): 8
stamps of the Republic of Cyprus
(1988.0572); 3 stamps of Cyprus
(1989.0498); 23 stamps and a Christ-
mas souvenir folder of Cyprus
(1990.0365); (through G. Antoniou
and A. Stamataris): 12 stamps of the
Repubic of Cyprus (1989.0223).

Heinz Czadek: videotape cassette of a

Duke Ellington Orchestra concert in
Zurich, Switzerland in 1959
(1990.3183).

Frederick C. Danforth in memory of

John Stuart Hacker (through the Na-
tional Museum of Transport): Pilot
wheel from the river packet ship
Kiwanis, ca. 1920 (1979.0314).

Harry R. Dangler: wooden shipboard-

type checkerboard, magazine, and a
newspaper all used by Phm. 3cl. Joe
Dangler when stationed in Great
Lakes, Illinois during WW I
(1990.0271).

Maygene FE. Daniels, Mary Walton Liv-

ingston and Leonard Rapport: 10 mil-
itary documents, a magazine, hat,
drawers, and a map case, all reflect-

ing the U.S. Army service of Mr. Rap-
port in the 1940s (317976).

DC Comics Inc. (through Paul Levitz):

4 Superman objects including a
comic book, poster, set of paper
plates, and a pop-up book
(1988.3096).

Mona de Martini: 6 bolero jackets,

1960s (1990.3136).

Vivian F Demiel: J. C. Vibrometer ma-

chine level (1990.0333).

Government of Denmark, Postens

Frimaerkecenter: 40 stamps of Den-

mark and 30 stamps and 5 souvenir
sheets of the Faroe Islands
(1990.0521); (through Lis Bickedal
and Hanne Lund): 245 stamps and 6
miniature sheets of Denmark and the
Faroe Islands (1988.0484); (through
Hanne Lund): 125 stamps of Den-
mark and the Faroe Islands
(1989.0292); 55 stamps of Denmark
and 40 stamps of the Faroe Islands
(1989.0421); 110 stamps of Denmark
and 40 stamps of the Faroe Islands
(1990.0050).

Irene Diamond: 4 cardboard tourist sou-
venir signs which were made to be
tied onto a car bumper (1990.0250);
15 felt pennants from American tour-
ist sites (1990.0251).

Barbara Dickstein: 2 pairs of girl's socks
and a pair of woman's pantyhose,
1986-89 (1989.3023).

Digital Equipment Corporation
(through Jamie P. Pearson): PDP-1
computer developed in 1960, PDP-8
computer developed in 1965, and 3
sets of software tapes used with these
computers (1989.0§21).

Dennis Dimmer: 2 programs and an ad-
vertising coaster related to Duke El-
lington and a program for Mercer
Ellington's orchestra (1990.3226).

Dittrick Museum of Medical History
(through Jennifer K. Simmons): Lip-
pes Loop and a box of Saf-T-Coil in-
trauterine devices (1991.0309).

Melvin R. Doggett: notebook of docu-
mentation for IBM punched card
data processing (1990.3088).

Jeanne P. Donahe: infant's comb and
brush with the original box, 1938-40
(1991.0213).

R. G. Doty: Virgin of Guadalupe Mexi-
can silver religious medal, 1776
(1991.0209).

Gladys C. Dougherty: 4 pins, 2 sewing
kits, 2 medals, 2 lighters, an identifi-
cation badge and bracelet, helmet
liner, pair of earrings with Caprain's
bars, and a sketch of Camp McCoy,
1918-45 (1989.0318); metal thimble
with a fleur-de-lis border (1991.0289);
red ice bucket with lid, 1945-50
(1991.3049).

William R. Dowd: program from a sa-
cred music concert by Duke Elling-

—_
ton held March 3, 1967 in Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts (1990.3227).

Arthur D. Dubin: blanket, “Quiet”
sign, and a set of tulip carpet samples
from Pullman railroad cars
(1986.0133).

Mindy Duitz: solarized silver print pho-
tograph by Murray Duitz
(1989.0692); photograph by Murray
Duitz (1990.0496).

Rita A. Thomas Dukes and Wilma L.
Thomas: Gradeulator calculating rule
used in construction work invented
by Frank J. Thomas with instruc-
tions, 1973 (1990.0509).

Emily S. Dunbar: quilt with white flo-
ral embroidery on white cotton made
by Mary Anderson McCormick of Au-
gusta, Kentucky in the mid-19th cen-
tury and photographic portraits of
Mrs. McCormick and her husband,
John E. McCormick (1990.0507).

David R. Dunn: J. C. Higgins Flightli-
ner boy's bicycle made for Sears, Roe-
buck & Company by the Murray
Ohio Manufacturing Company of
Lawrenceburg, Tennessee, 1961
(1990.0550).

S. Watson Dunn: 37 sets of ephemera,
10 folders of advertising history, 6
pieces of correspondence, 5 phono-
graph records, and 3 unpublished pa-
pers, 1840-1986 (1989.3135).

E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Com-
pany (through Melissa Weis Riegel):
3 samples of Teflon-coated cable,
missle radome made by Shamban,
push-pull cable, braille eraser, Teflon
bortle for polio vaccine, and a plastic
laboratory bottle (1989.0452).

Michael Durgin and Helen C. Freder-
ick: 57 pieces of handmade paper
representing the work of 49 makers
in North America, 1990
(1990.0632).

George W. Dye: 6 pieces of artillery am-
munition, 2 pass boxes, a leather
thumb stall, and a flagstaff finial and
burt set (1990.0321).

Glen Ecklund and Madeleine Para: 2
yard signs advocating peace during
the Persian Gulf crisis in 1991
(1991.0194).

Rachel G. Edelson and Benji Lasseau: 2
pieces of sheet music for clarinet and

a poster of Benny Goodman in Japan
(1990.3030).

Ellis Edlow: 58 19th-century bank notes
of the District of Columbia
(191.0397).

Curtis Whearry Edwards: 3 woman's
white lace collars made by Mrs. Ed-
wards, a black church dress and hat,
and a wooden cane (1990.0651).

Nanci K. Edwards: Laughton stamp
pad and a tin of paper clips and fas-
teners (1990.0349).

Arthur S. Eggerton, Jr.: uncut sheet of
fare ticket currency of the Charlotte,
Columbia and Augusta Rail Road
dated October 1, 1873 (1991.3037).

Electro-Voice, Inc. (through Paul A.
McGuire): headset for radar
(1990.0064).

Government of El Salvador (through
Ambassador Miguel A. Salaverria):
SA-7 shoulder-fired surface to air mis-
sile launcher made in North Korea
and found in a crashed airplane in
eastern El Salvador on November 25,
1989 (1990.0532).

James William Elyea: replica of an 1839
pattern forage cap (1985.3039).

J. H. Emerson Company (through Jack
Emerson): 2 chest respirators, a respi-
rator pump, hand bellows pressure re-
suscitator, and a hot pack apparatus
(1991.0145).

Emporia Kansas State College, Depart-
ment of Psychology (through Dal H.
Cass): 6 psychological tests and a C.
H. Stoelcing Company aesthesio-
meter (1990.0570).

Eppes: woman's silk parasol, 1850-70,
and a man’s ivory-handled shaving
brush, 1875-1925 (1990.0441).

Suzanne Liebers Erickson (through
Ralph H. Erickson): 9,867 stamps, 61
charity seals, 36 revenue stamps, 13
cut squares, 2 covers, and a cinderella
from around the world (1987.0267).

Peter J. Espada: models of the C-47 air-
plane, the Waco glider, and the
“Huey” helicopter made by Mr. Es-
pada (1990.0343).

Timothy Evans: 2 pairs of woman's kid
leather gloves, 1925-38 (1991.0165).

Government of the Faroe Islands, The
Faroese Postal Administration, Phila-
telic Service: 55 stamps and 7 first

day covers of the Faroe Islands
(1988.0689); 40 stamps and 2 first
day covers of the Faroe Islands
(1989.0585); (through K. Farnfoss): 35
stamps and 3 first day covers of the
Faroe Islands (1989.0157); 20 stamps
and a first day cover of the Faroe Is-
lands (1990.0120); 30 stamps, 3 first
day covers, and a souvenir sheet of
the Faroe Islands (1990.0470).

Farrington Manufacturing Company
(through Dorothy J. Long and Mr.
Stocker): Farrington character-sens-
ing machine and 2 information docu-
ments (1985.0614).

Edward C. Fechter: 15 Hamilton Watch
Company products including 9 mod-
ules, 2 watches, a set of pillar plates
and bridges, set of miniature cutting
tool samples, vial of jewels, and a vial
of gears (1988.0591).

Charles Feinstein: book, Guide to For-
tran IV, by McCracken (1990.3117).

Olive Ferris: 9 movie film reels
(1990.0508).

Chamberlain Ferry: 29 posters with po-
litical and military themes from
WW I (1986.0195); 4 WW 1 U.S. Ma-
cine Corps posters (1986.3044).

Heidi Fieldston: 269 man’s, woman's,
child's, and infant's clothing and ac-
cessories, 18th-20th centuries, col-
lected by Rosely Angel Fieldston
(1990.0388); “Patti Playdoll” doll
made by the Ideal Toy Corporation
with original clothes and box, 1950-
69 (1990.0467).

Joel A. Fine in memory of Tillie Sacks
Fine: girl's blue velvet hat with
peach silk lining and blue and peach
velvet ribbons, 1924 (1991.0166).

Leonda F. Finke: 2 bronze U.S. art med-
als designed by Ms. Finke, 1989-90
(1991.O151).

Bernard S. Finn: Hotpoine electric
toaster (1983.0888); Dominico electric
toaster (984.3037); Magnavox Pocket
Pal all-transistor radio, 1961-65
(1988.0145); pair of Kimco electric
socks (1990.0401); farm implement
catalog from Hertzler & Zook Com-
pany, 1920s (1990.3089); Dutch girl
figurine electric cigar lighter
(1990.3115); Tudor Tru-Action electric
football game (1990.36); 6 roller-

165
type retractable school maps
(1991.0257).

Clifford P. Firmback: 3 copper/
steelplate printing plates, 3 corre-
sponding prints, and a miniature
etching copper-plate press
(1990.0524).

Thomas E. Fitzgerald: 7 folders of archi-
val documents relating to the S. S.
White Dental Manufacturing Com-
pany and the development of the
Brooks typewriter, 1890-97
(1989.3136).

Mrs. Sarah Fitzpatrick: 242 space craft
covers (1989.0238).

George A. Flachier: 8 stamps, 6 covers,
6 maximum cards, and a souvenir
sheet of Ecuador (1989.0291).

Flags International, Inc. (through Mi-
chael E. Tancey): 58 cloth patches, de-
cals, and flags, a pin, and a string tie
bearing symbols of motor home and
camping trailer clubs, 1967-80s
(1985.0701).

Shelly Jayne Foote: red, white, and blue
tibbon-like brooch made of clay and
polymers designed by Barbie Koch-
ner, 1991 (1991.0163).

Harrison Ford and Lucasfilm Ltd.
(through Gordon Radley): hat and
jacket worn by Mr. Ford when por-
traying the character “Indiana Jones”
in the film Raiders of the Last Ark
(1989.0323).

Fred G. Fournet and Maydell F. The-
riot: 996 pharmaceuticals, personal
hygiene products, sundries, and mis-
cellaneous supplies, toys, and equip-
ment which were in the Fournet
Drugstore of St. Martinsville, Louisi-
ana which operated from 1892 to 1983
(1985.0475); copybook, daybook, and
a package of graph paper (1989.0399);
80 advertising graphics, prescription
papers, tobacco related products, and
sundries used at the Fournet Drug-
store of St. Martinsville, Louisiana
which operated from 1892 to 1983
(1989.3041).

The Foxboro Company (thorugh Earle
W. Pict): 35 pneumatic control and
recording apparatus (1986.0535).

Beatrice and Jacques Francais: bass viol
made in New England by Henry
Davis, 1793 (1990.0599).

166

Thomas L. Freudenheim: lecter dated
February 28, 1991 acknowledging
thac Mr. and Mrs. Freudenheim will
attend a dinner at the Los Angeles
Country Club and a card stating the
club's dress code (1991.0327).

Miss Margaret L. Frick: 12 souvenirs of
the New York World's Fair and
school days spent by Miss Frick in
New York City in 1939 (1991.0051).

Prof. Robert Friedel: library card
punched for machine reading
(1990.3129).

Col. S. G. Frierson: postage stamp of
Denmark (1989.02.42).

From Out of the Past (through Barbara
Keck): 6 magazine advertisements,
1915-23 (1990.3032).

Melinda Y. Frye: book, Social Usages at
Washington, by Florence Howe Hall,
1906 (1991.004}3).

Fulton County Board of Commission-
ers: ballot box used in Fulton
County, Georgia in 1919 (1991.0034).

Bernard F. Gallagher: 3 computer soft-
ware programs (1990.0461); 3 com-
puter software programs
(1990.0652).

Jay M. Galst, M.D.: 2 medals commem-
orating Dr. Galst's presidency of the
New York Numismatic Club, 1988-
89 (1991.0187).

Hector Garcia: art medal designed by
Mr. Garcia titled “Flame of Free-
dom,” 1990 (1991.02.43).

Mildred G. Gates: man's clothing in-
cluding 2 collars, 1820-45, a 3-piece
wool suit, ca. 1887, and a 2-piece
frock suit, 1913 (1990.0438).

Gateway Coin Club of Merced County
(through Joel Anderson): 2 bronze
medals, one commemorating the
100th anniversary of the incorpora-
tion of the City of Merced, California
in 1989 and the other commemorat-
ing the 100th anniversary of the
founding of Yosemite National Park
in 1990 (1990.0399).

Carl Gatter: box of photographs and
price lists of the Fisher, Bruce &
Company ceramic and glass im-
porters of Philadelphia, 1939-40
(1990.3057).

Marian DeBelle Gellermann: 2 cavalry
sabers made in 1914 and 1918 and

used by Maj. Josef Egmond
Gellermann (1991.0260).

General Dynamics Corporation, Quincy
Shipyard Division (through James H.
Gilliland): model of a liquid natural
gas carrier (1979.3033).

General Electric Credit Corporation
(through John J. Canning): painting
titled Computers by Bart Forbes
(1980.3034).

General Motors Corporation (through
Robert C. Stempel): 9 accessories for
the GM Sunracer solar-powered auto-
mobile, 1987 (1989.3114); LAD Plant
(through Thomas Welling): Corsica
4-door automobile body (1990.3000).

Joseph Genovese: International Time
Recording Company slave clock
(1988.0500).

The George Washington University
(through Nelson L. Bomba): CDC
8090 central processing unit with ca-
bles attached and a CDC 603 tape
transport unit (1988.0660).

Honorable Richard A. Gephardt: blue
oxford shirt and a red tie worn at a
debate on December 1, 1987
(1989.0595).

Elizabeth S. Geyer: Claxo combination
humidifier, evaporizer, and fume dis-
seminator patented in 1917
(1990.0106).

Charles A. Gilbert: organetto button ac-
cordion made by Luigi Pistelli and
Figli of Abruzzi, Italy, ca. 1890
(1991.0020).

The Gillette Company, Gillette North
Atlantic Group (through A. Bruce
Cleverly and Peter Hoffman):
Gillette's Sensor razor in original
packaging with set of 5 blade car-
tridges, 1990 (1990.0592).

Thomas Gillilland: 2 drug kits and a
medicine bag used by William M.
Wegmann, M.D. who practiced in
Bladen, Nebraska (1990.0337).

Cora Ginsburg, Inc. (through D.
Ghelerter): red, white, and blue mus-
lin parade dress, ca. 1900 (1991.0365);
umbrella inscribed “Vote for
Woman” (1991.3061).

Doug Girling: Texas Instruments pro-
grammable calculator with accesso-
ties and a Texas Instruments

print/security cradle with paper tape

—_
rolls (1990.0609); 3 manuals and a
folder of documentation related to
the Texas Instruments programmable
calculator (1990.3166).

Robert D. Gleichenaus: 298 stamps, 8
covers, and a stamped postal receipt
form of Switzerland (1989.0014).

Capt. Mark B. Gold, D.V.M.: red beret
and ascot worn by Captain Gold
while serving with the Sinai Multina-
tional Force and Observers, 1988-89
(1990.0533).

Jodi E. Goldfinger: pressed glass
pitcher commemorating Admiral
Dewey and the Battle of Manila, 1898
(1988.0801).

Roger A. Goldsmith: 3 cans of freon-
propelled automobile spray paint
(1991.3071).

William L. Gould: art medal de-
signed by Mr. Gould titled
“W.LP.P.E.D. - Waste Isolation Per-
sonal Plutonium Encasement De-
vice” (1991.0242).

Greg Chandler Gove and Virginia C.
Gove: 1934 Trav-L-Coach house
trailer (1981.0524).

Seth Grae: leotard and vest finale cos-

~tume worn by Donna McKechnie as
an original cast member of the play,
A Chorus Line (1990.0581).

Felix Grant: 152 phonograph records by
Duke Ellington (1991.3032).

Doris Stack Green, Harvey G. Stack
and Norman Stack: 279 medals,
madalets, and badges and 11 dies and
hubs for personal and fraternal med-
als and tokens (1984.1005).

Dorothy A. and Nivie Green: 2 World's
Fair bracelets of the 1930s and an
Egyptian Revival bracelet, 1905-15
(1990.0287).

Robert D. Gleichenaus: 298 stamps, 8
covers, and a stamped postal re-
ceipt form of Switzerland
(1989.0014).

Capt. Mark B. Gold, D.V.M.: red beret
and ascot worn by Captain Gold
while serving with the Sinai Multina-
tional Force and Observers, 1988-89
(1990.0533).

Jodi E. Goldfinger: pressed glass
pitcher commemorating Admiral
Dewey and the Battle of Manila, 1898
(1988.0801).

Roger A. Goldsmith: 3 cans of freon-
propelled automobile spray paint
(1991.3071).

William L. Gould: art medal designed
by Mr. Gould titled “W.I.P.P.E.D. -
Waste Isolation Personal Plutonium
Encasement Device” (1991.0242).

Greg Chandler Gove and Virginia C.
Gove: 1934 Trav-L-Coach house
trailer (1981.0524).

Seth Grae: leotard and vest finale
costume worn by Donna
McKechnie as an original cast
member of the play, A Chorus Line
(1990.0581).

Felix Grant: 152 phonograph records by
Duke Ellington (1991.3032).

Doris Stack Green, Harvey G. Stack
and Norman Stack: 279 medals,
madalets, and badges and 11 dies
and hubs for personal and fraternal
medals and tokens (1984.1005).

Dorothy A. and Nivie Green: 2 World's
Fair bracelets of the 1930s and an
Egyptian Revival bracelet, 1905-15
(1990.0287).

Marvin N. Green: 8 documents about
Underwood and Sunstrand adding
and calculating machines, 1948-55
(1990.3188).

Rayna D. Green: 2 postcards and 2 but-
tons reading “Ann Richards/Gover-
nor” (1991.0044).

Betty L. Greenall and Terry G. Read:
wooden baby cradle handmade in
1899 by James Evans for his great-
granddaughter, Lowell Flavilla Bauer
Read (1990.0456).

William Greenbaum Fine Prints
(through William N. Greenbaum):
photograph of the wood engraver's
workroom at Russell and Richardson
of Boston (1991.02.48).

Greenduck Company: political button,
“They're For You, Ike and Dick”
(1990.0395).

Dianne Gregg: square opalescent
clear glass casserole dish made by
the Fry Glass Company of
Rochester, Pennsylvania, 1930s
(1991.0322).

Mary Ellen Gresham: length of pat-
terned silk made by the Old Econom-
ite Society of Ambridge,
Pennsylvania (1989.0297).

Greyhound Lines, Inc. (through E. W.
Simmons): 6-piece bus driver's uni-
form, 1983 (1990.0608).

Banco de Guatemala (through Carlos E.
Najera): 18 coins of Guatemala, 1963-
64 and 1990 (1990.0553).

Donald M. Haines: Working Men's Pro-
tective Union membership certifi-
cate, 1847 (1990.0697).

Kenneth L. Hallenbeck: 2 propaganda
notes urging Iraqui soldiers to ex-
change the notes for safe conduct sur-
render, 1991 (1991.0373).

Hakim Hamidi: 6 Afghan notes issued
in 1978 (1990.0011).

Hamilton Community Foundation
(through Richard L. Haid): Hooven
automatic typewriter consisting of a
perforator, mechanism, set of leaf
stands, and a set of paper rolls, 1920s
(1987.0087).

Dr. Carl Hammer: 28 books and pam-
phlets of mathernatical and other ta-
bles (1988.3105).

Bill Hanson: 3 photographs of Maine by
Mr. Hanson taken in 1963, 1977, and
1983 (1990.0370).

F. C. Harding: Summitone transistor
portable tape recorder with TDK syn-
chrotape, microphone, and earphone
(1990.0052).

Prof. Leon D. Harmon: 8 groups of
drawings, reports, and glass-
mounted slides relating to the Insti-
tute for Advanced Study computer
project, 1950s (1982.0169).

Douglas J. Harnsberger: pair of gold
cuff links and a brass instrument
box used by architect Robert Mills
(1991.0048).

Dale G. Harper: lithograph poster of
“The Worcester Salt Special”
(1991.0191).

M. Deane Harper: 4 reproduction rub-
ber bicycle tires (1990.3100).

Stan Harper: Richter diatonic harmon-
ica in the key of F, ca. 1900
(1991.0196).

Pacti Harris: 2 T-shirts, a can of sun-
dried fireants, pin, and a videotape
cassette, all from the 1990 Fireant
Festival of Marshall, Texas
(1990.3206).

Cynthia E. Harrison: academic letter
sweater and letter jacket, 1960s

167
(1990.0677); senior hat worn by Ms.
Harrison while attending Samuel J.
Tilden High School in Brooklyn,
New York, 1963 (1991.0016).

Maj. Kenneth E. and Viola L. Harte: 28
firearms and a hunting knife manu-
factured from 1850 to 1881 (1988.0129).

Harvard University, Department of
Physics, Jefferson Physical Labora-
tory (through Francis M. Pipkin):
Percy W. Bridgman’s atmospheric
press, Kelvinbridge, Bridgman and
Chase atmospheric press, framed dia-
gram of Leonard Abbott's atmo-
spheric press, and miscellaneous parts
used by Bridgman (1980.0595).

Warner Harwood (through Thomas E.
Stroud): 2 Grand Army of the Repub-
lic veteran service medals awarded to
William Harwood for service from
1861-66 and for service as Com-
mander in Chief of the G.A.R.
awarded on August 27, 1889
(1990.0625).

Madeline Hauptman: MAD RAQ
“Power Weave” tennis racquet in-
vented and patented by Ms. Haupt-
man (1990.0668).

Frank J. Havlicek: 2 gyotakw fish prints
by Mr. Havlicek, 1990 (1990.0454).

Charles Haywood: first day cover of
Great Britain (1989.0251).

Raymond J. Hebert: 3 Ashanti gold
weights made of bronze and 3 Afri-
can coiled arm rings of copper, brass,
and iron used as money (1988.0817).

Cyndie Heiskell: woman's snow leopard
jacket made in Katmandu, Nepal,
1965-70 (1991.0024).

William H. Helfand: 228 pharmaceuti-
cally and medically related advertise-
ments, trade cards, invoices, posters,
and miscellaneous ephemera
(1988.3152); 2 posters of “Journee
Nationale des Tuberculeaux”
(1990.3171); 49 medically and pharma-
ceutically related advertising papers
(1991.30§2).

Edward L. Heller: 12 posters of the
OQMG Production Planning and
Control Division, WW II
(1986.3017).

Ch. Henault: 8 coins of Zaire, 1976-78,
and 2 paper notes of Zaire
(1989.0736).

168

Mattie Herrington: Electrolux vacuum
cleaner (1987.0586).

Hershey Museum of American Life
(through Leslie A. Bellais): 5 uniform
items of a Japanese Navy enlisted
man, WW II (1990.0174).

Christine M. and Marvin D. Heston:
Pearl Harbor commemorative beer
bottle, 1947 (1991.0075).

Julia Ann and Lindsey Hickman: vase
and pitcher of the Eocean line
made by the Weller Pottery of
Zanesville, Ohio, 1899-1907
(1991.0284).

Mrs. William H. C. Higgins: set of re-
search notes and related material for
the book Power from Oil by William
H. C. Higgins, III (1990.3091).

The Borough of Hightstown (through
Richard W. Aughenbaugh and Sheila
Clark): 33 original stone sleepers
which supported rails for the Cam-
den and Amboy Railroad in New Jer-
sey, 1832 (1986.0175).

Basil I. Hirschowitz, M.D.: light source
for a gastroscope (1990.0451).

FE. B. Hodges: 2 photographs of the sink-
ing of the SS Akoa Mariner during
WW II and a compass used on one of
her lifeboats (1990.0577).

Morris Hodora: 7 programs of the an-
nual International Duke Ellington
Study Group Conference, 1983-89
(1990.3178).

James S. Hodsdon: 6 components mak-
ing up an Altair 680 computer kit
and a binder of documentation
(1990.0653).

Carolyn N. and Donald Hoke: type-
writer oiler (1990.0277).

Olav Holden: 27 first flight covers is-
sued by Air Portugal, 1980-81
(1988.0373).

Martha Holmes: videotape cassette con-
taining 6 Diet Pepsi commercials
(1990.3008).

The Homestead (through Charles F. In-
galsbee): Zander chest press and a
Zander 2-beater vibrating exercise
machine (1989.0597).

The Honolulu Mint (through Steven
D. Lee): silver medal commemorat-
ing the 200th anniversary of the ar-
rival of the Chinese people to the
islands of Hawaii, 1989 (1989.0534).

K. L. Hosner: 2 political buttons con-

cerning President George Bush
(1990.0428).

Edward Hotaling: newspaper tearsheet

with poem, “The Quayle,” by Mr.
Hotaling (1990.3060).

Jacquelyne A. and Richard L. Hott: 10

player piano rolls (1986.0004).

Houston Gun Collector's Association In-

corporated (through Paul C. Janke
and Charles McKim): commemora-
tive rifle marked “1950 - Houston
Gun Collectors Association - 1983”
(1983.0809).

Stephen Howard: 2 art medals designed

by Mr. Howard titled “Things on
Rocks A & B,” 1990 (1991.0241).

Elton L. Howe: 117 objects from Mr.

Howe's clockmaking shop including
91 horological tools, 17 watches, 3
timers, 2 clocks, a watch cleaning ma-
chine, watch timing machine, type-
writer, and a motor for a turret clock
(1989.0671); 7 educational model kits
dealing with the 5 senses (1990.0336).

Dr. Theodore R. Hudson: program for
the Duke Ellington Spring Music
Festival at the University of Massa-
chusetts on May 6, 1978 (1990.3187).

Eleanora D. and William FE. Huf: 167
miscellaneous coins, tokens, and
paper money (1990.0555).

Cynthia C. and Donald A. Hull: Os-

borne Model OCC2 microcomputer
with a reference guide, set of informa-
tion guides, and a set of software
floppy disks, ca. 1983 (1991.0186).

James S. Hutchins: LZ-129 German

cover commemorating the zeppelin
Hindenburg dated 1936 (1989.0222).

Nancy Rowan Hutchinson and John L.
and Marguerite W. Rowan: silver ser-
vice including a coffeepot, teapot,
kettle with stand, sugar bowl,
creamer, waste bowl, and a tray, all
presented to William A. Rowan on
February 22, 1914 upon his retire-
ment from James Stewart & Com-
pany (1991.0352).

INA Corporation (through William A.
Slugg): 2 blank marine ledgers
(1979.3032); 2 Eagle splat chairs
(1979-3041).

Indianapolis Motor Speedway Corpora-
tion (through R. Kent Liffick): set of

~
76 paving bricks from the original In-
dianapolis Motor Speedway, 1909
(1989.0388).

Intel Corporation, Strategic Communi-
cations (through Howard High):
computer wafer and packaged die
from the i860 series (1990.0506).

International Business Machines Corpo-
ration (through Becky Roubidoux): 2
stroke counters for IBM Selectric and
Typebar typewriters (1989.0546); Of-
fice of the Director, Corporate Cul-
tural Programs (through R. P.
Berglund and John M. Bukovinsky):
IBM Engineering Model 1345 tabular-
ing machine, 1920 (1990.0693).

Government of the State of Israel, Min-
istry of Communications, Philatelic
Services: 8 first day covers of Israel
(1989.0076); 8 first day covers of Is-
rael (1989.0420); 12 stamps, 10 first
day covers, and a souvenir sheet of Is-
rael (1990.0101); 7 first day covers of
Israel (1990.0476).

Bernice W. Jackson: 6 documents re-
flecting the life and work of Christo-
pher Bechtler, Sr. and Christopher
Bechtler, Jr., makers of private gold
coinage in Rutherford, North Caro-
lina (1990.0162).

William Jackson: 20 pieces of beauty
parlor furnishings made by Emil J.
Paidar Company in the 1930s
(1988.0835).

Dorothy Jacobs: book, The Poultryman's
Complete Handbook (1990.3143); “The
Archies” drinking glass (1991.0285).

Bryan Jacques: Belgian Fabrique
Nationale experimental rifle and a
magazine (1990.0330).

Rev. Howard K. James: minister's bap-
tismal gown (1991.0266).

Bank of Japan, Cash Department
(through Mitsuo Fujimoto): 2 silver
5,000-yen Coins commemorating the
International Garden and Greenery
Exposition held in Osaka, Japan in
1990 (1990.0259); Issue Department
(through Yoshifuru Murahawi): 2
1,000-yen banknotes of Japan, 1990
(1991.0158); 6 Japanese coins com-
memorating the Enthronement of
the Emperor, centennial of the judi-
cial system, and centennial of the
Diet (1991.0175).

Marian B. Javits: “Hand and Jewels” ho-
lographic image made for Cartier
Jewelry Store in New York City by
G. Robert Schinella, 1972
(1990.0691).

Hilda L. and John Jay: half of a jac-
quard double-woven coverlet dated
1847 probably made by William
Craig, Sr. in Decatur County, Indiana
(1990.0293).

Joy N. Jepson: 9 pieces of silver flac-
ware in the “Louis XVI” pattern
made by Shreve & Company of San
Francisco, ca. 1909 (1991.0321).

Geri Jimenez-Gould: bronze art medal
titled “Jicarilla Apache” designed by
Ms. Jimenez-Gould (1991.0240).

Paul Johnes: 5 radios, 2 tape record-
ers, and a “Magictron” logo figu-
rine, all designed by John Vassos
for RCA (1989.0657); 16 medals and
decorations some designed by, and
some awarded to, John Vassos be-
tween 1935 and 1957 (1990.0396);
“Moby Dick” utility knife designed
by John Vassos and made by Rem-
ington Arms Company of Bridge-
port, Connecticut, ca. 1937
(1990.0504).

Patricia E. Johnson: membership card
in the United Automobile Workers
of America issued to Francis Johnson
iN 1942 (1990.0431).

Arabel Wycoff Cammann Johnston in
memory of Margaret Carpenter
Cammann: cornet made by William
Hillyard of London, 1886-93, and a
leather-covered wooden case
(1991.0280).

Warren R. Johnston: engraving of #1
Broadway, headquarters of the White
Star Line and other steamship compa-
nies (1979.3030).

A. Don Jones: U.S. cover commemorat-
ing the memorial flight dedicated to
Rear Adm. Jesse G. Johnson on No-
vember 15, 1980 (1989.0250).

Lu Ann Jones: Fulton seamless feed
sack (1990.3213).

Robert S. Jones: original prototype
lunchbox for the animated film The
Secret of NIMH (1990.0448).

Jordan Philatelic Club (through Ismat
Beano): 33 stamps of Jordan
(1989.0229).

Robert T. Jordan: household Delco-
Heat thermostat time switch, 1941
(1991.0184).

Judah Magnes Museum, Jewish-Ameri-
can Hall of Fame (through Mel
Wacks): silver medal commemorat-
ing artist Marc Chagall designed by
Marika Somogyi in 1985 (1989.0529).

Arthur M. Kagin: obverse die for an oc-
tagonal gold U.S. half dollar, 1857
(1991.0208).

Richard Kahn, M.D.: Gastro-Photor
camera used for diagnostic photo-
graphs of the stomach in the 1940s
(1990.0229); scrapbook of the history
of the use of the Gastro-Photor cam-
era, 1940s (1990.3139).

Kansas State University, Department of
Psychology (through Frank E. Saal):
wooden finger maze and a psycholog-
ical test scoring device (1990.0596).

Alvin R. and Marjorie Sered Kantor:
Post office letter-copy book of John
Locke Scripps when Postmaster of
Chicago, 1861-64, and a letter dated
April 7, 1864 (1989.0509); 3 issues of
the Baltimore Daily Intelligencer of
1794 (1989.0718).

Peter Kassan: 665 harmonicas and har-
monica boxes of the 19th and 20th
centuries (1988.0783).

Henryk Kaston: matched quartet of vio-
lin, viola, and cello bows made by
Mr. Kaston, 20th century
(1990.0696).

Lyman G. Kauffman: 30 match book
covers of U.S. Navy and Marine
Corps ships and stations, 1911-45
(1990.05.47).

Jacqueline S. and Leon S. Kawecki: sil-
ver medal designed by Mr. Kawecki
commemorating the American Revo-
lution Bicentennial and Generals
Kosciuszko, Pulaski, and Washing-
ton, 1976 (1990.0497).

John L. Kay: 7 handstamps, 2 sets of
type for handstamps, a set of header
cards, badge, ashtray and a T-shirt,
all used on the Railway Post Office
(1989.0583).

Laura St. A. Keller: porcelain vase hand-
painted by Mrs. Prince of Brooklyn,
New York and 4 photographs of Mrs.
Prince and her wares, 1890s
(1990.0325).

169
Barbara H. Kemp: Socialist Party-Social
Democratic Federation membership
card, 1960 (1991.0103).

Peggy Kidwell: T-shirt commemorat-
ing George Washington University's
Math Awareness Week 1990
(1990.3068).

Rev. Edwin King: poster, comic book,
and a file of civil rights affidavits
compiled by Robert Weil on behalf
of the Student Nonviolent Coordinat-
ing Committee and the Council of
Federated Organizations, 1964
(1988.0595).

Phyllis E. M. King: Daily Sketch news-
paper of April 18, 1912 featuring pho-
tographs taken on board the Titanic
by a passenger (1991.0080).

Margaret B. Klapthor: fund-raising let-
ter from Rosalynn Carter dated May
30, 1990 (1990.0429).

Harlan H. Knapp: All-Electric Erector
construction toy made by the Gilbert
Company of New Haven, Connecti-
cut, 1939 (1991.3068).

Jim Knecht: art medal designed by Mr.
Knecht titled “Challenge,” 1987-90
(1991.0239).

‘Eugene I. Knez: 4 pairs of dress black
shoes, 2 cotton shirts, a raincoat, cap
cover, duffle bag, and a compass,
1960s (1977.0787).

Fay Knicely: iron-on tape, used for
mending fabric, 1930-60
(1990.0402).

Anne Pemberton Koplen, Deb Koplen,
and Theodore George Koplen
(through Deb Koplen): woman's and
a man’s 2-piece hunting outfits and a
pair of man’s heavy-duty suspenders,
1935-42 (1990.0045).

Andrew P. Kosic: 983 Italian revenue
stamps (1988.0719).

William E. Kost: McCormick-Deering
electric cream separator with accesso-
ries, Ca. 1942 (1990.0630).

Melvin Kranzberg, Ph.D.: 139 boxes of
personal papers and records of the So-
ciety for the History of Technology
(1988.3128).

Ruth Krauss in memory of Crockett
Johnson: 79 paintings of mathemati-
cal subjects by Crockett Johnson,
1965-75 (1979.1093); 10 sets of draw-
ings and documents related to Crock-

170

ett Johnson's mathematical paintings
(1979-3083).

Neil K. Kroschel: 37 stamps and 3 cov-
ers of Australia (1988.0787).

Mark A. R. Kuhn, M.D.: Original-Odh-
ner calculating machine made in Swe-
den and an instruction pamphlet, ca.
1955 (1991.0183).

Cameron J. LaClair, Jr.: Denon Model
DCD-1000 compact disc player
(1990.0155).

Frank F. La Guisa: elliptical reflector
lamp invented by Mr. La Guisa
(1985.0410).

Edwin M. and Mary Lou Lamphere:
white porcelain vase-shaped pitcher
made at a factory of William Ellis
Tucker of Philadelphia, 1826-38
(1990.05.41).

Jack La Lanne: videotape cassette and
reel of film showing exercises, “Glam-
our Stretcher” exercise device, blue
jumpsuit, and a swimsuit, all used by
Mr. La Lanne (1989.0344).

Susan M. Lancaster: woman's red satin
dress with rhinestone comet decora-
tions, 1932-38 (1990.0393).

Deborah Nadoolman Landis: costume
budget and sketchbook by Ms. Lan-
dis, press kit, and 5th draft script, all
from the motion picture, Raiders of
the Lost Ark, 1980 (1989.0401).

Langley: Italian newspaper published in
New York in 1885 (1991.3023).

J. B. Lankes in memory of J. J. Lankes:

39 engraved wood blocks made by J.
J. Lankes and 46 print proofs
(1990.0202); 8 engraved wood blocks
of the Pennsylvania Dutch barn series
made by J. J. Lankes and 8 prints
made from the blocks (1991.0313).

Folmer Larsen: 8 stamps of Greenland
with forged cancellations
(1989.0245).

Bruce Larson: 1988 Oldsmobile Cutlass
funny car tube frame dragster and a
prop rod for the upper body
(1989.0755); driver's fire resistant uni-
form, crash helmet, and a neck brace
worn by Mr. Larson when driving the
Oldsmobile Cutlass funny car and a
trophy won by him during the 1989
racing season (1990.0187).

Lasertron (through Kenneth W. Nill):
laser module (1990.0464).

Helen Latimer: Miller rifle-musket
with bayonet made in 1864 and con-
verted to breech-loading by the Meri-
den Manufacturing Company,
1865-67 (1990.0686).

Seymour A. Lazerowitz: 115 handmade
Valentine cards, 1820-80 (1991.3002).

Leatherwood Land Company (through
Frank Thomas Gravely and Harry
Gravely Lee): Gravely family coach
used on their pre-Civil War Virginia
plantation (1981.0652).

Mrs. Helen Lee: 3 usher's uniforms and
an usher’s apron (1990.0650).

Karen M. Lee: parallel rule made by the
C-Thru Ruler Company (1990.3130).

William B. Lee, D.D.S.: Page-Chayes
high-speed dental handpiece
(1990.0663).

John R. Lehmann: Cine-Kodak Model
K camera with lens attached, case
with accessories, 2 sets of filters, an-
stigmat lens, belt, empty film reel,
and an instruction booklet
(1990.0502).

Don Lemke: North Vietnamese flag and
an army intelligence evasion chart,
ca. 1968 (1991.0189).

Thomas J. Lester: Haynes automobile
radiator emblem, ca. 1915
(1988.0199).

Bennett Levin, P.E.: scale model of
Pennsylvania Railroad T-1 locomo-
tive and tender, 1946 (1987.0881).

Bernard Levine: advertisement card for
The Youths Companion published by
Perry Mason & Company of Boston,
Massachusetts, 1883 (1991.3011).

Bertram Levine: 11 medals, 4 plaques, a
trophy, membership card, hatband,
scrapbook, passport, booklet, and an
official pass reflecting Benjamin
Levine's career as an Olympic official
and founder of the Golden Glove's
amateur boxing competition
(191.0049).

Dorothy B. Libbey (through James E.
Brearton): Bowie knife with leather
sheath once owned by Sam Houston
(1990.05 46).

H. L. Lindquist Publications: airmail
cover cancelled by the U.S. Navy on
June 14, 1967 (1989.0232).

Robert W. Little: 3 botanical prints by
Mr. Little (1991-0105).

_—
Stanley A. Lomas: 14 reels of film con-
taining 226 television commercials
(1990.3019); 10 photographs of televi-
sion commercial production, 1940-60
(1990.3085).

Kathryn A. Looney: 3 dues books, a
gold-plated union card, and a
membership card all of the Brick-
layers, Masons and Plasterers Inter-
national Union of America
(1990.0432).

Louisiana Power & Light Company
(through John J. Cordaro and Nich-
olas M. Musmeci): Daystrom 046
computer with 22 circuit boards, 9
paper tapes, an I/O control console,
Ferranti tape spooler, and a box to
hold circuit boards, all used to con-
trol a major electric power station,
1962-87 (1990.0551).

Harry Lowe: woman's wrapper, 1895-
1910 (1991.0037).

Darrell B. Lucas: scrapbook of advertise-
ments compiled by Mr. Lucas for a
college psychology class in 1922
(1990.3160).

Isabel Cary Lundberg, Ph.D.: white cot-
ton dresser scarf with shadow embroi-
dery and lace trim, 20th century
(1991-0109).

Philip K. Lundeberg: piece of WW I
iron schrapnel (1990.0604).

Lenore Fenton MacClain: IBM electric
typewriter with Dvorak keyboard
(1987.0544).

Bonnie J. MacDonald: WW I uniform
coat and 2 pairs of breeches, 2 ammu-
nition pouches, 2 spoons, a pair of un-
dershorts, belt, canteen cover, and a
utility bag (1989.3092).

Maj. Gen. John J. Maginnis, USA
(Ret.) (through Robert J. Whipple):
48-star U.S. flag which was the first
U.S. flag to enter Berlin, June 23,
1945 (1990.0203).

University of Maine, Pulp and Paper
Foundation (through Stanley N. Mar-
shall, Jr.): sample of radio condenser
paper (1990.0575).

Artemuis Pervis Maness and Ray Auriel
Maness: U.S. Navy enlisted man’s
dress blue uniform jumper, trousers,
and flat hat, a shoe brush, and a post-
card of the U.S.S. Mussissippi, 1917-19
(1991.0215).

Ronald H. Mangseth: Navy Cross, Vic-
tory medal, and a miniature set of
these medals awarded to WW I U.S.
Navy submarine Comdr. Thomas
Baxter (1990.0606).

Marking Device Association Interna-
tional (through David E. Lister): 3
type sets of changeable dates for
handstamps, 1930s (1989.0334).

George C. Marshall Research Founda-
tion: first day cover commemorating
the 20th anniversary of the Marshall
Plan (1989.0234).

Chester Y. Martin: art medal designed
by Mr. Martin titled “Figures in
Landscapes,” 1989 (1991.0238).

Karen L. Martin: art medal designed by
Ms. Martin titled “Waves II”
(1991.0237).

Lucille G. Martin: amateur radio re-
ceiver with power supply, cable inter-
connect, and coil set, ca. 1962
(1990.0079).

Peter Martin: 1 covers relating to the
1989 National Scout Jamboree and
the Scouts on Stamps Society Interna-
tional (1989.0517).

Eluid L. Martinez: wooden religious fig-
ure group of the nativity of Jesus
with angel hand-carved by Mr.
Martinez in 1987 (1988.0684).

Vaughn F. Mason: 3 templates and 2 let-
ter sorting machine models
(1989.0111).

Mastervoice, Inc. (through Gus Searcy):
“Butler-In-A-Box” home security sys-
tem with 3 Home Show videotape
cassettes and a training videotape cas-
sette (1991.3015).

Otto Mayr: cover of Switzerland
(1989.02.48).

Maytag Company (through R.
Krajnovich): Maytag Model E2L gyra-
tor electric washing machine made in
1940 (1987.0888).

Paul B. McCracken III: advertisement
of May 1959 featuring Ronald Reagan
endorsing Union Pacific Domeliner
passenger trains (1991.3034).

Lee S. McDonald, Inc. (through Rosa-
lyn Kramer): 3 screens and a mould
used in papermaking (1990.0544).

Mary McFadden: woman's evening
dress with black miniskirt and
beaded strapless bodice designed by

Ms. McFadden in 1989 and black
satin shoes, black stockings, earrings,
and the designer's sketch of the dress
(1990.0246).

Patricia R. McFarland: letter opener
and ash tray used by former Attorney
General Homer Stills Cummings, ca.
1939 (1991.0363).

Patrick C. McFaull in memory of Capt.
John R. McFaull: Waltham pocket
watch, ca. 1907 (1990.0420).

Mark R. McGunegill: model of David
Bushnell's 1776 submarine Turtle
made by Mr. McGunegill in 1986
(1990.0302).

Capt. Jane P. McKeon: 39 uniform and
clothing items worn by Captain
McKeon when a cadet in the first
class to graduate women from the
U.S. Military Academy, 1980
(1985.0738).

Dorothy Gruener McLinden: woman's
silver fox fur neckpiece with heads,
tails and legs attached, 1941-42
(1991.0171).

May F. McMillan, Ph.D., in memory of
Charles Edward McMillan and Eu-
gene Charlton McMillan, Jr., M.D.:
McTammany design organette, 1878-
86, mechanical organita, and 17
paper rolls of music used in these in-
struments (1991.0132).

Peter McWilliams: NorthStar Horizon
personal computer and a set of soft-
ware floppy disks (1989.0354).

George Meany Memorial Archives
(through Lynda J. DeLoach): 27 labor
union posters (1990.0324).

Betty J. Meggers: 2 Cuban first day cov-
ers with stamps designed by Jose
Martinez commemorating the 490th
anniversary of the discovery of Amer-
ica, 1982 (1989.0155).

Dhirubhai Mehta: 46 postage stamps of
India with a collector's pack sheet
and folder (1988.0675); 44 stamps, 22
covers, 5 aerogrammies, a wrapper,
and a souvenir sheet of India
(1989.0502).

Gen. Montgomery C. Meigs: 13 sea
shells used for premonetary exchange
(1991.0127).

Keith Melder: 1990 political advertis-
ing packet for Paul Simon
(1990.0588).

171
Frances G. Meltzer: 5 licenses and certif-
icates, 2 medicament cups, a wool
cape, sterilizer, set of dentistry instru-
ments, oilstone, chain clip, set of bris-
tle discs, contra-angle U,
prophy-angle, and a set of points
from Mrs. Meltzer's career as a dental
hygienist (1990.0367); set of arm
patches, set of cap ribbons, gradua-
uon program, and a class photograph
of the Murry and Leonie
Guggenheim Dental Clinic, School
of Dental Hygienists, Class of June
1940 (1990.3095).

Richard J. Mercer: 4 audiotape cassettes
and 2 videotape cassettes of Campbell
soup commercials (1990.3007).

Joy E. Merritt: poster, “Why Uncle Sam
OK'd the Pharmacopoeia” (1991.0110).

Hans Meyer: wind-powered generator
made by Allied Electric Products
Company in 1945 and a stub tower
(1989.0723).

Meylan Corporation (through C. M.
Prinaris): 2 stopwatches and a stop-
watch holder (1991.0286).

Dr. Anthony R. Michaelis: British
bronze medal commemorating Dr.
Michaelis’ 75th birthday, 1991
(1991.0374).

Tony Middleton: 3 souvenir programs, 2
program photocopies, and a publicity
manual photocopy, all related to
Duke Ellington concert tours in
Great Britain (1990.3194).

University of Minnesota, Department of
Cell Biology and Neuroscience
(through David A. Lee): component
quantitator used to measure amounts
of tissue present in body organs in-
vented by Dr. Anna-Mary Carpenter,
1962 (1991.0056).

Ms. Evelyn Mischke: white oak splint
woven farm basket in mellon form,
1860-90, possibly made by an African
American (1991.0181).

Government of the Principality of Mo-
naco, Postes et Telecommunications,
Office des Emissions de Timbres-
Poste: 20 stamps, 2 souvenir sheets,
and a miniature sheet of Monaco
(1989.0341); 14 stamps and 2 souvenir
sheets of Monaco (1989.0501); 23
stamps and 2 souvenir sheets of Mo-
naco (1990.0131); 23 stamps and a

172

miniature sheet of Monaco
(1990.0562).

The Monongahela Railway Company
(through Paul H. Reistrup): 8-wheel
cupola caboose built by the Interna-
tional Car and Equipment Company
of Chicago, Illinois in 1949
(1990.0692).

Earl E. Moore: 61 U.S. checks, bills of
exchange, and miscellaneous finan-
cial documents (1990.0535).

MSgt. Edward J. Moore, USMC (Ret.):
model of the slow-pitch softball
strike zone carpet developed by
MSgt. Moore in 1961 (1990.0481).

Carolyn Wilder Moran: set of pricked
parchment patterns, set of spools,
and a pillow with a piece of bobbin
lace in progress in a storage box with
tools, all used by Ann Terry when
learning lace-making, 1810-20
(1990.0084).

Gregory A. and Thelma L. Morris: 2
photographs, 2 newsclippings, a
news article, and an advertisement
book, all related to Billy Strayhorn
(1990.3196).

Joan and Robert K. Morrison: 139 au-
diotaped oral histories, 79 edited
transcripts, and a group of photo-
graphs and other archival material
used by the Morrisons when writing
their book From Camelot to Kent State:
The Sisaies Experience in the Words of
Those Who Lived It (1989.3121).

Azariah Hollis Morton: program from
Sarah Vaughan’s memorial service of
April 9, 1990 (1990.3195).

Motorola, Inc., Semiconductor Products
Sector, Microprocessor Products
Group (through Lisa Hadley): 13 mi-
croprocessor chips, wafers, and dies of
the 6800 and 68000 series
(1990.0301).

John W. Mount: 367 folders of archival
material reflecting the researches of
independent inventor Wadsworth
Walton Mount, 1907-85 (1989.3105).

Le. Col. William Mozey, Jr., USA
(Ret.): 7 bayonets, 2 veteran's badges,
2 toy crassbows, a toy rifle, Brown
Bess musket, breech bolt, watch fob,
identification bracelet, ceramic dish,
and a pair of uniform trousers
(1989.0253).

Stephen J. Mrozek: 4 U.S. Army Michi-
gan National Guard Airborne insig-
nia (1990.3041).

MTB Banking Corporation (through
Dan S. Weissman): 4 U.S.S.R. histori-
cal series proof coins of silver, palla-
dium, and platinum and a U.S.S.R.
“Ballerina” palladium coin, all 1989
(1989.0740); 58 dirhems of the Mongol
Chaghatay Khans, 4 U.S.S.R. 1988
proof coins, and a Chinese 1988 palla-
dium medal (1990.0566).

Mr. and Mrs. Rene Muller: 2 WW I
postcards with Belgian stamps
mailed in Le Havre, France where the
Belgian government-in-exile resided
(1989.0192).

Mrs. John H. Murray: 5 pressed pattern
glass pieces, 2 art pottery pieces, 2 re-
fined earthenware pieces, a glass
whale oil lamp, glass tumbler, and an
ironstone cup plate (1988.0765); 4
samplers, 2 embroidered pictures,
and a piece of printed cotton fabric,
all with strawberry motifs
(1988.0831); 7 handkerchiefs, 4 sets of
appliques, 3 furnishing fabrics, 2
Vera scarves, a ribbon, potholder, and
a crocheted handbag (1989.0661); 49
fabrics with printed strawberry mo-
tifs, 1940-80 (1989.0754); 4 beverage
coasters, 2 spice shakers, 2 patty pans,
2 food molds, a frying pan, tray, can-
dle box, pewter teapot, and a pewter
tea and coffee set (1990.0339); I
pieces of woman's clothing and acces-
sories including 3 pairs of gloves, 2
hats, 2 blouses, 2 dresses, a purse, and
pajamas, 1949-69 (1990.0406), 47
carved wooden household objects in-
cluding 31 butter molds and stamps,
12 cookie and confectionary molds, a
serving fork and spoon, spice jar, and
a painted goblet (1990.0447); 18
pieces of small kitchen and table-
wares (1990.0503); 7 sets of tea tow-
els and cloths, 2 framed samplers
dated 1933 and 1935, a dresser set of
machine lace, crocheted potholder,
and a crocheted washcloth
(1991.0315).-

Dr. C. S. Myers: 52 coaxial cables used
during a project to standardize radio
frequency transmission lines and fit-
tings during WW II (1990.0390).

_—
Susan H. Myers: 11 stereographs taken
at the U.S. Military Academy, 1900-5
(1987.3032).

National Association of Letter Carriers
(through Vincent R. Sombrotto): 2
buttons and 2 badges commemorat-
ing the 100th anniversary of the Na-
tional Association of Letter Carriers
(1989.0697).

National Press Photographers Associa-
tion (through John Faber): 123 cam-
eras, lenses, flash equipment, and
miscellaneous apparatus used in
newspaper photography (1981.0483).

National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion (through T. P. Hackney, Jr.):
steel shipping container for use on
railroads and trucks made by Ameri-
can Car and Foundry Company, ca.
1921 (1986.0447).

National Trust for Historic Preserva-
tion (through J. Jackson Walter): 11
sets of architectural fragments from
the Harral-Wheeler house in
Bridgeport, Connecticut designed
by Alexander Jackson Davis in 1846
(1991.0146).

Jack B. Navarre: 46 orders, telegrams,
identity cards, passes, and memora-
bilia relating to Mr. Navarre’s service
in the U.S. Merchant Marine during
WwW II (1990.3112).

Navy League of the United States, New
York Council (through Daniel J.
Howe, Jr. and Arthur D. Ward):
Navy league flag taken by Capt. Rob-
ert E. Peary to the North Pole in
1909 (1991.0262).

Mark Needleman: U.S. Treasury Inter-
nal Revenue Prescription Blank
filled out to prescribe whiskey, dated
1926 (1991.0283).

Zipora Neeman: decorative paper cut-
ting by Yaakov Neeman of a Succoth
harvest festival scene with Hebrew in-
scriptions and symbols, 1982
(1988.0465).

R. Stanley Nelson: American Ace har-
monica made in Ireland and a Brelli
harmonica made in Jiangsu, China
(1991.0304).

Government of the Netherlands, PTT
Centrale Directie: postage stamp of
the Netherlands (1989.0058); PTT
Post B.V. (through J. W. Bonsing): 51

stamps of the Netherlands

(1990.0614).
New York City Opera (through Joseph

A. Citarella): 2 dresses, a hoop under-

skirt, helmet, and a turban worn by
Beverly Sills in the opera Julius Cae-
Sar (1991.0162).

New York University: 2 quadrants, an
Italian-style sector, protractor-geo-
metric square, and a diptych sundial
(1990.0646).

Government of New Zealand, Post Of-
fice Philatelic Bureau (through Basil
E. Umuroa): 19 stamps, a miniature
sheet, and a prestamped envelope of

New Zealand (1989.0060); miniature

sheet of New Zealand (1989.0244);:
21 stamps and a miniature sheet of

New Zealand (1989.0499); 17 stamps,

4 souvenir sheets, and a miniature

sheet of New Zealand (1990.0069); 18

stamps and 2 souvenir sheets of New
Zealand (1990.0471).
Hugo J. Nickse: 14 sets of framed pho-

tographs of ivory-working companies
in Connecticut, 1880-1960 (1990.3113).

Harald Nilsson: 7 £ronur of Iceland,
1981-89 (1990.0612).

Government of Niue, Post Office, Phila-

telic Bureau: 3 stamps, a first day
cover, and a souvenir sheet of Niue

(1989.0552); 12 stamps, 3 first day cov-

ers, and 2 souvenir sheets of Niue
(1990.0049).

James Veach Noble: bronze medal com-

memorating New York Cicy Ballet
founder and choreographer George
Balanchine, 1983 (1989.0636).

North Carolina Museum of History
(through Martha E. Battle): 3 post-
cards of scenes in Washington, D.C.
including a view of the Library of
Congress postmarked December
1906, a view of the Lincoln Memo-
rial, and a view of a restaurant inte-
rior (1989.3068).

George A. Norton, Jr.: 110 horological
tools and materials, a pair of safety
glasses, Hamilton wrist watch, and a
General Electic clock (1990.0292);
metric converter calculating rule and
instruction sheet and a Vermco rule

(1990.0689); metric/inch paper calcu-

lacing rule and a plastic mathemati-
cal cable (1990.3231).

Government of Norway, General Direc-
torate of Posts: 14 stamps and 7 first
day covers of Norway (1989.0156); 6
stamps, § first day covers, and 2 sou-
venir sheets of Norway (1989.0624);
ul stamps, 7 first day covers, and a
souvenir sheet of Norway
(1990.0139); 5 stamps, 4 first day cov-
ers, and a souvenir sheet of Norway
(1990.0586); Royal Norwegian Em-
bassy: i stamps and a folded letter
sheet of Norway (1989.0237).

Norwich Eaton Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(through H. Tecklenberg): 67 folders
of advertising pamphlets and com-
pany publications, 5 posters, 2 store
display ads, and a box of display
signs (1989.3039).

Numismaticos Colombianos (through
Fernando Barriga del Diestro and Al-
berto Lozano-Villegas): Colombian
medal commemorating the 450th an-
niversary of the City of Bogota and
the 11th Exposition of Bogota
Numismatica, 1988 (1990.0529).

Richard K. Nurnberg: 2 stamps of Fin-
land with excess plate ink
(1989.0228).

Gail Delgado Nygaard in memory of
Kaare K. Nygaard, M.D.: photo-elec-
tric apparatus used in blood analysis
invented by Dr. Nygaard and pat-
ented in Norway in the 1930s and a
file box of patient records
(1990.0272); videotape cassette,
“Knife, Life, and Bronzes,” by Dr.
Nygaard (1990.3079).

Laura Isabelle O'Dea (through Edward
W. McKinnon): woman's pearl neck-
lace, 1915-35, and an Art Deco plati-
num and diamond bracelet, 1920-35
(1990.0062).

James Austin O'Donnell: cloth mailbag
with 16 wax seals (1989.0059).

The Ohio Art Company (through Elena
S. Freccia and J. Patrick Grandy):
“Etch A Sketch” drawing toy, ca.
1962 (1990.0657).

Ohio Thimble Seekers in memory of Ev-
elyn Eubanks (through Sandra Wood-
yard): sterling silver thimble
featuring symbols of Ohio, 1988
(1990.0409).

Earl Okin: 3 audiotape cassettes, 2 pro-
gtams, 2 photographs, a poster, and a

173
set of photocopied newsclippings and
articles, all related to Duke Ellington
(1990.3229).

Oklahoma State University, College of
Agriculture, Department of Biochem-
istry (through Marion G. Satterfield
and Benny R. Steele): combination
gas chromatograph/mass spectrome-
ter consisting of an analyzer unit, con-
trol unit, and a pump, 1964-65
(1990.0578).

Olivet College (through Andrea S.
Ralph): air sample from an 1889 time
capsule (1989.3056).

One Nation Under God (through John
Golan and Carol I. Owens): 2 “Wash-
ington for Jesus Rally” posters, April
29, 1980 (1990.3076).

William O'Neill: 2 stamps of Greece
(1989.0247).

Louis L. Orenstein: 78 silver and bronze
coins of ancient Judaea (1990.0681).
Pacific Research Foundation, Scripps In-

stitute of Oceanography, Deep Sea
Drilling Project (through Robert S.
Bower, Jr. and Dr. M.N. A. Peter-
son): 15 components from the
oceanographic research vessel Glomar
Challenger (1985.0598); 4 components
from the oceanographic research ves-
sel Glomar Challenger (1986.3040).

Clarence H. Pals, D.V.M.: set of Brooks
meat inspector's sealing press with
seals patented in 1882 (1990.0332).

Rebecca H. Parker: woman's petticoat,
1855-65, 2-piece dress, 1880-82, 2-
Piece suit, 1912-15, brassiere, 1915-25,
man’s Pierre Cardin suit, 1981,
hanger, and a lace border (1990.0209).

Jordan E. Patkin: stereo view of “Still-
water Gorge, Watkins Glen - on the
line of the Erie Railway” by Charles
Bierstadt (1990.0637).

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson: 25 shotguns, ri-
fles, pistols, and revolvers with 20
gun accessories, 16 shotgun shells, 13
ACP cartridges, 8 gun carrying cases,
2 gun racks, 2 Colt magazines, a
pouch with 2 magazines, outers lo-
cater and case, quail caller, and a pow-
der flask (1979.0523); 6 gun cases, 3
bird calls, 2 target spotting scopes, 2
target sets, a rock trap launcher, duck
shooting game, underwater speargun,
chemical baton, gun carrier, and a

174

linen gun cover (1981.0842); 9 pieces
of early 20ch-century glass including
a 5-piece Bohemian table place set-
ting, Bohemian covered cup, fruit
dish, and a Steuben bow! (1988.0551);
silver medal of the New York State
Agricultural Society awarded to Mrs.
Jane Newland in 1850 for “the best
Ottaman Cover” (1990.0645).

Julia A. Hickman Pauley in memory of
Charlotte Jean Hickman and David
Wayne Hickman: kerosene table
lamp with metal base and reservoir,
glass chimney, and glass globe
painted with a bouquet of roses, ca.
1900 (1991.0370).

E.G. Pauly: 8 publications of the
Timken Roller Bearing Company,
1925-57, and 2 journals published by
U.S. Steel Corporation, 1945-46
(1990.3162).

Robert E. Peary, Jr.: 45-star U.S. flag
presented to Robert E. Peary by the
Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion and carried by him to the North
Pole in 1909 (1991.0254).

Peck: woman's red leather bag, 1830-70
(1990.04.40).

Herbert L. Pelham: 14 silver and zinc
alloy votive figures from Cuernavaca,
Mexico, ca. 1950 (1988.0688).

Franz Pemmerl: 3 replicas of “R” elec-
tron tubes (1988.0147).

Dane A. Penland: 2 man’s T-shirts and a
suede vest, 1968-75 (1990.0404); 400
K external drive unit for a Macintosh
computer and a premier issue of
MacWorld magazine, 1984
(1990.0493).

State Museum of Pennsylvania (through
Bruce S. Bazelon): 16 uniform items
and documents from the U.S. Naval
career of Machinist's Mate 2nd Class
David Henry Landis, 1928-36
(1991.0050).

Pennsylvania Turnpike Commisssion
(through R. R. Haratine): 5 signs,
toll collector's uniform, collector's
badge, time clock, set of tickets, and
plans for a 1940 tollbooth (1983.0501);
(through Jack I. Greenblat and
Kevin E. Logenbach): tollbooth used
on the Pennsylvania Turnpike from
October 1, 1940 to September 13, 1983
(1983.0783).

The University of Pennsylvania, The
University Museum of Archaeol-
ogy/Anthropology (through Dr. Rob-
ert H. Dyson): m1 various musical
instruments and accessories
(1991.0406).

Government of Penrhyn Island, Post Of-
fice: 5 stamps and a first day cover of
Penrhyn Island (1989.0506); 4
stamps, a first day cover, and a souve-
nic sheet of Penrhyn Island
(1990.0014); stamp, first day cover,
and souvenir sheet set of Penrhyn
commemorating the Queen Mother
Elizabeth (1990.0519).

Margaret E. Perez: film reel of the “I
Love Lucy” television pilot, 1951
(1990.0694).

Sylvia M. Perle: 2 art medals designed
by Ms. Perle, “Amnesty” and “Pas de
Deux,” 1988 (1991.0236).

Mendel L. Peterson: 2 white damask
napkins and a woman's embroidered
muslin dress, all 18th century
(1987.0116); silver 8-reales coin of
Mexico salvaged from the 1733 wreck
of the Spanish treasure fleet
(1990.0527); set of 9 black beads, set
of 4 conus shells, and an earthenware
sherd from Greece (1991.0126).

Richard M. Pitman: Sceinitz fire alarm
telegraph tape register with a take-
up device (1988.0179).

J. J. Plank Corporation (through Bar-
bara Welsch): 2 watermarking
screens, a dandy roll section, and a
set of watermarked paper sheets
(1990.3198).

Pobjoy Mint, Ltd. (through Derek
Pobjoy): 5 coins comprising a gold
proof Manx cat coin set of the Isle of
Man, 1988 (1989.0536).

Gloria K. Pocobello: National Vaude-
ville Association trunk containing 50
costumes, make-up items, sheet
music, and sets of personal papers
used by accordionists Dan Boudini
and Adele Bernard, 1917-28
(1990.0583).

James W. Poisal, Jr.: document leasing
a servant for the year 1852 which de-
tails cloching to be given to her
(1991.0198).

Embassy of the Polish Peoples Repub-
lic, Consular Division (through

—_
Kazimierz H. Cias): 7 coins of Po-
land commemorating Nicholas Co-
pernicus, 1965-69 (1990.0649).

Henrik Pollak: forged stamp of Karelia
(1989.0239).

Crimilda Pontes: 17 phonograph records
and 3 phonograph albums
(1989.0207).

Chester Pontosky: Gasteam radiator
made by J. B. Clow & Sons who pat-
ented it on January 14, 1896
(1991.0139).

The Port Authority of NY & NJ
(through Richard P. Kelly): cast iron
tunnel liner segment installed ca.
1902 and removed from the Hudson
& Manhattan Railroad tunnel in
1990 (1991.0055).

Carol E. Porter: 2 woman's house
dresses, ca. 1975 (1991.0204).

Joan P. Porter: 53 WW IU-S. Army
military aviator uniform items and
accessories used by Howard B. Pea-
body (1980.03.43).

Catherine Post in memory of Serge S.
Postnikoff: German zeppelin first
flight postcard dated August 20,
1924 (1989.0376).

Dian S. Post: 4 books, 3 photographs, a
bottle, and a ticket to the American
Institute at the 51st Grand National
Industrial Exposition of 1882
(1984.3081).

Postal Museum of Finland (through Jari
Karhu): mailbox, mailbag, and a lec-
ter carrier's hat all used in Finland
(1990.0147).

Dr. Jerry E. Pournelle: set of 4 compo-
nents of the Godbout S100 micro-
computer system, RAM board, and a
set of 10 floppy disks (1989.0070); 25
pieces of documentation for the
Godbout S100 microcomputer
(1989.3019).

Pratt-Read Corporation (through
Charles A. Ruhe): about 42 cubic feet
of archival records of the ivory-work-
ing firm of Pratt-Read & Company
(1989.3047).

President Reagan Inaugural Commit-
tee: 25 drawings, models, strikes,
blanks, and finished medals used in
the process of making the Ronald
Reagan Inaugural Medal for 1981
(1990.0611).

Fernando Perez Pria: 17 cupro-nickel,
stainless steel, bronze, and brass Mex-
ican coins, 1982-88 (1991.0159).

Procter & Gamble Company (through
Edward Rider): scrapbook of pro-
ofsheets from Dancer, Fitzgerald,
Sample Advertising Agency of
Falstaff beer advertisements, 1945-46
(1989.3050).

Pucci International, Ltd. (through
Ralph Pucci): male and female man-
nequins designed by Andree Putnam
for Pucci International of New York
City, 1988 (1991.0226).

Hon. William H. Quealy: 8 phono-
graph record albums with jackets au-
tographed by Duke Ellington and a
Christmas card from Duke Ellington
to Judge Quealy (1990.3180).

Kim Quilles: 2 woman's blouses, 2 T-
shirts, and a bathing suit, 1975-85
(1991.0021).

Jacob Rabinow: 5 cubic feet of archival
records relating to Mr. Rabinow’s
work on straight line phonographs,
automatic regulators for clocks and
watches, and reading machines
(1991.3013).

Raleigh Coin Club (through Alexander
C. Armstrong): 82 coins of Argen-
tina, Austria, the British East Carib-
bean, Colombia, Great Britain,
Greece, Kiribati, Malta, Mauritius,
Mexico, Portugal, the Seychelles,
Trinidad-Tobago, and the U.S., 1958-
79 (1990.0498); (through Robert A.
Izydore): 63 proof modern foreign
coins (1991.0356).

Rapp Collins Marcoa (through Carmen
Baez): scrapbook of political cam-
paign direct mail of the 1920s
(1991.0207).

Elizabeth H. Rathbun: 4 panoramic
photographs of the National Park
Seminary Grounds and graduating
classes in Forest Glen, Maryland,
1925-27 (1990.0647).

Ken Rattenbury: audiotape cassette of
an interview with Duke Ellington by
Michael Parkinson for BBC Televi-
sion held February 15, 1973
(1991.3001).

Jean D. and O. W. Reese: solar printing
house with original sign built in
1875, a stereo camera, and 339 photo-

graphs, glass plate positives and nega-
tives, stereo views, and photographic
equipment all made or used by

Henry Hamilton Bennett, 1865-1908
(1977-1062).

Rice Barton Corporation (through
Mirick G. Perkins): sclerascope made
by Shore Instrument & Manufactur-
ing Company who sold it to Rice Bar-
ton & Fales on January 17, 1928
(1990.0624); 2 brass maker's plates
for Rice, Barton & Fales Machine &
Iron Company and an advertising
broadside for Howe & Goddard
(1990.0631).

Dr. Richard E. Richards: 100 folders
and groups of papers concerning mi-
croscope research compiled by Oscar
W. Richards, Ph.D., 1923-88
(1989.30§2).

Belle D. and George Rickart in
memory of Mr. Rickart’s father:
pocket watch with gold chain
(1990.0376).

Frank R. Righetti, Sr.: 3 automobile ser-
vice and credit card signs of porcelain
enameled steel (1989.0751).

Bernard Ring: 3 first day covers issued
at the convention of the American
First Day Cover Society and National
Postage Stamp Show held in New
York, November 21-23, 1969
(1989.0265).

Betty L. Rinker: 3 pillow cases and an
embroidered runner with a crocheted
edge, all made from flour sacking in
the 1920s (1990.0641).

Ralph Rinzler: The Colored Sacred Harp
collection of shape note songs, 1934
(1989.0381).

Mary Livingston Ripley: man’s cotton
collar, 1915-25 (1990.0285).

Kenneth X. Robbins, M.D.: 281
Hephthalite drachms and a Sasanid
coin which were part of an ancient
hoard (1990.0525).

Edward K. Robinson: binder clip
(1991.0082).

Franklin A. Robinson, Jr.: 18 pieces of
clothing and accessories used by Mr.
Robinson's mother including 8
dresses, 3 hats, 2 blouses, 2 infants’
bonnets, a pair of trousers, suit, and a
hat box, 1933-66 (1990.0394);
woman's necklace, bracelet, brooch,

175
and a hair ornament, 1951-64
(1991.0010).

Mrs. Walter Robinson: set of drawing
instruments by Schoenner
(1990.0350).

Janet K. Rockne: plastic salad set in-
cluding 5 bowls and a serving fork
and spoon, 1966 (1990.3056).

John Logan Rogers, M.D. and Mary
Belle Rogers: “KOA Kampgrounds”
sign used in Bigfork, Montana in
1965 (1983.0233).

Robert G. Rolfe: quartz “US Army”
novelty watch (1989.0545); 4 bottles
of Raffinage watch oil and a
Blaisdell/Keystone pencil
(1990.0276).

J. William Rosenthal, M.D.: 12 pairs of
opthalmic forceps, 4 pairs of Chinese
spectacles, a set of opthalmic spatu-
las, pair of iris scissors, and a capsule
needle knife (1990.0658).

Pauline Roskom: Monroe Model 7 plate
camera, 1897-99 (1990.035§2).

Betty B. Ross: electric upright Hoover
vacuum Cleaner with attachments in
original box, ca. 1927 (1990.3134);
electric massage vibrator, ca. 1950,
and a 4-piece vaporizer, ca. 1952
(1991.0111).

Mary Ross: Sousa Band chromatic har-
monica in the key of G made in Ger-
many (1991.0303).

Thomas J. Rossa: pair of magnesium ski
boots with inner bladder which can
be filled co fit the wearer, 1970-75
(1990.0595).

Russell Rulau: 2 U.S. medals honoring
Mr. Rulau’s 50 years in numismatics,
1989 (1990.0§01).

William Russo: 8 music scores for Duke
Ellington's “First Concert of Sacred
Music” (1991.3019).

Edward B. Ryder IV: political cam-
paign newspaper for George McGov-
ern (1991.3024).

Joseph Sander in memory of Father
Charles Schlick: Realist stereo camera

with case and 10 accessories (1990.0545).

W. B. Sanderson, III: hand-sewn U.S.
national flag used in the motion pic-
ture Glory (1991.0318).

James G. Sannerud: man’s collar made
by British Styles, Ltd. of Brooklyn,
New York, 1920-39 (1990.0426).

176

SAS Philatelic Club: 8 first flight covers
of che Scandinavian Airlines System
(1989.0077); 26 first flight covers of
the Scandinavian Airlines System
(1989.0235); 15 first flight covers of
the Scandinavian Airlines System
(1989.0411); 8 first flight covers of the
Scandinavian Airlines System
(1990.0095); 9 first flight covers of
the Scandinavian Airlines System
(1990.0408).

Mary Jo Satterthwaite: pair of woman's
fishnet stockings, 1941-43
(1990.0392); uniform shirt and pants
and a pin, all used by Mrs.
Satterthwaite’s mother when playing
high school basketball in Nebraska,
1922-24 (1990.0482).

Curtis S. Scaife: petit point needlework
handbag made in Austria with set of
woman's cosmetic cases inside, mid-
2oth century (1991.0290).

Paul L. Schafer: 7 postage stamps of Bra-
zil (1989.0137).

Charles Scheller: 3 stamps of Iceland
(1989.02.43).

Charles L. Schepens, M.D.: prototype
made by Dr. Schepens in 1945 and a
demonstration model of an indirect
binocular ophthalmoscope
(1990.0384).

Bernard L. Schmidt: art medal designed
by Mr. Schmidt titled “Shadrach,
Meshach, Abednego,” 1989
(1991.0235).

Laura T. Schneider: 2 wooden tennis rac-
quets and an ice skating costume of
1959 (1990.0695).

Jane B. Schulze: Irish Harp made by
Melville Clark of Syracuse, New York
with a folding tabouret and tuning
key (1988.0402).

Frances G. Schwarz: portrait
photograph and a cabinet card,
both of Florence Auld Hayes Gi-
raud by White's of New York
(1990.0600).

Lois A. and W. FE. Schweitzer: 1931 Ford
Model A mail truck with original
fire extinguisher and brush, 6 letter
carrier's uniform items, and a phila-
telic cover (1990.0587).

Sears, Roebuck and Company, Corpo-
rate Governmental Affairs (through
Z. H. Rizzy): 13 pieces of furniture

and decorative items for a room set-
ting (1988.3158).

Security Storage Company of Washing-
ton (through Conrad S. Posey): ship-
ping container for household goods
builc in 1931 and used interchange-
ably on railroads, trucks, and ships
(1986.0206).

The Seeing Eye, Inc. (through Dennis J.
Murphy): harness for a guide dog
(1990.0381); videotape cassette, “Love
Leads the Way,” by Wale Disney
Home Video (1990.3097).

Melanie D'Antonio Seibert: 3 papier
mache jack-o-lanterns of the 1940s
(1990.0635).

Phillip Seitz: 2 computer software
games and a hint book for one of the
games (1990.0463).

B. Shackman & Company, Inc. (through
James E. Lillemoe): Kitty Cucumber
artwork by Mary Peters Lillemoe con-
sisting of original mock-up and em-
bossed cut-out sheets with costume
and hat changes (1987.3102).

Walter and Wanda Shaner: pocket
watch in a gold case with coin motif,
1880-90 (1990.0377).

Courtney Ann Shaw: Perkin-Elmer data
system terminal Model 1100 and an
acoustic coupler (1990.0465).

David H. Shayt: Lloyd’s Accumatic 70
electronic calculator (1990.0462); box
of George Washington Great Ameri-
can pipe tobacco (1990.3074); 14 bank
notes of Guyana and 5 bank notes of
Trinidad and Tobago (1991.0086).

Arthur L. Shearer: 61 folders of pam-
phlets and information published by
General Motors Corporation, 1950s-
60041990.3161).

Lelia G. Shepperson: Colt police re-
volver, ca. 1862 (1991.0211).

Amnon Sitchin: 54 postage stamps of
Brazil (1988.0733); 19 postage
stamps of Brazil (1989.0136); 555
stamps of Brazil, 1850-1942
(1990.0674).

Arthur Skebeck: 17 mathematical text-
books, 1818-1976 (1982.3001).

Skidmore College: 17 psychological in-
struments and testing apparatus
(311423).

Birt E. Slater: 2 philatelic covers with a
penny attached to each (1988.0785).

—_
Gary W. Slater: copies of the 1987 na-
tional and local General Mo-
tors/United Automobile Workers
contracts (1988.0692).

Fischella Smith: 6 jazz awards, 4 money
clips, a tie clip, The Jazz Scene book,
Selmer alto saxophone, and a Buffet-
Crampton clarinet, all used by jazz
musician Willie Smith from the
1920s to 1967 (1990.0087); RCA
Model 5T radio receiver, ca. 1936
(1990.0089); 65 pieces of archival ma-
terial reflecting the music career of
Willie Smith, 1910-67 (1990.3029).

Richard G. Smith: set of drawing in-
struments in a wooden case
(1990.0690).

Stan H. Smith: 3 porcelain mugs com-
memorating the Medal of Honor of
the U.S. Army, Navy, and Air Force
(1986.3008).

Verna E. Smith: circular cast-iron roast-
ing pot made by the Wagner Manu-
facturing Company of Sidney, Ohio,
ca. 1922 (1990.0618); 2 beadwork
handbags and a folding crochet hook
(1991.0296).

Virginia Morris Smith: photograph of
a bride by Scurlock Photo
(1990.0523).

The Society of Medalists (through Jo-
seph Veach Noble): 2 bronze medals,
one commemorating Charles Darwin
and the other an art medal titled
Man and Woman, both 1989
(1990.0009); 2 bronze art medals ti-
tled The Prodigal Son and Snow and
Sand issued in 1988 (1990.0151); art
medal titled Fire and Ice, 1990
(1990.0397).

Michael Sofranoff: 2 photographs, a non-
regulation Eisenhower jacket,
plaque, and a set of bullet-shaped
salt and pepper shakers, all used by
Mr. Sofranoff when serving with the
4th U.S. Marines in China, 1940-41
(1991.0192).

Harry J. Sohmer, Jr.: about 7 cubic feet
of archival material of the piano man-
ufacturing firm of Sohmer & Com-
pany (1990.3031).

Maria M. Somogyi: 12 prints which
made up the Washington
Printmaker’s Calendar for 1991
(1991.0095).

Sony Corporation of America, Sony Con-
sumer Products Company (through
Scott Westover): Sony Disc-Man D-5
laser assembly (1985.0387).

South Dakota Federation of Teen Age
Republicans (through Reed Holweg-
ner): 2 pennants, 2 lapel pins, a ban-
ner, manual, and a packet of
information (1990.0434).

South Eastern Pennsylvania Transit Au-
thority (chrough John T. Prader):
turnstile from the Philadelphia sub-
way system made by the Perey Manu-
facturing Company of New York
(1983.3033).

Spanish Mint, Fabrica Nacional De
Moreda Y Timbre: 3 medals issued
by the Spanish Mint in 1988 and 1989
(1989.0739).

Barry Spann: 27 sets of photograph neg-
atives used in printing Twenty-seven
Landscapes: 1977-83 (1990.0557).

Specialized Bicycle Components
(through Michael Sinyard):
“Stumpjumper” mountain bicycle,
1989 (1990.0088).

Spectra-Physics, Inc., Laser Systems Di-
vision (through Bertrand D. Baber
and John FE. O'Brien): TRS-80 porta-
ble computer, supermarket scanning
unit, and a mock scanning unit
(1985.3050).

William E. Spengler: 30 ancient, medi-
eval, and modern coins of India, Iran,
and Afghanistan (1990.0010).

James A. Speraw, Jr.: U.S. Army
parachucist's helmet cover of wood-
land camouflage made by Lighthouse
for the Blind (1990.3065).

Evelyn K. Spicalny (through Barton
Goldberg and Norman Rachlin): full-
sized white ceramic violin decorated
with Oriental scenes in a display
case, probably 20th century
(1991.0120).

Harvey G. and Norman Stack: 257 Indo-
Scythian and Indo-Parthian silver
tetradrachms of the Malakand Hoard
dating from about 35 B.C. to A.D. 65
(1988.0774).

Harvey G., Larry R., and Norman
Stack: 8 medals commemorating 50
years of public auctions held by
Stack’s of New York City, 1985
(1990.0261); U.S. double eagle gold

20-dollar coin of 1907 designed by
Augustus Saint-Gaudens (1990.0355);
silver Indian dirhem of Sultan Jalacu
al din Raziya ibn Ilcutmish, 1236-40
(1990.0585); Roman Empire silver
miliaresion of Julian I, A.D. 360-363,
minted at Sirmium (1990.0601).

Stack’s: string of shell money of Birvan,
shell adze of German New Guinea,
and a piece of rock salt money of
Ethiopia (1991.0128).

Stag's Leap Wine Cellars (through Cath-
erine and Warren Winiarski): packet
of letters, menus, photographs, and
wine labels documenting Stag’s
Leap's participation at various state
dinners (1988.3169).

Katherine Stahmer: framed sampler in-
scribed “Elizabeth Throckmorton
was born October the 18 1795”
(1990.0477).

Stanford University Medical Center, Of-
fice of Communications (through S.
G. Andreopoulos): 2 posters for the
Arthur Kornberg Symposium
(1990.3199).

Joan R. Stephens: 5 pieces of red copper-
plate-printed fabric made in the 18th
century (1990.0685).

Mrs. Robert B. Stephens: 2 hand-col-
ored embroidery patterns published
in Vienna, Austria, 1830-50
(1988.0501); 3 sewing cases, 2 sets of
pillow cases, a pocket, bolster cover,
crib quilt, set of tin quilt pattern
templates, and a miniature quilting
frame and set of clamps (1989.0712);
sunburst quilt, pieced quilt, quilted
counterpane, show towel inscribed
with a poem, and an appliqued and
embroidered bed valance, 18th-19th
centuries (1991.0381).

Sterling Investors, Inc. (through Vito
DeLustro) in memory of Louis
DeLustro and in honor of all
Italian Americans: 3 U.S. Colum-
bus Quincentennary medals
(1989.0635).

Nancy Dickstein Stern: 4 girl's blouses,
a skirt, pair of stockings, brassiere,
and a woman's 3-piece dress, 1973-76
(1990.0405).

Lisa-Margaret Stevenson: length of
white cotton net with floral embroi-
dery (1991.0302).

177
Theodore E. Stevenson: 135 postal cards,
45 stamped envelopes, 19 wrappers,
and a cover remnant of Denmark and
a legal document affixed with U.S.
federal and State of Massachusetts rev-
enue stamps (1989.0240).

Alexander Stewart, M.D.: Wrappler cas-
sette changer and a diathermy radiol-
ogy machine (1991.0142).

Sc. Louis Ship (through E. Renshaw): 4
life-rings marked “M/V Herman
Pott” and a water cooler casing
(1978.3028).

Christian A. Stockstad: U.S. Navy iden-
tification tag, registration certificate
of 1940, and a notice of classification
of 1942 (1986.3089).

Lois Greene Stone: 3 instruction manu-
als for the Craig Projecto-Editor and
an instruction manual for the Craig
Senior Splicer (1991.3005).

Dr. Michael Stratton: Churchill com-
memorative crown of Great Britain,
1965 (1990.0152).

Robert H. Strother, Jr. and the Second
Christian Church (through Rev. Dr.
Rose Ann R. Duckett): button from
the United Nations Conference on In-
ternational Organizations held in San
Francisco in 1945 (1991.0193).

Edward B. Scvan: 19 die sets and stamps
used to make paper flowers
(1988.0730).

David M. Sundman: 60 American Expe-
ditionary Force stamps of WW I con-
tained in 2 booklet panes (1989.0293);
stereograph depicting a rural letter
carrier with dog sled team in the
Upper Great Lakes region of the U.S.
(1989.0596).

The Support System Inc. (through Mer-
cer A. Givhan, Jr.): Mozart Bicenten-
nial bronze medallion designed by
Eugene Daub (1991.0259).

Walter Swan: 6 covers, a stamp, and a
Mailomat postal card of the U.S.
(1989.0249).

John K. Swearingen: 2 GE solid-state
devices, a Univac name plate, and a
Univac C-10 instruction code card
(1990.0491).

Government of Sweden, PFA Swedish
Stamps: 499 stamps, 27 covers, and a
souvenir folder of Australia, Canada,
Great Britain, Sweden, the United

178

Nations, and the U.S. (1989.0507);
(through Monica Gustavsson): 250
stamps, 28 first day covers, 18 maxi-
mum cards, and a presentation card
of Sweden (1988.0555); 470 stamps, 32
first day covers, 30 maximum cards,
7 presentation cards, and a souvenir
folder of Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
Norway, and Sweden (1989.0075);
(through Sirkka Lehtinen): 410
stamps, 32 first day covers, 24 maxi-
mum cards, a souvenir folder, and a
single color die proof of Sweden
(1990.0078); Postal Administration,
Philatelic Division: 5 first day covers
and 2 letter cards of Sweden
(1989.0241).

Victoria A. Sweet in memory of John
Loman: gold pocket watch marked
“L. Gallopin & Cie, Henry Capt, No.
42368” (1991.0298).

Swiss Institute of Transport and Com-
munications: first day cover com-
memorating Planetarium Longines
in Lucerne, Switzerland (1989.0236).

Cathryn White Sylvester in memory of
Mr. and Mrs. Henderson N. White:
cornet made by Isaac Fiske, 1867, and
a soprano trumpet, clarinet, and
trombone made by the H. N. White
Company, 1893-1940 (1991.0255).

Synergistic Designs (through Jennifer
C. King): 3 posters (1990.3200).

Syntex Corporation, Syntex Corporate
Archives (through Richard L.
Lechnar): 14 pieces of trade literature
and information booklets, 6 packages
of oral contraceptives, and a preg-
nancy calculator (1990.3201).

Edward F. Taylor: model automobile en-
tered in the Fisher Body Craftsman’s
Guild Contest of 1951 (1988.0022).

Elizabeth H. Taylor: 12 pieces of porce-
lain tableware decorated in “Healy
Gold” by Mary and Emily Healy,
1879-1914 (1991.0017).

Helen Dobbin Taylor: sampler made by
Ellen Dobbin at Sacred Heart School
in East Boston, Massachusetts in 1899
(1990.025§2).

Robert Taylor: WW I French trench
mortar shell (1979.1257).

Roger B. Taylor: card game titled “Priv-
ilege, The Modern Game with Social
Significance,” 1938 (1990.0486).

T. D. Collection: set of 2 cowrie shells
(1991.0129).

Daniel Telleen: bronze act medal de-
signed by Mr. Telleen titled “Sept.
(Again)” (1991.0353).

Michael Tesch: 7 sets of Federal Express
advertising storyboards, 1978-86
(1990.3093).

Texas Instruments Incorporated
(through Jerry R. Junkins): 462 ob-
jects reflecting developments in mi-
croelectronics, transistors, and solid
state technology, 1950s-
80041987.0487); Equipment Group
(through Sally L. Merryman): thermo-
electric generator (1990.0511).

Bank of Thailand (through Fam
Pomthong and Somsak Vichban): 2
60-baht notes of Thailand commemo-
rating the 6oth birthday of King
Rama IX, 1987 (1990.0584).

Marilee Tillstrom: 16-piece dressmaker's
form and an instruction sheet, 19G0-
64 (1991.0038).

Timex Corporation (through Susie Wat-
son): “Nightwatch” and “Ironman”
wrist watches made by Timex
(1990.0626).

August V. and Marie A. Titi: glass pa-
perweight with a fragment of the Ber-
lin Wall embedded in it and an
authentication leaflet, 1990
(1990.0235).

Jonathan A. Titus: Mark-8 minicom-
puter with 6 unpopulated circuit
boards, Sphere microcomputer with 2
unpopulated circuit boards and a
power supply, 4 unpopulated circuit
boards for a TV Typewriter, and a
DEC MPS Series CPU printed circuit
board (1990.0610); U pieces of docu-
mentation for a DEC microcomputer,
6 pieces of documentation for a
Sphere microcomputer, 4 pieces of
documentation for a Mark-8 mini-
computer, and a manual for a TV
Typewriter (1990.3165).

Ellen and Robert Tobias: multipost
stamp affixer (1990.0198).

Toshiba Corporation, Electron Tube and
Device Division (through Kinzo Sug-
imori): traveling wave tube type
E3822 (1990.0422).

Avetta Trigg: 77 folders of archival re-
cords relating to Charles W. Trigg’s

~
work in the development of instant
coffee (1991.3038).

Trimble Navigation (through Charles
R. Trimble): 2 microwave antennas
and a Geodetic Surveyor System re-
ceiver (1990.0457).

Robert A. Truax: 2 postal receipts of
1869 and 1881, a postal card of 1883,
and sheet music for “The Old Post-
master,” 1901 (1990.0331).

Harris A. Tucker, Jr.: 48-star U.S. En-
sign #7 made at Mare Island, Califor-
nia in March 1928 (1991.0072).
Tucson Coin Club Inc. (through Walter
A. Watts, Sr.): 2 medals commemo-
rating the 21st annual Tucson Coin
and Stamp Show in 1985 (1990.0528).
Government of the Turkish Republic of
Northern Cyprus, Directorate of the
Department of Posts: 18 stamps, 11
first day covers, and 2 souvenir sheets
of the Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus (1988.0440); 9 stamps, 2 first
day covers, and a postal card of the
Turkish Republic of Northern Cy-
prus (1989.0112); 16 stamps and 8 first
day covers of the Turkish Republic of
Northern Cyprus (1989.0641); 6
stamps and 3 first day covers of the
Turkish Republic of Northern Cy-
prus (1990.0077); II stamps, 3 covers,
and a souvenir sheet of the Turkish
Republic of Northern Cyprus
(1990.0469).

Thomas D. Tyson III: AR-3 loudspeaker
grille panel (1990.3018).

H. R. Udkoff: 70 publications, 15 pro-
grams, 3 sketches, a CBS television
script, and a stage script for My Peo-
pée, all reflecting the career of Duke
Ellington (1990.3182).

UNISYS Corporation (through D.
Curry): 7 components of a Burroughs
5500 computer originally built in
1961 with improvements added on
through 1970 (1987.0817).

United Nations Postal Administration:

839 stamps, 10 maximum cards, 2
covers, and an aerogramme of the
United Nations (1989.0113); 446
stamps of the United Nations
(1989.0553); 918 stamps of the United
Nations (1990.0121).

United Press International (through
Victoria Wakefield): Extel teletype

machine and a UPI sign for a tele-
type machine (1991.0026).

US. Central Intelligence Agency, Of-
fice of General Counsel (through
Diane E. Florkowski): 4 invert error
Americana Rush Lamp and Candle
U.S. stamps (1990.0613).

USS. Delegation to FIDEM (through
Alan M. Stahl): bronze medal titled
Crazy Horse presented to the Federa-
tion Internationale de la Medaille
Congress held in Helsinki, Finland
in June 1990 (1990.0488).

U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau
of the Census, Census Promotion Of-
fice (through John A. Scholzen): 12
television, newspaper, radio, maga-
zine, and business press kits used to
advertise the 1990 U.S. Census
(1990.3094).

U.S. Department of Defense, Depart-
ment of the Air Force, Air Force Sys-
tems Command, Space Systems
Division Headquarters (through
Capt. J. O. Bunting): 12 components
of the Burroughs Atlas Mod I guid-
ance computing system (1986.1014);
Department of the Army, Center of
Military History, Collections Manage-
ment Section: 3 models of U.S. Army
helicopters (1990.3053); Historical
Properties Branch: 18 pieces of mili-
tary equipment, 11 uniform items, 6
grenade launchers, 3 fuse setters, and
2 telescopes, 1940-85 (1985.0750); His-
torical Services Division (through
Col. William E Strobridge): 214 US.
military uniforms, accessories, accou-
trements, and equipment of the Ko-
rean War and Vietnam War periods
(1979.0805); Foreign Science and
Technology Center, Field Support Di-
vision (through Jeff Stevens): Uzi
submachine gun made in Belgium
for the Israeli military and a Russian
Makarov pistol made in 1981
(1990.0513); Institute of Heraldry
(through Gerald T. Luchino): 114
pieces of distinctive unit insignia
(1991.0205); Personnel Command,
HQDA: Czechoslovakian pistol pre-
sented to Gen. C. W. Stiner, 1990
(1991.0331); Troop Support Com-
mand, Natick Research, Develop-
ment and Engineering Center

(through David A. Cerow): U.S.
Army green winter wool Ike-style
jacket, WW II (1989.0557); 24th In-
fantry Division (through Capt. Rob-
ert M. Reid): 8 rifles, 5 machine
guns, 2 pistols, an anti-aircraft gun,
and a shoulder-fired grenade
launcher (1991.0383); Department of
the Navy, Chief of Naval Operations:
2 submachine guns with accessories,
one made in Pakistan and the other
made in Peru, 1987-88 (1991.0346);
Naval Observatory (through Steven
J. Dick): standard clock (1989.0581);
Naval Research Laboratory (through
Ronald J. Kennedy): 4 frequency
standards for atomic clocks
(1982.0634); Office of Naval Research
(through E. P. Bledsoe): 15 compo-
nents of the Whirlwind I computer
(1987.0818); Office of Assistant Secre-
tary of Defense: double barrel 12-
gauge shotgun made in Egypt, ca.
1982 (1983.0604); Office of the Secre-
tary of Defense, Office of the Direc-
tor of Administration and
Management: sword with brass
eagle's head handle presented to Sec-
retary Richard Cheney by the Gov-
ernment of Poland, 1990 (1991.0347);
sabre and scabbard contained in a vel-
vet-lined case presented to Gen Colin
L. Powell by the Hungarian Home
Defense Forces, 1990 (1991.0348);
Swiss Eidgenossische Waffenfabrik re-
volver presented to Gen. Colin L.
Powell, 1990 (1991.0349); sabre with
bone handle and scabbard contained
in an oak box presented to Gen.
Colin L. Powell by the Crown Prince
of Bahrain, 1990 (1991.0350); dagger
with scabbard in a wooden box pre-
sented to Secretary Richard Cheney
by the U.S.S.R.’s Minister of Defense
Dmitriy Yazov, 1990 (1991.0351).

U.S. Department of Health and Human

Services, Public Health Service, Na-
tional Institutes of Health, DeWitt
Stetten, Jr. Museum of Medical Re-
search (through Victoria A. Harden,
Ph.D.): 29 pieces of glassware from
the laboratory of Dr. Wilton Earle
used in his research at the National
Cancer Institute's Tissue Culture Sec-
tion, 1946-64 (1991.0071).

179
U.S. Department of Justice, Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation (through John
Lerwoczko): 5 revolvers and 3 pistols
(1991.0299).

U.S. Department of the Treasury, Bu-
reau of Engraving and Printing, Of-
fice of Design and Engraving
Technology (through Peter H. Daly):
electrotyped copper printing plate
(1991.0251).

U.S. Executive Branch, Executive Office
of the President, Office of Adminis-
tration (through Andy Kalnins): 2
Confederate States of America trea-
sury notes of Alabama and Georgia,
1863-64 (1990.0262); White House
Gifts (through Nikki Richnow):
semi-automatic rifle made by the Al-
Khardj Arsenal of Saudi Arabia and
presented to White House Chief of
Staff John H. Sununu, 1991
(1991.0329); semi-automatic rifle
made by Al-Khardj Arsenal of Saudi
Arabia and presented to General
Scowcroft (1991.0330).

U.S. General Services Administration,
National Archives and Records Ser-
vice (through Mabel E. Deutrich and
Garry D. Ryan): 185 various military
objects including ordnance, fabric
samples, medals, insignia, uniform
items, equipment, flags, transport ve-
hicle parts, and a piece of wood and a
piece of tile from the area where the
atom bomb exploded over Nagasaki,
Japan in 1945 (1979.0425); National
Capital Region, Regional Historic
Preservation Office: Art Deco style
Steinway grand piano designed by
Walter Dorman Teague for exhibit in
the U.S. Pavilion at the 1939 New
York World's Fair (1989.0216).

U.S. Legislative Branch, Library of Con-
gress, Copyright Office (through
Joan R. Doherty): 74 copyrighted fab-
rics, laces, and scarves, 1955-77
(1988.0255); tallith Jewish prayer
shawl copyrighted by M. Wolozin,
Inc. in 1961 (1988.0686); 3 blouses, 2
smocks, a stretch suit, scarf, and a
baby bib submitted for copyright
protection, 1955-74 (1990.0582).

U.S. Postal Service, International Postal
Affairs Department (through Irma
Harrison and Juan B. Ianni): 575

180

stamps, § covers, 4 souvenir pages, 2
souvenir sheets, and a miniature
sheet of Austria, the Republic of
China, Malagasy, South Africa, and
Switzerland (1988.0439); (through
Juan B. Ianni): 461 stamps, 6 covers,
and 2 souvenir papers of Austria, the
German Democratic Republic, Ire-
land, Mazambique, South Africa,
Switzerland, and the United Nations
(1989.0497); 150 stamps of the Turk-
ish Republic of Northern Cyprus
(1990.0142); (through Michael J.
Regan): 2 silver medals commemorat-
ing the soth anniversary of the Mexi-
can Postal Service, 1980 (1989.0001);
Office of Fleet Management (through
Francis Eddy): AM General Corpora-
tion postal jeep of 1972 (1989.0563);
Philatelic Affairs Department,
Stamps Management Division
(through Don McDowell): 714
stamps, 27 commemorative sheets, 18
first day covers, 15 programs, and 8
postal cards of the U.S. (1987.0581);
Philatelic and Retail Services Depart-
ment (through Donald McDowell):
4,755 stamps, 104 souvenir pages, 40
commemorative panels, 24 proof
plates, 21 postal cards, 18 souvenir
cards, and 3 stamped envelopes of the
U.S. and 50 stamps of Morocco
(1988.0480); (through Gordon C.
Morison): 24 commemorative panels
of the U.S. (1989.0294); 638 stamps,
32 covers, 27 postal cards, 19 souvenir
papers, 4 aerogrammes, and 3
stamped envelopes of the U.S.
(1989.0413); 36 commemorative pan-
els of the U.S. (1989.0508); 150
stamps, 15 certified proof plate sheets,
8 covers, 5 souvenir programs, and 2
postal cards of the US. (1990.0364);
39 mature stamps of Australia, Can-
ada, Great Britain, Sweden, the
United Nations, and the U.S. and 30
commemorative panels of the U.S.
(1990.0374); Stamp Information
Branch (through Richard Rustin):
825 stamps, 42 covers, 29 souvenir
programs, and 16 postal cards of the
U.S. (1988.0449); 510 stamps, 16 sou-
venir programs, 15 covers, 10 postal
cards, and a stamped envelope of the
U.S. (1989.0193); 506 stamps, 20 cov-

ers, 16 souvenir programs, and 6
postal cards of the U.S. (1990.0046);
Stamps Management Division: 1,019
stamps, 30 covers, 24 souvenir pro-
grams, 5 stamped envelopes, 5 aer-
ogrammes, and 4 postal cards of the
U.S. (1988.0098).

Universal Postal Union, International
Bureau (through Mohamed Ibrahim
Sobhi): 63 stamps of Switzerland
(1989.0230).

Unknown: 25 geometric models
(1990.0571); button marked “Na-
tional Grape Boycott Fast For Life
1989” (1990.0590); Keuffel & Esser
calculating rule with straight edge
(1990.0687); English Sten Mark V
sub-machine gun (1991.0155).

Jan L. Vagassky: 225 pieces of contempo-
rary paper money from around the
world (1991.0354).

William A. Van Sande: Evinrude out-
board motor, ca. 1936 (1978.2443).

Varian Associates (through Dr. Weston
A. Anderson): “Wheel of Fortune”
cylinder which was part of the evolu-
tion of modern nuclear magnetic reso-
nance imaging, 1964 (1990.0024).

Irene Venables: Werewolf story cast iron
padlock and 2 keys made by the Tren-
ton Lock and Hardware Company,
1880-1900 (1989.0326).

Vladimir E. Vereschagin: 11 prints made
by Mr. Vereschagin (1991.0096).

Robert M. Vogel: folding caboose sink
used on the Pennsylvania Railroad,
ca. 1922 (1986.0054).

Helen Lang Ven Deesten: model of a
dry dock built by Tietjen & Lang in
1916 and an illuminated book pre-
sented to Frederick C. Lang upon his
retirement from the company
(1991.0277).

Patricia von Musulin: 11 woman's acces-
sories including 4 bracelets, 3 pairs of
earrings, 2 rings, a brooch, and a
belt, 1977-87 (1990.0568).

Patrick A. Wallock: slate-gray cap worn
by a crew member of the USS Pueblo
while a prisoner in North Korea,
1968 (1990.0188).

Thomas S. Walton: 2 candlesticks and a
bowl on a metal stand, all of orange
“cintra” glass with black rims made

during the Frederick Carder period at

_—
the Steuben Glass works in Corning,
New York about 1917 (1990.0254).

Mrs. Jay Ward: 5 animation cells of
characters created by Jay Ward, a
“Rocky and Bullwinkle” role-playing
game, calendar, pencil, and a color
drawing of “George of the Jungle”
(1990.0485).

Margery Taylor Ware: leaded clear glass
ale goblet with air twist stem, ca.
1755 (1990.0362).

Michael T. Warn: Warn free-wheeling
hub of 1948 and selective-locking
hub of 1953 used on 4-wheel drive ve-
hicles (1989.0756).

Deborah Jean Warner and Jack Warner:
Apple II computer system with disk
drive and Silentype printer
(1990.0167).

Robert C. Warner: Burroughs electro-
mechanical typewriter, 1930s-
40041989.0387).

Washington Suburban Sanitary Com-
mission (through Robert B. Russ): 11
components of a McElroy fluid net-
work analyzer (304368).

C. Malcolm Watkins: 6 plates, 2 tiles, a
stoneware jug, earthenware pan, glass
decanter, and an ivory nipple
(1980.0657).

Dora.M. and Oral P. Watts: telephone
wire frame (1991.0102).

Elizabeth Brown Wauchope: woman's
printed wool shawl with hand-em-
broidered trim, 19th century
(1990.0340).

Howard V. Weissert: letter carrier's
whistle used 1910-11 (1989.0672).

Harriet W. Welling (through James M.
Wells and Jack A. Williamson): 6
Chippendale-style side chairs made
in Philadelphia, 1760-80 (1990.0455).

Barbara J. and Jerry A. Wells: 3 stamps
of Spain (1989.0584).

Ruth Ann Wells: 2 folded letters, a
cover, and a postal card (1989.0246).

Nicholas M. Werdell in memory of
Nancy Anne Butler Werdell: 3 doc-
uments recording births, mar-
tiages, and deaths from the Butler
family Bible and a photograph of
Mary Anne Storey Butler
(1991.0119).

E. Bud Wertheim: 3 art medals de-
signed by Mr. Wertheim titled “Inter

Spem et Metum,” “Moonscape,” and
“Spring” (1991.0234).

FE. W. Wessel: 2 stamps of Norway
(1991.0070).

The University of West Florida, John
C. Pace Library (through Dean
DeBolt): 2 letters with samples of
shirting fabric and ordering informa-
tion, 1909 (1989.0266).

Wheat First Securities (through Valery
S. Weekley): ADP computer key-
board (1989.0256).

Lawrence Abel Wheeler: ceramic jar for
olive oil of Spanish colonial origin,
1780-1850, found during building ex-
cavation in Lowell, Massachusetts in
1926 (1989.0202).

Anne E. Wheelock: album of photo-
graphs of construction of the Yadkin
River Narrows Dam near Badin,
North Carolina, 1916-17 (1990.0419).

Evan Whildin: Breda rifle, Polish anti-
tank rifle, British Swift training rifle,
and a German Granatenwerfer gre-
nade launcher (1990.0699).

Charles F. White: copy of Mildred
Moore's book Famous Personalities and
their Philosophies of Life and archival
material used in producing the book,
1940 (1991.3051).

Clayton S. White, M.D.: Nuclear Bomb
Effects Computer circular calculating
rule designed in 1962 by the Lovelace
Foundation of Albuquerque, New
Mexico (1990.0688).

Gordon E. White: Oilzum quart can of
racing oil, ca. 1982 (1990.04.42).

J. H. White, Jr.: convention bucton as-
sociated with Plymouth Locomotive
Works, ca. 1920 (1985.0725); minia-
ture journal box made for a passenger
car of the courist railway at the 1913
Panama-Pacific Exposition in San
Francisco (1991.0118).

Fred Whitlow: stainless steel jew's harp
in the key of G made by Mr. Whit-
low in 1991 (1991.0281).

Leone Winifred Wicklund (through
Beverly Anderson): clear cut glass
bowl of the “Brilliant” period, 1880-
1917 (1989.0488).

Russell C. Wilde: “Gladiator” metal
clarinet made by the H. N. White
Company of Cleveland, Ohio, 1930-
40 (1990.0366).

Fraser Wilkins: 19 pieces of photo-
graphic equipment with 13 cases, 3 in-
struction manuals, and 2 accessories
(1990.0682).

Mary P. Williams: white usher's uni-
form (1991.0282).

Richard L. Wilson: 7 pieces of insignia,
2 saddlecloths, a woman's U.S. Air
Force shirt, woman’s Red Cross cap,
man’s U.S. Army coat, gas mask, car-
tridge belc, boot and shoe kit, pipe,
and an automobile designing plate
(1985.0685); 3 pieces of insignia, 2
name signs, a pin, cap, and a blocter
(1990.3080).

William L. Withuhn: TEAC Model
A350 stereo cassette tape deck, ca.
1971 (1989.0044).

James R. Wood: Japanese pillar clock in
its original packing box, 19th cen-
tury (1989.0166).

Col. John S. Wood, Jr.: 2 Brigadier Gen-
eral rank insignia, a U.S. Air force
parka, and a belc all worn by John
Shirley Wood, Sr. during WW II
(1990.0320).

Priscilla Q. Wood: child's slap bracelet,
1990 (1991.0022).

Eleanora M. Worth: 54 phonograph re-
cords (1989.0722).

William E. Worthington, Jr.: patent
model for an improvement in cut-off
and regulator valves for steam en-
gines patented by Robert Stewart of
Elmira, New York on May 19, 1863
(1990.0510).

Helena E. Wright: 2 hosiery repair kits,
2 compacts, one in its original box, a
nightgown, blouse, French Foreign
Legion jacket of the 1960s, and a por-
celain wedding cake decoration of
1938 (1990.0060); floor plan with ele-
vation for a kitchen drawn by Leroy
Landis of Millersburg, Pennsylvania,
1940 (1990.0627); 9 greeting cards, 2
posters, 2 printed sheets, a photo-
graph of a woman at a linotype ma-
chine, and a booklet of Rembrandt
proofs of 1902 (1991.0247).

Helena Gray Wright: etching of Mc.
Vernon by Margaret M. Taylor Fox
(1991.0094).

Yamaha Corporation of America, Key-
board Division (through Terry
Lewis): Disklavier grand piano and a

181
Disklavier upright piano, both made
by Yamaha in 1989 (1990.3132);
(through Carter Schuld): 2 harmoni-
cas on keyrings made by Yamaha in
Japan (1990.0359).

Bob Yealdhall: poster illustrated by Mr.
Yealdhall advertising the play Hello
Dolly (1988.0799).

Jane Griffin Yeingst and William H.
Yeingst: scarf with political buctons
attached and a pamphlet about the
House Un-American Activities Com-
mittee (1990.0561); 2 North Ameri-
can Indian dolls, a jigsaw puzzle,
wire mesh colander, and a cocktail
shaker (1990.0607); 2 electric table
lamps, 2 candlesticks, 2 stuffed ani-
mal toys, a plastic frisbee, toy ice
cream maker, napkin holder, and a
covered butter dish (1990.3164);
Mendets mending kit patented in
1906 and a Halloween toy horn and
child's jump rope of the 1930s
(1991.0267).

William H. Yeingst: book of Aesop's fa-
bles published by John Locken of
Philadelphia in 1851 (1991.0249).

Mrs. Elizabeth P. and Francis B.
Youmans: machine gun patented by
James Patton Taylor II in 1876 and
manufactured by E. Remington &
Sons in 1877 (1990.0666).

Zenith Electronics Corporation
(through John Taylor): 2 Zenith
camcorders with accessories, a Zenith
television receiver with accessories,
and a video tripod (1990.3033); green
plaster advertising sign for “Zenith
Radio and Television” (1991.0443).

George Zinnemann: Bolex S1 zoom re-
flex automatic movie camera with
case, shutter release, and instruction
manual (1991.0214).

Dr. Ronald E. Zupko: Hewlett-Packard
HP-35 electronic calculator with an
internal 0.002 error and an operating
manual (1991.0210).

Jone L. Zutty: pair of white coctor
Women's Air Force gloves, 1951
(1987.0718).

182

National Museum of
Natural History

Donors to the Collection

Institutions

A. N. Severtzov Institute of Animal Ev-
olutionary Morphology, USSR: 2
worms & 1 echinoderm (392096).

Academy of Sciences, USSR: 57 worms
(372245, 392108); woolly mammoth
& rhinocerous samples (387077); 51+
echinoderms (392200, 393681).

Agriculture Canada, Canada: 22 wasps
(396040); 1 plant (396730).

Ahmadu Bello University, Nigeria: 21
plants (393363).

Alabama Power Company: 30+ mol-
lusks (393712).

American Museum of Natural History:
10,000 fossils (392364); 3 spiders
(393452, 393819).

Amsterdam, University of, The Nether-
lands: 195 plant (392839, 394369,
394383).

Arizona, University of: 15 mollusks
(392520).

Arkansas Natural Heritage Commis-
sion: 1 plane (382351).

Australian Museum, Australia: 35+ mol-
lusks (391315); 4 worms (394247).
Baltimore, Office of the Chief Medical
Examiner: 2 partial human skeleton

(390843, 390847).

Bellairs Research Institute of McGill
University, Barbados: 55 worms
(279726).

Bergen, University of, Norway: 40+
crustaceans (392618).

Bernice P. Bishop Museum: 71 plants
(392013, 392.473, 392474, 392477,
392871, 394947, 395497, 396178,
396437).

Boston University Marine Program:
1,217 crustaceans (383143).

Botanical Survey of India, India: 12
plants (393534).

Brigham Young University: 1 plant
(393313).

Bristol, University of, England: 2 crusta-
ceans (372363).

British Columbia, University of, Can-
ada: 500+ crustaceans (392575).

British Museum (Natural History), En-
gland: 6 moths (394476, 395031).

Calicut, University of, India: 2 plants
(393308).

California Academy of Sciences: 13 mol-
lusks (393717); 1 plant (393860).

California, University of: 2 mollusks
(276790); 100+ worms (279359); 8
crustaceans (386952, 391392); 2GO
plants (392409, 392428, 393304,
393820, 394337, 394628, 395242,
395536, 396729).

Canadian Museum of Nature, Canada: 4
plants (395305).

Canfield Fund: 17 minerals (390242,
390259, 391478, 391502, 391507,
394500, 394503, 394549).

Carnegie Museum of Natural History: 2
plants (395307).

Center for Research in Medical Ento-
mology, India: 4 mosquitoes
(393250).

Centre ORSTOM de Cayenne, French
Guiana: 432 plants (391817, 392438,
392440, 396125, 396875, 396897).

Centre ORSTOM de Tahiti, French
Polynesia: 234 plants (394667,
396187).

Centro de Botanica, Mexico: 13 plants
(392471, 393871).

Centro de Botanica do Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 56 plants (393301).

Centro de Investigaciones de Recursos
Naturales, Argentina: 1 plant
(395238).

Centro Internacional de la Papa (CIP),
Peru: 50 plants (396156).

Chadron State College: 2,500 lithic arti-
facts & bison remains (361218).

Chamberlain Fund: 5 minerals (390208,
393209, 394511).

Charleston Museum: 1 bowl, 1 doll, 1
barkcloth & 2 baskets (387023).

Colorado College: 26 plants
(392458).

Colorado State University: 182 crusta-
ceans (383112); 2 flies (395028).

Columbia University: 5 crustaceans
(373149).

Columbus America Discovery Group: 13
crustaceans (386969).

Commonwealth Associates Inc.: 43 crus-
taceans (346021).

Commonwealth Scientific & Industrial
Research Organization (CSIRO) Ma-

_~
rine Laboratory, Australia: 2 fishes
(393612).

Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, Brazil:
17 plants (393561).

Connecticut, University of: 7 moths
(395029).

Conservatoire et Jardin botaniques de la
Ville de Geneve, Switzerland: 27
plants (391028, 393547).

Copenhagen Universitet, Denmark: 1
worm (356535).

Cove Corporation: 9,999+ worms
(395769).

Czechoslovak Academy of Science,
Czechoslovakia: 38 plants
(391975).

Dauphin Island Sea Lab: 2 echinoderms
(390714, 393676).

Deixis Environmental Consultants: 60+
mollusks (395177).

Desautels Fund: 2 mineral (382996,
388287).

Drake Fund: 822 insects (397134).

East Tennessee State University: 2 crus-
tacean slides (391422).

Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa
Agropecuaria (EMBRAPA), Brazil:
330 plants (396158, 396159).

Fachberech Biologie der Philipps-
Universitat Zoologie, Germany: 3
mollusks (395142).

Field Museum of Natural History:
88 plants (378957, 391753,

392856, 392857, 392858, 392859,
393314, 394377, 395487, 395488,
395489).

Florida Department of Natural Re-
sources: 23 crustaceans (378501,
388210); 55+ mollusks (383171,
391394); I worm (391314); 10 echino-
derms (392212).

Florida Marine Research Institute: 6
mollusks (392527).

Florida State University: 55+ crusta-
ceans (386579).

Florida, University of: 1 worm (255046);
12 crustaceans (386542); 11 plants
(395271, 395272).

Fundacao Estadual de Engenharia de
Meio Ambiente (FEEMA), Brazil: 24
plants (395316).

Fundacao Universidad do Amazonas,
Brazil: 2 fishes (393628).

Fundacao Universidade do Rio Grande,
Brazil: 27 fishes (394270).

Fundacion Universidad de Bogota -
Jorge Tadeo Lozano, Colombia: 3
echinoderms (392216).

Georgia Southern University: 30+ crus-
taceans (392573).

Georgia, University of: 10 crustaceans
(391343).

Goteborg, University of, Sweden: 6 mol-
lusks (362801); 9 plants (393548).

Guam, University of, Guam: 4 fishes
(297447); 133 plants (393827).

Guelph, University of, Canada: 2 proto-
zoan slides (392220).

Gulf Coast Research Laboratory: 750+
worms (363687); 37 crustaceans
(389877).

Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institu-
tion: 3 crustaceans (388207, 391354);
512 echinoderms (392193, 395436,
395444); 14+ worms (394206).

Harvard University: 206+ mollusks
(391302, 396251).

Hawaii Department of Land and Natu-
ral Resources: 70 fishes (394297).

Hawaii, University of: 2 crustaceans
(374309).

Heard Natural Science Museum and
Wildlife Sanctuary: 30 crustaceans
(388164, 389807).

Herbario Barbosa Rodriguez, Brazil: 48
plants (396175).

Herbario Centro de Pesquisas do Cacau,
Brazil: 50 plants (392869).

Herbario de la Universidad de Panama,
Panama: 20 plants (393554).

Herbario “Guido FE. J. Pabst,” Brazil: 27
plants (392051, 392849).

Herbario Nacional de Bolivia, Bolivia:
10 plants (396185).

Herbario Nacional de Venezuela, Vene-
zuela: 6 plants (356264).

Hiroshima University, Japan: 130 crusta-
ceans (392645, 395950).

Hokkaido University, Japan: 4 crusta-
Ceans (395925).

Houston, University of: 100+ crusta-
ceans (394115).

Hoya Society International: 1 plant
(392870).

Hyperion Treatment Plant, Biological
Laboratory: 21 crustaceans (394084).

Idaho, University of: 9 crustaceans
(392568).

Illinois Natural History Survey: 17
fishes (392977).

India, Government of, India: 7 paper-
mache figures, 6 items of basketry, 3
brass artifacts, 13 lacquered wooden
containers (368720) 1 Punjabi shaw!
(387090).

Indiana University: 1 plant (393918).

Ingeominas, Observatorio
Valcanologico Nacional, Colombia: 3
bags of airfall tephra (380826).

Inscicut d’Estudis Avancats de les Illes
Balears, Spain: 117 fossil birds
(392311).

Institut Fur Botanik und Botanischer
Garten der Universitat, Austria: 54
plants (392452, 392872, 393544).

Institut fur Systematische Botanik der
Universitat Zurich, Switzerland: 9
plants (392017, 392030).

Institut za Biologijo, Yugoslavia: 2 crus-
taceans (391427).

Institute of Oceanographic Sciences
Deacon Lab, United Kingdom: 1
echinoderm (393679).

Institute of Oceanography, USSR: 43
corals (393681).

Institute of Systematic Botany, The
Netherlands: 193 plants (391722,
392048, 393553, 393577, 394351,
396806, 396819).

Instituto de Botanica del Nordeste, Ar-
gentina: 80 plants (392883).

Instituto de Ciencias del Mar, Spain: 6
crustaceans (372943, 389885).

Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y
Desarrollo Pesquero, Argentina: 27
crustaceans (375631).

Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da
Amazonia, Brazil: 4 plants (392859).

Instituto Vallecaucano de In-
vestigaciones Cientificas, Colombia:
21 plants (394632)

International Odonata Research Insti-
tute: 19 insects (393236).

Iowa, University of: 182 crustaceans, 13+
fossils & 165 worms (392622).

Israel Oceanographic & Limnological
Research Ltd., Israel: 2. protozoan
slides (392175).

James Cook University, Australia: 1 mol-
lusk (392535).

Jardin Botanico Juan Maria Cespedes,
Colombia: 2 plants (395314, 396756).

Jardin Botanico Nacional “Dr. Rafael
M. Moscoso,” Dominican Republic:
1 plant (395247).

183
Johannes Gutenberg Universitat, Fed-
eral Republic of Germany: 2 plants
(392454).

K. Mikimoto & Co., LTD, Japan: 13 blis-
ter pearls & 7 oyster shells (396346).

Korea Ocean Research & Development
Institute, Korea: 4 worms (361872).

Kristinebergs Marinbiologiska Station,
Sweden: 11 crustaceans (385081).

Kumamoto University, Japan: 3 crusta-
ceans (373030).

Los Angeles County Museum of Natu-
ral History: 28 crustaceans (372333).

Louisiana Tech University: 10 plants
(394315).

Maine, University of: 10 worms (327214).

Malaya, University of, Malaysia: 250
plants (392046).

Marie Selby Botanical Gardens: 1 plant
(392028).

Maryland Department of Natural Re-
sources: 200+ freshwater snails
(392552).

Maryland, University of: 226+ crusta-
ceans (389865, 394116).

McGill University, Canada: 3 plants
(393348); I sponge (393662).

McMaster University, Canada: 7 crusta-
ceans (392608).

Memorial University, Canada: 9 crusta-
cean slides (391402).

Mercer Arboretum and Botanic Gar-
dens: 1 plant (392862).

Michigan, University of: 1 plane
(395308).

Mineral Fund: 25 minerals (388288,
388682, 390196, 393218, 394498,
394499, 394502, 394527).

Ministerio da Siencia e Tecnologia, Bra-
zil: 54 birds (391291).

Ministerio de Agricultura Y Ganaderia,
Paraguay: 63 plants (392809).

Missouri Botanical Garden: 2,681 plants
(392-442, 393370, 393838, 394310,
395277, 396198, 396791, 396822,
396850).

Missouri Department of Conservation:
109 crustaceans (366976).

Missouri, University of: 347 plants
(378295).

Moscow State University (M. V.
Lominisov), USSR: 4 plants
(395515).

Musee Royal de I’ Afrique Central, Bel-
gium: 4 fishes (393611).

184

Museu Botanico Municipal, Brazil: 217
plants (391166, 392450, 392798,
395302, 396208).

Museu de Biologia Mello Leitao, Brazil:
353 plants (393335, 394308).

Museu Municipal do Funchal, Madeira
Islands: 3 fishes (393590).

Museum National D'Histoire
Naturelle, France: 72 crustaceans
(388142, 392647, 394128); 1 mineral
(393172); 5 plants (393357, 393565,
394128); 21 mollusks (396231).

Museum of Natural History at Califor-
nia: 1 plant (392822).

Museum of Victoria, Australia: 116 rock
slabs containing fossil bones
(393002); 10 crustaceans (394157,
394176).

Museum voor Dierkunde, Belgium: 4
crustaceans (383084).

NHRI Environment Canada, Canada: 1
protozoan slide (393653).

Nanjing Forestry University, People’s
Republic of China: 8 plants
(393837).

Natal Museum, South Africa: 1 mollusk
(395156).

Nationaal Natuurhistorisch Museum,
The Netherlands: 12 echinoderms
(392181, 392182).

National Geographic Society: See Also:
Janice Clark (384986).

National Institute of Oceanography,
India: 30 crustaceans (383123).

National Museum and Art Gallery,
New Guinea: 1 wooden “flute mask”
& 1 string bag (378689).

National Museum of the Philippines,
Philippines: 1 bird skin (393952).
National Science Foundation: 200 fossil

vertebrates (379227).

Natural History Museum of Los Ange-
les County: 6 crustaceans (394164);
10 worms (395767, 395782).

Nebraska, University of: 24 fishes
(394259).

Newberry College: 2 plants (394324).

New Hampshire, University of: 8 mites
(397151).

New Mexico Department of Fish and
Game: 6 birds (368752).

New Mexico State University: 8 plants
(392418, 393895).

New Mexico, University of: 1 plant
(392847).

New York Botanical Garden: 1,004
plants (391230, 392383, 392427,
393583, 393894, 394371, 394663,
395287, 395300, 396161, 396177,
396199, 396839).

New Zealand Department of Conserva-
tion, New Zealand: 3 crustaceans
(391432).

North Carolina, University of: 1 jar of
algae (392050).

North Texas, University of: 7 stoneflies
(396550).

Northern Territory Museum of Arts and
Sciences, Australia: 3 worms
(394205); 2 crustaceans (395947).

Nova University: 3 crustaceans (386535,
394098); 10 corals (395441).

Oberlin College: 200 parasitic wasps
(394477).

Office of the Chief Conservationist, Re-
public of Palau: 22 plants (394365).

Ohio State University: 5 sets of bird
eggs (391283); 1 fossil bird (392320).

Oklahoma Biological Survey: 1 crusta-
cean (391415).

Oklahoma, University of: 1 echinoderm
(395428).

Oregon State University: 10,779 crusta-
ceans (333930, 386555); 7 fishes
(388119, 389192); 63 plants (395295).

Oxford, University of, England: 7
plants (392855).

P. P. Shirshov Institute of Oceanology,
USSR: 2 fishes (394946).

Pacific Lutheran University: 2 plants
(393546).

Pan American Health Organization,
West Indies: 30 crustaceans (391424).

Peabody Museum of Natural History:
38 bird syrinxes (395752).

Philadelphia, Academy of Natural Sci-
ences: 1 echinoderm (392223) & 12
fishes (394279).

Plymouth Marine Laboratory, United
Kingdom: 24 crustaceans (386509,
391409).

Ponderosa Mine: 5 minerals (393135).

Port Erin Laboratory, England: 12 crus-
taceans (383105).

Puerto Rico, University of: 34 crusta-
ceans (381776, 391421, 394182,
395932); 1 fish (392260); 70 worms
(392566).

Purdue University: 9 crustaceans
(383117); 8 mayflies (396075).

—_~
Queensland, University of, Australia: 2
echinoderms (390707); 3 plants
(393905).

Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden: 2
plants (393587, 394668).

Remington and Marguerite Kellogg
Fund: 410 fossil vertebrates (387790,
390523, 393032).

Reserva Ecologica do IBGE, Brazil: 614
plants (387896, 392433).

Reserva Florestal da CVRD, Brazil: 1
plant (392387).

Rhode Island, University of: 1 plant
(396823).

Richmond, University of: 20+ worms
(355470).

Rijksherbarium, The Netherlands: 2
plants (396874).

Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke
Historie, The Netherlands: 918 crus-
taceans (363752, 381730); 7 worms
(392071).

Roebling Fund: 30 minerals
(375858, 384597, 386198, 388373,
391503, 391517, 391530, 393147,
393148, 393149, 393150, 393151,
393167, 393217, 393219, 393220,
393221, 393222, 393224, 393225,
394491).

Royal Botanic Gardens, Australia: 1
plant (393843).

Royal Botanic Gardens, England: 135
plants (390966, 391192, 392016,
392398, 392400, 392854, 396299).

San Diego Natural History Museum: 13
crustaceans (394172); 1 coral (395430).

San Diego State University: 3 echino-
derms (392184).

Sarawak Herbarium, E. Malaysia: 5
plants (394358).

Science Museum of Minnesota: 1 fossil
cast (394052).

Scripps Institution of Oceanography: 44
worms (376308); 600 fossil slides
(395674).

South African Museum, South Africa: 11
crustaceans (389890).

South Alabama, University of: 3 crusta-
ceans (394100).

South Australian Museum, Australia: 7
echinoderms (383639, 393655)-

South Carolina, University of: 40 echi-
noderms (393675).

Southern Arkansas University: 3 crusta-
ceans (389882).

Southern [Illinois University: 145 crusta-
ceans (369194).

Southwestern Louisiana, University of:
41 crustaceans (389868); 1 plant
(395253).

Staatliches Museum fur Naturkunde,
Stuttgart, Germany: 1 fish (394927).

Station Marine d’Endoume et Centre
d'Oceanographie, France: 8+ echino-
derms, 1 crustacean, I fossil & 6
worms (392183); 3 crustaceans
(392207); 6 echinoderms (393688).

Stuart Fund: 9 minerals (391459, 391505,
391506, 393171, 394497, 394501).

Substance Marin Commercial Biologie -
l'Office de la Recherche Scientifique
et Technique Outre-Mer (SMCB-OR-
STOM), French Polynesia: 7 crusta-
ceans (392648).

Sugar Hill Minerals: 2 minerals
(391487).

Swedish Museum of Natural History,
Sweden: 29 mollusks (389382,
395173).

Syndel Laboratories, Canada: 2 crusta-
ceans (385080).

Tel Aviv University, Israel: 110 flies
(395121).

Tennessee, University of: 16 plants
(392015).

Texas A & M University: 972 crusta-
ceans (331880, 392637); 30 plants
(393580, 394346, 395545).

Texas, University of: 23 crustaceans
(366039, 391398, 391423); 14 plants
(392010, 394363, 395545).

Tokyo, University of, Japan: 1 fish
(392969).

Toronto, University of, Canada: 15 echi-
noderms (393667).

Tropenbos Program, Colombia: 24
plants (394344, 394659).

Tulane University: 12 mollusks (391341);
6 fishes (393592); 1 plant (394325).
Universidad Austral de Chile, Chile: 13

crustaceans (391430).

Universidad Autonoma de San Luis Po-
tosi, Mexico: 19 plants (392042).

Universidad Central de Venezuela, Ven-
ezuela: 126 plants (392029, 393295,
395249, 395543, 396725).

Universidad de Antioquia, Colombia:
64 plants (393339, 393557).

Universidad de Caldas, Colombia: 114
plants (375164).

Universidad de Costa Rica, Costa Rica:
u plants (395251)-

Universidad de Talca, Chile: 80 plants
(393914).

Universidad Distrital “Francisco Jose de
Caldas,” Colombia: 1,000 crustaceans
(375790).

Universidad Federal de Uberlandia, Bra-
zil: 11 plants (393574).

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de
Mexico, Mexico: 60 crustaceans
(381792, 395912); 7 worms (394207).

Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Co-
lombia: 24 bees (393383).

Universidad Nacional del Nordeste, Ar-
gentina: 49 plants (395494).

Universidad Nacional Experimental de
los Llanos Occidentales, Venezuela:
342 plants (393562, 394382).

Universidad Nacional Mayor de San
Marcos, Peru: 65 plants (392832,
394713).

Universidade de Caxias do Sul, Brazil:
264 plants (387910).

Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil: 58
crustaceans (365984, 394103); 7 snails
(391383); 140 fishes (392242); 2 plants
(393288); 10 echinoderms (395426).

Universidade del Valle, Colombia: 13
plants (393297).

Universidade Federal Do Parana, Brazil:
8 worms (375483).

Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil: 6 plants (392837).

Universitat Giessen, Germany: 1 skull
& mandible of a calf (387051).

Universitat Hamburg, Germany: 4
worms (392095).

Universitat Osnabruck, Germany: I
worm (394242).

Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1,
France: 31 crustaceans (388224).

Universite Montpellier II Sciences et
Techniques Du Languedoc, France:
20 crustaceans (385071); 2 protozoan
slides (392196).

Vermont, University of: 1 plant (396162).

Victoria, University of, Canada: 2 crusta-
ceans (376638).

Virginia Insticute of Marine Science: U
fishes (394277); 1 barnacle (395940).

Virginia Polytechnic Institute: 4 spiders
(393251).

Wake Forest University: 1 protozoan
slide (393668).

185
Walcott Fund: 1,465 fossils (381107,
388879, 389474).

Washington, University of: 68 fishes
(274614, 394944); 131 mollusks
(376791); 88 crustaceans (392602,
394127).

West Indies, University of, West Indies:
47 worms (271248).

Western Australian Museum, Western
Australia: 1 echinoderm (392215).

Winnebago County Coronor: 1 human
skeleton (390846).

Wisconsin, University of: 6 plants
(393316).

Wittenberg University: 10 crustaceans
(391397).

Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution:
1,025 worms (344840, 380341, 384485).

World Health Organization, West In-
dies: 51 crustaceans (394101).

Zoological Institute, Sweden: 4 proto-
zoan slides (393691).

Zoologisch Museum Universiteit van
Amsterdam, The Netherlands: 30
crustaceans (391408); 3 mollusks
(392530).

Individuals

Jose Abalo: 47 plants (396857).

Bruce A. Abbott: 1 fossil jaw (393100).

W. J. Abernathy: 1 ceramic replica of an
effigy vessel (387113).

Philip Abrams: 77 African masks, brace-
let, bells (370726).

Joanne Abramson: § bird eggs (391265).

Dr. W. Lee Adair, Jr.: 10 moths (396514).

Dr. P. H. Adler: 39 flies (397149).

Dr. M. Akizuki: 3 minerals (393164).

Dr. Josep Antoni Alcover: 2 bird skele-
tons (391269).

Herbert Alexander: 2,000 artifacts
(356621).

Dr. Khalil Aliyulla: 102 fossils (395646).

Dr. Charles N. Alpers: 3 minerals
(391471).

Dr. Paul H. Arnaud, Jr.: 27 flies
(394481).

Dr. Charles R. Ash: 4 insects (393453).

Wallace L. Ashby: 1 fossil tooth
(394774).

Burton E. Ashley: 3 minerals (396354).

Dr. Thomas H. Atkinson: 20 beetles
(393243).

Dr. Loren Babcock: 1 fossil (392284).

186

H. D. Baggett: 415 moths (393818).

Mr. & Mrs. J. Wayne (Aura) Baker: 50
fossil vertebrates (393038).

Warren L. Baker: 1 fossil tapir tooth
(393035).

Dr. George E. Ball: 1 beetles (394475,
396561).

Dr. Richard M. Baranowski: 342 insects
(393390).

Carlos do Prado Barbosa: 11 minerals
(391504, 391518, 393160, 394496).

Sandra Barnes: 7 plants (392828).

Douglas J. Barr: 100 crustaceans
(378499).

Dr. Bruce Barrett: 19 moths (396080).

Dr. Hans Bath: 18 fishes (393631,
396464).

Fred Bauer: 16 parrots (393959).

Rae Baxter: 5 echinoderms (392222);
50+ mollusks (392548); 3 fishes
(394269).

Dr. Peter Bayliss: 22 minerals (394582).

Eric N. Beach: 1 fossil walnut (394773).

Dr. William C. Bean: 200 fossil verte-
brates (392332).

Rudolf W. Becking: 6 plants (395219).

Dr. Francesco Bedogne: 1 mineral
(391514).

Dr. Denton Belk: 42 crustaceans
(380003).

Kim N. I. Bell: 28 fishes (393591).

Dr. A. B. Belousov: 3 volcanic rocks
(393439).

Curt Bennett: 1 fossil tooth (392281).

Mrs. Thelma Bennett: 1 fossil monk seal
bone (393039).

Dr. Eldridge Bermingham: 102 crusta-
ceans (344330).

Fred Berry: 2 plants (392882).

Kim Bishop: 33 crustaceans (380024).

Barbara Bixler: 1 crab (392631).

Dr. Daniel Blake: 27 fossil fragments
(394759).

Dr. Nancy Maciolek Blake: 9 worms
(345414).

Thresa Blake: 1 portion of a fossil whale
tooth (395579).

Walter A. Bledsoe, Jr.: 2 fossils (379578).

Warren C. Blow: 1 fossil vertebra
(394808).

David J. Bohaska: 1 fossil bird bone
(392305).

Richard L. Botorff: 5 stoneflies (394485).

James Boulger: 1 petrology & volcanol-
ogy specimen (394599).

Dr. F. R. Boyd: 26 igneous rocks
(390645).

Darrell H. Branch: 3 fossil whale speci-
mens (392368).

Dr. K. C. Brannock (Deceased): 40 min-
erals (393191).

Professor Hans O. Brattstrom: 12 worms
(392112).

Dr. Carlton E. Brett: 2 fossils (392277).

Dr. Christian Brevignon: 30 butterflies
(393389).

David Bridge: 1 owl (394973).

Bryon Brookmyer: 1 mineral (394495).

Diane Brown: 3 crustaceans (388135).

Estate of David W. Brudon: 22 speci-
mens of fossil amber (395661).

Dr. Eddar Brunetti: 2 corals (392221).

Detta Buch: 12 snails (392545).

Dr. Donald Buden: 6 birds (391270,
394962).

Mrs. Beatrice Burch: 80 corals (379373).

Dr. Eugene M. Burreson: 1 worms
(392086).

Rich Busch: 1 fossil cast (395632).

Brent Caleb: 6 fossils (391664).

Dr. Lyle Campbell: 1 fossil whale tooth
(391566).

Matthew Campbell: 2 fossils (395580).

Mrs. Janet Cares: 2 minerals (394589).

Kent Carlson: 10 crustaceans (389893);
10+ snails (390503).

Dr. Jose C. M. Carvalho: 131 insects
(395120).

Dr. Satish C. Choy: 20 crustaceans
(394092).

Mrs. Nancy Clarke: 466 moths (395019).

Don Clements: 1 fossil crocodile verte-
bra (391640).

Edwin L. Clopton: 4 minerals (379645).

James C. Cokendolpher: 4 protozoan
slides (390716).

Dr. Robert Coleman: 213 petrology &
volcanology specimens (390642).

Mr. & Mrs. William D. Compton: 1 fos-
sil (392354).

Mr. & Mrs. Ed & Kay Coogan: 1 gold
specimen with quartz (393215).

Dr. Robert B. Cook, Jr.: 1 faceted gem
(393212).

Dr. L. D. Coote: 1 insect (396078).

Dr. Gregory N. Courtney: 190 flies
(395027).

Elizabeth M. Cridlin: 7 fossil verte-
brates (393068, 394044).

Dr. Alain Crosnier: 2 crabs (392590).

~
Louise Darby: 3 minerals (393211).

Dr. Resneat M. Darnell: 2 worms
(296577).

Ray Davidson: 1 mineral (394556).

Dr. Claude Dejoux: 31 caddisflies
(395417).

Paul E. Desautels: 1 mineral (394588).

Laurella Desborough: 2 parrot eggs
(391266).

Masahiro Dojiri: 69 crustaceans
(378503).

Dr. Daryl Domning: 18 fossil ribs
(394014).

Dr. T. W. Donnelly: 25 damselflies
(396604).

Dr. Paulo J. P. dos Santos: 4 worms
(394232).

Dr. Robert Downs: 8 minerals (394580).

Paul Drez: 1 fossil (392355).

Francis O. Dudas: 2 rock samples
(393434).

Elizabeth C. Dudley: 6 mollusks
(395166).

Dr. Lance Durden: 2 fleas (394984).

Dr. Bernard H. Dussart: 1 crustacean
(394146).

John Edmundson: 200 crustaceans
(377397).

Dr. Robert L. Edwards: 645 spiders
(397150).

Dr. J. E. Eger: 13 bugs (395397).

Rev. Robert Eisele: 738 insects (395423).

Marc J. Ellison: 1 mineral (396343).

Thomas Emerson: 1 cast of a prehistoric
effigy pipe (390836).

Dr. Donald S. Erdman: 263 fishes
(392272).

Dr. Christer Erseus: 8 worms (394215).

John C. Ewers: 1 painted deer hide
(Cheyenne) (387102).

Mr. & Mrs. G. L. Faurote: 6,000 fossils
(395653).

Daniel J. Feller: 32 crustaceans (391376).

Doug Fenner: 9 corals (390713).

Dr. V. R. Ferris: 6 worms (347778).

Dr. Mark V. Filewicz: 2 fossil slides
(395627).

Lionel Finneran: 1 Zulu maternity
apron (380504).

Dr. Robert J. Fletcher: 93 crustaceans
(391396).

Dr. Peter Fong: 4 worms (362481).

George C. Fonger: 78 fossils (391661,
393089, 394795, 395622).

Timothy Foote: 1 owl (394972).

Marilyn Force: 1 fossil (392331).

John M. Foster: 222 crustaceans
(392639).

Dr. Peter R. Fraissinet: 12 beetles
(393248).

Dr. John Frazier: 3 mollusks (365600).

H. A. Freeman: 79 butterflies (393240,
393245, 394075, 396108).

Tom Freitag: 10 mollusks (395167).

Norman French: 121 birds (390001).

Dr. Carlo Froglia: 105 crustaceans
(380038).

Dr. Richard V. Gaines: 3 minerals
(391463).

Prof. Sergio Gallo: 22 minerals (393173).

Frank A. Garcia: 1 fossil bird (392319).

H. Garcia-Barriga: 3 plants (393872).

Dr. Rosser W. Garrison: 2 dragonflies
(393451, 395122).

Dr. Robert A. Gastaldo: 3 fossils
(385883, 392369).

John Gates: 8 worms (279728).

Dr. Ray Gibson: 8 worms (390377).

Dr. Christopher J. Glasby: 13 worms
(395778).

James L. Goedert: 154 snails (396211).

Janet Gohres: 5 fossil teeth (393074).

Dr. Enrique Gonzales S.: 2 Mexican
dragonflies (393449).

Jesus Angel de Leon Gonzalez: 6 worms
(394240).

Dr. Robert Gordon: 2 birds (392914).

Cynthia L. Gradek: 12 worms (395765).

Fred Grady: 1 bird skeleton (3957.42).

Mr. & Mrs. Richard & Monica Graeme:
1 mineral (396331).

Arthur T. Grant: 1 synthetic mineral
(391525).

Dr. Gilbert S. Grant: 2 birds (390027).

Jason R. Grane: 681 plants (392421,
394367, 394368, 396830, 396885).

Dr. J. Frederick Grassle: 6 worms
(392101).

Mr. & Mrs. Jack & Elaine Greenspan: 1
diamond (393216).

Dr. Edward Grew: 2 minerals (383028).

Robert Grier, Jr.: 1 fossil tooth & 1 fossil
dinosaur bone (394771).

John Griesbach: 51 rocks (393436).

Dr. Michael B. Griffith: 13 stoneflies
(396518).

Gary J. Grimsley: 3 fossils (394024).

Dr. John R. Grindley: 50 crustaceans
(391401).

Milton Gross: 9,570 insects (394482).

Dr. Mark J. Grygier: 2 crustaceans
(391391); 23 worms (392072).

D. Palicha Gunasekera: 1 mineral
(390183).

Lloyd FE. Gunther: 200 fossil plant
leaves (394726).

Val G. Gunther: 12 fossil slabs (392283).

Janis Hammerlun: 10 minerals (304541,
394528).

Christopher J. Harmatuk: 50 fossil ver-
tebrates (389477).

Peter J. Harmatuk: 1,300 fossil verte-
brates (394012, 394728, 394766).

Dr. David A. T. Harper: 6+ fossils
(392296).

Dr. Chris Harris: 1 quartz (393165).

Peter Hattenschwwiler: 28 moths
(393450).

Dr. Richard W. Heard, Jr.: 29 crusta-
ceans (381753); 20+ mollusks (393733).

Elizabeth B. Heffernan: 3 pieces of
Tongan barkcloth (387112).

Bill Heim: 120 fossil vertebrates
(392352); 25 fossil shark teeth (393061,
394059, 394760).

Karin Heiman: 611 plants (390944,
396759).

Professor Cahit Helvaci: 8 minerals
(386137).

Estate of Mrs. Virginia Y. Hendry: 2
bird skeletons & 15,000 fossil verte-
brates (393090).

Dr. Hans V. Herbst: 5 crustaceans
(394181).

Dr. Charles E. Herdendorf: 1 crustacean
(39413).

Dr. H. A. Hespenheide: 1 beetle
(395034).

Brian Hesse: 40,000 animal bone frag-
ments (364380).

Dr. Gregory P. Hetter: 1 copper Mexi-
can mask (374090).

Dr. Robert P. Higgins: 92+ worms
(385011).

Dr. Richard D. Hoare: 76 fossils
(391652, 394040, 395592).

Mr. & Mrs. C. S. Hollingsworth: 5 Es-
kimo dolls (387110).

Mrs. Jean Hooper: 8 fossil vertebrates
(393073, 394805).

Leroy Hooper: 2 fossils (394023).

Dr. Richard Houbrick: 150+ mollusks
(363234).

Peter Hovingh: 135+ freshwater snails
(391294, 392518).

187
George Q. Howe: 1 lot of minerals
(391538).

Mr. & Mrs. George Q. Howe: 17 miner-
als (393153).

Dr. Francis Hueber: 6 minerals (391474,
393170).

Mr. & Mrs. Frank Hyne: 1 portion of a
fossil crocodile jaw (386624); 786 fos-
sil vertebrates (388947).

Dr. Thomas M. Iliffe: 6+ worms
(364310).

Gladine Fritz Lmes: 1 facteted gem
(393210).

Dr. Teruo Ishida: 1,701 crustaceans
(392610, 394141, 395926).

Ronald M. A. Ison: 23 fossil vertebrates
(393968).

Dr. Michael A. Ivie: 130 beetles
(393816); 2 weevils (396076).

Master Sergeant Walter Johns: 2 fossil
bird bones (393031).

Ardis Johnson: 2 crustaceans (392592).

Dr. C. D. Johnson: 69 beetles (393252,
395119).

Tiffany Johnson: 1 fossil walrus mandi-
ble (390614).

Chris Johnston: 13 minerals (394533,
396368).

Dennis Jones: 9 birds (390003, 392930).

Danny Jump: 45 beetles (394078).

Dr. Peter Jung: 2 mollusks (389033).

Dr. Z. Kabata: 1 crustacean (392621).

Professor & Mrs. David Kadane: 153
Makonde wooden sculptures
(387040).

Patricia J. Kailola: 7 fishes (344814).

Ralph Karl (Deceased): 1 shell tool
(385319).

Ronald F. Keil: 1 fossil bone of a tropic
bird (393069).

John Kemner: 20 Mexican butterflies
(393388).

Dr. Edwin J. Keppner: 25 worms
(390394, 394217).

Charles L. Key: 6 minerals (390246).

Robert J. Kidd: 265+ crustaceans
(381721).

Dr. Lynn S. Kimsey: 6 insects
(393382).

Richard King: 1 fossil catfish skeleton
(394021).

Dr. Edward C. Knudson: 2 moths
(396549).

Dr. Naoki Kohno: 3 fossil casts
(393999).

188

Dr. Boris C. Kondratieff: 144 caddisfl-
ies, damselflies & stoneflies (396016,
396558).

H. H. Kool: 24+ mollusks (393699,
396222).

Dr. Peter M. Kranz: 4 fossil reptile
teeth (388905, 394761).

Dr. Roy K. Kropp: 2 crustaceans
(392581).

Dr. Barry S. Kues: 3 fossils (393018).

Dr. Yoshihiko Kurosawa: 2 beetles
(395054).

Denise J. Laire: 1 Horned Grebe
(394970).

Eugene Lambe: 24 crustaceans (368030).

Dr. Donald H. Lamore: 2 bird skins
(390035).

Dr. David Larson: 24 beetles (393241).

Dr. Peter L. Larson: 203 fossil verte-
brates (380269, 385835); 1 fossil seal
cranium (388868).

Jean-Louis Latil: 4 fossil casts (395586).

Mrs. Roxie C. Laybourne: 6 bluebirds
(395731).

Dr. Mike Lee: 21 crustaceans (394120).

Yung-Jo Lee: 14 casts of paleolithic
stone tools (387057).

Blanca Leon: 6 plants (396761).

Margaret Leonard: 3 fossil seal bones
(393011).

Dr. Richard Leschen: 3 beetles (394486).

Robert E. Lewis: 1 flea (396560).

Dr. Robert D. Liska: 1,000+ fossils
(391659).

Dr. Elberc Little, Jr.: 391 plants (391013,
394676, 395224).

Mr. & Mrs. George M. Little: 6 ethno-
graphic artifacts (390840).

Jerry D. Livermont: 1 carved wooden
staff (387052).

Professor Tian Li-Xin: 365 caddisflies
(395065).

Dr. William G. Lyons: 2 fossils (392291).

Dr. Amaro Macedo: 40 plants (386859).

Norman John MacGaffin, III: 1 ceramic
jar (366952).

Dr. Andy S. Y. Mackie: 2 worms
(390392).

Dr. C. Don MacNeill: 9 butterflies
(393244).

Dr. Norberto Malumian: 34 fossils
(395647).

Barry W. Mansell: 10 crustaceans
(371195).

Joe T. Marshall, Jr.: 1 bird (387350).

Daniel L. Martin: 10 crustaceans
(386586).

Dr. Brian Mason: 13 meteorites (383820,
392483).

Dr. E. C. Masteller: 9 beetles (395088).

Bryant Mather: 1 butterfly (393246).

Michael Mathis: 9 caddisflies (393384).

David Matusik: 18 butterflies (396107).

Mrs. Lewis L. May: 1 plant (396836).

William May: 3 fossils (395598).

Alexander P. Maybarduk: 2 mud masks
(358975).

Dr. James B. McClintock: 16 crusta-
ceans (392579).

Vance McCollum: 3 fossils (393037,
394039).

Dr. John McCormack: 1 mineral
(396342).

Dr. Frank K. McKinney: 19 fossils
(392299).

Jack H. McLellan: 20 fossil whale shark
teeth (392318).

Dr. Jerry A. McLelland: 307 worms
(395766).

Dr. Christopher McRoberts: 13 fossils
(395634).

Peter Megaw: 1 mineral (393213).

Dr. Betty J. Meggers: 2 ceramic plates
& 1 jar (372212); u1 Indian & Eskimo
dolls (374095).

Mark Meisenhalder: 2 minerals (394519,
394559); 8 beryls (395561).

Dr. Carl Mendelson: 33 fossils (391649).

Dr. Michael A. Menzies: 9 minerals
(391501).

Tim Mihuc: 20+ snails (395187).

Dr. Donald G. Mikulic: 10 fossils
(393095).

Dr. David S. Miller: 1 fossil porpoise
skull fragment (394770).

Dr. Richard S. Miller: 1 beetle (393387).

Robert H. Miller: 4 plants (392434).

Michael R. Milligan: 11 worms (394199).

Dr. Tomoyuki Miura: 10+ mollusks
(376488); 6 worms (392073, 392097).

Mrs. Mary Jo Molineaux: 1,308 insects
(394478).

M. Kasim Moosa: 1 crustacean (392644).

Dr. Eduardo Suarez Morales: 1 crusta-
cean (394136).

James D. Mougris: 7 opals (391492,
391520).

Dr. Hans-Georg Muller: 13 crustaceans
(377386, 391420).

Wolfgang Munk: 3 fossil casts (394816).

—_—
James Nardi: 3 fossils (391665).

Jacques Negre: 98 insects (396516).

Bill Nemke: 3 fossils (392372).

Thomas Nichols: 11 parrots (393960).

Arnold Norden: 1 wasp (394077).

Robert Novak: 104 birds (383506).

Dr. L. N. Novoselova: 1 mineral
(391524).

John M. Nugent: 1 fossil skull (393044).

Ted R. Nuttall: 6 mollusks (373742).

Brendan O'Connor: 2 worms (345890).

Dr. Susumu Ohtsuka: 14 crustaceans
(391416).

Randolph B. Old: 128 artifacts (387104).

Dr. Michael K. Oliver: 14 fishes
(392990).

Dr. Paul A. Opler: 1 butterfly (395030).

Dr. Dennis M. Opresko: 2 crustaceans &
6 worms (392103).

Dr. W. Edward Osborne: 1 fossil
(395589).

Mr. & Mrs. Paul Oscanyan: 86 Icelandic
artifacts (356736).

Mr. & Mrs. Charles Osterbrink: 2 par-
rots (393945).

Dr. Ervin G. Orvos: 12 fossil casts
(395617).

Claudia Owen: 16 metamorphic rocks
(390644).

Robert H. Parker: 36 worms (202730).

Jeanne Parsons: See Also: Gladine Fritz
Imes (393210).

Dr. Guido Pastorino: 1 fossil crab
(393995).

Dr. R. T. Patterson: 52 fossils (394015).

Ralph K. Patton: 5 Indian artifacts
(387053).

Dr. Gustav Paulay: 1 mollusk (395178).

Dr. David L. Pearson: 214 beetles
(393237, 393468).

Mrs. Velva Perrygo: 41 birds (389361).

Dr. Manuel Pescador: 1,356 mayflies
(397140).

Dr. Jack D. Pettigrew: 4 crustaceans
(394143).

Dr. E. J. Petuch: 28 mollusks (389394).

Dr. Dan Petzold: 1 fossil (395595).

Dr. Ronald C. Phillips: 3,585 plants
(393555).

Sid Pieters: 2 minerals (396348).

Dr. Kathleen Pigg: 1 fossil leaf (394727).

William W. Pinch: 4 minerals (394555).

Joe Pinto: 1 fossil bone (391662).

Kenneth A. Pitt: 1 fossil seal vertebrae
(394037).

Sherry K. Pittam: 47 plants (396169).

Donald J. Pletsch: 1 crustacean (381747).

Nisan B. Plotnik: 1 mineral (394557).

Dr. Wouter N. Polder: 5 fishes (396434).

George Potter: 2 fossils (363243).

Dr. Eric Powell: 199 mollusks (345705).

Dr. JoAnne Powell: 1 fossil bone
(393034).

Richard Powell: 1 barkcloth (390844).

Dr. Diomedes Quintero: 17 wasps
(395123).

William L. Rader: 3 minerals (394492).

Rob Raguso: 5 butterflies (396609).

Gabriel Ramos: 20 crustaceans (392611).

Dr. Stuart J. Ramos: 4 butterflies
(395036).

Dr. R. W. J. Read: 35 insects (393487).

Helen S. Reed (Deceased): 1 snail
(376640).

Jan G. Reese: 142 bird skins (393961).

Dr. Charles B. Reif: 110 crustaceans
(394106).

Dr. Vincent H. Resh: § crustaceans
(389857).

Dr. J. Keith Rigby: 58 fossil sponges
(391648).

Norman L. Riker: 1 fossil bird bone
(392304).

Dr. Nathan W. Riser: 1 worm (392078).

Mario Rivera: 7 funerary bundles
(361215).

Mrs. Betty Lynn Roberts: 1 fossil
(395631).

George W. Robinson, Sr.: 2 minerals
(391476).

Dr. Richard A. Robison: 37 fossils
(394053).

Jay Rodgers: 7 fossils (394723, 394779).

Dr. Sergio de Almeida Rodrigues: 21
crustaceans (366275).

Dr. David M. Rohr: 3 fossils (392341,
392362).

Dr. L. H. Rolston: 5 insects (396580).

John A. Rudin: 1 ceramic jug & 1
bronze bracelet (387056).

Dr. R. Eugene Ruff: 16 worms (390385).

Dr. Curtis W. Sabrosky: 981 flies
(394480).

Dr. K. Sakai: 1 crustacean (394138).

Dr. Guillermo San Martin: 14 worms
(392068).

Fabrizio Scarabino: 1 mollusk (392532).

Dr. W. Schact: 27 flies (393488).

Dr. Jack C. Schuster: 6 beetles (394487).

Dr. Don Schwert: 4 beetles (396513).

Larry Serpa: 40 crustaceans (388155).

Dr. Ken Severin: 4 crustaceans (381751).

Dr. Michael J. Sharkey: 827 insects
(395033).

Gary M. Sherman: 1 lot of synthetic
minerals (391464).

Dr. John Shisko: 226 worms (342829).

Ron Shrader: 9 fossil teeth (392317).

Dorothy K. Shula: 9 minerals (394543).

David O. Siegert: 2 fossil vertebrates
(393070).

Bernard L. Smeltzer: 1 fossil tooth
(394811).

Mrs. Connie Smith: 1 fossil (394787).

Michael J. Smith: 13 butterflies (393249).

Dr. Ralph Smith: 9 worms (392111).

Dr. I. G. Sohn: 10 crustaceans (380019).

Dr. Vivinne Solis-Weiss: 1 worm
(392077).

Dr. Eve C. Southward: 4 worms
(394227).

T. J. Spilman: 3,868 insects (394483).

Richard Spjut: 226 plants (393519).

Dr. Michael G. Stamatakis: 6 minerals
(393200).

Karl Stephan: 6 beetles (395124).

Dr. Wolfgang E. Sterrer: 24 worms
(392083, 394202, 395784).

James O. Stevenson: 5 plants (393518).

Roger M. Strand: 9 beetles (394076).

Dr. David Strayer: 67 crustaceans
(379991).

Dr. Kenneth C. Stuck: 45 crustaceans
(392632).

Eduardo Suarez M.: 1 crustaceans
(377435, 392580).

Dr. J. E. Sublette: 556 insects (397152).

Dr. Hans-Dieter Sues: 200 fossil verte-
brates (394775).

Dr. J. Bolling Sullivan, III: 325 insects
(393238, 396559, 396603).

Dr. William D. Sumlin, II: 2 Mexican
beetles (396077).

Dr. C. R. Suresh: 2 plants (392844,
396905).

Clyde Swindell: 137 fossil vertebrates
(389478, 393065).

Stephen Syphax: 227 crustaceans
(395930).

Burl E. Tackett: 5 worms (395762).

Dr. Thomas N. Taylor: 1 fossil plant
(392307).

J. H. Tenery: 1 fossil (392337).

Dr. Harry A. ten Hove: 31+ worms
(392070).

189
Dr. Mamoru Terayama: 1 ants (395053)-

Dr. Edward E. Terrell: 15 plants (392873).

Darius Thieme: 1 friction drum
(361696).

Ralph Thompson: 1 fossil slab of petri-
fied wood (395594).

Donald E. Tilch: 1 fossil (394058).

Dr. Verena Tunnicliffe: 7 worms
(384473, 392104).

Mrs. Lillian Turner: 1 quartz bowl
(391539).

Nelson Uemura: 1 crustacean (386531).

Dr. Garland R. Upchurch, Jr.: 18 fossil
plants (394734).

Dr. Radames Urtiage: 6 lacebugs
(393455).

Brad van Scriver: 1 mineral (394513).

Paule Varlamoff: 1 mineral (394544).

Dr. Duncan Vaughan: 53 plants (393317).

Dr. Luz Amelia Vega-Perez: 8 crusta-
ceans (394145).

Dr. Steven Viada: 1 fossil (392333).

Dr. Emily H. Vokes: 91 fossils (392345,
392356, 394010).

Dr. H. P. Wagner: 2 crustaceans
(392636).

John S. Waldrop: 10 fossil mammals
(394045).

Dr. David Evans Walter: 32 mites
(393242, 396567).

Dr. Lauck W. Ward: 2 fossil monk seal
bones (390530).

Matthew Webb: 1 mineral (394494).

Dr. Konrad F. Weidich: 35 fossils
(393045).

Dan Weinrich: 2 minerals (393214).

David Wells: 2 fossils (392347, 394772).

Dr. Samuel A. Wells: 1 beetle (396579).

Dr. Richard L. Westcott: 2 beetles
(395035).

Dr. James W. Westgate: 14 fossils
(395616).

Dr. Elizabeth Wheeler: 42 fossil plant
slides (394785).

Dr. Mary K. Wicksten: 2 crustaceans
(392617).

Lawrence A. Wiedman: 30 invertebrate
fossils (394033).

Ronald $. Wielgus: 1,017 moths
(394484, 396082, 396556).

Robert Wiest: 8 fossils (391613,
394765).

Dr. W. G. Wightman: 1 fossil (389501).

Dr. Ronald S. Wilkinson: 2,037 butter-
flies & moths (394479).

190

Dr. Debra Willard: 62 fossil coal sam-
ples (393964).

Dr. James Wilson: 6 minerals (394581).

Dr. W. W. Wirth: 774 biting midges
(397133).

Dr. Robert Woodruff: 3 moths (395419).

Daniel Wright: See Also: Janis Ham-
merlun (394528).

Kirk E. Wright: 14 crustaceans (369505).

Mr. & Mrs. Ronald C. & Linda Yanke: 1
quartz replacing wood (393179).

Dr. Harry C. Yeatman: 10 crustaceans
(394119).

May W. Yipp: 26 mollusks (343557).

Dr. Frank N. Young: 300 insects

(396564).
Victor Yount: 14 minerals (390181,

390182).
Dr. Roger Zimmerman: I siamese

shrimp (377419).

Dr. William J. Zinsmeister: 4 fossils
(395656).

Dr. Victor A. Zullo: 47 fossils (393051,
396617).

National Portrait Gallery

Donors of Financial Support

$50,000 or more

The Annenberg Foundation

$10,000 or more

American Express Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

$5,000 or more

The Barra Foundation, Inc.
Harryette and Marcus Cohn

$1, 000 or more

Abbeville Press, Inc.

Federal National Mortgage Association
Foundation

Leslie H. Goldberg

Jack Haas

The Clarence and Jack Himmel Founda-
tion

Chester H. Lasell

The Phi Beta Kappa Society

The Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund

$500 or more

L. Gordon Darling
Florence and Jeffrey H. Miller

$250 or more

Barry M. and Beverly Lang Pierce

Donors to the Collection
Painting and Sculpture

Anheuser-Busch. Rosa Parks, 1990,
bronze, by Artis Lane
(T/NPG.1991.2259).

Arbic Blatas and Regina Resnik. Regina
Resnik, 1968, oil on canvas, by Arbit
Blatas (T/NPG.1990.125527).

Michael Burns. Arnold Palmer, 1979, oil
on canvas, by Paul C. Burns
(T/NPG.1990.83).

Ralph Cowan. E/vis Presley, 1988, oil on
canvas, by Ralph Cowan
(NPG.1990.114).

Lamar Dodd. Boardman Robinson, c.1943,
mixed media on plywood, self-por-
trait (NPG.1991.55 ).

Helen Loring Ensign. Prof. John F. Werr,
c.1919, oil on canvas, by William Lor-
ing (NPG.1990.115).

William James IV. William James,
c.1860, oil on cardboard, by John La
Farge (NPG.1991.6).

Ruth Munson. Buckminster Fuller, c.1981,
oil on canvas, by Ruth Munson
(T/NPG.1991.4255.93)-

Janet Gregg Schroeder. Carol Laise Bun-
ker, not dated, bronze head, by Janet
Gregg Schroeder (T.NPG.1990.113).

Jane White. Alistair Cooke, 1984, oil on
canvas, by Jane White
(T/NPG.1991.42551).

Jane White. Nathan Milstein, 1943, oil
on board, by Jane White
(T/NPG.1991.42552)

<<
Photographs

E.F. Bergman. William Christopher
Handy, c. 1932, gelatin silver print,
by Carl Van Vechten (S/NPG.91.49).

Murray Bognovitz. William _J. Brennan,
Jr, 1990, gelatin silver print, by Mur-
ray Bognovitz (T/NPG.91.79)

Mrs. Edgar Breitenbach. Josef Albers,
1944, gelatin silver print, by Josef
Breitenbach (NPG.91.51)

Judith Caditz and Joan Abramson.
Orson Welles, 1948, gelatin silver
print, by Roman Freulich
(NPG.91.48).

Eastman Kodak Professional Photogra-
phy Division, the Engl Trust, and
Benedict J. Fernandez. Countdown to
Eternity, Photographs of Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr. in the 19605, 1989 prints
from 1967/68 negatives, portfolio of
twelve photographs by Benedict J.
Fernandez (NPG.91.47.1-12).

Stella Egone. Paul Hindemith, not
dated, gelatin silver print, by Egon
C. J. Egone (NPG.90.146); Serge
Koussevitsky, 1949, gelatin silver
print, by Egon C. J. Egone

~(NPG.90.147); Serge Koussevitsky, not
dated, gelatin silver print, by Egon
C. J. Egone (NPG.90.148); Paul
Hindemith, not dated, gelatin silver
print, by Egon C.J. Egone (S/NPG.9-
0.138); Paul Hindemith, not dated, gel-
atin silver print, by Egon C.J. Egone
(S/NPG.90.139); Serge Koussevitsky,
1977 after 1949 photograph, gelatin
silver print, by Egon C.J. Egone
(S/NPG.90.140); Serge Koussevitsky,
not dated, gelatin silver print, by
Egon C.J. Egone (S/NPG.90.141);
Serge Koussevitsky, 1949, gelatin silver
print, by Egon C.J. Egone
(S/NPG.90.142).

Howard Greenberg. Winold Reiss, 1919,
gelatin silver print, by Unidentified
(S/NPG.91.50).

Edward Jablonski and Russell L.
Caplan. George Gershwin and Arthur
Kaufmann, 1990 print from 1936 nega-
tive, gelatin silver print, by George
Gershwin (S/NPG.91.15); Arthur
Kaufmann, 1990 print from 1936 nega-
tive, by George Gershwin (S/NPG.91-
16).

Emma N. and Sidney Kaplan. Frederick
Douglass, c. 1879, albumen silver
print, by George K. Warren
(S/NPG.91.75)

William Woodville, VIII. Cadwalader
Ringgold, c. 1853, stereoscopic
daguerreotype, by Unidentified
(S/NPG.90.143); Samuel Ringgold, c.
1845, by John Plumbe, Jr.
(S/NPG.90.144); Samuel Ringgold, c.
1855 after 1845 daguerreotype,
albumenized salt print, by Unidenti-
fied (S/NPG.90.145).

Prints and Drawings

Carol and B.B. Cutler. Mark Rothko,
1936, drypoint, by Milton Avery
(NPG.91.36).

Richard Ely. Diana Vreeland, 1984, col-
ored pencil, pastel, felt tip ink and
watercolor on paper, by Richard Ely
(T/NPG.90.110255.99).

Richard Ely. Diana Vreeland, 1989,
crayon, ink, and gouache on paper,
by Richard Ely (T/NPG.90.111255.99).

Judith and Steven Katten (donative
sale). Colleen Moore, 1928, pencil and
gouache on poster board, by Batiste
Madalena (T/NPG.90.112255.98).

Everett Raymond Kinstler (donative
sale). Celebrity Book of Nellie Flagg,
1907-1913, book of pen and ink carica-
tures by various artists
(NPG.90.118.a-b).

Everett Raymond Kinstler._James Mont-
gomery Flagg, c. 1944, pen and ink on
paper, by Charles Dana Gibson
(NPG.90.108).

Lachaise Foundation. Harold Hart
Crane, c. 1923, pencil on paper, by
Gaston Lachaise (NPG.91.46).

Milton Rose. Clement B. Penrose, 1908,
etching, by W.H.W. Bicknell (study
collection, pending receipt of acces-
sion number from Registrar).

Mark and Julia Strand. Mark Strand,
1983, watercolor, by Philip Pearlstein
(T/NPG.91.38).

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition
Service

Donors of Financial Support

$100, 000 or more

The Boeing Company

The Wallace Foundation

Join granc with National Museum of
American History

$50, 000 or more

The John D. and Catherine T. MacAr-
thur Foundation
Time Warner Inc.

$10,000 or more

Brattleboro Museum and Art Center,
Inc.

Bratttleboro, Vermont

The Smithsonian Institution Special
Exhibition Fund

$1,000 or more

The British Council
The National Trust for Scotland

Donors of In-Kind Support

Aer-Lingus. Shipping exhibition
“Views of Rome: Drawings and Wa-
tercolors from the Collection of the
Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana” to
Dublin, Ireland.

The Boeing Company, Washington,
D.C. office. Services associated with
the International Gallery showing of
the exhibition, “Moscow: Treasures
and Traditions.”

Federal Express International. Transpor-
tation in the United States of the ex-
hibition, “Moscow: Treasures and
Traditions.”

German American Fund, Portland, Ore.
For the exhibition, “Jakob Ignaz
Hictorff: Architectural Drawings and
Watercolors of Paris and Rome.”

191
Lufthansa Airlines. Shipping expenses
in conjunction with the exhibition,
“Jakob Ignaz Hictorff: Architectural
Drawings and Watercolors of Paris
and Rome.”

Reed College, Portland, Ore. For the ex-
hibition catalogue of “Jakob Ignaz
Hictorff: Architectural Drawings and
Watercolors of Paris and Rome.”

Whyte & Mackay Distillers Limited,
Glasgow, Scotland. Exhibition devel-
opment of “Pride of Place.”

Public Service

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

Donors of Financial Support

£10, 000 or more

Brother International Corporation

Office of Folklife Programs

Donors of Financial Support

$100,000 or more

U.S. Department of Agriculture

$50, 000 or more

Music Performance Trust Funds

$10, 000 or more

Broderbund Software

Government of Chiapas, Mexico

Instituto Nacional Indigenista and

Centro de Investigaciones y Estudios
Superiores en Antropologia Social

Inter-American Foundation

MacArthur Foundation

Ruth Mort Fund

Ralph Rinzler

192

Sony Music

U.S. Virgin Islands Humanities Council
Victor Company of Japan

Wilajawira Project, La Paz, Bolivia

$500 or more

Laura Boulton Foundation
Sealaska Heritage Foundation

$250 or more

Hechinger Company
Pier I Imports

Donors to the Collection

Sage-Chase family. Two woven burden
baskets made at the Festival of Amer-
ican Folklife by Mandan Indians
from Halliday, North Dakota.

Donors of In-Kind Support

A&M Research Extension Center. Sor-
ghum used in the “Family Farming
in the Heartland” program, Festival
of American Folklife.

Action Al's Tire Company. Six used
tires for use at the Family Farming
program site.

Aeromotor Windmill Corp. One six-
foot windmill used in the Family
Farming program.

American Popcorn. 100 pounds of pop-
corn for use in the Family Farming
program.

Amtrak. Loan of tools for lining rail-
road track for use in the “Roots of

Rhythm and Blues” Festival program.

B&O Railroad Museum. Loan of 42 feet
of 100-lb. railroad track and railroad
track and lining tools for use in the
“Roots of Rhythm and Blues” Festi-
val program.

Bacardi Lmports. Two cases of rum used
in the Festival Quincentenary pro-
gram, “Land in Native American
Cultures.”

The Bacova Guild, Ltd. Six mailboxes
used in the Family Farming program.

Ball Corporation. Two cases of canning
jars used for foodways demonstra-

tions in the Family Farming program.

Barton Brands, Ltd. Two cases of Mezcal
used in the Quincentenary program,
“Land in Native American Culcures.”

Bell Haven Pharmacy. Loan of two
wheelchairs for the Festival.

Bittersweet Hill Nurseries. Bedding
plants used around the site of the
Family Farming program.

Brother Sew & Vac Centers. Loan of a
sewing machine for use in the Family
Farming program.

Ceder Works, Inc. Six mailboxes used
in the Family Farming program.

Celestial Seasoning, Inc. Two cases of
herb teas used for participant hospi-
talicy at the Festival of American
Folklife.

Cutco Cutlery, Corp. Knives used at the
Festival of American Folklife.

Embassy High's Dairy. Two cases of
fruit juice used for participant hospi-
talicy at the Festival of American
Folklife.

Everfresh Juice Co. 50 cases of fruit
juice used for Festival hospitality.

Frito-Lay, Inc. Two cases of chips used
for Festival hospitality.

Heritage Cutlery, Inc. Scissors for use at
the Festival.

Hoards’s Dairyman Magazine. Calen-
dars for use at the Festival's Family
Farming program.

Jack T. Irwin. Three large rocks for use
in the Festival's Quincentenary pro-
gram, “Land in Native American
Cultures.”

Stephen C. LaVere. Continuous tone
negative of Robert Johnson and con

tinuous tone print of Hacksaw
Harney for use in the Festival pro-
gram book and on signs with the
“Roots of Rhythm and Blues” pro-
gram.

Rolling Greens. Two large tropical
plants used at the Festival's “Forest,
Field and Sea: Folklife in Indonesia”
program.

Shelter Mailbox. Three mailboxes for
use at the Family Farming program
site.

Shurfire Distributors, Inc. 100 pounds
of charcoal for use at the Festival's In-
donesia program.

Snyder of Hanover. Four cases of chips
used for Festival hospitality.

_
Steel City, Corp. Four mailboxes for use
at the Festival's Family Farming pro-
gram.

Sugar Association. 350 pounds of sugar
for use at the Festival.

The Tomato Game. A Tomato Game for
the Family Farming program.

Tripp Bakers, Inc. Four cases of pound
cake for Festival hospitality.

Uncle Ben's, Inc. 100 pounds of rice for
use at the Festival.

U.S. National Arboretum. Loan of
plants for the Festival's Indonesia pro-
gram.

Utz Quality Foods, Inc. Four cases of
chips for Festival hospitality.

Van Wingerden’s of Culpepper. Bed-
ding plants for the Family Farming
program.

Wilkins Coffee. Six pounds of coffee for
Festival hospitality.

Wisconsin Aluminum Foundry. A large
canning cooker for foodways demon-
strations at the Family Farming pro-
gram.

Woodpeckers, Ltd. of Virginia. Eight
mailboxes for the Family Farming
program site.

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant
Secretary for External
Affairs

Donors of Financial Support
£100,000 or more
W. Alton Jones Foundation

$10,000 or more

Mrs. Marjorie Arundel, Wildcat Moun-
tain Farm

$1,000 or more

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Donors to the Senator Heinz
Memorial Fund

$5,000 or more

Mrs. Thomas L. Williams, Jr., Williams
Family Foundation of Georgia, Inc.

$1,000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. Samuel W. Lambert, III, The Bun-

bury Company, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald S. Lauder
Sandoz Corporation
Mr. Thomas W. Weisel

$500 or more
Cato Foundation Fund

Mr. John E. du Pont
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis Ranieri

$250 or more
Edw. C. Levy Co. Foundation
John H. T. Wilson and Sandra W. Wil-

son
Wild Wings Foundation

Donors to the Tropical
Rainforest Project

$ 50, 000 or more

The Pointer Foundation

$500 or more

R. R. Donnelley and Sons Company
Mark A. Johnson

Ralph H. Stephens

$250 or more

Carolyn L. Wilson

Office of

Telecommunications

Donors of Financial Support
$500, 000 or more

Japanese Consortium: Kajima Corpora-
tion, Hitachi Limited, American
Family Assurance Company

$50,000 or more

Environment Ministry of the Nether-
lands

$10,000 or more

WQED-TV
Environment Ministry of Norway
Chase Manhattan Bank

Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

Donors of Financial Support
$10,000 or more

The Washington Post
Arizona Public Service Co.
Riggs National Bank

$1,000 or more

Harry N. Abrams

American Committee on U.S./Soviet
Relations

Austrian National Tourist Office, Inc.

Coordination Council for North Ameri-
can Affairs

Embassy of Canada

Royal Norwegian Embassy

The Hechinger Foundation

MCI Foundation

W. A. Taylor & Company

Techworld

The Textile Museum

Tibet House

193
The United States Air Force

$500 or more

Blues Alley Museum Society, Inc.

Embassy of Greece

Irvmet Fleming Inc.

National Geographic Society

Pennsylvania Avenue Development Cor-
poration

Viking Penguin, Inc.

$250 or more

Committee of 100 on the Federal City
Friendship Ambassadors Foundation
Hakuhodo

National Capital Area Skeptics
Sotheby's Inc.

Elicia W. Beebe

Don Klotz, Jr.

James W. Low

James I. and Carol Ann McPherson

$100 or more

Marc D. Adams

Natalie E. Babson

Robert W. Bauman

Angela Beckman

Elmore R. Chatham

Bruce A. Cohen

Wilmer H. Cressman

Margaret Deutsch

Wilbur G. Dickinson

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Dublin

Louise Durbin

David Gladstone

Vera Glocklin

Colonel and Mrs. William T. Hamilton,
Je.

Audrey H. Hatry

R. B. Jenkins

Georgette Kamenetz

Martha Louise Leggette

Mr. and Mrs. William Lehfeldc

Robert Liebscher

Betty Mooney

Muriel H. Parry

Paul and Blanche Postelnek

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Riesz

Curtis L. Scribner

Barbara Searle

Margaret J. Shannon

Thomas W. Stern

194

Joan Van Stone
Marilyn Sylvester
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Wiener

$50 or more

Leonard P. Abbott
Kenneth Allen
Wilma M. Angelbeck
Mary C. Angelos

Dr. Bryan Arling
Edwin Berk

Marie E. Bierau
Alexandra Blackhurst
Bruce S. Bloom

John D. Blumgart
Peter J. Burgess
Thomas W. Chamberlain
William T. Cook
Chester L. Cooper
Stephen Cormier
Marian Craig

Liliane Floge and Stephen Crawford
Susan M. Crawford
DeLanson R. Crist
Sandra Crist

George T. Desorcy
Imogene Driscoll
Virginia Ehelebe
Joanne D. Fort

Evan Fotos

Sonia P. Fuentes
Carolyn Furfine
James E. Galloway
Joy and John Garney
John P. Grausz
Harold Gray

Dorothy Green
Florine A. Greenberg
Constance Hefferan and Doris Grubb
Harlan Harrison

Ezra E. Heitowit

W. C. Howell

L. B. Hunter
Raymond Husson
Jerome Jacobson
Curt Kambic

Ann S. Kelly

John Klayman

Seth A. Koch

Ellen Kollar

Travis Barton Kranz
Eugene L. Kressin
Emanuel Landau
Ann Lapporte

Thomas A. Larson

L. E. Laurion
Wilhemina A. Leigh
Jerome C. Leonard
Colman Levin

Mrs. David E. Lewis
Patricia H. Lowe
Vernon C. Lower

M. W. Mainwaring
Catherine E. Maurer
Sarah Ann McClendon
Theodora McGill
Elroy S. Merrifield
Cynthia Groves Miller
Susan L. Miller

Mary B. Moore

Dale Moran

I. V. Munster

Don H. Murdock
Michael Wilcox and Mary Niebuhr
Gail Osburn
Angeline M. Pascuzzi
David R. Patterson
Ruth Paul

Jacqueline Pierce
Amelia Wallace Porter
Cora E. Pyles

Jack Reams

Lawrence Reed

Mrs. Robert A. Resnik
Charles W. Reynolds
Diana M. Riehl
George W. Riesz
Deborah Rudolph
Christina Samson
Nancy Schaffer
Harold Shoup

Mr. and Mrs. Manuel Silberstein
Lynn A. Soukup

Lynn A. Spates

Louise S. Steele
Moises N. Steren
Edwin Stevens

Lisa Taylor

Grace Taylor

Roy Tidwell

Richard A. Trammell
Charlotte Viguera
Lohva Wakefield
Juliana C. Weihe
Leslie Weisman

Sue Wolpoff

Otto A. Zipf

_
Donors of In-Kind Support

Antinori Premium Wines

Baccus Importers

Champagne Taittinger

Henley Park Hotel

Stolichnaya Vodka

Strathmore Sparkling Spring Water

Washington Wholesale Liquor
Company

“Smithsonian World”

Donors of Financial Support

$500, 000 or more

Southwestern Bell Corporation for pro-
duction of Smithsonian World's sixth
season of five one-hour television spe-
cials.

Southwestern Bell Corporation for pro-
motion, advertising, and educational
component accompanying Smithson-
ian World's sixth season.

Station Program Cooperative (Public
Television Stations’ Viewers) for pro-
duction of Smithsonian World's sixth
season.

Donors to Special Preview
Screenings of Smithsonian
World

$1,000 or more

Eastman Kodak Company for “The
Doors of Perception” preview and re-
ception at Baird, National Museum
of Natural History.

Donors of In-Kind Support

Colorlab and Russell Suniewick. 16mm
prints, xenon slide projector, hi-con-
trast slides used in Smithsonian
World preview screenings.

Mediatech and John Fry. Test equip-
ment and engineering services to de-

sign double system pilotone

synchronization for Smithsonian
World preview screenings.

Rodel Audio Services and Nelson Funk.
Sound equipment, stereo audio mix-
ing, engineering and design, and
stereo NR mix transfers for Smith-
sonian World preview screenings.

Institutional
Initiatives

National Museum of the
American Indian
National Campaign

Donors of Financial Support

£100, 000 or more

Mr. David Rockefeller

$50, 000 or more

The Merck Family Fund
Mrs. Irving Salomon

$5,000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. James Block
Mr. and Mrs. Tom G. Cousins
Mrs. Ann Rockefeller Roberts
Ms. Margaret Schink

Mr. and Mrs. John Walton

$1,000 or more

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Andrews

T.E. Beck

Mr. Lewis W. Bernard

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Binder

Mr. George Byers

Cook Inlet Region, Inc.

The Honorable Barber B. Conable
The Corning Foundation

Mrs. Wahleah Faulkner Davis
Michael Dorris and Louise Erdrich
The Elliott Bay Book Company
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Ettinger
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Geismar
Mitsuko O. Green

Mrs. Miriam S. Hogan

Mrs. Vera G. List

The Meek Foundation

Mr. Clifford L. Michel

Ms. Marie B. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. John Nieto

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O'Connor
Mr. and Mrs. Harlan Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small
Ms. Luch I. Smiley

Mr. and Mrs. Morton I. Sosland
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Stempel
Mr. Ronald FE. Stowe

Mr. James R. Taft

Mr. Kay Rex Whitmore

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

$500 or more

Dr. and Mrs. Peter Bing

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Bonette
Mrs. G. A. Buder

Ms. Peggy Cooper Cafritz

Mr. and Mrs. Otis Carney

Mr. and Mes. John W. Chancellor
Mr. Maude Chapman

Mr. Charles D. Dickey

Ms. Katharine Proctor Douglass
Mr. Loyd E. Ellis

Mr. Dave T. Faulkner

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Fisher

Mr. Bruce Geismar

Mr. Les Goldberg

Mrs. Martha Watson Griffin
Mrs. William H. Hazlett

Mr. Charles A. Horsky

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes
Mr. Roy “Bud” C. Johns

Mr. Donald M. Kendall

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Kerr
Mr. Lawrence Kirstein

Mr. and Mrs. Scott Kresan

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Kriendler
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Lazarus
Dr. Robert C. Lowery

Mr. and Mrs. Robert MacCrate
Mr. R. K. Merrill

Mr. Billy Mills

Nevada Bell

Mr. and Mrs. George Nicolau
Mr. Robert Redford

Ms. Ann Reinking

Mrs. Nancy Clark Reynolds

195
Rhycof Design Associates

Mr. David Saity

Sealaska Corporation

Mr. Sargent Shriver

Mr. and Mrs. Philip N. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Gregg Steelman
Ms. Connie Stevens

Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Stowell
Ms. Cree Summer

Miss Helen R. Swan

Ms. Deborah Szekely

Ms. Ruth Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P. Vartanian
Mr. Richard Weiner

Mr. and Mrs. W. Richard West, Jr.

Dr. Rosita Worl
Ms. Gay Wray

$250 or more

Mr. William Alexander

Mr. and Mrs. John Anderson
Bazaar del Mundo

Berliner Specialty Distributors
Mr. Charles Blackwell

Mr. and Mrs. Cliff Van Blarcom
Mr. Lawrence D. Brown

Mrs. Roxanne Bruns

Ms. Wendy A. Cannold

196

Carlisle Silver Co., Inc.

Ms. Mary Curran

Mr. Meredith Derr

Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner
Mr. John E. Echohawk

Mr. Coy Eklund

Ms. Paula Faust

Ms. Arlene Feddes

Gallery 10, Inc.

Gertrude Zachary, Inc.
Gover, Stetson, and Williams
Ms. LaDonna Harris

The Indian Post

Mr. Warren S. Josephy
Keshi, The Zuni Connection
Ms. Elizabeth J. Kuen

Mr. Frank E. Loy

Morning Star Gallery, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Chuck Mullen
Mr. Curt Muser

Mr. and Mrs. Waldemar A. Nielsen
Prairie Edge

Mr. James Rogers

Ms. Liz Shearer

Mr. Michael Shoemaker

Ms. Carol Stoker

Mr. John Walczak

Mr. Caspar W. Weinberger, Jr.

Donors of In-Kind Support

ist American Bank, N. A.. 2,600 square
feet of office space in Arlington, Vir-
ginia for the National Museum of the
American Indian National Campaign
Office.

Finance and
Administration

Assistant Secretary for
Finance and
Administration

Donors of In-Kind Support

IBM Corporation. Hardware and software
for producing hypertext multimedia
monographs for documenting research
in biodiversity (BioCIS project).

—_—
Appendix 8

Contributing Members of the
Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1991

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian
National Associates support the Institution through
generous annual donations and special gifts. Their par-
ticipation enables the Smithsonian to pursue specific
projects and broader research, acquisition, preservation,
and education efforts than might otherwise be possible.

The Smithsonian Institution therefore gratefully ac-
knowledges the loyal and thoughtful assistance of the
Contributing Members, including the Sustaining Mem-
bers ($600 annual contribution) and Sponsoring Mem-
bers ($300 contribution), listed below.

Sustaining Members Ms. Marcia Y. Almassy
Mr. and Mrs. Richard S.

Mr. and Mrs. Byrle M. Antes

Abbin Mr. Alfred C. Antoniewicz
Honorable and Mrs. David Honorable Aane:L;
C. Acheson Armstrong
Mr. Davey L. Adams, Mrs. John Paul Austin
Jr. Ms. Margaret F. Babbitt
Dr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Mrs. Henry W. Baird
Adams Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Mr. and Mrs. Emil A. Balfour
Adomat

Miss Mary J. Barbee
Mr. Jean L. Barker
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L.

Barr

Mrs. Carolyn Agger-
Fortas

Honorable and Mrs. James
E. Akins

Mr. Yale H. Alexander

Mr. Morris Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. William C.
Allbert

Mr. Burton O. Allen

Captain Celia Barteau
Dr. David R. Bayless
Ms. Jeanne V. Beekhuis
Mr. Charles Beer

Ms. Marguerite Bender
Mr. James H. Berkson

Mr. and Mrs. George W.
Bermant

Mr. John A. Bernard

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour
Bernect

Mr. and Mrs. Charles P.
Berney

Richard D. Bernstein

Mr. Eugene J. Bevers

Mr. Anthony P. Biemans

Miss Eliza H. Bishop

Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler

Mrs. Hill Blackett

Ms. Alexandra Blackhurst

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Black

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L.
Blair

Mrs. Curtis C. Bogart

Honorable and Mrs. Edward
P. Boland

Mrs. Nona G. Bolling

Ms. J. A. Boorman

Mr. Clifton W. Boots

Dr. Cary W. Booz

Mrs. T. Botsford

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Dr. and Mrs. William G.
Bowen

Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T.
Bowie

Mrs. Leland E. Bowman

Mrs. Constance T. Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. Jay M. Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C.
Braden

Jo Anne Brasel

Mr. William W. Bray

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C.
Breckenridge

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Breyer,
Je.

Mr. and Mrs. Clemens B.
Bribitzer

Mrs. Arlene A. Brown

Ms. Elizabeth C. Brown

Ms. Patricia L. Brown

Mr. Steven Brummel

Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan, Jr.

Mr. Sheldon W. Buck

Mrs. Cora S. Buell

Mr. and Mrs. I. Townsend
Burden, III

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P.
Burgee

Honorable Warren E. Burger

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W.
Burkhardt

Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Bush

Mr. Toxey H. Califf

Mr. John E. Cannaday

Miss Helen R. Cannon

Mr. Albert I. Cardiff

Mr. Robert L. Carrel

Mr. and Mrs. Anderson
Carter

Mrs. James B. Cartwright

Ms. Renata Cathou

Honorable Elford A.
Cederberg

Mr. John E. Chapoton, Esq.

Mr. Harry R. Charles, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Kevin P.
Charles

Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Mrs. Allen D. Christensen

Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett

Mrs. Charles S. Clack

Mr. Edward J. Clarke

Captain and Mrs. William E.
Clayton, Jr.

Mr. Fred Clements

Mr. James T. Clyde

Mr. and Mrs. Francis X.
Coleman, Jr.

Miss Vivian G. Conklin

Mr. David E. Conston

Mr. Thomas Cook

Mr. Mark E. Cooper

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D.
Cornelius

Mrs. Louis Corson

Mr. and Mrs. Curtis W. Cox

Mr. and Mrs. Earle M. Craig,
Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Creede

Le. Cmdr. Wilmer H.
Cressman

Frances J. Cronin

Colonel and Mrs. R. J.
Culhane

Mc. and Mrs. Roy Cullen

Dr. Robert D. Cunningham

Mr. J. G. Cutler

Mrs. Richard M. Cutts

Captain and Mrs. R. L.
Daniels

Mr. and Mrs. Thormas R.
Dashiell

Mr. L. Randall Daspit

Mr. Madhavarao S. Dasu

197
Dr. T. G. Daughtridge

Mrs. Jerry R. Davis

Mr. John E. Davis

Dr. T. S. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace C.
Dayton

Mr. and Mrs. Gregory W.
Dean

Mr. Mel L. Decker

Mr. James L. Deegan

Ms. Martha J. Deem

Mr. E. A. Defalco

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F.
Dellheim

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Mr. Geert M. Deprest

Mrs. Mary J. Deutschbein

Mr. and Mrs. James Dietz

Mr. Douglas Dillon

S. J. Dimeglio

Ms. Marna Disbrow

Mrs. Charles G. Dodge

Dr. William H. L. Dornette

Mr. Joseph F. Douglas

Mr. Karl Douma

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph S. Drage

Ms. Imogene S. Driscoll

Dr. Lucia J. Dunham

Mr. and Mrs. H. Stewart
Dunn, Jr.

Mrs. J. T. Eaton

Mr. Jon Edelman

Mr. Robert Edelmann

Mr. Peter D. Ehrenhaft

Mr. and Mrs. Bart M. Eisner

Mr. and Mrs. V.L. Elliott

Mr. and Mrs. George T.
Elmore

Dr. and Mrs. John Esswein

Mr. and Mrs. James G.
Evans, Jr.

Commander and Mrs.
Thomas E. Fahy

Mr. and Mrs. Ross N. Faires

Rev. Msgr. M. F. Farina

Mrs. Roland C. Fegan

Mrs. Ernest R. Feidler

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Feinberg

Colonel J. J. Felmley

Dr. Gary R. Fender

Mr. and Mrs. John Ferguson

Mr. Nicholas M. Ferriter

Mrs. Emily H. Fine

Mr. Ordell Fipps

198

Mr. and Mrs. Charles T.
Fisher, II

Mrs. Mary M. Fisher

Mr. Gordon J. Flesch

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Ford

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Foster

Mr. Benjamin Frank

Mrs. Charlton Friedberg

Mr. Cary J. Frieze

Honorable J. William
Fulbright

Mr. Marion H. Furr

Captain and Mrs. J. E.
Galloway

Honorable E. J. Garn

Mr. and Mrs. Walter EF.
Geisinger

Miss Helen W. Giacobine

Mr. Wallace E. Giles

Mrs. J. A. Gill

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Ginsberg

Dr. and Mrs. Leonard M.
Glassman

Dr. Louis Gluck

Honorable Robert EF Goheen

Mr. and Mrs. Fred T.
Goldberg

Colonel and Mrs. Julius
Goldstein

Honorable and Mrs. Barry
Goldwater

Mrs. Seabury S. Gould, IV

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Green

Dr. and Mrs. Crawford
Greenewalt

Dr. and Mrs. Henry D.
Green

Mr. Regis A. Greenwood

Mrs. Joseph B. Gregg

Miss Mary K. Gully

Mrs. Florence L. Gussman

Mr. Theodore J. Hadraba, Jr.

Mr. Allen R. Halper

Mr. and Mrs. Kingsley W.
Hamilton

Ms. Morella R. Hansen

Mr. Kurtz M. Hanson

Mr. Edwin F. Harper

Dr. John M. Harris, III

Mr. Irving B. Harris

Ms. Leslie S. Harrold

Honorable and Mrs. Parker
T. Hart

Dr. Caryl P. Haskins

Mr. David H. Hausmann

Mrs. Charles W. Hayes

Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Heaton

Mr. and Mrs. Felder F.
Heflin

Mr. and Mrs. William
Herbster

Ms. Catherine W. Herman

Mr. and Mrs. John Dean
Herman

Dr. William Herring

Professor I. Michael Heyman

Ms. Gloria Hidalgo

Honorable A. Leon
Higginbotham, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin L. Hill

Mr. Charles W. Hinkle

Mr. Joseph U. Hinshaw

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M.
Hinton

Mr. and Mrs. R. E.
Hirschman

Mr. James M. Hobbins

Mr. William P. Holcombe

Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Hollander

Mr. John W. Holloway

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C.
Holsen

Mr. and Mrs. Harry R.
Horrow

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S.
Hudgins, IV

Mrs. W. C. Huffman

Mrs. Carlisle H. Humelsine

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. William H.
Hunter

Mr. Stephen D. Ishmael

Mr. James E. Ivey

Dr. Jay A. Jackson

Dr. John R. Jacoway

Mr. Reinharde H. Jahn

Mr. G. R. Janosko

Mr. Axel Jelstrup

Mr. and Mrs. David D.
Johnson

Mrs. Patricia C. Johnson

Mr. Ray A. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H.
Judson

Ms. C. Parrish Kangiester

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth E.
Kerle

Mrs. Juliet EF Kidney

Mr. Stephen King

Mr. William W. King

Dr. Kirby Kirksey

Mr. John W. Kirsch

Dr. Benjamin F. Kitchen, Jr

Mr. Karl D. Klauck

Ms. Olga H. Knoepke

Mr. John W. Knowles

Mrs. Margaret R. Knudsen

Dr. and Mrs. Ross Kory

Ms. Janet Anastacia
Krombar

Mr. John E. Kuenzl

Miss Suzanne Kuser

Miss Martha Ladd

Mr. William R. Lamb

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L.
Lammerding

Mr. James H. Landers, Jr.

Mr. John EF. Larison

Mr. and Mrs. John K. Laws

Dr. and Mrs. Jack M. Layton

Mrs. Hugh F. Leahy

Mr. and Mrs. Sperry Lea

Mr. and Mrs. Elmore
Leonard

Mr. and Mrs. Paul D. Lew

Mrs. Eunice K. Lipkowitz

Mr. James A. Lipsect

Mr. Robert J. Lockridge

Mr. C. Henry Lockwood, II

Mr. and Mrs. Walter M.
Loeffler

Mr. and Mrs. H. M. Love

Mr. and Mrs. Schuyler Lowe

Mr. and Mrs. Alan H. Lund

Mr. and Mrs. La Rue R.
Luckins

Miss Louise Lutz

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald P.
Lynch

Dr. George B. Mackaness

Mr. and Mrs. Louis A.
Mackenzie

Mr. Ralph K. Madway

Ms. Helen J. Malmstead

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Mandil

Mrs. Robert Mannherz

Ms. Fay W. Marie

Mr. and Mrs. John FE
Marshall, Jr.

Mr. R. N. Marshall

_
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L.
Martin

Mr. Arthur Marush

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin L.
Marx, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Ernest T.
Mashiyama

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Z.
Maudlin

Lt. Col. Glenn W. Mayer

Mr. George D. Maynard, Jr.

Mrs. W. V. Mc Clain

Mr. W. W. McCalla

Mr. Donald E. McCallister

Mr. E. J. McCormack, Jr.

Honorable Joseph M.
McDade

Mr. and Mrs. John S.
McDaniel, Jr.

Mrs. Martha McLaughlin

Mr. Paul B. McMahon, Jr.

Mr. James A. McNeese

Mr. and Mrs. M. McNulty

Mrs. Ruth R. McRae

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S.
Melville

Mr. Louis W. Menk

Mrs. Rose Menz

Mrs. Ida C. Merriam

Mr. Paul D. Meyer

Ms. Mildred Middlekauff

Mr. David Mikolai

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon K.
Milestone

Colonel and Mrs. James E.
Miller

Mr. R. Eric Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley G.
Miller

Honorable Norman Y.
Mineta

Honorable William E.
Minshall

Ms. Laura A. Mitchell

Ms. M. Miyamoto

Mr. J. B. Montgomery

Ms. Claude Moore

Mrs. E. P. Moore

Mrs. Ann K. Morales

Dr. Edwin E. Morey

Honorable Robert B.
Morgan

Mr. and Mrs. John H.
Morison

Honorable and Mrs. Frank
E. Moss

Dr. P. Steven Mote

Senator Daniel P. Moynihan

Mr. and Mrs. James
Mulshine

Dr. and Mrs. John C.
Munson

Mrs. Janet H. Murray

Mr. Raymond A. Naimoli

Dr. Homer A. Neal

Mr. Robert L. Neff

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence L.
Nelson

Honorable Sharon T. Nelson

Mr. John H. Newell

Mc. and Mrs. Jack R.
Newman

Dr. Morris Newman

Mr. Scort Newton

Mr. Robert W. Ney

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Niles

Mr. and Mrs. Roger A. Nitto

Mr. W. R. Norfolk

Mr. C. Norman

Mr. John W. Norris, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Karl G.
Nowak

Mrs. John O' Master

Mr. and Mrs. Bertram L.
O'Neill

Mr. and Mrs. James
O'Rourke

Mr. Robert K. Oaks

Mrs. Alfred J. Olmo

Mr. Ted B. Olson

Mr. L. Allen Osborne

Mrs. James C. Otis

Mrs. Leah H. Owen

Mr. and Mrs. James R.
Palmer

Mr. James W. Parks

Mr. and Mrs. David T. Parry

Dr. J. D. Patterson

Honorable Clairborne Pell

Mrs. Thomas Perkins

Miss Jacqueline Perry

Mr. and Mrs. John Peterson

Ms. Rebecca L. Pfeiffer

Mr. and Mrs. Robert T.
Pfeiffer

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Picken

Dr. Marjorie P. Pollack

Mr. Ralph Porter

Mr. H. Posner, Jr.

Mr. Gregpry B. Primm

Honorable and Mrs. J.
Danforth Quayle

Mr. John A. Radway, Jr.

Ms. Audrey P. Raisbeck

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F.
Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick H.
Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Reese

Honorable William H.
Rehnquist

Mrs. Terry N. Reynolds

Mr. Roy C. Rhinehart, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles S.
Richards

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W.
Richards

Mr. William W. Richardson

Ms. Ashley Ridgway

Dr. J. Jerome Rinaldi

Mr. and Mrs. John O.
Rittenhouse

Miss Jean Roberts

Ms. Mary M. Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. George A.
Robeson, Jr.

Mr. L. A. Roepcke

Ms. Mimi Rolland

Mrs. J. S. Rose

Mrs. Nathan Rosenfeld

Ms. Marya Rowan

Mr. and Mrs. H. J. Rowe

Mrs. William E. Royer

Ms. Marcia Rubenstein

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M.
Rubin

Mr. and Mrs. Roy R. Russo

Mrs. Bennett Y. Ryan, Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Sagalyn

Mss. J. J. Salcer

Mr. A. Herbert Sandwen

Honorable James R. Sasser

Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike
Saville, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Sayre

Honorable and Mrs. James
H. Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Schmelzer

Dr. and Mrs. Hans H.
Schneider

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Schneider

Mrs. Charles M. Scott

Mr. James J. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers

Mr. William M. Senkus

Mr. Scott Shadle

Ellen Shapiro

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz

Mr. Philip V. Sheehan

Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Sheffield

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard E.
Shelton

Mr. F. J. Sherwood

Ms. Lynne Sherwood

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore J.
Shively

Mrs. Ross K. Shoolroy

Mr. George B. Short

Mrs. Laura Devine Shown

Ms. M. L. Sibley

Mrs. Manley H. Simons

Dr. and Mrs. Raymond A.
Skeehan

Mr. and Mrs. Alan L. Skerker

Dr. Harvey C. Slocum, Jr.

Mr. Charles E. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Smith

Mr. W. Y. Smith

Mr. Patrick Snead

Miss Ginny Sniegon

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R.
Sperling

Mr. and Mrs. Guy Sponseller

Mrs. V. Spratley

Mrs. Roger Squire

Mr. Ellwood C. Stang

Mr. R.N. Stefan

Mr. and Mrs. William O.
Stewart

Dr. L. Dow Strader, Jr.

Mr. Jeffrey Sturgess

Mr. Harris M. Sullivan

Mr. Louis W. Swann, Jr.

Ms. Mary Swanson

Mrs. Phelps H. Swift

Mr. W. Warren Taltavull

Mr. R. Tevelde

Mr. Norman R. Thal, Jr.

Mr. Allen D. Thomas

Mr. Bruce R. Thompson

Mr. H. D. Thompson

Mrs. Margot K. Thomson

Mrs. B. W. Thoron

Mr. Stephen Tilton

Mr. Ernest M. Travis

Mr. George S. Trees, Jr.

199
Mr. R. E Trefielo

Mr. and Mrs. Donald O.
Tucker

Dr. Paul L. Urban

Mr. and Mrs. J. B.
Vallandingham

Mr. August Vandessel

Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Vansant,
Jr.

Mr. Raoul M. Verhagen

General John W. Vessey, Jr.

Dr. Woodward Waesche

Mr. Theodore H. N. Wales

Mr. FE. B. Warder

Dr. Joe W. Ward

Mrs. Saul Warshaw

Mr. P. Devers Weaver

Mrs. Sylvia B. Weaver

Mr. V. Phillips Weaver

Honorable and Mrs. James
E. Webb

Mrs. Arvid G. Wedin

Mrs. William S. Weedon

Mr. and Mrs. John F.
Weersing

Mr. and Mrs. Emil P.
Weilbacher, Jr.

Mr. J. R. Weiss

Mr. and Mrs. Irwin H.
Wensink

Mrs. William Nelson West

Colonel and Mrs. Grover C.
White, Jr.

Dr. John P. Whiteley

Ms. Rita L. White

Mrs. B. A. Whitmarsh

Honorable Jamie L. Whitten

Ms. Mary Ellen Wiggs

Mr. L. H. Wilcox

Mr. James E. Wiley

Mrs. Elizabeth M. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A.
Williams

Mrs. John M. Willits

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Willson

Mr. and Mrs. Morton H.
Wilner

Ms. Janice L. Wilson

Mrs. Harriet L. Wilt

Mr. and Mrs. David
Wintermann

Mr. and Mrs. Payson Wolff

Honorable R. James
Woolsey

200

Mr. James O. Wright

Mr. Walter R. Wright

Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Wurz

Ms. Margaret J. Wyllie

Mrs. Elizabeth Yaggy

Mr. Louis A. Yates

Honorable Sidney R. Yates

Miss Jane B. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E.
Zitter

Sponsoring Members

Mr. Steven T. Abell

Ms. Susan Absher

Mrs. R. E. Adams, Jr.

Colonel and Mrs. James D.
Adams

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence J.
Adams

Mr. Max Adkison

Mr. and Mrs. John Akins

Ms. Doris D. Albert

Mrs. Leslie Albert

Mr. and Mrs. Richard T.
Alexander, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Donald C.
Alexander

Mrs. Lynne L. Alfieri

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred L. Allen

Mrs. K. C. Allen

Ms. Louise B. Allen

Mr. Robert H. Allen

Mr. Steven J. Allen

Mrs. T. Roosevelt Allen

Mrs. Carolyn Alper

Mr. and Mrs. Lambert E.
Alchaver

Mr. Bert Amador

Mr. and Mrs. Donald F.
Ames

Mr. George J. Ames

Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Amico

Mr. and Mrs. David B.
Amiot

Mr. Clifford H. Anderson

Mr. J. Donald Anderson

Mr. K. E Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Paul B.
Anderson

Mr. Thomas P. Andress, Jr.

Miss Wilma M. Angelbeck

Miss E. Pauline Annis

Ms. Rose C. Anthony

Dr. and Mrs. John T.
Antolik

Mr. E. J. Archbold

Mr. Paul A. Archer

Miss Marie G. Argana

Mr. R. Arkin

Mr. Joseph P. Armstrong

Mr. William D. Armstrong

Ms. Helen J. Arthur-Dunn

Mr. Pat Ashburn

Mr. J. Ashman, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F.
Asleson

Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Atherton

Mr. Philip E. Atkinson

Mrs. Francis Austin

Ms. Katherine G. Austin

Ms. Imogen E. Averett

Mr. and Mrs. William I.
Bacchus

Mr. Gordon N. Backlund

Dr. W. E. Badenhausen, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. David A.
Baerncopf

Mr. D. M. Baigelman

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Bain

Mr. and Mrs. Lee H. Baker

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Baker

Mrs. Virginia B. Baker

Ms. Velma N. Baldwin

Dr. and Mrs. Mark E.
Ballinger

Mr. Keith J. Ball

Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Ball

Mr. and Mrs. George R.
Ballowe

Mr. Doyle Ballreich

Captain and Mrs. Stuart M.
Ball

Mrs. Ethel M. Barach

Mr. Walter Baranowski

Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld

Mr. Dwight H. Barnes

Mr. Julian L. Barnect

Mr. and Mrs. George L.
Barquist

Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Barrett

Mr. and Mrs. E. Barrow

Mr. and Mrs. John W.
Barrow

Dr. and Mrs. Terrence J.
Barry

Dr. and Mrs. Charles I.
Bartfeld

Mr. and Mrs. Art Bartlett

Mr. Matthew Barton

Mr. Gary L. Basham

Mr. and Mrs. Dorsey Baskin

Mr. A. Jossey Bass

Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Batie

Ms. Lois Battersby

Mr. and Mrs. Myron C.
Baum

Mr. Milton Baxt

Mr. Robert D. Baynes

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J.
Bazza

Ms. Barbara Purse Beach

Mrs. Lloyd P. Beachy

Mr. William H. Beardsley

Mr. R. Gifford Beaton

Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Beaulieu

Mr. Lawrence Becker

Mr. Eugene H. Beck

Honorable and Mrs. Berkley
Bedell

Mr. Lawrence P. Belden

Mr. Mickey Bell

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Bender

Mrs. Linda B. Bender

Ms. Linda J. Benedict

Mr. and Mrs. William R.
Benham

Dr. and Mrs. David C.
Benjamin

Dr. and Mrs. Richard W.
Benjamin

Mr. Gregory Benkovic

Ambassador and Mrs. W.
Tapley Bennett, Jr.

Mrs. Iona Benson

Mr. Kenneth Berger

Ms. Marie Bergmann

Mr. and Mrs. and Jeffrey
Berlin

Dr. and Mrs. S. J. Berlin

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard
Berman

Dr. Harold Berman

Mr. Samuel W. Bernheimer

Mr. P. Bernik

Dr. William R. Bertelsen

Mrs. Walter B. Bibby

Mr. Joseph B. Bidwell

Mr. Michael D. Bielucki

Mr. Bruce Biggs

Mr. Howard M. Bingham

—_
Mr. and Mrs. William S.
Birdseye

Mr. John H. Black

Mrs. V. Blaine

Honorable and Mrs. Warren
E. Blair

Ms. Frances G. Blank

Mr. James Blaser

Mr. A. D. Blatnikoff

Mr. Peter A. Bleyler

Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel
Boasberg, III

Ms. Enola V. Bode

Mr. David Bodycombe

Ms. Eve S. Bogle

Dr. George P. Bogumill

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon G.
Bohl

Mrs. John H. Bond

Mr. and Mrs. John Boppart

Dr. Fredricka Borland

Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Borowsky

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett
Boskey

Mr. Arthur D. Bosworth

Ms. Barbara C. Bottarini

Dr. and Mrs. Maxwell
Boverman

Ms. Delphine B. Bowers

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Boyd,
I

Mr. and Mrs. Alton Boyer

Dr. Norman Boyer

Ms. Maria Brabb

Ms. Eugenie R. Bradford

Mr. William G. Bradford

Mrs. Anna E. Bradley

Mrs. Janice Braly

Mr. James Brannan

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin
Brantley

Mrs. Rose J. Bratton

Mr. Willam E. Braunig

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Braun

Mss. S. Brazil

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A.
Brechler

Mr. and Mrs. Karl K. Breit

Mr. and Mrs. Roy
Bremerman, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice F.
Bresnahan

Mr. and Mrs. Gene C.

Brewer

Mr. and Mrs. Lester L.
Brewer

Mr. Robert L. Bridges

Mr. Linford L. Bright

Ms. Linda S. Brisk

Mr. Alfred Brittain, II

Mr. and Mrs. Allan C.
Brittle

Mr. Richard Brockman

Mr. James E. Brodhacker

Agnes Brodie

Mr. John J. Brogan

Mr. Randall Brooks

Mr. Dennis M. Broon

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Bross

Mr. Albert Brown

Mr. and Mrs. D. K. Brown

Ms. Edith Brown

Mr. Frank D. Brown, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Glen F. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. Harry A.
Brown, II

Mr. L. Brown

Mr. Lawrence D. Brown

Mrs. Thomas M. Brown

Ms. Deborah C. Brudno

Mr. Karl J. Brunner

Mrs. Laurence Brunswick

Mr. Dick Brush

Mr. Philip D. Brust

Mr. and Mrs. William L.
Bryan

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Bryndza

Honorable and Mrs. Philip
Buchen

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic
Buchner

Mr. and Mrs. H. Paul
Buckingham

Mr. James Buck

Ms. Helen A. Buckley

Mr. and Mrs. John E.
Buckley

Mrs. F. W. Bueche

Lt. Cmdr. C. L. Buechler

Mr. Steven A. Buehler

Mr. Robert EF. Bulens

Mr. Peter M. Bungay

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Burdeshaw

Mr. and Mrs. James A.
Burkart

Dr. Billy Burk

Mr. Carl A. Burkhart

Mr. V. Burkman

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick F.
Burks

Mrs. Poe Burling

Mrs. Diantha R. Burnett

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Burney

Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Burnham

Lt. Col. and Mrs. Robert M.
Burnham

Mr. and Mrs. Frederic W.
Burr

Mrs. Laura W. Burr

Mr. and Mrs. Philip S. Burr

Miss Edna-Lea Burruss

Mrs. Charles E. Burt

Mr. and Mrs. Glenn F.
Burton

Mr. T. G. Burzawa

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J.
Bush

Mr. and Mrs. James T. Bush

Dr. Marjorie L. Bush

Dr. and Mrs. and Allan C.
Bushnell

Mrs. H. M. Busick

Mr. R. L. Butler, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. James H.
Butler

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C.
Buxton

Mr. Darcie Byrn

Mr. W. Byrnes

S. A. Cacciatore

Mr. Dennis G. Cadena

Dr. and Mrs. Gary W. Cage

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Cahill

Mr. and Mrs. William M.
Cahn, Jr.

Mr. John R. Cain

Mr. Alden F. Caldwell

Mrs. F. G. Cameron

Mr. Kenneth S. Cameron

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar H.
Canfield

Mr. Philip L. Cantelon

Mr. C. G. Carey

Mrs. Phyllis H. Carey

Mr. D. Carl

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd E.
Carnright

Dr. John M. Carper

Ms. Christine K. Carrico

Mrs. Martha A. Carr

Mr. and Mrs. Mark J. Carroll

Mr. Walter D. Carr

Mr. and Mrs. Waller Carson,
Jr.

Ms. Mary Carson

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Carten

Colonel and Mrs. Douglas
H. Carter

Mr. and Mrs. W. Michael
Carter

Mr. Victor Cascella

Captain Edmund L. Castillo

Mrs. James A. Cathcart

Mr. and Mrs. James E.
Caudill

Mr. B. R. Cayward

Mr. M. Cerqueira

Ms. Colleen M. Chalker

Dr. M. H. Chamberlain

Dr. Ward A. Chamers

Mr. and Mrs. William Chan

Colonel G. E. Chapin, Jr.

Mrs. William A. Chapman

Dr. Samuel Charache

Honorable and Mrs. Steven
M. Charno

Ms. Cynthia M. Chase

Mr. Donald Chase

Mr. Michael P. Checca

Mr. and Mrs. Boris E.
Cherney

Mr. Harry Chernoff

Mr. and Mrs. Steven D.
Cherry

Mrs. Bernard P. Chewning

Ms. Allene R. Chiesman

Mr. John Childs

Mr. Brian Chilton

Miss Jean M. Chisholm

Dr. and Mrs. Purnell W.
Choppin

Mrs. Betty Sams Christian

Mr. Lawrence Chubet

Mr. Roy T. Church

Dr. and Mrs. Charles H.
Clark

Mrs. Robert L. Clarke

Mr. George Clark

Mr. H. Lawrence Clark

Mr. Richard G. Clark

Mrs. Sylvia M. Clark

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas A.
Clark

Mrs. Robert L. Clausen

Mr. James A. Clements

Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Clement

201
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A.
Cleveland

Mr. William F. Clinger, Jr.

Mr. Richard FE. Clowes

Mrs. Stephanie K. Coakley

Mr. and Mrs. Charles F.
Coates

Mr. William H. Cochrane

Ms. Janet A. Coen

Mr. Sidney S. Coggan

Ms. Leslie A. L. Coggins

Ms. Linda L. Cogswell

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H.
Cohan

Mrs. Helen H. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Cohen

Mr. James Coke

Mr. and Mrs. Edmond
Colaianni

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew L.
Colb

Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Coldiron

Mr. Clarence L. Coleman, Jr.

Mrs. James M. Collins

Mr. Hugh FE. Colvin

Mr. William L. Coman

Miss Bertita E. Compton

Mr. and Mrs. Barber Conable

Mrs. Robert W. Conant

Mrs. Herman Cone, Jr.

Mrs. Ethel Conlisk

Mr. Steven S. Conner

Dr. and Mrs. Philip
Connolly

Mr. Charles C. Convers

Mrs. Camille L. Cook

Ms. Lori Cooke-Marra

Mr. and Mrs. Harold
Cookson

Mr. Vernon P. Cooley

Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Cooney, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. H. Warren
Cooper, III

Ms. Janet B. Cooper

Mr. John McGill Cooper

Mr. John N. Cooper

Mr. Dallas M. Coors

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W.
Coppock

Mr. J. N. Corey, Jr.

Mr. Henry G. Corey

Dr. W. G. Corey

Ms. Judith Corley

202

Mr. and Mrs. George L.
Cornell

Mr. M. C. Cornell

Dr. Danilo M. Coronel

Dr. and Mrs. Walter H.
Corson

Mr. Dennis J. Cotter

Mr. A. Cotts

Miss Jo Ann Cowan

Dr. Norman J. Cowen

Miss Mary L. Cox

Mr. and Mrs. David M.
Crabtree

Dr. Robert B. Craven

Mr. W. Crawford, Jr.

C.M. Crawford

Mrs. James Crittenden

Mr. John H. Crittenden

Mr. and Mrs. Sumner
Crosby, Jr.

Ms. Kathryn M. Crossgrove

Mrs. Margaret J. Crossgrove

Mrs. Richard S. Cross

Ms. Harriet Barker Crowe

Mr. John C. Crowe

Miss Marion L. Cubberley

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
William Cuddy

Mr. Gilbert W. Cullen

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Mr. Robert L. Cummings

Mr. Charles A. Cunningham

Mr. Charles S. Curran

Mr. and Mrs. Gregory A.
Curt

Mr. John Joseph Curtin

Mrs. Charles B. Cushwa, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Roy Cutler

Mr. Tom Daggy

Miss Margaret M. Dahm

Mr. Kevin B. Dalton

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L.
Dalton

Mr. John H. Daniels

Ms. Ethel E. Danzansky

Mr. B. J. Daroga

Mrs. Leonore Daschbach

Mr. Robert Davidson

Mr. David Davies

Mrs. A. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard E.
Davis

Colonel H. R. Davis

Ms. Jane Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Jasper C. Davis

Mr. John EF. Davis

Mrs. Ralph Davis

Mr. Robert Davis

General and Mrs. Kenneth F.
Dawalt

Mr. and Mrs. J. Edward Day

Mr. Craig M. Dean

Mr. Robert Dean

Mr. and Mrs. William J.
Dean

Mr. D. C. Deberry

Mr. and Mrs. Harold D.
Decker

Mrs. Thomas Dedomenico

Mr. Will A. Deisroth

Mr. Marvin Dekelboum

Mrs. G. F. Dekeyser

Mr. Vicente F. Del Castillo

Mr. and Mrs. Ben T. Delahay

Captain Victor Delano

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P.
Dellinger

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S.
Deming

Mr. Henry O. Denman

Ms. Danna Denning

Dr. and Mrs. Lewis Hilliard
Dennis

Mr. John Robert Denny

Colonel and Mrs. Joseph F.
Derienzo

Mr. Thomas J. Desipin

Mrs. Patricia B. Detor

Mr. Robert Jay Deutsch

Mr. Frank Devino

Mr. G. W. Devoe

Mr. Larry Devries

Mrs. D. J. Dewart

Mss. T. T. Dewolf

Mr. Burton Dezendorf

Dr. and Mrs. Paul F.
Dickens, Jr.

Mr. P. I. Dickey

Mrs. Robert L. Dick

Mr. J. E. Diegelman

Fred J. Diemer

. Margretta Diemer

Bruce C. Dillon

and Mrs. Joseph Dimuro

and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

William Dixon

and Mrs. John B. Doak

Keith A. Dobbins

Mr. G. S. Dodge

Mrs. Walter W. Doescher

SRR RSE Re

John H. Doles, II

Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Dolstra

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S.
Donaghy

Mr. Henry T. Donahoe

Mr. Francis W. Donahue

Mrs. Lloyd Donant

Mr. Christopher J. Doozan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Doragh

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis E.
Dorsch

Mrs. Joyce N. Dortch

Ms. Barbara M. Doty

Mr. Wallace C. Doud

Ms. M. H. Downing

Mr. Richard G. Doyen

Mr. and Mrs. John Doyle

Dr. Susan S. Doyle

Mr. and Mrs. David C.
Dressler

Mrs. Philip Drinker

Colonel D. M. Drummond

Mr. and Mrs. Irenee Du
Pont, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. David A. Duff

Mr. and Mrs. William E.
Duke

Ms. Joanne E. Dumene

Mr. and Mrs. Walter W.
Duncan

Mr. and Mrs. William T.
Duncan

Mr. Bill Dunn

Mr. J. F Dunwiddie

Mr. Wayne Durbin

Mr. and Mrs. Donn G.
Dutcher

Mr. and Mrs. EF. C.
Duthweiler

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas and
Linda Dwyer

Dr. and Mrs. Vernon J.
Dwyer

Ms. Ann L. Dyke

Dr. and Mrs. William M.
Eagles

Mr. Terry J. Easton

Mr. and Mrs. Russell Eaton,
III

Mr. William W. Edgerton

Mr. J. R. Edinger

Ms. Mary Jane Edwards

Mrs. Robert G. Edwards

Ms. Shirley Egashira

Mr. Paul Ehrenfest

_
Mrs. Alvin Q. Ehrlich

Mr. Joel Eisenberg

Mrs. Harriet J. Eiwen

Mr. David A. Elko

Mr. Joseph H. Ellinwood

Mrs. F. A. Elliot

Mrs. Card G. Elliort, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Paul G. Ellis

Ms. S. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. Michael V.
Elsberry

Mr. John P. Elterich

Dr. and Mrs. William L. R.
Emmer, II

Mr. and Mrs. Bradford
Endicott

Mr. Bernard Engel

Mr. and Mrs. Richard
England

Mr. R. G. Engman

Dr. Michael J. Epstein

Mrs. Jane M. Epstine

Mr. Michael Erlanger

Mr. Richard Ertenberg

Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Escalle

Mrs. Harold Eskew

Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Estridge

Mr. Louis Euster

Mr. J. C. Evans, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Bill G. Evans

Mr. Douglas Evans, Jr.

Miss Shirley M. Evans

Mr. W. M. Evans

Mr. R. Fabia

Ms. Rose Ann Farace

Mr. and Mrs. Francis W.
Farley

Farmers State Bank

Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Farquhar

Mr. Kit Farwell

Mr. Robert N. Faust

Mr. and Mrs. Jack K.
Feirman

Mr. Earle Fender

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie H.
Fenton

Dr. Edward C. Ferguson, III

Mc. Albert B. Ferguson

Mrs. Rugeley Ferguson

Mr. and Mrs. William L.
Ferguson

Reverend H. A. Ferrell

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Dr. Herbert W. Fingerhut

Ms. Janet A. Fink

Mrs. A. F. Fischer, Jr.

Robert B. Fisher

Dr. Ruth C. Flanagan

Mc. and Mrs. Martin Fleic

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Fletcher

Mr. Ted Flora

Mr. Howard M. Flournoy

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H.
Flowers

Ms. Olivia Page Floyd

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Flum

Mr. and Mrs. Henry N.
Flynt, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. L. D. Follmer

Mr. Albert A. Folop

Mr. and Mrs. Leon Forman

Dr. R. P. Fornshell

Mr. William B. Forster

Mrs. Russell Fortune, Jr.

Mr. C. Herbert Foutz

Dr. and Mrs. Robert L. Fox

Mr. S. Fox

Mr. and Mrs. Jon David
Francis

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony M.
Frank

Mrs. Brantley Vernon Frank

Betty A. Frankfather

Mr. Scephen P. Frazier

Dr. Robert G. Freeman

Mr. William A. Freeman

Ms. Mary M. Free

Mr. Scott Freer

Mrs. Marian M. Freese

Dr. Donald E. Frein

Mr. and Mrs. Donald B.
French

Mr. Andrew L. Frey

Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Frey

Mr. and Mrs. Carl Friddle

Mrs. Charlton Friedberg

Mrs. L. Louise Fried

Mr. Kenneth I. Friedman

Ms. Virginia Friend

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F.
Fromyer

Mr. Frederick A. Fry

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Fugate

Mr. Warren Fugate

Mr. Donald H. Fuhs

Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Fuller

Mrs. P. Fuller

Mr. Reginald H. Fullerton,
Je

Dr. and Mrs. Robert H.
Furman

Dr. and Mrs. Paul A. Gade

Dr. and Mrs. Edward E.
Gahres

Mrs. D. R. Gairing

Mr. Vernon M. Gale

Mr. F. A. Gallagher

Mrs. Marion G. Galland

Mr. Thomas J. Galligan, Jr.

Mr. Frank L. Gambosh

Dr. and Mrs. R. Don
Gambrell, Jr.

Mr. Clement E. Gardiner

Mrs. Mary G. Gardner

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm O.
Garfink

Mr. H. T. Garland, Jr.

Mrs. Joy Garney

Mrs. John M. Gates, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Gauthier

Miss Olga M. Gazda

Mrs. Anita R. Geanakos

Mr. B. Geismar

Ambassador and Mrs.
Herbert D. Gelber

Mr. Peter L. Geller

Dr. Byron A. Genner, III

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Georges

Mr. and Mes. Arthur F.
Gerding

Mr. Kurt H. Germann

Mr. and Mrs. Carl S. Gewirz

Mr. Richard P. Geye

Mr. and Mrs. John Ghiardi

Rear Adm. and Mrs. Ralph
M. Ghormley

Mr. Fred O. Gibson, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. David M.
Gibson

Mr. M. Gilberstadt

Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln J.
Gilbert

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Gilbert

Ms. Nancy V. Giles

Mrs. Sara E. Gillis

Mrs. Joan L. Gindes

Mr. and Mrs. Martin D.
Ginsburg

Mrs. D. J. Gladwin

Mr. Errol M. Glasser

Mr. and Mrs. George W.
Gleim

Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Glenn

Mrs. Charles C. Glover

Mr. and Mrs. John B.
Goering

Mr. and Mrs. Paul N.
Gohdes

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur E.
Goldberg

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond R.
Goldberg

Mr. John Golden

Ms. Susan S. Goldman

Dr. S. Goodloe, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Goodman

Mr. Stuart N. Goodman

Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Goodrich

Miss Elinor Goodspeed

Mrs. David Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey L.
Gordon

Dr. Kenneth P. Gorelick

Mr. David W. Gorham

Mr. Joel C. Gorick

Mr. James C. Gorman

Dr. Richard E. Gorozdos

Mr. Ormond J. Gouin, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William
Gouldsbury

Mr. James Gove

Mr. Richard L. Grabowski

Colonel and Mrs. Herbert
Graeser

Mr. Christian V. Graf

Miss Eunice Graham

Mr. S. Grandits

Dr. M. L. Oster Granite

Mr. Harold D. Grant, Jr.

Mr. Gerald W. Grantham

Ms. C. Graton

Lc. Gen. and Mrs. Ernest
Graves

Mrs. H. Brice Graves

Mrs. Mary Graves

Mr. William F. Graves

Mr. and Mrs. Louis J.
Grayson

Mrs. Dorothy Green

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph E.
Green, II

203
Dr. M. Jean Greenlaw

Mr. EF. Roy Greenleaf, Jr.

Miss Joanne T. Greenspun

Mr. and Mrs. Mark
Greenwold

Mr. Vilins G. Grencions

Mr. Gerhard R. Grieb

Mrs. James T. Griffin

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Mr. Donald O. Grimes, Jr.

Mr. Eugene W. Griner, Jr.

Mrs. Steele T. Griswold

Ms. Leslie A. Gross

Mrs. Helen Grossman

Mrs. Helen K. Groves

Mr. E. D. Grubb

Mrs. Donald Gruhn

Mr. and Mrs. Victor W.
Gumper

Mrs. Helen W. Gunderson

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph I.
Gurfein

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Enrique
Guzman

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Gwaltney

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J.
Haayen

Mr. Charles P. Haber

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.
Hagemeyer

Miss Elizabeth P. Hagen

Mr. Conrad R. Haglund

Mr. Larry Hagopian

Mr. Philip J. Hahn

Mr. and Mrs. Richard G.
Hahn

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander S.
Haig

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Hale

Mr. W. W. Halford, Jr.

Mrs. Eloise Halliburton

Dr. John H. Hall, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell L.
Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel
Halpern

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Halsted

Mr. M. Hamada

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M.
Hamady

Mr. Donald W. Hamer

Mrs. L. C. Hamilton

Mr. Robert A. Hamilton

Colonel and Mrs. William T.
Hamilton, Jr.

204

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W.
Hammond

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald W.
Hamner

Mr. J. S. Handler

Mr. and Mrs. B. M. Hanley

Ms. Dolly D. Hansen

Mr. and Mrs. Walter E.
Hansen

Mr. and Mrs. Raleigh Hansl

Mr. and Mrs. Angus A.
Hanson

Mrs. Kathryn W. Hanson

Mr. Charles C. Hansult

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon A.
Hardy

Mr. Clare K. Hare

Mr. and Mrs. and Hardy
Hargreaves

Mr. John M. Harker

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R.
Harkins

Mr. Jack R. Harlan

Dr. Robert A. Harper

Mrs. Lucy W. Harrell

Mr. Christie Harris

Dr. Garry Harris

Mr. J. Arthur Harris

Mr. and Mrs. Graham
Harrison

Mr. and Mrs. William Harris

Mr. A. A. Hartley

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest B.
Hartley

Ms. Janet W. Hartley

Mr. P. W. Hartloff, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A.
Hartman, Jr.

Ms. Gertrud B. Hartmann

Mrs. Pauline Hart

Mrs. William D. Hart

Mr. James E. Haskins

Mr. William H. Hastings

Cynthia L. Hathaway

Mr. James R. Hathaway

Miss P. Haubold

Mr. Dennis M. Haughney

Mrs. Robert A. Hauslohner

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel B.
Haveson

Miss Virginia H. Havrilka

Dr. Jeffrey W. Hawkins

Mr. and Mrs. James M.
Hawley, III

Mr. Mones E. Hawley

Mrs. David Hayes

Maj. Gen. H. I. Hayward

Mr. Kenneth C. Healy

Mr. Frank R. Heath

Mr. and Mrs. Edward A.
Hebda

Mr. and Mrs. John W.
Hechinger

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony E.
Hecht

Mrs. Dale A. Hedges

Ms. Constance H. Hefferan

Ms. Patricia Heil

Mrs. Louis M. Hellman

Mr. James W. Hellwege

Mr. and Mrs. Helmut
Hellwig

Mr. Henry L. Hellyer, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Richard
Helms

Ms. Deborah W. Hemenway

Mr. Allyn B. Henderson

Mr. E. M. Hendrickson

Mr. Willis M. Hengy

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Henigson

Ms. Ellen A. Hennessy

Miss Mildred Henninger

Mr. Robert A. Hennings

Mrs. W. Henrick

Mrs. Douglas E. Henriques

Ms. Beverlee B. Henry

Mr. and Mrs. Irving N.
Hepner

Ms. Evelyn Herbert

Mr. Karl F. Herd

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Herman

Ms. June Herrick

Mr. Frank Herzel

Mr. Arnold L. Hespe

Mr. C. A. Hess

Mrs. John L. Hess

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Hester,
Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard F.
Hewett

Ms. Mary Jane Heyl

Mr. Donald R. Hibbert

Mr. Robert D. Hickok

Mrs. Geraldine Hicks

Mrs. Laura E. Hicks

Mrs. Elisabeth Higgins-Null

Mrs. L. F. Higman

Dr. and Mrs. Albert G. Hill

Mr. and Mrs. Roderick M.
Hills

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M.
Hill

Mr. Wendell T. Hill

Rear Adm. and Mrs. Robert
P. Hilton

Mr. J. Michael Hinchman

Miss Barbara N. Hines

Mrs. J. H. Ward Hinkson

Mr. and Mrs. Bill Hirsch

Dr. S. R. Hobgood

Ms. Roberta Hockman

Miss K. T. Hoffacker

Ms. Margaret M. Hoffman

Mr. Ronald W. Hoffman

Mrs. Miriam S. Hogan

Brig. Gen. E. P. Hoisington

Mr. Duncan A. Holaday

Dr. and Mrs. Raymond T.
Holden

Mr. and Mrs. A. Sidney
Holderness, Jr.

Mr. Barton S. Holl

Captain and Mrs. F.N.
Holley

Mr. William M. Hollis, Jr.

Mr. Milton C. Holloman

Mr. J. W. Holloway

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin P.
Holman

Mrs. Robert E. Holmgren

Ms. Evan C. Holstrom

Mrs. Richard W. Homer

Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Hommet

Mr. and Mrs. George F.
Hoover

Mr. and Mrs. George F.
Hoover

Mr. and Mrs. Gregory
Hopfer

Dr. and Mrs. Robert
Hopkins

Mr. William L. Hopkins

Ms. Ann Hopping

Mr. Thomas D. Horton

Mr. Charles Hosler

Mrs. John D. Houghton

Mrs. Mary H. House

Mr. and Mrs. Paul L. Houts

Mr. Robert Howard

Mrs. Phyllis Kern Howe

Miss Nancy E. Hudson

Mrs. Hugo G. Huettig, Jr.

Mrs. Dean Huffman

_~
Mr. Robert R. Hughes

Mc. Clarence L. Hulford

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Hulings

Ms. Jean M. Hulme

Mc. William R. Humphrey

Mr. Frank Hunsicker

Mrs. Margaret Stuart Hunter

Dr. and Mrs. Sam E. Hunter

Dr. and Mrs. James C. Hunt

Mr. and Mrs. Carl R. Huss

Mr. Edward R. Husser

Ms. Emma Gade Hutaff

Ms. Barbara A. Hutchinson

Captain and Mrs. George
Hutchinson

Ms. Marjorie P. Hutchinson

Mrs. Avis C. Hyde

Mr. and Mrs. John L.
Ingersoll

Mr. William Ireland, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Ireson

Mr. Clement I. Irons

Mr. John E. Irons

Mr. George Irving

Mr. Gordon L. Jacks

Mr. Ben Jackson

Mr. Lynn E. Jackson

_ Mr. and Mrs. Donald Jacobs

Mr. Marlin L. Jacobs

Mr. and Mrs. Hans Jacobson

Mr. and Mrs. John Jaeschke

Dr. and Mrs. Jonathan Ravid
Jaffe

Mr. and Mrs. William
Jagoda

Ms. Kathryn James

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C.
James

Mr. Richard J. Jarzabek

Mr. and Mrs. J. Rukin Jelks,
Je:

Ms. Cynthia Jenison

Mr. Ludwig Jesselson

Mr. Richard A. Jewell

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F.
John

Colonel Alfred H. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W.
Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce G.
Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce E.
Johnson

Ms. Carolyn R. Johnson

Dr. and Mrs. Donald A.
Johnson

Mr. Harald R. Johnson

Mr. Robert R. Johnson

Mr. Woodrow C. Johnson

Mr. H. Lewis Jones, II

Mr. H. Y. Jones, Jr.

Mr. Alfred Jones

Mr. Brian L. Jones

Mr. Buell B. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Guy W. Jones

Mr. James T. Jones

Mr. James E. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Jones,
Jr:

Ms. Margaret E. Jones

Pat Jones and Associates

Mr. Robert T. Jones

Mr. Thomas O. Jones

Mr. William J. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Jordan

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Joseph

Mrs. Jean Joyner

Mrs. Rosemary Bonar Kabel

Mr. and Mrs. George W.
Kahler

Mrs. Edmund J. Kahn

Mr. E. M. Kalenborn

Mr. John D. H. Kane

Mr. Steven Kaplan

Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Kaplin

Mr. Emanuel Karadimos

Ms. Maureen F. Karam

Mes. R. H. Karns

Dr. and Mrs. Richard A.
Kaslow

Mr. and Mrs. Ira R. Katz

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Katz

Dr. and Mrs. Nathan Katz

Mr. R. L. Katz

Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon T.
Katz

Mr. Mavis A. Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Kaufman

Dr. Phyllis Kayten

Mr. and Mrs. James P. Keane

Catherine M. Kearney

Lt. Col. Eugene K. Keefe

Ms. Sheila A. Keefe

Mr. Frank S. Keene, III

Mr. and Mrs. K. A. Keener

Mr. and Mrs. James Keith

Dr. Lewis A. Kellert

Mr. Karl E. Kelley

Mrs. J. E. Kemper

Mr. and Mrs. George P.
Kendall, Jr.

Mrs. R. Grice Kennelly

Mr. and Mrs. David T.
Kenney

Mr. G. Dickson Kenney

Mrs. Anna Marie Kent

Mr. B. R. Kent

Ms. Betty J. Kenyon

Mr. William Keohane

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kerr

Dr. and Mrs. Louis J. Kertel

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur H.
Keyes, Jr.

Dr. H. Norman Key

Mr. W. Ben Kibler

Mr. and Mrs. John Kicak

Mr. Robert Kidd

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas M.
Kiefer

Ms. Marjorie B. Kiewit

Mrs. J. R. Kimberly

Mrs. Jeanecte Kimmel

Mr. Edward J. King

Dr. and Mrs. Loris O. O.
King

Mrs. Paul M. King

Ms. Mary E. Kingsland

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. King

Mr. Edward O. Kinzie

Mr. Edward J. Kirby

Mc. and Mrs. Philip C.
Kirby

Mr. E. J. Kirchman

Mr. Harry L. Kirkman

Mrs. S. Kirkparick

Mr. K. M. Kirkpatrick

Mr. Lawrence Kirstein

Dr. James L. Kirtley, Jr.

Mr. Albert T. Kister

Mr. Robert J. Kistler

Ms. Susan L. Klaus

Mr. Kenneth W. Klein

Mr. Michael N. Klein

Ms. Rebecca Klemm

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen N.
Kline

Mrs. Dorothy L. Klock

Ms. Betty H. Klotz

Mr. L. S. Klotz

Mr. W. Knaus

Mrs. J. K. Knee

Mr. M. G. Knerr

Mr. and Mrs. William
Knighe

Mrs. James H. Knowles

Ms. Janet V. Koch

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard R.
Kojm

Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Koning

Colonel George C. Konolige

Dr. and Mrs. C. Ronald
Koons

Mr. Herbert J. Kopff

Mr. A. George Koplow

Mr. J. Koppelman

Ms. Bernadine C. Koprowski

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin C.
Korengold

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F.
Kosciuszko

Mrs. Marjorie Kotler

Dr. Robert Kovar

Mr. G. D. Kovener

Dr. Kathy Koznek

Mrs. Solveig M. Kramer

Mr. Charles R. Kraus

Ms. Sandra R. Krawchuk

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J.
Krebs, Jr.

Ms. Phyllis M. Kreeger

Mc. Irving Kreisberg

Mrs. Gloria I. Kreisher

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Kremens

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A.
Kriss

Mr. V. J. Kriss

Miss Karen E. Krueger

Mrs. Leroy Krusi

Ms. Elizabeth J. Kuen

Mss. G. F. Kugler, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Max J. Kukler

Mrs. William O. Kurtz, Jr.

Dr. Jane Kurucz

Mr. Ellsworth Laboyteaux

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Ladd

Mr. and Mrs. Herman R.
Ladenheim

Mrs. Patraicia K. Lafferty

Mr. Stephen L. Lake

Mrs. Richard T. Lambert

Dr. Robert M. Lambert

Mr. and Mrs. James E.
Lamb, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick W.
Lamson

Dr. Emanuel Landau

205
Mrs. Ernest A. Land

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G.
Lander

Mrs. Hans A. Land

Mr. Gerald Langford

Dr. Gilbert H. Lang

Mr. Richard F. Langston

Colonel and Mrs. John V.
Lanterman

Mrs. Louis Lapi

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Larocca

Dr. and Mrs. Ray Lash

Mr. Philip A. Lathrap

Mrs. J. W. Laughlin

Ms. Rose Mary Laur

Mr. Denny Law

Dr. and Mrs. Noel Lawson

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Leach

Dr. and Mrs. Ronald E.
Leach

Mr. L. G. Leary

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Lee

Mr. James A. Lee

Mr. T. C. Lee

Mr. and Mrs. M. Glen Leet

Mr. Edwin F. Legard

Ms. Ellen R. Leighton

Ms. Jeanne Lemmer

Mr. and Mrs. L. Gene Lemon

Mrs. Harry Lenart

Mrs. Ethelynne H. Leonard

Mr. H. Leonard

Mrs. Lawrence S. Lesser

Mr. Daniel W. Leubecker

Mr. Jan T. Leung

Mr. Edgar L. Levenson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H.
Levi

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Levin, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Levitt

Mrs. I. Herbert Levy

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Levy

Mr. and Mrs. Baugh Lewis

Mr. Calvin G. Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Lewis

Mr. Garry Lewis

Ms. Irene R. Liebenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Liebesman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert G.
Liebhardt

Mrs. Francis Light

Mr. J. R. Limes

Mr. Wilbur Loren Lindholm

206

Miss Jane T. Lingo

Mr. and Mrs. Rodney C.
Linton

Mr. Robert F. Line

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher
Lipsect

Mr. David H. Lipsey

Mr. Robert S. Lipsey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. List

Mr. Burton J. Litman

Mr. and Mrs. William O.
Lively

Mr. J. H. Livingston

Mrs. James Lloyd

Mrs. Pat Lockeby

Dr. Arthur J. Loerzel

Mr. J. R. Loftis, Jr.

Mr. Walter H. Long, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John Q. Long

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Lorch

Mrs. Oswald B. Lord

Mr. Homer B. Louya, Jr.

Mr. J. Loveless

Mr. Robert B. Love

Mr. Bart W. Lovins

Mrs. E. H. Lowther

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore M.
Lucas

Mr. and Mrs. Harry D.
Ludeman

Ms. Karyl Lufkin

Mr. and Mrs. George Luhn

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur A.
Lunday

Mr. Clifford W. Lundin

Ms. Patti Lupone

Mr. R. Lushing

Mr. and Mrs. John L.
Luttrell

Mrs. John E. Lutz, II

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice B.
Lynch

Mr. T. Lynch

Mr. and Mrs. William Lynch

Miss I. T. Lynn

Mr. and Mrs. E. Phillip Lyon

Ms. Catherine M. Maar

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Maas

Mr. P. E. Macallister

Mrs. M. W. MacDermott

Dr. Gwen MacDonald

Mr. Neil R. MacDonald

Mr. Watson MacInnes

Mr. and Mrs. Steven A.
MacIntyre

Mrs. J. Macomber

Mr. Jerome T. Maddock

Mr. and Mrs. Rex A.
Maddox

Mr. and Mrs. Edward P.
Maffict

Mr. Robert Mahon

Ms. Dolores M. Maidlow

Dr. and Mrs. Leslie D.
Major, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Dayton S. Mak

Mr. and Mrs. Bryant D.
Malcolm

Dr. and Mrs. Bernard M.
Malloy

Lr. Gen. and Mrs. W. R.
Maloney

Mr. and Mrs. Elli Malta

Dr. and Mrs. Randall C.
Manaka

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Mann

Mrs. E. B. Mann

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Mannes

Mr. and Mrs. George C.
Mansius

Mr. Charles Maraziti

Dr. and Mrs. Peter D.
Marbarger

Mrs. A. Marcelle

Mr. Eugene A. March

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Margus

Mr. Jack Mark

Ms. C. S. Markson

Mr. and Mrs. D. B. Marshall

Mr. Kenneth S. Marsh

Mr. Robert C. Marston

Mrs. Mildred H. Martindale

Mr. and Mrs. Guy R. Martin

Mr. and Mrs. John Cephas
Martin

Mr. D. L. Masland

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur K.
Mason

Miss Priscilla Mason

Dr. Robert B. Matheny

Mrs. Elbert G. Mathews

Dr. and Mrs. M. Mathews

Mr. Charles R. Matlin

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Matre

Mr. Charles Matthews

Mr. Robert Mattox

Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Maxey

Mr. and Mrs. George B.
Maxwell

Miss Julia A. Maxwell

Mrs. Doris Daggett May

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Mayo

Dr. John E. Mazuzan, Jr.

Mr. James I. McAuliff

Ms. Nancy M. McCabe

Ms. Patrice L. McCabe

Mrs. Violet McCandlish

Ms. June W. McCarron

Dr. Jeane McCarthy

Mr. James D. McClary

Mrs. Dorothy McClelland

Mr. Bruce McClintock

Dr. David C. McClure

Ms. Patricia McConnell

Mr. Michael McCormack

Dr. Marie C. McCormick

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
McCormick

Mrs. Anne B. McCourt

Dr. Catherine F. McCoy

Mr. Emmett F. McCoy

Mr. John O. McCracken

Mr. Jack H. McCreery

Mr. Walter C. McCrone

Mr. Dale E. McDaniel

J. McDonald

Mrs. Ellen W. McDonnell

Mr. and Mrs. John T.
McDonnell

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Dr. and Mrs. Morris G.
McGee

Mr. and Mrs. Fred S.
McGehee

Mrs. Nancy J. McGinness

Mr. William P. McGloin

Mr. John McGreevey

Mr. Howard L. McGregor,
ate

Mr. and Mrs. John McGuinn

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A.
McGurk

Mr. John McIntosh

Francis J. McIntyre

Dr. and Mrs. Frank W.
McKee

Mr. W. J. McKeel

Mr. William F. McKenna

Dr. J. W. McKibben

Mr. and Mrs. Albert P.
McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. John H.
McLaren

Mr. Charles McLaughlin

—_
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace
McMartin

Mrs. S. McMullen

Mr. W. Hugh McNaughton

Mr. W.C. McNeal

Mrs. W. J. McNeil

Mr. George M. McNulty

Mr. and Mrs. R. V.
McPherron

Miss C. McWilliams

Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Mead

Mr. James C. Meade

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Mears

Mr. and Mrs. B. E. Meditch

Mr. Frank Meek, Jr.

Mrs. Roberta V. Meek

Donald F. Mela

Mrs. Valere P. Menefee

Mr. Michael Mennucci

Mr. Leon A. Mensing

Mrs. William H. Meroney

Mr. R. K. Merrill, Jr.

Mr. John J. Meyer, III

Mr. Henry H. Meyer, Jr.

Mrs. Norman Meyer

Dr. Herman Meyersburg

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel M.
Meyers

Mr. B. Jenkins Middleton

Mr. W. W. Middleton

Commander and Mrs. R. J.
Miles

Ms. Grace Milgram

Mr. Lewis N. Miller, Jr.

Dr. Alan G. Miller

Mr. Carroll L. Miller

Mr. Charles H. Miller

Mr. J. R. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Miller

Ms. Margaret A. Miller

Captain Richards T. Miller,
USN

Mrs. George H. Milton

Dr. and Mrs. Michael H.
Mishkind

Mr. and Mrs. Donald M.
Mitchell

Colonel and Mrs. Robert D.
Mitchell

Mr. Walter W. Mitchell

Mr. Ted F. Moellering

Mr. R. W. Mompier

Mrs. Sarah D. Monk

Mr. E. F. Monoscalco

Mr. M. R. Monroy

Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Montague

Dr. Carmen G. Montaner

Mr. Wilson M. Montero

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M.
Montgomery

Mr. and Mrs. W. F.
Montgomery

Mrs. Christel K. Moore

Ms. Joan Turner Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.
Moore

Mr. and Mrs. John H.
Morava

Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Morgan

Ms. Joyce Morgan

Mr. Shane Moriarity

Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Morley

Ms. Firth Morris

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh M.
Morris

Mr. J. C. Morris

Mr. J. C. Morris, Jr.

Ms. Rosanna Morris

Mr. William R. Morris

Mr. Arthur R. Morse, Jr.

Mr. Erik N. Mortensen

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel
Moskow

Mr. Wilson Mothershead

Rear Adm. and Mrs.
Douglas F. Mow

Dr. and Mrs. Gary L.
Mueller

Ms. Shauna Woods Mueller

Dr. J. Andrew Mulholland

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth C.
Mundell

Mrs. Gail W. Munder

Mr. David C. Mundy

Mr. Burnaby Munson

Mr. Don Murdock

Mr. Gerald P. Murphy

Mr. Robert C. Musser

Mr. and Mrs. James Myles

Mr. Raymond R. Myslivy

Mr. Andrew Najberg

Ms. Anastasia Nasis

Mr. George Nassauer

Mr. David N. Neal

Mr. Robert H. Neff

Mr. George E. Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. Andrew K.
Ness

Mr. Conley W. Ness

Mr. and Mrs. Paul W.
Neuenschwander

Mr. Harry Neugold

Mr. and Mrs. Harry O.
Neukomm

Mr. Rick Newbery

Mrs. M. E. Newcomb

Mrs. Frances Newman

Mr. and Mrs. Palmer E.
Newman

Mr. W. E. Newman

Lt. Col. Arthur Newton

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth E.
Nicholl

Ms. Patricia I. Nichols

Mr. H. D. Nickerson

Dr. Orville F. Nielsen

Dr. and Mrs. Earl W. Niles

Mrs. Elizabeth A. Noble

Mr. and Mrs. Roger M.
Nolan

Mr. David G. Noonan

Mr. Carl F. Norden

Dr. Maurice J. Norman

Dr. Patricia F Norman

Mr. and Mrs. John W.
Norris, Jr.

Mr. R. Duane Norris

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L.
North

Mrs. John Norton

Ms. Kim Golan Norton

Mr. and Mrs. David P.
Notley

Mr. Milton G. Nottingham,
Je.

Mr. Walter J. Novak

Mrs. Dorothy Nubel

Mr. and Mrs. Francis R.
Nullec

Ms. Eileen O'Brien

Mr. John A. O'Brien

Mr. R. E. O'Connell

Mr. and Mrs. William J.
O'Connor

Mr. and Mrs. Denis T.
O'Sullivan

Mr. Edward J. Obert, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Robert W.
Oblath

Mr. Ronald S. Oda

Mr. Robert S. Oelman

Mr. Sylvan Oestreicher

Dr. S. W. J. Ogush

Mr. W. G. Ohde

Ms. Helen L. Ohler

Mr. Sam R. Olsen

Mr. Richard Omohundro

Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Lloyd
Onion

Mr. Peter Oppmann

Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Orcutt

Mr. W. R. Orthwein, Jr.

Mr. Martin B. Ortlieb

Mrs. D. F. Orwig

Mr. and Mrs. David Osnos

Dr. Betty Ann Ottinger

Mr. and Mrs. Fred Ottoboni

Mr. James C. Overholc

Mr. Joseph H. Owen

Mr. Joseph H. Owens

Mr. J. C. Pace

Mrs. A. N. Pack

Dr. and Mrs. Eugene F. Pack

Mr. and Mrs. James A.
Painter

Mr. Donald K. Palmer

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph A.
Palmer

Dr. John R. Pancella

P. Panchal

Dr. J. E Paquet

Mr. Frank C. Parcell

Mr. and Mrs. Albert E.
Parker

Mrs. Grace M. Parr

Miss Muriel H. Parry

Mrs. George E. Parsons, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. H. Parsons

Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Parsons

Ms. Mabel Parsons

Mr. R. EF. Paschall, Jr.

Mr. Jerry Pasek

Colonel Kenneth W. Patrum

Mr. Geoffrey L Patton

Mr. James H. Paul

Mr. B. R. Paulsen

Mr. Benjamin C. Payne

Ms. Sylvia L. Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. John R.
Peaslee

Mr. Stephen E. Peat

Mr. C. L. Pecchenino

C. E. Peck

Mr. and Mrs. Edward R.
Peckerman, Jr.

Mr. Robert Peck

Dr. Rodney Pelton

Mr. Edmund Pendleton

Mrs. Thorn Pendleton

207
Mr. and Mrs. William C.
Penick

Mr. Clarence Pennington

Mr. John Peper

Mr. Bernard J. Perini

Mr. and Mrs. Warren A.
Perkins

Mr. and Mrs. F. Alan
Perlberg

Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Perlberg

Ms. Dorothy F. Perry

Mr. Gene Perry

Mr. James P. Perry

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Perry

Ms. Sandra J. Perry

Ms. Ann C. Petersen

Mr. Dalcon E. Peterson

Mr. and Mrs. David W.
Peterson

Dr. John C. Petricciani

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon L.
Petri

Mrs. Harold S. Pettit

Mr. James T. Pettus, Jr.

Mr. Cliff Pfaff

Mr. A. Phillips

Mrs. W. R. Phillips

Mr. E. Chilton Phoenix

Miss Mary Jane Pickthall

Mr. Patrick Kent Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. William H.
Pierson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence B.
Pike

Ms. Ellen Pilsecker

Mr. and Mrs. William Piper

Dr. Phillip R. Pittman

Mr. John Pitts

Mrs. P. E. Picts

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick R.
Pivarnik

Ms. Elinor Plimack

Ms. Diane J. Plotts

Mr. Michael Plunkett

Mr. and Mrs. Welch Pogue

Mrs. Donald T. Pomeroy

Mr. Robert D. Pomeroy

Mr. Leroy Poole

Mr. Daniel B. Pope

Ms. Janice Popp

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight J.
Porter

Dr. Reno R. Porter

Mr. and Mrs. Ben Porto

208

Ms. Mildred Potocki

Mrs. Sandra A. Potter

Mr. R.D. Ports

Miss Amy H. Pound

Dr. and Mrs. William F.
Pounds

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin E.
Powell

Mr. Jon Powell

Mr. Robert E. Pownall

Mr. Richard L. Prager

Ms. Fletcher Pratt

Mr. A. Price

Mrs. Charles P. Price

Dr. Robert E. Price

Miss Jeanne Priester

Dr. and Mrs. Jerold
Principato

Mr. Harold Prindle

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J.
Prizer

Ms. Gloria Prochaska

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Purcell

Mr. and Mrs. Vincent
Puritano

Mr. L. A. Vander Putten

Ms. Marian L. Pyle

Mr. W. M. Quackenbush

Mr. T. Quinn

Mr. J. Raben

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Anton
Rademaker

Ms. Marjorie Ramsden

Mr. and Mrs. Coleman
Raphael

Miss Ann Rasche

Mr. Philip Ratcliffe

Mr. W. Ray

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Raz

Ms. Isabel M. Rea

Ms. Patricia Reardon

Mr. FE R. Rebsamen

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph H.
Redford

Vivien G. Redman

Mr. Atlee J. Reeb

Mr. John W. Reeder

Mr. Rollin M. Reeder

Mr. William A. Reed

Mrs. Carl M. Reeves

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Reeves

Mrs. Charlotte Rehberg

Ms. Carol A. Reichgut

Mrs. Joan Reilly

Dr. Michael J. Reilly

Mr. Lawrence F. Reinalter

Ms. Joan Reiser

Mr. Nathan Reiskin

Mr. Paul A. Renard

Mrs. Edwin EF. Rensler

Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Reynierse

Mr. Don FE. Reynolds

Mr. Frank C. Reynolds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rhoads

Mr. R. L. Rhodes, Jr.

Mr. James E. Rhodes

Miss Kathleen Ribaudo

Mr. Edward Hart Rice

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry M. Rice

Mr. Allen Richards

Mr. E. Jerome Richards

Mrs. Ralph Richardson

Dr. Arthur L. Rich

Ms. Melissa J. Richens

Mr. G. R. Rich

Miss B. A. Richmond

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas T.
Richmond

Mr. Charles Rick

Mr. Daniel M. Ricker, Jr.

Mrs. Richard Riddell

Mr. Roland Rieder

Mr. Richard D. Rife

Mr. M. M. Rifkin

Mr. John R. Rimmer

Miss Marilyn Rising

Jeanne Robb

Mr. and Mrs. Chalmers M.
Roberts

Ms. Ruth Roberts

Mrs. Grace Robinowitz

Ms. Jean Robins

Mr. and Mrs. FE. L. Robinson

Mrs. Richard Rodgers

Mrs. Sue A. Rodgers

Mr. and Mrs. Albert K.
Roehrig

Mr. Dietrich Roesler

Mr. Scott Roeth

Ms. I. Romero

Mrs. M. Elaine Roschman

Mr. Irving Rose

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest S.
Rosenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Robert
Rosenthal

Dr. and Mrs. Quentin Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond T.
Rose

Mr. Sam D. Rose

Mr. J. W. Roskos

Mr. and Mrs. David W. Ross

Dr. S. Rossello

Mr. and Mrs. Howard W.
Rosser

Mrs. James Bruce Ross

Mr. John J. Ross

Dr. James A. Roth

Ms. Janice K. Rothlauf

Mrs. Elizabeth D. Rott

Ms. Catherine G. Rottier

Dr. James A. Rourke

Mr. and Mrs. Josiah P. Rowe

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E.
Rowland

Mr. and Mrs. James M.
Rowley

Mr. Charles Rozier

Mr. B. Cecil Rubin

Dr. Philip Rubovits-Seitz

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L.
Rugani

Mr. Lawrence A. Ruh

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Rule

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Ruml

Mr. J. W. Runyon, Jr.

Mr. Jasper L. Russell

Dr. Edward C. Ruth

Mr. William A. Rutter

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Ryan

Dr. and Mrs. Abner Sachs

Dr. H. Pagan Saez

Mr. Lou Sakell

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.
Salz

Lt. Col. J. R. Sammons

Mr. Steve C. Samuelson

Ms. Mickey W. Sanborn

Mr. Nilo M. Santiago

Mrs. Stanley J. Sarnoff

Mr. and Mrs. Stuart M.
Satterwhite

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore
Sawick

Mrs. Lillian M. Saxe

Alice E. Sayre

Mr. Francis B. Sayre

Mr. James P. Scannell

Mr. Ernst M. Schaefer

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R.
Schafer

Mr. William F. Schaper

Mr. Aaroh Schecter

Mrs. Robert S. Scheu

_—
Mr. and Mrs. J. Vincent
Schlegel

Miss Matilda P. Schlicht

Dr. and Mrs. S. P. Schmal

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene R. J.
Schnabel

Miss Marguerite V.
Schneeberger

Ms. Margaret M. Schneider

Dr. William H. Schneider

Mrs. Debra C. Schoenstein

Mr. James E. Scholl

Mr. and Mrs. J. Schroeder

Mr. John C. Schuldt

Mr. and Mrs. Martin L.
Schulman

Mrs. Robert A. Schulman

Mr. Robert Schwaner

Dr. Edward H. Schwarz

Mrs. M. Schwetz

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C.
Scibilia

Ms. M. B. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M.
Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Royal M. Scott

Mr. Bernard L. Scriven

Mr. Robert FE. Scudder

Mr. David C. Searey

Dr. Mary E. Sears

Mrs. Jane Seedorf

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E.
Seidell

Mrs. St. Clare P. Seifert

Mrs. Richard Selchow

Mr. and Mrs. Harold J.
Selinsky

Mrs. Catherine H. Sells

Mr. Paul C. Seltman

Ms. Catharine Seybold

Mr. and Mrs. Paul A.
Shackleford

Mrs. Polly Shackleton

Ms. Elaine G. Shafrin

Mrs. H. Shambaugh

Mr. Kevin E. Shanahan

Ms. Karen S. G. Shapell

Mr. and Mrs. Philip H.
Sharpe

Dr. Daniel L. Shaw, Jr.

Ms. Barbara W. Shaw

Shaw Investment

Ms. Kate M. Sheehy

Mr. and Mrs. Allen C.
Sheldon

Mr. and Mrs. Charles C.
Shelleman, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. R. M. Shepard

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald A.
Sheppard

Mr. and Mrs. George E.
Sherman

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Sher

Miss Katherine Shilling

Mr. Rufus Shivers

Mr. Albert D. Shmutzer

Mr. and Mrs. Jack C.
Shnider

Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Shorb

Mrs. S. C. Shortlidge, Jr.

Mr. Robert H. Short

Harold Shoup

Dr. Stefan Shrier

Mr. Roy Shrobe

Mr. Harley FE. Shuford, Jr.

Mr. Ken Shuman

Lt. Gen. and Mrs. Philip D.
Shutler, USMC

Mr. W. Leonard Sibley

Ms. Martha F. Siccardi

Mr. W. R. Sieben

Mr. and Mrs. Irving H.
Siegel

Mr. Carl F. Sielaff, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. and Robert W.
Siler, Jr.

Mr. Russell L. Sill

Mr. Richard Sills

Dr. A. E. Silver

Dr. Lester P. Silverman

Colonel and Mrs. Robert L.
Simmons

Mr. and Mrs. Michael E.
Simon

Mr. Raymond Simon

Miss Alice H. Simpson

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Singer

Mr. Richard Singer

Mr. Lorenzo Dow Singleton

Mrs. W. D. Singleton

Mr. James J. Singsank

Mr. and Mrs. Lynwood D.
Sinnamon, Jr.

Mr. George J. Sisley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Skold

Mr. Thomas B. Sleeman

Mr. John Sleeter

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Slezak

Dr. H. Sloan

Mr. Richard C. Sloan

Mrs. Walter W. Slocum

Mr. Charles E. Slonaker

Mr. and Mrs. Leon Sloss

Mr. George E. Slye

Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Smith, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Smith

Dr. and Mrs. Claude A.
Smith

Mr. Dean B. Smith

Mr. Donald K. Smith

Mr. Edward M. Smith

Ms. Ella E. Smith

Ms. Janet S. Smith

Mr. Joseph C. Smith

Mrs. L. Smith

Ms. Luella A. Smith

Mr. Malcolm A. Smith

Dr. and Mrs. R. C. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Stevan B.
Smith

Mr. W. Tilford Smith, Jr.

Mrs. Witham Smith

Mr. Howard FE. Smothers

Dr. George E. Snider, Jr.

Mr. John B. Snyder

Mr. W. P. Snyder, III

Mr. and Mrs. William B.
Snyder

Mr. and Mrs. Michael N.
Sohn

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Solat

Mr. Mark Solberg

Mr. David Solo

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Solomon

Mr. William H. Somerville

Honorable and Mrs. Soren C.

Sommerfelt
Mr. Stephen Sondheim
Ms. Lynn A. Soukup
Ms. Alice FE. Southworth
Mr. George R. Spall
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks
Mrs. Sylvia Spar
Mr. H. Speer
Mr. Mark Speizer
Mr. Harry H. Spence
Mrs. C. M. Spilman, Jr.
Mr. Fred Spinder
Mrs. Laneil W. Spivy
Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Splicter
Mrs. J. E. Sponseller

Mr. and Mrs. William H.
Spooner

Mr. L. Spozais

Mrs. J. Spurlock

Mr. Omer F. Spurlock

Mr. Franklin M. Sc. John

Ms. Virginia Stainton

Mrs. G. W. Stanford

Mr. and Mrs. Marvin N.
Stanford

Mr. William R. Stanmeyer

Mrs. Carl W. Stapleton (Ret.)

Mr. David A. Stark

Mr. Donn A. Starry

Ms. Cynthia V. Stauffacher

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C.
Stayer

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick R.
Stebbins

Mr. Simon Steely

Mr. William R. Stehle

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen R.
Steinbrink

Ms. Susan Steinsapir

Dr. and Mrs. Edward
Stemmler

Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Stemmons

Mr. and Mrs. William L.
Stenger

Mr. and Mrs. Charles R.
Stephan

Dr. Peter J. Stephens

Mr. Richard Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B.
Stephens

Mr. W. Clinton Sterling, III

Ms. Abigail Sterling

Mr. Bruce B. Sterling

Mr. and Mrs. Carleton W.
Sterling

Mr. Douglas D. Sterling

Mr. and Mrs. William
Sternfeld

Mc. and Mrs. Edwin L.
Stevens

Mr. Jay Stevens

Dr. Roland E. Stevens

Ms. Suzanne E. Stevens

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W.
Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Terence P.
Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene P.
Stichman

209
Me. and Mrs. Richard W.
Stickell

Mr. and Mrs. Glen E.
Stillwell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter L.
Stilson

Mr. and Mrs. John E.
Stinchfield

Mr. Philip B. Stiness, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A.
Stocking

Mr. Steven F. Stockmeyer

Mr. and Mrs. Dennis W.
Stolldorf

Mr. Robert A. Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Shepard B.
Stone

Mr. and Mrs. John Strachan

Mr. Virgil R. Strader

Mr. and Mrs. John G.
Strange

Mr. and Mrs. S. Tudor
Strang

Dr. Paul Strassburger

Mr. and Mrs. Richard H.
Stratton

Mr. Henry Strone

Mr. David G. Stuart

Mr. Douglas Stuart

Mrs. Hosmer B. Stuck

Mr. William T. Scumb

Mr. John A. Sturm

Mr. Arthur Scutzer

Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Sudarsky

Mr. and Mrs. Steven C.
Suddaby

Mrs. A. C. Sulerud

Mr. and Mrs. Basil A.
Sullivan

Mr. Ed Sullivan

Mr. Vincent M. Sullivan

Mr. Paul L. Sulsky

Mr. Donn E. Summers

Mr. John Sutch

Mr. David A. Sutherlund

Ms. Patricia S. Swaney

Dr. Wilson A. Swanker

Dr. Russell Swanson

Mr. and Mrs. Harold E.
Sweeney

Ms. Mary R. Swicegood

Mr. Albert L. Symonds

Mr. J. R. Tallentire

Mr. Darrell G. Tangman

Mr. John B. Tavano

210

Mrs. Delle Ernst Taylor

Mr. J. Taylor

Mr. John Taylor

Ms. Robyn D. Taylor

Mr. Rowan H. Taylor

Mr. W. H. Taylor

Mr. William L. Taylor

Mrs. R. Teerlink

Mr. Roy Teramoto

Mr. and Mrs. James W.
Tester

Mr. and Mrs. Harper Thayer

Mr. Alan Thebert

Mr. Paul F. Thiele

Thiry Foundation

Mr. Edmund Thomas

Dr. E Joseph Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. Holcombe H.
Thomas

Ms. Kaaran Thomas

Ms. Marcia A. Thomas

Marjorie E. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. Donald K.
Thompson

Captain and Mrs. Edgar K.
Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L.
Thompson

Mrs. Frank L. Thompson

Ms. Mims Thompson

Ms. Roberta Thompson

Mr. and Mrs. D. H.
Thomson, Jr.

Mrs. Veronica Thorp

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Tibor

Mr. and Mrs. John T.
Tielking

Ms. Barbara L. Tierney

Mrs. L. E. Tierney

Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Tillman,
Ul

Miss Catherine Tinkham

Mr. H. Titchell

Mr. Hartley K. Todee

Ms. Rosalie Toko

Mr. Toshio Tokunaga

Mrs. Araks V. Tolegian

Mr. Leroy M. Tolman

Mr. and Mrs. J. Robert
Tomlinson

Mr. Richard M. Torres

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L.
Townsend

Mr. and Mrs. F. Gerald Toye

Mr. Adrian G. Traas

Mr. and Mrs. Francis R.
Trainor

Honorable and Mrs. Russell
E. Train

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Tralla

Mr. John H. Transue

Mr. and Mrs. Richard C.
Traylor

Mr. David Treacy

Mr. Edmond R. Tremblay

Mr. Jose E. Trias

Mr. and Mrs. Bryan
Troutman

Mr. and Mrs. R. Brian
Tsujimura

Mrs. Shanda Tuccio

Mr. Ernst H. Tuenge, Jr.

Mrs. James N. Tulloh

Mr. Robert L. Tull

Ms. Eva F. Tully

Mr. W. T. Turso

Mr. and Mrs. William S.
Tutwiler

Ms. Evelyn Twigg-Smith

Mr. Glenn A. Ulrich

Mr. R. E. Uptegraff, Jr.

Mr. Donald Usher

Mr. T. Uyesugi

Mr. Vainutis K. Vaitkevicius

Mrs. C. W. Valencourt, Jr.

Mr. J. H. Valentine

Mr. Robert Vallier

Dr. Paul Van Fossen

Mr. Ray E. Vanalstine

Mrs. Jean Vandenberg

Mrs. F. B. Vandenburgh

Mr. and Mrs. Richard C.
Vandusen

Mr. and Mrs. Carl F.
Vanhaeften

Ms. Caroline E. Vanmason

Ms. Beatrice Vare

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Varela

Mr. Edward W. Varnum

Mr. and Mrs. Armen
Varterssian

Mr. Samuel M. Vauclain, III

Mrs. Franklin Veatch

Mr. Mark Veca

Ms. Natalie D. Venneman

Mr. Richard Venning

Mr. and Mrs. James L.
Ventura

Mrs. Harold E. Vettel

Dr. John J. Vill

Mr. Victor J. Villone
Dr. M. C. Vincent

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond D.

Vinick
Ms. Jacquelyn E. Vinson
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J.
Vitale

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Voll

Ms. Florence E. Voorhees

Mr. and Mrs. Gerard J.
Vyskocil, Jr.

Ms. Jill R. Wade

Ms. M. G. Waggoner

Mr. W. A. Waggoner

Mr. David H. Wagner

Mr. Paul FE Wagner

Dr. and Mrs. Peter E.
Wagner

Mr. George W. Walburn

Mr. Bert Waldstein

Mr. and Mrs. James N.
Wallace

Mr. Wayne D. Walling

Mr. and Mrs. Frank S.
Walters

Mr. and Mrs. Harry B.
Walton, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W.
Walton

Dr. Alan B. Wambold

Mr. Fred Wanner

Mr. and Mrs. Robert B.
Wareheim

Mr. and Mrs. C. Grant
Warner

Mr. Ernest W. Warner

Mr. and Mrs. George E.
Warner

Mr. John Warner

Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Wasserman

Mr. B. Y. Wat

Dr. Barbara Waters

Miss Eva Watkins

Captain Jack E. Watson

Ms. Mildred V. Watts

Mr. H. Wayne Weagly

Mr. and Mrs. John E.
Weaver

Mr. and Mrs. Glyn H.
Webber

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Ms. Elizabeth Weedon

Mr. John S. Wehrle

—_
Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Weinberg

Mrs. Marjorie Weinberg

Mr. and Mrs. Eric W.
Weinmann

Mr. and Mrs. Herman W.
Weinreich

Mr. Edgar V. Weir

Ms. Fay L. Weirich

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A.
Weiss

Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Weitzel

Ms. Ann Welborn

Mr. Douglas FE Welebir

Mr. Charles E. Wells

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Wells

Mr. and Mrs. Terry Welsh

Ms. Lucille Wendt

Mr. and Mrs. P. A. Wentz

Ms. Barbara K. Werner

Mr. Gerald L. Werner

Mr. Stuart L. Werner

Captain J. H. Wesson, USN,
(Ret.)

Mrs. Sharon Westafer

Mr. and Mrs. James T. West

Mr. and Mrs. Craig L.
Weston

R. A. West

Miss Hilda Wexler

Mr. and Mrs. William
Wharton

Mr. and Mrs. George Y.
Wheeler, III

Ms. Barbara W. Whitaker

Ms. Jaan Whitehead

Mr. John B. Whitehead

Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. White

Mr. Dale A. Whiteside

Whitney Foundation

Mrs. Mary S. Wicker

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard A.
Wien

Ms. Elizabeth J. Wiggans

Dr. and Mrs. Herman S.
Wigodsky

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph M.
Wikler

Dr. and Mrs. U. V. Wilcox,
II

Mrs. Vivian Wildman

Mrs. Gladys E. Willard

Mr. Andrew W. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. John M.
Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth R. H.
Williams, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Larry Williams

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Ellis W.
Williamson

Mrs. Wanda Rees Williams

Dr. B. Willis

Mr. and Mrs. W. Cooper
Willits

Ms. Jean M. Willkom

Mr. Charles F. Willner

Mr. William FE. Willner

Mr. William Willoughby

Ms. Louise W. Willson

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey
Wilmeth

Captain Lucille A. Wilson

Mr. Edward Wilson

Mr. F. A. Wilson

Mr. Hugh H. Wilson

Mr. James M. Wilson

Mr. Lowell Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. Perkins Wilson

Mr. Peter Wilson

Mrs. Regina Wilson

Dr. and Mrs. Richard B.
Wilson

Mrs. W. Wesley Wilson

Mr. and Mrs. Roger H.
Wingate

Mr. R. T. Winn

Mr. Donald R. Winslow

Mr. John Winters

Ms. Joan Wirig

Mr. James D. Wirt

Mr. Robert Wissoker

Dr. Raymond R. Wittekind

Mr. Phelps Witter, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Wittie

Ms. Linda Wohl

Mr. Carl F Wolfe

Mr. J. Wolfgang, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Leland A. Wolf

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas P.
Wolf

Mr. and Mes. William T.
Wolf

Mr. Gary L. Wollenzien

Mr. and Mrs. Stanton Wong

Mrs. Margaret Y.
Woodbridge

Mr. Baird Woodcock

Mr. David L. Wood

Mr. Marshall D. Woods

Dr. Thomas P. Wood

Mr. H. Woodward

Captain and Mrs. John
Woolston

Mrs. Harriet A. Wright

Dr. Reverdy E. Wright

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J.
Wulff

Mr. Bruce Yamanaga

Mr. Philip D. Yaney

Mrs. Dolores R. Yanover

Mr. Charles Yarbrough

Mr. and Mrs. Michael S.
Yauch

Mr. and Mrs. Gary B. Yost

Mr. and Mrs. Albert T.
Young

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel K.
Young, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Gerald D.
Young

Dr. and Mrs. Keith Young

Mr. L. J. Young

Ms. Nancy A. Young

Mr. and Mrs. William A.
Zachary, Jr.

Ms. Shereen Zakauddin

Mr. and Mrs. Howard M.
Zaritsky

Dr. and Mrs. Berton Zbar

Mr. and Mrs. Fred M. Zeder

Colonel Frank J. Zeller

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Zeppa

Ms. Anne Zetterberg

Mrs. E. Zimmerman

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin
Zimmerman

Dr. and Mrs. Don B.
Ziperman

Dr. Richard L. Zizza

Ms. Patricia Zlotin

Mr. Louis I. Zorensky

Ms. Marilyn Zukel

Mr. T. L. Zutauc

211
Ay en b> NA q
thy

Ney
4 Wty

: : iu ee
r
id f
eo PN
ALA!

Air! erat

A Tae or
: ahbg'ss us i

a

i WAS at

Sere

ia
repay
Oviire by

mG,

foray
sy cted ¥
ed

a
ares

Rian
At

} hs a ERLE

by y Wit;

D9}, Hennes) ati

aaa ii
a arene

ih if
Aaya

ny)
Th RI CIIN
hl

ley

4), POR 1)
ise AY
RACE
yeah ie

oO = fo) carn Oo = [o) —
= o = o = ed ra o
5 PD 3 KN 5 MD S (AMD 5 gz (EMA) 5S OD 3
fe > E > Ee; > E >"
rau 2 ra ae a ad = os
2 a Z a abated it 2 a
Sag1uvuag Wu BRARI ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS Sa lyvug Mtl BRARI ES SMT
BRS 2 @&. £ ‘S = = & =
ON = BW FZ. 5 % ZENS =
ZR 8 PW 2 : 8 2 8
= YY z E Zz Ee 2 = “ae DES
= > S > G = S = >
a Rae ea ak o 2 77) Re es
NOILNLILSN! NVINOSHLINS SaluvudIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVIA
n S awe Zp) S zs n S g =
us . us 3 so ae = B ss
oc = fad =! ewe. 4 VY, = faa a S
< = < a ty YZ = < =a}
is =| a = « “Yip Ss = =
a S co 3 un WP 35 = 3
= 2 boy ae ea | me al 2a a a2
Sa1YVYAIT LIBRARIES_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOLLOLILSNI_NVINO HUIWS SSaluvudid LIBRARIES SMI
= fe) EY = s) : ° = o
o = Uy = S = o = |
g = Gy & : Ye 5 : 5
S © OL = WHE % a,
= Lf INT OL WA = e ,. %
z z zZ we 2 z

INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVYdIT_ LIBRARIES

ws

WS \
\s

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVIN

NVINOSHLINS S31YVudl

NVINOSHLINS
NVINOSHLIWS

Yq
SMITHSONIAN

Y,
NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN

NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS saruvag LIBRARIES SMI1

ES SMITHSONIAN
Be ZL,

SSIYVYAIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

SAIYVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSN! NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMI

Zz ” : S = S 77)
[r} 4 w uJ
= = ¥%> z : G a0
= = y bs ar o \ ne = <
E Var 5 WW ¢ <4
=a a ” te is = ss, SEN NS oO = eu
iS) = ro) o° Ne. = ro) 2:
2 as = 2 4 a 3
INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVHYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN NOILNLILSNI NVIN
e o ; ° ‘
= AS ss ra S = D
=) Ws BW = = = S = >
= SNS = a = a e Ps]
3 5 5 ‘ : 2
z z o = o = a
o”
=
+
=
a
fo)
=
>
ed

g
UY;
7:

NVINOSHLINS S3Z1uVvuagtt

Re ee z= rar) ma 2) z= ee
.< Ne < AS = < = < NS
“z SW NO Zz NK a f fof Zz = z NS
aN ERR TZH IE SIGH ite
E WS E'S 2G = z z S
= \ + . 2 : a 2 a .
w 4 y
INSTITUTION NOILNLILS | NVINOSHLIWS saluvugit_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVIA
Ss ae 7) a
uw S © » & Ae sa a z a
a = Ps = «x. 1 Yo a ce a @
<x A <x = <x hii =t <x fal
ac Cc Pr 5 a Yry = a Cc
a = oO = n “Gy = oO =!
ens ro) = 2) =~ a (2) - fo)
ay = No za sj a a z
S3S!IYVYdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOLLOLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS [S31YVU aI LIBRARIES SMI
Ge = .
jes) _— hy wo wo — o =,
2 5 Fy = 2 Ne 5 2 oa
> - Gf “> E Ye SSE > =
a — Y fi Pe ps) PONS — Ps) — 4
z ieee ger = : = \s - 2 Ee
| Oo z o z o  ™ £ mn z
INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSINYVYUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI NVI
See no z n = *e 2) Ze n” z
| = < = < = < = <
| x = = =<] ee 4 = Xx Ho z
NRG 8 z 65 LWW 5 a We 6
BENE e 2 E WO 2 E Mz =
Saluvagi LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS S3ldvdaly LIBRARIES SMI
2 ” ; =z Zz Zz 2
1 Sm BF gp Y gy 2 KR! 2 5 wR ' SD 2 =m YF |
rs ’ — = a ae —_ , _-
re} = ° o ° o ° = 2
= e = & = is E 4 =
= > .. > =~ >: =) Rs =)
E =? Es) = E ae
= 2 iE * = ie = P = i
2) m 2 m ick m Cu m 2
2 rz) 2 ; 77) = 77) . & 7) Zz
INSTITUTION NOILANLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVUEIT_ LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI A
2 : wo 2 Q z g 2 ‘ o z
= oe a < = < = < ace .= <
z : =| = a z = Zz % = Zz
; re) =
= 2 = 2 E 2 = 2 =
a ae a 2 a _ 2 2 oS : =
S3a1uvegit_ LIBRARI ES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ nes lyvedgii_ LIBRARI ESS
2 = wo ek ER © & 2 G S
fe = a. oF = = a = a.
< a LY. b= < 2 < = <3
o bar] « GY ; a @ = ro S Pied
co = 0 (Yj = a 5 o = m
= S 5 is 2 a 2 3 2 a
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS [S43 luvug 1 LIBRARI ES_ SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ~NOILALILSNI _N
= = o = wo = o = o
5 5 2 5 2 = 1) = 2
> = > i; & > E > & >
2 = 2 - a ae a2 - 2
m 2 m 2 m 2 7 m 2 rm
wn = n = w — vn = 7)
poaldVaGITLLIBRARIES | INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS Saluvual >LIBRARIES |S
g aos & g ey g Z =m £ xe 3 =
=| Zz « = Pa =| 2 =| z =
5 8 Ne Ns g Ag 5 fs &
O = Ma fe) <r MANS Oo oe fe} BR o
Z = WS 2 E SX" 2 i= 2 E A 2
: Bae ene : Bo ere
INSTITUTION - NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS | $3 l4Yvuadit_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION op VOLLALILSNI_N
Z us a UW Km G Tm Wl Vy, Fe KER Fa
= = a = = 4 = a
= a = oe = ae a a =
= < = << a < i= < =A
= c S ro = cc c ec S
sj = 0 a = im =
3S = S = fe} ae 5 = S
Zz a 2 = z oJ 2 a 2
S3lu¥vudi1 LIBRARI So cen ae AS UU ee er NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES §
rd ie re za - : =
2) = ° o So = NG ° = °
= 2 - = i 2 WSS OE 2 =
= E 2 Ce] Ee ; - Lea
= 2 i” 2 e 2 ~S = 2 =
Z B Be to 2 m ce r 2
_!NSTITUTION ” NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINSS3 luyvua Mtl B RAR I ES OM ITHSCNI AN INSTITUTION © NOILALILSNI_ h
=e <a ‘S = 2 Ws = = G&s = =
20 3. 5 =a 5 ANS = S = z
z 2 By 2 Re 8 - g z
E 2 = 2 E » 2 = 2 =
= > LZ = > = i = o> =
77) Fra 77) 2 n * 2 n ae ”
LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYSIT ESio|
2 7 2 2 “ aa, : 2
z = a = z 4 NE = z
< | x + = od ap 9 NX \ <x aa < %
e e < BS e :
ox = oc er a P= YQ a = a
2 ° 2 o = 3 See 3 2
3 Zz a Zz as z SUE fat = a
~!NSTITUTION > NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS >> 1yvud Ibs LIBRARI ES) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION > NOILNLILSNI NN
= ro) - °* 5 eZ S e = FS E
w = o = = wo = wo
0 = x AY = = = 2 E x
Zz = DD ASV §— Es) = “D = x0
X a = * pcs =
i Z en die’ f Z : Z
Qos eVUaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS SAIYVEGIT_LLIBRARIES S
= Ui: < \ = z & g ‘ z aa j < . =
a VYp = a Zz ar Zz a Fa =
i Wf 2 NNG 2 NSE Ao 5 3 |
oS We ASS CO rT] CTA OO a fe) E fe)
2/7" = NS 2 E AZ, E 2 E 2
2 Fide pe tee 3 . : :
_INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS SAIYVYaIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION Fc LEE
= ~<Rimn w ~<aim = ie an ey SN AG | gm. esas a et
rete
Sian
Teese a rority
Sree eit St Meters
apusete

leeket
Sleselie

Tie.
pi ftatarn is
Saphek!*

eercntthias

Seat Ke

Soow ”
Riven
ater hss
Torre

Tyee NS
See

eee Y

Tjesre rere!
foe
oe

tee
Naseer tatu hy

Uigy
petee share

Haire)
pebpbe ate
gs

ie
eats

%
pakke,

S
in

aay

selene eon

Tee
wort

wile
Wideeee

Toy

tapers

IAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

SMITHSON

i

6

nA
i
— =
aN “aN
— L.
ad a
—
prt —
_
=
a A
ome oe

A »
A i) smithso | 39088016308256

