§ » \ 2 7
4 } ) k J 1
é $ *
; . ¥ ,
Bae en fe ee
€ ‘
I } \ é
} i : i ‘ ; }
I } ] 1 ,
iq
i }
}
| ’
} }
|
j
I
} ;
y
}
} i
} +
ke }
} y }
i vA ° } J J
ws 2 } | ™%
. 4 ¥ i ; %
ao wt, on =* + | = oy

we

L
}
}
}
}
=
=f

“3

ed tee
vi
ny

‘ize ele,
Viale te my etet
CE ala nme ein

“
Wage tin se mniaeye M
ae ag mis nme
io

We eg Nate ye
re any were

ee

ary tah Paine ya mete
Ly,
Li

+ fan el

Saluvual
INSTITUTIO
Sa1uVvua
INSTITUTIC
INSTITUTIC
saluvugl
INSTITUTIO

ION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SSIYVYREIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

NVINOSHLINS S31uYVud

i B is pNOLLALILSNI | NVINOSHLIA
g z = < < = , =
z . 5 z 5 5 z mS
N a iD eB - 2 Q oe SD
Ve = z = Ee z =
Si s > = = >" =
Zz n 4 wn 77) rs wn
GI 1_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION _NVINOSHLINS _LIBRARIES  SMITHSONIA
Sa ee) se zZ z °
WwW , uu 7) ul WwW ,
») = = Yim ° : = Xw z ¥ = &%
iB) 2 < Ol: : 2 S 7
ys ae 3 : 2 - ee
o 2 a SN ro) =
z 5j = ay 2 = 33

INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIW

JON NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

S3IMVUSIT. LIBRAR

INSTITUTION
Saul ae ald
INSTITUTION
Saluvagi
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

Gi7_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSN! NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYE!IT LIBRARIES

My,
ye
NVINOSHLIWS S3Iyvuety

. n n z a
_< KE 2a g z Z =< &
eS NS = = = = EZ WY
TiO ANG ae ro) nay DS CER
ZR 8 z 2 By 2 WS’
E NS z2 S = = E SY
= . 3 > = > = 5
7) hee as a cae ” Cb
s3iuyvudl SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIV

ION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS

z
{e)
2)
=
=
=
2)
_ _— — (ep) —
2 é j iar as &
= tis jp a
ce = ce = = iff = < 5
<x < iY <
o = o =| oe “iy S o =
= 3 as IS} 2 °G o = ro)

4 = = 2 — 2 - 2 ss
d11 LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
os < — 5 eee = = = Hs

— oO aa ig .
= w = ow = = ;
3 = x EB = IN = 0 - ¢
> = a 2 F \ SAWREE = E Uf
2 5 - 5 = WW" 5 = hs
a Z a Z Coe B Z
TON NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS (S34 iuvyug i B RARI ES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NWINOSHLIY
2 Gyiy 3 2 OY. & Z z Nw : Yl, 5
M8 IG: wD aN: € 2 AME FA?
ee 2 PE NS 2 zE 2 We =
> = > = ws = SS =
Fa 7) 2 7) = 7) ee x n

G11 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S31YVYE!I7T LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA

Wi ,

a,
i
Y ffi

NVINOSHLIV

NOILNLILSNI
NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARIES
NOILALILSNI
LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI

TION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

RS
NS

@!t1_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUEIT_LIBRARIES

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

SIIMVUGIT LIBRARIES

INSTITUTION
saziuvdalt
Saluvuydlt
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION

NVINOSHIINS S31YvVYGIT_ LIBRARIES

y a 2 ¥ a SMITHSONIA
Re = 2) ire
LS & = < es .. = ie = t= 2
y ‘2 NS = > KS = z =| z NAS
yy D Re = } NX a ) zy FECA
, E NY 2 EW = S z SNS
a .. 2 FA 2s 7A Eatin ..
MON NOLNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31YVYSIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_NVINOSHLII
= wo = = = e
wu VAS¥ AG 2 AGEN w VS ¥ Ag a ZASON ad : a VOT = KID & SS
> = Km 2 Ge 8 SR 2 GRD 8 Uy 4:2 GD = RA 2
— ow s = w = ly = o x
5 > Wg 5 2 = Yily, a 5 a ‘SS
= > LOW = > = i pif > = > SSR
= a WEIS = a re U7 fl 7 E 9] 3 ow
F 2 AS 2 ange ae 2 SS
D m NW @ m 2 m ” m a

1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUEIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

w : a nn
< 2 z g z < < =
Fa = Ze ex = z = ra a)

5 \ : a 3
3 NOG 8 NWA 8 : g ;
ae Sy SA re) rc ROA OO se ro) oc ro)
= NS 2 = wy Zi, ie Z. la 2
= “MN = = XS Sy = S 7 ‘ zZ
IN NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYGIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_
a a wo S o S v z
uw a a 7 a = my
\ oS =t < ar C4 =
jess Cc r (ox ac < [om
] a ce = 4 2 =
2 ° = 3 rs} = 3
a3 = a) z = 3 ra

i171 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOJLONLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3!IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAI

.
saluvygiy
INSTITUTION
Saluvugiy
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION
sauvudty
INSTITUTION

IN NOILNLILSNI S3IYVYGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIW

NVINOSHLINS S3tYVYBIT LIBRARIE

ON NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3INYWYEIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIW

wo = oe
g z = aa a. ee z
q = si a NS yr \S : Sie ete: War
ae ro} ar (oe) We : fe) fe S Te ee (o)
wn 72) ao 72) RS : a GH yZ tip on
ro) [G oO 4 x SN x 0 GF e
2 = 2 ES E 2%] =
2 , 5B 5 a % & ee es a
IT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS Sa!uvugia LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
2 Ww =. w 2 Aw iS 2 wi
” = peel pa DMD Qs “a = :, ae
4 wat Jana = QE = = ee ae
— Ge _ oc fea OW Yet — Z
a “ PU = < 4 OX < = «PY?
S a Yig, S a & Wa S « Giz
Es Vy = a 4 \ =a Vp
re) a G; ro) oe So oa
~_ 7 = [@) _ =
2 as ra = z ee) 2 a
IN NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVHYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS
a ire * re — - & Pe: -
S a 2 = a a 2 :
= ee) WN = es) = Pe) = es)
)2 = Wye : 2 3 : :
= eS MS iB a rE, 2 rae 2
n m SX wo m no” m ” m
< n Se re 7) z w = n
11 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NWINOSHLINS SAIYVYSIT LIBRARIES
Zz ~~ n pre « Ww = w = ~ a”
= = < = oe = = =
, = = z = WY, 2 = z 5
: - 2 & fou B b D \ oh
iE z = 2.7 = = E =
= = = >" = > = SS =
7) = 77) = 77) = ao =
JN —NVINOSHLINS LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIW
2) Fa : z wo : 3 un” 2
Ww 7) uw uw iu w
\ 2 z = 2 OG? = : YW
| < = < z a a < zc 3S
: 4 iG o S .
o a a = raraet ae asad Ma a = ENS
Fa fs) = fe) == re) = ° S
ay 2 =F ra a 2 a =
I] LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3ZIYVYUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
= o ~ 5 a 5 = 6
ise] ras wo ert wo ae wo aa - A
be = - KE At Fy’
| a a a 2 Lf
= P Ss S =a = > weg
as e = - ss EF ae - “G4
5 Z z g r 2 5 ge
wn w

Z z = a Ws = z g =

: : 5 72 OS 3 a a

= Oo Pm Be (e} NY : <= (e) Ae ac L: i hy je)

GB a a a RN. WD a , B yr , Da

ro) Ts O 3 ps S \. re) oe So Hy A

z = 2 i= ees E = Lill Ee

ee he he ns aie:
ij LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNi NVINOSHLINS S3!i¥vVeait LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAI
zZ LE. mi Zz SHSONS ui Shi z NS vf VSI Z YS AIN us
2 Bee - of 4.41% GSO - BA 2 Vs —- (OsI~x 4 /SevPe -— Las 4
{

Wrajre we i

Smithsonian Year 1986 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

A “A “AN ™
on

NG LIBRARIES

SS

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
, ‘e a ae “he “i ede i;
a an

Pd

Ean of

a a Ps
ar oa i
‘4 aE!
‘ae Ye Sam @ : a -
LAR

eer

eral / 0

Smithsonian Year 1986 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
Contents

Chronology 5
Appendix 1. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and

Commissions, September 30, 1986 34
Appendix 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards

Made October 1, 1985, through September 30, 1986 51
Appendix 3. National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1986 54

Appendix 4. Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments
in Fiscal Year 1986 56

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in
Fiscal Year 1986 97

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1986 108

Appendix 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1986 218

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1986 270

Appendix 9. Benefactors of the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1986 372

Appendix ro. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in
Fiscal Year 1986

Ga
“)
ive)

Note. The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual
appendixes is not alphabetical but rather follows the organization
of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.

The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically repro-
duced from typescript provided by the individual bureaus and
offices.
Smithsonian Institution

Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Committee,
and the Secretary
Office of the Secretary
Office of the Under Secretary
Office of Audits and Investigations
Office of the General Counsel
Research
Joseph Henry Papers
National Zoological Park
Office of American Studies
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Museums
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum
Archives of American Art
Center for Asian Art: Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Freer Gallery of Art
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
National Air and Space Museum
National Museum Act
National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
National Museum of American History
National Museum of Natural History
National Portrait Gallery
Office of Exhibits Central
Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Public Service

Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Office of Folklife Programs

Office of Public Affairs

Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian World

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center
Administration

Administrative and Support Activities

Financial Management Activities

Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council

Smithsonian Internship Council
Directorate of International Activities
Membership and Development

Office of Membership and Development

James Smithson Society

National Board of the Smithsonian Associates

Smithsonian National Associate Program

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Under Separate Boards of Trustees

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

National Gallery of Art

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Smithsonian Year 1986
Chronology

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events and milestones
during the fiscal year 1985-1986.

Octcber

New Programs: The Office of Fellowships and Grants initiated two new
Institution-wide research support programs for short-term visits and workshops.

Octcber

Expedition: James R. Buckler, Director, Office of Horticulture, traveled
extensively through China as part of a group of horticulturists invited to tour
botanic gardens and arboreta.

Octcber

Award: "Security is Everybody's Business," a video written by the Office of
Protection Services and produced by the Office of Museum Programs, was awarded
first place in the govermment category of The American Seciety for Industrial
Security's 1985 video competition.

Cctcber

Publication: Sexual Selection and Animal Genitalia, a book by William Eberhard
of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, was published by Harvard
University Press, Cambridge, Mass.

October

Visit: A Japanese delegation to the Trinational Canal Alternatives Study visited
the facilities of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and followed up
with discussions in Washington with Assistant Secretary David Challinor and
selected staff.

Octcber
Appointment: Rebert S. Hoffmann, of the University of Kansas, a leading U.S.

authority on the systematics and evolution of mammals, was appointed director of
National Museum of Natural History/National Museum of Man.

wa
October

Research: National Museum of Natural History entomologist Ronald J. McGinley and
colleagues from the U.S, Mexico and Panama initiated a program to promote the
study of Mexican bees by enccuraging cooperation between researchers in Mexico
and other countries and by aiding in establishing a commmication network among
interested bee workers and pollination ecologists.

October

Expedition: An interdisciplinary team of National Museum of Natural History
scientists, consisting of arachnologist Jon Coddington, entomologists Jerry
Louton and Wayne Mathis, botanist Vicki Funk, ichthyologist Richard Vari, and
herpetologist George Zug, conducted a biotic survey of a proposed Anapurna
Conservation area in Nepal's mountainous Anapurna region for World Wildlife Fund
and Nepalese cfficials interested in formation of multiuse national parks.

October 3

Exhibition: "A New Romanticism: Sixteen Artists from Italy" cpened at the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden with 46 works by some of Italy's more
provocative contemporary artists, a number of whom were present for the opening.
Octcker 3

Outreach: A grant-funded program run by the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education, "Exploring the Smithsonian," brought to the Institution the first of
several junior high school classes for special interdisciplinary pregrams. Over
the course of the schcol year, about 4,500 D.C. junior high school students
participated in the program.

Octeber 3

Publication: Smithsonian Institution Libraries presented the first copy of
Manuscripts of the Dibner Collection, SIL Research Guide #5, published by
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, to Dr. Bern Dibner, the collector of the
manuscripts, at a reception in the Dibner Library.

Octcher 3

Gift: Smithsonian Institution Libraries received 194 consecutive editions of the
Qld Farmer's Almanac, beginning with issues from 1792, from Yankee Publishing Co.

October 4

Enid A. Haupt Garden: The first trees were installed in the preparation of the
garden, scheduled to open in the spring of 1987.

October 4

New Award: The newly created National Air and Space Museum Trophy was awarded to
former NASA official Rebert Gilruth and to space shuttle astronauts Kath
Sullivan and Bruce McCandless for their contributions to the fields of aercspace
science and technology. Sen. John Glenn made the trophy presentation, sponsored
this year by the Federal Express Corporation and Delta Airlines.

Octcber 11

Performance: Hanover Band of London in a Resident Associate event re-created the
historic Beethoven concert of April 12, 1800, in Vienna's Burgtheater which
featured the world premiere of the Symphony No. 1 in C Major, Op. 15.

Octcber 12

Exhibiticn: "Shark!," a permanent exhibition featuring the jaws of Carcharodon
megalcedon, the colossal ancestor cof the modern great white shark, opened in the
fossil hall of the National Museum of Natural History.

Octecber 15

Renovation: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Central Reference and Loan
Services renovated facility opened in the east hall of the Natural History
Octcber 1:7

Exhibition: "Selections from the Collection of Marion and Gustave Ring" cpened
at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden with 50 paintings and sculptures by
Degas, Modigliani, Picasso, Vuillard and others, selected from the collection of
the late Marion and Gustave Ring. The exhibition later traveled to the Virginia
Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond.

Octcher 18-19

Symposium: "Liberty: As Idea, Icon and Engineering Feat," sponsored by the
Office of Smithsonian Sympcsia and Seminars, was held at the Ccoper-Hewitt Museum
in New York in anticipation of the centennial of the Statue of Liberty.

Octcber 22

Lecoure: Award-winning physician, biologist and author Jonas Salk lectured on
"Patterns in Nature and their Possible Significance" for the Resident Associate
Program.

Cctcker 22

Seminar: The Resident Associate Program and the National Museum of Natural
History co-sponsored a two-day seminar, "Men of Daring, Triumphs of Exploration,"
featuring Geologist Stephen Jay Gould.

Octcbker 22
Iean: Two juvenile gorillas on loan from the Milwaukee Zoo arrived at the

National Zoological Park. After a three-month quarantine, the two appealing
youngsters were placed on exhibit.
Octcber 24

An Evening With...: Mortimer Adler, of Encyclopaedia Britannica, appeared ina
living self-portrait program co-sponsored by the Naticnal Portrait Gallery and
the National Museum of American Art.

Ccteber 24

Exhibition: To celebrate the reappearance of Comet Halley, the National Air and
Space Museum sponsored an art exhibition tracing the lore of comets. "Fire and
Ice: A History of Comets in Art" included 90 artworks and artifacts from museums
and donors around the world.

October 26-27

Symposium: "Consciousness and Survival" was held at Georgetown University under
the sponsorship of the Institute of Noetic Sciences and in cooperation with the
Office of Smithsonian Symposia and Seminars. Initiated by Sen. Claiborne Pell
and Bishop James Spong of New Jersey, the symposium featured physicists,
psychologists, biochemists, philesophers and theologians.

Octeber 28-30

Workshop: A "Workshop in Imaging Interfercmetry in Space" was held in Cambridge,
Mass., umder cosponsorship of the Smithsonian Astrephysical Observatory.

Octcber 29-November 7

Residencies: Semi-annual sessions of the Kellogg Museum Professionals at the
Smithsonian brought senior-level museum professionals from around the United

States to the Smithsonian Institution for a 10-day residency to study issues

relating to museums as educational rescurces in their ccmmmities.

November

Quincentenary: In November and December, the Directorate of International
Activities sponsored two planning conferences for the Columbus Quincentenary in
1992. National and international scholars exchanged ideas with Smithsonian staff
on significant themes and topics to be incorporated into the long-term
Smithsonian programs.

November

Conference: The Directorate of International Activities co-sponsored with the
Social Science Research Council a major conference to explore issues concerning
access to research sites by foreign scholars.

November

Meeting: The Directorate of International Activities hosted the second annual
meeting of the U.S.-Pakistan Subcommission on Education and Culture.
Participants included representatives of the Government of Pakistan and the U.S.
Information Agency, the National Science Foundation, the Department of Education,
the Asia Foundation and the American Institute of Pakistan Studies.

November

Tecture: Dr. Opeoluwa Onabajo, Department of Archaeology, University of Ife,
Nigeria, was guest lecturer on "Stone Figures of Esie, Nigeria: An Historical
Enigma," at the National Museum of African Art.

November 1-2

Symposium: The National Zoological Park's fifth anmual symposium for the public,
"Wildlife Survivors in the Human Niche," was held emphasizing animals that have
successfully survived in cities and other human-daminated envirorments.

November 2

Concert and Symposium: The 20th-Century Consort gave the first of four concerts
of the 1985-86 season at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden and celebrated
the 10th anniversary of its founding with a symposium featuring American
compesers Stephen Albert, George Crumb and Joseph Schwantmer.

November 5-6

Seminar: "British Historic Research Trust at Newington House: Some New
Initiatives in Preservation" wes held by the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars in connection with the National Gallery of Art's exhibition on British
country houses, as part of the longstanding Smithsonian series, "Voluntarism and
the Public Interest." The program featured lectures by Christonher Maltin, owner
of Newington House and the Countess of Roseberry, Dalmeny House, Scotland.

November 6

Special Event: "Bamboo and Stone: Materials and Life in Tribal South India," an
illustrated lecture by Caroline Stanley-Millson, was presented by the Office of
Folklife Programs in conjunction with the Office of Smithsonian Symposia and
Seminars, the India Council of Washington, D.C., and the Anthropological Society
of Washington.

November 6

Film Premiere: "Dance of Tears," a documentary tracing the Khmer Classical Dance
Troupe from Cambodia to Thai refugee camps to Washington, D.C., was shown at the
National Museum of Natural History. The film was sponsored by the National
Council for the Traditional Arts, the D.C. Community Humanities Council, the
Khmer Classical Arts Association and the Smithsonian's Office of Folklife

Programs.

9
November 7

Research: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory radio astronomers reported
making the first precise measurements of the distance from Earth to an
astronemical ebject outside our galaxy, thus establishing a new "yardstick"! Ae
determining other cosmic distances.

November 8

Exhibition: "After the Revolution: Everyday Life in America, 1780-1800" opened
at the Naticnal Museum of American History. The first of the museum's
reinstallations of its permanent exhibition halls, the exhibition features an
18th-century leg house, recems from Virginia and Massachusetts and more than 1,000
artifacts.

November 10

Television: The weekly "Sunday Morning" news program on CBS television featured
a 10-minute segment devoted to the National Museum of African Art, including an
interview with Dr. Roy Sieber, Associate Director for Collections and Research at
the Museum. The seoment was produced by Alan Harper and was narrated by Charles
Kuralt.

November 12

Lecture: In his first major Washington address as Secretary of the Smithsonian,
Robert McC. Adams delivered his 1985 Aspen Design Conference paper, which
presented a historical view of the often-blending fields of design and art. This
program was held in conjunction with the National Museum of American Art
exhibition, "Art, Design and the Modern Corporation: The Collection of the
Container Corporation of America."

November 14

Exhibition: "Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842," a
yearlong exhibit that re-created the history of an epic American expedition to
the South Seas and Antarctica, opened at the National Museum of Natural History,
the largest special exhibit ever organized by the museum exhibits office.

November 15

Exhibiticn: The National Museum of American History cpened "At Home on the Road:
Autocamping, Motels and the Rediscovery of America," an exhibition exploring the
enduring American urge to take to the highway without sacrificing the comforts of
home and shcwing hew over the years highway travel has itself become a form of
entertainment.

November 17
Acquisition: The space shuttle orbiter Enterprise arrived at Washington Dulles

Internaticnal Airport and was officially transferred to the collection of the
Naticnal Air and Space Museum three weeks later.
Nevember 18

Special Event: The Cocper-Hewitt Museum hosted an cpening celebration for the
exhibition "Golden Eye: An International Tribute to the Artisans of India." The
exhibiticn was a part of the yearlong Festival of India 1985-1986 and inspired
the creation of the Golden Eye Foundation. The celebration included the 11
designers participating.

November 22

Exhibition: "Gaston Lachaise: Portrait Sculpture" opened at the National
Portrait Gallery.

November 26

Reception: District of Columbia Mayor Marion Barry cohosted a reception at the
National Museum of African Art , in recognition of the establishment of the
sister cities agreement between Washington, D.C., and Dakar Cities Friendship
Council Inc., a private voluntary organization.

December

New Program: The Directorate of International Activities announced a new funding
program, the International Exchanges Program, aimed at increasing and
strengthening regular exchanges between the Smithsonian and institutions in
developing countries. The program will support workshops, training courses and
short-term group projects.

December

Exhibition: The National Museum of African Art brought together for the first
time in almost four decades the collaborative efforts of South African
photegrepher Constance Stuart Larrabee and novelist Alan Paton, author of Cry,
the Beloved Country, in an exhibition, "Go Well, My Child." Related events
included a discussion with the photographer and a celebration of South African
traditional songs with Welcome Msomi, noted South African author/performer.

December

: Museum zoologist Meredith L. Jones, an authority on Riftia, the giant
tube worm that is a major faunal constituent of the ccmmmities living in and
around seafloor hydrothermal vents, reported a new discovery bearing on the
question of how the adult tube worm obtains the internal symbiotic bacteria from
which the worm derives its nourishment.

December
Discovery: A Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scientist and a colleague at

the Massachusetts Institute of Technology reported discovery of the third, and
best, candidate for a black hole.

GRE
December 4-6

Symposium: The National Zoological Park conducted the Tropical Biology
Conference on the positive approaches to tropical forest conservation.

Successful or promising projects were highlighted. Several hundred professionals
with a special interest in this topic attended.

December 5-9

Special Event: Smithsonian Associates joined National Air and Space Museum staff
to view Halley's Comet during a weekend study tour created by the Smithsonian
Associates Travel Program.

December 6

Special Event: In celebration of the return of Comet Halley, the Naticnal Air
and Space Museum sponsored a host of free public activities, including a
scientific exhibition on exploring comets, a symposium, a lecture by astronomer
Carl Sagan and an evening Wonce=In-A-Lifetime" party.

December 6-8

Milestone: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its fourteenth
annual Christmas at the Smithsonian Weekerd for Smithsonian Associates.

December 6-13

Workshop: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory hosted a workshop on the
integration of archaeological data with results of an analytical study of Greater
Nicoya ceramic production and distribution. Five Costa Rican archaeologists
attended this workshop together with American colleagues.

December 12

Lecture: Distinguished jurist and Smithsonian Institution Regent A. Leon
Higginbotham Jr. surveyed the American legal process as it has affected blacks
between 1619 and 1985.

December 13

Special Event: The Smithsonian Wamen's Committee held its fourteenth annual
Christmas fundraising dinner-dance in the National Museum of Natural History,
with "India" as the theme and His Excellency the Ambassador of India and Mrs.
Bajpai as the honorary patrons.

December 14

Seminar: "Currents," a seminar for high-schcol juniors in the Washington, D.C.,
metropolitan area, was initiated by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
Students' cbservations about the "New Romanticism" exhibition of contemporary
Italian painting, the focus of the seminar, were later published.
December 18

Pledge: The Visitor Information and Associates' Reception Center received from
the Pew Memorial Trust a pledge of $1 million toward the construction of the new
Smithscnian Information Center.

December 19

Comet Watch: The first of several "Halley observing" sessions was held for the
public at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass. More
than 750 pecple attended the sessions, scheduled periodically through May 2,
attempting a glimpse of the famous comet.

December 20

Exhibition: The ninth anrual "Trees of Christmas" exhibition, developed by the
Office of Horticulture in conjunction with the National Museum of American
History, opened with 13 trees decorated to display the ethnic, artistic and
cultural use of the Christmas tree.

December 26-31

Holiday Evertt: The National Museum of American History offered its annual
Holiday Celebraticn, which this year focused on the theme "Our Ethnic Heritage"
and drew on the talents of more than 600 musicians, storytellers and
demonstrators of ethnic crafts and cocking.

December 28

Milestone: Two hundred eighty-three pieces of antique cutlery from the Robert L.
Metzenberg collection dating from the 16th through 19th centuries were added to
the collections of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

Jamuary

Public Programs: Throughout 1986, special "Halley observing" sessions were
scheduled for the public at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in
Cambridge, Mass., and attracted more than 750 people attempting a glimpse of the
famous comet.

Jamiary
Research: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scientists presented a new map

of the universe showing that the galaxies are distributed on the surfaces of
large, bubblelike voids up to 150 million light years in diameter.

Jamiary

Restoraticn: The historic restoration of the Renwick Gallery facade and window
replacement was completed in early January for a total cost of $5,600,000.
14

Jamiary

PCB Progress: The Smithsonian received a "Letter of Compliance" from the U.S.
Envirormmertal Protection Agency indicating that the Smithsonian is now in
compliance with all regulations concerning PCB transformers.

Jamuary

Expedition: Following the catastrophic eruption of Nevada del Ruiz in the
Colombian Andes, which destroyed villages and caused the deaths of about 24,000
pecple, a miltidisciplinary miseum team, headed by Smithsonian scientists William
Melsen (volcanolegist), Vicki Funk (botanist) and Gary Graves (ornithologist),
flew to Colembia to study the eruption and its long-term impact on the
environment.

Jarmmary

Award: Museum archaeologist Betty J. Meggers was awarded the Secretary's Gold
Medal for Exceptional Service for her innevative research in pre-Columbian
archaeology and her achievements in cementing the professional bonds between the
Northern and Southern hemispheres.

Jamuary 1

Fellow: LaBelle Prussin, Professor of Architecture, University of Washington,
Seattle, began residency at the National Museum of African Art as the first
recipient of the Rockefeller Foundation Residential Program in the Humanities.
Dr. Prussin's topic was "Nomadic African Women as Place Makers: The Arts and
Architecture of Namadism in Africa."

Jamuary 2

Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art accessicned Thomas Eakins'
1908 painting "William Rush's Medel," a major gift from Mr. and Mrs. R. Crosby
Kemper Jr.

Jamiary 5-18

Seminars: "British Country Homes," offered by the National Associates Lecture
and Seminar Program, featured 11 British scholars who conducted special lectures
and tours of the National Gallery of Art exhibition "Treasure Houses of
Britain."

January 7-8

Conference: The Native American Museums Program of the Office of Museum Programs
convened a Native American Archives Advisory Conference in Harpers Ferry, West
Virginia.

Jamiary 10

Exhibiticm: "Music and Dance of Papua, New Guinea," (Jan. 10- Mar.9), opened at
the Naticnal Museum of Natural History, an exhibition of the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service. Featured were color photographs of the
brilliantly colorful ceremonial costumes, personal adormment, and dances of the
pecple of Papua New Guinea by photographer Jordan Wright.

Jamuary 135-14

Workshop: The Smithsonian Envirormental Research Center sponsored a worksnop in
which 15 experts discussed landscape ecology with the goal of developing a better
theoretical basis for this field of ecology.

Jamuary 26

Amnouncement: A campaign to save more than 800,000 feet of historic aviation
newsreel footage was launched by the National Air and Space Museum and the
University of South Carolina. The footage covers almost every major event and

personality in aviation history.
Jamuary 27

Course: The Office of Museum Program's Native American Museums Program convened
a 10-month course entitled "Design and Production of Exhibitions," consisting of
a workshop and practical and technical assistance for mid-career staff of 10
tribal museums.

Jamuary 29

lecture: In ome of a series of programs at the National Museum of American Art's
Barney Studio House, artist Grace Hartigan, whose work is in the museum's
collections, discussed her early years as a member of the New York School of

February

Black History Month: Films, concerts, lectures and storytelling programs were
scheduled throughout the Smithsonian mseums. "Black American Popular Music:
Rhythm & Blues, 1945-1955" combined a symposium, concerts and an exhibition at
the National Museum of American History to explore the development and influence
of rhythm and blues music during the postwar pericd. Other highlights included a
Resident Associate Program series on early black cinema and performance by jazz
legend Billy Taylor.

February

Gift: Hans Panofsky, Curator of the Melville J. Herskovits Library of African
Studies, Northwestern University, transferred 90 original black-and-white
negatives donated by anthropologist Eva L. R. Meyerowitz to the National Museum
of African Art. Included are photographs taken in Abomey, Dahomey, 1937.

February

Collecticn Management: A new dry-nitrogen storage facility for Antarctic
meteorites was installed at the Museum Support Center, making it possible for
hundreds of metecrite specimens gathered in Antarctica during the last decade by
National Science Foundation expeditions to be permanently turned over to National
Museum of Natural History.

February

Telecast: "Here at the Smithsonian," the series of three-minute features on
people and events at the Institution, produced by the Office of
Telecommmications, began its fifth season with new distribution via satellite,
tripling its subscriber stations to 180.

February 3

Outreach: The Career Awareness Program of the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education convened its newly formed Advisory Council; the pregram works to
introduce students from the D.C. Public Schools to career opportunities at the
Smithsonian.

February 5

Acquisiticn: The National Museum of American History accepted an International
Harvester model 1486 tractor, made in 1979, frem members of the American
Agriculture Movement.

February 6

Exhibition: "Directions 1986," continuing the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden's well-known series of contemporary art exhibitions, opened at the museum
with 36 works by eight American artists, three of whom apveared in a round-table
that evening with the exhibition's curator, Phyllis Rosenzweig.

February 18-20

Seminar: The Office of Protection Services conducted its ninth anmual security
conference, which was attended by over 150 security professionals. Besides the
traditional focus on the theme "security is everybody's business," special
emphasis was placed on library protection and building management.

February 20

Exhibition: "Treasures from the National Museum of American Art," an exhibition
of 81 works from the musetm collection, opened at the Seattle Art Muserm. Its
13-month national tour included showings at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts,
the Amon Carter Museum in Fort Worth and the High Museum of Art in Atlanta.

February 28-—March 1
Symposium: A special symposium for high school teachers and students wes

conducted at the National Zoological Park, with the goal of educating students
about careers in science.
March

New Office: The Safety Division, Office of Protection Services, was established
as the separate Office of Safety Programs in order to increase the visibility of
its programs which are of increasing concern to the Institution.

March

Publication: High Technology and Human Freedom, a volume based on the
Smithsonian's Office of Symposia and Seminars' eighth international symposium, a
tribute to George Orwell, was published under the editorship of Lewis H. Laphan,
editor of "Harper's."

March

Research: New isotopic and chemical clues to the nature of the earliest solar
system solid material were provided by a study of the meteorite Vigarano, from
Vigrano, Italy, initiated by the National Museum of Natural History meteorite
curator Glenn J. MacPherson. His research is being conducted with collaborating
scientists from the University of Chicago and Washingtcn University, St. Louis.

March

Award: The Gold Medal and Diploma of the International Scientific Festival was
awarded to "The Sea: A Quest for Our Future," a film preduced by the Office of
Telecommmications.

March

Research: Former Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory director, Fred L. Whipple,
participated in control center operations for the historic encounters with
Halley's Comet by Giotto and Russian Vaga spacecraft, which confirmed his classic
"dirty snowball" model for a cometary nucleus.

March

Gift: The U.S. Army transferred to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
the use of the Surfside Theater Building at Nacs Island.

March

Exhibit: "Galapagos—Born of the Sea," an exhibit circulated by the Smithsonian
Traveling Exhibition Service cpened at the Anthropological Museum in Panama,
cosponsored by the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and the National
Institute of Culture of the Govermment of Panama. All materials were translated
into Spanish.

March

Gramt: Smithsonian Institution Libraries received $3,000 from the Women's
Committee of the Smithsonian Associates for the restoration of a 1852
photographic album of London's Crystal Palace exposition, a holding of the
Cooper-Hewitt Museum Branch Library collection.
March 2

ial Event: International Seal Day was celebrated at the National Zoological
Park with a special public program of of seal training demonstrations, talks and
touchable objects such as pelts and skulls.

March 15

Acquisition: Ten golden-headed lion tamarin monkeys arrived at the National
Zeolegical Park from Brazil. Their arrival marked the first step in the
establishment of a breeding program at the Zco to ensure long-term survival of
this highly endangered species.

March 16-19

Conference: The First National Conference on Women's Changing Roles in Museums
was cosponsored by the Office of Museum Programs and the Smithsonian
Institution's Women's Council.

March 17

Acquisition: An excavated cache of neolithic plaster statues from the site of
'Ain-Ghazal, Jordan, arrived at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory. These
Pieces, which date back to about 7000 B.C., will receive special conservation
treatment under the terms of a agreement between the Department of Antiquities of
Jordan and the Smithsonian's Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

March 17 -— May 9

Field Course: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and the University of
Panama offered the second Graduate Field Course in Tropical Ecolegy with the
participation of students from Panama, Honduras, Guatemala, Costa Rica and Haiti.
More than 20 scientists from national and international institutions were invited
speakers.

March 19

Benefit: A dinner for Sister Parish was held to benefit the Decorative Arts
Committee of the Cocper=-Hewitt Museum. Funds raised were used to purchase two
wallpaper sample books used originally by French firms in the 1920s.

March 20

Acquisition: The National Museum of American History accepted a mobile support
vehicle, space suit, bubble-shaped isolation units, medical literature and
memorabilia documenting the life of David, called the "bubble boy," who was born
with severe combined immme deficiency (SCID) and confined to a sterile,
bubblelike environment for nearly all of his 12 year of life.

March 24-28
Ccurse: Wocedcarving and Conservation of Carved Surfaces, a hands-on course for

furniture conservators, was taught at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory by
Wallace Gussler of Colcnial Williamssurg, and was attended by 10 professionals.
April
Film: The Office of Teleccmmunications completed a five-minute exhibit film
"Teoking at Earth," for the National Air & Space Museum.

April

Awards: The Office of Fellowships and Grants announced the 1986-87 James E.
Webb fellowship recipients.

April
Discovery: International team of radio astronomers, including Smithsonian

ical Observatory scientists, announced a new distance measurement to the
center of the Milky Way, thus reducing the size of our galaxy by one-third.
April
Expedition: A Moreccan field expedition was carried cut by a Smithsonian-
National Geographical Scciety international team of paleontologists searching for
the ancient Strait of Gibraltar. This project, headed by miseum palecbiologist
Richard H. Benson is providing historical evidence of the formation of the
mountain systems.
April
Telecast: "Smithsonian Treasures: An American Experience," a 90-minute
television special funded by Wang, Inc. and hosted by actor Gene Kelly, was
telecast by the Office of Telecommmications during Easter week.
April 2

Premiere Issue: Air & Space/Smithscnian, a bi-monthly magazine in the tradition
of Smithsonian magazine, launched its first issue. The magazine, geared to the
general audience as well as the aerospace buff, recounts the history of flight
and the latest discoveries in the aerospace world.

April 5
Premiere: The Resident Associate Program hosted the Washington premiere of the

Canadian film, "My American Cousin." The film was intreduced by Canadian writer
Sondra Gotlieb, author of Wife of... and wife of the Ambassador of Canada.

April 10

An Evening With...: Dancer Katherine Dumham appeared in a living self-portrait
program at the National Portrait Gallery.

April 12
Exhibit Renovation: The National Zoological Park began renovation of the

basement of the Reptile House began, the principal step in converting the
facility into the new vertebrate exhibit.

19
April 15
Fellowships: The Office of Fellowships and Grants designated 101 1986-87
fellowship recipients.

April 18-20

Special Event: The Smithsonian Women's Committee sponsored the fourth annual
Washington Craft Show, a juried show with 100 craftspeople participating.
Proceeds from the show and the preview night party were used to fund various
educational and research projects threughout the Smithsonian.

April 21

Special Event: The Mayor of Nuremburg, Germany, attended the opening celebration
at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for the exhibition "Toys frem the Spielzeug Museum."
April 23

Special Event: "Sailing Ships and Old Salts," a weekend family festival
featuring sea chanteys and demonstrations and workshops on maritime-related arts
and crafts was held at the National Museum of Natural History in conjunction with
the exhibition "Magnificent Voyagers."

April 24

Restoration: The first phase of the reconstructed Olmsted Walk was completed by
the contractor and accepted by the National Zoolegical Park.

April 25
Exhibitions: Two exhibitions, "Portraits by Brady: Imperial Fhotcgraphs from the

Harvard College Library" and "John Frazee, Sculptor," opened at the National
Portrait Gallery.

April 28

Special Event: Cooper-Hewitt Museum celebrated the opening of the exhibition
"Bon Voyage: Designs for Travel" and the accompanying catalog, made possible
through the generosity of the Louis Vuitton Company.

April 30

Exhibition: "Robert Arneson: A Retrospective" cpened at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden with 68 works by this California sculptor, the first major Fast
Coast showing for the artist. Ovening activities included a lecture by the
exhibition's curator, Neil Benezra of the Art Institute of Chicago.

May

Exhibition: Recent field research on the art of the Bamana people of Mali
resulted in an exhibition titled, "A Human Ideal in African Art: Bamana
Figurative Sculpture." The exhibition was the first organized by the National
Museum of African Art to travel to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.

May

Publicaticns: Major works on Plains Indians were produced by Waldo R. Wedel,
archaeologist emeritus, and John C. Ewers, ethnologist emeritus, both of the
National Museum of Natural History. Dr. Wedel's Central Plains Prehistory:
Holocene Environments and Culture Change in the Republican River Basin,

published by the University of Nebraska Press, is the first full-scale review and
synthesis of central Plains prehistory. Dr. Ewers' Plains Indian Sculpture: A
Traditional Art From America's Heartland, published by the Smithsonian
Instituticn Press, is the first comprehensive look at Plains Indian sculpture.

May

Acquisiticn: An important algal herbarium was’ donated to the National Museum of
Natural History by Florida State University. Included were about 8,000
specimens, most of which are from the Bahamas and Florida Keys, where the
Smithsonian is engaged in marine biological research.

May

Guest Lecturers: Resident Associate Program course, "Literary Evenings: Writers
on Writing," featured Pulitzer Prize winner Larry McMurtry, Peter Benchley,
Martin Cruz Smith and Jean Auvel.

May

Grant: Smithsonian Institution Libraries received three grants totaling $39,000
from the Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund. The grants will be used by Catalog
Records to publish scientific records in non-Roman alphabets, by the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory Branch Library to acquire documentation on astronomical
data analysis systems, and by the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Branch
Library to acquire microform back issues of scientific journals.

May

Expedition: Dr. Ernani Menez of the Oceanographic Sorting Center led a field
party of U.S. and Filipino scientists to Siayan Island, a remote, biologically
unexplored offshore area of the northern Philippines, to make collections of
marine plants containing active natural substances of value as anticancer drugs.
The expediticn was jointly fumded by the Smithsonian and the National Cancer
Institute.

May

Special Evert: The Directorate of International Activities organized a reception
to recognize the establishment of a memorial fund through a gift from the estate
of Suzanne Liebers Erickson. The fund will support exchange visits between
Smithsonian staff and Danish scholars, museum professionals and students for
research collaboration, consultations and seminar participation.
May

Visit: John Seiberling, Anthony Beilenson and Ron de Lugo, members of the

Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the U. S. House of Representatives,
visited the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and met with representatives
from Panama's Department of Renewable Resources and private conservation groups.

May

Awards: "Coral Reefs: New Discoveries, New Resources" received the Minister of

Foreign Affairs' Silver Cup in Milan, Italy and the Silver Award at the Houston

International Film Festival. "The Big Cats and How They Came to Be" placed first
at the National Educational Film Festival in the science/ecology category. Both
films were produced by the Office of Telecommmications.

May 6

Special Event: James Smithson Society members enjoyed a private visit to the
residence of David Lloyd Kreeger. The house, designed by Philip Johnson, is
filled with Impressionist, Post-Impressicnist, and Medern masterpieces.

May 6-9

Sympcsium: "Man and Beast Revisited," a special Smithsonian symposium, was held
at Front Royal, Va., and at the National Zoological Park as a sequel to the
intellectual landmark, "Man and Beast: Comparative Social Behavior" (1969). A
new volume is being edited by Michael H. Robinson, zoologist, and Lionel Tiger,
anthropologist.

May 6-10

International Congress: The Smithsonian Kellogg Project, in conjunction with the
Children's Museum, Indianapolis, conducted an International Congress on Learning
in Museums. Teams of senior museum professionals from 22 museums in the United
States and Canada participated.

May 7

Collection Management: A group of works from the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden's permanent collection were sold by a New York auction house, the first of
a mumber to be auctioned off over the next few years to benefit the museum's
collecticn. Provision for such action was stipulated by Joseph H. Hirshhorn in
his bequest.

May 8
Exhibition: The National Air and Space Museum opened a major gallery, "Looking

at Earth," that explores the history of aerial and orbital views of the Earth,
from camera-carrying pigeons to aircraft to satellites.
May 9

Research: A 55,000-gallon oil spill at Panama's oil refinery reached the reef at
Galeta Point, the site of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute's Atlantic
laboratory where long-term studies of animal and plant popoulaticon variations and
their causes are conducted. The Mineral Management Service of the U.S.

Department of the Interior provided funds for short-term studies of the
ecological impact of the oil spill.

May 10-13

Workshop: In Chicago, the first on-site "Policy and Management" workshop for
directors and trustees of museums from the membership of the African-American
Museum Association was coordinated by the Office of Museum Programs.

May 12

Open House: The Smithsonian Office of Public Affairs held a Behind-the-Scenes
Day cpen house for feature writers at the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center in Edgewater, Md. It was attended by a dozen members of the press and
generated publicity in both the print ard television media.

May 13

Milestone: A first in a series of three think-tank conferences was held at the
Cocper-Hewitt Museum. Prominent design professionals discussed issues of both
theoretical and practical significance +o the museum.

May 13

Guest Lecturers: Resident Associate Program began its three-part series,
"Tijlian Gish, Ginger Rogers, and Sally Field: Three Generations of Hollywoed
Actresses," cosponsored with the National Museum of American History. ‘The three
actresses were featured, sharing reminiscences of their careers.

May 14-23

Residencies: Semi-annual sessions of the Kellogg Museum Professionals at the
Smithsonian brought senior-level museum professionals from around the United

States to the Smithsonian Institution for a 10-day residency to study issues

relating to museums as educational resources in their communities.

May 15

Publicaticn: Symposium proceedings entitled "Watershed Research Perspectives"
was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press for the Smithsonian
Emvirormental Research Center. The fifteen chapters cover verious aspects of th
mutrient dynamics of complex watersheds, the role of riparian vegetation, and the
effects of acid deposition. This volume and a previous volume (1977) are the
only such watershed research symposia ever published.
May 15

Exhibition: Hydrolab, a stationary underwater laboratory, was placed on longterm
exhibition at the National Museum of Natural History. The laboratory
revoluticnized oceanogrpahic research by permitting scientists to live and work
in the depths of the sea for lengthy pericds.

May 16

Gift: An adult male fennec fox was presented to the National Zoological Park by
the Hai-Bar (Wildlife) Society of Israel.

May 17

Research: After ten years of planning and research, Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory scientists succeeded in operating an atomic clock to within one-half
degree of absolute zero, a temperature that is expected to allow maintenance of a
time signal 1000 times more accurate than any other clock.

May 19
Special Event: The Ambassador to the United States from Hungary attended the
opening at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum for "Treasures from Huncary: Gold and Silver

from the 9th-19th Centuries," an exhibition initiated by the Cooper-Hewitt Museum
and preduced by Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

May 19

Challenge Gramt: The Visitor Information and Associate's Reception Center
received from the Kresge Foundation a $500,000 challenge grant toward the
construction of its new Information Center.

May 21

Award: iLouise Steele, a 15-year volunteer with the Visitor Information and
Associate's Reception Center, was the recipient of the first Washington

Convention and Visitors Association's 1986 Hospitality Award for Outstanding
Volunteer.

May 23

Exhibition: "Through Light and Shadow: Fhotographs by Clara Sipprell," opened at
the Naticnal Fortrait Gallery.

May-June

International Program: The Office of Museum Programs/USIA Project on Museum
Education brought seven international participants to Washington to join with the
Kellegg Museum Professionals at the Smithsonian. The group visited Kellogg
Project demonstration projects in six U.S. cities in a 30-day exchange program.

June

Special Event: Honors ceremonies were held for the 1985-86 Smithsonian Fellcws.
June

New Program: A permanent American Indian Pregrem was established at the National
Museum of American History to bring Native American perspectives to museum
exhibitions, public programs and outreach projects.

June

Acquisiticn: A rare Vili (Congo) ivory staff top, a chief's emblem of office,
circa 19th century or earlier, was purchased by the National Museum of African
Are.

June

Gramt: A grant was received by the office of Horticulture from the James
Smithson Seciety to acquire equipment to prepare The Garden Club of America slide
collection "Slide Library of Notable Parks and Gardens" for transfer to a laser
disc.

June

Research: A high-resolution imager, designed and built by the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory for the German ROSAT X-ray satellite, was completed and
tested.

June

Video Pilot: "Smithsonian Quest," the pilot program for a children's television
series from the Institution, was completed by the Office of Telecommnications.

June 2

New Office: The Office of the Keeper of the Smithsonian Instituticn Building was
reorganized as the Office of Architectural History and Historic Preservation with
a principal responsibility for the study of the architectural history of all 14
major Smithsonian buildings and their preservation.

June 4

Awards: The Smithsonian News Service was honored by the National Association of
Govermment Communicators, receiving first, third and honorable mention awards in
the feature release category of the Blue Fencil Awards. Research Reports, a
publication of the Office of Public Affairs, placed second in the newsletter
category. The Torch, the Smithsonian staff newspaper also published by OPA,
placed first in its category of the Blue Pencil competition and in May received
the highest award presented by the Society for Technical Publications
Competition.

June 4
Grant: Smithsonian Institution Libraries was awarded $100,000 equivalent in

Pakistani rupees by the Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program to fund part of its
Translation Publishing Program.

2
A
June 5

Event: World Environment Day was celebrated at the National Zcological
Park with information displays and an evening concert. Collaborating with the
Zco in preducing this event was the United Nations Enviromment Programme and the
Glebal Tomorrow Coalition.

June 6

Exhibition: "Fields of Grass," an exhibition of drawings, watercolors and prints
of grasses by artists from the 16th century to the present, cpened at the
National Museum of Natural History.

Jure 9

Special Program: The High School Summer Intern Program began its first session
under the auspices of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.

June 14

Exhibition: "Davy Crockett: Gentleman from the Cane! opened at the National
Portrait Gallery.

June 17

Grant: The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation awarded a grant to the Smithsonian
Institution to support the videotaping of interviews about "Science in National
Life." The project will explore potentials inherent in adding a visual component
to historical research projects on recent history of science already underway in
a number of Smithsonian bureaus. Project staff is based in the Smithsonian
Archives.

June 18

Special Event: The Smithsonian Archives commemorated the 100th anniversary of
the birth of Alexander Wetmore, sixth Secretary of the Smithsonian, with the

of an exhibition entitled "Alexander Wetmore: The Early Years, 1900-
1925." Films of Dr. Wetmore's expeditions to Panama with Watson M. Perrygo in
the 1950s were screened and a reception followed.

June 19

Report: A nine-month self-study of the Smithsonian Libraries Preservation
Planning Program was completed and a report submitted by Nancy E. Gwinn,
Assistant Director, Collections a under direction of the Association of
Research Libraries.

June 19
Premiere: "On the Wing," a new large-screen film that dramatiz he dynamic

relationship between mechanical and natural flight, premiered at the National Air
and Space Museum's Samuel P. Langley Theater.
June 20

Exhibitions: Twin exhibitions, "Patent Pending: Models of Invention" and
"Invention and Enterprise," opened at the National Museum of American History.
The exhibitions commemorated the 150th anniversary of the 1836 Patent Act, and
helped to launch the joint Smithsonian Institution-United States Patent Model
Foundation campaign to raise $20 million for acquiring some 100,000 patent model
scattered across the country. ;

June 20

Research: The Smithsonian Conservation Analytical Laboratory, the Getty
Conservation Institute and the Canadian Conservation Institute agreed to a joint
research project, with financial support from the Getty Conservation Institute,
into the effects of various fumigants on the stability of materials in mseum
ebjects.

June 23

Seminars: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its 1986 series
of summer seminars for teachers; this year the program included ten seminars for
local teachers from the Washington, D.C. area and two graduate courses for
teachers from other parts of the United States.

June 23-27

Performance: The Franz Liszt Centennial Celebration, featuring international
virtucsi in recital, was cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program, the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, and the Library of Congress.

June 25-29; July 2-6

Folklife Festival: The 20th annual Festival of American Folklife featured rice
in Japanese folk culture, Tennessee folklife, the conservation of traditional
crafts in ethnic, indigenous and regional commmities in the United States, and
the occupational folkxlife of American trial lawyers. A music stage to celebrate
the Festival's 20th anniversary and dance parties were also included. A related
ethnegraphic film series began on June 25 organized by the Office of Folklife
Programs, the Human Studies Film Archives and the Museum of Natural History's
Office of Education.

June 27

Exhibition: "The Earliest Traces of Life," a permanent exhibition in the
National Museum of Natural History fossil hall, highlighted a 3.5 billion-year-
old stromatolite, a fossilized mass of blue-green algae and bacteria, the oldest
direct evidence of life on earth.

July
Brechure: The first brochure cn the facilities, research and resources of the

Department of Botany, Museum of Natural History, was written and produced by the
Office of Public Affairs and designed by the Sinithsonian Institution Press.
ww

CO

July

Grant: The National Museum of American History received a generous grant from
the Norfolk Southern Foundation to help produce a new major permanent exhibition,
“Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revoluticn, 1790-1860."

July

Milestone: Smithsonian Institution Libraries launched a bar-coding project for
circulation and inventory control, subsequently producing over 300,000 bar-code
labels from a bibliographic database.

July

Acquisition: The Olle Pellmyr Collection of Fennoscandian Lepidoptera arrived at
the National Museum of Natural History. This collection of nearly 7,000 specimens
was accumulated during pollination studies and will be used for comparison and
research purposes.

July

Film Production: "The Movie Palaces," a half-hour film funded by the National
Endowment for the Arts and produced by the Office of Teleccommunications, was
completed.

July 1

Anniversary: The National Air and Space Museum marked its 10th anniversary, a
decade highlighted by record-breaking attendance, an expanded ccnmitment to
historical and scientific research, award-winning films and a new national
magazine, Air & Space/Smithscnian.

July 3

Special Event: The Festival of American Folklife Japan Pregrem hosted an evening
for the Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian's National Associate Program,
co-sponsored by the Embassy of Japan.

July 21

Information System: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory became an active
contributing member of the internaticnal Conservation Information Network. This
new information system, still in an experimental, developmental stage, is
expected to become a major source of technical information for conservation
specialists worldwide.

July 24
Obituary: Adelyn Dohme Breeskin, Senior Curatorial Advisor at the National

Museum of American Art and a pre-eminent Mary Cassatt scholar, died in northern
Italy a little more than a week after celebrating her 90th birthday at the museum
with friends and colleagues. Among the works of art given to the museum in her
honor on that memorable occasion were Jacob Kainen's painting "Dabrowsky V" and
James Surls' sculpture "Black and White tipped Flower."

July 25

Exhibition: Ornamental and agremic grasses, grown and installed by the Office of
Horticulture, were exhibited at the first International Grass Symposiun.

July 27

Sympesium: The first international grass symposium on grass systematics and
evoluticn was held under the sponsorship of the Smithsonian, the American
Institute of Biological Sciences, and the National Science Foundation. Museum
botanist Thomas Soderstrom played a major role in planning the symposiun,
attended by 150 scientists from the U.S. and abroad.

July 29

Symposium: "Our Next 50 Years: A Look at the U.S. Space Program," held at the
National Air and Space Museum, brought together a panel of experts to discuss the
findings and recommendations for the 2lst century that were made by the
presidentially appointed National Commission on Space.

Acgust

Calerdar: The Smithscnian calendar of events, produced by the Office of Public
Affairs, was redesigned to achieve a more readable and useful format. The
calendar continues to be published as a paid monthly advertisement in the
Washington Post.

August

New Program: The Directorate of International Activities began a pilct three-
year program in cooperation with the National Museum of Natural History and the
international Man and the Biosphere Program, with a goal of designing a
practical, standardized methodology for collecting and managing biotic inventory
and other biological data in all biosphere reserves, potential reserves and other
endangered habitats.

August
Publicaticn: Great Basin, sixth in the Smithsonian's projected twenty-volume

encyclopedic Handbook of North American Indians, was published by the Smithsonian
Institution Press and the National Museum of Natural History.

August
Exhibition: "Thomas T. Thompson Trilobite Collection," a display of the largest

and finest personal collection of North American trilebites, opened at the
National Museum of Natural History.

29
30

August 6

Audiovisual: "A Living Legacy: The Woodrow Wilson House Museum," a videotape
addressing historic house museum issues, premiered at the Office of Museum

Programs.
August 7

Exhibition: "Selections from the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Bequest," the first public
showing of a significant group of works from the 1981 bequest of the museum's
founding donor, cpened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

August 8

Installation: The redesigned Doris M. Magowan Gallery of Portrait Miniatures
opened at the National Museum of American Art. One hundred examples from the
museum's collection—-many not previously shown publicly—survey the history of
the American miniature portrait from the latter half of the 18th century through
the mid=-19th century.

August 20

Exhibition: The special education exhibit, "ZooArk,'' opened at the National

Zoological Park with interpretive, interactive modules in six animal houses.

Thought-provoking quizzes and innovative computer games encourage visitors to
learn about conservation issues.

August 23-28

New Program: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory's new furniture conservation
training program began with the inaugural course, "Weed Technology." Six
students were accepted from among 75 applicants for the first class, which will
graduate in 1990.

August 24-29

Symposium: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory cosponsored IAU Symposium
126, "The Harlow Shapley Symposium on Globular Cluster Systems in Galaxies," at
Cambridge, Mass.

August 25

Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron and James Smithson Society members
of the Contributing Membership were invited to attend "An Evening at the Navy
Memorial Museum."" Members had access to the museum's entire exhibition, and the
evening included a reception and performance by members of The Commodores, the
Navy's jazz ensemble.

August 31

Milestone: Membership in the Contributing Membership Program exceeded 40,000 for
the first time since the Program's 1976 inception.
September

Publication: With the autumn 1986 issue, the circulation of Research Reports, a
thr ree-times-a-year periodical preduced by the Office of Public Affairs on
research in the sciences, art and history at the Institution, reached 45,500, an
increase of 10,000 over 1985.

September

TV PSA: A public service announcement for television use was produced by the
Office of Public Affairs for television use in the greater Washington, D.C. area,
reminding residents to enjoy the Smithsonian--their local museums—while summer
crowds are gone.

September

Forum: To initiate programs focused on biological diversity, the Directorate of
International Activities joined with the National Academy of Sciences to crganize
a highly successful National Forum on BioDiversity. The four-day, well-
publicized event provided the public and media with the learned views of
distinguished scientists and scholars on the subject of the rapid destruction of
the Earth's natural habitats and the subsequent loss of plants and animals.
Concurrent with the Forum was a poster-panel exhibition, film showings, displays
of literature and audio-visual materials and the Smithsonian's first live
national teleconference via satellite and cable.

September

Automated Systems: The decision was made to use the U.S. Department of
Agriculture's service bureau, the National Finance Center, for the Institution's
personnel management, payroll and reporting computer systems. A contract will ke
negotiated with processing anticipated to begin mid-1987.

September

Visit: Kenton Miller, Director General of the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature, visited Panama to discuss the sponsorship and scheduling
of the Fourth World National Parks Congress to be held in 1992. The Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institution was instrumental in promoting this action ard has
offered its assistance towards the planning and conduct of this international
event in Panama.

September

Milestone: Smithsonian Institution Libraries staff began using Electronic Mail
for intralibrary communications.

September

Research: Seventy-five scientists from the Smithsonian and other institutions
throughout the world began a long-term multidisciplinary study of a mangrove
ecosystem at Twin Cays, Belize, Central America, sponsored by the National Muse
of Natural History.
a
a)

September

Research: Analysis of data assembled in a pioneering 10-year study of tropical
bats at Barro Colorado Island, Panama, by Naticnal Museum of Natural History
mammalegist Charles 0. Handley, continued in 1986. Dr. Hardley's work is
illuminating the demography ard natural history of a population of tropical bats
and their important role in tropical forest ecology.

Sectember

Research: At the Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port, National Museum of
Natural History scientist M. G. Harasewych, began studies of mollusks, using DNA
hybridization and iscenzyme electrophoresis techniques to confirm the
evolutionary relationships inferred on the basis of shell morphometric and
anatomical data. This represents one of the first efforts to use DNA techniques
to study molluscan evolution.

September 1

News Service: Electrenic transmission of the Smithsonian News Service to
selected daily newspapers began via Associated Press Data Feature, a computerized
wire service. A total of 1,550 other publications continue to receive the News
Service monthly feature stories, written and distributed by the Office of Public
Affairs, by mail.

September 1]

Spanish Edition: The first Spanish-language edition of the Smithsonian News
Service, a product of the Office of Public Affairs, was distributed to 80 Spanish
language newspapers in 19 states, Washington, D.C, Puerto Rico, Canada and
Colombia.

September 12

Exhibition: "Unknown Territory: Photographs by Ray K. Me ' opened at the
National Museum of American art with 190 photogrephs decumenting Metzger's
experimentation with photographic techniques. The artist discussed his work at a
subsequent complementary program.

September 12

Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron and James Smithson Society members
of the Contributing Membership attended the National Endewment for the Arts’
"1986 National Heritage Fellowships Program." Presented at the George Washington
University Lisner Auditorium, the pregram included performances by the master
folk artists and artisans chosen as 1986 Heritage Fellows.

September 15-19

Course: As part of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory's conservation
training pregram, a specialist course in the Indentification of Historic Textile
Dyes and the Preparation of Analytical Reference Standards was taught by the
leading expert in this field, Dr. Helmut Schweppe of BASF, West Germany. This
course, attended by 19 museum professionals was recorded on videotape, from which
CAL, jointly with the Getty Conservation Institute, will prepare an educational
tape at a later date.

September 17

Lecture: Olga Hirshhorn described her life with her famed benefactor husband, in
conjunction with the exhibition "Selections frem the Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Bequest." The program was cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program and the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

September 17-20

Workshop: The Office cf Museum Programs On-Site Workshop "Collections: Planning
and Management," cosponsored by the Office of Museum Programs and the Hawaii
Museums Association, sent a Smithsonian Institution team to Honolulu.

Sectember 20

Special Event: As part of an ongoing effort to strengthen ties between museums
and schools across the United States, the Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education conducted a regional workshop in Shreveport, Louisiana, serving more
than 400 teachers from the area, including nearby Arkansas and Texas.

September 23

Milestone: The exhibition "Milestones: 50 Years of Consumer Goods and Services"
opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum to extensive national broadcast coverage,
including ABC's "Good Morning America," and coverage in the New York Times.

September 23-24

Special Program: "Pulse: A Practicum on Current Ideas and Approaches in Museum
Education" was held at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. The two-day
symposium featured lectures and workshops for docents.

September 25

Exhibition Award: The Office of Horticulture was awarded second-place honors at
the 38th Orchid Congress for orchid display, first place for an educational
exhibition and first, second and third place awards for orchid photographs.

September 26-27

Special Evert: The annual weekend for members of the James Smithson society
included a formal dinner to honor members of the Society and the National Board
of the Smithsonian Associates, a behind-the-scenes tour of the Supreme Court,
followed by a luncheon at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Ferforming Arts.

September 30

Exhibit Film: The epilogue film for the Museum of American History exhibition
"Engines of Change" was completed by the Office of Teleccmmunications.

1S)
Oo
Appendix 1

Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1986

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS

Honorable Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio, Chancellor (until September 26)

Honorable William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio, Chancellor (from September 26)

Honorable George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States,
ex officio

Honorable Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah
Honorable Barry Goldwater, Senator from Arizona
Honorable James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Honorable Edward P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts
Honorable Silvio 0. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts
Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Honorable David C. Acheson, citizen of the District of Columbia
Honorable Anne L. Armstrong, citizen of Texas

Dr. William G. Bowen, citizen of New Jersey

Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark, citizen of the District of Columbia
Dr. Murray Gell-Mann, citizen of California

Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., citizen of Pennsylvania
Honorable Carlisle H. Humelsine, citizen of Virginia

Mr. Samuel C. Johnson, citizen of Wisconsin

Mr. Barnabas McHenry, citizen of New York

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

Neil Harris Peter R. Marler
Chairman Robert M. May
Dore Ashton Matthew S. Meselson
Paul Fussell Sidney W. Mintz
Stephen Jay Gould Arthur Mitchell
Christian C. Hohenlohe Frederick W. Mote
Thomas P. Hughes David F. Musto
Ada Louise Huxtable Jaroslav J. Pelikan
Alice S. Ilchman Peter H. Raven
Oliver 0. Jensen Carl E. Schorske
Bennetta Jules-Rosette Emily D. T. Vermeule
Sherman E. Lee Dave Warren

Thomas E. Lovejoy
sas oseoOrcpom er s
ea ES ORES Ca @ 6 USRETEDE is

Thani i fod coe i ee
Le = Obs) Gah er wGlca, Claire
Pia ere es ™ 7 Saris

ewe See es wo

aS ar Gos zr

LlLevLL Lea we COLay Vie
Nae) (Dla Sinn

baveu Cneissi ior

Cnarles Giilissie
Jean Rs St. Clair

CPI yin Oy arty
A ise

DADS. AS THeCrpDe trTiev
ayes 2 /, Wa lie

case tS 77 =

Henry D. Smyth (deceased September 11, 1986)

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Honorary Chairman

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, Chairman
Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President

Mrs. Nancy B. Wellin, Vice President
Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President

Mr. Irvin A. Levy, Vice President

Mr. Dave H. Williams, Vice President/Treasurer

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Secretary

Miss Caroline R. Alexander
Mrs. Eli Broad

Mr. Eli Broad

Mrs. Francis de Marneffe
Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun
Mrs. Walter B. Ford II
Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway
Mrs. Henry C. Johnson
Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall
Mrs. Charles Kessler

FOUNDING TRUSTEES
Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman
Mr. Edgar P. Richardson (deceased)
Mrs. Edsel B. Ford (deceased)

EX OFFICIO

Mr. Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim

Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. Howard W. Lipman

Mr. Richard Manoogian
Mrs. Donald B. Marron

Mr. Alexander R. Mehran
Miss Julienne Michel

Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman
Mrs. John Rosekrans, Jr.
Mr. Richard Jay Schwartz
Mr. C. Bagley Wright

HONORARY TRUSTEES

Dr. Irving F. Burton
Mr. Russell Lynes
Mrs. William L. Richards
wo

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEE

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Bernard Mergen, Chair
Marjory Balge
Lorraine Brown
David Driskell
Alan Fern

Lois Fink

Henry Glassie
William Homer
Charles F. Hummel
Mark J. Pachter
John Vlach

John Wilmerding

NEW YORK

Milton Brown, Chair
Thomas N. Armstrong
John I. H. Baur
John Dobkin

Anne d'Harnoncourt
Linda S. Ferber
William Gerdts
Lloyd Goodrich
Eugene Goossen

John Howat

James Humphry III
John A. Kouwenhoven
Russell Lynes
Porter McCray
Barbara Novak

Clive Phillpot
Jules D. Prown
William B. Walker

NEW ENGLAND

Harley P. Holden, Chair
Winslow Ames

David S. Brooke
Georgia Bumgardner
Robert Cardinale
Theresa Cederholm
Anne Farnam

Charles Ferguson
Wolfgang Freitag

Hugh Gourley

Elton W. Hall
Patricia Hills
Sinclair Hitchings
John Holverson

John Kirk

Elizabeth M. Kornhauser
William Lipke

Laura C. Luckey

Paul Master-Karnik
Elliot Offner

James O'Gorman

Ronald Onorato

Stephen Riley

Daniel Rosenfeld

David Ross

Theodore Stebbins
Susan Strickler
Katharine Watson

Peter A. Wick

Margret Craver Withers
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

Herschel Chipp, Chair
Graham Beal

Whitney Chadwick
Wanda Corn

John Dillenberger
James Elliott

Albert Elsen

Henry Hopkins

Harvey Jones CHICAGO DOCUMENTATION PROJECT
Connie Lewallen

Margaretta Lovell Dennis Adrian

Christina Orr-Cahall Don Baum

Moira Roth Courtney Donnell

Peter Selz Robert Evans

Mare Simpson Richard Gray

Donald L. Stover Neil Harris

Ian McKibbin White Mary Jane Jacob

Judith Kirshner
Katharine Lee

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA Maureen McKenna
Archibald Motley

Constance Glenn, Chair Franz Schulze

E. Maurice Bloch David Sokol

Ruth Bowman James Wells

Bram Dijkstra Wim de Wit

Beatrice Farwell John Zukowsky

Burton Fredericksen
Richard Koshalek
Susan Larsen-Martin
Ronald Onorato

Earl A. Powell IIL
Michael Quick

Josine Ianco Starrels
Maurice Tuchman

Susan Walther

Richard V. West

CENTER FOR ASIAN ART: ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
and FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sackler Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Porter A. McCray

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, The Honorable George C. McGhee
Chairman Henry Millon

Charles Blitzer Cynthia Polsky

Kwang-chih Chang Edith Porada

Cynthia Helms Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
co

wo

Freer Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Katharine Graham

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Porter McCray
Chairman John Rosenfield

Laurence Sickman, Vice-Chairman Hugh Scott

Mrs. Jackson Burke Priscilla Soucek

Kwang-chih Chang Richard Weatherhead

Marvin Eisenberg

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM ADVISORY COUNCIL

August Heckscher,
Chairman
Karen Johnson Boyd
Rosemary Corroon
Joan K. Davidson
Joanne du Pont
Harmon H. Goldstone
Russell Lynes
Kenneth Miller
Arthur Ross
Robert Sarnoff
Marietta Tree
Robert McC. Adams,
ex officio
Tom Freudenhein,
ex officio

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Sydney Lewis, Chairman

Jerome L. Greene, Vice Chairman

Charles Blitzer

Anne d'Harnoncourt

Thomas M. Evans

Daniel P. Moynihan

Robert Rosenblum (appointed July 1, 1986)
A. James Speyer

Leonard C. Yaseen

Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Warren E. Burger, ex officio
NATIONAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY ECARD

Rebert Mcc. Adams, Chairman

Ann P. Bradley

Vice Admiral James C. Irwin, USCG
Donald M. Koll

Vice Admiral Edward H. Martin, USN

Jacqueline Ponder

Bernard E. Smith, Jr.

Lt. Gen. Keith A. Smith, USMC

Lt. Gen. Louis C. Wagner, Jr., USN
Gen. Larry D. Welch, USAF

Robert E. Whittington

NATIONAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lew Allen

Professor Luis Alvarez

Dr. Daniel J. Boorstin

Dr. John Brademas
Professor A. Hunter Dupree

Professor Freeman Dyson

Dr. Robert Frosch
Professor Charles Gillispie
Dr. Glenn Seaborg
Professor James Van Allen

NATIONAL MUSEUM ACT ADVISORY COUNCIL

Patti Carr Black

Ellsworth K. Brown

Edmund Barry Gaither

Jane K. Hutchins

Paul Henry Knappenberger

Robert R. Macdonald (ex officio)
Frank Preusser
William N. Richards
Raymond H. Thompson
Bret Waller

Terry Weisser

(ex officio)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION

Frank E. Moss, Chairman

Mrs. Frances Humphrey Howard,
Vice-Chairman

David Driskell

John A. Friede

Colbert L. King

Richard Long

Helen Neufeld

Robert Nooter

Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

Mrs. Susan Samuels

Gustave Schindler

Michael Sonnenreich

Robert Farris Thompson

Walter Washington

Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Tom L. Freudenheim, ex officio
40

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART COMMISSION

Mrs. Mary Homans, Chairman
David S. Purvis, Vice Chairman

Donald Anderson

Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake
Thomas S. Buechner
Mrs. Johnson Garrett
Ms. Nancy Graves

R. Philip Hanes, Jr.
Walker Hancock
Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr.
August Heckscher

Mr. Thomas C. Howe
Mrs. Jaquelin Hume

Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
James T. Demetrion, ex officio
Lloyd Goodrich, Commissioner Emeritus

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY
Commission

Senator Jake Garn (Chairman)
Robert O. Anderson

Barry Bingham, Sr.
Michael Collins

Thomas Mellon Evans

W. John Kenney

R. W. B. Lewis

Katie Louchheim

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Senator Robert H. Morgan
Barbara Novak

Frank Stanton

Richard Hunt

R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.
Myron Kunin

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Charles Parkhurst

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller IV
Wilbur L. Ross

Mrs. Oliver Seth

Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Mrs. Bagley Wright

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE

James R. Buckler, Belva Jensen

Chairman
Orchid Subcommittee
Edward S. Ayensu James R. Buckler
Mary L. Ripley

Carlton Lees

Paul E. Desautels
OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITT#E

WK, Kellogg Foundation Project

So! =

William N. Richards,

Chairman (through January 1986)
Tom L. Freudenhein,

Chairman (from February 1986)

Jane R. Glaser,
ex officio
Janet W. Solinger,
ex officio

Alan M. Fern

FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL

Adrienne Kaeppler, Chairman
Roger Abrahams

Richard Bauman

Douglas Evelyn

Henry Glassie

Rayna Green

John Langston Gwaltney

Mary Schmidt Campbell
David De La Torre

J. O. Grantham

Philip S. Humpnrey
Abram Lerner

William F. McSweeny
Paul N. Perrot

Richard H. Randall, Jr.
Ralph C. Rinzler
Michael H. Robinson
Susan Stitt

Michael Templeton

Charlotte Heth

Ivan Karp

William Merrill
Bernice Johnson Reagon
Roy Seiber

John Tchen

Carlos Velez-Ibanez

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WOMEN'S COUNCIL

Carolyn Jones
Chairperson
Mary Combs
Vice-Chair
Lauranne Nash
Secretary
Katherine Sprague
Treasurer
Kathleen Baxter
Historian
Diana Cohen
Montrose Cones
Lori Dempsey

Debora Fletcher
Carole Fox
Shadia Habbal
Vera Hyatt

Susan Jewett
Susan Kalecik
Christine Louton
Judith Petroski
Margaret Santiago
Joanna Scherer
Ellen Sprouls
Susan Warner
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION INTERNSHIP COUNCIL

Vicki Avera
Co-Chairperson

Eileen Hall
Co-Chairperson

Magda Schremp
Co-Chairperson

Ray Branham
Linda Chick

Pat Chieffo

Sal Cilella
Bruce Craig

Zed David
Georgina de Alba
William Deiss

July 1985-June 1986
Term

Ann Noel

Staff Assistant
to the Council

January 1926-December 1986

Term

July 1986-June 1987
Term

Betty Beuck Derbyshire

Kathy Dorman
Mary Dyer
Erica: Ell
Shirley Epps
Zora Felton
William Gaske
James Goode
Eileen Hall
Nancy Hinton
Judith Houston
Harry Jackson

Gretchen Jennings

Mark Katz

Pater Kibbee
Betty Lathern
Edward Lawson
Trish Long

Tom Lowderbaugh
Eleanor McMillan
Carolyn Mills
Lauranne Nash
Anne Peret

Alan Postlethwaite
Jacki Rand
Argelis Roman
Magda Schremp
Marjorie Share
Gayle Southworth
Neil Spitzer
Barbara Strickland
Marge Turgel
Carolyn Walker
Wilcombd Washburn
Rick Yamada

Ken Yellis
NATIONAL BOARD OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Mr. Seymour H. Knox III, Chairman
Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. Arthur G. Altschul

Mr. Philip Anschutz

Mr. Perry R. Bass

Honorable Lucius D. Battle
Mr. George B. Bingham, Jr.
Mr. William W. Boeschenstein
Mrs. I. Townsend Burden

Mr. Frank T. Cary

Mr. James H. Clement

Mr. Jeffrey Cole

Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.

Mr. Marshall Field

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mr. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. Thomas M. Keresey

Mr. Howard M. Love

Mr. Brooks McCormick

Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan
Mr. Arjay Miller

Mr. Charles H. Murphy, Jr.
Mr. Jack S. Parker

Mr. Siduey R. Petersen

Mr. Charles W. Schmidt

Mrs. George M. Seignious II
Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. Malcolm T. Stamper

Mrs. James M. Walton
Honorable John C. Whitehead
Mr. J. Tylee Wilson

Mrs. Peter Wray

Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman LII
Honorable Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. Lewis A. Lapham

Honorable George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra D. O'Connor

Mr. S. Dillon Ripley

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. Merritt Kirk Ruddock
Honorable Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
WOMEN'S COMMITTEE OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Chainman

Vice Chairman
Secretary
Assistant Secretary
Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer

Mrs. David Acheson

Mrs. Daniel Antonoplos
Mrs. Albert Barclay, Jr.
Mrs. Denton Blair

Mrs. Adelyn Breeskin

Mrs. George Bush

Mrs. Joseph V. Charyk
Mrs. Frank Clay

Mrs. Robert Collier

Mrs. Stuart C. Davidson
Mrs. J. Edward Day

Mrs. Adrian Fisher

Mrs. Sydney J. Freedberg
Mrs. George C. Gerber
Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr.
Mrs. Parker T. Hart

Mrs. Edgar W. Holtz

Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries
Mrs. Godfrey W. Kauffmann
Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly, III
Mrs. Robert Koehler

Mrs. Henry Krieger

Mrs. Nevin Kuhl

Mrs. George Varick Lauder
Mrs. James Lehrer

Mrs. Bruce MacLaury

Mrs. William Mailliard
Mrs. Alexander M. Maish
Mrs. Henry Rowmer McPhee

44

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Avery Faulkner
Robert Rogers

W. Jerrold Scoutt
Thomas Crocker
Harold Snell
Thomas Taylor

James Mitchell

Sam Nunn

Dudley Owen
Richard R. Palmer
James R. Patton, Jr.
Charles H. Percy
Horace White Peters
Richard Powell
Malcolm Price

S. Dillon Ripley
Thomas M. Roberts

Kirby Rodriquez

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Mrs.

Frederick B. Rooney
Peter T. Russell
John T. Sapienza
Leonard Silverstein
Henry P. Smith, III
Guy Steuart

Potter Stewart
Mark Sullivan, III
Richard L. Thompson

. Robert D. van Roijen
. Charles Verrill

. John Voorhees

. Charles Weber

. Edwin M. Wheeler

T. Ames Wheeler

- Gordon Page Williams

Laurence I. Wood
JOHN F, KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Honorary Chairmen

Mrs. Ronald Reagan
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Jimmy Carter

Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Roger L. Stevens, Chairman

Senator James A. McClure, Vice Chairman

Henry Strong, Vice Chairman

Frank Ikard, Secretary

Charlotte Woolard, Assistant Secretary

Timothy C. Coughlin, Treasurer

Harry C. McPherson, Jr., General Counsel

William Becker, Associate Counsel

Richard H. Owens, Henry Strong, Assistant Treasurers

Members Appointed by the President of the United States
Joe L. Allbritton Joan Mondale

Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Gerald M. Rafshoon
Marshall B. Coyne Mrs. Abraham Ribicoff

Richmond Crinkley
Trammell Crow

June Oppen Degnan

Robert Fryer

Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn
Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr.
Charlton Heston

Mrs. Earle Jorgensen
Melvin R. Laird

Marjorie M. Lawson

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
Dina Merrill

Caroline Hunt Schoellkopf
Leonard L. Silverstein
Jean Kennedy Smith

Roger B. Smith

Dennis Stanfill

Roger L. Stevens

Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss
Henry Strong

Lew R. Wasserman

Mrs. Jack Wrather

Members Ex Officio Designated by Act of Congress

Otis R. Bowen, Secretary of Health and Human Services
William J. Bennett, Secretary of Education

Charles Z. Wick, Director, U.S.

lator Edward M. Kennedy
or Lowell Weicker, Jr.
James A. McClure

uw WM WM Ww
om @
5

i
entative Joseph M. McDade

Information Agency
Representative Charles Wilson

Representative Sidney R. Yates

Marion.S. Barry, Meyor, District of Columbia

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

Daniel J. Boorstin, Librarian of Congress

J. Carter Brown, Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts

William Penn Mott, Jr., Director, National Park Service

F. Alexis H. Roberson, Director, District of Columbia Department
Recreation

Honorary Trustees

Mrs. Albert Lasker
Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. Jouett Shouse

Mrs. J. Clifford Folger
J. William Fulbright

FRIENDS OF THE KENNEDY CENTER

Annette G. Strauss, Chairman
Thomas J. Mader, Executive Director

National Council

Alexander Armstrong
Gayle Perkins Atkins
Joy Dirksen Baker

Mabel Brandon

William L. Cotter, Jr.
Geoffrey Edwards
Russell Lindner
Floretta Dukes McKenzie
Dina Merrill

Michael X. Morrell

Jock Reynolds

John Safer .
Caroline Hunt Schoellkop£
Carol Schwartz

Norma Davis Smith

Roger L. Stevens

Henry Strond

Joy Carter Sundlun
David Waller

Togo’ D. West, Jr:

o£
OHN F, KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Chairman

Vice Chairmen

orate Fund Leadership

James E. Burke
Chairman
Johnson & Johnson

Stephen J. Bechtel, Jr.
Chairman
Bechtel Group

Robert A. Beck
Chairman
Prudential Insurance

Theodore F. Brophy
Chairman
GTE

Charles L. Brown
Former Chairman
AT & T

John L. Clendenin
Chairman
BellSouth

Lodwrick M. Cook
Chairman
Atlantic Richfield

Donald F., Craib, Jn.
Chairman, Retired
Allstate

John J. Creedon
President
Metropolitan Life Insurance

Thomas H. Cruikshank
Chairman
Halliburton

James L. Ferguson
Chairman
General Foods

John H. Gutfreund
Chairman
Salomon Inc

John R. Hall
Chairman
Ashland Oil

Robert A. Hanson
Chairman
Deere & Company

Edward L. Hennessy, Jr.

Chairman
Allied-Signal

William R. Howell
Chairman
J. Cc. Penney

Edward G. Jefferson

Finance Committee
Chairman

DuPont

David T. Kearns
Chairman
Xerox

James L. Ketelsen
Chairman
Tenneco

Charles F. Knight
Chairman
Emerson Electric

Howard M. Love
Chairman
National Intergroup

John G. McElwee

Chairman

John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance

fs
48

Secretary

J. W. McLean
Chairman
Banks of Mid-America

Ruben F. Mettler
Chairman
TRW

Jack Moseley
Chairman
USF & G Corporation

Allen E. Murray
Chairman
Mobil

John R. Opal
Chairman,

Executive Committee
IBM

Edmund T. Pratt, Jr.
Chairman
Pfizer

James D. Robinson III
Chairman
American Express

Andrew C. Sigler
Chairman
Champion International

Leonard L. Silverstein
Senior Partner
Silverstein and Mullens

Roger B. Smith
Chairman
General Motors

John F. Welch, Jr.
Chairman
General Electric

Thomas H. Wyman
Former Chairman
CBS

Harold Burson
Chairman
Burson-Marsteller
PRESIDENT'S ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE ARTS

cee ee A, wa Sate :
Herbert L. Hutner, California

Margaret Archambault, Illinois
Robert D. Bain, North Dakota

Joy S. Burns, Colorado

Charles A. Camalier, Jr., Maryland
Claire Chambers, Michigan

Margot Denny, Alaska

Ophelia De Vore-Mitchell, New York
Mollie Faison, North Carolina
William M. Fine, New York

Richard A. Gallun, Wisconsin
Beverly J. Gosnell, South Carolina
Carl Halvorson, Oregon

Leota Hayes, Mississippi

T. David Higgins, West Virginia
Stephen Jernigan, Oklahoma

Peggy Mallick, Wyoming

Alyne Massey, Tennessee

Julia M. McCabe, Delaware

Virginia McCann, New Jersey
Millicent L. Monks, Maine

Julie P. Montgomery, Georgia
Lindsay, J. Morgenthaler, Ohio
Lillian N. Nall, Nevada

Jim Nelson, South Dakota

Chairman

Jeannette Nichols, Kansas

Betty Noe, Louisiana

Kay Orr, Nebraska

John G. Pappajohn, Iowa

Ann S. Penberthy, Arizona

John Piercey, Utah

Millie Pogna, New Mexico

Gladys Prescott, Florida
Chesley Pruet, Arkansas

Ann Rydalch, Idaho

Hugh K. Schilling, Minnesota
William Siems, Montana

Harriet Slaybaugh, Vermont
Eileen Slocum, Rhode Island
Charles C. Spalding, Hawaii
Richard Taylor; District of) Columbia
Dr. Paul Tessier, New Hampshire
James Thompson, Kentucky

Judith Thompson, Alabama

G. Robert Truex, Jr. Washington
Diane Ushinski, Pennsylvania
Dorothy Vannerson, Texas

Joseph Vetrano, Connecticut
Judith Woods, Missouri

Naomi Zeavin, Virginia

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman
John R. Stevenson

Carlisle H. Humelsine

Ruth Carter Stevenson

Robert H. Smith

Warren E. Burger, Chief Justice of the United States, ex

OLETCIO

George P. Shultz, Secretary of State, ex officio
James A. Baker, III, Secretary of the Treasury, ex officio
Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian

Institution, ex officio

49
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL
CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

Board of Trustees

William J. Baroody, Jr.
Chairman
Robert A. Mosbacher
Vice Chairman
Robert McC. Adams
James A. Baker III
Theodore C. Barreaux
Daniel J. Boorstin
Otis R. Bowen
Frank G. Burke
Lynne V. Cheney
Kenneth B. Clark
Stuart E. Eizenstat
Gertrude Himmelfarb
Max M. Kampelman
Jesse H. Oppenheimer
George P. Schultz
Charles Z. Wick
Appendix 2

Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards
Made October 1, 1985, through September 30, 1986

ARCHEOLOGY, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND RELATED DISCIPLINES

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Development
conference for special Daedalus issue on India.

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago. Illinois. Continued support
for administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology;
Archives and Research Center for Ethnomusicology.

American Sociological Association, Washington, D.C. XI World Congress of
Sociology (India).

Baltimore Museum of Art, Baltimore, Maryland. Ritual arts of the Baga
(Guinea).

Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts. Indo-U.S. conference on the Indian
economy.

Evergreen State College, Olympia, Washington. Comparative study of crop
production in India.

Freer Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. Mughal gardens in Pakistan.

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Epigraphic study of Sogdian
and other remains from Gilgit and the Karakorum in Pakistan.

Hunter College, New York, New York. Archeological strategies for Moenjodaro
in Pakistan.

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Indo-American fellowship program.

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Geophysical
exploration at Moenjodaro, Pakistan.

Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, Washington, D. C. Folklife research
(Pakistan); el-Sebou: the birth ritual of Egypt.

Social Science Research Council, New York, New York. Conference on
agricultural terminologies (India).

Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts. Conference on South Asia and world
capitalism.

University of California, Berkeley, California. Excavations at Opovo-Bajbuk
(Yugoslavia); archeological investigations at Harappa, Pakistan; energy
technologies and society in rural India.
University of California, Los Angeles, California. International conference
on the 100th anniversary of the Congress Party of India.

University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii. Gender inequalities in rural north
India.

University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Cooperative field and
laboratory archeological investigations (India)

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Hellenistic and
Roman influences on the ceramics of India; multidisciplinary exchanges
program with University of Peshawar, Pakistan.

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Conference on old problems and
new perspectives in the archeology of South Asia (India).

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY (INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY)

Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama and College of William and Mary,
Williamsburg, Virginia. VI International Congress of Aracology (India).

Eastern Washington University, Cheney, Washington. Paleontology and
carbonate petrology of the Permian-Lower Triassic strata of the Salt,
Surghar, and Khisor ranges of Pakistan.

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Later Miocene hominoids and
the origins of hominidae (Pakistan).

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Distributional and
ecological studies of relictual avian populations on the Indian peninsula;
international symposium on grass systematics and evolution (India);

international conference on marine science in the Arabian Sea (Pakistan).

National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C. Genetic analyses of captive

lions (India); Indian environmental science congress; snow leopard conference
(India).

New York University, New York, New York. The snakes of Burma (Burma and
India).

Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, Illinois. Study of early Cenozoic and
older Siliceous microfossils

Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. Ecology of a semitropical monsoonal
wetland in India; 3rd international congress on environmental education.

Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania. A comparative
study on the old workd and new world tiger beetle community structure
(India).

Rust College, Holly Springs, Mississippi. Nodulating plants of Pakistan.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Balboa, Panama. Coraciiform
avifauna of India.

1ty of Houston, Houston, Texas. Plumage patterns and speciation in

Wo

Phylloscopus" (India).

University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. Systematic analysis of honey bees
(India).

University of Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts. Chemical and mechanical
communication in termites (India).

University of Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota. Comparative breeding ecology
of black-bellied terms of South Asia (India).

University of North Carolina, Morehead City, North Carolina. Sharks and
their potential use as a food resource (India).

University of North Dakota. Reproductive biology and conservation of the
mugger crocodile (India).

Utah State University, Logan, Utah. Generic limits in the Stipeae: the tapa
of India and Pakistan.

ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Geochemical and
geochronological studies of selected flood basalt provinces of India; facies
characteristics of the modern depositional environments of the east coast of
India deltaic complexes.

National Air and Space Museum, Washington, D. C. Late Quaternary
geochronology (Egypt).

University of Rhode Island, Narragansett, Rhode Island. Possible
environmental impact of Deccan basalts volcanism at the Cretaceous/Tertiary
boundary (India).

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Exchange of
museum personnel with the Pakistan Museum of Natural History.

Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Joint
programs (India).

Northwest Institute for Historic Preservation, Pullman, Washington.

Stabilization and rehabilitation of historic monuments (Burma).

aA
oo
Appendix 3

National Museum Act Grants Awarded in Fiscal Year 1986

GRADUATE/PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING

New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, New York
New York University, New York, New York

Southern Illinois University, Carbordale, Illionis

State University of New York, Cooperstown, New York
University of Delaware, Newark, Delaware

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan

MUSEUM INTERNSHIPS

Cincinnati Art Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio

Harris County Heritage Society, Houston, Texas

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts

Historic Deerfield, Deerfield, Massachusetts

Intermuseum Conservation Association, Oberlin, Ohio
Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis, Missouri

Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts

New York Botanical Garden, Bronx, New York

New York Zoological Society, Bronx, New York

North Carolina Museum of Art, Raleigh, North Carolina
Northeast Document Conservation Center, Andover, Massachusetts
Panhandle-Plains Historical Museum, Canyon, Texas
Pennsbury Society, Morrisville, Pennsylvania

Riverbanks Zoological Park, Columbia, South Carolina
Rochester Museum and Science Center, Rochester, New Yark
St. Louis Zoological Park, St. Louis, Missouri
University of California, Los Angeles, California
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota

SEMINARS

Association of Science-Technology Centers

Dubuque County Historical Society, Dubuqve, Icwa

Museum of New Mexico, Santa Fe, New Mexico

National Trust for Historic Preservation, Washington, D.C.
Pacific Regional Conservation Center, Konolulu, Hawaii
Virginia Association of Museums, Richmond, Virsinia
SERVICES TO THE FIELD

African American Museums Association, Washington, D.C.

American Association for State and Lecal History, Nashville, Tennessee
American Association of Museums, Washington, D.C.

National Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Property,
Washington, D.C.

Strong Museum, Rochester, New York

SPECIAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH

American School of Classical Studies, New York, New York |
Carnegie-Mellcn University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina
Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware

STIPENDS TO INDIVIDUALS FOR CONSERVATICN STUDIES

Sergio Cautino, United States/International Council on Monuments and
Sites, Washington, D.C.

Scott Fulton, Queen's University, Ontario, Canada

Lisa Goldberg, New York University, New York, New York

Jeffrey C. Kimball, University of London, London, England

Dana Moffett, University of London, London, England

Jcseph Orfant, United States/International Council on Monuments and
Sites, Washington, D.C.

Terri Schindel, University of London, London, England

Mary Scott, University of London, London, England

Jane Sugarman, Winterthur Museum, Winterthur, Delaware

Vallentine Talland, State University of New York, Cooperstown, New York
Ralph Wiegandt, State University of New York, Cooperstown, New York

WN
AN
Appendix 4

Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1986

Listed immediately below in the first section of this Appendix under the heading “Aca-
demic and Research Training Appointments” are Predoctoral and Postdoctoral fellows,
Graduate Student fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awardees and
participants in special programs. This list was compiled by the Office of Fellowships and
Grants. Interns and other appointees are listed in the second section under the heading
“Internships and Other Student Appointments.” These entries were submitted by
bureaus, offices, and divisions of the Smithsonian Institution and may contain some
duplication. Also listed in this section are interns placed by the Office of Museum
Programs.

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research appoint-
ments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appointees are provided access to
the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources. The awardees, listed
in this Appendix by bureau, office, or division, began their residencies between October
1, 1985 and September 30, 1986. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral fellows, Graduate Student
fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special awards and participants in spe-
cial programs are so listed. The entries include the institution where the Fellow received
or expects to receive the degree, or the home institution of the Visiting Scientist or
Scholar and other special appointees. A brief description of the project to be undertaken
at the Smithsonian is included where appropriate. The fellow’s or visitor’s host bureau or
office and the Smithsonian advisor are also listed.
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Jontyle Robinson, Faculty Fellow, Emory University. Archibald John Motlev
Jr. and his artistic milieu with Garnett McCoy, Archives of American Art,
from February 1 to Mav 31, 1986.

BARNEY STUDIO HOUSE

Kenneth Haltman, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University. The role of the
interpreter: treaty councils on the 19th-century frontier with Wilcomb
Washburn, from June 16 to August 22, 1986.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Nancy Benco, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York,
Binghamton. Compositional and technological variability: an approach
to the study of pottery spvecialization in ancient societies with

Jacqueline Olin and James Blackman, from February 1, 1986 to January
Bl, 987s

Ann Boulton, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, State University of New
York, Buffalo. Object conservation with Carol Grissom from September
15, 1986 to September 14, 1987.

Veletta Canouts, Visiting Scientist, Southern Illinois University. Hopi
social boundary maintenance and exchange relationships, AD 1300-1600
with Ronald Bishop, from September 15, 1986 to September 14, 1987.

Robert M. Ehrenreich, Postdoctoral Fellow, Oxford University, England. The
state of iron technology in Roman dominated Britain with Jacqueline
Olin and Roy Clarke, Department of Mineral Sciences, from October l,
1985 to December 31, 1986.

Rosemary Gianno, Wenner-Gren Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University.
The analysis of identification of Southeast Asian resins with David
von Endt, from February 1, 1986 to January 31, 1987.

Rita Wright, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Production and
distribution of ceramics in Middle Asia, with James Blackman, from
June 16 to August 15, 1986.

CENTER FOR ASTAN ART
FREER GALLERY OF ART
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

James Wescoat, Rockefeller Postdoctoral Fellow, Universitv of Chicago. Via
gardens watered by rurning streams': the meanings of water in Mughal
Gardens at Agra with Milo Beach, from April 1 to September 15, 1986
and June 16 to September 15, 1987.

Joseph Thompson, Webb Fellow, University o

Ff Pennsylvania. The Vever
Collection with Glenn Lowr~. e 2 1

to August 29, 1986.
ws
CO

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Maria Bartko-Singh, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Poznan, Poland.
The aesthetic theory of Erwin Panofsky with Phvllis Rosenzweig,
Department of Painting and Sculpture, from March 1, 1986 to February
28, 1987.

Patricia McDonnell, Graduate Student Fellow, Brown University. Americans
in Berlin before World War I: Oscar Bluemner, Charles Demuth, Lyonel
Feininger, Marsden Hartley with Judith Zilcezer, Department of Painting
and Sculpture, from June 2 to August 8, 1986.

Rebecca Zurier, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. The graphic art of the
Ashcan School with Judith Zilcezer, Department of Painting and Sculpture,
from June 1, 1986 to April 30, 1987.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Margaret Champlin, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Los
Angeles. Rapael Pumpelly, geologist of the Gilded Age with Nathan
Reingold, from February 17 to April ll, 1986.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

John D. Anderson, Jr., Charles A. Lindbergh Professor of Aerospace History,
University of Maryland, College Park. Definitive history of aerodynamics
and research in hypersonic aerodynamics with Walter Boyne, Director,
and Howard Wolko, Department of Aeronautics, from September 1, 1986 to
August 31, 1987.

Glenn Bugos, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. Testing the
F-4 Phantom II: engineering practice in the development of American
military aircraft, 1952-1972 with E. Timothy Wooldridge, Department of
Aeronautics, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Michael Dennis, Predoctoral Fellow, The Johns Hopkins University. New
relations: academic-military relations at the Johns Hopkins
University Applied Physics Lab and the MIT Instrumentation Lab,
1942-1952 with David DeVorkin, Space Science and Exploration
Department, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Louis R. Eltscher, Alfred Verville Fellow, Rochester Institute of Technology.
A history of the Curtiss-Wright aeronautical corporation with F. Robert
van der Linden, Department of Aeronautics, from September 1, 1986 to
August 31, 1987.

Herbert Friedman, Martin Marietta Chair of Space History, The Johns Hopkins
University. Progress of sounding rocket research centering on the
Aerobee rocket era of the 1950's with David DeVorkin, Space Science
and Exploration Department, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.
Jose Villela Gomez, International Fellow, Universidad Autonoma Nacional de
Mexico. Early airlines of Mexico, establishment of the Mexican
airline industry, and Mexico's place in aviation history with Ron
Davies and Jay Spenser, Department of Aeronautics, from July 1, 1986
to June 30,°1987.

Pierre Lissarrague, Charles A. Lindbergh Professor of Aerospace History.
Experimental flight at the very beginning of aviation and charac-
teristics of aircraft flown before 1910 with Walter Boyne, Director,
and Ron Davies, Department of Aeronautics, from October 1, 1985 to
September 30, 1986.

Beth Parkhurst, Graduate Student Fellow, Brown University. History of
women in the computer programming profession with Paul Ceruzzi,

Department of Space Science and Exploration, from June 2 to August 8,
1986.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Renee Boser-Sarivaxivanis, Regents Fellow, University of Basel, Switzerland.
African textiles, the Lamb Collection with Sylvia Williams and Roy
Sieber, from October 1, 1985 to August 31, 1986.

Christraud Geary, Rockefeller Postdoctoral Fellow, Boston University.
Historical photographs as sources for research on African art history
and history with Roy Sieber, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Labelle Prussin, Rockefeller Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Washington.
Nomadic African women as placemakers: the arts and architecture of
nomadism in Africa with Sylvia Williams, from January 1 to August 3l,
1986.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Judith Hayward, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. Man and nature
in Winslow Homer's Adirondack pictures with Elizabeth Broun,
Curatorial Division, and William Truettner, Department of Painting and
Sculpture, from September 1, 1986 to June 30, 1987.

Michael Panhorst, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. Monumental
sculpture dedicated on Civil War battlefields before 1920 with William
Truettner and Lois Fink, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from
October 1, 1985 to August 31, 1986.

John Wetenhall, Predoctoral Fellow, Stanford University. The ascendency of
modernism in American public sculpture with Virginia Mecklenburg and
George Gurney, Department.of Painting and Sculpture, from July 1, 1986
to June 30, 1987.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

JoAnne Brown, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Next
to Godliness: the meaning and practice of personal cleanliness in
America, 1830-1980 with Barbara Melosh, Department of the History of
Science and Technology, from October 15, 1985 to November 30, 1986.

Richard Bushman, Regents Fellow, University of Delaware. Gentility and
respectability, material culture in earlv America, 1700-1850 with
Roger Kennedy, Director, and Garv Kulik, Department of Social and
Cultural Historv, from January 1 to August 31, 1986.

Bret Carroll, Graduate Student Fellow, Cornell University. Robert Hare's
theories of electricity with Arthur Molella, Department of the History
of Science and Technology, from June 2 to August 8, 1986.

Elizabeth Clark-Lewis, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland, College
Park. The migration and employment transition of African-American women,
1890-1930 with Spencer Crew, Archives Center, from September 1, 1986
to August 31, 1987.

Wayne Durrill, Predoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill. Rural development in the Early New South: Anson County, North
Carolina, 1870-1900 with Pete Daniel, Department of the History of
Science and Technology, from January 1 to December 31, 1986.

Edwin Gabler, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Massachusetts. Social and
economic historv of late 19th-century American telegraphers with
Bernard Finn and Arthur Molella, Department of the History of Science
and Technology, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Paul Groth, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. Factory
space and “living” space: form and meaning in American industrial
buildings, 1870-1930 with Robert Vogel, Department of the History of
Science and Technology and Gary Kulik, Department of Social and Cultural
History, from February | to July 31, 1986.

Sharon Harley, Faculty Fellow, University of Maryland, College Park. What
it means when women work: gender, race, and women's work in the
nation's capital, with Spencer Crew and James Horton, Archives Center,
from February 2 to June 1, 1986.

Kenneth Kreitner, Graduate Student Fellow, Duke University. Town bands and
community life in turn-of-the-century Pennsylvania with Horace

Boyer and Cynthia Hoover, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
June 2 to August 8, 1986.

Alan Lessoff, Graduate Student Fellow, The Johns Hopkins University. The
structure of local real estate and contracting business in the District
of Columbia during the Gilded Age and the involvement of local
entrepreneurs in the District development and party politics with Keith
Melder, Department of Social and Cultural Historv, from February 3 to
April 1l, 1986.

Karen Linn, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University. The American idea of the
banjo with John Hasse, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Charl McGovern, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. The discovery of
he consumer, 1880-1940 with Jackson Lears, Department of Social and
1 a

21 Historv, and Svencer Crew, Archives Center, from September 1,

86 to August 31, 1987.
Cynthia Neverdon-Morton, Faculty Fellow, Coppin State College. The
Afro-American woman and the struggle for racial and social equality
1925-1975 with Edith Mayo, Department of Social and Cultural Historv,
from September 1 to December 31, 1986.

Rodnev Olsen, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universitv of Missouri. The visual
culture of civilized morality with Jackson Lears and Susan Myers,
Department of Social and Cultural History, from September 1, 1986 to
August 31, 1987.

Frances Robb, Predoctoral Fellow, West Virginia University. Industrializa-
tion in the Potomac River Valley, 1800-1860 with William Withuhn,
Department of the History of Science and Technologv, from August 1,
L986s tozJudiys 31 21987 ¢

ny

William Wiggins, Faculty Fellow, Indiana University. The role of sports

in Afro-American community life during the Jim Crow Era: 1896 to 1954

with Carl Scheele, Department of Social and Cultural History, from
July 1 to August 31, 1986.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
Hans Bath, Visiting Scientist, Forschungs - Institut Senckenberg,

Frankfort, Germany. Examining and identifying a large number of
parablenniins and other blennioids and fishes with Victor Springer,

Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from September 1 to September 28, 1986.

David Begun, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. The taxonomy
and phylogeny of Dryopithecus with Richard Potts, Department of
Anthropology, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Daniel Britt, Graduate Student Fellow, Brown University. The mineralogy
and petrology of meteorites with Glenn MacPherson, Department of
Mineral Sciences, from June 9 to August 15, 1986.

James Brittsan, Visiting Student, University of Maryland, College Park.
Rates of primary production through use of a cold water microcosm with
Walter Adey, Marine Systems Laboratory, from April 1, 1986 to March 31,
1987.

Susan Candela, Visiting Student, University of Miami. Identification of
beaks of Pelagic Cephalopods from the Western North Atlantic with
Clyde Roper, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from July 15 to July
3%: 1986.

Ricardo Correa e Castro, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Sao Paulo,
Brazil. Taxonomic revision of the family Prochilodontidae (Pisces:
Characiformes) with Richard Vari, Department of Vertebrate Zoology,
from August 1, 1986 to July 31, 1987.

Steven Crum, Native American Fellow, University of Utah. The National
Congress of American Indians and its involvement in American
Indian higher education with Herman Viola, National Anthropological
Archives, from June 9 to August 8, 19864.

61
Amv Dahlstrom, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
Obviation in Fox with Ives Goddard, Department of Anthropology, from
January 1 to December 31, 1986.

Kruna Elbied-Rakic, Visiting Scientist, University of Belgrade,
Yugoslavia. Search for the deep-sea passage formed between the
Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea at the beginning of the
Pliocene (late Neogene) with Richard Benson, Department of
Paleobiology, from March 1, 1986 to February 28, 1987.

Richard Emlet, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
Studies on developmental mode and its evolutionary consequences in fossil
echinoids with David Pawson, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from
October 1, 1985 to September 30, 1986.

Ronald Engard, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. Art and political
economy: the constitutionality of symbols in African myth, dance, and
other “expressive forms” with Mary Jo Arnoldi, Department of
Anthropology, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Omran Frihy, U.S./Egypt Peace Postdoctoral Fellowship, Alexandria
University, Egypt. Erosion of the eastern Nile delta with Daniel
Stanley, Department of Mineral Sciences, from April 24, 1986 to
February 24, 1987.

Robert Gay, Native American Fellow, New Mexico State University. The
Oglala Sioux Tribe from 1890-1934 with Herman Viola, National
Anthropological Archives, from July 1 to July 31, 1986.

Martha Graham, Graduate Student Fellow, University of New Mexico. An eth-
noarcheological studv of Tarahumara residential site structure and
mobility with William Merrill, Department of Anthropology, from
September 8 to November 15, 1986.

Mark Grygier, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, San Diego.
Taxonomv, morphology, and ecological relationships of Myzostomida
with Kristian Fauchald, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from
July 1 to December 31, 1986; and May 15 to November 14, 1987.

Royce Brooks Hanson, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Los
Angeles. Thermal and metamorphic evolution of the Ritter Range Pendant,
East-Central Sierra Nevada, California with Sorena Sorenson and
Richard Fiske, Department of Mineral Sciences, from September 15, 1986
to September 14, 1987.

Marian Hansson, Visiting Scholar, University of Oklahoma. The Kiowa
collections at the Smithsonian with William Merrill, Department of
Anthropology, from April 15, 1986 to April 14, 1987.

Lawrence Heaney, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Systematics
and biogeography of Southeast Asian tree squirrels with Michael
Carieton and Richard Thorington, Department of Vertebrate Zoology,
from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.
Alan Herndon, Graduate Student Fellow, Florida International University.
Preliminary revisionary studies on North American Hypoxis with Robert
Faden, Department of Botany, from June 2 to August 8, 1986.

Lesley Hill, Faculty Fellow, University of Massachusetts. Bio-cultural
approaches to the study of New World slavery and emancipation with
Lawrence Angel, Department of Anthropology from February 1 to May 3l,
1986.

Robert Hook, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Kentucky.
Paleoenvironmental controls on the accumulation and preservation of
upper carboniferous tetrapod remains with Kay Behrensmeyer, Department
of Paleobiology, from January 1 to December 31, 1986.

Alan Robert Kabat, Visiting Student, Harvard University. Systematics of
the Naticidae, a family of predatory marine gastropod mollusks with
Richard Houbrick, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from June 11 to
June 20, 1986.

Silvard Kool, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. Phvlogenv
and taxonomy of thaidid (Prosobranchia: Muricacea) gastropods with
Richard Houbrick, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from June l,
1986 to May 31, 1987.

Varuni Kulasekera, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Peradeniva, Sri
Lanka. A new species of Anopheles of the aitkenii species group from
Sri Lanka with Karl Krombein, Department of Entomology, from August 4
to October 10, 1986.

Lars Kvist, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Aarhus, Denmark. The taxo-
nomy and specialization of Kohleria (sensu lato) (Gesneriaceae) with
Laurence Skog, Department of Botany, from September 1, 1986 to August
SSL 987.3

Michael Lambert, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University. Islam and
Mational identity in Senegal with Ivan Karp, Department of
Anthropology, from June 30 to September 5, 1986.

Ariyawansa N. Liyanage, Graduate Student Fellow, Nagoya University, Japan.
Minerological and chemical analysis of deep ocean sediments
with Kurt Fredriksson, Department of Mineral Sciences, from October 2
to November 28, 1985.

Karen Lupardus, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. Recovery and
processing of Alabama (Muskogean language) texts collected bv John R.
Swanton circa 1910 with Ives Goddard, Department of Anthropology,
from June 1, 1986 to February 28, 1987.

Mark Mack, Education Fellow, University of Massachusetts. Donald Ortner,
Department of Anthropology, from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Anne Menue, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Los Angeles.
Movement analysis in selected ethnic film with Mary Jo Arnoldi,
Department of Anthropology, from June 16 to August 23, 1986.
James Stuart Miller, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University. A phylogene-
tic analvsis of the dioptine genera (Lepidoptera: Notodontidae) with
Robert Robbins, Department of Entomology, from Februarv 15, 1986 to
February. 14,. 1987.

Sidney Mintz, Regents Fellow, The Johns Hopkins University. The cultural
and economic place of sucrose in U.S. History with Robert Hoffman,
Director, and Adrienne Kaeppler, Department of Anthropology, from
September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Dorothy Ann Pabst, Graduate Student Fellow, Duke University. Morphology
and possible function of the subdermal connective tissue sheath in
cetaceans with James Mead, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from
June 2 to August 8, 1986.

Michael Pogue, Visiting Scientist, University of Minnesota. Long-term
program on canopy Lepidoptera with Terry Erwin, Department of
Entomology, from August 1, 1986 to July 31, 1987.

Carol Robertson, Faculty Fellow, University of Maryland, College Park. The
dynamics of power and gender as reflected in Hawaiian performance con-
texts with Adrienne Kaeppler, Department of Anthropology, from December
12, 1985 to May 30, 1986.

Susan Rowley, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cambridge University, England.
Inter-regional population movements and their archaeological
visibility: a case study among northern hunter-gatherers with William
Fitzhugh, Department of Anthropology, from November 15, 1985 to
November 14, 1986.

Anna Siniarska, Postdoctoral Fellow, Adam Mickiewicz University, Poland.
Sexual dimorphism and asymmetry of human bones with Donald Ortner,
Department of Anthropology, from October 1, 1985 to September 30, 1986.

Bob Smith, Native American Fellow, Long Beach State College. Oneidas, from
time of contact through 1934 with Herman Viola, National Anthropological
Archives, from February 1 to March 15, 1986.

Celia Smith, Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford University. Species concepts
in red algae: testing for evolution or phenotypic variation in spe-
cies of Bostrychia (Rhodomelaceae, Ceramiales) with James Norris,
Department of Botany, from January 15, 1986 to January 14, 1987.

Margaret Stern, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Davis.
Ecology and biogeography of Andean bamboo and its associated fauna

with Thomas Soderstrom, Department of Botany, from March 17 to May 23,
1986.

Hans—-Dieter Sues, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. Patterns of
evolution in herbivorous mammal-like reptiles from the Beaufort Group
(Perino-Triasic) of southern Africa with Nicholas Hotton, Department of
Paleobiology, from August 1], 1986 to July 31, 1987.
James Thomas, Predoctoral Fellow, Florida Institute of Technology.
Cladistical analysis of selected tropical gammaridean amphipoda with
Laurens Barnard, Department of Invertebrate Zoology, from June !, 1986
to May 31, 1987.

Russell Thornton, Native American Fellow, Florida State University. James
Mooney: historic American Indian populations and epidemiology with
Douglas Ubelaker, Department of Anthropology, from January 1 to February
28, 1986.

Katherine Troyer, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Davis.
The evolution of herbivory in terrestial vertebrates with George Zug,
Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from September J], 1986 to August 31,
1987.

Susan Weller, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin. A revised
classification and phylogeny of the Nystaleini (Lepidotera:
Notodontidae) with Robert Robbins, Department of Entomology, from
September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1987.

Thosaporn Wongratana, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of London, England.

A revision of phylogeny and taxonomy of Indo-West Pacific clupeoid fishes

with Robert Gibbs, Department of Vertebrate Zoology, from October l,
1985 to September 30, 1986.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Dorinda Evans, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Emory University. Gilbert
Stuart: The artist and his influence with Lillian Miller, Charles
Wilson Peale Papers, from September 1, 1986 to April 30, 1987.

Tara Tappert, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington University. Biography
of Cecilia Beaux (1855-1942) and a critical analysis of her work with
Lillian Miller, Charles Wilson Peale Papers, from July 1, 1986 to June
30, 1987.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

G. Agoramoorthy, Visiting Student, University of Jodhpur, India.
Reproductive strategies of male and female Hanuman Langurs of Jodhpur,
India with R. Rudran, Department of Zoological Research, from May 1 to
October 31, 1986.

Sara Aliga, Visiting Student, University of Ricardo Palma, Peru.
Conservation and Wildlife Management Training with R. Rudran,
Department of Zoological Research, from June 2 to August 15, 1986.

Bharat Bhushan, Visiting Student, University of Bombay, India. Conservation
and Wildlife Management Training with R. Rudran, Department of
Zoological Research, from June 2 to August 15, 1986.

Mary Katherine Carlstead, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of Groningen,
Netherlands. Predictability as a factor contributing to the
occurrence of cage stereotypies in zoo animals with John
Seidensticker, Department of Mammalogy, from September 15, 19856 to

=a =
September 14, 1987.

68
66

Peter Davidar, Visiting Student, Madras University, India. R. Rudran,
Department of Zoological Research, from June 2 to August 15, 1986.

Kim C. Derrickson, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universitv of Pennsvivania. The
experimental use of female mockingbird (Mimus polvglottos) response to
assay the effectiveness of male song repertoires of different size
and delivery patterns in attracting females with Eugene Morton,
from October 15, 1985 to October 14, 1986.

Pulinkunnel Ease, University of Calicut, India. Conservation and Wildlife
Management Training with R. Rudran, Department of Zoological Research,
from June 2 to August 15, 1986.

Lisa Forman, Visiting Scientist, New York University. Population genetics
with Katherine Ralls, Department of Zoological Research, from August 1,
1986 to July 31, 1987.

Kenneth Halama, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Virginia.
Differences in salamander species diversity between disturbed and
undisturbed habitats with John Seidensticker, Department of Mammalogy,
from June 9 to August 15, 1986.

JoGayle Howard, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland, College Park.
Xenogenous fertilization of leopard cat (Felis begalensis) oocvtes with
David Wildt, Department of Animal Health, from January 1 to December 31,
1986.

Yadvendradev V. Jhala, University of Bombay, India. Conservation and
Wildlife Management Training with R. Rudran, Department of Zoological
Research, from June 2 to August 15, 1986.

Subba Manbahadur, Visiting Student. Conservation and Wildlife Management
Training with R. Rudran, Department of Zoological Research, from
June 2 to August 15, 1986.

William McShea, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York,
Binghamton. Social organization of a fossorial insectivore (Condvlura
cristata) with Edwin Gould, Department of Mammalogy, from June 1, 1986
to May 31, 1987.

Daniel Mughogho, Visiting Student, University of Malawi, Central Africa.
Conservation and Wildlife Management Training with R. Rudran,
Department of Zoological Research, from June 2 to August 15, 1986.

Donald Nichols, Postdoctoral Fellow, Virginia-Maryland Regional College of
Veterinary Medicine. Development of immunologic tests to detect
Parelaphostrongvlus tenuis infection in exotic ungulates with Richard
Montali, Department of Pathology, from August 1, 1986 to July 31, 1987.

Enrique Ortiz, Visiting Student, San Marcos State University, Peru.
Conservation and Wildlife Management Training with R. Rudran, Department
of Zoological Research, from June 2 to April 15, 1986.
Survo W. Prawiroatmodjo, Visiting Student, Airlangga University, Indonesia.
Conservation and Wildlife Management Training with R. Rudran,
Department of Zoclogical Research, from June 2 to August 15, 1984.

Ramkrishnan Selvakumar, Visiting Student, Madurai-Kamaraj University,
India. Feeding ecology and social organization of the Gaur 'Bos
Gaurus' with Christen Wemmer, Department of Conservation, from May 1
to October 31, 1986.

Ram Prit Yadav, Visiting Student. Conservation and Wildlife Management
Training with R. Rudran, Department of Zoological Research, from June
2 to August 15, 1986.

Prospero A. Yance, Visiting Student, Universidad Nacional Agraria La
Molina, Peru. Conservation and Wildlife Management Training with R.
Rudran, Department of Zoological Research, from June 2 to August 15, 1986.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Edward Ayom, Graduate Student Fellow, City University of New York. A linguistic
and pedagogic exegesis of some (Jieng) Dinka tongue twisters, riddles,
and song and dance games with Peter Seitel and Ives Goddard,
Department of Anthropology, from June 30 to September 5, 1986.

Francesca Cappelletto, Graduate Student Fellow, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill. Analysis of the Festival] of American Foixlife
and its ramifications from theoretical perspective with Peter Seitel,
from September 15 to November 21, 1986.

Margaret Wade-Lewis, Faculty Fellow, New York Universitv. Analvsis and
cataloguing of tapes from the Festival Black Storvtelling with Phyllis
May-Machunda, from July 1 to August 31, 1986.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Johannes Andersen, Visiting Scientist, Copenhagen University, Denmark. Radial
velocity measurements on early-type stars and spectroscopic binaries
from August 11 to October 30, 1986.

Lawrence Anderson, Visiting Scientist, University of California, Berkeley.
Study of the thermal equilibrium of the solar atmosphere from the pho-
tosphere to the hase of the corona, from July 7 to July 18, 1986.

Keith Arnaud, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cambridge University, England. Soft x-rav
Spectra used to study a large sample of clusters, near infrared
spectra of old steller populations, and the consequences of cooling
flows by using IRAS and Hubble Space Telescope data, from September 1,
1986 to August 31, 1988.
Alison Campbell, Visiting Scientist, Cambridge University, England.
Age sequences in giant extragalactic bursts of star formation with
Steven Willner, Department of Optical and Infrared Astronomv, from May
15, kI86: ho: Januaty 32,. 1988).

Hendrik W. DeVries, Visiting Scientist, Columbia University. High latitude
molecular clouds associated with infrared emission from IRAS with Patrick
Thaddeus, Department of Radio and Geoastronomy, from July | to August 31,
1987.

David Fegun, Visiting Scientist, University College, Dublin, Ireland. High
energy astrophysics, from September 1 te October 3, 1986.

Akihiko Hashimoto, Postdoctoral Fellow, Nagoya University, Japan. Planet
forming processes in the solar nebula, with J.A. Wood, Department of
Planetary Sciences, from May 1, 1986 to April 30, 1987.

Philip Judge, Visiting Scientist, Oxford University, England. Calculation of
model stellar atmospheres based on sulphur atomic data from July 28 to
August 22, 1986.

Cedric Lacey, National Aeronautics and Space Administration Postdoctoral Fellow,
Cambridge Universitv, England. Dissipational galaxy formation, and stellar
dynamics with George Field, Department of Theoretical Astrophysics,
from Julv 1, 1986 to June 30, 1987.

Valerie de Lapparent, Postdoctoral Feilow, University cf Paris, France.
The large-scale distribution of galaxies with Irwin Shapiro, Director,
from September 1, 1986 to August 31, 1988.

Laurence Marschall, Visiting Scientist, University of Chicago. Radial
velocities of stars in the Trapezium Cluster in Orion with David
Latham and Robert Mathieu, Department of Optical and Infrared
Astronomy, from July 1, 1986 to August 3], 1987.

Brian McBreen, Visiting Scientist, Universitv College, Dublin, Ireland. Star
forming regions in the Giant Molecular Clouds, from September 22 to
October 1l, 1986.

Birgitta Nordstrom, Visiting Scientist, Stockholm University, Sweden. Radial
velocitv measurements on earlv-tvpe stars and spectroscopic binaries,
from August 25 to October 31, 1986.

Lenoid Ozernov, Distinguished Visiting Scientist, Lebedev Physical
Institute, Moscow. Intergalactic medium, quasars, galaxy formation,
and other ohenomena related to cosmological problems with Irwin
Shapiro, Director, and George Field, Department of Theoretical
Astrophvsics from July 21, 1986 to Julv 31, 1988.

Russell, Visiting Scientist, University of Leicester, England.
torv infrared spectroscopy of astronomical ions with H.E. Radford,
partment of Atomic and Molecular Physics, from July 1 to December 31,

Sankar P. Tarafdar, Visiting Scientist, University of Calcutta, India.
Interstellar chemistrv with A. Dalgarno, Department of Theoretical
Astrophvsics, from August 27 to September 30, 1986.

Hans Ungerechts, Visiting Scientist, Bonn University, Germany. CO Survey of
the molecular clouds in Perseus, Taurus, and Auriga with Patrick
Thaddeus, Department of Radio and Geoastronomy, from August 15 to
December 31, 1986.

P. Venkatakrishnan, Visiting Scientist, Bangalore Universitv, India. The
physics of solar magnetic flux-tubes; long baseline optical inter-
ferometry with R.W. Noves and Peter Nisenson, Department of Solar and
Stellar Physics, from September |] to September 30, 1986.

Ira Wasserman, Visiting Scientist, Cornell University. Elementary particle
physics with George Rybicki, Department of Theoretical Astrophysics, from
April 1 to June 15, 1986.

Frank Wilczek, Regents Fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara,
with Irwin Shapiro, Director, and staff, from June 15 to August 15,
1986; June 15 to August 15, 1987; and June 15 to August 15, 1988.

Andrzej Zdziarski, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. Model of Gamma
tay burst sources based on repeated Compton scatterings with Alan
Lightman, Department of Theoretical Astrophysics, from May 15 to August
1555 1936.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Hilton Biggs, Visiting Scientist, Purdue University. Renovation of a UVB
instrument with Bernard Goldberg and John Sager, Rockville, from June
16 to July 4, 1986.

Josef Grabowski, Visiting Scientist, Poznan Technical University, Poland.
Atmospheric pressure effect on photosynthetic energy transfer with
Elisabeth Gantt, Rockville, from June 1 to November 30, 1986.

Geoffrey Holmes, Visiting Scientist, University of Cambridge, England.
Far-red enchancement of stomatal aperture and photosynthesis under
simulated natural conditions with William Klein, Rockville, from
October 12 to October 26, 1986

Jitendra Khurana, Postdoctoral Fellow, Delhi University, India. Physiology
of flowering of the duckweeds with Charles Cleland, Rockville, from
October 1, 1985 to September 30, 1986.

Mamoru Mimuro, Visiting Scientist, National Institute for Basic Biology,
Okazaki, Japan. Chemical modification of energy transfer in
photosynthetic antennae with Elisabeth Gantt, Rockville, from August
16 to September 6, 1986.
Laura Nye, Visiting Student, North Carolina State Universitv. Telemetric
analvsis of foraging and movement bv Callinectes sapidus (Rathbun)
with Anson Hines, Edgewater, from Mav 1, 1986 to April 30, 1987.

Curtis Robinson, Visiting Scientist, Edinboro State College. Gene regula-
tion of carotenoid biosynthesis in N. crassa with Roy Harding,
Rockville, from July 15, 1986 to July 14, 1987.

Allison Snow, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Massachusetts. Male and
female reproductive success of a woodland orchid, Tipularia discolor with
Dennis Whigham, Edgewater, from September 1, 1986 to December 31, 1987; and
Avril 1 to August 31, 1988.

Mark Southerland, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill. Behavioral ecology of coexisting generalist ant species with James
Lynch, Edgewater, from January 1 to December 31, 1986.

James Stretch, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Santa Rarbara.
Role of emergent plankton in regulating infaunal patchiness with Anson
Hines, Edgewater, from March 1, 1986 to February 28, 1987.

David Ward, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of East Anglia, Norwich, England.
Acclimation of photosynthetic carbon reduction and light harvesting to
nitrogen stress in Spartina alterniflora, Loisel with Bert Drake,
Rockville, from July 1, 1986 to June 30, 1987.

Fan Jie Zeng, Visiting Scientist, Academia Sinica, Beijing, China.
Evolutionary relationship of Phycobilisome containing algae with
Elisabeth Gantt, Rockville, from November 1, 1985 to October 30, 1986.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Su Ge, Graduate Student Fellow, Brigham Young University. U.S. China Policy
from Mutual Defense Treaty to Taiwan Relations Act with William Moss,
Smithsonian Institution Archives, from June 9 to August 16, 1986.

SMITHSONIAN MARINE STATION AT LINK PORT

Rudiger Bieler, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universitat Hamburg, West Germany.
Taxonomy, biology, and ecology of the gastropod family vermetidae in
the subtropical Western Atlantic with Richard Houbrick, Department of
Invertehrate Zoology, from June 1, 1986 to May 31, 1987.

Beth Okamura, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
Partitioning of food resources by bryozoans with Mary Rice, and Alan
Cheetham, Department of Paleobiology, from November 1, 1985 to
October 31, 1986.
Kent Saxin-Hammarstrom, Graduate Student Fellow, Duke University.
Structure and ultrastructure of the body wall of Sipnuncula and
Echiura, with functional and phvlogenetic conclusions with Mary Rice,
from September 1 to November 7, 1986.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Thomas Aide, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. The interactions of
leaf phenology and insect herbivory with Egbert Leigh, from
November 1, 1985 to March 31, 1986 and November 1, 1986 to March
Silk, BOS 7

Jeffrey Brawn, Visiting Scientist, Northern Arizona University. The rela-
tionship between anthropod abundance and avian community structure in tro-
pical forests, with James Karr, from January 20, 1986 to March 15, 1987.

Edward Allen Herre, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. The implications
of reproductive allocation patterns for the coevolution of figs and fig
pollinating wasps with Egbert Leigh and Donald Windsor, from March 10
to July 10, 1986 and January 1 to August 30, 1987.

Emilio Herrera, Postdoctoral Fellow, Oxford University, England. Social behavior
and ecology of the Panamanian Capybara with Nicholas Smythe, from August l,
1986 to July 31, 1987.

Jerome Howard, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. Effects of
recruitment and resource quality on persistence of leaf-cutting ants
(Atta) with Stephen Hubbell, from January 1 to December 31, 1986.

Kaoru Kitajima, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Illinois.
Comparative study of photosynthetic and growth characteristics of
neotropical tree seedlings with Alan Smith, from May 27 to August l,
1986,

Sonia Ortega, Noyes Postdoctoral Fellow, University of South Carolina.
Distribution and abundance of rocky intertidal organisms on the
Caribbean coast of Panama with Jeremy Jackson, from September 1 to
November 30, 1986.

Raymond Peterson, Faculty Fellow, Howard University. Salinity tolerance
assessments of the mangrove ferns Acrostichum aureum and A. danaefo-
lium of Panama with Alan Smith, from June | to July 31, 1986.

Guadalupe Williams-Linera, Noyes Predoctoral Fellow, University of
Florida. Tropical edge vegetation and the effect of proximity to the edge
on forest structure with Alan Smith and James Karr, from September 1, 1984
to August 31, 1987.

Janie Wulff, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale Universitv. Sponge-feeding f
and the distribution, abundance and color of tropical demosvonges wi
Ross Robertson, from March 1, 1986 to Februarv 28, 1987.
INTERNSHIPS AND OTHER STUDENT APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers internships and other appointments to visiting graduate and
undergraduate students. The persons—listed by bureau, office, or division—in this
Appendix began their appointments between October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986.
Holders of special awards and participants in special programs are so listed. The institu-
tions attended, the title or a brief description of the project undertaken, where appropri-
ate, and the name of the Smithsonian supervisor are given for each of the interns.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESHARCH CENTER

Anneta Argyres, B.S. Candidate, Brown University. Two spects of benthic patch-

iness in the Rhode River Estuary, with Dr. Anson Hines, from February
10, 1986 througn May 16, 1986.

Beth Bachur, B.S., University of Maryland. Tidal exchange of nutrients by
brackish marsaes, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from March 10, 1986 through
August 1, 1900.

Nancy Bretz, Volunteer Research Assistant, B.S. Mills College. The use of
Stable isotopes for the study of nutrient dynamics, with Or. David

Correll, from July 28, 1986 througn Septemoer 30, 1986.

Sybil Carrere, Volunteer Research Assistant, University of California at
Irvine. Estuarine ecoloay and ph sioloaical and psychological aspects
of stress, witn Dr. Anson Hines, trom Marcn 1, 1980 througn FeDruary 28,
1987.

Kristin Churchill, B.S. Candidate, University of Wisconsin at Madison. An

interpretation of otoliths to determine age of Fundulus, with Or. Anson
Hines, from June 2, 1986 through August 22, 1986.

John Craig, B.S. Towson State University. Temporal patterns of fish abun-
dances in Muddy Creek, witn Dr. Anson Hines, Trom Fedruary 10, 1986
througn May 16, 1986.

Carla Daniels, B.S. Candidate, Jacksonville University. Ory deposition versus
acid rain leaching from the forest canopy, with Dr. David Correll, from
June 16, 1986 through August 22, 1986.

Mary D'Imperio, Volunteer Research Assistant, Bamboo Physiology, with Dr.
Gerald Deitzer, from October 1, 1985 through Septemper 31, 1986.

David Edelman, B.S. Candidate, University of Maryland. Bamboo Physiology,
with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, from October 1, 1985 through July 31, 1986

Gina Gore, Volunteer Research Assistant. Population and community ecology of
estuarine invertebrates and fisn, with Ur. Anson Hines, from May 1, 1986
tnrougn August 15, 1986.

James Harbage, M.S. Candidate, Univeristy of Maryland. Effects of light on
rooting in plant tissue cultures, with Dr. Gerald Deitzer, from Uctober
1, 1985 tnrough September 31, 1986.

Suzanne Hill, B.S. Candidate, Towson State University. Edaphic factors con-
tributing to the zonation of salt marsh species, witn Dr. Dennis
Whignam, Trom June 2, 1986 througn August 22, 1986.

cobert M. Perez, Volunteer Research Assistant, Chase Manhattan Bank. Popula-
tion and community ecology of estuarine invertebrates and fish, with Dr.
Anson Hines, from September 1, 1980 tnrougn Septemper 15, 1986.
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Thomas Mitchell Aide, Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Utah. The
Interaction of Leaf Phenology and Insect Herbivory , with Dr. Egbert
Leigh, from October 1, 1985 through March 31, 1987.

Victor Apanius, Graduate Student Fellowship, University of Pennsylvania.
Incidence of Blood and Intestinal Parasitism in an Insular Avifauna , with
Dr. Joseph Wright, from April 6, 1987 through June 12, 1987.

Brian Bock, Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of Tennessee. The Effects
of Gene Flow Barriers on the Differentiation of Anolis limifrons
Subpopulations in Panama, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 15, 1985
through September 30, 1986.

Jeffrey Brawn, Visiting Scientist, Northern Arizona University. The
Relationship Between Arthropod Abundance and Avian Community Structure in
Tropical Forests, with Dr. James R. Karr, from January 20, 1986 through
March 15, 1987.

William Davis, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas at Austin.
Evolution of Sex Roles and Mating Strategies in New World Kingfishers ,
with Dr. Martin Moynihan, from December 1, 1986 through November 30, 1987.

Philip DeVries, Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Texas at Austin.
Mutualistic Interactions between Ants, Hostplants, Parasitoids and Two
Species of Riodinid Butterflies, with Dr. Donald Windsor, from September
1, 1985 through August 31, 1986.

Theodore Dudley, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cambridge, England.
Kinematics and Ecology of Flight in Butterflies , with Dr. Donald Windsor,
from January 1, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Edward Allen Herre, Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Iowa. The
Reproductive Biology of Figs and Fig Pollinating Wasps , with Drs. Donald
Windsor and Egbert Leigh, from March 10, 1986 through August 30, 1987.

Emilio Herrera, Postdoctoral Fellowship, Oxford University. Social
Behavior and Ecology of the Panamanian Capybara , with Dr. Nicholas
Smythe, from August 1, 1986 through July 31, 1987.

Kevin Hogan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois. The Effect of
Sunflecks on the Growth and Survival of Tropical Tree Seedlings , with Dr.
Alan Smith, from October 1, 1986 through September 30, 1987.

Jerome Howard, Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of Iowa. Effects of
Recruitment and Resource Quality on Persistence of Leaf-Cutting Ants
(Atta), with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from January 1, 1986 through December
31, 1986.
Dominique Irvine, Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford University. Regicnal
Variation in Native Resources Management Practices in the Ecuatorian
Amazon, with Dr. Olga Linares, from Maren 1, 1987 through August 31, 19288.

Kaoru Kitajima, Graduate Student Fellowship, University of Illinois.
Comparative Study of Photosynthetic and Growth Characteristics of
Neotropical Tree Seedlings on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Alan Smith,
from May 26, 1986 through August 5, 1986.

Raymond Leo Petersen, Visiting Faculty Fellow, Howard University.
Salinity Tolerance Assessments of the Mangrove Ferns Acrostichum aureum
and A. danaefolium of Panama, with Dr. Alan Smith, from June 2, 1986
through August 1, 1986.

Hugh P. Sweatman, Postdoctoral Fellow, Macquarie University. Predatory
Behaviour of some Coral Reef Fishes: a Field Study , with Dr. Ross
Robertson, from February 1, 1987 through January 31, 1988.

Janie Lea Wulff, Postdoctoral Fellowship, Yale University. Sponge-Feeding
Fishes and the Distribution, Abundance and Color of Tropical Demosponges,
with Dr. Ross Robertson, from March 10, 1986 through March 9, 1987.

Other Visiting Scholars

George Angehr, Short-Term Visitor, University of Colorado. Forest
Structure in Madagascar , with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from October 1, 1985
through October 27, 1985.

Anthony Coates, Short-Term Visitor, George Washington University.
Ecological and Evolutionary Effects of the Closure of the Central American
Isthmus on Corals and Coral Reefs, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from December
1, 1985 through January 30, 1986.

Carlon Mark Eakin, Short-Term Visitor, University of Miami. The
Importance of Damselfish Territorial Aggression on Sea Urchin Bioerosion
at El Nifio Perturbed Coral Reefs, with Dr. Peter Glynn, from January 8,
1986 through January 20, 1986.

Robert Fleischer, Short-Term Visitor, University of Hawaii. Host Use by
the Brood=Parasitic Giant Cowbird , with Dr. Neal Smith, from March 1,
1986 through April 15, 1986.

Ann Foster, Short-Term Visitor, University of Iowa. Growth and Phenotypic
Plasticity in Two Families of Reef Corals , with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from
August 1, 1986 through August 22, 1986.

Mary Hagedorn, Short-Term Visitor, Cornell University. Social
Communication: Plasticity of Sexually Dimorphic Electric Signals in South
American Electric Fish, with Dr. James Karr, from January 1, 1986 through
January 31, 1986.
Gilbert Neal Hooker, Short-Term Visitor, University of California, Santa
Barbara. Environmental, Biochemical and Genetic Factors Controlling the
Reproduction and Recruitment of Panamanian Reef Corals and Associated
Fauna, with Drs. Jeremy Jackson and Nancy Knowlton, from April 1, 1986
through April 22, 1986.

Alison Jolly, Short-Term Visitor, Rockefeller University NY. Forest
Structure in Madagascar , with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from October 23, 1985
through October 30, 1985.

Hans Malicky, Short-Term Visitor, Biologische Station Lunz, Austria.
Ecology and Distribution of Tropical Biotopes of Aquatic Insects , with
Dr. Hindrik Wolda, from February 6, 1986 through March 25, 1986.

Immants G. Priede, Short-Term Visitor, University of Aberdeen, United
Kingdom. Use of Ultrasonic Transmitters as Means of Monitoring the
Cardiac Rate and Electro-Cardiograms of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus,
with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, from March 23, 1986 through Maren 13, 1986.

Robert F. Stallard, Short-Term Visitor, Princeton University. Weathering
and Nutrient Cycling at Barro Colorado Island and the Tropics , with Dr.
Egbert Leigh, from April 7, 1986 through June 7, 1986.

Other Fellowship Programs

Heinz Enrique Brucher, Senior Sabbatical, Centro Regional de Investigacion
Cientirica, Argentina. Useful Plants of Neotropical Origin , with Dr.
Gilberto Ocana, from June 1, 1986 through August 31, 1986.

Gonzalo Castro, Noyes Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania.
Latitudinal Gradient in the Daily Energy Expenditure of the Sanderling
(Calidris alba), with Dr. Neal Smith, from November 23, 1986 through
February 15, 1988.

Rosendo Fraga, Senior Sabbatical, University of California, Santa
Barbara. Behavioral Ecology of Tropical Icterines , with Dr. Neal Smith,
from October 18, 1986 through April 13, 1986.

Sonia Ortega, Noyes Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of South

Carolina. Distribution and Abundance of Rocky Intertidal Organisms on the
Caribbean Coast of Panama, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from September 1, 1986
through December 1, 1986.

Guadalupe Williams-Linera, Noyes Predoctoral Fellowship, University of
Florida. Tropical Forest Edge Vegetation and the Effect of Proximity to
the Edge on Forest Structure, with Drs. Alan Smith and James Karr, from
August 1, 1986 through August 1, 1987.
Short-Term Fellowships in Tropical Biology

Jaime Cavelier, Short-Term Fellowship, Universidad de los Andes,
Colombia. Relaciones Hidricas en Especies de un Bosque Nublado y un
Bosque Humedo Estacional, with Drs. Alan Smith and Egbert Leigh, from
August 17, 1986 through September 30, 1986.

Timothy Collins, Short-Term Fellowship, Yale University. Evolution of
Amphi-American Gastropod Cognates , with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from January
2, 1986 through April 1, 1986.

Eric E. Gonzalez, Short-Term Research Grant, California State University,
Long Beach. The Quantitative Seasonal Fluctuations of Abundance,
Diversity and Distribution of Soft-Bottom Intertidal Fauna of the Bay of
Panama, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from June 28, 1986 through July 25, 1986.

Hector Guzman, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Costa Rica. Changes
in the Diet of Arothron meliagris in the Western Pacific , with Dr. Ross
Robertson, from July 24, 1986 through December 24, 1986.

Preston Hardison, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Washington.
Environmental Control of Sex Allocation in the Androdiocious Lantern Bass,
Serranus baldwini, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from November 15, 1985 through
March 15, 1986.

Susan Harrison, Short-Term Fellowship, University of California, Davis.
Host Plant Relations and Within Seasonal Population Dynamics of Zunacetha
annulata on Hybanthus prunifolia, with Dr. Henk Wolda, from June 25, 1986
through August 7, 1986.

Linden Higgins, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Texas. Environmental
Factors Affecting Individual Behaviors and Population Dynamics of Orb-Web

Spider, Nephila clavipes, with Dr. Henk Wolda, from March 9, 1986 through

June 6, 1986.

Audrey Liese, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Vermont. The Impact of
Soil Parasites on the Establishment of Calophyllum longifolium Seedlings,
with Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 16, 1986 through October 15, 1986.

Robin Manasse, Short-Term Fellowship, University of California. Variation
in Seed Size and Fertilization in Crinum erubescens (Amaryllidaceae) ,
with Dr. Joseph Wright, from August 4, 1986 through November 16, 1986.

Carole McIvor, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Virginia. Stegastes
leucostictus Relative Abundance and Distribution: the Role of
Competition, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from October 1, 1986 through January
le 987.

Veselin Miscovic, Short-Term Fellowship, Ecvark Kardelj University. Las
Interacciones Iconograficas y Estilisticas entre la Ceramica y la
Orfebreria de la Baja Centroamerica: Aproximacion Historica-Artistica,
with Dr. Richard Cooke, from November 17, 1985 through February 17, 1986.
Paul Rich, Short-Term Fellowship, Harvard University. Hemispnerical
Photographie Techniques for Assessing Forest Understcry Light Environment,
with Dr. Alan Smith, from November 25, 1985 through April 10, 1986.

Eugene Schupp, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Iowa. Ecological
Consequences of Variable Reproduction in Faramea occidentalis , with Dr.
Egbert Leigh, from May 15, 1986 through August 14, 1986.

Kyle Summers, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Michigan. Mating and
Parental Behavior in the Poison Arrow Frog, Dendrobates auratus , with Dr.
Nancy Knowlton, from June 2, 1986 through August 30, 1986.

Ethel M. Villalobos, Short-Term Fellowship, University of California, Los
Angeles. Variation in Provisioning Tactics among Females Stictia heros
(Hymenoptera: Sphecidae), with Dr. William Eberhard, from January 1, 1987
through March 31, 1987.

William Weislo, Short-Term Fellowship, University of Kansas. The Social
Behavior and Nesting Biology of Tropical Halictid Bees , with Drs. William
Eberhard and Mary Jane West-Eberhard, from December 1, 1985 through May
15, 1986.

Exxon Fellowship & Assistantship Program

Pablo Acufia, Exxon Assistantship, University of Costa Rica. Illustrated
Flora of Seedlings of Panamanian Tropical Moist Forest, with Special
Emphasis on Barro Colorado, with Dr. Nancy Garwood, from March 15, 1986
through June 7, 1986.

Jesus Alemancia, Exxon Fellowship, University of Panama. La Colonizacion
Campesina de la Selva Tropical del Darien y su Repercusion en las
Comunidades Indigenas, with Dr. Olga F. Linares, from February 15, 1986
through August 15, 1987.

Onel A. Arias, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Analisis
Hidrografico del Rio Carti Dumat, Kuna Yala , with Dr. James Karr, from
August 15, 1986 through February 15, 1987.

icardo Caicedo, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Distribucion y
Aspectos Taxonomicos de los Moluscos Marinos del Archipielago de Las
Mulatas, Kuna Yala (continuation of study), with Dr. Harilaos Lessios,
from March 1, 1986 through August 31, 1986.

Ada Ruth Castillo 0., Exxon Assistantship, Universidad Mayor de San Marco,
Peru. The Reproductive Biology and Breeding Structure of Erythrina
costaricensis , with Dr. Lyn Loveless, from September 10, 1986 through
December 10, 1986.
Belgis Chial, Exxon Assistantship, University of Panama. Ecology and
Larval Biology of Symbiotic Shrimp Species , with Dr. Nancy Knowlton, from
May 19, 1986 through August 19, 1986.

Fernando Cornejo, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad Nacional Agraria La
Molina, Peru. Litterfall Study on Barro Colorado Island , with Dr. Joseph
Wright, from December 11, 1985 through May 3, 1986.

Silvia Farrugia, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Temporal
Dynamics and Interaction of Tropical Frugivores and their Fruit Plants,
with Dr. Thomas Martin, from February 17, 1986 through May 9, 1986.

Yolanda Betsabe Figueroa, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama.
Dispersion Natal de la Especie Tropical de Ruisefior Troglodytes aedon ,
with Drs. Neal Smith and Leonard Freed, from November 15, 1985 through
March 15, 1986.

Carlos Alberto Gomez, Exxon Assistantship, Akademia Rolniecza, Poland.
Study of the Impact of Soil Parasites on the Establishment of Calophyllum
longifolium Seedlings, with Audrey Liese and Dr. Joseph Wright, from
August 8, 1986 through October 31, 1986.

Adela Grimaldo, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Study of
Temporal Patterns of Larval Recruitment , with Dr. Ross Robertson, from
February 24, 1986 through May 20, 1986.

Manuel Guariguata, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad Simon Bolivar,
Venezuela. Responses of Understory Herbs to Environmental Fluctuations
with Dr. Alan Smith, from June 2, 1986 through August 1, 1986.

Tomas Gutierrez, Exxon Assistantanship, Universidad de Panama. Rionid
Butterfly Larvae and Ant Associations , with Dr. Philip DeVries, from
March 10, 1986 through October 1, 1987.

Allan Heres, Exxon Assistantship, Oregon State University. Study of
Temporal Patterns of Larval Recruitment , with Dr. Ross Robertson, from
February 3, 1986 through February 28, 1986.

Santiago Madrifian, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Los Andes,
Colombia. Sex Change in the Orchid, Catasetum viridiflavum , with Jess
Zimmerman, from June 2, 1986 through November 30, 1986.

Julian Monge, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Costa Rica. Defense of
Perching Microhabitat by Hamadryas Butterflies (Nymphalidae: Nymphalinae),
with Dr. Donald Windsor, from December 14, 1985 through February 15, 1986.

Graciela Palacios, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Distribucién
y Aspectos Taxonémicos de las Algas Chlorophytas Macroscedépicas en el
Archipiélago de Las Mulatas, with Dr. John Cubit, from February 15, 1986
through August 15, 1986.

Diogenes Riley, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Population
Ecology of Terrestrial Insectivorous Eirds of Tropical Forests , with
‘athryn Sieving, from July 1, 1986 through tugust 12, 1986
Gustavo Rodriguez, Exxon Assistanship, Universidad Simon Bolivar,
Venezuela. Colonization of New Iguana Nesting Sites , with Dr. Brian
Bock, from April 21, 1986 through July 21, 1986.

Zoila Romero, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Guayaquil, Ecuador.
Measurement of Localized Larval Dispersal in a Complex of Alpneid Snrimp
Species Symbiotically Associated with Caribbean Anemone Bartholomea
annulata, with Dr. Nancy Knowlton, from August 11, 1986 through November
11, 1986.

Myozotis I. Ryfkogel, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Dispersion
Natal de la Especie Tropical de Ruisefior Troglodytes aedon , with Drs.
Neal Smith and Leonard Freed, from November 15, 1985 through June 30,
1986.

Belis Serrano, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Composicidén
Quimica de Mieles Producidas por Apis mellifera adansonii , with Dr. César
Villarreal, from November 30, 1986 through August 28, 1986.

Gonzalo Tapia, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Studies on
Shellfish Consumed by Pre-Columbian Populations in the Bay of Parita, with
Dr. Richard Cooke, from February 17, 1986 through May 9, 1986.

Anabel Tatis, Exxon Assistantship, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana,
Colombia. Experimental Exploration of the Mortality of the Lizard Anolis
limifrons , with Dr. Robin Andrews, from June 23, 1986 through August 15,
1986.

Marcos Tem, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Composicién
Quimica de Mieles Producidas por Apis mellifera adansonii , with Dr. Cesar
Villarreal, from November 1, 1986 through August 28, 1986.

Isabel Urreiztieta, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad Central de
Venezuela. The Population Biology of Acropora cervicornis , with Dr.
Nancy Knowlton, from January 15, 1986 through April 15, 1986.

Ivan Valdespino, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Estudio

Sistematico de los Helechos de Cerro Jefe , with Prof. Mireya Correa, from
June 1, 1986 through December 1, 1986.

Volunteers
Claudia Alderman, worked for Dr. Stephen Hubbell for four months.

Laura Majors, worked for Dr. Harilaos Lessios for two months.
Laurie Sanders, worked for Dr. Stephen Hubbell for eight months.

79
CENTER TOR ASIAN ART: ARTHUR M, SACKLER GALLERY and
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Sabra Feldman, University of Michigan Fellow, M.A. candidate, University of
Michigan. "Japanese Textiles: The Smithsonian's Perry Expedition's Japanese
Textiles," with Ann Yonemura and Louise A. Cort, January 15 through June 26,
1986.

Mary Martin, Smithsonian Intern, B.A. candidate, Sarah Lawrence College,
"Internship in Museum Studies," with Susan Bliss and Linda Merrill, June 16
through August 29, 1986.

James Thompson, Smithsonian Webb Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, University of
Pennsylvania. "Vever Collection,” with Dr. Glenn Lowry, June 1 through
August 23, 1986.

James Wescoat, Rockefeller Foundation Resident Fellowship in the Humanities,
Assistant Professor of Geography, University of Chicago. "In Gardens Watered
by Running Streams: The Meanings of Water in Mughal Gardens at Agra,"

April 1 through September 16, 1986.

Richard Wilson, Smithsonian Post-doctoral Fellow, Rice University. "Ceramics,
Calligraphy and Painting of Ogata Kenzan," with W. Thomas Chase, Louise A.
Cort and Ann Yonemura, June 30, 1985 through May 23, 1986.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Nancy Benco, Ph.D., Postdoctoral Fellow in Material Analysis, SUNY at
Binghamton, NY. Composition Technologist Variability: An approach

ee

to the study of pottery specialization an ancient society, with
Jacqueline S. Olin and M. James Blackman, from February, 1986
through January, 1987.

Lynn Brostoff, Conservation Intern, New York University, Work and Study in
Paper Conservation, with Timothy J. Vitale and Dianne van der
Reyden, from September 15, 1986 to August 15, 1987.

Ann Boulton, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, State University College at
Buffalo, NY., Art Conservation Department. Special Projects in
Objects Conservation, with Carol A. Grissom, from September 15,
1986 through September 15, 1987.

Veletta Canouts, Ph.D., Visiting Scholar, Southern Illinois University.
Hopi Social Boundary Maintenance and Exchange Relationships, AD:
1300-1600, with Ronald L. Bishop, from September 1, 1985 thorugh
August 31, 1987.

Robert Ehrenreich, Ph.D., Postdoctoral Fellow in Materials Analysis,
Oxford University, United Kingdom, The state of iron technology in
Roman dominated Britain, with Jacqueline S. Olin and Roy S. Clarke,
Jr., from October 1, 1985 through December 31, 1986.

Rosemary Gianno, Ph.D., Wenner-Gren Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University,
New Haven, CT. The Analysis of Identification of Southeast Asian
Resins, with David Von Endt, from February 1, 1986 through January
315, 1987.
Lisa Goldberg, Conservation Intern, Institute of Fine Arts, New York
University, Work and Study in Objects Conservation, with Carol A.
Grissom, from January 1, 1986 to June 30, 1986.

Susan Hobbs, Ph.D., Research Associate, Cornell University at Ithaca, NY.
Neutron induced Augo Radiology of Paintings by Thomas Wilmer
Dewing, with Y. Cheng, from October, 1983 through October, 1986.

Elsje Jenssen, Conservation Intern, Tapestry Conservator, Ovdenaarde,
Belgium. Civil War Flags Preservation Project, with Mary W.
Ballard, from June 30, 1986 through August 22, 1986.

Diane Kessler, Conservation Intern, University of Alberta, Alberta,

Canada. Civil War Flag Preservation Project, with Mary W. Ballard,
from June 30, 1986 through September 5, 1986. The Identification

of Dyes on Historic Textiles; The Preparation of Standard Dyeings,
with Mary W. Ballard and David Von Endt, from September 8, 1986
through September 19, 1986.

Vassilis Kilikoglou, Ph.D., Visiting Scientist, International Atomic
Energy Agency Fellow, Demokritos, Greece. Work and Study in the
Field of Analytical Chemistry, with Edward V. Sayre from October,
1985 to April, 1986.

Teresa Knutson, Visiting Conservator, Disperse Dyes for Textile
Conservation, with Mary W. Ballard, from May 12, 1986 to May 16,
1986.

Sophie Méry, Pre-Doctoral Visiting Scientist, Université de Paris,
France. Ceramic Production in the Oman Penisula from the
perpective of Capital Hili, with M. James Blackman, from May, 1986
to June, 1986.

Emlen Myers, Ph.D., Research Collaborator, SUNY at Binghamton. Neutron
activation analysis of Italian Majolica from the Sackler
Collection, with M. James Blackman, from June, 1986 through May,
1987.

Jane E. Sugarman, Conservation Intern, University of Delaware, Art
Conservation Department. Work and Study in Paper Conservation,
with Timothy J. Vitale and Dianne van der Reyden, from September
15, 1985 through August 15, 1986.

Elizabeth Tait, Conservation Intern, University of Toronto, Ontario,

Canada. Natural Dyeing Research Project, with Mary W. Ballard,
from June 9, 1986 through August 15, 1986.

Lisa Thorson, Conservation Intern, University of Nebraska, Natural Dyeing

Research Project, with Mary W. Ballard, from June 9, 1986 through
August 15, 1986.

Rita Wright, Ph.D., Research Associate, Harvard University, Cambridge,
MA. Production and Distribution of Ceramics in Middle Asia, with
M. James Blackman, from October 19, 1985 through October 19, 1988.
COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Ameen, Souhad, M.A. candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Work and
study in the Registrar's Office, with Cordelia Rose, from August 30 1985 to
Cctober 31, 1985.

Baskerville, Jennifer, SI Minority Fellowship, B.A. Candidate, Smith College.
Work and study in the Registrar's Office, with Cordelia Rose, from June 9,
1986 to August 15, 1986.

Bell, Jennifer, B.A. Candidate, Carnegie Mellon. Work and study in the
Special Events Office, with Elizabeth Hall, from June 9, 1986 to August 15,
1986.

Bellard Anna, John L. Miller North Senior High. Work and study in the Library
and Exhibitions Office, with K. Martinez and D. Glubus, from February 3, 1986
to May 18, 1986.

Fremantle, Christopher, B.A. Candidate, Aberdeen University. Work and study
in the Director's Office, with Larry Deemer, from June 11, 1986 through August
15, 1986.

Freudenthal, David, B.A. Candidate, Vassar College. Work and study in the
Public Affairs Office, with Arthur Lindo, from June 9, 1986 to August 15,
1986.

Goodspeed, Mary Todd, B.A. Candidate, Connecticut College. Work and study in
the Public Affairs Office, with Michele Raphoon, from January 6, 1986 to
February 5, 1986.

Hamilton, Timothy, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. Candidate, Williams
College. Work and study in the Exhibitions Office, with Dorothy Globus, from
June 9, 1986 to August 15, 1986.

Handelsman, Miriam, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A., Trinity College.
Work and study in the Textiles Office, with Ysabella Hincapie, from June 9,
1986 to August 15, 1986.

Hein, Jennifer, M.A. Candidate, Montclair State College. Work and study in
the Textile Office, with Ysabella Hincapie, from January 29, 1986 to May 3l,
1986.

Lee, Eric, Sydney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. Candidate, Vassar College.
Work and study in the Drawings and Prints Office, with Elaine Dee, from June
9, 1986 to August 15, 1986.

Lestage, Julia, B.A. Candidate, Wells College. Work and study in the Drawings
and Prints Office, with Elaine Dee, from January 6, 1986 to February 15, 1986.

Loost, Nicola, B.A. Candidate, The American College in Paris. Work and study
in the Publications Office, with Nancy Aakre, from June 9, 1986 to August 15,
1986.

Mergler, Julia, B.A. Candidate, Concordia University. Work and study in the
Development Office, with George Nichols, from June 9, 1986 to August 1b, 1986.
Meyer, Jochen, Berlin, Technische Universitat. Work and study in the Drawings
and Prints Office, with Elaine Dee, from February 24, 1986 to April 5, 1986.

Micek, Ann, B.A. Candidate, Rhode Island School of Design. Work and study in
the Textile Office, with Lucy Commoner, from June 2, 1986 to August 15, 1986.

Monteleoni, Carol, B.A. Harvard University. Work and study in the Textile
Conservation Office, with Lucy Commoner, from January 21, 1986 to September
30, 1986.

Morris, Laura, B.A. Candidate, Washington University. Work and study in the
Library, with Kathy Martinez, from June 9, 1986 to August 15, 1986.

Prevost, Catherine, B.A. Candidate, Wellesley College. Work and study in the
Exhibitions Office, with Dorothy Globus, from January 6, 1986 to February 15,
1986.

Reed, Charlotte, R., B.A. Candidate, LaFayette College. Work and study in the
Exhibitions Office, with Dorthy Globus, from September 19, 1985 to December
51, 1985.

Schwartz, Kara, B.A. Candidate, Colby College. Work and study in the Programs
Office, with Susan Yelavich, from January 6, 1986 to February 15, 1986.

Sweetser, Susann, B.A. College of William and Mary. Work and study in the
Programs Office, with Susan Yelavich, from July 1, 1985 to December 31, 1985.

Taggart, Arabelle, J., Kimbolton School, England. Work and study in the
Decorative Arts Office, with David McFadden, from November 4, 1985 to December
SL; 1985.

Urbanelli, Elisa, M.A. Candidate, Yale University. Work and study in the
Decorative Arts Office, with David McFadden, from June 9, 1986 to August 15,
1986.

Vogel, Elaine, C., B.A. Indiana University. Work and study in the Public
Affairs Office, with Isabelle Silverman, from September 5, 1985 to Decenber
31, 1985.

Yang, MeiPu, Sidney and Celia Siegel Fellow, B.A. Candidate, University of
Pennsylvania. Work and study in the Business Office, with William Gaske, from
June 9, 1986 to August 15, 1986.
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Michael Fitzpatrick, B.A. Candidate, Brown University. Work
and study with Teresia Bush, Department of Education, from June
H6octhrough:, August 2/2), °1986..

Bruce Lineker, B.A., Duke University. Work and study with
Joseph Shannon, Department of Exhibits and Design, from June 9
through August 15, 1986.

Margot McIlwain, B.A. Candidate, Smith College, Smithsonian
Institution American Studies Program Intern. The Arthur B.
Davies Collection of the Hirshhorn Museum, with Dr. Judith
Zilczer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, from September 1
through December 18, 1985.

Sharan Appa Rao, Madras, India. Work and study with Edward P.
Lawson, Department of Education, from June 9 through August 8,
1986.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

James Baker, J.D. candidate, University of Michigan, with
Mr. Martin Collins, Department of Space Science and
Exploration, from June 16 through August 22, 1986.

Edward Brown, Jr., B.A. candidate, University of Maryland, with
Ms. Susan Ewing, Information Management Division, Archival
Support Center, from May 28 through September 9, 1986.

Adama Conteh, B.A. candidate, Howard University, with
Mr. Martin Collins, Department of Space Science and
Exploration, from January 13 threucgh May 16, 1986.

Timothy Carter, B.A. candidate, Appalachian State University,
with Mr. Walter Rederick, Paul E. Garber Preservation,
Restoration, and Storage Facility, from June 10 through August
15, 1986.

Dennis Dearnbarger, M.S. candidate, University of Illinois,
with Mr. Harry Heiss, Information Management Division, from
June 9 through August 15, 1986.

Thomas Dietz, B.A. candidate, University of Virginia, with
Dr. Von Hardesty, Department of Aeronautics, from June 9
through August 15, 1986.

Susan Harrison, B.A. candidate, Hood College, with
Ms. Mary Henderson, Department of Exhibits, Art Unit, from June
9 through August 5, 1986.

Barbara Irwin, M.A. candidate, George Washington University,
with

Mr. Dominick Pisano, Department of Aeronautics, from August 24
through December 10, 1986.
William Kirschner, B.A. candidate, State University of New York
at Binghampton, with Ms. Kathleen Brooks-Pazmany, Department of
Aeronautics, from July 13 through August 15, 1986.

Mei Lin Kwan-Gett, B.A. candidate, Harvard-Radcliffe College,
with Ms. Kasse Andrews-Weller, Office of Education, from June 9
threugh August 22, 1986.

Erik Ledbetter, B.A. candidate, Johns Hopkins University, with
Dr. Joseph Tatarewicz, Department of Space Science and
Exploration, from June 9 through August 15, 1986.

Beth Parkhurst, Ph.D. candidate, Brown University, with
Dr. Paul Ceruzzi, Department of Space Science and Exploration,
from June 2 through August 8, 1986.

Brian Powell, B.S. candidate, Cornell University, with
Dr. Thomas Watters, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies,
from June 9 through August 15, 1986.

Paul Silbermann, B.A. candidte, University of Maryland, with
Ms. Susan Ewing, Information Management Division, Archival
Support Center, from June 19 through August 30, 1986.

Karl Werner, B.A. candidate, Villanova University, with
Mr. Frank Florentine, Department of Exhibits, Audiovisual Unit,
from Juiy 13 through August 15, 1986.

High School Interns

William Conn, High School candidate, McComb High School, with
Ms. Monica Knudson, Library, from Jume 9 through July 11, 1986.

Christopher Gorden, High School candidate, Greenhills School,
with Ms. Kathleen Brooks-Pazmany, Department of Aeronautics,
from May 15 through June 5, 1986.

Angelina Han, High School candidate, Madeira School, with
Mr. Dana Bell, Information Management Division, from February 5
through May 30, 1986.

Arnold Kemp, High School candidate, Boston Latin School, with
Ms. Mary Henderson, Department of Exhibits, Art Unit, from June
9 through July 12, 1986.

Ornetta Noville, High School candidate, Ballou Senior High
School, with Ms. Betty Bibb, Samuel P. Langley Theater, from
June 30 through August 15, 1986.

Helaine Osternick, High Schcol candidate, Madeira School, with
Mr. Dana Bell, Information Management Division, from January 15
through May 21, 1986.

)

A
[o'2)

Academic and Research Training Appointments

George E. McGill, Visiting Scientist. Geology of the northern

plains of Mars, with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and

Planetary Studies, from September 15, 1986, through January 15,
L987 «

‘NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Adrienne Morris, Georgetown University. Work with the Registrar's Office,
from May 19 through August 19, 1986.

Kimberly Taylor, University of Montana. Work with the Eliot Elisofon
Photographic Archives, from January 7 through March 21, 1986.

Karen Shemet, American University. Work with Warren Robbins, Director
Emeritus, from January 30 through April 17, 1986.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

University Interns

Constance Badowsky (Indiana University). January 13-April 18, 1986.

George Benot (Howard University). January 13-April 18, 1986.

Laura Brunjes (Smith College). September 9-December 6, 1985.

Diana Gaston (University of Kansas). September 9-December 6, 1985.

Tonia Horton (William and Mary College). January 13-April 18, 1986.

Kathleen Howe (University of Southern California in Los Angeles). July l
-October 31, 1985.

Alice Montag (Wellesley College). September 9, 1985-April 18, 1986.

Margaret Moore (George Washington University). September 9, 1985-April 18,
1986.

Edie Rogat (University of Virginia). September 9, 1985-April 18, 1986.

Virginia Tate (University of the South). September 9, 1985-April 18, 1986.

Shannon Thompson (exceptional high school graduate from See ietergs ot Ske High
School, Maine). September 9, 1985-April 18, 1986.

Summer Interns

Sara Baker (Haverford College). June 2-July 25, 1986.

Myra Merritt (University of Michigan). June 16-August 22, 1986.

Marianna Robin (DePaul University). June 2-July 25, 1986.

Ann Rubin (Claremont Men's College). June 2-July 25, 1986.

Karen Snead (University of- South Florida). June 2-July 25, 1986.

Cheryl Sutton (Temple University). June 16-August 22, 1986.

Terrance Starr (Teacher, Fremont High School, Oakland Calif.). Intern
Appointment, July 7-August 1, 1986.

Peter Wilson (Kenyon College). June 2-July 25, 1986.
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Charlotte Brody, Graduate, George Washington University. Wrote program notes
for Portraits in Motion: The Exploring Personality, "Stormy Petrel,"” with
Kenneth Yellis, Department of Education, from September 5, 1986 through
December 31, 1986.

Jenifer Browning, Undergraduate, Bringham Young University. Made checklists
of illustrations related to the Office of Publications, with Frances Wein,
Office of Publications, from July 28, 1986 through October 5, 1986.

Stephen DeBacker, High School Student, Thomas More Prep. Updated
biographical files related to the Office of the Historian, with James Barber,
Office of the Historian, from June 6, 1986 through July 11, 1986.

Mary Fearon, Undergraduate, College of Wooster (Ohio). Performed research on
the American portraits which were included in the 1983 Chicago World's Fair,
with Carolyn Carr, Assistant Director for Collections, from May 20, 1986
through August 29, 1986.

Cynthia S. Fitzgibbons, Graduate, George Washington University. Conducted
research on the Charles Willson Peale Papers, with Lillian Miller, Peale
Papers, from January 14, 1986 through April 18, 1986.

Susan Reed Foster, Undergraduate, Yale University. Researched the American
portraits painted by Anders Zorn, with Carolyn Carr, Assistant Director for
Collections, from June 30, 1986 through September 2, 1986.

Vivien Marv Green, Undergraduate, University of California at Santa Cruz.
Helped develop Portraits in American Jazz series, wrote program notes for the
concerts and assisted the Department of Education in coordinating summer
activities, with Kenneth Yellis, Department of Education, from July 1, 1986
through August 31, 1986.

Irene Groote, Undergraduate, Smith College. Cataloged portrait data, made
computer data entries and researched portrait information, with Richard Doud,
Catalog of American Portraits, from January 6, 1986 through January 24, 1986.
Ronald M. Joseph, Undergraduate, Howard University. Served as assistant
researcher and editor of the Charles Willson Peale Papers, with Lillian
Miller, Peale Papers, from January 13, 1986 through August 15, 1986.

Jennifer Korbet, High School Student, St. Agnes School. Performed
biographical research on the American sitters of Anders Zorn and researched
some aspects of the permanent collection, with Carolyn Carr, Assistant
Director for Collections, from May 19, 1986 through August 31, 1986.

Kelly Kramer, High School Student, St. Agnes School. Conducted biographical
research on the American sitters of Anders Zorn, with Carolyn Carr, Assistant
Director for Collections, from May 19, 1986 through May 30, 1986.

Dick Levinson, Graduate, California State University at Sacramento. Wrote
program notes for Portrait in Motion: The Exploring Personality, "A Brave
Man's Part" and assisted in the organization of the Portraits in American Jazz
concert series, with Kenneth Yellis, Department of Education, from August 3l,
1986 through October 31, 1986.

M. Terrence McKay, Graduate, University of Maryland. Researched "The Gilded
Age" through the works of the American artist Sanford Robinson Gifford, with
Lillian Miller, Peale Papers, from November 11, 1985 through August 30, 1986.
Barbara Overdier, Undergraduate, St. Olaf College. Researched and updated
biographical files of American portraits related to the permanent collection
files in the Office of the Historian, with James Barber, from January 1, 1986
through January 27, 1986.

2)
y)

Belen Ponferrada, Undergraduate, George Washington University. Assisted in
researching the biographical files of the permanent collection in the Office
of the Historian, with James Barber, Office of the Historian, from January 28,
1986 through April 17, 1986.

Andrew Sobchak, Undergraduate, University of Cincinnati. Researched and
verified art historical information for checklist for publications, with
Monroe Fabian, Associate Curator of Paintings/Sculpture, from July 14, 1986
through November 1, 1986.

Ariane M. Trifunovic, Graduate, George Washington University. Developed and
conducted formative evaluation of the Portraits in Motion Program, and
assisted the Education Department with numerous tasks related to public
programming, with Kenneth Yellis, Department of Education, from January 13,
1986 through April 18, 1986.

Robert Urstein, Undergraduate, Claremont McKenna College. Updated
biographical files on sitters and contributors to the permanent collection,
with James Barber, Office of the Historian, from May 5, 1986 through August 6,
1986.

Roy Williams, High School Teacher at Wando High School, Mount Pleasant, South
Carolina. Worked with South Carolina portraits from the permanent collection
and developed a program based on that research for high school students.
Cynthia Wilson, High School Student, Parkside High School. Catalogued library
materials and performed other duties necessary for library maintenance, with
Cecilia Chin, Librarian, from June 9, 1986 through July 11, 1986.

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Christopher Dodson, Office of Horticulture Intern, Washington College,

Chestertown, MD. Work and study in a plant collection greenhouse, with
August A. Dietz IV, Greenhouse-Nursery Division from May 19, 1986 through

August 15, 1986.

Isaac Fong, Office of Horticulture Intern, University of California-Davis.
Work and study in a museum horticulture office, with Kathryn Meehan,

Historic Horticulture Division from May I3, T986 through November 21, 1986.
Lydia Koenig-Brock, Office of Horticulture Intern, Russell Sage College,
Troy, NY. Work and study in a plant collection greenhouse, with August A.
Dietz IV, Greenhouse-Nursery Division from May 19, 1986 through August 20,
1986.

Leslie Firl, Office of Horticulture Intern, Gallaudet College. Work and
Study tn a plant collection greenhouse, with August A. Dietz IV, Greenhouse-
Nursery Division from June 18, 1986 through August 22, 1986.

Brian Young, Office of Horticulture Intern, Forest Hill, Louisiana. Work and
study in a plant collection greenhouse and on museum grounds, with August A.
Dietz and Kenneth Hawkins, Greenhouse-Nursery Division and Grounds Management
Division from June 9, 1986 through July 11, 1986.
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Edward Ayom, Ph.D. candidate, University of New York. Conduct research on
linguistic and pedagogic exegesis of some (Jieng) Dinka tongue twisters,
riddles, and song and dance games, with Peter Seitel, from June 30 through
September 5, 1986.

Herman Beavers, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Analyze and catalogue tapes
from the Festival of Black Storytelling, with Peter Seitel and Phyllis
May-Machunda, from June 30 through August 15, 1986.

Olivia Cadaval, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Research and
index ethnographic material on Hispanic performers at the Festival of
American Folklife, with Peter Seitel, from September 8 through November 28,
1986.

Francesca Cappelletto, M.A. candidate, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill. Analyze the Festival of American Folklife and its ramifications from a
theoretical perspective, with Peter Seitel, from September 15 through
November 21, 1986.

Cecily Cook, 8.A., Brown University. Conduct archival work and accession family
folklore materials, with Richard Derbyshire, from December 3, 1985 through
June 1, 1986.

Todd DeGarmo, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University. Conduct pho-
tographic research for the Festival of American Folklife Japan Program, with
Alicia Gonzalez, from January 3 through July 20, 1986.

Martha Oyler, M.A., George Washington University. Research various types of
programs implemented by the Office, from conception to public presentation,
with Marjorie Hunt, from June through September, 1986.

Carlos Perez, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Los Angeles. Assist
with the Columbian Quincentenary Project, with Alicia Gonzalez, from July 7
through September 26, 1986.

Margaret Wade-Lewis, Ph.D. candidate, State University of New York, New Paltz.
Analyze and catalogue tapes from the Festival of Black Storytelling, with
Peter Seitel and Phyllis May-Machunda, from July 1 through August 29, 1986.
90

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Internships in Museum Practices Program

Caroline Alyea
(graduate, Princeton Univ.)
NMAH
Nicole Arena
(Guilford College)
OPA
Connie Badowski
(Indiana University)
NMAA
Elizabeth Bailey
(graduate, Vassar College)
NMNH
Mohamed Balahmar
(Lamu Museum, Kenya)
OMP, NMAH, ANM
Hollye Barrett
(Mount Holyoke College)
NMAH
George Benoit
(Howard University)
NMAA
Nancy Bercaw
(University of Pennsylvania)
NMAH
Maria Bianchini
(Natl. Mus. of Hist., Brazil)
NMAH
Amy Bix
(Princeton University)
NMAH
Marjanna Bogan
(Univ. of St. Andrews, U. K.)
NMAH
Rena Boothe
(Institute of Jamaica)
NMNH
Stephanie Botvin
(graduate, Washington Univ.)
NMAH
David Burnhauser
(Virginia Commonwealth Univ.)
ANM
Lori Burns
(Newbury College)
NZP
Diane Carson
(St. Louis Community College)
NMAH
Lila Clark

Cecilly Cook
(graduate, Brown University)
OFP
Andrew Csont
(SUNY, Oswego)
NMAH
Jolene Dancey
(JFK University)
SI-OR
Lisa Daniels
(Albright College)
NMAH
Mark Davis
(William and Mary)
NMAH
Alison Dawe
University of Michigan)
NMAH
Deborah Dunn
(Bishop Museum, Hawaii)
NMNH
Benjamin Filene
(Brown University)
NMAH
Robin Fogg
(George Washington University)
OMP
Julia Forbes
(Univ. of Calif, Santa Barbara)
NNMNH
John Foster
(Grinnell College)
NMAH
Lucy Fowler
(University of New Mexico)
NMNH
Becky Gambrill
(Goucher College)
NMAH
Kathleen Golden
(graduate, Rutgers College)
NMAH
Vivien Greene
(Univ. of Calif. Santa Cruz)
NPG
Sharon Harty
(Saint Peter's College)
OPA
Carol Hausner
(American University)
NMAH
Wooster)

Jenifer Hightower
(Southern Methodist University)
OMP

Beverly Jonnson
(Mount Holyoke College)
NMAH

Sarah Kendall
(graduate, Amherst College)
NMAH

Andrew Klafter
(George Washington University)
NMNH

Paul Kubik
(South Dakota Historical Society)
NMAH

Jean Lewis
(Sweetbriar College)
RAP

Mary Martin
(Sarah Lawrence College)
Freer

Valerie Mathes
(Arizona State University)
NMAH

Teresa McGervey
(California University of PA)
NMNH

Marian Menzel
(Montgomery College)
OEC

Jennifer Morash
(Univ.of Calif.
OMP

Elizabeth Nosek
(Hamline University)

Irvine)

NMAH

Joe O' Loughlin
(Calif. Polytech Univ.)
NMAH

Barbara Overdier
(St. Olaf College)
NPG
Irene Palmer
(George Washington University)
NMNH
Belen Ponferrada
(Univ. of the Phillipines)
NPG

Muriel Pouyat
(Univ. of the West Indies)
NASM

Sarah Reenders
(Hillsdale College)
NMAH

Carolyn Senn
(graduate, Univ. of Mass.)
NMAH

Gerdur Sigfusson
(Hollins College)
Museum Shops

Regina Souther
(College of the Holy Cross)
NMAH

David Stevens
(University of Minnesota)
NMAH

Deborah Stone
(George Washington University)
OMP

Barbara Strunk
(faculty, DC Public Schools)
OMP

Kim Taylor
(University of Montana)
NMAFA

Edward Turner
(Emory University)
NMNH

Julia Van Trees
(University of Virginia)
DIA-OSP

Kristine Wagner
(Hope College)
NMAH

Mark Wertheimer
(Univ. of Wisconsin, Madison)
NMAH

Rachel Wiesen
(Univ. of Calif. Los Angeles)
OMP

Abby Winland
(American University)
NMAH

John Worley
(Grinnell College)
NMAH

Mary Wriedt
(University of Michigan)
OMP

OI
OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Visiting Professionals Program

Gawdat Gabra Abdel-Sayed Patricia Butts
Coptic Museum Columbus Mus. of Arts & Sel.
Cairo, Egypt Columbus, Georgia
Isabel Abreu Pierre Chabot
USsIS Musee de la Civilisation
Oporto, Portugal Quebec, Canada
Paloma Acuna Patrice Ceisel
Ministry of Culture Shedd Aquarium
Madrid, Spain Chicago, Illinois
Abdel Salam Bakr Abu Elliel Beverly Chico
Coptic Museum Mizel Museum of Judaica
Cairo, Egypt Denver, Colorado
Zahra Al-Ameer Susan Childs
Bahrain National Museum L.A. Childrens Museum
Manama, Bahrain Los Angeles, California
Mohamad Said Al Blooshi Mala Chinoy
Gulf Folklore Center Sarabhai Community Science Ctr.
Doha, Qatar Ahmedabad, India
Mohammed Al-Farea Barbara Coddington
ARAMCO Wash. State Univ. Museum
Dharan, Saudi Arabia Pullman, Washington
Abdullah Aziz Al-Ghunaim Codruta Cruceanu
ARAMCO National Museum of Art
Dharan, Saudi Arabia Bucharest, Romania
Ahmed Ali Al-Ibbi Alissandra Cummins
Old City of Sanaa Barbados Museum & Hist. Soc.
Sanaa, Yemen Arab Republic Barbados
Abdullah Isa Al-Isa John Darby
ARAMCO Otago Museum
Dharan, Saudi Arabia Dunedin, New Zealand
Said Al-Shakouri Cietta David-Mensah
ARAMCO USIS
Dharan, Saudi Arabia Monrovia, Liberia
Alberto Angela Veronique Deschamps
University of Rome USIS
Rome, Italy Paris, France
David Anderson Marina Desin
National Maritime Museum Drustvo Konavle
London, England Konavle, Yugoslavia
Mitsuru Aoki Joe Devilee
USIS Queensland Art Gallery
Sapporo, Japan South Brisbane, Australia
Teguh Asmar Mary Anne Dickerson
National Museum Roanoke Valley Science Museum
Jakarta, Indonesia Roanoke, Virginia
Pierre Ayamine-Anguilet Deidra Edmond-Webber
Natl. Mus. of Arts & Tradition Grand Rapids Public Museum
Libreville, Gabon Grand Rapids, Michigan
atherine Bonnefoy Denise Ellis

ie)

ct

Natural His

K
KK

High Museum

Museum of
France Atlanta, Georgia

Paris,

92
Ibrahim El-Nawawy

Cairo Museum

Cairo, Egypt
Eduardo Faith

Museum of the Central Bank

San Jose, Costa Rica
Nancy Fister

The Bowers Museum

Santa Ana, California
Lawrence Foanaota

National Museum

Honaria, Solomon Islands
Mohamad Safa Ghannoum

Directorate of Museums

Damascus, Syria
Florencia Garcia

Honduran Inst. Hist. & Anth.

Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Amy German

Morris Museum

Morristown, New Jersey
Monica Gili

Museum Department of Barcelona

Barcelona, Spain
Myrtle Glascoe
Avery Research Center for
Afro-American Hist. & Culture
Charleston, South Carolina
Denise Glover
Natl. Afro-American Museum
Columbus, Ohio
Jan Goffney
Detroit Public Schools
Detroit, Michigan
Gilbert Gonzalez
Hayes Presidential Center
Fremont, Ohio
Ernesto Gonzalez-Licon
Natl. Inst. of Anth. & Hist.
Oaxaca, Mexico
Harriett Green
The Columbia Museum
Columbia, South Carolina
J. P. Greene
reater Manchester Museum of
cience and Industry
Manchester, England
Pathe Gueye
National Theatre
Senegal

G
s

Deborah Haase
Stirling Smith Art Gallery
Stirling, Scotland

Adnan Hadidi
Jordan Archeological Museum
Amman, Jordan

Brian Hayton

NW Museum & Art Gallery Service

Blackburn, England
Arnulf Herbst
State Museum of Wiesbaden
Frankfurt, West Germany
Be Herrera
Crocker Museum
Sacramento, California
Louis Hicks
Carver Museum
Austin, Texas
Lazare Henon Houetin
Office of the Arts
Benin
Paivi Hovi
Turku Art Museum
Turku, Finland
Osamu Inoue
TEPCO
Tokyo, Japan
Genevieve Issembe
National Ballet of Gabon
Libreville, Gabon
Sadhu Ishwarcharandas
Akshardham
Amdavad, India
Jane Peirson Jones
Birmingham City Museum
Birmingham, England
Ombone Kaiku
Natl. Museum & Art Gallery
Papua, New Guinea
Bi N'Dri Antoine Kakou
Natl. Inst. of the Arts
Ivory Coast
Antun Karaman
Dubrovnik Art Gallery
Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia
David Kato
Washington Park Zoo
Portland, Oregon

SP)
oO

4

Aurangzeb Khan
Dir Museum
Chakdara, Pakistan
Nadim Khouri
Afamiya Museum
Hama, Syria
Amy Kirschke
Contemporary Arts Center
New Orleans, Louisiana
Fujio Koh
TEPCO
Tokyo, Japan
Moussa Konate
Musee National du Mali
Bamako, Mali
Konan Kouakou
Aka Cultural Ctr. of Bouake
Ivory Coast
Fahad Kulaban
ARAMCO
Dharan, Saudi Arabia
Inad Omar Kurdi
Mayor's Office
Amman, Jordan
Charle Lamonica
Science Museum of Charlotte
Charlotte, North Carolina
Irma Lanzas de Chavez
Min. of Cult. & Communication
San Salvador, El Salvador
Gloria Lara-Hasemann
Honduran Inst. Hist. & Anth.
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Mary Lee
Colonial Williamsburg
Williamsburg, VA
Amidou Lega
Min. of Information & Culture
Ougadougou, Burkina Faso
Sue Levy
University Museum
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Cheng-Shing Lin
Natl. Mus. of Natural Science
Taichung, Taiwan
Loukia Loizou
Nicosia Levention Museum
Nicosia, Cyprus
Jose Lopez
Honduran Inst. Hist. & Anth.
Tegucigalpa, Honduras

Maria Isabel Lussich
USIS
Montevideo, Uruguay
T. T. Tseliso MacDonald Mabote
Lesotho Evangelical Church
Maseru, Lesotho
Ana Magraner
Ministry of Culture
Madrid, Spain
Madeline Mallah
Luxor Museum
Luxor, Egypt
Maria Marable
Southwest Museum
Los Angeles, Caiifornia
Maria Martin
Fine Arts Circle
Madrid, Spain
Sebastien Matingou
Ministry of Culture
Congo
Masaki Matsuda
TEPCO
Tokyo, Japan
Kevin George Mbayu
Natl. Museum of Cameroon
Yaounde, Cameroon
Birgit Mershen
Yarmouk University
Irbid, Jordan
Robert Mizaki
Museum of Modern Art
New York, New York
Mary Mock
Indianapolis Museum of Art
Indianapolis, Indiana
Elizabeth Mullins
Sandy Spring Museum
Sandy Spring, Maryland
Garfield Murray
Ministry of Sport, Culture
and Youth Affairs
Trinidad and Tobago
Abdulrahman Mohamed Mwinzagu
Fort Jesus Museum
Mombasa, Kenya
Stella Tsitsi Nduku
Natl. Museums & Monuments
Harare, Zimbabwe
Pie Claude Ngumu
Ministry of Culture
Cameroon
Loretha Nichols
Wichita Art Museum
Wichita, Kansas
Patamaka Sukontamarn
SES
angkok, Thailand
Manuela Patat
USIS
Trieste, Italy
Evanice Pauletti
Art Mus. of Rio Grande do Sul
Porto Allegre, Brazil
Palitha Pelpola
Mahnaweli Museum & Center
Mahaweli, Sri Lanka
Jarno Peltonen
Museum of Applied Arts
Helsinki, Finland
Antonio Perez
USIS
Manila, Phillipines
Elena Pujol
USES
Barcelona, Spain
Pedro Querejazu
National Museum of Art
La Paz, Bolivia
Lydia Quigley
Ponce Museum
Ponce, Puerto Rico
B. J. Quinlan
Salem Public Library
Salem, Oregon
Omar Rahamat
Jordanian Royal Society for
the Conservation of Nature
Amman, Jordan
Esperee Rahary
Ministry of Culture
Madagascar
Barbara Requa
Cultural Training Centre
Kingston, Jamaica
Eurydice Retsila

a
U
B

ak
Nova Scotia Art Gallery
Halifax, Canada

Hocine Rizi

Elizabeth Robinson
USIS
Kingston, Jamaica
Maria Rosa
Carlos Costa Pinto Museum
Bahia, Brazil
Burama K. Sagnia
Natl. Museum of Gambia
Banjul, The Gambia
Mohamed Said-Ahmed
Egyptian Antiquities Org.
Sakkara, Egypt
Ayesha Salam
USIS
Islamabad, Pakistan
Ferenc Sarkay
Ministry of Culture
Budapest, Hungary
Otto Schondube
Natl. Inst. of Anthropology
Guadalajar, Mexico
Janine Schotsman
Mus. Royaux d'Art et d'Hist.
Brussels, Belgium
Kamel Sh'hadeh
Mar'a Museum
Idleb, Syria
Roberto Siage
USIS
Montevideo, Uruguay
Bakary Sidibe
Natl. Museum of Gambia
Banjul, The Gambia
Radja Simatupang
Min. of Information
Jakarta, Indonesia
Oscar Simela
Natl. Museums & Monuments
Harare, Zimbabwe
Abdul Aziz Ali Ebrahim Sowaileh
Bahrain National Museum
Manama, Bahrain
Mitsuaki Suenaga
TEPCO
Tokyo, Japan
Hiroshi Suzuki
TEPCO
Tokyo, Japan
David Swain
Natl. Cartoon Centre
Canberra, Australia
96

Cornelia Syre
Bavarian State Coll. of Art
Munich, West Germany

Ato Tadesse-Terfa
Ministry of Culture
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

Rosalba Tardito
Cult. & Hist. Assets
Milan, Italy

Joseph Zaki Tawdros
Egyptian Antiquities Org.
Cairo, Egypt

Adil Naji Tawfiq
Min. of Culture & Information
Baghdad, Iraq

Maria Trindad
Art & Culture Institite
Ouro Preto, Brazil

U Aung Thein Nyunt
Ministry of Religion
Rangoon, Burma

U Maung Maung Lay
Ministry of Religion
Rangoon, Burma

J. H. van Brakel
Tropenmuseum
Amsterdam, The Netherlands

Vincent van den Ven
Amsterdam Historical Society
Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Jan Van Kerkhove
USIS
Brussels, Belgium
Elsa Minetti de Vidal-Perri
Natl. Historical Museum
Canelones, Uruguay
Corinna de Weerdt
Inst. for Educ.of the Arts
Rotterdam, The Netherlands
Barbara Wild
Gallery of the Belvedere
Vienna, Austria
James Wong
Hong Kong Museum of Art
Hong Kong
James Yaldwyn
National Museum of New Zealand
Wellington, New Zealand
Yumiko Yamashita
USIS
Tokyo, Japan
Ginger Yang
National Museum of Natural Science
Taichung, Taiwan
Appendix 5

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1986

GENERAL PURLICATIONS
Trade Publications

Agar, Michael H. Independents Declared: The Dilemma of Independent.
liruckings, .192 pages <s'C loti 9247995 "Paper: Slec9o.” “April 1986.

Rrown, Michael F. Tsewa's Gift: Magic and Meaning in an Amazonian Society.
22U Pages, 8 hlack-and-white illustrations, 4 figures, & tables, 2
maps. Cloth: $19.95. January 1986.

Carr, Carolyn Kinder and Christman, Margaret C.S. Gaston Lachaise Portrait

Sculpture. 168 pages, 95 black-and-white illustrations. Paper:
$16.95, December 1985,

Christienne, Charles and Lissarague, Pierre; Translated by Francis Kianka.
A History of French Military Aviation. 532 pages, 11 color and 494
black-and-white illustrations, 40 tables, 3 maps. Cloth: $6U.0U.
August 1956,

Dick, Harold G. with Robinson, Douglas H. The Golden Age of the Great
Passenger Airships: Graf Zeppelin and Hindenhurg. 226 pages, 83
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $24.95. November 1985,

Ewers, John C. Plains Indian Sculpture. 24U pages, 26 color and 22U
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $39.95; Paper: $24.95. May 1986.

Fitzhugh, William W. Cultures in Contact: The European Impact on Native
Cultural Institutions in Eastern North America, A.D. lUUU-18UU, 326
pages, 19 black-and-white illustrations, 7 tahles, 22 maps. Cloth:
$29.95. November 1965,

Fu, Shen, Lowry, Glen D., and Yonemura, Ann, From Concept to Context:

Approaches to Asian and Islamic Calligraphy. 166 pages, 15 color and 96
black-and-white illustrations, Paper: $22.50. July 1986,

Hamel, Paul B. Rachman's Warbler: A Species in Peril. 110 pages, 6 hlack-
and-white illustrations, 2 figures, 4 tahles. Cloth: $11.95. July
1936,

Hamerstrom, Frances; Foreword hy Roger Tory Peterson. Harrier: Hawk of the

Marshes--The Hawk That is Ruled by a Mouse. 20% pages, 34 black-and-
white illustrations, 1% figures. Cloth: $24.95; Paper: $10.95. July
1946,

Harris, Neil and Norelli, Martina R.; Foreword hy Charles C. Eldredge.
Art, Design, and the Modern Corporation: The Collection of Container
Corporation of America, A Gift to the National Museum of American Art.

36 pages, 32 color and YU black-and-white illustrations. Paper:
$19.95. October 1905,

Henry, J. David. Red Fox: The Catlike Canine. 176 pages, 1U color and 46

Dlack-and-white illustrations, Cloth: $22.50, June 196,

Hoage, R. J. Animal Extinctions: What Everyone Should Know. 2U6 pages, 3U
Dlack-and-white illustrations. Paper: $9.95, December 1985,

Jackson, Michael. Barawa and the Ways Birds Fly in the Sky. 212 pages, 2
maps. Cloth: $18.95. April 1yo6.

97
Kloss, William; Foreword by Charles C. Eldredge. Treasures From the
National Museum of American Art. 256 pages, 61 color and 92 black-and-
Whire Tiltishrakqonss VOjarhy $39.95. . March 1986:

Kraft, Stephen, Kids' Smithsonian Experience: A Smithsonian Coloring
Rook. 32 pages, 1 color and 29 black-and-white illustrations, Paper:
$2.75. “March: 1986.

Lapham, Lewis. High Technology and Human Freedom. 17U pages, 5 hlack-and-
white illustrations. Cloth: $19.95; Paper: $9.95. Novemher 1985,

Leary, William. Aerial Pioneers: The U.S. Air Mail Service, 1918-1927.
31U pages, 37 hlack-and-white illustrations, 5 maps. Cloth: $22.5u.
December 1905,

Lucas, Geraldine. Toys: A Smithsonian Coloring Rook. 32 pages, 1 color
and 29 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $2./5. March 1986.

Meltzer, David J., Fowler, Don D., and Sabloff, Jeremy A., eds. American

Archaeology Past and Future: A Celebration of the Society for American

Archaeology, 1935--1985. 480 pages, 32 figures. Cloth: $35.UU; Paper:
$19.95, April l9s6.

Montgomery, G. Gene. The Evolution and Ecology of Armadillos, Sloths, and
Vermilinguas. 462 pages, ¥ hlack-and-white illustrations, 1/4 figures.

Paper: $45.U0. March 1906,

Mosely, Keith. The Flight of the Pternsaurs: A Pop-Up Book. 56 pages, 2u
color illustrations. “Cloth: $13.95, dune 1986.

Myers, Fred R. Pintupi Country, Pintupi Self: Sentiment, Place, and
Politics among Western Desert Aborigines. 334 pages, 3 black-and-white
illustrations, ll maps. Cloth: $27.50. July 1986.

Oakes, Claudia M. United States Women in Aviation Through World War I. 44
pages, 438 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $5.95. OUctoher 1985,

Quill, Jeffrey. Birth of a Legend: Spitfire. 16U pages, 1U color and 101
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $22.50, May 196.

Riaboff, Alexander. Gatchina Days: Reminiscenses of A Russian Pilot, ld
pages, 85 hlack-and-white illustrations, 8’ maps. Cloth: $19.95, May
1986,

Robinson, George S. and White, Jr., Harold M. Fnvoys of Mankind: A
Declaration of First Principles for the Governance of Space Societies.
316 pages. Cloth: $19.95. September 1926.

Thomson, Peggy and Park, Edwards. The Pilot and the Lion Cuh: Odd Tales
from the Smithsonian. 142 pages, 25 hlack-and-white illustrations.
Paper: $4.95. April 1986.

Viola, Herman J. and Margolis, Carolyn. Magnificent Voyagers: The U.S.
Exploring Expedition, 1834-1642. 304 pages, 6% color and 142 hlack-and-
white illustrations. Clotnh: $35.00; Paper: $17.5U., Uctoher 1935,

Wooldridge, E. T. Focus on Flight: The Aviation Photography of Hans
Groenhoff. 112 pages, 1U color and 132 hlack-and-white illustrations.
Papers olt.9o... Vetober: 1985,

Mooldridge, E. T. Images of Flight: The Aviation Photography of Rudy
Arnold. 160 pages, 10 color and 114 hlack-and-white illustrations.
Paper: $16.95, August 196,

Yochelson, Ellis L. The National Museum of Natural History: Seventy-five

Years in the Natural History Building. 216 pages, 194 hlack-and-white
illustrations, 2 tables, / maps. Paper: $17.95. November 1985.

Trade Renrints

Aditi: The Living Arts of India. Dedication hy Rohert McC. Adams;
Foreword hy S. Dillon Ripley; Preface hy Rajeev Sethi; Introduction by
Pupul Jayakar. 28U pages, 71 color and 2UU black-and-white
Lilustratdons. = Paper:..$19.95;... March 19386;

Ahlborn, Richard E. The Penitente Moradas of Abiquiu. 52 pages, 55
hlack-and-white illustrations. Paper: $3.95. May 196,

Dinosaurs: A Smithsonian Coloring Rook. 32 pages, 1 color and 29 hlack-
and-white illustrations. Paper: $2.95. April 19385.

Evans, Howard Ensign. The Pleasures of Entorology: Portraits of Insects
; and the People Who Study Them. 23% pages, 1Y hlack-and-white
illustrations. Paper: $14.95, April 1906.

First Ladies' Hall: A Smithsonian Coloring Book. 32 pages, 1 color and 29
black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $2.95. April 1986.

Hallion; Richard P., ed. The Wright Rrothers: Heirs of Prometheus. 146
pages, 9/7 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $9.95. Uctober 19u5.

Johnson, Clarence L. "Kelly," with Smith, Maggie. Kelly--More Than My
Share of It All. 21U pages, 22 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth:
SL 5U April 19862

Kloss, tlilliam. Treasures From the National Museum of American Art. 256
pages, sl color and 92 black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $39.95.
August 1lYo6,

Leigh, Egbert G., Jr., Rand, A. Stanley, and Windsor, Donald M., eds. The
Ecology of a Tropical Forest: Seasonal Rhythms and Long-Term Changes. .
46% pages, 142 black-and-white illustrations. Paper: $25.00. January
1936.

Mammals: A Smithsonian Coloring Book. 32 pages, 1 color and 29 hlack-and-
white illustrations. Paper: $2.95. April 1906,

Nakes, Claudia M. and Brooks-Pazmany, Kathleen L. Aircraft of the National

Air_and Space Museum, 176 pages, 373 hlack-and-white illustrations.
Paper: $6.50. August 1986,

Whipple, Fred L. The Mystery of Comets. 276 pages, 17 color and 119
black-and-white illustrations. Cloth: $24.95; Paper: $12.50. April
1986,

Annual Reports

American Historical Association Annual Report. 13/7 pages. Mectober 1985,

National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1955. 256 pages, 17 color
and 51 black-and-white illustrations, 9 tables, Movember 1955,

Smithsonian Year 19¢5. 192 pages, 1 color and 54 hlack-and-white
jjlustrations, 1 figure, 22 tables. June 1985,

Smithsonian Year 1965 Supplement: Chronology and Appendixes. 426 pages.
April 1956,

99
H
Oo

Roaks

National Museum of Natural History

Yochelson, Ellis L. The National Museum of Natural History: Seventy-five

Years in the Natural History Building. 216 pages, 1/2 black-and-white
illustrations. November 1985,

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Smithsonian Opportunities for Research and Study in History, Art, Science
1935--1966. 165 pages, 2 hlack-and-white illustrations. October 1985.

Office of Protection Services

Smithsonian Institution Guard Manual. 64 pages, 1 black-and-white
illustration. October 1905,

Smithsonian Institution Press

Virtuosi: Smithsonian Collection of Recordings. 159 pages, 43

hlack-and-white illustrations. January 1906.
Works of '', A, Mozart: Smithsonian Collection of Recordings. 64 pages, 23
black-and-white illustrations. July 19%6.
Booklets

Office of Membership and Development

James Smithson Society Dinner Program 1986. 2% pages, 1 black-and-white
illustration. September 1906,

Office of the Secretary

Bylaws of the Roard of Regents and Charter Provisions of the Smithsonian
Institution. 44 pages, 1 black-and-white illustrations. August 1986.

Smithsonian Institution Press
A Guide for Authors. 36 pages, 1 table. July 1946.
Brochures

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Spring/Summer 1986 Calendar. 4%
pages, 12 black-and-white illustrations. April 19d6.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Fall/Winter 1986 Calendar. & pages,
13 black-and-white illustrations. August 1986,
National Museum of African Art

A Human Ideal in African Art: Bamana Figurative Sculpture. ¢ pages, 4

hlack-and-white illustrations, April 1986,

The Rising of a few Moon: A Century of Tahwa Art. 3 paces, 4 black-ard-

white illustrations, January 1986,

National Museum of American Art

Brown, Gaye. Introducing the National Museum of American Art. 12 pages,
ll color illustrations. January 1986.

Hartigan, Lynda Roscoe. Afro-American Art: Twentieth-Century Selections.
16 pages, 6 color and 7 black-and-white illustrations. January 1936.

Norelli, Martina Roudabush, Art, Design, and the Modern Corporation: The
Collection of the Container Corporation of American, A Gift to the

National Museum of American Art. 8 pages, 7/7 black-and-white
illustrations. October 19%5,

The Peter A. Juley and Son Collection. & pages, Y¥ black-and-white
illustrations. August 1986,

Resources for Research in American Art At the Smithsonian Institution's
Gallery Place. 12 pages, 7 black-and-white illustrations. July 1986.

National Museum of Natural History

Department of Rotany, Smithsonian Institution. 16 pages, 22 color and 6
black-and-white illustrations. July 196,

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Career Awareness Program. 4 pages, 7 black-and-white illustrations. May
1986,

Office of Museum Programs

Office of Museum Programs. 6 pages. December 19%),
Internships and Visiting Professionals Programs. 4 pages. May 1986.

Office of Protection Services

Welcome to the Protection Force. 6 pages, 1 hlack-and-white illustration.
November 1955,

Smithsonian institution Libraries
Nota Rene: An Exhibition Commemorating the Tenth Anniversar

of the Dibner Library. 14 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration.
August 1Y6o,

Exhibition Catalogs
Hirsnhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Rozensweig, Phyllis. Yirections 1906, 6U pages, 29 color and 11 hlack-
and-wnite illustrations. January 196.

of the Opening

IOI
National Museum of African Art

Ezra, Kate. A Human Ideal in African Art: Ramana Figurative Sculpture.
43 pages, 43 hlack-and-white illustrations. April 1986,

Goa Yell, My Child: Photographs hy Constance Stuart Larrahee In

Collaboration With Alan Patan, 32 pages, 31 hlack-and-white
illustrations, Niovember 1Y¥o0d,

National Museum of American Art

Art, Design, and the Modern Corporation: The Collection of the Container
Corporation of America. 136 pages, 32 color and 8/7 black-and-white
illustrations. October 1955.

Breeskin, Adelyn. Romaine Brooks in the National Museum of American Art.

124 pages, 1U color and 81 black-and-white illustrations, January 1986.

Eldredge, Charles C., Schimmel, Julie, and Truettner, \Vlilliam. Art in New
Mexico 19UU--1945: Paths to Taos and Santa Fe. 224 pages, 12U color and
91 black-and-white illustrations. March 1986,

Kloss, William. Treasures From the National Museum of American Art. 256
pages, gl color and 92 black-and-white illustrations. January 1986,

Lippard, Lucy and Broun, Elizabeth. Patrick Ireland: Drawings 1965--19485.
64 pages, 9 color and 2U black-and-white illustrations. April 1986,

Exhibition Checklists

National Museum of American Art

Figure Prints: The Washington Print Club Eleventh Biennial Members '
Exhibition, 24 pages, 3 black-and-white illustrations. April 1936.

Flyers
National Air ard Space Museum
Publications; Services for Disabled Visitors; and Educational Tours and
Materials (three education division information flyers). 6 pages, 6

black-and-white illustrations. February 196,

National “Museum of African Art

Outreach Program, Winter 1986--1987, 6 pages, 2 hlack-and-white
illustrations. August 196.

Office of Elementary and Secondary £ducation

Intern ‘86. 2 pages, 6 black-and-white illustrations. December 1945,
Smithsonian Spectrum: Educational Opportunities 19%6--1987, 4 pages, 13

black-and-white illustrations, 1 map. Septeriber 19u6.

Folders
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Robert Arneson: A Retrospective. 4 pages, 8 hlack-and-wnite illustrations.

_—_— ee

April 1986.
National Museum of African Art

of a Maw Moon: A Century of Tabwa Art. & pages, 4 hlack-and-
lustrations, danuary 1936,

1

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Research and Study Opportunities at the Smithsonian Institution. 6 pages,

1 black-and-white illustration. Arngust 1986,
Office of Horticulture

The Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration, 2 maps.
Vecember 1985,

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Opportunities for Research in the Tropics: Smithsonian Tropical Research

Institute (English and Spanisn language versions
2 hlack-and-white illustrations. July 1986.

Invitations

National Nuseum of American Art

Art, Design, and the Modern Corporation: The Collection of the Container
Corporation of America, A Gift to the National Museum of American Art.
2 invitations, 6 pages, 1 black-and-white illustration. October 19&5.

Art in New Mexico, 19U0U--1945: Paths to Taos and Santa Fe. € pages, 1
color illustration. February 14906,

The Art of Turned Vood Rowls. 1 page. April 1986.

Figure Prints: The Washington Print Club Eleventh Biennial Members '
Exhibition. 1 page. April 1986,

James Rosenquist: Paintings 1961--1985. 6 pages, 1 color illustration.
September 196,

Masterpieces of Time: Clocks by '!endell Castle. 1 page. April 1986.

Patrick Ireland: Drawings 1945--149%5. 1 page. April 1986.

Treasures From the Land: Twelve New Zealand Craftsmen and Their Native
Materials. 6 pages, 2 hlack-and-white illustrations. Octoher 1985,

Unknown Territory: Photographs by Ray K. Metzker., 6 pages, 1 hblack-and-
white illustration, August 1Yo6,

Miscellaneous
Office of Elementary anc Secondary Education

Art to Zoo.

Let s Go To The Smithsonian.

On The Shoulders of Giants: Smithsonian Teacher's Guide. 2 paces.
Vecember 195, Tape

- 6 pages, 1 color and

103
Smithsanian Journeys Mumber Two, Autumn 1905. 14 pages, 3U black-and-white
illustrations. December 19¢5,

Smithsonian Journeys Number Two, Autumn 1945 Teacher's Guide. 4 pages.
Qecember 1985,

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Directory of Fellows: Smithsonian Institution 19386 (cover). 2 pages, 1
color illustration. August 1, 1986,

Office of Public Affairs

Smithsonian Institution: Yesterday and Today. 1 page, 1 color
illustration. July 196.

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 46, Autumn 1985.
October 1985,

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 47, Winter 1985.
January 19v6,

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 48, Spring 1946.
May 1986,

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 49, Autumn 18

September 1966,

Office of Protection Services

Special Police Commission Certificate. 1 page, 1 color illustration.
January 1936,

Certificate of Achievement. 1 page, 1 color illustration. July 1986.

Smithsonian Institution Press

National Air and Space Museum Archival Videodisk III Covers and Labels with
Index. 32 pages. July 19v6,

Posters

National Museum of African Art

A Human Ideal in African Art: Bamana Fiqurative Sculpture. March 1986.
National Museum of American Art.

Art in few Mexico 19UU--1945: Paths to Taos and Santa Fe. March 1986,
National Museum of Natural History

Fossils of the Atlantic Coastal Plain. 13 black-and-white illustrations.

May 19606. Distributed by SI Press/$5.0U.

Fossil Shark Teeth. 23 hlack-and-white illustrations. October 1485.
Distributed hy SI Press/$5.00.

IO4
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
On The Shoulders of Giants. 7 color illustrations. November 1985,

Office of Fellowsnips and Grants

Fellowships in Residence at the Smithsonian Institution 1987-1988. 1 color
illustration. September 1986.
Fellowships in Residence at the Smithsonian Institution: Rockefeller

Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities 198/7--1988. 1 color
illustration. September 19386,

SERIES PUBLICATIONS
Smithsonian Contributions to Anthropology

32. Vance C. Haynes, Jr., and George A. Agogino. "Geochronology of
Sandia Cave." 32 pages, 7 figures, 2 tables. April 21, 1986.

Smithsonian Contributions to Botany

58. Aaron Goldbert. "Classification, Evolution, and Phylogeny of the
Families of Dicotyledons." 314 pages, 164 figures, 2 tables.

August 22, 1986,

60. Lyman B. Smith, Dieter C. Wasshausen, Jack Golding, and Carrie E.
Karegeannes. "Begoniaceae, Part I: Illustrated Key; and Part II:
Species List." 548 pages, 1183 figures. July 25, 1986.

61, Pamela Burns-Balogh and V.A. Funk. "A Phylogenetic Analysis of the
Orchidaceae." 79 pages, 94 black-and-white figures, 4 color plates.
March 26, 1986.

63. John J. Wurdack. “Atlas of Hairs of Melastomataceae." 80 pages,
244 figures. May 30, 1986.

Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology

58. Richard Cifelli and George Scott. "Stratigraphic Record of the
Neogene Globorotalid Radiation (Planktonic Foraminiferida)." 101 pages,
43 figures. February 11, 1986.

59. Daryl P. Domning, Clayton E. Ray, and Malcolm C. McKenna. "Two New
Oligocene Demostylians and a Discussion of Tethytherian Systematics."
56 pages, 23 figures. May 28, 1986.

Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology

413. David W. Steadman. "Holocene Vertebrate Fossils from Isla Floreana,
Galapagos.” 103 pages, 25 figures, 4 plates, 12 tables. April 17, 1986.

415. Louis S. Kornicker. "Sarsiellidae of the Western Atlantic and
Northern Gulf of Mexico, and Revision of the Sarsiellinae (Ostracoda:
Myodocopina)." 217 pages, 113 figures, 34 plates, 7 tables. April 10,
1926,

416, J.F. Gates Clarke. "Pyralidae and Microlepidoptera of the Marquesas

Archipelago." 4385 pages, 319 figures, 1 table. September 30, 1586.

105
418, Stephen D0. Cairns. “A Revision of the Northwest Atlantic Stylasteridae
(Coelenterata: tlydrozoa)." 131 pages, 53 black-and-white figures, 3 tables, 25
maps. 3U May 1986.

419, C.M. Hart, dri, Lee-Ann Hayek, Janice Clark, and William 4. Clark. “The
Life History and Ecology of the Entocytherid Ostracod Uncinocythere

occidentalis (Kozloff and Whitman) in Idaho." 22 pages, o black-and-white

figures, ll tables, 24 Decemher 1985,
420, Frank D. Ferrari. "“Postnaupliar Development of a Looking-glass Copepod,
Pleuromamma xiphias (Gieshrecht, 18389), with Analyses of Distributions of Sex

and Asymmetry." 55 pages, 23 black-and-white figures, 9 tables. &% Movember

1955,
421. Stanley H. Weitzman and Sara V. Fink. "Xenurobryconin Phylogeny and
Putative Pheromone Pumps in Glandulocaudine Fishes (Teleostei: Characidae)."
121 pages, 81 black-and-white figures, 4 tables. 24 December 1945.

22, Jonathan A, Coddington, "The Genera of the Spider Family
Theridiosomatidae." 96 pages, 22U hlack-and-white figures, 3 maps, 1 table.
27 May 1986.
423, John M, Rurns, "“Wallengrenia otho and W. egeremet in Eastern North
America (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae: Hesperiinae)." 39 pages, 66 black-and-white
figures, 4 tables. 24 December 1985,
424, Margaret N. Andonlshek and Horton H, Hobhs, Jr. “The Ertocytherid
QOstracod Fauna of Southeastern Georgia." 43 pages, 2U black-and-white figures,
3 tables. 12 February 1906,
425. Lonis S. Kornicker. "Cylindroleherididae of the Western North Atlantic
and Northern Gulf of Mexico, and Zongengraphy of the Myococopina." 139 pages,
63 hlack-and-white figures, 6 tables. 14 July 1986.
426. Stephen D. Cairns. “Stylasteridae (Hydrozoa: Hydroida) of the Galapagos
Islands." 42 pages, 27 black-and-white figures, 2 tables, 1 map. 26 March
1956.
427. George R. Zug, Addison H. Wynn, and Carol Ruckdeschel. "Age
Determination of Loggerhead Sea Turtles, Caretta caretta, by Incremertal Growth
Marks in the Skeleton." 34 pages, 9 hlack-and-white figures, 6 tables, 25 July
1906.
428. Marian H. Pettibone. “Review of the Iphianinae (Polychaeta: Polynoidae)
and Revision of Iphione cimex Quatrefages, Gattyana deludens Fauvel, and

Harmathoe iphionelloides Johnson (Harmothoinae)." 43 pages, 16 hlack-and-white

figures. 23 August 1986,

429, Ranald J. NcGinley. "Studies of Halictinae (Apoidea: Halictidae), I:
Revision of tew World Lasioglossom Curtis." 294 pages, 746 black-and-white
figures, 4 tahles. 14 July 1986.

43u, \layne N. Mathis. “Studies of Psilopinae (Diptera: Fphydridae), [: A
Pavisian of the Shore Fly Genus Placopsidella Kertesz." 30 pages, 34
black-and-white figures, 30 May 1986,

431. John G. Robinson, "Seasonal Variation in Use af Time and Space hy the
\ladga-capped Capuchin Nonkey Cebus olivaceus: Implications far Foraging
Theory." 60 pages, 23 black-and-white figures, 16 tables. 23 Jure 1986.
432, Fenner A, Chace, Ur. “The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda) of the
Albatross Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 4: Families Oplophoridae and
Nematocarcinidae," 82 pages, 42 hlack-and-white figures, 11 September 1986,
433. aymond R, Manning and Ch, Lewinsohn, "totes on Some Stonmatopod
Crustacea from the Sinai Peninsula, Red Sea." 19 pages, 4 hlack-and-white
Figures, 4 tables. 12 May 1986.

434, Donald R, Uavis. "A New Family of Nonotrysian Moths from Austral South
America (Lepidoptera: Palaephatidae), with a Phylogenetic Paview of the
Monotrysia.' 2U3 pages, 568 figures, 15 maps, 3 tahles, 14 July 1985,

435. Maureen E. Downey, “Revision of the Atlantic Rrisinyida (Echinodernata:
Asteroidea), with Description of a New Genus and Family." 57 pages, 24
black-and-white figures. 30 September 1936,

436. Karl V. Kromhein and Wojciech J. Pulawski. "RBiosystematic Studies of
Ceylonese Wasps, XVI: A Revision of Gastrosericus Spinola (Hymenoptera:
Sphecoidea: Larridae)." 2U pages, 34 black-and-white figures. 21 April 19x6.
438. Robert P. Higgins and Reinhardt Mobjerg. “New Loricifera from
Southeastern United States Coastal Waters." 70 pages, &7 hlack-and-white
figures, 1 map. 7 April 1986.

439, Amnon Freidberg and Wayne MN. Mathis, “Studies of Terelliinae (Diptera:
Tephritidae): A Revision of the Genus Neaspilota Osten Sacken." 75 pages, 2u4
black-and-white figures. 2 September 1956,

44U, Helga Schiff, Rernard C, Abbott, and Raymond R. Manning. “Optics,
Range-Finding, and Neuroanatomy of the Eye of a Mantis Shrimp, Squilla mantis
(Linnaeus) (Crustacea: Stomatopnda: Squillidae)."
figures, 1 table. 9 July 1986.

441, Marian H. Pettibone, “Additions to the Family Eulepethidae Chamberlin
(Polychaeta: Aphroditacea)." 51 pages, 42 black-and-white figures. 12
September 1486,

Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology

46. Emilie Savage-Smith with Andrea P.A. Beloli. "“Islamicate Celestial
Globes: Their History, Construction, and Use." 354 pages, 3 color and 34
black-and-white figures, 7 tables. 20 January 1906,

47, D.A. Flentrop (trans. by John Fesperman). "The Organs of Mexico City
Cathedral." 53 pages, 28 hlack-and-white figures. 11 September 1986,

DIRECT-MAIL PURLICATIONS
Books

Kopper, Philip. The Smithsonian Rook of North American Indians. 288 pages,
315 color and 27 black-and-white illustrations, 12 maps, Retail: $50.00;
Associates: $29.97, September 1986,

Recordinas

Virtuosi. 7 LPs accompanied hy a 159-page hooklet containing 43 hlack-and-
white illustrations, Retail: $54.96; Associates: $49.96, January 196.

Works of We A. Mozart. 6 LPs accompanied hy a 64-page booklet containing
21 Alack-and-white illustrations. Retail: $54.46; Associates: $49.96,
August 1986,

The Mount Calvary Church Organ. 1 LP. Retail: $9.90; Associates: $8.99,

June 1966,

32 pages, 1Y hlack-and-white

Lama
Appendix 6
Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1986

JCSEPH EEMRY PAPERS

Rothenberg, M., and Reingold, N. "The Exploring Expedition anda
the Smithsonian Institution." In Magnificent Vovaces: The
«S$. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842 (1985): 243-253.
Edited by H. J. Viola and C. Margolis. Washington, D. C:
Smithsonian Institution Press.
Theerman, P. "James Clerk Maxwell and Religion." American
Journal or Physics 54 (1986): 312-317.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director

Robinson, M. H. 1985. Tropical forests, informational complexity,
conservation and the modern zoo. In Zoom Op Zoo Antwerp Zoo Focusing
on Arts and Sciences, ed. C. Kruyhooft, pp. 55-69. Royal Zoological
Society of Antwerp.

- 1985. Alternatives to destruction: investigations into the use
of tropical forest resources with comments on repairing the effects
of destruction. The Environmental Professional, Vol. 7, pp. 232-239.
- 1985. The fate of the tropics: are things as bad as they seem;
and, if so, what can be done? In Proceedings of the American
Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums Annual Conference 1985,
Pp. 33-37.

- 1985. The function of the modern zoo and the future of the
tropics. In Proceedings of the International Union of Directors of
Zoological Gardens Annual Conference 1985, pp. 150-160.

- 1985. Predator-prey interactions, informational complexity, and
the origins of intelligence. In Journal of the Washington Academy of
Sciences, Vol. 75, No. 4, pp. 91-104.

- 1986. Zoos today and tomorrow. In American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums 1986 Regional Proceedings, pp. 527-
BSitis

Robinson, B. CG and Robinson, M. H 1985. Resources available to tropical
predators on tree trunks and under trees. In Ecology and Resource
Management in the Tropics, ed. K CG Misra, pp. 97-102. Bhargava
Book Depot, India.

Robinson, M. H., Robinson, B. C., Murphy, F. M. and Corley, W. S. 1986.
Egg=-sac burying behavior in Nephila maculata: a specialized
adaptation. In Proceedings of the Ninth International Congress of

rachnology, Panama, 1983, eds. W. G. Eberhard, Y. D. Lubin and B. C.
Robinson, pp. 245-254. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press.

Animal Departments

Bingaman, L. E and Ballou, J. D 1986. Demographic analysis for captive
populations: Spreadsheet programs. Office of the Conservation
Coordinator, American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums.

Davis, B. 1986. Ritualized combat behavior in Dumerils monitors.
Herpetology Review 17:in press.

Demeter, B. J. 1986. Combat behavior in the gila monster (Heloderma
suspectum). Herpetology Review 17:9-11.

Gould, E and Bres, M. 1986. Regurgitation and reingestion in captive
gorillas: description and intervention. Zoo Biology 5:241-250.

Gould, E, and Bres, M 1986. Regurgitation in gorillas: possible model
for human eating disorders (rumination/bulimia). Journal of
Development and Behavioral Pediatrics in press.

Marcellini, D. L. and Schettino, L. R 1986. Some aspects of the natural
history of the Cuban lizard, Anolis lucius. Herpetology Review 17:in
press.

White, J., Marcellini, D. L. and Barry, S. 1986. Learning about reptiles
and amphibians: a family experience. Museum Educators Rountable
Revorts 11:3=4.

Department of Animal Health

Bush, M. 1986. Laparoscopy and surgery. In Zoo and Wild Animal Medicine,
2nd ed., ed. M. E. Fowler, pp. 254-261. Philadelphia: W. B.
Saunders Company.

Bush, M., Phillips, L. G and Montali, R. J. 1986. Clinical management of
captive tigers. In The Global Tiger Survival Plan, eds. U. S. Seal
and R. Tilson, in press. Park Ridge: Noyes Publications.

Chaudhuri, M., Kleiman, D. G., Wildt, D. E., Bush, M., Frank, E. S. and
Thau, R. B 1986. Urinary steroid levels during natural end induced
estrus, pregnancy and pseudopregnancy in the giant panda.
Proceedings: Society for the Study of Reproduction, Suppliment 1,
34:146.

Diehl, J. R., Stuart, L. D., Goodrowe, K. L. and Wildt, DE. 1986.
Effects of Altrenogest and exogenous gonadotropins on ovarian
function and embryo recovery in an inbred strain of miniature pig as
influenced by the occurrence of cystic endometrial hyperplasia.
Biology of Reproduction in press.

Goodrowe, K. L., Howard, J. G. and Wildt, D. E. 1986. Embryo recovery and
quality in the domestic cat: Natural versus induced estrus.
Proceedings: International Embryo Transfer Society, Theriogenology
25:156.

Howard, J. G., Bush, M. and Wildt, D. E. 1986. Semen collection, analysis
and cryopreservation in nondomestic mammals. Current Therapy in
Theriogenology, ed. D. Morrow, pp. 1047-1053. Philadelphia: W. B.
Saunders Company.

Howard, J. G., Bush, M., de Vos, V., Schiewe, M. C., Pursel, V. G. and
Wildt, D. E 1986. Influence of cryoprotective diluent on post-thaw
viability and acrosomal integrity of spermatozoa from the African

/?

elephant (Loxodonta africana). Journal of Repreduction and
James, A. E., Bush, M., Heller, R. M. and Falke, H. M. 1986. X-ray
diagnosis of diseases in exotic animals. Swara, East African
Wildlife Society 9:33-34.

Montali, R. J. and Wallace, R. 1986. A review of some diseases of aquatic
species related to captivity. Proceedings: 28th International
Symposium on Diseases of Zoo and Wild Animals, pp. 5-12. Rostock,
East Germany.

O'Brien, S. J., Collier, G. E., Benveniste, R. E., Nash, W. G., Newman, A.
K., Simonson, J. M., Eichelberger, M. A., Seal, U. S., Janssen, D.,
Bush, M. and Wildt, BD E 1986. Setting the molecular clock in
Felidae: the great cats, Panthera) In The Global Tiger Survival
Plan, eds. U. S. Seal and R. Tilman, in press. Park Ridge: Noyes
Publications.

O'Brien, S. J., Wildt, D. E. and Bush, M. 1986. The cheetah in genetic
peril. Scientific American 254:84-92.

Schiewe, M. C., Schmidt, P. M. and Wildt, D. E. 1986. Toxicity potential
of ethylene oxide residues in straw containers used for embryo
eryopreservation. Proceedings: International Embryo Transfer
Society, Theriogenology 25:194.

Schmidt, P. M. and Wildt, D E 1986. Influence of sucrose concentration
and dilution sequence on culture viability of thawed embryos from
four mouse genotypes. Proceedings: International Embryo Transfer
Society, Theriogenology 25:195.

Wildt, D E. 1986. Estrous cycle control in the cat: induction and
prevention. In Current Therapy in Theriogenology, ed. D. Morrow, in
press. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Company.

- 1986. Laparoscopy for reproductive evaluation in the dog and cat.
In Reproduction in the Dog and Cat, ed. T. J. Burke, in press. Santa
Barbara: American Veterinary Publications, Incorporated.

- 1986. Semen, sperm metabolism, collection and artificial
insemination in nonhuman primates. In Comparative Primate Biology:
Vol, V, Endocrinology, Reproduction and Development, ed. W. R
Dukelow, in press. New York: Alan R. Liss, Incorporated.

Wildt, D. E and Goodrowe, K. L. 1986. The potential of applying embryo
technology to the black-footed ferret. In The Reproductive Biology
of the Black-~Footed Ferret, ed. U. S. Seal, in press. New Haven:
Yale University Press.

Wildt, D. E., Howard, J. G., Chakraborty, P. K. and Bush, M. 1986. The
reproductive physiology of the clouded leopard. IL A circannual
analysis of adrenal-pituitary-testicular relationships during
electroejaculation or after an adrenocorticotropin hormone challenge.
Biology of Reproduction 34:949-959.

Wildt, D. E., Howard, J. G., Hall, L. L. and Bush, M. 1986. The
reproductive physiology of the clouded leopard L
Electroejaculates contain high proportions of pleiomorphic
spermatozoa throughout the year. Biology of Reproduction 34:937-947.

Wildt, D..E., Phillips, L. G., Simmons, L. G., Goodrowe, K. L., Howard, J.
G., Brown, J. L. and Bush, M. 1986. Seminal-endocrine
characteristics of the tiger and the potential for artificial
breeding. In The Global Tiger Surval Plan, eds. U. S. Seal and R.
Tilson, in press. New York: Noyes Publications.

Wildt, D. E., Schiewe, M. C., Schmidt, P. M., Goodrowe, K. L., Howard, J.
G., Phillips, L. G., O'Brien, S. J. and Bush, M. 1986. Develeping
animal model systems for embryo technologies in rare and endangered
wildlife. Thericgenology 25:33-51.

Department of Conservation

Berger, J. 1986. Wild Horses of the Great Basin: Social Competition and
Population Size. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.

Collins, L. R. 1986. Big Foot ef the Branches. Zoogoer 15:15-18.

1986. The National Zoological Park Conservation and Research
Center. Proceedings of the American Association of Zoological Parks
and Aquariums Regional Conference pp. 688-690.

Collins, L. R. and Conway, K. 1986. AQuoll by Any Other Name. Zoogoer
15(1):14-16.

Cunningham, C. and Berger, J. 1986. Wild Horses of the Granite Range. _
Natural History 95:32-40.

Derrickson, S. R. 1986. A cooperative breeding program for the Guam rail
(Rallus owstoni). Proceedings of the American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums Annual Conference 1985:233-240.

- 1986. Captive propagation of the Guam rail -- an update.
Philadelphia Zoo Review 2(2):19=23.

Poduschka, W. and Wemmer, C. 1986. Observations on chemical communication
and its glandular sources in selected insectivors. In Olfactory
Communication Symposium, eds. D. Duvall and D. Muller-Schwarze.
Laramie, Wyoming.

Wemmer, C., Mishra, HK R and Dinnerstein, E. 1985. Unusual use of trunk
for sound production in a captive Asian elephant: a second case.
Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society 82:187.

Wemmer, C. and Stfwe, M. 1985. Reducing deer populations in large
enclosures with drives. Wildlife Society Bulletin 13:245-248.
Wemmer, C. and Watling, D. 1986. Ecology and status of the Sulawesi palm
civet (Macrogalidia musschenbroeki Schlegel). Biological

Conservation 35:1-17.

Department of Pathology

Alvarado, T. and Montali, R. J. 1985. Persistant right aortic arch and
aberrant left subclavian artery in a Pere David's deer. Journal of
the American Veterinary Medical Association 187:11, pp. 1285.

Alvarado, T. and Montali, R. J. 1985. Diagnosis of radiographs of a male
cusimanse with onset of lethargy, anorexia, and oral hemorrhage.
Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 187:11, pp.
1286.

Bush, M., Montali, R. J., Phillips, L. G., Alvarado, T. P. and Ravich, W.
J. 1985. Acute hemorrhagic enteritis in a male giant panda. Bongo
(Proceedings of the International Symposium on the Giant Fanda),
Berlin 10.

Bush, Mo, -Montaliy RoeJd., Phiddics;: Ls G., Citino, S: Bs, Boch, G: and
Ruley, E J. 1985. Anemia and renal failure in a giant panda
(Ailiropoda melanoleuca). Bongo (Proceedings of the Internaticnal
Symposium on the Giant Panda), Berlin 10.

Citino, S. B., Bush, Mop Phillips, L. G., Montali, R.-J., Wang, K. P. and
Ravich, W. J. 1985. Eosinophilic enterocolitis in a juvenile
crangutan, Jounal of the American Veterinary Medical Association
LSE ps Ve 79.
Gitino. S; Bo, Montali, fh. J., Bush, M. and Philips, L..Gs- 1965:
Nutritionel myopathy in a captive California sea lion. Journal of
the American Veterinary Medical Association 187:11, p. 1232.

Dean, Fo Je, Carpenter, J. W.,. Clark, Go. G.; Montaldy Rods) vCrabbisi, Cpls;
Tsai, T. F. and Decherty, DE. 1986. Mortality of captive whoopin
cranes caused by eastern equine encephalitis virus. Journal of the
American Veterinary Medical Association in press.

Knight, J. A., Bush, M., Celma, M., Garcia del Campo, A. L., Goltenboth,
R., Hearn, J. P., Hodges, J. K., Jones, D. M., Klos, H. G., Monsalva,
L., Montali, R. J. and Moore, H. D. M. 1985. Veterinary aspects of
reproduction in the giant panda. Bongo (Proceedings of the
International Symposium on the Giant Panda), Berlin 10.

Montali, R. J., Allen, G., Bryans, J., Phillips, L. G. and Bush, M. 1985.
Equine herpesvirus type 1 abortion in an onager and suspected
herpesvirus myelitis in a zebra. Journal of the American Veterinary
Medical Association 187:11, pp. 1248-1249.

Montali, R. J., Freeman, R. A., Collins, L., Wammer, C. and Bush, M. 1985.
Pathology survey of captive cervids at the National Zoological Park.
XXVII Internationalen Symposium uper dei Erkrankungen der Zootiere.
Turin.

Montail, R. J., Phillips, L. G., Bush, M. and Apple, M. J. G. 1986.

Canine distemper vaccine trials in nondomestic carnivores. Poster
narrative. Proceedings of a Symposium, Exotic Animals in the
Eighties in press. British Veterinary Zoological Society.

Montali, R J. and Wallace, R 1986. A review of some diseases of aquatic
species related to captivity. XXVIII Internationalen Symposium uber
die Erkrankungen der Zootiere. Rostock, pp. 5-12.

Nichols, D. K., Campbell, V. and Montali, R. J. 1986. Pansteatitis in
great blue herons. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical
Association in press.

Nichols, DP. K., Montali, R. J., Phillips, L. G., Alvarado, T. P., Bush, M.,
and Collins, L. 1986. Parelaphostrongylus tenuis in captive
reindeer and sable antelcpe. Journal of the American Veterinary
Medical Association 188:6, pp. 619-621.

Partington, C. and Montali, R J. 1986. Capillaria hepatica in Kirk's
dik-dik (Madoqua kirkii). Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine in press.

Rideout, B., Montali, R. J., Phillips, L. G. and Gardiner C. 1986.
Tortoise mortalities due to viviparous nematodes of the family
Atractidae (Travassas, 1919) genus Proatractis (Caballero, R., 1971).
Journal of Wildlife Diseases in press.

Department of Zoological Research

Baer, D. J., Oftedal, 0. T. and Fahey, GC. 1985. Feed selection and
digestibility by captive giraffe. Zoo Biology 4:7-64.

Beck, B. B., Dietz, J. M., Kleiman, D. G., Castro, M. I., Sa, R. L. and
Luz, V. L. In press. Reintrodugao de micos-leoes dourados
(Leontopithecus rosalia Linnaeus, 1776) (Callitrichidae, Primates) en
seu ambiente natural (Reintroduction of golden lion tamarins into
their natural habitat). In A Primatologia no Brasil, 2: Anais do
Segundo Congresso Brasileiro de Primotologia, 1985 ed. Milton Thiago
de Mello. Sociedade Brasileira de Primatologia,

Beissinger, S. 1986. Demography, environmental uncertainty, and the
evolution of mate desertion in the snail kite. Ecology in press.

- 1986. Anisogamy overcome: female strategies in snail kites.
American Naturalist in press.

Beness, D. J. 1986. Invited book review cf Fur seals: Maternal
Marine Mammal Science in press.

- 1986. The role of zoos in the conservation of marine mammals. In
Proceedings of the Symposium on Endangered Marine Animals and Marine
Parks, ed. E. G. Silas, in press.

Bowen, W. D., Boness, D. J. and Oftedal, 0. T. In press. Mass transfer
from mother to pup and subsequent mass loss by the weaned pup in the
hooded seal, Cystophora cristata. Canadian Journal of Zoology.

Bowen, W. D., Boness, D. J. and Oftedal, 0. T. 1985. Birth to weaning in
4 days: remarkable growth in the hooded seal, Cystophora cristats.
Canadian Journal of Zoology 63:2841-2846.

Buckley, P. A., Foster, M. S., Morton, E. S., Ridgely, R. S. and Buckley,
F. G eds. 1985. Neotropical Ornithology. American Ornithologists!
Union Monograph No. 36. Washington, D. C.: American Ornithologists’
Union.

Davidar, P. and Morton, E S. 1986. The relationship between fruit crop
sizes and fruit removal rates by birds. Ecology 67:262-265.

Derrickson, K. 1986. Behavioral correlates of song types of the northern
mockingbird Mimus polyglottos. Ethology in press.

- 1986. Which sex leads in paired mallards? Wilson Bulletin in
press.

- 1986. Yearly and situational changes in the estimate of
repertoire size in northern mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos). The
Auk in press.

Dietz, J. M. Coimbra-Filho, A. F. and Pessamilic, D. M. 1986. Projeto mico
leao, um modelo para a conservagoa de especie ameacada de extingeo
(The golden lion tamarin project as a model for the conservation of
an endangered species). In A Primatologia no Brasil, 2: Anais do
Segundo Congresso Brasileiro de Primotologia, 1985 ed. Milton Thiago
de Mello. Sociedade Brasileira de Primatologia

Dietz, L. A. and Nagagata, E. Y. 1986. Programa de educagao para a
conservagao do mico-leao-dourado: 0O Desenvolvimento e Avaliagao de
Educagao como uma Tecnologia Eficiente para a Conservagao de uma
Especia em Extingao (An Education Program for the Conservation of the
Golden Lion Tamarin: The Development and Evolution of Education as
an Efficient Technique for the Conservation of an Endangered
Species). In A Primatologia no Brasil, 2: Anais do Segundo
Congresso Brasileiro de Primotologia, 1985 ed. Milton Thiago de
Mello. Sociedade Brasileira de Primatologia.

Dietz, L. A 1985. - Brazilian Sanctuary. Zoogoer 14(4):4-7.

- 1985. Captive-Born Golden Lion Tamarins Released into the Wild:
A Report from the Field. Primate Conservation 6:21-27.

Dietz, J. M., Coimbra-Filho, A. F. and O'Brien, S. J. 1986. Ge
variation within and among licn tamarins. American Journal of
Physical Anthropology in press.
Forman, L. M., Kleiman, D. G., Dietz, J. L. and Coimbra-Filho, A. F. 1986.
Genetic variation in Leontopithecus, a critically endangered
polytypic primate. In Genetic Research with Nonhuman Primates:
Serving the Needs of Mankind. San Antonio: S. W. Foundation Forum
(Abstract).

Freed, L. M., York, C. M., Hamosh, M., Sturman, J. T., Oftedal, O. T. and
Hamosh, P. 1986. Bile sale stimulation lipase: the enzyme is
present in nonprimate milk. In Human Lactation, Vol. 2, Maternal-
Environmental Factors, eds. M. Hamosh and A S. Goldman. New York:
Plenum Press.

Gittleman, J. L. 1986. Carnivore brain size, behavioral ecology, and
phylogeny. Journal of Mammalogy 67(1):23-26.

- 1986. Carnivore life history patterns: allometric, phylogenetic,
and ecological associations. American Naturalist 127(6):744-771.

Gittleman, J. L. and Oftedal, O T. In press. Comparative growth and
lactation energetics in carnivores. Symposia of the Zoological
Society of London.

Gradwohl, J. and Greenberg, R. 1986. Warbler Watchers. Zoogoer 15(2):15-
16.

Greenberg, R. 1985. A comparison of foliage discrimination ability in a
specialized and generalized tropical migrant wood warbler. Canadian
Journal of Zoology 63:673-676.

+ 1986. Competition in migrant birds in the nonbreeding season. In
Current Ornithology, ed. R. Johnston, 3:281-307. New York: Plenum
Publishing Corporaticn.

- 1986. Development of dead leaf foraging in a tropical migrant
warbler. Ecology in press.

- 1986. Seasonal foraging specialization in the worm-eating
warbler, a neotropical migrant warbler. Condor in press.

- 1986. Social facilitation does not reduce neophobia in chestnut-
sided warblers Dendroica pensylvanica. Journal of Ethology, in
press.

- 1986. The social behavier and foraging ecology of migrant birds
in the tropics. In Proceedings of the International Ornithological
Congress XVII. Moscow.

Greenberg, R. and Gradwohl, J. 1985. A comparative study of the social
behavior of antwrens on Barro Colorado Island, Panama American
Ornithologists' Union Monograph 36:445-455.

Greenberg, R. and Gradwohl, J. 1986. Constant density and stable
territoriality in some tropical insectivorous birds. Oecologia
69:618-625.

Rand, J. Le. 1986. Egalitarian resolution of social conflicts: a study of
pair-bonded gulls in nest duty and feeding context. Zeitschrift for
Tierpsychologie 70:123-147.

Harvey, P. H and Ralls, K. 1986. Is incest avoided? Nature 320:575-576.
Kleiman, DG. 1984. Review of M. F. Small, ed. Female Primates: Studies
by Women Primatologists. Alan R. Liss, Inc., NY 1984. American

Scientist 73:203-204.
- 1985. Criteria for the evaluation of zoo research projects. Zoo
Biology 4:93-98.

1985. Paternal Care in New World Primates. American Zoology
- 1985. Social and Reproductive Behavior of the Giant Panda
(Ailuropoda melanolenca). Bongo (Proceedings of the International
Sympcsium on the Giant Panda), Berlin 10:45-58.

Kleiman, D. G., Beck, B. B., Dietz, J. M., Ballou, J. and Coimbra-Filho, A.
F. 1985. A Conservation Program for Golden Lion Tamarins.

Zoological Parks and Aquariums pp. 60.
Kleiman, D. G., Beck, B. B., Dietz, J. M., Dietz, L. A., Ballou, J. D. and

Coimbra-Filho, A F. In press. Conservation program for the golden
lion tamarin: captive research and management, ecological studies,
educational strategies, and reintroduction. In Primates: The Road
to Self-sustaining Populations, ed. K. Benirschke, pp. 959-979.
Springer-Verlag.

Kleiman, D. G., Hoage, R. J. and Green, K. M. 1986. Behavior of the
Golden Lion Tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia. In Ecology and
Behavior of Neotropical Primates eds. R. A. Mittermeier and A F.
Coimbra-Filho.

Kleiman, D. G. and Seidensticker, J. 1985. Review of G. S. Schaller, et
al., Giant Pandas of Wolong, University of Chicago Press, 1985. 298
pp. Science 228(No. 4701):875-876.

Kohn, F. A preliminary analysis of space use, body orientation and tail

use in captive ringtail possums (Pseudochierus peregrinus). Paper
presented at 1985 National Conference of the American Association of
ZooKeepers, Miami, Florida
- 1986. Ghost monkey. JZoogoer 15(4):19-21.
- 1986. The National Zoo's Department of Zoological Research: a
three-tiered philosophy to zoo research. Paper presented at the 1986
National Conference of the American Association of ZooKeepers,
Winnipeg, Canada,

Lumpkin, S. 1986. Going bats. Zoogoer 15(1):17-18.

- 1986. The elephant-shrew...by a nose. Zoogoer 15(2):8-10.
- 1986. Relics of pre-history. Zoogoer 15(3):16-17.
1986. Spectacular spectacled bears. Zoogoer 15(4):4-6.

Lumpkin, S. and Koontz, F. W. 1986. Social and sexual behavior of the
rufous elephant-shrew Elephantulus rufescens in captivity. Journal
of Mammalogy 67(1):112=-119.

Lynch, J. F., Morton, E. S. and Van der Voort, M. 1985. Habitat
segregation between the sexes of wintering hooded warblers (Wilsonia
citrina). The Auk 102(4):714-721.

Morton, E S. 1985. Vocal imitation in a captive purple martin. Wilson
Bulletin 97(3):3$2-395.

- 1985. The realities of reintroducing species to the wild. In
Animan Extinctions, ed. R. J. Hoage, pp. 147-158. Washington:
Smithsonian Press.

1985. Book Review of A Laboratory Manual of Ornithology by Olin
Sewall Pettingill. Audubon Naturalist News Vol. 11, October, 1985.
- 1985. Book Review of The Clapper Rail by Brooke Meanley. Audubon
Naturalist News Vol. 11, October, 1985.

- 1986. Predictions from the ranging hypothesis for the evolution

of long distance signals in birds. Behaviour in press.

In press. Sound symbolism and its role in nonhuman vetebrate

communication. In Sound Symbolism and duman Speech, eds. J. C

L. Hinton and J. Nichols. Cambridge University Press.

-
KH

i@)

- in press. Reintroducing birds as a method of studying them. In
Restoration Ecology -- A Synthetic Approach to Ecological Research,
eds. J. Gilpin and Aber. Cambridge University Press.

- 1986. Varietion in mate guarding intensity by male purple
martins. Behaviour in press.

Morton, E. S., Gish, S. L. andVan derVoort, M. 1986. On the learning of
degraded and undegraded songs in the Carolina wren. Animal Behaviour
34:815=820.

Morton, E. S., Lynch, J. F., Young, K. and Mehlhop, P. 1986. Do male
hooded warblers exclude females from nonbreeding territories in
tropical forest? The Auk in press.

Morton, E. S. and Young, K. 1986. A previously undescribed method of song
matching in a species with a single song "type", the Kentuckey
warbler Oporornis formosus. Ethology 72:in press.

Nicoll, M. and Thompson, S. B&B 1986. The energetics of reproduction in
therian mammals: didelhids and tenrecs. Symposia of the Zoological
Society of London 1986 in press.

Oftedal, 0. T. 1985. Pregnancy and Lactation. In Bioenergetics of Wild
Herbivores, eds. R. J. Hudson and R. G. White, pp. 215-238. Boca
Raton, Florida: CRC Press.

« 1986. Comparative aspects of milk composition and quantity.
Proceedings, XIII International Congress of Nutrition in press.
Brighton, England.

- 1986. Growth rate and milk composition: a critical appraisal.
In The Breast Fed Infant: A Model for Performance. Report of the

Ninety-First Ross Conference on Pediatric Research. Columbus, Chic:
Ross Laboratories. In press.

- 1986. Milk intake in relation to body size. In The Breast Fed
Infant: A Model for Performance. Report of the Ninety-First Ross
Conference on Pediatric Research. Columbus, Ohio: Ross
Laboratories. In press.

Oftedal, 0. T. and Boness, D. J. In press. Considerations in tne use of
fish as food. In Proceedings of the 3rd Annual Dr. School Conference
on Nutrition of Captive Wild Animals. Linclon Park Zoological
Gardens, Chicago, Illinois.

Oftedal, 0. T., Boness, D. J. and Tedman, R. 1986. The behavior,
physiology and anatomy of lactation in the Pinnipedia. In Current
Mammalogy, Vol. 1, ed. HE Genoways, in press.

Pinder, L. 1986. Avaliagao Tecnica de Translocagao em Leontopithecus
rosalia (Linnaeus, 1766) (Callitrichidae, Primates) (Technical
Evolution of Translocation in Leontopithecus rosalia). In A
Primatologia no Brasil, 2: Amais do Segundo Congresso Brasileiro de
Primatologia, 1985, ed. Milton Thiago de Mello. Sociedade Brasileira
de Primatologia.

Porton, I. J., Kleiman, D. G. and Rodden, M. In press. Aseasonality of
bush dog reproduction and the influence of social factors on the
estrous cycle. Journal of Mammalogy.

Ralls, K. and Ballou, J. D 1986. Proceedings of the Workshops on Genetic
Management of Captive Populations. Zoo Biology 5(2):81-86.

Ralls, K. and Ballou, J. D 1986. Captive breeding programs for

populations with a small number of founders. Trends in Ecology &

volution (TREE) 1(1):19-22.

A
—u OC

Ralls, K., Harvey, P. H., and Lyles, A.M. 1986. Inbreeding in natural
populations of birds and mammals. Conservation Biology 3:35-56.

Ralls, K., Kranz, K. and Lundrigan, B 1986. Mother-young relationships
in captive ungulates: variability and clustering. Animal Behaviour
34:134-145.

Rappole, J. H. and Morton, E.S. 1985. Effects of habitat alteration ona
tropical avian forest community. In Neotropical Ornithology, eds. P.
Buckley, M. S. Foster, E. S. Morton, R. S. Ridgely and F. Buckley,
pp. 1013-1021. American Ornithologists' Union Monograph, No. 36.

Rappole, J. H. and Morton, E. S. In press. The status of North American
Migrants living in Mexico and Central America. In Symposium on
migrant birds, ed. B. Bertram. Proceedings of the 1986 World
Conference, International Council for Bird Preservation, Kingston,
Ontario.

Roberts, M. 1985. The management and husbandry of the western tarsier
Tarsius bancanus at the National Zoological Park. Proceedings of the
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums Annual
Meeting, pp. 466-473.

Roberts, M., Brand, S. and Maliniak, E 1985. The biology of captive
prehensile tailed porcupines, Coendou prehensilis. Journal of
Mammalogy 6(3)6:476-482.

Roberts, M. and Cunningham, B 1986. Space and substrate use in captive
western tarsiers, Tarsius bancanus. International Journal of

Primatology 7(2):113-130.

Roberts, M., Koontz, F., Phillips, L. G. and Maliniak, E. In press.
Management and husbandry of the prehensile tailed porcupine, Coendou
prehensilis, at the National Zoological Park and the New York
Zoological Society. International Zoo Yearbook.

Robinson, J. G 1986. Seasonal variation in use of time and space by
wedge-capped capuchin monkey, Cebus olivaceus: implications for
foraging theory. Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 431:1-60.

Rumpler, W. V., Allen, M. E., Ullrey, D. E.,. Earle, R. D., Schmitt, S. M.
and Cooley, T. M. In press. Body composition of white-tailed deer
estimated by deuterium oxide dilution. Canadian Journal of Zoology.

Schryver, H. F., Oftedal, 0. T., Williams, J., Cymbaluk, N. F., Antezak, D.
and Hintz, =H F. 1986. A comparison of the mineral composition of
milk and domestic and captive wild equids Equus przewalski, E. zebra,
E, burchellii, E, caballus, E, asinus. Comparative Biochemistry and

Physiology. In press.
Schryver, H. F., Oftedal, 0. T., Williams, J., Soderholm, L. V. and Hintz,

HF. 1986. Lactation in the horse: the mineral composition of
mare's milk. Journal of Nutrition. In press.

Shy, E. 1986. Individuality in the mating call of the treefrog Hyla
arborea savignyi. Amphibia-Reptilia 6:343-353.

Shy, E., MeGregor, P. K. and Krebs, J. R. 1986. Discrimination of song
types by male great tits. Behavioural Processes 13:1-12.

Shy, E and Morton, E S. 1986. Adaptation of amplitude structure of
songs to propagation in field habitat in song sparrows. Ethology
72:177-184.

Shy, E. and Morton, E. S. 1986. The role of distance, familiarity, and
time of day in Carolina wrens' responses to cospecifie songs.
Benavioral Ecology and Sociobiology. In press.

Sieber, 0. J. 1986. Acoustic recognition between mother and cubs in
raccons Procyon lotor. Behaviour pp. 130-163.

Tasse, J. 1986. Maternal and paternal care in the rock cavy, Kerodon
rupestris, a Scuth American hystricomorph rodent. Zco Biology 5:27-
43

Thompsen, K. V. 1985. Seasonal patterns of food consumption in two North
American felids, the mountain lion (Felis concolor) and the bobcat
(Felis rufus). Animal Keepers' Forum 12(4):135-137.

Thompson, K. V. and Cranford, J. A. 1985. Social play and escalation into
agonism among unfamiliar juvenile punares (Thrichomys apereoides).
American Zoologist 25:77A (abstract).

Thompson, S. D 1986. Body size, duration cf parental care, and the
intrinsic rate of natural increase in eutherian and metatherian
mammals. Oecologia (Berlin). In press.

- 1986. Resource availability and microhabitat utilization by
Mojave Desert Merriam's kangaroo rats, Dipodomys merriami. Journal
of Mammalogy. In press.

Thompson, S. D and Gittleman, J. 1986. Energetics of reproduction in
Mammals: allocation of energy. American Zoogoer in press.

Thompson, S. D. and Nicoll, Ms E 1986. Basal metabolic rate and the
energetics of reproduction in therian mammals. Nature 321:690-693.

Ullrey, DE. and Allen, M E. 1986. Principles of Zoo Mammal Nutrition.
In Zoo and Wild Animal Medicine, ed. Ms E Fowler, pp. 515-532.
Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Company.

Wilson, S., Miller, L., Hursey, M., Frantz, M. and Gorte, J. 1985. The
social development of a captive grey seal Halichoerus grypus pup for
the first six months. Aquatic Mammals 11.3:89-100.

Office of Public Affairs

Hoage, R. J., ed. 1986. Animal Extinctions: What Everyone Should Know.
Washington, D CG: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Lyon, M., Goldman, L. and Hoage, R 1985. Parent-offspring conflict
following a birth in a primate, Callimico goeldii. Animal Behaviour
Vol. 33, No. 4, pp. 1364-1365.
OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Washburn, Wilcomb E. "The American Indian in U.S. Society," American Studies
Newsletter, U.S. Information Service, American Embassy, Bonn, Germany,

no. 6 (May 1985), pp. 26-32.

. “Expand U.S. Policy Against Nicaragua," Columns page,
The Miami News, September 5, 1985.

. "Response to Biolsi," American Anthropologist 87(3),
September 1985, p. 659.

"History Died a Little at Stuttgart," Perspectives:
American Historical Association Newsletter, vol. 23, no. 9, December
1985, pp. 4-5.

. "“Professionalizing the Muses," Museum News, Vol. 64,
No. 2, December 1985, pp. 18-25, 70-71.

. "Emotion and Reason in American Indian Studies,"
Ssociologuss Vol: 35, No.2, 1985, op. i7d-163.

"Land Claims in the Mainstream of Indian/White Land
History," chapter in Irredeemable America: The Indians' Estate and
Land Claims, edited by Imre Sutton (Albuquerque: University of New
Mexico Press, 1985), pp. 21-33.

"The Canary Island and the Question of the Prime
Meridian: The Search for Precision in the Measurement of the Earth,"
pp. 873-888, V Coloquio de Historia Canario-Americana (1982) Coloquio
Internacional de Historia Maritima, Tomo IV, Francisco Morales Padron,
ed. (Gran Canaria: Excma. Mancomunidad Provincial Interinsular de
eens de Las Palmas y del Excmo. Cabildo Insular de Gran Canaria,
1985).

. The Assault on Indian Tribalism: The General Allot-
ment Law (Dawes Act) of 1887 (Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1975), pp.
Vill + 73. Reprint Edition, Robert E. Krieger Publishing Company,
Melbourne, Florida, 1986.

Contribution to discussion on "The IRA Record and
Jonn Collier," pp. 101-109 in Kenneth R. Philp, ed., Indian Self-Rule:
First-Hand Accounts of Indian-Wnite Relations from Roosevelt to Reagan
(Salt Lake City: Howe Brothers, 1986).

TI9
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Aaronson, M.; Bothun, G. D.; Mould, J. R.; Huchra, J. P.; Schommer, R. A.; and
Cornell, M.E. “A Distance Scale from the Infrared Magnitude/H I Velocity Width
Relation V. Distance Moduli to Ten Galaxy Clusters, Positive Detection of Bulk
Supercluster Motion Toward the Microwave Anisotropy, and the Global Value of
the Hubble Constant.” Astrophysical Journal 302 (1986): 536.

Aguilar, L. A., and White, S. D. M. “The Density Profiles of Tidally Stripped Galaxies.”
Astrophysical Journal 307 (1986): 97.

Allison, A. C.; Guberman, S. L.; and Dalgarno, A. “A Model of the Schumann-Runge
System of O2.” Journal of Geophysical Research 91(10) (1986): 193.

Ambruster, C.; Sciortino, S.; and Golub, L. “Rapid X-Ray Variability in Einstein
Observations of K and M Dwarfs.” In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge
Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M.
Zeilik, p. 219. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1986.

Avni, Y., “Quasar Evolution and Luminosity Function: An X-Ray Perspective.” In
Structure and Evolution of Active Galactic Nuclei, eds. G. Giuricin, F. Mardirossian,
M. Mezzetti, and M. Ramella, p. 397. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1986.

. “X-Ray Properties of QSOs and Their Cosmological Implications.” Annals of
the New York Academy of Sciences 470 (1986): 71.

Avni, Y., and Tananbaum, H. “X-Ray Properties of Optically Selected QSOs.”
Astrophysical Journal 305 (1986): 83.

Avrett, E. H.; Machado, M. E.; and Kurucz, R. L. “Chromospheric Flare Models.”
In The Lower Atmosphere in Solar Flares, ed. D. F. Neidig, p. 216. New Mexico:
National Solar Observatory, 1986.

Baliunas, S. L. “Stellar Activity Cycles.” In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge
Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M.
Zeilik, p. 3. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1986.

Baliunas, S. L.; Boyd, L. J.; Genet, R. M.; and Guinan, E. F. “Design of a Dedicated
1.0 Meter System for Automatic Ca I K-Line Photometry of Evolved Stars.”
International Amateur and Professional Photoelectric Photometry Commission 22
(1985): 32.

Baliunas, S. L.; Criswell, S.; Boyd, L. J.; Genet, R.; and Hall, D. S. “Automatic
Photoelectric Telescope Service. III. The Mt. Hopkins Site.” International Amateur
and Professional Photoelectric Photometry Commission 22 (1985): 47.

Baliunas, S. L., and Vaughan, A. H. “Stellar Activity Cycles.” Annual Review of
Astronomy ond Astrophysics 23 (1985): 379.

Bartel, N.; Herring, T. A.; Ratner, M. I.; Shapiro, I. I.; and Corey, B. E. pie! Limits
on the ope: Motion of the ‘Core’ of the Seneaae Quasar 3C 345.” Nature
319 (1986): 733.

Barte!, N.; Ratner, M. I.; Shapiro, I. I.; Cappallo, R. J.; Rogers, A. E. E.; and Whitney,
A. R. ‘Investigation of Radiation from Pulsar PSR 0329+54 Using Mark III VLBI
Observations.” Astronomical Journal 90 (1985): 2532.

Bartel, N.; Rogers, A. A. E.; Shapiro, I. I.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Gwinn, C. R.; Marcaide,
J. M.; and Weiler, K. W. “Hubble’s Constant Determined via Very-Long-Baseline
Interferometry of a Supernova.” Nature 318 (1985): 25.

Beichman, C.; Myers, P. C.; Emerson, J.; Harris, S.; Mathieu, R.; Benson, P.;
and Jennings, R. “Candidate Protostars in Nearby Molecular Cloud Cores.”
Astrophysical Journal 307 (1986): 337.

Bienstock, S.; Dalgarno, A.; and Heil, T. G. “Charge Transfer in N?+ + H Collisions
at Slow to Intermediate Velocities.” Physical Review A 33 (1986): 2078.

Biretta, J. A.; Moore, R. L.; and Cohen, M. H. “The Evolution of the Compact Radio
Source in 3C 345. I. VLBI Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 308 (1986): 93.
Biretta, J. A.; Schnieder, D. P.; and Gunn, J. E. “Optical Identifications of Six Compact

Double Radio Sources.” Astronomical Journal 90 (1985): 2508.

Blanco, D. R.; Sharp, F. H.; Foltz, C. B.; and Chaffee, F. H., Jr. “The Multiple Mirror
Telescope Comparison and Calibration Lamp Illumination System.” Publications of
the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 98 (1986): 701.

Bloemhof, E. E.; Danchi, W. C.; and Townes, C. H. “Rapid Variations in the
Circumstellar 10 Micron Emission of A Orionis.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
299 (1985): L37.

Bloemhof, E. E.; Danchi, W. C.; Townes, C. H.; and Vanderwyck, A. H. B. “10
pm Array Imaging of Circumstellar Dust.” In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge
Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M.
Zeilik, p. 448. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1986.

Bodo, G.; Ferrari, A.; Kalkofen, W.; Massaglia, S.; and Rosner, R. “The Atmosphere
in a Thin Magnetic Flux Tube.” In Theoretical Problems in High Resolution Solar
Physics, ed. H. U. Schmidt, p. 185. Munich, Germany: Max-Planck-Institut fur
Physik und Astrophysik, 1985.

Bookbinder, J.; Golub, L.; and Rosner, R. “Highlights of the Einstein Survey of Cool
Stars.” In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar
Systems, and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M. Zeilik, p. 97. New York: Springer-
Verlag, 1986.

Bothun, G. D.; Beers, T. C.; Mould, J. R.; and Huchra, J. P. “A Redshift Survey
of Low Surface Brightness Galaxies I. The Basic Data.” Astronomical Journal 90
(1985): 2487.

. “A Redshift Survey of Low Surface Brightness Galaxies II]. Do They Fill the
Voids?” Astrophysical Journal 308 (1986): 510.

Bradt, H.; Baldwin, J.; Geldzahler, B.; Madejski, G.; Massey, P.; McClintock, J.;
McHardy, I; McMahan, R.; Ohashi, T.; Remillard, R.; Romanishin, W.; Salter, C.;
Schaefer, B.; Schwartz, D. A.; Tapia, $.; Thorstenson, J.; Urry, C. M.; Wehinger, P.;
Wilson, A.; and Wyckoff, S. “H0323+022: Classification as a BL Lac and EXOSAT
Coordinated Observations.” Space Science Reviews 40 (1985): 613.

Caldwell, N.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Richstone, D. O. “The Dynamics of the Elliptical
Galaxy NGC 7079 Measured from Gas and Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 305 (1986):
136.

Campbell, A. W., and Smith, L. J. “A Search for Wolf-Rayet Stars in Giant Extragalac-
tic Burst of Star Formation.” In Proceedings of International Astronomical Union
Symposium No. 116, Luminous Stars and Associations in Galaxies, eds. C. W. H.

de Loore, A. J. Willis, and P. Laskarides, p. 499. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1986.

Candy, M. P., and Marsden, B. G. “IAU Commission 6.” In Transcripts of the Inter-
national Astronomical Union XIXA, p. 13-14, 1985.

Carney, B. W., and Latham, D. W. “BD -60855: A Mildly Metal-Deficient Dwarf from
the Outer Halo.” Astrophysical Journal 298 (1985): 803.

. “The Kinematics of Halo Red Giants.” Astronomical Journal 96 (1986): 60.

Chaffee, F. H. Jr.; Foltz, C. B.; Bechtold, J.; and Weymann, R. J. “On the Abundance of
Metals and the Ionization State in Absorbing Clouds Toward QSO’s.” Astrophysical
Journal 301 (1985): 116.

Chance, K. V.; Lin, F. J.; and Traub, W. A. “Far-infrared Measurements of Strato-
spheric Trace Gases.” In Proceedings of the Seventeenth International Symposium

on Free Radicals, (National Bureau of Standards Special Publication No. 716), ed.
K. M. Evenson, p. 166. Washington, D.C.: National Bureau of Standards, 1986.

Chance, K. V.; Traub, W. A.; Carli, B.; Nolt, I. G.; and Radostitz, J. V. “Far-Infrared
Spectroscopy of the Earth’s Stratosphere.” In Proceedings of AIAA/NASA Earth
Observing Systems Conference, AIAA-85-3006. New York: American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1985.

Chapman, G. N. F.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “The Ultraviolet Variability of
Seyfert 1 Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 297 (1985): 151.

Chudnovsky, E. M.; Field, G. B.; Spergel, D. N.; and Vilenkin, A. “Superconducting
Cosmic Strings.” Physical Review D 34 (1986): 944.

Churchwell, E.; Wood, D.; Myers, P. C.; and Myers, R. “The Excitation, Abundance,
and Distribution of HNCO in Sgr B2.” Astrophysical Journal 305 (1986): 405.

Cohen, M. H.; Biretta, J. A.; Scalise, E.; Comoretto, G.; Baath, L.; and Nicholson,
G. “Observations of Quasar 3C273 with High North-South Resolution.” In Quasars,
eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 159. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1986.

Connor, B. J., and Radford, H. E. “Pressure Broadening of Millimeter-Wave Ozone
Lines by Atmospheric Gases.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 117 (1986): 15.
Cornell, J. (editor) The International Popularization of Science: Reporting the News
and Effecting Change in the Developing Countries, 50 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts:

International Science Writers Association, 1986.

Cornell, J., and Carr, J. (editors) Infinite Vistas: New Tools for Astronomy, 302 pp.
New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

Cox, D. P., and Raymond, J. C. “Preionization-Dependent Families of Radiative Shock
Waves.” Astrophysical Journal 298 (1985): 651.

Crawford, M. K.; Lugten, J. B.; Fitelson, W.; Genzel, R.; and Melnick, G. J.
“Observations of Far-Infrared Line Profiles in the Orion-KL Region.” Astrophvsical
Journal (Letters) 303 (1986): L57.

Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer Processes in Astrophysical Plasmas.” Nuclear Instru-
ments and Methods in Physics Research B9 (1985): 655.

“The Chemistry of Shocked Regions in the Interstellar Gas.” In Molecular

Astrophysics, eds. G. H. F. Diercksen, W. F. Huebner, and P. W. Langhoff, p. 281.

Boston: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

. “Molecular Astrophysics.” In Molecular Astrophysics, eds. G. H. F. Diercksen,

W. F. Huebner, and P. W. Langhoff, p. 3. Boston: D. Reidel Publishing Company,

1985.

“Is Interstellar Chemistry Useful?” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astron-
omical Society 27 (1986): 83.

Dalgarno, A., and McElroy, M. B. “Photodissociation of Metastable O2(a1A,):
Implications for Stratospheric O3.” Geophysical Research Letters 13 (1986): 660.
Davis, J. L.; Herring, T. A.; Shapiro, I. I.; Rogers, A. E. E.; and Elgered, G. K.
“Geodesy by Radio Interferometry: Effects of Atmospheric Modeling Errors on

Estimates of Baseline Length.” Radio Science 20 (1985): 1593.

Davis, R. J. “Radio Jet and Lobe of 3C 273.” In Quasars, eds. G. Swarup and V. K.
Kapahi, p. 211. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

de Lapparent, V.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “A Slice of the Universe.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 302 (1986): L1.

de Lapparent, V.; Kurtz, M. J.; and Geller, M. J. “The Shane-Wirtanen Counts:
Systematics and Two-Point Correlation Function.” Astrophysical Journal 304
(1986): 585.

Deutsch, L. K., and Willner, S. P. “Far Infrared Luminosities of Markarian Starburst
Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 306 (1986): L11.

Donahue, R. A.; Baliunas, S. L.; Frazer, J.; French, H.; and Lanning, H. “A Flare
Event on the Quiet dM Star HD 95735.” In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge
Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M.
Zeilik, p. 281. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1986.

Doyle, J. G.; Raymond, J. C.; Noyes, R. W.; and Kingston, A. E. “The Extreme
Ultraviolet Spectrum of Sunspot Plumes. II. Spectral Diagnostics and Implications
for Cooling.” Astrophysical Journal 297 (1985): 816.

Dupree, A. K. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astro-
physics 24 (1986): 377.

Dupree, A. K.; Baliunas, S. L.; Guinan, E. F.; Hartmann, L.; and Sonneborn, G.
“Recent Spectroscopic Observations of Alpha Orionis.” In Proceedings of the Fourth
Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds. D. M.
Gibson and M. Zeilik, p. 411. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1986.

Ekambaram, V.; Davis, A. M.; Hashimoto, A.; and Grossman, L. “Trace Elements
in Petrographically Distinct Components of Allende Inclusions.” In Lunar and
Planetary Science XVI, p. 205. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Science
Institute, 1985.

Elvis, M. “Current Issues in the X-Ray Properties of AGN,” Publications of the Astron-
omical Society of the Pacific 98 (1986): 148.

. “X-Ray to Infrared Continua of Optically Selected Quasars.” In Quasars, eds.
G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 73. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1986; also in Continuum Emission in Active Galactic Nuclei, ed. M. L.
Sitko, p. 25. Tucson, Arizona: Kitt Peak National Observatory, 1986.

Elvis, M., and Czerny, B. “Opacity and Inclination Effects in Quasar Accretion Disks
and the Optical/UV/X-Ray Big Bump.” In Continuum Emission in Active Galactic
Nuclei, ed. M. L. Sitko, p. 65. Tucson, Arizona: Kitt Peak National Observatory,
1986.

Esser, R.; Leer, E.; Habbal, S. R.; and Withbroe, G. L. “A Two-Fluid Solar Wind Model

124

with Alfven Waves: Parameter Study and Application to Observations.” Journal of
Geophysical Research 91 (1986): 2950.

Evans, N. J., 0; Levreault, R. M.; and Harvey, P. M. “Far-Infrared Photometry of
Low-Mass Pre-Main-Sequence Stars with Broad CO Wings.” Astrophysical Journal
301 (1986): 894.

Fabbiano, G. “The X-Ray Properties of Normal Galaxies.” Publications of the Astron-
omical Society of the Pacific 98 (1986): 525.

Fabbiano, G.; Elvis, M.; Carleton, N. P.; Willner, S. P.; Lawrence, A.; and Ward, M.
J. “0.3 to 100 um Continua of Seyfert 1 Galaxies.” In Quasars, eds. G. Swarup and
V. K. Kapahi, p. 85. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Fabbiano, G.; Willner, S. P.; Carleton, N. P.; and Elvis, M. “The Highly Obscured
Nucleus of 3C 219.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 304 (1986): L37.

Fabian, A.; Arnaud, K. A.; Nulsen, P. E. J.; Watson, M. G.; Steward, G. C.; McHardy,
I.; Smith, A.; Cooke, B.; Elvis, M.; and Mushotzky, R. F. “An X-Ray Optical and
Radio Study of PKS 0745-191: A Massive Cooling Flow.” Monthly Notices of the
Royal Astronomical Society 216 (1985): 923.

Fabricant, D.; Beers, T. C.; Geller, M. J.; Gorenstein, P.; Huchra, J. P.; and Kurtz, M.
J. “An X-Ray and Optical Study of the Cluster of Galaxies A754.” Astrophysical
Journal 308 (1986) 530.

Fabricant, D.; Conroy, M.; Cohen, L.; and Gorenstein, P. “Automated Figure
Formation for a Kirkpatrick-Baez X-Ray Mirror.” In Grazing Incidence Optics, eds.
J. Osantowski and L. Van Speybroeck, SPIE vol. 640, p. 164. Bellingham,
Washington: Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical
Engineering, 1986.

Fazio, G. G.; Koch, D. G.; Melnick, G. J.; Tresch-Fienberg, R. M.; Willner, S. P.;
Gezari, D. Y.; Lamb, G.; Shu, P.; Chin, G.; Silverberg, R.; Mather, J.; Hoffmann,
W.F.; Woolf, N. J.; Pipher, J.; Forrest, W.; and McCreight, C. R. “Wide Field and
Diffraction Limited Array Camera for SIRTF.” In Cryogenic Optical Systems and
Instruments II, ed. R. K. Melugin, SPIE vol. 619, p. 59. Bellingham, Washington:
Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986; also
in Instrumentation for Optical Remote Sensing from Space, eds. J. Seeley, J. W.
Lear, A. Monfils, and S. L. Russak, SPIE vol. 589, p. 229. Bellingham, Washington:
Proceedings of SPIE —- The International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986.

Feigelson, E. D.; Bradt, H.; McClintock, J.; Remillard, R.; Urry, C. M.; Tapia, S.;
Geldzahler, B.; Johnston, K.; Romanishin, W.; Wehinger, P. A.; Wyckoff, S.;
Madejski, G.; Schwartz, D. A.; Thorstensen, J.; and Schaefer, B. E. “HO323+022: A
New BL Lacertae Object with Extremely Rapid Variability.” Astrophysical Journal
302 (1986): 337.

Ferrari, A.; Massaglia, S.; Kalkofen, W.; Rosner, R.; and Bodo, G. “The Equilibrium
Structure of Thin Magnetic Flux Tubes. I.” Astrophysical Journal 298 (1985): 181.

Ferrari, A.; Trussoni, E.; Rosner, R.; and Tsinganos, K. “On Wind-Type Flows in
Astrophysical Jets. II. Propagation Outside the Nucleus, and the Case of M87.”
Astrophysical Journal 300 (1986): 577.

. “Collimated Winds from Active Galactic Nuclei.” In Structure and Evolution

of Active Galactic Nuclei, eds. G. Giuricin, F. Mardirossian, M. Mezzetti, and M.

Ramella, p. 543. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Field, G. B. “Astronomy of the Twentieth Century.” American Scientist 74 (1986):
t2.

“Humans, the Universe, and Tools for Astronomy.” In Infinite Vistas: New

Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J. Carr, p. 254. New York: Charles

Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

. “Magnetic Helicity in Astrophysics.” In Magnetospheric Phenomena in Astro-

phvsics (American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings 144) eds. jee

Epstein and W. C. Feldman, p. 324. Los Alamos: Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory,

1986.

. “Theory of the Interstellar Medium.” In Highlights of Modern Astrophysics:
Concepts and Controversies, eds. S. L. Shapiro and S. A. Teukolsky, p. 235. New
York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1986.

Field, G. B., and Spergel, D. N. “Cost of Space-Based Laser Ballistic Missile Defense.”
Science 231 (1986): 1387.

Fireman, E. L. “Uranium-Series Dating of Allan Hills Ice.” Lunar and Planetary Science
XVI Part 1 (1985): 240.

. “Dating Antarctic Ice by the Carbon-14 and Uranium-238 Series Methods.”

Antarctic Journal of the United States 19(5) (1985): 66.

. “Uranium-Series Dating of Allan Hills Ice.” Journal of Geophysical Research

91(B4) (1986): D539.

“Uranium-Series Dates for Ice from Two Allan Hills Locations.” Lunar and
Planetary Science XVII Part 1 (1986): 226.

Fireman, E. L.; Cleveland, B. T.; Davis, R. Jr., and Rowley, J. K. “Cosmic-Ray
Depth Studies at the Homestake Mine with °°K/97 Ar Detectors.” In AIP Conference
Proceedings, eds. M. L. Cherry, L. Lande, and W. A. Fowler, vol. 26, p. 22. New

fork: American Institute of Physics, 1985.

Foltz, C. B.; Chaffee, F. H. Jr.; and Weymann, R. J. “Limits on the Surface
Brightness of the ‘Lyman Alpha Disk’ Absorbers Toward the QSOs PHL 957 and
MC 1331+170.” Astronomical Journal 92 (1986): 247.

Foltz, C. B.; Weymann, R. J.; Peterson, B. M.; Sun, L.; Malkan, M. A.; and Chaffee,
F. H. Jr. *C IV Absorption Systems in QSO Spectra: Is the Character of Systems
with Zabs ~ Zem Different from those with Zabs j< Zem?” Astrophysical Journal
307 (1986): 504.

Fox, J. L., and Dalgarno, A. “The Vibrational Distribution of NZ in the Terrestrial
Ionosphere.” Journal of Geophysical Research 90 (1985): 7557.

Franceschini, A.; Gioia, I. M.; and Maccacaro, T. “Comparison between Optically
Selected and X-Ray Selected Active Galactic Nuclei.” In Structure and Evolution
of Active Galactic Nuclei, eds. G. Giuricin, F. Mardirossian, M. Mezzetti, and M.
Ramella, p. 547. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

. “On the Relationship Between Optically Selected and X-Ray Selected Active
Galactic Nuclei.” Astrophysical Journal 301 (1986): 124.

Garay, G.; Moran, J. M.; and Reid, M. J. “Radio Emission from 9!A Orionis.” In
Radio Stars, eds. R. M. Hjellming and D. M. Gibson, p. 131. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

Garcia, M.; Grindlay, J. E.; Burg, R., Murray, S. $.; and Flanagan, J. “Development of
the EXITE Detector: A New Imaging Detector for 20-300 keV Astronomy.” IEEE

Transactions on Nuclear Science 33 (1986): 735.

Gardner, L. D.; Graff, M. M.; and Kohl, J. L. “Fast Beams Apparatus for the Study
of Photodissociation Processes.” Review of Scientific Instruments 57 (1986): 177.
Gardner, I:.D.; Kohl,°J. L.; Lafyatis, "G. P.; Young; A.’R.; and Chutjian, AarsAm
Experimental Apparatus for Photon/Ion Coincidence Measurements of Dielectronic

Recombination.” Review of Scientific Instruments 57 (1986): 2254.

Geary, J. C.; DaCosta, L. N.; and Nunes, M. A. “The Observatorio Nacional Intensified
Photon-Counting Reticon Detector.” Revista de Fisica Aplicada e Instrumentacao
1 (1985): 1.

Gehrels, T.; Marsden, B. G.; McMillan, R. S.; and Scotti, J. V. “Astronomy with a
Scanning CCD.” Astronomical Journal 91 (1986): 1242.

Geller, M. J.; de Lapparent, V.; and Kurtz, M. J. “The Galaxy Distribution and the
Large-Scale Structure of the Universe.” In Twelfth Texas Symposium on Relativistic
Astrophysics, eds. M. Livio and G. Shaviv, p. 1223. New York: New York Academy
of Sciences, 1986.

Gezari, D. Y.; Tresch-Fiendberg, R.; Fazio, G. G.; Hoffmann, W. F.; Gatley, I.; Lamb,
G.; Shu, P.; and McCreight, C. “8.3 and 12.4 Micron Imaging of the Galactic Center
Source Complex with the Goddard Infrared Array Camera.” Astrophysical Journal
299 (1985): 1007.

Gingerich, O. “Halley’s Letter to Gregory Concerning the Synopsis.” Journal for the
History of Astronomy 16 (1985): 223.

. “Vita: Harlow Shapley, Bold Cosmographer.” Harvard Magazine 88(2) (1985):

40.

. “Islamic Astronomy.” Scientific American 254(4) (1986): 74.

. “Newton, Halley, and the Comet.” Sky and Telescope 71 (1986): 230.

. “Halley and Harvard.” Harvard Magazine 88(3) (1986): 63.

“Galileo’s Astronomy.” In Reinterpreting Galileo, ed. W. Wallace, p. 111.

Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 1986.

“Copernicus’ De Revolutionibus: An Example of Renaissance Scientific
Printing.” In Print and Culture in the Renaissance, eds. G. P. Tyson and S. S.
Wagonheim, p. 55. Newark, Delaware: Associated University Presses, 1986.

Gingerich, O., and Welther, B. “Harlow Shapley and the Cepheids.” Sky and Telescope
70(6) (1985): 540.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; Giommi, P.; and Stocke, J. T. “New X-Ray and
Optical Observations of the X-Ray Discovered QSO-Galaxy Pair 1E0104.2+3153.”
Astrophysical Journal 307 (1986): 497.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; Stocke, J.; and Danziger, J. “The Medium
Sensitivity Survey and the X-Ray Selected Quasar Sample.” In Quasars, eds. G.
Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 233. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1986.

Giommi, P.; Barr, P.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; Garilli, B.; and Maccagni,
D. “Rapid X-Ray and Optical Variability in the X-Ray Selected BL Lac Object
1E1402.3+0416.” Astrophysical Journal 303 (1986): 596.

Giommi, P.; Gioia, I. M.; and Maccacaro, T. “EXOSAT Observations of the QSO-
Galaxy Pair 1E0104.2+3153.” Space Science Reviews 40 (1985): 627.

Gorenstein, P.; Cohen, L.; and Fabricant, D. “X-ray Telescope Module for the LAMAR

Space Shuttle Experiment.“ In X-Ray Instrumentation in Astronomy, ed. J. L.
Culhane, SPIE vol. 597, p. 128. Bellingham, Washington: Proceedings of SPIE
— The International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986.

Gorenstein, P., and Fabricant, D. “An Imaging Proportional Counter for a 0.1-10 keV
X-Ray Telescope.” IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science NS-33 (1986) 741.

Gorham, P. W.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Lamb, R. C.; Liebing,
D. F.; Porter, N. A.; Stenger, V. J.; and Weekes, T. C. “Pulsed TeV Gamma Rays
Detected from Hercules X-1 During X-Ray Source Eclipse.” Astrophvsical Journal
(Letters) 308 (1986): L11.

Green, D. W. E. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 7 (1985): 1-108.

. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 8 (1986); 1-72.

Grindlay, J. E.; Garcia, J.; Burg, R.; and Murray, 8. S. “The Energetic X-Ray
Imaging Telescope Experiment (EXITE).” IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science
33(1) (1986): 750.

Grossi, M. D. “Measurements of the Propagation Parameters for Real-Time Channel
Evaluation (RTCE) System.” In Propagation Impact on Modern HF Communica-

tions System Design (NATO-AGARD, Lecture Series No. 145), p. 7-1. Paris,
France: Advisory Group for Aerospace Research and Development, 1986.

“An Introduction to Error-Control Coding, With Applications to H. F.
Communications.” In Propagation Impact on Modern HF Communications System

Design (NATO-AGARD, Lecture Series No. 145), p. 12-1. Paris, France: Advisory

Group for Aerospace Research and Development, 1986.

Grossman, L., and Hashimoto, A. “Experimental Condensation of Crystalline Olivine
and Pyroxene.” Lunar and Planetary Science XVI, p. 304 (revision Supplement
A27). Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Science Institute, 1985.

Guberman, S. L. “Theoretical Studies of Dissociative Recombination.” In Thermophys-
ical Aspects of Re-Entry Flows, p. 225. New York: American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1986.

Guth, A. H. “The New Inflationary Universe, 1984.” In Inner Space/Outer Space: The
Interface Between Cosmology and Particle Physics, eds. E. W. Kolb, M. S. Turner,
K. Olive, D. Seckel, and D. Lindley, p. 287. Chicago, Illinois: Chicago University
Press, 1986.

Guth, A. H., and Pi, S.-Y. “The Behavior of the Higgs Field in the New Inflation-
ary Universe.” In Inner Space/Outer Space: The Interface Between Cosmology and
Particle Physics, eds. E. W. Kolb, M.S. Turner, K. Olive, D. Seckel, and D. Lindley,
p. 345. Chicago, Illinois: Chicago University Press, 1986.

“The Quantum Mechanics of the Scalar Field in the New Inflationary
Universe.” Physical Review D 32 (1985): 1899.

Gwinn, C. R.; Herring, T. A.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Geodesy by Radio Interferometry:
Studies of the Forced Nutations of the Earth II: Interpretation.” Journal of
Geophysical Research 91 (1986): 4755.

Gwinn, C. R.; Taylor, J. H.; Weisberg, T. A.; and Rawley, L. A. “Measurement of
Pulsar Parallaxes by VLBI.” Astronomical Journal 91 (1986): 338.

Habbal, S. R.; Ronan, R. S.; and Withbroe, G. L. “Spatial and Temporal Variations of
Solar Coronal Loops.” Solar Physics 98 (1985): 323.

Habbal, S. R.; Ronan, R. S.; Withbroe, G. L.; Shevgaonkar, R., and Kundu, M. “Solar

co

Coronal Bright Points Observed with the VLA.” Astrophysical Journal 306 (1986):
740.

Harmon, J. K.; Campbell, D. B.; Head, J. W.; Bindschadler, D. L.; and Shapiro, I.
I. “Radar Altimetry of Mercury: A Preliminary Analysis.” Journal of Geophysical
Research 91 (1986): 385.

Harris, D. E., and Stern, C. P. “The X-Ray Jet in 3C273.” In Quasars, eds. G. Swarup
and V. J. Kapahi, p. 275. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1986.

Hartmann, L. “Manifestations of the Interaction between Convection and Rotation
in Stellar Atmospheres.” In Transactions of the International Astronomical Union
Reports on Astronomy, ed. R. M. West, p. 507. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1985.

. “Mass Loss from Solar-Type Stars.” Solar Physics 100 (1985): 587.

. “Theories of Mass Loss from T Tauri Stars.” Fundamentals of Cosmic Physics
11 (1986): 279.

Hartmann, L., and Kenyon, S. J. “On the Nature of FU Orionis Stars.” Astrophysical
Journal 299 (1985): 462.

Hashimoto, A., and Grossman, L. “SEM-Study of Allende Fine-Grained Inclusions.”
Lunar and Planetary Science XVI, p. 323. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary
Institute, 1985.

“Relationship between Petrography and Silicon Isotopes in Allende Coarse-
Grained Inclusions.” Meteoritics 20 (1985): 658.

Hashimoto, A.; Hinton, R. W.; Davis, A. M.; Grossman, L.; Mayeda, T. K.; and
Clayton, R. N. “A Hibonite-Rich Murchison Inclusion with Anomalous Oxygen
Isotopic Composition.” Lunar and Planetary Science XVII, p. 317. Houston, Texas:
Lunar and Planetary Science Institute, 1986.

Herring, T. A.; Gwinn, C. R.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Geodesy by Radio Interferometry:
Corrections to the IAU 1980 Nutation Series.” In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Earth Rotation and the Terrestrial Reference Frame, ed. I. I. Mueller,
p. 307. Columbus, Ohio: Ohio State University Report, 1985.

“Geodesy by Radio Interferometry: Studies of the Forced Nutations of the
Earth, 1. Data Analysis.” Journal of Geophysical Research 91 (1986): 4745.

Herring, T. A.; Shapiro, I. I.; Clark, T. A.; Ma, C.; Ryan, J. W.; Schupler, B. R.;
Knight, C. A.; Shaffer, D. B.; Vandenberg, N. R.; Cappallo, R. J.; Hinteregger, H.
F.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Webber, J. C.; Whitney, A. R.; Elgered, G.; Roénnang, B.
O.; Corey, B. E.; and Davis, J. L. “Geodesy by Radio Interferometry: Evidence for
Contemporary Plate Motion.” Journal of Geophysical Research 91 (1986): 8341.

Hester, J. J.; Raymond, J. C.; and Danielson, G. E. “A Deep Ha Image of Faint Balmer-
Line Filaments in the Northeast Cygnus Loop Supernova Remnant.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters) 303 (1986): L17.

Horne, J. H., and Baliunas, S. L. “A Prescription for Period Analysis of Unevenly
Sampled Time Series.” Astrophysical Journal 302 (1986): 757.

Huchra, J. P. “On the Determination of Cosmological Parameters.” In Innerspace/
Outerspace, eds. D. Lindley and E. Kolb, p. 65. Chicago, Illinois: University of
Chicago Press, 1986.

Johnson, B. C.; Smith, P. L.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Transition Probability of the Al

II 2669 A Intersystem Line.” Astrophysical Journal 308 (1986): 1013.

Kalkofen, W.; Rosner, R.; Ferrari, A.; and Massaglia, S. “The Equilibrium Structure
of Thin Magnetic Flux Tubes. II.” Astrophysical Journal 304 (1986): 519.

Karovska, M.; Nisenson, P.; and Noyes, R. “On the a Orionis Triple System.”
Astrophysical Journal 308 (1986): 260.

Karovska, M.; Nisenson, P.; Noyes, R.; and Stachnik, R. “Companions to a Orionis.”
In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems,
and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M. Zeilik, p. 445. New York: Springer-Verlag,
1986.

Keller, H. U.; Arpigny, C.; Barbieri, C.; Bonnet, R. M.; Cazes, S.; Coradini, M.;
Cosmovici, C. B.; Delamers, W. A.; Huebner, W. F.; Hughes, D. W.; Jamar, C.;
Malaise, D.; Reitsema, A. J.; Schmidt, H. U.; Schmidt, W. K. H.; Seige, P.; Whipple,
F. L.; and Wilhelm, K. “First Halley Multicolor Imaging Results from Giotto.”
Nature 321 (1986): 320.

Kenyon, S. J. “Spectroscopic Observations of PU Vulpeculae.” Astronomical Journal
91 (1986): 563.

. The Symbiotic Stars. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 1986.

Kenyon, S. J., and Garcia, M. R. “Spectroscopic Orbits for Symbiotic Stars. I. The
Recurrent Nova T Coronae Borealis.” Astronomical Journal 91 (1986): 125.

Keto, E. R., and Myers, P. C. “CO Observations of Southern High Latitude Clouds.”
Astrophysical Journal 304 (1986): 466.

Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; Withbroe, G. L.; Noci, G.; and Munro, R. H. “Coronal
Spectroscopy and Imaging from Spartan During the Polar Passage of Ulysses.”
In The Sun and the Heliosphere in Three Dimensions, ed. R. G. Marsden, p. 39.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Kornacki, A. S., and Wood, J. A. “Mineral Chemistry and Origin of Spinel-Rich
Inclusions in the Allende CV3 Chondrite.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 49
(1985): 1219.

. “The Identification of Group II Inclusions by Electron Probe Microanalysis.”
Earth and Planetary Science Letters 72 (1985): 74.

Krauss, L. M. “Axions, the Search Continues...” In High Energy Physics 1985: Pro-
ceedings of the Yale Theoretical Advanced Study Institute, eds. M. Bowick and F.
Grsey, p. 431. Singapore: World Scientific, 1986.

Krauss, L. M.; Cabrera, B.; and Wilczek, F. “Bolometric Detection of Neutrinos.”
Physical Review Letters 55 (1985): 25.

Krauss, L. M.; Freese, K.; Spergel, D. N.; and Press, W. H. “Cold Dark Matter
Candidates and the Solar Neutrino Problem.” Astrophysical Journal 299 (1985):
1001.

Krauss, L. M.; Guth, A. H.; Spergel, D. N.; Field, G. B.; and Press, W. H. “Inflation
and Shadow Matter.” Nature 319 (1986): 748.

Krauss, L. M.; Morris, D.; Moody, J.; and Wilczek, F. “Calculations for Cosmic Axion
Detection.” Physical Review Letters 55 (1985): 1797.

Krauss, L. M., and Wilczek, F. “Solar Neutrino Oscillations.” Physical Review Letters
55 (1985): 122.

Krauss, L. M.; Wilczek, F.; and Srednicki, M. “Solar System Constraints on Dark
Matter Candidates.” Physical Review D 33 (1986): 2079.

129
Krolik, J. H., and Raymond, J. C. “Radiation Pressure-Driven Shocks in Winds from
Hot Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 298 (1985): 660.

Kurucz, R. L. “Theoretical Stellar Energy Distributions.” In Highlights of Astronomy,
ed. J. P. Swings, p. 827. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Kwok, T. L.; Guberman, S. L.; Dalgarno, A.; and Posen, A. “Dipole Moments and |
Transition Probabilities of the a°Zy —b°Lt System of Molecular Hydrogen.” Physical
Review 34(3) (1986): 1962.

Latham, D. W. “Giant Telescopes and Tall Mountains: New Directions in Optical
Astronomy.” In Infinite Vistas: New Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J.
Carr, p. 21. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

Lawrence, A.; Watson, M. G.; Pounds, K. A.; and Elvis, M. “Continuous Rapid
Variability and Spectral Changes in NGC 4051.” Monthly Notices of the Royal
Astronomical Society 217 (1985): 685.

Lecar, M., and Aarseth, S. J. “A Numerical Simulation of the Formation of the
Terrestrial Planets.” Astrophysical Journal 305 (1986): 564.

Lester, J. B.; Gray, R. O.; and Kurucz, R. L. “Theoretical UVBY¢ Indices.”
Astrophysical Journal Supplement 61 (1986): 509.

Lightman, A. P. “First Light: The Space Telescope.” In Infinite Vistas: New Tools for
Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J. Carr, p. 3. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,
1985.

Loeser, J. G.; Baliunas, S. L.; Guinan, E. F.; Mattei, J. A.; and Wacker, S. “Light
Velocity and He Variations in the Pulsating Red Giant V CVn.” In Proceedings of
the Fourth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, eds.
D. M. Gibson and M. Zeilik, p. 460. New York: Springer, 1986.

Lorenzini, E. C. “A Three-Mass Tethered System for Micro-g/Variable-g Applications.”
In Proceedings of the AIAA Guidance Navigation and Control Conference, AIAA-
86-1990-CP, p. 1. Williamsburg, Virginia: American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics, 1986.

. “Applications of Tethers in Space.” In Workshop Proceedings, Venice, Italy
(NASA Conference Publication No. 2422), vol. 1, p. 285. Washington, D.C.:
National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1986.

Loughran, L.; McBreen, B.; Fazio, G. G.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Maxson, C. W.; Serio,
S.; Sciortino, S.; and Ray, T. P. “Multiband Far-Infrared Observations of the NGC
6334 Complex.” Astrophysical Journal 303 (1986): 629.

Maccagni, D.; Barr, P.; Garilli, B.; Gioia, I. M.; Giommi, P.; Maccacaro, T.; and Schild,
R. “X-Ray Selected BL Lac Objects: Time Variability and X-Ray Spectrum.” In
Quasars, eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 265. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1986.

Maccacaro, T., and Gioia, I. M. “On the Completeness of the Medium Sensitivity
Survey Quasar Sample.” Astrophysical Journal 303 (1986): 614.

Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccagni, D.; and Stocke, J. T. “The Properties of X-Ray
Selected BL Lac Objects.” In Structure and Evolution of Active Galactic Nuclei
eds. G. Giuricin, F. Mardirossian, M. Mezzetti, and M. Ramella, p. 615. Dordrecht,
Hoiland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

MacKeown, P. K., and Weekes, T. C. “Cosmic Rays from Cygnus X-3.” Scientific
American 253 (1985): 60.

MacPherson, G. J.; Grossman, L.; and Hashimoto, A. “Accretionary Rims on Inclusions
in the Allende Meteorite.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 49 (1985): 2267.

Majer, P.; Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Golub, L.; Harnden, F. R. Jr.; and Rosner, R. “X-Ray
Spectra and the Rotation Activity Connection of RS Canus Venaticorum Binaries.”
Astrophysical Journal 300 (1986): 360.

Maltby, P.; Avrett, E. H.; Carlsson, M.; Kjeldseth-Moe, O.; Kurucz, R. L.; and
Loeser, R. “A New Sunspot Umbral Model and Its Variation with the Solar Cycle.”
Astrophysical Journal 306 (1986): 284.

Marcaide, J. M.; Bartel, N.; Cohen, N. L.; Gorenstein, M. V.; Shapiro, I. I.; Corey,
B. E.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Bonometti, R. J.; Preston, R. A.; and Romney, J. D.
“Simultaneous Dual Wavelength VLBI Observations of the Compact Radio Source
Near the Galactic Center.” In Active Galactic Nuclei, ed. J. E. Dyson, p. 50. Dover,
New Hampshire: Manchester University Press, 1985.

Marsden, B. G. “Comets, in 1983.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical
Society 27 (1985): 102.

. “The Identification of Minor Planets.” In Comets, Asteroids, Meteors, IT, eds.

C.-I. Lagerkvist, B. A. Lindblad, H. Lundstedt, and H. Rickman, p. 3. Uppsala,

Sweden: Uppsala University, 1986.

. Catalogue of Cometary Orbits, 5th Edition, 102 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts:

Minor Planet Center, 1986.

Magnetic Tape of Observations of Minor Planets and Comets, 5th Edition,

402,348 entries. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Minor Planet Center, 1986.

. “Coordination of Minor Planet Orbital Studies: Past, Present and Future.”

Celestial Mechanics 37 (1985): 339.

. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars, Nos. 9843-10328, 1985.

. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars, Nos. 10329-10884, 1986.

Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. (editors) International Astronomical Union
Circulars, Nos. 4087-4156, 1985.

. (editors). International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4157-4233, 1986.

Marvin, U. B. “Earth: The Water Planet.” In The Planets, ed. B. Preiss, p. 35. New
York: Bantam Books, 1985.

“Meteorites, the Moon, and the History of Geology.” Journal of Geological
Education 34 (1986): 140.

Marvin, U. B., and Lindstrom, M. M. “Breccia 67015: A Comparison with Other North
Ray Crater Ejecta.” In Lunar and Planetary Science VXII, p. 518. Houston, Texas:
Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1986.

Massaglia, S.; Ferrari, A.; Bodo, G.; Kalkofen, W.; and Rosner, R. “On Magnetohy-
drodynamic Thermal Instabilities in Magnetic Flux Tubes.” Astrophysical Journal
299 (1985): 769.

Mattison, E. M.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and Shen, W. “Single State Selection System for
Hydrogen Masers.” In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Symposium on Frequency
Control, p. 422. Philadelphia: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
1986.

Mathieu, R. D. “The Dynamical Evolution of Young Clusters and Associations.” In
Highlights of Astronomy, ed. J. P. Swings, p. 481. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1986.

Mazeh, T.; Kieboom, K.; and Heise, J. “A Photometric Study of AM Herculis in the
Normal and Reversed Soft X-Ray Modes.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astron-
omical Society 221 (1986): 513.

McClintock, J.E. “Accretion Disks in Mass-Exchange Binaries.” In Plasma Penetration
into Magnetospheres, eds. N. Kylafis, J. Papamastorakis, and J. Ventura, p. 71.
Colymbari, Crete: Crete University Press, 1986.

McClintock, J. E., and Remillard, R.A. “The Black-Hole Binary A0620-00.”
Astrophysical Journal 308 (1986): 110.

Melnick, G. J. “Observations of Rotational Transitions of OH from OMC1.” In Masers
Molecules, and Mass Outflows in Star Forming Regions, ed. A. D. Haschick, p. 33.
Westford, Massachusetts: Haystack Observatory, 1986.

Melnick, G. J.; Stacey, G. J.; Viscusco, P. J.; and Fuller, C. E. “Observations of the 15.7
micron [C II] Emission from the Galactic H I] Regions W3 and W51.” Astrophysical
Journal 303 (1986): 638.

Meyer, D. M.; Black, J. H.; Chaffee, F. H. Jr.; Foltz, C. B.; and York, D. G. “An Upper
Limit on the Microwave Background Temperature at z = 1.776.” Astrophysical
Journal (Letters) 308 (1986): L37

Miller, L.; Longair, M.S.; Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; and Elvis, M. “The Gaseous En-
vironment of Double Radio Galaxies.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical
Society 215 (1985): 799.

Molnar, L. A. “The Scattering Size of Cygnus X-3.” In Proceedings for National
Radio Science Meeting, p. 211. Boulder, Colorado: United States National
Committee/International Union of Radio Science, 1986.

Moran, J. M. “Summary Review.” In Masers, Molecules, and Mass Outflows in Star
Forming Regions, ed. A. D. Haschick, p. 351. Westford: Haystack Observatory,
1986.

Morgan, P. J.; King, R. W.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Length of Day and Atmospheric Angular
Momentum: A Comparison for 1981-1983.” Journal of Geophysical Research 90
(1985): 12,645.

Murphy, D. C., and Myers, P. C. “CO Emission Structure in the Taurus Molecular
Cloud Complex.” Astrophysical Journal 298 (1985): 818.

Myers, P. C. “Dense Cores and Star Formation in Nearby Dark Clouds.” In Nearby
Molecular Clouds, ed. G. Serra, p. 89. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1985.

. “Molecular Cloud Cores.” In Protostars and Planets II, eds. D. Black and M.

Matthews, p. 81. Tucson, Arizona: University of Arizona Press, 1985.

“Young Stars and Dense Cores in Nearby Dark Clouds.” In Light on Dark
Matter, ed. F. P. Israel, p. 307. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company,
1986.

Myers, P. C.; Dame, T. M.; Thaddeus, P.; Cohen R.; Silverberg, R.; Dwek, E.;
and Hauser, M. “Molecular Clouds and Star Formation in the Inner Galaxy: A
Comparison of CO, H II, and Far Infrared Surveys.” Astrophysical Journal 30 (1986):
398.

Nisenson, P.; Stachnik, R. V.; Karovska, M.; and Noyes, R. “A New Optical Source
Associated with T Tauri.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 297 (1985): L17.

Noci, G.; Kohl, J. L.; and Withbroe, G. L. “OVI Diagnostics of Solar Wind
Generation.” In The Sun and the Heliosphere in Three Dimensions, ed. R.G.

Marsden, p. 53. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Nolt, I. G.; Radostitz, J. V.; Chance, K. V.; Traub, W. A.; Ade, P. A. R.; and Carli, B.
“Far-Infrared Radiometer to Map OH in the Middle Atmosphere.” In Proceedings
of AIAA/NASA Earth Observing Systems Conference, ATAA-85-3007. New York:
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 1985.

Noyes, R. W. “Commission 12: Radiation and Structure of the Solar Atmosphere.”
In Transactions of the International Astronomical Union, Proceedings of the Nine-
teenth General Assembly (Delhi, 1985), ed. J. P. Swings, vol. XIXB, p. 133.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

“Solar and Stellar Magnetic Activity.” In Physics of the Sun, ed. P. A.

Sturrock, p. 125. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1985.

. “Stellar Analogs of Solar Magnetic Activity.” Solar Physics 100 (1985): 385.

Noyes, R. W., and Avrett, E. H. “The Solar Chromosphere.” In Spectroscopy of Astro-
physical Plasmas, eds. A. Dalgarno and D. Layzer, p. 125. Cambridge, England:
Cambridge University Press, 1986.

Noyes, R. W.; Raymond, J. C.; Doyle, J. G.; and Kingston, A. E. “The Extreme
Ultraviolet Spectrum of Sunspot Plumes. I. Observations.” Astrophysical Journal
297 (1985): 805.

Odenwald, S.; Shivanandan, K.; Campbell, M.; Fazio, G.; Schwartz, P.; and Moseley,
H. “Far-Infrared and Radio Observations of DR-6, DR-7, and DR-22.” Astrophysical
Journal 306 (1985): 122.

Olszewski, E. W.; Peterson, R. C.; and Aaronson, M. “High-Precision Radial Velocities
of Faint Giants: Radial Velocities of Extreme Halo Systems and the Mass of the
Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 302 (1986): L45.

Orth, F. B.; Ginter, M. L.; Yoshino, K.; and Brown, C. M. “Vacuum UV Performance
of a New 6.65-m Concave Diffraction Grating with 4800 Grooves/mm.” Applied
Optics 25 (1986): 2218.

Ouellette, D. B.; Barlow, D. J.; Ulich, B. L.; and Latham, D. W. “A 26-Bit Absolute
Encoder System.” In Advanced Technology Optical Telescopes III, ed. L. D. Barr,
SPIE vol. 628, p. 1. Bellingham, Washington: Proceedings of SPIE -— The
International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986.

Owocki, S. P., and Rybicki, G. B. “Instabilities in Line-Driven Stellar Winds: II. Effect
of Scattering.” Astrophysical Journal 299 (1985): 265.

Palumbo, G. G. C.; Fabbiano, G.; Fransson, C.; and Trinchieri, G. “An X-Ray Study
of M51 (NGC 5194) and Its Companion (NGC 5195).” Astrophysical Journal 298
(1985): 259; also in Space Science Reviews 40 (1985): 643.

Peterson, R. C. “Radial Velocities of Remote Globular Clusters: Stalking the Missing
Mass.” Astrophysical Journal 297 (1985): 309.

Peterson, R. C., and Foltz, C. B. “High-Precision Radial Velocities for Faint Giants.
II. Calibration of the MMT Echellette.” Astrophysical Journal 307 (1986): 143.
Peterson, R. C., and Latham, D. W. “Stellar Velocity Dispersions for Four Low-

Concentration Globular Clusters.” Astrophysical Journal 305 (1986): 645.

Peterson, R. C.; Olszewski, E. W.; and Aaronson, M. “High-Precision Radial
Velocities for Faint Giants. I. MMT Echelle Results for Globular Cluster Stars.”
Astrophysical Journal 307 (1986): 139.

Petro, L. D.; Foukal, P. V.; and Kurucz, R. L. “Photospheric Limb-Darkening

oid
T3535
134

Signatures of Global Structure Variations.” Solar Physics 98 (1985): 23.

Pineau des Forets, G.; Flower, D. R.; Hartquist, T. W.; and Dalgarno, A. “Theoretical
Studies of Interstellar Molecular Shocks - III. The Formation of CH+ in Diffuse
Clouds.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 220 (1986): 801.

Postman, M.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “The Cluster-Cluster Correlation
Function.” Astronomical Journal 91 (1986): 1267.

Reasenberg, R. D. “Microarcsecond Astrometric Interferometry.” In Astrometric Tech-
niques, eds. H. K. Eichhorn and R. J. Leacock, p. 321. Dordrecht, Holland: D.
Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

. “POINTS: A Small Astrometric Interferometer.” In Large Optics Technology,
ed. G. M. Sanger, SPIE vol. 571, p. 245. Bellingham, Washington: Proceedings of
SPIE — The International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986.

Reasenberg, R. D., and Shapiro, I. I. “Prospects for Observations of Relativistic Effects
on the Solar System.” In Proceedings of [AU Symposium 114, Relativity in Celestial
Mechanics and Astrometry, eds. J. Kovalevsky and V. A. Brumberg, p. 383. Dor-
drecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Reid, M. J. “Antenna Earth: Astronomy with an Intercontinental Array of Radio
Telescopes.” In Infinite Vistas: New Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J.
Carr, p. 104. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

Remillard, R. A.; Bradt, H. V.; Buckley, D. A. H.; Roberts, W.; Schwartz, D.; Tuohy, I.
R.; and Wood, K. “The Discovery of Eight Bright Active Galactic Nuclei Observed
with the HEAO-1 Scanning Modulation Collimator.” Astrophysical Journal 301
(1986): 742.

Remillard, R. A.; Bradt, H. V.; McClintock, J. E.; Patterson, J.; Roberts, W.;
Schwartz, D.A.; and Tapia, S. “H0538+608: A Bright AM Herculis-Type X-Ray
Source.“ Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 302 (1986): L11.

Roemer, E.; Marsden, B. G.; Kresak, L.; Kozai, Y.; and Taylor, G. E. “International
Astronomical Union Commission 20.” Transcript of International Astronomical
Union XIXA (1985): 207.

Ryan, J. W.; Clark, T. A.; Coates, R. J.; Ma, C.; Wildes, W. T.; Gwinn, C. R.; Herring,
T. A.; Shapiro, I. 1; Corey, B. E.; Counselman, C. C.; Hinteregger, H. F.; Rogers,
A. E. E.; Whitney, A. R.; Knight, C. A.; Vandenberg, N. R.; Pigg, J. C.; Schupler,
B. R.; and Ronnang, B. O. “Geodesy by Radio Interferometry: Determinations of
Baseline-Vector, Earth-Rotation, and Solid-Earth-Tide Parameters with the Mark I
VLBI System.” Journal of Geophysical Research 91 (1986): 1935.

Schild, R. “Optical Brightness Monitoring of the Twin QSO Q0957+561 A,B.” In
Quasars, eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 549. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1986.

Schmelz, J. T.; Feigelson, E. D.; and Schwartz, D. A. “A VLA Survey of Unidentified
HEAO-1 X-Ray Sources.” Astronomical Journal 92(3) (1986): 585.

Schmidt, W. K. H.; Keller, H. U.; Wilhelm, K.; Arpigny, C.; Barbieri, C.; Biermann,
L.; Bonnet, R. M.; Cazes, S.; Cosmovici, C. B.; Delamere, W. A.; Huebner, W. F.;
Hughes, D. W.; Jamar, C.; Malaise, D.; Reitsema, H.; Seige, P.; and Whipple, F.
L. “The Giotto Halley Multicolor Camera.” In The Giotto Mission — Its Scientific
investigations, ESA SP-1077, eds. R. Reinhard and B. Battrick, p. 149. Noordwijk,
The Netherlands: European Space Agency, 1986.

Schwartz, D. A.; McKinnon, P. J.; Murray, S.S.; Primini, F. A.; Van Speybroeck, L. P.;
Zombeck, M. V.; Dailey, C. C.; Reily, J. C.; and Weisskopf, M. C. “X-Ray Testing of
the AXAF Technology Mirror Assembly (TMA) Mirror.” In X-Ray Instrumentation
in Astronomy, ed. J. L. Culhane, SPIE vol. 597, p. 10. Bellingham, Washington:
Proceedings of SPIE — The International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986.

Smith, B. W.; Raymond, J. C.; Mann, J.; and Cowan, R. D. “Atomic Processes in Fe
XVII.” Astrophysical Journal 298 (1985): 898.

Stachnik, R. “Speckle Imaging: Astronomical Image Recovery by Innovative Tech-
niques.” In Infinite Vistas: New Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J. Carr,
p. 41. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

Stauffer, J. R., and Hartmann, L. “The Chromospheric Activity, Kinematics, and
Metallicities of Nearby M Dwarfs.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 61(3) (1986):
531.

“Rotational Velocities of Low Mass Stars in Young Open Clusters.”
In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems,
and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M. Zeilik, p. 30. New York: Springer-Verlag,
1986.

Stern, R. A.; Antiochos, S. K.; and F. R. Harnden Jr. “Modeling of Coronal X-Ray
Emission from Active Cool Stars: I. Hyades Cluster.” Astrophysical Journal 305
(1986): 417.

Stocke, J. T.; Liebert, J.; Schmidt, G. D.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R. E.;
Maccagni, D.; and Arp, H. A. “The Optical Radio Properties of X-Ray Selected BL
Lac Objects.” Astrophysical Journal, 298 (1985): 619.

Stolper, E., and Paque, J. M. “Crystallization Sequences of Ca-Al-Rich Inclusions from
Allende: The Effects of Cooling Rate and Maximum Temperature.” Geochimica et
Cosmochimica Acta 50(8) (1986): 1785.

Tananbaum, H.; Avni, Y.; Green, R. F.; Schmidt, M.; and Zamorani, G. “X-Ray
Observations of the Bright Quasar Survey.” Astrophysical Journal 305 (1986): 57.

Thompson, A. R.; Moran, J. M.; and Swenson, G. W. Interferometry and Synthesis in
Radio Astronomy. New York: Wiley-Interscience, 1986.

Torrelles, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; Moran, J. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Canto, J. “Ammonia
Dee iods of Regions with Molecular Outflows.” Aeroplesical Journal 307
(1986): 787.

Traub, W. A. “Slicing the Sky: Sharper Images with an Orbiting Array of Optical
Telescopes.” In Infinite Vistas: New Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J.
Carr, p. 67. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

“Combining Beams from Separated Telescopes.” Applied Optics 25 (1986):

528.

Tucker, W. A., and Schwartz, D. A. “The X-Ray Background and the Evolution of
Quasars.” Astrophysical Journal 308 (1986): 53.

Tuohy, I. R.; Buckley, D. A.; Remillard, R. A.; Bradt, H. V.; and Schwartz,
D. A.; “Optical Observations of New X-Ray Emitting Cataclysmic Variables.”

Proceedings of Bamberg Cataclysmic Variable Workshop, (ESA SP-236

Paris: European Space Agency, 1985.

Turner, J. L., and Ho, P. T. P. “The One Parsec Core and Possible Nuclear Ejection
in the NGC 253.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 299 (1986): L179.
Van Ballegooijen, A. A. “Electric Currents in the Solar Corona and the Existence of
Magnetostatic Equilibrium.” Astrophysical Journal 298 (1985): 421.

. “On the Surface Response of Solar Giant Cells.” Astrophysical Journal 304
(1986): 828.

Van Speybroeck, L. V.; McKinnon, P. J.; Murray, S. S.; Primini, F. A.; Schwartz,
D. A.; Zombeck, M. V.; Dailey, C. C.; Reily, J. C.; Weisskopf, M. C.; Wyman,
C. L.; Glenn, P.; and Slomba, A. “Correspondence between AXAF TMA X-ray
Performance and Models Based Upon Mechanical and Visible Light Measurements.”
In X-Ray Instrumentation in Astronomy, ed. J. L. Culhane, SPIE vol. 597, p.
20. Bellingham, Washington: Proceedings of SPIE — The International Society for
Optical Engineering, 1985.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Klepczynski, W. J.; Silvera, I. F.; Godfried, H. P.;
and Walsworth, R. L. “Results of Two Years of Hydrogen Maser Clock Operation at
the U.S. Naval Observatory.” In Proceedings of the 17th Annual Precise Time and
Time Interval Meeting, p. 413. Washington, D.C.: United States Naval
Observatory, 1985.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Walsworth, R. L.; Silvera, I. F.; Godfried, H. P.; and
Agosta, C. C. “A Hydrogen Maser at Temperatures below 1K.” In Proceedings of
the 40th Annual Symposium on Frequency Control, p. 413. Philadelphia: Institute
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1986.

Vrtilek, S. D.; Helfand, D. J.; Halpern, J. P.; Kahn, S. M.; and Seward, F. D. “X-
Ray Emission Lines from Three Galactic Bulge Sources.” Astrophysical Journal
308 (1986): 644.

Vrtilek, S. D.; Kahn, S. M.; Grindlay, J. E.; Helfand, D. J.; and Seward, F. D. “Spectral
Variability of Cygnus X-2: Structure in the Circumsource Material.” Astrophysical
Journal 307 (1986): 698.

Walsworth, R. L.; Silvera, I. F.; Godfried, H. P.; Agosta, C. C.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and
Mattison, E. M. “A Hydrogen Maser at Temperatures below 1K.” Physical Review
A (Rapid Communication) 34(3) (1986): 2550.

Walter, F. M., and Myers, P. C. “Naked T Tauri Stars and Post T Tauri Stars.”
In Proceedings of the Fourth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems,
and the Sun, eds. D. M. Gibson and M. Zeilik, p. 50. New York: Springer-Verlag,
1986.

Weekes, T. C. “The Gamma-Ray Universe: Taking a Long, Hard Look.” In Infinite
Vistas: New Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J. Carr, p. 231. New York:
Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

“Very High Energy Gamma-Ray Sources.” The Physics Teacher 24 (1986):

20.

Welther, B. L. “Shapley’s Standard Candles.” Journal of the American Association of
Variable Star Observers 14(2) (1985): 77.

“Shapley in Washington: A Scientist Among Politicians.” Journal of the
American Association of Variable Star Observers 14(2) (1985): 76.

Wheeler, J. C., and Levreault, R. “The Peculiar Type I Supernova in NGC 991.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 294 (1985): L17.

Whipple, F. L. The Mystery of Comets, 276 pp. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Press,
1985.

“Scientific Presentations and Publications, Des Gegenwarteige Stand des

Eiskonglomeratmodells der Kometenkerne.” Die Sterne 61 5/6 (1985): 303.

“Flying Sandbanks Versus Dirty Snowballs: Discovering the Nature of
Comets.” Mercury XV (1986): 1.

Whitney, C. Whitney’s Star Finder, 4th Edition. New York: Alfred Knopf, 1985.

Wilkes, B. “Studies of Broad Emission Lines in QSOs II: Properties of a Large, Pre-
dominantly Radio Selected Sample.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical
Society 218 (1986): 331.

Wilkes, B., and Elvis, M. “The Diverse Soft X-Ray Slopes of QSO’s.” In Continuum
Emission in Active Galactic Nuclei, ed. M. Sitko, p. 56. Tucson, Arizona: Kitt
Peak National Observatory, 1986.

. “The Diverse Soft X-Ray Slopes of QSO’s.” In Quasars, eds. G. Swarup and
V. K. Kapahi, p. 261. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.
Willner, S. P. “The Cool Sky: Infrared Astronomy.” In Infinite Vistas: New Tools for
Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J. Carr, p. 152. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,

1985.

Willner, S. P.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Lawrence, A.; and Ward, M. J. “Infrared
Observations of Linear Galactic Nuclei.” Astrophysical Journal 299 (1985): 443.
Withbroe, G. L. “EUV Observations of Subflares and Surges.” Solar Physics 99 (1985):

145.

“Probing the Sun’s Secrets: An Advanced Solar Observatory.” In Infinite
Vistas: New Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J. Carr, p. 181. New York:
Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

. “Corona and Solar Wind.” In Solar Flares and Corona! Physics Using P/OF

as a Research Tool, NASA Conference Publication No. 2421, eds. E. Tandberg-

Hanssen, R. M. Wilson, and H. S. Hudson, p. 221. Washington, D.C.: National

Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1986.

. “Origins of the Solar Wind in the Corona.” In The Sun and the Heliosphere
in Three Dimensions, ed. R. G. Marsden, p. 19. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1986.

Withbroe, G. L.; Habbal, S. R.; and Ronan, R. S. “Impulsive Phenomena in a Small
Active Region.” Solar Physics 95 (1985): 297.

Withbroe, G. L.; Kohl, J. L.; and Weiser, H. “Analysis of Coronal H I Lyman-Alpha
Measurements in a Polar Region of the Sun Observed in 1979.” Astrophysical
Journal 307 (1986): 381.

Withbroe, G. L.; Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; and Munro, R. H. “Coronal Temperatures,
Heating and Energy Flow in a Polar Region of the Sun at Solar Maximum.”
Astrophysical Journal 297 (1985): 324.

Wood, J. A. “An Overview of the Cosmic History of the Biogenic Elements and
Compounds.” In Cosmic History of the Biogenic Elements and Compounds. NASA
SP-476, eds. J. A. Wood and S. Chang, p. 4. Washington, D.C.: National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1985.

. “Meteoritic Constraints on Processes in the Solar Nebula.” In Protostars and

Planets II, ed. D. C. Blak, p. 687. Tucson, Arizona: University of Arizona Press,

1985.

. “The Initiation of Chondrule Accretion after Chondrule Formation by Drag

SP)
Co

Heating.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XVI, p. 920. Houston, Texas: Lunar
and Planetary Institute, 1985.

. “Moon Over Mauna Loa.” In Origin of the Moon, eds. W. K. Hartmann, R.
J. Phillips, and G. J. Taylor, p. 17. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute,
1986.

“High Temperatures and Chondrule Formation in a Turbulent Shear Zone
Beneath the Nebula Surface.” In Lunar and Planetary Science, p. 956. Houston,
Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1986.

Wood, J. A., and Chang, S. (editors) Cosmic History of the Biogenic Elements and
Compounds, NASA Special Publication 476, 80 pp. Washington, D.C.: National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1985.

Wood, J. A.; Calyton, R. N.; Brownlee, D. E.; Kerridge, J. F.; Hanner, M.
S.; Walker, R. M.; Buseck, P.; A’Hearn, M. F.; Grun, E.; Rietmeijer, F.;
Arrhenius, G.; Zinner, E.; Frisch, P.; and Clayton, D. D. “Interstellar Material
in the Solar System.” In Interrelationships Among Circumstellar, Interstellar, and

Interplanetary Dust, NASA Conference Publication No. 2403, eds. J. A. Nuth, and
R. E. Stencel, p. WG-33. Washington, D.C.: National Aeronautics and Space

Administration, 1986.

Woodard, M., and Noyes, R. W. “Change of Solar Oscillation Frequencies with the
Solar Cycle.” Nature 318(6045) (1985): 449.

Woodward, C. E.; Pipher, J. L.; Helfer, H. L.; Sharpless, S.; Moneti, A.; Kozikowski,
D.; Oliveri, M.; Willner, S. P.; Lacasse, M. G.; and Herter, T. “Optical, Radio,
and Infrared Observations of Compact H II Regions. V. The Hourglass in M 8.”
Astronomical Journal 91 (1986): 870.

Worrall, D. M. “BL Lac Objects and Relativistic Beaming.” In Continuum Emission in
Active Galactic Nuclei, ed. M. L. Sitko, p. 97. Tucson, Arizona: Kitt Peak National
Observatory, 1986.

Worrall, D. M.; Giommi, P.; Tananbaum, H.; and Zamorani, G. “A Statistical Study
of the Relationship between X-Ray, Optical and Radio Luminosity for a Sample of
QSOs.” In Quasars, eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 263. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Worrall, D. M.; Rodriguez-Espinosa, J. M.; Wisniewski, W. Z.; Miller, H. R.;
Bruhweiler, F. C.; Aller, M. F.; and Aller, H. D. “Observations of 3 BL Lacertae
Objects: Constraints on Inhomogeneous Relativistically-Beamed Jet Models.”
Astrophysical Journal 303 (1986): 589.

Wyman, C. L.; Dailey, C. C.; Reily, C.; Weisskopf, M.; McKinnon, P.; Schwartz, D.;
Van Speybroeck, L.; and Zombeck, M. “The AXAF Technology Mirror Assembly
Program: An Overview.” In X-Ray Instrumentation in Astronomy, ed. J. L.
Culhane, SPIE vol. 597, p. 2. Bellingham, Washington: Proceedings of SPIE —-
The International Society for Optical Engineering, 1986.

Yee, J.-H.; Abreu, V. J.; and Dalgarno, A. “The Atmosphere Explorer Optical Glow
Near Perigee Altitudes.” Geophysical Research Letters 12 (1985): 651.

Zombeck, M. V. “AXAF: A Permanent Observatory in Space.” In Infinite Vistas: New
Tools for Astronomy, eds. J. Cornell and J. Carr, p. 211. New York: Charles
Scribner’s Sons, 1985.

Zygelman, B., and Dalgarno, A. ”Direct Charge Transfer of He* in Neon.” Physical
Review A 33 (1986): 3853.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Chereskin, B. M, and Gantt, E. "“Enchancement of Oxygen-evolution in Photo-
system Il-phycobilisome Particles from Porphyrium cruentum." In Plant
and Cell Physiol. 27 (1986): 751-754.

Devt zers Deeks Photoperiodic Processes: Induction, Translocation and Initia-
tion." In The Manipulation of Flowering (1986): 241-253. Edited by Jd.
G. Atherton. Butterworth Press.

Drake, B. G., Rogers, H. H., and Allen, L. H., Jr. "Methods of Exposing
Plants to Elevated Carbon Dioxide." In Direct Effects of Increasing
Carbon Dioxide on Vegetation (1985): 11-31. Edited by B. R. Strain and
J. D. Cure. United States Department of Energy.

Frackowiak, D., Gantt, E., Hotachandani, S., Lipschultz, C. A., and Leblanc,
R. M. “Polarized Photoacoustic Spectra of Phycobilisomes in Polyvinyl
Alcohol Films." In Photochem. Photobiol. 43 (1986): 335-337.

Gantt, E. "Phycobilisomes.” In Encyclopedia of Plant Physiology New Series,

Photosynthesis III (1986): 260-268. Edited by L. A. Staehelin and C. J.
Arntzen. Springer-Verlag.

» Ee, Lipschultz, C. A., and Redlinger, T. "“Phycobilisomes: A Terminal
Acceptor Pigment in Cyanobacteria and Red Algae." In Molecular Biology
of the Photosynthetic Apparatus (1985): 223-229. Edited by K.

Steinbeck, Cold Spring oo

Goldberg, B. “The Solar Ultraviolet, a Brief Review." In Advances in Solar
Energy 3 (1986): 357-386. Edited by K. W. Boer.

Hattori, T., and Margulies, M. M. "Synthesis of Large Subunit of Ribulosebis-
phosphate Carboxylase by Thylakoid-bound Polyribosomes from Spinach
Chloroplasts." In Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 244 (1986): 630-640.

Hines, A. H. "Larval Patterns in the Life Histories of Brachyuran Crabs (Crus-
tacea, Decopoda, Brachyura)." Bulletin of Marine Science 39 (1986):

223-246.

» Aw H. "Larval Problems and Perspectives in the Life Histories of
Marine Invertebrates." In Bulletin of Marine Science 39 (1986): 275-294.
» A. H., Haddon, P. J., Miklas, J. J., Wiechert, L. A., and Haddon, A.

M. “Estuarine Invertebrates and Fish: Sampling Design and Constraints
for Long-term Measurements of Population Dynamics." In New Approaches

to Monitoring Aquatic Ecosystems (1986): 140-164. Edited by T. P.
Boyle. American Society for Testing Materials.

Jordan, T. E., Correll, D. L., Peterjonn, W. T., and Weller, D. E. "Nutrient
flux in a landscape: The Rhode River Watershed and Receiving Waters."
In Watershed Research Perspectives (1986): 57-76. Edited by D. L.
Correll. Smithsonian Press.
sles Es; and Correll, Ds Ee “Nutrient Chemistry and Hydrology of In-
terstitial Water in Brackish Tidal Marshes of Chesapeake Bay." Estu-
arine Coastal and Shelf Science 21(1985): 45-55.

Khanna, R., Graham, J.-Rk., Myers, J., and Gantt, E. "Variation in the Poly-
peptide Composition of Phycobilisomes from Anacystis nidulans and Three
Pigment Mutants." In Photosynth. Res. 88 (Toe): 149-159.

Lipcius, R. N., and Hines, A. H. Variable Functional Responses of a Marine
Predator in Dissimilar Homogeneous Microhabitats." Ecology 67 (1986):
1361-1372.

Lynch, J. F., Morton, E. S., and Van Der Voort, M. E. “Habitat Segretation
Between the Sexes of Wintering Hooded Warblers (Wilsonia citrina)." The
Auk 102 (1985): 714-721. <7

T40

Margulies, M. M. “Compartmentation of Protein Synthesis Within the Chloro-
plast." In Regulation of Chloroplast Differentiation (1986): 171-180.
Edited by G. Akoyunoglou and H. Senger. Alan R. Liss Publishers.

» M. M., Tiffany, H. L., and Hattori, T. "Biosynthesis of the Chloro-
phyll-a P700 Polypeptide(s)." In Regulation of Chloroplast Differentia-
tion (1986): 181-186. Edited by G. Akoyunoglou and H. Senger. Alan R.
Liss Publishers.

Ohki, K., Gantt, E., Lipschultz, C. A., and Ernst, M. J. “Constant Phycobili-
some Size in Chromatically Adapted Cells of the Cyanobacterium Tolypo-
thrix tenuis, and Variation in Nostoc sp." In Plant Physiol. 79 (1985):
943-948.

Peterjonn, W. T., and Correll, D. Le "The Effect of Riparian Forest on the
Volume and Chemical Composition of Baseflow in an Agricultural Water-

shed." In Watershed Research Perspectives (1986): 244-262. Edited by
D. L. Correll. Smithsonian press.

Sager, J. C. "Spectral Effects on the Growth of Lettuce Under Controlled
Environment Conditions." Acta Horticultural 148 (1984): 889-896.
Weiner, J. “How Competition for Light and Nutrients Affects Size Variability

in Ipomea tricolor Populations." Ecology 67 (1986): 1425-1427.

Weller, D. E., Peterjonn, W. T, Goff, N. M., and Correll, D. L. “Ion and Acid
Budgets for a Forested Atlantic Coastal Plain Watershed and Their Impli-
cations for the Impacts of Acid Deposition." In Watershed Research Per-
spectives (1986): 392-421. Edited by D. L. Correll. Smithsonian Press.

Whigham, D. F. “Wetlands - Their Natural Features, Uses and Responses to
Management." In Tomorrow's Oasis Today (1986): 35-40. Edited by E. C.
Masteller and C. Baxter. Erie County Planning.
> D. Fe, Chitterling, C., Palmer, B., and O*Ne?i1ll, Js’. “Modification..of
Runoff From Upland Watersheds - the Influence of a Diverse Riparian

Ecosystem." In Watershed Research Perspectives (1986): 305-332. Edited
by D. L. Correll. Smithsonian Press.

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center [Additional Bibliography ]

Chereskin, B. M.; Clement-Metral, J. D.; Gantt, E. “Characterization of a
purified photosystem II-phycobilisome particle preparation from
Porphyridium cruentum.” Plant Physiol. 77(1985): 626-629.

Chereskin, B. M.; Gantt, E. “Enhancement of oxygen-evolution in photosystem
II-phycobilisome particles from Porphyrium cruentum.” Plant and Cell
Physiol. 27(1986): 751-754.

Cleland, C. F. “Biochemistry of induction - The immediate action of
light.” In: Light and The Flowering Process, pp. 123-136, Academic Press,
1984.

Cleland, C. F. “Chemical control of flowering in the long-day plant Lemna
gibba G3.) Biol. Plant. 27(1985): 392-397.

Cleland, C. F.; Tanaka, 0. “Inhibition of flowering in the long-day plant
Lemna gibba G3 by Hutner's medium and its reversal by medium
modification.” Plant Cell Physiol. In press.

Clement-Metral, J. D.; Gantt, E.; Redlinger, T. "A photosystem
II-phycobilisome preparation from the red alga, Porphyridium cruentun:
Oxygen evolution, ultrastructure, and polypeptide resolution.” Arch.
Biochem. Biophys. 238(1985): 10-17.

Cotter, J. F. P.; Evenson, E. B.; Sirkin, L.; Stuckenrath, R. Comments on
"Corry Bog, Pennsylvania: A case study of the radiocarbon dating of

Mari." Letter to the Editor. Quaternary Res. 24(1985): 244-243.

Cotter, J. F. P.; Evenson, E. B.; Sirkin, L.; Stuckenrath, R. “The
interpretation of 'bog-bottom' radiocarbon dates in glacial chronologies.”
In: Correlation of Quaternary Chronologies, Edited by W. C. Mananey, pp.
299-316, Teo Books, 1984.

Drake, Bua iGauRogers, oH Has Adden, ih. Hi idirijas Direct Eifects: oF
Increasing Carbon Dioxide on Vegetation. Department of Energy. Office of
Energy Research Report 0238. Chapter 2, pp 11-31, December 1935.

Frackowiak, D.; Gantt, E.; Hotachandani, S.; Lipschultz, C. A.; Leblanc, R.
M. “Polarized photoacoustic spectra of phycobilisomes in polyvinyl alcohol
films." Photochem. Photobiol. 43(1986): 335-337.

Fujioka, S.; Yamaguchi, I.; Murofushi, N.; Takahashi, N.; Kaihara, S.;
Takimoto, A.; Cleland, C. F. "The influence of nicotinic acid and plant
hormones on flowering in Lemna.."” Plant Cell Physiol. 27(1986): 109-116.

Fujioka, S.; Yamaguchi, I.; Murofushi, N.; Takahashi, N.; Kaihara, S.;
Takimoto, A.; Cleland, C. F. “Isolation and identification of nicotinic
acid as a flower-inducing factor in Lemna.” Plant Cell Physiol. 27(1986):
103-108.

Fujioka, S.; Yamaguchi, I.; Murofushi, N.; Takahashi, N.; Kaihara, S.;
Takimoto, A.; Cleland, C. F. “The role of benzoic acid and plant hormones
in flowering of Lemma gibba G3.” Plant Cell Physiol. 26(1985): 655-659.

Gantt, E. "“Phycobilisomes.” In Encyclopedia of Plant Physiology New Series,
Vol. 19, Photosynthesis III, Edited by L. A. Staehelin and C. J. Arntzen.
pp. 260-268, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1986.

Gantt, E.; Lipschultz, C. A.; Redlinger, T. Phycobilisomes: A Terminal
Acceptor Pigment in Cyanobacteria and Red Algae. In: Molecular Biology of
the Photosynthetic Apparatus, Edited by K. Steinback et al., pp. 223-229,

Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1985.

Goldberg, B. The Solar Ultraviolet, A Brief Review. Advances in Solar
Energy, Vol. 3, Edited by K. W. Boer, Plenum Publishing Corp., 1980.

Goldberg, B.; Klein, W. H.; Correll, D. L.; Pierce, J. W. “Instrumentation
for performing spectral measurements in a marine environment.” Mar. Tech.
Soc. Ji... 18(1985):.6 pps:

Guilday, J. E.3 Cotter, J. F. P.; Cundall, D.; Evenson, E. B.3; Gatewood, J.
B.; Morgan, A. V.; Morgan, A.; McCrady, A. D.; Peteet, D. M.; Stuckenrath,
R.; Vanderwal, K. Paleoecology of an early Pleistocene (Irvingtonian)
cenote: Preliminary report on the Hanover Quarry No. 1 Fissure, Adams
County, Pennsylvania. In: Correlation of Quaternary Chronologies, Edited
by W. C. Mahaney, pp. 119-132, Geo Books, Norwich, England, 1984.

Hattori, T.; Margulies, M. M. "Synthesis of large subunit of
ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase by thylakoid-bound polyribosomes from
spinach chloroplasts.” Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 244(1986): 630-640.

Holmes, M. G.; Klein, W. H. “Evidence for phytochrome involvement in
light-mediated stomatal movement in Phaseolus vulgaris L." Planta
166(1986): 348-353. SS tiawikion = nce ie

Holmes, M. G.; Klein, W. H.; Sager, J. C. “Photons, flux and some light on
philology.” HortScience 20(1985): 29-31.1

Khanna, R.; Graham, J.; Myers, J.; Gantt, E. “Variation in the polypeptide
composition of phycobilisomes from Anacystis nidulans and three pigment
mutants.” Photosynthesis Research 8(1986): 149-159.

Krones, M. J.; Sager, J. C.; Johnson, A. T. A plant growth irradiance control
system. American Soc. Agr. Engineers, Paper No. 85-4529, for presentation
at Winter Meeting, Am. Soc. Agr. Engineers, Chicago, I1ll., Dec. 17-20, 1985.

LeRoith, D.; Pickens, W.; Wilson, G. L.; Miller, B.; Berelowitz, M.; Vinik, A.
I.; Collier, E.; Cleland, C. F. "“Somatostatin-like material is present in
flowering plants.” Endocrinology 117(1985): 2093-2097.

Longworth, J. W.; Jagger, J.; Shropshire, Jr., W. (eds.) "Photobiology
1984". pp. 1-283, Praeger Scientific Publishers, New York, 1985.

I4I
142

Margulies, M. M. Compartmentation of protein synthesis within the
chloroplast. Regulation of Chloroplast Differentiation, Alan R. Liss,
Edited by G. Akoyunoglou and H. Senger, pp. 171-180, New York, 1986.

Margulies, M. M.; Tiffany, H. L. ; Hattori, T. Biosynthesis of the
chlorophyll-a P700 polypeptide(s). Regulation of Chloroplast
Differentiation, Alan R. Liss, Edited by G. Akoyunoglou and H. Senger, pp.
181-186, New York, 1986.

Ohki, K.; Gantt, E.; Lipschultz,.C. A.; Ernst, M. J. “Constant phycobdilisome
size in chromatically adapted cells of the cyanobacterium Tolypothrix
tenuis, and variation in Nostoc sp.” Plant Physiol. 79(1985): 943-948.

Photosynthesis and Photorespiration in salt marsh species. Commissioned
Review, B. G. Drake. In press, Plant, Cell, and Environment. Sept. 1986.

Roth, J.; LeRoith, D.; Collier, E. S.; Weaver, N. R.; Watkinson, A.; Cleland,
C. F.; Glick, S. M. “Evolutionary origins of neuropeptides, hormones, and
receptors: possible applications to immunology." J. Immunol. 135(1985):
816-819.

Sager, J. C.; Smith, W. 0.; Edwards, J. L.; Cyr, K. L. Use of spectral data
to determine photosynthetic efficiency and phytochrome photoequilibria.
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Meeting, San Luis Obispo,
California, (1986).

Shropshire, W., Jr. "Signal processing in the transduction mechanisms of
phototropism.” In: Sensory Perception and Transduction in Aneural
Organisms, Edited by G. Colombetti and Pill-Soon Song, pp. 211-229, Plenum
Publishing Corp., 1985.

Thompson, L. K.; Ziv, M.; Deitzer, G. F. “Photocontrol of peanut (Arachis
hypogaea L.) embryo and ovule development in vitro.” Plant Physiol.
78(1985): 370-373.

Vodkin, L. 0.3; Rhodes, P. R.; Chandlee, J. M.; Harding, R. W. Lectin genes
and a transposable element in soybean. In Biotechnology for Solving
Agricultural Problems: Beltsville Symposium in Agricultural Research, Vol.
10. In press.

Vogel, H.; Sager, J. C. “Photosynthetic response of Prorocentrum
mariae-lebouriae (Dinophyceae) to different spectral qualities,
irradiances, and temperatures.” Hydrobiologia 128(1985): 143-153.

Zeiger, Eduardo; Grivet, C.; Assmann, S. M.; Deitzer, G. F.; and Hannegan, M.
W. "“Stomatal limitation to carbon gain in Paphiopedilum sp. (Orchidaceae)
and its reversal by blue light." Plant Physiol. 77(1985): 456-460.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Cox, William E. "Guide to the Field Reports of the U. S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, c. 1860-1961." Guides to Collections in the
Smithsonian Archives, no. 4. Archives and Special Collections of
the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Archives, 1986.

Moss, William W. and Mazikana, Peter Cc. "Archives, Oral History and
Oral Tradition: a RAMP Study." General Information Programme and
UNISIST, Records and Archives Management Pregramme. Paris: United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, 1986.

Vogt-O'Connor, Diane L. "Smithsonian Institution Archives Photo

5, pp. 8-9. Edward Pershey (Nashville: AASIH, 1986).
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Bedini, Silvio A. "Citadels of Learning: The Museo Kircheriano and
Other Italian Seventeenth-Century Science Collections." In
Enciclopedismo in Roma Barocca. Edited by Maristella Casciat
Grazia Taniello, and Maria Vitale. Venice: Marsilio Editor

--’ "That Awfull Stage (The Search for the State House Yar
Observatory)." In Science and Societv in Early America. Es
Honor of Whitfield J. Bell, Jr. Edited by Randolph S. Klein.
Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1986.

- "Galileo and Scientific Instrumentation." In Reinteroretind
Galileo. Edited by William A. Wallace. Studies in Philosopny and
the History of Philosophy, no. 15. Washington, D.C.: The Catholic
University of America Press, 1986.

- "The Galilean Jovilabe." Storia della Scienza 13 (1986).

- "Dondi, Giovanni de'." In Mittelalters Lexikon. Munich:
Artemis Verlag, 1986.

- "“"Dondi, Jacopo de'." In Mittelalters Lexikon. Munich:

Artemis Verlag, 1986.

- “Theft of Instruments in Rome: An Update." Bulletin of the
Scientific Instrument Society 9 (1986) :5-8

- [Review] Nineteenth-Century Scientific Instruments by L'E.
Turner in Technology and Culture 27 (1986) :146-48.

- [Review] Introduzione all'arithmetica mercantile del Medioevo e
del Rinascimento by Raffaella Franci and Laura Toti Rigatelli in
Historia Mathematica (1986) :293-95.

. [Review] L'Eredita scientifica di Leopoldo Nobili: Bibatto
teorico e ruolo degli strumenti nella fisica del prima Ottocento by
Giambattista Cadopp1l et al. in Bulletin of the Scientific Instrument
Society 8 (1986) :14.

. [Review] La Collezione degli Antichi Apparecchi dell'Istituto
de Fisica: Gli Strumenti Ottici (1840-1890) and Meccanica dei Fluidi
e Termologia (1840-1900) by Ezio Ragozzino and Edvige Schettino in
Bulletin of the Scientific Instrument Society 8 (1986) :14-15.

Child, Margaret S. "Funding Preservation Programs." In Preserving
America's Performing Arts, Edited by B. Cohen-Stratyner and B.
Kueppers. New York: The Theatre Library Association, 1985.

Gwinn, Nancy E. "Cooperative Collection Development--National Trends and
New Tools.” Art Documentation 4 (1985) :143-47.

Gwinn, Nancy E. et al. Final Report of the Preservation Planning
Program. Washington, D.C.: Office of Management Studies,
Association of Research Libraries, 1986.

Kenyon, Kay. Suggested Guidelines for Zoo and Aquarium Libraries.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Libraries, 1986.

Matthews, Nancy L. et al., assistant eds., with Marcus, M. and Perry,

J., eds. The Documentary History of the Supreme Court of the United
States, 1789-1800, vol. I, pts. 1 and 2. New York: Columbia
University Press, 1985.

Neff, William B. "Paris Exchange." MAHD Bulletin (Museums, Arts and
Humanities Division, Special Libraries Association) 16 (1) (Autumn
1985).

- "La bibliothéconomie en France: An Exchange Librarian's
Report." College & Research Libraries News 47 (4) (April 1986).

Pietropaoli, Frank A. "National Air and Space Museum Library." In
Sci-Tech Libraries in Museums and Aguariums. Science and Technology
Libraries Series, no. 6. New York: The Haworth Press, 1985; also in
Science and Technology Libraries 6 (1985-86) :53-63.

Wo
Ratner, Rhoda S. "National Museum of American History Branch Library."
In Sci-Tech Libraries in Museums and Aquariums. Science and
Technology Libraries Series, no. 6. New York: The Haworth Press,
1985; also in Science and Technology Libraries 6 (1985-85) :65-73.

Ratner, Rhoda S. et al. Physical Condition of the Collections:

Raport of a Survey. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Libraries, 1986.

Rey-Watson, Joyce. [editorial] P-A-M Bulletin 13 (1) (1985).

Scott, Catherine D. "Report on the IFLA Conference (August 18-24, 1985,
Chicago)." SLA Chapter Notes 45 (2) (1985) :6-7.

Schallert, Ruth F. and White, James J. "Illustrations in the
Contributions from the U. S. National Herbarium 1890-1974." Huntia 6
(1986) :147-164.

Stanley, Janet L. "Africa." Magazines for Libraries. 5th edition. New
York: Bowker, 1986.

“African Art and the Art and Architecture Thesaurus." Museum
Studies Journal, 2 (Spring 1986) :42-52.
- (Review] Traditional Textiles of Tunisia and Related North
African Weaving by Irmtraud Reswick in Art Documentation 5
(1986) :95-96,.

Wells, Ellen B. [Review] Wie Finde Ich Literatur Zur Geschichte Der
Naturwissenschaften Und Technik, by Burghard Weiss in Isis, 76
(1985) :597-598.

- "Antiquarian Book Dealers Specializing in Bibles and
Related Works Prepared by the Smithsonian Libraries." Bible
Collectors' World 2.1 (1986) :15.
"Classics of Equine Veterinary Medicine." Medical Heritage 2
(1986) :299-301.
- "Reprint." In Encyclopedia of Library and Information
Science. Edited by Allen Kent. New York: Marcel Dekker, 1986.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Brown, Robert F. "Regional Office Report - New England." Archives of
American Art Journal, 24(4); 25(1-3).

Esko, Claudia. [Review] American Etchings of the Nineteenth Century, by
Francine Tyler. Archives of American Art Journal, 25(1&2).

Karlstrom, Paul T. "Regional Office Report - West Coast." Archives of
American Art Journal, 24(4); 25(1-3).

Kendall, Sue Ann. "Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution."
Art Documentation, 5(3).

- "Regional Office Report - Midwest." Archives of American Art

Journal, 24(4); 25(1-3).

Kirwin, Liza. "Back to Bohemia with the Charcoal Club of Baltimore."
Archives of American Art Journal, 25(1&2).

. "Regional Office Report - Mid-Atlantic." Archives of American
Art Journal, 24(4); 25(1-3).
McCoy, Garnett, "Editorial Note." Archives of American Art Journal,
24(4); 25(1-3). -
McNaught, William. "Regional Office Report - New York." Archives of
American Art Journal, 24(4); 25(1-3).
Paul, Stella. ''Regional Office Report - Southern California." Archives

of American Art Journal, 24(4); 25(1-3).
CENTER FOR ASIAN ART: ARTHUR M, SACKLER GALLERY and
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Atil, Esin, W, T. Chase and Paul Jett (Exhibition Catalogue) Islamic Metal-

work in the Freer Gallery of Art. Washington, D. C.: 1985,

(Exhibition Catalogue) The Age of Sultan Sllleyman the Magnificent.
New York: 1986.

"Mamluk Painting in the Late Fifteenth Century," Mugarnas 3 (1984):
159-171.

- "Islamic Art in the Freer Gallery of Art," Arts and the Islamic

World 3 (autumn 1985): 57-59.

- Stlleymanname: The Illustrated History of Stlleyman. New York: 1986.
Chase, W. Thomas, Esin Atil and Paul Jett (Exhibition Catalogue) Islamic

Metalwork in the Freer Gallery of Art. Washington, D. C.: 1985.
- "Compositions of Oriental Bronzes: Another Look," Application of

Science in Examination of Works of Art: Proceedings of the Seminar
September 7-9, 1983. Edited by Pamela and Lambertus van Zelst. Boston,
LEED IRS aerate
Cort, Louise A. "Korean Influences in Japanese Ceramics: The Impact of the
Teabowl Wars of 1592-1598," Ceramics and Civilization 2 (1985): 331-362.
"Shigaraki Pottery," 1986 Festival of American Folklife. (1986):

26-31.

“Looking at White Dew,” Chanoyu Quarterly 43. (1985): 36-48.

- Review of Lost Innocence by Brian Moeran, with H. Leedom Lefferts,
Jr. The Journal of Japanese Studies 12 (no. 2) (1986): 387-395.

Fu, Shen C. Y., Glenn D. Lowry and Ann Yonemura (Exhibition Catalogue) From
Concept to Context: Approaches to Asian and Islamic Calligraphy.
Washington, D. C.: 1985.

Jett, Paul, Esin Atil and W. T. Chase (Exhibition Catalogue) Islamic Metal-

work in the Freer Gallery of Art. Washington, D. C.: 1985.
Lowry, Glenn D., Shen C. Y. Fu and Ann Yonemura (Exhibition Catalogue) From

Concept to Context: Approaches to Asian and Islamic Calligraphy.
Washington, D. C.: 1985.
- Iskandar Mirza and Early Timurid Metalwork," Orientations (August)
1986): 12-22.
Winter, John. "Gold in Japanese Paintings: A Case History Involving the

kirikane technique," Application of Science in Examination of Works of Art,

Proceedings of the Seminar September 7-9, 1983. Edited by Pamela A. England

and Lambertus van Zelst. Boston: 1985: 46-54.

. Review of Conservation of Paintings and Manuscripts of Southeast Asia
by O. P. Agrawal, Studies in Conservation, London: 1986: 31:140-141.

Yonemura, Ann, Shen C. Y. Fu and Glenn D. Lowry (Exhibition Catalogue) From

Concept to Context: Approaches to Asian and Islamic Calligraphy.
Washington, D. C.: 1985.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Ballard, M.W., and N.S. Baer. ‘Ethylene Oxide Fumigation: Results and

Risk Assessment.'’ Restaurator, 12 (1986).

Ballard, M.W., R.J. Koestler, and N. Indictor. "Weighted Silks Observed
Using Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectrometry." Scanning Electron
Microscopy, 2 (1986): 499-506.

Ballard, M.W. ‘Textile Conservation at the Conservation Analytical

Laboratory, Washington, D.C."' Textile Conservation Newsletter, (Fall
1985): 27-28.

Bishop, R.L., G. Harbottle, D.J. Reents, E.V. Sayre and L. van Zelst.
"Compositional Attribution on Non-Provenienced Maya Polychrome
Vessels." In Application of Science in Examination of Works of Art,
eds. P.A. England and L. van Zelst, (1985), pp. 117-124. Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston.

Bishop R.L., E.V. Sayre and L. van Zelst. "Characterization of
Mesoamerican Jade". In Application of Science in Examination of Works
of Art, eds P.A. England and L. van Zelst, (1985), pp. 151-156. Museum
of Fine Arts, Boston.

Blackman, M.J. ‘''The Provenience of Obsidian Artifacts from Late
Chalcolithic Levels at Aphrodisias, Turkey.'"' In Prehistoric
Aphrodisias, ed. M. Joukowsky, (Archaeologia Transatlantica Vol. IV),
Louvain-la-Neuve, Institut Superieur D'Archaeologie et Histoire de
L'Art, (1986) Brown University .

Boulton, Ann. "The Examination, Treatment and Analysis of a Pair of Boots
from the Aleutian Islands Including a Note About Possible Pesticide
Contamination." Journal of the American Institute for Conservation,
25, (1986): 1-13.

Cheng, Y.T., J.S. Olin, R.S. Carter, M. Sanczy, I.G. Schroder, and C.H.
Olin. ‘Modification of the National Bureau of Standards Research
Reactor for Neutron-Induced Autoradiography of Paintings." In
Application of Science in Examination of Works of Art, eds. P.A.
England and L. van Zelst, (1985), pp. 182-189. Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston.

Ehrenreich, Robert M. “Blacksmithing Technology in Iron Age Wessex."
Oxford Journal of Archaeology, 5:2 (July 1986):165-185.

Ehrenreich, Robert M. "Trade, Technology and the Ironworking Community in
the Iron Age of Southern Britain, BAR British Series 144, 228 pp,
(1985). Thesis Keble College, (1985).

Erhardt, D. Analytical Appendix to "Hawaiian Oiled and Mamaki Tapa.", by

N. Firnhaber. Symposium 86: The Care and Preservation of Ethnographic
Materials, Ottawa, (September 1986).

French, J.M., E.V. Sayre and L. van Zelst. ''Nine Medieval French
Limestone Reliefs: The Search for a Provenance." In Application of

Science in Exmination of Works of Art, eds. P.A. England and L. van
Zelst, (1985), pp. 132-141. Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

Frolich, Bruno, and Warwick J. Lancaster. "Electromagnetic Surveying in
Current Middle Eastern Archaeology: Application and Evaluation."
Geophysics, 51:7 (July, 1986): 1414-1425,

Garbin, Mary. "Conservation at the German Leather Museum." Leather
Conservation News, 2:2 (1986):14-15.
Gianno, R. "The Exploitation of Resinous Products in a Lowland Malayan

Forest.'' Wallaceana, 42 (1986): 3-6.
Gianno, R. "Resin Classification Among the Semelai of Tasek Bera, Pahang,
Malaysia.'' Economic Botany, 40:2 (1986): 186-200.

Gianno, R. "Life into Death and Back: Curing and Cosmology in Semelai

Culture.'' American Anthropological Association, Philadelphia, PA,
December (1986).

Goodway, Martha. "Iron and Steel: Chronology and Annotated Bibliography;
Notes on Analysis of Metals."' Metals for Conservators, AIC

Washington, (1986).

Goodway, Martha. "News of Archaeometallurgy", SAS Newsletter, 9:1
(1985): 4.

Goodway, Martha. "News of Archaeometallurgy", SAS Newsletter, 9:2
(1986):6-7.

Goodway, Martha. "News of Archaeometallurgy", SAS Newsletter, 9:3
(1986): 2

Harbottle, G., E.V. Sayre and R.W. Stoenner. ''The Use of Miniature
Carbon-14 in Dating and Authentication in the Museum." In Application
of Science in Exmination of Works of Art, eds. P.A. England and L. van
Zelst, (1985), pp. 10-16. Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

Holmes, L.L., C.T. Little and E.V. Sayre. "Elemental Characterization of
Medieval Limestone Sculpture from Parisian and Burgundian Sources".
Journal of Field Archaeology, (1986):123-131.

Kingery, W.D. and P.B. Vandiver. ''Glaze Structure and Its Interaction
with Light: An Example of Song Dynasty Jun Ware."' The Studio Potter,
14:2 (1986): 23-26

Kingery, W.D., and P.B. Vandiver.
Technology", Macmillan Free Press, New York, (1986).

Kingery, W.D., and P.B. Vandiver, 'The Technology of Tiffany Art Glass",
in Applications of Science in the Examination of Works of Art, eds.
P.A. England and L. van Zelst, (1985) pp. 100-116. Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston .

Kingery, W.D. and P.B. Vandiver, "The Eighteenth Century Change in
Technology and Style from the Famille-Verte Palette to the Famille-Rose
Palette", in W.D. Kingery, Ceramics and Civilization, Vol. II, The
American Ceramic Society, Columbus, OH (1986).

Lahanier, C.H., F.D. Preusser, and L. van Zelst. ''Study and Conservation

of Museum Objects: Use of Scientific Techniques.'"' Nuclear Instruments

and Methods in Physics Research, B14, (1986): pp. 1-9.

Myers, J.E., and Blackman, M.J. "Conical Plates of the Hispano-Moresque
Tradition from Islamic Qsar es-Seghir: Petrographic and Chemical
Analysis". In La Ceramica Medievale nel Mediterraneo Occidentale,
(1986). pp. 55-68. All Insegna Del Giglio, Firenze.

Sayre, Edward V. "History and Development of Conservation Related
Computer Technology.'"' Computer Technology for Conservation, pp. 11-24.
(1986). International Institute for Conservation - Canadian Group.

van der Reyden, Dianne. "Technology and Treatment of a 19th Century
American Time Globe", New Directions in Paper Conservation, Preprints,
The Institute of Paper Conservation, Oxford, England, (1986).

van der Reyden, Dianne., and D. Williams. ''The Technology and
Conservation Treatment of a 19th Century English 'Papier Mache' Chair",
Preprints: The American Institute for the Conservation of Historic and
Artistic Works, Washington (1986), pp. 125-142.

"Ceramic Masterpieces: Art, Structure,
van der Reyden, Dianne., T. Vitale, N. Ash, A. Dwan, D. Hamburg, M.
Mickelson, and K. Nicholson. eds. Paper Conservation Catalog, Third
Edition, (1986), Book and Paper Group of the American Institute for
Conservation, Washington DC.

van der Reyden, Dianne. "Humidification", Part 22, in Paper Conservation
Catalog, Third Edition, (1986), Book and Paper Group of the American
Institute for Conservation, Washington DC.

Vandiver, P.B. "The Production Technology of Earthenware Ceramics,
4900-2800 B.cC.", in T.W. Beale and C.C. Lamberg-Karlovsky, eds.
Excavations at Tepe Yahya, Iran, 1967-1975: The Early Periods",
American School of Prehistoric Research, Bull. 38, Peabody Museum,
Harvard University, (1986).

Vandiver, P.B., and C.G. Koehler, "Structure, Processing, Processing, and
Style of Corinthian Transport Amphoras", in W.D. Kingery, Ceramics and
Civilization, Vol. II, The American Ceramic Society, Columbus OH
(1986).

Vandiver, P.B., and W.D. Kingery, 'Manufacture of an Eighteenth Dynasty
Egyptian Faience Chalice", in M. Tite and I. Freestone, Conference on
Early Vitreous Materials, British Museum Occasional Papers, (1986).

van Zelst, L. "Technical Examination of Terracottas", in From Indian
Earth: 4000 Years of Terracotta Art, pp. 67-69, (1986), The Brooklyn
Museum, NY.

van Zelst, L., P.A. England eds. "Application of Science in the
Examination of Works of Art.'' (1985), Museum of Fine Arts, Boston,.
Vitale, Timothy. "Introduction: A Book and Paper Group Panel Discussion

on Ethics", The Book and Paper Group Annual BPB/AIC, Vol. 4, (1985),
pp. 116-117.

Vitale, Timothy. "Observations on Theory, Use and Fabrication of the
Fritted Glass Bead Suction Disk Device", New Directions in Paper
Conservation, Preprints: The Institute of Paper Conservation, Oxford
England, (1986).

Vitale, Timothy. ''Humidification", Part 22, in Paper Conservation
Catalog, Third Edition, (1986), Book and Paper Group of the American
Institute for Conservation, Washington DC.

Vitale, Timothy. "Drying / Flattening", Part 28, in Paper Conservation
Catalog, Third Edition, (1986), Book and Paper Group of the American
Institute for Conservation, Washington DC.

Wright, Rita P. "The Boundaries of Technology and Stylistic Change." In
W.D. Kingery, ed. Technology and Style, Vol. II, Ceramics and
Civilization, The American Ceramic Society, Columbus, OH (1986), pp.
1=20.

Williams, Marc. ''Furniture Conservation: An Introduction and History."
Antique Review, 12:8 (1986), pp. 24-25.
Williams, Marc. "Furniture Conservation Ethics.'' Antique Review, 12:9

(1986), pp. 30-31.

Papers Presented at Technical Meetings

Bishop, Ronald. "From Neutron to Ritual Communication, Aspects of Science
Application in Archaeology.'' Opening of the Sackler Exhibition of
Costa Rican Pottery, Duke University, November 1985.
Erhardt, David. "The Wright Flyer: Organic Materials Analysis."
Fourteenth Annual Meeting of the American Institute for Conservation,
Chicago, IL, May 1986.

Gianno, R. "The Exploitation of Resinous Products in a Lowland Malayan
Forest.'' Society for Economic Botany, New York Botanical Garden, June
1986.

Goodway, Martha. "Phosphorus in Iron Wire and How it Got There." 25th

Archaeometry Symposium, Athens, Greece, 20 May 1986.

Kingery, W.D., and P.B. Vandiver. "Eighteenth Century Change on
Technology and Style of Overglaze Enamels." Second International
Conference on the HIstory of Chinese Pottery and Porcelain, Beijing,
China, Nov. 1986.

McMillan, Eleanor. "Research and Conservation." Session on Planning for
Conservation, 1986 Meeting of the American Association of Museums, New
York, June 1986.

Mishara, Joan. 'X2 - A Geochemical Synthesis at Ancient Laurion."
Archaeometry Symposium, Athens, Greece, May 1986.

Padfield, Tim. '"'Monitoring the Microclimate in the Reconstructed Facade
of the Renwick Gallery." Annual Conference of the Association for
Preservation Technology, San Francisco, CA, September 1985.

Padfield, Tim. "Condensation Within the Roof of the Arts and Industries
Building of the Smithsonian Institution." Poster at the 5th
International Conference on the Deterioration and Preservation of
Stone, Lausanne, Switzerland, September 1985.

Padfield, Tim. "Climate Control in Museums." National Conference on
Museum Security, Washington, D.C., February 1986.

Padfield, Tim. ''Microclimate Measurement in the Walls of the Renwick
Gallery." Washington D.C. Chapter of the Association for Preservation
Technology, March 1986.

Padfield, Tim. 'Joan of Arc and the Bicycle Race."' (on the behavior of
soluble salts on fibrous materials), New South Wales Group of the
Institute for the Consevation of Cultural Material, Sydney, Australia,
August 1986.

Padfield, Tim. ''The Effect of Temperature Change on the Movement of
Moisture in Absorbent Materials." Keynote Address to the Annual
Meeting of the Institute for the Conservation of Cultural Material,
Adelaide, South Australia, August 1986.

Padfield, Tim. "The Effect of the Player's Breath on the Dimensional
Stability of Woodwind Instruments." Annual meeting of the ICCM,
Adelaide, South Australia, August 1986.

Padfield, Tim. ''Controlling the Microclimate Around Museum Objects."
Seminar at the ICCM Meeting, Adelaide, South Australia, August 1986.

Padfield, Tim. "Climate Control in Libraries and Archives." Conference
on the Preservation of Library Materials, Vienna, Austria, April 1986.

van der Reyden, Dianne. "Technology and Treatment of a 19th Century
American Time Globe." The Institute of Paper Conservation, 10th
Anniversary Conference: New Directions in Paper Conservation, Oxford,
England, 14-18 April 1986.

van der Reyden, Dianne and D. Williams. "The Technology and Treatment of
a 19th Century English 'Papier Mache' Chair.'' Fourteenth Annual
Meeting, The American Institute for the Conservation of Historic And
Artistic Works, Chicago, IL, 21-25 May 1986.

T49
Vandiver, P.B., and W.D. Kingery. ''The Continuity in Chinese Overglaze
Enamel Technology Before the Reign of K'ang Hsi." Second International
Conference on the History of Chinese Pottery and Porcelain, Beijing,
China, November 1985.

Vandiver, P.B. "The Role of Macrostructure (0.1-10mm) Study in
Archaeometric Research with Ceramics."' Archaeometry Conference,
Athens, Greece, May 1986.

Vandiver, P.B. “Egyptian Faience: The First High Tech Ceramic."
American Ceramics Society Conference, May 1986.

Vitale, Timothy. "Observations on Theory, Use and Fabrication of the
Fritted Glass Bead Suction Disk Device." The Institute of Paper
Conservation, 10th Anniversary Conference: New Directions in Paper
Conservation, Oxford, England, 14-18 April 1986.

Williams, Don, and Marc Williams. ''Why Wood Works: Furniture
Deterioration and Preservation." Washington Conservation Guild,
Washington, D.C., February 6, 1986.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

McFadden, David Revere. Juror's Statement, Society of Connecticut
Craftsmen's 50th Anniversary Exhibition, 1985.

—-——. "The 1985 Platinum Jewelry Design Competition,” Metalsmith, vol.
6, no.l (Winter, 1986), p.24=29.

——. "Earthly Delights: Floral Designs in the Decorative Arts," in
Catalogue of the 1986 New York
Flower Show, the Horticultural Society
of New York, 1986, p.35-37.

——--. "Light, Glass, and Architecture," The Glass Art Society Journal;
1986 [at press, due Autumn, 1986]

——-. "Design Comment: An Interview with Lella Vignelli,” The Glass Art

Socjety Journal, 1986 [at press, due Autum,
1986].

Moss, Gillian. "Beyond Craft to Textile Art," American Craft
December 1986.
———. "Ancient Japanese Textiles" American Craft December 1986.

Taylor, Lisa [Foreward] Niizuma. Gulbenkian Foundation, Lisbon, Portugal,
July 1986.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Fletcher, Valerie J. Surrealist Art: Selections from the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Washington, DC:
SETESF 9'S'or.

Gettings, Frank. "The Joseph H. Hirshhorn Bequest." Drawing
8, no. 2 (July-August 1986) :29-32.

Lawrence,. Sidney. [Introduction and commentary] "Declaration
Of Function Documents from the Museum of Modern Art's
Design Crusade, 1933-1950." Design Issues 2, no. 1
(Spring 1986) :65-77
McCabe, Cynthia Jaffee. Patricia Nix: A Full House of
Fantasy. Exhibition catalogue. New York: Staten Island
Institute of Arts and Sciences, 1986.

Rosenzweig, Phyllis. Sculpture in Maryland. Exhibition
catalogue. Baltimore: Art Place, 1986.

Shannon, Joe. Jack Boul and Peter DeAnna (Two Washington
Painters). Exhibition catalogue. Charlotte, North
Carolina: Mint Museum of Art, 1986.

Weil, Stephen E. [Book review] "The Arts and Public Policy in
the United States." The Journal of Arts Management and
Law' 15," no. °2°(Summer +1985):93-97-.

- "The Museum Management Institute: A Brief History.”
The International Journal of Museum Management and
Curatorship- 4, no.°3 (September 1985) :265-271.

- “Legal Aspects of the Display of Imitations in Museums
OfJArtsin the United. States.” “In Originals’ and Substi-
tutes in Museums. ICOFOM Study Series no. 8. Zagreb,
Yugoslavia, 1985.

- "Questioning Some Premises." Museum News 64, no. 5
(June 1986) :20-27.

Weil, Stephen E., and Franklin Feldman. Art Law: Rights and
Liabilities of Creators and Collectors. Boston: Little,
Brown and Company, 1986.

Zilezer, Judith. "Synaesthesia and Popular Culture: Arthur
Dove, George Gershwin, and the Rhapsody in Blue." Art
Journal 44, no. 4 (Winter 1984) :361-66.

"Robert J. Coady, Man of The Soil." Dada/Surrealism
no. 14. (New York Dada issue, 1985) :31-43; concurrently
published in Rudolf E. Kuenzle, ed. New York Dada. New
York: ~Willis Locker and Owen..Publishing, 1986.

Zilezer;. Judith, ,, William, C. Agee,*"and "Peter Morrin. The
Advent of Modernism: Post-Impressionism and North
American Art, 1900-1918. Atlanta: High Museum of Art,
1986:

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Bertin, Margaret. (General exhibition brochure) A Human Ideal in African
Art: Bamana Figurative Sculpture. Washington, D.C.: National
Museum of African Art, 1986.

. (General exhibition brochure) The Rising of a New Moon:
A Century of Tabwa Art. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of
African Art, 1986.

Habraken, Kim. (Teachers' guide) A Human Ideal in African Art: Bamana

Figurative Sculpture. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African

Art, 1986
(Teachers' guide) The Rising of a New Moon: A Century of
Tabwa Art. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1986.
Luskey, Judith. Go Well, My Child: Photographs by Constance Stuart
Larrabee in Collaboration with Alan Paton. Washington, D.C.: National

Museum of African Art, 1986.

and Fleming, Paula. The North American Indians in Early
Photographs. London, England: John Calmann & King, Ltd. New York,
N.Y.: Harper & Row. Fall, 1986.
National Museum of African Art, Department of Education. The Art of West
African Kingdoms, ed. Dean Trackman and photo ed. Judith Luskey.
Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1986.

Taylor, Alicia. National Museum of African Art Education Programs and
Resources, 1985-1986. Washington, D.C.: National Museum of African
AE OB Si:

Turgel, Marjorie. (Brochure) Outreach Program, Winter 1986-87. Washington,
D.C.: National Museum of African Art, 1986.

Walker, Roslyn: "A Sculptured Mancala Gameboard Terminating in a Carved
Human Head from Liberia in the Barbier-Mueller Collection." Bulletin.
Geneva, Switzerland: Musée Barbier-Mueller, September, 1986.

NATIONAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM
Office of the Director

Boyne, Walter J. Phantom in Combat, 1985. Reprint. United Kingdom:

Jane's Publishing Company, Limited, 1986
. Boeing B-52: A Documentary History, 1981. Reprint. United
Kingdom: Jane's Publishing Company Limited, 1986
Aircraft Treasures of Silver Hill, 1982. Reprint. New York:
Rawson Associates, 1986
"America's DH-4." British Aerospace Quarterly 7 (2)
Summer (1986).
"Report of the Director." In National Air and Space
Museum Research Report, 1985, pp.7-11, Washington, D.C.:

Smithsonian Institution Press, 1g

"Columbia Triad." Air Lire Pilot 54(10) (1985).
- ‘Where The Leading Edges Lead." AOPA Pilot 28(11) (1985).

. “Berliner Joyce XOJ-1." Air Line Pilot 54(11) (1985).

- "North American XB-28."" Air Line Pilot 54(12) (1985).
- McDonnell XV-1." Air Line Pilot 55(1) (1986).
"Curtiss Wright Travel Air 68." Air Line Pilot 55(2)
(1986) .
"The Active Museum: Stimulating Public Involvement in
Aerospace.'"' Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences
76(1) pp. 1-11, March (1986).
"Hurel Dubois H.D. 10." Air Line Pilot 55(3) (1986).
"Experimental Aircraft." Air University Review 37(2)
(1986) .
"Putting the Smithsonian On Disc." CD-ROM News
Spas (1986).
"whittlesley Avian." Air Line Pilot 55(4) (1986).
. "“Dayton-Wright XB-1A." Air Line Pilot 55(5) (1986).
. “Curtiss XP-60C." Air Line Pilot 55(6) (1986).
. "Fernic P-10 Cruisaire." Air Line Pilot 55(7) (1986).
- “Bell Bartoe Jetwing." Air Line Pilot 55(8) (1986).

Office of the Deputy Director

Lopez, Donald S. Flight: Great Planes of the Century.
York: Viking Fenguin Inc., 1985

. Into the Teeth of the Tiger. New York:
Bantam Books, 1986.
Office of the Associate Director for Research

Hanle, Paul A., "New Directions in Research." In National Air and_ Space
Museum Research Report 1985, po. 13-16. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

"A System for Digital Display of Historical Documents." In

National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1985, pp. 173-176.

Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

. Review of JPL and the American Space Program: A History of the
Jet Propulsion Laboratory by Clayton R. Koppes. Technology and
Culture, October 1985, pp. 877-879.

Smith, Robert W., Review of Beyond Velikovsky: The History of a Public
Controversy, by H. Bauer, Isis, 76 (1985), pp. 428-429.

Office of Associate Director for External Affairs

Duff, Brian. "The Dream Is Alive: The Story Behind a Historic
Film." In National Air and Soace Museum Research Report, 1985,
pp. 195-201. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1985.

Department of Aeronautics

Davies, R.E.G. "Unusual Service to Micronesian Island." The Airport
Journal 58(1) (1986) :12-13.

Douglas, Deborah G. "Edward H. 'Ed' Heinemann and Clarence L. 'Kelly'
Johnson: Designers for the Jet Age." In National Air and Space
Museum Research Report 1985, po.149-155. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

. "Smithsonian Insitution Accessions Scheffelin/

DACOWITS Collection." Minerva IV (Spring (1986):
BD. 6-9. (1986) :6-9.

. Langford, John S., and Cruz, Juan R. "The Feasibility of
Daedalus: A Human-Powered Flight Between Crete and the Mainland of
Greece." Proceedings of the Third Human-Powered Vehicle
Scientific Sium, Au 28-29, 1986. pp. 2-12. United
States: International Human-Powered Vehicle Association, 1986.

- Langford, John S., et al. The Feasibility of a_ Human-Powered
Flight Between Crete and the Mainland of Greece: Final Report of
the Daedalus Project Working Group. Boston: Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, 1986.

Hardesty, Von D., editor. Gatchina Days: Reminiscences of a Russian
Pilot, Alexander Riaboff. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press, 1986.

Leyes, Richard A. "History of the Wiseman-Cooke Aircraft."

World War I Aero 108 (February) (1986) :3-10.

Lissarrague, Pierre and Christienne, Charles. A History of French
Military Aviation. Translated by Frances Kianka. Washington,
D.C. Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.

f
ae

Mikesh, Rebert C. and Crouch, Tom D. "Restoration: The Wright Flyer."
In National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1985, pp. 135-141.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
. "Wright Flyer Restoration." World War I Aero
108 (February) (1986) :13-17.
van der Linden, F. Rebert and Winter, Frank. "Out of the Past."
Aerospace America. (Monthly Column).
Wooldridge, E. T. Images of Flight: The Aviation Photography of Rudy
Arnold. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
. “Chairman's Overview: Department of Aeronautics." In National
Air and Space Museum Research Report 1985, pp. 19-21, Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.
. "Grumman at the Smithsonian." Grumman Horizons
22 (1) (1986) :14-20.

Center for Earth and Planetary Studies

Andre, C. G. [Abstract]. "Lithologic Mapping Using Thermal Infrared
Satellite Data." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report,
1985, pp. 215-16. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1985.

Bougan, S., Greeley, R. and Marshall, J. [Abstract]. "Aeolian
Environment on Venus." In Lumar and Planetary Science XVII, pp.
74-75. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1986.

Frey, H. V., Schultz, R. A., and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract] "The
Martian Crustal Dichotomy." In Lumar and Planetary Science XVII, pp.
241-242. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1986.

Hooper, D. M. and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract]. "Equatorial Clustering
of Craters and Multi-ring Basins: Possible Indications of lunar
polar displacement." In Reports of Planetary Geology and Geoohysics
Program, 1985, po. 131-33. NASA TM-88383, 1986.

[Abstract]. "Distribution of Lunar Craters and Multi-ring
basins: A Test for Lunar Polar Wandering." In Lumar and Planetary
Science XVII, pp. 356-357. Houston: The Lunar and Planetary
Institute, 1986.

Jacebberger, P. A. "Geomorphology of the Upper Inland Niger Delta."

In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985, pp. 116-31.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

. [Abstract]. "Drought-related Surface Changes in the Upper Inlard
Niger Delta of Mali." In Geological Society of America GSA Abstracts
with Programs 17 (1985) :617.

Leff, C. and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract]. "Definition of Tectonic
Domains in the Eastern Hemisphere of Mars." In EOS, 67 (1986):300.

Marshall, J. R., Greeley, R., Fox, D., Bougan, S., and Sheridan, M.
[Abstract]. "Transverse Bedforms in High-density Fluids: Venus and
Earth." In Reports of Planetary Geology Program - 1985, p. 257.
NASA TM-88383, 1986.

Maxwell, T. A. , "Chairman's Overview: Center for Earth and Planetary

Studies." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 19385,
pp. 113-115. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,

OD.

. [Abstract]. "The Mars Dichotomy: Investigations of
the Ancient Cratered Terrain - Smooth Plains Boundary." In National
Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985, pp. 221-22. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

Maxwell, T. A., Leff, C., Hooper, D., amd Doorn, P. [Abstract].
"The Mars Hemispheric Dichotomy: Morphology and Stratigraphic
Implications of Viking Color Data." In Geological Society of America
Abstracts with Programs 17 (1985) :655.

Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract]. "Spectral Studies of the Cratered
Terrain Boundary of Mars: Inferences for Geologic Evolution." EOS
67 (1986):301.

Watters, T. R. [Abstract]. "Basalt-Plains Ridges: Analogs and Fold
Mechanisms." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985,
pp. 225-26. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

Watters, T. R. and Maxwell, T. A. [Abstract]. "Ridges of the

Tharsis and Columbia Plateaus: A Fold Model." In Geological Society
of America Abstracts with Programs 17 (1985) :745.

. [Abstract]. "The Tharsis Plateau Ridge System: Inferred and
Predicted Compressive Stresses." In Reports of Planetary Geology
Program - 1985, po. 406-08. NASA TM-88383, 1986.

- [Abstract]. "Strain Estimates for Basalt Plains Ridges on
Mars, Earth and the Moon." In Lunar and Planetary Science XVII, pp.
929-30. Houston: The Lumar and Planetary Institute, 1986.

- "Orientation, Relative Age, and Extent of the Tharsis Plateau
Ridge System." Journal of Geophysical Research 91 (1986) :8113-25.

Department of Exhibits, Art Unit

Olson, R. J. M. Fire and Ice: A History of Comets in Art. New York:
Walker and Company, 1985.

Department of Space Science and Exploration

Ceruzzi, Paul E. "The Unforseen Revolution: Computers and Expectations."
Joe Corn, ed. In Imagining Tomorrow. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press,
1986.

. Intreduction to the reprint of the Harvard Computation
Laboratory's A Manual Operation for the Automatic Sequence Controlled
Calculater. Reprint of 1946 ed. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1985.

"The First Generation of Computers and the Aerospace Industry."

In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985, pp. 75-89.

Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

. Review of IBM's Early Computers by Charles Bashe, et. al. IEEE

Spectrum. June, 1986. pp. 12-14.

. Review of Punched Card Methods in Scientific Computation by

Wallace J. Eckert and Calculating Machines by D. R. Hartree. ISIS

77 (1986), pp. 154-156.

. Review of Der Computer, Mein Lebenswerk, 2nd. ed. by Konrad Zuse.
Annals Hist. Comp 8 (1986), p. 317.

Callen, Thomas H, II. "Comet Quest: Capturing the Lore and Lure of
Halley.: In National Air and Soace Museum Research Report, 1985,
pp. 157-166. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

Collins, Martin J. [with David H. DeVorkin]. "Space Astronomy Oral
History Project." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report,
1985, pp. 203-208. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1985.

DeVorkin, David H. "The Supernova of A.D. 1006." The Astronomy Quarterly
5 (1985), po. 71-86.

. “Chairman's Overview: The Space Science and Exploration
Department.'"' In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985,
pp. 71-74. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

. “Steps Toward the Hertzsprung-Russel Diagram." Reprinted in
Spencer R. Weart and Melba Phillips, eds. History of Physics, pp.
50-57. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1985.

. Review of History of British Space Science by Harrie Massey and

M. ©. Robins. Science 233 (1986), p. 373.

. "Richard Tousey and His Beady-Eyed V-2s." Air & Space/Smithsonian
Magazine 1(2) (1986), pp. 86-94.

Ezell, Linda N. "Science and Technolegy in the Twentieth Century." Robin
Higham and Donald J. Mrozek, eds. In A Guide to the Sources of

United States Military History: Supplement IIT. Hamden, CT: Archon
Books, 1986.

Gruen, Adam L. "The Space Station: Visions and Visionaries." In
National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985, pp. 209-214.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

Hill, Janice L. "Restoration: The ATS-6."" In National Air and Space
Museum Research Report, 1985, pp. 143-148. Washington D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

Needell, Allan A. "Exploring Space Lecture Series: Our Solar

." In National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985, pp.
169-172. Washington D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

Tatarewicz, Joseph, N. FilmReview of "Space Science: Space Shuttle—
Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow.": Science Books and Films 21(1)
(1985), p. 55.

. "A Strange Plea: The Campaign for Planetary Astronomy in
Support of Solar System Exploration, 1959-1962." In National Air and
Space Museum Research Report 1985, pp. 91-109. Washington, D. C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

. "The Persistence of Lowell's Legacy: Life, Mars, and the U.S.
Space Program, 1958-1967." (Abstract) Bulletin of the American
Astronomical Society 17(4) (1985), p. 828.

Filmstrip review of "Earth, Moon, Sun, and Space." Science Bcoks
and Films 21(3) (1986), p. 182.
"Federal Funding and Planetary Astronomy." Social Studies of

Science 16(1) (February 1986), pp. 80-103.
. Filmstriv review of "Comet Halley: Once in a Lifetime. Science
Books and Films 21(4) (1986), p. 323.
Winter, Frank H. "The Golightly Mystery." Journal of the British
Interplanetary Society 39(4) (1986), pp 170-176.
. "Lighting the Fuse: Rocket Society." Timeline 3(5)
(Publication of the Ohio Historical Society) (1986), pp. 14-25.
Winter, Frank H. and van der Linden, F. R. "Out of the Past."
Aeroscace America. (Monthly Colum).

Information Management Division

National Air and Space Museum, Archival Videodisc III: U.S.A.F.
Collection, Washington, D.c., 1985.

Suthard, Karl P. "Documentary Collections and Facilities." In
National Air and Space Museum Research Report, 1985, pp. 227-237.
Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1985.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Broun, Elizabeth, with Lucy R. Lippard. Patrick Ireland: Drawings
1965-1985. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.

Eldredge, Charles C.; Schimmel, Julie; and Truettner, William H. Art in
New Mexico, 1900-1945: Paths to Taos and Santa Fe. New York: Abbeville
Press, 1986.

Fink, Lois M. “Academic Art and the Art of Illustration.” In Frank E.
Schoonover at Drexel: [Illustration and the Academic Tradition, 1892-1903.
Philadelphia: Drexel University Museum, 1986.

. Review of The Visual Arts and Christianity in America, by John
Dillenberger. Archives of American Art Journal, XXV, 1 & 2 (1985).

. [Preface American Art Analog. Chelsea House Publishers, 1986.

- “Rembrandt Peale in Paris." Pennsylvania Magazine of History and
Biography CX, 1 (January 1986).

Hartigan, Lynda Roscoe. "A Note on Joseph Cornell's 'Goop Joe's weekly Pultry
Pages.'” Motion Picture (Fall 1986).

[Brochure] Afro-American Art: Twentieth-Century Selections.
Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.

Hennessey, Christine M. "The Status of Name Authority Control in the
Cataloging of Original Art Objects,” Art Documentation V, 1 (Spring
1986).

Norelli, Martina Roudabush. [Brochure] Art, Design, and the Modern
Corporation: The Collection of the Container Corporation of America, A
Gift to the National Museum of American Art. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.

,» with Neil Harris. Art, Design, and the Modern Corporation: The
Collection of the Container Corporation of America, A Gift to the National
Museum of American Art. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press,
1986.

Panhorst, Michael. Abstract and research summary on American Monument and
Outdoor Sculpture (AMOS) Data Base, published by National Acid
Precipitation Assessment Program, Washington, D.C., for North Carolina
State University Peer Review, April 1986.
nH

. Abstract and research summary on comparative study of corrosion
of monumental bronze statue replicas, co-authored with David Ames,
published by the National Acid Precipitation Assessment Program,
Washington, D.C., for North Carolina State University Peer Review, April
1986.

Powell, Richard J. “William H. Johnson's Minde Kerteminde,’
Nordic Art Review, no. 1 (1986).
Wallach, Allan. Review of Thomas Eakins: The Heroism of Modern Life by
Elizabeth Johns. Archives of American Art Journal 24, no. 4 (1984).
. Review of Latrobe's View of America, 1759-1820: Selections from

Siksi: The

the Watercolors and Sketches, edited by Edward C. Carter II, John C. Van

Horne and Charles E. Brownell. Pennsylvania Magazine of History and
Biography, 110, no. 3 (July 1986).

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY
Department of the History of Science and Technology

Crouch, Tom D. “How the Bicycle Took Wing." American Heritage of Invention
and Technology (Summer 1986): 10-17.

- "A Machine of Practical Utility: .The 1905 Wright Flyer." Timeline
(October/November 1985): 24-37

- "Restoration: The Wright Flyer." In NASM Research Report, 1985:
135-41. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Daniel, Pete. Standing at the Crossroads: Southern Life in the Twentieth
Century. New York: Hill & Wang, 1986.

Davis, Audrey B. “Medicine Through the Lens of the Museum." Caduceus 1
(Autumn 1985): 38-41.

- “Dental Craftsmen in 19th-Century America." In Nineteenth Century
Scientific Instruments and Their Makers, edited by Peter R. de Clerqd,
241-61. Leiden, The Netherlands: 1985.

Dreyfuss, Mark. "Trephined Skulls." Medical Heritage 1, no. 5 (Septempber/
October 1985): cover notes.

- "Nurse's Saddlebag." Medical Heritage l, no. 6 (November/December
1985): 447.

« "The Anatomical Models of Dr. Auzoux." Medical Heritage 2, no. 1
(January/February 1986): 60-62.

- “Social Necessaire." Medical Heritage 2, no. 3 (May/June 1986):
158.

- “Yoruba Diviner's Bowl." Medical Heritage 2, no. 3 (May/June
1986): cover notes, 232.

- “Veterinary Surgery." Medical Heritage 2, no. 4, (July/August
VSG) 242

Ezell, Edward C. For

eword and bibliographical essay to The Social History of
the Machine Gun, oy John Ellus. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
Press, 1986.

- The AK47 Story: Evolution of the Kalashnikov Weapons. Harrisburg,
Pae: Stackpole Books, 1986.

- "The Advanced Combat Rifle: Will the Infantryman Get the Weapons He
Needs to Fight and Win in the 1990s and Beyond?" Combat Weapons 2, no. 1
(Winter 1986): 35-39; 92-94.

"The Weapons

actics Change the Face

cl
98:6)'2)9) 2223 5 98is

w
n

|
br
, and R. Blake Stevens. The SPIW: The Deadliest Weapon that Never
Was. Collector Grade Publications, Inc., 1985

, Jonn F Sullivan, and John S. Wood, Jr. Desert Warfare: Les
Learned Study. Arlington, Va.: Security Arms Company, Inc., 19935.

- "Selecting Infantry Supoort Weapons." Defense Minister and
Staff 2 (1985): 45-49.

Finn, Bernard, Robert Friedel, and Paul Israel (H. David Maxey,
Collaborator). Edison's Electric Light: Biography of an Invention. New
Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 1986.

Forman, Paul. "The First Atomic Clock Program: NBS, 1947-1954."

Proceedings of the 17th Annual Precise Time and Time Interval Apdplications
and Planning Meeting, 19385, 12.3-6 (19386): 1-17.

- “Los propositos de la historia de la ciencia." Revista de Occidente
no. 64 (September 1986): 51-62.

"Paul Boyer, by the Bomp's Early Light: American Thought and
Culture at the Dawn of the Atomic Age. Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists
(April 1986): 48-49.

- “Il Naturforscherversammlung a Nauheim del settembre 1920: ana
introduzione all vita scientifica nella Republica di Whemar.” In La
cistrutturazione delle scienze tra le due guerre modiali, edited by G.
Battimelli, M. DeMaria, and A. Rossi, 59-78. Vol. 1 of L'Europa. Rome:
goliardica, 1986.

Kidwell, Peggy. "E. C. Pickering, Lydia Hinchman, Harlow Shapley and the
Beginning of Graduate Work at the Harvard College Observatory." Astronomy
Quarterly 5 (1986): 157-62.

, with Juanita Morris. Smithsonian Computer History Project: A
combined index to oral histories oven to readers. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution, 1986.

Langley, Harold D. "Robert F. Stockton." In Naval Command Under Sail edited
by James Bradford. Annanvolis, Md.: V. S. Travel Institute Press, 1985.

- “Medical Men of the Old Navy: A Study in the Development of a
Profession.” In New Aspects of Naval History, edited by Frederick
Harrod. Baltimore: The Nautical and Aviation Publishing Company of
America, 1986.

Luoar, Steven. “History in a Federal Museum: The Smithsonian's National
Museum of American History." In Public History: An Introduction, edited
oy Emory Kemp. Melbourne, Fla.: Krieger Puolishing, 1986.

»- Redort on Conference Proceedings, “Interpreting the Industrial
Heritage.” In Proceedings, Fifth International Conference on

the Conservation of the Industrial Heritage, 1986.

- "Museum Review: The Computer Museum." Technology and Culture
(January 1936).

and Carlene Stephens. "A Place for Public Business: The Material

c2 of the Nineteenth-Century Federal Office." Business and Economic

ry. (b>, (19136) s+ 159-713)

, Baroara, and Cnristina Simmons. “Exhibiting Women's History." In

Presenting the Past, edited by Susan Porter Benson, Stephen Brier, and Roy

Rosenzweig. Philadelphia: Tample Univ. Press, 1986.

- “Dramas of Discovery: Medical History in Federal Theatre Plays."
Medical Heritage 2, no. 1 (January/Feoruary 1985).
- “Medicine in Diego Rivera's Detroit Industries.” Medical Heritage

O
“5
Ch cna

QD SIN) re

Oo

27 ADs 2 (March/April 19366): 122=25).
Post, Rooert C., "The Cars Won't Fly." Air & Svace 1 (August/September
1935): 76-84.

159
Maine

(Heft

"In Praise of Top Fuelers." American Heritage of Invention and
Technology 1 (Spring 1986): 58-63.

"Tancook Island: S8irthplace of the Tancook Whler." Quarterbdoard

(Maine Maritime Museum) (Soring 1986): 4-5.

The Tancook

Wnalers: Origins, Rediscovery, and Revival. Bath:

Maritime Museum, 1986.

"Von Daimler und Benz zu Garlits und Beck." Kultur & Technik 10
2, 1986): 114-23.

Reingold, Nathan. "Ritual Acts." Isis (December 1985).

White, Jr., John di.

Refrigerator Cars.

"Containers:

The Great Fellow Fleet: A History of American
San Marino, Calif.: Golden West Books, 1986.
An Idea Whose Time Came Centuries Ago." Intermodal

Age International (Octoder 1985): 42-44.
"An Early Chapter in Freight Handling, Cincinnati and the
iner." Queen City Heritage 43, no. 3 (Fall 1985): 25-34.

Conta

(Spri

re 27, no. L

"Steam in the Streets: The Grice and Long Dummy.” Technology and
Culetu

(January 1936): 106-09.

"America's Most Noteworthy Railroaders." Railroad History 154

ng 1986): 9-

15.

{Barney N. Smith, oseud.]. "More Car Builders." Railroad History

ESA: a (
Withunhn,

Spring 1986):
William L.

128-31.
Banquet Address, National Railway Historical Society's

50th Anniversary Convention. Railfan & Railroad 6, no. l, (January

1936)
White, R
(Dece
Northing

: 47-49.
oger B. “At
mber 1985):
ton, William

Lighting Systems.

1985.

Home on the Highway." American Heritage 37, no. 1
98-105.

bo)

E., Jee, Beyond the City Lights: American Domestic Gas
Washington, D.C.: National Museum of American History,

Department of Social and Cultural History

Ahlborn,

Richard &.

The San Antonio Missions: idward Everett and the

American Occupation, 1847. Fort Worth: Amon Carter Museum, 1986.

Washi
Bird, La

The Penitent
ngton D.C.:
Crve “the Fa

Elect

Fespverma
Cambr

(i
Flent
G.A. 100

ioas. (Winte
n, John T.,
idge, Mass.:
trans. and ed
rop. Washing
: The Centen

e Moradas of Abiquiu. Reprint with new introduction.
Smithsonian Institution, 1986.
ther of Political TV 'Spots'." Campaigns and
cr 1986): 68-72.
Entries in The New Harvard Dictionary of Music.
Belknap Press, 1986.
The Organs of Mexico City Cathedral, by D.A.
on, D.C: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1986.
ry of the Division of Graphic Arts. An Exhibition at

the National Museum of American History. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian

Enstia
Harris,

(1985
Hoover,

tution, 1986.
Elizabeth M.
ie

Cynthia Adams

"Printing and a Museum." Printing History 2, no. 2

- “Secular Music in Early Massachusetts.: In Music in

Colonial Massachusetts. Vol. 2. Boston: Colonial Society of
Massachusetts, 1983

5.
Kulik, Gary B. "Dams, Fish, and Farmers: The Defense of Public Right
Bighteenth-Century Rhode Island." In The Countryside in the Age of
Capitalist Transformation, edited oy S. Hahn & J. Prude. Chanel Fill:
University of Nortn Carolina Press, 1995.

Mayo, Editn, with Jerry K. Frye. "HRA: Postmortem of a Failure in Political
Communications." In Rights of Passage: The Past and Future of the ERA,
edited by Joan Hoff Wilson. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1986.

Melder, Keith E. "Creating Candidate Imagery, Part I: The Man on
Horseback." Campaigns and Elections. (Winter 1986): 6-11.

- "Origins of the Personal Campaign." Campaigns and Elections.
(May-June 1986): 46-50.

Scheele, Carl H. Epilogue in Hollywood: Legend and Reality, edited by M.
Webb. Boston: Little, Brown and Co. and Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, 1986.

Wright, Helena E. "The Image Makers: The Role of the Graphic Arts in
Industrialization." IA: the Journal of the Society for Industrial
Archeology 12, no. 2 (1986).

, ed. Industrial Heritage '84: Volume 2, Proceedings. Fifth

International Conference on the Conservation of the Industrial Heritage.
Nashington, D.C.: Society for Industrial Archeology, 1936

National Philatelic Collection

Bruns, James H. Collection and Distribution Wagon Service (1936-1904). The

Mobile Post Office Society, 1986.

- “Star Route Mail Service.” The United States Snecialist 56. no. ll
(1985): 478-485.

- "Postal Relics from Pearl Harbor." Transit Postmark Collector
(November/December 1985).

- "Letters With Secrets: How World War I Censors Hunted didden
Messages." The United States Spvecialist 57, no. 1 (1986).

- "Here's How the Dead Letter Office Solved Those Cover Puzzles." The

United States Specialist 57, no. 2 (1986).
- "America's Old-Time Dead Letter Detectives." Scott Stamp Monthly 6
(1986).
- “The Railway Mail Mascot." Stamos 215, no. 5 (1986).
- "Cassava Versus Sweet Potato Gum." The United States Specialist 57,
no. 5 (1986).
- "U. S. Perforated Postal Cards." Postal Stationery 28, no. 1 (1986).
- Fifty captions for "Rarities in the National Philatelic
Collection." The American Philatelist (May 1986).
- "Quality Versus Style: Regulation and Screen Mail Wagons." The
United States Svecialist, 57, no. 6 (1986).
- "Mail on the Move: The Introduction of Automobile Mail Service.
The United States Sovecialist 57, no. 7 (1986).
Collins, Herbert R. “The National Philatelic Collection: A Century of
Collecting, 1886-1936." Tne American Philatelist (1986).
Geraci, Josepn J. "Rates of Postage in the Republic of San Marino.”
Part 5. Mare Nostrum, Journal of Italy and Colonies Studies Circle 4,
no. 3 (1986).

I6I
mH

Toe Afro-American Communities Project

Horton, James O. "Black & at Oberlin College: A Controversial
Commitment." Journal o ducabion<.54, eno. «4 <GFalbcl98n) 22747 7=99%

- "The Black Urban Exoerience in American History: A Comment." In The
State of Afro-American History, edited py Darlene Clark Hine. Baton
Rouge, Lae: Louisiana State University Press, 1986.

- "Freedom's Yoke: Gender Conventions among Antebellum Free SBlacks.*
Feminist Studies 12, no. 1 (Soring 1986): 51-76.

« "King: Out in Front in March for Equality: Leader Symbolizes
350-Year Struggle for Black Civil Rights." Orlando Sentinel (January 19,
193'6:);) H=1

- “Weevils in the Wheat: Northern Free Blacks and the Constitution
before the Civil War.” This Constitution l, no. 8 (Fall 1985): 4-11.

Walker, Lea H. “Representing Cultural Diversity: A Responsibility of

History Museums." Journal of the Washington Academy of Sciences 1, no. 76
(June 1986): 131-132.

y
G
2]

The Project on the Vietnam Generation

Fauriol, Sandie. Report on the Survey of Courses on Vietnam Era Events.
Washington, D.C.: Project on the Vietman Generation, 1985.
- REPORT, quarterly newsletter of the Project on the Vietnam
Generation 1, no. 2 (December 1985); 1, no. 3 (March 1936); 1, no. 4
(June 1986); 2, no. 1 (September 1986).
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Department of Anthropology

Albanese, John P. "Geology of the Mekean Site (48CK7)." In McKean/Middle
Plains Archaic: Current Research. Edited by Marcel Kornfeld and Lawrence
C. Todd. Occasional Papers on Wyoming Archaeology. 4(1985): 63-78.
Laramie: Office of the Wyoming State Archaeologist.

"The Geology and Soils at the Colby Site." In The Colby Mammoth Site:
Taphonomy and Archaeolo of a Clovis Kill Site in Northern Wyoming.
Edited by George C. Frison and Lawrence C. Todd. (1986). Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.

Angel, J. Lawrence; Iscan, M. Yasar; Suchey, J. M.; and Zimmerman, M. R. "Age
at Death Estimated from the Skeleton and Viscera." In Dating and Age
Determination. Edited by Angel and Zimmerman. (1986) London:
CroomHeln.

Angel, J. Lawrence, and Kelley, Jennifer Olsen. "Description and Comparison of
the Skeleton." In The Wadi Kubbaniya Skeleton: A Late Paleolithic Burial
from Southern Egypt. Edited by Fred Wendorf and Romuald Schild. The
Prehistory of Wadi Kubbaniya, 1 (1986): 53-70. Dallas, Southern Methodist
University Press.

Arnoldi, Mary Jo. "Segu Puppet Theatre - Form and Ideology in Bamana
Performances." Empirical Studies of the Arts. 4 (2)(1986).

- "Towards Reconstructing a History of the Segu Region Puppet Theatre."
Festschrift for Renee Boser, Museum fur Volkerkunde. (1986). Basel.

Aufderheide, Arthur C.; Angel, J. L.; Kelley, J. 0.3; Outlaw, A. C.; Outlaw, M.
A.; Rapp, Jr., G.; and Wittmer, L. E. “Lead in Bone III. Prediction of
Social Correlates from Skeletal Lead Content in Four Colonial American
Populations (Catoctin Furnace, College Landing, Governor's Land and Irene
Mound)." American Journal of Physical Anthropology. Anthropology. 66
(1985): 353-356.

Boaz, Noel T.; Brooks, Alison S.; and Harris, J. W. K. "Preliminary
Palaeoanthropological Results of the Semliki Research Expedition, Zaire."
American Journal of Physical Anthropology 69 (2)(1986): 177-178.

Brooks, Alison S. "Teaching Human Origins." Anthro-Notes 7 (3)(1985): 6-10.

- "Ostrich eggs: a staple of Kung life." Faces (March 1986): 34-36.
"'Vinland' Revisited: 986-1986." Anthro-Notes 8 (1)(1986): 1-4, U4.
- “"Ishango Revisited: New Age Determination and Cultural
Interpretations." In The Longest Record: The Human Career in Africa.
Edited by J. W. K. Harris. A conference in Honor of J. Desmond Clark.
Abstracts. (April 1986): 17-18.

Brooks, Alison S., and Robbins, Lawrence R. "Middle Stone Age Industries of the
Kalahari Basin." In The Longest Record: The Human Career in Africa.
Edited by J. W. K. Harris. (April 1986): 18-19.

Brooks, Alison S., and Selig, Ruth 0. "The Viking Discovery: 1000 Years Ago."
Instructor 96 (3)(October 1986): 46-48.

163
Burch, Ernest S., Jr. "A Changing World." In The Arctic World. Principal
Writer and Photographer, Fred Bruemmer. General Editor, William E. Tager.
(1985): 239-244. Toronto: Key Porter Books.

» Subsistence Production in Kivalina, Alaska: A Twent,
Technical Paper (128)(1985
Division of Subsistence.

D'Azevedo, Warren. Editor. "Great Basin." Handbook of North American Indians
11 (1986). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

D'Azevedo, Warren L., and Goddard, Ives. "Synonymy" in the chapter "Washoe."

In Great Basin. Edited by Warren L. d'Azevedo. Handbook of North
American Indians 11 (1986): 497-498. General Editor, W. Sturtevant.
Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Fitzhugh, William W. Cultures in Contact: the European Impact on Native
Cultural Institutions in Eastern North America, A.D. 1000-1800. Edited by
and with Introduction and Commentary by William W. Fitzhugh. (1985).
Smithsonian Institution Press, Anthropological Society of Washington.

- "Early Contacts North of Newfoundland Before A.D. 1600: A Review." In
Cultures in Contact: the European Impact on Native Cultural Institutions
in Eastern North America, A.D. 1000-1800. (1985): 23-43. Smithsonian
Institution Press, Anthropological Society of Washington Series.

- "Vegetation History and Culture Change in Labrador Prehistory." 17
(4)(1985): 357-370. Journal of Arctic and Alpine Research.

- "Federal Arctic Research: Draft Recommendations for Necessary
Programs." (1986). Interagency Arctic Research and Policy Committee
Report, National Science Foundation.

Fowler, Catherine S., and Goddard, Ives. "Synonymy" in the chapters "Southern
Paiute" and "Northern Paiute." In Great Basin. Edited by Warren L.
d'Azevedo. Handbook of North American Indians 11 (1986): 393-396,
461-465. W. Sturtevant, General Editor. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Fowler, Don D. "Clifford Evans, 1920-1981." Anuario de Divulgacao Cientifica,
10 (1985): 11-14. Goias, Brazil: Catholic University of Goias.

- "Response to 'Scholarship as Stewardship.'" (1985): 45-48. American

Society for Conservation Archaeology Proceedings, 1984.
"Conserving American Archaeological Resources." In American

Archaeolo Past and Future. A Celebration of the Society for American
Archaeology, 19355-1985. (1986). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

- "Cultural Resource Management in the Great Basin: What Have We
Learned?" In Anthropolo of the Desert West. Essays in Honor of Jesse D.
Jennings. Edited by C. J. Condie and D. D. Fowler. 169-178.
Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press.

- American Archaeolo Past and Future. A Celebration of the Society for
American Archaeology, 1935-1985. D. D. Fowler, Co-Editor. 6
Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

- Anthropology of the Desert West. Essays in Honor of Jesse D. Jennings.

D. D. Fowler, Co-Editor. - Salt Lake City: University of Utah
Press.

-Year Perspective.
- Juneau: Alaska Department of Fish and Game,

Frison, George C. Stone Circles, Stone Filled Fire Pits, Grinding Stones and
High Plains Archeology. (1985). Bozeman, Montana.

- Clovis Tools and Weapon Efficiency in an African Hlephant Context.
(1986). Report compiled for the LSB Leakey Foundation.

Frison, George C.; Adovasio, James M.; and Carlisle, Ronald C. "Coiled Basketry
from Northern Wyoming." Plains Anthropologist 31 (112)(1986): 163-167.

Frison, George C.; Andrews, R. L.; Adovasio, J. M.; Carlisle, R. C.; and Edgar,
Robert. "A Late Paleoindian Animal Trapping Net from Northern Wyoming."
American Antiquity 51 (2)(1986): 352-361.

Frison, George C., and Todd, Lawrence C. The Colby Mammoth Site 48WA322: A
Clovis Kill in Northern Wyoming. (1986). Albuquerque: University of New
Mexico Press.

Goddard, R. H. Ives III. "Paradigmatic Splitting by Morphological
Regularization: The Fox Prohibitives." International Journal of American
Linguistics 51 (4)(1985): 419-421.

- "Reflections of Historical Events in Some Traditional Fox and Miami
Narratives." In Papers of the Sixteenth Algonquian Conference. Edited by
William Cowan. (1985 [1986]): 47-62. Ottawa: Carleton University.

"Synonymy" in the chapters "Western Shoshone," "Northern Shoshone and
Bannock" [subgroups], "Eastern Shoshone," "Ute," and "Kawaiisu." In Great
Basin, Edited by Warren L. d'Azevedo. Handbook of North American Indians
ll (1986): 279-283, 306, 334-335, 364-367, 410. W. Sturtevant, General
Editor. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

- "Technical Alphabet." In Great Basin. Edited by Warren L. d'Azevedo.
Handbook of North American Indians 11 (1986): x-xi. W. Sturtevant,
General Editor. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution.

. {Linguistic Editor] Great Basin. Editor, Warren L. d'Azevedo.
Handbook of North American Indians 11 (1986). W. Sturtevant, General
Editor. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution.

Gordon, Kathleen D. "Man the Scavenger." Anthro-Notes 7 (1985): 1-14.

"Dental Microwear Analysis to Detect Human Diet." American Journal of
Physical Anthropology 69 (1986): 206-207.

Griffin, James D. "Changing Concepts of the Prehistoric Mississippian Cultures
of the Eastern United States. In Alabama and the Borderlands: from
Prehistory to Statehood. Edited by R. Reid Badger and Lawrence A.
Clayton. (1985): 4-63. University, Alabama: University of Alabama
Press.

- "An Individual's Participation in American Archaeology, 1928-1985." In
Annual Review of Anthropology. Edited by Bernard J. Siegel, Alan R. Beals,
and Stephen A. Tyler. tioesy: 1-23. Palo Alto: Annual Reviews, Inc.

"Epilogue: Joffre Lanning Coe: The Quiet Giant of Southeastern
Archaeology." In Structure and Process in Southeastern Archaeology.
Edited by Roy S. Dickens, Jr., and H. Trawick Ward. (1985): 287-304.
University, Alabama: University of Alabama Press.

"Perspectives on Gulf Coast Cultural History: A Round Table
Discussion.” In Perspectives on Gulf Coast Prehistory. Edited by Dave D.
Davis. (1985): 315-332. Gainesville: University Presses of Florida.

"The Contributions of Moreau S. Maxwell to Midwestern Prenistory." In

Arctic Anthropology 22 (2)(1985): 111-113. Edited by George Sabo, III.
Madison: University of Wisconsin Press.

165
Houchins, Chang-su. "Preface" to Paengnyon-jon Han' guk (Korea 100 Years Ago
Through Photographs). Seoul: Kat'orik ch'ulp'ansa (1986): 4-5.

Kaeppler, Adrienne L. "Anthropology and the U. S. Exploring Expedition." In

M ificent V gers, The U. S. Exploring Expedition, 1858-1842. Herman J.

Viola and Carolyn Margolis, Editors. 119-147. Washington, D. C.:

Smithsonian Institution.

____- "Structured Movement Systems in Tonga." In Society and the Dance: The
~~ Social Anthropology of Performance and Process. Paul Spencer, Editor.
(1985): 92-118. Cambridge University Press.

- “Movement in the Performing Arts of the Pacific Islands." In
Theatrical Movement: A Bibliographical Anthology. Bob Fleshman, Editor.
(1986): 586-600. Scarecrow Press.

Kaeppler, Adrienne, and Stillman, Amy Ku'uleialoha. Pacific Island and
Australian Aboriginal Artifacts in Public Collections in the United States
of America and Canada. (1985): 346 pages. Paris: UNESCO.

Karp, Ivan. "Anthropology and Semiotics." In International Encyclopedic
Dictionary of Semiotics. (1986). The Hague: Mouton and Cie.

"African Systems of Thought." In Africa, Second Edition. (1986):
Se riog=2 42). Bloomington: Indiana University Press.

Kaupp, P. Ann. Anthro-Notes 7 (3)(1985); 8 (1)(1985); 8 (2)(1985). National
Museum of Natural History Newsletter for Teachers.

"Something for the Palate." Anthro-Notes 8 (1)(1986): 9-13.

. "A Natural Way to Learn." Anthro-Notes 8 (2)(1986): 13-15.

Klein, T. L., and Schmidt, R. G. “Geology of the Pilot Mountain-Fox Mountain

Alteration System." In Volcanic-Hosted Gold and High-Alumina Rocks of the

Carolina Slate Belt. P. G. Feiss, Editor. (1985): 74-107. Guidebook
for Society of Economic Geologists Field Trip.

Kornfeld, Marcel, and Frison, George C. “McKean Site: A 1983 Preliminary
Analysis." Occasional Papers in Wyoming Archaeology 4 (1985): 31-44.
Krakker, James J. "Investigation of a Small Late Prehistoric Site in St. Clair
County, Michigan." The Michigan Archaeologist 30 (3)(1984): 986-123.

Meggers, Betty J. “Advances in Brazilian Archeology, 1935-1985." American
Antiquity 50 (1985): 364-373.

- "Archaeology: South America." Handbook of Latin American Studies.
(45)(1985): 63-93. Austin: University of Texas Press.

- "OQ uso da seriacao para inferir comportamento locacional." InA
~ Utilizacao de Sequencias Ceramicas Seriadas para Inferir Comportamento
Social. Betty J. Meggers and Clifford Evans, pp. 31-48. Boletim Serie
(acsey? 3. Instituto de Arqueologia Brasileira, Rio de Janeiro. 48 pp.

1985).

"Aboriginal Adaptation to Amazonia." In Amazonia. Edited by Ghillean
T. Prance and Thomas E. Lovejoy. (1985): 307-327. Oxford: Pergamon
Press.

- "El significado de la difusion como factor de evolucion." Revista
Chungara (14)(1986): 81-90.

» "El uso de secuencias ceramicas seriadas para inferir conducta social."
Actas del Primer Simposio de la Fundacion de Araqueologic del Caribe.
1986): 11-32. Caracas.

Meggers, Betty J., and Evans, Clifford. A utilizacao de sequencias ceramicas
seriadas para inferir comportamento social. Boletim Serie Ensaios 35.
Instituto de Araquelogia Brasileira, Rio de Janeiro. 48 pp. (1985).

Milanich, Jerald T. (Editor). The Early Prehistoric Southeast: A Sourcebcok.
(1985). New York: Garland Publishing Corp.

"Discussion and Comments." In Archaeology of Northwest Florida and
Adjacent Borderlands: Current Research Problems and Approaches. N. M.
White, Editor. - Florida Anthropological Society Publications 11.

"Field Schools, Fort Center, and the Origins of the Armadillo
Roest--Reminiscences of Charles Fairbanks During the Florida Years,

1964-75." In Indians, Colonists, and Slaves--Essays in Memory of Charles
H. Fairbanks. K. Johnson, J. Leader, and R. Wilson, Editors. (1985).
Florida Journal of Anthropology, Special Publication 4.

- "Comments" published with "Mississippi Period Archaeology of the
Georgia Coastal Zone," by Morgan R. Crook, Jr. (1986). University of
Georgia Archaeology Series Report 23.

"Weeden Island Culture and the McXeithen Site. (1986) Weston, Ct.:
Pictures of Record, Inc.

Milanich, Jerald T., and Ruhl, Donna L. Fort Center and the Belle Glade
Culture, Florida. (1986). Weston, Ct.: Pictures of Records, Inc.

Mintz, Sidney. "Epilogue: The Divided Aftermaths of Freedom." In Between
Slave and Free Labor. Moreno Fraginals, F. Moya Pons, and S. L.
Engermen, Editors. (1985): 270-78.

- "Caribbean Contours." (Editor with S. Price). (1985): 254 pages.
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press.

- "From Plantations to Peasantries in the Caribbean." In Caribbean
Countours. Edited by S. Mintz and S. Price. (1985): 127-53.

- Sweetness and Power: The Place of Sugar in Modern History. (1986):
288 pages. New York: Viking-Penguin.

- Histo Evolution and the Concept of Culture: The Collected Papers of
Alexander Lesser. (1986). New York: Cambridge University Press.

"A antropologia da producao de plantation." In Economia e movimentos
sociais na America Latina. Edited by F. Henrique Cardoso, B. Sorji, and M.
Font. (1986): 145-55.

- "Die Zeit, der Zucker und das Sasvet Zu Geschichte, Okonomie und
Bedeutung des suszen Geschmacks." SOWI 14 (H.2). (1986): 985-95.

Parks, Douglas R., and Wedel, Waldo R. "Pawnee Geography: Historical and
Sacred." In Great Plains Quarterly 5 (1985): 143-176.

Potts, Richard. "Temporal span of Bone Accumulations at Olduvai Gorge,
Tanzania, and Implications for Early Hominid Foraging Behavior."
Paleobiology. (1986).

- "From Hominid Origins to Complex Societies: The Distinguished Career
of J. Desmond Clark." Journal of Human Evolution. (1986).

- "Paleoanthropological Reconstructions of Early Hominid Socioecology: A
Critique of Primate Models." In Adaptive Models for Human Evolution.
Edited by W. Kinzey. (1986). New York: SUNY Press.

Powell, Mary Lucas. "Late Prehistoric Community Health in the Central Deep
South: Biological and Social Dimensions of the Mississippian Chiefdom at
Moundville, Alabama." In Skeletal Analysis in Southeastern Archaeology.
Edited by J. E. Levy. (1986). Raleigh: North Carolina Archaeological
Council Publication Series.

- "Bone Lesions of Chronic Disease: A Cautionary Note for

Interpretation." American Journal of Physical Anthropology 69 (1986):
252%

167
168

Rudan, Pavao; Angel, J. L.; and Bennett, L. A. "Biological and Cultur
(

Rowley, Susan. "Population Movement in the Canadian Arctic." Etudes/Inuit
Studies. 9 (1)(1985): 3-22.
. "Eenoolooapik." Arctic 39 (2)(1986): 182-3.
ural
Microdifferentiation Among Rural Populations in Yugoslavia." 1285).
Progress Report for 1983. Zagreb and Washington, D.C.

Senmidt, Robert G. "Snow Camp Pyrophyllite Mine." In Volcanic-Hosted Gold and
High-Alumina Rocks of the Carolina Slate Belt. Edited by P. G. Feiss.
Guidebook for Society of Economic Geologists Field Trip (1985): 37-47.

Schmidt, R. G. and Klein, T. L. "High-Alumina Hydrothermal Alteration Systems

and Their Role in Mineral Exploration, South-Eastern United States." In

USGS Research on Mineral Resources - 1985, Program and Abstracts. Edited

by Kathleen Krafft. : 47-48. U. S. Geological Survey Circular 949.

Selig, Ruth 0. (Consulting Editor). "Eskimos." Cobblestone. (November 1985).

Selig, Ruth 0.3; Kaupp, Ann; Brooks, Alison; Lanouette, JoAnne. Anthro-Notes,

Museum of Natural History Newsletter for Teachers. (1985-1986). 7 (3); 8
(1); 8 (2)

Smith, Bruce D. "Chenopodium berlandieri subsp. jonesianum: Evidence for a
Hopewellian Domesticate from Ash Cave, Ohio." Southeastern Archaeology 4
(1985): 107-133.

"The Archaeology of the Southeastern United States: From Dalton to

Desoto (10,500 B.P. - 500 B.P.)." In Advances in World Archaeology Volume
5. Edited by Fred Wendorf and Angela E. Close. (1986): 1-92. Orlando:

Academic Press.

- "Paleoindian and Early Archaic Subsistence Strategies in Eastern North
America." (Junior author with David Meltzer) In Foraging, Collecting, and
Harvesting: Archaic Period Subsistence and Settlement in the Eastern

Woodlands. Edited by Sarah W. Neusius. : 1-30. Center for
Archeeological Investigations Occasional Paper 6.

« "Middle Mississippi Exploitation of Animal Populations: A Predictive
Model." Chapter 23 In The Late Prehistoric Southeast. Edited by Chester
B. DePratter. (1986). New York: Garland Publishing. (Reprint of article
appearing in 1974 in American Antiquity 38: 274-291)

Stanford, Dennis J., and Graham, R. "Archeological Investigations of the Selley
& Dutton Mammoth Kill Sites, Yuma, Colorado." National Geographic Society
Research Reports 19 (1985): 519-543.

Sturtevant, William C. "The Meanings of Native American Art." In The Arts of
the North American Indian. Edited by E. L. Wade. (1986): 23-44. New
York: Hudson Hills Press; and Tulsa: Philbrook Art Center.

- "Contemporary North American Indian Crafts." In 1986 Festival of
American Folklife. Edited by T. Vennum, Jr. (1986): 79-82. Washington,
D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

"Great Basin." Handbook of North American Indians, Volume ll. W. C.
Sturtevant, General Editor. (Warren d'Azevedo, Volume Editor). (1986)
Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Sturtevant, William C., and Shimony, Annemarie. Translators). "The Origin of
The Mask Complex in the Eastern Woodlands of North America," by Rolf
Krusche. Man in the Northeast 31 (1986): 1-47.

Taylor, Paul Michael. International Directory of Indonesianists. (1986). Ann
Arbor: The Association for Asian Studies, Indonesian Studies Committee.

Taylor, P. M., and Tuchrello, W. "A Bibliograpnic Note on Rare and Recently,
Locally, or Ephemerally Published Monographs and Government Reports on the
Moluceas (Maluku Province, Indonesia) Assembled by Paul Taylor; Presented
as a Supplement to Existing Bibliograpnies." Southeast Asian Research
Materials Group Newsletter 29 (1985): 9-15.

Trousdale, Willian, (Editor). War in Afghanistan, 1879-80.

of Major General Sir Charles Metcalfe MacGregor.
Wayne State University Press.

Ubelaker, Douglas H. "Estimation of Age at Death from Histology of Human Bone."
Chapter 7 In Dating and Age Determination of Biological Materials. Micnael
R. Zimmerman and J. Lawrence Angel, Editors. CECA 240-247. London:
Croom Heln.

Ubelaker, Douglas H., and Jantz, Richard L. "Biological History of tne
Aboriginal Population of North America." Lieferung 11: Amerika I:

Nordamerika, Mexico. Rassengeschichte der Menschheit, Ilse Schwisetzky,
editor. Oldenbourg, Munchen. (1985): 79 pages, 6 plates.

The Personal Diary
x-250. Detroit:

Department of Botany

Arnold, K. E., and Littler, M. M. "The Carbon-14 Method for Measuring Primary
Productivity." In Handbook of Phycological Methods. Ecological Field
Methods: Macroalgse (1985): 377-396. Edited by M. M. Littler and D. S.
Littler. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Banerjee, S.; Jakupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
"Chromenes from Ageratina riparia." Phytochemistry 24 (11) (1985):
2681-2683.

Baruah, R. N.; Zdero, C.; Bohlmann, ©.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Some
Sesqui- and Diterpenes from the Tribe Eupatoriaeae." Phytochemistry 24
(11) (1985): 2641-2644.

Boeker, R.; Jakupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.

"Further Heliangolides and Guaianolides from Eupatorium altissimum."
Phytochemistry 25 (7) (1986): 1669-1672.

Bohlmann, F.; Baruah, R. N.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Alicyclic
Diterpenes from Cronquistianthus bishopii." Planta Medica (1985): 157.

Bohlmann, F.; Misra, L. N.; Jakupovic, J.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
"Guaianolides, Heliangolides, Diterpenes and Cycloartenol Derivatives from
Balsamorhiza sagittate." Phytochemistry 24 (9) (1985): 2029-2036.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Further Germacranolides
from Eupatorium serotinum." Planta Medica (1985): 76.

Bohlmann, ©.; Zdero, C.; Jakupovic, J.; Grenz, M.; Castro, V.; King, R. M.;
Robinson, H.; and Vincent, L. P. D. "Turther Pyrrolizidine Alkaloides and
Furoeremophilanes from Senecio Species." Phytochemistry 25 (5) (1986):
1151-1159.

Bohlmann, F.; Zdero, C.; Schmeda-Hirschnmann, G.; Jakupovic, J.; Dominguez, X.
A.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Dimeric Guaianolides and Other
Constituents from Gochnatia Species." Phytochemistry 25 (5) (1986):
1175-1173.

Burns-Balogh, P.,

and Robinson, | "Orchid Pollen/Pollinaria: A Collection of
3,199 Scanning El ‘

Ro :
lectron Micrographs." IDC, 4-13, 261/1.

109
re)

Cuatrecasas, J. "Studies in Neotropical Senecioneae IV. New Taxa in Senecio
and Cabreriella." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98

(3) (1985): 623-626.
. "Miscelanea Sobre Flora Neotropica, IV. Addenda." Fontqueria 9 (1986):
5-7.
- “Un Genero Nuevo de Astereae, Compositae, de Colombia." Anales Jardin
Botanico Madrid 42 (2) (1986): 415-426.
DeFilipps, Robert. "Bernardo de Iriarte, of the Palm Genus Iriartea."
Principes 29 (1985): 156-159.
Eyde, Richard H. “Letter from the Smithsonian" [on the Wilkes Expedition].
Douglasia 9 (3) (1985): 7-8.
- “A Rich to Remember." Rich Family Association Kinfolk 22 (2) (1985):
3-4.
"Expedition Botany, the Making of New Profession." In Magnificent
Voyagers: the U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-42 (1985): 25-41. Edited by
- He. J. Viola and C. Margolis. Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press.
"The Case for Monkey-Mediated Evolution in Big-Bracted Dogwoods."
Arnoldia 45 (4) (1985): 2-9.
. (Japanese version translated and introduced by H. Hatta.] In
Collecting and Breeding 48 (1986): 76-79.
. [Chinese translation by S.-Y. Wang.] In Zhiwu Zazhi 1986 (no. 1):
9-10, 32.
"Williem Rich of the Great U.S. Exploring Expedition and How His
Shortcomings Helped Botany Become a Calling." Huntia 6 (2) (1986).
Farr, Ellen R. "Index Nominum Genericorum Supplements." Taxon 35 (3) (1986):
546.
« (92) Proposal to Amend Art. 9.3." Taxon 35 (2) (1986): 396-397.
Farr, Ellen R.; Leussink, A.; and Zijlstra, G. eds. “Index Nominum Genericorum
(Plantarum) Supplementum I." Regnum Vegetabile 113 (1986): 1-126.
Fosberg, F. R. “Coral Reef Destruction in Ryukyu Islands." Environmental
Conservation 12 (1985): 270.
Fosberg, Fe Re, and Sachet, M-H. "Santalum in Eastern Polynesia." Candollia 40
(1985): 459-470.
- "A New Pavonia from Ceylon." Ceylon Journal Science 15 (1982) (1985):
38-40.
Hale, Mason E., Jr. "Zanthomaculina Hale, a New Lichen Genus in the
Parmeliaceae (Ascomycotina)." Lichenologist 17 (3) (1985): 255-265.
"New Species in the Lichen Family Parmeliaceae (Ascomycotina)."
Mycotaxon 25 (1) (1986): 985-93.

- "“Arctoparmelia, a New Genus in the Parmeliaceae (Ascomycotina)."
Mycotaxon 25 (1) (1986): 251-254.

- "Flavoparmelia, a New Genus in the Lichen Family Parmeliaceae
(Ascomycotina)." Mycotaxon 25 (2) (1986): 603-605.
- "Appendix: Lichenes (Lichens) ." In Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda
(1986): 22-25. New York: John Wiley & Sons. Edited by Wolfgang Sterrer.
Hale, Mason E., Jr., and Teuvo Ahti. "An Earlier Name for Parmotrema perlatum"
(Huds.) Choisy (Ascomycotina: Parmeliaceae)." Taxon 35 (1) (1986):
1335-134.
Jakupovic, J.; Baruah, R. N.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "New
Alicyclic Diterpenes and Ent-Labdanes from Gutierrezia solbrigii."
Tetrahedron 41 (1985): 4537-4544.
Jakupovic, J.3i){Baruah, «Rie Nuiss Zdero,.'C..3) Bid, F.5 Pathak, Vo P.3*Chau-Thi, T.
V.3; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Further Diterpenes from
Plants of the Compositae, Subtribe Solidagininae." Phytochemistry 25 (3)
(1986): 1873-1881.

Jakupovic, J.; Ellmauerer, E.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H.
"Ent-labdanes from Austrobrickellia patens." Phytochemistry 25 (8) (1986):
1927-1929.

King, R. M., and Robinson, H. "Studies in the Eupatorieae (Asteraceae). CCXXI.
Additional Species from Tropical America." Phytologia 58 (4) (1985):
258-272.

Lellinger, David B. A Field Manuel of the Ferns and Fern-Allies of the United
States and Canada (1985). Washington: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Littler, M. M. "Introduction." In Herbivore-Plant Interactions on Coral Reefs:
Proceedings 5th International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti, 1985, Vol. 4.

Edited by J. C. Ogden, and M. M. Littler.

Littler, M. M., and Littler, D. S. "Factors Controlling Relative Dominance of

Primary Producers on Biotic Reefs." In Herbivore-Plant Interactions on

Coral Reefs: Proceedings 5th International Coral Reef Congress, Tahiti,
1985, Vol. 4: 35-39. Edited by J. C. Ogden, and M. M. Littler.

- "Non-Destructive Sampling." In Handbook of Phycological Methods.
Ecological Field Methods: Macroalgae (1985): 161-175. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.

Littler, M. M., and Littler, D. S. eds. Handbook of Phycological Methods.
Ecological Field Methods: Macroalgee (1985). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press. d

Littler, M. M.; Taylor, P. R.; and Littler, D. S. "Plant Defense Associations
in the Marine Environment." Coral Reefs 5 (1986): 1-9.

Nicolson, Dan H. "Apologia." Taxon 34 (1985): 5AD.s

. "Species Epithets and Gender Information." Taxon 35 (1986): 323-328.

Nicolson, Dan H., and Panigrahi, G. "Proposals to Amend Art. 6.4." Taxon 34
(1985): 719-720.

Nicolson, Dan H., Suresh, C. R. "(809) Proposal to Add Heydia as a Nom. Rej.
Under 2103 Scleropyrum, Nom. Cons. (Santalaceae)." Taxon 35 (1986):
177-178.

- (810) Proposal to Conserve 2577 Tiliacora Colebr. Against Braunea
Willd. (Menispermaceae)." Taxon 35 (1986): 178-179.

. (811) Proposal to Conserve 2593 Tinospora Against Campylus

Menispermaceae)." Taxon 35 (1986): 179-180.

. (813) Proposal to Conserve 4662 Salacia Against Courondi

Hippocrateaceae)." Taxon 35 (1986): 181-182.

- (824) Preposal to Reject Nialel Adanson Under 4189 Aglaia Lour., Nom.
Cons. (Meliaceae)." Taxon 35 (1986): 388.

. (795) Proposal to Conserve 5793 Ludwigia (Onagraceae)." Taxon 34
(1985): 537-538.

"(804) Proposal to Conserve 4087 Glycosmis Against Panel (Rutaceae)."
Taxon 34 (1985): 715-716.

- (841) Proposal to Conserve 8352a Canthium Lam. (Rubiaceae)." Taxon 35
(1986): 607.

Nowicke, Joan W.; Bittner, Janice L.; and Skvarla, John J. "Paeonia, Exine
Substructure and Plasma Ashing." In Pollen and Spores: Form and Function
(1986): 81-95. Edited by I. K. Ferguson and S. Blackmer. London:
Academic Press.

Quero, H. J., and Read, R. W. "A Revisicn of the Palm Genus Gaussia."
Systematic Botany 11 (1) (1986): 145-154, figs. 123.
Ramamoorthy, T. P., and Wasshausen, Dieter C. "A New Name in Dyscnoriste
(Acanthaceae)." Brittonia 37 (4) (1986): 358-359.
Read, R. W. "The Genus Nageliella." American Orchid Society Bulletin 55 (3)
(1986): 252-254.
. "Icones Bromeliacearum I." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 36 (3)
(1986): 119-124, figs. 7-9.
- "“Icones Bromeliacearum II." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 36 (4)
(1986): 152-153, fig. 5.
Read, R. W., and Solt, M. L. “Bibliography of the Living Cycads (Annotated)."
Lyonia 2 (4): 34-199, figs. 1-3 and fronticepiece.
Read, R. W., and Bonsack, C. "“Icones Bromeliacearum III." Journal of the
Bromeliad Society 36 (5) (1986): 200-201, fig. 4.
Robinson, H. "The Structure and Significance of the Leucobryaceous Leaf."

Monographs in Systematic Botany from the Missouri Botanical Garden 11
CEDE 111-120.

"Comments on the Cladistic Approach to the Phylogeny of the Bryophytes'
by Mischler and Churchill." Brittonia 37 (3) (1985): 279-281.
« “Studies in the Heliantheae (Asteraceae). RXXXI. A New Species of
Aspilia from Brazil." Phytologia 58 (4) (1985): 245-247.
- "On the Relationships of the Hookeriaceae." The Bryological Times 35
(1986): 2-3.
. "A Key to the Common Errors of Cladistics." Taxon 35 (2) (1986):
309-311.
"Notes on the Bryogeography of Venezuela." The Bryologist 89: 8-12.

Robinson, H. and Kahn, B. "A New Species of Stifftia from Cayenne (Asteraceae:
Mutisieae)." Phytologia 58 (4) (1985): 248-251.

. “New Species of Vernonia from Bolivia and Peru (Vernonieae:
Asteraceae)." Phytologia 58 (4) (1985): 252-257.

Robinson, H.; Powell, A. M.; King, R. M.; and Weedin, J. F. “Chromosome Numbers
in Compositae, XV: Liabeae." Annals of the Missouri Botanical Garden 72
(1985): 469-479. ieee sir

Scora, R. W., and Nicolson, Dan H. "The correct Name for the Shaddock, Citrus
maxima, not C. grandis (Rutaceae)." Taxon 35 (1986): 592-595.

Singh, P.; Jakupovic, J.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Highly
Oxygenated Guaianolides from Bishopanthus soliceps." Phytochemistry 24 (9)
(1985): 2110-2112.

Skog, L. Ew. "“Gesneriaceae Chromosome Numbers VIII. Recent Additions."
Crosswords 9 (3) (1985): 4-5.

kog, L. E. ed. "Flora of the Guianas Report No. 1." Taxon 35 (2) (1986):
413-415.

Smith, Alan R., and Lellinger, David B. "New Tropical American Species of
Thelypteris (Pteridophyta)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (1986): 916-930.

Smith, L. B. "Morren's Paintings." Journal of the Bromeliad Society 36 (8)
(1986): 8 (fig. 3).

Smith, L. B., and Read, R. We. "A Mimic Bromeliad from Colombia." Journal of
the Bromeliad Society 35 (6) (1985): 251 (fig. 6).

"A Weird Bromeliad from the Lost World." Journal of the Bromeliad

Society 35 (1) (1986): 10 (fig. 4).

Smith, L. B., and Schubert, B. G. "A New Cane Begonia From Amazonian Brazil."
The Begonian 52 (5) (1985): 135.

Smith, Lyman B.; Wasshausen, Dieter C.; Golding, Jack; and Karegeannes, Carrie
E. "Begoniaceae Part I: Illustrated Key Part II: Annotated Species
List." Smithsonian Contributions to Botany 60 (1986). Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Suresh, C. R., and Nicolson, Dan H. "Two Nomenclatural Novelties Based on
Rheede's Hortus Malabaricus." Taxon 35 (1986): 354-355.

Taylor, P. R.; Littler, M. M.; and Littler, D. S. “Escapes from Herbivory in
Relation to the Structure of Mangrove Island Macroalgal Communities."
Oecologia 69 (1986): 481-491.

Terrell, E. E.; Lewis, W. H.; Robinson, H.; and Nowicke, J. W. "Phylogenetic
Implications of Diverse Seed Types, Chromosome Numbers, and Pollen
Morphology in Houstonia (Rubiaceae)." American Journal of Botany 73 (1):
103-115.

Villa-Lobos, Jane. "Costa Rican Corridor." Threatened Plants Newsletter 15
(1985): 16.

"Atlantic Forest Protected." Threatened Plants Newsletter 15 (1985):
16-17.
- "Desert Oasis Saved." Threatened Plants Newsletter 15 (1985): 17-18.
- "The Endangered Morro Bay Kangaroo Rat." Biological Conservation
Newsletter 39 (1986): 1.
- "Los Amigos del Manu." Biological Conservation Newsletter 40 (1986):
1-2.

Wasshausen, Dieter C. "The Systematics of the Genus Pachystachys
(Acanthaceae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (1)
(1986): 160-185.

Wurdack, J. J. “Atlas of Hairs for Neotropical Melastomataceae." Smithsonian
Contributions to Botany 63 (1986). Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

Zanoni, T. A., and Read, R. W. "Hybrid in Chrysalidocarpus." Principes 30 Ge
(1986): 35-37 (figs. 1-4). pe ere

Zdero, C.; Bohlmann, F.; King, R. M.; and Robinson, H. "Further 5-Methyl
Coumarins and other Constituents from the Subtribe Mutisiinae."
Phytochemistry 25 (2) (1985): 509-516.

Department of Entomology

Burns, John M. "Wallengrenia otho and W. egeremet in Eastern North America
(Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae: Hesperiinee)." Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology 423 (1985): 1-39, 66 figures.

Clarke, J. F. Gates. "Pyralidae and Microlepidoptera of the Marquesas
Archipelago." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 416 (1986): 1-485, 319
figs., maps, 1 chart.

Coddington, J. A. "The Genera of the Spider Family Theridiosomatidae."
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 422 (1986): 1-96, 220 figures.

"Orb Webs in 'Non-orb Weaving’ Ogre Faced Spiders (Araneae: Dinopidae):
A Question of Genealogy." Journal of Cladistics, 2 (1986): 53-57.

(ws)
Davis, D. R. "Neotropical Tineidae, I: The Types of H.B. Moschler (Lepidoptera:
Tineoidea)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 98
(1)(1986): 83-92. |
- "A Search for the Type Series of Nematocentronus omeiensis Huang
(Lepidoptera: Neopseustidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society
of Washington 88(2) (1986): 391-392.

- "Donation of Blanchard Lepidoptera Collection to the Smithsonian
Institution." Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society 39 (3)(1985):
235-236.

- "A New Family of Monotrysian Moths From Austral South America
(Lepidoptera: Palaephatidae), with a Phylogenetic Review of the
Monotrysia." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 434 (1986): 1-202, 599
figures.

Davis, D. R.; Clayton, D. H.; Janzen, D. H.; and Brooke, A. P. “Neotropical
Tineidae, II: Biological Notes and Descriptions of Two New Moths Phoretic
on Spiny Pocket Mice in Costa Rica (Lepidoptera: Tineoidea)." Proceedings
of the Entomological Society of Washington 88 (1)(1986): 98-109.

Davis, D. R., and Faeth, S. H. "A New Oak-mining Eriocraniid Moth from
Southeastern United States (Lepidoptera: Eriocranidiae)." Proceedings of
the Entomological Society of Washington 88 (1)(1986): 145-153.

Erwin, Terry L. "Tambopata Reserved Zone, Madre de Dios, Peru: History and
Description of the Reserve." Revista Peruana de Entomololia 27 (1985):
1-8.

- "The Taxon Pulse: A General Pattern of Lineage Radiation and Extinction

Among Carabid Beetles." In Taxonomy, Phylogeny, and Zoogeography of
Beetles and Ants: A Volume Dedicated to the Memo of Philip Jackson
Darlington Jr. 1904-1985. Edited by G. E. Ball. 437-472. Dr. W.
Junk b. v. Publishers. The Hague.

- "Agra, Arboreal Beetles of Neotropical Forests: mixta-group,
virgate-group, and ohausi-group Systematics (Carabidae)." Systematic
Entomology, 11 (1986): 293-316.

Erwin, Terry L., and Stork, Nigel. "The Hiletini, an Ancient and Enigmatic
Tribe of Carabidae with a Pantropical Distribution (Coleoptera) ."
Systematic Entomology 10 (1985): 405-451.

Flint, Oliver S., Jr., and Angrisano, Elisa B. "Studies of Neotropical
Caddisflies KXXV: The Immature Stages of Banyallarga argentinica Flint
(Trichoptera: Calamoceratidae) ." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 98 (1985): 687-697.

Froeschner, R. C. "Restoration of the Species Name Salda coriacea Uhler, 1872
(Hemiptera: Saldidae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington 88 (1986): 394.

Hevel, G. F. "Leafhoppers." In The World and I 6 (1986): 266-267.
Washington, D. C.: The Washington Times Corporation.

Hoogstraal, H.; Wassef, H. Y.; Hayes, C.; and Keirans, James E. "“Ornithodoros
(Alectorobius) spheniscus n. sp. [Acarina: Ixodoidea: Argasidae:
Ornithcdoros (Alectorobius) capensis group], a Tick Parasite of the
Humboldt Penguin in Peru." Journal of Parasitology 71 (5)(1985): 635-644.

Huang, Yiau-Min. "Aedes (Stegomyia) bromeliae: Diptera: Culicidae, the Yellow
Fever Virus Vector in East Africa." Medical Entomology 23 (2)(1986):
196-200.

bri

Keirans, James E. "Amblyomma antillorum Kohls, 1969 (Acari: Ixodidae):
Description of the Immature Stages from the Rock Iguana, Iguana pinguis

(Sauria: Iguanidae) in the British Virgin Islands." Proceedings of the

Entomological Society of Washington 87 (4)(1985): 821-825.

"Harry Hoogstraal (1917-1986)." Journal of Medical Entomology 23
(4)(1986): 342-343.
- Book Review. The Ticks of California (Acari: Ixodida) by D. P. Furman
and E. C. Loomis. Journal of Medical Entomology 22 (6)(1985): 6-7.

Keirans, James E.; Clifford, C. M.; Guglielmone, A. A.; and Mangold, A. J.
"Ixodes (Ixodes) pararicinus n. sp. (Acari: Ixodoidea: Ixodidae), a South
American Cattle Tick Long Confused with Ixodes ricinus." Journal of
Medical Entomology 22 (4)(1985): 401-407.

Keirans, James E., and Degenhardt, W. G. “Aponomma elaphense Price 1959 (Acari:
Ixodidae): Diagnosis of the Adults and Nymph with First Description of the
Larvae." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (3)(1985):
TAA STA Tas

Krombein, Karl V. "A Remarkable New African Amisegine Wasp (Hymenoptera:
Chrysididae: Amiseginae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of
Washington 88 (1986): 509-514, 3 figures.

Krombein, Karl V., and Pulawski, Wojciech J. "Biosystematic Studies of
Ceylonese Wasps, XVI: A Revision of Gastrosericus Spinola (Hymenoptera:
Larridae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 436 (1986): 1-20, 34
figures.

Larcher, Scott F., and Wise, D. H. "Experimental Studies of the Interactions
Between a Web-invading Spider and Two Host Species. Journal of
Arachnology 13 (1)(1985): 43-59.

Lindroth, C. H.; Bangsholt, F.; Baranowski, R.; Erwin, T. L.; Jorum, P.; Landon,
B. 0.; Refseth, D.; and Silfverberg, H. The Carabidae (Coleoptera) of
Fennoscandia and Denmark. Copenhagen: £. J. Brill Publishers. 225 pp.

Mathis, Wayne N. "A Revision of the Subgenus Eremotrichoma Soika of the Shore
Fly Genus Allotrichoma Becker (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Israel Journal of
Entomology 19 (1986): 127-139.

- "A Revision of the Shore Fly Genus Placopsidella Becker (Diptera:
Ephydridae)." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 430 (1986): 1-30, 34
figures.

Mathis, Wayne N., and Hogue, Charles L. "Description of a New Species of the
Shore Fly Genus Diedrops (Diptera: Ephydridae) from Colombia."
Contributions in Science 379 (1986): 21-26.

Mathis, Wayne N., and Steiner, Warren E. "An Adventive Species of Brachydeutera
Loew in North America (Diptera: Ephydridae)." Journal of the New York
Entomological Society 94 (1)(1986): 56-61.

McGinley, R. J. "Studies of Halictinae (Apoidea: Halictidae), I: Revision of

New World Lasioglossum Curtis." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 429

(1986): 1-294, 746 figures.

"MELISSA Melittologist's Directory" 1 (supplement) (1986), 45 pages.

McGinley, Rk. J. and Michener, C. D. "MELISSA The Melittologist's Newsletter" 1
(1986), 49 pages.

Robbins, Robert Kk. “Independent Evolution of 'False Head' Behavior in

Riodinidee." Journal of the Lepidopterists' Society 39 (1986): 224-225.

Leal

on
Spangler, Paul J. "The Status of the Riffle Beetle Genus Lara LeConte and
Homenymy of the Subfamily Group Name Larinae (Coleoptera: Elmidae)."
Entomological News 97 (2)(1986): 76-78.

"Two New Species of Water-striders in the Genus Oiovelia from the Tepui
Cerro de la Neblina, Venezuela (Hemiptera: Veliidee)." Proceedings of the
Entomological Society of Washington 88 (3)(1986): 438-450, 26 figures.

- "A New Genus and Species of Water Scavenger Beetle, Guyanobius

adocetus, from Guyana and its larva (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae:

Hydrobiinae)." Proceedings of the Entomological Society of Washington 88

(3)(1986): 585-594, 24 figures.

- "Coleoptera." In Stygofauna Mundi, a Faunistic, Distributional, and

Ecological Synthesis of the World Fauna Inhabiti Subterranean Haters
(including the Marine Interstitial). Edited by L. Botosaneanu. (1986):
622-631, 16 figures. Leiden: E. J. Brill/Dr. W. Backhuys.

"Three New Species of Water Scavenger Beetles of the Genus
Chaetarthria from Scuth America (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae)." Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (3)(1986): 509-516, 8 figures.

Spangler, Paul J.; Froeschner, Richard C.; and Polhemus, John T. "Comments on a
Water-strider, Rheumatobates meinerti Schroeder, from the Antilles and a
Checklist of the Species of the Genus (Hemiptera: Gerridae)."
Entomological News 96 (5)(1985): 196-200.

Traub, R. "Coevolution of Fleas and Mammals." Chapter 8. In Coevolution of
Parasitic Arthropods and Mammals. Edited by K. C. Kim. (1985): 295-437
126 figs., refs. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Traub, R. "List of Parasitic Arthropods Associated with Mammals. Order
Siphonaptera." In Coevolution of Parasitic Arthropods end Mammals. Edited
by X. C. Kim. (1985): 690-697. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Traub, R., and R. Inger. "Obituary - Harry Hoogstraal (1917-1986)." Field
Museum of Natural History 57 (7)(1986): 9-10.

Department of Invertebrate Zoology

Andolshek, Margaret D., and Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. "The Entocytherid Ostracod
Fauna of Southeastern Georgia." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 424
(1986): i-iii, 1-43. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Barnard, J. L., and Clark, J. "A New Sea-Cave Amphipod from Bermuda

(Dulichiidae)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98
(1985): 1048-1053, 3 figs.

Bayer, F. M. "The Invertebrates of the U.S. Exploring Expedition." In
Magnificent Voyagers. The U.S. Exploring Expedition, 1838-1842 71-87.
dited by Herman J. Viola, and Carolyn Margolis. Washington, D. C.:

mithnsonian Institution Press.
Boss, X. J., and Harasewych, M. G. "Soviet Contributions to Malacology in
1980." The Veliger 28 (3)(1986): ‘329-337.
Bowman, T. E. "Name Endings in Ostracod Superfamilies - a Response to I. G.
Sohn." Lethaia 18 (1985): 304.

"Neteromysoides dennisi, a New Mysidacean Crustacean from Cemetery Cave,
Grand Banama Island." Proceedings of the Biological Societ: Weshington
98 (4)(1985): 945-948.

- ‘"“Thermosphaeroma cavicauda and T. macrura, New Sphaeromatid Isopodcs from
Mexican Hot Springs." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington
98 (4)(1985): 1042-1047.
- "Freshwater Calanoid Copepods of the West Indies." In Proceedings of
the Second International Conference on Copepoda, Ottawa, Canada, 13-17
August 1984. Syllogeus 58 (1986): 237-246. Edited by G. Schriever, H. K.
Schminke, and C.-t Shih. Ottawa: National Museum of Natural Sciences.
_._.- "“TIridentella recava, a New Isopod from Tilefish Burrows in the New York
Bight (Flabelli ifera: ‘era: Tridentellidae). " Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 99 (2)(1986): 269-273.
- "Tortanus recticauda, Extension of Range to Arabian Gulf (Copepoda,
Calanoida, Tortanidae)." Crustaceana 50 (3)(1986): 239-242.

- "Copepoda: Calanoida." In Stygofauna Mundi, a Faunistic,

~~ Distributional, and Ecological Synthesis of the World Fauna Inhabiting
Subterranean Waters (Includin the Marine Interstitial) (1976): 295-298.
Edited by Lazare Botosaneanu. Leiden: E. J. Brill/Dr. W. Backhuys.

- "Mictacea." In Stygofauna Mundi, a Faunistic, Distributional, and

Ecological Synthesis of the World Fauna Inhabiting Subterranean Waters
(Including the Marine Interstitial) (1976): 410-411. Edited by Lazare
Botosaneanu. Leiden: E. J. Brill/Dr. W. Backhuys.

"Mysidacea." In Stygofauna Mundi, a Faunistic, Distributional, and

Ecological Synthesis of the World Fauna Inhabit Subterranean Waters
(Including the Marine Interstitial) (1976): 405-409. Edited by Lazare
Botosaneanu. Leiden: E. J. Brill/Dr. W. Backhuys.

Bruce, A. J., and Chace, F. A., Jr. "Paralebbeus zotheculatus, n. gen., nm. Sp.,
a New Hippolytid Shrimp from the Australian Northwest Shelf." Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (2)(1986): 237-247.

Cairns, S. D. "Stylasteridae (Hydrozoa: Hydroida) of the Galapagos Islands."
Smithsonian Conributions to Zoology 26 (1986): i-iii, 1-42. Washington,
D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

- "A Revision of the Northwest Atlantic Stylasteridae." Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology 418 (1986): 4d-iv, 1-131. Washington, D.C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Cairns, S. D.; den Hartog, J. C.; and Arneson, C. "Class Anthozoa." In Marine
Fauna and Flora of Bermuda (1986): 159-194. Edited by W. Sterrer. New
York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Chace, F. A., Jr. "The Caridean Shrimps (Crustacea: Decapoda).of the Albatross
Philippine Expedition, 1907-1910, Part 4: Families Oplophoridae end
Nematocarcinidae." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 432 (1986): i-iv,
1-82. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Chace, F. A., Jr.3 McDermott, J. J.; McLaughlin, P. A.; and Manning, R. B.
"Order Decapoda (Shrimps, Lobsters and Crabs)." In Marine Fauna and Flora
of Bermuda (1985): 312-358. Edited by Wolfgang Sterrer. John Wiley &
Sons, Inc.

Child, C. Allan. "Spotlight on a Sea-Going "Spider." Animal Kingdom 89
(1)(1986): 36-38, 2 photos.

Child, C. Allan, and Harbison, G. R. "A Parasitic Association between a
Pycnogonid and a Scyphomedusa in Midwater." Journal of the Marine
Biological Association of the United Kingdom 66 CiG86 stad tein

Clark, J., and Barnard, J. L. "“Tonocate, a New Genus and Species of

Zobrachoidee from Argentina (Crustacea: Marine Amphipoda)." Proceedings

of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (1986): 225-236, 6 figs.

Cressey, R. F. "Biogeography of Parasitic Copepods." Proceedings of the Second
International Conference on Copepoda 58 (1986): 136-142.

Cressey, R. F., and Cressey, H. B. "Holobomolochus (Copepoda: Bomolochidae)
Redefined, with Descriptions of Three New Species from the Eastern
Pacific." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 5 (4)(1985):
117-727.

Emlet, R. B. "Crystal Axes in Recent and Fossil Echinoids Indicate Trophic Mode
in Larval Development." Science 230: 937-940.

- "Facultative Planktotrophy in the Tropical Echinoid Clypeaster rosaceus
(Linnaeus) and a Comparison with Obligate Planktotrophy in Clypeaster
subdepressus (Gray) (Clypeasteroida: Echinoidea)." Journal of Experimental

Marine Biology and Ecology 95: 183-202.
Fauchald, K.; Sturmer, W.; and Yochelson, E. L. "Sphenothallus "Vermes" in the

early Devonian Hunsruck Slate, West Germany." Palaontologische Zeitschrift
60 (1-2)(1986): 57-64.

Foell, E. J., and Pawson, D. L. "Photographs of Invertebrate Megafauna from
Abyssal Depths of the Northeastern Equatorial Pacific Ocean.” Ohio
Journal of Science 86 (3)(1986): 61-68.

Froglia, C., and Manning, R. B. "Notes on the Species of Allosquille and

Platysquilloides (Crustacea: Stomatopoda)." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 99 (2)(1966): 261-265.

Glynn, P. W., Peters, E. C., and Muscatine, L. "Coral Tissue Microstructure
and Necrosis: Relation to Catastrophic Coral Mortality in Panama."
Diseases of Aquatic Organisms 1 (1986): 29-37.

Harasewych, M. G. "The Columbariinae (Gastropoda: Turbinellidae) of the Eastern
Indian Ocean." Journal of the Malacological Society of Australia 8
(182) (1986).

Harasewych, M. G., and Petit, R. E. "Notes on the Morphology of Admete viridula
(Gastropoda: Cancellariidae)." The Nautilus 100 (3)(1986): 985-91.

Hart, C. W. Jr.3; Hayek, L. C.3; Clark, J.3; and Clark, W. H. "The Life and
Ecology of the Entocytherid Ostracod Uncinocythere occidentalis (Kozloff &
Whitman) in Idaho." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 419, (1985):
i-iv, 1-22. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Hart, C. W., Jr., and Manning, R. B. "Two New Shrimps (Procarididae and
Agostocarididae, New Family) from Marine Caves of the Western North

Atlantic." Journal of Crustacean Biology 6 (3)(1986): 408-416.
Hershler, R., and Longley, G. "Phreatic Hydriobiids (Gastropoda:

Prosobranchia) from the Edwards (Balcones Fault Zone) Aquifer Region,

South-Central Texas." Malacologia 27 (1)(1986): 127-172.

- "Hadoceras taylori New Genus and Species of Phreatic Hydrobiidae

a

(Gastropoda: Rissoacea) from South-Central Texas." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 99 (1)(1986): 121-136.

Hershler, Robert. "Systematic Revision of the Hydrobiidae (Gastropoda:

Cienegas Basin, Coahuila, Mexico." Malacologia
Higgins, Robert P. "Xinorhyncha." In Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda
220-222. Edited by W. Sterrer and C. Sterrer. New York: Academic Press.

"Kinorhyncha." In Stygofauna Mundi, ed. L. Botosaneau.

"Loricifera." McGraw Yearbook of Science and Technology, (1986):
262-254. Editor S. P. Parker. New York: McGraw Hill Book Co.

Higgins, Robert P., and Kristensen, R. M. "New Loricifera from Southeastern
United States Coastal Waters." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology 438:
1-70. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

Hobbs, Horton H., Jr., and Robison, Henry W. "A New Burrowing Crayfish
(Decapod: Cambaridae) from Southwestern Arkansas." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 98 (4): 1035-1041.

Holthuis, L. B., and Manning, R. B. "Neodorippe Serene & Romimohtarto, 1969
(Crustacea: Decapoda): Proposed Designation of a Type Species." Bulletin

of Zoological Nomenclature 42 (3)(1985): 304-305.
Hope, W. Duane, and Yorkoff, A. Book chapter. "Nematoda." In An Annotated

Checklist of Marine Invertebrates in the Cold Temperate Northeast Pacific,
vol. I. Edited by W. C. Austin, pp. 129-152. Victoria: Fotoprint, Ltd.,
1985.

Houbrick, R. S. "The Systematic Position of Royella sinon (Bayle)
(Prosobranchia: Cerithiidae)." The Veliger 28 (4): 429-435.

- "Cerithidea reidi, spec. nov., from Western Australia." The Veliger
28(3): 280-286.

"Discovery of a New Living Cerithioclava Species in the Caribbean
(Mollusca: Prosobranchia: Cerithiidae)." Proceedings of the Biological
Society of Washington 99 (2): 257-260.

"Transfer of Quadrasia from the Planaxidae to the Buccinidae (Mollusca:
Gastropoda: Prosobranchia)." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington 99 (2): 357-362.

Jensen, R. H., and Harasewych, M. G. "Class Polyplacophora (Chitons)." In
Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda: A Systematic Guide to the
Identification of Marine Organisms. (1986): 394-397. =dited by W.
Sterrer. John Wiley &« Sons, Inc.

- "Class Scaphopoda (Tusk Shells)." In Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda:
A Systematic Guide to the Identification of Marine Organisms. 1986 ):
458-460. Edited by W. Sterrer. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

- "Class Bivalvia (=Pelecypoda, Lamellibranchia) (Clams, Mussels,
Shipworms, etc.)." In Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda: A Systematic
Guide to the Identification of Marine Organisms. (1986): 460-491. Edited
by W. Sterrer. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Jensen, R. H.; Harasewych, M. G.; and Clark, K. "Class Gastropoda (Snails,
Limpets and Slugs)." In Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda: A Systematic

Guide to the Identification of Marine Organisms. 1986): 397-458. Edited
by W. Sterrer. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Jones, M. L. "Vestimentiferan Pogonopnores: Their Biology and Affinities." In
The Origins and Relationships of Lower Invertebrates. Edited by S. C.
Morris; J. D. George; R. Gibson; and H. M. Platt. 28 (1985): 327-342.

The Systematics Associaticn, Special Volume No. 28. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.

. (Editor) Hydrothermal Vents of the Eastern Pacific: An Overview.
Biological Society of Washington (6)(1985): vii + 547 pages.

« "On the Vestimentifera, New Phylum: Six New Species, and Other Taxa,
from Hydrothermal Vents and Elsewhere." In Hydrothermal Vents of the
Eastern Pacific: An Overview. Edited by M. L. Jones. (6)(1985): 117-158.
Biological Society of Washington.

Jones, M. L., and Bright, C. F. "Appendix 1. Bibliography of Hydrothermal
Vents and Related Areas, their Biotas, Ecological Parameters and Ancillary
Data." In Hydrothermal Vents of the Eastern Pacific: An Overview. Edited
by M. L. Jones. (6)(1985): 495-538. Biological Society of Washington.

e “Appendix 2. Dive Data of Certain Submersibles, Hydrothermal and Other
Sites." In Hydrothermal Vents of the Eastern Pacific: An Overview. Edited
by M. L. Jones. (6)(1985): 539-545. Biological Society of Washington.

Jones, M. L.; Gardiner, S. L.; and Petersen, M. E. "Class Polychaeta." In
Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda - A Systematic Guide to the
Identification of Marine Organisms. Edited by W. Sterrer. (1986):
232-257. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Kensley, Brian. "The Fossil Occurrence in Southern Africa of the South American
Intertidal Molluse Concholepas concholepas." Annals of the South African
Museum 97 (1)(1985): 1-7.

"Cementing Bivalve Molluscs of the Genus Chlamys ('Hinnites') in
Southern Africa." South African Journal of Science 81 (10) (1985):
629-631.

Kensley, Brian, and Heard, Richard. "A New Species of the Genus Spinianirella
Menzies (Crustacea: Isopoda: Janiridae) from the Western Atlantic."
Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (3)(1985): 682-686.

Kornicker, Louis S. "Sarsiellidae of the Western Atlantic and Northern Gulf of
Mexico, and Revision of the Sarsiellinae (Ostracoda: Myodocopina)."
Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology (415)(1986): i-iv, 1-217.

Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press.

"Cylindroleberididae of the Western Atlantic and Northern Gulf of
Mexico, and Zoogeography of the Myodocopina." Smithsonian Contributions to
Zoology (425)(1986): i-iv, 1-139. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian
Institution Press.

- Journal article. "“Azygocypridina lowryi, a New Species of Myodocopid
Ostracod from Bathyal Depths in the Tasman Sea off New South Wales,

Australia." Proceedings of the Biologial Society of Washington 98
(3)(1985): 698-704.
- Journal article. "Thaumatoconcha porosa, a New Species of Abyssal

ch

Ostracod from the Indian Ocean (Halocyprida: Thaumatocyprididae)."

Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 98 (4)(1985):

1012-1021.

Maddocks, R. F., end Kornicker,
Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda
280-288. New York: John Wiley & Son

a
i

oF
n
a
qt

Ostracoda (Mussel Shrimps)." In
ed by Wolfgang Sterrer. (1986):
Manning, R. B. "Order Stomatopoda (Mantis Shrimps)." In Marine Fauna and Flora
of Bermuda. Edited by W. Sterrer. (1986): 305-310. New York: John
Wiley & Sons.

- "Fenner A. Chace, Jr.: Biographical Notes and Bibliography." Journal
of Crustacean Biology 6 (3)(1986): i-vi.

Manning, R. 3B., and Holthuis, L. B. "Preliminary Descripticns of Four New
Species of Dorippid Crabs from the Indo-West Pacific Region." Proceedings
of the Biological Society of Washington 99 (2)(1986): 363-365.

Manning, R. B., and Lewinsohn, C. "Notes on Some Stomatopod Crustacea from the
Sinai Peninsula, Red Sea." Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology
(433)(1986): i-iii, 1-19. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution
Press.

Pawson, D. L., and Foell, 5. J. "An Annotated Atlas of Abyssal Echinoderms from
the Clipperton-Clarion Fracture Zone, Equatorial Eastern North Pacific.”
In Proceedings of the Fifth International Echinodern Conference. Edited by
B. Keegan. CEO 168. Rotterdam: A.A. Balkema.

- "Peniagone leander New Species, an Abyssal Benthopelagic Sea Cucumber
(Echinodermata: Holothuroidea) from the Eastern Central Pacific Ocean."
Bulletin of Marine Science 38 (2)(1986): 293-299.

Pérez Farfante, I., and Boothe, Jr., B. B. "Redescription and Range Extension
of Parapenaeopsis balli Burkenroad (Decapoda: Penaeidea)." Journal of
Crustacea Biology 6 (3)(1986): 401-407.

Peters, E. C.; Halas, J. C.; and McCarty, H. B. "Neoplasia in Acropora palmata,
with a Review of Reports on Anomalies of Growth and Form in the Stony
Corals." Journal of the National Cancer Institute 76 (1986): 895-912.

Peters, E. C., and Pilson, M. E. Q. "A Comparative Study of the Efects of
Sedimentation Stress on Symbiotic and Asymbiotic Colonies of the Coral
Astrangia danae Milne Edwards & Haime 1849." J. Exp. Mar. Biol. Ecol. 92
(1985): 215-230.

Petit, R. E., and Harasewych, M. G. "New Philippine Cancellariidae (Gastropoda:
Cancellariacea), with Notes on the Fine Structure and Function of the
Nematoglossan Radula." The Veliger 28 (4)(1986): 436-443.

Pettibone, Marian H. "Review of the Iphioninee (Polychaeta: Polynoidae) and
Revision of Iphione cimex Quatrefages, Gattyana deludens Fauvel, and
Harmothoe iphionelloides Johnson (Harmothoinae)." Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology (428)(1986): 4i-iii, 1-43. Washington, D. C.:
Smithsonian Institution Press.

Rehder, Harald A. "A New Species of Coralliophila (Gastropoda:
Coralliophilidae) from Southeastern Polynesia." The Nautilus 99 (4):
97-100.

"Joseph Rosewater (1928-1985). A Tribute and Bibliography." The
Nautilus 100 (1): 9-13.
"Natica (Glyphepithema) bayeri, New Name." The Nautilus 100 (1): 38.
"Cypraea thomasi Crosse Revalidated." Hawaiian Shell News 35(6):12.
. "Natica (Glyphepithema) tedbayeri, a Replacement Name." The Nautilus

100 (3): 112.

Reid, J. W. "Chave de identificacao e lista de referencias bibliograficas para
as especies sulamericans continentais de vida livre da ordem Cyclopoide
(Crustacea: Copepoda)." [Key to the identification of and list of
bibliographical references for the free-living continental South American
Species of the Order Cyclopoida.] Boletim de Zoologia, Universidade de Sac
Paulo 9 (1985): 17-143.

"Some usually overlooked cryptic copepod habitats." Proceedings of the
Second International Conference on Copepoda. Edited by G. Schriever, H. K.
Schminke, & C.-t Shih. (58)(1986): 594-598. National Museums of Canada,
National Museum of Natural Sciences Syllogeus No. 58.

. "A redescription of Microcyclops ceibaensis (Marsh, 1919) from Marsh's
specimens in the National Museum of Natural History." Proceedings of the
Biological Society of Washington 99 (1)(1986): 71-78.

Roper, Clyde F. E. "Class Cephalopoda (Cuttlefishes, squids and octopuses) ."
In Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda. Edited by W. Sterrer. (1986):
492-500. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Roper, C. F. E.; Sweeney, M. J.3; and Clarke, M. R. "Cephalopods." In FAO

Species Identification Sheets for Fishery Purposes; Southern Ocean. Edited

by W. Fischer and J. C. Hureau. 1 : 117-205. Food and Agriculture

Organization of the United Nations.

Ruetzler, Klaus. "Porifera." In Marine Fauna and Flora of Bermuda. Edited by
W. Sterrer. (1986): 111-128. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Schiff, H.; Manning, R. B.; and Abbott, B. C. "Structure and Optics of
Ommatidia from Eyes of Stomatopod Crustaceans frem Different Luminous
Habitats." Biological Bulletin (170)(1986): 461-480.

Sieg, J., and Heard, R. We. "Crustacea Tsnaidacea of the Gulf of Mexico. IV. On
Nototanoides trifurcatus gen. et sp. nov., with a Xey to the Genera of the
Family Nototanaidae." Gulf Research Reports, 8 (1): 51-62.

Suess, E.; Carson, B.; Ritger, S. D.; Moore, J. C.; Jones, M. L.; Kulm, L. D.;
and Cochran, G. R. "Biological Communities at Vent Sites along the
Subduction Zone off Oregon." In Hydrothermal Vents of the Eastern Pacific:

An Overview. Edited by M. L. Jones. (6)(1985): 475-484. Biological

Society of Washington.

Thomas, J. D., and Barnard, J. L. “A New Marine Genus of the Maera Group
(Amphipeda) from Belize." Proceedings of the Biological Society of
Washington, 98 (1985): 630-635, 3 figures.

Upton, S. J., and Peters, E. C. "A New and Unusual Species of Coccidium
(Apicomplexa: Agamococcidiorida) from Caribbean Scleractinian Corals."

Journal of Invertebrate Pathology 47 (1986): 184-193.

Vecchione, M.; Roper, C. F. E.; Lu, C. C.3 and Sweeney, M. J. Abstract.
"Distribution and relative abundance of planktonic cephalopods in the
western North Atlantic." American Malacological Bulletin 4 (1)(1986):

101.
Department of Mineral Sciences

Abbott, Richard N., Jr.; Burnham, C. W.; and Post, J. E. "Energetics of
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).

AvvdeotprsuaPu al f-ce se, Med chtcNy-oe -—W# ee Pade teouS ep tes Toe ge ti¢ds-vt
Polytypism in Di-and Trioctahedral Micas." Proceedings of IMA 14th
Meeting, Stanford, California. (1986): 41 (Abstract).
