| } } } i
} } } , ) } }
) wy } l } }
} } } } } } }
* “i 3 TY | } } } } I
; 3 7A | td mun ie va] 4 « Pee | 4 D } “A =
vc) « * ‘ vt oe " i of rend aut } “k aq 2 uf
} = .
oa wh + oa & i “ sae we as | Vas} } =)
/ . _ ‘
= ” } ; j j
}

a gs tg ee ys oO” Bie
2 = : Pits) Be

#3
}
}
} a
}
>}
4 ua
a
4 + \
; :
5 a) 5
car
eG
Ses ¥ >
J GES
at |
e SH.
a.
] te
a
Fr.
3 E
a
j + ; $ % : % ra : <
a a ) = = ~ 3 } i
= Y
5 3 $
~ i ee < ¥ t
= ES 2 % < $ :
d es : '
: S ~ ve} % €
7 3
t
: \
> :
5 ty
ae “

\'f 1%
shpedcene bay thee Y

WEED arecasicnth

tac aby arhtaa ue.
aH

Anta tala aca ney

BY uae eM ete

peas g tha
VARI tit nase erate
Ath:

tah

3
a TITHE pat >
19

naa RAB APY
EMMITT OES
Ren TNT

Ase Ih
Hata aes Jaa yipte a)
T AAT BAS D yh Ti

to fade

Vad i poe
Way Lahn,
AL ea td asvalan

Tetons
Alters

Ao Sia om
Hse Ani
Natate

Daye eee

intrest
pike
3

SR cE AL
THe on

USES e
ViNiee a ty

ya ere Mesbeag Y 7
at

POO ORE ey
i

Cee
anton

wes Tassie

(ef a,

vie orgtt pacts

[AEALOMD atanh®
td need

Fiat APL
* %

rule.

iaayiee atm
g nse

ea Ait

Sy pW Ate et ssBaase §
Firty/ atich/ateals isa nets. be

cnet iel

A reas Beal

at ae

ade ere
Prec
tee nt
rows

ae

y + Pe) Ses Sie Fan EN say ek roan ooo

pr nace ee costantaie Leta 6 Meta t puree greainnn
either

£3

rr eran

Od
Pry Pete ea oe
he

5
wears
teeta nas Riots Sey eer oe
ENasraiscinte!s ate eect Muelle pricier
edt teh ee Ry tk slid ttrpy oo
Ail Yat las Raasaie. ta

ae

re ee Tee

S25 <4 funtes olesetanrnad
chew oe

tant Veanes atc’ 4:
Na neat rat WR E ee he

Pe pease
Lae sar ace Vairie [hs hetsecaie 2 a Biwaben Pom
iadiGonies rileasacanepients stat MP dani lan pdm aeaale sis <
Ted deyisrace tat tisancag nt MME 4 pe hee Cac bes nageseTeinre ain sc—h tiem Aepen m art
Naga tess ree eee eee a ee i rerabepertey:
Waa,

a ene

Lo9 Rees em bh malhne Farah aman aces maben 2

oes
Sen eer Se ia
ppc or

MRR Bike iivte shew Wal ome raters.» 22
visinseaean thi tlacmun-eacee aber ssrcineem ata feartctasers
satartuan tap aietsigtbsi tence Apslenmaen tr 2 einem
eaceraseo aes

2
yeena cee le
me getea gine

Vries saad)

1 i
RU vials canlts h vevb tee alt
ae ji inv Aur

Agta sty
pert:

ae
Saabs tagiece mosh Bleinenreee Semmes atamehomsareaoses
(aa ie ae Ae Be oan eo ee
aa ates rom Ge ap ite ne Pao Bonet dad eons te hemewen
Tigese seca marches ins PegecePmomeesue omnes ov ennes wpeoneioe
ag bethocpones ba Mates eon eas Aimesoms hs tame menaniheoeh
Sind ges weal wes tome hnas Oe meneee Moe
arenes
Toa Sie Gio einem anne

tals sain dadeattea:
Anaad

Sewer e
PMISin ES RRS

iN

ayy

Pac RIN caer
Re sehnece

earn

at
Nyehaye ty

peas ish
EN bet

Vipers

Deora
ste)

Nyeesina

:

t

oh)
\

if
vis

4

ae ee eer
eo opreaces Carter sper seers
Sot eg ee Pea peace Rng ee

a ae tera ree
Ge ngte Suan oegr ere saeco
Be ie ad ee ie

eh somilenee s:

FOR eeretae
Dorie

Prete cina ie apacg char faces
Cleat dal ude ysl at

ease
if eet fh

ghee

cna fonts

, p in
fag
Lethe latptick bene) ooh fi,
Eanes ee Met Pe 1 n
a4 eave bel ga

Nettie
Te APTA 2G,
Seetehs me foi

teak

Bai Uae ean eter
CDT
TUN lent ped eb
ee

BO yah
Mae Di hata

Cen
Ute
fe

teeta

MU Sra St
BS

praeiss

4) pe

nia ee
eee ee

essen igs

peice Piet reese
seytaeee asta ny inEiaea ase

a) aa
Pai
ri}

arsyetosn ened [g ameatecrctes
or ou eas >. rareranttoes
andi raieteres ares

Tee dct

ore avapieiyr a

PMA RS ITER oo:

rer ~—

ay taht
incre

“inet tin
paneer ge
ety ies
Sesser

peree

Lphpe

Bite

Uae)

Be
aera

eet

Nt
Heh Rtn
/UGII_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S31YVYE!IT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONI

A. FJ i fe =. NG Ss} Oo Md Fah AY SAMY OE Foe SRA Ges yeaa x
aes Up fs af [e) Z ac, 3 +N oO 2) > RS y %y a
SAE Eu) 2 EONS ER EONS OO eu)
\\ s : = 1) AES = = aN = Waste = > \S S 7 = biNGeAS
y o
J/Ya!1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI_NVINOSHIINS Saluvuala LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
S o S = ;
= = = 4 =
= fog — [aa = ao = a
2 : 2 : : : : <
= co 4 2 = = ar a
iS) ay 3 2 S 2 3) a
Zz ij Fa =i 2 =) a ay
UTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3JIYVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIW:
z c ee a a 5 s 2 iS «
S is wy. S S) ; Ez Ce
= wo SS wo oJ = w SS
5 x NS iS a 5. 2 5 70 NS
= > N as rea > Ey > rs > 4
= = NS = 2 i 2 = 2
fee ‘ a Bes
: eee i Z 5 Z ee
wn
=
=
ely &
Mn x
or.
cs
>
—

‘ = ay |. :
ew Nr : EWN 3 ows opp? SS 3
Ze 8 ENR 8 GF 2 A ms’ NE
p EN 2 ea A “EON G
x s “ g Q

a SZ a . 2 a 7) Se

UTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS saluvudiq LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIA
= in =
wW zs RNG wW a uu a sans a NS
& 4 AWS = 4 =. it Z = ss y
+ WS = = SY 5 be S

= c EN S = x UY = ce e

z 2 °™N 2 5 a “Ye 5% 2 a

4 Z Se 2 3 Fe =i = x
(Yai Bear Eee SMU SONAN SIMS TLE TION: § OLA SSN NVINOSHLINS Salah aii LIBRARTES VSMUnsont

Cae > Lia

— Oo y _ Oo — 5 Jie FS is

S E Vit id E wy XQ ‘N f= wo a

7 = hay i My, 2 5 Pe] \ ; 5 x =

= e Yip Y apes e = Ss WN = > =

2 i ; UD fi ® a \S FE a a

D z o = o _—— iA z

UTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVEYAIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLIM

o Fa 2) ; z ” z= 7) =
= wh, = = Yt, = = = = =
=; g “Gy GY =a = x =
S\es Lily, & = GUY. Ge S Ag z =
Yk JE a 2 GG bi; 2 8 D WWE @ oa
ANN ro) Gi hii, = ro) Fhe a6 Oo 5a SW re) IE
SS ae Aone Sok ca ZY / i = Ee NY WSS Hs =
= = 5 = ar a =
VYUG!IT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS S3JIYVYaIT LIBRARIES
z n wy, 2 i 2 N us 2 us
4 = He Z : = Qq z E ‘
ps! < Ye fore A < Se \\ Ses 2. <
exe Wf ffs S Xyg TAN S
oe A “a 7 [oa N . a a
S a 47 fer & = a AO"s = =
re) = Oo = o SS _ re) as
= a) oe =i = 4 re 3

UTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3!IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLIW

5 pe a mt = za — = is “.
° = eae o — S) = ° — ty.
= o XS ra Pad = od fp > = ies SQ
= > NS 2 > 2 :Fe@ > = > '
- 2 SE 2 ayy, 2 F 2
D = ; D = = Vijflp m te m
= (ep) +, = n pea wn ons nn x
VUGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S31YVYEIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
Sr =a re w rat ae
< Cae < ae = < = re Ne =
z Ws = =z Ww me Sy Cg Paes = f “= WX y Oo
Zé ‘ SRY “i jt % tis Nae
p ES F EW 2 Gy = 2 Gy = \\
Soe eee Se ee
o nw 7) a
FUTION NOILLILSNI_NVINOSHIINS S31YVYSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLIV
x - = a ES is
5 Ww Fad RY Ww as i S iit 2 mR Sc
= 4 ONS = =. i fy = z aN
< We : af ip 3 < 2X
a = SW a « Gee ac S
= oN = lay = 4 \
= = a = 3 0 “GPS 3 ce 2 °N
| Zz iS =I <3 z ei) z =
VHGIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILOLILSNINVINOSHLIWS (S318VUGIT LIBRARIES” SMITHSONIZ
> lic
> = Sty fo) a Ss fe} = [o) <Gil> = = [o) ay
DS GO? 2G? GDS ye Gi ei &
2) 5 (F 3) 2 i> > > =nlq 4)5 ( 17> fro

SMITHS!

TION NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARIES

adit  LVB

TION

‘
oS
SS
S
‘
s

NVINOSHLINS S3IlY¥Vvuait

¥giq LIB

NOILALILSNI

TION NOILNILILSNI

INSTITUTION

Sel EB

y

SMITHSONIAN

TION NOILN

LIBRARIES

4dI11 LIB

satuvuagi

JTION = NOILALILSNI

“eG

NVINOSHLIWS

ygiq LIB

JTION

UTION NOILNLILSNI

NOILNLILSNI

NOILNLILSNI

ASO

>

Cc
JON c

LIBRARIES

q Wash’

NVINOSHLIWS

%

~
onesies

SMITHSONIAN

NVINOS
NVINOSI

S3INVuaIT

»

SS
RARIES SMITHSONIAN

LIBRARIES SMITHS(

NOILNLILSNI

NOILNLILSNI
LIBRARIES SMITHS\

NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS

Si:

N

INSTITUTION
saluvugit
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTIO

NVINOSHLINS S3!IYVYEIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS S3luvudgit

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN

RARIES SMITHSONIAN

S

NVINOSHLIWS

LIBRARIES

x

NVINOSHLINS S3!uYVY¥aIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

INSTITUTION NOILNSILSNI
INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI
SAIUVUSIT LIBRARIES

S3IYVYsITLIBRARIE

S3aluvydgil

RARIES SMITHSONIAN NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARIES

INSTITUTION

OSHLIWS

%

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN
NVINOSHLIWS

LILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3I1uYV¥aly SMITHSONIAN

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NOILALILSNI
LIBRARIES
NOILALILSNI
NOILALILSNI

RARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

INSTITUTION
saruvugiy
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS S31uvysty

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN

RARIES INSTITUTION NOILONLILSNI

SMITHSONIAN

NOILNLILSNI

Salyvudli SMITHSONIAN

ASST

%
My’

LIBRARIES

79 NG

NVINOSHLIWS

wh
Wy

UGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

yall LIBRARIES
UTION NOILNLILSNI
Y¥sll LIBRARIES

UTION

&S
As
<
s

NVINOS|

jy ff" Qh ~~ PWS w
Gig BENS
Ay = BW SS a
: YS S
INSTITUTION | NOILOLILSNI_ N¥INOSHLINS
Ww a
cc = OSS
< = Sg
a =) ® gS
zZ 2
= Zz :
SIIYVYAIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAt
Lia =
a [o)
= ) |
xn SG
2 5 Yfp
INSTITUTION NOILMLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS
“« 8 =
KS = Zp §
QWs * oy
SH on hy, ep)

SQ g Uji, *
S31YVYdI1T LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
2 fi

4 a. Bp dip €
<i iff
a « “iy
3S 0 "Ee
z ad
INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NvINOSHLIWS
z gis
=_ ow N
= Za Mtv
= 2 SS
: 2 SS
2 mo Sw
= wo
NVINOSHLIWS S3INVUGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
WY, = =
tp J 3 2
EG fee} aes o °
: er = YZ
z 8
INSTITUTION ie AILIESN__ NVINOSHLINS
uu a &
— 4 4
= SS
< = Ny
w = S RN
= a NS
oO “AS
= = a
NVINOSHLINS S3IYVY@IT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAt
ra
= S
be rf a
a Fig i
> eer YZ,
wae - GeG7
INSTITUTION NOLLMLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIN
< g <
= ee 4 =
2 Uy =
> >
rc n
LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
Ss Ww
a as aE
=i Gls ea ee
a ivy #3
c = Gks
= May
5 a 4
Pak
INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLIWS
z eras
tox o s
a x Ko
eee
ries ay i

bat ; j
eo. | a ee ee ae
= Ohh sonar 4A jose | are ;
sai09 RG \ te ne
t |

BMS tied
See pied $é

nine

“Find PA

BTAIioOo falgiial f=]
e\ ari |) yrosavranoes 1)
assacTaeor C

1 O\
SAU
CRLS

Smithsonian Year 1990 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

sr oMitt
yr

i

a

ee

AQ SS,

te ON, Ay ey
Ne

Wakanee a Navan
OCT 3 4 199] }
f
y
\. UIBRARIES ~%
Se Aa ite oe

a

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
: tf i ‘ t
i 7 ‘
ee i : E :
: i { f
i i
a i t it ;
\ oO , : { eer 5
} i h
4 7 , , ' ts ’
: } : i
on i : r
i : q
~ iy ‘i 1 ' \
1 ; : 1 ‘. 1 }
ilk I
v vay a : i
; j
' : i v
y i \ ’ t
: i f
i = , 2 : t ry uv y : }! i :
ite : c
= 1 Taek f A nl
: r : : e> teh
7 a 1 Ie - ' = -
- i , :
Pa ni 1 + i
, it = D 1 ee
wn r Cn i f
ai uu : i) f i »
n h ‘ f
: I i f
i. : = i ‘ ; ae :
u i :
' ; -
y , rE a 4
o 1 1 we 15 :
: : Pe ag Aen
F = 2 i eu
7 1 i
hee ;
: 7 = ;
= - : ¥
= * j
t - te vas ,7
" ; . : i
t ‘ / i
. s t a0
i 5 f
; ihe |
Lens
eke
a mb
tr - :
, i
i
f i s
i =e. mas
: Ss :
ta =
i —! Se Hu
i
: : naa
= t i!
— 4 :
a : ; ~_. : a
iy "
LF
p
ey ' ”
: : r
he
=
“= :
i
; Se
i
pi

Smithsonian Year 1990 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
- i”

Psy £PSie

wbemepainn) OH Gane ns ee Rg eee

raat hae)
tS ia ’ -
se E
-

ee aed ertl ag
ne)

Contents

Chronology

Appendix 1.

Appendix

we

Appendix

Ww

Appendix 4.

Appendix

A)

Appendix 6.

Appendix 7.

Appendix 8.

Note: The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual appendixes 1s not alphabetical but rather
follows as closely as possible the organization of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.

Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards, and
Commissions, September 30, 1990

Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in Fiscal
Year 1990

Academic, Research Training, and Internship
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1990

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal
Year 1990

Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1990

The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1990

Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1990

Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1990

The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically reproduced from typescript provided by the

bureaus and offices.

nN

37

321

410
Smithsonian Institution

Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Committee,

and the Secretary

Office of the Secretary

Office of the Under Secretary

Office of the Inspector General

Office of the General Counsel

Office of the Treasurer

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Research

International Center

Joseph Henry Papers

National Zoological Park

Office of American Studies

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Museums

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design

Freer Gallery of Art

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art

National Museum of American History

National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man

National Museum of the American Indian

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Horticulture

Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service

Smithsonian Internship Council

Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service
National Science Resources Center
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Public Affairs

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center

Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs
National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies
Office of Membership and Development
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Office of Congressional Liaison
Office of Special Events
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine
“Smithsonian World”
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Institutional
Initiatives
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
Under Separate Boards of Trustees
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
National Gallery of Art
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Chronology

The following listing is a representative selection of Smithsonian events during fiscal
year 1990.

October

Program: The National Air and Space Museum launched a major 16-month series of
public and by-invitation-only lectures, films, and symposia on “The Legacy of Strategic
Bombing.” Speakers included physicists Philip Morrison and Freeman Dyson, writer
Kurt Vonnegut, Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, and economist John Kenneth Galbraith.

October

Acquisition: A collection of 1,500 early stereographs and a unique photo album of Sioux
Indians and their families, one of the largest and rarest collections of early American
Indian photographs, was acquired by the National Anthropological Archives of the
National Museum of Natural History from George Allen, a Kansas collector.

October

Research: Radar images of a small asteroid that passed close to Earth were obtained by
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory scientists at Arecibo, Puerto Rico, and by
colleagues elsewhere. The images were the first to provide direct evidence of a
bifurcated mass in such objects and revealed that the asteroid may be the result of a
collision between two separate objects, each one-half mile long.

October

Acquisition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries purchased a large portion of the trade
catalogue collection of some 56,500 items once held by the Franklin Institute,
Philadelphia. The catalogues cover the full range of developments in American
manufacturing, agriculture, and technology. The Regents’ Collections Acquisitions Fund
provided funds for the purchase.
October

Course: A six-week Resident Associate Program course began, titled “The Wall Street
Journal at the Smithsonian: American Business and the World Economy in the 1990s _
and Beyond.” Cosponsored with the Wall Street Journal, this course was videotaped and
subsequently broadcast to a national audience via the PBS Adult Services network.

October

Fellowships and Grants: During this fiscal year, the Office of Fellowships and Grants
made a record number of awards under its Scholarly Studies program (39) and its
Research Resources program (11).

October

Grants: With awards from the James Smithson Society and the Kress Foundation, the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory began implementing plans to augment the
autoradiography facilities at the National Institute for Standards and Technology.

October 5-6

Cultural Diversity: The first meeting was held of the Ad Hoc African American Media
Advisory Committee, organized by the Office of Public Affairs with a grant from the
Educational Outreach Program. The committee of 10 local and national journalists was
established to provide advice on how the Smithsonian can reach out to the African
American community.

October 12

Event: The Smithsonian's Hispanic Heritage Planning Committee presented a day-long
public event commemorating Hispanic Heritage Month. A keynote address by
filmmaker Luis Valdez, founder of E] Teatro Campesino, was followed by a public film
and panel discussion celebrating 25 years since the founding of E] Teatro Campesino.

October 12

Exhibition: “Portrait of the American Law” opened at the National Portrait Gallery with
a dinner and reception. Chief Justice William Rehnquist presided, and three associate
justices, several prominent judges, and many attorneys attended.

October 14

Silver Anniversary: The National Museum of American History celebrated its 25th
anniversary with an open house that included demonstrations, behind-the-scenes tours,
hands-on workshops, musical performances, children’s activities, and a birthday cake
model of the museum.
October 17

Exhibition: “The Intimate World of Alexander Calder,” featuring Calder’s unique
creations of teacups, toys, and jewelry, opened at the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of
Design. Members of the artist's family attended the opening reception.

October 19

Colloquium: The international colloquium “Sharing Innovation: Global Perspectives on
Food, Agriculture, and Rural Development,” the third in the world food and agriculture
series, was sponsored by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies and coordinated by the
Office of Conference Services.

October 20

Dialogue: “Caribbean Literature: The Role of the Artist in an Evolving Nationalist
Society,” the second dialogue in a series, was presented by the project office for the
“Caribbean Festival Arts” exhibition in collaboration with the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars.

October 20

Exhibition: “Stand By Me: African American Expressive Culture in Philadelphia,” a
photodocumentary exhibition of the work of Washington, D.C., photographer Roland
Freeman organized by the Office of Folklife Programs, opened in Philadelphia.

October 25

Exhibition: A major loan exhibition “Icons: Ideals and Power in the Art of Africa,”
which explored the ways African peoples have depicted and interpreted five iconic
representations, opened at the National Museum of African Art.

October 25-28

Symposium: The international symposium “Les Droits de l'Homme and Scientific
Progress” was cosponsored by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies and the National
Academy of Sciences. The symposium, the 10th in the Smithsonian international
symposium series, commemorated the 200th anniversary of the Declaration of the Rights
of Man and Citizen, the Bill of Rights, and the French Revolution. The symposium
summary was published in September 1990 by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies.

October 30
Publication: Hirshhorn Works 1988 was published by the Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden, the first in a series of annual catalogues with essays and
photodocumentation on the museum's site-specific Works projects. Hirshhorn Works
1989, a second yearbook made possible by the LEF Foundation, was published on
September 1, 1990.

November

Research: The first astronomical detection of submillimeter-wave radiation from water
masers in star-forming regions of our galaxy was announced by Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory scientists who used the Caltech Submillimeter Observatory on
Mauna Kea, Hawaii, for this observation of “hot water” in space.

November

Automated Circulation: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries introduced automated
circulation to its branch at the National Air and Space Museum. This year automated
circulation was added in four branches, bringing to eight the number of locations now
using the automated system.

November

Video Project: The Office of Telecommunications completed four pilot programs for the
Natural History Updates series of videotapes to be shown in the National Museum of
Natural History rotunda.

November

Milestone: Amelia Earhart, by Doris L. Rich, became the first Smithsonian Institution
Press book to be reviewed on the front page of the New York Times Book Review. Dell
Publications later won the auction for rights to publish a paperback version of the book.

November

Research: Discovery of the largest single coherent structure ever seen in nature--a thin
sheet of galaxies stretching more than a half-billion light-years across space—was
announced by two Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory astronomers in Science
magazine as part of their long-term project to construct three-dimensional maps of the
universe.

November

Acquisition: A nineteenth-century throne of the Hehe peoples of Tanzania, carved in the
form of a female torso, was a major gift to the National Museum of African Art.

November 1

Acquisition: Heading a distinguished list of acquisitions for the year, Henry Moore's
Stringed Figure No. 1, 1937, one of the British artist’s most admired early masterworks,
was acquired by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden at the fall meeting of the
board of trustees through the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund.

November 2

Restoration: Analysis, photographic documentation, and treatment began in a two-year
project to restore the Freer Gallery of Art masterpiece, “Harmony in Blue and Gold: The
Peacock Room” by American expatriate artist James McNeill Whistler, to its former
splendor. The Peacock Room, designed for the London townhouse of Whistler's patron
Frederick Leyland and later installed at the Freer Gallery, has been a favorite of visitors
since the museum opened to the public in 1923.

November 2-3

Symposium: Twenty-two authorities examined the long-controversial question of New
World human population and diseases before and after contact with the Europeans at the
symposium “Disease and Demography in the Americas: Changing Patterns Before and
After 1492.” The event was part of the National Museum of Natural History’s programs
honoring the 500th anniversary of Columbus’ landing in the New World.

November 3

Exhibition: A Grumman G-21 “Goose” amphibian was placed on display in the Hall of
Air Transportation of the National Air and Space Museum. The aircraft on exhibit was
retired in 1977 after many years of service in California, Florida, and the Bahamas.

November 13

Lecture: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) presented a lecture by Jack R.
Censer of George Mason University on “Jean Paul Marat” in conjunction with the SIL
exhibition, “Science and the French Revolutionaries,” curated by Censer. The lecture
was cosponsored by the Women’s National Book Association (Washington Chapter) and
the District of Columbia Library Association.

November 14

Exhibition: “To Color America: Portraits by Winold Reiss” opened at the National
Portrait Gallery. A diverse and enthusiastic group of guests--including the artist's son
and family, lenders and donors, representatives of the Blackfeet Tribe and other Native
Americans, African Americans, and Asians--attended the opening reception.

November 15

New Facility: The Smithsonian Information Center opened to the public in the Great
Hall of the Castle. The state-of-the-art center is a multifaceted information and
orientation source for visitors to the Smithsonian and provides assistance on other
popular attractions in the nation’s capital.

November 16

Exhibition: An exhibition on the accomplishments of Russian-born aviation pioneer Igor
Sikorsky opened at the National Air and Space Museum. Photographs and artifacts
illustrate Sikorsky’s achievements, including the creation of the world’s first four-engine
aircraft in 1913. The centerpiece of the exhibition is the VS-300, the world’s first
practical single-rotor helicopter.

November 17

Dialogue: “The Evolving Empowerment of Caribbean Women” was the third in a series
of four dialogues presented at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in
collaboration with the project office of the “Caribbean Festival Arts” exhibition.

November 21-25

International Training Program: The Office of Museum Programs held an international
conference and training course, “Making Exhibitions, Constructing Realities,” at the
Museu Paracense Emilio Goeldi, Belem, Para, Brazil.

November 27-30

Seminar: More than 100 Associates from 26 states participated in the Smithsonian
National Associate Program's “Update: Eastern Europe and the U.S.S.R.” Journalists
Hedrick Smith and Peter Jennings, Assistant Secretary for Research Robert Hoffmann,
and Kennan Institute staff and visiting scholars provided background and varied opinions
on the dramatic changes taking place in these nations.

November 28

Milestone: The National Museum of the American Indian, the 15th museum in the
Smithsonian family, was established with the signing of Public Law 101-185. The
museum will have three components: the George Gustav Heye Center, located in the old
U.S. Custom House in lower Manhattan; a storage, research, and conservation facility in
Suitland, Maryland; and a museum on the National Mall next to the National Air and
Space Museum.

December
Lecture: Internationally respected paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould lectured to a

capacity audience of Resident Associates about his latest book Wonderful Life: The
Burgess Shale and the Nature of History.

10
December

Acquisition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries branch at the Office of Horticulture
received a gift of some 186 books, catalogues, and business files from the nursery firm of
Lewis and Valentine, formerly of Long Island, New York. The gift was presented by
Hewlett W. Lewis, former partner of the firm.

December

New Program: The first year of the new Corporate Associate Program ended with 15
major corporations participating as founding members. The chief executives of
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Ford Motor Company, and Monsanto Company agreed to
serve as vice-chairmen.

December

Exhibition: A photographic exhibition on the history of the Smithsonian Institution
Building was hung in the Castle.

December

Loan: The portrait of Mary Cassatt by Edgar Degas returned to the National Portrait
Gallery from Kobe, Japan, where it was included in an exhibition reassembling the
collection of Kojiro Matsukata, who owned the painting from 1923 to 1951.

December

Exhibition: The 13th annual ”Trees of Christmas” exhibition, organized by the Office of
Horticulture, was on view during the holiday season at the National Museum of
American History.

December 7

Awards: The Office of Public Affairs placed well in the National Association of
Government Communicators’ annual Blue Pencil competition by winning first-place
honors for a Smithsonian News Service story and for a news release on activities for
children; second place for the monthly employee newspaper, the Torch; and third place
for the newsletter Research Reports.

December 8

Dialogue: The project office of the “Caribbean Festival Arts” exhibition and the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars collaborated in the presentation of
the fourth and final dialogue in the series, titled “Caribbean Politics: 500 Years after
Columbus.”

11
December 13

Reception: Sculptor Martin Puryear, winner of the Grand Prize at the 1989 Sao Paulo
Bienal in Brazil, was honored by a reception at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden. The event was cohosted by the U.S. Information Agency, which sponsors
United States participation in this prestigious international art exhibition.

December 21

Exhibition: The National Air and Space Museum opened an exhibition of works by
British artist Rowland Emett. “Too Late for the Past, Too Early for the Future:
Drawings and Things by Rowland Emett” included three fanciful, animated sculptures
and a variety of whimsical paintings and pen-and-ink drawings.

January

Agreement: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs helped to facilitate a $10 million debt-for-nature swap
between the United States and Panama.

January

Film Premiere: The Smithsonian Resident Associate Program premiered for Washington
audiences the acclaimed film Glory, which depicts the Civil War exploits of the famous
54th Regiment of Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry composed of African:Americans.
Some of the Civil War reenactors featured in the film attended the premiere.

January

Award: “Guide to the Smithsonian,” a video produced by the Office of
Telecommunications, won a Gold Medal at the International Film and TV Festival of
New York, adding to a Golden Eagle from the Council on International Non-theatrical
Events and a Chris Award from the Columbus Film Festival.

January

Exchange Program: The Office of Folklife Programs initiated a U.S.-U.S.S.R. exchange
project involving American and Soviet scholars studying traditional cultures and their
transformations in Soviet and Soviet American communities.

January

Research: The first confirmed detection of gamma rays from the Crab Nebula was made

by a Smithsonian scientist at the Whipple Observatory using a 10-meter-diameter
Cherenkov Telescope, thus setting a benchmark for future ground-based observations.

12
January

Grant: The American Chemical Society agreed to give $5 million to the National
Museum of American History to support the exhibition “Science in American Life,”
scheduled to open in 1993.

January

Cultural Diversity: The first edition of Smithsonian Runner, a bimonthly newsletter for
Native Americans, was published. Runner, produced by the Office of Public Affairs,
reports on Smithsonian activities and research relevant to the Native American
community.

January-June

Research: The SI/Man and the Biosphere Program traveled to Puerto Rico to continue
research, conduct the two-year census of the permanent plots established there in 1988,
and assess the damage caused by Hurricane Hugo in October 1989. The program also
performed the 1990 census and continued research on the four permanent plots
established in 1987 in the tropical rainforest of Beni, Bolivia.

January 9

Acquisition: First Lady Barbara Bush officially presented her Inaugural Ball gown to the
National Museum of American History’s First Ladies Collection. Every first lady from
Martha Washington to Barbara Bush is now represented in the collection with an
inaugural dress or other garment.

January 12

Award: The International Film and Television Festival of New York conferred a finalist
award on the Smithsonian and the Close Up Foundation for the video documentary
“Democracy and Rights: One Citizen's Challenge.”

January 15

Special Event: The Smithsonian's Cultural Education Committee sponsored the annual
Martin Luther King, Jr., Holiday Celebration at the National Museum of Natural History.
Designed to highlight issues of contemporary concern, the program featured Vine
Deloria, Jr., noted author and past executive director of the National Congress of
American Indians, as the keynote speaker. The American Indian Theatre Company of
Oklahoma performed.

13
January 17

Awards: The Society for Technical Communication honored a number of Office of
Public Affairs products in its annual publications competition--Smithsonian News
Service stories won three second-place awards and one third-place award; the Torch won
second place; and Research Reports won third place for the newsletter as a whole and for
each of two articles.

January 23

Lecture: Alpha Konare, president of the International Council of Museums, addressed
the International Cultural Assistance Network, an organization of individuals interested
in international cultural exchange for which the Smithsonian's Office of International
Relations serves as secretariat.

January 24

Season Premiere: The fifth season of “Smithsonian World” was launched on PBS
stations nationwide, with the broadcast of “Zoo,” which was solely devoted to the
National Zoological Park.

January 29

Announcement: Secretary Adams announced that the Smithsonian's Board of Regents
voted to reaffirm its preference for Washington Dulles International Airport as the site
for the proposed extension of the National Air and Space Museum. The announcement
was made at a press conference in the museum’s Hall of Air Transportation.

February

Grant: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries branch at the Cooper-Hewitt National
Museum of Design received $4,000 from the Smithsonian Women’s Committee to
purchase the third volume of Le Garde Meuble (1848-1852), completing the rare and
unusual set of French design plates.

February

Cultural Diversity: The Office of Public Affairs produced a paid radio advertising
campaign with ads on Washington, D.C., radio stations WHUR and WKY‘, two stations
with high ratings in the African American community. The Smithsonian Information
Center responded to the resulting requests by mailing approximately 1,400 packets.

February

Appointment: Assistant Secretary for External Affairs Thomas Lovejoy was appointed
to the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology.

14
February

Symposium: In cosponsorship with the American Institute of Architects (AIA), the
Resident Associate Program presented an all-day symposium of seven internationally
renowned architects, all 1990 winners of AIA awards for design excellence.

February

Grant: The Office of Telecommunications received a $224,000 grant from the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting toward production of a radio series examining the
Columbus encounter and its aftermath from the Native American perspective.

February

Award Nominations: The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings’ “American Musical
Theater” and “Jazz Piano” were nominated for two Grammy awards each: Best
Historical Album and Best Album Notes.

February

Award: The “Smithsonian Touch Screen Video Program,” created by the Office of
Telecommunications for the new Smithsonian Information Center, received top honor for
best consumer information program by the Nebraska Interactive Videodisc Awards.

February

Workshop: A workshop on implementing Section 106 of the National Historic
Preservation Act was presented for the staff of the Facilities Services group by the Office
of Architectural History and Historic Preservation and the federal Advisory Council on
Historic Preservation.

February

Grant: The National Museum of African Art received a grant from the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee for the development of educational materials and programs for deaf
and hard-of-hearing visitors.

February 17

Workshop: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education held a Regional
Workshop Program for teachers in Wilmington, N.C., in collaboration with a consortium
of Wilmington museums. The workshop built on the foundation laid by the community’s
1988 workshop.
February 21

Symposium: A near-capacity crowd gathered in the Hirshhorn Museum's Marion and
Gustave Ring Auditorium for a lively debate about art of the 1980s featuring Ned Rifkin,
the museum’s chief curator for exhibitions; Kathy Halbreich of the Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston; and four curators from Washington, D.C., museums. The symposium was
presented in conjunction with Culture and Commentary: An Eighties Perspective, the
exhibition and catalogue that Halbreich, serving as guest curator, assembled for the
museum.

March

Exhibition: The Hughes H-1 racer, the aircraft designed by Howard Hughes that set both
absolute speed and transcontinental speed records during the 1930s, was placed on
display in the National Air and Space Museum's Golden Age of Flight gallery.

March

Briefing: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs facilitated the
briefing “Global Change in the Geological Record” for incoming members of the
National Council of the National Museum of Natural History. The briefing was hosted
by Senator Albert Gore, Jr. (D-Tenn.).

March

Public Service Announcement: A 30-second public service announcement for television
featuring Robert Redford was produced by the Office of Public Affairs and distributed to
300 stations throughout the country for use beginning around the time of Earth Day
1990. The spot aired in all 50 states and continued to be used in some areas for at least
six months.

March

Publication: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute published Ecologia de un
Bosque Tropical, the Spanish-language version of Ecology of a Tropical Forest, edited
by Egbert G. Leigh, Jr., A. Stanley Rand, and Donald Windsor. This book will
disseminate results of research on Barro Colorado Island to Spanish-speaking audiences
throughout Latin America.

March

Publication: Investigating Artistic Environments in the Ancient Near East, a series of
papers edited by Ann Gunter, assistant curator of ancient Near Eastern art at the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art, was published with generous support
from Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler. The papers had been presented at an international
symposium held at the Sackler Gallery in 1988, also supported by Mrs. Sackler.

16
March 1-4

Regional Event: The Smithsonian National Associate Program's U.S. and International
Events division presented a weekend of lectures and a seminar in Grand Junction,
Colorado, focusing on Hispanic heritage. Cosponsoring organizations included Mesa
State College, the Museum of Western Colorado, and the Western Colorado Center for
the Arts. Among the topics were “The Revival of Hispanic Traditional Arts” and “Our
Hispanic Heritage.” The program's theme prompted the cosponsors to develop a
month-long festival titled “Viva Latinos.”

March 6

Acquisition: The National Air and Space Museum received one of the U.S. Air Force's
newly retired SR-71 supersonic reconnaissance aircraft. Museum Director Martin Harwit
addressed a group of guests and media representatives at a ceremony at Washington
Dulles International Airport. The aircraft is slated for display at the proposed extension
of the museum.

March 7

Lecture: The celebrated Soviet conceptual artist Iya Kabakov spoke about his work for
the first time publicly in the United States in conjunction with his newly opened
mixed-media installation at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
Directions--Ilya Kabakov: Ten Characters. His talk was a highlight of the 1989-90
season of “Focus” exhibition talks at the museum. On March 29, the museum hosted the
world premiere of USSart, a documentary film about the effect of glasnost on other
progressive Soviet artists.

March 16

Outreach Program: The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery continued its outreach to Asian
audiences in the Washington area with a public celebration of Nowruz (Persian New
Year). Verses by the 13th-century Persian poet and mystic Jalal al-Din Rumi were read
in Persian and English following an introductory lecture. The celebration was funded by
contributions given in support of Persian art and cultural programming and gifts in
memory of General H.J. Jablonsky.

March 24

Special Event: Friends of the National Zoo sponsored Seal Day, a day of public
activities to focus attention on the international day of the seal.

March 27

New Facility: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI) formally dedicated
the new Earl Silas Tupper Research and Conference Center. Secretary Adams,
Panamanian President Guillermo Endara, and members of the Smithsonian Board of
Regents attended the dedication ceremonies. STRI's first professionally designed
exhibition, “Parting the Green Curtain: The Evolution of Tropical Biology in Panama,”
opened to the public at the Tupper Conference Center. On March 28, STRI officially
inaugurated its new living, dining, and conference facilities on Barro Colorado Island.

March 28

Exhibition: Photographer Irving Penn and his family and USAir Chairman and Mrs.
Edwin Colodny joined 300 guests at the opening reception for “Irving Penn: Master
Images” at the National Portrait Gallery (NPG). The exhibition and catalogue, joint
projects of the National Museum of American Art and NPG and sponsored by USAir,
made public a major gift from the photographer.

March 31

Symposium: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, in collaboration with
the National Museum of American History, held a day-long symposium for teachers.
“Word of Mouth: Storytelling and Multicultural Education” introduced teachers to four
ethnic oral traditions and showed them how to incorporate these traditions into their
classrooms.

Apmil

Anniversary: Smithsonian magazine commemorated its 20th anniversary with the
publication of a special issue on the environment.

April

Publication: In the culmination of a five-year project, The Papers of Robert Mills was
published by the National Museum of American History as a 15-reel microfilm set to
make the writings of the architect of the Washington Monument and other important
buildings available for scholarly research. The project involved collaboration with the
Universities of Iowa and South Carolina and support from the National Endowment for
the Humanities, the National Historical Publications and Records Commission, and other
organizations.

Apnil
Earth Day Events: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs coordinated

Earth Day events Institution-wide on the Mall and jointly sponsored the Earth Day lunch
in the Capitol.

18
April

Video Distribution: The Office of Telecommunications distributed a videotape
production “Covering the Environment: Front Page or Yesterday's News?” to 875 media
professionals nationwide. The videotape was based on a meeting held at the Smithsonian
in September 1989.

April

Acquisition: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries purchased the Robert D. Mussey, Jr.,
Collection of antiquarian books on varnishes and furniture finishes. The 70 volumes,
ranging in date from 1702 to 1930, include most of the 19th- and 20th-century standard
works, as well as some rare titles. The collection by Mussey, an expert in the field of
varnishes and finishes, will support the work of conservators at the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory, the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design, and other
Smithsonian units working on furniture conservation.

April

Program: Noted art dealer Leo Castelli, in a rare Washington appearance, enthralled a
capacity Resident Associate audience during a conversation with the highly regarded
museum curator Walter Hopps.

April

Performance: Audience, a satirical play by Czechoslovakia’s president, Vaclav Havel,
was performed for Resident Associates four months after its Prague premiere.

April

Film Distribution: Sale of “The Movie Palaces,” a film produced by the Office of
Telecommunications, began through the Museum Shops and to theater organizations.

April

Appointment: Stephen J. Pike was appointed assistant director for programs and
marketing of the Smithsonian National Associate Program.

April

Publication Redesign: Research Reports, a newsletter produced by the Office of Public
Affairs, was redesigned to accommodate information on the spring and fall appeals to
Contributing Members, highlights from Research Expeditions sponsored by the
Smithsonian National Associate Program, and a column on the research priorities of the
Institution. The publication, which is now issued quarterly, has a circulation of 73,000.

ies
April

Exhibition: Universal Press Syndicate sponsored the opening reception of “Oliphant's
Presidents: Twenty-five Years of Caricature” at the National Portrait Gallery, attended
by Pat Oliphant and his wife.

April

Appointment: Christraud M. Geary, a former Rockefeller Fellow in the Humanities at
the National Museum of African Art, was named curator of that museum's Archives.

April

Publication: To Govern a Changing Society: Constitutionalism and the Challenge of
New Technology, edited by Robert Peck and based on a symposium sponsored by the
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies, was published by Smithsonian Institution Press.

April 2

Office Established: The Office of Environmental Awareness was established to increase
public knowledge and awareness of environmental issues.

April 3
Exhibition: “Color, Light, Surface: Contemporary Fabrics” at the Cooper-Hewitt

National Museum of Design featured fabrics manufactured in the United States, Europe,
and Asia.

April 3

Grant: Mobil Oil Corporation made a $50,000 grant to the National Portrait Gallery in
support of the forthcoming exhibition “Camera Portraits,” masterpieces from the
photographic collections of the National Portrait Gallery in London.

April 6

Exhibition: “Albert Pinkham Ryder,” the largest and most complete exhibition of the
work of the nineteenth-century painter ever organized, opened at the National Museum
of American Art.

April 11-14

Cultural Diversity: The Office of Public Affairs, the Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education, and the Office of Quincentenary Programs cosponsored a booth

and a full-page advertisement in the conference program booklet at the National Hispanic
Journalists meeting in San Francisco. More than 800 news professionals from English

20
and Spanish newspapers, radio, and television attended. Six Smithsonian staff members
participated.

April 15

Publication Redesign: The first issue of the redesigned Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Calendar, offering fuller information about exhibitions and public programs in a larger
and clearer format, was published. The new calendar was made possible through a
generous gift from Mrs. Else Sackler, who also continued her support of the museum’s
advertising program.

April 19

Seminar: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service sponsored a working
seminar, titled “Cultural Equity and the Humanities,” with the Federation of State
Humanities Councils and various Smithsonian bureaus and offices.

April 21

Earth Day Event: In conjunction with Earth Day, the National Museum of Natural
History presented a public briefing on the history of crises in the biosphere. The 11
museum scientists who spoke were affiliated with the museum's Evolution of Terrestrial
Ecosystems Program, which is exploring the changes in plants and animals on land
through their 400 million years of evolution.

April 21-22

Earth Day Events: The National Zoological Park sponsored special events in celebration
of the 20th anniversary of the first Earth Day. Activities included “Elephant Can Stomp”
(aluminum can recycling), “Tree Giveaway,” and entertainment by Ironweed and “Billy
B” Brennan.

April 24

Exhibition: “Flora Danica and the Heritage of Danish Porcelain,” an exhibition
surveying the forms, techniques, and decoration of Danish porcelain, opened at the
Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design. Princess Benedikte of Denmark attended
the opening reception.

April 25

Lecture: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) presented “Black Beauty: From
Humane Tract to Children’s Classic,” an illustrated talk by Ellen B. Wells, SIL special
collections librarian. The program was a feature of “Night of a Thousand Stars,” a
National Library Week event of the American Library Association.
April 25 zZ

Trustees Elected: Edwart R. Broida, a well-known collector of contemporary art, and
Peggy C. Davis, a law professor and scholar at New York University, were elected to the
board of trustees of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

April 26-September 3

Special Event: Dinosaurs, Dinosaurs...A Mesozoic Musical, a one-man show, was
presented at the National Zoo in conjunction with the dinosaur displays at the National
Museum of Natural History.

April 27

Exhibition: A new exhibition on modern carrier aviation opened in the National Air and
Space Museum's Sea-Air Operations gallery. The exhibition uses charts, photographs,
artifacts, and model aircraft to illustrate the history of carrier aviation, with emphasis on
World War II operations in the Pacific Theater.

April 27

Symposium: A two-day international symposium, “New Perspectives on Chu Culture,”
organized by Thomas Lawton, senior research scholar at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
and the Freer Gallery of Art, opened at the Sackler Gallery. Four scholars presented
papers exploring developments in art historical knowledge based on recent
archaeological discoveries in China. A concurrent exhibition, “The Art of the Chu,”
displayed choice examples from the collection of Paul Singer. The symposium was
made possible through the generosity of Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler.

April 27

New Facility: The National Zoo formally opened its new Research Building. At the
opening ceremonies, S. Dillon Ripley received the National Zoological Park
Conservation Medal and Acalia and Tomas Blohm received the Zoo’s Centennial Medal.

April 29-May 1

Conference: The National Zoological Park hosted the eastern regional conference of the
American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums.

May

Course: Famed pianist and entertainer Victor Borge delighted an overflow audience with
reminiscences about his life in Denmark as part of the Resident Associate Program
course “Denmark in Perspective: Great Danes and Their Great Friends,” cosponsored
with the Embassy of Denmark.

bo
bo
May

Grant: The Office of Telecommunications received a commitment of $90,000 in funding
from the Dutch Environment Ministry for development of the “Earth Game” television
project.

May

Award: The weekly “Radio Smithsonian” series produced by the Office of
Telecommunications won the Silver Award from the Public Radio Conference for its
special program “Sounds Like New York.” This program subsequently won Silver
Awards from the International Radio Festival of New York and the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting.

May

Publication: Smithsonian Institution Press published its first bilingual book, Puerto Rico
Mio: Four Decades of Change, by the well-known photographer Jack Delano.

May

Acquisition: The purchase of a wood protective figure by the Teke peoples of the
Republic of the Congo for the National Museum of African Art was made possible
through a grant from the James Smithson Society.

May

Video: The videocassette “Guide to the Smithsonian,” produced by the Office of
Telecommunications, went on sale in the Smithsonian Information Center.

May

Milestone: “Life in the Ancient Seas,” a permanent exhibition hall that tells the story of
sea life through eons of time, opened at the National Museum of Natural History. The
new hall marks the completion of the 15-year project to modernize the museum's
paleontological complex, a series of exhibition halls that includes the Dinosaur Hall.

May
Contract Awarded: The American International Distribution Corp. of Colchester,

Vermont, was awarded the contract for the new fulfillment service for Smithsonian
Books and the Smithsonian Collection of Recordings.

bo
(a)
May 3

Event: Warren Furutani of the Los Angeles Board of Education delivered the keynote
address opening the Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month Celebration. Charu
Narasimhan performed a classical Indian dance and the Khmer Mohori Ensemble
presented traditional Cambodian music.

May 9

Exhibition: “Information Age: People, Information & Technology” opened at the
National Museum of American History. The 14,000-square-foot exhibition traces the
evolution of information-processing and communications technologies from the 1830s to
the present. In the use of sophisticated, state-of-the-art technology for the exhibition
installation, “Information Age” is the most ambitious interactive show the Smithsonian
has ever done and a revolutionary approach to alternative learning in museum
exhibitions.

May 15

Meeting: His Excellency Abou Diouf, president of the Republic of Senegal, participated
in meetings with Smithsonian officials arranged by the Office of International Relations.
While at the Smithsonian, Diouf was given a briefing on the Festival of American
Folklife’s Senegal program.

May 16

Exhibition: “Yoruba: Nine Centuries of African Art and Thought,” an exhibition of 100
Yoruba objects organized by the Center for African Art in New York, went on view at
the National Museum of African Art until August 26.

May 17

Special Event: ”ZooFari--A Celebration of the Rainforest,” a gala evening event
sponsored by the Friends of the National Zoo, attracted hundreds of participants.
“ZooFari" raises funds for the Theodore H. Reed Animal Acquisition Fund, which
supports the acquisition, exhibition, and propagation of rare and endangered species at
the Zoo, as well as public education about these species.

May 17

Lecture: Former Federal Aviation Administrator Najeeb E. Halaby presented the annual
Charles A. Lindbergh Lecture at the National Air and Space Museum. Halaby, an
aviation executive and former chief executive officer of Pan American World Airways,
presented his views on how commercial aviation could be made safer and more efficient.

24
May 20-25

Conference: The International Council for Archaeozoology Sixth International
Conference was sponsored at the Smithsonian by the Archaeobiology Program and the
Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History. The conference was
coordinated by the Office of Conference Services.

May 21-30

Festival: Five traditional performance groups from across the United States traveled to
the Soviet Union under the auspices of the Office of Folklife Programs to participate in
the Second International Folklore Festival, held in Kiev.

May 22

Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery Commission approved the acquisition of
G.P.A. Healy's portrait of John C. Calhoun.

May 24

Exhibition: Indian portraits by Charles Bird King were hung in the Smithsonian
Institution Building.

May 27

Exhibition: The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery presented its first major exhibition of
Japanese art since the museum opened to the public. Yokohama: Prints from
Nineteenth-Century Japan was made possible by the Sackler Gallery's first corporate
exhibition sponsor, Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., of Tokyo. Prints in the
exhibition were loaned from the collection of William and Florence Leonhart of
Washington, D.C., with the participation of the Daval Foundation.

June

Space Flight: The joint German-American-Bntish ROSAT satellite was launched by the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration from Cape Canaveral. Representing the
largest x-ray telescope ever flown, ROSAT carries a High Resolution Imager built by the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory to produce focused images of cosmic x-ray
sources. The first test observations in July produced images of a supernova remnant, a
cluster of galaxies, a compact x-ray binary, and the Moon.

June

Award: Symbolic Immortality, by Sergei Kan, published by the Smithsonian Institution
Press, recceived the 1990 American Book Award of the Before Columbus Foundation.

bo
Or
June

Grant: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute received a grant of $250,000 from
the Andrew Mellon Foundation to support its research program in paleoecology.

June

Award: The National Science Resources Center's guide to hands-on science teaching
materials for elementary teachers, Science for Children: Resources for Teachers,
received the American Library Association's Outstanding Academic Book award.

June

Research: The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory received a $26.7 million contract
from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to construct a high-resolution
camera for the Advanced X-ray Astrophysics Facility, now planned for launch late in this
decade.

June

Publication: Viking/Penguin purchased paperback nghts for two Smithsonian Institution
Press books, The Lawmen: United States Marshals and Their Deputies, 1789-1989, by
Frederick S. Calhoun, and the highly acclaimed Women of Deh Koh: Lives in an Iranian
Village, by Erika Friedl.

June |

Appointment: W. Richard West, Jr., was appointed founding director of the National
Museum of the American Indian.

June 1

Exhibition: “Pre-Hispanic Foods of Mexico” opened in the International Center
Conference Suite. The exhibition was cosponsored by the Office of Quincentenary
Programs and the Mexican Cultural Institute, through the Embassy of Mexico. The
Smithsonian’s Office of International Relations provided staff support.

June 4-8

Seminar: Staff of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory taught a specialty seminar to
six anthropology and archaeology students from Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, El
Salvador, and Argentina. The students were pursuing advanced degrees in the United
States supported by the Fulbright Program and the Latin American Scholarship Program
of American Universities.

26
June 8

Meeting: Coordinated by the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, the
Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education focused its annual meeting on the
involvement of new audiences in the conceptualization, development, and
implementation of exhibitions, programs, and materials.

June 8

Exhibition: The Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design’s summer exhibition “The
Doghouse” featured architects’ and designers’ whimsical visions of doghouses. The
outdoor installation was designed to be accessible to sight-impaired visitors.

June 9

Symposium: At the Biennial Symposium of the Association of American Cultures, held
in Oklahoma City, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service organized a
session titled “The Smithsonian Institution’s Multicultural Agenda for the 1990s.”

June 11

Symposium: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory and the National Museum of
American Art (NMAA) organized and held the symposium “The Medium of Ideas:
Technical Studies in Nineteenth-Century American Painting” in connection with the
Albert Pinkham Ryder exhibition at NMAA.

June 13

Exhibition: “The Five of Hearts: Henry Adams and His Washington Circle,” a small
exhibition recording the Washington circle of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Adams, Mr. and Mrs.
John Hay, and Clarence King, opened at the National Portrait Gallery. The Honorable
James Symington, great-grandson of John Hay, one of the “Hearts,” attended.

June 18

Pilot Program: Smithsonian Opportunities for Learning (SOL) began an eight-week pilot
session. Modeled on a national internship program also run by the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education, SOL is designed to meet the specific needs of local high
school students, especially those who have recently immigrated to the United States.

June 19
Event: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service participated in the

national banquet of the I Have a Dream Foundation at the National Museum of American
History.
June 20

Exhibition: Demilitarized U.S. Pershing II and Soviet SS-20 missiles were installed in
an exhibition at the National Air and Space Museum recognizing the Intermediate
Nuclear Forces Treaty of 1987, which eliminated an entire class of weapons.

June 24-30

Domestic Study Tour: Associates of all ages traveled to the Colorado Rockies for the
Smithsonian National Associate Program’s first family study tour at the Nature Center.
The lively program included hikes through fossil beds, wildlife excursions, and a visit to
a 100-year-old working homestead farm.

June 24

Milestone: The collection of the Museum of the American Indian, Heye Foundation, was
officially transferred to the Smithsonian Institution. The more than 1 million artifacts in
the collection, which includes a library, photo archives, and other resource material, will
be the centerpiece of the National Museum of the American Indian on the National Mall.

June 26

Significant Birth: The National Zoo celebrated the birth of a tiger cub produced by in
vitro fertilization. Research scientists at the Zoo designed and implemented this
particular procedure for tigers, which resulted in the birth of the first “test tube” tiger
cub.

June 26-29

Training Program: The Office of Museum Programs held the first annual training
congress, “Building Partnerships: Museums and Their Communities,” a national
interdisciplinary event for museum staff development.

June 27

Festival: The 24th annual Festival of American Folklife began, featuring programs on
the folklife of the U.S. Virgin Islands; Senegal’s cultures; and traditional forms of song,
chant, movement, and the musics of struggle. Opening ceremony speakers included U.S.
Virgin Islands Governor Alexander Farrelly; the ambassador of Senegal; the Senegal
minister of culture and communications; and Cordell Reagon, founder of the Freedom
Singers of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.

June 28

Exhibition: “From Parlor to Politics: Women and Reform in America, 1890-1925”
opened at the National Museum of American History. The exhibition explores how

28
women of the Progressive Era led the fight against overcrowded cities, poverty,
alcoholism, child labor, public health hazards, poor working conditions, and other
emerging social problems.

June 30

Publication: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education published Resource
Guide for Teachers, a catalogue of all educational resources available from the
Institution, as well as from the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Reading
Is Fundamental, and the National Gallery of Art.

July

Course: The Natural Science Institute for Teachers of Minority Students, a three-week
summer program organized by the Office of Education, National Museum of Natural
History, and funded by the D.C. Public Schools, featured instruction on “reading” natural
history objects for teachers of grades four through 12. Twenty-four teachers enrolled in
the course, which took them to museums and research centers in the Washington, D.C.,
metropolitan area.

July

Publication: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries published an illustrated lecture based
on an Isaac Newton manuscript in the Libraries’ collections. Alchemical Death and
Resurrection: Alchemy in the Age of Newton, by Professor B.J.T. Dobbs of
Northwestern University, was originally presented as part of the lecture series, “Death
and the Afterlife in Art and Literature,” sponsored by the Washington Collegium for the
Humanities, of which the Smithsonian Libraries is a member.

July

Workshops: The SI/Man and the Biosphere Program conducted its first professional
training workshops in Brazil and Guatemala. The courses focused on the conservation of
natural resources and the management of biological diversity.

July

Speech: Assistant Secretary for External Affairs Thomas Lovejoy spoke on
environmental issues at the annual weekend retreat for Democratic members of the U.S.
Senate.

July-August

Grant: The Shell Oil Company Foundation supported a film series, “African Folktales in
Film,” and a curatorial intern at the National Museum of African Art.
July-August

Presentation: As part of an ongoing photodocumentation project, JoAllyn Archambault,
director of the National Museum of Natural History’s American Indian Program,
presented to the Comanche and Crow tribes photographs of the museum’s entire
collection of Comanche and Crow cultural objects and copies of the museum’s historic
photographs of the Comanche and Crow peoples. The presentation ceremonies were held
in Walters, Oklahoma, and Crow Agency, Montana.

July 2-16

Institute: In the second annual Folklore Summer Institute for Community Scholars,
sponsored by the Office of Folklife Programs, community-based scholars participated in
an exchange of information with Smithsonian folklorists and other scholars in the field.
Participants adopted a declaration that addresses issues concerning improved services to
community folklore scholars and their constituents.

July 2-13

Program: The National Science Resources Center held its second Elementary Science
Leadership Institute for teams of teachers, school administrators, and scientists from 19
of the largest school districts in the nation. The teams attended workshops and seminars
to learn about the benefits of hands-on science learning for children and developed a plan
of action to improve the elementary science programs in their school districts.

July 15

Exhibition: “Whose Art Is It, Anyway? The Arts in Public Places” opened at the
Anacostia Museum. The exhibition explored the processes and issues surrounding the

arts found in public places, including sculpture, murals, dance, song, and artistic clothing
and hair styles.

July 18

Cultural Diversity: The Office of Public Affairs hosted a breakfast and briefing on
Smithsonian Quincentenary Programs for the 20-member board of directors of the
National Association of Hispanic Publications.

July 22-August 4

Expedition: A Smithsonian Research Expedition, “Archival Treasures of the National
Air and Space Museum,” was conducted in Washington, D.C. Participants worked
behind the scenes with museum staff to improve the housing and documentation of a
variety of materials, including aircraft technical manuals and drawings, scrapbooks,
vertical files, photographs, and motion picture film.

30
July 26

Workshop: The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies held a workshop on space science
education for 60 Washington, D.C., area teachers and curriculum specialists.

July 27

Publication: “United States Women in Aviation, 1940-1985,” by Deborah G. Douglas,
was published as number seven in the series Smithsonian Studies in Air and Space.
Smithsonian Institution Press announced plans to reprint three earlier monographs on
women in aviation as companion volumes for sale through its University Press division.

July 30-August 5

Special Event: A series of experimental public education activities conducted throughout
the National Zoo launched a new program to give visitors “new eyes” for seeing the Zoo.
The programs were part of Improving Exhibition Interpretation Superweek activities.

August

Appointment: Marc Pachter, former assistant director for history and public programs at
the National Portrait Gallery, was appointed deputy assistant secretary for external
affairs.

August

Lecture: Noted authors Ishmael Reed and John Wideman read from their works and
lectured as part of a Resident Associate Program (RAP) series on African American male
writers. Attending this series were local high school students who were part of RAP’s
“Project Excellence,” designed to expose them to African American literature. The
project was supported by the Hattie M. Strong Foundation and the Smithsonian
Educational Outreach Program.

August

Research: Researchers at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute installed a
construction crane in Panama City’s Metropolitan Natural Park to study the canopy of the
tropical rainforest. This was the first time a construction-type crane has been used to
provide scientists access to study the forest canopy.

August
Publication: Smithsonian Books released After Columbus: The Chronicle of the North

American Indians, by Herman J. Viola, in conjunction with the upcoming Columbus
Quincentenary.

31
August

Expedition: National Museum of Natural History senior oceanographer Daniel J.
Stanley, heading a multinational research team, conducted field work in Egypt that
confirmed that the Nile Delta is undergoing substantial sinking--as much as one-fifth
inch per year in the Port Said region near the Suez Canal. This sinkage is causing serious
coastal erosion and invasion of salt water and is severely limiting agriculture.

August

Research: At the Conservation Analytical Laboratory, a partial paint layer was recovered
from the codex lifted in the excavations at Joya de Ceren, El Salvador. The site, buried
under six meters of ash deposited during a volcanic eruption, provides an unprecedented
glimpse of village life around 600 A.D.

August

Exhibition: The newly acquired portrait of former President Ronald Reagan by Henry
Casselli was installed in the Hall of Presidents at the National Portrait Gallery.

August

Recording Release: The Music of Stephen C. Foster launched the Smithsonian Library of
American Music series, and Chadwick: Yankee Composer inaugurated the Smithsonian
Studies of American Musicians series.

August

Cooperative Program: The SI/Man and the Biosphere Program was represented at the
Ecology Congress held in Yokohama, Japan, and, as part of a team of experts on tropical
forests, visited several tropical forest research sites in Southeast Asia to discuss a tropical
forest cooperative international program.

August 1-5

Cultural Diversity: A full-page paid advertisement was published by the Office of Public
Affairs in the brochure for the 15th annual National Association of Black Journalists
conference, which was attended by approximately 1,500 media representatives. Two
Smithsonian staff members participated in the conference.

August 26-31
Conference: Fifty-two experts from 10 countries attended the conference “Non-Imperial

Polities in the Lands Visited by Christopher Columbus during His Four Voyages to the
New World,” held at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI. STRI
archaeologist Richard Cooke organized the conference, which was supported by the -
Social Science Research Council and several Smithsonian programs.

August 31

Milestone: The six members of the first class of the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory's Furniture Conservation Training Program received certificates of
graduation; four also received master’s degrees through Antioch University.

September

Contribution: Glenn O. Tupper made a donation of $1.09 million to construct a new
wing for the library at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and to acquire
research equipment for plant physiology studies.

September

Publications: Smithsonian Institution Press published the first four titles in a new series,
Photographers at Work, spotlighting the work and techniques of major contemporary
photographers.

September

Anniversary Celebration: The Resident Associate Program kicked off its 25th
anniversary celebration with 40 glittering events during the fall of 1990, including
“Infinite lusions,” a nine-day computer graphics symposium; an evening with
documentary filmmaker Ken Burns showing a segment of his public television series,
The Civil War, Margaret Truman speaking on her latest book; and the 25th Anniversary
Gala with Nancy Wilson, underwritten in part by Riggs National Bank.

September

Publication: The brochure ”The Children’s Room at the Smithsonian: Knowledge
Begins in Wonder” tells the history of the south tower room, Smithsonian Institution
Building. The room was restored to its 1901 appearance under the direction of the Office
of Architectural History and Historic Preservation in 1987.

September

Grants: A Kress Foundation grant was awarded to the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory to start a new midcareer conservation training program.

September

Publication: Northwest Coast, the ninth in the National Museum of Natural History’s
projected 20-volume encyclopedic Handbook of North American Indians, was published
by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The volume summarizes the environment,
prehistory, languages, and environmental relations of the native peoples of coastal
Oregon, Washington, British Columbia, and southeast Alaska.

September

Research: Analysis at the Conservation Analytical Laboratory of ceramic crucible
fragments recovered from excavations of an ancient mine, Kestel, dating to the third
millenium B.C. and located in south central Turkey confirmed that this mine probably
was a source for the much-sought-after tin of the Bronze Age.

September

Grant: The Office of Telecommunications received a funding commitment from Kajima
Corporation, Hitachi, Ltd., and American Family Life Assurance Company for
production of a $1.2 million film for American audiences on Japanese gardens.
September

New Project: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs launched the
Smithsonian’s Rainforest Project with the Fidelity Fund for conservation and research
debt-for-nature swaps.

September

Meeting: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Smithsonian held a
roundtable meeting on environmental research.

September 4

Appointment: Bonita Perry was appointed as Smithsonian Institution Libraries’ assistant
director, research services, heading a division composed of 14 branch libraries.

September 4-17

Foreign Study Tour: National Air and Space Museum Senior Advisor Don Lopez and
Air Vice Marshal Ron Dick (RAF, Ret.) accompanied 70 Associates to England for a
Battle of Britain SOth anniversary tour. London's commemorative “flypast” and the
Farnborough International Air Show were among the highlights of this special tour.

September 6-8

Symposium: “Seeds of Industry: Transformations of Indigenous Technology in the
Americas” was the final in a series of three Quincentenary symposia sponsored by the
Office of Folklife Programs. Held in Morelos, Mexico, under the auspices of the Centro
de Investigacion y Estudios Superiores en Antropologia Social and the Instituto Nacional

34
Indigenista, presentations examined divergent local and European understandings of
demographic, societal, and environmental resources in the Americas at the time of
interhemispheric contact.

September 7

Event: The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Service cosponsored with the
National Council of Negro Women the fifth annual Black Family Reunion Celebration.
The theme of the event was “Catch the Family Spint.”

September 13

Lecture: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries presented a free public lecture, “Playful
Readings: A History of Children’s Movable Books” by Carol J. Barton. The illustrated
lecture was part of the series “The World of the Child,” sponsored by the Washington
Collegium for the Humanities of which Smithsonian Libraries is a member.

September 13

Agreement: Ira Rubinoff, director of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, and
Abdiel Adames, rector of the University of Panama, signed a renewal agreement for
scientific collaboration at the Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Center.

September 15

Publicity Campaign: The Office of Public Affairs launched an extensive publicity
campaign for the observance of Hispanic Heritage Month, including press releases, radio
ads on two stations, advertisements in five local Spanish-language newspapers, and a
taped calendar-of-events recording in Spanish at the Smithsonian Information Center.

September 15

Publication: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education published Image and
Identity: Clothing and Adolescence in the Nineties, a high school curriculum kit that
introduces ways to look at clothing as social and cultural artifacts.

September 15

New Organization: The Smithsonian National Associate Program launched the Young
Benefactors, a new membership organization, at a black-tie “Blast-Off Gala” reception
and dance held at the National Air and Space Museum. Some 1,500 young professionals
attended and became members of the Young Benefactors, whose purpose is to advance
the Smithsonian's fund-raising goals, establish a foundation for future Smithsonian
support, and increase public interest in, and awareness of, the Institution's aims.
September 17

Appointments: The appointments of the first 13 members of the National Council of the
National Museum of Natural History were approved by the Smithsonian Institution
Board of Regents. The council will eventually include 32 leading scientists and private
citizens who will advise on matters of policy and help generate support for the museum.

September 18

Premiere: “Keepers of Eden,” a one-hour production of the Infinite Voyage series on the
state-of-the-art conservation work of zoos, was previewed at the National Zoo. A
20-minute segment of the program was devoted to such work at the Zoo. The program
was aired over PBS stations nationwide on October 1.

September 21

Special Event: The James Smithson Society’s annual dinner was held in conjunction
with the fall meeting of the National Board of the Smithsonian Associates. Gay F. Wray,
chairman of the National Board, announced the projects receiving 1990 society grants
and awarded the society's Founder Medal to Sam De Vincent for his donation of
American sheet music to the National Museum of American History.

September 24

International Outreach: The Office of Public Affairs and the New York Times
Syndication Sales Corporation signed an agreement that provides for distribution of
Smithsonian News Service feature stories, including color and black-and-white art, to
newspapers, magazines, and other print media worldwide (excluding the United States).
Syndication will be in English, with selected stories in Spanish.

September 25

Program: The National Science Resources Center (NSRC) entered into a working
partnership with Carolina Biological Supply Company to disseminate to the nation’s
elementary schools the science teaching units for use in grades one through six being
developed by the NSRC's Science and Technology for Children project.

September 26

Film Series: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden launched its 1989-90 series
of independent films, art documentaries, and children’s programs.

September 26

Lecture: Cyril Ramaphosa, general secretary of the National Union of Mineworkers in
South Africa, spoke on his assessment of current developments in South Africa. His
lecture concluded the Office of Folklife Programs lecture series “South Africa Today:
Living in a Divided Society.”

36
Appendix 1

Members of the Smithsonian Councils, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1990

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States,
ex officio

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United States,
ex_ officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Silvio 0. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Jamie L. Whitten, Representative from Mississippi

David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey

Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of Columbia

A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Citizen of Pennsylvania

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Barnabas McHenry, Citizen of New York

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

R. James Woolsey, Citizen of Maryland

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

Neil Harris

Chair
Mary Frances Berry
Luis R. Cancel
Johnnetta B. Cole
Michael A. Dorris
Paul Fussell
Robert Garfias
David R. Gergen
Dorothy B. Gilliam
James W. Head, III
John P. Holdren

Miguel Leon-Portilla
Shirley M. Malcom
Robert M. May
Shirley M. McBay
Cheryl McClenney-Brooker
Matthew S. Meselson
Sidney W. Mintz
Jaime E. Rodriguez
Maxine F. Singer
John Walsh

Katherine J. Watson
Thomas G. Wicker
SMITHSONIAN CULTURAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE

Peggy Cooper Cafritz (Chair)
Margaret Batchelor White (Co-Chair)
JoAllyn Archambault

James Carter

Jeannine Smith Clark

Fritz Daguillard

Antonio Guernica

Suzan Harjo

Esther G. Kee

Virginia MacLaury

Mike Masaoka

Elizabeth Fagg Olds

Mary Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Ricardo M. Urbina

Patricia Zell

JOINT COMMITTEE OF THE SPONSORING INSTITUTIONS OF THE PAPERS
OF JOSEPH HENRY

Robert McC. Adams Robert S. Hoffmann
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr. David J. E. Saumweber
Charles C. Gillispie Frederick Seitz, Chair

38
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Chairman Emeritus

Mr. Richard J. Schwartz, President

Mrs. Keith S. Wellin, Vice President

Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President

Mr. Max N. Berry, Vice President

Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain, Treasurer

Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, Secretary

Mrs. Francis de Marneffe, Honorary Officer
Miss Julienne M. Michel, Honorary Officer

Mr. Charles Blitzer Dr. Helen Jessup

Mr. Eli Broad Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Mr. Gerald Buck Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. Ivan Chermayeff Mr. Alan D. Levy

Ms. Gabriella de Ferrari Mr. Meredith J. Long

Mr. Gilbert S. Edelson Mr. Richard Manney

Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun Mr. Richard A. Manoogian

Mrs. Arthur A. Feder Mrs. Meyer Potamkin

Mr. Miles Q. Fiterman Mrs. Richard Roob

Mrs. Daniel Fraad Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

Mrs. Eugenio Garza-Laguerra Mr. Alan E. Schwartz

Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr. Mr. A. Alfred Taubman

Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway Mr. John Wilmerding

Mr. John K. Howat Mr. R. Frederick Woolworth
Founding Trustees Honorary Trustees

Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman Dr. Irving F. Burton

Mrs. Edsel B. Ford Mr. Howard W. Lipman

Mr. Edgar P. Richardson Mr. Russell Lynes

Mrs. William L. Richards
Ex Officio
Mr. Robert McCormick Adams

Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim
Mr. Marc J. Pachter

39
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEES

Southeast Regional Center

Marc J. Pachter, Chair
Edmund Berkeley

Max Berry

Elizabeth Broun
Lorraine Brown

Paul Chestnut

Nicolai Cikovsky

Alan Fern

New York Regional Center

Milton Brown, Chair
William C. Agee
Thomas N. Armstrong
Anne d'Harnoncourt
John Dobkin

Linda S. Ferber
William Gerdts
Eugene Goossen

John Howat

James Humphry III

New England Regional Center

Harley P. Holden, Chair
Winslow Ames

Georgia B. Barnhill
David S. Brooke

Theresa Cederholm

Anne Farnam

Charles Ferguson
Wolfgang Freitag

Edmund B. Gaither

Hugh Gourley

Elton W. Hall

Patricia Hills

Sinclair Hitchings

John Kirk

Elizabeth M. Kornhauser

40

Lois Fink
William Homer
Charles F. Hummel
Helen Jessup
Bernard Mergen
Rick Powell

John Vlach

Judith Zilczer

Abram Lerner

Russell Lynes

Porter McCray

Barbara Novak

Clive Phillpot

Jules D. Prown
William B. Walker

H. Barbara Weinberg
John Wilmerding
William E. Woolfenden

William Lipke

Laura C. Luckey

Paul Master-Karnik

Eva Moseley

James O'Gorman

James M. O'Toole
Elliot Offner

Ronald Onorato

Stephen Riley

Daniel Rosenfeld

David Ross

Theodore E. Stebbins, Jr.
Susan Strickler
Michael Westworth
Margret Craver Withers
West Coast Regional Center

Whitney Chadwick, Chair Connie Lewallen
Gerald Bolas Harry S. Parker III
Herschel Chipp Moira Roth

Wanda Corn ~ Peter Selz

John Dillenberger Marc Simpson
Charles Eldredge Patterson Sims
Albert Elsen Donald L. Stover
Harvey Jones Ian McKibbin White

John Lane

Southern California Regional Center

Henry Hopkins, Chair Lizzetta LeFalle-Collins
Ruth Bowman Amy Meyers

Charles Desmarais Marguerita Nieto

Bram Dijkstra Earl A. Powell III
Beatrice Farwell Michael Quick

Noriko Fujinami Richard Candida Smith
Constance Glenn Maurice Tuchman

Josine Ianco-Starrels Richard V. West
Christopher Knight Cecile Whiting

Richard Koshalek

Chicago Documentation Project

Neil Harris, Chair Katharine Lee
Dennis Adrian Archibald Motley
Don Baum Franz Schulze
Jack Brown, ex offico David Sokol
Courtney Donnell James Wells
Richard Gray Wim de Wit

Diana Haskell John Zukowsky

Judith Kirshner

41
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio
Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio
Robert S. Hoffmann, Ex Officio
Thomas E. Lovejoy, Ex Officio

Dr. Charles Blitzer, Chair

Mrs. Cynthia Helms

Mr. Porter A. McCray

Ambassador George McGhee

Mr. Henry Millon

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM
Advisory Council

Mr. Donald Bruckmann, Chair
Mrs. Marietta Tree, Vice Chair
Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

Mrs. Joan K. Davidson

Mrs. Joanne du Pont

Mr. Harmon H. Goldstone

Mr. August Heckscher

Mr. Kenneth Miller

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. Robert Sarnoff

1a SU Oda cslopntfe)
Mr. Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Tom Freudenheim

FREER GALLERY OF ART
Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio

Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio

Robert S. Hoffmann, Ex Officio

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Ex Officio

Mrs. Jackson Burke, Chair

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta,
Vice Chair

Mr. Willard G. Clark

Professor Marvin Eisenberg

Dr. Robert S. Feinberg

Mr. John G. Ford

42

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta
Mrs. Cynthia Polsky

Professor Edith Porada

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

H.H. Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan
Professor Yoshiaki Shimizu
Professor Seymour Slive

Mr. Michael Sonnenreich

Mrs. Katharine Graham

Mr. Joseph E. Hotung

Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney
Professor Sherman E. Lee

Mr. Porter McCray

Professor Frederick W. Mote
Mrs. D. Patrick Moynihan
Professor Martin J. Powers
Professor John M. Rosenfield
Professor Priscilla Soucek
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Sydney Lewis, Chairman

Jerome L. Greene, Vice Chairman
Edward R. Broida

Robert T. Buck

Peggy C. Davis

Agnes Gund

Robert Lehrman

Robert Rosenblum

Leonard C. Yaseen (died October 8, 1989)
Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio
William H. Rehnquist, Ex Officio

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Robert McC. Adams, Chairman Samuel W. Keller, NASA
Lt/Gen. August M. Cianciolo, USA Jacqueline Ponder

V/Adm. Martin H. Daniel, USCG Peter F. Schabarum

V/Adm. Richard F. Dunleavy, USN Bernard E. Smith, Jr.

Barry L. Harris, FAA Lt/Gen. Duane A. Wills, USMC

RESEARCH ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Lew Allen Otto Mayr

Henry Bauer John Morrow
Herbert Friedman Alex Roland

Noel Gayler Helen W. Samuels
James R. Hansen Joan Warnow

COLLECTIONS MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Don Cumberland Helen W. Samuels
Richard Kohn Alfred J. Shortt
Jack Hilliard Marie C. Malaro
Ed. McKellar Joan Warnow

Dennis Parks

PUBLIC PROGRAMMING ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Thomas Hoving, Chairman Harold K. Skramstad, Jr.
Hans O. Andersen Michael Spock

Benjamin O. Davis Sondra Gayle Stein
Linda M. Johnson Marie Tibor

Louis R. Purnell Mitchell Waldrop

43
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION

Robert H. Nooter, Chairman

Frances Humphrey Howard,
Vice Chairman

Charles B. Benenson

John Conyers, Jr.

David C. Driskell

John A. Friede

James L. Hudson

Helen Kuhn

Brian S. Leyden

Michael L. Lomax

Robin B. Martin

Frank E. Moss

Frieda Rosenthal

Donald M. Stewart

Robert Farris Thompson

Walter E. Washington

Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Tom L. Freudenheim, ex. officio

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART COMMISSION

Mr. David S. Purvis, Chairman
Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Vice Chairman

Mr. Ronald D. Abramson

Mr. Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Mr. Norman Bernstein

Mr. Thomas S. Buechner

Ms. Mary Schmidt Campbell

Mr. Wendell K. Castle

Ms. Wanda M. Corn

Mr. James T. Demetrion, ex officio
Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth

Mrs. Rita Fraad

Mrs. Patricia Frost

Mrs. Johnson Garrett

Mr. August Heckscher

Mr. R. Crosby Kemper

Mr. Myron Kunin

Mr. Jacob Lawrence

Mr. Melvin Lenkin

Mr. Jacques E. Lennon
Mr. Owen M. Lopez

Mr. Charles Parkhurst
Mr. Richard J. Schwartz

Members Emeriti

Mr. Walker Hancock
Mr. Charles H. Sawyer

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Secretary Robert McC. Adams, ex officio

Frank H. Talbot, ex officio

Juanita P. Baranco
Paul R. Ehrlich
Henry Loomis
Robert H. Malott
Jeffery W. Meyer
Homer A. Neal
David R. Pilbeam
S. Dillon Ripley

44

Nicholas M. Salgo

James W. Valentine

Warren Herbert Wagner, Jr.
David B. Wake

Milton H. Ward

Ronald H. Winston

E-An Zen
NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY COMMISSION

Jeannine Smith Clark (Chairperson)
Michael Collins
Thomas Mellon Evans
Stephen Jay Gould
Marta Istomin

W. John Kenney

David Levering Lewis
R. W. B. Lewis

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Robert Morgan
Barbara Novak

Frank Stanton

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio
Robert McC. Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution, ex officio

SMITHSONIAN INTERNSHIP COUNCIL

Dorothy Blaska, Co-Chairperson
Harry Jackson, Co-Chairperson

Vicki Avera
Myra Banks
Betty Belanus
Arthur Breton
Claudine Brown
Linda Chick

Pat Chieffo
Diane Cook-Lee
Ginny Cornett
William Cox

Zed David
Georgina De Alba
Betty Beuck Derbyshire
Mary Dyer

Farar Elliot
Zora Felton
Cynthia Field
Tom Freudenheim
Mary Gooden
Pam Henson

Ruth Hill

Jo Hinkel
Judith Houston

Veronika Jenke
Eileen Jones
Peter Kibbee
Julia Langdon
Betty Lathern
Ted Lawson

Hilda Lee

Eleanor McMillan
John Meehan
Carolyn Mills
Susan Mond

Bruce Morrison
Lauranne Nash
Lucia Pierce
Alan Postlewaite
Argelis Roman
John Rumm
Barbara Russell
Bernadette Schadewald
Magda Schremp
Theodore Taranovski
Bill Tompkins
Laurie Trippett
Wilcomb Washburn
Esther Washington
NATIONAL SCIENCE RESOURCES CENTER ADVISORY BOARD

Bruce M. Alberts
Albert Baez
DeAnna Banks Beane
Ann Bay

F. Peter Boer
Martha A. Darling
Hubert Dyasi
James Ebert
Douglas E. Evelyn
Robert C. Forney
Charles Hardy
Martin Harwit
Robert Hazen
Robert Hoffman
Ann Kahn

Manert Kennedy

SMITHSONIAN ADVISORY COUNCIL ON

Claudine Brown

Peggy Cole

Anna Cross
Frances Haley
Carolyn Howard

Yolanda M. Lopez
Eliot Wigginton

FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL

Richard Bauman, Chairman
Roger Abrahams

Henry Glassie

Rayna Green

John Langston Gwaltney

Sarah Lindsey

Thomas E. Lovejoy
Phyllis Marcuccio

Lynn Margulis

William McCune

Philip Morrison

Phylis Morrison

Jerome Pine

Wayne Ransom

Peter Raven

David Sheetz

Lynn Strieb

Melvin Webb

Karen Worth

James Early, ex officio
Philip Smith, ex officio

EDUCATION

Assistant Director, Government
and Community Relations,
Brooklyn Museum

Director, Division of Museum
Programs, New York Hall of
Science

Independent Consultant
on Youth and Museums

Executive Director, National
Council for the Social Studies

Chair, Literary and Media
Arts, Duke Ellington School of
the Arts

Visual Artist and Art Educator

Director, Foxfire

Adrienne Kaeppler

Ivan Karp

Bernice Johnson Reagon
John Tchen

SMITHSONIAN/ FOLKWAYS ADVISORY BOARD

Michael Asch
Marilyn Averett
Ossie Davis
Mickey Hart
Pete Seeger

46
THE WOMEN'S COMMITTEE OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

OFFICERS

Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury, Chairman

Mrs. Richard L. Thompson, Vice-Chairman
Mrs. Lawrence Bruce Olds, Secretary

Mrs. William T. Hamilton, Jr., Treasurer

ACTIVE MEMBERS

Mrs. David C. Acheson Mrs.
Mrs. James M. Beggs Mrs.
Mrs. George Bush Mrs.
Mrs. H. Hollister Cantus Mrs.
Mrs. Doniphan Carter % Mrs.
Mrs. Lloyd E. Clayton Mrs.
Mrs. Thomas B. Cookerly Mrs.
Mrs. William Gruman Cox Mrs.
Mrs. Thomas Edward Crocker Mrs.
Mrs. Fritz Daguillard Mrs.
Mrs. J. Edward Day Mrs.
Mrs. Philip S. Dickson Mrs.
Mrs. Avery Faulkner Mrs.
Mrs. Bernard Fensterwald Mrs.
Mrs. Rockwood H. Foster Mrs.
Mrs. Orville L. Freeman Mrs.
Mrs. William F. Gorog Mrs.
Mrs. Karl G. Harr, Jr. Mrs.
Mrs. Henry L. Heymann

Mrs. Vernon Wilson Holleman

Mrs. Ronald J. Ivey Mrs.
Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries Mrs.
Mrs, Enid T. Johnson Mrs.
Mrs. Godfrey W. Kauffmann Mrs.
Mrs. Clinton -W. Kelly, 112 Mrs.
Mrs. William H. Kent Mrs.
Mrs. Monroe Leigh Mrs.
Mrs. Keith M. Lindgren Mrs.
Mrs. V. Cretella Mars Mrs.
Mrs. Arthur K. Mason

Thomas McCance, Jr.
David H. McKillop
James K. Mitchell
Donald Notman
Louise Owen

James R. Patton, Jr.
Horace White Peters
John Pflieger
Charles L. Poor

C. Michael Price

S. Dillon Ripley
Robert E. Rogers
William C. Rountree
Peter Talbot Russell
Leonard Silverstein
Henry P. Smith, III
Michael P.W. Stone
Mark Sullivan, III

Harriet H. Sweeney
M. Suzette Talbot

Robert D. van Roijen
Robert Waggaman
Robert L. Walsh, Jr.

Edmund Wellington, Jr.

Richard T. West
Edwin M. Wheeler
Byron R. White
Robert S. Wilkinson
Thomas B. Wilner
NATIONAL BOARD OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Mrs. Gay F. Wray, Chairman
Mr. Philip F. Anschutz
Mrs. Robert M. Bass

Mr. George B. Bingham, Jr.
Mr. W. J. Bowen

Mr. Charles L. Brown

Mr. Dan Burns

Mr. Fletcher Byrom

Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr.

Mr. Ivan Chermayeff
Mr. Jeffrey A. Cole
Mr. Thomas G. Cousins
Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mr. Peter E. Haas

Mr. John M. Harbert III
Mr. Gerald D. Hines
Mr. Frank W. Hoch

Mr. S. Charles Kemp
Mr. Thomas M. Keresey
Mr. Robert V. Lindsay

Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III
Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Hon. Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Hon. William A. Hewitt

Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury
Mr. Alexander K. McLana
Mr. Antony Merck

Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan
Mr. John W. Morrison
Dr. George E. Mueller
Mr. Jack S. Parker

Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker
Mr. Alvin N. Puryear
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
Mr. Leveo V. Sanchez
Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer
Mr. Charles W. Schmidt
Dr. Ivan Selin

Mrs. E. Maynard Smith
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman
Mrs. James M. Walton
Hon. John C. Whitehead
Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff

Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr
Mr. Seynour H. Knox III
Mr. Lewis A. Lapham
Hon George C. McGhee

han

Justice Sandra D. O’Connor

Mr. S. Dillon Ripley
Mr. Francis C. Rooney,
Hon. Thomas J. Watson,

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WOMEN’S COUNCIL

Janice Kaplan
Chair

Ellen V. Sprouls
Vice Chair

Linda Benjamin
Secretary

Nancy J. Fuller
Treasurer

Ann Bissell
Historian

Kathleen Baxter

Liz Marie Bettis

48

Dwight Bowman
Kathleen Fleming
Jacqueline Hicks Grazette
Ann Kaupp

Josephine K. Lensler
La’Vonda Mosley
Lyssette J. Rivera
Shoshana Rosenthal
Katherine Sprague
Miriam Weissman

Sara Yorke

OT.
JZ.
THE JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
HONORARY CHAIRMEN

Mrs. George Bush

Mrs. Ronald Reagan Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Jimmy Carter Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson
Mrs. Gerald R. Ford Mrs. Aristotle Onassis
OFFICERS

James D. Wolfensohn, Chairman Charlotte Woolard,
Senator James A. McClure, Assistant Secretary
Vice Chairman King F. Lowe, Treasurer
Leonard L. Silverstein, Harry C. McPherson, Jr.,
Vice Chairman General Counsel

Henry Strong, Vice Chairman William Becker,

Jean Kennedy Smith, Associate Counsel
Secretary

MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES

Philip F. Anschutz Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
Mrs. Bennett Archambault Mrs. Abraham A. Ribicoff
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr. Joy A. Silverman

Mrs. William Cafritz Leonard L. Silverstein
Ralph P. Davidson Jean Kennedy Smith
Kenneth Duberstein Roger B. Smith

James H. Evans Dennis Stanfill

Mrs. Max M. Fisher Roger L. Stevens

Robert Fryer Charles Z. Wick

Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn James D. Wolfensohn

Mrs. William Lee Hanley, Jr.
Dina Merrill Hartley

Helen Joan Hunt

Caroline Rose Hunt

Mrs. Earle M. Jorgensen
Donald M. Koll

Melvin R. Laird

MEMBERS EX OFFICIO DESIGNATED BY ACT OF CONGRESS

Louis Sullivan, Secretary Representative Sidney R. Yates
of Health and Human Services Marion S. Barry, Mayor,
Lauro F. Cavazos, Secretary District of Columbia
of Education Robert McC. Adams, Secretary,
Bruce Gelb, Director, Smithsonian Institution
U.S. Information Agency James H. Billington,
Senator Edward M. Kennedy Librarian of Congress
Senator James A. McClure J. Carter Brown, Chairman,

Senator George J. Mitchell Commission of Fine Arts
Representative Joseph James M. Ridenour, Director,

M. McDade National Park Service
Representative Charles Wilson Paul Woodard, Director, D.C.
Senator George J. Mitchell Department of Recreation

FOUNDING CHAIRMAN
Roger L. Stevens

HONORARY TRUSTEES
Mrs. Albert Lasker Mrs. J. Clittord Folger
Ralph E. Becker J. William Fulbright
Mrs. Jouett Shouse

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES
General Trustees

Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman
John R. Stevenson

Ruth Carter Stevenson

Robert H. Smith

Alexander M. Laughlin

Trustees Ex Officio

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States

James A. Baker III, Secretary of State

Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian
Institution

Honorary Trustee

Paul Mellon
READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Chairman of the Board
President

Vice President
Secretary

Treasurer

Members

Ms. Loretta Barrett

Mr. Leo Beebe

Mr. Daniel Burke

Mr. James C. Curvey
Lloyd Derrickson, Esq.
Mr. Robert S. Diamond
Mrs. Edward D. Eddy
Mr. Charles F. Harris
Mr. Steven Heyer

Advisory Council

Honorary Chairman:
Mrs. George Bush

Mr. Robert McC Adams
Mr. Arthur R. Ashe, Jr.
Mrs. Gayle Perkins Atkins
Mrs. Evan Bayh

Mrs. Daniel Boorstin
Jack E. Brown, Esq.
Jimmy Dean

. Robert G. Diforio

. Barbara J. Easterling
. Edward E. Elson

» Juan T>Euell

. Walter A. Haas, Jr.

. Andrew Heiskell

SSSR SSE

Founder

Mrs. Robert S. McNamara

Mrs. Elliot Richardson
Mrs. Ruth P. Graves
Mr. Edward A. Fox
Mr. Samuel B. Ethridge
Mrs. Jean Head Sisco

Mrs. Ruth Holmberg

Mr. John T. Leatham
Ms. Ann R. Leven

Mrs. Kathryn W. Lumley
Dr. Floretta McKenzie
Mr. Edward J. Meade, Jr.
Mrs. Charles S. Robb
Mr. Arthur White

Mr. Harry Hoffman

Mr. Lee Iacocca

Mr. W. Thomas Johnson
Dr. Elizabeth Karnes
Ms. Natalie Lang

Mr. Vincent MacDonnell
Mr. Robert S. McNamara
Mr. Edward Morrow

Dr. Peter P. Muirhead
Mr. Steven S Reinemund
Eugene F. Rowan, Esq.
Mrs. Potter Stewart

Mr. Alberto Vitale

Mr. Donald Wilson

Ms. Oprah Winfrey
€ep‘9r0'LI 6P8'STE F66'L ECL'STS = LOZ PS*L €S6'791'9 79T'F66 TSELOS'T = *[BIOL

a

601‘T LOT SOO OL8'T prs‘0€E 8LS‘78P IL8°00€ 7rS'S9 699‘6LT dag
bE7'886'1 POL‘el pel‘e PST Pe 788916 879'8IL 677201 €Or‘66! sny
STP‘OLT'Z 00s‘€l 066'2 €19'8E 10b‘6S6 Z9L‘Z08 9p9'PZI €0S'87Z [nf
SEr‘Ezs'T P6e‘7I 0 O8E°6E LLO‘Y6L 8El‘e69 b0S‘86 6£6 SST unf
LIUT66'T 690'FI 0 660°Sb O8T‘068 O€7'BLL SIE'b6 677691 Kew
OS6'FEEZ atm 0 SEC‘ Or COC‘OT0'T b7S‘8S8 reo‘sor LEs‘66l idy
LIE‘SEe'l LI9‘@Z 0 O8T'EE 90P'8LS 910°96r 09€E'T8 SEL‘EZI ie"
IZp'LS8 ZI8‘6E 0 P7887 09Z‘OrE €6EECE be7'ss 88869 qed
prl‘6S9 776‘ PE 0 OIZTE 6L0'19Z 9EL‘S7Z 79P'Ob SEL‘6S uef
0661
8r8°LOL 9SO'EE 0 9F9°OZ L18°78Z SEB PrZ LLE‘SS Oz1‘S9 99d
SP0‘°790'T Oss‘TS 0 pr9'0E E8s‘ISp ELS‘7LE 1069 b67'98 AON
S6E ‘SOIT 8L8°Ss 0 686 0€ 6E8'PLS Pre BPE Srb's6 0 yO
6861
Araye9

winasny| Weslo winasny] Suiping duipping suipping

Araye ueIpu] pue yy aoeds AJO}SIH] soljsnpuy UONNyNSUy
[ROL yormuay ueduowy uRdHOWYy pue inv jenjen pue syy ueluOsyIWS yuo

0661 IeaX [eISI] Ul SUINaSNYY UOINNINSUT ULTUOSYIULUG OF SIOUSIA

z xipuoddy
‘potad Bunsodas siyy Sutnp

pasopo sem yy Jo Alay[eg Joaky WL “UONNINSU] URIUOSY MUG ay) O} SIOWSIA [ENPLAIPUT JO Jaqunu fenjoe oy) UeY) JOYSIY SI pue ‘sjUNOD JO}ISIA WWNasNU
JO ayeSordde oy) syussaidas ‘asoyarayp ‘[e}0) pues ay] “Sawn [esaAaS paytnoo aye Aap ‘Shep VAINIISUOD [eJOAIS UO SUUNISNU sNOLeA 0} O89 JO ‘AseIOUNI
IY) UO Wnasnul suo UY JIOUL apNpoUT SIOPISIA AUT JOUIS “WNasnus Jey) OF SIOVSIA [ENPIAIPUT JO JoquinuU oy) }D9[JOI Wnasnu Yyoea JOJ S[RIOL “ALON

€66 LI0'SZ TIWLOL GNVUO
O9S‘TLO'L 6S8' TEP 090°L€6 €16'SOP 806°TSZ 68 FOL‘S CIO‘LOI 6l Per [R101
1S9°S9p 8ZS°LZ 9€6'€9 €SE'67 768'C1 PlO'6le SETI €69'T dag
T8Z‘8S8 S77'Eb 9E7'LB 196'PE COELI bOr'8s9 82771 $98'b any
797‘ZIO'T C9S‘LE LOv‘66 CEESE ELL'IZ 169°98Z 929'PT 1L8°9 Ing
LIE IL8 Lel'lr bLe‘68 8r7'7E T02‘77 e7S°S99 SrE'sI LL8‘T unf
F9S°S88 SI@' bb ITT‘68 961'SE prs‘sl S8L'€89 998'0I Lrs‘€ Ae
7h7'876 999°9r 801601 CZULE e7r'LI 8Er‘90L T2UL C9E'b dy
ZE0'6F9 166'IP cIP'L8 L66'€€ O?L‘21 660°9Sb PSL‘Zl €90'b IeW
98S°LOP S6c' TE 898'0S 7S8'97 T9L‘IZ OZS‘TSZ >66'81 9679 924
T9S‘ISE CCL'S7Z €€8'6P 600°LZ EI bbe t7L'661 OrS‘2Z OzE'7 uel
066!
O8h'P8E $S6°7Z SLS‘@P OLO'LZ O9S‘LI €60°87Z LEL‘bZ O6r'T 99d
9Tr6SS 20°62 SSL'8L S6E'7E 61L‘67 77E‘O9E 9TE‘97 888'Z AON
8986S CE6'62 Crb'68 BLES Tps'se T8L'89€ Lee Ll prs'Z YO
6861

Jaquag wnasnj| winasny] winasnjy

winasnj winasny Arayyey Kardry AJOWSIH] WIMaH- pOoyToqysiaN

seo], uy uByy WOYYsi} yapyoes—sUTTIG “S uedwowy -1ado09 ensosewuy = yuo]

laa)
ve)
Appendix 3

Academic, Researching Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1990

The first section of this Appendix lists recipients of fellowships and other
appointments awarded to scholars and advanced students under the auspices of the
Office of Fellowships and Grants. Students and museum professionals who held
internships or participated in special projects administered by the Office of Museum
Programs are listed in the second section.

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research and
study appointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appointees are
provided access to the Institution’s facilities, staff expertise, and reference resources.
The persons listed in this Appendix assumed their appointments between October 1,
1989, and September 30, 1990, and have been in residence for three months or
longer. Each visitor is designated as a Predoctoral or Postdoctoral Fellow, a Visiting
Scientist or Scholar, or as a participant in another special program. Also noted are
the institution where each visitor received, or expects to receive, a degree or the
home university or institution; a brief description of the project undertaken at the
Smithsonian; the name of the Smithsonian advisor; and dates of residency.

RESEARCH
JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Stuart McCook, Graduate Student Fellow, Princeton University. "The Life
Course of Nations: Comparative Development of National Scientific
Communities," with Marc Rothenberg, from June 1 to August 10, 1990.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Perry S. Barboza, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New England, Australia.
"Protein Metabolism in Lactating Grey and Harbor Seals," with Olav
Oftedal, from January 1 to December 31, 1990.

Wolfgang Dittus, Research Development Fellow, University of Maryland.
"Primate Social Behavior in Relation to Long-Term Reproductive Success,
Demography, and Genetic Structure," with Devra Kleiman, from December
31, 1989 to January 1, 1992.

Eduardo Duque, Exchange Student, University of California, Davis. “Animal
Behavior," with Rudy Rudran, from September 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991.

John M. Francis, Visiting Scientist, University of California, Santa Cruz.
"Maternal Feeding Behavior and Lactation Strategy in the Juan Fernandez
Fur Seal, Arctocephalus philippii," with Daryl Boness, from April 1,
1990 to March 31, 1991.

Alan Mercure, Visiting Student, University of Minnesota. “Molecular Genetic
Studies of the Endangered San Joaquin Kit Fox and its Kin," with
Katherine Ralls, from April 1, 1990 to March 31, 1991.
Sriyanie Miththapala, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Florida. "Genetic
Variation in Sri Lankan Leopards," with John Seidensticker, from January
1 to December 31, 1990.

Lisa G. Rapaport, Graduate Student Fellow, University of New Mexico. "Golden
Lion Tamarin Behavior in Two Zoo Habitats: Does the Free-Roaming
Environment Differentially Affect Reaction to Novelty and Development of
Foraging Skills?", with Benjamin Beck, from June 4 to August 10, 1990.

Alfred L. Rosenberger, Research Development Fellow, City University of New
York. "The Biology of Locomotor Behavior in Golden Lion Tamarins," with
Devra Kleiman, from August 1, 1990 to July 31, 1992.

Lisa G. Sorenson, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota. "An
Experimental Study of Sexual Selection in the White-Cheeked Pintail and
Northern Pintail," with Scott Derrickson, February 1, 1990 to January
31, 19925

Michael D. Sorenson, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota. "The
Evolution of Parasitic Egg-Laying in Redhead Ducks: The Effects of Host
Availability and Sexual Imprinting," with Scott Derrickson, from August
1, 1990"to July 31, 19912

Claudia R. Valeggia, Exchange Student, University of California, Davis.
"Animal Behavior," with Rudy Rudran, from September 1, 1990 to June 30,
1991.

Ian G. Warkentin, Visiting Scientist, University of Saskatchewan. "Winter
Ecology of Prothonotary Warblers: Foraging Behavior and Habit Use,"
with Eugene Morton, from August 1, 1990 to July 31, 1992.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Monique Marie G. Arnaud, Visiting Scientist, Service d'Astrophysique of
Saclay. "The Atomic Processes in Hot, Thin Plasmas, and the
Investigation of the Hot Gas in Clusters of Galaxies," with William R.
Forman, from January 15, 1990 to February 1, 1991.

Mary A. Barsony, Postdoctoral Fellow, California Institute of Technology.
"The Submillimeter Wavelength Telescope Array," with Paul T. P. Ho, from
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1992.

Pascale Beaufume, Predoctoral Fellow, Ecole Centrale de Paris. "Solar Plasma
Physics: Anomalous Energy Transport in Solar Corona and Correlation
Between Hard X-Ray and Micro-Waves in Solar Flares," with Irwin Shapiro,
from July 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991.

George Blumenthal, Visiting Scientist, University of California, San Diego.
"The Three Dimensional Flow Velocity and the Mass Density in the
Universe, the Correlation Function of Gamma Ray Bursts, and Other
Related Topics," with Harvey Tananbaum, from August 21, 1990 to June 30,
LOSd::

ou

ou
Webster C. Cash, Visiting Scientist, University of California, Berkeley.
"Development of High Throughput X-Ray Telescopes of X-Ray Imaging and
Dispersive Spectroscopy with Applications to Rockets and the LAMAR/High
Throughput Facility," with Harvey Tananbaum, from June 1 to December 31,

1990.

Cesare Cecchi-Pestellini, Visiting Student, University of Florence. "The
Problems of Interstellar Physics and Chemistry," with Alexander
Dalgarno, from January 15 to August 31, 1990.

E. S. Chang, Visiting Scientist, University of California, Riverside.
“Rydberg State Collisions; Rydberg States in Astrophysics; and Rydberg
Structure Theory," with Alexander Dalgarno, from September 1, 1990 to
May 31, 1991.

Mark Chantell, Visiting Student, University of Arizona. "Gamma Ray Project,"
with Trevor Weekes, from June 18, 1990 to May 31, 1991.

Tomasz Chlebowski, Visiting Scientist, Warsaw University Observatory.
"Catalogue of all EINSTEIN Satellite Observations of B-Type Stars," with
F. Rick Harnden, from October 1, 1989 to December 31, 1990.

Eduardo Colombo, Predoctoral Fellow, Universidad de Buenos Aires. "The
Development of the Low Cost V.H.E. Gamma Ray Telescope," with Irwin
Shapiro, from October 1, 1989 to October 31, 1990.

Salvador Curiel, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Mexico. "Shock Waves with
Magnetic Precursors," from August 1, 1990 to July 31, 1991.

Nicolaci L. A. Da Costa, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. "Analysis of
the Large-Scale Structure of the Universe Using Redshift Surveys of
Southern Galaxies," with David W. Latham, from December 15, 1989 to
February 28, 1991.

Gary Fuller, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. "The
Physics of Molecular Clouds and Star Formation," with Irwin Shapiro,
from November 1, 1989 to October 31, 1991.

Dalia Goldwirth-Piran, Postdoctoral Fellow, The Racah Institute of Physics.
"Relativistic Astrophysics and Cosmology," with Irwin Shapiro, from
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1992.

Daniel O. Gomez, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universidad de Bueno Aires. "Dynamical
Processes in the Solar Corona," with Petrus Martens, from October l,
1989 to September 30, 1990.

Mercedes Gomez, Smithsonian Predoctoral Fellow, Cordoba National University.
"A Proper Motion Survey of Post T-Tauri Stars in Taurus-Auriga Molecular
Cloud," with Lee Hartmann, from September 1, 1990 through August 31,
LOA

Elisabete Maria Gouveia Dal Pino, Visiting Scientist, University of Sao

Paulo. "Phenomenology of Cosmic Jets," with George Field, from
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

56
Alan H. Guth, Visiting Scientist, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
"Possible Mechanisms for the Creation of a Universe," with Irwin
Shapiro, from January 1 to September 30, 1990.

Xiaofeng Han, Predoctoral Fellow, Harbin Institute of Technology, China.
"Laser Spectroscopy and Applications," with W.H. Parkinson, from October
1, 1989 to September 30, 1991.

Hardy M. Hodges, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Chicago. "Universe
Cosmology," with Irwin Shapiro, from August 1, 1990 to July 31, 1991.

Bengt Anders Kall, Visiting Student, Chalmers University of Technology.
"Modelling of Radiometric Measurements of Horizontal Variations of the
Radio Refractivity of Water Vapor," with James Davis, from May 29 to
August 31, 1990.

Bon-Chul Koo, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. "The
Study of Infrared Worms and an Observational Study of Old Supernova
Remnants," with Irwin Shapiro, from September 1, 1990 to August 31,
1992.

Enrico Koper, Visiting Scientist, Leiden University. "Observations of
M31,"with P. Thaddeus, from October 17, 1989 to March 30, 1990.

Jong Kung, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University. "Study of Protocluster Using
Gas Dynamics," with Irwin Shapiro, from July 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991.

Jerry LaSala, Visiting Scientist, Dartmouth College. “The Development of an
Integrated Software Package for the Analysis and Classification of MK-
Dispersion Objective-Prism Spectra," with M. J. Kurtz, from February 2,
1990 to January 31, 1991.

Peter Langhoff, Visiting Scientist, State University of New York.
"Theoretical Atomic and Molecular Physics," with Alexander Dalgarno,
from May 1 to November 30, 1990.

Weihong Liu, Predoctoral Fellow, Peking University. "The Physical and
Chemical Processes in Astronomical Objects," with Irwin Shapiro, from
October 1, 1989 to September 30, 1991.

Alan Marscher, Visiting Scientist, University of Virginia. "VLBI and X-Ray
Observations of Quasars and Theoretical Work on the Gas Dynamics and
Radiation of Relativistic Jets," with James Moran, from August 1, 1990
to July 31, 1991. 7

Pablo Mauas, Visiting Scientist, Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires. "The
Study of the Solar Chromosphere, Especially its Energetic Balance," with
Eugene Avrett, from December 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990.

Peter Meszaros, Visiting Scientist, University of California, Berkeley.
"Neutron Star High Energy Properties and the Cosmic X-Ray Background
Radiation," with George Field, from September 1 to December 31, 1990.

David Micha, Visiting Scientist, University of Uppsala, Sweden. "Theoretical
Atomic and Molecular Physics," with Alexander Dalgarno, from August 1 to
December 31, 1990.

ol
~l]
John Morgan, Visiting Scientist, University of California, Berkeley. "Atomic
and Molecular Theory," with Alexander Dalgarno, from October 1, 1989 to
August 31, 1991.

Rachel Padman, Visiting Scientist, St. John's College, Cambridge. "Development
of Optical Considerations for the Submillimeter Antennas," with Colin
Masson, from January 15 to April 15, 1990.

Monica Pasca, Visiting Student, University of Rome. "The Investigation of
Non-Linear Oscillations of Tethered Systems, Stability of Motion
Following Large Disturbances, and Modal Resonances with External
Perturbations," with Enrico Lorenzini, from January 15 to July 15, 1990.

Tsvi Piran, Visiting Scientist, Hebrew University. "Initial Conditions for
Inlation and the Very Early Universe; Evolution of Strings Network;
Numerical Relativity; and Relativistic Astrophysics," with George Field,
from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Michael Punch, Visiting Scientist, University College, Dublin. "Observation
of the 10M Reflector and Design of a Semi-Automated Telescope," with
Trevor Weekes, from December 27, 1989 to February 9, 1990.

Massimo Ramella, Visiting Scientist, Trieste University. "Analysis of Groups
of Galaxies," with Margaret Geller, from March 1 to August 31, 1990.

Paola Rossi, Predoctoral Fellow, Universita' di Torino. “The Structure and
Stability of Magnetic Flux Tubes in the Solar Atmosphere," with Wolfgang
Kalkofen, from October 1, 1989 to September 30, 1991.

Timothy Scholz, Postdoctoral Fellow, Queen's University, Ireland. "Various
Aspects of Electron Scattering by Atomic Targets," with A. Dalgarno,
from August 27, 1990 through August 26, 1991.

Wei Shen, Visiting Scientist, Beijing University, China. "The Properties of
the Atomic Hydrogen Maser," with Robert F. C. Vessot, from December 1,
1989 to May 14, 1990.

Janine Shertzer, Visiting Scientist, Brown University. "The Binding Energy of
the Muonic Molecular Ions: Application of the Finite Method of
Calculation," with Alexander Dalgarno, from June 1, 1990 to May 31,
1991.

Kazuo Shibasaki, Visiting Scientist, University of Tokyo. “Spectroscopic
Measurements of Chemicals in the Earth's Ozone Layer," with Kelly
Chance, from April 1, 1990 to March 31, 1991.

Alok Shukla, Visiting Student, University of Washington. "Theory of Electric
Dipole Moment of Atomic Rubidium Due to Parity and Time Reversal
Violation," with Alexander Dalgarno, from June 15 to September 15, 1990.

Aneta Siemiginowska, Predoctoral Fellow, Warsaw University. “Accretion Disks
in Active Galactic Nuclei," with Martin Elvis, from August 1, 1990 to
July 31, 1991.

Kulinder Pal Singh, International Exchange Visitor, Bombay University. "X-Ray
Spectroscopy of Supernova Remnants," with John Hughes, from April 30 to
September 30, 1990.
Guoqiang Tang, Visiting Scientist, Chalmers University of Technology.
"Differential VLBI Measurements on the Quasar 4C39.25," with Irwin
Shapiro, from June 15, 1989 to September 30, 1990.

Han Uitenbroek, Visiting Scientist, Assistant Researcher. "Astrophysical
Radiative Transfer Modeling with Partial Redistribution," with Eugene
Avrett, from June 1, 1990 to May 31, 1991.

Shoba Veeraraghavan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
"Physical Cosmology, the Astrophysics-Cosmology-High Energy Physics
Interface, and Theoretical Astrophysics," with George Field, from
November 1, 1989 to October 31, 1990.

Bogi Wang, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. "The State of the Universe
at Redshift of the Order of Ten," with George Field, from November 1,
1989 to June 30, 1990.

Terry Whitaker, Visiting Student, University of Arizona. "Air Shower Array
Data Analysis for Gamma Ray Sources," with Trevor Weekes, from June 18,
1990 to May 31, 1991.

David White, Predoctoral Fellow, University College of London. "Study of Hot
and Cold Gas in Early-Type Galaxies," with Irwin Shapiro, from November
1, 1989" to April’ 30,5 1992.

Bruce Wilking, Visiting Scientist, University of Missouri, St. Louis. "The
Initial Stellar Populations of Nearby Molecular Clouds," with Dr.
Charles Lada, from September 4, 1990 to.September 3, 1991.

Thomas Winter, Visiting Scientist, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
"Electron Transfer, Excitation, and Ionization in Ion-Atomic
Collisions," with A. Dalgarno, from September 1 through December 31,
1990.

Mark G. Wolfire, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
"Submillimeter Wavelength Telescope Array," with Paul T. P. Ho, from
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1992.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Lucia R. Dillenburg, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "Competition
Between Temperate Forest Vine and Tree Species," with Dennis Whigham,
from June 1, 1990 to May 31, 1991.

Joseph F. Dineen, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "Factors
Influencing Balanus Settlement Relevant to Adult Zonation in the
Chesapeake Bay,” with Anson Hines, from October 1, 1989 to September 30,
1990.

John R. Dolan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "Carbon Flux in
the Rhode River Estuary: The Trophic Link Between Metazoan
Zooplankton," with Charles Gallegos, from August 1, 1990 to July 31,
V99T.
Richard Everett, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
"Distribution Abundance, and Population Structure of Grass Shrimp,
Palaemonetes pugio in Nearshore Habitats of Chesapeake Bay: The
Importance of Predatory Fish," with Gregory Ruiz, from September 1, 1990
to August 31, 1991.

Grace Ju, Postdoctoral Fellow, Purdue University. "A Model System for
Studying the Role of Glycinebetaine and Glutamate Dehydrogenase in
Nitrogen Productivity Under Salt Stress Environments," with Bert Drake,
from August 15, 1990 to August 14, 1991.

David W. Lawlor, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of London. "Effects
of Elevated Carbon Dioxide on the Structure, Composition, and
Photosynthetic Function of Scirpus in a Salt Marsh Community," with Bert
Drake, from April 1 to October 31, 1990.

Junda Lin, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
"Complex Interactions Among Competition, Predation, and Substrate
Composition," with Anson Hines, from August 15, 1990 to February 14,
1991.

Daniel K. Niven, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Illinois. "Sexual
Segregation and Habitat Use in a Neotropical Avian Migrant," with James
Lynch, from May 14 to July 23, 1990.

L. David Smith, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "Sexual
Selection and Mating System of the Blue Crab, Callinectes sapidus
Rathbun," with Anson Hines, from September 1, 1990 to December 31, 1991.

Panchabi Vaithiyanathan, Postdoctoral Fellow, Jawaharlal Nehru University,
India. "Factors in Controlling the Release of Phosphorus from Sediments
in the Estuarine Region," with David Correll, from September 1, 1990 to
August 31, 1991.

Zhigang Wang, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cambridge. "Population
Ecology of Epifagqus virginiana,” with Dennis Whigham, from October 1,
1989 to September 30, 1990.

Jess K. Zimmerman, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. "The Resource

Economy of Uvularia perfoliata," with Dennis Whigham, from August l,
1990 to July 31, 1991.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

T. Mitchell Aide, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. "Late Pleistocene
Origin of the Central American Flora," with Dolores Piperno, from
January 1 to June 30, 1990.

Gerald Allen, Visiting Scientist, University of Hawaii. "An Identification
Guide to the Fishes of the Tropical Eastern Pacific," with Ross
Robertson, from March 1 to June 30, 1990.

Parthiba Basu, Short-Term Fellow, Pondicherry University. "Distribution of

Ants in Different Island in the Gatun Lake," with Joseph Wright, from
August 18, 1990.

60
Jean-Philippe Boubli, Short-Term Fellow. "Time Allocation, Diet, and

Selection of Feeding Substrate in Sanguinus oedipus geoffroyi of Barro
Colorado Island," with Nicholas Smythe, from June 1 to August 31, 1990.

Christian D'Orgeix, Short-Term Fellow. "Multiple Paternity of the From
Agalychnis callidryas," with Stanley Rand, from August 10 to November
10, 1990.

Ovidio Duran, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. “"Determinacion del grado de

Heterocigosidad Gentica de las Abejas Africanizadas en Panama," with
David Roubik and Felicita Sousa, from February 1 through April 30, 1990.

Stephen T. Emlen, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "The
Evolutionary Consequences of Behavioral Sex Role Reversal," with A.
Stanley Rand, from June 1, 1990 to April 15, 1991.

Pierre-Michel Forget, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universite de Paris 6. "Seed
Dispersal by Large Rodents in South American Tropical Forests," with
Nicholas Smythe, from November 1, 1989 to October 31, 1990.

Ulisses Galatti, Latin American Fellow, Intituto Nacional de Pesquisas da
Amazonia. "Variation in Morphology Vocalization and Habitat of
Leptodactylus pentadactylus in Panama," with Standley Rand, from May 7
through August 7, 1990.

Manuel Guariguata, Short-Term Fellow, Yale University. "Sprouting Ability in
Canopy Tree Juveniles," with Alan Smith, from July 2 through October 10,
1990.

James L. Hamrick, Senior Fellow, University of California, Berkeley. "Causes
of Genetic Structure in Tropical Tree Populations," with Alan Smith,
from October 1, 1989 to August 31, 1992.

Edward A. Herre, Visiting Scientist, University of Illinois. "The Biology of
Nematode Parasites of Fig Wasps," with Donald Windsor from April 15 to
December 14, 1990.

Kevin Hogan, Visiting Scientist, University of Illinois. "Physiological and
Ecological Implications of a Geographic Gradient in Rainfall for Some
Tropical Understory Shrub Species," with Alan P. Smith, from December 1,
1988 to September 30, 1990.

Weishan Jin, Short-Term Fellow. "Leaf Lifetime and Plant Antiherbivore
Defense," with Alan Smith, from September 12 to December 18, 1990.

Kenneth G. Johnson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Iowa. "Testing for
Natural Selection on Corals: Patterns of Skeletal Morphology,
Fertility, and Genetic Variation in Natural Populations of Manicina
areolata (Scleractinia),”" with Nancy Knowlton, from October 1, 1989 to
September 30, 1990.

Frank J. Joyce, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University. "Nest-Site Selection
by Two Species of Neotropical Social Wasps," with Mary Jane West-
Eberhard, from May 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991.

61
Thomas Juenger, Short Term Fellow. "Social Organization and Mating System of
Tropical Tent-Making Bats," with Stanley Rand, from June 1 to August 30,
1990.

David A. King, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
"The Significance of Leaf Arrangement in Tropical Trees," with Egbert
Leigh, from August 9, 1990 to August 8, 1991.

Katarzyna Kubzdela, Short-Term Fellow. "Feeding Ecology and Food Patch
Abandonment in Ateles geoffroyi of Barro Colorado Island," with Nicholas
Smythe, from June 1 to August 31, 1990.

Catherine Marler, Short-Term Fellow, University of Texas. "Mechanistic and
Evolutionary Investigations of Natural Levels of Display Behavior of the
Tungara Frog," with Stanley Rand, from July 9 through August 30, 1990.

Alberto Mena, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. "Estrategias de
Nidificacion y Metodo de Captura de Avispas Pompilidas (Himenoptera:
pompilidae) en San Blas," with Stanley Rand, from May 7 through August
a, 2990.

Victor Moreno, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. "Determinacion del Grado
de Heterocidad Genetico de las Abejas Africanizadas en Panama," with
David Roubik and Felicita Sousa, from February 1 through April 30, 1990.

Darlyne Murawski, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. "Causes of
Genetic Structure in Tropical Tree Populations," with James Hamrick,
from September 1, 1989 to September 30, 1990.

Sean O'Donnell, Short Term Fellow. "The Physiology of Behavioral
Specialization in Tropical Swarm-Founding Wasps (Hymenoptera: Vespidae:
Epiponini)," with Donald Windsor, from June 20 to October 19, 1990.

Alfredo Reyes, Latin America Fellow, University of Panama. "Balance de
Energia en Hojas de Arboles a Diferentes Niveles de Altura en el Bosque
Humedo Tropical," with Alan Smith, from July 1 through September 30,
1990.

Cynthia L. Sagers, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Utah. "Variation in
Secondary Metabolites and Some Effects on Plant Fitness," with Egbert
Leigh, from August 24, 1990 to August 23, 1991.

Oris Sanjur, Exxon Fellow, University of Panama. "Estudio del Numero de
Cromosomas en el Genero Abudefduf," with Harilaos Lessios and Eduardo
Vega from October 16, 1989 through January 14, 1990.

Michelle Smith, Short-Term Fellow. "Communication and Behavior Patterns of
Baird's Tapir (Tapirus bairdii) on Barro Colorado Island," with Nicholas
Smythe, from September 1 to November 30, 1990.

David Snyderman, Short-Term Fellow, University of Vermont. "Comparison of the

Hydraulic Architecture of Evergreen and Deciduous Trees," with Egbert
Leigh and Alan Smith, from October 16 through December 26, 1989.

62
Yan Song, Short Term Fellow. "Hard Mass Scaling in Benthic Foraminifera:
Allometric and Adaptive Implications," with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from May
1, to,July 32, 2990.

David Tissue, Short Term Fellow. "Flowering in Psychotria: The Role of Total
Nonstructural Carbohydrates," with S. J. Wright, from May 1 to July 31,
1990.

Kevina Vulinec, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Chicago. "The
Evolution of Horns and Correlated Behaviors in New World Dung Beetles of
the Genus Copris Muller (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae)," with William

Eberhard, from April 16 to June 22, 1990.

Jeanne Zeh, Short Term Fellow. "Population Differentiation and the Panama
Canal: Incipient Speciation in a Neotropical Pseudoscorpion," with
William Eberhard, from October 15, 1989 to January 15, 1990.

MUSEUMS
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

E. Margarita Nieto, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California,
Northridge. "The Postmodern Sources of Los Angeles Chicano-Latino Art
History: Archival Collections from the Postwar Years to 1965," with
Paul Karlstrom, from August 1, 1990 to July 31, 1991.

Jontyle Theresa Robinson, Visiting Scholar, University of Maryland. "The Art
of Archibald J. Motley, Jr.," with Garnett McCoy and Lois Fink, from
July 1, 1990 to December 31, 1991.

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

Yuyun Chen, International Exchange Visitor, Zhejiang University, China.
"Preparation and Examination of Archaeological Metal Samples at the
Smithsonian, and Phase Identification and Solidification Behavior of the
Copper-Tin-Lead System at Lehigh University," with Thomas Chase, from
January 15 to November 15, 1990.

Boris Marshak, International Exchange Scholar, State Hermitage Museum in
Leningrad. "Near Eastern metalwork collections of the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art," with Glenn D. Lowery and Ann
Gunter, from November 1989 to January 1990.

Woodman L. Taylor, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Chicago. "Muslim
Constructions of Hindu Worlds: Patrons', Painters', and Translators'
Interpretations in the Freer Ramayana and Harivamsa," with Milo Beach,
from June 18 to August 24, 1990.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY
Yuyun Chen, Smithsonian Institution Fellow, University of Science and

Technology, China. "Residency in Archeological Metallurgy," with
Martha Goodway from June 15 to September 15, 1990.
Susan Heald, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, University of Delaware.
"Conservation Materials Used in the Storage, Exhibition, and Shipping of
Textiles," with Mary Ballard, from September 15, 1990 to September 14,
1991.

Michelle M. Hegmon, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "Regional
Interaction and Exchange Among Early Neolithic Communities in the North
American Southwest (A.D. 800-1050): Analysis of Ceramic Composition,"
with Ronald Bishop, from February 1, 1990 to January 31, 1991.

Ng-Lim Chong Quek, Asian Art Fellow (Asian Cultural Council), Head of
Conservation, National Museum, Singapore. "Verification of mechanical
Properties of 19th century Easel Paintings from the collections of the
National Museum of Singapore," with Mary Ballard and M. Mecklenberg,
from November 20, 1989 through January 20, 1990.

Terry Schaeffer, Research Collaborator, University of California, Berkeley.
"The Effect of Ageing on Aqueously Light-Bleached Paper," with Dianne
van der Reyden, from October 1989 through November 1990.

Freddie Talboada Tellez, Fulbright Scholar, National Museum of Ethanography
and Folklore, La Paz Bolivia. “Archaeological Textile Fragments from
Bolivia," with Mary Ballard, June and August, 1990.

Agnes Timar-Balazsy, Visiting Professional, Textiles, National Center of
Museums, Budapest. "Training Methods and Educational Opportunities for
Conservators," with Mary Ballard, from September through October 1989.

Aslihan Yener, Visiting Scientist, Columbia University. "The
Archaeometallurgy of Ancient Anatolia," with Thomas Chase, from April l,
1990 to March 31, 1991.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Yuyun Chen, International Exchange Visitor, Zhejiang University, China.
"Preparation and Examination of Archaeological Metal Samples at the
Smithsonian, and Phase Identification and Solidification Behavior of the
Copper-Tin-Lead System at Lehigh University," with Thomas Chase, from
January 15 to November 15, 1990.

Margaret MacDonald, Smithsonian Short-Term Visitor, Honorary Research Fellow,
Hunterian Art Gallery, University of Glasgow. "Catalogue raisonne of
Whistler Pastels, Watercolor Paintings, and Drawings," with Linda
Merrill, March 1990.

Boris Marshak, International Exchange Scholar, State Hermitage Museum in
Leningrad. "Near Eastern metalwork collections of the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art," with Glenn D. Lowery and Ann
Gunter, from November 1989 to January 1990.

Eun-wha Park, Freer Fellow, University of Michigan. "Ming dynasty painter
Xiang Shengmo (1597-1658) and his circle," with Shen Fu, from January
through June, 1990.

Kathleen A. Pyne, Smithsonian Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Notre Dame.
“Transcendence and Impressionism in Late 19th-century American
Painting," with Linda Merrill, from September 1990 to May 1991.

64
HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Lynne C. Cooke, Postdoctoral Fellow, London University. "Developments in
American Sculpture, 1968-1988," with Ned Rifkin, from October 1, 1989 to
September 30, 1990.

Mary V. Drach, Graduate Student Fellow, Boston University. "Alberto
Giacometti's Ethnographic Surrealism," with Valerie Fletcher, from
August 30, 1990 to May 1, 1991.

Ann E. Gibson, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. "Toward a
Cultural History of Abstract Expressionism," with Phyllis Rosenzweig,
from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Robert E. Haywood, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "Beyond the
Canvas: The Invention of Happenings," with Ned Rifkin, from September
1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Michael Dennis, Guggenheim Postdoctoral Fellow, The Johns Hopkins University.
"A Change of State: Technical Practice and Politics at the MIT
Instrumentation Laboratory and the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics
Laboratory, 1935-1957," with David DeVorkin, from September 1, 1990 to
August 31, 1991.

Robert Desieno, Visiting Scholar, University of California, Davis. "The
History of Nuclear Arms Testing," with Gregg Herken, from January 1 to
August 31, 1990.

Chris H. Gray, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California, Santa Cruz.
"Artificial Intelligence and Real War: The Shaping of Postmodern
Conflict in the United States Military," with Paul Ceruzzi, from July 30
to October 5, 1990.

Richard P. Hallion, Charles A. Lindbergh Chair. "High Speed Aerodynamics and
the Evolution of Hypersonic Aircraft," with Tom Crouch, from July 1,
1990 through August 31, 1991.

Suzanne L. Kolm, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University. "The Cultural History
of Flight Attendants, 1930-1978," with Dominick Pisano, from September
I, 9 90:*te August 31%, 1992).

Mark S. Robinson, Graduate Student Fellow, Hawaii Institute of Geophysics.
"Analysis of Viking Multi-Spectral Image and IRTM Data of the
Apollinaris Patera Region, Mars," with James Zimbelman, from September
17 to December 1, 1990.

Debra L. Simpson, Graduate Student Fellow, West Chester University. "An
Investigation of Wrinkle Ridge--Upland Scarp Associations on Mercury,
Earth, and Mars," with Thomas Watters, from June 4 to August 10, 1990.
Dmitry Sobolev, International Fellow, Academy of Science. "Comparative
Analysis of the Construction Development of the Aeroplanes in the USSR
and USA until 1945," with Von Hardesty, from November 1, 1989 to July
31, 1990.

Leikun Teferra, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Maryland. "A
Comparison of U.S. and Soviet Exploration of the Planet Venus," with
Cathleen Lewis, from June 1 to August 10, 1990.

Jacob Vander Meulen, A. Verville Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Toronto.
"Building Airpower: The American Aircraft and Industry During World War
II," with Von Hardesty, from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Elena L. Zheltova, International Fellow, Academy of Sciences. "Major
Historical Trends of Aviation Flight Guidance and Control Systems," with

Dominick Pisano, from October 1, 1989 through August 31, 1990.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Gilbert Amegatcher, Graduate Student Fellow, Indiana University. "Three
Decades of Modern Art in Ghana," with Roy Sieber, from June 1 to August
15 el 99.0).

Michelle V. Gilbert, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of London.
"Odwira: Feast of the Dead," with Roy Sieber, from February 1 to July
31,7, 29907

Madeleine Hexter, Postgraduate Conservation Intern, University of Delaware.
"A Technical Study of Copper Alloy Objects," with Stephen Mellor, from
October 16, 1989 to October 16, 1990.

Ebenezer Nii O. Quarcoopome, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California, Los
Angeles. "Art and Leadership Among the Ga-Adangme and Ewe of Ghana and
Togo," with Roy Sieber, from February 25, 1990 to February 24, 1991.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Michele H. Bogart, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Chicago.
“Advertising, Illustration, and the Borders of Art, 1890-1950," with
Virginia Mecklenburg, from September 15, 1990 to January 15, 1991.

Lynn M. Cazabon, Graduate Student Fellow, Cranbrook Academy of Art, Michigan.
"Treatment of the Body in the Work of Paul Outerbridge, Jr.," with Merry
Foresta, from September 1 to November 10, 1990.

Leah C. Dilworth, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University. “Imagining the
Primitive: Representations of Native Americans of the Southwest, 1880-
1930," with William Truettner, from June 4 to August 10, 1990.

Matthew A. Kangas, Senior Fellow, Oxford University. "Two Aspects of American

Ceramics: Sculpture and Text," with Michael Monroe, from October 1,
1989 to May 31, 1990.

66
Theresa A. Leininger, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University. "African-
American Artists in Paris, 1922-1932," with Lynda Hartigan, from June 25
to September 3, 1990.

David P. McCarthy, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. "The Nude in
American Painting, 1955-1980," with Virginia Mecklenburg, from July l,
1990 to June 30, 1991.

Alexander M. Nemerov, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Making History:
Representations of the American West, 1885-1916," with William
Truettner, from November 1, 1989 to October 31, 1990.

Mary E. L. O'Leary, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Virginia. "The
Representation of Domestic Servants in Nineteenth Century American
Painting," with Lois Fink, from July 23, 1990 to July 22, 1991.

Winifred Owens-Hart, Senior Fellow, Howard University. "Black on Brown:
African-American Clayworkers and Their Impact on American Culture," with
Michael Monroe, from December 29, 1989 to May 29, 1990.

Kathleen A. Pyne, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Notre Dame.
"Transcendence and Impressionism in Late Nineteenth Century American
Painting," with Elizabeth Broun, from September 1, 1990 to May 31, 1991.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Jane S. Becker, Graduate Student Fellow, Boston University. "Inventing the
American Folk, 1915-1942," with Charles McGovern, from August 27 to
November 2, 1990.

Robert E. Bieder, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota. "A
Social-Cultural-Scientific History of the Zoo in America," with Nathan
Reingold, from August 1, 1990 to July 31, 1991.

William J. Bolster, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "'To Feel
Like a Man': African-American Seamen in the Atlantic World, 1750-1885,'
with James Horton, from June 1, 1990 to May 31, 1991.

Ole Bom, Suzanne Liebers Erickson Exchange Visitor, University of Copenhagen.
"Riis' Use of Photography and the Related Visual Medium of the Lantern
Slide Exhibition," with Charles McGovern, from July 1 to October 18,
1990.

Eileen C. Boris, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Brown University. "Between Home
and Market: The Making and Buying of Garments in Industrializing
America, 1820-1920," with Barbara Clark Smith, from June 1, 1990 to May
31, 2991;

Jonn K. Brown, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Virginia. "The Manufacture
of Power,” with John White, from March 30, 1990 to March 29, 1991.

Andrzej Ceynowa, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Adam Mickiewicz University,
Poland. "Introduction to the History of American Culture," with Gary
Kulik, from June 15, 1990 to June 14, 1991.
Daniel Goldstein, Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "The Place of 7
Midwestern Academies of Science in the National Scientific Community,
1850-1900," with Pamela Henson, from January 7 to August 16, 1991.

Elise Goldwasser, Graduate Student Fellow, Duke University. "The Circus and
Dreams of Empire in the United States, 1870-1930," with Charles
McGovern, from August 13 to October 22, 1990.

David H. Guston, Graduate Student Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. "Congress and the History of Science: The Allison
Commission, 1884-1886," with Jeffrey Stine, from June 1 to August 10,
1990.

Patrick Hagopian, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "The Social
Memory of the Vietnam War," with Edward Ezell, from July 16, 1990 to
July 15, 1991.

Amy L. Hardin, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. "'A New Way to
Look and a New Way to Live': The Synthetic Fibers Industry and American
Consumer Culture, 1945-1980," with Charles McGovern, from June 1, 1990
to May 31, 1991.

Jeanne Houck, Predoctoral Fellow, New York University. "City of Monuments:
Constructing Historical Memory and National Identity in Washington,
D.C., 1901-1982," with Charles McGovern, from September 1, 1990 to
August 31, 1991.

Eva Illouz, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "Consuming Love:
The Representation of Romantic Love in Consumerist Culture, 1900-1930,"
with Charles McGovern, from February 1 to July 31, 1990.

Jerma Jackson, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. “Blues, Jazz, and
Gospel Music: Sites of Inter- and Intraracial Conflict," with Charles
McGovern, from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Laurie Beth Kalb, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "New
Mexico Santos and the Smithsonian Collections: Partners in the
Production of Contemporary Folk Art," with Richard Ahlborn, from
February 5 to April 18, 1990.

Nelson R. Kellogg, Predoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "An Issue of
Standards: The Career of Samuel Wesley Stratton," with Nathan Reingold,
from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Eric D. Kupferberg, Graduate Student Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. “International Science and the Dissemination of
Information: A Historical Study of the International Exchange Service
and the International Catalogue of Scientific Literature," with Patricia
Gossel, from June 11 to August 17, 1990.

James W. Loewen, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Lies My
Teacher Told Me," with Gary Kulik, from September 1, 1990 to May 31,
alt= fol kes

68
Patrick B. Miller, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
"Rendering the Athletic Metaphor: Sport and Culture in Turn-of-the-
Century America," with Charles McGovern, from May 15, 1990 to May 14,
L997.

Ruth Oldenziel, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Gender and the Changing
Meanings of Technology, 1880-1920," with Steven Lubar, from March l,
1990 to February 28, 1991.

Mary Panzer, Visiting Scholar, Boston University. "Romantic Origins of
American Realism, 1850-1875," with Charles McGovern, from August 9, 1990
to August 8, 1991.

Joseph P. Reidy, Postdoctoral Fellow, Northern Illinois University.
"Bittersweet: The Mechanization of Field Labor on Louisiana Sugar
Plantations, 1873-1914," with Pete Daniel, from July 1, 1990 to June 30,
LOOH

Catherine L. Roy, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Alberta. "Men's
Pattern Drafting Systems--Nineteenth and Early Twentieth Century," with
Claudia Kidwell, from October 2 to December 9, 1989.

Laxman D. Satya, Predoctoral Fellow, Tufts University. "A Comparative Study
of Cotton Ginning Technology in America and India in the Nineteenth
Century,” with Pete Daniel, from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Kim E. Wallace, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "Breezewood,
Pennsylvania, Town of Motels: An Ethnographic History of a Landscape of
Postmodernism," with Pete Daniel, from November 1, 1989 to January 31,
9.9)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
Mones S. Abu-Asab, Postdoctoral Fellow, Ohio University. "Phylogenetic

Affinities of Tribe Ajugeae (Labiatae)," with Joan Nowicke, from August
1, 1990 to July 31, 1991.

Byron Alexander, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University. "A Phylogenetic
Analysis of the Species of Clypeadon and Listropygqia (Hymenoptera:
Sphecidae)," with Karl Krombein, from January 1 to August 31, 1990.

Julie W. Ambler, Visiting Scientist, Texas A&M University. "Population

Dynamics of Dioithona oculata Near Red Mangrove Root,", with Frank
Ferrari, from December 1, 1989 to July 1, 1990.

Didier Arbouille, Visiting Scientist, University of Bordeaux I. "Nile Delta
Project,” with Daniel Stanley, from October 16, 1989 to October 15,
1990.

Richard Beer Aronson, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. "Recovery of

Jamaican Coral Reef Mobile Faunas Following Hurricane Gilbert," with
David Pawson, from October 9, 1989 to October 8, 1990.

69
Susan Arter, Visiting Student, George Washington University. "Powers Phase
Faunal Analysis," with Bruce Smith, from September 1, 1990 to August 31,
1991.

Richard M. Bateman, Postdoctoral Fellow, London University. "Numerical
Cladistic Analyses of Anatomically-Preserved Arboreous Lycopsids from
the Carboniferous of Euramerica," with William DiMichele, from June l,
1990 to May 31, 1991.

Stanley D. Blum, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Hawaii. "A Cranial
Morphology of Selected Beryciform and Percoid Fishes," with G. David
Johnson, from December 15, 1990 to December 14, 1991.

Maria Braga, Visiting Student, University of Maryland, College Park. "Leaf
Decomposition in Brazilian Streams: The Role of Aquatic Insects," with
Oliver Flint, from June 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Catherine Caillet, Postdoctoral Fellow, Universite Pierre et Marie Curie,
Paris, France. "An Integrated Study of Calcium Aluminum Inclusions from
Primitive Meteorites. Did the Short-Lived 26Al Isotope Play a Role in
the Early Heat Budget of the Planetesimals?", with Glenn MacPherson,
form June 1, 1990 to May 31, 1991.

Charles B. Calloway, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Brooding in
the Teredinidae (Mollusca: Bivalvia)," with Mary Rice, from January 15,
1990 to January 14, 1991.

Bryan N. Danforth, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Kansas. "Testing
Evolutionary Hypotheses in Light of the Phylogeny of the Macrotera Group
of Perdita (Hymenoptera: Andrenidae)," with Ronald McGinley, from June

1, 1990 to January 31, 1991.

Mario C. C. de Pinna, Graduate Student Fellow, City University of New York.
"Phylogeny and Generic Revision of Stegophilinae (Teleostei,
Trichomycteridae), " with Richard Vari, from June 15 to August 24, 1990.

Walentina De Weerdt, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. "Post Oligocene Radiation of the Tropical Sponge Genus
Xestospongia (Haplosclerida)," with Klaus Ruetzler, from June 1, 1990 to
May 31, 1991.

Tom D. Dillehay, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin.
“Comparative Analysis of Faunal and Lithic Collections from Monte Verde,
Chile," with Dennis Stanford, from January 1 to May 31, 1990.

Gregory E. Dowd, Postdoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. "'The Voice of
Bad Birds': Rumors on the American Indian-Anglo-American Frontier,
1607-1815," with William Sturtevant, from September 1, 1990 to May 31,
19:92).

J. Emmett Duffy, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina, Chapel

Hill. "Host Specificity and Speciation in Tropical Sponge-Dwelling
Shrimps (Synalpheus spp.)," with Brian Kensley, from January 5, 1990 to

January 4, 1991.

70
Melvin R. Duvall, Visiting Scientist, University of Minnesota. "A -
Phylogenetic Investigation of the Eragrostideae," with Paul Peterson,
from January 1 to December 31, 1990.

Mare Epstein, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Minnesota. "Development of
Higher Classification of the Slug Caterpillars (Lepidoptera:
Limacodidae)," with Donald Davis, from October 15, 1989 to October 14,
1990.

Brenda M. Farnell, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. "Signs of the
Time: Rethinking Relations Between Plains Indian Sign Language and
Anthropology," with Ives Goddard, from September 1, 1990 to August 31,
1991.

Mario J. Giaramita, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Davis.
"Fluid Inclusion Analysis and Thermobarometry of Crustal Eclogites:
Constraints on Fluid Interactions, Thermal Structure, and Uplift in
Subduction Zones," with Sorena Sorensen, from September 1, 1990 to
August 31, 1991.

Anthony C. Gill, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New England, Australia.
"Taxonomic Revision of the Gobioid Fish Genus Xenisthmus, with a
Phylogenetic and Biogeographic Analysis of the Xenisthmidae," with G.
David Johnson, from July 1, 1990 to June 30, 1991.

Christopher J. Glasby, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Sydney. "A Generic
Revision and Phylogeny of the Hesionidae (Polychaeta)," with Kristian
Fauchald, from February 1, 1990 to January 31, 1991.

Kristen J. Gremillion, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill. "Origins of Agriculture in Eastern North America:
Evidence from Kentucky Caves and Rockshelters," with Bruce Smith, from
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Charles E. Griswold, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Berkeley.
"Phylogenetics and Biogeography of the Spider Family Cyatholipidae Simon
1894," with Jonathan Coddington, from January 1 to December 31, 1990.

Gerald Guala, Visiting Student, University of Florida. "A Monograph of the
Genus Apoclada," with Paul Peterson, from April 1 to June 30, 1990.

Jane I. Guyer, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Rochester.
"Agricultural Change and the Division of Labor in Western Nigeria," with
Ivan Karp, from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Alan G. Heath, Visiting Scientist, Oregon State University. "Exploratory
Investigation of the Physiological Ecology of Cyprinodont Fishes in
Hypersaline Lagoons Near Carrie Bow, Belize," with Klaus Ruetzler, from
April 1 to July 15, 1990.

Sandra E. Hollimon, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California, Santa
Barbara. "Gender and Activity Patterns in Prehistoric Populations of
the Northern Plains," with Douglas Ubelaker, from August 28, 1990 to
August 27, 1991.
Bernadette V. Holthuis, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Washington. "The
Evolution of the Grastropod Family Neritidae into Non-Marine Habitats,"
with Richard Houbrick, from January 5, 1990 to January 4, 1991.

Helene Howa, Visiting Scientist, L'Universite de Bordeaux I. "Petrologic
Study of Late Quaternary Sediments and Recent Evolution of the
Northwestern Nile Delta, Egypt," with Daniel Stanley, from January 1 to
December 31, 1990.

Carlos G. Jara, Graduate Student Fellow, Universidad de Concepcion, Chile.
"Evaluation of Taxonomic Characters in Aeglids (Crustacea: Decapoda:
Anomura),"” with Raymond Manning, from March 1 to May 10, 1990.

Alan R. Kabat, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Comparative
Morphology and Phylogeny of the Naticid Gastropods of the Tropical Indo-
Pacific and the Antarctic Regions," with M. G. Harasewych, from
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Alan Kohn, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Systematics of
Conidae," with Richard Houbrick, from January 1 to April 30, 1990.

Corinne A. Kratz, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas, Austin.
"Emotional Power and Significant Movement: Womanly Transformation in
Okiek Initiation," with Ivan Karp, from March 10, 1990 to March 9, 1991.

Kathleen R. Kuehnast, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Minnesota.
"Visual Anthropology and the Study of Gender Representation," with Wendy
Shay, from January 8 to March 16, 1990.

Ramiro Matos, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, San Marcos University, Peru.
"Pumpu: An Inca Regional Administrative City," with Betty Meggers, from
September 15, 1990 to September 14, 1991.

Lucile M. McCook, Postdoctoral Fellow, Cornell University. "The Diandrous
Orchids, Cypripedioideae, and Apostasioideae: Phylogenetic
Relationships and an Experimental Test of Sister-Group Hypotheses,"
with Vicki Funk, from July 15, 1990 to January 14, 1991.

Sharon L. Messenger, Graduate Student Fellow, San Diego State University.
"The Phylogenetic Relationships of Platanistoid River Dolphins," with
Clayton Ray, from June 1 to August 15, 1990.

Haji Mohamed, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Malaya. "Taxonomic
Studies in Malayan Mosses of Hookeriaceae, Hypopterygiaceae, and
Daltoniaceae," with Harold Robinson, from December 1, 1989 to August 31,
1990.

Ann E. Moran, Graduate Student Fellow, Rice University. "Trace Element
Distribution in Progressively Metamorphosed Oceanic Crust," with Sorena
Sorensen, from June 11 to August 17, 1990.

~l]
ws)
Robert J. O'Hara, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "The Phylogeny of
the Swifts (Aves: Apodidae), with an Investigation of the Use of
Continuously Varying Characters in Cladistic Analysis," with Richard
Zusi, from September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Thomas J. Parsons, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Washington. "Molecular
Phylogeny of the Paleognathous Birds," with Michael Braun, from October
1, 1990 to September 30, 1992.

Gustav Paulay, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Washington. "Pacific
Bivalve Biogeography: A Mosaic of Historical and Ecological Factors,"
with Thomas Waller, from January 5, 1990 to January 4, 1991.

Cynthia Pinkston, Visiting Student, University of Maryland. "Pre-Columbian
Collecting at the National Museum of Natural History," with Candance
Greene, from May 15 to August 15, 1990.

Giovanni Randazzo, Visiting Scientist, Universita di Catania.
"Sedimentilogical Research on Nile Delta Soil Borings to Define the
Recent Evolution of the Nile Delta of Egypt," with Daniel Stanley, from
February 15, 1990 to January 14, 1991.

Kurt Roggensack, Graduate Student Fellow, Dartmouth College. "Mineralogy of
Mexican Shield Volcanoes and Cinder Cones," with William Melson, from
July 2 to September 10, 1990.

Fatimah T. Rony, Graduate Student Fellow, Yale University. "Early
Ethnographic Film in the U.S., France, and England, 1895-1922," with
Wendy Shay, from July 1 to August 31, 1990.

Regas Santas, Visiting Scientist, George Washington University. "The
Restoration of Massassoit Lake, Springfield, Massachusetts," with Walter
Adey, from March 15 to November 14, 1990.

Annemette B. Scharff, Suzanne Liebers Erickson Exchange Visitor, The Royal
Academy of Fine Arts. "A Study of Tapa: Causes for its Deterioration
and Conservation Problems," with Natalie Firnhaber, from February 1 to
August 14, 1990.

Nikolaj Scharff, Visiting Scientist, University of Copenhagen. "Biogeography
and Phylogeny of Spiny Orb-Weaving Spiders," with Jonathan Coddington,
from February 1 to July 31, 1990.

C. Lavett Smith, Visiting Scientist, University of Michigan. "Continuing
Studies on the Systematics, Habitat Preferences, and Vertical
Distribution of Several Poorly Known Species of Coryphopterus Gobies and
Apogou Cardinal Fishes on the Drop-Off Reef," with James C. Tyler, from
November 1, 1989 to May 1, 1990.

Deborah R. R. Smith, Visiting Scientist, Cornell University. "Isozyme and
Mitochondrical DNA Analysis of Species in the Spider Genus Anelosimus,"
with Jonathan Coddington, from January 1 to December 31, 1990.

(ww)
Shelley L. Smith, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "Metrical and
Morphological Variation of the Hand and Foot of Human and Non-Human
Primate Skeletons," with Richard Potts, from September 4, 1990 to
September 3, 1991.

Clarke K. Speed, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Washington. "Order
and Disorder: Swears and Adjudicational Performance Among the Landogo
of Sierra Leone," with Ivan Karp, from June 25 to August 30, 1990.

Youngbae Suh, Visiting Scientist, The University of Texas, Austin. "Molecular
Phylogeny for Basal Angiosperms," with Elizabeth Zimmer, from August 15,
1990 to August 14, 1991.

Rachel E. Tabachnick, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "A
Morphometric Analysis of Environmental Variability and Population
Structure in Recent Planktonic Foraminifera," with Brian Huber, from
September 1, 1990 to August 31, 1991.

Leonard B. Thien, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Tulane University, New Orleans.
"Molecular Phylogeny and Genetic Structure of New Caledonian
Winteraceae," with Elizabeth Zimmer and John Kress, from’ September 1,
1990 to August 15, 1991.

Leslie E. Watling, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. "A
Study of the Cumacea of the United States East Coast," with Thomas
Bowman, from January 15 to June 14, 1990.

Patricia A. Wattenmaker, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan.
"Political Centralization and Household Economic Reorganization: A
Faunal Study," with Robert McC. Adams, from November 20, 1989 to
November 19, 1990.

Debra A. Willard, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois, Urbana-
Champaign. “Morphological Analysis of Compression Lycopods:
Implications for Phylogenetic Relationships Among the Lepidodendrales,"
with William DiMichele, from January 1 to December 31, 1990.

Zhaoran Xu, Postdoctoral Fellow, Sun Yat-sen University, China. "Revision of
Paraboea (Gesneriaceae)," with Laurence Skog, from June 15, 1990 to June
14, 1991.

Zhaoran Xu, International Exchange Visitor, Sun Yat-sen University, China.
"Revision of Rhytidophyllum and Paraboea," with Laurence Skog, from
December 11, 1989 to June 10, 1990.

Karen Zeller, Visiting Student, University of Cincinnati. "Determining the
Phylogenetic Relationship of Humans and the Higher Primates," with
Michael Braun, from January 1 to May 31, 1990.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

David J. Steinberg, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania. "The
Early Portraiture of Charles Willson Peale and its Relationship to
English Painting, 1769-1775," with Lillian B. Miller, from January 1 to
December 31, 1990.
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS -

Kenneth M. Bilby, Postdoctoral Fellow, Johns Hopkins University. "The Art of
Differing: A Study of Jamaican Maroon Oral Tradition," with Peter
Seitel, from March 1, 1990 to February 28, 1991.

Guy W. Logsdon, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Oklahoma. "A
Biblio-Discographical Guide to the Songs of Woody Guthrie in the
Folkways Collection and Related Collections," with Anthony Seeger, from
June 1, 1990 to May 31, 1991.

James W. Wafer, Postdoctoral Fellow, Indiana University. "Representations of
the Indian in Candomble and the African Diaspora," with Anthony Seeger,
from November 6, 1989 to January 5, 1991.

INTERNSHIPS AND OTHER APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers internships and other special appointments to undergraduate
and graduate students and to museum professionals through its Office of Museum
Programs. The interns included in this Appendix began their appointments between
October 1, 1989, and September 30, 1990. Those who received special awards or
participated in special programs are so listed. Wherever possible the home
institution, a brief description of the project undertaken at the Smithsonian, and the
dates of service are given.

TREASURER
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT OFFICE

Anne Bayly, High School Student, Georgetown Visitation.

Museum Shop, assist with visual presentation development and
installations in various museum shops and marketing areas.
July 2, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Shanan Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, Fort Lewis College.
Product Licensing and Development, research and collection
of images and information available, based on the
Smithsonian's collections, for the purpose of identifying
art and artifacts that have potential marketability either
as independent reproductions, or as components of more

comprehensive products (calendars or greeting cards). May
7, 1990 through September 1, 1990.

RESEARCH
INTERNATIONAL CENTER

Leslie Banker, Bachelors Candidate, Denison University.
Office of Environmental Awareness, assist in the activities
of the office, particularly with the distribution of its

educational brochure, "A Better World Starts at Home". May
21, 1990 through July 6, 1990.
Nyani Colom, Bachelors Candidate, Fisk University. -
Quincentenary, manage data base and assist with public
relations. June 25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Misha Cornes, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-
Davis. Office of International Relations, develop
international activities reporting project. June 20, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

Patricia McJennett, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Office of Environmental Awareness, assist in the study of
environmental awareness at museums, zoos, and botanical
gardens. April 4, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Anna-Louise Molette, Bachelors Candidate, Morgan State
University. Office of Environmental Awareness, assist
director with relaying information to staff and public

regarding the environment; research and data analysis. June
25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Madeline Nagy, Bachelors Degree. Office of Environmental
Awareness, assist with the preparation of an exhibition
being jointly developed with Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Services to be called "Garbage!" and

with the other ongoing activities of the office. September
4, 1990 through June 28, 1991.

Heidi Nielsen, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio State University.
Smithsonian/Man and the Biosphere, help prepare SI/MAB

workshops; work on bibliography. June 11, 1990 through
September 15, 1990.

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Christopher Damrosch, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Maryland. Conduct research on the Smithsonian Institution
and the Civil War for a future volume of The Papers of
Joseph Henry. June 4, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Kimberly Marcucci, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Explore
and establish the Smithsonian's role in international
expositions. September 4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Jennifer Apple, High School Graduate. Golden Lion Tamarin
Program, participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education's national summer internship program.
June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

Tammy Bieber, High School Graduate. Animal Health, participant
in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's
national summer internship program. June 4, 1990 through
July 7, 1990.

Harvey Etheredge, High School Student, Anacostia High School.
Education, assist as liaison with DC Cultural Consortium
JUuNLer Culture Corps; help plan and Host their visits. “dine
25, 1990 through, August 17, .1990.

Michelle Fleet-Foster, Masters Candidate. Design and Exhibits,

historic photo collection. June 4, 1990 throughOctober 1,
T99'0%
Chandak Ghosh, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Mammology,
conduct experiments which gauge the physiologic responses of
cats in captivity. June 4, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Rhenada Gomillion, High School Student, Dunbar High School.
Education, assist “as liaison with* DC Cultural Consortium
Junior Culture Corps; help plan and host their visits. June
25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Gretchen Gordon, High School Graduate. Department of Mammology,

participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education's national summer internship program. July 9,
1990 through August 10, 1990.
Cheryl Gross, Bachelors Degree. Horticulture, inventory of

trees at the National Zoological Park. June 7, 1990 through
September 30, 1990.

Mary Grossman, Bachelors Candidate, Stockton State College.
Research Department, assist with research and design of new
kangaroo exhibit. January 29, 1990 through May 11, 1990.

Jennifer Henle, High School Graduate. Department of
Invertebrates, “participant “in “intern “90>. -orfice of
Elementary and Secondary Education's national summer
internship program. July 9, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Kevin Hoover, High School Student, Rabaut Junior High School.
Facilities Management, assist landscape architects with

maintaining plant life and beautification of exhibition
areas. July 2, 1990 through August 31, 1990’

Ann Mansolino, High School Graduate. Photography, participant in
Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's

national summer internship program. July 9, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

Montre McKinney, High School Student, Brookland. Facilities
Management, assist with landscapes, maintaining plants life
and beautification of exhibition areas. July 2, 1990
‘through August 31, 1990.

Courtney-Paige Morrison, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University.
Zoological Research, seal data entry and analysis.
September 4, 1990 through November 21, 1990.

Steven Neumann, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Design and Exhibits Planning, archiving NZP photo
collection. October 16, 1989 through May 31,1990.

Stoyan Popov, High School Student, Wilson High School. Small
Mammal House, work alongside animal keeper, carrying out a
prescribed daily schedule of animal area cleaning and of
preparing and distributing food; help maintain animal

enclosure materials (plants, perches, etc.). June 18, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

George Reyes, High School Graduate. Education, participant in
Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary FEducation's
national summer internship program. July 9,°°1990 through
August 10, 1990.

Suzanne Sanders. Education, educational outreach programs for
schools _ in the local area. May 29, 1990 through May 31,

1991.
F. Yvonne Schulman, Doctor of Veterinary Medicine. Pathology,
residency in exotic animal veterinary pathology. July 2,

L990 through July 3, 1992.
Leslie c. Sharkey, PhD, Ohio State University. Pathology,
trainee in exotic animal veterinary pathology. June 18,
1990 through September 28, 1990.

David Sturtevant, High School Student, St. Albans School.
Facilities Management, assist landscape architects with
maintaining plant life and beautification of exhibition
areas. July 2, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Crystal. Trotter,....High.: School... Graduate. Primate House,
participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education's national symmer internship program. June 4,
1990 through July 6, 1990.

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR RESEARCH

Michael Helling, Bachelors Degree. Edit and research a volume on

the Biology of Mt. Graham. July 30, 1990 through December
30, 1990.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

David Amber, Bachelors Degree, University of Virginia. The
effect of phosphorus limitation on nitrogen consumption in
freshwater tributaries. September 3, 1990 through November
oe A990.

Martin Brown, Bachelors Degree, McGill University. Forest canopy
studies. July 30, 1990 through October 19, 1990.

Govind Joseph cChakrapani, Graduate Degree, Jawaharlal Nehru
University, India. Release of nutrients from subtidal
sediments. May 7, 1990 through August 17,1990.

James Enright, Bachelors Degree, Universitat des Saarlandes.
Nutrient retention and cycling in cropside riparian forests.
August 20, 1990 through November 2, 1990.

Sarah Eppley, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-Santa
CIrUZie Effects of elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide on
nitrogen fixation in Xcirpus olney. July 2, 1990 through
September 21, 1990.

Kirsten Evans, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-

Santa Cruz. Community structure and population dynamics of
phytoplankton in an estuary. June 25, 1990 through August
31, 19910).

Scott Godwin, Bachelors Candidate, Florida Institute of
Technology. Studies in ecological parasitology. June 1l,

1990 through September 21, 1990.
Laurie Griffiths, Bachelors Candidate, University of Miami.
Global changes and vegetation: the impact of rising

atmospheric carbon dioxide on plant and ecosystem process.
May 28, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Brian Hudgens, Bachelors Candidate, Pomona College. Nutrient

retention and cycling in cropside reparian forests. May 21,
1990 through August 24, 1990.

Julia Kerrigan, Bachelors Candidate, University of Georgia,

Athens. Forest Canopy Studies. April -30,- 1990, sthrough
August 3, 1990.
Danielle Levitan, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.

Revising the Discovery Trail and the Beaver Trail, updating

the existing slide show, making a video tape of SERC as an
introduction to what the center offers that can be viewed

here or sent out. June 4, 1990 through August 10, 1990.
Shannon Loux, Bachelors Degree, Hiram College. Edgewater,
interactions between plants and mammals in a forest
ecosystem. October 2, 1989 through June 1,1990.
Markus Meier, Bachelors Degree, Federal Technical University,

Zurich, Switzerland. Acid deposition and its impact upon

geochemistry. October 30, 1989 through April 28, 1990.

Heather Roffey, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College.
Estuarine Fish Biology. May 21, 1990 through August 24,
1990.

Katherine Wakelee, Bachelors Degree, Occidental College.
Studies in ecological parasitology and population dynamics

of benthic invertebrates. September 10, 1990 through
December 7, 1990.

Zenah Wilson, Bachelors Degree, Johns Hopkins University.
Historical research of land use in the SERC area. June 4,

1990 through August 24, 1990.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Carol Dillon, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University.

Archives, survey Science Series Records in the National
Museum of American History and the Smithsonian Institution
Archives. December 18, 1989 through January 5, 1990.

Alexander Magoun, Masters Degree, University of Maryland.
Videohistory”: project;,”’. process: up. te... 4)  wideéohistory

interviews in the history of science and technology.
Processing includes: audit checking, copy-editing, time-
coding, and abstracting visual data. Will prepare final
copy and finding aid. November 13, 1989 through May 15,
1990.

Alexander Magoun, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Videohistory, processing and editing videohistory materials.
September 2, 1990 through May 31, 1991.

Nancy McRaney, Bachelors of Arts. Analysis and treatment of

flat paper object; preservation survey of archival holdings.
January 29, 1990 through June 1, 1990.

Sandee Yuen, Bachelors Candidate, The American University.
Organize and describe a collection of Smithsonian

architectural drawings and enter information into a
database. May 25, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Laura Bernstein, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. SOA
Library, converting manual circulation files to online.
June 4, 1990 through August 15, 1990.

Heather=7Glay; Bachelors Candidate, Middlebury College.

Anthropology Library, convert manual charges to online.
June 13, 1990 through July 21, 1990.
Carrie Guagliardo, High School Graduate. Museum Reference

Center, participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and

Secondary Education's national summer internship program.
July 9, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Patricia Moore, Masters Degree. Dibner Library, develop and
find guide to the SIL's collection of missionary Bibles,

some _ in unique Indian lanquages. July 3, 1990 through July
Bi OO

Birgit Prelle, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Learn
fundamentals and gain experience in processing official
records by processing the records of the Department of

Social and Cultural History, 1968-1979, of the American
History Museum. September 2, 1990 through December 21,
1990.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Luis Acosta, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Nacional de
Colombia. Naos,,. BEfects.of. oi]. spoklution.« of Corals

reproduction. April 6, 1990 through July..6, 1990.

Denise Alvarez, Bachelors Candidate, University of Panama. Naos,
Energy content of eqgqs of neotropical reef fishes. January
15, 1990 through July 15,1990.

Victoria Arias, Masters Degree, University of Panama. Barro
Colorado Island, physiology of tropical plants, particularly
on those on Barro Colorado Island. February 5, 1990 through
Aprit, 5,199.0.

Mirianela Arrunategui, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Nacional
de Panama. Naos Lab, Benthic survey of the Laguna de

Chiriqui_ and adjacent shelf, Western Panama. July 2, 1990
through September 30, 1990.

Hamilton Beltran, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Nacional Mayor
de San Marcos. Barro Colorado Island, Re-census, after a 5

year interval, the fate of 250,000 free-standing woody
plants in an area of 1/2 square kilometer on Barro Colorado
Island. April 11, 1990 through July 11, 1990.

Federico Bolanos, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Costa Rica.
Gamboa, Why do female tungara frogs Physalaemus pustulosus
find complex calls more attractive than simple calls: a

search for the sensory basis for sexual selection. May 15,
1990 through July 31, 1990.

Eddar Brunetti, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad Central de
Venezuela. Naos, Morphologic and genetic differences of
Porites across the Isthmus of Panama. April 6, 1990 through
July 6, 1990.

Magnolia Calderon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Panama.
Naos, assistant to Dr. Laurel Collins on her research on
fossil and modern foraminifera. January 22, 1990 through
April 22, 1990.

Dinorah Calvillo, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Panama. San
Blas/Naos Lab, population of the Coral Manicina areolata,
near the San Blas area. July 1, 1990 through September 30,
1990.

80
Carmen Galdames, Bachelors Candidate, University of _. Panama.
Tupper, study of shrubby and herbaceus plants of the Campana
National Park. January 22, 1990 through May 5, 1990.

Adalberto Gomez, Bachelors Candidate, University of Panama.
Barro Colorado Island, relate mother fig pollinating wasp's

size to the number of viable fig seeds that it pollinates.
October 16, 1989 through January 14, 1990.

Maritza Gutierrez, Museum Professional, National Museum of Costa
Rica. NAOS, The Analysis of archaeological fish bone

samples from two sites in Guanacaste, Costa Rica. May 15,
1990 through August 15, 1990.

Marla Johnston, Bachelors Candidate, University of Panama.
Tupper, biosystematic study of the genus Octoblepharum and
the moss flora of BCI. January 22, 1990 through April 22,
1990.

Jose Lasso, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Barro
Colorado Island, Chemical ecology of an understory shrub and
how genetic and environmental variation in chemical defenses
artects-plantiufitness. | “April 9; -1990¢through July" 97-1990.

Alberto Leon, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Costa Rica. Oil
Spill Project. August 15, 1990 through November 15, 1990.

Juan Mate, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Naos,
testing for natural selection on corals: patterns of
skeletal morphology, fertility, and genetic variation in
natural populations of Manicina areolata. October 23, 1989
through, April,15;-.1990'.

Monica Medina, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de los Andes.
Naos Marine Laboratory, genetics and evolution of marine
organisms. December 1, 1989 through February 28, 1990.

Monica Medina, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Naos,
Genetic analyses of three species of birds with both

mainland and island populations in Panama. March 26, 1990
through June 26, 1990.

Kira Mills, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas. Gamboa,
female choice of the tungara frog. May 29, 1990 through

August 8, 1990.
Maria Molino, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Marine
Laboratory, rates and patterns of molecular divergence in

transisthmian species pairs. October 23, 1989 through
April 23, 1990.

Guiselle Mora, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Costa Rica.
Marine Laboratory, extraction, analysis, and identification

of phytoliths in soils of the central Amazon basin.
November 1, 1989 through April 30, 1990.

Edgar Munoz, Bachelors Degree, Universidad Estatal de Cuenca.

Barro Colorado Island, seed-dispersal and predation of
Scheelea Zonensis (Arecaceae) by neotropical rodents in
Panama. July 15, 1990 through October 15,1990.

Marlon Olmos, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama.
ANCON, synchronized calling in Centrolenella granulosa _ and

Smilisca sila (Amphibia, Anura). October 16, 1989 through
April 15, 1990.
Manoel Pacheco, Bachelors Candidate, University of Illinois.
Barro Colorado Island, pollination and reproductive
phenology of Poulsenia armata. October 23, 1989 through
January 7, 1990.

Martha Prada, Bachelors Degree, Universidad Jorge Tadeo Lozano.
Naos, Oil Spill Project: Subproject on the mangrove forest
section. February 12, 1990 through May 12, 1990.

Alfredo Reyes, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Panama. Barro
Colorado Island, how tropical forest plants maximize carbon

gain in the face of periodic water limitation. October 16,
1989 through January 14, 1990.

Axioni Romero, Masters Degree, Instituto Hidrometereologico de
Odesa. Galeta, "A Century of Environmental Impacts in the
Central Caribbean Coast of Panama: Reconstruction based on
Sclerochronology". July 1, 1990 through September 30, 1990.

Aleida Salazar, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de La Habana.
Barro Colorado Island, ecological consequences of structure-
physiology of cotyledons through comparison of various

tropical woody species. April 30," 1990, through? July. 130;
1990.

Amelia Sanchez, Bachelors Candidate, Escuela Superior Politecnica
del Litoral. Naos, Archeology Lab, analysis of Fish Bones
from Salango, Ecuador. August 15, 1990 through December 15,
1990.

Luis Solorzano, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Colombia.
Marine Laboratory, series of mating experiments between

alpheid shrimp from opposite sides of the Isthmus of Panama.
December 1, 1989 through July 19, 1990.

Denise Thorin B., Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de los Andes.
Barro Colorado Island, consequences of leaf lifetime for
photosynthetic physiology, secondary metabolism, and anatomy
in’ tropical plants. October 15, 1989 through January -15,
1990.

Ernesto Yallico, Bachelors Degree, Universidad Nacional Agraria
La Molina. Barro Colorado Island, Forest Dynamic Project

(50 h. of forest in Barro Colorado Island). February 2,
1990 through May 2, 1990.

MUSEUMS
ANACOSTIA MUSEUM

Debra Bazemore, High School Student, Dunbar Senior High School.

Research, learn conservation techniques; catalogue
artifacts; other duties as assigned. June 25, 1990 through
August 17, 1990.

Sharetta Billings, High School Student, Archbishop Carroll High
School. Research, assist with the research of new art

exhibit, maintain files, and respond to phone requests.
July 2, 1990 through August 31, 1990.
Nicole Freeman, High School Student, Eastern High School.. Office
of Education, assist with clerical tasks, tours of the
exhibit; assist curator of upcoming art exhibition in

classifying slides and other tasks. June 25, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

Cheryl Gibson, High School Graduate. Office of Education, OESE
Intern 90 , assist with museum's summer urban science camp.
June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

William Hadley, Bachelors Candidate, Massachusetts College of
Art. Office of Exhibits, Fabrication installation of
exhibit components in conjunction with museum's exhibition

on "Whose Art ‘Is Tt (5° Anyway?". June, .26)°°1990.. through
August 2, 1990.

Regina Medley, High School Student, Woodrow Wilson High School.
Research, Catalogue artifacts, learn conservation

techniques, and perform other duties as assigned. June 25,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

Hedimo Santana, Bachelors Candidate, Universidade Federal da
Bahia, Salvador, Ba. Produce a resource quide and assist
with planning of public programs in conjunction with the

Anacostia Museum Quincentennary Project. September 1, 1990
through December 31, 1990.

Michelle Sommer, Bachelors Candidate. Office of the Registrar,

accessioning, condition reports, and loans for "The Real

McCoy" and "Whose Art is it, Anyway". June 6, 1990
through August 20, 1990.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Kathleen Best, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Assist in study of archives interaction with beginning
researchers. June 25, 1990 through September 17, 1990.

Tracy Caisse, Bachelors Candidate, University of Massachusetts.

Curatorial, prepare collection descriptions
for publication in a quide to French-American sources in the
Archives of American Art. January 22;,,'1990 through. May 5;
1990.

Jennifer Kleiner, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.

Identify Archives collections that document the crafts and

prepare descriptions of same for publication in a _ quide.
September 4, 1990 through December 30, 1990.

Christine Murphy, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University.

Archives, preparation of descriptions of selected archive

holdings for inclusion in a quide to French-American sources
in the Archives of American Art. January 18, 1990 through

May 3, 1990.
Elizabeth Watson, Bachelors Candidate, University of
California, Santa Cruz. Research archival collections and

write descriptions concerning American artists in France.
April 2, 1990 through June 15, 1990.
ARTHUR M. SACKLER AND FREER GALLERY OF ART 3

Johanna Baker, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth
University. Office of Exhibit Design, exhibit design
assistant. June 18, 1990 through August 16, 1990.

Michael Brodsky, Masters Candidate, Northwestern School of Law.
Office of Education, Yokohama Learning Center supervisor,

data base development, questionnaire development. June 19,
1990 through August 31, 1990.

Melanie Carolan, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas.
Office of Design, assist with the development and design of
exhibitions. June 4, 1990 through August 1, 1990.

Darida Chanachote, Masters Candidate, Catholic University of
America. Library, | deseriptive.. (cataloguing “of sa Thai
monographs. August 30, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Jing-Yu Chang, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Library/Archives, arrange and describe the John A. Pope
papers. February 5, 1990 through April 27, 1990.

Emily Edmondson, Bachelors Candidate, Occidental College.
Educational/Curatorial, assist in research on Freer and
Sackler objects of ancient Chinese art and organization of

file data on those objects; assist in preparation of
materials for teachers on the arts of China. September 20,

1990 through December 14, 1990.

Naomi Fukumori, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard-Radcliffe College.
Japanese Art, assist with compiling bibliographic materials
in Japanese _ and English for upcoming exhibitions at the
Freer and Sackler Galleries. June 4, 1990 through August 2,
1990.

Mimi Games, Bachelors Degree, Smith College. Office of Education,
oversee Yokohama Learning Center programs; assist in
programatic planning and research for "The Arts of China"
exhibition. May 29, 1990 through September 9, 1990.

Bonnie Garmisa, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.

Office of Education, work on Teacher Workshops and Outreach
Materials. January 16, 1990 through April 28, 1990.

Jessica Hallett, Masters Candidate, Oxford University. Islamic
Art, assist with research on 19th century collection of
Islamic art in Paris. July 15, 1990 through August 30,
1990.

Kyung-Min Han, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Library, survey the present Sackler Library collection,

recommend future library acquisitions, and provide access
for researchers to the materials existing on Korean art,

analyze scholarly journal articles. June 4, 1990 through
August 31, 1990.

Anne Hoppe, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University. Library,
research Asian artists life, dates, and genres with

subsequent data entry. May 21, 1990 through August 24,
1990.
Allison Karmel, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. West

Asian Art, primary research on near eastern collection.
July 5, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

84
Virginia Krebs, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary.
Public Affairs, set up archives for general gallery
clippings; bring exhibition archives up to date; and assist

in administering and tabulating a visitor survey. July 23,
1990 through September 1, 1990.

Monisha Kumar, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia.
Public" ” Affairs,’ “photo research ~;-.-photo files “ compile
publicity archives for Sackler exhibitions: "The Noble Path:
Buddhist Art of South Asia and Tiber" and "India Along the
Ghangis". May 2, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Thomas Lauderdale, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College. South
Asia, research on exhibition "Court Arts of Indonesians"
opening in the summer of 1991. June 28, 1990 through
September 30, 1990.

Debbie Lawrence, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University.
Administration, organize files of the former director for

archives; explore warehouse options for the Freer/Sackler.
August 6, 1990 through September 6, 1990.

Jenny Lin, High School Student, National Cathedral School.

Office of Education, support in Learning Center, for public

programs; general office work. August 20, 1990 through June
3.0... L991.

Jeanne Lynn, Bachelors Candidate, Harrington Institute. Design
and Production, assist with inventory of furniture and
equipment in Sackler/Freer; assist with design layout of
design/publication department; develop of office furniture

and finish/construction documents. June 14, 1990 through
August 17, 1990.

Jason Neelis, Masters Candidate. Office of Education, Yokohama

Learning Center/ Indonesia exhibition. June 7, 1990 through
August 30, 1990.

Oya Pancaroglu, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Textiles, help identify and classify newly acquired

collection of textiles from India. June 6, 1990 through
July, 13,,..199:0..
Ilona Rand, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Cirrart ori aw.

compilation of research materials related to the paintings
of Thomas Wilmer Dewing in the Freer Gallery of Art; other
research. June IT; 1990"through July 1371990.

Nicole Rousmaniere, Bachelors Degree, Harvard University.
Ceramics, work towards a creation of a database of sherds
collected from Kyushu, Japan in the study collection. July
3, 1990 through September 10, 1990.

Marcus Sohn, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maine.

Office of Education, work in exhibition Learning Center.
June 1, 1990 through September 9, 1990.

John Summerford, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Design and Production, an immersion into the hands on
processes involved in putting together an exhibition at a
major institution; an overview of the conceptualization and

organization of special and permanent exhibitions. July 30,
1990 through October 26, 1990.

oe)

or
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Karen Andelman, Bachelors Degree. Archaeometry: Materials
Science Laboratory, Analysis of archaeological ceramics and
glasses. October 3, 1989 through November 28, 1989.

Bonnie Halvorson, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta.
Textiles Conservation Laboratory, Examination condition

reporting, minor treatment, re-storage, and research on a

large collection of 19th century wool flaqs. June 4, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

Emily Klayman, Masters Candidate, SUNY Buffalo. Paper
Conservation Laboratory, Research into effects of solvents
on transparent papers; treatment work involving stain or
adhesive reduction. June 4, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Eileen Lynch, Bachelors Degree. Paintings Conservation
Laboratory, Pre-program internship in painting conservation.
October 28, 1989 through June 29, 1990.

Nancy McRaney, Bachelors Degree. Paper, Textiles, Furniture, and
Paintings Conservation Laboratories, Pre-program internship
in conservation treatment and research. June 1, 1990
through May 31, 1991.

Alfonse Mendibe, Museum Professional, Royal Institute of Artistic
Patrimony. Paintings Conservation Laboratory/Research,
Chemical research on effects of cleaning solvents on oil
paintings. September 24, 1990 through July 12, 1991.

Danielle Nguyen, Bachelors Degree. Paper Conservation
Laboratory, Conservation condition survey and rehousing
project of a photographic — collection -stored._‘at}. the
Smithsonian Archives. September 24, 1990 through March l,

1991.
Rebecca Rudolph, Bachelors Candidate, University of Alabama.
Textile Conservation Laboratory, Examination, condition

reporting, minor treatment, re-storage, and research on a

large collection of 19th century wool flags. June 4, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

Laurence Ullmann-Glass, Masters Candidate, SUNY Buffalo.
Paintings Conservation Laboratory, Assistance with project
to determine the effects of various sulvents on paint films;

and_ other ongoing laboratory activities. September 17, 1990
through September 16, 1991.

John Vitagliano, Bachelors Degree. Paper Conservation Laboratory,

Ongoing conservation research and treatment activities.
October 30, 1989 through June 30, 1990.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DESIGN AND DECORATIVE ARTS

Britt Chemla, Bachelors Degree, McGill University. Programs,
assist with planning and implementation of educational
programs. June 11, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Suany Lee Chough, Bachelors Degree, Dartmouth College. Exhibits,
assist in preparation for forthcoming exhibitions--research,

write, report on subject at hand--primarily maps. June ll,
1990 through August 31, 1990.

86
Sue Ann Chui, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College. Drawing and

Design, various projects related to the forthcoming

exhibition on Donald Deckey, American 20th-century designer.
December 22, 1989 through February 1, 1990.

Laura Creswell, Bachelors Candidate, Mary Baldwin College.
Registrar, learn museum registration methods by assisting
staff in a wide range of duties and the records pertaining
toreall suchy: objects: andi transactions; record current
location and inventory date. June 4, 1990 through August

IO 59 910%
Candace Gibbons, Bachelors Degree, University of Sydney.
Development, foundation research-database creation. June

18, 1990 through July 5, 1990.

Amy Gristede, Masters Candidate, Marymount Manhattan. Library,
Organize and itemize SIL-CHM auction catalogs. December 4,
1989 through January 12, 1990.

Barbara Hered, Bachelors Degree. Drawings and Prints, research
on the Cooper-Hewitt bandbox collection; assemble
bibliography and do research on the history of art museums

in the United States. January 26, 1990 through May 26,
19910.

Dorian Karchmar, Bachelors Candidate, Wesleyan University.
Drawing and Prints, inventory projects in Miller House and

in drawings and prints relating to permanent collection.
June 11, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Juliet Koss, Bachelors Degree, Columbia College. Decorative

Arts, assist with research and preparations for upcoming
exhibitions on CHM collections and involvement with other

decorative arts department activities. June. 1, 1990
through August 31, 1990.
Marlene Mancini, Bachelors Degree, Bank Street College of

Education. Programs, observe public gallery tours and
evaluate them; develop a "hands-on" mansion tour; and learn

the operations of an education department. January 31, 1990
through May 30, 1990.

Arija Mortlock, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New
York-Purchase. Drawing and Prints, various inventory
projects relating to Donald Delrey; poster collections; etc.
June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Justine Olsen, Museum Professional, Auckland Museun. Decorative
Arts, general curatorial duties, with special emphasis on
the "Legacy" exhibition. September 17, 1990 through
September 30, 1991.

Nina Shapley, Bachelors Candidate. Photo Services, photo archive
maintenance; liaison with publications department on Cooper

Union project; assist with photo services operations. June
11, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Timothy Sullivan, Bachelors Candidate, Hunter College.
Decorative Arts, departmental research and assistance in

preparation of exhibition, cataloguing, and special
projects. February 14, 1990 through June 30, 1990.

os)
I.N. van Vessuu, PHD, University of Amsterdan. Exhibitions,

assist in preparation of a project (exhibition, book,
programs, and related components) on maps, scheduled for
fall, 1991; aspects include research, documentation, and

assistance in day-to-day administration. September 17, 1990
through January 15, 1991.

Trudy Wake, Masters Candidate, New York University.
Exhibitions, research for maps exhibitions. January 23,

1990 through March 23, 1990.

Christine Weiss, Bachelors Candidate, Muhlenberg College.
Exhibitions, research for "Global Image"--CHM quincentenary
exhibition. Junewil, 1990. through, August, 31, 19910:

Megan Winget, Bachelors Degree, University of Georgia. Drawings
& Prints, Inventory of Posser collection. June 11, 1990
through August 31, 1990.

Anne Woodworth, Masters Candidate, Parsons School of Design-
Cooper Hewitt. Wallpapers and wallcoverings, wallcoverings
exhibition research. July 16, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

EXPERIMENTAL GALLERY

Edgar Davis, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Program

development-schedule and present programs related to
exhibition; assist in coordinating entrance video wall.
June 4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Stephanie Gilliam, Masters Candidate, Catholic University of
America. Exhibition = design:...assist gallery... statis =n
developing exhibition design and layout for the introductory
media production; assist in the production of exhibition
development. September 10, 1990 through December 15, 1950.

Jocelyn Wolfe, Bachelors Candidate, Syracuse University.
Exhibition scheduling: confirming and scheduling exhibitions
from outside organizations and inside SI bureaus; assist in
arrangements related to team residences, shipping, and
delivery schedules. July 23, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Anita Haldemann, Bachelors Degree, University of Bern,
Switzerland. Education, work on ..ongoing projects —and

problems. June 4, 1990 through October 8, 1990.

Ginger Haydon, Masters Candidate, New Mexico State University.
Education, work on ongoing projects and problems. June 4,
1990 through August 10, 1990.

Alexandra Lehovich, High School Student. Photo Services
Laboratory, assist the director of photo services with the
processing and printing of negatives, the filing of
photographs, and the day to day services provided by the
department, use a word processor. June “LL, 1990° through
September 30, 1990.

88
Megan Smetzer, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Painting and

Sculpture, work on a project of Willem de Koomig. September
4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Stephanie Baynham, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M University.
Office of the Registrar, assist staff with object location
verification, update and verify data on CIS system,
coordinate with the office of Automation and Collections
Maintenance staff, identify problem records. June 11, 1990
through August 11, 1990.

Sheila Bleess, Bachelors Candidate, Mankato State University.
Archives Unit, Garber Facility, aid in the description,
arrangement, rehousing, and preservation tasks to make
archival document collections more accessible for research
use. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Marc Buursink, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia.
Aeronautics, assist curatorial staff in working with World
War I flight materiel collection, will research, initiate
correspondence. and accession artifacts for a new exhibition
gallery. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Jill Caspari, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Development, conduct survey of NASM's senior management

staff; promote special events. June 11, 1990 through August
u25 Io).

Gregory Coleman, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana State University.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, assist with the
Smithsonian Satellite Atlas of the World project; plot
footprints, digitize map data entry, draft simple map

figures, file, cataloque, and conduct background research.
June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Romon --Danley,;~ High. -School .Student,:). Largo “Senior: High.
Collections Management, perform tasks of a technical nature
in support of NASM's collections maintenance program and/or

the preservation/restoration program. June 19, 1990 through
August 31, 1990.

Nicole Dickerson, High School Student, Ballou Senior High School.
Space History, work with primary source materials dealing
with the technology of manned spaceflight in order to

organize and prepare research materials for archival
records. June 20, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Theodore DiVito, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Archives, aid staff in describing, arranging, and rehousing
archival document collections to make them more accessible
for research use. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Sarah Donald, High School Graduate. Exhibits, participant in
Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's

national summer internship program. July 9, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

io 8)
Jeana Foley, Bachelors Candidate, Transylvania University.
Office of the Registrar, research files of accessioned

objects in Aeronautics and _ Space History :;* pul original

condition/restoration documents and replace with photocopies
in curatorial files. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Heather Greenwald, Bachelors Candidate, Purdue University.
Space History, assist curator in developing "Where Next,
Columbus?" exhibition on the prospects for exploring new

worlds in space in the next 500 years. June 11, 1990
through August 17, 1990.

Jennifer Grimes, High School Student, Wilson High School.
Langley Theatre, assist theatre staff with scheduling, film

projyection, usher scheduling, general theatre
administration, and crowd control. July-2; 1990 “through

August 31, 1990.

Michael Groves, Bachelors Candidate, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University. Garber Facility, assist in the restoration and
preservation of aircraft and spacecraft using metal and wood
working skills. May 29, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

John Hargenrader, Bachelors Candidate, Clarion University.
Archives, Garber Facility, aid in description, rehousing,
and_ preservation tasks to make archival document collections
more accessible for research use. June 11, 1990 through
August 17, 1990.

Max Hernandez, High School Student, Northwestern High School.
Collections Management, perform tasks of a technical nature
in support of NASM's collections maintenance program and/or
the preservation/restoration program. July 2, 1990 through
August 31, 1990.

DesJuan Hinton, High School Student, Gwynn Park High School.
Engineering, pick-up, sort, and distribute mail, packages;
maintain inventory of office supplies, re-stock supplies as
necesSary; maintain storage areas; audit work areas for
furnishings and equipment as assigned. June 25, 1990
through August 31, 1990.

Grey Hobbins, High School Student, Langdon School. Preservation/
Restoration Unit, Garber, aid craftpersons in the cleaning
and restoration of various artifacts. June 11, 1990 through
August 3, 1990.

Jeffery Hunt, High School Graduate. Education Resource Center,
participant in Intern 90, OESE's national summer internship
program. June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

Roy Hylaman, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Archives, aid staff in describing, arranging, and rehousing
archival document collections to make them more accessible
for research use. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Andrew Johnston, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Education, assist training assistant
with the museum's new science demonstration project, a
series of 20-minute gallery demonstrations focusing on the

science of air and space flight. May 14, 1990 through July
Zito 990",

90
Andrew Johnston, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, assist
in production of NASM's book of satellite images of the
world. September 4, 1990 through December 7, 1990.

Kathryn Jones, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College. @ffice. of
Education, assist training assistant with the new science
demonstration project, demonstrations focusing on the

science of air and space flight. June 11, 1990 through
August 17, 1990.

Monica Jordan, Bachelors Candidate, Florida State University.
Office of Education, research and write the first NASM
intern handbook and work with the in-house editor to write
and produce the book, also help plan and facilitate family
programs for visitors. June 11, 1990 through August 4,
1990.

James Kohan, Bachelors Candidate, Hiram College. Archives,
Garber, aid in description, arrangement, rehousing, and
preservation tasks to make archival documents more
accessible for research use. June 11, 1990 through August
17, 1990.

Benjamin Kristy, Bachelors Candidate, Macalester College.
Aeronautics, assist curatorial staff in working with World
War I flight materiel collection; research, initiate
correspondence, and accession artifacts for a new exhibition

gallery. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Sharon Lee, High School Student, Bowie High School. Langley
Theatre, assist theatre staff with scheduling, film
Provwection; usher = schedul]inia., general theatre
administration, and crowd control. July 2, 1990 through
August 31, 1990.

John Lewis, Bachelors Degree, Texas A&M University. Garber
Facility Preservation, Restoration Unit, Collections
Management Division, work with NASM staff on the restoration
of the Enola Gay. September 10, 1990 through December 10,
1990.

Sharronne Lovett, High School Student, Bowie High School.
Research, assist with the research and information for
astronauts suits; conservation and documentation included.
July 2, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Maria Martinez, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Photo
Lab, assist:;<in. photo. labii with’ ‘black . and * white -photo
printing and black and white reproductions. September 11,
1990 through December 10, 1990.

Christopher Mills, Bachelors Candidate, Rhode Island School of
Design. Exhibits Production Unit, Garber Facility, create
scale models of major air and spacecraft in NASM's

collections for use by blind visitors. June 11, 1990
through August 17, 1990.

Dennis Mills, Masters Candidate, University of Colorado.
Archives, assist with cataloging, preserving, and conserving
projects dealing with the photographic collections; work

with computer data bases. June 11, 1990 through August 17,
1990.

Michael Moyles, High School Graduate. Office of Automation,

91
participant in Intern 90, OESE's National summer internship
program. June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

Lucia Munoz-Franco, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Pennsylvania. Laboratory for Astrophysics, assist staff in
an_ analysis of astronomical data on planets, star formation,
novae, “and ‘active’ calaxies, and‘ will participate’: in
laboratory tests. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Sandra Narva, Bachelors Candidate, Franklin and Marshall College.
Office of Education, assist education specialist with the
development of science classroom materials, kits, and

programs tailored to the needs of museum visitors, teachers,
and students. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Allison Oaks, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard University.
Communications, write Public Service Announcements and copy
for newspaper calendar editors, the Smithsonian Torch, and
the NASM events calendar; prepare staff news digest and
assist in publicity with IMAX film, The Blue Planet. June
11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Denise Peeler, High School Graduate. Archival Support Center,
participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education's national summer internship program. Judy. 9;
1990 through August 10, 1990.

Douglas Pippin, Bachelors Degree, University of Maryland.
Exhibits, film research for new World War I gallery
installation. September 10, 1990 through December 10, 1990.

Lydia Reid, Bachelors Candidate, Washington and Lee University.
Archives, assist with cataloging, preserving, and conserving
projects dealing with the photographic collections; work
with computer data bases. June 11, 1990 through August 17,
1990.

Adam Reischman, High School, Walt Whitman Senior High School.
Langley Theater, assist theater staff with scheduling, film
projection, usher scheduling, general theater administration
crowd control. October 30, 1989 through June 30, 1990.

Matthew Rice, Bachelors Candidate, Maryland Institute College of

Art. Photo Laboratory, assist staff in the day to day
operation of a busy photo lab. June 11, 1990 through August
10,, 1990.

Kristine Sharp, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Exhibits, design and produce posters for NASM's lecture
series. January 8, 1990 through April 7, 1990.

Stephen Smith, Masters Candidate, Northwestern University. Space
History, assist curator in developing "Where Next,
Columbus?" exhibition on the prospects for exploring new

worlds in space in the next 500 years. June ll, 1990
through August 17, 1990.

Mary Jane Taylor, Bachelors Degree. Office: of Education,
research and design a family tour of the Paul Garber

Facility focusing on "What is a Museum?". February 20, 1990
through June 1, 1990.

Octaiva Thompson, High School Student, Wilson High School.
Langley Theatre, assist theatre staff with scheduling, film
Pro ection, usher scheduling, general theatre
administration, and crowd control. July 2, 1990 through
August 31, 1990. =
Maria Tichelman, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington

University. Exhibits, design and produce posters for NASM's
lecture series. January 8, 1990 through April 7, 1990.

Maria Tichelman, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Exhibits, design and produce brochures and

posters using a variety of techniques. September 11, 1990
through December 14, 1990.

Junco Ueda, High School Graduate. Space History/Office of
Education, participant in Intern 90, OESE's national summer
internship program. June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

David Vaughan, Bachelors Candidate, Baldwin-Wallace College.
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, process thermal
infrared data from the Viking mission to Mars and

prepare a two page abstract of the results. June 11, 1990
through August 17, 1990.

Jamal *-Weans’, :eHigh School -.Student; “Potomac. High; School.
Collections Management, perform tasks of a technical nature
in support of NASM's collections maintenance program and/or

preservation/restoration program. June 18, 1990 through
August 31,51990..

Adam Wit, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University.
Aeronautics, assist staff in conducting research on basic

technology for World War I gallery. September 10, 1990
through December 10, 1990.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Jame' Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, Wake Forest University.
Photographic Archives, the project will include researching,
writing descriptive captions, and recording classification
codes for photographs from museum's present and past
exhibitions; assist with daily activities. May 29, 1990
through August 17, 1990.

Myron Briggs, Bachelors Degree. Archives, researching visual
resources from southern and eastern Africa; assisting in the

photographic laboratory. October 16, 1989 through January
15, 1990.

Indra Caudle, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Object

oriented research for Olowe exhibition and permanent
collection. January 16, 1990 through April 8, 1990.
Indra Caudle, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.

Curatorial, research assistant for permanent collection and

special exhibition "Paramount Chiefs of Sierra Leone:
Photographic Portraits by Vera Viditz-Ward. May 14, 1990

through August 3, 1990.
Christa Clarke, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.

Curatorial, assist with research on the catalogue for the
permanent collection. September 4, 1990 through December
215, 990%

Ann Eng, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University.

Publications, editing assistance for brochures, exhibition
text; assistance in production of brochures, and fall
calendar. May 29, 1990 through August 3, 1990. =
Laura Erdahl, Bachelors Degree, St. Olaf College. Photographic
Archives, research and catalogue the Stanley Harris

Collection of stereographs and other types of photographs
from Zaire. September 4, 1990 through September 4, 1991.

Dara Gumbs, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Department (ope

Education, work on film series and independent research.
June 6, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Madeleine Hexter, Masters Degree. Conservation, postgraduate
internship in conservation. October 6, 1989 through October
6, 1990.

Julie Liu, Bachelors Candidate, Northwestern University.
Photographic Archives, research, write descriptive captions,
and classify photographs of African art and cultural

history; catalogue the White Father's Mission photographs.
June 18, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Adrian Loving, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Office of
Exhibits, assist with basic design activities related to

museum exhibitions and museum publications. June 18, 1990
through August 24, 1990.

Katherine Mays, Bachelors Candidate, The American University.
Associate Director, assist with the research and development

of a catalogue of the permanent collection. September 10,
1990 through December 21, 1990.

Christine Postles, Bachelors Candidate, New York University.
Curatorial, assume position of research assistant on

permanent collection cataloging project and short-term
exhibition related research as required. June 18, 1990

through July 24, 1990.

Natalie Robertson, Masters Candidate, Hampton University.
Curatorial, Assist curator in preparing a cataloque for a
traveling exhibit on Yoruba Art. January 16, 1990 through
March 30, 1990.

Dana Rush, Bachelors Degree, Indiana University. Education,
research gallery self-quides; develop and present concepts
and _ write draft for self-quides for "Icons" and "Yoruba"
exhibitions. January 29, 1990 through May 5, 1990.

Melinda Smith, Masters Degree. George Washington University.
Registration, observe the registration department in its
relationship to objects, records, and related museum staff
and to work as a member of the registration/conservation
team in preparing the museum's textile collection for proper
storage and to assist in the unpacking and receipt of the
museum's spring exhibition. February 7, 1990 through June
30), 2990.

Harriet Walker, Ph.D. Candidate, University of New Orleans.
Department of Education, assist with research on tour and
workshop development; test pre-school gallery activities;
compile statistical reports on programs, assist with
organization of education department's teaching collection.
May 29, 1990 through July 27, 1990.

Celeste Wiley. Photographic Archives, assisting with the
cataloquing of unaccessioned collections of West Africa,
transferring negatives, slides, and films. October 2,1989

94
through December 31, 1989. =
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Rachael Arauz, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College.
Curatorial, assist on various aspects of the up-coming

contemporary American Landscape photography exhibition.
June 4, 1990 through July 27, 1990.

Robin Bearden, Bachelors Degree, University of Virginia.
Curatorial, assist in preparation for up-coming folk art
exhibitions. June 4, 1990 through: July 27, 1990.

Holly Bloom, Bachelors Candidate, Syracuse University. Design
and Production, assist in various aspects of the design and
production office. June 4, 1990 through July 27, 1990.

Marilucia Bottallo, Museum Professional, Museo de Arte Moderna de
Sao Paolo. Registrar's Office, study the documentation
systems in practical and theoretical points; how to adapt

computer systems to a registrar department needs. September
TA 721990 (through :April::30,.19971.

Shadonne Brown, High School Student, Elizabeth Seton High School.
Office .of:...Education’, assist with public programs,
correspondence,and information resources; maintain cataloque

of public inquires and schedules for programs. July 2, 1990
through August 31, 1990.

Mary Coffey, Bachelors Degree. Intern Programs, participate in

the NMAA's advanced level museum training program.
September 7, 1990 through March 1,'1991.
Colleen Duke, Bachelors Candidate, University of Chicago.

Museum Programs, assist on program development in NMAA's
office of museum programs. June 11, 1990 through August 13,
1990.

Sharon Emerson. Intern Programs, curatorial project with Richard
Murray. September 7, 1990 through April 24, 1991.

Sarah French, Bachelors Candidate, Kenyon College. Curatorial,
assist in organizing information for the up-coming
exhibition on the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition. June
4, 1990 through July 27, 1990.

Lawna Gamble, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman College. Design and
Production, assist in various aspects of the design and
production office. June 4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Constance Hatachette, High School Student, Madeira School. Photo
and Slide Archives, dry-mounting photographs, saat kelp ele ge
September 19, 1990 through May 31, 1991.

Megan Hurst, High School Graduate. Office of the Registrar,
participant in Intern 90, OESE's national summer internship
program. June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

Nichole Jones, High School, Banneker Senior High School. Public
Programs, assist with tasks pertinent to public programs,
filing, xeroxing materials, answering phones, and meeting
the public. December 4, 1989 through June 30, 1990.

Laurie Lee, Bachelors Degree, University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Intern Programs, participation in NMAA's advanced level
museum training program. September 7, 1990 through December
Jie s TI9O"
Deirdre LeVine, Bachelors Degree, University of Colorado. Intern

Program, participation in NMAA's museum training program.
September 7, 1990 through December 7, 1990.

Eiko Maruyama-Grimes, Masters Candidate, George Washington

University. Educational Programs Office, various
educational projects. January 1, 1990 through April 26,
1990.

Carolyn McArthur, Bachelors Degree, University of New Mexico.
Intern Program, participation in NMAA's advanced level
museum training program. September 7, 1990 through April
277 991.

Linda "McNamara, Bachelors Candidate. Intern Program,
participation in  NMAA's advanced level museum training
program. September 7, 1990 through April 27, 1991.

Ronald Meek, Bachelors Degree, American University. Intern
Program, participation in NMAA's advanced level museum
training program. September 7, 1990 through April 27, 1991.

Jennie Padzieski-Novak, Bachelors Candidate, University of
Michigan-Dearborn. Library, . reclassification project
(change from Dewey system to Library of Congress system),
retrieving books, removing cards from card catalod,
relabelling books, add price list to auction catalogs, file
vertical file materials, bibliographic checking, shelve
books. June 11, 1990 through July 27, 1990.

Elizabeth Peck, Masters Candidate, American University. Intern
Program, participation in NMAA's advanced level museum
training program. September 7, 1990 through April 27, 1991.

Nicole: Pitts, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman » College:
Publication, assist in various aspects of the publications
office. June 4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Gabriela Pohl, Masters Degree. Design, project split between
Office of Museum Programs and office of Design and
Production. January 15,1990 through April 30, 1990.

Jennifer Rose, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Curatorial, assist in various aspects of the contemporary
landscape photography exhibition. June 4, 1990 through July

27, 1990.
Paola Russi, Masters Degree, Indiana University. Curatorial,
assist in research for the curator of graphic arts. June

20, 1990 through August 15, 1990.

Marika Sitton, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Public Programs, assist with various programs:
Ryder exhibit, docent training, visitor evaluation, label

evaluation, "college" day, and other programs. January 18,
1990 through April 27, 1990.

Mary Widdifield, Bachelors Degree. Intern Program, participation

in NMAA's advanced level museum training program. September
v7, 1990° through, April 27, .19912..

Greg Wilkins, Bachelors Candidate, Warren Wilson College.
External Affairs, assist in various activities of the
external affairs office. June 4, 1990 through July 27%,
1990:.

Telina Williams, High School Student, Coolidge High School.
Educational Programs, assist as liaison with DC Cultural

96
Consortium Jr. Culture Corps; help plan and host their
visits; assist with ongoing work of office; work with other
museum offices as assigned. June 25, 1990 through August
L790.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Anna Albano, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Exhibit Design, assist designers in the preparation of
exhibit display; participate in the conception, execution,
and production of a variety of projects that will vary in
size and complexity. June 4, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Joan Amick, Bachelors Degree. American Quarterly, copy editor
for the American Quarterly; and researcher in the Division
of Community Life, focusing on Children's Literature from
1945-1965, in conjunction with the exhibit: "This is your
Childhood, Charlie Brown: Children and American Culture,
1945-1968". September 24, 1990 through December20, 1990.

Lisa Balcazar, Mount Vernon College, Bachelors Candidate.
Graphic design and publication, participate in all three
Major areas of publication department, including creation,
production, and inventory management of publications.
Emphasis will be placed on utilizing graphic design skills
in desktop publishing. January 29, 1990 through April 25,
1990.

Michael Bartos, Bachelors Degree, University of MIllinois.
Political History, assembling information on the Becker
Publication regarding presidential campaigns since Theordore
Roosevelt. October 5, 1989 through January 30, 1990.

Marta Bechhoefer, Bachelors Degree, Cornell University.
Education, design educational programs and materials for the
Columbian Quincentenary project, American Encounters.
September 17, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Julie Berebitsky, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Social/Cultural History Division of Domestic
Life, an analysis of appliance advertising directed at women
during the 1930's -50's to determine what the advertisers
were saying about the average woman's life and how the

appliances would change her life. January 16, 1990 through
May 15, 1990.

Rachel Bien, Bachelors Candidate, Bryn Mawr College.
Numismatics, collection management. June 4, 1990 through

August 15, 1990.

Susan Biltekoff, Bachelors Candidate, Hartwick College.
Program in African-American Culture, Production assistant
for the MLK and February events-various production related
tasks, i.e. logistics, volunteer coordination, registration,

hospitality, and conference follow-up. January 2, 1990
through February 5, 1990.

Amy Blakeley, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Medical

Sciences, cataloquing a collection of medical graphics.
September 4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Carolyn Blank, Bachelors Degree. Biological Sciences and Medical
Sciences, assist collections manager in Medical Sciences; in
Biological Sciences research assistant for exhibit on
Science in America in three areas: History of the Birth
Control Pill, Health, and Recombinant DNA. September 10,

1990 through August 31, 1991. ;
Jennifer Bradford, Bachelors Degree. Community Life, conduct
research on children, family, and culture _ in the United

States, 1945-65; assist with preparation
installation,assistance with divisional work. September 10,

1990 through May 31, 1990.

Carolyn Brady, Bachelors Degree, University of Virginia. Office
of Education and Common Agenda, responsible for day-to-day
management of Exhibit Preview area; assist with audience
research; develop funding proposal for Common Agenda
projects; pursue research efforts for Common Agenda. August
30, 1990 through November 30, 1990.

Jennifer Brier, Bachelors Candidate. Agriculture and Natural
Resources, research for various projects including a film
for the Agriculture Hall and the Rock 'N' Roll exhibit.
September 10, 1990 through May 1, 1991.

Carrie Brown, Bachelors Candidate, University of Minnesota.
Armed Forces History, provide hands-on experience working
with museum objects and reference material with emphasis on

object care, conservation, storage, and registration. June
18, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Elizabeth R. Brown, Bachelors Degree, Bowdoin College. Domestic
Life, "After the Revolution"--renovation of an existing
exhibition. August 20, 1990 through October 20, 1990.

Greta Brunschwyler, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Exhibits Design, assist in the "Parlour to Politics"
exhibit. January 19, 1990 through April 27, 1990.

Corri Bruns, High School Graduate. Division of Medical Sciences,
participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education's National Summer Internship Program. June 4,
1990 through July 6, 1990.

Carol Bryant, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Registrar's Office, assist Silver Hill Facility staff with

the Zim Collection, Norcross Greeting Collection. June 4,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

David Burrell, Bachelors Candidate, Holy Cross College.
Political History, research on New Hampshire presidential
primaries; establishment of liaison with the Democratic

Party; collections management and photo caption writing.
September 4, 1990 through November 29, 1990.

Amy Buskirk, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Numismatics, work with the numismatics collection in
reorganization that is essential for the study of this
collection. June 11, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Kim Butler, PhD Candidate, Howard University. Community Life,
Conceptualization, research, and implementation of new
African American section of "After the Revolution" exhibit;
participate in oral history project on African American

migration in early 20th century. January 22, 1990 through
June 5, 1990.

Theadocia Caemmerer, Bachelors Degree, Brown University. Museum

98
Programs, serve as assistant program coordinator with
special concentration on the Country Dance Society

Anniversary Celebration. February 26, 1990 through June

15, 1990.

Sara C. Carlson, Bachelors Candidate, Colgate University.
Numismatics, as a curatorial assistant, concentrate on
collections management procedures and help to organize the
collection of World Decorations. June 1, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

Stephen Chan, Bachelors Candidate, Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute. Registrar's Office, work on Zim Collection;

assist collections management staff at the Silver Hill
Facility. June 5, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Betsi Chapman, High School Graduate. Smithsonian Early
Enrichment Center, participant in Intern 90, Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education's national summer
internship program. July 9, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

An-Wen Chen, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph-Macon Woman's College.
Graphic Arts, comparing lists, updating and correcting them,
handling type, assisting the fish printing demonstration,
etc. September 20, 1990 through December 7, 1990.

Eileen Cheng, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard University. American
Quarterly, copy editing and a research project on Tourism,
1890-1930. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Edward Christian, High School, Ballou Senior High School.
Exhibits, assist in customizing work for mountings,
construction of cabinets, involves use of table saw, power
tools, hand tools, paints, and other materials needed for
Expibit = Construction. December 15, 1989 through June 30,

1990.

Suzanne Cole, Bachelors Candidate. Engineering and Industry,
research assistant to a curator, concentrating on
preliminary work for a future major exhibition entitled
"Science and America". June 4, 1990 through August 10,
1990.

Vickie Crawley, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Archives Center, Duke Ellington Project. June 4, 1990

through August 24, 1990.

Kara Cunningham, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut College. Armed
Forces History, develop reference resource file on the
participation of women in the Civil War; gain knowledge of
routine museum collections care pertaining to National

Collection of Women's Uniforms. September 20, 1990 through
December 14, 1990.

Alicia Cutler, Bachelors Degree, Mt. Holyoke College.
American Indian Program, Native American Studies in art and
culture. February 12, 1990 through May 31, 1990.

Peter Dennen, Bachelors Candidate, Hartwick College. Photo
Services, printing photos for the American History Museum

and the Air and Space Museum. September 20, 1990 through
December 7, 1990.

Amy Dixon, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Community Life,

emergence of _.rock ..-and:- troll. “in ..the ~50's —in Memphis.
September 4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Le)
David Dodson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland..
Public Affairs, assisting office of public affairs. January
22, 1990 through May 15, 1990.

Scott Doniger, Bachelors Candidate. Audience Research, Audience
research and exhibit design. May 21, 1990 through August
75) wl 9'910:.

Natashia Dooley, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
African American Culture, assist program coordinator in
organization and implementation of International Women's
Day Program on African American Women in the Work Force,

and of a graduate students meeting on Research in African
American studies. February 1, 1990 through April 27,1990.

Vidya Dorai, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Academic Affairs, copy-editing for the American Quarterly;
learn copy-editing skills, work on research project, develop
research and writing skills. May 31, 1990 through August
3° 1990.

Anja Dauschek, Bachelors Degree, University of Munich.
Agriculture and Natural Resources, work on several exhibits:
Rock 'n' Roll, Science, and the Agriculture Hall renovation;
work in the division's collection to learn policies and
procedures. June 4, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Lynette Eaddy, Bachelors Candidate, Emory University.
Agriculture and Natural Resources, assist in collections
Management and handling of objects and work on exhibit
planning for the Science exhibit, Rock 'n' Roll, and perhaps
agricultural hall. June 11, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Ralph Earle III, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College.

Registrar's Office, Clearing two object storage areas _ in
advance of the construction of a new textiles lab: work

includes condition reporting, photography, computerized
shipping lists, object cleaning, and preparation for
shipping. September 18, 1990 through December 7, 1990.

Christine El Eris, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Political

History, American working class political organizations.
September 4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Linda Enquist, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.

Conservation, costume conservation project: Francis
Cleveland's wedding dress. January 11, 1990 through June l,
1990.

Sunae Evans, PhD recipient. Conservation, conservation of the
Ida McKinley Inaugural Gown. December 5, 1989 through June
307, 2990:

Scott Faulkner, Bachelors Candidate, Pacific Lutheran University.

American Music, Archive Duke Ellington Collection and aid
curator of American Music. June 4, 1990 through August 17,
1990. :

Ellen Felser, Bachelors Degree, University of Oregon.
Domestic Life, revision of exhibit-"Everyday Life in the

17th and 18th Century". May 14; 1990 through August 15,
tS SIO;
Tamara Felton, Bachelors Candidate, Hampton University. Social

and Cultural History, African-American Index Project: data
entry and cataloging of photos, memoirs, etc. for data bank.

100
June 4, 1990 through August 24, 1990. =

Lori Feild, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Exhibit
Design, assistant to the exhibition designer for the 19th
century project: responsible for scaled object drawing,
space development concepts, updating exhibit floor plans
using Auto Cad, design, research, model-making. September
17, 1990 through December 7, 1990.°

Beth Fisher, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Registrar's Office, become acquainted with all
aspects of OPF as well as the various departments throughout
the museum. May 29, 1990 through November 30, 1990.

Claire Florence, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. History of
Science, exhibit case study on the Birth Control Pill.
September 4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Ian Ford, Bachelors Degree, Whitman College. Armed Forces
History, assist with collections management projects
including the equestrian collection and the U.S. Army head
gear collection, and with preparation for three future
exhibitions. October 9,1989 through September 30, 1990.

Dan Fouts, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Political
History, research on science and technology in the home.
February 1, 1990 through May 1, 1990.

Laurel Fraser, Bachelors Candidate, Boston University. Public
Affairs, assist staff of the Office of External Affairs in
executing all promotion and public responsibilities for the
Museum's programs and exhibitions. May 29, 1990 through
July 20, 1990.

Jennifer Gac, Bachelors Degree, University of California-
Berkeley. Community Life, assist with development of
videotape for the African-American section of "After the
Revolution"; assist with development of the children's
section of "Field to Factory". September 17, 1990 through
December 31, 1990.

John Gentry, Bachelors Candidate, Lee College. Armed Forces
History, assist in the reorganization of objects in the
firearms storage area, concentrating on a reclassification
of US arms issued to military forces from 1775-1990.
January 29, 1990 through May 5, 1990.

Suzanne Gonce, Bachelors Degree, Rhodes College. Museum
Programs, Richard Allen Project--outreach program to DC
schools. September 10, 1990 through December 31, 1990.

Martha Good, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Department
of Public Programs, assist on public programs connected with

museum exhibitions: "From Parlor to Politics", "Contrasts"
and the Holiday Celebration. September 6, 1990 through
December 1, 1990.

David Goodson, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Division

of Musical History, various administrative duties in support
of the program. February 1, 1990 through June 1, 1990.

John Grace, Bachelors Candidate, Gettysburg College. Registrar's
Office, clearing two object storage areas in advance of the
installation of a textile lab; work includes condition
reporting, photography, computerized shipping lists, object
cleaning, and preparation for shipping. September 18, 1990

101
through December 7, 1990. ;
Alison Graham, Bachelors Candidate, Kenyon College. Numismatic
Collection, organization and labeling of coins and medals.
June 4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.
Marcia Graham, High School Student, Anacostia High School.
Office of the Director, assist with the daily- operations in
the director's office; correspondence, inquires, etc.; on-

the-job training to enhance secretarial curriculum. July 2,
1990 through August 31, 1990.

Maria Grotz, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Engineering and
Industry, science and society in the 20th century America.
September 4, 1990 through December:21, 1990.

Nicole Hammack, Bachelors Candidate, Villanova University.
Engineering and Industry, assist in rehousing phonograph
records, approximately 500, dating from 1878-1886; help to
survey the records for possible conservation treatment and

to complete cataloging procedure. June 13, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

Clyde Hastings, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Exhibit Design, assistant to exhibition designer;
responsible for scaled object drawings, space development
concepts, updating of exhibits using Auto Cad, model making,
research, and re-creation. September 17, 1990 through
December 7, 1990.

Donna Hayashi, Bachelor Candidate, University of Hawaii-Manoa.
Numismatic Collection, documentation of collection of
premonitary media of exchange. September 10, 1990 through
November 30, 1990.

Nguyen-Hong Hoang, High School Graduate. Political History,
participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education's national summer internship program. July 9,
1990 through August 10, 1990.

Christopher Hyland, High School Student, John F. Kennedy High

School. Armed Forces History, assist with the management
and care of the firearms collection. September 25, 1990

through December 31, 1990.

Donna Jacumin, Bachelors Candidate, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. Numismatics Division, as assistant
to the curator the intern will focus on several aspects of
collections management, including updating records,
organizing photographic documentation, and pursuing research
to be used in finder's aid and the collection. May 21,1990
through August 10, 1990.

Huey-ing Jeng, Masters Degree, George Washington University.
Registration, collection management, object processing,
documentation. May 29, 1990 through July 20, 1990.

Andrea Jenkins, Bachelors Candidate, Spelman College. Music,
organize information on historic keyboard instruments in

collections and private homes around the world. Judy, 2);
1990 through August 10, 1990.

Amy Johnson, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University.
political» eHistory; assist “in. the inventory .ofs the
collectyons?;« assist «in “the: “installation._of — ther exhibit
WWarlor= to: Politics"; assist ‘in. minor résearch tasks: “2oune
25, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Holly Jones, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Costume,
History of the T-shirt. September 4, 1990 through December
21, 1990.

Michael Jones, High School Graduate. Program in Popular American

Music, participant in Intern 90, 'Office of Elementary and

Secondary Education's national summer internship program.
July 9, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Patricia Jones, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Program of
African-American Culture, video tape team. June 4, 1990
through August 17, 199C.

Elizabeth Jordan, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University.
Social and Cultural History and Domestic Life, assist with
the renovations to the exhibition, "After the Revolution:
Everyday Life in America 1780-1800"; assist with collections

Management activities in the Division of Domestic Life.
June 11, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

David Kupas, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University of
Pennsylvania. Electricity and Modern Physics, collections
Management; exhibit design and production; curatorial
experience. June 4, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Cynthia Landrun. Armed Forces History, participate in 19th

century U.S. Headgear rehousing project; work with staff on
exhibition installation. February, 20, 1990, through April
3:0;, -19:9.0:.

Jay Lee, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania.
Archives, coordinate sterograph glass collection. June 4,
1990 through August 24, 1990.

Beth Lemon, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-
Berkeley. Public Programs, Columbus Quincentenary-audience
research concerning knowledge of Native American life; work
on the cultural relations aspect of the Quincentenary
program (archive research). June 4, 1990 through August 3,
1990.

Angela Leonard, PHD, George Washington University. Office of
Academic Programs, assist the editorial staff of the
American Quarterly--in particular copyediting original

Manuscripts accepted for publication. October 2, 1989
through December 22, 1989.

Rosa Lesue', High School Graduate. Archives Center,
Participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education's National Summer Internship program. June 4,
1990 through July 6, 1990.

Robert Lima, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Museum
Programs, program  assistance--"Palm Court Cameos", "All-
American Music", "Capitol Writers" series--research in
American Music. October 25, 1989 through December 30, 1989.

Sally Livingston, Bachelors Degree, University of Arizona.
Registrar's Office, rotation throughout registrar's office,
providing introduction to collections management practices
and policies at NMAH. Initial emphasis to be loan program
and "1876" exhibit take down. October 16, 1989 through
April« «3 0),- 1990:

Susan Logan, Bachelors Candidate, Messiah College. Museum
Programs, research and production preparation for two

related projects dealing with the career of Cole Porter.
September 5, 1990 through December 19, 1990.

Shanon Loring, Bachelors Candidate, Endicott College.

Exhibits, exhibits productions-graphics, silkscreen, paste-
up_layout-wet mounting, photo mounting, mat cutting, and
type setting. January 2, 1990 through January 28, 1990.

Shanon Loring, Bachelors Candidate, Endicott College. :
Exhibits Production, assist with coordination of exhibit
production projects, concentrating on facilitation of
information transmission and retrieval. June 11, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

Alexandra Mack, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard College.
Engineering and Industry, research for _a new time keeping
hall; find appropriate objects, graphics, and documentation
regarding Native American archeoastronomy. June 5, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

Sarah Magpie, Bachelors Candidate, New York University.

American Indian Program, assist the Director of the
American Indian Program; gather and distribute information
about activities involving the program; help organize a
conference, a symposium, and publication on related topics;
and participate in planning for the National Museum of the
American Indian. January 30,1990 through July 31, 1990.

Gordon MacLean, Bachelors Candidate, Kalamazoo College. Museum
Programs, asSist in production of 3 monthly concerts; in
research for 1991 Cole Porter Centennial and for recordings
in "American Songbook" series. March 26, 1990 through June
As5y 52 L990.

Lori Mann, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-
Berkeley. Engineering and Industry, research for Time
Keeping Hall and other miscellaneous research. dunes 134
1990 through August 10, 1990.

Ursula Marcum, Bachelors Degree, University of Maryland.
Registrar's Office, organize and catalog an extensive
collection of 19th and 20th century World's Fair objects.
February 12, 1990 through May 31, 1990.

Becky Marcus, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Program
in African-American Culture, January program bringing
together Civil Rights protesters of the 1960's with current
student protesters. July 3, 1990 through August 15, 1990.

Lisa Martinuzzi, Bachelors Candidate, Hope College. Political
History, political campaign of Warren Harding with emphasis
on the role of his wife, Florence Harding. March 19, 1990
through April 27, 1990.

Laurel Maury, Bachelors Candidate, Bennington College.

American Science Exhibit, Archival research and museum
(object related) research for a nineteenth century
laboratory setting in the American Science Exhibit at the
National Museum of American History. January 8, 1990
through February 27, 1990.

Jill McCutcheon, Masters Candidate, George Mason University.
Division of Domestic Life, assist the collections manager
for After the Revolution and pursue research related to a

104
major group of objects in that exhibition. January 30, 1990
through May 5, 1990.

Melinda McEndarfer, Bachelors Degree, Northeast Missouri State
University. Internship, organize Brown Bag Lunch Series for

NMAH interns; be peer advisor for interns; start NMAH intern
newsletter. September 17, 1990 through March 31, 1991.

Erica Martin, Bachelors Degree. African-American Progran,
research and editorial assistant for the program in African-

American cultures forthcoming publications to be issued _ in
1990-1991. September 10, 1990 through January 31, 1990.

Kelly McKaig, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Advertising
History, assist in organizing Noxell Collection and
preparing brochure; abstract oral history interviews about
early television advertising; assist in research for Nike

project; assist in general administrative duties. June 18,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

Rafaa McRae, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania.
Program of African-American Culture, conduct research on
Africans in the Americas and Native American intersections
and interactions in the Americas. June 4, 1990 through
August 3, 1990.

John McTigue, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, State University of New
York-Buffalo. Political History, assist museum specialist
in a museum wide canvas of collections for the interwar
section of the "Science in American Life" exhibit. June
11, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Victoria Meier, Bachelors Degree, University of Michigan. Armed
Forces History, assist with collection management projects,
concentrating on the military headgear collection, and with
preparation of a future exhibition. May 22, 1990 through
August 8, 1990.

David Meister, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, Golden West College.
Armed Forces History, provide "hands-on" experience with
object care, conservation, storage, and registration
processes. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Kathrin Mereigh, High School Student, Georgetown Visitation
Preparatory School. Armed Forces History, assist staff and
curator with research about military uniforms and
accessories; assist with correspondence and inquiries
related to armed forces history. Tuly2,° 1990 through
August 31, 1990.

Denise Meringolo, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Political. History, Help —with...graphics.,
photographs, photographic research, and developing a
cataloque. January 16, 1990 through April 27, 1990.

James Mills, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Audience Research, research assistant and exhibits manager:
assists with the design and implementation of an
experimental space for the evaluation of proposed exhibition
components. Conducts informal and formal evaluations in
that space. January 16, 1990 through May 10, 1990.

Roderick Milstead, Bachelors Candidate, Beloit College. Public
Affairs, assist the Office of External Affairs in executing
its obligation to promote and publicize the programs and
activities of the American History Museum; responsible for
written and verbal inquiries. May 21, 1990 through August
30, 1990.

Melissa Milstein, Bachelors Candidate, Scripps College. Division
of Medicine and Science, research on Visiting Nurses
Associations. May 14, 1990 through July 14, 1990.

John Monagle, Museum Professional. Archives Center, process and
analyze the Robert Mills collection. September 20, 1990
through November 30, 1990.

Sharon Moore, High School Graduate. Program in African American
Cultures, participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and

Secondary Education's national summer internship program.
July 9, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Amy Morello, Bachelors Degree. Public Programs, film series
reflecting the "Men and Women" exhibitions; research on
"Deanuts" cartoon and creation of three five-minute videos
to accompany a fall exhibition on "Adolescence in the Cold
War Era". June 7, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Bridget Morgan, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Conservation, assist with inventory of History of Science
and Technology exhibits in preparation for their movement
from American History to Fullerton. Assist in rehousing

projects in paper conservation laboratory. February 7, 1990
through May 4, 1990.

Susan Mueller, Bachelors Candidate; Washington University.
Costume, establish a system for documenting the fashion
industry in the US; assist as needed with preparation of
costume collection for movies. June 18, 1990 through August
18, 1990.

John Murph, Bachelors Candidate, Mississippi State University.
Archives Center, Duke Ellington Project. June 4, 1990
through August 24, 1990.

Lisa Myers, High School, School Without Walls. Office of
External Affairs, assist with tasks pertinent to public
programs, filing, xeroxing materials, answering phones, and
meeting the public. November 20, 1989 through June 30,
1990.

Jennifer Oberst, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University.
Political History, assist with all phases of the formation
of the catalog for the exhibition "Parlour to Politics", and

with the organization of a symposium _on the same topic.
September 24, 1990 through December 4, 1990.

Ellen Oglesby, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Costume, document the changing use of jeans on men's and

women's clothing since World War II and use this information
to access the Office of Costumes collections and formulate a

collecting plan. June 18, 1990 August 31, 1990.
Jacqueline Olagbaju, PhD, University of Pennsylvania. Division
of African-American Cultures, cultural politics and African-

American hair sculpture aesthetics. September 17, 1990
through December 7, 1990.

Tracey Oliveira, Bachelors Candidate, UCLA. Engineering and
Industry, preparation of a new time keeping hall--build
bibliography and research files on psychological studies of

106
human time awareness. June 18, 1990 through August ll,
1990.

Vilma Ortiz-Sanchez, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Registrar's Office, clearing two object storage
areas in advance of the construction of a new textile lab:
work includes conditioning reporting, photography,
computerized shipping lists, object cleaning, and

preparation for shipping. September 18, 1990 through
December 21, 1990.

Susan Page, Bachelors Degree, Drexel University. Social and
Cultural . History, productyon iand.,distribution of
subscription brochure-museum's chamber music program; public
relations support; press releases 1990-91 season; update

press list; publicity for summer film series. June 18, 1990
through August 17, 1990.

Niles Parker, Bachelors Candidate, Colby College. Social and
Cultural History, assist with master plan projects, all
aspects; and assist with organizing C.M. information and
photographing files in the office of the collections
Manager. June 12, 1990 through July 26, 1990.

Marilyn Paul, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Education, audience research project for 19th century
exhibit (Title, theme statement, adult & school age
audience); development team for expanded Hands on History
Room (design concept and recommended activities). January
16, 1990 through April 26, 1990.

Sara Perlman, Bachelors Candidate, Skidmore College. Registrar's
Office, assist with day-to-day maintenance of "1876"
exhibition; work in lab with objects, care and condition of
objects. September 20, 1990 through December 17, 1990.

Katherine Piva, Bachelors Candidate, Pomona College. Public
Programs, special assistant to the Director of Audience
Research. May 29, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Julie Platt, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Education, work on Science and American Life project team,
assisting in the planning and implementation of the Learning
Center component of the exhibition. September 13, 1990
through December 20, 1990.

Mitzi Plummer, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Carolina

at= (‘Chapel Hidid. Archives Center, process manuscript
collections including research and writing; use of word
processor; will develop skills in the use, care, and
organization of primary materials. May 21, 1990 through

August 17, 1990.

Corey Poole, High School Student, Duke Ellington School of Arts.
Public Programs, conduct research on how NMAH presents Duke
Ellington through both the Ellington Archives and public
programs; produce video documentary on DC Neighborhood in
which Ellington grew up. June 9, 1990 through August 17,
1990.

Birgit Prelle, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland.
Archives Center, processing of  Sohmes Piano Company
collection; creation of series level Marc format data
entries for same collection; survey of Archives Center

107
Researchers. May 29, 1990 through July 20, 1990. i
Elaine Rice, Bachelors Degree. Domestic Life, help with the
revision of the exhibition "After: the Revolution: Everyday

Life 1780-1800";research, physical care of objects,
rehousing of acquisitions; assist in preparation of

bibliographies related to the division's collection.
September 4, 1990 through September 1, 1991. :
Matthew Roberts, High School Graduate. Military History,

participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education's National Summer internship program. June 4,
1990 through July 6, 1990.

Judith Rhoden, Bachelors Degree, University of Tennessee-
Chattanooga. Education, identify and research corporations
that can be potential resources for volunteers; contact
appropriate staff in such organizations to explain NMAH
volunteer activities and submit report to coordinator of
docent programs. June 25, 1990 through August 29, 1990.

Seth Richardson, Bachelors Degree, Middlebury College.
Agriculture and Natural Resources, research on Science in
American «life, collections assistance; ~ Rock'n'Roll
exhibit. June 20, 1990 through June 1, 1991.

Juliejon Rondeau, Bachelors Degree, Massachusetts College of Art.
Design, formulate _a handbook for’ the usage of directional
signage; catalog a typography currently in use; assist in
exhibition design. September 24, 1990 through December 31,
1990.

Cynthia Rose, Bachelors Candidate, Abilene Christian University.
Archives Center, Underwood Stereograph Project; learn museum

and archival procedures. June 4, 1990 through August 10,
1990.

Emilie Rosenberg, Bachelors Degree, University of North
Carolina-Greensboro. Internship and Fellowship Office,
analysis of the program for the past two fiscal years;
organize the weekly series of Brown Bag lunches for

approximately 85 interns in the museum. May 31, 1990
through August 9, 1990.

Jennifer Schmitt, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archive
Center, Catalog collection of Norcross Greeting Cards.
September 4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Gretchen Schneider, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. History
of Science and Technology, origins of History of Technolody.
September 4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Wendy Sears, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-Davis.
Audience Research, training and practice concerning both
informal and formal audience research studies, computer data
entry, information gathering, creation and evaluation of
mock exhibits in the preview area, production of office
reports, and the implementation of an audience advocacy
team. September 18, 1990 through December 15, 1990.

Nicole Senecal, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Department of Social/Cultural History, work
on preparing collection objects for the exhibition "From
Parlour to Politics", work with incoming loans from several
neighboring institutions. January 24, 1990 through April 6,

1990. =

Gabriela Sepulveda, Bachelors Candidate, Northwestern University.
Internship Office, assistant internship and fellowship
coordinator. January 22, 1990 through June 22, 1990.

Lisetta Sebaski, Bachelors Degree. African American Affairs,
research on the role of religion in Afro-American culture.
Apri .2;, (1990s through: June’ 30, .1990"

Lynn Shableski, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University.
Objects Processing, collections management assistant with

responsibility, for “preparation “of «new “textile lab.
September 21, 1990 through December 17, 1990.

Benjamin Sims, Bachelors Candidate, Wesleyan University.
Biological Science, research assistant for the exhibition
Science in American Life, concentrating on photo and film

images on American physics 1930-1950. June 4, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

James Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Armed
Forces History, assist in the complete reorganization of

objects located _ in the firearms collection storage area.
June 11, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Gabrielle Sodowick, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Public Affairs, media relations and publicity for the
exhibition "200 Years of U.S. Papermaking" and "The Peanuts
Cartoon and Children in the 1950's". September 25, 1990
through December 14, 1990.

Linda Song, Masters Candidate, University of California-Berkeley.
Community Life, assist in the compilation of oral history on
African-American migration 1915-1940; survey of African-
American newspapers regarding perception of California.
June 11, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Jennifer Spence, Bachelors Candidate, Florida Southern

College. Electricity and Modern Physics, collections
management-data entry, cataloging, report, design §&
production, research. June 11, 1990 through August 31,
1990.

Rebecca Steinfeld, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin.
Political History, research and object selection for 19th
Century exhibit. June 4, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Angela Stewart, Masters Candidate, Kent State University.
Community Life, research on Tuskgee Syphilis Experiment for
an upcoming exhibition of American Medicine in the 20th
century. June 4, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Evan Stoddard, Bachelors Degree, Miami of Ohio. Science
Division, prepare research on an upcoming exhibit, "Science
in America" using the NMAH library, the Library of Congress,
and the National Archives to obtain =information and
photographs on historic American scientist. June 4, 1990
through January 1, 1991.

John Taylor, High School Graduate. National Numismatic
Collections, participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education's national summer internship
program. July 9, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Christine Theberge, Bachelors Candidate, Boston University.
Program in African-American Culture, serve as assistant to

109
program coordinator concentrating on such projects as
research on the African Diaspors, the Columbus Quincentenary

Program, and a report on the 1990 program season. May 30,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

Sheron Thorp, Bachelors Candidate, American University.
Publications, assist in all phases of publications, design,
and production, with special emphasis on desk top
publishing. February 1, 1990 through April 27, 1990.

Victoria Toliver-Harris, Bachelors Degree, Howard University.
Academic Studies, Copy editor for the American Quarterly.
January 8, 1990 through March 30, 1990.

Maria Topham, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary.
Office of Academic Programs, assist with editing and copy
editing the American Quarterly and a research project. May
8, 1990 through July 20, 1990.

I-Chin Tu, Bachelors Candidate, University of Washington. Afro-
American Communities, research the relationship between
African-American and Chinese-American in Northern US cities
in the late 1800's utilizing secondary sources, period
literature (Chinese Community newspapers, etc.). June 18,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

Monica Underhill, Bachelors Degree, Yale University. Agriculture
and Natural Resources, assist with collections management,
and planning for installation of the Agriculture Hall and
for exhibits devoted to science and to rock and roll.
February 26, 1990 through May 31, 1990.

Daniel Unger, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia.
Political History, work..on) cultural aspects of life inthe
19th century United States for 19th Century Life in America
exhibit. June 4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Alexander Urciuoli, Professional. Computers Information Society,
assist in research and development of educational materials
to be used in the "Information Age" exhibit: informal
evaluation of and pretesting of materials; computer
programming. June 20, 1990 through August 20, 1990.

Carolyn Vaughn, Bachelors Candidate, American University.

Exhibit Design, assist designers as necessary in the
preparation of graphic/object books and scaled drawings;

possible exhibit design projects. June 4, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

Jennifer Vest, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Program on
African-American Culture, assist in the completion of
Diasporan Bibliography project; plan and research for the

International Conference on the African Diaspora. September
24, 1990 through May 31, 1991.

Thomas Vinson IV, Bachelors Candidate, Wake Forest University.

Community Life, research and exhibit preparation for "This
is Your Childhood Charlie Brown: Children and American
Culture, 1945=1970. May »24;,--1990 through August. 10/1990.
Andrea Volpe, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Community Life,
Chal dhood.insthe.50"%s..and: 60's; social: historyuoft 4rockun'
roll_in Memphis. April 5, 1990 through September 30, 1990.
Daniel Warner, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University.

Graphic Arts, organize, proof, and list typefaces kept in

110
NMAH as part of the type list project; assist with printing

demonstration in the Graphic Arts Hall. September 24, 1990
through November 30, 1990.

George Weinwurm, Bachelors Candidate, American Studies Progran.
Administration, budget, accounting, and personnel analysis

to support the work of the central administration office.
September 11, 1990 through December 19, 1990.

Cheryl Welch, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph-Macon College.
Political History, assist in installation of exhibit and in

caring for loans and photos associated with exhibit. May
21, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Richard Wills, Bachelors’ Degree. Maritime, Collect and
categorize 18th and 19th Century ship plans, transfer

deteriorizing originals onto mylar, set up a flattening

process, assist in rehousing process, add MARAD collection
to-list.-January: 8 1990 through April 30, -1990

Elizabeth Wilson, Bachelors Degree, John F. Kennedy
University. Intern Office, participate in intern community
building activities, including Brown Bag Lunch Series,
bulletin board, intern roster, mailing list. June 18, 1990
through August 18, 1990.

Michell Wilson, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College.
Social and Cultural/African-American Cultural Progran,
assist in completion of African-American Index; research to
support coming year's program on Transmission of African
Aesthetics to United States. May 21, 1990 through August
<j 1990.

David Yang, Bachelors Candidate, ‘University of Maryland.
Exhibit Design, assist designers as necessary in the
preparation of graphic materials for exhibit display, i.e.
labeling, charts, maps, graphs, illustrations, etc.; aid in
conception, execution, and production of a variety of

projects that will vary in size and complexity. June 4,
1990 through September 4, 1990.

Walter Yang, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College. African-
American Cultures, research for health and healing
conference in the fall of 1991. June 11, 1990 .through
August 4, 1990.

Jennifer Yunginger, Bachelors Candidate, Beloit College.
Registrar-Acquisition: Accountability, internship will focus
on work in two program areas within the Office of the
Registrar: record files and work with the accountability
program. May 21, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Jonas Zuckerman, Bachelors Candidate, University of Florida.
Archives, cataloging a collection from Melvin Kransford, and
other work as it becomes available. May 14, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN

Mary Paterson, Bachelors Degree, College of Wooster. Conduct
research for and edit major policy and program documents on
a wide range of subjects and issues which reflect the
planning process and public programs component of the NMAI.
September 10, 1990 through December 10, 1990.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY '
Amelia Adams, Bachelors Degree, University of Oklahoma.

Anthropology, locate appropriate replacement specimens for
the Human Variation exhibit. May 29, 1990 through August 3,

1990.
Garrett Alberico, Bachelors Candidate, University of North
Dakota. Botany, Botanical Art Collection-restoration and

preservation. May 28, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Gianni Baratta, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University of
Pennsylvania. Anthropology, archaeological study of 2
Powers Phase Mississippian sites (ca. 1300 AD), Turner and
Snodgrass, located in SE Missouri, remains of chiefdom
societies--analysis of stone tools from the sites to
reconstruct aspects of prehistoric technology. June 4, 1990
through September 1, 1990.

Christopher Bevitt, High School Graduate. Anthropology,
participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education. June 4, 1990 through July 7, 1990.

Christopher Blalock, High School Student, Bolles School.

Marine Systems Lab, analysis of destructive effects of
different pumping systems on a mixed plankton community.

July 16, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Gregory Brass, Bachelors Candidate, University of British
Columbia. Anthropology, work on Comanche Tribal Catalog.
September 17, 1990 through December 7, 1990.

Nancy Bratton, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth
University. Anthropology, learn basic techniques of
scientific illustration. July 9, 1990 through August 17,
1990.

Melvin Brewster, Masters Candidate, Sonoma State University.
Anthropology, an analysis of the social and economic
dimensions of Arikara Pottery manufacture. March 5, 1990
through May 12, 1990.

Christina Burke, Bachelors Degree. Education, provide
research knowledge and skills and organizational support for
Office of Education programs including the development of a
new tour/school discipline and associated teachers workshop.
May 24, 1990 through September 30, 1990.

Margarita Campbell, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University.

Special Exhibits, education programs for Beyond the Java
Sea. June 4, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Mark Carter, Bachelors Candidate, Tufts University.
Paleobotany, paleobotany studies in Wyoming. May 28, 1990

through August 30, 1990.

Elizabeth Cates, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University.
Anthropology, The project is an archaeological study of two
Powers Phase Mississippian sites (ca. AD 1300), Turner and
Snodgrass, located in Southeast Missouri. The sites are
considered to be remains of chiefdom _ societies. The

internship involves analysis of stone tools to reconstruct
aspects of prehistoric technology, economies, and social

112
relations. December 18, 1989 through December 31, 1990.
Ryan Chapin, High School, Oakland Mills High School. Botany,
Rainforest awareness pamphlet with text and accompanying

illustrations describing plant-animal relationships.
January 22, 1990 through September 1, 1990.

Helen Counts, High School Graduate. Botany, participant in
Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's

national summer internship program. July 9, 1990 through
August 10, 1990.
Jessica Downs, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin-

Madison. Botany, marine algal ecology. May 28, 1990
through August 3, 1990.
Melissa Dunford, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, conduct a

literature search of tool use and traditions of social
learning in nonhuman primates; summarize and develop a
classification system of such behaviors; examine data from

the Olduvai Gorge collections of early stone artifacts.
March 19, 1990 through May 15, 1990.

Melissa Etheridge, Bachelors Degree, Colorado College. Molecular
Systematics, DNA isolation/quantification of Titmose and

Rufas-sided tohees across an avian contact zone. June 4,
1990 through January 1, 1991.
Nardos Fessaha, Bachelors’ Degree. Anthropology, develop

microvertebrate casts to compare with East African fossils,

and update inventory of hominid and other primate casts.
February 5, 1990 through April 2, 1990.

Suzanne Folke, Bachelors Candidate, Butler University.
Vertebrate Zoology, Catalogue of Snakes. May 29, 1990

through August 3, 1990.

Margaret Frost, Bachelors Degree, Williamstown Public School.
Office of Education, exploring ways to use artifacts for
teaching about both Native Americans and Japanese

cultures, areas currently in school's curriculum. October
13, 1989 through November 10, 1989.

Lisa Gawen, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Carolina-

Chapel Hill. Paleobotany, paleobotanical studies in
Illinois. May 28, 1990 through August 11, 1990.
Elvira Gignoux, Bachelors Candidate, American University.

Development, research and development planning for the
Festival of the American Horse. September 13, 1990 through
December 15, 1990.

Karen Glantz, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University.
Botany, endangered plant studies: compilation of a book on
medicinal plants. May 28, 1990 through August 3, 1990.
Steven Glennie, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Mineral Sciences, help gather and disseminate information
about volcanic activity, earthquakes, and meteoritic events
for the Bulletin of the Global Volcanism Network. September
17, 1990 through November 9, 1990.

Karen Gordon, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Botany,
Pollen Competition. March 12, 1990 through June 1, 1990.

Vincent Gross, High School Student, H.D. Woodson Senior High
School. Education, assist with Natural Science Institute
for Teachers: word processing, use of office machines, help
keep materials organized. June 25, 1990 through August BUD
1990.

Mary Hall, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary.
Anthropology, coding and referencing of Kenyan field notes

and other materials; preliminary analysis of field
materials. May 9, 1990 through August 20, 1990.

Deborah Hardt, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Anthropology,

research photographs of Indians in Pocotello, Idaho for the
Plains Indians Handbook. September 4, 1990 through December

21, 1990.

Laura Hardy, Bachelors Candidate, Louisiana State
University-Shreveport. Vertebrate Zoology, analysis of
South American frogs. May 29, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Jennifer Helfman, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Office of Education, produce a Discovery Room
Box on volcanoes, available for public use. January 16,

1990 through April 26, 1990.

Donna Jacobs, Bachelors Candidate, Beloit College. Paleobotany,
paleobotany in Wyoming. May 28, 1990 through August 30,
1990.

Victoria Jacobson, Bachelors Candidate, Muhlenberg College
Archaeology, assist with data entry, library research, and
office related activities; cataloging and processing
artifacts. June 18, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Ramin Javedan, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University.
Anthropology, assist with Asian ethnology research. May 16,
1990 through July 18, 1990. :

Anthony Jonaitis III, Masters Candidate, University of South
Florida. Film Archives, introduction to archival film
techniques; learn to organize, repair, process archival
film; prepare it for laboratory duplication and archival
storage; enhance research use of archival film. March 5,
1990 through May 15, 1990.

Christopher Jundt, High School Graduate. Insect Zoo, participant

in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's
national summer internship program. June 4, 1990 through
July 6, 1990.

Kevin Kivimaki, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Mineral Science, assist in gathering and

disseminating information about current volcanic eruptions,
earthquakes, and meteoritic events for the Scientific Event
Alert Network and assist in documenting contributions of
information to the monthly SEAN Bulletin. February 12, 1990
through April 27, 1990.

Jeremy Lapon, Bachelors Candidate; Case Western Reserve
University. Anthropology Conservation, conservation
laboratory. May 22, 1990 through July 25, 1990.

Marsha Leaders, Montgomery College-Rockville. Invertebrate

Zoology, prepare line drawings of animals and maps for
publication. June 20, 1990 through December 20, 1990.

Julia Lewis, Bachelors Candidate, Guilford College. Mineral
Science, Geochemistry of altered meta-volcanic rocks-Ritter

Range, Sierra Nevada, California. March 8, 1990 through
June 15, 1990.

114
David Lescinsky, Masters Degree, Louisiana State University.
Mineral Sciences, gather information about volcanic activity
and prepare reports about volcanism for the Bulletin of the
Global Volcanism Network and other publications; assist in

preparing the book Global Volcanism, 1986-1990. June 1l,
1990 through July 13, 1990.
Teresa Leslie, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University.

Anthropology, __work with skeletal slave populations and
measuring stress through enamel defects (hypoplasias

hypocalcification, and pitting). June 4, 1990 through
August 24, 1990.
Cheerie Magalit, PHD. Mineral Science, microprobe and XRF

analysis of rocks from Mayor Volcano, Philippines. February
5, 1990 through March 31, 1990.

Roger Magazine, Bachelors Degree. Anthropology, internship in
Indonesian Cultural Anthropology and Material Culture.
September 27, 1990 through December 5, 1990.

Audrey Manring, High School Student, Thomas Jefferson High
School. Naturalist Center, work as an aide for the three
week National Science Institute for Teachers of Minority
Students. July 9, 1990 through July 27, 1990.

Kellie Marsh, Bachelors Candidate, Western Maryland College.
Entomology, Produce scientific illustrations suitable for
publication in research papers in the field of entomology.
January 8, 1990 through January 26, 1990.

Janet Maurantonio, High School Student, Eleanor Roosevelt High
School. Anthropology, historical research on the
photographer Benedicte Wrensted, a Danish immigrant who
photographed the Northern Shoshone, Bannock, and Lemhi
Indians of Fort Hall Reservation during the period 1895-
1912. September 20, 1990 through December 31, 1990.

Teresa McLain, Bachelors Candidate, Metropolitan State College.
Paleobotany, paleobotanical studies in Wyoming. May 28,
1990 through August 30, 1990.

Raquel McLaughlin, Bachelors Degree. Office of Education, help
with docent training and education materials for four
programs; work with public programs network to develop
programs for 1990-1991 and help coordinate special events.
September 7, 1990 through December, 7, 1990.

Molly McMullen, Duke University. Botany, Washington, D.C. lichen
curation-prepare older D.C. lichen collections for inclusion
in the herbarium. May 28, 1990 through August 11, 1990.

Melissa McQuoid, Bachelors Candidate, Whitman College.

Paleobotany, paleobotanical studies in Wyoming. May 28,
1990 through August 30, 1990.

George Midla, Bachelors Candidate, University of South Maine.
Botany, herbarium work-identification of African Violet
species. May 28, 1990 through August 11, 1990.

Camille Mojica, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas.
Vertebrate Zoology, systematic review of the fish genus
Dermogenys. May 29, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

James Nix-Gomez, High School, Thomas Jefferson High School for
Science and Technology. Anthropology, The Powers Phase
Project os am archaeological study of two Mississippian
sites (ca. AD 1300), Turner and Snodgrass, that are located
in Missouri. Descriptive and spatial information about the
artifacts from the sites will be computerized using DBase

and AutoCad programs, as a first step in this long term
analysis. November 24, 1989 through November 30, 1990.

Deirdre O'Leary, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Mammals, determining precise geographic

locations for strandings of cetaceans in order to see if

they correlate with species or time of the year. October 2,
1989 through July 31, 1990.

Sarah Olson, High School Graduate. Exhibits: . participant — in
Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's
national summer internship program. June 4, 1990 through
July 6, 1990.

Paul Oryem, Bachelors Candidate, Oakwood College. Botany,
Cameroon Commelinaceae Project. December 4, 1989 through
December 22, 1989.

Ronald Pond, Masters Candidate, Oregon State University.
Anthropology Archives, research tribal history of the
Umatilla, Walla Walla and Cayuse tribes of northeastern
Oregon. October 4, 1989 through December 8, 1990.

Ambar Pramono, Masters Candidate, University of Indonesia.
Anthropology, develop and process all the remaining

negatives in the Pelzer Collection. January 8, 1990 through
March 3, 1990. :

Rodolfo Quiros F., Bachelors Candidate, Iowa State University.

Botany, flora of St. John Island, Virgin Islands-processing
field collection stored at the Museum, make labels,

distribute duplicates, and determine updates; search for
literature and type specimens and tlearn to solve

nomenclatural problems. May 28, 1990 through August 11,
1990.

Eugene Ray, Bachelors Candidate. Anthropology, Native
American music/artifacts. June 11, 1990 through August 31,
1990.

Natalie Redwood, High School Student, Theodore Roosevelt High
School. Education, work as receptionist with clerical
assignments; work in staffed education facilities
(Naturalist Center and Discovery Room) providing assistance
to visitors as well as staff. June 25, 1990 through August
17, 1990.

Sarah Rivera, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Tech University.
Naturalist Center, complete learning lab in human osteology;
inventory of primate osteology collection; begin development

of learning lab in primate osteology. June 7, 1990 through
August 31, 1990.

Gail Robson, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth
University. Anthropology, check the collection information
gathered to date for the Comanche and Klamath Tribal

Catalogs for accuracy and completeness. June 4, 1990
through July 23, 2990.

James Rondeau, Bachelors Candidate, Middlebury. Development,

research for Natural History National Council, development
projects and general office work for fundraising activities.

116
February 1, 1990 through April 27,.1990. -

Pamela San Miquel, Bachelors Candidate, University of California,
Berkeley. Paleobiology, research on East African mammals
from the Pleistocene to recent as to their ecomorphic
characteristics for a database on evolution of terrestrial
ecosystems. June 4, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Richard Schneider, Bachelors Candidate, Hampshire College.
Vertebrate Zoology, studies in dwarfism and gigantism of
rodent skulls. May 29, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Betsy Schumann, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary.
Anthropology, organize, cataloque, and reconciling the human
skeleton collections through the establishment of a data
base systems to be accessible by all departments in the
museum. June 11, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Ruth Siaca-Colon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Puerto Rico.
Vertebrate Zoology, population and life history
characteristics of a tropical arboreal snake. May 29, 1990
through August 3, 1990.

Michael Sisson, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason

University. Botany, projects in Pacific Island plants.
February 7; 1990 through February 7, 1991.

Sandra Slemmer, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington
University. Anthropology, assist in cleaning and processing
of the bones from the cemetery of a 19th century German

population located in Pittsburgh, PA; completion of the task
will lead to the eventual analyzation of the burials by Dr.
Douglas Ubelaker so that conclusions concerning stature,
disease, and other biological characteristics can be made.
September 17, 1990 through December 31, 1990.

Michael Spencer, Bachelors Candidate, University of Central
Florida. Botany, Bromeliad floristics: a revision of the
genus Guzmania to be published as a supplement to the
monograph on Bromeliaceae. May 28, 1990 through August 11,
1990.

Ashley Stroupe, Bachelors Degree, Pitzer College. Anthropology,
aid _ in the planning of a new exhibit exploring the origins
of humans. July 3, 1990 through December 31, 1990.

Dwayne Sylvester, Bachelors Degree, State University of New York
at Buffalo. Department of Anthropology, study the co-
operation and difference that exist between Native American
Peoples and museums. October 30, 1989 through February 16,
1990.

Christopher Taylor, High School Student, H.D. Woodson Senior High
School. Education, develop materials for teachers on
endangered species, activities include use of office
machine, drafting, and preparation of art work. June 25,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

Kerry Thomson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Montana.
Vertebrate Zoology-Mammals, determination of speciation of
Dasyprocta punictata_on the Bolas de Toro Islands off the
eastern coast of Panama. June 8, 1990 through August 3,
1990.

Tasha Tisdale, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Botany, isozyme electrophoreisis and pollen ultrastructure.

LUT
May 28, 1990 through August 11, 1990. EB

Gusti Rake Panji Tisna, Bachelors Degree, Colorado College.
Botany, anatomy of Commelinaceae. May 28, 1990 through
August 11, 1990.

Meggan Towell, Bachelors Candidate, Manhattanville College.
Education, work with volunteer docent program, help with

public events, organize materials for schools, teachers, and
general public. February 1, 1990 through May 15, 1990.

Mary Turner, Bachelors Degree, Mount Holyoke College.
Mineral Science, prepare a database documenting the
photograph collection of the Smithsonian Volcanological

Archives, and helps build a volcanology bibliography. June
18, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Christopher Unterkofler, Bachelors Degree, Long Island
University. Marine Systems, operation, maintenance,
fieldwork for Chesapeake Bay and Florida Everglades
mesocosms; field operations for Biosphere II project; crew

aboard R/V "Marsys' Resolute" research vessel. February 12,
1990 through July 31, 1990.

Laura Vogel, High School Graduate. Marine Systems’ Lab,
participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education's national summer internship program. Jwby a9;
1990 through August 10, 1990.

Kristina Waalkens, Bachelors of Science in Education.
Education, develop pre- and post-visit activities for the
teacher quide that accompanies the Rocks and Minerals school
tour and laboratory. March 2, 1990 through May 30, 1990.

Amy Weir, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Conservation Lab, design mounts for rehousing a collection

of Pakistan horse riding equipment. May 2, 1990 through
July 31, 1990.

Anne Weshinskey, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Anthropology, provide administrative support and research
assistance for several projects in the Native American
Program. September 10, 1990 through December 16, 1990.

Karen White, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Minerals,
participation in the evaluation of the development
process for the new exhibit halls: "Gems, minerals, and
geology", including planning, funding, design, and content.
January 10, 1990 through March 13, 1990.

Andrea Winbauer, Bachelors Candidate, Carleton College.

Botany, Cameroon Commelinaceae Project. December 4, 1989
through December 22, 1989.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Cheryl Anderson, Bachelors Candidate, Colorado State
University. Office of Exhibitions, research and data entry
for National Portrait Gallery exhibitions history project.
Some possible research on upcoming exhibitions, ordering of
reproductions for catalogs and exhibition design notebooks.
January 22, 1990 through March 3, 1990.

Carla Boyson, Bachelors Degree, Southwest Baptist University.

Design and Production, assist with preparation of graphic

118
and written materials necessary for scheduling and producing

upcoming exhibits; assist supervisor of graphics, cabinet
shop, and designers. June 11, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

David Brody, Bachelors Degree. Peale Family Papers, historical
editing, documentary editing. June 11, 1990 through August
a ly ape ENE Nae

Claudia Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University. Rights and
Reproduction, assist with correspondence with publishers,
check color roofs chromalins assure the recent
acquisitions are photographed, review reproductions of

Portrait Gallery images in publications. June 4, 1990
through August 3, 1990.

Kristen Crean, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Peale Papers,
assist with Charles Wilson Peale Papers. September 4, 1990
through December 21, 1990.

Constance Dendy, High School Student, Duke Ellington High School.
Office of Education, assist with arrangements and schedules
for public programming, specifically "Cultures in Motion";
assist with research for program brochures. Wudiy2 <2),.21990
through August 31, 1990.

Edna Dixon, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Office of
Education, adapt two existing secondary programs for use in
college classrooms: "Yet Do I Marvel", a study of African-
American writers, and "I, Too, Am America", a study of the
Harlem Renaissance. September 5, 1990 through December 5,
1990.

Mary Dunton, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University.
Publication, proof reading, keyboarding text, organizing and
checking of photos. for ililustrations;:..and. filling. in with
text, deciding about photo sizing, checking layouts at
several stages, indexing, and verifying information intent,
all _ under deadline pressure. June 25, 1990 through August
37, 990%.

Alison Garwood-Jones, Bachelors Degree, Queens University.
Education Department, documentary editing: Tragning. in
preparing, researching, and annotating selected papers of
Charles Willson Peale and his family for eventual
publication. May 14, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

Richard Graw, Masters Candidate, California State

University-Hayward. Exhibitions, s/continuation. of
computerization of exhibition history. June 18, 1990
through September 8, 1990.

Wayne Greene, High School, School Without Walls. Education

Department, Xerox, file, library cards, special projects,

put library in order. May 2, 1990 through June 1, 1990.
Abigail Goldberg, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Peale

Family Papers, Rembrandt Peale Cataloque Raisonne - research

in biography, artistic provenances, urban history, 1820-
1860. January 30, 1990 through June 1, 1990.

Lynn Harden, High School Student, Dunbar High School. Education,
daily. -office “duties? .-xeroxving.« typing; fidimen,. etC..$

research of portraiture and historical dramatization. June
25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Andrea Johnson, High School Student, Anacostia Senior High
School. Education, daily office duties: xeroxing, “typing,
fHolingwsetC..seresearch “Or "portraiture and historical
dramatizations. June 22, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Susannah Kent, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Peale Family Papers, Rembrandt Peale Cataloque
Raisonne': research in biography, artistic provenances,
urban history, 1820-1860; exhibit planning. June 12, 1990
through August 31, 1990.

Tamara Ketabgian, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard University.
Public Relations, research and target press contacts for
exhibition on Andrew Jackson; draft background piece and/or
press release; help plan and prepare other press materials;
research list of invitees for opening; research and refine

press list for "Camera Portraits"; update scrapbooks:
answer routine requests. June’ '4),.. "1990 ‘through: July.:..28,
1990.

Elizabeth Kidd, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas.
Director's Office, research on an anticipated exhibition
titled "World's Columbian Exposition", which is being held
jointly by the National Portrait Gallery and the National
Museum of American Art. June 4, 1990 through September 1,
1990.

Leslie Kossoff, Bachelors Candidate, Boston University. Photo
Lab, photograph flat copy, exhibit areas, public relations
activities, portraits, etc. using large and small format
cameras; lab work including all types of black and white
processing. May 21, 1990 through August 15, 1990.

Eileen Langholtz, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Education, assist the education department and
an independent contractor with the development of a grant
proposal to create a puppet show to serve families on
weekends at both the National Portrait Gallery and the
National Museum of American Art. Also assist the public
program manager _on an as needed basis. January 16, 1990
through April 27, 1990.

Ty McClain, High School Student, School Without Walls. Education
Department, telephone, filing, special projects. September
13, 1990 through January 25, 1991.

Leslie McCoy, Bachelors Candidate, Fisk University. Catalogue of
American Portraits, day-to-day operations. June 4, 1390
through August 10, 1990.

Monica Miller, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Education
Department, development of education program for use by high
school English and/or American Civilization students.
Program will relate to authors whose portraits are in
permanent collection. Project involves development,

implementation, and participation in evaluation of program.
March 26, 1990 through June 6, 1990.

Tulaine Montgomery, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College.
Department of History, American Musical Theatre. September
4, 1990 through December 21, 1990.

Lee Morris III, High School Student, Coolidge Senior High School.
Education, daily office duties: xeroxing, typing, filing,
etc.; research of portraiture and historical dramatizations.

120
June 25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Steven Mosley, High School, School Without Walls. Education,
organize education department's library, establish a card
file for the library, type and answer telephones, deliver
and distribute mail. February 9, 1990 through June 6, 1990.

Alice Padwe, Bachelors Degree. Office of Exhibitions, research
to obtain information for database file on National Portrait
Gallery exhibitions. August 13, 1990 through November 13,
1990.

Michelle Parker, Bachelors Degree, Howard University. Education,
research historical figures, i.e. Geronimo and locate
existing portraits of this figure in order to determine
inclusion in Gallery's collection. June 4, 1990 through
August 3, 1990.

Karen Pignataro, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Painting and Sculpture, augment research
on the artist and the objects, to prepare label copy for
the Hall of Presidents. January 22, 1990 through May 2,
1990.

Gwendolyn Ponder, High School Graduate. Office of the Historian,

participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education's national summer internship program. July’ 9,
1990 through August 10, 1990.
Alexandra Rado, Bachelors Degree. Office of Design and

Production, assist production manager and assistant chief of
design with the preparation of both scheduling and graphic
production work necessary to complete planned exhibits.
September 10, 1990 through December 31, 1990.

Yelena Rakic, Bachelors Candidate, Barnard College. Education,
develop all program aspect of the Culture in Motion series
focusing on programming for the Asian American Community.
July 3, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Elizabeth Reasoner, Bachelors Degree. Catalogue of American
Portraits, collect data on portraits held publicly and
privately across the United States; research artist
biographies; answer inquires from scholars and the qeneral
public. September 4, 1990 through May 31, 1991.

Leslie Reinhardt, Bachelors Degree, Princeton University.
Painting and Sculpture, research assistant on systematic
Catalogue. June 18, 1990 through August 10, 1990.

Patrick Richardson, High School Student, Woodrow Wilson High
School. Education, daily office duties: x2roxing, typing,
filing, etc.; research of portraiture and historical
dramatization. June 25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Jennifer Saffer, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas.
Catalogue of American Portraits, verify and correct artists'
names and life dates. June 4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

James Smith, High School Student, Calvin Coolidge Senior High
School. Education, daily office duties: xeroxing, typing,
filing, etc.; research of portraiture and historical
dramatizations. June 25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Antonio: *Sote:*-~High: “School, School: “Without: Walls. American
Portraits, assist staff of Catalog of American Portraits in
maintaining and updating the portrait files. Duties include
filing, matching photos to files, matching automated labels
to files, making new labels. February 12, 1990 through June
1, 1990.

Tracy "Stewart, High School Student, School Without Walls.
Education, typing using IBM PC, mail distribution, xeroxing,
answering phones. February 7, 1990 through June 18, 1990.

Tracy Stewart, High School Student, School Without Walls.
Department of Education, filing, word processing, xeroxing,

reports, typing, answering phones, other office ‘jobs.
September 11, 1990 through January 1, 1991.

Claire Tieder, Masters Candidate, George Mason University.
Painting and Sculpture, assist with research for an upcoming
exhibition, jointly organized by NPG and NMAA, which will
feature a selection of American paintings and sculptures
shown at the World's Columbian Exposition, held in Chicago
in 1893. September 10, 1990 through December 14, 1990.

Diane Waggoner, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University.
Catalogue of American Portraits, day-to-day research
operations. June 25, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Frank Weathers, High School Student, Calvin Coolidge High

School. Education, daily office duties: xeroxing, typing,
filing, etc.;research of portraiture and historical

dramatization. June 25, 1990 through August 17, 1990.
Keenan West, High School Student, School Without Walls.

Department of Education, - xeroxing, filing, duties as
assigned. September 18, 1990 through January 25, 1990.

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MUSEUMS

Karen Henderson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Florida.
Assist with planning and organizing meeting of the ICOM

Committee for the Training of Personnel; prepare program,
fill packets, record keeping, bibliography, etc. June 6,

1990 through August 10, 1990.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

Andre Freitas, High School Graduate. Model Shop, make copies of
life masks for installation on mannequins; general molding,
and shop work using fiberglass and rubber compounds. June
11, 1990 through August 3), .1990.

James Hale, High School Graduate. Fabrication Unit, participant
in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's
national summer internship program. July 9, 1990.through
August 10, 1990.

Craig Locklear, Bachelors Degree. Fabrication, learn production
methods in plexiglass fabrication. February 5, 1990 through
February 16, 1990.

Laura Rothage, Bachelors Degree. Fabrication, exhibit design and
installation; work on installation of several exhibits as

well _ as in the fabrication shop. September 10, 1990 through
December 21, 1990.
Panayia Savvides, Architect. Exhibit Production Shops, work in

£22
exhibit production shops and receive training in graphics,

model shop, and fabrication. August 6, 1990 through
September 23, 1990.

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

janet --Aldraich:; High School Graduate. Greenhouse/Nursery
Division, participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and

Secondary Education's national summer internship program.
June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

David S. King, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Administration and Grounds Divisions, work on plans for the
renovation of the Freer courtyard and assist with

maintenance of the Ripley Garden and the Haupt Garden. June
4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Paula K. McCloskey, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland.
Administrative, draft garden plans and/or flowerbed designs
for seasonal plantings and areas being renovated _on the
Smithsonian grounds. June 18, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Ralph M. Russell) 4 Jr. Bachelors Candidate, Murray State
University. Greenhouse/Nursery Division, coordinate the
special event program by determining what plants will be
used, preparing them for use, scheduling delivery and

pickup, and assuring that follow up reports are completed.
May 28, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Douglas Bell, Bachelors Degree, University of Virginia. Folkways
archival duties and documentary video production on the
Senegal wrestling event (lambe) at the Folklife Festival.
June 18, 1990 through September 1, 1990.

Gretchen Brodtman, Bachelors Candidate, New College of the
University of South Florida. Research about folklife
festival cookbook. February 12, 1990 through May 1, 1990.

Robert Clyne, Masters Candidate, Yale University. Education,
work on Senegalese and U.S. Virgin Island Folk Art. June 4,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

Caroline Cohen. Folklife Festival, provide assistance with all
aspects of the program- Music of Struggle. April 16, 1990
through July 15, 1990.

Guylene Desir, High School Student, Bell Multicultural High
School. Work with the staff in planning and producation of
the festival: assist a program coordinator compiling
participant packages and schedules and developing program
supply lists; assist the crew in preparing festival site;
assist craft participants during the festival; assist in the
post-festival wrap-up work. June 18, 1990 through August

LOF 1 29'9'0).

Lisa Fisher, High School Graduate. Participant “in Intern 90;
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's national
summer intern program. June 4, 1990 through July 6, 1990.

Robert Forman, Bachelors Degree. Folkways Collection, assist in

the preservation and production of folkways records in the
office of Folklife Programs. October 23, 1989 _ through

September 1, 1990.
Rhonda Greene, Masters Candidate, Brown University. Education,

compile information of Massachusetts Folklife Festival for

Massachusetts teachers and compile National Folklife
Directory. June 4, 1990 through August 24, 1990.

Christopher Jerde, Bachelors Degree, Brown University. Cataloque
the 700-800 ethnic folkways recordings in preparation for a

specialized cataloque of Smithsonian/Folkways Records. June
3, 1990 through December 30, 1990.

Derek Kauneckis, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-
Davis. Assist with the Senegal Program at the Festival of
American Folklife. June 14, 1990 through August 28, 1990.

Carla Mendiola, Bachelors Candidate, Rice University.
Quincentenary Program, work on the Festival of American
Folklife Virgin Island events; research for 1991 festival.
June 4, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Jean Mitchell, Masters Candidate, American University. Assistant
to the Director of the Festival of American Folklife:
coordinate information booth staff, prepare and provide
information re: festival highlights and disabled services to
information kiosks. May 14, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Sarah Noble, High School Student, Georgetown Day High School.
Festival, assist on research for Folklife Festival; assist
participants and general help in putting on festival and

followup; meet public and participants. July  2,.. 1990
through August 31, 1990.

Rudolfo Pereira, Continuing Education, Georgetown University.
Folklore, cataloguing music of the Soviet Union collected

during the 1988 Festival of American Folklife. October 2,
1989 through June 5, 1990.

Jane Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Folklife,

research and organization of Folklife Cook Book. January 4,
1990 through January 24, 1990.

Paola Tassara, High School Student. Assistance with the Virgin

Islands program at the 1990 Festival of American Folklife.
June 18, 1990 through August 15, 1990.

Cynthia Thorn, Bachelors Degree. Intern with Folklore Summer
Institute. June 6, 1990 through July 20, 1990.

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Ann-Marie Munin, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University.

Interns, assist in development and implementation of the
Career program and other programs' for SI interns. June 4,
1990 through August 17, 1990.

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Rebecca Andrews, High School Graduate. Participant in Intern 90,

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's national
summer _ internship program. July 9, 1990 through August 10,
1990.

M.Kelly Greene, Bachelors Candidate, Wake Forest University.

124
News Bureau, write press releases, interview, write articles

for in-house newsletter. July 30, 1990 through August 25,
1990.

Kira Harris, Bachelors Candidate, Hampton University. News
Bureau, News Bureau _ assignments. June 4, 1990 through

August 24, 1990.

Aida Hernandez, High School Student, Benjamin Banneker High
School. Hispanic Public Affairs, assist the Hispanic public
affairs specialist in processing news releases, a calendar
of events, and news clippings; will be responsible for
revising files and updating mailing lists. June 18, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

Rebecca Higbee. News Bureau, public affairs assistant, publicity

campaigns, target audiences, press releases, features,
public service announcements. August 27, 1990 through

December 18, 1990.
Jennifer Langdon, High School Graduate. Participant in Intern
90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's national

summer internship program. June 4, 1990 through July 6,
1990.

J. Christopher Packard, Masters Candidate, University of
Southwest Louisiana. General assignments in the news bureau
and publications (writing press releases, preparing press

kits, and publicity reports). January 29, 1990 through May
Be 990%

Robert Tenequer, Jr., Bachelors Degree. News Bureau, a _ key role
in developing a media outreach effort by the Smithsonian to

the national American Indian community. October 30, 1989
through August 4, 1990.

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

Jackie Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, Macalester College. develop a
repertoire/library of information resources in support of
fundraising for C.I.S. projects by 1) developing resource
material for fundraising proposals, 2) determining potential

sources of funding, and 3) outlining possible projects. May
31, 1990 through August 22, 1990.

Jill Heyer, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Coordinate the production of the Museum Computer Network's
annual conference and prepare course materials and
evaluations for a museum automation workshop for the Museum

Studies Program at the George Washington University.
January 29, 1990 through April 28, 1990.

Tineke van den Polder, Masters Candidate, University of

Rotterdan. Review of Si; and. national policy on
deaccessioning. July 2, 1990 through August 31, 1990.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Soo Hyun Cho, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University.
Program Division, Assist project coordinators with
international exhibitions. March 28, 1990 through August
315 1990:.

or
Christina del Carmen, Bachelors Degree, Washington University.

Program, provide editorial and administrative support to the
"Tropical Rainforests Newsletter" and assist in SITES office
of public affairs. June 4, 1990 through September 28, 1990.

Melanie Gilroy, Bachelors Candidate, Occidental College.
International, work with every person in charge of
departments within SITES. June 11, 1990 through August 31,
1990.

Lisa Malinsky, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary.
Program, provide research and administrative support to an
exhibition team, for a variety of projects. May 30, 1990
through August 31, 1990.

Michelle Mooney, Bachelors Candidate, Auburn University.
Program, provide research and administrative support to the
Assistant to the Director and participate in exhibition

proposal review and exhibition marketing. June“28, -1990
through August 27, 1990.

Colin Murray, Bachelors Degree. Exhibition Development,
Evaluate a large find of material gathered on Inventor
Association, competition and curricula; facilitate and
coordinate time of Invention and Creativity Convention with
"Real McCoy" exhibitors. Identify specific associations
with which SITES can develop exhibition related programs.
May 7, 1990 through July 27, 1990.

Lisa Nellor, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Program,
provide research assistance to the development of an
exhibition that explores racial sterotypes. September 19,
1990 through December 7, 1990.

Lorena Riba, Bachelors Degree, New York University. Progran,
provide research and administrative assistance to the
exhibition team working on the exhibition "Contrasts: 40
Years of Change and Continuity in Puerto Rico, photographs
by Jack Delano". May 29, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Larissa Rippley, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College.
Program, provide research and administrative support to the
development of a traveling version of the Anacostia Museum
exhibition THE REAL MCCOY: AFRO-AMERICAN INVENTION AND
INNOVATION, 1619-1930. January 2, 1990 through February 2,
1990. ‘

Mary Sipper, Masters Degree. Program, research assistance for
international exhibitions. September 17, 1990 through May
SL L990:

Tamara Taylor, Bachelors Candidate, University of California-
Santa Cruz. Compile information :.for a resource guide for
the “exhibit "Climbing Jacob's Ladder". July” 27? “990
through September 21, 1990.

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LABORATORY

Clare Christopher, Visiting Professional. Develop educational
programs in conjunction with interactive videos. June 19,
1990 through August 31, 1990. =
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Muhammed Hussain, Masters Candidate, Fordham University. Debt
Swap Unit, provide research, administrative and clerical

support to the Debt Swap Unit of the International Center.
July 23, 1990 through September 4, 1990.

OFFICE OF MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

Elizabethine McClure, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University.
Compiling information on special events, programs, and high
level Smithsonian staff travel plans for a specified period
of time to develop a Smithsonian-wide calendar for use in
fund raising efforts. May 22,1990 through June 22, 1990.

OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS

Demond Johnson, High School, School Without Walls. Television

Production; locating ‘and. leqgqing....information “on “three
different computer systems. November 13, 1989 through June
3107) 7 29:9.0%:

Irina Robertson, Masters Degree, American University.
Audio/Visual Productions, production assistant for
television series, "Here at the Smithsonian", as well as
other television and film projects for the Office of
Telecommunications. October 2, 1989 through December 15,
1989.

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Amy Beal, High School Graduate. Discovery Theater, participant
in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's
national summer internship program. June 4, 1990 through
July 6, 1990.

Betsy Bradfield, Bachelors Candidate, University of Colorado.
Public Affairs, archiving, writing press releases, etc.
July 2, 1990 through August 20, 1990.

Mia Cohen, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University.

Lectures/Films, assist lecture/film office with program
preparation, organization, and publicity. June 6, 1990
through August 17, 1990.

Sarah Coughlan, High School Graduate. Young Associates,
oversight for scholarship material; analyze kite festival,
performing arts series, film quides, and tour materials for
future planning; inventory audio and videotapes; liaison
with summer camp. April 24, 1990 through July 24, 1990.

Amy Hawkins, Bachelors Candidate, University of Arizona. Public
Affairs, participate in daily activities of the Public
Affairs Office; archiving,» publicity, information on RAP
events, disseminate information to the media and community;
participate in actual execution of public affairs activities
and events. May 21, 1990 through July 21, 1990.

Catherine Lavigna, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan.
Assist the supply manager for Studio Arts and Young
Associates with general office work as well as work on

special organizational projects. sune (11, 72.19900 through
August 4, 1990.

Molly Mitchell, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University.
Studio Arts, assist manager in office work-data entry,
filing, answering phones; work on computer graphics

symposium with department personnel-public relations and
clerical. June 11, 1990 through August 16, 1990.

Jodi Skolnick, Bachelors Candidate, Northeastern University.
Public Affairs, participate in daily activities of the
DUbIic.atfairs offices, Duties include archiving,
preparation of publicity and information on RAP events,
dissemination to the media and the community. Also
participates in the actual execution of public affairs
activities at RAP events. January 4, 1990 through March 25,
1990.

Marie Theriault, Bachelors Candidate, University of Georgia.

Volunteers, provide support to volunteer office in

performing such volunteer scheduling, recruitment, and
development of communication materials (e.g. newsletter,
etc.). July 9, 1990 through September 31, 1990.

Cautio Warner, Bachelors Candidate, Hampton University. Public

Affairs, archive; preparation of publicity and information
on RAP events; dissemination of information to the media and

the community; participate in the execution of public
affairs activities at RAP events. May 1, 1990 through July
Wy A o9 10).

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

Andrew Howell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania.
Recording, assist with all aspects of the recording
department. May 25, 1990 through August 25, 1990.

Nancy McKinney, Museum Professional, California Afro-American
Museum. University Press, assist the Smithsonian
collections to determine the availability of materials that
could help tell the multicultural American story to children
ages 8 to 12. September 11, 1990 through November 2, 1990.

Gwendolyn Moodispaw, Bachelors Candidate, North Carolina State
University. Books, work on various aspects of the
publication process. June 4, 1990 through August 17, 1990.

Amy Stewart, High School Graduate. Recordings, participant in

Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's
national summer internship program. July 197,451 990ctthrough

August 10, 1990.
SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL ASSOCIATES PROGRAM

Sarah Collum, Bachelors Candidate, Colgate University. Study
Tours and Seminars, Study tours and seminar coordination.
June 19, 1990 through August 1, 1990.

Duddow Pinchaleaw, Masters Candidate, George Washington
University. Travel, foreign tours study. June 25, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

Alexandra © Price, Bachelors Candidate, Tulane University.

Organizing a benefit for the young benefactors. July 2,
1990 through August 14, 1990.

Jada Snyder, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Study tours and seminars, marketing analysis of study tours.
May 15, 1990 through August 18, 1990.

ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION

Robert Esau, Bachelors Degree, Bryn Mawr College. Research

architectural history of Smithsonian Building. June 4, 1990
through August 10, 1990.

OFFICE OF INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

Kevin Scott, High School Graduate. Office Applications Group,

participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education's national summer internship program. July 9,
1990 through August 10, 1990.

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

Khalif Ford, High School Student, Deerfield Academy. Operations
Division, assist with overall operations of qualifying

candidates for employment, data transcribing, etc. July 2,
1990 through August 31, 1990.

LaTanya Inman, High School Student, Banneker High School.
Staffing Services Branch, assist with the clerical and
filling “activities. * duly: 2, 1990: through’ August. 31, 1990.

OFFICE OF PLANT SERVICES

Steven Troxel, High School Graduate. Vehicle Repair Section,
participant in Intern 90, Office of Elementary and Secondary

Education's national summer internship program. July 9,
1990 through August 10, 1990.

OFFICE OF PRINTING AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICES

Kathleen Araskog, Bachelors Candidate, Duke University.
Photography, studio, location, and historic documentation

photography (black & white and color laboratory techniques).
May 29, 1990 through August 3, 1990.

Corinne Bonaccorso, High School, South Lakes High School.
Photography Division, assist senior photographers in studio
location and historic documentation photography (black and
white and color laboratory techniques. February 5, 1990

129
through June ll, 1990. %
Chad Hayworth, High School Graduate. Participant in Intern 90,
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's national

summer internship program. June 4, 1990 through July 6,
1990.

Sarah King, High School Graduate. Participant in Intern 90,
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education's national
summer _ internship program. July 9, 1990 through August 10,

1990.
Andrea Marchese, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community College.
Photographic Services, studio, location, and historic

documentation photography (Black and white, and color
laboratory techniques. October 16, 1989 through November

17, 2989.

Susan Steffes, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Photographic Services, studio, location, and
historic documentation photography (black and white, and
color laboratory techniques. October 16, 1989: through

November 17, 1989.
Christine Storer, Bachelors Candidate, Brigham Young University.
Photography Laboratory, work in the photography laboratory

and with photographers on location. November 20, 1989
through January 8, 1990.

Ellen Styers, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community College.
Photographic. services, studio, locations "sands historic
documentation photography (black and white, and color
laboratory techniques. October 16, 1989 through November
I, 1989.

Roger Weinstein, Bachelors Candidate, Randolph Community
College. Photographic services, studio, location, and
historic documentation photography (black and white, and

color laboratory techniques. October 16, 1989 through
November 17, 1989.

130
Appendix 4

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1990

During fiscal year 1990 the Smithsonian Institution Press released nearly two
hundred publications, including trade books, exhibition catalogs, monographs,
brochures, pamphlets, videos, and sound recordings, the most important of which
are listed below.

UNIVERSITY PRESS TRADE BOOKS

Baker, David N., editor. New Perspectives on Jazz. January 1990.

Boime, Albert. The Art of Exclusion: Representing Blacks in the

Nineteenth Century. March 1990.
Broun, Elizabeth. Albert Pinkham Ryder. October 1989.

Calhoun, Frederick, S. The Lawmen: United States Marshals and Their
Deputies, 1789-1989. May 1990.

Cole, Herbert, M. Icons: Ideals and Power in the Art of Africa.
February 1990.

Cordell, Linda S., and George J. Gumerman, editors. Dynamics of

Southwest Prehistory. October 1989.
Delano, Jack. Puerto Rico Mio: Four Decades of Change. April 1990.
Fish, Suzanne K., and Stephen A. Kowalewski, editors. The

Archaeology of Regions: The Case for Full-Coverage Survey.
February 1990.

Fowler, Don D. The Western Photographs of John K. Hillers: Myself in
the Water. November 1989.

Funk, V.A., and Daniel R. Brooks. Phylogenetic Systematics as the
Basis of Comparative Biology. September 1990.

Gibbons, J. Whitfield. Life History and Ecology of the Slider Turtle.
April 1990.

Hallion, Richard P. Strike from the Sky: The History of Battlefield
Air Attack, 1911-1945. October 1989.

Hardy, Rex. Foreward by Vice Admiral Donald D. Engen. Callback: NASA’s

Aviation Safety Reporting System. May 1990.
Hartigan, Lynda Roscoe. Made with Passion: The Hemphill Folk Art

Collection in the National Museum of American Art. September 1990.

Hein, Hilde. The Exploratorium: The Museum as Laboratory. May 1990.
Hoage, R.J., editor. Preface by R.J. Hoage. Introduction by David

Challinor. Perceptions of Animals in American Culture.
October 1989.

Hudson, Charles. The Juan Pardo Expeditions: Exploration of the
Carolinas and Tennessee, 1566-1568. April 1990.

Jakab, Peter L. Foreward by Tom D. Crouch. Visions of a Flying

Machine: The Wright Brothers and the Process of Invention.
April 1990.

James, Portia. The Real McCoy: African-American Invention and
Innovation, 1619-1930. June 1990.

Johnsgard, Paul A. Hawks, Eagles, & Falcons of North America:
Biology and Natural History. September 1990.

Kan, Sergei. Symbolic Immortality: The Tlingit Potlatch of the
Nineteenth Century. December 1989.

Karp, Ivan, and William L. Merrill, series editors. Ambiguous

Relations: Kin, Class and Conflict Among Komachi Pastoralists.
May 1990.

131
Lebow, Eileen F. Cal Rodgers and the Vin Fiz: The First 5
Transcontinental Flight. October 1989.

Leuthner, Stuart, and Oliver Jensen. High Honor: Recollections
by Men and Women of World War II Aviation. October 1989.

Lindstrom, Lamont, and Geoffrey M. White. Island Encounters:
Black and White Memories of the Pacific War. September 1990.

Manthorne, Katherine Emma. Tropical Renaissance: North American
Artists Exploring Latin America, 1839-1879. October 1989.

Metcalf, Peter. Where Are You/Spirits: Style and Theme in Berawan
Prayer. October 1989.
Moser, Joann. Visual Poetry: The Drawings of Joseph Stella. March 1990.

O’Connor, Diane Vogt. Guide to Photographic Collections at the
Smithsonian Institution, Vol. I: National Museum of American

History. December 1989.

Page, Jake. Smithsonian’s New Zoo. April 1990.

Peck, Robert S., editor. To Govern a Changing Society:
Constitutionalism_and the Challenge of New Technology. May 1990.

Postcard Book: Children of Long Ago. November 1989.

Postcard Book: Dogs and Puppies. November 1989.

Postcard Book: Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. October 1989.

Postcard Book: Modern American Absraction. October 1989.

Postcard Book: National Museum of American History. November 1989.

Robbins, Warren M., and Nancy Ingram Nooter. African Art in
American Collections. November 1989.

Roze, Uldis. The North American Porcupine. October 1989.

Sabrosky, Curtis W., Gordon F. Bennett, and Terry L. Whitworth.
Bird Blow Flies (Protocalliphora) in North America: (Diptera:

Calliphoridae), with Notes on the Palearctic Species.
January 1990.

Saunders, Steven, and Deane L. Root. The Music of Stephen C.
Foster. September 1990.

Smith, Bruce, D., editor. The Mississippian Emergence. July 1990.
Smith, Nancy Keagan, and Mary C. Ryan, compilers and editors.

Modern First Ladies: Their Documentary Legacy. July 1990.

Stewart, Jeffrey C. To Color America: The Portraits of Winold
Reiss. November 1989.

Stewart, Jeffrey C. Winold Reiss: An Illustrated Checklist of
His Portraits. May 1990.

Sturtevant, William C., general editor; Wayne Suttles, volume
editor. Handbook of North American Indians, Vol. 7:
Northwest Coast. September 1990.

Thomas, David Hurst, editor. Columbian Consequences, Vol. 2:
Archaeological and Historical Perspectives on the Spanish
Borderlands East. July 1990.

Winter, Frank H. The First Golden Age of Rocketry: Congreve and
Hale Rockets of the Nineteenth Century. June 1990.

Yellin, Victor Fell. Chadwick: Yankee Composer. May 1990.

Yonemura, Ann. Yokohama: Prints from Nineteenth-Century Japan.
July 1990.

Copublications

Abbott, Berenice. Foreward by Muriel Rukeyser. Introduction by David
Vestal. Berenice Abbott: Photographs. April 1990.
Allen, K.C., and D.E.G. Briggs, editors. Evolution and the Fossil
Record. May 1990.
Bishop, Edward. Hurricane. May 1990.

132
Bishop, Edward. Mosquito: The Wooden Wonder. June 1990.

Bowman, Martin. Wellington: The Geodetic Giant. May 1990.

Fardon, Richard, editor. Localizing Strategies: Regional Traditions
of Ethnographic Writing. July 1990.

Groover, Jan. Pure Invention: The Table Top Still Life, Photographs
by Jan Groover. August 1990.

Hawkes, J.G. The Potato: Evolution, Biodiversity, and Genetic
Resources. April 1990.
Jackson, Robert. Hawker Hunter: The Operational Record. May 1990.

Kavanagh, Gaynor. History Curatorship. July 1990.
Kelly, Franklin, with Stephen Jay Gould and James Anthony Ryan.

Frederic Edwin Church. November 1989.

Maisel, Jay. On Assignment: Photographs by Jay Maisel. August 1990.
Mark, Mary Ellen. The Photo Essay: Photographs by Mary Ellen

Mark. August 1990.
Meyerowitz, Joel. Creating a Sense of Place: Photographs by Joel

Meyerowitz. August 1990.
Wood, Derek, and Derek Dempster. The Narrow Margin. Revised

edition. July 1990.

Woodman, Harry. Early Aircraft Armamant: The Aeroplane and the
Gun_up to 1918. January 1990.

Distribution Only

Gellert, Charles Lawrence, compiler. The Holocaust, Israel, and the
Jews: Motion Pictures in the National Archives. March 1990.

Heller, Jonathan, editor. War & Conflict: Selected Images from the
National Archives, 1765-1970. July 1990.

National Archives. Teaching with Documents. May 1990.

Pearce, Susan M. Archaeological Curatorship. July 1990.

Schellenberg, T.R. The Management of Archives. May 1990.
Wehmann, Howard H. Revised by Benjamin L. DeWhitt. A Guide to

Pre-Federal Records in the National Archives. May 1990.
Reprints

Johnson, Clarence L. "Kelly," with Maggie Smith. Foreward by
Brigadier General Leo Geary (U.S.A.F. Ret.). Kelly - More

than My Share of It All. December 1989.

Komons, Nick A. Bonfires to Beacons: Federal Civil Aviation Policy
under the Air Commerce Act, 1926-1938. October 1989.

Kunz, Thomas H., editor. Ecological and Behavioral Methods for
the Study of Bats. February 1990.

Mikesh, Robert C. Japan’s World War II Balloon Bomb Attacks on North

America. August 1990.

Schweizer, Paula A. Wings Like Eagles: The Story of Soaring in
the U.S.A. November 1989.

Weil, Stephen E. Rethinking the Museum and Other Meditations.
May 1990.

SMITHSONIAN BOOKS

Donovan, Amy, editor. Editor’s Choice: Smithsonian, the Best of 20 Years from

Smithsonian Magazine. March 1990.

Viola, Herman J. After Columbus, The Smithsonian Chronicle of the North

American Indians. Copublished with Orion Books. June 1990.

133
Reprints ps

Boyne, Walter J. The Smithsonian Book of Flight. 4th printing. January 1990.

Goodwin, Joe, editor. Images of America: A Panorama of History in
Photographs. 2nd printing. June 1990.

Minasian, Stan. The Magnificent Whales and Other Marine Mammals of North
America. Copublished with Marine Mammal Fund. Video. December 1989.

Viola, Herman J. Exploring the West. 2nd printing. May 1990.

SMITHSONIAN RECORDINGS

The Art of Roland Hayes. Performed by Roland Hayes and Reginald Boardman.
Single compact disc, No. RD 041. February 1990.

J. S. Bach: St. John Passion, Three Works for Solo Harpsichord, Six Sonatas
and Partitas for Solo Violin. Performed by Smithsonian Chamber Players
and Chorus, Kenneth Slowik, Director; James Weaver; Jaap Schroder.
Five compact discs, five cassettes, or six LPs, No. ND 038. February
1990.

W. A. Mozart: Eine kleine Nachtmusik, Ein musikalischer Spass, Horn Quintet
in E-flat Major. Performed by Smithson String Quartet with guest
artists. Single compact disc, No. ND 039. August 1990.

FEDERAL SERIES PUBLICATIONS
Contributions to Anthropology

34. Taylor, Paul Michael. "The Folk Biology of the Tobelo Peeple: A Study
in Folk Classification." 1 June 1990.

Contributions to Botany

71. Goldberg, Aaron. "Classification, Evolution, and Phylogeny of the
Families of Monocotyledons." 29 December 1989.

73. Funk, V.A., and Daniel R. Brooks. "Phylogenetic Systematics as the
Basis of Comparative Biology." 17 January 1990.

75. Tan, Benito, and Harold Robinson. "A Review of Philippine
Hookeriaceous Taxa (Musci)." 25 April 1990.

Contributions to the Marine Sciences

31. Knowlton, Nancy, Judith C. Lang, and Brian D. Keller. "Case Study of
Natural Population Collapse: Post-Hurricane Predation on Jamaican Staghorn
Corals." 28 June 1990.

35. Miller, John E., and David L. Pawson. "Swimming Sea Cucumbers
(Echinodermata: Holothuroidea): A Survey, with Analysis of Swimming
Behavior in Four Bathyal Species." 1 June 1990.

Contributions to Paleobiology
67. Emry, Robert J., and William W. Korth. "Rodents of the Bridgerian

(Middle Eocene) Elderberry Canyon Local Fauna of Eastern Nevada." 30
November 1989.

68. Buzas, Martin A., and Thomas G. Gibson. "Spatial Distribution of
Miocene Foraminifera at Calvert Cliffs, Maryland." 7 March 1990.
Contributions to Zoology

464. Pettibone, Marian H. "Revision of the Aphroditoid Polychaetes of the
Family Acoetidae Kinberg (= Polyodontidae Augener) and Reestablishment of

134
Acoetes Audoin and Milne-Edwards, 1832, and Euarche Ehlers, 1877." 12
December 1989.

474. Vari, Richard P. "Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus
Curimata Bosc (Pisces: Characiformes)." 7 November 1989.

477. Buden, Donald W., and Storrs L. Olson. "The Avifauna of the Cayerias
of Southern Cuba, with the Ornithological Results of the Paul Bartsch
Expedition of 1930." 20 November 1989.

478. Davis, Donald R. "Generic Revision of the Opostegidae, with a
Synoptic Catalog of the World’s Species (Lepidoptera: Nepticuloidea)." 23
October 1989.

479. Spangler, Paul J., and Philip D. Perkins. "A Revision of the
Neotropical Aquatic Beetle Genus Stenhelmoides (Coleoptera: Elmidae)." 28
December 1989.

480. Hobbs, Horton H., Jr. "An Illustrated Checklist of the American
Crayfishes (Decapoda: Astacidae, Cambaridae, and Parastacidae)." 28
December 1989.

481. Vari, Richard P. "Systematics of the Neotropical Characiform Genus
Psectrogaster Eigenmann and Eigenmann (Pisces: Characiformes)." 26
December 1989.

484. Sierwald, Petra. “Morphology and Ontogeny of Female Copulatory Organs
in American Pisauridae, with Special Reference to Homologous Features
(Arachnida: Araneae) ." 4 December 1989.

485. Tyler, James C., G. David Johnson, Izumi Nakamura, and Bruce B.
Collette. "Morphology of Luvarus imperialis (Luvaridae), with a
Phylogenetic Analysis of the Acanthuroidei (Pisces)." 4 October 1989.
486. Cairns, Stephen D. "A Revision of the Ahermatypic Scleractinia of the
Philippine Islands and Adjacent Waters, Part I: Fungiacyathidae,
Micrabaciidae, Turbinoliinae, Guyniidae, and Flabellidae." 29 November
1989.

487. Cole, Linda L. "Catalog of Tunicate Type Specimens in the United
States National Museum Collections." 20 November 1989.

488. Mooi, Rich. “Living and Fossil Genera of the Clypeasteroida
(Echinoidea: Echinodermata): An Illustrated Key and Annotated Checklist.
27 December 1989.

489. Bruce, Niel L., and Thomas E. Bowman. "Species of the Parasitic
Isopod Genera Ceratothoa and Glossobius (Crustacea: Cymothoidae from the
Mouths of Flying Fishes and Halfbeaks Beloniformes)." 27 December 1989.
491. Moynihan, Martin. "Social, Sexual, and Pseudosexual Behavior of the
Blue-bellied Roller, Coracias cyanogaster: The Consequences of Crowding or
Concentration." 21 February 1990.

492. Williams, Jeffrey T. “Phylogenetic Relationships and Revision of the
Blenniid Fish Genus Scartichthys." 19 January 1990.

493. Roper, Clyde F.E., and C.C. Lu. "Comparative Morphology and Function
of Dermal Structures in Oceanic Squids (Cephalopoda) ."

7 March 1990.

495. Kornicker, Louis S., Jill Yager, and Dennis Williams. "Ostracoda
(Halocyprididae) from Anchialine Caves in the Bahamas." 7 March 1990.
496. Coddington, Jonathan. "Ontogeny and Homology in the Male Palpus of
Orb-weaving Spiders and Their Relatives, with Comments on Phylogeny
(Araneoclada: Araneoidea, Deinopoidea) ." 23 April 1990.

500. Higgins, Robert P. "Zelinkaderidae, a New Family of Cyclorhagid
Kinorhyncha." 7 March 1990.

Studies in Air and Space

7. Douglas, Deborah G. "United States Women in Aviation, 1940-1985." 27
July 1990.
PUBLICATIONS FOR MUSEUMS, BUREAUS, AND RELATED ORGANIZATIONS

American Historical Association, American Historical Association Annual
Report, 1989.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Arthur M. Sackler Calendar of Events. Brochure,
issued bimonthly. oar:

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, HMSG Calendar of Events. Published
three times a year.

James Smithson Society, A Year in Review. 1990.

National Air and Space Museum, Collins, Martin J., general editor.

A Directory of Sources for Air and Space History. May 1990.

National Museum of African Art, Calendar of Programs and Exhibitions.
Published three times a year.

National Museum of American History, American Quarterly. Published
four times a year.

National Museum of Natural History, Atoll Research Bulletin 330-338.
February 1990.

National Museum of Natural History, Yochelson, Ellis. 75 Years in the
Natural History Building. October 1990.

National Portrait Gallery, NPG Calendar of Events. Published four times a
year.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Lowderbaugh, Thomas,
Research Guide for Teachers. June 1990.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Art to Zoo. Quarterly
newsletter.

Office of Environmental Management and Safety Brochures:

Safety for Museum Guards
Smithsonian’s New Employee’s Guide to Safety and
Occupational Health
Guide to Laboratory Safety in the Museum Community
Office of Fellowships and Grants, Research and Study Opportunities at the
Smithsonian Institution.
Office of Fellowships and Grants, Fellowships-in-Residence at the
Smithsonian Institution. Poster.
Office of Information and Resource Management, Smithsonian Institution
Telephone Directory.
Office of the Secretary, Bylaws of the Board of Regents. Brochure. 1990.
Smithsonian Institution Archives, Cox, William E., and Victoria Cooper.
Guide to the Papers of Alexander Wetmore, Circa 1848-1979, and Undated.
(Guide to the Collection Series)

136
App

endix 5

Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1990

OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS

Conway and Company. Designed brochure, "A Better World Starts at

Home: Smithsonian Tips to Help Yourself and the Planet."

OFFICE OF QUINCENTENARY PROGRAMS

"The New World: A Smithsonian Quincentenary

Publication Dedicated to the Americas." No. 1. (Spring
1990)

JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Rothenberg, Marc. "Patronage of Harvard College Observatory, 1839-1851."

Journal for the History of Astronomy XXI: 37-46 (February 1990).

Theerman, Paul H. “National Images of Science: British and American Views of

Scientific Heroes in the Early Nineteenth Century" in Beyond the Two
Cultures: Essays on Science, Technolo and Literature Gree: Iowa
State University Press, 1990), pp. 259-274.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Robinson, M.H. 1989. NZP International Programs in Wildlife Management and

Conservation, and zoo biology. In: Proceedings of the IUDGZ 44th
Annual Conference pg. 12-26.

—— 1990. The Role of Biological Research in the Development of

Facilities. Journal of Animal Science 67:2442-451.

------ . 1990. The Zoo That is Not: Education for Conservation.

Conservation Biology 3(3)213-15.

1990. The Conservation of Invertebrates: The Problem, the Need, the
Possibilities. In: Proceedings 5th World Conference on Breeding
Endangered Species in Captivity, eds. B.L. Dresser, R.W. Reece, E.J.

Maruska. pp. 259-69. Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden, Cincinnati,
Ohio.

------ . 1990. Networking the World of the Bioexhibit. In: American

Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums 1989 Annual Proceedings
pp. 303-309.

------ - 1990. The Zoo in Your Future. WETA Magazine 3(4)14-15.
------ - 1990. Lessons of the Linyata. WETA Magazine 3(6)16-24.
SSS . 1990. No Modern Noahs. Review of The Deluge and the Ark: A Journey

into Primate Worlds, Dale Peterson. In: Issues in Science and
Technology V1I(3)78-82.

------ . 1990. Setting Straight our Plundered Planet. Review of Conservation

for the twenty-first Century, D. Western and M. Pearl. In: Zoo Biology
9:247-50.

137
------ . 1990. Do We Have Responsibilities to the Natural world: Should We
Save the Rainforests? In: Environmental Ethics: Man’s Relationship
with Nature: Interactions with Science, eds. P. Bourdeau, P.M. Fasella,
A. Teller. pp. 261-85. Luxembourg:Commission of the European
Communities.

------ . 1990. Predator-Pray Interactions, Informational Complexity,and the
Origins of Intelligence. In: Insect Defenses, eds. D. Evans, J.

Schmidt, pp. 129-49. SUNY Press, Albany, NY.
Animal Exhibit Departments

Darlington, A.R. and R. Davis. 1990. Reproduction in the pancake tortoise,
Malacochersus tornieri, in captive collections. Herpetology Review 21:
16-18.

Male, J. 1990. Foster parenting, growth and management of the common
trumpeter. International Zoo Yearbook 27.

Marcellini, D.L. 1990. Differential infanticide by adult curly-tailed
lizards, Leiocephalus schreibersi. Animal Behavior 8:1054-1061.
Seidensticker, J. and S. Lumpkin. 1990. Playing possum is serious business

for our only marsupial. Smithsonian 20:108-119.
------ . 1990. Der sympathische Draufganger. Das Tier 66-70.

Department of Animal Health

Bush, M., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips and P.A. Holobaugh. 1990. Bovine
tuberculosis in a bactrian camel herd: Clinical, therapeutic, and
pathologic findings. Journal of Zoo Wildlife Medicine 21(2):171-179.

Brown, J.L., D.E. Wildt, L.G. Phillips, J. Seidensticker, S.B.U. Fernando, S.
Miththapala and K.L. Goodrowe. 1989. Ejaculate characteristics, and
adrenal-pituitary-gonadal interrelationships in captive leopards
(Panthera pardus kotiya) isolated on the island of Sri Lanka. Journal
of Reproduction and Fertility 85:605-613.

Doi, S., S. Shifrin, P. Santisteban, R.J. Montali, C. Schiller, M. Bush and
E.F. Grollman. 1990. Familial goiter in bongo antelope (Tragelaphus
eurycerus). Endrocrinology 127(2):857-864.

Goodrowe, K.L., A.M. Miller and D.E. Wildt. 1989. In vitro fertilization of
gonadotropin-stimulated leopard cat (Felis bengalensis) follicular
oocytes. Journal of Experimental Zoology 252:89-95.

Heeney, J.L., J.F. Evermann, A.J. McKeirman, L. Marker-Kraus, M.E. Roelke, M.
Bush, D.E. Wildt, D.G. Meltzer, L. Colly, J. Lucas, V.J. Manton and S.J.
O’Brien. 1990. Prevalence and implications of coronavirus infections
of captive and free-ranging cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus). Journal of
Virology. 64:1964-1972.

Howard, J.G. and D.E. Wildt. 1990. Ejaculate and hormonal characteristics in
the leopard cat (Felis bengalensis) and sperm function as measured by in
vitro penetration of zona-free hamster ova and zona-intact domestic cat
oocytes. Molecular Reproduction Developments 26:163-174.

------ , J.L. Brown and E.E. Wildt. 1990. Teratospermic and normospermic
domestic cats: Ejaculate traits, pituitary-gonadal hormones and
improvement of sperm viability and morphology after swim-up processing.

Journal of Andrology 11:204-215.
Janssen, D.L. and R.M. Boch. 1990. Review of medical literature of great
apes in the 1980s. Zoological Biology 9:123-134.

138
Johnston, L.J., S.J. O’Brien and D.E. Wildt. 1989. In vitro maturation and
fertilization of domestic cat follicular oocytes. Gamete Research
24:343-356.

Leibo, S.P. and W.F. Rall. 1990. Diagnosis of prenatal sex of bovine
pregnancies by aminiocentesis. Theriogenology 33:531-552.

Miller, A.M., M.E. Roelke, K.L. Goodrowe, J.G. Howard and D.E. Wildt. 1990.
Oocyte recovery, maturation and fertilization in vitro in the puma
(Felis concolor). Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 88:249-258.

Monfort, S.L., K.D. Dahl, N.M. Czekala, L. Stevens, M. Bush and D.E. Wildt.
1989. Monitoring ovarian function and pregnancy in the giant panda
(Ailuropoda melanoleuca) by evaluating urinary bioactive follicle-
stimulating hormone and steroid metabolities. Journal of Reproduction
and Fertility 85:203-212.

------ , C. Wemmer, T.H. Kepler, M. Bush, J.L. Brown and D.E. Wildt. 1990.
Monitoring ovarian function and pregnancy in Eld’s deer (Cervus eldi
thamin) by evaluating urinary steriod metabolite excretion. Journal of
Reproduction and Fertility 88:271-281.

------ , C.M. Wemmer, J.L. Brown and D.E. Wildt. 1990. Use of urinary hormone
assays for evaluating endorcine patterns associated with the long-day
breeding season in Eld’s deer (Cervus eldi). Journal of Experimental
Zoology 4:215-218.

Pontbriand, D., J.G. Howard, M.C. Schiewe, L.D. Stuart and D.E. Wildt. 1989.
Effects of cryoprotective diluent and method of freeze-thawing on
survival and acrosomal integrity of ram spermatozoa. Cryobiology
26:341-354.

Raphael, B.L., N.M. Loskutoff, L.A. Nemec, B.A. Wolfe, J.G. Howard and D.C
Kraemer. 1990. Reproductive anatomy, manipulation of ovarian activity
and nonsurgical embryo recovery in suni (Neotragus moschatus zuluensis).
Journal of Reproductive Fertility 88:521-532.

Schiewe, M.C., P.M. Schmidt, D.E. Wildt and W.F. Rall. 1990. Quality control
measures in an embryo research program. Theriogenology 33:9-22.

Schmidt, P.M., S.L. Monfort and D.E. Wildt. 1989. PMSG source influences
fertilization and fresh or thawed embryo development but the effect is
genotype-specific. Gamete Research 23:11-20.

Steponkus, P.L., S.P. Meyers, D.V. Lynch, L. Gardner. V. Bronshteyn, S.P.
Leibo, W.F. Rall, R.E. Pitt, T.T. Lin and R.J. MacIntyre. 1990.
Cryopreservation of Drosophila melanogaster embryos. Nature 345:170-

Me rAr

Wasser, S.K. 1990. Infertility, abortion and biotechnology: When it’s not
nice to fool Mother Nature. Human Nature 1:3-24.

Wildt, D.E., M. Bush, C. Morton, F. Morton and J.G. Howard. 1989. Semen
characteristics and testosterone profiles in ferrets kept in long-day
photoperiod, and the influence of hCG timing and sperm dilution on
pregnancy rate after laparoscopic insemination. Journal of Reproduction
and Fertility 86:349-358.

------ . 1990. Potential applications if IVF technology for species
conservation. In: Fertilization in Mammals, B.D. Bavister, J. Cummins,
E.R.S. Roldan, eds., Serono Symposium, U.S.A., Norwell, pps. 349-364.

Department of Conservation

Berger, J. 1989. Female reproductive potential and its discrimination by
male mammals. Journal of Mammalogy 70(2):347-350.

----- , and M. Kock. 1989. Type I and II errors in the real world. Journal
of Wildlife Diseases 25(3):451-454.

139
----- . 1990. Persistence of different-sized populations: an empirical
assessment of rapid extinctions in bighorn sheep. Conservation Biology
4(1):91-98.

Biggins, D., L. Hansbury, B. Miller, R. Powell. 1990. Release of Siberian
polecats (Mustela eversmanni) on a prairie dog colony. 70th Annual
Meeting of the American Society of Mammalogists. Animal Behavior
Society.

Collins, L.R. 1990. Front Royal ferrets: the first year. ZooGoer 19(1):24-
TAS

Cunningham, C. and J. Berger. 1990. Sex and survival in Badlands bison.
ZooGoer 19:22-25.

Dinerstein, E., S. Shrestha, and H. Mishra. 1990. Capture, chemical
immobilization, and radio-collar life for greater one-horned rhinoceros.
Wildlife Society Bulletin 18:36-41.

Don Carlos, M.W., B.J. Miller, and E.T. Thorne. 1989. Observations of the
1986 black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) captive breeding program.
In: Conservation Biology of the Black-footed Ferret (Seal, et al,
Eds.), pp. 235-246.

Giles, R.H., Jr., and M.S. Fujita. 1990. Computer applications for wildlife
management in national parks and protected areas. In: Proceedings of
Malaysia, November 1989.

McClenaghan, L.R., J. Berger, and H.D. Truesdale. 1990. Founding lineages
and genetic variability in Plain’s bison from South Dakota.

Conservation Biology 4(3):285-289.

McDonald, M.V. 1990. Gulf coast salt marsh. Journal of Field Ornithology 61
(Suppl. iC lytic.

----- , and W.J. McShea. 1990. Tulip tree-hickory forest. Journal of Field
Ornithology, 61 (Suppl.)(1):45-46.

McShea, W.J. 1990. Social tolerance and proximate mechanisms of dispersal
among Winter groups of meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus). Animal
Behavior, 39:346-351.

----- - 1990. Communication mechanisms in insectivores. In: Ecology of
Insectivores, Oxford University Press.

Miller, B. 1990. Comparison of black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) and
domestic ferrets (Mustela putorus furo) courtship activity. Zoo Biology

9:201-210.
----- , and S.H. Anderson. 1990. Courtship patterns in induced estrus and
natural estrus domestic ferrets (Mustela putorus furo). Journal of

Ethology 7:65-73.
----- , and S.H. Anderson. 1989. Evaluation of fertilization during

abbreviated copulations in domestic ferrets (Mustela putorus furo).
Journal of Experimental Zoology 249:35-79.

----- ,» H.J. Harlow, and D. Walker. 1989. Morphological differences in the
post-cranial skeleton of Spermophilus, Tridecemlineatus, S. elegans, and
S. armatus. Southwestern Naturalist 34:302-304.

----- » D. Biggins, C. Wemmer, R. Powell, and L. Calvo. 1989. Predator
avoidance behavior of captive-raised ferrets. 64th Meeting of the NE
Society of Animal Behavior. Animal Behavior Society.

----- , C. Wemmer, D. Biggins. 1990. Ferret Futures. ZooGoer Jan./Feb., p.
20.

Monfort, S.L., C. Wemmer, T.H. Kepler, M. Bush, J.L. Brown, and D.E. Wildt.
1990. Monitoring ovarian function and pregnancy in Eld’s deer (Cervus
eldi thamin) by evaluating urinary steroid metabolite excretion.
Journal of Reproduction and Fertility 88:271-281.

140
----- , N.P. Arthur, and D.E. Wildt. 1990. Reproduction in Przewalski’s
horses. In: The History and Biology of an Endangered Species (L. Boyd
and K. Haupt, Eds.). New York, NY: State University of New York Press.

Wasser, S.K. 1990. Infertility, abortion, and biotechnology: When it’s not
nice to fool mother nature. Human Nature 1(1):3-25.

Wemmer, C. 1990. Keeping Score. ZooGoer March/April, p. 12.

Winker, K., J.H. Rappole, and M.A. Ramos. 1990. Population dynamics of the
Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) in southern Veracruz, Mexico. Condor
92:444-460.

Department of Zoological Research

Askins, R., J. Lynch, and R. Greenberg. 1990. Population declines in
migratory birds in eastern North America. Current Ornithology 7:1-58.

Ballou, J.D. 1989. Inbreeding and outbreeding depression in the captive
propagation of Black-Footed Ferrets (Mustela nigripes). Pp. 49-68 in
U.S. Seal, E.T. Thorne, M.A. Bogan, and S.H. Anderson (eds.):
Conservation Biology and the Black-footed Ferret. New Haven, CT. Yale
University Press.

------ . 1990. Emergence of the captive population of Golden-Headed Lion
Tamarin (Leontopithecus chrysomelas). Pp. 391-396 in: Proceedings of

Conference.

------ . 1990. International Golden Lion Tamarin Studbook. National
Zoological Park, 76pp.

------ , and B. Oakleaf. 1989. Demographic and genetic captive breeding
recommendations for Black-Footed Ferrets. Pp. 247-267 in: U.S. Seal,
E.T. Thorne and M.A. Bogan (eds.): Conservation Biology and the Black-
footed Ferret. Yale University Press, New Haven, Connecticut.

------ , T.J. Foose, R.C. Lacy, and U.S. Seal. 1989. Florida Panther
population viability Analysis. Apple Valley, Minnesota: Captive Breeding
Specialist Group.

Barboza, P.S. 1989. Designing diets for herbivorous marsupials. Proceedings
Wild Animals.

------ . 1990. Digestive strategies of marsupial hindgut fermenters. Pp. 30-
33 in: Proceedings of Symposium on Digestive Strategies of Animals.
National Zoological Park.

------ , and B.A. Vanselow. 1990. Copper toxicity in captive wombats
(Marsupialia, Vombatidae). Proceedings of the American Association of
Zoo Veterinarians Annual Conference, South Padre Island, Texas, October,
1990%

Beck, B.B. 1990. The Great Escape. ZooGoer 19:16.

Beissinger, S.R. 1990. Alternative foods of a diet specialist, the Snail
Kite. Auk 107:327-333.

------ - 1990. On the limits and directions of conservation biology.
BioScience 40:456-457.

Boness, D. 1990. Fostering behavior in Hawaiian Monk Seals: is there a
reproductive cost? Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 27:113-122.

------ . 1990. Who’s the mother? Fostering behavior in endangered Hawaiian
Monk Seals. ZooGoer 19:10-13.

Derrickson, K. 1990. Bigamy in Northern Mockingbirds: circumventing female-
female aggression. Condor 91:728-732.

------ , and R. Greenberg. 1990. Unfortunately time and scale do matter.
Brain and Behavioral Science 13:77-78.

141
------ , R. Greenberg, and T. Wolcott. 1990. Heart rate telemetry for small
birds. In: New technological developments for field ornithology (A.H.
Bledsoe, M.J. Braun, and A.D. Thompson Jr., eds.). American
Ornithologists Union Workshop Proceedings.

Dittus, W.P.J. and S.M. Ratnayeke. 1989. Individual and social behavioral
responses to injury in wild Toque Macaques (Macaca sinica).
International Journal of Primatology 10: 215-234.

Fleagle, J.G. and A.L. Rosenberger (eds.). 1990. The platyrrhine fossil
record. Journal of Human Evolution 19:

Gradwohl, J. and R. Greenberg. 1989. Migratory non-game bird programs of the
Fish and Wildlife Service. Audubon Wildlife Reports 89/90.

Grand, T. H. 1990. Body composition and the evolution of the Macropodidae
Potorous, Dendrolagus and Macropus). Anatomy and Embryology, 182:85-92.

Greenberg, R. 1990. A test of the neophobia hypothesis with captive
sparrows. Animal Behaviour 39:375-379.

------ . 1989. Neophobia, aversion to open space, and ecological plasticity
in Song and Swamp Sparrows. Canadian Journal Zoology 67:1194-1199

------ . 1990. Ecological plasticity, neophobia, and resource use in birds.
Avian Biology, 13:431-437.

------ , and S. Droege. 1990. Adaptations to tidal marshes in breeding
populations of the Swamp Sparrow. Condor 92:393-404.

Haig, S.M., J.D. Ballou, and S.R. Derrickson. 1990. Management options for
preserving genetic diversity: reintroduction of Guam Rails to the wild.
Conservation Biology 4:290-300.

Kanezawa, E. and A.L. Rosenberger. 1989. Interspecific allometry of the
mandible, dental arch, and molar area in anthropoid primates: functional
morphology of masticatory components. Primates 30:543-560.

Kleiman, D. G. 1989. Reintroduction of captive mammals for conservation,
BioScience 39:152-161.

------ . 1990. Traveling with tamarins. ZooGoer 19:11.

------ . 1990. Review of Mark Stanley-Price "Animal Reintroductions: The
Arabian Oryx in Oman". Trends in Ecology and Evolution 5:265-266.

------ , and G. Peters. 1990. Auditory communication in the Giant Panda:
Motivation and Function. Pp. 107-130 in: Proceedings of the 2nd
International Symposium on Giant Pandas. (S. Asakura and S. Nakagawa,
eds.). Tokyo Zoological Park Society, Tokyo.

Kohn, F. 1990. Our brother’s keepers. Zoolife 1:8-9.

Mace, G.M. and J.D. Ballou. 1990. Population management for conservation.
Trends in Ecology and Evolution 5:102-103.

Montali, R. J. et al. (includes M. Roberts, K. J. Warnell, and O. T. Oftedal).
1989. Hepatopathy and hypercholesterolemia in Red Pandas associated
with diet change. Pp. 31-29 in: Red Panda Biology, A. R. Glatston
(ed.). SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague, The Netherlands.

Morton, E. 1990. Habitat segregation by sex in the Hooded Warbler:
experiments on proximate causation and discussion of its evolution.
American Naturalist 135:319-333.

------ - 1989. Female Hooded Warbler plumage does not become more male-like
with age. Wilson Bulletin 101:460-462.

------ , L. Forman, and M. Braun. 1990. Extrapair fertilizations and the
evolution of colonial breeding in Purple Martins. Auk 107:275-283.

------ » and R. Greenberg. 1989. The outlook for migratory songbirds: future
shock for birds. American Birds 43:178-183.

Oftedal, O.T., W.D. Bowen, E.M. Widdowson, and D.J. Boness. 1989. Effects of
suckling and the post-suckling fast on weights of the body and internal

organs of Harp and Hooded Seal pups. Biology of the Neonate 56:283-
300.

Ralls, K. 1989. Kit Fox-Coyote relationships in the Carrizo Plain Reserve.

------ . 1990. Saving ferrets and more -- a review of Conservation biology
and the Black-Footed Ferret, (U.S. Seal, E.T. Thorne, M.A. Bogan, and
S.H. Anderson (eds.). The Prairie Naturalist 22:141-142.

------ . 1990. Review of Conservation for the Twenty-First Century edited by
David Western and Mary Pearl. Science 247:224.

------ , and D. Siniff. 1990. Time budgets and activity patterns in
California Sea Otters. Journal of Wildlife Management 54:251-259.

------ , D.B. Siniff, T.D. Williams, and V. B. Keuchle. 1989. An
intraperitoneal radio transmitter for Sea Otters. Marine Mammal Science
5:376-382.

------ , D.B. Siniff, A. Doroff, and A. Mercure. 1990. Final report on
Contract 14-12-001-30451, Biological impacts of translocated Sea Otters.
Minerals Management Service, 57 pp.

Ratnayeke, A.P. and W.P.J. Dittus. 1989. Observation of a birth among wild
Toque Macaques (Macaca sinica). International Journal of Primatology
10: 235-242.

Robbins, C.S., J. Sauer, R. Greenberg and S. Droege. 1989. Recent declines
in North American birds that winter in the Neotropics. Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences 86:7658-7662.

Roberts, M. 1989. A survey and analysis of management practices in the North
American Red Panda SSP. Pp.129-152 in: Red panda biology, A. R.
Glatston (ed.). SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague, The Netherlands.

------ . 1989. Management applications of individual and population weight
dynamics in small mammals. American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums Annual Conference Proceedings 1989:515-525.

------ . 1990. Kangaroos, people, and the environment. ZooGoer 19:4-9.

------ . 1990. Suckers in the rainforest. ZooGoer 18:26.

------ . 1990. Red Panda SSP management masterplan. American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums, 98pp.

------ , and M. Hutchins (eds.). 1990. The biology and management of tree
kangaroos. Bulletin Number 1 of the American Association of Zoological
Parks and Aquariums Monotreme and Marsupial Advisory Group, 42pp.

------ , and F. Kohn. 1990. A technique for measuring early life history
characteristics in small marsupials. Zoo Biology 9:45-52.

------ , L. Phillips, and F. Kohn. 1990. Common Ringtail Possum
(Pseudocherius peregrinus) as a management model for the
Pseudocheiridae: reproductive scope, behavior, and biomedical values on
a browse free diet. Zoo Biology 9:25-41.

Rosenberger, A.L. and J.G. Fleagle (eds.). 1989. New world monkeys. Journal
of Human Evolution 18:1-75.

-----= , and K.B. Strier. 1989. Adaptive radiation of the ateline primates.
Journal of Human Evolution 18:717-750.

------ , T. Setoguchi, and N. Shigehara. 1990. The fossil record of
callitrichine primates. Journal of Human Evolution 19:209-236.

Rudran, R., C.W. Wemmer and M. Singh. 1990. Teaching applied ecology to
nationals of developing countries. Pp. 125-140 In: Race to save the
tropics. R. Goodland (ed.).

Ruiz, J.C. 1990. Comparison of affiliative behaviors between old recently
established pairs of Golden Lion Tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia.
Primates 31:197-204.

Takekawa, J.E. and S.R. Beissinger. 1989. Cyclic drought, dispersal, and the
conservation of the Snail Kite in Florida: lessons in critical habitat.
Conservation Biology 3: 302-311.

143
Thompson, S. 1989. Energy balance in endothermic vertebrates. Proceedings

Wild Animals.

Warnell, K. J., S. D. Crissey, and O. T. Oftedal. 1989. Utilization of

bamboo and other fiber sources in Red Panda diets. Pp. 151-56 In: Red
Panda Biology, A. R. Glatston (ed.). SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague.

OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Washburn, Wilcomb E. "The Form of Islands in Fifteenth,

144

Sixteenth and Seventeenth-Century Cartography," in
Geographie du Monde au Moyen Age et a la Renaissance,
edited by Monique Pelletier (Paris: Editions du Comite
des Travaux Historiques et Scientifiques, Ministere de
l'Education Nationale de la Jeunesse et des Sports, 1989),
pp. 201-206.

"Rendons hommage a Jean Malaurie," in Pour
Jean Malaurie: 102 Temoigqnages en Hommage a Quarante Ans
d'Etudes Arctiques, ed., Sylvie Devers, (Paris: Plon,
1990), pp. 849-851.

"Museums and Repatriation of Objects in
Their Collections," in The Hall of the North American
Indian: Change and Continuity, ed. by Barbara Isaac:
Ethnographic Annotation by Ian W. Brown (Cambridge, Mass.:
Peabody Museum Press, 1990), pp. 15-18.

Portugal, Brazil: The Age of Atlantic
Discoveries. Essays by Luis de Albuquerque, Charles R.
Boxer, Francisco Leite de Faria, Max Justo Guedes, Francis
M. Rogers, and Wilcomb E. Washburn. Lisbon, Milan and New
York: Bertrand Editora, Franco Maria Ricci, and Brazilian
Cultural Foundation, 1990. 270 pp. Catalogue of the
exhibition of same name at New York Public Library, June 1-
September 1, 1990.

"Museum Exhibition," chapter 8 in The
Museum: A Reference Guide, edited by Michael Steven
Shapiro with the assistance of Louis Ward Kemp (New York:
Greenwood Press, 1990), pp. 199-229.

“Proposed Civil Rights Act of 1990:
Potential for Ethnic Challenges to Statistical Imbalance,"
Measure, No. 87 (August 1990), pp. 1-3.
SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Adams, F. C.; Emerson, J. P.; and Fuller, G. A. “Submillimeter Photometry and Disk
Masses of T Tauri Disk Systems.” Astrophysical Journal 357 (1990): 606.
Adams, F. C.; Freese, K.; and Widrow, L. M. “Evolution of Nonspherical Bubbles.”
Physical Review D41 (1990): 347.

Adams, F. C.; Ruden, S. P.; and Shu, F. H. “Eccentric Gravitational Instabilities in
Nearly Keplerian Disks.” Astrophysical Journal 347 (1989): 959.

Adams, F. C., and Walker, T. P. “Brown Dwarfs as Dark Galactic Halos.”
Astrophysical Journal 359 (1990): 57.

Adams, J. H.; Ahlen, S. P., Jr.; Barbier, L. M.; Beatty, J. J.; Carlson, P.; Crawford,
H. J.; Golden, R. L.; Krombel, K. E.; Lamb, R. C.; Lloyd-Evans, J.; Marin,
A. A.; Ormes, J. F.; Ozel, M. E.; Smooth, G. F.; Strittmatter, R. E.; Tylka, A. J.;
Weekes, T. C.; and Zhou, B. “ASTROGAM: A Magnetic Rigidity Spectrometer
for Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” In High Energy Astrophysics in the 21st Century,

American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings, vol. 211, ed. P. C. Joss,
p. 240. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1990.

Akerlof, C. W.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis,
D. A.; Meyer, D. I.; and Weekes, T. C. “GRANITE, A New Very High Energy
Gamma-Ray Telescope.” Nuclear Physics B 14 (1990): 237.

Akerlof, C. W.; Meyer, D. I.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; and Weekes, T. C. “GRANITE,
A New Very High Energy Gamma-Ray Telescope.” In EUV, X-Ray, and Gamma-
Ray Instrumentation for Astronomy and Atomic Physics, Proceedings of SPIE,
vol. 1159, eds. C. J. Harley and O. H. W. Siegmund, p. 270. Bellingham,
Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1989.

Aksnes, K., and Franklin, F. A. “Predictions of Mutual Phenomena of the Galilean
Satellites in 1990-1992.” Icarus 84 (1990): 542.

Alpert, Ya. L. Space Plasma. Vol. I, Theory and Main Properties. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1990.

Space Plasma. Vol. I], Flow, Waves, and Oscillations. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1990.

Andersen, J. “ ‘Undisturbed’ Evolution in Binaries.” In Highlights of Astronomy, vol.
8, ed. D. McNally, p. 145. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers,
1989.

. “Report on Meetings and Report of the Working Group on Standard Stars,
IAU Commission 30.” JAU Transactions, vol. XXB, ed. D. McNally, p. 267.
Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Andersen, J.; Clausen, J. V.; and Nordstro6m, B. “Absolute Dimensions of Eclipsing
Binaries. XVI. V1031 Orionis.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 228 (1990): 365.

Andersen, J., and Nordstrém, B. “Fundamental Parameters of the W Serpentis Stars.”
Space Science Reviews 50 (1989): 179.

Arnett, W. D.; Bahcall, J. N.; Kirshner, R. P.; and Woosley, S. E. “Supernova 1987A.”
Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics 27 (1989): 629.

Avrett, E. H. “Models of the Solar Photosphere.” In Solar Photosphere: Structure,
Convection, and Magnetic Fields, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 138, ed.

or
J. O. Stenflo, p. 3. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Babb, J. F., and Du, M. L. “Quantum-Mechanical Calculation of Quasi-Bound
Energies and Resonance Widths for the Helium Molecular Dication Hey?
Chemical Physics Letters 167 (1990): 273.

Bachiller, R.; Menten, K. M.; and del Rio-Alvarez, S. “Anatomy of a Dark Cloud: A
Multimolecular Study of Barnard 1.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 236 (1990):
461.

Bailyn, C. D., and Garcia, M. R. “When Seven’s a Crowd.” Nature 343 (1990): 120.
Bailyn, C. D.; Grindlay, J. E.; and Garcia, M. R. “Does Tidal Capture Produce
Cataclysmic Variables?” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 357 (1990): L35.
Bloemhof, E. E.; Danchi, W. C.; and Townes, C. H. “Spatially Resolved Dust Around

IRC+10420.” In Proceedings of the Sixth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars,
Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference
Series, vol. 9, ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 463. San Francisco: Astronomical Soci-

ety of the Pacific, 1990.

Bloemhof, E. E., and Dhawan, V. “Receiver Work at the CfA.” In Submillimetre
Astronomy, Proceedings of the Kona Symposium on Millimetre and Submillim-
etre Astronomy, eds. G. D. Watt and A. S. Webster, p. 55. Dordrecht, Hol-
land: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Bothun, G.; Caldwell, N.; and Schombert, J. “The Use of Dwarf Elliptical Galaxies
as Distance Indicators: The Relative Distances Between Virgo, Fornax, and
Centaurus.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 1542.

Bowell, E.; Chernykh, N. S.; and Marsden, B. G. “Discovery and Follow-up of
Asteroids.” In Asteroids II, eds. R. P. Binzel, T. Gehrels, and M. S. Matthews,
p. 21. Tucson, Arizona: University of Arizona Press, 1989.

Brissenden, R. J. V.; Remillard, R. A.; Tuohy, I. R.; Feigelson, E. D.; and Schwartz,
D. A. “H1720+117: A Highly Polarized X-Ray Selected BL Lacertae Object.”
Astrophysical Journal 350 (1990): 578.

Bruning, D. H., and Saar, S. H. “Rotational Enhancement of Line Asymmetries in F9-
G2 Dwarfs.” In The Sixth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems,
and the Sun, Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference Series, vol. 9, ed.
G. Wallerstein, p. 165. San Francisco: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1990.

Brunner, H.; Worrall, D. M.; Wilkes, B. J.; and Elvis, M. “The Dependence of
the Soft X-Ray Spectral Slope with Radio Property, Luminosity and Red-
shift, for a Large Sample of AGNs from the Einstein IPC Data Base.” In
Two Topics in X-Ray Astronomy: AGN and the X-Ray Background, Proceed-
ings of the 23rd ESLAB Symposium, ESA SP-296, eds. J. Hunt and B. Battrick,
p. 905. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1989.

Carilli, C. L.; van Gorkom, J. H.; Haxthausen, E. M.; Stocke, J. T.; and Salzer, J. “Ra-
dio Observations of Quasar-Galaxy Pairs: A Study of Extended Gas in Disturbed
Systems.” In The Interstellar Disk-Halo Connection in Galaxies, Proceedings of
IAU Symposium No. 144, ed. H. Bloemen, p. 37. Leiden, The Netherlands: Lei-
den Observatory, 1990.

Carney, B. W.; Aguilar,. Lb. Latham, D. W.; and Laird, J.B. FA. Survey
of Proper-Motion Stars. IX. The Galactic Halo’s Metallicity Gradient.”
Astronomical Journal 99 (1990): 201.

146
Carney, B. W.; Latham, D. W.; and Laird, J. B. “A Survey of Proper-Motion Stars.
X. The Early Evolution of the Galaxy’s Halo.” Astronomical Journal 99 (1990):
572:

Carroll, S.; Field, G. B.; and Jackiw, R. “Limits on a Lorentz- and Parity-Violating
Modification of Electrodynamics.” Physical Review D 41 (1990): 1231.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb,
R. C.; Lang, M. J.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds,
P. T.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Detection of TeV Gamma Rays from
the Crab Nebula Using the Atmospheric Cherenkov Imaging Technique.” In
Proceedings of the International Workshop on Very High Energy Gamma-Ray
Astronomy (Crimea, USSR, April 17-21, 1989), eds. A. A. Stepanian, D. J.
Fegan, and M. F. Cawley, p. 156. Crimea: Crimean Astrophysical Observatory,

1989.
. “Search for TeV Gamma Rays from the X-Ray Pulsar 1E2259 + 586/G109.1-
OL In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Very High Energy

Gamma-Ray Astronomy (Crimea, USSR, April 17-21, 1989), eds. A. A. Stepa-
nian, D. J. Fegan, and M. F. Cawley, p. 165. Crimea: Crimean Astrophysical
Observatory, 1989.

Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Harris, K.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.; Lang,
M. J.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Reynolds, P. T.; Schmid, D. J.; Vacanti, G.;
and Weekes, T. C. “A High Resolution Imaging Detector for TeV Gamma-Ray
Astronomy.” Experimental Astronomy 1(3) (1989): 173.

. “The Whipple Observatory High Resolution Camera.” In Proceedings of the
21st International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed. R. J. Protheroe, vol. 4, p. 224.
Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

Chaffee, F.; Blanco, D.; Foltz, C.; Janes, C.; Lester, H.; Poyner, A.; Williams, J. T.;
Criswell, S.; Fabricant, D.; and Schmidt, G. “The MMT Conversion - A Status
Report.” In Advanced Technology Optical Telescopes, Proceedings of SPIK, vol.
1236, eds. C. J. Hailey and O. H. W. Siegmund, p. 507. Bellingham, Washington:
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

Chandler, J. F., and Reasenberg, R. D. “POINTS: A Global Reference Frame
Opportunity.” In Inertial Coordinate System on the Sky, eds. J. H. Lieske and
V.I. Abalakin, p. 217. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Esmond, J. R.; Chiu, S. S.-L.; Freeman, D. E.; and
Parkinson, W. H. “Predissociation Line Widths of the (1,0)—(12,0) Schumann-
Runge Absorption Bands of Og in the Wavelength Region 179-202 nm.”
Journal of Chemical Physics 92 (1990): 842.

Churchwell, E.; Walmsley, C. M.; Wood, D. O. S.; and Steppe, H. “Radio Recombi-
nation Line Emission from Ultracompact HII Regions.” In Radio Recombination
Lines: 25 Years of Investigation, Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 125, eds.
M. A. Gordon and R. L. Sorochenko, p. 83. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Aca-
demic Publishers, 1990.

Churchwell, E.; Wolfire, M. G.; and Wood, D. O. S. “Infrared Emission from Dust
Surrounding Newly Formed Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 354 (1990): 247.
Crusius-Watzel, A. R.; Biermann, P. L.; Lerche, I.; and Schlickeiser, R. “Depolarizing

Hot Gas in Clusters of Galaxies with a Strong Double Radio Source.”

147
Astrophysical Journal 360 (1990): 417. 5

da Costa, L. N.; Pellegrini, P. S.; Willmer, C.; and Latham, D. W. “First Results from
a Deeper Survey of a Southern Redshift Slice.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989):
20.

Dalgarno, A. “Chemistry of Molecular Clouds.” In Structure and Dynamics of the
Interstellar Medium, eds. G. Tenorio-Tagle, M. Moles, and J. Melnick, p. 3.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

“Molecular Process.” In Space: Introduction, Molecular Processes in Space,
eds. T. Watanabe, I. Shimamura, M. Shimizu, and Y. Itikawa, p. 1. London:
Plenum Press, 1990.

Dalgarno, A.; Du, M. L.; and You, J. H. “The Radiative Association of C and O and
Ct and O.” Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 675.

David, L.; Arnaud, K.; Forman, W.; and Jones, C. “Einstein Observations of
Hydra A and the Efficiency of Galaxy Formation in Groups & Clusters.”
Astrophysical Journal 356 (1990): 32.

David, L. P.; Forman, W.; and Jones, C. “The Evolution of the Interstellar Medium in
Elliptical Galaxies I. The Early Wind Phase.” Astrophysical Journal 359 (1990):
29

Dey, A.; Strauss, M.; and Huchra, J. “A Deep Redshift Survey of IRAS Galaxies
Towards the Bootes Void.” Astronomical Journal 99 (1990): 463.

Dhawan, V.; Bartel, N.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Ronnang, B. O.; Hirabayashi, H.; Inoue,
M.; Lawrence, C. R.; Shapiro, I. I.; Burke, B. F.; Booth, R. S.; Readhead,
A. C. S.; Morimoto, M.; Johnston, K. J.; Spencer, J. H.; and Marcaide, J. M.
“Further 7-mm VLBI Observations of 3C84 and Other Sources with 100 pas

Angular Resolution.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 360 (1990): L43.
Digel, S.; Bally, J.; and Thaddeus, P. “Giant Molecular Clouds and HII Regions in the

Outer Arm of the Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 357 (1990): L29.

Du, M. L., and Dalgarno, A. “The Radiative Association of N and O Atoms.”
Journal of Geophysical Research 95 (1990): 12265.

Dupree, A. K.; Hartmann, L.; and Smith G. H. “Chromospheres of Metal-Deficient
Field Giants.” Astrophysical Journal 353 (1990): 623.

“Evolution of Chromospheres in Red Giants.” In Proceedings of the Sixth
Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Astronom-
ical Society of the Pacific Conference Series, vol. 9, ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 408.
San Francisco: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1990.

Du, M. L., and Dalgarno, A. “The Radiative Association of N and OC Atoms.”
Journal of Geophysical Research 95 (1990): 12265.

Elvis, M. (editor) Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A Decade of Einstein Observatory
Achievements. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Elvis, M.; Fassnacht, C.; Wilson, A. S.; and Briel, U. “Extended X-Ray Emission in
Nearby Seyfert Galaxies.” In Extranuclear Activity in Galaxies, eds. E. J. A.
Meurs and R. A. E. Fosbury, p. 243. Garching: European Southern Observatory,
1989.

Elvis, M.; Plummer, D.; and Fabbiano, G. “The Einstein All-Sky PIC Slew Survey.”
In Two Topics in X-Ray Astronomy: X-Ray Binaries, Proceedings of the 23rd
ESLAB Symposium, ESA SP-296, eds. J. Hunt and B. Battrick, p. 847.

148
Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1990. £

Escalante, V., and Victor, G. A. “Effective Recombination Coefficients of Neutral
Carbon and Singly Ionized Nitrogen.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series
73 (1990): 513.

Fabbiano, G. “Einstein Observatory Data Bases.” In Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A
Decade of Kinstein Observatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p. 307. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Fabbiano, G.; Gallagher, J.; and Renzini, A. (editors) Proceedings of the Workshop
“Windows on Galaxies.” Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers,
1990.

Fabbiano, G.; Gioia, I. M.; and Trinchieri, G. “Radio Emission and Hot Interstellar
Medium of Early-Type Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 347 (1989): 127.
Fabbiano, G.; Heckman, T.; and Keel, W. “Nuclear Outflow in NGC3628.”

Astrophysical Journal 355 (1990): 442.

Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; Hazleton, S.; and Kim, D.-W. “The Einstein Normal
Galaxy Data Base.” In Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A Decade of Einstein Obser-
vatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p. 323. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1990.

Fabricant, D., and Hertz, E. “The Decaspec: A Fiber Optics Adapter for Multiobject
Spectroscopy.” In Instrumentation in Astronomy, Proceedings of SPIE, vol.
1235, ed. D. Crawford, p. 747. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-
Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

Falco, E. E., and Kurtz, M. J. “Simulation of Large-Scale Astronomical CCD Surveys.”
In Data Analysis in Astronomy III, eds. V. Di Gesu et al., p. 149. New York:
Plenum Press, 1989.

Farmer, C. B.; Carli, B.; Bonetti, A.; Carlotti, M.; Dinelli, B. M.; Fast, H.;
Evans, W. F. J.; Louisnard, N.; Alamichel, C.; Mankin, W.; Coffey, M.;
Nolt, I. G.; Murcray, D. G.; Goldman, A.; Stokes, G. M.; Johnson, D. W.;
Traub, W. A.; Chance, K. V.; Zander, R.; and Delbouille, L. “Balloon
Intercomparison Campaigns: Results of Remote Sensing Measurements of HCl.”
Journal of Atmospheric Chemistry 10 (1990): 237.

Fegan, D.; Cawley, M.; Gibbs, K.; Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Porter, N.; Reynolds,
P. T.; Smyth, G.; and Weekes, T. “Search for a 12.59 ms Pulsar in Cygnus X-3.”
Astronomy and Astrophysics 211 (1989): L1.

Field, G. B. “Current Sheets in Line-Tied Magnetic Fields.” In Topological Fluid Mech-
anics: Proceedings of the IUATAM Symposium (Cambridge, England, August
13-18, 1989), eds. H. K. Moffat and A. Tsinober, p. 244. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1990.

Fireman, E. L. “The Uranium-Series Age of Yamato K-26 Ice.” In Proceedings of the
14th Symposium on Antarctic Meteorites, p. 3. Tokyo: National Institute of
Polar Research, 1989.

. “Uranium-Series Dating of Tephra-Banded Allan Hills Ice.” In Proceedings of

NIPR Symposium on Antarctic Meteorites, vol. 2, p. 335. Tokyo: National

Institute of Polar Research, 1989.

. *The Lewis Cliff Meteorite Stranding Area, Polar Ice Cores, and Wisconsin

Period Impacts.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XXI, p. 365. Houston: Lunar

149
and Planetary Science Institute, 1990. 2

“Constraints on SN1987A Neutrino Types from the Homestake Mine
Detectors.” Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 241.

Fontenla, J. M.; Avrett, E. H.; and Loeser, R. Energy Balance in the Solar
Transition Region. I. Hydrostatic Thermal Models in Ambipolar Diffusion.”
Astrophysical Journal 355 (1990): 700.

Forman, W., and Jones, C. “Hot Gas in Clusters of Galaxies.” In Clusters of Galaxies,
eds. W. Oegerle, M. Fitchett, and L. Danly, p. 257. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1990.

Fox, J. L., and Dalgarno, A. “Transition Probabilities and Franck-Condon Factors for
the Second Negative Band System of oF.” Journal of Geophysical Research 95
(1990): 1119.

Freeman, D. E.; Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; and Parkinson, W. H. “Comment on
Predissociation of Og in the B state.” Journal of Chemical Physics 91 (1989):
6538.

Freese, K., and Adams, F. C. “Hadron Bubble Evolution into the Quark Sea.”
Physical Review D 41 (1990): 2449.

Friedman, R. S.; Du, M. L.; and Dalgarno, A. “Predissociation Channels of ei, of
Og.” Journal of Chemical Physics 93 (1990): 2375.

Gallagher, J., and Fabbiano, G. “Panchromatic Observations of Galaxies.” In
Proceedings of the Workshop “Windows on Galaxies,” eds. G. Fabbiano, J.
Gallagher, and A. Renzini, p. 1. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic
Publishers, 1990.

Garcia, M. R. “The Possible X-Ray Triple 4U2129+47=V1727 Cyg.” In Two Topics in
X-Ray Astronomy: AGN and the X-Ray Background, Proceedings of the 23rd
ESLAB Symposium, ESA SP-296, eds. J. Hunt and B. Battrick, p. 151.
Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1989.

Geary, J. C.; Robinson, L. B.; Sims, G. R.; and Bredthauer, R. A. “Development of a 2K
X2K Imager for Scientific Applications.” In Solid-State Imagers, Proceedings of
SPIF, vol. 1242, ed. M. Blouke, p. 38. Bellingham, Washington: Society of
Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

Geary, J. C.; Torres, G.; Latham, D. W.; and Wyatt, W. F. “Test of Two Large-Format
CCD’s for Echelle Spectroscopy.” In CCDs in Astronomy, Astronomical Society
of the Pacific Conference Series, vol. 8, ed. G. Jacoby, p. 40. San Francisco:
Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1989.

Geller, M. “Tracing Large-Scale Structure in the Universe.” In Dark Matter in the
Universe, eds. H. Sato and K. Kodama, p. 1. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing
Company, 1989.

“Clusters of Galaxies: Structure, Infall and Large-Scale Distribution.” In
Clusters of Galaxies, eds. W. Oegerle, M. Fichett, and L. Danly, p. 25.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Geller, M., and Huchra, J. “Mapping the Universe.” Science 246 (1989): 897.

Ghosh, S. K.; Iyengar, K. V. K.; Rengarajan, T. N.; Tandon, S. N.; Verma, R. P.;
Daniel, R. R.; and Ho, P. T. P. “Far-Infrared and Radio Observations of the W31
Star-Forming Region.” Astrophysical Journal 347 (1989): 338.

Gillanders, G. H.; Byrne, M. P.; Fegan, D. J.; MacKeown, P. K.; and Weekes, T. C.

150
“Search for Point Sources of Cosmic Gamma Rays at Energies >4.1013 eV Using
a High Altitude Air Shower Array.” In Proceedings of the 21st International
Cosmic Ray Conference, ed. R. J. Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 23. Adelaide: University
of Adelaide, 1990.

Gingerich, O. Album of Science: The Physical Sciences in the Twentieth Century.
New York: Scribner’s, 1989.

. “Early Astronomical Books with Moving Parts.” AB Bookman’s Weekly 84

(1989): 1505.

“Five Centuries of Astronomical Textbooks.” In The Teaching of Astron-

omy, Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 105, eds. J. Pasachoff and J. Percy, p.

189. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.

“Kepler’s Contribution to Astronomy.” In General History of Astronomy,

vol. 2A, eds. C. Wilson and R. Taton, p. 54. Cambridge: Cambridge University

Press, 1989.

“The Use of History in the Teaching of Astronomy.” In The Teaching of

Astronomy, Proceedings of International Astronomical Union Colloquium

No. 105, eds. J. Pasachoff and J. Percy, p. 40. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-

versity Press, 1989.

. “Alfonso the Tenth as a Patron of Astronomy.” In Alfonso X of Castile, the

Learned King (1221-1284), eds. F. Marquez-Villanueva and C. A. Vega, p. 30.

Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard Studies in Romance Languages 43, 1990.

. “Show Trial? Redondi’s Galileo Heretic.” American Scholar 59 (1990): 310.

. “Through Rugged Ways to the Galaxies.” Journal for the History of Astron-
omy 21 (1990): 77.

Gingerich, O., and Hoskin, M. (editors). “Two Astronomical Anniversaries: The
Harvard College Observatory Sequicentennial and the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory Centennial.” Journal for the History of Astronomy 21(1): 1990.

Gingerich, O., and Westman, R. “The Wittich Connection: Priority and Conflict in
Late Sixteenth-Century Cosmology.” Transactions of the American Philosophi-
cal Society 78 (1988): no. 7.

Gioia, M. “Sky Survey from Einstein.” In Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A Decade of
Einstein Observatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p. 191. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Gioia, I. M.; Garilli, B.; Maccacaro, T.; Maccagni, D.; Vettolani, G.; and Wolter,
A. “An Unusual Red Envelope Galaxy in an X-Ray Selected Cluster.” In
Proceedings of the “World Galaxies,” eds. H. G. Corwin, Jr., and L. Botinelli, p.
492. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Gioia, I. M.; Henry, J. P.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Stocke, J. T.; and
Wolter, A. “The EMSS Distant Cluster Sample: X-Ray Cosmological Evolution.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 356 (1990): L35.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Schild, R. E.; Stocke, J. T.; and Wolter,
A. “The Einstein Observatory Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey: An X-Ray
Survey at Low Fluxes.” In Large-Scale Surveys of the Sky, Proceedings of the
NRAO Workshop, eds. J. J. Condon and F. J. Lockman, p. 37. Green Bank,
West Virginia: 1990.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Schild, R. E.; Stocke, J. T.; Wolter, A.;

and Henry, J. P. “The Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey I: X-Ray Data and
Analysis.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 72 (1990): 567.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R. E.; Wolter, A.; Morris, S. L.; and Stocke, J. T.
“The Extended Medium Sensitivity Survey: The Database.” In Imaging X-Ray
Astronomy: A Decade of Einstein Observatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p.
333. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Giommi, P.; Tagliaferri, G.; Beuermann, K.; Branduardi-Raymont, G.; Brissenden,
R.; Graser, U.; Mason, K. O.; Murdin, P.; Pooley, G.; Thomas, H. C.; and
Tuohy, I. “BL Lacertae Objects from the EXOSAT High Galactic Latitude
Survey: Constraints on the Log N-Log S and on the Cosmological Evolution.”
In BL LAC Objects, Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 334, eds. L. Maraschi, T.
Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 231. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag Publishing
Company, 1989.

Golub, L.; Herant, M.; Kalata, K.; Lovas, I.; Nystrom, G.; Pardo, F.; Spiller, E.;
and Wilczynski, J. “Superarcsecond Observations of the Solar X-Ray Corona.”
Nature 344(6269) (1990): 842.

Gémez, Y.; Moran, J. M.; and Rodriguez, L. F. “HgO and SiO Maser Emission in
OH/IR Stars.” Revista Mexicana de Astronomia y Astrofisica 20 (1990): 55.

Gémez, Y.; Moran, J. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Garay, G. “The Distance to NGC6302.”
Astrophysical Journal 345 (1989): 862.

Goodman, A. A.; Bastien, P.; Myers, P. C.; and Menard, F. “Optical Polarization Maps
of Star-Forming Regions in Perseus, Taurus, and Ophiuchus.” Astrophysical
Journal 359 (1990): 363.

Goodman, A. A.; Myers, P. C.; Bastien, P.; Crutcher, R. M.; Heiles, C.; Kazes, I.; and
Troland, T. H. “The Magnetic Field in the Perseus Molecular Cloud Complex.” In
Galactic and Intergalactic Magnetic Fields, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No.
140, eds. R. Beck, P. P. Kronberg, and R. Wielebinski, p. 319. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Gorenstein, P. “High Throughput X-Ray Astronomy.” In High-Energy Astrophysics in
the 21st Century, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings, vol.
211, ed. P. C. Joss, p. 297. New York: American Institute of Physics, 1990.

. “High Throughput X-Ray Telescope on a Lunar Base.” In Astrophysics from
the Moon, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings, vol. 207, eds.
M. J. Mumma and H. J. Smith, p. 382. New York: American Institute of Physics,
1990.

Gredel, R.; Lepp, S.; Dalgarno, A.; and Herbst, E. “Cosmic Ray Induced Photodissocia-
tion and Photoionization Rates of Interstellar Molecules.” Astrophysical Journal
347 (1989): 289.

Green, D. W. E. (editor) International Comet Quarterly 11 (1989).

. (editor) International Comet Quarterly 12 (1990).

Greenler, G.; Hable, J. W.; and Slane, P. O. “Diffraction Around a Fine Wire: How
Good is the Single-Slit Approximation?” American Journal of Physics 58 (1990):
330.

Guth, A. H. “Inflation and False Vacuum Bubbles.” In Proceedings of the Storrs Meet-
ing (1988 Meeting of the Division of Particles and Fields of the American Physical
Society, Storrs, Connecticut, August 15-18), eds. K. Haller, D. B. Caldi, M. M.

Islam, R. L. Mallett, P. D. Mannheim, and M. S. Swanson, p. 139. Singapore:
World Scientific Publishing, 1989.

Habbal, S. R.; Dowdy, J. F.; and Withbroe, G. L. “A Comparison between Bright
Points in a Coronal Hole and a Quiet Sun Region.” Astrophysical Journal 352
(1990): 333.

Hahn, Y., and Dalgarno, A. “Production of Negative Hydrogen Ions in Neutral H+H
Collisions.” Physical Review A 41 (1990): 4783.

Hales, S. E. G.; Masson, C. R.; Warner, P. J.; and Baldwin, J. E. “The 6C Survey
of Radio Sources. III: The Zone 48° < 6 < 68°, 05525™ < a <18h17™.” Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 246 (1990): 256.

Harris, D. E. “Extrapolating Electron Spectra to Low Energies.” In Low Frequency
Astrophysics from Space, Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 362, eds. N. E. Kassim
and K. Wyler, p. 252. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1990.

Harris, D. E.; Forman, W.; Gioia, I. M.; Hale, J. A.; Harnden, F. R.; Jones, C.;
Karakashian, T.; Maccacaro, T.; McSweeney, J. D.; Primini, F. A.; Schwartz,
J.; Tananbaum, H. D.; and Thurman, J. “The Einstein Observatory Catalog of
IPC X-Ray Sources.” FITS version issued on CD-ROM, January 1. Cambridge,
Massachusetts: Smithsonian Institution Astrophysical Observatory, 1990.

Harris, D. E.; Forman, W.; Gioia, I. M.; Hale, J. A.; Harnden, F. R.; Jones, C.; Mac-
cacaro, T.; McSweeney, J. D.; Primini, F. A.; Schwarz, J.; and Tananbaum, H. D.
“The Einstein Observatory Source Catalog.” In Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A
Decade of Einstein Observatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p. 309. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Harris, D. E.; Stern, C. P.; and Biretta, J. A. “Integrity of HR1 Images.” In
Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A Decade of Einstein Observatory Achievements,
ed. M. Elvis, p. 299. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Harris, K.; Pomerantz, M. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; Vacanti, G.; Walker, A.; and Weekes,
T. C. “Design Considerations for a TeV Telescope at the South Pole.” In
Astrophysics in Antarctica, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceed-
ings, vol. 198, eds. D. J. Mullan, M. A. Pomerantz, and T. Stanev, p. 20.
New York: American Institute of Physics, 1989.

Hartigan, P.; Curiel, S.; and Raymond, J. C. “Molecular Hydrogen and Optical Images
of HH 7-11.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 347 (1989): L31.

Hartigan, P.; Hartmann, L.; Kenyon, S. J.; Strom, S. E.; and Skrutskie,
M. F. “Correlations of Optical and Infrared Excesses in T Tauri Stars.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 354 (1990): L25.

Hartmann, L. “Emission Lines in T Tauri Stars.” In Proceedings of the Sixth
Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Astronom-
ical Society of the Pacific Conference Series, vol. 9, ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 289.
San Francisco: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1990.

Hartmann, L.; Calvet, N.; Avrett, E. H.; and Loeser, R. K. “Winds from T Tauri Stars.
I. Spherically-Symmetric Models.” Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 168.
Hartmann, L., and Kenyon, S. J. “Optical Veiling, Disk Accretion, and the Evolution

of T Tauri Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 190.

Haschick, A. D.; Baan, W. A.; and Menten, K. M. “Detection of Three New Methanol

Maser Transitions toward Star Forming Regions.” Astrophysical Journal 346
(1989): 330. :

Haschick, A. D.; Baan, W. A.; Schneps, M. H.; Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Gisten,
R. “VLBI Observations of the Water Vapor Masers in the Nucleus of NGC3079.”
Astrophysical Journal 356 (1990): 149.

Haschick, A. D., and Ho, P. T. P. “Formation of OB Clusters: Detection of SiO
v=0, J=1-—0 Emission as an Indicator of Compact Outflow Sources.”
Astrophysical Journal 352 (1990): 630.

Haschick, A. D.; Menten, K. M.; and Baan, W. A. “Detection of Widespread Strong
Methanol Masers at 44 GHz.” Astrophysical Journal 354 (1990): 556.

Hashimoto, A. “Evaporation Kinetics of Forsterite (Mg2SiO4).” Nature 347 (1990):
53.

Hashimoto, A.; Holmberg, B. B.; and Wood, J. A. “Effects of Melting on Evaporation
Kinetics.” Meteoritics 24 (1989): 276.

Heithausen, A., and Thaddeus, P. “The Polaris Flare: Extensive Molecular Gas Near
the North Celestial Pole.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 353 (1990): L49.
Herring, T. A.; Davis, J. L.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Geodesy by Radio Interferom-
etry: The Application of Kalman Filtering to the Analysis of VLBI Data.”

Journal of Geophysical Research 95 (1990): 12561.

Heyer, M. H.; Ladd, E. F.; Myers, P. C.; and Campbell, B. “Infrared and Optical
Imaging of Newborn Stars.” Astronomical Journal 99 (1990): 1585.

Ho, P. T. P. “A Submillimeter and Far-Infrared Interferometer on the Moon.” In
Astrophysics from the Moon, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceed-
ings, vol. 207, eds. M. J. Mumma and H. J. Smith, p. 500. New York: American
Institute of Physics, 1990.

Ho, P. T. P.; Beck, S. C.; and Turner, J. L. “Brackett Line Spectroscopy of Bursts of
Star Formation in Nuclei of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 57.

Ho, P. T. P.; Martin, R. N.; Turner, J. L.; and Jackson, J. M. “VLA Imaging of
Extragalactic Ammonia: Hot Gas in 1C342.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
355 (1990): L19.

Holmberg, B., and Hashimoto, A. “Long-Sought Primordial Fine-Grained Inclusion
Discovered.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XXI, p. 530. Houston: Lunar and
Planetary Science Institute, 1990.

Huovelin, J., and Saar, S. H. “Models of Broadband Linear Polarization in Cool Stars.”
In Proceedings of the Sixth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Sys-
tems, and the Sun, Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference Series, vol. 9,
ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 174. San Francisco: Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
1990.

. “Results of Coordinated Multiwavelength Observations of Solar-Like Stars.” In
Solar Photosphere: Structure, Convection, and Magnetic Fields, Proceedings of
IAU Symposium No. 138, ed. J. O. Stenflo, p. 443. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer
Academic Publishers, 1990.

Huchra, J. “Future Key Optical Observations of Galaxy Clusters.” In Clusters of
Galaxies, eds. W. Oegerle, M. Fichett, and L. Danly, p. 359. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Huchra, J.; Geller, M.: de Lapparent, V.; and Corwin, H. “The CfA Redshift Survey:
Data for the NGP +30 Zone.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement 72 (1990): 433.

Imbert, M.; Andersen, J.; Ardeberg, A.; Duquennoy, A.; Lindgren, H.; Maurice, E.;
Mayor, M.; Mermilliod, J. C.; Nordstrom, B.; and Prévot, L. “Radial Velocities
of Southern Stars Obtained with the Photoelectric Scanner CORAVEL. VII.
Radial Velocity Variations of Eleven Cepheids in the Large and Small Magellanic
Clouds.” Astronomy and Astrophysics Supplement 81 (1989): 339.

Kalkofen, W. “Chromospheric Heating.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 346 (1989):
L37.

“Wave Heating in Magnetic Flux Tubes.” In Solar Photosphere: Structure,
Convection, and Magnetic Fields, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 138, ed.
J. O. Stenflo, p. 158. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990;
also in Proceedings of the Sixth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar,
Systems, and the Sun, Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference Series,
vol. 9, ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 48. San Francisco: Astronomical Society of
the Pacific, 1990.

Keene, J. B., and Masson, C. R. “Detection of a 45 AU Radius Source around L1551-
IRS5 — A Possible Accretion Disk.” Astrophysical Journal 355 (1990): 635.
Kellogg, E.; Falco, E.; Forman, W.; Jones, C.; Slane, P.; and Turner, E. “X-Ray Obser-
vations of Gravitational Lenses.” In Proceedings of Workshop on Gravitational
Lensing, eds. Y. Mellier, B. Fort, and G. Soucail, p. 141. New York: Springer-

Verlag Publishing Company, 1990.

Kent, S. M.; Huchra, J. P.; and Stauffer, J. “The Shape of the Mass Distribution in
M31 from its Globular Cluster System.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 2080.

Kenyon, S. J., and Hartmann, L. “On the Apparent Positions of T Tauri Stars in the
HR Diagram.” Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 197.

Kenyon, S. J.; Hartmann, L.; Strom, K. M.; and Strom, S. E. “An IRAS Survey of the
Taurus-Auriga Molecular Cloud.” Astronomical Journal 99 (1990): 869.

Keto, E. R., and Ho, P. T. P. “NH3 Observations of Compressed Post-Shock Molecular
Gas in Ionization-Shock Fronts around W33.” Astrophysical Journal 347 (1989):
349.

Kim, D.-W. “Interstellar Matter in Early Type Galaxies: Optical Observations.”
Astrophysical Journal 346 (1989): 653.

Kim, D.-W., and Fabbiano, G. “The Hot and Cold Interstellar Matter of Early Type
Galaxies and Their Radio Emission.” In Proceedings of the Workshop “Windows
on Galaxies,” eds. G. Fabbiano, J. Gallagher, and A. Renzini, p. 293. Dordrecht,
Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Kohl, J. L.; Weiser, H.; and Livi, S. “Spectroscopic Measurements of Solar Wind Param-
eters Near the Sun.” In Solar System Plasma Physics, Geophysical Monograph
54, eds. J. H. Waite, Jr., J. L. Burch, and R. L. Moore. Washington, DC:
American Geophysical Union Books Board, 1989.

Kurtz, M. J. “Classification and Knowledge.” In Knowledge-Based Systems in Astron-
omy, Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 329, eds. A. Heck and F. Murtagh, p. 91.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing Company, 1989.

Kurtz, M. J., and Falco, E. E. “Tests of Reduction and Analysis Algorithms for
Astronomical Images.” In Data Analysis in Astronomy III, eds. V. Di Gesu
et_al., p. 155. New York: Plenum Press, 1989.

Kurucz, R. L. “Reducing Photometry by Computing Atmospheric Transmission.”

In Infrared Extinction and Standarization, Proceedings of Two Sessions of IAU
Commissions 25 and 9, ed. E. Milone, p. 55. Berlin: Springer-Verlag Publishing
Company, 1990.

“Semiempirical Calculation of gf Values for the Iron Group.” In
Transactions of the International Astronomical Union, ed. M. McNally, vol.
XXB, p. 168. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Kwok, P. W.; Cawley, M. F.; Hillas, A. M.; Lamb, R. C.; Lang, M. J.; Lewis, D. A.;
Macomb, D.; Reynolds, P. T.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Gamma-Ray
Spectrum of the Crab Nebula at TeV Energies.” In Proceedings of the 21st Inter-
national Cosmic Ray Conference, ed. R. J. Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 143. Adelaide:
University of Adelaide, 1990.

Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Akerlof, C. W.; Meyer, D. I.; Weekes, T. C.; Hillas, A. M.;
Cawley, M. F.; and Fegan, D. J. “GRANITE, A Stereoscopic Cherenkov Detector
for VHE Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” In Proceedings of the International Work-
shop on Very High Energy Gamma-Ray Astronomy (Crimea, USSR, April 17-
21), eds. A. A. Stepanian, D. J. Fegan, and M. F. Cawley, p. 30. Crimea:
Crimean Astrophysical Observatory, 1989.

Lang; J: Cawley,.. M: -F.; .Fegan,..D.J.;' Hillas,. A. -M.; -‘Kwok,. Pi Ws
Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Reynolds, P. T.; Vacanti,
G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Observations of TeV Gamma Rays from the
Crab Nebula Using the Whipple Observatory High Resolution Camera.”
In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed. ReaJ%
Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 139. Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

“New Observations of TeV Gamma Rays from the Crab Nebula Using the
Whipple Observatory High Resolution Camera.” Nuclear Physics B (Proceed-
ings Supplement) 14A (1990): 165.

Langston, G.; Heflin, M.; Conner, S.; Lehar, J.; Carilli, C.; and Burke, B. “Second
M.I.T.-Green Bank 5 GHz Survey.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series 350
(1990): 869.

Latham, D. W., and Geary, J. C. “Charge Coupled Devices for Astronomy: A Status
Report.” In Automatic Small Telescopes, eds. D. S. Hayes and R. M. Genet, p.
173. Mesa, Arizona: Fairborn Press, 1989.

Lepp, S.; Dalgarno, A.; and McCray, R. “Molecules in the Ejecta of SN1987A.”
Astrophysical Journal 358 (1990): 262.

Lindstrom, M. M., and Marvin, U. B. “A Geochemical-Petrologic Study of the Popula-
tions of Coarse-Fines Particles in Apennine Front Soils.” In Lunar and Planetary
Science XXI, p. 702. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Science Institute, 1990.

Lindstrom, M. M.; Marvin, U. B.; Holmberg, B. B.; and Mittlefehldt, D. W. “Apollo 15
KREEP-Poor Impact Melts. In Proceedings of the 20th Lunar and Planetary
Science Conference, p. 77. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1990.

Lorenzini, E. C.; Grossi, M. D.; and Cosmo, M. “Low Altitude Tethered Mars Probe.”
Acta Astronautica 21(1) (1990): 1.

Lorenzini, E. C.; Sullivan, J. D.; and Post, R. S. “New Techniques for Collecting Data
Around the Space Station.” Journal of the Astronautical Sciences 38(2) (1990):
PAR

Luttermoser, D. G.; Johnson, H. R.; Avrett, E. H.; and Loeser, R. “Chromospheric

156
Structure of Cool Carbon Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 345 (1989): 543.-

Kwong, V. H. S.; Gibbons, T. T.; Fang, Z.; Jiang, J.; Knocke, H.; Jiang,
Y.; Ruger, B.; Huang, S.; Braganza, E.; Clark, W.; and Gardner, L. D.
“Experimental Apparatus for Production, Cooling, and Storing Multiply Charged
Ions for Charge-Transfer Measurements.” Review of Scientific Instrumentation
61 (1990): 1931.

Machado, M. E.; Emslie, A. G.; and Avrett, E. H. “Radiative Backwarming in White
Light Flares.” Solar Physics 124 (1990): 303.

Madjeski, G. M., and Schwartz, D. A. “Einstein Observatory X-Ray Spectra of BL
Lac Objects.” In BL LAC Objects, Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 334, eds. L.
Maraschi, T. Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 267. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag
Publishing Company, 1989.

Maggio, A.; Vaiana, G. S.; Haisch, B.; Stern, R.; Bookbinder, J.; Harnden, F. R.,
Jr.; and Rosner, R. “Einstein Observatory Magnitude-Limited X-Ray Survey of
Late-Type Giant and Supergiant Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 348 (1990): 253.

McClintock, J. E., and Remillard, R. A. “Cen X-4: Comparisons with A0620-00.”
Astrophysical Journal 350 (1990): 386.

McDowell, J. C.; Elvis, M.; Wilkes, B. J.; Wilner, S. P.; Oey, M. S.; Polomski, E.; Bech-
told, J.; and Green, R.F.“Weak Bump Quasars.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
345 (1990): L13.

Mankin, W. G.; Coffey, M. T.; Chance, K. V.; Traub, W. A.; Carli, B.; Mencaraglia, F.;
Piccioli, S.; Nolt, I. G.; Radostitz, J. V.; Zander, R.; Roland, G.; Jonson, D. W.;
Stokes, G. M.; Farmer, C. B.; and Seals, R. K. “Intercomparison of Measurements
of Stratospheric Hydrogen Fluoride.” Journal of Atmospheric Chemistry 10

(1990): 219.
Marsden, B. G. “The Sungrazing Comet Group. II.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989):
2306.

. Catalogue of Cometary Orbits, 6th edition, 97 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts:
Minor Planet Center, 1989.

Cambridge, Massachusetts: Minor Planet Center, 1989.

Magnetic Tape of Observations of Minor Planets and Comets, 6th edition,

543,943 entries. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Minor Planet Center, 1989.

. “The Sungrazing Comets Revisited.” In Asteroids, Comets, Meteors, III, eds.

C.-I. Lagerkvist, H. Rickman, B. A. Lindblad, and M. Lindgren, p. 393. Uppsala,

Sweden: Uppsala University, 1990.

. “Original and Future Cometary Orbits. IV.” Astronomical Journal 99 (1990):

1971.

. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 15121-15600, 1989.

. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 15601-16928, 1990.

Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. (editors) International Astronomical Union Circ-
ulars Nos. 4869-4936, 1989.

. (editors) International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4937-5106, 1990.

Marshall, L. A.; Stefanik, R. P.; Nations, H. L.; and Davis, R. J. “SAO 23229: A New
Double-Lined Spectroscopic LEclipsing Binary.” International Astronomical
Union Information Bulletin on Variable Stars No. 3447 (1990): March 27.

Catalogue of Orbits of Unnumbered Minor Planets, 3rd edition, 152 pp. ©
Marvin, U. B. “Diverse Components in Dust Bands in Allan Hills Ice Samples.” In
Workshop _on Meteorite Stranding Surfaces, Lunar and Planetary Institute
Technical Report 90-03, eds. W. A. Cassidy and I. M. Whillans, p.75. Hous-
ton: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1990.

Marvin, U. B.;.Holmberg, B. B.; and Lindstrom, M. M. “New Pieces of the Lunar
Granite-Quartz Monzodiorite Puzzle.” In Lunar and Planetary Science XX], p.
738. Houston: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1990.

Masson, C. R. “The Structures and Distances to BD+30° 3639 and NGC6572.”
Astrophysical Journal 346 (1989): 243.

. “On the Structure of Ionization-Bounded Planetary Nebulae.” Astrophysical
Journal 348 (1990): 580.

Masson, C. R.; Mundy, L. G.; and Keene, J. “The Extremely High Velocity CO Flow
in HH 7-11.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 357 (1990): L25.

Mattison, E. M., and Vessot, R. F. C. “Analysis of Fundamental and Systematic Effects
Limiting Hydrogen Maser Frequency Stability.” In Proceedings of the 21st
Annual Precise Time and Time Interval Applications and Planning Meeting, p.
433. Washington, DC: U.S. Naval Observatory, 1989.

“Performance of Model VLG-12 Advanced Hydrogen Masers.” In
Proceedings of the 44th Annual Symposium on Frequency Control, p. 66. New
York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 1990.

Mattison, E. M.; Vessot, R. F. C.; and Walsworth, R. L. “Cryogenic Hydrogen Maser
Clock for Use in Space.” In Summary of Proceedings of the Sixth Oregon Confer-
ence on Low Temperature Physics, ed. R. Donnelly, p. 28. Eugene, Oregon:
University of Oregon, 1989.

Mauas, P. J.; Avrett, E. H.; and Loeser, R. “Computed Profiles of the Solar CI
Multiplets at 11561 and 1657.” Astrophysical Journal 345 (1989): 1104.

“On Carbon Monoxide Cooling in the Solar Atmosphere.” Astrophysical
Journal 357 (1990): 279.

Meaburn, J.; Whitehead, M. J.; Raymond, J. C.; Clayton, C. A.; and Marston, A. P.
“Echelle Observations of the Multiple Shells of the Supernova Remnant IC443.”
Astronomy and Astrophysics 227 (1989): 191.

Melnick, G. J. “Infrared Line Emission from High-Velocity Outflows in Star Forming
Regions.” In Infrared Spectroscopy in Astronomy, ESA Publications SP-290, ed.
B. H. Kaldeich, p. 259. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1989.

. “The Submillimeter Wave Astronomy Satellite.” In Submillimetre and Milli-

metre Wave Astronomy, ed. A. S. Webster, p. 93. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer

Academic Publishers, 1990.

. “Observations of Atomic Species in Dense Clouds.” In Molecular Astrophysics,
ed. T. W. Hartquist, p. 273. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Melnick, G. J.; Stacey, G. J.; Genzel, R.; Poglitsch, A.; and Lugten, J. B. “Further
Observations of Rotationally Excited, Far-Infrared 16QOH and /8OH Emission
in Orion-KL: Tighter Constraints on the Nature of the Emitting Region.”
Astrophysical Journal 348 (1990): 161.

Menten, K. M., and Melnick, G. J. “Hot Water Around Late-Type Stars: Detection
of Two MM-Wave Emission Lines from the  Vibrationally Excited State.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 341 (1990): L91.

Menten, K. M.; Melnick, G. J.; and Phillips, T. G. “Submillimeter Water Masers.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 350 (1990): L41.

Menten, K. M.; Olano, C. A.; Harju, J.; and Walmsley, C. M. “The High Density
Molecular Cores near L1551-IRS5 and B335-FIR.” Astronomy and Astrophysics
223 (1989): 258.

Metcalf, T. R.; Canfield, R. C.; Avrett, E. H.; and Metcalf, F. T. “Flare Heating and
Ionization of the Low Chromosphere. I. Inversion Methods for Mg I \4571 and
\5173 A.” Astrophysical Journal 350 (1990): 463.

Micela, G.; Sciortino, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; Rosner, R.; and Schmitt,
J. H. M. M. “X-Ray Studies of Coeval Star Samples. II. The Pleiades Cluster
as Observed with the Einstein Observatory.” Astrophysical Journal 348 (1990):
557.

Mikolajewska, J.; Kenyon, S. J.; and Mikolajewski, M. “On the Nature of the Symbiotic
Star BF Cygni.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 1427.

Mollaaghababa, R.; Gottlieb, C. A.; Vrtilek, J. M.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Rotational
Spectrum of Carbon-13 and Vibrationally Excited SiC.” Astrophysical Journal
(Letters) 352 (1990): L21.

Moran, J. M. “Magnetic Fields in Interstellar Masers.” In Galactic and Intergalactic
Magnetic Fields, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 140, eds. R. Beck, P. P.
Kronberg, and R. Wielebinski, p. 301. Dordrecht: Holland: Kluwer Academic
Publishers, 1990.

. “Masers.” In Molecular Astrophysics, ed. T. Hartquist, p. 397. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Moran, J. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Gwinn, C. R.; and Backer, D. C. “The Large Scattering
Disk of NGC6334B.” Astrophysical Journal 348 (1990): 147.

Murcray, D.; Goldman, A.; Kosters, J.; Zander, R.; Evans, W.; Louisnard, N.;
Alamichel, C.; Bangham, M.; Pollitt, S.; Carli, B.; Dinelli, B.; Piccioli, S.;
Volboni, A.; Traub, W. A.; and Chance, K. “Intercomparison of Stratospheric
Water Vapor Profiles Obtained During the Balloon Intercomparison Campaign.”
Journal of Atmospheric Chemistry 10 (1990): 159.

Murison, M. A. “The Fractal Dynamics of Satellite Capture in the Circular Restricted
Three-Body Problem.” Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 2346.

Myers, P. C., and Goodman, A. A. “Observations and Models of Magnetic Molecu-
lar Clouds.” In Galactic and Intergalactic Magnetic Fields, Proceedings of IAU
Symposium No. 140, eds. R. Beck, P. Kronberg, and R. Wielebinski, p. 319.
Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Nesci, R.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S. L.; Perola, G. C.; Schild, R. E.;
and Wolter, A. “A Cooling Flow in a High Redshift X-Ray Selected Cluster of
Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 344 (1989): 104.

Neufeld, D. A., and Melnick, G. J. “Interpretation of the Newly Discovered
Submillimeter Water Maser.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 352 (1990): L9.

Nolan, K.; Porter, N. A.; Fegan, D. J.; Chantell, M.; and Weekes, T. C. “Search
for Short-Time Scale Bursters of TeV Gamma Rays from Primordial Black
Holes.” In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed.
R. J. Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 150. Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

Nordstrom, B., and Andersen, J. “F Stars Within 400 pc Towards the North Galactic

Pole: A Progress Report.” In The Gravitational Force Perpendicular to the
Galactic Plane, eds. A. G. Davis Philip and P. K. Li, p. 153. Schenectady,
New York: L. Davis Press, 1989.

O’Flaherty, K. ; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Kwok, P.; Lamb, R. C.; Lang,
M. J.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Reynolds, P. T.; Weekes, T. C.; and
Vacanti, G. “Search for Periodic High Energy Gamma Rays from Cygnus X-
3.” In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed. R. J.
Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 2. Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

Olive, K. A.; Schramm, D. N.; Steigman, G.; and Walker, T. P. “Big-Bang
Nucleosynthesis Revisited.” Physics Letters 236B (1990): 454.

Ossorio, P. G., and Kurtz, M. J. “Automated Classification of Resolved Galaxies.”
In Data Analysis in Astronomy IJ, eds. V. Di Gesu etal., p. 121. New York:
Plenum Press, 1989.

Ostro, S. J.; Campbell, D. B.; Hine, A. A.; Shapiro, I. I.; Chandler, J. F.; Werner, C. L.;
and Rosema, K. D. “Radar Images of Asteroid 1627 Ivar.” Astronomical Journal
99 (1990): 2012.

Ostro, S. J.; Chandler, J. F.; Hine, A. A.; Rosema, K. D.; Shapiro, I. I.; and Yeomans,
D. K. “Radar Images of Asteroid 1989 PB.” Science 248 (1990): 1523.

Owocki, S. P.; Castor, J. L.; and Rybicki, G. B. “Physics of Instabilities in Radiatively
Driven Stellar Winds. In Physics of Luminous Blue Variables, eds. K. Davidson,
A. F. J. Moffatt, and H. J. G. L. M. Lamers, p. 291. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer
Academic Publishers, 1989.

Peletier, R. F.; Valentijn, E. A.; and Jameson, R. F. “Near-Infrared Surface Photometry
of Bright Elliptical Galaxies.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 232 (1990): 62.
Pellegrini, P. S.; da Costa, L. N.; Huchra, J. P.; Latham, D. W.; and Willmer,
C. N. A. “The Distribution of Galaxies in the Southern Galactic Cap.”

Astronomical Journal 99 (1990): 751.

Peres, G.; Collura, A.; Reale, F.; and Fabbiano, G. “Time Variability of the X-Ray
Source in M33 and M31.” In Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A Decade of Einstein
Observatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p. 267. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1990.

Pilachowski, C. A.; Willmarth, W. W.; Mathieu, R. D.; Latham, D. W.; Both, J.; and
Armondroff, T..E. “A Spectroscopic Binary Giant in the Galactic Cluster NGC
752.” Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 101 (1989): 991.

Pindzola, M. S.; Bottrell, G. J.; and Bottcher, C. “Strong-Field Laser Ionization of Al-
kali Atoms Using Two-Dimensional Cylindrical and Three-Dimensional Cartesion
Time-Dependent Hartree-Fock Theory,” Journal of the Optical Society of Amer-
ica B7 (1990): 659.

Press, W. H.; Ryden, B. S.; and Spergel, D. N. “Dynamical Evolution of Domain Walls
in an Expanding Universe.” Astrophysical Journal 347 (1989): 590.

. “Single Mechanism for Generating Large Scale Structure and Providing Dark
Missing Matter.” Physical Review Letters 64 (1990): 1084.

Radick, R. R.; Lockwood, G. W.; and Baliunas, S. L. “Stellar Activity and Brightness
Variations: A Glimpse at the Sun’s History.” Science 247 (1990): 39.

Ramella, M.; Geller, M.; and Huchra, J. “The Two-Point Correlation Function
for Groups of Galaxies in the Center for Astrophysics Redshift Survey.”

160
Astrophysical Journal 353 (1990): 51. :

Raymond, J. C. “Highly Charged Ions in Astrophysics.” In Physics of High-Jonized
Atoms, ed. R. Marrus, p. 189. New York: Plenum Press, 1990.

Reasenberg, R. D. “IOTA Interferometer Project: Plans, Engineering, and Laboratory
Results.” In Amplitude and Intensity Spatial Interferometry, Proceedings of
SPIE, vol. 1237, ed. J. Breckenridge, p. 128. Bellingham, Washington: Society
of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

“Kalman-Filter Fringe Tracking in an Optical Interferometer.” In
Amplitude and Intensity Spatial Interferometry, Proceedings of SPIKE, vol. 1237,
ed. J. Breckenridge, p. 172. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical
Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

Reasenberg, R. D., and Chandler, J. F. “A Deflection Test with POINTS, An Astromet-
ric Optical Interferometer in Space.” In Proceedings of the Fifth Marcel Gross-
mann Meeting, eds. D. G. Blair and M. J. Buckingham, p. 1667. Singapore:
World Scientific Publishing, 1989.

Regos, E., and Geller, M. “Infall Patterns Around Rich Clusters of Galaxies.”
Astronomical Journal 98 (1990): 755.

Reid, M. J. “Masers and Stellar Magnetic Fields.” In Galactic and Intergalactic Mag-
netic Fields, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 140, eds. R. Beck, P. Kron-
berg, and R. Wielebinski, p. 21. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Pub-
lishers, 1990.

Reid, M. J., and Menten, K. M. “A Sub-Arcsecond H9O Maser Shell Surrounding a
Variable Star.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 360 (1990): L51.

Reipurth, B.; Lindgren, H.; Norstrom B.; and Mayor, M. “Spectroscopic Pre-Main
Sequence Binaries. I. Improved Elements of V826 Tauri.” Astronomy and Astro-
physics 235 (1990): 197.

Remillard, R. A.; Buckley, D. A. H.; Schwartz, D. A.; Tapia, S.; and Tuohy, I. R.
“Two X-Ray Selected BL Lac Objects Observed with the HEAO-1 Modulation
Collimator.” Astrophysical Journal 345 (1989): 140.

Resvanis, L. K.; Szentgyorgyi, A.; Kertzman, M.; Slane, P.; Hudson, J.; Kelley,
L.; Learned, J. G.; Sinnis, C.; Austin, R.; Berezny, N.; Gaidos, J.; Loeffler,
F.; Palfrey, T.; Sembroski, G.; Wilson, C.; Zirnstein, G.; Weeks, D. D.;
Camerini, U.; Finley, J. P.; Fry, W.; Jacobsen, J.; Jaworski, M.; Jennings,
J.; Kenter, A.; Loveless, R.; March, R.; Morse, R.; Reeder, D. D.; and
Skinner, M. “VHE Gamma-Ray Results at the Haleakala Gamma Observatory.”
Nuclear Physics B (Proceedings Supplement) 14A (1990): 205.

Reynolds, P. T.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.;
Lang, M. J.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Pulsed
TeV Radiation from Hercules X-1.” Nuclear Physics B (Proceedings Supplement
14A (1990): 200.

Reynolds, P. T.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb, R. C.;
Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes, T. C. “Observations of Her-
cules X-1 at TeV Energies.” In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray
Conference, ed. R. J. Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 99. Adelaide: University of Adelaide,
1990.

“Comprehensive Analysis of the 1984-87 Whipple Observatory Hercules

161
X-1 TeV Gamma-Ray Database.” In Proceedings of the International Work-
shop on Very High Energy Gamma-Ray Astronomy (Crimea, USSR, April 17-
21), eds. A. A. Stepanian, D. J. Fegan, M. F. Cawley, p. 160. Crimea: Crimean
Astrophysical Observatory, 1989.

Reynolds, P. T.; Cawley, M. F.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lang, M. J.;
Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Vacanti, G.; and Weekes,
T. C. “Optical and VHE Monitoring of HZ HER/HER X-1 Binary System.”
In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed. R. J.
Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 130. Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

Reynolds, P. T.; Fegan, D. J.; Harris, K.; Lang, M. J.; Vacanti, G.; and
Weekes, T. C. “A Search for TeV Gamma-Ray Emission from the Galactic
Plane.” In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed.
R. J. Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 383. Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

Rhodes, C.; Kurtz, M. J.; and Rey-Watson, J. “An Astronomical Software Documen-
tation Collection at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.” In Library and
Information Services in Astronomy, Proceedings of International Astronomical
Union Colloquium No. 110, eds. G. Wilkins and S. Stevens-Rayburn, p. 215.
Washington, DC: U.S. Naval Observatory, 1989.

Robbins, D.; Waters, J.; Zimmerman, P.; Jarnot, R.; Hardy, J.; Pickett, H.;
Pollitt, S.; Traub, W. A.; Chance, K.; Louisnard, N.; Evans, W.; and
Kerr, J. “Ozone Measurements from the Balloon Intercomparison Campaign.”
Journal of Atmospheric Chemistry 10 (1990): 181.

Robinson, L.; Brown, W.; Gilmore, D. K.; Stover, R.; Wei, M.-Z.; and Geary, J. “Char-
acteristics of Large Ford and Reticon CCD’s.” In Instrumentation in Astronomy
VI, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1235, ed. D. L. Crawford, p. 315. Bellingham,
Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

Rodriguez, L. F.; Curiel, S.; Moran, J. M.; Mirabel, I. F.; Roth, M.; and Garay,
G. “Large Proper Motions in the Remarkable Triple Source in Serpens.”
Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 346 (1989): L85.

Rodriguez, L:: F.; Ho, P. T. P.; Torrelles, J. Ms Curiel, S:;°and Canté, J) “VLA
Observations of the Herbig-Haro 1-2 System.” Astrophysical Journal 352 (1990):
645.

Rodriguez, L. F.; Myers, P. C.; Cruz-Gonzdlez, I.; and Terebey, S. “Radio
Continuum Observations of IRAS Sources Associated with Dense Cores.”
Astrophysical Journal 347 (1989): 461.

Roemer, E., and Marsden, B. G. “IAU Commission 6.” In Proceedings of the Twen-
tieth General Assembly, vol. XXB, ed. D. McNally, p. 119. Dordrecht, Holland:
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.

Rybicki, G. B.; Owocki, S. P.; and Castor, J. I. “Instabilities in Line-Driven Stellar
Winds: IV. Linear Perburations in Three Dimensions.” Astrophysical Journal
349 (1990): 274.

Ryden, B. S. “Oblate Spheroidal Mass Distributions of Varying Ellipticity.”. Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 244 (1990): 341.

Ryden, B. S.; Press, W. H.; and Spergel, D. N. “The Evolutions of Networks of Domain
Walls and Cosmic Strings.” Astrophysical Journal 357 (1990): 293.

Saar, S. H. “Magnetic Fields on Solar-Like Stars: The First Decade.” In The Solar
Photosphere: Structure, Convection, and Magnetic Fields, IAU Symposium No.
138, ed. O. Stenflo, p. 427. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publish-
ers, 1990.

Saar, S. H., and Bruning, D. H. “Line Asymmetries in G and K Dwarfs: Dependence on
Spectral Type and Activity.” In Proceedings of the Sixth Cambridge Workshop
on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Astronomical Society of the Paci-
fic Conference Series, vol. 9, ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 168. San Francisco: Astro-
nomical Society of the Pacific, 1990.

Saar, S. H., and Huovelin, J. “The Wavelength Dependence of Broadband Linear Po-
larization in Cool Stars.” In Proceedings of the Sixth Cambridge Workshop on
Cool Stars, Stellar Systems, and the Sun, Astronomical Society of the Pacific
Conference Series, vol. 9, ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 85. San Francisco: Astro-
nomical Society of the Pacific, 1990.

Saar, S. H., and Neff, J. E. “Spot Temperatures and Area Coverages on Active Dwarf
Stars.” In Proceedings of the Sixth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar
Systems, and the Sun, Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference Series,
vol. 9, ed. G. Wallerstein, p. 171. San Francisco: Astronomical Society of
the Pacific, 1990.

Saar, S. H.; Nordstrom, B.; and Andersen, J. “Physical Parameters of Three
Chromospherically Active Binaries.” Journal of Astronomy and Astrophysics
235 (1990): 291.

Schmitt, J. H. M. M.; Micela, G.; Sciortino, S.; Vaiana, G. S.; Harnden, F. R., Jr.; and
Rosner, R. “X-Ray Studies of Coeval Star Samples. III. X-Ray Emission in the
Ursa Major Stream.” Astrophysical Journal 351 (1990): 492.

Schwartz, D. A.; Brissenden, R. J. V.; Touhy, I. B.; Feigelson, E. D.; Hertz, P. L.;
and Remillard, R. A. “BL Lac Objects Detected in the HEAO-1 All-Sky Survey.”
In BL LAC Objects, Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 334, eds. L. Maraschi, T.
Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 209. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag Publishing
Company, 1989.

Schwartz, D. A.; Zian, Y.; and Tucker, W. H. “Comparing Measurements of the AGN
X-Ray Spectra with the Shape of the Diffuse X-Ray Background Spectrum.” In
Two Topics in X-Ray Astronomy: AGN and the X-Ray Background, Proceed-
ings of the 23rd ESLAB Symposium, ESA SP-296, eds. J. Hunt and B. Battrick,
p. 1043. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1989.

Seward, F. D. “Einstein Observations of Galactic Supernova Remnants.” Astrophysical
Journal (Supplement) 73 (1990): 781.

Shapiro, J. B., and Bloemhof, E. E. “Fabrication of Wire-Grid Polarizers and
Dependence of Submillimeter-Wave Optical Performance on Pitch Uniformity.”
International Journal of Infrared and Millimeter Waves 11 (1990): 973.

Shu, F. H.; Tremaine, S.; Adams, F. C.; and Ruden, S. P. “SLING Amplification and
Eccentric Gravitational Instabilities in Gaseous Disks.” Astrophysical Journal
358 (1990): 495.

Sion, E. M.; Kenyon, S. J.; and Aannestad, P. A. “An Atlas of Optical Spectra of DZ
White Dwarfs and Related Objects.” Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series
72 (1990): 707.

Smith, B. A.; Soderblom, L. A.; Banfield, D.; Barnet, C.; Basilevsky, A. T.; Beebe,

163
R. F.; Bollinger, K.; Boyce, J. M.; Bruhic, A.; Briggs, G. A.; Brown, R. H.;
Chyba, C.; Collins, S. A.; Colvin, T.; Cook, A. F., I; Crisp, D.; Croft, S. K.;
Cruikshank, D.; Cuzzi, J. N.; Danielson, G. E.; Davies, M. E.; DeJong, E.; Dones,
I.; Godfrey, D.; Goguen, J.; Grenier, I.; Haemmerle, V. R.; Hammel, H.; Hansen,
C. J.; Helfenstein, C. P.; Howell, C.; Hunt, G. E.; Ingersoll, A. P.; Johnson,
T. V.; Kurgel, N.; Kirk, R.; Kuehn, D. I.; Limaye, S.; Masursky, H.; McEwen,
A.; Morrison, D.; Owen, T.; Owen, W.; Pollack, J. B.; Porco, C. C.; Ruges, K.;
Rogers, P.; Rudy, D.; Sagan, C.; Schwartz, J.; Shoemaker, E. M.; Showalter,
M.; Siccordy, B.; Simonelli, D.; Spencer, J.; Sperovsky, L. A.; Stoker, C.; Strom,
R. G.; Suomi, V. E.; Synnott, S. P.; Terrile, R. J.; Thomas, P.; Thompson, W. R.;
Verbiscer, A.; and Veverha, V. “Voyager 2 at Neptune: Imaging Science Results.”
Science 246 (1989): 1422.

Stacy, J. G.; Bertsch, D. L.; Dame, T. M.; Fichtel, C. E.; Sreekumar, P.; and Thaddeus,
P. “High-Energy Gamma-Ray Observations and the Coupling Between Galactic
Cosmic Rays and Matter.” In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray
Conference, ed. R. J. Protheroe, p. 154. Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

. “On the Origin of the Diffuse High-Energy Gamma-Ray Emission: A CO Sur-
vey of Selected Regions at High Galactic Latitudes.” In Proceedings of the 21st
International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed. R. J. Protheroe, p. 253. Adelaide:
University of Adelaide, 1990.

Stacy, J. G.; Dame, T. M.; Thaddeus, P.; and Bitran, M. E. “Wide-Line Molecular
Clouds and the Gamma-Ray Deficit Toward the Galactic Center: Prospects
for GRO Observations.” In Proceedings of the Gamma Ray Observatory Science
Workshop, ed. N. Johnson, p. 4. Washington, DC: National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, 1990.

Stauffer, J. R.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Jones, B. F. “Rotational Velocities
of Newly Discovered, Low-Mass Members of the Alpha Persei Cluster.”
Astrophysical Journal 346 (1989): 160.

Stocke, J. T.; Morris, S. L.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R. E.; and Wolter, A.
“No Evidence for Radio-Quiet BL Lacertae Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 348
(1990): 141.

Strauss, M.; Davis, M.; Yahil, A.; and Huchra, J. “A Redshift Survey of IRAS Galaxies,
I. Sample Selection.” Astrophysical Journal 361 (1990): 49.

Sutton, he..." Danchi, 'W..'C.;. Jaminet, P:: A:;.and Masson, °C. R: “CO J =3: = 2
Observations of the Neutral Disk in Sgr A(W).” Astrophysical Journal 348 (1990):
503.

Tagliaferri, G.; Giommi, P.; Beuermann, K.; Branduardi-Raymont, G.; Brissenden,
R.; Mason, K. O.; Murdin, P.; Thomas, H.-C.; and Tuohy, I. “Two New
BL Lacertae Objects Discovered in the Error Boxes of Hard X-Ray Sources.”
In BL LAC Objects, Lecture Notes in Physics, vol. 334, eds. L. Maraschi, T.
Maccacaro, and M.-H. Ulrich, p. 257. Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag Publishing
Company, 1990.

Tananbaum, H. “From Einstein to AXAF.” In Imaging X-Ray Astronomy: A Decade
of Einstein Observatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p. 15. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Tang, G.; Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. I.; Shapiro, I. I.; Baath, L. B.; and Ronnang, B.

164
“Recent Evolution of Jet Components in 3C345 at 3.6cm.” In Parsec-Scale Radio
Jets, eds. J. A. Zensus and T. J. Pearson, p. 32. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1990.

Thielemann, F.-K.; Hashimoto, M.; and Nomoto, K. “Explosive Nucleosynthesis
in SN1987A. II: Composition, Radioactivities, and the Neutron Star Mass.”
Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 222.

Thorstensen, J.; Wegner, G.; Hamwey, R.; Boley, F.; Geller, M.; Huchra, J.; and Kurtz,
M. “Redshifts for a Sample of Fainter Galaxies in the First CfA Survey Slice.”
Astronomical Journal 98 (1989): 1143.

Torrelles, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; Rodriguez, L. F.; and Canté, J. “Monoceros R2: Inter-
actions of a Molecular Cloud Core with a Stellar Wind?” Astrophysical Journal
349 (1990): 529.

Torrelles, J. M.; Ho, P. T. P.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Cantdé, J.; and Verdes-Montenegro, L.
“VLA Observations of Ammonia and Continuum in Regions with High-Velocity
Gaseous Outflows. II.” Astrophysical Journal 346 (1989): 756.

“VLA Observations of Ammonia Toward Molecular Outflow Sources.” In
Proceedings of the Meeting on Dynamics of Astrophysical Disks, ed. J. Sell-
wood, p. 61. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989.

Townes, C. H., and Melnick, G. J. “Atmospheric Transmission in the Far-Infrared at the
South Pole and Astronomical Applications.” Publications of the Astronomical
Society of the Pacific 102 (1990): 357.

Traub, W. A. “Pupil Geometry and Pupil Reimaging in Telescope Arrays.” In
Amplitude and Intensity Spatial Interferometry, Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 1237,
ed. J. B. Breckinridge, p. 70. Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical
Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

Traub, W. A.; Johnson, D. G.; and Chance, K. V. “Stratospheric Hydroperoxy]
Measurements.” Science 247 (1990): 446.

Traub, W. A.; Lacasse, M. G.; and Carleton, N. P. “Spectral Dispersion and Fringe De-
tection in IOTA.” In Amplitude and Intensity Spatial Interferometry, Proceed-
ings of SPIE, vol. 1237, ed. J. B. Breckinridge, p. 145. Bellingham, Washington:
Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 1990.

Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Elvis, M. “A Highly X-Ray Variable AGN: A
Microlensing Candidate.” Astrophysical Journal 356 (1990): 430.

Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Romaine, S. “Einstein X-Ray Observations of M101.”
Astrophysical Journal 356 (1990): 110.

Turner, J. L.; Martin, R. N.; and Ho, P. T. P. “Hot Gas in the Nucleus of M82: 12¢09
and !3CO J = 3 — 2 Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 351 (1990): 418.

. “CO (3-2) Observations of Spiral Galaxies.” In Proceedings of International
Symposium on Submillimeter and Millimeter Astronomy, Kona, eds. G. D. Watt
and A. S. Webster, p. 219. Dordrecht, Holland: Kluwer Academic Publishers,
1990.

Vacanti, G.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.; Lamb,
R. C.; Lang, M. J.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Reynolds, P. T.; and Weekes,
T. C. “Search for TeV Emission from the Extragalactic Objects 3C273, 3C279,

and M87.” In Proceedings of the 21st International Cosmic Ray Conference, ed.
R. J. Protheroe, vol. 2, p. 329. Adelaide: University of Adelaide, 1990.

. “TeV Gamma Ray Astronomy in the GRO Era.” In Proceedings of the GRO
Workshop, ed. W. N. Johnson, p. 4. Greenbelt: Goddard Space Flight Center,
1989.

van Ballegooijen, A. A. “Magnetic Fine Structure of Coronal Loops.” In Proceedings of
the Mini- Workshop on Flux Tubes in the Solar Atmosphere, eds. E. Leer and P.
Maltby, p. 49. Oslo: Institute of Theoretical Astrophysics, 1989.

. “Magnetic Heating of Stellar Chromospheres and Coronae.” In Proceedings of
the Sixth Cambridge Workshop on Cool Stars, Stellar Systems and the Sun,
Astronomical Society of the Pacific Conference Series, vol.9, ed. G. Wallerstein,
p. 15. San Francisco: Astronomical Society of the Pacific, 1990.

van Ballegooijen, A. A., and Martens, P. C. H. “Magnetic Fields in Quiescent
Prominences.” Astrophysical Journal 361 (1990): 283.

Van Buren, D.; MacLow, M.-M.; Wood, D. O. S.; and Churchwell, E. “Cometary
Compact HII Regions Are Stellar Wind Bow Shocks.” Astrophysical Journal 353
(1990): 570.

van Houten-Groeneveld, I.; van Houten, C. J.; Wisse-Schouten, M.; Bardwell, G.; and
Gehrels, T. “The 1977 Palomar-Leiden Trojan Survey.” Astronomy and Astro-
physics 224 (1989): 299.

Verdes-Montenegro, L.; Torrelles, J. M.; Rodriguez, L. F.; Anglada, G.; Lépez, R.;
Estalella, R.; Cantéd, J.; and Ho, P. T. P. “Further Studies of the Role of Dense
Molecular Clouds around Outflow Sources.” Astrophysical Journal 346 (1989):
193.

Vrtilek, S. D.; Penninx, W.; Raymond, J. C.; and Verbunt, F. “IUE Observations of Cyg
X-2 and Sco X-1.”. In Two Topics in X-Ray Astronomy: AGN and the X-Ray
Background, Proceedings of the 23rd ESLAB Symposium, ESA SP-296, eds. J.
Hunt and B. Battrick, p. 671. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1989.

Vrtilek, S. D.; Raymond, J. C.; Garcia, M. R.; Verbunt, F.; Hasinger, G.; and
Kurster, M. “Observations of Cygnus X-2 with IUE: Ultraviolet Results from
a Multiwavelength Campaign.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 235 (1990): 162.

Walker, T. P. “Radiative Neutrino Decays, SN1987A, and the Submillimeter
Background.” Physical Review D 41 (1990): 689.

Walsworth, R. L., and Silvera, I. F. “Non-Linear Quantum Mechanics for Systems of
Composite Spin.” Physics Review A 42 (1990): 63.

Walsworth, R. L.; Silvera, I. F.; Mattison, E. M.; and Vessot, R. F. C. “Test of the
Linearity of Quantum Mechanics in an Atomic System with a Hydrogen Maser.”
Physics Review Letters 64 (1990): 2599.

Walsworth, R. L.; Silvera, I. F.; Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; and Dingus, M. L.
“The Cryogenic Hydrogen Maser: Projected Performance and Recent Progress to-
ward Spaceborne Applications.” In Proceedings of the 21st Annual Precise Time
and Time Interval Applications and Planning Meeting, p. 359. Washington, DC:
U.S. Naval Observatory, 1989.

Wang, B. “Components of Cosmic Background Radiation and Their Interaction with
Matter.” Ph.D. Thesis in Astronomy, Harvard University, November 1989.
Wang, B., and Field, G. B. “Galaxy Formation by Dust?” In Interstellar Dust, Pro-
ceedings of IAU Symposium No. 135, NASA CP 3036, eds. A. G. G. M. Tielens
and L. J. Allamandola, p. 359. Washington, DC: National Aeronautics and Space

166
Administration, 1989.

. “Galaxy Formation by Mock Gravity with Dust?” Astrophysical Journal 346

(1989): 3.

. “Possible Infrared Signature of Decaying Particles.” Astrophysical Journal

(Letters) 345 (1989): L9.

Weekes, T. “Gamma Ray Astronomy at the Highest Energies.” In Nuclear Instru-
mentation and Methods (Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on
Radiation Physics), A280 (1989): 349.

. “Very High Energy Gamma-Ray Astronomy.” In Astrophysics in Antarctica,

eds. D. J. Mullan, M. A. Pomerantz, and T. Stanev, p. 3. New York: American

Institute of Physics, 1989.

. “Very High Energy Gamma Ray Astronomy: On the Threshold.” Annals of
the New York Academy of Sciences (Proceedings of 14th Texas Symposium on
Relativistic Astrophysics) 571 (1989): 372.

Weekes, T. C.; Cawley, M. F.; Fegan, D. J.; Gibbs, K. G.; Hillas, A. M.; Kwok, P. W.;
Lamb, R. C.; Lewis, D. A.; Macomb, D.; Porter, N. A.; Reynolds, P. T.; and
Vacanti, G. “Observation of TeV Gamma Rays from the Crab Nebula Using the
Atmospheric Cerenkov Imaging Techniques.” Astrophysical Journal 342 (1989):
379.

Welther, B. L. “Harvard’s First High-Altitude Station.” Journal of the American
Association of Variable Star Observers 18 (1989): 78.

Welty, A. D.; Strom, S. E.; Strom, K. M.; Hartmann, L. W.; Kenyon, S. J.; Grasdalen,
G. L.; and Stauffer, J. R. “Further Evidence for Differential Rotation in V1057
Cyg.” Astrophysical Journal 349 (1990): 328.

Whitney, C. Starfinder, fifth edition. New York: Knopf, 1989.

“Random Processes in Physical Systems. New York: John Wiley and Sons,
1990.

Wilkes, B. J.; Masnou, J.-L.; Elvis, M.; McDowell, J.; and Arnaud, K. “The Soft X-Ray
Excess in Einstein Quasar Spectra.” In Two Topics in X-Ray Background, Pro-
ceedings of the 23rd ESLAB Symposium, ESA SP-296, eds. J. Hunt and B.
Battrick, p. 1081. Noordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1989.

Wilkes, B. J.; Tananbaum, H.; Avni, Y.; Oey, M. S.; and Worrall, D. M. “The Einstein
Database of Optically and Radio Selected Quasars.” In Imaging X-Ray Astron-
omy: A Decade of Einstein Observatory Achievements, ed. M. Elvis, p. 327.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Willner, S. P.; Campbell, A.; Huchra, J. P.; and Kleinmann, S. G. “A Search for
Shocked Molecular Hydrogen in High Luminosity Galaxies.” Astronomical
Journal 100 (1990): 635.

Witt, A. N.; Oliveri, M. V.; and Schild, R. E. “The Scattering Properties and Density
Distribution of Dust in a Small Interstellar Cloud.” Astronomical Journal 99
(1990): 888.

Withbroe, G. L. “Solar Activity Cycle: History and Predictions.” Journal of Space-
craft and Rockets 26 (1989): 394.

Wolter, A.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Morris, S.; Nesci, R.; Perola, G.; and Schild, R.
“A Cooling Flow Cluster at Redshift Z=0.2.” In High Resolution X-Ray Spec-
troscopy of Cosmic Plasma, Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 115, eds. P.

167
Gorenstein and M. Zombeck, p. 259. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1990.

Wood, J. A. “Meteorites.” In The New Solar System, revised, eds. J. K. Beatty and
A. Chaikin, p. 241. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Sky Publishing Company and
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.

Worrall, D. “Population Properties of AGN in the Soft X-Ray Band.” In Two Topics in
X-Ray Astronomy: AGN and the X-Ray Background, Proceedings of the 23rd
ESLAB Symposium, ESA SP-296, eds. J. Hunt and B. Battrick, p. 719. No-
ordwijk, The Netherlands: ESTEC, 1989.

Worrall, D. M., and Murray, S. S. “PROS” (Software Reports). Bulletin of the Amer-
ican Astronomical Society 22 (1990): 933.

Worrall, D. M., and Wilkes, B. J. “X-Ray Spectra of Compact Extragalactic Radio
Sources.” Astrophysical Journal 360 (1990): 369.

Yee, J.-H.; Guberman, S. L.; and Dalgarno, A. “Collisional Quenching of O(!D) by
O(3P).” Planetary and Space Science 38 (1990): 647.

Yoshino, K.; Esmond, J. R.; Cheung, A. S.-C.; Freeman, D. E.; and Parkinson, W. H.
“Band Oscillator Strengths of the (2,1)-(12,1) Schumann-Runge Bands of O»
from Absolute Absorption Cross Section Measurements at Room Temperature.”
Journal of Geophysical Research 95 (1990): 11743.

You, J. H.; Ye, Z. G.; and Du, M. L. “Properties of a Substitutional and/or Interstitial
Surface Hydrogen Atom.” Physical Review B 41 (1990): 8180.

Young, A. T.; Genet, R. M.; Boyd, L. J.; Lockwood, G. W.; Smith, D. P.; Epand, D. H.;
Donahue, R.; Borucki, W. J.; and Baliunas, S. L. “Automated Precision Differen-
tial Photometry.” International Amateur Professional Photoelectric Photometry
Communications 39 (1990): 5.

Zabludoff, A.; Huchra, J.; and Geller, M. “The Kinematics of Abell Clusters.”
Astrophysical Journal Supplement 74 (1990): 1.

Zhou, S.; Wu, Y.; Evans, N. J.; Fuller, G.; and Myers, P. C. “A CS Survey of Low
Mass Cores and Comparison with NH3 Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 346
(1989): 168.

Zombeck, M. V.; Conroy, M.; Harnden, F. R.; Roy, A.; Braeuninger, H.; Burkert, W.;
Hasinger, G.; and Predehl, P. “Calibration of the ROSAT High Resolution Imager
(HRI).” In EUV, X-Ray, and Gamma-Ray Instrumentation for Astronomy, Pro-
ceedings of SPIF, vol. 1344, eds. H. S. Hudson and O. H. W. Siegmund, p. 50.
Bellingham, Washington: Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentaion Engineers,
1990.

Zygelman, B. “NonAbelian Geometric Phase and Long-Range Atomic Forces.” Phys-
ical Review Letters 64 (1990): 256.

Zygelman, B.; Dalgarno, A.; Kimura, M.; and Lane, N. F. “Radiative and Nonradiative

Charge Transfer in Het + H Collisions at Low Energy.” Physical Review A 40
(1989): 2340.

168
SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Askins, R. A.; J. F. Lynch and R. Greenberg. (1989). Population
declines in migratory birds in eastern North America. Current

Ornithology 72 1-574

Correll,” De Ee and! Ds Ei.) Weller: (1989). Factors limiting
processes in freshwater wetlands: an agricultural primary
stream riparian forést. “ipp 9=23.7uIn: vRe2Re Sharitz.and J.
W. Gibbons (eds.), Freshwater Wetlands and Wildlife. USDOE

CONF-8603101, Office of Scientific and Technical Information,
Oak Ridge, TN.

Curtis; P.-S).,4 L.*Ms* Balduman, “B..2G.)Drake;;and .D. 4F.. Whigham.
(199 (0))%. Elevated atmospheric CO, effects on belowground
processes in C, and C, estuarine marsh communities. Ecology
71: 2001-2006.

Gallegos, C. L. (1989). Microzooplankton grazing on phytoplankton
in the Rhode River, Maryland: nonlinear feeding kinetics.

Marine Ecology Progress Series 57: 23-33.
Green, “Ke-°M.; *d. -F.~ Lynch; J. “Sircar and L. 'S.°cZ. Greenberg.

(1987). Vida Silvestre Neotropical 1: 27-38.

Holland37-Mt-"d).-,°-D.. F... Whigham ;“’“and” B. ° Gopal-: (1990). The
characteristics of wetland Ecotones. pp. 171-198. In: R.
J. Naiman and H. Decamps (eds.), The Ecology and Management
of Aquatic-Terrestrial Ecotones. VOL.024:. Man and the
Biosphere Series. The Parthenon Publishing Group, Canforoth,
UK.

Jordan, To" E. 3D. -F. Whigham: and D: L.. Correll: (1989). The role
of litter in nutrient cycling in a brackish tidal marsh.
Ecology 70: 1906-1915.

Jordan,’ T. Ew; Ds “Fs Whigham and DioL...Correldi..: (1990) . “Effects
of nutrient and litter manipulations on the narrow leaved
cattail, Typha angustifolia L. Aquatic Botany 36: 179-191.

Lopez Ornat, A.; F. J. Lynch and B. MacKinnon de Montes. (1989).
New and noteworthy records of birds from the eastern Yucatan
Peninsula. Wilson Bulletin 101: 390-409.

Byneh, dis (FF: (1987). An annotated checklist and key to the
species of ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) of the Chesapeake

Bay region. The Maryland Naturalist 31: 61-105.

Lynch; J... +E. (1989). Distribution of overwintering nearctic
migrants in the Yucatan Peninsula, I: General patterns of
occurrence. Condor 91:515-544.

Lynch, J. F. (1989). Community ecology of salamanders (review).
Evolution 43: 1127-1128.

Lynch, J. F. and D. B. Wake. (1989). Two new species of

Pseudoeurycea (Amphibia: Caudata) from Oaxaca, Mexico. Los
Angeles County Museum Contributions to Science No. 411: 11-

22.

McLellan, C. H:?''A.-=Pi- Dobson; . Dies... Wilcove::and:d.. Fs Lyneh.
(1987). Effects of forest fragmentation on new- and old-
world bird communities: Empirical observations and
theoretical ‘implications. pp2-:3:05=-313. <<Ini« J.-Verner, M.
L. Morrison and C. J. Ralph (eds.), Modeling habitat

169
relationships of terrestrial vertebrates. University of
Wisconsin Press, Madison, WI.

Nye, Laura A. (1989). Variations _in feeding behavior of blue
crabs (Callinectes sapidus Rathbun) measured by ultrasonic
telemetry. M.S. dissertation, Dept. of Marine, Earth and
Atmospheric Sciences, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh. 82 p.

Parker, 'G..'G.7oo..-/P. “O'Neillwand, D.. Higman: (1989). Vertical
profile and canopy organization in a mixed deciduous forest.
Vegetatio 85: 1-11.

Parker, G. G. 1990. Evaluation of dry deposition, pollutant
damage, and forest health with throughfall studies. pp. 10-
61 In: A. A. Lucier and S. G. Haines (eds.), Mechanisms of
forest response to acidic deposition. Springer-Verlag, New
York.

Shirley, M. A., A. H. Hines, and T. G. Wolcott. 1990. Adaptive
significance of habitat selection by molting adult blue crabs,
Callinectes sapidus (Rathbun), within a subestuary of
Chesapeake Bay. Journal of Marine Biology and Ecology 140:
LOFTS.

Smith, L. David. (1990). The frequency and ecological
consequences of limb autotomy in the blue crab, Callinectes
sapidus Rathbun. Ph.D. Dissertation, Dept. of Zoology,
University of Maryland, College Park, 259 p.

Snow, A. A. and D. F. Whigham. (1989). Costs of flower and fruit
production in Tipularia discolor (Orchidaceae). Ecology 70:
128'6=-1293.

Wake, D. B. and J. F. Lynch. (1988). The taxonomic status of
Bolitoglossa resplendens (Amphibia: Caudata). Herpetologia
44: 105-108.

Weller, D. E. (1990). Will the real self-thinning rule please
stand up? -- A reply to Osowa and Sugita. Ecology 71: 2004-
2007.

Whigham, D. F.; T. E. Jordan and J. Miklas. (1989). Biomass and
resource allocation of Typha angustifolia L. (Typhaceae): the
effect of within and between year variations in salinity.
Bulletin Torrey Botanical Club 116: 364-370.

Whagham;"'D. “Fo; -R. In: Simpson; R.- E. Good and. F.). As. Sickels.
(1989). Decomposition and nutrient-metal dynamics of litter
in freshwater tidal wetlands. pp. 167-188. an: Rieke
Sharitz and J. W. Gibbons (eds.), Freshwater Wetlands and
Wildlife. USDOE CONF-8603101, Office of Scientific and
Technical Information, Oak Ridge, TN.

Whigham, D. F. and S. Nusser. (1990). The response of Distichlis
spicata and Spartina patens to nitrogen fertilization in
hydrologically altered wetlands. Pps. 31-38). In: Dic br.
Whigham, R. E. Good and J. Kvet (eds.), Wetland Ecology and
Management: Case studies. Tasks for Vegetation Science.
Dluwer Publishers, Dordrecht, The Netherlands.

Whigham, DoF. , R. *E..-Good and J. Kvet (eds..,). (1990). Wetland
ecology and management: Case studies. Tasks for Vegetation
Science. Kluwer Publishers. Dordrecht, The Netherlands. 175
Pp.

170
Wolcott, T. G., and A. H. Hines. (1989). Ultrasonic telemetry
transmitters for behavioral studies on free-ranging blue crabs
(Callinectes sapidus). pp. 285-295. In: cC. J. Amlaner, Jr.

(ed-<),, Proceedings, 10th International Symposium _on

Biotelemetry. University of Arkansas Press, Fayetteville, AR.

Wolcott, T. G. and A. H. Hines. (1990). Ultrasonic telemetry of
small-scale movements and microhabitat selection by molting
blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus). Bulletin of Marine Science
46: 83-94.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Bain, Alan L. "An Archivist's Perspective on Natural History

Archives." Association of Systematics Newsletter. 18 (3)
(June, 1990) :43.

Cox, William E. "Guide to the Papers of Alexander Wetmore, c.
1848-1979, and undated." Guides to Collections in the
Smithsonian Archives, no. 11. Archives and Special
Collections of the Smithsonian Institution. Washington, D.
C.: Smithsonian Archives, 1990.

Henson, Pamela M. Evolution and Taxonomy: June «e Comstock's

Research School in Evolutionary Entomology at Cornell
University, 1874-1930. PhD dissertation, The University of

Maryland, 1990.

Vogt-O'Connor, Diane L. "The American Album," in Images of
America. Washington, D.C., Smithsonian Institution Press,
1989.

Vogt-O'Connor, Diane L. Guide to Photographic Collections at the
Smithsonian Institution. Vol. I, National Museum of American

History. Washington and London: Smithsonian Institution
Press, 1989.

Vogt-O'Connor, Diane L. and Richard Pearce-Moses. "Documentation:
Compiling a Photographic Thesaurus." International Journal
of Museum Management and  Curatorship. 8 (4) (December

1989) 2436-439.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Silvio Bedini. Thomas Jefferson, Man of Science (New York: Macmillan, 1990).

Nancy

E. Gwinn. "The RTSD Preservation Microfilming Committee: Looking to

the 1990s," Library Resources and Technical Services 34 (1): 88-94,
1990.

Vija L. Karklins. Conference Report: "Federal Library and Information Center

Kay A.

Nancy

Rhoda

Janet

Committee Forum on Federal Information Policies: Access is the Key" in

Library Hi-Tech News 71: 1-3 (May 1990).

Kenyon. National Zoological Park Staff Publications, 1912 - 1989
(Washington, D.C.: National Zoological Park, 1990).

L. Matthews. Review: The Quakers and the English Legal System, 1660-
1688 by Craig W. Horle. American Historical Review 94 (5): 1372 (Winter
1989). ~

S. Ratner. "Historical Research in Trade Catalogs," Science &
Technology Libraries 10 (4): 15-22 (Summer 1990).

L. Stanley. "Documenting African Material Culture," pp. 118-150. In
Africana Resources and Collections: Three Decades of Development and
Achievement; A Festschrift in Honor of Hans Panofsky. Julian Witherlell,
ed. Metuchen, N.J.: Scarecrow Press, 1989.

. Review: Echoes of African Art: A Century of Art in South Africa
(1987) by Manaka Matsemela. African Book Publishing Record (Oxford) 15
G3): 27S, £989):

Review: One Dry Season: In the Footsteps of Mary Kingsley (1989) by
Caroline Alexander. Library Journal 114 (19): 101, November 15, 1989.

Review: Our Grandmother’s Drums by Mark Hudson. Library Journal 115
(3): 193, February 15, 1990.

Review: Primitive Art in Civilized Places (1989) by Sally Price.
Art Documentation 9 (1): 21-22. Spring 1990.

. Review: Save the Beloved Country by Alan Paton. Library Journal 114

(17): 93, October 15, 1989.

Review: Sub-Saharan African Films and Filmmakers: An Annotated
Bibliography -- films et Cin@astes Africains de la Region subsaharienne:
une bibliographie commentte (1988) by Nancy Schmidt. African Studies
Review 33 (1): 135-36, April 1990.

. Review: Xhosa Music: Its Technique and Instruments with a Collection

of Songs by David Dargie. African Book Publishing Record 15 (4): 265,

Ellen

1989.
B. Wells (and Anne Grimshaw), Introduction and annotations, The
Annotated Black Beauty, London: J. A. Allen, 1989.

"Marbled endpapers in the NSL collection." National Sporting

Library Newsletter, No. 29 (December 1989): [1-2].

172
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Ackerman, James D. "Geographic and Seasonal Variation in Fragrance Choices and
Preferences of Male Euglossine Bees." Biotropica 21(4): 340-347 (1989).

Adams, Eldridge. "Boundary Disputes in the Territorial Ant Azteca trigona: Effects of
Asymmetries in Colony Size." Animal Behaviour 39: 321-328 (1990).

. "Interaction Between the Ants Zacryptocerus maculatus and Azteca trigona
Interspecific Parasitization of Information." Biotropica 22(2): 200-206 (1990).

. The Relationship Between Leaf Phenology and Herbivory in a Tropical
Understory Community. Ph.D. dissertation, Biology Department (University of Utah
1989).

Adams, Eldredge, and Caldwell, Roy L. "Deceptive Communication in Asymmetric Fights on
the Stomatopod Crustacean Gonodaytylus bredini. Animal Behaviour 39: 706-716
(1990).

Aide, T. Mitchell and Londofio, E. C. "The Effects of Rapid Leaf Expansion on the Growth
and Survivorship of a Lepidopteran Herbivore." Oikos 55: 66-70 (1989).

Aiello, Annette. "Garden of Eden: A Practical Guide to Landscaping for Food and Beauty,
by Fred Hagy," (Book Review). Library Journal 114(6): 104 (1989).

. "In Search of Lost Roses, by Thomas Chnstopher," (Book Review). Library
Journal 114(13): 155 (1989).

. "Ninety-nine Gnats, Nits and Nibblers, by May R. Berenbaum, (Book
Review). Library Journal 114(7): 96 (1989).

Ainly, D. G., Carter, H. R., Anderson, D. W., Bnggs, K. T., Coulter, M. C., Cruz, J. B.,
Valle, C. A., Fefer, S. I., Hatch, S. A., Schreiber, E. A., Schreiber, R. W., and Smith,
N. G. "Effects of the 1982-83 El Nifio - Southern Oscillation on Pacific Ocean Bird
Populations." In: Proceedings of the International Omithological Congress, Ottawa,
Canada 1986: 1747-1758 (1988).

Andrews, Robin M. and Nichols, Dames D. "Temporal and Spatial Variation in Survival
Rates of the Tropical Lizard Anolis limifrons. Oikos 57: 215-221 (1990).

Andrews, Robin M. and Rand, A. Stanley. "Reproduccion Estacional y Fluctuaciones
Poblacionales a Largo Plazo de la Lagartija Anolis limifrons." In: Ecologia de un
Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh,
Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 469-478. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

"Adiciodn: Nuevas Percepciones Derivadas de la Continuacidn de un Estudio a
Largo Plazo de la Lagartija Anolis limifrons." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical:
Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand
and D. M. Windsor: 477-480. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa,
Republica de Panaméa, 1990).

Andrews, R.M., Stahl, S. J. and Nicoletto, P. F. "Intra-Population Variation in Age of Sexual
Maturity of the Tropical Lizard Anolis limifrons in Panama." Copeia 1989(3): 751-
753 (1989).

Angermeier, Paul L. and Schlosser, Issac J. "Species-Area Relationships for Stream Fishes."
Ecology 70(5): 1450-1462, (1989).

Augspurger, Carol K. "Una Senal para la Floracion Sincronica." In: Ecologia de un Bosque

Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A

S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 201-218. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(Balboa, Reptiblica de Panaméa, 1990).

Belk, Marc C., Black, Hal L., Jorgensen, Clive D., Hubbell, Stephen P. and Foster, Robin B.
"Nest Tree Selectivity by the Tropical Ant Paraponera clavata." Biotropica 21(2):
173-177 (1989).

Bock, Brian C. and Rand, A. Stanley. "Factors Influencing Nesting Synchrony and Hatching
Success at a Green Iguana Nesting Aggregation in Panama." Copeia 1989(4): 978-986
(1989).

Bock, Brian C., Rand, A. Stanley and Burghardt, Gordon M. "Nesting Season Movements of
Female Green Iguanas (Iguana iguana) in Panama" Copeia 1989(1): 214-216 (1989).

Booth, William. "In Rain Forest, a Tangled, Bizarre Web of Life." The Washington Post,
Sunday, December 17, pages Al, A22, A23 (1989).

. "Oil Slicks Common 3 Years After Spill." The Washington Post A6, Sunday,
November 19 (1989).

Brazeau, Daniel A. "Male-Biased Sex Ratio and Planulation Success in the Caribbean
Gorgonian Briareum asbestinum." American Zoologist 28(4): 138A (1988).

Brazeau, Daniel A. and Lasker, Howard R. "“Inter- and Intraspecific Variation in Gorgonian
Colony Morphology: Quantifying Branching Patterns in Arborescent Animals." Coral
Reefs 7(3): 139-144 (1988).

. "Reproductive Cycle and Larval Release of a Caribbean Gorgonian.
Biological Bulletin 176(1): 1-7 (1989).

. "Sexual Reproduction and External Brooding by the Caribbean Gorgonian
Briareum asbestinum.” Marine Biology 104(3): 465-474 (1990).

Brokaw, Nicholas V. L. "Caida de Arboles: Frecuencia, Cronologia y Consecuencias." In:
Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited
by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 163-174. Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panamd, 1990).

Bums, Kathryn A. and Knap, Anthony H. "The Bahia las Minas Oil Spill: Hydrocarbon
Uptake by Reef Building Corals." Marine Pollution Bulletin 20(8): 391-398 (1989).

Caine, N.G. and Weldon, Paul J. “Responses by Red-Bellied Tamarins Saguinus labiatus to
Fecal Scents of Predatory and Non-Predatory Neotropical Mammals." Biotropica
21(2): 186-189 (1989).

Castro, Gonzalo and Myers, J. P. "Validity of Predictive Equations for Total Body Fat in
Sanderlings from Different NonBreeding Areas." The Condor 92: 205-209 (1990).

Cavelier, Jaime and Goldstein, Guillermo. "Leaf Anatomy and Water Relations in Tropical
Elfin Cloud Forest Tree Species." In: Structural and Functional Responses to
Environmental Stresses: 243-253. Edited by K.H. Kreeb, H. Richter and T.M.
Hinckley. (The Hague, The Netherlands: SPB Academic Publishing 1989).

Cazin Jr., John, Weimer, David F. and Howard, Jerome J. "Isolation Growth Characteristics
and Long-Term Storage of Fungi cultivated by Attine Ants." Applied Environmental
Microbiology 55(6): 1346-1350 (1989).

Choe, Jae C. "Worker Reproduction and Social Evolution in Ants (Hymenoptera:
Formicidae)." In: Advances in Myrmecology: 163-187. Edited by J.C. Trager.
(Leiden: E. J. Brill 1988).

. “Maternal Care in Labidomera suturella Chevrolat (Coleoptera:
Chrysomelidae: Chrysomelinae) from Costa Rica." Psyche 96(1-2): 63-67 (1989).

. "Zorotypus gumeyi, New Species, from Panama and Redescription of Z.
barberi Gumey (Zoraptera: Zorotypidae)." Annals of the Entomological Society of
America 82(2): 149-155 (1989).

Choe, Jae C. and Ke Chung Kim. "Microhabitat Selection and Coexistence in Feather Mites
(Acari: Analgoidea) on Alaskan Seabirds." Oecologia 79: 10-14 (1989).

Christy, John H. "Rapid Development of Megalopae of the Fiddler Crab Uca pugilator reared
over sediment: implications for models of Larval Recruitment.” Marine Ecology
Progress Series 57: 259-265 (1989).

Ciochon, R.L. and Piperno, Dolores R. "Diet of Gigantopithecus blacki: New Evidence from
Opal Phytoliths Found Bonded to the Enamel Surfaces of its Teeth." American
Journal of Physical Anthropologists 78(2): 204 (1989).

Clifton, Kenneth E. "Territory Sharing by the Caribbean Striped Parrotfish, Scarus iserti:
Patterns of Resource Abundance, Group Size and Behavior." Animal Behaviour 37(1):
90-103 (1989).

Coffroth, Mary Alice. "The Function and Fate of Mucous Sheets Produced by Reef
Coelenterates." In: Proceedings of the 6th International Coral Reef Symposium, Vol.
2: 15-20. Edited by J.H. Choat et al. (Townsville, Australia: James Cook University
1988).

Cole, Kathleen S. "Patterns of Gonad Structure in Hermaphroditic Gobies (Teleostei:
Gobiidae)." Environmental Biology of Fishes 28: 125-142 (1990).

Cole, Kathleen S. and Shapiro, D.Y. "Gonad Structure and Hermaphroditism in the Gobiid
Genus Coryphoptemus (Teleostei: Gobiidae)." Copeia 1990(4): 966-973.

Coley, Phillis D. "Tasas de Herbivorismo en Diferentes Arboles Tropicales." In: Ecologia de
un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G.
Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 191-200. Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

. "Mucous Sheet Formation on Poritid Corals: An Evaluation of Mucuous
Sheets as a Nutrient Source on Reefs." Marine Biology 105: 39-49 (1989).

Correa A., Mireya D. and Pons, Susana. "Panama." In: Especies Vegetales Promisorias de
los Paises del Convenio Andrés Bello, Tomo II. Edited by Henry Yesid Bernal and
Jaime Enrique Correa Q. (Bogota: Editora Guadalupe 1989).

Craig, Catherine L. "Alternative Foraging Modes of Orb Web Weaving Spiders." Biotropica
21(3): 257-264 (1989).

Cubit, John D. and Burgett, JM. "Algal Blooms after Oil Spills: Implications for Ecological
Theory.” (Abstract No. 87) In: Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium, August 8-
12 1988: 22 (1988).

Cubit, John D., Caffey, Hugh M., Thompson, Ricardo C. and Windsor, Donald M.
"Meteorology and Hydrography of a Shoaling Reef Flat on the Caribbean Coast of
Panama.” Coral Reefs 8(2): 59-66 (1989).

Cubit, John D., et al. "Effects of an Oil Spill on Mangrove, Seagrass, Reef Flat, and Coral
Communities on the Caribbean Coast of Panama." In: Proceedings: Eight Annual Gulf
of Mexico Information Transfer Meeting, December 1987: 109-112 (Plano, Texas, Geo
Marine, Inc. 1988).

D’Croz, Luis, Del Rosario, Juan and Holness, Ricardo. "Degradation of Red Mangrove

(Rhizophora mangle L.) Leaves in the Bay of Panama." Revista de Biologia Tropical
37(1): 101-104 (1989).

Ht
Deneubourg, J. L., Goss, S., Franks, Nigel and Pasteels, J. M. "The Blind Leading the Blind:
Modeling Chemically Mediated Army Ant Raid Patterns." Journal of Insect Behavior
2: 719-725 (1989).

Dietrich, William E., Windsor, Donald M and Dunne, Thomas. "Geologia, Clima e Hidrologia
de la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y
Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr, A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 25-
52. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panamd, 1990).

D’Orgeix, Christian A. Individual Recogmtion and Neighbor/Stranger Discrimination in the
Lizard Anolis limifrons. Masters Thesis (Fullerton: California State University 1989).

DeVries, Philip J. "I Remember Gordon." Journal of the Lepidoptera Society 43(3): 343-345
(1989).

. "Insects and Flowers, The Biology of a Partnership, by FG. Barth," (Book
Review). Journal of the New York Entomological Society 97(1): 118-120 (1989).

. "Notes on Panacea procilla (Nymphalidae) from Costa Rica." Journal of
Research on the Lepidoptera 27(2): 140-141 (1989).

. “The Butterflies of Hispaniola, by A. Schwartz" (Book Review). Journal of
Research on the Lepidoptera 27(3-4): 272-276 (1989).

DeVries, Philip J. and Baker, I. "Butterfly Exploitation of an Ant-Plant Mutualism: Adding
Insult to Herbivory." Journal of the New York Entomological Society 97(3): 332-340
(1989).

DeVries, Philip J. and Dudley, Robert. "Morphometrics, Airspeed, Thermoregulation, and Lipid
Reserves of Migrating Urania fulgens (Uraniidae) Moths in Natural Free Flight."
Physiological Zoology 63(1): 235-251.

Dressler, Robert L. "The Improbable Selenipedium chica." American Orchid Society Bulletin
58: 549-552 (1989).

. "“Pollinia-Presentation in Dendrobium Section Pedilonum." Selbyana 11: 35-38
(1989).
. "Rostellum and Viscidium: Divergent Definitions." Lindleyana - The Scientific

Journal of the American Orchid Society 1: 48-49 (1989).
. “Stanhopea avicula, a New Twin-Flowered Species from Eastern Panama."

American Orchid Society Bulletin 58(9): 885-886 (1989).

. "The Vamdoid Orchids: A Polyphyletic Grade?" Lindleyana - The Scientific
Journal of the American Orchid Society 4(2): 89-93 (1989).

. "Will the Real Epidendrum ibaguense Please Stand Up?" American Orchid
Society Bulletin 58: 796-800 (1989).

Druffel, E. R. M., Dunbar, R. B., Wellington, Gerard M. and Minnis, S. A. "Reef-Building
Corals and Identifying of ENSO Warming Episodes." In: Global Ecological
Consequences of The 1982-83 El Nino-Southern Oscillation, edited by P.W. Glynn: 233-
254. (Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1990).

Dudley, Elizabeth C., and Vermeij, Geerat J. "Shell Form and Burrowing Performance in
Gastropods from Pacific Panama, with Comments on Regional Differences in Functional
Specialization." The Veliger 32(3):284-287 (1989).

Dudley, Robert. "Biomechanics of Flight in Neotropical Butterflies: Morphometrics and
Kinematcs." Journal of Experimental Biology 150: 37-53 (1990).

. "Kinematics and Aerodynamics of Flight in Butterflies" (Abstract 375). American
Zoologist 29(4): 83A (1989).

176
. "A Neotropical Companion (Book Review)." Copeia 1990: 600-601 (1990).
Dudley, Robert and DeVries, Philip J. "Flight Physiology of Migrating Urania fulgens
(Uraniidae) Moths: Kinematics and Aerodynamics of Natural Free Flight." Journal of
Comparative Physiology, A 167: 145-154 (1990).
. "Flight Physiology of the Migratory Central American Moth Urania fulgens
(Uraniidae).". American Zoologist 28(4): 102A (1988).
Dudley, Robert and Ellington, C. P. "Mechanics of Forward Flight in Bumblebees. I. Kinematics
and Morphology." Journal of Experimental Biology 148: 19-52 (1990).
. "Mechanics of Forward Flight in Bumblebees. II. Quasi-Steady Lift and
Mechanical Power Requirements.” Journal of Experimental Biology 148: 19-52 (1990).
Dudley, Robert and Milton, Katharine. "Parasite Deterrence and the Energetic Costs of Slapping
in Howler Monkeys, Alouatta palliata. Journal of Mammalogy 71: 463-465 (1990).
Eakin, Carlton Mark. “Avoidance of Damselfish Lawns by the Sea Urchin Diadema mexicanum
at Uva Island, Panama." In: Proceedings of the 6th International Coral Reef Symposium,
Australia, 1988, Vol. 2: 21-26 (1988).
Eberhard, William G. "Evolution in Bacterial Plasmids and Levels of Selection." Quarterly
Review of Biology 65(1): 3-22 (1990).
. "Imprecision in the Behavior of Leptomorphus Sp. (Diptera, Mycetophilidae) and
the Evolutionary Origin of New Behavior Patterns." Journal of Insect Behavior 3(3):
327- (1990).
. "Use of Host Aggregations as Mating Sites by Cgrysagna alticophaga (Diptera:
Sarcophagidae).” Psyche 96(1-2): 45-48 (1989).
. “Why do Bacterial Plasmids Carry Some Genes and Not Others?" Plasmid 21(3):
167-174 (1989).
Emlen, Stephen T., Demong, Natalie J. and Emlen, Douglas J. "Experimental Induction of
Infanucide in Female Wattled Jacanas." The Auk 106(1): 1-7 (1989).
Engelman, Robert. "U.S. scientists Trying to Save Panama’s Tropical Forests." Birmingham
Post Herald Aug. 30(1989): D8 (1989).
Feener, Donald H. and Moss, Karen A. G. "Defense Against Parasites by Hitchhikers in Leaf-
Cutting Ants: A Quantitative Assessment." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 26: 17-
29 (1990).
Fischer, Eric. "On Being a Good Fellow." The AAAs Observer, Supplement to Science
4(March 3): 12 (1989).
Fleishman, Leo J. and Rand, A. Stanley. "Caiman crocodilus Does not Require Vision for
Underwater Prey Capture.” Journal of Herpetology 23(3): 296 (1989).
Foster, Robin. "Ciclo Estacional de Caida de Frutos en la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia
de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G.
Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 219-242. Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).
. "Hambruna en la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical:
Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and
D. M. Windsor: 271-284. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de
Panama, 1990).
Foster, Robin and Brokaw, Nicholas V. L. "Estructura e Historia de la Vegetacidn de la Isla de

Barro Colorado.” In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a
Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor. 113-128.

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Foster, Robin and Hubbell, Stephen P. "Estructura de la Vegetacidn y Composicion de Especies
en un Lote de Cincuenta Hectdreas de la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un
Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh,
Jr, A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 141-152. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Foster, Susan A. "The Implications of Divergence in Spatial Nesting Patterns in the Geminate
Caribbean and Pacific Sergeant Major Damselfishes." Animal Behaviour 37(3): 465-476
(1989).

Fraga, Rosendo M. "Colony Size and Nest Trees of Montezuma Oropendolas in Costa Rica."
Journal of Field Omithology 60(3): 289-295 (1989).

. "Interactions Between Nectarivorous Birds and the Flowers of Aphelandra
siclairiana in Panama." Journal of Tropical Ecology 5(1): 19-26 (1989).

Franks, Nigel. "Ecologia y Regulacidn de Poblacion de la Hormiga Guerrera Eciton_burchelli."
In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited
by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 453-460. Smithsonian Tropical
Research Insutute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

. (Reply to): Silverman, Wendy, in Animal Experiments, American Scientist (July-
August 1989): 317 (1989).

. "Thermoregulaton in Army Ant Bivouacs." Physiological Entomology 14: 397-
404 (1989).

Froehlich, Jeffery W. and Thonngton Jr., Richard W. "Estructura Genética y Socio-ecologia de
los Monos Aulladores Alouatta palliata de la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un
Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh,
Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 375-392. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(Balboa, Republica de Panamd, 1990).

Full, Robert J., Caldwell, Roy L. and Shong W., Chow. "Smashing Energetics: Prey Selection
and Feeding Efficiency of the Stomatopod, Gonodactylus bredini. Ethology 81(2): 134-
147 (1989).

Garwood, Nancy C. "Ciclo Estacional de Germinacion de Semillas en un Bosque
Semicaducifolio Tropical." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y
Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 243-
258. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panaméd, 1990).

Giacalone-Madden, Jacalyn, Glanz, William E. and Leigh Jr., Egbert G. "Adicién: Fluctuaciones
Poblacionales a Largo Plazo de Sciurus granatensis en Relacidn con la Disponibilidad de
Frutos." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo
Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr, A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 331-336. Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Gilliam, M., Roubik, David W. and Lorenz, BJ. "Microorganisms Associated with Pollen,
Honey, and Brood Provisions in the Nest of a Stingless Bee, Melipona fasciata."
Apidologie 21: 89-97 (1990).

Glanz, William E. "Fauna de Mamiferos Terrestres de la Isla de Barro Colorado: Censos y
Cambios a Largo Plazo." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y
Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 523-
538. Smithsonian Tropical Research Insttute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Glanz, William E., Thorington Jr., Richard W., Giacalone-Madden, Jacalyn and Heaney,

178
Lawrence R. "Utilizacién Estacional de Alimentos y Tendencias Demogrdficas de
Sciurus granatensis." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios
a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 317-330.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panamd, 1990).

Glynn, Peter W. "El Nifio Warming Coral Mortality and Reef Framework Destruction by
Echinoid Bioerosion in the Eastern Pacific. Galaxea 7(2): 129-160 (1988).

Glynn, Peter W. (ed.). Global Ecological Consequences of the 1982-83 El Nifio-Southern
Oscillation. (Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1990).

Glynn, Peter W. and Colgan, M.W. "Defense of Corals and Enhancement of Coral Diversity by
Territorial Damselfishes". Proceedings of the Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium,
Townsville, Australia, Vol 2: 157-163 (1989).

Glynn, Peter W., Cortés, Jorge, Guzman, Héctor M. and Richmond, R.H. "El Nino (1982-1983)
associated coral mortality and relationship to sea surface temperature deviations in the
Tropical Eastern Pacific." Proceedings of the Sixth International Coral Reef Symposium,
Australia, 1988, Vol. 3: 237-243 (1989).

Glynn, Peter W. and D’Croz, Luis. "Experimental Evidence for High Temperature Stress as the
Cause of El Nifio-Coincident Coral Mortality." Coral Reefs 8: 181-191 (1990).

Gomez Herrera, Juan Antonio and Villalaz Guerra, Janzel Rogelio. "Ciclo Anual de Maduracién
Sexual de la Conchuela." Scientia (Panama) 3(1): 67-77 (1988).

Gonzalez, Eric E. and Harmis, Leslie. "A Preliminary Study on the Polychaete Fauna on Some
Beaches in Panama City, Panama” (Abstract). In: 3rd. International Polychaete
Conference, California State University, Long Beach, August 6-11, 1989 (1989).

Gradwohl, Judy and Greenberg, Russell. "Temporada de Reproduccién de Tres Pajaros
Hormigueros en la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos
Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M.
Windsor: 433-442. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Reptiblica de
Panama, 1990).

Green, Andrew J. "Determinants of Chorus Participation and the Effect of Size, Weight and
Competition on Advertisement Calling in the Tungara Frog, Physalaemus pustulosus
(Leptodactylidae)." Animal Behaviour 39: 620-638 (1990).

Grmson, Lindsey. "A Plan to Save Iguanas, and the Rain Forests in the Bargain." The New
York Times (Aug. 22, 1989): C4. (1989).

Guzman, Héctor, Cortés, Jorge, Glynn, Peter W. and Richmond, Richard H. "Coral Mortality
Associated with Dinoflagellate Blooms in the Eastern Pacific (Costa Rica and Panama)."
Marine Ecology Progress Series 60: 299-303 (1990).

Guzman, Héctor M. and Cortés, Jorge. "Coral Reef Community Structure at Cafio Island, Pacific
Costa Rica." Marine Ecology 10(1): 23-41 (1989).

Guzman, Héctor M. and Jiménez, Carlos E. "Pterogorgia anceps (Pallas) (Octocorallia:
Gorgoniidae): Nuevo Informe para la Costa Caribefia de Costa Rica." Revista de
Biologia Tropical 37(2): 231-232 (1989).

Haldane, F. R. S., J. B. S. The Causes of Evolution by J. B. S. Haldane, F. R. S., with a New
Introduction and Afterword by Egbert G. Leigh, Jr. (Princeton, Princeton University
Press, 1990).

Heck, Kenneth L. and Weinstein, Michael P. "Feeding Habits of Juvenile Reef Fishes
Associated with Panamanian Seagrass Meadows." Bulletin of Marine Science 45(3): 629-
636 (1989).

Lig
Herre, Edward Allen. "Coevolution of Reproductive Characteristics in 12 Species of New World
Figs and their Pollinator Wasps." Experientia 45: 637-647 (1989).

. Sex Ratio Adjustment in Thirteen Species of Panamanian Fig Wasps. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Iowa (1988).

Higgins, Linden Elizabeth. Variation in Web Structure in the Orb-Weaving Spider Nephila
clapides and correlated Changes in Life History. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Texas at
Austin (1988).

Howard, Jerome J. "Infidelity of Leafcutting Ants to Host Plants: Resource Heterogeneity or
Defense Induction?" Oecologia 82: 394-401 (1990).

Howe, Henry F. "Produccidn de Frutos y Actividad Animal en dos Arboles Tropicales." In:
Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by
E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 259-270. Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

. "Survival and Growth of Juvenile Virola surinamensis in Panama. Effects of
Herbivory and Canopy closure." Journal of Tropical Ecology 6: 259-280 (August 1990).

Howe, Henry F. and Westley, L.C. Ecological Relationships of Plants and Animals. New York:
Oxford University Press (1988).

Ibdfiez, Roberto. "Geographic Distribution: Centrolenella pulverata." SSAR Herpetological
Review 193(3): 59 (1988).

Jackson, Jeremy B. C. and Cheetham, Alan H. "Evolutionary Significance of Morphospecies: A
Test with Cheilostome Bryozoa." Science 248: 579-582 (4 May 1990).

Jaramillo, César F., Jaramillo, Fidel and Ibdfez, Roberto. "Geographic Distribution:
Centrolenella colymbiphyllum." SSAR Herpetological Review 19(3): 59 (1988).

Jaramillo, Fidel, Jaramillo, César F. and Ibdfiez, Roberto. "Geographic Distribution:
Centrolenella vireovittata." SSAR Herpetological Review 19(3): 59 (1988).

Johnson, Mark J. Chemical Weathering Controls on the Composition of Modern Fluvial Sands
in Tropical Weathering Environments. Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Geological and
Geophysical Sciences, Princeton University (1989).

Johnson, Mark J. and Stallard, Robert F. “Physiographic Controls on the Composition of
Sediments Derived from Volcanic and Sedimentary Terrains on Barro Colorado Island,
Panama." Journal of Sedimentary Petrology 59(5): 768-781 (1989).

Joly, L. G., Guerra, S., Séptimo, R., Solis, P. N., Correa A., Mireya D., Gupta, M. P., Levy, S.,
Sandberg, F. and Perera, P. “Ethnobotanical Inventory of Medicinal Plants Used by the
Guaymi Indians in Western Panama, Part II." Journal of Ethnopharmacology 28: 191-206
(1990).

Karr, James R. and Brawn, Jeffrey D. “Food Resources of Understory Birds in Central Panama:
Quantifications and Effects on Avian Populations." Studies in Avian Biology 13: 58-64
(1990).

Karr, James R., Schemske, Douglas W. and Brokaw, Nicholas V. L. "Wariaciones Temporales
de la Comunidad de Aves del Sotobosque de un Bosque Tropical." In: Ecologia de un
Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh,
Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 509-522. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Keller, Sue and Scott, Armbruster. "Pollination of Hyptis capitata by Eumenid Wasps in
Panama." Biotropica 21(2): 190-192 (1989).

Kilar, John A. and McLachlan, J. "Effects of Wave Exposure on the Community Structure of a

180
Plant-Dominated, Fringing-Reef Platform: Intermediate Disturbance-Mediated
Compettion." Marine Ecology Progress Series 54(3): 265-276 (1989).

King, V. A. and Dudley, Robert. "The Implications of Shape and Metamorphosis for Drag
Forces on Anuran Larvae." (Abstract 120). Annals Soc. Roy. Zool. Belg. 119 (Suppl.1)
(1989).

Kite, G. C., Horm, J. M., Romeo, J. T., Fellows, L. E., Lees, D. C., Scotfield, A. M. and Smith,
Neal G. "s<-Homonokinimycin and 2,5-Dihydroxymethyl1-3,4-Dihydroxy-Pyrrolidine:
Alkaloidal Glycosidase Inhibitors in the Moth Urania fulgens.". Phytochemistry 29(1):
103-105 (1990).

Knowlton, Nancy, Lang, J. C. and Keller, Brian D. "Fates of Staghorn Coral Isolates on
Hurricane-Damaged Reefs in Jamaica: the Role of Predators." In: Proceedings of the 6th
International Coral Reef Symposium, Australia, 1988, Vol. 2: 83-88 (1989).

La Estrella de Panama. "Estudio Cientifico: Confirmada Asombrosa Diversidad Bioldégica de
Bosques Tropicales." La Estrella de Panama (March 26, 1989).

Lasker, Howard and Coffroth, Mary Alice. "Temporal and Spatial Variability among Grazers:
Variability in the Distribution of the Gastropod Cyphoma gibbosum on Octocorals."
Marine Ecology (Progress Series) 43: 285-295 (1988).

Lasker, Howard, Coffroth, Mary Alice and Fitzgerald, L. "Foraging Patterns of Cyphoma
gibbosum on Octocorals: The Roles of Host and Prey Preferences." Biological Bulletin
174: 254-266 (1988).

Lee, David W., Bone, Richard A., Tarsis, Sara L. and Storch, David. "Correlates of Leaf Optical
Propertes in Tropical Forest Sun and Extreme-Shade Plants." American Journal of
Botany 77 (3): 370-380 (1990).

Leigh Jr., Ebgert Giles. "Community Diversity and Environmental Stability: A Re-Examinaton."
Tree 5(10): 340-344 (October 1990).

. "Importance de la Faune et de la Flore de Madagascar pour la Théorié de
V’Evolution." In: L’Equilibre des Ecosystémes Foresti¢res 4 Madagascar. Actes d’un
Séminaire International: 155-179. Edited by L. Rakotovao, V. Barre and J. Sayers. Gland,
Suisse: Union Internationale pour la Conservation de la Nature et de ses Ressources
(1988).

. "Introduccién." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y
Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 15-
22. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

. "Introduccion: La Importancia de las Fluctuaciones Poblacionales." In: Ecologia
de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G.
Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 503-508. Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panamé, 1990).

. "Introduccién: La Seleccién Natural y los Ciclos del Bosque." In: Ecologia de
un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh,
Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 175-178. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

. "Introduccidn: ;Por Qué Hay Tantos Tipos de Arboles Tropicales? In: Ecologia
de_un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G.
Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 75-99. Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

181
. "Rain Forest from Inside" (Book Review) of The Tropical Rain Forest, by M.
Jacobs. Science 246(4931): 828-829 (1989).

. "The Evolution of Individuality, by Leo W. Buss" (Book Review). The Condor
91(1): 223-225 (1989).

Leigh, Jr., Egbert G. and Windsor, Donald M. "Produccion del Bosque y Regulacion de
Consumidores Primarios de la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un Bosque
Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr, A. S.
Rand and D. M. Windsor: 179-190. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa,
Reptiblica de Panama, 1990).

Leigh, Jr., Egbert G., Windsor, Donald M., Rand, A. Stanley and Foster, Robin B. "The Impact
of the "El Nifio" Drought of 1982-83 on a Panamanian Semidecidious Forest." In: Global
Ecological Consequences of The 1982-83 El Nino-Southern Oscillation, edited by P.W.
Glynn: 473-486. (Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1990).

Lessios, Harilaos A. "Adaptation and Phylogeny as Determinants of Egg Size in Echinoderms
from the Two Sides of the Isthmus of Panama." American Naturalist 135(1): 1-13
(1990).

. "Fate of Diadema antillarum Populations in the Four Years Following Mass
Mortality." In: Echinoderm Biology: Sixth International Echinoderm Conference,
Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, August 23-28: 802 (1988).

Levings. Sally C. and Windsor, Donald M. "Fluctuaciones de las Poblaciones de Artropodos de
Hojarasca." In: Ecologia de_ un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo
Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 443-452. Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panaméa, 1990).

Lewin, Ralph A. and Cheng, Lanna. "Some Lipogenic, Eukaryotic, Picopleuston Algae from the
Caribbean Region." Phycologia 28(1): 96-108 (1989).

Lewis, Angelo John. "At Home on Barro Colorado." Princeton Alumni Weekly October 11: 29-
32 (1989).

Linares, Olga F. "Kuseek and Kunimen: Wives and Kinswomen in Jola Society." Canadian
Journal of African Studies 22(3): 472-490 (1988).

. "The Marketing of Foodstuffs in the Gambia, 1400-1980: a Geographical
Analysis, by Hazel Barrett" (Book Review). Man 24(2): 353 (1989).

. “Strategies and Norms in a Changing Matmilineal Society: Descent, Succession
and Inhentance Among the Toka of Zambia, by Ladislav Holy" (Book Review). African
Studies Review 31(2): 160-162 (1988).

McGuiness, K.A. "Effects of Some Natural and Antificial Substrata on Sessile Marine
Organisms at Galeta Reef, Panama." Marine Ecology - Progress Series 52(2): 201-208
(1989).

Manokaran, N., LaFrankie, J. V., Kochummen, K. M., Quah, E. S., Klahn, J. E., Ashton, P. S.
and Hubbell, S. P. "Methodology for the Fifty Hectare Research Plot at Pasoh Forest
Reserve." Research Pamphlet, Malysia Forest Institute, No. 104 (1990).

Milton, Katharine. "Calidad Dietética y Regulaci6n Demogrdfica de una Poblacidn de Monos
Aulladores por Allouatta palliata." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos
Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M.
Windsor: 357-374. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de
Panama, 1990).

Mora, Giselle. "Paternal Care in a Neotropical Harvestman, Zygopachylus albomarginis
(Arachnida, Opiliones: Gonyleptidae)." Animal Behavior 39: 582-593 (1990).

Morse, Daniel E. "Recent Progress in Larval Settlement and Metamorphosis: Closing the Gaps
Between Molecular Biology and Ecology." Bulletin of Marine Science 46(2): 465-483
(1990).

Moynihan, Martin H. "Social, Sexual and Pseudosexual Behavior of the Blue-Bellied Roller,
Coracias cyanogaster: The Consequences of Crowding or Concentration." Smithsonian
Contributions to Zoology 491: 1-23 (1990).

Norris, James N. and Bucher, Katina E. "Rhodogorgon, an Anomalous New Red Algal Genus
from the Caribbean Sea." Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 102(4):
1050-1066 (1989).

Oppemheimer, John R. "Cebus capucinus: Ambito Doméstco, Dindmica de Poblacion y
Relaciones Interespecificas." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y
Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr, A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 337-
356. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Paez, Vivian P. and Bock, Bnan C. “Crocodilia." Herpetological Review 19(4): 83 (1988).

Palacios Sanchez, Graciela. Clasificacién y Distribucion de las Algas Clorofitas (Chlorophyta)
Macroscopicas del Archipiélago de las Mulatas, San Blas (Kuna Yala). Tesis,
Departamento de Botanica, Escuela de Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y
Exactas. (Panama: Universidad de Panama 1989).

Parra, Guiomar Nates and Roubik, David W. "Sympatry Among Subspecies of Melipona favosa
in Colombia and a Taxonomic Revision." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society
63(1): 200-203 (1990).

Petersen, Raymond L., Brack-Hanes, Sheila D. and Greco, Anthony M. "Salt Tolerance in
Ferns.” Proceedings of the International Symposium on Present and Future Perspectives

in Pteridology, August 8-10 University of Rajasthan, Jaipur, India: 135-136 (1989).
Piperno, Dolores. "Fitolitos, Arqueologia y Cambios Prehistdricos de la Vegetacioén en un Lote

de Cincuenta Hectdreas de la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un Bosque
Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S.
Rand and D. M. Windsor: 153-156. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa,
Republica de Panama, 1990).

Piperno, Dolores R., Bush, Mark B. and Colinvaux, Paul A. "Paleoenvironments and Human
Occupation in Late-Glacial Panama." Quarterly Research 33(1): 1990.

Puga, R.C. and Bethancourt, R. "Early Growth of Acacia mangium Willd. On an Ultisol of

Panama.” Nitrogen Fixing Tree Association Reports 8: 111-112 (1990).
Putz, Francis E. and Milton, Katharine. '"Tasas de Mortalidad de los Arboles en la Isla de Barro

Colorado." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo
Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 157-162. Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Quintero A., Diomedes and Rodriguez, R. R. "New Species of Typhoctes from Panama
(Hymenoptera: Typhoctidae).” Annals of the Entomological Society of America 83(1):
30-35 (1990).

Rand, A. Stanley, Dugan, Beverly A., Monteza, Hebe and Vianda Daliza. "The Diet of
Generalized Folivore: Iguana iguana in Panama." Journal of Herpetology 24(2): 211-214
(1990).

Richardson, Richard H. "The Effects of The El Nino/Southem Oscillation on the Dispersal of
Corals and other Marine Organisms.” In: Global Ecological Consequences of The 1982-
83 El Nino-Southem Oscillation, edited by P.W. Glynn: 127-140. (Amsterdam: Elsevier,
1990).

Robinson, Michael H. "Phenomena, Comment and Notes." Smithsonian 20(12): 24-30 (1990).

Roubik, David W. "A Mixed Colony of Eulaema (Hymenoptera: Apidae), Natural Enemies, and
Limits to Sociality.". Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 63(1): 150-157 (1990).

. "Mate Location and Mate Competition in Males of Stingless Bees (Hymenoptera:
Apidae: Meliponinae)." Entomol. Gener. 15(2): 115-120 (1990).

. "Niche Preemption in Tropical Bee Communities: A Comparison of Neotropical
and Malesian Faunas." In: Natural History of Social Wasps and Bees in Equatorial
Sumatra, edited by Sakagami, Shoichi F., Ohgushi, Ryoh-ichi and Roubik, David W.:
245-258. (Sapporo: Hokkaido University Press 1990).

Roubik, David W. and Boreham, Melvin M. "Learning to Live with Africanized Honeybees."
Interciencia 15(3): 146-153 (1990).

Rubinoff, Ira and Leigh, Jr., Egbert G. "Dealing with Diversity: The Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute and Tropical Biology." Trends in Ecology and Evolution 5(4): 115-
118.

Ruppell, G. and Fincke, Ola M. "Mecistogaster omatus (Pseudosugmatidae) Flugverhalten und
Nahrungserwerb." (Published in German and English). Publ. Wiss. Film, Sekt. Biol., Ser
20, Nr. 7/E 2975: 3-15 (1989).

. "Megaloprepus coerulatus (Pseudostigmatidae) Flug- und Fortpflanzungs
Verhalten, Flying and Reproduction Behaviour." Publ. Wiss. Film, Sekt. Biol., Ser 20
Nr. 10/E 2976: 3-20 (1989).

Russell, James K. "Influencia de las Fluctuaciones Alimentarias Sobre la Epoca de
Reproduccidn de los Coaties (Nasua narica)." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos
Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M.
Windsor: 481-502. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de
Panama, 1990).

Ryan, Michael J., Fox, James H., Wilczynski and Rand, A. Stanley. "Sexual Selection for
Sensory Exploitation in the Frog Physalaemus pustulosus." Nature 343(6253): 66-67
(January, 1990).

Ryan, Michael J. and Rand, A. Stanley. "The Sensory Basis of Sexual Selection for Complex
Calls in the Tangara Fog, Physalaemus pustulosus (Sexual Selection for Sensory
Exploitation)." Evolution 44(2): 305-314 (1990).

Sakagami, Shoichi F., Ohgushi, Ryoh-ichi and Roubik, David W. (editors). Natural History of
Social Wasps and Bees in Equatorial Sumatra. (Sapporo: Hokkaido University Press
1990).

Salazar Allen, Noris. "Echoes of First Laan American Bryological Symposium." Taxon 38(3):
406-413 (1989).

. "A Guide to Fieldstations in the Tropics II. Panama." Tropical Bryology 1: 5-8
(1989).

. "A Preliminary Report of Rhizoidal Heads in Leucobryum martianum.” The
Bryologist 92(4): 493-494 (1989).

Salazar Allen, Noris, Arrocha, Cloulde and Chung, Clementina. "A Report on the Bryophyte
Flora of Barro Colorado Island, Panama." (Abstract 21). American Journal of Botany
75(6): 8 (1988).

Schultz, William. "Growth of STRI Contributes to Quality of Research in Panama." Research

184
Reports 61: 2, 6 (Summer 1990).

. "Researchers Study Long-Term Effects of 1986 Oil Spill." Research Reports
56(Winter): 2 (1989).

Schupp, Eugene W. "Annual Variation in Seedfall Postdispersal Predation and Recruitment of a
Neorropical Tree." Ecology 71(2): 504-515 (1990).

Schupp, Eugene W. and Feener, Jr., Donald H. "Phylogeny, Lifeform and Habitat Dependence
of Ant-Defended Plants in a Panamanian Forest." In: Ant-Plant Interactions, edited by
Camilla Huxley and David K. Cutler. (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1990).

Schuup, Eugene W. and Frost, E.J. "Differential Predation of Welfia georgii Seeds in Treefall
Gaps and the Forest Understory." Biotropica 21(3): 200-203 (1989).

Scoble, Malcolm J. and Aiello, Annette. "Moth-like Butterflies (Hedylidae: Lepidoptera): A
Summary, with Comments on the Egg." Journal of Natural History 24: 159-164 (1990).

Sieving, Kathryn E. "Pheasant Cuckoo Foraging Behavior, with Notes on Habits and Possible
Social Organization in Panama." Journal of Field Omithology 61(1): 41-46 (1990).

Sikkel, Paul C. "Social Organization and Spawning in the Atlantic Sharpnose Puffer,
Canthigaster rostrata (Tetraodontdae)." Environmental Biology of Fishes 27: 243-254
(1990).

Smith, Neal G. "El Por Qué de la Migracion del Lepidoptero Diurno Urania fulgens (Uraniidae:
Geometroidea)." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a
Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 415-432.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

. "The gulf of Panama and El Nifio Events: The Fate of Two Regugee Boobies
from the 1982-83 Event." In: Global Ecological Consequences of The 1982-83 El Nino-
Southern Oscillation, edited by PW. Glynn: 381-394. (Amsterdam: Elsevier, 1990).

. "Soaring Raptor Migration Through the Isthmus of Panama." In: Birds of Prey
(Weldon Owen Ld. 1990).

Smythe, Nicholas. "Abundancia Estacional de Insectos Nocturnos en un Bosque Neortropical."
In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited
by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 393-402. Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panamd, 1990).

Smythe, Nicholas. Glanz, William E. and Leigh, Jr., Egbert G. "Regulacidn de la Poblacion de
Algunos Frugivoros Terrestres." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales
y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr, A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor:
305-316. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panaméa, 1990).

Southwick, E. E., Roubik, David W. and Williams, J. M. "Comparative Energy Balance in
Groups of Africanized and European Honey Bees: Ecological Implications." Comparative
Biochemistry and Physiology 97A(1): 1-7 (1990).

Sperry, John S., Tyree, Melvin T. and Donnelly, John R. "Vulnerability of Xylem to Embolism
in a Mangrove vs. an Inland Species of Rhizophoraceae." Physiol. Plants 74: 276-283
(1988).

Sternberg, L. S. L., Mulkey, S. S. and Wright, S. Joseph. "Oxygen Isotope Ratio Stratification in
a Tropical Moist Forest." Oecologia 81: 51-56 (1989).

Summers, Kyle. "Sexual Selection and Intra-Female Competition in the Green Poison-Dart Frog,
Dendrobates auratus.” Animal Behaviour 37(5): 797-805 (1989).

Tebbs, Margaret. "Grow Your Own Tropical Wet Forest from Seed." New Scientist 124(1685):
52 (1989).
Tem Pinzén, Marcos A. Analisis de Miel de Abeja Colectada en Cinco Zonas de Vida en la
Provincia de Chiriqui. Tesis, Escuela de Biologia - Zoologia, Facultad de Ciencias
Naturales y Exactas. (Panama: Universidad de Panama 1989).

Thorington, Jr., Richard W/. Tammembaum, Bernice, Tarak, A. and Rudran, R. “Distribucién de
los Arboles en la Isla de Barro Colorado: Una Muestra de Cinco Hectareas." In:
Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by
E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 129-140. Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (Balboa, Reptiblica de Panama, 1990).

Thome, Barbara L. and Levings, Sally C. "A New Species of Nasutitermes (Isoptera:
Termitidae) from Panama." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 62(3): 342-347
(1989).

Toft, Catherine A., Rand, A Stanley and Clark, Milton. "Dindmica de Poblacion y
Reclutamiento Estacional de Bufo typhonius y Colostethus nubicola (Anura)."

Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, eae by
E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 461-468. Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

Trainer, Jill M. "Cultural Evolution in Song Dialects of Yellow-Rumped Caciques in Panama."
Ethology 80: 190-204 (1989).

Tyree, Melvin T. and Sperry, John S. "Do Woody Plants Operate Near the Point of Catastrophic
Xylem Disfunction Caused by Dynamic Water Stress? Answers from a Mode." Plant
Physiology 88: 574-580 (1988).

. "Vulnerability of Xylem to Cavitation and Embolism." Annual Review of Plant
Physiology and Molecular Biology 40: 19-38 (1989).

Vietmeyer, Noel. "Iguana Mama." International Wildlife 19(5): 25-27 (1989).

. "Mama Iguana" de Centroamérica." Selecciones Octubre: 161-170 (1990).

Villalaz Guerra, Janzel Rogelio and Gémez Herrera, Juan Antonio. "Estudio Experimental de la
Gametogénesis de la Conchuela Tropical Argopecten circularis en el Golfo de Panama."
Scientia (Panamé) 4(1): 7-23 (1989).

Vreeland, H.V. and Lasker, Howard. "Feeding by the Polycheate Hermodice carunculata on
Gorgonian Corals." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 129: 265-277
(1989).

Ward, J. Evan. "Studies on the Feeding Behavior and Host Specificity of a Tropical
Ectoparasitic Snail in the genus Odostomia (Pyramidellidae)." The Veliger 32(4): 387-
393 (1989).

Wcislo, W.T. and Eberhard, William G. "Club Fights in the Weevil Macromenus bicinctus
(Coleoptera: Curculionidae)." Journal of the Kansas Entomological Society 62(4): 421-
429 (1989).

Wellington, Gerald M. and Victor, B.C. "Planktonic Larval Duration of One Hundred Species of
Pacific and Atlantic Damselfishes (Pomacentridae)." Marine Biology 101: 557-567
(1989).

Wells, Kentwood D. and Taigen, Theodore L. "Calling Energetics of a Neotropical Treefrog,
Hyla microcephala." Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 25: 13-22 (1989).

Whiting, John H., Black, Hal L. and Jorgensen, Clive D. "A Scanning Electron Microscopy
Study of the Mouthparts of Paraponera clavata (Hymenoptera: Formicidae)." Pan-Pacific
Entomologist 65(3): 302-309 (1989).

Wilczynski, Walter, Ryan, Michael J. and Brenowitz, Eliot A. "The Display of the Blue-black

186
Grassquit: The Acoustic Advantage of Gettng High." Ethology 80: 218-222 (1989).

Williams-Linera, Guadalupe. Development of Tropical Forest Edge Vegetation. Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Florida (1989).

Windsor, Donald M., Rand, A. Stanley and Rand, William M. "Caracteristicas de la
Precipitacion de la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos
Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M.
Windsor: 53-74. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de Panamd,
1990).

Wolda, Henk. "Comment on the Article "On Testing Temporal Niche Differentiation in Carabid
Beetles" by M. Loreau and the "Comment on the Article of M. Loreau" by PJ. den
Boer." Occologia 81: 99 (1989).

. "The Equilibrium Concept and Density Dependence Tests. What Does it all
Mean?" Oecologia 81: 430-432 (1989).

. "Estacionalidad de los Homoptera de la Isla de Barro Colorado." In: Ecologia de
un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh,
Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M. Windsor: 403-414. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(Balboa, Republica de Panama, 1990).

. "Food Availability for an Insectivore and How to Measure it." Studies in Avian
Biology 13: 38-43 (1990).

. "Seasonal Cues in Tropical Organisms. Rainfall? Not Necessarily!" Oecologia
80: 437-442 (1989).

Worthington, Andrea H. "Comportamiento de Forrajeo de Dos Especies de Saltarines en
Repuesta a la Escasez Estacional de Frutos." In: Ecologia de un Bosque Tropical: Ciclos
Estacionales y Cambios a Largo Plazo, edited by E. G. Leigh, Jr., A. S. Rand and D. M.
Windsor: 285-304. Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (Balboa, Republica de
Panamé, 1990).

Wnight, S. Joseph and Cornejo, F. H. "Seasonal Drought and Leaf Fall in a Tropical Forest."
Ecology 71: 1165-1175 (1990).

Wujek, Daniel E. and Lincoln, Thomas A. "Ultrastructure and Taxonomy of Oscillatoria pilicola,
a New Species of Bluegreen Alga from Sloth Hair." Brenesia 29: 1-6 (1988).

Zeh, David W. "Beyond the Sting" (Book Review of The Biology of Scorpions edited by G.A.
Polis). Science 249: 1176-1177 (1990).

Zimmerman, Jess K. "Role of Pseudobulbs in Growth and Flowering of Catasetum vindiflavum
(Orchidaceae)." American Journal of Botany 77(4): 533-542 (1990).

Zimmerman, Jess K. and Ehleringer, James R. "Carbon Isotope Ratios are Correlated with
Irradiance Levels in the Panamanian Orchid Catasetum_ vindiflavum." Oececologia 83: 247-
249 (1990).

Zimmerman, Jess K. and Aide, T. Mitchell. "Patterns of Fruit Production in a Neotropical
Orchid: Pollinator vs. Resource Limitation." American Journal of Botany 76(1): 67-73
(1989).

Zimmerman, Jess K. and Madrifan R., Sanuago. "Age Structure of Male Euglossa imperialis
(Hymenoptera: Apidae: Euglossini) at Nectar and Chemical Sources in Panama." Journal
of Tropical Ecology 4: 303-306 (1988).

187
ANACOSTIA MUSEUM

James, Portia. African American Invention and Innovation, 1619

1930 Smithsonian Institution Press, 1990.
