e ee om
a a a
332 1 —

a
5 ‘f £ =s
x e
“he ah §
is ae e . F

ve

rt

ant

“

any

ae

4 2 :A'5- 0 ska hm ee

ghstikaact Ati t a 8 Rabat
atk : -
nga

2 Cae Jara . rf
BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY q Say t ; non) Uda eri tae PI Maat ae

i N +} r Ma Vasa taart:
| | I| aaa ne pa ‘
ty areal i
| i ee i :

|

J | ; SSA eT RNa
99 06317 4¢ Pee. Se

GRITS
sibargieiaieiccs
i terse
Hy

H

Rt era)

i’ t *
Race crane)

REY
one

Og ‘ , a hjaacks
30 . Oca i talcewwebsaisidaesecuadane
: : : ; ROR Rion ecriet
: . : Heol ie vabidh datyacs eh
Datietess 9h
i : 4 : nyse
haa
, Gute alatemg ie bagstete
‘ , Bundle
z i 4 3

Sipiwela sade:

: Sseatsie
i Mises 3 ; - Sasuteteaect

seteelane Bann
Meer tee cat ctasuten@ciney
yor

Vaan
Cree A

Pgs ocean
eat eee

neers
Bestar 2

earns
eae

Tea ate igiyn
eye

; ; Meet

sae Ey
indir tieitetat
uti

seatiiesises
Ey

H earn
u wipotatacgalgtecaga ty y pees

‘ i H : ‘ es Ogee y ds Ae ra MY . emery sem

; : Nelbape My iecastye rtoteiy wrateter ge ‘
msegratet stones [aatie wine
on Satara 5
i Woveytytat ‘ eee
’ f ' a Uv ooo ete bes
: i ‘ “ wyatt prasary ¥

ares
eereitetatoteda tose trata
cet trtrtaneee gion

BOSTON

eh

dia Ne

a)
9
1991
JUN 23 1992

Smithsonian Year

1991
Smithsonian Year

1991

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution
for the Year Ended

September 30, 1991

Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C. 1992
a

On the cover: Teenagers
visit one of the world’s
most popular museums,
the Smithsonian's Na-
tional Air and Space Mu-
seum, renowned for its
landmark exhibits chron-
icling the history of air
and space achievements.
(Photograph by Len
Rizzt)

a

On the title page: Thzs
diorama of contemporary
Andean potato farmers
was prepared for ‘Seeds
of Change,"’ the mayor
Quincentenary exhibition
that opened in fall 1991
at the National Museum
of Natural History.

Smithsonian Year 1991 Supplement, containing
the Chronology and Appendixes 1-8, is pub-
lished in a microfiche edition from electronic files
provided by the individual bureaus and offices of
the Smithsonian Institution. The appendix con-
tents are as follows:

Appendix 1. Members of the Smithsonian Coun-
cils, Boards, and Commissions

Appendix 2. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution
Museums

Appendix 3. Academic, Research Training, and
Internship Appointments and Research
Associates

Appendix 4. Publications of the Smithsonian In-
stitution Press

Appendix 5. Publications of the Staff of the
Smithsonian Institution

Appendix 6. The Smithsonian Institution and Its
Subsidiaries (staff /ists)

Appendix 7. Donors to the Smithsonian
Institution

Appendix 8. Contributing Members of the
Smithsonian Institution

Please address requests for copies of the micro-
fiche edition of the Supplement to

Alan Burchell, Production Coordinator
Smithsonian Institution Press

470 L’Enfant Plaza, Suite 7100

Washington, D.C. 20560

202-287-3738, Ext. 326
Contents

Smithsonian Institution

6

Statement by the Secretary 8

Report of the Board of

Regents

10

Highlights of the Year

The Year in Review

Research

31

122

Office of the Assistant Secretary for

Research

National Zoological Park

31

31

Office of Environmental Awareness

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies
Office of Quincentenary Programs

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory 33

3

Bs
33
33

Smithsonian Environmental Research

Center

Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries

34

35
35

Smithsonian Institution Man and the

Biosphere Biological Diversity

Program

36

Smithsonian Tropical Research

Institute

37

Museums

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Museums 38

Anacostia Museum 38

Archives of American Art 39

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 40

Conservation Analytical Laboratory 41

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design 41

Freer Gallery of Art 42

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden 43

Institutional Studies Office 44

International Gallery 45

National Air and Space Museum 45

National Museum of African Art 46

National Museum of American Art 46

National Museum of American
History 47

National Museum of the American
Indian 48

National Museum of Natural
History/ National Museum of
Man 49

National Portrait Gallery 50

Office of Exhibits Central 51

Office of Horticulture 52

Office of Museum Programs 52

Office of the Registrar 52

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service 53

Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Public Service 54

National Science Resources Center 54

Office of Conference Services 55

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education 55

Office of Folklife Programs 55

Office of Public Affairs 56

Smithsonian Office of Wider Audience
Development 57

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center 57

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs 58

National Demonstration Laboratory for
Interactive Educational
Technologies 58

Office of Development 58

Office of Government Relations 59

Office of International Relations 59

Office of Special Events 60

Office of Telecommunications 60

Smithsonian Institution Press 61

Smithsonian Magazine 61

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine 61

Smithsonian National Associate
Program 62

Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program 62

“Smithsonian World” 63

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates 63

Institutional Initiatives

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives 64

National Museum of the American
Indian National Campaign
Office 64

Finance and Administration
Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration 65

Affiliated Organizations

John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts 66

National Gallery of Art 67

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 68

Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars 69

Benefactors 70
Financial Report 77

Organization Chart 9;

w“
ON

Smithsonian
Institution

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of
Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of
the will of James Smithson of England, who in
1826 bequeathed his property to the United
States of America ‘“‘to found at Washington, un-
der the name of the Smithsonian Institution, an
establishment for the increase and diffusion of
knowledge among men.”’ After receiving the
property and accepting the trust, Congress incor-
porated the Institution in an ‘‘establishment,”’
whose statutory members are the president, the
vice president, the chief justice, and the heads of
the executive departments, and vested responsi-
bility for administering the trust in the Smith-
sonian Board of Regents.
The Establishment, September 30, 1991

George H. W. Bush, President of the United
States

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United

States
William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States
James A. Baker III, Secretary of State
Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury
Richard B. Cheney, Secretary of Defense
William P. Barr, Acting Attorney General
Manuel Lujan, Jr., Secretary of the Interior
Edward Madigan, Secretary of Agriculture
Robert A. Mosbacher, Secretary of Commerce
Lynn H. Martin, Secretary of Labor
Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and
Human Services
Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development
Samuel K. Skinner, Secretary of Transportation
Lamar Alexander, Secretary of Education
James D. Watkins, Secretary of Energy
Edward J. Derwinski, Secretary of Veterans
Affairs

Board of Regents and Secretary
September 30, 1991

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States, ex officio

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United

States, ex officio

Edwin J. (Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Joseph M. McDade, Representative from
Pennsylvania

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from
California

Jamie L. Whitten, Representative from
Mississippi

David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of
Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

William G. Bowen, Citizen of New Jersey

Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of
Columbia

I. Michael Heyman, Citizen of California

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin
Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan
R. James Woolsey, Citizen of Maryland

The Secretary

Robert McCormick Adams

Carmen E. Turner, Under Secretary

Ann Bay, Chair, Council of Information and Edu-
cation Directors

Kathy A. Boi, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Elizabeth Broun, Chair, Council of Bureau
Directors

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

James C. Early, Assistant Secretary for Public
Service

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for
Museums

Margaret C. Gaynor, Director, Office of Govern-
ment Relations

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the
Secretary

Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for
Research

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for Exter-
nal Affairs

Marte A. Mattson, Director of Development

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration
Statement by the
Secretary

Robert McC. Adams

The past year has been a challenging and reward-
ing one at the Smithsonian. Challenging, be-
cause the Smithsonian has not been immune
from the economic recession in the United States
and the uncertainty and political chaos around
the world. Rewarding, because, as our annual re-
port reveals, 1991 was a year of stunning pro-
grams—in particular, an array of Quincentenary
exhibitions, symposia, and public programs that
have fully addressed the responsibility of seeing
ourselves within the significance and grandeur of
a half-millennium and an entire hemisphere. No
less memorable have been other outstanding ex-
hibitions, publications, and research accomplish-
ments, highlighted herein. We can take pride in
these accomplishments and look forward with
confidence to many more such achievements in
the year to come.

This has also been a year in which the Smith-
sonian has continued to examine its role as one of
the country’s great unifying institutions. In my
travels in the United States and abroad, it is grati-
fying to discover in encounters with individuals in
cultural and scientific fields at many levels that
the Smithsonian is almost universally recognized
as a unique and marvelous example of an institu-
tion whose strength comes from the breadth and
depth of its active engagement in the “‘increase
and diffusion of knowledge,” the mission estab-
lished at the time of the Institution’s founding in
1846.

At the same time, we have been examining the
role of the Smithsonian as an educational organi-
zation, seeking to delineate the unique and man-
ifold ways in which the Institution’s many
components can help this nation achieve its edu-
cational goals. In this report, you will find nu-
merous examples of successful projects that may
serve as models for museums and research organi-
zations elsewhere in the country.

The activism of the role envisioned for us re-
minds us that we cannot isolate ourselves within
our monumental buildings along the National
Mall, content with the audiences, constituencies,
and disciplinary approaches that we already serve
and waiting for the storm of change around the
world to subside. Given the severity of the chal-
lenges this country faces, it would be irrespons-
ible for a public institution like the Smithsonian
to allow itself to become a bastion of exclusivity.

To meet our responsibilities to diverse audi-
ences, we must shift our thinking of museums as
establishments whose timeless, unquestioned au-
thority can be likened to that of a temple, toward
a status much closer to that of a forum—a place,
as Canadian museum director Duncan Cameron
has written, for ‘confrontation, experimenta-
tion, and debate.’’ This is not a transition that
has been warmly welcomed in all quarters. One
well-known dragon-slayer of populism in mu-
seums argues that a concern for reaching broader
audiences is virtually to be equated with
philistinism.

However, museums have a special relationship
with society, unlike most other institutions that
are also broadly devoted to the “increase and dif-
fusion of knowledge,” such as colleges and uni-
versities. Museum doors are open to all, without
concern for age or educational credentials. Exhi-
bitions are not the mere functional equivalents of
monographs or articles in scholarly journals. They
reach a much more diverse audience, parts of
which may strongly object to having subsidized
them. Usually, such exhibitions represent a pro-
portionately much larger investment of the par-
ent institution’s—in most cases also the |
public’s—resources. In any case, their contents
and location make a close identification with the
institution inescapable. Accordingly, while mu- |
seums must be no less zealous than universities in
protecting the right of free expression of their
staffs, the contents of at least major exhibitions
need to be recognized not merely as the private
statements of their designers but also as institu-
tional statements.

The main challenge before the Smithsonian
and all museums today is to find ways to address
themselves to the increasing diversity, and, at the
same time, the growing interdependence and
yulnerability, of social life everywhere. Museums
need to see themselves, and to be publicly recog-
nized, as important institutional means by which
every group, but especially underserved minor-
ities, can define and maintain their place within
complex, dynamic circumstances that seem to
hold all of the risks as well as the promises of our
American heritage.

The annual total of museum visitors in this
country is impressively large; reportedly, it even
exceeds the total number of those who attend all
professional sporting events. But it is also a
highly skewed sample of our population—in a
word, preponderantly white, middle class, and
college educated. Minority participation is dis-
couragingly limited. We are unlikely to be more
successful in attracting underserved groups until
we recognize our own limitations in conceptualiz-
ing, as well as implementing, programming on
their behalf.

Museums will fail to meet their responsibility
to pioneer in presenting new and diverse visions
and challenges if they are unprepared to risk oc-
casional criticism and controversy. We can and
must continue to seek wider audiences, taking a
frankly tolerant and experimental approach to
traditional standards and canons as we do so in
some exhibitions, while at the same time respect-
ing and embodying those traditions in much of
what is presented to the public in other exhibi-
tions. I would, without hesitation, count on our
public quickly to recognize and respect the need
for a balance of these two approaches.

As a further step, museums can and should
move beyond their prevailing stance in exhibi-
tions of authoritative anonymity. Where conten-
tious views are important to an exhibition, they
should be put forward. Our public is entitled,
however, to have their controversial nature made
plain, and to have them attributed to the particu-
lar scholar or curator responsible for them. The
place to search for balance, in a word, is not in
the blandness of a particular exhibition but in the
full range of a museum’s public offerings.

Museums can—and the Smithsonian must—
play a unique and increasingly vital part in learn-

ing about and finding ways to communicate and
represent the pluralism that has always deeply
characterized this country, as well as the increas-
ingly multifaceted and problematical character of
cultural knowledge itself. Yet in both efforts,
ours is also a responsibility to hold high the corre-
sponding vision of e pluribus unum. These are
indeed central challenges concerning our rela-
tionship to the public that we must meet as we
seek to prepare this great institution for the 21st
century.

I believe the Smithsonian will meet these chal-
lenges, because its highly dedicated staff will be

working together toward a common goal—that of

serving all of our public. For some time, we have
had an informal slogan, ‘‘The Smithsonian is for
everyone.’’ I believe we are indeed making the
Smithsonian a place where everyone can and does
feel welcome.

As you read through this annual review of the
Smithsonian’s achievements, I invite you to pon-
der these challenges and join with us in reaching
these goals.

a

Under Secretary Carmen
Turner and Secretary
Robert McC. Adams
stroll in the Haupt Gar-
den following a press con-
ference announcing
Turner's appointment.
(Photograph by Dane
Penland)
IO

Report
of the Board
of Regents

This brief annual report of the Board of Regents
reviews its governance of the Smithsonian
through three meetings in 1991 (February 4, May
6, and September 16) and through a host of other
activities. The report covers key issues addressed
during the year, significant issues discussed at
specific meetings, and actions that the regents
took with respect to the Institution’s boards and
commissions. These achievements would not
have been possible without the contributions of
its standing committees—the Executive Commit-
tee, the Audit and Review Committee, the Nom-
inating Committee, the Investment Policy
Committee, and the Personnel Committee—
whose membership includes a dedicated cadre of
regents, regents emeritus, and others who gave
unstintingly of their time and expertise through-
out the year.

In 1991, the Board of Regents resolved to move
forward with the proposed establishment of a
national African American museum within the
Smithsonian, to be housed in the Arts and Indus-
tries Building. Assured by a study into the matter
that ample collections are available to and seem
promising for such a museum, the regents agreed
to seek the appropriate legislation in the coming
year. The regents also reached a new understand-
ing of the needs for the proposed extension of the
National Air and Space Museum and asked con-
gressional members of the board to support legis-
lation for planning such a facility at Washington
Dulles International Airport. Responding to the
increasing demand for more light-industrial,
warehouse, and special-purpose space for the
Smithsonian, the board encouraged Secretary
Robert McC. Adams to seek authorization and fi-
nancing arrangements for the construction of a

new administrative service center near the Na-
tional Mall.

The regents undertook several important ini-
tiatives with respect to programs in the sciences.
They held extensive discussions about the Smith-
sonian’s role in global change research and asked
the secretary to continue planning toward the es-
tablishment of an appropriate National Center
for Biological Diversity within the Institution in
the coming year. The regents authorized the sec-
retary to conclude an agreement with Princeton
University, the National Museums of Kenya, the
Kenya Wildlife Services, and other parties for the
establishment of an interdisciplinary research and
training program in ecology, evolution, geology,
and natural resource management at George
Small’s Mpala Ranch in Kenya. And as the re-
gents grappled with the difficult questions posed
by the Institution’s indemnification of a re-
searcher whose activities overseas became the sub-
ject of a potential indictment, the staff
promulgated a number of procedural improve-
ments intended to minimize the Smithsonian’s
risks in carrying out its multifaceted international
scholarly activities.

The regents discussed at length questions
posed hypothetically about the possibility of the
Institution establishing bases for its public activ-
ities throughout the nation at some point in the
next century. They expressed particular interest in
knowing what the implications of those questions
might be for the integrity of the national collec-
tions and in exploring information technologies
that could provide true intellectual accessibility
without requiring physical dispersion of collec-
tions material, programs, and administration.
The staff agreed to complete an inventory of its
geographically dispersed activities and to under-
take related studies.

At their meeting on February 4, 1991, the re-
gents welcomed I. Michael Heyman as a new
member of the board. The board also named fa-
cilities at Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design, and at the Freer Gallery of Art for the
generous contributions of Arthur Ross and Agnes
and Eugene Meyer, respectively, and adopted a
policy for the protection of the watershed envi-
rons of the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center in Edgewater, Maryland. As voted by the
board, the chancellor presented Henry Medals to
John F. Jameson and Joseph J. Bonsignore at the
regents’ dinner on February 3 in recognition of
their outstanding services to the Institution.

On May 6, 1991, the regents held the Silvio O.
Conte Memorial Meeting in honor of the late re-
gent and member of Congress, to whom they

|
made a formal tribute. Among a variety of other
actions, the regents authorized the secretary and
the director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory to negotiate with the University of
Hawaii for sites for the proposed array of sub-
millimeter telescopes on Mauna Kea, Hawai.

At their final meeting of the year on Septem-
ber 16, the regents designated Barnabas McHenry
as a regent emeritus, nominated Hanna H. Gray
for membership on the board, thanked Gay F.
Wray for her service as chairman of the Smith-
sonian Associates National Board, welcomed
Lloyd G. Schermer as her successor, and voted to
award the Henry Medal to Neil Harris in recogni-
tion of his achievements as chairman of the
Smithsonian Council. The board held an exten-
sive discussion of the financial condition of the
Institution, approved the expenditure of funds
for fiscal 1992, and endorsed the Institution’s re-
quest to the Office of Management and Budget
for 1993 appropriations. The regents also held a
preliminary discussion about the Smithsonian’s
role in presenting balanced perspectives in con-
temporary society and decided to hold a more
lengthy dialogue on such matters at their first
meeting in 1992.

Throughout the year, the regents made key ap-
pointments to several Smithsonian boards and
commissions. They appointed Xuan-Chi Diep,
John S. Hendricks, Donald Simmons, David
Hicks, Jean Lane, and John C. Meeker to the Na-
tional Council of the National Museum of Natu-
ral History; Charles B. Benenson, John Conyers,
Jr., Helen Kuhn, Robert Farris Thompson, and
Walter E. Washington to the National Museum of
African Art Commission; Wanda M. Corn, Nan
Tucker McEvoy, Edwin I. Colodny, Ann Cousins,
and Frank Ribelin to the National Museum of
American Art Commission; and Allen V. Pink-
ham, Harold Dean Salway, and Tom L.
Freudenheim to the National Museum of the
American Indian Board of Trustees. In addition,
the Board of Regents renamed the Cooper-Hewitt
Advisory Council the Cooper-Hewitt Board of
Trustees to reflect the group’s full responsibilities
and obligations.

Staff Changes

Fiscal 1991 brought considerable turnover in man-
agement staff. Toward the beginning of the year,
the Institution was pleased to bring on as under
secretary Carmen E. Turner, the highly respected
former general manager of the Washington Met-
ropolitan Area Transit Authority. At the same

time, Nancy D. Suttenfield, who had served so
successfully as director of the Office of Planning
and Budget and acting under secretary, was ap-
pointed to the new position of assistant secretary
for finance and administration. John F. Jameson,
the Institution’s first assistant secretary for ad-
ministration, was appointed senior adviser to the
secretary. James C. Early, formerly deputy assis-
tant secretary for public service and then acting
assistant secretary, was named assistant secretary
for public service.

In the fall, Ann R. Leven, treasurer since 1984,
resigned to accept a related position with the Na-
tional Gallery of Art. Tom McCance left his posi-
tion as director of membership and development
for a similar position at the Folger Shakespeare
Library. After some study and reorganization,
Marie Mattson, who had served as special assistant
to the secretary, was appointed director of devel-
opment. Kathy A. Boi was promoted from within
the secretary’s office to the position of special
assistant.

This winter, one of Smithsonian’s most be-
loved colleagues, Joseph J. Bonsignore, publisher
of Smithsonian magazine, tetired after 21 years of
service. The very able Ronald C. Walker, formerly
with Lane Publishing, was named his successor.
Claudine K. Brown, project manager for the Afri-
can American Institutional Study, was appointed
deputy assistant secretary for museums. Rick R.
Johnson, formerly of the Treasurer’s Office, was
appointed deputy assistant secretary for finance,
and D. J. (Jack) Hall from the Department of the
Army was appointed deputy assistant secretary for
administration. Steven C. Newsome of the Office
of Cultural and Education Services, Maryland De-
partment of Housing and Community Develop-
ment, joined the Smithsonian staff as director of
the Anacostia Museum in the early spring, fol-
lowing a long search and the outstanding contri-
butions of James E. Mayo and Sharon A.
Reinckens as acting codirectors.

The year’s greatest tragedy for Smithsonian
management came with the sudden passing of
Colonel Robert B. Burke, director of the Office of
Protection Services since 1973. Bob Burke’s exper-
tise in museum security was internationally ac-
claimed, but nowhere will he be missed more
than at the Smithsonian, where he was a trusted
friend to all staff.

As mentioned in this column year after year,
the Smithsonian’s greatest strength lies in the
dedication of its staff. The Institution and its
constituencies owe them a great debt for their all
too often unheralded contributions.

II
Highlights of
late Cea

Anacostia Museum

The Anacostia Museum’s wooded location
near Fort Stanton Park in southeast Washing-
ton, D.C., provided the ideal setting this
year for a variety of outdoor events that at-
tracted thousands of participants from the
metropolitan area. Through these events, the

museum expanded both the scope of its out- a ener: <8 er ee
a ; ; ae : Oy Se ae
reach efforts and the diversity of its audience. TTI | AP
. : | 7 gas}
Educational and cultural programs in- ‘So

%
I

cluded a health fair called “Straight Up: : a
AIDS, Teens, and Denial’; ‘‘Juneteenth ’ 91: -
Freedom Revisited,’’ a day-long celebration
featuring music, dance, and crafts; and the
Third World Music Series, a showcase for mu-
sic of the diaspora.

The museum will continue to offer varied
programs like these as part of its mission to
develop broader audiences, provide neigh-
borhood residents free access to diverse cul-
tural programs, and make the Anacostia
neighborhood a viable place for community
and family activities. (Photograph by Harold
Dorwin)

Iz
Archives of
American Art

Painter Sam Gilliam, shown hete in his stu-
dio in 1972, donated a substantial collection
of papers to the Archives of American Art
this year. They document Gilliam’s commit-
ment to abstract art and his swift rise to
prominence in the art world. Born in Tupelo,
Mississippi, in 1933, Gilliam grew up in
Louisville, Kentucky, and studied art at the
University of Louisville. He settled in Wash-
ington, D.C., in 1962. In the mid-1960s he
developed a distinct style of pouring and ma-
nipulating paint. These early experiments
with color led to his exploration of large-scale
work, suspended canvases, and outdoor
paintings.

Gilliam’s papers include letters from col-
lectors, curators, dealers, and artists, as well
as photographs, scrapbooks, sketchbooks,
and business files from 1966 to 1989. To com-
plement the papers, Washington art critic
Benjamin Forgey interviewed the artist for
the Archives oral history program. The three-
hour interview covers his early years, exhibi-
tions, grants, stylistic development, and
teaching and working methods.
Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery

4

As part of the summer-long exhibition
“Court Arts of Indonesia” at the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery, the public was treated to free
performances of wayang ku/it, the traditional
shadow puppet theater of Java, Indonesia’s
most populous island. The presence of a liv-
ing performing arts tradition within the exhi-
bition reflected the central position of
puppet drama, music, and dance in Indone-
sian court culture. Directing the perfor-
mances was da/ang (puppeteer) Widiyanto S.
Putro, an 1th-generation puppet master who
currently lectures in the Department of Mu-
sic at the University of California, Berkeley.
Widiyanto, shown above, was backed by a

1o-member game/an orchestra from the town
of Wonogiri in Central Java.

In Indonesia, the da/ang is revered because
he has the power of the word. During a per-
formance, he must impersonate dozens of
characters and be intimately familiar with
every detail of his story. He must speak flu-
ently in high, middle, and low Javanese, as
well as in Kawi, the language of poetry, for
the da/ang sets a standard for correct pronun-
ciation and proper language use.

The da/ang’s traditional repertoire in-
cludes several hundred shadow plays, based
chiefly on two ancient Indian epics, the Ma-
habharata and the Ramayana, and on Indo-
nesian tales such as the Panji stories. In
Indonesia, the plays go on all night, but at
the Sackler Gallery, they were shortened to
two hours. (Photograph by Jeffrey Crespi and
John Tsantes)
Cooper-Hewitt,
National Museum of
Design

This past summer at Cooper-Hewitt, Na-

tional Museum of Design, a group of New
York City junior high school students trans-
formed plastic piping, garden hose, and
polyester rope into a colorful 36-foot model
of a suspension bridge. In the process of
building and landscaping the bridge, these
young people learned to understand and use

design, construction, and engineering princi-

ples—knowledge that can change the way
they interact with the world around them.
Dianne H. Pilgrim, director of Cooper-
Hewitt, says of the project: ‘‘Presenting
young people with opportunities to evaluate
how things work, the way they look, and the

effect they have on the quality of our lives is
central to the museum’s commitment to de-
sign education and the future. The bridge in
the garden is a wonderful way for students to

create reality from abstract mathematical, en-

gineering, and design concepts and to put
into use ideas that can enrich their lives.”
The students were trained and supervised
by the Salvadori Educational Center on the
Built Environment (SECBE), a nonprofit ed-
ucational organization dedicated to helping
inner-city youth understand science and
mathematics through the hands-on study of
the built environment. The bridge they con-
structed remained on view in the museum’s

Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden through the
fall of 1991. (Photograph by Michael
McDermott)
Hirshhorn Museum

and Sculpture Garden

Susan Rothenberg’s painting [X7, which was
included in the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden’s roth anniversary exhibi-
tion, ‘‘Content: A Contemporary Focus
1974-1984,’’ is the first painting by the artist
to enter the permanent collection. During
the mid-1970s, Rothenberg developed a
series of monumental paintings based on
simple equine imagery juxtaposed with se-
vere geometric elements. This series, of
which IX is a fine example, marked a shift
from an austere to a more expressive figura-
tive imagery that characterized the art of the
1980s.

Susan Rothenberg (American, b. 1945). [X7,
1976-77. Vinyl emulsion and acrylic on
canvas; 78 1/8 x 104 inches. Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden, Joseph H.
Hirshhorn Purchase Fund, 1990 (90.19).
(Photograph by Lee Stalsworth)

National Air and
Space Museum

As far as we know, the Earth is unique in the
Solar System as an abode of life. Vast and
sometimes violent natural forces shape the
environment, and with long experience hu-
mans have learned to cope with their effects.
The life-sustaining air and waters of our
planet once seemed virtually limitless and
impervious to the effects of human activity,
but that perception is changing. Human
forces are altering the Earth in unprece-
dented, unintended, and unpredictable
ways, and we have little experience to guide
s we try to comprehend their impact.
The natural and human forces that alter
our environment are the theme of B/ue
Planet, a \arge-format IMAX motion picture
introduced this year at the National Air and
Space Museum. The film looks at the Earth
from the ground and from orbit; this view
from 330 miles in sp nows the planet’s
surface to be largely covered by water; islands

of the Caribbean appear near the top of the
photograph. B/we Planet was produced by
the museum and the IMAX Systems Corpo-
ration with support from the Lockheed Cor-
poration and with the cooperation of the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion. It features breathtaking footage taken
by U.S. space shuttle astronauts during five
ons, including orbital views of tropical
rainforests, deserts, tectonic fault zones, elec-
trical storms, hurricanes, and volcanoes. It
also examines the “‘greenhouse”’ effect, air
and water pollution, soil erosion, the burn-
ing of tropical forests, and the concomitant
mass extinction of species. B/ue Planet con-
cludes on a hopeful note: that it is in our
power to repair some of the damage we have
done to the environment. (Photograph by

IMAX Space Technology, Inc.)

National Museum of
African Art

The acquisition of an extraordinary Baga fig-
ure of a kneeling woman supporting a drum
on her head was a highlight of the past year
at the National Museum of African Art. The
drum is on view in the museum’s Permanent
Collection.

The polychromed sculpture is from the Re-
public of Guinea in West Africa. The Baga
peoples of Guinea are famous for their mon-
umental caryatid drums. This figure was pur-
chased with funds provided by the
Smithsonian Collections Acquisition Pro-
gram and gifts of the Annie Laurie Aitken
Charitable Trust, the Frances and Benjamin
Benenson Foundation, David C. Driskell,
Evelyn A. J. Hall Charitable Trust, Mr. and
Mrs. Robert H. Nooter, Barry and Beverly
Pierce, Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Silver, and Mr.
and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich.

The National Museum of African Art’s
Permanent Collection includes works of art
from numerous visual traditions from the
Western Sudan, the Guinea Coast, and Cen-
tral, Eastern, and Southern Africa. Since
1979, when the Museum of African Art be-
came part of the Smithsonian Institution, the
museum has engaged in an intensive effort to
acquire works of outstanding aesthetic qual-
ity. The Permanent Collection is the founda-
uion for exhibitions and programs, research,
and publications.

Baga peoples, Guinea, West Africa. Drum,
ca. 1920s. Polychromed wood and hide, 46
inches high. (Photograph by Franko Khoury)

National Museum of
American Art

The National Museum of American Art’s
landmark exhibition and catalogue, ‘‘The
West as America: Reinterpreting Images of
the Frontier,”’ included 160 images showing
how artists frequently revised an often ques-
tionable record of frontier conquest to corre-
spond to a national optimism favoring

westward expansion. The exhibition drew

unprecedented national media and public at-
tention, and visitors filled four gallery com-
ment books with personal views and reactions
to the issue of national identity. To amplify
all the exhibition’s themes, the museum held
20 public programs.

Among the artists’ subjects were Native
Americans, who were depicted in ways that
portrayed changing white attitudes toward
these people as conflicts over land became in-
creasingly intense. In his painting Pzgeon’s
Egg Head (The Light) Going to and Retur-
ning from Washington (1837-39), George

Catlin showed how an Indian negotiating for
his tribe became ‘‘corrupted”’ by civilization,
suggesting that native cultures could never
coexist with Euro-American societies.

George Catlin (American, 1796-1872).
Pigeon's Egg Head (The Light) Going to
and Returning from Washington, 1837-39.
Oil on canvas; 29 x 24 inches. National
Museum of American Art, Gift of Mrs. Jo-
seph Harrison, Jr.

us)
National Museum of
American History

7

In its inaugural season of free concerts at the
National Museum of American History, the
Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra
helped bring to the public the rich heritage
of yazz— America’s own classical music. Re-
nowned jazz composers, scholars, and educa-
tors David N. Baker (pictured here) and
Gunther Schuller conducted the season

finale

The orchestra—the only jazz orchestra resi-

dent in an American museum—is made pos-
sible by a congressional appropriation for the
study and performance of jazz at the mu-
seum that began in 1987, when Congress de-
clared jazz ‘‘a rare and valuable national
American treasure’ and called upon the na-

tion and the government to ‘‘make certain it

is preserved, understood, and promulgated.”

Congressional funds first enabled the mu-
seum to acquire the Duke Ellington Collec-

tion of more than 2 pages of music,

photographs, scrapbook clippings, record-
ings, and artifacts. Congress also helped sup-
port Jazz Masterworks Editions, a series of
performance and study editions of works re-
corded by well-known composers and ar-
rangers that has been launched by the
Smithsonian Institution and Oberlin
College

The 1991 season of the Smithsonian Jazz
Masterworks Orchestra included 19 perfor-
mances of historically authentic music by
Ellington, Count Basie, Jimmie Lunceford,
Benny Goodman, Woody Herman, Sy
Oliver, and others, conducted by Schuller
and Baker. All the concerts were taped for
later radio broadcast. (Photograph by Eric
Long)

National Museum of
the American Indian

In preparation for the 1994 opening of the
George Gustav Heye Center in New York
City, the National Museum of the American
Indian (NMAI) is engaged in an innovative
process that is testing and extending tradi-
tional notions of what museums are and how
they function. The museum is committed to
involving the Native American community as
a partner in every aspect of its development
and operations while creating and experi-
menting with new ways of carrying out the
fundamental responsibilities of a museum.
This commitment has been evident in the
development of the museum’s important
premier exhibition, ‘‘Points of View.”’ This

year, 30 Native American people from North

and South America who represent diverse
disciplines, geographic regions, and view-
points spent a week reviewing NMAI hold-
ings and selecting objects that will form the
centerpiece of the exhibition. Unlike tradi-
tional exhibitions, this one has had no tre-
strictions imposed on the content or the
interpretive material. The museum's curators
and collections specialists worked closely with
the selectors to document their comments
about the artifacts they chose for presenta-
tion in the exhibition.

This dialogue between Native American
people and the museum will continue as
“Points of View’’ enters the design phase.
Through Native American involvement in
NMAI programs and projects, the Smith-
sonian expects to provide the nation with a
more accurate and relevant experience of Na-
tive American culture. (Photograph by Karen
Furth)
National Museum of
Natural History

Don Tenoso (Hunkpapa Lakota), an enrolled
member of the Cheyenne River Sioux Nation
in South Dakota and a graduate of the Insti-
tute of American Indian Arts, Santa Fe, New
Mexico, is the award-winning doll maker and
storyteller who inaugurated the National Mu-
seum of Natural History’s Native American
Artist-in-Residence Program in March 1991
During his residency, Tenoso created several
dolls in a special area in the museum that was
set up exactly like his home studio. On week-
days, he visited schools in the Washington,
D.C., area, seeking out classes with Native
American students in particular. This popu-
lar program, organized and conducted by Al-
eta Ringlero (Salt River Pima) of the
museum's Office of Education, is an out-
growth of ongoing weekend programming
that features live demonstrators selected in
consultation with Native American commu-
nities from throughout the country

This 24-inch faceless doll, which Tenoso
affectionately calls ‘‘Bubba One-Wing,”’ rep-
resents a contemporary ‘‘old style’’ Lakota
fancy dancer. It was commissioned especially
by the museum and created in the traditional
Lakota style by Tenoso while in residence
Every part of the carefully handcrafted doll
has significance for its maker, from the ‘‘avia-
tor’ sunglasses, to the tiny beaded moc-
casins, to the tattoos from Indian boarding
school on its hand and from the U.S. Cavalry
on its arm. The feathers of the endangered
golden eagle used to create the bustle worn
by the doll were obtained from the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service and come from illegally
killed birds that had been seized. (Photo-
graphs by Richard Strauss)

Pp
P

National Portrait

Gallery

The dignity and quiet courage of the woman
who is often called the ‘Mother of the Civil
Rights Movement”’ are embodied in a bronze
bust of Rosa L. Parks that was unveiled Feb-
ruary 28, rg9gr, in ceremonies at the National
Portrait Gallery. In commemoration of the
event, Washington, D.C., Mayor Sharon
Pratt Kelly presented the renowned civil
rights leader with a key to the city.

Rosa Parks’s refusal to give up her seat on a
Montgomery, Alabama, bus to a white pas-
senger in 1955 led to a year-long boycott that
sparked a national movement for racial jus-
tice. The sculpture, by Artis Lane, was a gift
to the gallery from Anheuser-Busch Com-
panies and was presented by Wayman F.
Smith, III, vice-president of corporate affairs

Others who joined in the tribute at the cer-
emony were actress Cicely Tyson, civil rights

leader Coretta Scott King, Smithsonian Un-
der Secretary Carmen Turner, Dorothy
Height, president of the National Council of
Negro Women, and Joseph Lowery, president
of the Southern Christian Leadership Confer-
ence. (Photograph by Jason Miccolo Johnson)

4

WwW
National Science
Resources Center

Science is a gateway to understanding the
natural world. Children learn science best
when they are engaged in their own hands-
on investigations of scientific phenomena
Hands-on experiences also are the best way to
spark the enthusiasm of young learners

To give children access to an effective,
hands-on elementary science program, the
National Science Resources Center has initi-
ated Science and Technology for Children
(STC), a project that is developing 24 in-
quiry-centered teaching units for grades one
through six that will teach children impor-
tant science concepts and problem-solving
skills.

This year marked the completion and pub-
lication of the first three STC units: Plant
Growth and Development (grade three),
Electric Circuits (grade four), and Micro-
worlds (grades five and six). Each unit con-
sists of a teacher’s guide, a set of student

activity books, and a complete kit of science

24

equipment and materials for a class of 30 stu-

dents. Three more units were to be available
in the fall. Each unit is trial-taught in Wash-
ington, D.C., public schools, field-tested in
schools across the nation, and reviewed by a

panel of prominent scientists and educators

before publication.

These third-graders and their teacher from
Watkins Elementary School in Washington,
D.C., are testing the properties of an un-
known substance while working with Chemi-
cal Tests, one of the STC project’s latest
units. (Photograph by David Hartney)
National Zoological
Park

This male gorilla, born at the National Zoo
on May 10, 1991, represents the success of the
Zoo's strategy to ensure the survival of this
endangered species. He is the fifth gorilla
born at the Zoo, the first since 1972. Zoos
have had gorillas for about 100 years, but the
first birth occurred only in 1956, and births
did not begin to exceed deaths until the
1960s. Then National Zoo primatologists
showed that most of the reproductively suc-
cessful gorillas had been raised by their
mothers in social groups, while most of those
that did not breed had been raised by well-
meaning humans in zoo nurseries.

Five years ago, a gorilla family was estab-
lished at NZP in an effort to create a social
structure similar to that of a gorilla group in
the wild. Eventually, two of the gorillas—the
baby’s mother, Mandara, born at the Mil-
waukee Zoo, and Gus, a maturing male from
Boston—began to mate. Zoo endocrinolo-
gists traced Manadara’s sexual maturity, her
monthly cycles, and finally her pregnancy.
Mandara is an excellent mother who breaks
the cycle of nursery-induced incompetence.

The baby is helping zoo visitors under-
stand the importance of preserving biodiver-
sity. Moreover, zoo research and management
skills are flowing back to Africa in a coopera-
tive effort to benefit wild gorillas. Gorillas
caught in hunters’ snares can now be safely
immobilized with drugs that were pioneered
by zoo veterinarians to move gorillas like
Mandara and Gus between zoos to foster re-
production. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

PP

wa)
Office of Folklife
Programs

Visitors to the Quincentenary Program at the
1991 Festival of American Folklife, organized
by the Office of Folklife Programs, heard the
voices of members of Native American soci-
eties that have endured for 500 years main-
taining an ancient care for the earth within
the continuity of culture. ‘‘Land in Native
American Cultures’’ presented Native Amer-
ican knowledge about land as it informs sa-
cred and secular practices and explored the
connection between humans and land that is

central to the worldview of many Native

Americans

Tiwanaku participants from La Paz, Boli-
via, perform a ritual dance here as theydo |
every October before the potato harvest. The ,
costumed men play flutes and wear cowhide
and bird feathers; the women are wearing
everyday traditional clothes.

The Tiwanaku live in the high plateaus of
the Andes Mountains. Members of these
communities are engaged in the Wila-Jawira
Project to recover the ancient raised-field, or |
suka kollus, farming technology of the pre- |
Inca Tiwanaku society. Lost centuries ago due —
to climatic changes, the arrival of the Span-
iards, and the collapse of the Tiwanaku social
organization, the method now holds great —__
promise for economic development. (Photo- |
graph by Richard Strauss)

6

Smithsonian
Astrophysical
Observatory

During the July 11, 1991, total solar eclipse,
two Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
(SAO) experiments made unique and com-
plementary images of the Sun’s hot outer at-
AO-

ands

mosphere, or corona. In the first, an S
IBM telescope launched from White S
Missile Range, New Mexico, captured the
broiling corona over the Sun’s unobscured
surface in this extremely high-resolution
X-ray photograph. (Because the eclipse had
not yet begun over New Mexico, the dark sil-
houette of the approaching Moon can be
seen at the right of the photograph. ) Simul-
taneously, but thousands of miles away on
Mauna Kea, Hawaii, where totality was al-
ready under way and the Sun was fully oc-
culted, a second Smithsonian team made

images of its corona, among the first

ever obtained in this wavelength (inset)

Data fr he two images, combined with
information gathered in other wavelengths,
will be used to create a detailed three-dimen-
sional model of the solar corona linking den-
sity and temperature variations seen over the
Sun’s surface with structural features ob-
served in its extended atmosphere. (X-ray
photograph by SAO and IBM; infrared im-

age by SAO and Amber Engineering)

Smithsonian
Environmental
Research Center

[he blue crab is perhaps the most celebrated
inhabitant of the Chesapeake Bay, but its
free-ranging behavior is difficult to observe
in the bay’s murky waters. Using a pioneer-
ing technology, scientists at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center in Edgewa-
ter, Maryland, can listen to the crabs around
the clock to learn about blue crab ecology
Dr. Anson Hines and his research associates
strap small, battery-powered ultrasonic trans-
mutters to the hard backs of the crabs. The
transmitters are programmed to emit various
frequencies of ‘‘beeps’’ that can be heard
with underwater hydrophones by scientists
patrolling in small boats

From the sounds they hear, Dr. Hines and
his associates are investigating the blue crab’s
feeding habits. During the past three years,
they have recorded the daily movements of
blue crabs in the tidal waters, the time of day
that feeding most often occurs, and the
crabs’ ability to select areas that contain high
numbers of clams and other bottom-dwelling
organisms, which crabs prefer to eat. Crabs
sometimes travel thousands of yards in one
day. The transmitters tell scientists which
crab is beeping and where it is located. Then,
using a transmitter wired to a crab’s jaw mus-
cles in order to detect movement, feeding ep-
isodes or ‘‘bouts’’ can be monitored because
crabs only use their jaw muscles when feed-
ing. Studies often continue day and night to
determine whether movement and feeding
are correlated with time of day. (Photograph
by Jeffrey Ploskonka)

Pr
(oe)

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition
Service

A belt of unparalleled but threatened natural
diversity extends across the center of North
America from the Gulf Coast to the Pacific
Slope. The area that bridges the United
States and Mexico, linking the temperate
world and the tropics, contains a rich selec-
tion of flora and fauna living in a range of
habitats—from grasslands to deserts to
mountain islands.

One hundred years after the last scientific
surveys of the region, award-winning wildlife
photographer Tupper Ansel Blake has em-
barked on a three-year survey of the 1,936-
mile border between the United States and
Mexico. Blake’s stunning color photographs
serve as the centerpiece and departure point
of “Borderlands: A Natural History of the
Mexican-American Boundary,” an exhibition

that examines the wondrous and complex
natural environment of the region and ex-
plores the social, historical, and cultural
changes that have shaped both its land and
its people. In this photograph, Blake cap-
tures a summer rain storm in Sierra del Car-
men, Coahuila, Mexico.

“Borderlands”’ is organized by the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice and the Nature Conservancy, a nonprofit
organization that preserves plants, animals,
and natural communities by protecting the
lands and waters they need to survive. (Pho-
tograph copyright Tupper Ansel Blake)

29
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

The upper canopy of the tropical forest repre-

sents one of the great gaps in our under-
standing of life on Earth. This habitat,
although it may be the most biologically di-
verse of all, has remained almost unknown
because it has been so difficult and dan-
gerous to reach. The Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute (STRI) is developing a new
Canopy Access System that will allow re-
searchers to study the canopy environment
with unprecedented ease and safety. This
tower construction crane, 100 feet tall and
with a 115-foot boom, has been deployed in
Metropolitan Park near Panama City. The re-
search gondola carries scientists and their

equipment, offering reliable access in three
dimensions to almost an acte of dry tropical

forest. STRI plans eventually to install a
much larger version of this prototype system,
with a range of 5 acres, at a permanent site at
its Barro Colorado Island field station.

During the past year, STRI scientists, col-
leagues, and students have carried out a wide
range of studies that will provide a better un-
derstanding of how tropical forests work. In
one study, researchers found that canopy tree
species differ sharply in their physiological re-
sponses to light, temperature, and humidity,
giving insight into how so many apparently
similar tree species manage to coexist in trop-
ical forests. Planned research on the physi-
ological effects of elevated levels of carbon
dioxide on trees will help predict how pro-
cesses of global change will affect tropical for-
ests. (Photographs by Carl C. Hansen)
Research

Robert Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for
Research

Office of the Assistant Secretary
Jor Research

Since its inception, the Smithsonian Institution
has nourished a commitment to scholarly research
through programs characterized by breadth,
depth, and outreach. The Institution is well
known for studies that benefit the entire scholarly
community, from long-term baseline monitoring
of ultraviolet radiation on the Earth to invento-
ries of American painting and sculpture. Research
is carried out worldwide by scholars at the Smith-
sonian’s specialized institutes and museums.

@ The Institution again devoted attention to
global environmental research and to under-
standing the structure and composition of natural
communities and ecosystems.

@ Fundamental research continues by the Institu-
tion’s systematic biologists, on whose shoulders
rests the responsibility for inventorying and de-
scribing the species richness of the biosphere, as
well as monitoring the effects of deforestation on
species diversity.

@ Smithsonian researchers also examined the na-
ture of changing cultures throughout the world in

their effort to better understand human social
and cultural systems.

@ The International Center, which ts a focal
point for the international activities of the Smith-
sonian, provided administrative and financial ser-
vices for its six components: the International
Gallery, Office of Conference Services, Office of
Environmental Awareness, Office of International
Relations, Office of Quincentenary Programs,
and the Man and the Biosphere Biological Diver-
sity Program.

National Zoological Park

Building on its historic mandate, the National
Zoological Park (NZP) has as its mission the ad-
vancement of science, biological conservation,
education, and recreation. Accordingly, the Zoo
has progressed from a zoological park concerned
only with exhibiting animals to a biological park
encompassing the entire living world and empha-
sizing holistic themes concerning the interaction
among species. The Zoo exhibits a wide range of
living plants and animals on its 163-acre facility in
Rock Creek Park in Washington, D.C., and
maintains the Conservation and Research Center
on 3,150 acres in Front Royal, Virginia, as a major
animal breeding, conservation, and research
center.

@ Significant births included a male gorilla (the
first at the Zoo in 19 years), an Andean condor,

a

During an intensive one-
month field course on the
conservation and man-
agement of natural areas
in Panama, jointly orga-
nized by the Smithsonian
Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Di-
versity Program and the
Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute, course
participants survey the
crater of Volcan Baru in
western Panama. (Photo-

graph by Carl C. Hansen)

41
a

Teenage artists from the
Latin American Youth
Center in Washington,
D.C., directed by artist
Jorge Somarriba (third

from left), paint a mural
titled ‘‘The Amazon
River and Its Forest" at
the lower end of a Na
tional Zoological Park
parking lot. (Photograph
by Jesste Cohen)

wy)
Pp

an African pigmy falcon, a litter of red wolves, a
sloth bear, and otters.

@ A new exhibit under construction at the Zoo
will feature a tropical rainforest. The Amazonia
Exhibit, scheduled to open in 1992, will have
fish, invertebrates, birds, amphibians, and
aquatic and terrestrial mammals.

@ The Zoo organized an international meeting to
review and enhance plans to save pandas from ex-
tinction. A group of 80 biologists from 13, coun-
tries met in Washington, D.C., to share data on
the giant panda and the red panda.

w Fifty-seven participants from 23 developing
countries participated in the Zoo’s Wildlife Con-
servation Management Training Courses con-
ducted in Malaysia, China, and at NZP’s
Conservation and Research Center. The Zoo’s Bi-
ology and Management Training Courses in Indo-
nesia, Mexico, and Morocco were presented to 80
zoo professionals from five developing countries.
@ Each year the Zoo offers a variety of public pro-
grams designed for the widest possible audiences.
In fiscal 1991, these programs included concerts
by the Washington Civic Symphony, six Sunset
Serenades, and a week-long series of events called
“Super Summer.”

# A colorful 160-foot-long mural painting of the
Amazon rainforest was unveiled at the Zoo in
1991. The project was part of the District of Co?
lumbia’s Summer Youth Program and was
painted by young people from the Latin Ameri- *

x

can Youth Center.

Office of Environmental

Awareness

The Office of Environmental Awareness (OEA)
provides a bridge between scientific research and
policy. Working with Smithsonian bureaus and
offices, as well as with outside organizations, the
OEA gathersinformation on global environmen-
tal issues and disseminates it to the general public
and groups of professionals through publications,
exhibitions, conferences, and workshops.

w The Office of Environmental Awareness began
organizing the National Forum on Ocean Conser-
vation, to be held in fiscal r992.
g OEA also began collaborative planning for two
exhibitions, on environmental issues that affect
coastal and marine peoples and habitats (with the
National Museum of Natural History) and on
solid waste (with the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service).
@ More than 27,000 copies of OEA’s colorful and
informative poster, ‘*A Better World Starts at
Home,”’ have been distributed free to individ-
uals, schools, businesses, and community organi-
zations in the United States and abroad.

i |

Office of Fellowships and Grants

The Office da 3 and Grants (OFG)
manages thejinstitution’s centralized fellowship
and internship programs, other stipend appoint-
ments, andyother programs that support research.
These research’ programs enable students and
scholars from throughout the world to visit the
lastitutioh and use its varied resources. The office
also admjnisters programs to increase minority
nSeticipibion in Smithsonian research activities
and disciplines. Two competitive grant programs
managed by the office provide scholarly support
for Smithsonian professional staff.

g Applications for the Minority Intern Program
almost doubled this year, in part as a result of
visits to colleges and universities by OFG staff.
@ The office awarded the first George E. Burch
Fellowship to Professor Paul W. Ewald of Am-
herst College. This fellowship, which is largely
funded by a gift from the Burch Heart Research
and Education Fund, is designed to encourage
and support creative research that has the poten-
tial to benefit humankind.

gw Of the 121 Smithsonian pre- and postdoctoral
fellowships offered this year, 37 were 10-week
graduate student awards.

Office of Interdisciplinary Studies

The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies (OIS) pur-
sues opportunities for diverse audiences to discuss
global concerns and debate significant issues in
contemporary life, to explore gaps in existing
knowledge, and to present findings of new re-
seatch. These activities have generated numerous
seminars and symposia, books, and educational
materials. The office also serves as a catalyst for
communication and cooperation among Smith-
sonian staff.

= Two new intramural seminar series were
launched this year: ‘‘Cultural Diversity’ and
“Research at the Smithsonian.’’ The ‘‘Ways of
Knowing’ series focused on the role of profes-
sional collaboration in different fields and
cultures.

g The office sponsored two public forums. *‘Is-
sues of Literacy’ brought together proponents of
a variety of educational philosophies and meth-
odologies, and ‘‘The ‘Quality’ Issue in Art’’ was
led by a distinguished panel of artists, philoso-
phers, critics, and curators.

u Man and Beast Revisited and Sharing Innova-
tion: Global Perspectives on Food, Agriculture,
and Rural Development, two volumes based on
OIS programs, were published by the Smith-
sonian Institution Press.

w An educational video documentary for junior
and senior high schools, ‘‘Citizen Stories: De-
mocracy and Responsibility in American Life,”’
was produced by OIS and the Close Up
Foundation.

Office of Quincentenary Programs

The Office of Quincentenary Programs coordi-
nates Smithsonian programs leading to the com-

memoration of the sooth anniversary of
Columbus’s landfall in the Americas. These pro-
grams will number more than 100 and will pre-
sent the cultural, historical, and scientific
implications of the encounter between the origi-
nal inhabitants of the Americas and other peo-
ples. Exhibitions, public programs, symposia,
publications, and television and radio programs
are planned for audiences in the United States
and throughout the world.

w ‘Symposium of the Americas’’ brought to-
gether more than 50 leading scholars, authors,
politicians, and journalists from North, Central,
and South America in September in Washington,
D.C. A gala reception for 600 people, cospon-
sored by the Association of Ibero-American Am-
bassadors, was held during the three-day
symposium, which officially launched the Smith-
sonian’s Quincentenary commemoration by ex-
amining cultural identity in the Americas.

w Reviews were completed on “The Buried Mir-
ror: Reflections on Spain and the New World by
Carlos Fuentes,” a five-part bilingual television
series produced by Malone-Gill Productions in
collaboration with the Smithsonian, Sogetel, and
the Spanish Quincentenary Commission.

@ Planning continued for an Institute of the
Americas to facilitate interdisciplinary research on
issues of high priority for the hemisphere.

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
(SAO) is dedicated to discovering and under-
standing the physical processes governing the na-
ture and evolution of the universe. As a member
of the Center for Astrophysics (CfA) based in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, SAO, in collabora-
tion with the Harvard College Observatory, pur-
sues a diverse program of research in the
following disciplines: atomic and molecular
physics, high-energy astrophysics, optical and in-
frared astronomy, planetary sciences, radio and
geoastronomy, solar and stellar physics, and theo-
retical astrophysics. Facilities include the Fred
Lawrence Whipple Observatory (FLWO) in Ari-
zona, the Oak Ridge Observatory in Massa-
chusetts, and a millimeter-wave radio astronomy

33
£

In a landmark exchange
of East-West timekeeping
technology, Soviet-built
atomic hydrogen maser
clocks were brought to
Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts, to be compared
for stability against simt-
lar devices built at the
Smithsonian Astrophyst-
cal Observatory for applt-
cations in space tracking,
radio astronomy, and
global navigation. (Pho-
tograph by Joe Wrinn,

Harvard University News

Office)

installation at CfA headquarters, as well as in-
struments aboard satellites, rockets, and bal-
loons. Research results are disseminated through
professional journals and presentations and
through publications and lectures for the public.
Educational efforts include an innovative curricu-
lum program for secondary school science.

g Recognizing SAO’s leadership in astronomy,
astrophysics, and geophysics, the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration selected the
observatory to plan, develop, and operate the in-
ternational science center, which will receive, an-
alyze, and store data from the Advanced X-Ray
Astrophysics Facility (AX AF).

g An independent review committee approved
the design and program of research planned for
SAO’s unique array of submillimeter telescopes
and recommended that negotiations begin to
place the instrument on Mauna Kea, Hawaii.

g The extremely powerful signal of an interstellar
maser, representing the second strongest emission
line ever seen at microwave frequencies, was de-
tected from methanol molecules by an SAO sci-
entist using the 140-foot radio antenna at Green
Bank, West Virginia. The discovery has important
implications for radio astronomy studies of newly
formed stars.

w A rocket-borne X-ray telescope developed by
SAO and IBM obtained remarkably detailed im-
ages of the Sun on July 11, 1991, the day of the to-
tal solar eclipse. These images will be used to
produce the first three-dimensional model of the
solar corona linking density and temperature vari-
ations with structure in the extended atmosphere.
A second, ground-based SAO experiment yielded

the first such infrared images of the corona.

g A high-resolution imaging instrument built by ,
SAO for the ROSAT satellite made detailed ob-
servations of X-ray objects selected after the satel-
lite’s initial six-month all-sky survey. Striking
images of the Andromeda Galaxy suggest that
X-ray sources may be highly variable, since many
seen a decade earlier have disappeared and other
new sources now glow brightly.

w@ SAO continued development of a submillime-
ter wavelength telescope array and the conversion
of the Multiple Mirror Telescope to a single-mir-
ror instrument 6.5 meters in diameter. A new 48-
inch telescope, designed for stellar and extra-
galactic astronomy, was put into operation at the
Whipple Observatory. A second, 11-meter-diame-
ter, gamma-ray detector at FLWO saw its ‘‘first
light’’ on September 13, 1991.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Scientists at the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center (SERC) in Edgewater, Maryland,
conduct long-term interdisciplinary studies on
how human use of the air, land, and water affect
the Chesapeake Bay region. The center comple-
ments research activities with educational pro-
grams for students—from undergraduates to
postdoctoral fellows—and for the public. SERC’s
research is the primary contribution on the Ches-
apeake region to the United States Interagency
Global Change Program and an important com-
ponent of the International Geosphere/ Biosphere
Program.

mw AU‘S. Department of Energy—funded project
studied the effects on tidal marshes of atmo-
spheric carbon dioxide concentrations elevated to
the level expected in the next century. The effects
included increased methane emissions, reduced
respiration rates, and reduced insect grazing.

@ With National Science Foundation suppott, re-
searchers at SERC are testing the hypothesis that
forests adjacent to bodies of water can convert a
large proportion of the nitrogen they receive in
agricultural runoff to gaseous forms, thereby pro-
tecting downstream ecosystems from nitrogen
pollution. The release of gases—including ni-
trous oxide, which contributes to the global
greenhouse effect and the destruction of strato-
spheric ozone—from the forest soil is measured
using an infrared laser system.

g The SERC Solar Radiation Laboratory ran a se-
ries of experiments designed to measure sepa-
rately the amount of ultraviolet-B radiation that
reaches the surface of the Earth directly in the
beam of the Sun and the amount that reaches the
surface after it has been dispersed by the
atmosphere.

w SERC is developing improved methods of mea-
suring how forests exchange heat and moisture
with the atmosphere. Researchers successfully
tested a new system employing temperature- and
humidity-sensing devices coupled with a high-
speed computer to take measurements 10 times a
second and operate a micrometeorological model
in real time.

w A mathematical model of sunlight penetration
in estuarine waters is being used to predict the
water conditions necessary for the survival of sea-
grasses in Chesapeake Bay tributaries. Results
from the Rhode River indicate that the reduction
of suspended sediment concentrations is a critical
factor in achieving the necessary water clarity.

@ Dr. Shoichi Kawano, an internationally known
plant ecologist who is professor of botany and di-
rector of the herbarium at Kyoto University, Ja-
pan, was named the first Regents Fellow at SERC.

Smithsonian Institution Archives

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) pre-
serves and provides access to records of the Insti-
tution’s proceedings and its accomplishments.
SIA ensures systematic and comprehensive histor-
ical accountability for the Institution’s national
trust by accommodating and managing a con-
stantly increasing volume and an ever-changing
technological variety of records and historical doc-
umentation. The Archives not only supports re-
- search, management, planning, exhibitions, and
other Smithsonian activities, but also responds to
public inquiries and advises archival programs
within and outside the Institution.

@ Sixteen architectural drawings and concept de-
signs for the Smithsonian Institution Building

a
This year, the Smith-
sonian Institution Ar-

(the Castle) by James Renwick, acquired from
Jean Hewitt, a Renwick descendant, were added
to the Smithsonian Architectural Drawings
Collection.

chives began to arrange
and describe the papers
of malacologist S. Still-

w SIA accessioned 250 hours of videotape with
man Berry (1887-1984),

transcripts and related materials, collected by
Smithsonian historians since 1986 in an experi-
mental project funded by the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation.

shown here with a squid
specimen. Although
Berry did not work for the
Smithsonian, he sent
many specimens to the
collections and had close
ties with the National
Museum of Natural
History.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) sup-
ports the Institution’s curatorial, research, pub-
lishing, education, and public service activities by
providing reference and information services and
by building, organizing, managing, preserving,
and restoring its collections. SIL collections, ac-
cessible through an on-line catalogue and avail-
able to Smithsonian staff and outside scholars
through a system of 16 branch libraries and
through interlibrary loan, number some 1.1 mil-
lion books, 15,000 current journals, 40,000 rare
books, and 1,800 manuscript groups.

3S
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries staff members
David Holbert, Susan
Blaine, and Conrad Ziad
(left to right) at a micro-
Jilm reader in the new of-
jices of the Preservation
Services Department.
(Photograph by Richard
Strauss)

36

@ Two educational efforts initiated by the Li-
braries were awarded funding. The first program,
the SIL/ Dibner Library Resident Scholar Pro-
gram, provides short-term study grants for re-
search in the history of science and technology
and will award stipends funded by the Dibner

Fund to two scholars in late 1991. The second pro-

gram, a symposium and an exhibition about

world’s fairs from 1850 to 1940 based on SIL’s pre-

eminent collection of world’s fairs materials, re-
ceived support from the Smithsonian Special
Exhibition Fund.

@ SIL opened its first public exhibition gallery
adjacent to the Dibner Library in the National
Museum ef American History. The gallery’s first
two exhibitions were ‘“Turning Over Old Leaves:
A Sampler of Writings in the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Libraries’’ and ‘‘Nusantara: Lands and
People of Indonesia.”’

@ Director Barbara J. Smith began a develop-
ment program for the Libraries by inaugurating
an honorary and memorial gifts program that is
publicized in the brochure ‘‘Gift Information for
Donors.”’

g A magnificent set of Auduboniana on long-
term loan from the National Audubon Society,
appraised at some $3 million, is now housed in
SIL’s Dibner Library. The set consists of John

James Audubon’s four-volume Birds of America,

Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America, and
manuscript materials that include correspon-
dence, species descriptions from the ‘‘Or-
nithological Biography,” and an early text of
Ouadrupeds.

Smithsonian Institution Man and
the Biosphere Biological Diversity
Program

The Smithsonian Institution Man and the Bio-
sphere Biological Diversity Program (SI/MAB)
addresses the challenge of protecting the biolog-
ical diversity of developing countries. The pro-
gram focuses on two objectives: (1) to provide
biodiversity sampling protocols for protected
areas and other highly diverse ecosystems of the
world in a way that will allow data from diverse
sites to be compared in time and space and (2) to
strengthen short-term professional training capa-
bilities in host countries and thereby increase the
number of managers and scientists in developing
nations who can address their countries’ conserva-
tion priorities.

m During the past year, the SI/MAB Program
conducted successful regional training courses on
conservation and management of protected areas
and wildlands in Guatemala, Ecuador, Bolivia,
Panama, and Peru.

mw Among SI/MAB tesearch activities conducted
this year were the second post-hurricane census of
the biodiversity plot in the Luquillo Biosphere
Reserve, Puerto Rico; the four-year census of the
four biodiversity plots in the Beni Biosphere Re-
serve, Bolivia; and the establishment of the first
biodiversity plot in the unique dry forest ecosys-
tem of the Virgin Islands National Park, St. John,
U.S. Virgin Islands.

w An evaluation of the last five regional training
courses conducted by SI/ MAB was completed this
year. Three forthcoming publications are ex-
pected to improve and modify the training
courses to meet the national conservation objec-
tives in the countries where courses are held.

@ Publications produced this year included the
program’s first newsletter, four user’s guides and
three field guides to the biodiversity plots, and
two related papers.
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(STRI), with headquarters in Panama, is the na-
tion’s leading center for basic research on the
ecology, behavior, and evolution of tropical or-
ganisms. STRI’s mission includes research on ter-
restrial and marine organisms and ecosystems,
molecular evolution, paleoecology, and human
interactions with the biosphere; promotion of
conservation and sustainable use of tropical re-
sources; and education and training in tropical
biology. STRI’s resident scientific staff of 29
works throughout the New and Old World
tropics, and the institute provides essential logis-
tical support for the international scientific com-
munity to conduct state-of-the-art investigations
on natural tropical systems.

w STRI established the Center for Tropical Forest
Science in collaboration with Princeton and Har-
vard universities, with major support from the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Founda-
tion. The center will promote and coordinate
long-term research on tropical forest ecology and
management in a growing network of sites
around the world, which at present include Pan-
ama, Malaysia, India, Thailand, Indonesia, and
Sri Lanka.

@ The innovative Canopy Access System, a tower
construction crane bearing a gondola for scientists
and equipment, demonstrated its practicality and
versatility as a tool for investigating the virtually
unknown tropical forest canopy. This year’s
studies, at a forested site near Panama City, fo-
cused on the physiology of canopy trees, canopy
microclimate, the growth and dynamics of lianas
in tree crowns, and canopy invertebrates.

g Empirical and theoretical evolutionary studies
by STRI researchers and associates—including
Mary Jane West-Eberhard, William G. Eberhard,
A. Stanley Rand, John H. Christy, and Michael J.
Ryan—have shown that elaborate male courtship
displays may not originate because of greater re-
productive success by females that choose showy
males, as has been commonly thought. Instead,
male displays often exploit preexisting biases in
the sensory and behavioral responses of females,
which originally evolved for escape from preda-
tors or other reasons unrelated to mating.

@ Studies of the reproductive biology and mo-

lecular evolution of marine organisms by STRI re-
searchers and colleagues, including D. Ross
Robertson, Eldredge Bermingham, Haris A. Les-
sios, G. M. Wellington, M. J. Shulman, and J. R.
Weinberg, have provided new insight into the re-
lationships among larval dispersal, genetic struc-
ture of populations, and population regulation
and adaptation to local conditions. For example,
fish species with pelagic larvae (larvae living in
the open ocean) have been found to be genet-
ically uniform over vast areas of the eastern Pa-
cific Ocean and the Caribbean, while populations
of a live-bearing isopod show extraordinary ge-
netic divergence on beaches only a kilometer
apart.

m The publication of Long-Term Assessment of
the Oil Spill at Bahia Las Minas, Panama: Interim
Report by Brian D. Keller, Jeremy B. C. Jackson,
and the staff of STRI’s Oil Spill Project summa-
rized the first three years of a five-year study on
the effects of a major oil spill near STRI’s Galeta
field station in the San Blas Islands off the coast
of Panama. In addition to documenting the ini-
tial severe effects, the study has found that organ-
isms and communities differ greatly in their
recovery rates, from no recovery by reef-building
corals after several years to very rapid recoloniza-
tion by mangrove seedlings that may require
three decades to mature.

a

As a part of the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research
Institute’s ongoing
studies of Panama's bio-
diversity, staff scientist
Norts Salazar is catalogu-
ing mosses and other
bryophytes in a cloud for-
est in Cerro Campana
National Park. (Photo-
graph by Carl C. Hansen)

3
a

Liziba, a Soukous band
from Zaire, performs at
the Anacostia Museum as
part of the museum's
Third World Music Series.
(Photograph by Harold
Dorwin)

a STRI expanded its international contacts for
the promotion of educational and research pro-
grams. Activities included a one-month intensive
field course on the management of natural areas
in Panama, in collaboration with the Smith-
sonian Institution Man and the Biosphere Biolog-
ical Diversity Program; a planning meeting for an
exhibition on the conservation of tropical rain-
forests for 14 Latin American countries, in collab-
oration with the Institution’s Office of
International Relations; and discussions with
Princeton University, the National Museums of
Kenya, Kenya Wildlife Services, and other parties
concerning the development of research and edu-
cation programs at the Mpala Ranch in Kenya.

Museums

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for
Museums

Office of the Assistant Secretary

for Museums

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Mu-
seums advises the secretary and the under secre-
tary on matters concerning museum operations,
policies, and advocacy issues. Current priorities of
the office include collections management, intel-

38

lectual and physical accessibility, exhibitions, mu-
seum education, and public service.

w An accessibility coordinator was appointed in
1991 to address physical accessibility in exhibi-
tions, public programs, facilities, and grounds.
g The new Experimental Gallery opened in the
Arts and Industries Building, providing exhibit
makers with space to explore and experiment
with the exhibition development process, audi-
ence and access, exhibition context, and tech-
nique and style. Exhibitions created for the
gallery have multicultural and multidisciplinary
themes.

w A 21-member advisory committee recom-
mended the establishment of a National African
American Museum on the National Mall, to be
administered by the Smithsonian. The proposed
museum, approved by the Institution’s Board of
Regents at its May and September meetings, will
be dedicated to the collection, preservation, re-
search, and exhibition of African American mate-
rial reflecting the breadth of the experience of
black Americans.

@ Acquisitions supported by the Collections Ac-
quisition Program included the remainder of the
Duke Ellington archives (National Museum of
American History), a Baga figure (National Mu-
seum of African Art), and a collection of Chinese
portraits (Arthur M. Sackler Gallery). Special Ex-
hibition Fund awards, for projects in all disci-
plines, included “‘The Art of Romare Bearden”’
(National Museum of American Art), ‘Principles
of Flight’ (National Air and Space Museum),
and ‘‘Land of Promise: America in the 19th Cen-
tury’’ (National Museum of American History).
@ Following a study of funding levels for the In-
stitution’s internship programs, the Smithsonian
Internship Council began to seek corporate and
foundation support to establish an Institution-
wide stipend fund for students who need finan-
cial assistance to pafticipate in current programs.

Anacostia Museum

The Anacostia Museum is a national resource de-
voted to identifying, documenting, protecting,
and interpreting the African American experi-
ence in Washington, D.C., and the upper South
(Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, South Car-
olina, and Georgia). The museum also examines
contemporary social issues such as housing, trans-
portation, and health care and their impact on
African American communities in the region. In
addition, the museum is committed to the collec-
tion, protection, and interpretation of popular
culture in the African American population.

g Steven Newsome, who became the museum's
second director in March 1991, began to articulate
a new vision for the museum that includes re-
gional service and the collection of contemporary
material culture.

g The museum acquired more than 300 objects
reflecting the life of the noted African American
journalist Ethel Payne. Payne, who lived in Wash-
ington for a number of years before her death,
wrote for the Chicago Defender and the Wash-
ington Afro-American newspapets and was active
in local and national politics.

w New equipment for artifact storage was in-
stalled this year. The completion of the storage
facility allows the museum to seek additions to its
collection more aggressively.

g The George Washington Carver Nature Trail
on the museum grounds opened informally. The
trail will give visitors an opportunity to learn
about natural resources in an urban environment.
A simulated Underground Railroad route will en-
able visitors to learn how escaping slaves used the
natural environment in their flights to freedom.
The project received partial funding from the
Smithsonian Educational Outreach Program and
the Smithsonian Women’s Committee.

w The museum mounted ‘‘Kaleidoscope: African
American Photography in Washington, D.C.”
The exhibition was organized by Marcia Battle,
assistant curator of photography, National Mu-
seum of American Art, and marked a new trend
of greater collaboration between the Anacostia
Museum and other Smithsonian bureaus.

g The annual Juneteenth celebration, a day-long
outdoor festival of music, dance, and crafts dem-
onstrations, attracted more than 2,000 visitors.
Washington, D.C., Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly and
D.C. Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton helped to
mark the day that slaves in Texas heard about the
Emancipation Proclamation.

g A Third World Music Series was developed as
part of the Black Mosaic project, which examines
community life and cultural exchange among
people of African descent living in the metropoli-

tan Washington, D.C., area. In cooperation with
the various communities, the museum sponsored
a series of performances, including reggae, Afro-
Cuban, African Pop, and traditional West Afri-
can music and dance.

Archives of American Art

The Archives of American Art, a national re-
search repository with centers in Washington,
D.C., New York, Boston, Detroit, and San Mar-
ino, California, has the largest collection in the
world of original source materials relating to the
history of the visual arts in the United States, in-
cluding documents, photographs, works of art on
paper, and tape-recorded and video interviews.
The Archives is dedicated to encouraging research
in American art and cultural history by making
its collections easily accessible to researchers.
Original materials are housed in Washington,
with microfilm copies of many items in the col-
lections available in each of the Archives centers
and around the world through interlibrary loan.

@ A notable advance for the Archives was the en-
try in June 1991 of its catalogue data base in the
Research Library Information Network (RLIN)
system. This made the Archives catalogue of
some 5,600 records instantly accessible to re-
searchers in thousands of colleges, universities,

BUA
eS

pgp.

A

Pip

|

Among recent acquist-
tions by the Archives of
American Art were the
Emmet family papers,
which include this draw-
ing by Ellen Emmet Rand
(1875-1941) of women
painting at William Mer-
nitt Chase's Shinnecock
Summer School of Art,
Long Island, in the 1890s.
(Photograph by Eligio
Coniglio)

39
a

This portrait of Prince
Guo, painted in brilliant
ink and colors on a silk
hanging scroll by an
anonymous Qing dynasty
Chinese artist in 1731, was
a gift to the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery from
Richard G. Pritzlaff.

40

public libraries, and other research institutions
around the world.

w Continuing its effort to make its resources
more widely known, the Archives published two
more volumes in its series of finding aids and
guides: ‘Inventory of the Records of the National
Arts Club 1898-1960”’ and ‘‘Art-Related Archival
Materials in the Chicago Area,”’ which includes
collections held by the Archives.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, which opened to
the public in 1987, was established with a gift of
almost 1,000 works of Asian art from Dr. Arthur
M. Sackler (1913-87). Its permanent collection
consists of this important group of objects, as well
as more recent acquisitions by gift, purchase, and
transfer. Dedicated to expanding public knowl-
edge of the arts and cultures of Asia through ex-
hibition, research, and publication, the gallery
also organizes and presents traveling exhibitions
and displays objects loaned from appropriate in-
stitutions and collections. A varied schedule of

free public programs and special events enhances
these activities.

m This year, the director established a member-
ship group, Friends of Asian Arts at the Freer and _
Sackler Galleries, to encourage new interest in the
galleries and to support their collections acquisi-
tion programs. Forty-two friends joined the
group in its charter year, and their benefactions
totaled $65,500.

m Under the auspices of the Smithsonian Office
of Wider Audience Development, some 75 par-
ticipants from the Smithsonian and local Asian
American and Pacific American communities
gathered at the Sackler Gallery for a follow-up
meeting on the study, Knowledge and Access: A
Study of Asian and Pacific American Commu-
nities in the Washington, D.C., Metropolitan
Area, commissioned by the Sackler Gallery and
conducted by Juanita Tamayo Lott. The Smith-
sonian has used the study as a guide for its out-
reach to Asian American communities, and Lott
has been named to the Institution’s Cultural Ed-
ucation Committee.

w The gallery acquired 90 Chinese ancestor por-
traits of the seventeenth to nineteenth centuries
from the collection of Richard Pritzlaff. Some of
these paintings, which show brilliant color and
intricate design, were the gift of Pritzlaff, and
others were gallery purchases with funding from
the Smithsonian Collections Acquisition
Program.

@ The fifth symposium of the American Com-
mittee for South Asian Art, ‘‘Current Research in
South and Southeast Asian Art and Archaeol-
ogy,’ was sponsored by the Sackler and Freer gal-
leries. The public symposium included papers by
66 scholars, as well as museum visits and
receptions.

w The gallery participated in the nationwide, 18-
month Festival of Indonesia with its summer-long _
presentation of ‘“‘Court Arts of Indonesia,”’ a
traveling exhibition organized by the Asia Soci-
ety, New York City, in association with the Sackler
Gallery. As a part of the exhibition, the Educa-
tion Department organized free daily performing
arts events. The highlight of these programs was
Indonesian shadow puppet plays accompanied by
a gamelan orchestra from Central Java, which de-
lighted audiences with its traditional
performances.

g The exhibition ‘‘Paper and Clay from Modern
Japan’’ offered the first public presentation of
the Sackler Gallery’s growing collection of mod-
ern Japanese graphic arts and ceramics. Four pot-
ters designated as Living National Treasures were
among the artists whose works were featured.
Kitaoka Fumio, whose set of six large woodblock
prints was a highlight of the exhibition, visited
the gallery and held an informal discussion with
staff about his work on those prints.

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL)
engages in research and training in the conserva-
tion and technical study of museum objects and
other materials of historic importance. CAL ad-
dresses questions of archaeological and art histori-
cal interest, as well as problems facing the
Smithsonian and other museums in the preserva-
tion and conservation of their collections. A mul-
tifaceted training program provides unique
educational opportunities for students in conser-
vation, materials science, archaeology, and art
history.

= Biogeochemist Noreen Tuross successfully de-
veloped a technique for identifying diseases in
the skeletal remains of ancient populations of
North American Plains Indians hunter-gatherers.
By tagging the antibodies extracted from the
bones, she identified trepanomal disease in a
1,500-year-old skeleton.

@ In cooperation with the National Gallery of
Art, the Canadian Conservation Institute, and
the Tate Gallery, London, CAL studied the effects
of the transit environment on paintings. This
study culminated in ‘‘Art in Transit,’’ an interna-
tional conference held in London. Through com-
puter modeling at CAL and direct experi-
mentation by staff at the Canadian Conservation
Institute, CAL Assistant Director for Conserva-
tion Research Marion Mecklenburg showed that
vibration in transit presents no particular hazard
for sufficiently sound, well-treated paintings.

@ Senior Research Archaeologist Ronald Bishop
and his colleagues continued activities of the
Greater Nicoya (Nicaragua and Costa Rica) Ar-
chaeological Research and Training Project, which

this year included the training of Central Ameri-
can participants at CAL. The two-month program
combined formal instruction (in Spanish) with
hands-on data generation. The Greater Nicoya
project addresses specific problem areas of Cen-
tral American prehistory with emphasis on the
development of appropriate research designs and
on training in interpreting scientific-archaeologi-
cal data.

w Twenty individuals served internships at CAL
at various levels and in various specialties during
the year; there were also three volunteers. CAL
offered 13, courses in various topics, 6 of them in
new subjects, ranging from Mechanics of Mate-
rials and Structure of Cultural Objects to Exhibi-
tion Materials and Drying and Flattening of
Paper: Science and Techniques.

In the Conservation Ana-

lytical Laboratory, sum-
mer interns Lisa Kronthal
and Margaret Gleason
perform conservation
treatment on mace from
the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives. (Photograph
by Doc Dougherty)

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum
of Design

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design is
one of the largest repositories of design in the
world and the only museum in the United States
devoted exclusively to the historical development
and contemporary expression of design. The mu-
seum is an important resource for architects, de-
signers, artists, and scholars. Cooper-Hewitt’s
mission is to improve the understanding of de-
sign and the design process through diverse pro-
grams, which include making the collections

41
a

This glassware, designed
by Walter Dorwin Tea-
gue/Edwin Fuerst and
produced by the Libbey
Glass Company in 1939,
was included in the exht-
bition ‘The Cooper-
Hewitt Collections: A
Design Resource’ at
Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design. (Pho-
tograph by John White)

42

available for study, research, and display; provid-
ing educational programs for professionals and
the public; mounting exhibitions; and sponsor-

ing publications and conferences keyed to signifi-
cant design issues. Four curatorial departments—
Drawings and Prints, Decorative Arts, Textiles,
and Wallcoverings—add to, care for, and inter-
pret the museum’s collection of nearly a quarter
of a million objects.

w ‘The Cooper-Hewitt Collections: A Design
Resource,’ an exhibition presented this year,
chronicled the formation of the museum’s collec-
tions from 1897 to the present. Although the ob-
jects on display were only a small sampling of
those in the collection, they represent the enthu-
siastic collectors and enlightened donors, the
shifts in taste and thinking, and the significant
forces and events that have shaped this national
repository and given it its unique identity.

@ For the first time since its founding as the Na-
tional Museum of Design, Cooper-Hewitt re-
ceived a federal appropriation designated for ed-
ucational purposes. This funding enables the
museum to offer free regular programs for chil-
dren and adults.

@ The highlights of the museum’s 1991 programs
included a summer lecture-concert series, ‘‘Ritual
and Celebration: African Cultures in the New
World” and Design Career Day Programs initi-
ated by Cooper-Hewitt’s Education Department
with Homes for the Homeless. These specialized
workshops offered high school students the op-

portunity to work with professional designers as
they explored social issues and participated in de-
sign activities.

@ Major capital construction projects begun this
year included an accessibility improvement plan;
a new copper roof for the Carnegie mansion; fire
protection and electrical upgrade for the man-
sion; and the joining of the Miller and Fox town-
houses to create a single office and collection
storage facility. These improvements will take sev-
eral years to complete.

w A benefit was held on June 3, 1991, to honor
Arthur Ross’s contribution to restore and reno-
vate Cooper-Hewitt’s garden and to dedicate it as
the Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden. Over 300
people attended the gala, which raised more than
$75,000 for the museum’s general operating

funds.

Freer Gallery of Art

The international reputation of the Freer Gallery
of Art is based on its preeminent collections of
Asian art dating from Neolithic times to the early
twentieth century and on its major holdings of
works by James McNeill Whistler. Additions to
the collection through gift and purchase have ex-
panded the character of the original collection,
which was presented to the United States by
Charles Lang Freer in 1906. The Freer Gallery is
closed until May 1993 for extensive renovation
and expansion that will broaden its research, ex-
hibition, and educational programs.

@ Staff completed the four-month relocation and
subsequent inventory of the entire Freer collec-
tion of approximately 27,000 objects, which they
moved to a 13, 300-square-foot research and stor-
age facility on the gallery’s newly excavated lower
level. During construction of the storage area, the
collections had been stored in the exhibition gal-
leries, which were closed to the public.

m Secretary Robert McC. Adams presided at a re-
ception in the renovated Freer courtyard in honor
of Freer benefactor Ikuo Hirayama of Tokyo.
Hirayama arranged a gift of $1.5 million toward
the reinstallation of the Freer collection following
the gallery’s renovation. The celebrated Japanese
artist, who is also president of the National Uni-

|

{

|
versity of Fine Arts and Music, Tokyo, was the
principal donor in a consortium he organized.
The group also consisted of the Nomura Securt-
ties Co., Ltd., and the Nomura Cultural
Foundation.

w The Smithsonian Board of Regents approved
the naming of the Freer auditorium as the Eu-
gene and Agnes E. Meyer Auditorium in recogni-
tion of a gift of more than $1 million to renovate
and equip the 300-seat auditorium and to pro-
vide for public programming. The donation came
from Katharine Graham, chairman of the board
of the Washington Post Company; the Philip L.
Graham Fund; the Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation; and the Island Fund in the New
York Community Trust.

@ The cleaning of ‘‘Harmony in Blue and Gold:
The Peacock Room,” the Freer’s celebrated, per-
manently installed dining room by James McNeill
Whistler, was completed along with much of the
inpainting. In preparation for the room’s public
display at the time of the gallery’s reopening, the
director launched a campaign to acquire appro-
priate pieces of Chinese blue-and-white porcelain
of the Kangxi period, similar to the wares that
were displayed in the room when it was a part of
the London townhouse of Whistler’s patron, Fre-
derick R. Leyland.

= With the completion of the expansion and
construction on the lower levels of the gallery, the
Department of Conservation and Scientific Re-

search moved from its temporary quarters in the
Sackler Gallery to a new 10,000-square-foot lab at
the Freer. The lab offers expanded and modern-
ized facilities for art conservation and research on
ancient materials and technology.

w The Freer enriched its collection of ancient
Chinese bronzes with a thirteenth-century B.C.
Shang dynasty wine container. The vessel was ac-
quired through a gift in honor of the Freer re-
opening from T. T. Tsui of Hong Kong and
matching funds from the Smithsonian Collec-
tions Acquisition Program.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden ts
the Smithsonian Institution’s gallery for modern
and contemporary art. The museum, which
opened in 1974, is committed to increasing the
awareness and understanding of art through exhi-
bitions and publications, acquisitions, research,
public programs, and the presentation of its col-
lection in the galleries, plaza, and Sculpture Gar-
den. Continuing a progressive tradition of
patronage established by founding donor Joseph
H. Hirshhorn (1899-1981), the museum provides
a public facility for the study, exhibition, and
preservation of nineteenth- and twentieth-cen-
tury art while presenting a spectrum of contem-
porary work.

= ‘Comparisons: An Exercise in Looking,”’ a
novel exhibition supported by the Smithsonian
Special Exhibition Fund, encouraged viewers to
assess their reactions to art through pairs of paint-

|

This thirteenth-century
B.c. Shang dynasty wine
container was acquired by
the Freer Gallery of Art
through a gift in honor of
its reopening from Mr. T:
T. Tsui of Hong Kong.
Matching funds were pro-
vided by the Smithsonian
Collections Acquisition
Program. (Photograph by
Jeffrey Crespt)

|

Albert Jensen's magical
and transcendent paint-
ing The Sun Rises Twice,
1973, presents the artist's
view of the universe. It
was acquired this year by
the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden
through the Joseph H.
Hirshhorn Purchase
Fund. (Photograph by
Lee Stalsworth)

LIS),
44

ings or sculptures by 15 artists from the perma-
nent collection. Visitors showed their enthusiasm
by returning more than 6,000 response cards, 80
percent of them positive. The show was widely
covered in the press, and the museum received
many requests for information from other institu-
tions wishing to take similar approaches.

w Exhibition space continued to improve with
the reopening of the special exhibition galleries
on the lower level—long closed for repair and
renovation—and the launching of a major reno-
vation and redesign for the museum’s sculpture
plaza, to take place during fiscal year 1992.

w With the help of various acquisitions funds, as
well as gifts from generous donors, the museum
continued to acquire significant works by modern
and contemporary artists. Among the highlights
were Theodore Roszak’s metal and painted wood
sculpture Ascension (1945); Susan Rothenberg’s
acrylic painting LX/ (1976-77); David Ham-
mons’s found-object sculpture Untitled (1989);
and Bruce Nauman’s mixed-media construction
South American Triangle (1981).

w Two well-attended symposia highlighted the
museum’s education programs. ‘‘The African-
American Aesthetic in the Visual Arts and Post-
modernism,’’ featuring 10 prominent scholars
and artists, was cosponsored by Howard Univer-
sity’s College of Fine Arts in conjunction with the
National Conference of Artists. The March 30
program was made possible in part by a grant
from the Smithsonian Educational Outreach Pro-
gram. A forum on June 12 featured 8 of the to re-
cipients of Awards in the Visual Arts, a
prestigious national program that launched its
annual exhibition of works by award winners at
the museum. The forum was made possible by
BMW of North America, Inc., which, together
with the Rockefeller Foundation and the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts, also supported
the awards program.

w Through a grant from the James Smithson So-
ciety, the museum’s Conservation Laboratory pur-
chased an infrared reflectography video system to
trace and record the many nuances of underdraw-
ing beneath the surface of a painting. The first
project will be a complete examination of ap-
proximately 30 of Willem de Kooning’s paintings
from the permanent collection, with results to be
published in 1993 in the catalogue for an exhibi-
tion honoring the artist’s goth birthday.

w Asa barometer of contemporary art, the

Hirshhorn’s exhibition program continued to en-
compass retrospectives by artists acknowledged
for their broad influence, such as John Baldessari
and Sigmar Polke, as well as smaller shows high-
lighting a theme, a group of works, or a site-gen-
erated project by such artists as the team of Ann
Hamilton and Kathryn Clark, Mike Kelley,
Adrian Piper, Boyd Webb, and Lawrence Weiner.

Institutional Studies Office

The Institutional Studies Office is a pan-Institu-
tional resource dedicated to the scientific study of
the characteristics, attitudes, opinions, and expe-
riences of Smithsonian constituencies. The office
serves senior management, museums, programs
or research efforts within the museums, and
Smithsonian offices and operations that have a
pan-Institutional focus. Among its study topics
are audience and membership profiles, assess-
ments of the educational value of the museum
experience, and self-study of Smithsonian opera-
tions, including ongoing analysis of staff
composition.

@ The office completed a major study, Re-
searchers’ Perspectives: Research Support
Resources at the Smithsonian.

w Analyses of the racial, ethnic, and gender com-
position of the Smithsonian staff helped manage-
ment monitor employment initiatives.

@ Studies conducted for Smithsonian bureaus in-
cluded systematic assessments of visitors’ experi-
ences at the National Museum of American Art,
the National Portrait Gallery, and the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden and background
studies for forthcoming exhibitions at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History/ National Mu-
seum of Man and the National Zoological Park.
International Gallery

The International Gallery presents exhibitions

that deal with significant global topics from var-
ious disciplinary points of view or cultural per-
spectives. Public and scholarly programs are
planned in conjunction with each exhibition that
appears in the gallery, which is located in the

S. Dillon Ripley Center.

mg “Moscow: Treasures and Traditions,”’ a survey
of cultural artifacts and the arts of the Russian

capital, organized by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, was featured this
year in the International Gallery.

g Performing arts programs for the exhibition

“Court Arts of Indonesia,’’ which was on view in

the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, were presented in
the International Gallery.

National Air and Space Museum

The National Air and Space Museum has the

largest collection of historic air and spacecraft in
the world. It is also a vital center for scholarship
in the history of aviation and spaceflight and in
the science and technology of related disciplines.
The museum’s two historical research depart-
ments conduct studies on the origin and develop-
ment of flight through the atmosphere and in
space, while its two scientific laboratories carry
out programs of basic research in satellite remote
sensing of the environment, planetary surfaces
and atmospheres, observational and theoretical
astrophysics, and the development of infrared as-
tronomical instruments for spacecraft.

w The museum completed a 15-month program
of public lectures, films, and scholarly symposia
titled ‘‘The Legacy of Strategic Bombing.” Par-
ticipants in the public programs included
McGeorge Bundy, Freeman Dyson, John Kenneth
Galbraith, Curtis LeMay, Philip Morrison, Solly
Zuckerman, Robert McNamara, and Kurt
Vonnegut.

@ To accompany its German V-2 rocket, the mu-
seum produced an exhibit treating this World
War II artifact in full historical context. New ma-
terial assembled by curator David DeVorkin ex-

amines the creation of the V-2 as the world’s first
ballistic missile under the direction of Wehrner

von Braun; its mass production by forced labor of
concentration camp inmates; its deadly effect as a

weapon of terror in Britain, Belgium, and Hol-

land; and its key role after the war in the develop-

ment of intercontinental ballistic missiles by the
United States.

w Geologists Thomas Watters and Patricia Jacob-
berger of the museum’s Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies began work with colleagues in
Czechoslovakia and at the University of New
Hampshire on research to determine the extent
and rate of deforestation in Czechoslovakia frin
air pollution. The study will analyze satellite re-
mote sensing images in conjunction with field-
work to gather spectral data on spruce needles
and soils in three parts of the country.

g The museum received an SR-71 Blackbird re-
connaissance airplane, which will be stored
outdoors at Washington Dulles International Air-
port pending the eventual construction of a mu-
seum extension where such large artifacts can be
exhibited. In the absence of ‘‘standard’’ guide-
lines for the outdoor storage of such an exotic ar-
tifact, museum preservation specialists devised a
novel solution. They made a protective cover
from 450 yards of three-layer polyester-cotton
Gore-Shield fabric and installed a dehumidifier
to pump air with constant 45 percent humidity
through the airplane, monitored by a remote
chart recorder. Results from the first year’s data
on the storage of the aircraft are encouraging and
may be useful for other artifacts that cannot be
housed immediately.

a

This 1984 painting by
American artist Wilham
Hartmann, showing a fic-
tional international re-
search base on the Moon,

was on view at the Na-
tional Air and Space Mu-
seum in the exhibition
“Artin the Cosmic
Age,'' which opened in
May 1991. (Photograph
by Mark Avino)

National Museum of Af-
rican Art docent Henry
Eliott leads a group of
youngsters through the

museum's gallertes.

46

National Museum of African Art

The National Museum of African Art is the only
museum in the United States dedicated exclu-
sively to the collection, exhibition, and study of
the traditional arts of Africa south of the Sahara.
The museum offers visitors the opportunity to
gain a better understanding of the extraordinarily
diverse cultures and visual traditions of this vast
region through its wide range of educational pro-
grams and its permanent and temporary exhibi-
tions. In addition, the museum serves as a
research and reference center, housing the Eliot
Elisofon Photographic Archives and the Warren
M. Robbins Library.

w A new permanent exhibition, ‘The Art of the
Personal Object,’’ features more than 100 inge-
niously conceived utilitarian objects principally
from eastern and southern Africa.

w A new gallery opened this year devoted to
small, innovative exhibitions on unique topics,
generally focusing on a single object or theme.
The first exhibition was ‘‘A Cloth of Honor,’ a
large, vibrantly colored cloth made by Okon Ak-
pan Abuje of southeastern Nigeria.

m The museum presented a series of free public
programs on the Gullah people, a distinctive
group of African Americans whose artistic tradi-
tions, customs, language, and folklore can be
traced to West Africa. The series was held in con-
junction with the exhibition ‘‘Paramount Chiefs

of Sierra Leone: Photographic Portraits by Vera
Viditz-Ward.”’

w Olowe of Ise, a Nigerian court artist of the late
nineteenth to early twentieth century whose work
for Yoruba kings established him as one of the
most famous African sculptors, continued to be
the focus of archival research being conducted at
the museum. This research will result in the first
monograph devoted to a traditional African
artist.

w A 50-minute film, Nagayati (Be in Peace), pro-
duced for the museum by Peter Oud of Film and
Photography for Development Work, explores
the arts and architecture of the Gabra nomads in
northern Kenya, East Africa.

National Museum of American
Art

The National Museum of American Art (NMAA)
is committed to the acquisition, preservation,
study, and exhibition of American painting,
sculpture, graphic arts, photography, and craft
and folk art. As the largest collection of American
art in the world, NMAA houses more than
35,000 objects. The Renwick Gallery, a curatorial
department of the museum, collects and exhibits
American crafts and decorative arts. Through its
many programs and publications, the museum
seeks to expand the understanding of American
art and its relationship to history and to the pre-
sent, ensuring the inclusion of diverse artistic
achievements that were once unrecognized.

w American Art, a quarterly publication on the
arts in America begun in 1987, was renamed and
expanded in 1991 to include a variety of new fea-
tures and articles. The journal’s scope encom-
passes all aspects of the nation’s visual heritage,
including the traditional fine arts, decorative arts
and crafts, architecture and landscape design,
photography, film and video, and commercial
and graphic design.

@ Save Outdoor Sculpture! (SOS!), a massive
project of inventorying all public sculpture in
America through on-site visits by volunteers, be-

)

gan in fall 1991. Illinois, Tennessee, and West Vir- |

ginia are the first states to be surveyed in the
nationwide campaign to locate and document all
outdoor sculpture for adding to the Inventory of
American Sculpture maintained by the museum.
This computer data base records the location,
physical characteristics, and subject matter of out-
door monuments as well as of sculpture in private
and public collections. SOS! is cosponsored by
the National Institute for the Conservation of
Cultural Property.

@ More than 50 paintings on a variety of unor-
thodox materials, including plywood, burlap,
and paperboard, were conserved by the museum
in preparation for the exhibition ‘‘Homecoming:
William H. Johnson and Afro-America, 1938—
1946,”’ which opened on September 13, 1991. One
of America’s most important but neglected black
painters, the academically trained Johnson
worked in a vibrant, folk-inspired style to capture
everyday life in the rural South and Harlem fol-
lowing the Depression.

gw The museum was named the major beneficiary
of the estate of Florence Davis, whose husband
Gene Davis was a leading figure in twentieth-cen-
tury art and a widely acclaimed innovator in the
field of abstraction. Included in the important
bequest were a substantial number of paintings,
drawings, and prints representing Gene Davis’s
entire career.

m ‘Made with Passion: The Hemphill Folk Art
Collection of the National Museum of American
Art’’ provided a showcase for 199 objects (nearly
half the collection acquired by NMAA) created
by people of diverse backgrounds from all parts
of the nation. Programs held in conjunction with
the exhibition included a Folk Art Family Day
that attracted more than 2,000 visitors and special
demonstrations presented by artists represented
in the show.

w The Renwick Gallery expanded its widely ac-
claimed collection of contemporary crafts through
gifts and with the assistance of the Smithsonian
Collections Acquisition Program and the James
Renwick Alliance (the gallery’s support group).
New acquisitions include work in many media by
George Nakashima, Larry Fuente, William Har-
per, Sidney R. Hutter, Albert Paley, Earl Pardon,
Don Reitz, and Judith Schaecter.

a
New acquisitions by the

(2 OUR OWN COMMUNITY (Bp

of

National Museum of

= GROCERY= DELICATESSEN

4»635-GROGERY- DELICATESSEN 54507

American Art in 1990 tn-
cluded this work, ca.
1940, from Aaron Sis-

i ji & kind's Harlem project,
yo i ( } = = “The Most Crowded
Ae | _ 4-10 P= Block."’ The silver gelatin
ath 6 . E print was a gift of Ten-
r = — nyson and Fern Schad.
=

National Museum of American
History

The National Museum of American History
(NMAH) preserves and honors the nation’s heri-
tage through exhibitions, books, symposia, con-
certs, drama, oral history projects and story-
telling, films, recordings, and innovative school
outreach programs. As an educational institu-
tion, the museum is dedicated to using its collec-
tions to promote public understanding of the
experiences and aspirations of all the American
people. NMAH makes a special effort to recog-
nize the diverse aspects of American culture and
to present that magnificent variety and vitality to
audiences on the National Mall and beyond. Its
holdings of more than 17 million objects—from
George Washington's Revolutionary War field
tent to the world’s largest collection of musical
manuscripts and memorabilia of Duke
Ellington—and its extensive archives constitute
one of the most comprehensive American history
collections in existence. Research by scholars and
specialists from within and outside the museum
lays the foundation for all the museum’s work,
and educational activities are directed to visitors
of all ages and interests.

g The National Postal History and Philatelic Mu-
seum was created under a joint agreement be-
tween the Smithsonian and the U.S. Postal Ser-

47
a

This large stlver Jefferson
Indian Peace medal of
18o1, one of the first In-
dian peace medals struck
at the U.S. Mint, was ac-
quired this year by the
National Museum of
American History. On
one side 1t shows a profile
of Thomas Jefferson and
on the other a crossed
peace pipe and tomahawk
above two clasped hands.

vice signed on November 6, 1990, by Secretary
Robert McC. Adams and Postmaster General An-
thony Frank. The new museum, a satellite mu-
seum of NMAH, will open to the public in 1993
in the former Washington, D.C., main post of-
fice next to Union Station.

w With a grant from the Smithsonian Collections
Acquisition Program, the Archives Center and
the Division of Musical History at NMAH ac-
quired from Ruth Ellington Boatwright impor-
tant musical manuscripts, recordings,
photographs, and business records of her brother,
Edward Kennedy ‘“‘Duke’’ Ellington. With these
materials, the museum’s Ellington holdings form
the world’s largest collection devoted to this dis-
tinguished American composer and conductor.

w The museum’s Program in African American
Culture introduced Washington, D.C., public
school students and their teachers to the Duke
Ellington Collection through its Duke Ellington
Youth Festival. While studying the life and music
of Ellington, more than 100 young people per-
formed his music, wrote poetry and essays, and
created their own works of art in celebration of
Ellington’s genius. These works were presented to
the public in an evening of performances and in
an art exhibition.

@ Occidental Chemical Corporation presented a
gift of $1 million to the museum to develop a na-
tional prototype model for science education at
the middle school or junior high school level.
Museum educators working with teachers in
schools and colleges nationwide are designing
revolutionary approaches to science education,

creating curriculum guides for teachers, and iden-
tifying interdisciplinary approaches that will at-
tract and hold the interest of students in science.
This educational outreach program is part of the

new exhibition ‘‘Science in American Life,”’
scheduled to open in November 1993, which is
supported by a grant from the American Chemi-
cal Society.

m Despite a general decline in tourism at many
popular Washington sites during 1990-91, mu-
seum attendance rose by a noteworthy 5 percent,
which translates into some 274,000 new visitors to
exhibitions, concerts, and programs.

@ A new installation of the exhibition ‘‘After the
Revolution: Everyday Life in America 1780-1800”
opened, reflecting extensive new research and de-
sign and the benefits of a continuing process of
exhibition evaluation.

@ The museum acquired uniforms worn by three
women during the Persian Gulf war: Barbara
Bush’s battle dress utility uniform shirt in desert
camouflage, worn during the First Lady’s Thanks-

~ giving 1990 trip to Saudi Arabia; the Iraqi pris-

oner-of-war uniform issued to Army Major
Rhonda Cornum; and the uniform shirt and
trousers worn by Army Specialist Melissa Rath-
burn Nealy Coleman, prisoner of war.

@ Marking the centennial of the great American
composer Cole Porter, the museum’s Division of
Museum Programs presented 15 free public per-
formances of Porter songs and a special tribute of
two additional programs produced with the
Mabel Mercer Foundation of New York City.

National Museum of the
Amencan Indian

The National Museum of the American Indian
(NMAI), in consultation and collaboration with
Native Americans, will interpret and represent all
aspects of Native culture of the Western Hemi-
sphere as living, dynamic cultural phenomena
with intrinsic validity and equality with other cul-
tural experiences. Through innovative public pro-
gramming, research, and collections, the
museum will recognize its special responsibility to
protect, support, and enhance the development,
maintenance, and perpetuation of Native cul-
tures and communities.

m The museum held 11 consultations in fiscal
1991, each involving approximately 40 partici-
pants drawn primarily from the Native American

community. The purpose of these meetings was
to obtain programmatic information that will
help the museum and its architectural consultant
to determine the nature, number, and configura-
tion of spaces needed for NMAI’s new facilities
on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., and
in Suitland, Maryland.

gw The NMAI Board of Trustees adopted a re-
patriation policy that commits the museum to the
disposition of five categories of materials in
accordance with the wishes of culturally based
Native Americans where cultural affiliation with
the materials has been demonstrated: human re-
mains, funerary objects, communally owned
property, ceremonial and religious materials, and
materials acquired illegally.

= Complex negotiations with the General Ser-
vices Administration and the governments of
New York City and New York state were com-
pleted this year. As a result of these negotiations,
construction funds were released for the renova-
tion of the Old U.S. Custom House, which will
house the George Gustav Heye Center of the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian in New
York City.

gw The exhibitions for the 1994 opening of the
George Gustav Heye Center were conceived and
the initial research was accomplished with the
participation of Native Americans from through-
out the hemisphere.

m The museum’s national fund-raising campaign
was launched in January 1991 with a full-page ad-
vertisement in four major newspapers and a series
of test mailings to initiate an NMAI membership
program. Public response has far exceeded even
the most optimistic projection; by the end of the
fiscal year, the museum had more than 16 ,o00
members.

@ Staff development was a primary focus during
the year. Of 17 new staff members, 8 are Native
Americans.

National Museum of Natural
History/ National Museum of Man

The National Museum of Natural History /Na-
tional Museum of Man (NMNBH), the nation’s
largest research museum, is dedicated to under-
standing the natural world and the place of hu-
mans in it. With a staff of more than 600,
including 130 staff scientists, and the world’s
largest and most extensive collection of docu-
mented artifacts and specimens of plants, ani-
mals, fossils, rocks, and minerals, now
numbering more than 120 million items, the mu-
seum supports scholarly investigations in anthro-
pology and the full range of the natural sciences.
This extensive research in the field and the labo-
ratory is shared with the scholarly community and
the public through publications, symposia and
forums, educational programs, and a public mu-
seum of popular exhibitions that attracts about 6
million visitors a year, more than any other natu-
ral history museum in the world.

a The museum’s National Council held its first
field meeting October 18-21, 1990, in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. In addition to attending busi-
ness sessions, the council visited two research
sites: an outcrop of fossil flowering plants east of
Togwotee Pass and recent and older burned areas
of Yellowstone National Park to study fire
ecology.

w Museum geologist Kenneth M. Towe pub-
lished research in a November 1990 issue of the

a

Emil Her Many Horses
(Lakota), one of the inai-
viduals who selected ob-
yects for the forthcoming
National Museum of the
American Indian exhibt-

tion ‘Points of View,”
discusses a painted mus-
lin with museum curators
Cecile Ganteaume (right)
and Gary Galante (left).
The ‘ledger book" style
of painting on the muslin
15 typical of the fine draw-
ings found among many
Plains Indian groups dur-
ing the late nineteenth
century. (Photograph by
Karen Furth)

49
a

Charley Potter and Bill
McLellan of the National
Museum of Natural Hts-
tory/National Museum of
Man and volunteer Marto
Velasco (right) salvage a

sperm whale saw at Hat-
teras Inlet, North Caro-
lina, for the museum's
collection. (Photograph
by Chip Clark)

magazine Nature suggesting that oxygen respira-
tion evolved and was being used by organisms
worldwide at least a billion years earlier than sci-
entists previously believed. His calculations,
based on chemical evidence from the Earth’s
most ancient rocks, also show that the atmo-
sphere during this time period (3.8 to 2.5 billion
years ago) contained dramatically higher amounts
of oxygen than thought possible.

w In ‘Focus on Biodiversity,’’ six staff scientists,
led by Director of Biodiversity Programs Don E.
Wilson, presented a timely public briefing on the
museum's important ongoing research in this
area.

@ Critical basic research included publication
during the year of numerous new species of
plants and animals discovered by museum scien-
tusts. Two notable findings were a new beaked
whale, the first new cetacean species recognized
since 1963, and 32 species of extinct birds that
lived in Hawaii until the arrival of humans.

@ Moving as quickly as possible to carry out the
congressional mandate to repatriate the remains
and associated funerary objects of Native Ameri-
cans, the museum established and began to staff
the Repatriation Office. In 1991, the museum re-
turned these remains: to Hui Malama for reburial
in Kauai, Hawaii, the remains of 132 individuals
as well as other materials from Hawaii; to the
Larsen Bay Tribal Council of Kodiak Island,
Alaska, 756 human remains from the Uyak site,
Larsen Bay; and to the Sisseton Wahpeton Sioux

of Sisseton, South Dakota, the remains of 31 indi-
viduals. The museum also adopted a policy on
the treatment of Native American sacred objects
and cultural patrimony that follows the Native
American Graves Protection and Repatriation
Act.

@ The Harry Winston Research Foundation gave
$1 million toward the renovation of the mu-
seum’s Geology, Gems, and Minerals Hall. Dur-
ing 1990-91, private contributions to the new
hall, expected to open in 1995, passed the $2 mil-
lion mark.

m Major special exhibitions in the Thomas Evans
Gallery were ‘‘Sharks: Fact and Fantasy’’ and
“Beyond the Java Sea: Art of Indonesia’s Outer
Islands.’ The latter exhibition, organized by mu-
seum ethnologist Paul M. Taylor, was the first sig-
nificant exhibition of the masterworks created by
the peoples of the outer islands.

mw A new souvenir guide for visitors to the ex-
hibits, A Picture Tour of the National Museum of
Natural History, was published this year, with
text by Associate Director for Public Programs
Robert D. Sullivan and writer/editor Sue Voss
and photographs by museum photographer Chip
Clark.

@ For the second summer, the museum’s second-
ary education specialist, Carmel Ervin, conducted
a three-week Natural Science Institute for
Teachers of Minority Students. This program for
teachers of grades 4 through 12 featured activities
aimed at learning how to “‘read”’ natural history
objects, and this year a companion institute was
established to increase the skill and interest of
teachers and students in geology.

National Portrait Gallery

The National Portrait Gallery is dedicated to the
collection, preservation, exhibition, and study of
portraits of people who have made significant
contributions to American history and to the
study of the artists who created such portraiture.
The gallery sponsors a variety of scholarly and
public activities for audiences interested in Amer-
ican aft.

@ Two of the exhibitions mounted during the
year—the photographic portraits of Annie
Leibovitz and the sculpture of Marisol—departed
from the gallery’s usual historical viewpoint.
These exhibitions proved exceedingly popular
with the public and attracted substantial critical
attention. Other exhibitions—including ‘‘Old
Hickory: A Portrait Sketch of Andrew Jackson,”’
“Group Portrait’’ (dealing with America’s ad-
vanced artists and writers of the early twentieth
century), ‘“Lincoln and His Contemporaries’’
(drawn from the Meserve Collection of Mathew
Brady photographs), and ‘‘Camera Portraits’’
(notable photographs from the National Portrait
Gallery in London)—dealt with portraiture in
past eras.

g The gallery emphasizes collaboration with
other cultural institutions in this nation and
abroad. The Annie Leibovitz exhibition was
jointly organized by the gallery and the Interna-
tional Center of Photography in New York City,
where it will be shown after its Washington instal-
lation. It will then continue on a national tour.
The Andrew Jackson exhibition was developed
with funds and cooperation from the State of
Tennessee and traveled to the Tennessee State
Museum in Nashville. ‘Camera Portraits’’ is the
latest in a series of exhibitions that bring the trea-
sures of overseas portrait collections to our public.
mw To encourage young people to think about the
art of portraiture, the gallery’s Education Depart-
ment has initiated an innovative series of week-
end workshops for students and their parents.
The Leibovitz and Marisol exhibitions gave
school-age young people the opportunity to try
their hands at photographic and constructed por-
traits and thus to enhance their appreciation for
the achievements of the two artists.

m Associated with the gallery’s Peale Papers proj-
ect (and the several notable Peale portraits in the
collection) was a symposium on the work of
Charles Willson Peale and his times, held April
13-14, 1991, in celebration of Peale’s 250th birth-
day. A book of essays on Peale by several scholars
from the gallery and elsewhere, edited by Lillian
Miller and David Ward of the Peale Papers staff,
was published on this occasion by the University
of Pittsburgh Press for the gallery.

@ Continuing the programs in which notable liv-
ing Americans present ‘‘self-portraits’’ in inter-
views were dancer, choreographer, and author
Agnes de Mille and Gordon Parks, whose career
encompasses photography, motion pictures, mu-
sical composition, and writing. These conversa-

a

Photographer Annie
tions before invited audiences were videotaped Leibovitz signs auto-
for the future use of scholars and for possible tele- graphs at the opening of

her first museum exhtbt-
tion at the National Por-

vision broadcast.
@ The illustrated checklist of the permanent col-

lection, until this year available only in book trait Gallery in April :
form, was published in CD-ROM by Abt 1991. (Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)

Books—the first time a museum collection has
been made available in this format. CD-ROM al-
lows computer users to have access to color images
of more than 3,000 painted, sculptured, and
drawn portraits using a variety of index terms.
This new technology has the potential for en-
hancing the gallery’s service to researchers and
general visitors and for providing a model for
other museums.

Office of Exhibits Central

The Office of Exhibits Central (OEC) provides ex-
hibition services for Smithsonian units that have
little or no exhibition capability. OEC’s specialists
offer expertise in all phases of exhibition design
and production using the office’s up-to-date
facilities.

w During this fiscal year, OEC worked with sev-
eral outside museums in adapting and designing
the installation of two major exhibitions in the
International Gallery in the S. Dillon Ripley Cen-

51
§2

ter: ‘‘Moscow: Treasures and Traditions’ and
“Degenerate Art: The Fate of the Avant Garde in
Nazi Germany.”

@ OEC provided significant support for the Col-
umbus Quincentenary exhibition ‘‘Seeds of
Change,” which opened at the National Museum
of Natural History in October r991. OEC staff ed-
ited the exhibition script, built exhibition cases,
silk-screened labels, and fabricated mannequins.
wm OEC designed, edited, and produced ‘‘The
Real McCoy: African American Invention and In-
novation.’’ This traveling exhibition for the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Ser-
vice (SITES) was adapted from the exhibition of
the same name at the Anacostia Museum.

@ The office has participated in every phase of
the Experimental Gallery, from the initial space
plan to designing, producing, and installing
every exhibition to date. For ‘‘The Good, the
Bad, and the Cuddly: Human Attitudes toward
Animals,”’ a collaborative exhibition of the Na-
tional Zoological Park and SITES, OEC provided
full design and project coordination and pro-
duced full-size animal models and mechanical in-
teractive devices.

Office of Horticulture

The Office of Horticulture manages more than 80
acres of gardens and grounds at the Smithsonian,
places horticultural displays in interior public
spaces, and provides flowering and foliage plants
for special events and exhibitions. The office also
has collections of living plants, garden furniture,
and images of contemporary and historic
horticulture.

@ The office continues to focus on the health of
older trees and shrubs on the Smithsonian
grounds through spraying, cabling, pruning, and
replacement programs.

@ In keeping with the Institution’s emphasis on
environmental awareness, the office initiated an
integrated pest management program that re-
duces the use of environmentally harmful chemi-
cals. The office also continued installation of a
computerized irrigation network.

w The Enid A. Haupt Garden gravel walkways
were replaced with brick. This construction sub-

stantially improved accessibility and was enthusi-
astically received by public and staff.

w The Archives of American Gardens, estab-
lished with a gift collection of about 20,000 glass
and 35-millimeter slides from the Garden Club
of America, was awarded a grant by the James
Smithson Society to catalogue the collection to a
laser disk, to make access easier for researchers.

Office of Museum Programs

As a national and international museum training
center, the Office of Museum Programs provides
instruction and professional development in skills
unique to museum professions. Working to help
museums better serve their lay and scholarly audi-
ences, the office’s staff designs innovative train-
ing programs that focus on pressing concerns
facing museums and cultural institutions.

@ Representatives of more than 50 tribal groups
in the United States and Canada participated in
the American Indian Museum Studies Program, a
new training initiative that features courses on
planning for tribal cultural facilities, exhibition
production techniques, and archives
management.

@ The office continued its leadership role in in-
ternational museum training with the conference
“Building Partnerships/ Preserving Patrimony,”’
held in San José, Costa Rica. The program ad-
dressed the special challenges Central American
museums face in preserving their collections.

@ The ethical, political, and philosophical issues
surrounding income-generating activities were
the theme of ‘‘Purse Strings: Museums, Mission,
and Money in the ’9os,”’ a national conference
for leaders in the arts and museum fields.

w Again this year, the office provided services for
the more than 600 interns at the Smithsonian, in-
cluding application referral, registration, and ori-
entation, as well as educational and enrichment
programs.

Office of the Registrar

The Office of the Registrar (OR) supervises the
management of the Institution’s vast collection of
139 million objects and specimens. By monitoring
Institution-wide collections management policies
and procedures, the office works to ensure in-
creased access to and continued accountability for
the national collection.

g Frequent international requests prompted the
office to translate its principal guiding document,
Office Memorandum 808: Collections Manage-
ment Policy, into French and Spanish.

@ This year marked the fifth annual compilation
of collections statistics, which offers data on ac-
quisitions, deaccessioning, and loan activity
throughout the Institution.

@ The office presented ‘Project Success through
Problem Solving,’’ a workshop designed to clarify
and solve project management problems specifi-
cally associated with museum collections.

@ The Registrar’s Council, which offers oppor-
tunities for professional exchange among collec-
tions management staff, debated such critical is-
sues as repatriation, tax legislation, and the
capitalization of museum collections.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (SITES) expands the Smithsonian’s pres-
ence beyond Washington, D.C., to 8 million
people each year by circulating exhibitions to mu-
seums, libraries, science centers, historical soci-
eties, Zoos, aquariums, community centers, and
schools. SITES programs represent a broad range
of human perspectives—they pose questions,
communicate abstractions, and challenge visitors
to make connections among objects, people,
places, events, and ideas. By emphasizing diverse
viewpoints and by using inquiry as a means for
interpreting exhibition themes and images,
SITES encourages visitors to explore the full
breadth of possibilities inherent in themselves,
others, and the world around them.

w SITES received a major grant of $465,000 from
the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund for “‘Be-
yond Category: The Musical Genius of Duke
Ellington,”’ a joint exhibition project with the
National Museum of American History. This ret-
rospective of one of the nation’s greatest cultural

|
This Japanese American
mother and child were
among more than 112,000
people of Japanese ances-
try removed from their
homes and taken to
internment camps during
World War Il. The lives,
aspirations, challenges,
and triumphs of four
generations of Japanese
American women are
chronicled in an exhibt-
tion of the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service titled
“Strength and Diversity:
Japanese American
Women, 1885-1990."
(Photograph courtesy of
Museum of History and
Industry, Seattle,
Washington)

heroes will combine photographs, computerized
audio programs, archival documents, live perfor-
mances, and a school curriculum guide. It will in-

augurate a multiyear initiative to bring America’s
rich jazz heritage to communities across the
country.

@ For the first time, SITES was allocated signifi-
cant federal funding. No longer required to re-
cover its operating expenses from exhibition
rental fees, SITES will be able to offer its pro-
grams at substantially lower costs, enabling more
people than ever to experience the full range of
Smithsonian offerings.

w SITES celebrates cultural diversity through ex-
hibitions that address the needs and interests of
people of all backgrounds. Historically black col-
leges, Mexico’s rich artistic heritage, America’s
past and present relationship with Japan and its
people, and Kiowa storytelling traditions are the
themes of some of the exhibitions introduced this
year to reach a growing multicultural audience.

w Preparatory workshops play an integral role in
SITES outreach services. A workshop for ‘“The
Real McCoy: African American Invention and In-
novation,’’ an exhibition organized by the An-
acostia Museum, brought together curators,
educators, content advisers, and representatives
from host museums on the national tour to help
determine the scope and format of the traveling
version of the exhibition.
|

This fifth-grade student
from Stuart-Hobson Mid
dle School in the Wash
ington, D.C., public
school system 15 using a
simple but effective mti-

croscope to examine a mi-

crochip. The activity 1s

part of the Mictoworlds
unit of the Nattonal Sct-
ence Resources Center's
Science and Technology
for Children elementary

science curriculum pro-

gram. (Photograph by
Dane Penland)

54

Public Service

James Early, Assistant Secretary for Public
Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Public Service

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public
Service advises the secretary, the under secretary,
and senior management staff on policy matters
related to contemporary public education, cul-
tural pluralism and cultural equity, and wider au-
dience initiatives. The office and the units it
oversees disseminate information on the Smith-
sonian to national audiences, collaborate with
elementary and secondary schools and educa-
tional associations, and engage in applied re-
search and the documentation of living cultures.

@ The Smithsonian has the unique ability as a
nontraditional educational institution to attract
diverse audiences for learning beyond the struc-
tured classroom environment. This year, the of-
fice assisted an outside organization, Quality
Education for Minorities (QEM) Network, in fos-
tering educational science programs for minor-
ities and women. Numerous offices and
individuals at the Smithsonian helped QEM, and
several QEM interns were placed at the
Smithsonian.

@ In keeping with its mandate to facilitate and

advance issues of cultural pluralism and cultural
equity, the office—under the auspices of the Cul-
tural Education Committee—prepared a report
on cultural diversity at the Smithsonian for the
Smithsonian Council. The report explored the
status of staffing, exhibition policies, audience
development, and outreach efforts at the
Institution.

National Science Resources Center

The National Science Resources Center (NSRC),
jointly operated by the Smithsonian Institution
and the National Academy of Sciences, works
with educators and scientists across the country to
improve science education in the nation’s
schools. The NSRC develops and disseminates in-
novative science curriculum materials, dissemi-
nates information about effective science
teaching resources, and sponsors outreach activ-
ities to help school districts improve their science
programs. The past year was marked by achieve-
ments in all three areas.

w The NSRC published the first instructional
units in a new elementary science curriculum un-
der development by the NSRC’s Science and
Technology for Children project. School districts
across the country have now begun to introduce
these new hands-on units into their elementary
schools.

mw The NSRC began to collect and catalogue in-
formation on effective science teaching resources
for middle school teachers. Under way is the cre-
ation of a data base and the production of a guide
for middle school science similar to the NSRC’s
highly successful guide to elementary science
teaching resource, Sczence for Children: Re-
sources for Teachers.

w Teams of teachers, administrators, and scien-
tists from 16 school districts across the country at-
tended the NSRC’s third Elementary Science
Leadership Institute. Representatives of 42 school
districts in 29 states serving more than 1 million
elementary school children have now participated
in the leadership institutes, which are week-long
sessions of workshops and discussions on strate-
gies for implementing effective elementary sci-
ence programs.

m The NSRC launched a significant national out-
reach project, the National Elementary Science
Leadership Initiative, which will link school dis-
tricts and the scientific community in a massive
effort to improve science education in the na-
tion’s schools. The project will expand the NSRC
Elementary Science Leadership Institute program
and provide follow-up support and technical as-
sistance for school districts working to reform
their science programs. The initiative will also
stimulate public support for improved ele-
mentary science education through the produc-
tion and distribution of a multimedia
information packet.

Office of Conference Services

The Office of Conference Services (OCS) coordi-
nates conferences, symposia, and meetings hos-
ted at or sponsored by the Smithsonian, which
range from scholarly colloquia and teacher work-
shops to dialogues with public audiences on na-
tional and international concerns relevant to
Smithsonian programs.

w OCS managed arrangements for ‘‘Teaching
about Native Americans,”’ the Institution’s first
symposium on current approaches to teaching
about historic and contemporary Native Ameri-
can cultures, sponsored by the National Museum
of Natural History.

m OCS gave logistical assistance to the American
Committee for South Asian Art for its fifth sym-
posium, ‘‘Current Research in South and South-
east Asian Art and Archaeology,’’ sponsored at
the Smithsonian by the Arthur M. Sackler Gal-
lery and the Freer Gallery of Art.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion (OESE) develops and disseminates program-
ming that applies resources from throughout the
Institution to the needs of schools at the pre-
college level, both locally and nationally. The of-
fice also serves as a clearinghouse and a focal
point for precollege education at the Smith-

sonian, promoting collaboration and communica-
tion among Smithsonian education departments
and between those departments and outside or-
ganizations. OESE carries out programming in
four categories: teacher preparation and enhance-
ment, internships for students, publications and
other media for schools and children, and part-
nerships with schools.

# A collaboration with two District of Columbia
public schools in affiliation with the Foxfire
Foundation brought teachers into Smithsonian
museums for internships to develop classroom
materials and lessons on African American history
and culture.

w The office’s work in teacher preparation and
enhancement included a day-long symposium,
“Word of Mouth: Learning and Teaching
through Stories,’’ and a series of 12 one-week
courses on a variety of subjects relating to school
curricula.

w A contract with Golden Owl Publishing pro-
vides for commercial distribution of educational
materials produced by the office. This year, the
office completed the first title, “Band Music in
American Life: A Social History, 1850-1990.”’

Office of Folklife Programs

Through scholarly research and public program-
ming, the Office of Folklife Programs seeks to
promote continuity, integrity, and equity for tra-
ditional ethnic, tribal, regional, minority, and
working-class cultures in the United States and
abroad. Staff folklorists, anthropologists, and
ethnomusicologists conduct research on grassroots
cultural traditions and make research findings
available to scholarly and general audiences
through the Festival of American Folklife, the
Smithsonian Folklife Studies Series, Smith-
sonian/ Folkways Recordings, and the Office of
Folklife Programs archives.

w The 25th annual Festival of American Folklife
featured programs titled ‘‘Family Farming in the
Heartland,” ‘‘Forest, Field, and Sea: Folklife in
Indonesia,’’ ‘‘Land in Native American Cul-
tures’’ for the Columbus Quincentenary, and
“The Roots of Rhythm and Blues: The Robert
Johnson Era.”’

Al
“
a

Mexican Maya weavers
Petrona Intzin (fore-
ground) and Maria Pérez
Peso practice their skills
for a young visitor to the
“Land in Native Amert-
can Cultures" program at
the 1991 Festival of Amer-
ican Folklife. (Photo-
graph by Lyle
Roshotham)

a

The Office of Public Af-
fairs produced a new tele-
vision public service
announcement this year
to encourage visitors with
physical disabilities to
take advantage of the
Smithsonian's facilities.
The announcement fea-
tures Cooper-Hewitt, Na-
tional Museum of Design
Director Dianne H. Pif-
grim, seen here during
the June filming in the
Hirshhorn Sculpture Gar-
den. (Photograph by Eric
Long)

56

@ The Folklife Festival continues to generate in-

terest in cultural conservation in home commu-
nities. The Smithsonian and the state of Hawaii
are working toward establishing a Smithsonian/
Hawaii project for the study and enhancement of
the living cultures of Hawaii and the Pacific. The
government of the U.S. Virgin Islands is re-
mounting the U.S. Virgin Islands portion of the
1990 Festival of American Folklife on St. Croix
and on St. Thomas and establishing a Virgin Is-
lands cultural institute.

@ Smithsonian/ Folkways Recordings continues to
make available every original Folkways recording
by mail order, to reissue many of the originals,
and to release entirely new projects. Approxi-
mately 20 recordings—reissues and new re-
leases—were produced in 1991.

Office of Public Affairs

Through publicity and publications, the Office of
Public Affairs helps bring the Smithsonian
story—its exhibitions, research, public programs,
and other activities—to diverse cultural commu-
nities in the United States and throughout the

world. Serving as an information clearinghouse
for print and broadcast journalists, the office pro-
cesses about 550 news releases a year from Smith-
sonian offices and bureaus and provides
background papers, press conferences, photo-
graphic support, videotapes, logistical support,
and television and radio public service announce-
ments. The office’s publications include a
monthly calendar of events in English and Span-
ish, the Torch (an employee newspaper), Re-
search Reports (a quarterly research bulletin),
Smithsonian Runner (a bimonthly newsletter for
Native Americans), the Smithsonian News Ser-
vice (a syndicated monthly feature story service
for newspapers), and a wide variety of visitor and
special resource publications. The office also coor-
dinates Institution-wide publicity and advertising
programs.

m With support from the Educational Outreach
Program and the Special Exhibition Fund, the of-
fice prepared four versions of a multicultural
portable exhibit that was displayed during the
year at annual meetings of the National Associa-
tion of Hispanic Journalists, the National Asso-
ciation of Black Journalists, and the Asian
American Journalists Association.

m The New York Times Syndicate began distrib-

uting the Smithsonian News Service overseas in
Spanish and English. The award-winning service,
which goes to 1,000 newspapers in the United
States and worldwide, garnered every honor in
the feature release category in the National Asso-

ciation of Government Communicators Blue Pen-

cil publications competition.

g A 30-second, close-captioned television public
service announcement about the Smithsonian for
visitors with physical disabilities was filmed with
Dianne H. Pilgrim, director of the Cooper-
Hewitt, National Museum of Design, as
spokesperson.

Smithsonian Office of Wider
Audience Development

The Smithsonian Office of Wider Audience De-
velopment was established in 1990 to assist in the
efforts to strengthen the Institution’s interaction
with culturally diverse communities. Examples of
the office’s work include coordinating pan-Insti-
tutional participation in federally designated ob-
servances of ethnic and women’s heritages;
establishing and maintaining relations with insti-
tutions and organizations concerned with cultural
diversity; and collecting and analyzing data on
nontraditional audiences.

@ This year, the office coordinated five heritage
commemorations with noted keynote speakers:
Black History Month (Niara Sudarkasa, presi-
dent, Lincoln University); Women’s History
Month (Carmen Turner, under secretary, Smith-
sonian Institution); Asian/Pacific American Heri-
tage Month (Ronald Takaki, professor of ethnic
studies, University of California, Berkeley); His-
panic Heritage Month (Luis Valdez, writer, direc-
tor, and producer); and American Indian
Heritage Month (Beatrice Medicine,
anthropologist).

Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

Established in 1970, the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center (VIARC) is a central
support unit responsible for a wide range of
Smithsonian information and assistance programs
for the public, Associate members, and staff and
volunteers. Several VIARC programs operate
seven days a week, and most involve the coor-
dination and direction of large numbers of volun-
teers, who are a primary source of support for the
Institution’s public information programs and for
project assistance behind the scenes.

g The Smithsonian Information Center has pro-
vided assistance to well over 2.5 million visitors
since it opened in late 1989, making it the fourth
busiest Smithsonian site. During the past year,
some 2,000 members a month were welcomed at
the Associate reception desks in the Castle and at
the National Air and Space Museum.

w The Public Inquiry Mail and Telephone Infor-
mation Services Unit received and processed more
than 40,000 pieces of mail and responded to
more than 325,000 telephone inquiries, which
included some 2,200 requests for information
about Smithsonian ethnic celebrations.

w VIARC’s corps of 570 volunteer information
specialists received training by Key Management,
Inc., to enhance information services for the pub-
lic. More than 550 volunteers, registered and
placed through the Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer
Program, provided Smithsonian staff with valu-
able project assistance.

@ The Information Resource Division updated
and maintained the automated information sys-
tems in the Smithsonian Information Center and
produced some 20 publications, including mu-
seum floor plans in French, German, Japanese,
and Spanish.

57
58

External Affairs

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary
Jor External Affairs

The Smithsonian Institution’s response to the
needs and concerns of its many external constitu-
encies is the primary responsibility of the Office
of the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs.
The office frames the Institution’s goals and im-
pact beyond the National Mall through the su-
pervision of its component units, effective use of
publications and electronic media, the hosting of
special events, and attention to the role of the
Smithsonian in national and international affairs.

m To enhance discussions of debt-for-nature
swaps, the office held a conference, ‘‘Debt-for-
Nature Swaps: Progress and Prospects.’’ Capitol
Hill action included hearings at which Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs Thomas E. Lovejoy
testified and that resulted in the passage of a bill
authorizing the use of $1.7 billion of U.S. bilat-
eral debt in debt-for-nature swaps.

@ Assistant Secretary Lovejoy presided over the
Biodiversity Roundtable organized by the Presi-
dent’s Council on Environmental Quality to dis-
cuss U.S. participation at the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development,
to be held in 1992.

@ Following a meeting near Moscow initiated by
the Soviet Ministry of Culture to discuss the im-
pact of twentieth-century events on the arts of the
United States and the Soviet Union, the Smith-
sonian hosted a meeting in December of arts
scholars from both countries organized by Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary Marc Pachter with the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Museums.

w Represented by Deputy Assistant Secretary
Pachter, the Smithsonian participated actively in
the President’s Committee on the Arts and the
Humanities, with special attention to its interna-
tional cultural advisory group, organized to
broaden national support for international cul-
tural exchange.

National Demonstration
Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies

The mission of the National Demonstration Lab-
oratory (NDL) ts to increase public awareness of
the power of interactive educational technologies
and ultimately help strengthen the nation’s edu-
cational system. Visitors to the NDL can learn
about interactive technologies in an environment
that permits hands-on access and encourages dis-
cussion and questions. Seventeen work stations
introduced visitors to a wide range of education
and training programs that combine computers
and multimedia materials. This year, the NDL
was transferred from the Smithsonian to the Li-
brary of Congress.

@ A networked computer-based training lab
known as an Integrated Learning System was
added to the collection this year.

m= The NDL hosted a number of events ranging
from teacher workshops to international
competitions.

Office of Development

The Office of Development seeks private finan-
cial support from corporations, foundations, and
individuals to enable the Smithsonian to further
its goals and objectives. The office is responsible
for fund-raising in support of Institutional priori-
ties and selected bureau projects and programs. It
also provides leadership for and coordination of
fund-raising initiatives, including related market-
ing activities, throughout the Institution.

m Private sector giving to the Smithsonian in-
creased significantly from fiscal 1990. Corporate
giving increased by 50 percent, individual giving
by 30 percent, and foundation giving by 20 per-
cent. Substantial gifts include a $465,000 plan-
ning grant from the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest
Fund for the Jazz at the Smithsonian program, a
collaboration of the National Museum of Ameri-
can History and the Smithsonian Institution Trav-
eling Exhibition Service; $450,000 from the
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for the Biological
Diversity of Forest Fragments project at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History; a bequest of
$300,000 from the Estate of Pauline Edwards,
half for the National Air and Space Museum and
half for the National Museum of American Att;
and $150,000 from the American Psychological
Association for the Experimental Gallery.

g The office initiated the first every-member so-
licitation of the Smithsonian National Board for
contributions to the Secretary's Special Fund, an
unrestricted pool of funds designated each year
by the secretary for a high-priority project. The
recipient in 1991 was a selection of Columbus
Quincentenary education programs and inau-
gural events. Funds raised from the board as of
September 30, 1991, totaled $148,500; the fund
drive will continue through December 31, 1991.
@ Gifts and grants to the Smithsonian in fiscal
1991 totaled $16.3 million, with initiatives in the
Office of Development contributing $5.8 million
of that amount.

Office of Government Relations

The Office of Government Relations represents
the Institution on matters of legislation, policy,
operations, and governance to the Congress and
other government entities at the federal, state,
and local levels. It is the primary conduit of legis-
lative information, as well as the advocate of
Smithsonian interests in the legislative process.

@ Legislation establishing the National Museum
of the American Indian and providing for re-
patriation of Native American remains and grave
goods occupied the office throughout the 1orst
Congress.

@ Areas of ongoing legislative activity include the
extension of the Smithsonian’s National Air and
Space Museum, biological diversity research and
conservation, land acquisition for continued eco-
logical research at the Smithsonian Environmen-
tal Research Center, and acquisition of an
administrative building for various Smithsonian
offices.

Office of International Relations

The Office of International Relations (OIR) pro-
vides technical assistance and diplomatic support
for Smithsonian programs abroad. It serves as the
link between the Smithsonian and foreign insti-
tutions or individuals, as well as international or-
ganizations and government agencies. The office
assists with the technical details of international
exchanges of museum objects and staff and ad-
ministers three funding programs to encourage
international cooperation in scholarly research
and museum programs.

@ The office provided international coordination
for a hemispheric project to develop an exhibition
on the rainforests of the Americas, involving en-
vironmental organizations and museums from 11
Latin American countries.

@ The office negotiated and coordinated a new
series of Smithsonian-Japanese research ex-
changes, to be undertaken in cooperation with
the Japanese Ministry of Construction beginning
in the fall of 1991.

@ Through the International Center and with the
coordination of OIR, the Smithsonian partici-
pated with Conservation International, the U.S.

a

Latin American environ-
mentalists and museum
professionals visit a rain-
forest in Panama during a
series of meetings at the
Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute devoted
to an international exht-
bition on the rainforests
of the Americas. The
prosect 1s coordinated by
the Smithsonian's Office
of International
Relations.
a

The Office of Telecom-
munications’ popular
video tour of the Institu
tion, ‘‘Guide to the
Smithsonian,"’ 1s now be-
ing sold through the Mu-
seum Shops, the
Smithsonian Information
Center, and the mail or-
der catalogue. (Photo-
graph by Jeff Tinsley)

60

Committee of the International Council on Mon-
uments and Sites, and the Midwest Universities
Consortium for International Activities in the
“Central Region Integrated Development Pro-
gram: Ghana,”’ a project designed to conserve the
country’s tropical rainforest ecosystem and to pre-
serve unique cultural and historic sites.

Office of Special Events

The Office of Special Events organizes events
throughout the Smithsonian that are geared to
developing and maintaining positive relation-
ships with present constituencies and support
groups, and to cultivating future interests and
benefits. Events are coordinated with other
Smithsonian offices, with corporations, and with
organizations whose missions coincide with those
of the Institution.

g Events in 1991 included the Martin Luther
King, Jr., Day celebration, brunch for the U.S.
Holocaust Memorial Museum Council, the 102d
Congressional Spouses luncheon, receptions with
the Association of Black Foundation Executives

and the National Science Resources Center, and
dinners with the American Association of Univer-
sities, Royal Society for the Encouragement of
Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce; President’s
Council of Advisers on Science and Technology;
the Chief Executives’ Organization; and Latin
American diplomats.

Office of Telecommunications

The Office of Telecommunications produces and
markets video, film, and audio programs cover-
ing a wide array of Smithsonian interests. These
programs extend the Institution’s reach to audi-
ences both within the United States and abroad
through television and radio broadcasts and
through distribution in various technologies to
home and educational markets. The office also
provides media planning and production services
for Smithsonian bureaus and offices.

w Radio Smithsonian, the office’s radio arm, em-
barked on a range of new programming ventures
for national broadcast, including the specials
“The Louis Armstrong Jazz Trumpet Competi-
tion”’ and ‘‘Cole Porter’s rooth Birthday All-Star
Celebration,’’ as well as two longer series, ‘‘Folk
Masters,’’ 13 one-hour programs from Carnegie
Hall, and ‘‘Speakers Corner,”’ 52 weekly pro-
grams hosted by Roger Mudd.

w Our Biosphere: The Earth in Our Hands, a
one-hour film produced by the office and hosted
by Robert Redford, premiered in April on the
Discovery Channel.

@ Collaborative productions with other Smith-
sonian units included exhibition programs for
upcoming Columbus Quincentenary exhibitions
at the National Museum of Natural History/Na-
tional Museum of Man and the National Museum
of American History.

@ The office concluded a long-term distribution
agreement with Public Media, Inc., for sales of
the Smithsonian Video Collection home video
programs, opening the way for production of new
titles. Guide to the Smithsonian, the panoramic
video tour of the museums, went on sale in the
Museum Shops and the Smithsonian Information
Center and through Smithsonian mail order
catalogues.
Smithsonian Institution Press

A full-fledged publishing house with an active
list of more than 600 titles, the Smithsonian In-
stitution Press is committed to serving both pro-
fessional scholars and sophisticated readers
attracted to serious thought and learning. Three
divisions contribute to its multifaceted program.
Smithsonian Books creates books accessible to
general readers on topics related to the Institu-
tion’s broad interests. The Smithsonian Collec-
tion of Recordings produces original and archival
sound recordings. The University Press publishes
scholarly nonfiction books and works with mu-
seum staff to develop publications for museum
visitors, children’s books, and guidebooks to the
Institution. The University Press division also ac-
quires publications in video format that are wor-
thy of inclusion under the Smithsonian
Institution Press imprint, some of them produced
in cooperation with the Visual Press of the Uni-
versity of Maryland.

@ The Press attracted enormous interest and at-
tention with the publication of Benjamin O.
Davis, Jr., American: An Autobiography, the life
story of the first black man to graduate from West
Point in this century. In the wake of the book’s
telease, General Davis appeared on several na-
tional television programs to discuss his
experiences.

a A new edition of the Official Guide to the
Smithsonian is now available in English, French,
German, Japanese, and Spanish, the result of
more than a year of photo collection and infor-
mation gathering.

@ The Press contributed to the Institution’s
Quincentenary observances with the successful
publication from Smithsonian Books, After Co-
lumbus: The Smithsonian Chronicle of the North
American Indians. The volume covets 500 years
of encounters and exchange between the Eu-
topeans and the North American Indians, offer-
ing an intimate portrait of the Indians and their
life-styles.

@ Through the Smithsonian Collection of Re-
cordings, the Press released the long-awaited col-
lection Folksong America: A Twentieth-Century
Revival. With 99 recorded selections covering
some 70 years and an accompanying 106-page
booklet, the collection has proved to be a popular
success and received much critical acclaim.

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian is a monthly magazine provided as a
benefit of membership in the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. With a circulation of 2.2 million, Swzzth-
sonian is among the 30 largest magazines
published today. It appeals to its diverse audience
with articles on history, the environment, conset-
vation, the sciences, and the arts. Monthly fea-
tures include ‘‘Phenomena, Comment, and
Notes,’’ a commentary on nature and the natural
world; ‘‘Smithsonian Horizons,” a column by
the Smithsonian Secretary; and reviews of re-
cently released nonfiction. Smithsonian activities
are covered in three regular departments:
‘Around the Mall,’’ ‘‘Smithsonian Highlights,”
and ‘‘The Object at Hand.”

m During the year, the magazine covered a broad
range of subjects, including the work of a Rapid
Assessment Program team charged with identify-
ing species in danger of eradication in Ecuadorian
rainforest areas slated for deforestation; the Civil
Rights Memorial in Montgomery, Alabama; the
centennial of Carnegie Hall; the movement of
coyotes into the eastern United States; the culture
of Calcutta; the creation of the modern bound-
aries of the Middle East; and the operations of
wildcat oil workers in Kansas.

w In March, Ronald C. Walker joined the maga-
zine as publisher, replacing Joseph Bonsignore,
who retired after 21 years and who also served as
publisher of Azr & Space /Smithsonian Magazine.

Ait & Space/Smithsonian
Magazine

Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine is published
bimonthly as a benefit of membership in the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum. During 1991, the
magazine’s circulation grew to nearly 342,000.
Articles continue to cover the range of air and
space-telated topics that appeal to the maga-
zine’s general readership. Regular features in-
clude ‘‘In the Museum,”’ an informational
column on museum artifacts; ‘‘Soundings,’’ news
briefs on aerospace news; ‘‘Above and Beyond,”
a commentary on unusual personal experiences in
a

Theater legend Helen
Hayes celebrated the Res
ident Associate Program's
25th anniversary and her
own 90th birthday in an
enchanting dialogue with
Washington Post critic

emeritus Richard L. Coe.
(Photograph by Dorothy
Andrake)

62

the air and space realm; and ‘‘Viewport,’’ com-
ments from the museum director.

w Arr & Space/Smithsonian celebrated its 5th
anniversary with the publication of the April/
May 1991 issue. Since it coincided with the roth
anniversary of NASA’s space shuttle program, the
April/May edition contained special editorial
coverage of the shuttle program, as well as a
folded poster insert titled ‘‘1o Years of Space
Shuttles.”’

Smithsonian National Assoctate
Program

The Smithsonian National Associate Program,
the national membership and public outreach
arm of the Institution, provides educational op-
portunities and activities for Associate members
and the general public in order to develop loyal
national and international constituencies for the
Smithsonian. These educational activities—edu-
cational tours, research expedition programs, lec-
tures, performances, workshops, and in-depth
seminars—deal with topics of concern to the In-
stitution and are designed to appeal to the cur-
rent National Associate membership and to
develop new constituencies. An important source
of income for the Institution, the Smithsonian
National Associate Program raises unrestricted
funds through surpluses generated by its activities

and through corporate and individual giving pro-
grams, including the Contributing Membership,
the James Smithson Society, and the Young
Benefactors.

m The number of Associates participating in tour
and seminar programs increased by 28 percent
this year. Smithsonian Odyssey Tours, a new pro-
gram of moderately priced tours, served more
than 1,400 Associates, while Smithsonian Semi-
nats enjoyed an 8o percent increase in enroll-
ment, offering such programs as ‘‘Broadcast
Journalism” and “‘Decorative Arts and Design.’
@ The total number of Contributing Member-
ship households surpassed 68 ooo, a 10 percent
increase over fiscal year 1990.

’

w James Smithson Society grants totaling
$430,000 were awarded to 17 Smithsonian proj-
ects. For the first time, members of the Smith-
sonian Council and a Regents Fellow served on
the grants review panel.

m The U.S. and International Events Division
added a new program coordinator for program-
ming that appeals to culturally diverse audiences
and embarked on an in-depth analysis of its mis-
sion and means of financial support.

Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program

The Resident Associate Program (RAP), the
Smithsonian’s privately supported, cultural, con-
tinuing education, membership, and outreach
arm for metropolitan Washington, continues its
mission to bring a rich mix of cultural and educa-
tional programs to its more than 145,000 area
members and to the general public. Each year
more than 300,000 persons attend its events,
which emphasize cultural diversity and world-
wide environmental concerns. RAP membership
has grown by more than 2,000 households since
fiscal year 1990, and the high membership reten-
tion rate continues to hold.

mw RAP’s 25th anniversary celebration dominated
its fall season with more than 4o programs featur-
ing such luminaries as Helen Hayes, Robert Red-
ford, Gordon Parks, and Richard E. Leakey.
These events generated new funds to support
RAP’s vital outreach efforts and to begin build-
ing an endowment for the program’s future.

w RAP now reaches national audiences in a num-
ber of ways, including cosponsorship with the
Teaching Company of weekend seminars, which
are videotaped for national distribution; taping
of lectures by Smithsonian Radio’s “‘Speakers
Corner”’ for broadcast on National Public Radio;
airing of Close Up Foundation’s ‘‘RAP and Black
History Month”’ on Cable News Network; and
three-day seminars for university, corporate, and
governmental leaders from across the country.

w Registration for Campus on the Mall broke re-
cords for three of four quarters this year. More
than 5,000 students now are regularly enrolled in
a single term. The new Campus on the Mall quar-
terly brochure helped reach out to new learners.
g Through its African American Studies Center,
RAP expands its programming to the local Afri-
can American community. Public service activities
include the scholarship program for inner-city
young people and adults; Discover Graphics, the
free printmaking program for local public high
school students and teachers; and the annual Kite
Festival on the National Mall. RAP has extended
the Discovery Theater season to include perfor-
mances in the summer months.

“Smithsonian World”’

“Smithsonian World,”’ the prime-time public
television series coproduced by the Institution
and WETA-TV of Washington, D.C., launched
its sixth and final season in the winter of 1991.
The critically acclaimed series explores people,
ideas, and events that shape world culture,
blending art, science, history, and the humanities
to create an exciting harmony among disciplines.
Programs feature scholars, museums, art, and re-
search facilities both within and beyond the
Smithsonian Institution.

g The five programs of the sixth season—on gen-
der, advertising, the information age, aging, and
perception—were broadcast nationally on PBS
from January through June 1991. Southwestern
Bell Corporation, sole corporate underwriter of
the series, funded a major advertising and pro-
motion campaign, as well as a highly successful

educational effort serving secondary schools.

m In September, the episode ‘‘The Quantum
Universe’’ was nominated for the prestigious
Primetime Emmy Award in the Outstanding In-
formational Series category. Ten other awards
were announced for past season programs, bring-
ing the total number of awards for the series to
more than 60.

w The approximate number of viewers per origi-
nal broadcast of ‘‘Smithsonian World’’ (seasons
four and five) was estimated at 5 million—a total
of about 25 million viewers in a typical season.

@ The 1991 season marked the final continuous
running season for the series owing to the lack of
underwriting support for the immediate future.

In all, 32 one-hour prime-time specials under the
‘*Smithsonian World’’ banner aired between 1984

and 1991.

Women’s Committee of the
Smithsonian Associates

The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian As-

sociates supports the Institution through volun-
teer fund-raising and public relations services.
Funds raised by the committee support educa-
tional and research programs throughout the
Smithsonian.

@ The 1991 Washington Craft Show attracted
more than 12,000 visitors and netted a record
$170,000, and the 20th annual Christmas Dance

=

wa

Santo Piacenza (right)
celebrates his 1ooth birth-
day with his friend,
famed photographer Al-
fred Eisenstadt, 92 (left),
in ‘A Certain Age: A
Celebration of Expert-
ence,'' a program in the
sixth and final season of
the critically acclaimed
public television series
“Smithsonian World.”’
(Photograph by M. C.
Wallow)
a
Under Secretary Carmen

Turner talks with wood-
worker Po Shun Leong at
the 1991 Washington
Craft Show sponsored by
the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee.
(Photograph by Rick
Vargas)

64

held at the National Museum of Natural History
netted a record $61,000. A new fund-raising
event was introduced this year: a Fourth of July
picnic held on the roof of the National Museum
of American History.

g The committee provided $199,864 in support
of 39 projects in 20 bureaus and made an addi-
tional $40,000 commitment to the Women’s
Committee Endowment Fund, for a total contri-
bution of $239,864 to the Institution.

Institutional Initiatives

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Institutional Initiatives

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Institu-
tional Initiatives undertakes new and long-range
projects and monitors their development until
they can become fully incorporated into the Insti-
tution. By focusing on the advancement of a few
projects, the office helps to ensure that initiatives
of high priority to the Institution become
realities.

w The Office of Institutional Initiatives super-
vised the implementation of the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian (NMAI) national
campaign plan, which included securing the do-
nation of office space, recruiting a director and
staff, and initiating a membership program.

@ The assistant secretary chaired an Institution-
wide study group to examine new venues and
marketing strategies for the Smithsonian Mu-
seum Shops.

w With the NMAI National Campaign Office,
the office hosted ‘‘Writer’s Dialogue: A Consul-
tation for the National Museum of the American
Indian’’ in July r991 in San Diego, California.
Fifteen prominent writers from across the country
gathered to offer advice to the museum about
creating effective publications and communica-
tions materials.

National Museum of the
Amencan Indian National
Campaign Office

The National Museum of the American Indian
National Campaign Office was created in
accordance with the fund-raising plan that was
adopted by the Smithsonian Board of Regents.
By legislative mandate, the Institution is required
to provide one-third of the cost of constructing
the National Museum of the American Indian’s
facility on the National Mall.

w The office began implementing the national
campaign plan by initiating public relations ef-
forts; hosting special events across the country;
pursuing financial and in-kind support from in-
dividuals, corporations, and foundations; recruit-
ing prominent individuals to serve on the
campaign’s Honorary Committee; and inau-
gurating a membership program for the
museum.

mw The NMAI national campaign placed a full-
page advertisement in four major newspapers on
January 7, 1991. More than 1,600 individuals re-
sponded by contributing almost $62,000.

m During the first six months of the nationwide
membership program, more than 16,000 individ-
uals joined the museum with an average gift of
almost $29.
Finance and Administration

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration

Operating primarily behind the scenes at the
Smithsonian, a network of administrative and
technical support offices serves the diverse opera-
tions of the Institution. These offices oversee the
management and use of financial, human, and
physical resources. Funding for central services in
1991 amounted to about 7 percent of the Institu-
tion’s total operating expenses.

w The Office of Accounting and Financial Ser-
vices designed and implemented an automated
tracking system to ensure timely resolution of ac-
counting discrepancies and inquiries reported by
the Institution’s customers.

@ The Office of Architectural History and His-
toric Preservation continued research and pub-
lication on the architectural history of Smith-
sonian buildings and oversight of the
Smithsonian’s obligations for historic
preservation.

w Procurements administered by the Office of
Contracts and Property Management included
construction services for the Amazonia Exhibit at
the National Zoological Park and the sewage col-
lection and treatment plant at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute, Naos Island, Panama;
design services for the exhibition ‘‘Science in
American Life’’ at the National Museum of
American History; and continuation of architect-
engineering services for the National Museum of
the American Indian.

@ The Office of Design and Construction com-
pleted design for the George Gustav Heye Center
of the National Museum of the American Indian
(NMAJ) in New York City; led the facilities pro-
gramming for the NMAI buildings on the Na-
tional Mall and in Suitland, Maryland; and
supervised design of the master facilities plan for
the National Museum of Natural History/Na-
tional Museum of Man.

@ The Office of Environmental Management and
Safety continued its responsibility for ensuring

The National Zoological
Park's new Amazonia Ex-

that safety, fire protection and prevention, indus-
trial hygiene, and environmental principles are
integrated into all aspects of the Smithsonian.

w Efforts of the Office of Equal Opportunity in-
clude affirmative action programs for minorities,
women, and disabled persons; employee counsel-
ing and complaint processing; upward mobility;
special programs for women and Hispanic Ameri-
cans; and community outreach to minority and
women’s groups.

@ The Office of Facilities Services updated its
long-range facilities development plan and began
to refine the Institution’s long-range facilities
planning process.

w The Office of Financial Management and
Analysis was established to provide financial and
management analysis services regarding issues
both within and outside the offices reporting to
the Assistant Secretary for Finance and
Administration.

w The Office of Human Resources created the
Special Hiring Initiatives Branch, the focus of
which is hiring programs related to increasing the
Institution’s cultural diversity.

@ Institution-wide committees formed by the Of-
fice of Information Resource Management are
conducting a broad examination of the Smith-
sonian’s present and future information technol-
ogy needs. These activities will facilitate
information resource planning throughout the
Institution.

g The Smithsonian Ombudsman worked with
employees and management as a neutral party in

hibit, shown here under
construction, 1s scheduled
to open tn early 1992. The
Office of Contracts and
Property Management
procured construction ser-
vices for the exhibit this
year.

work-related problems.

65
w An external evaluation of the Office of Plant
Services conducted by the Association of Physical
Plant Administrators revealed that the Smith-
sonian is well served by the office.

@ In collaboration with other Finance and Ad-
ministration offices, the Office of Planning and
Budget continued to work on improving the com-
prehensive computer network that allows central
access to a range of personnel and payroll data on
the Institution’s mainframe computer and decen-
tralized organizational access through personal
computers.

g The Office of Printing and Photographic Ser-
vices initiated an innovative program of digitiz-
ing Smithsonian photographs and making them
available through on-line computer networks.

work of more than 80 researchers, who submitted
165 proposals valued at approximately $29 mil-
lion to federal and nonfederal sponsors in 1991.
More than 120 grant and contract awards having a
value of approximately $13 million were received
from the federal government and other sponsors.
@ [n conjunction with the General Services Ad-
ministration, the Travel Services Office awarded a
contract for ticketing services that will give the
Smithsonian a rebate of a portion of the cost of
domestic airline tickets.

@ The Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council
sponsored a series of seminars on stress manage-
ment, cosponsored a range of programs for
Women’s History Month, and made recommen-
dations to management on the Smithsonian’s af-

From a selection of approximately 300 photo- firmative action policy.

graphs, more than 10,000 high-resolution color

images were delivered to home computer users

via the CompuServe and GEnie network services. Affiliated Organizations
w During the next several years, the Office of

Protection Services will be implementing a com-

prehensive plan for a drug-free workplace, which Three related organizations—the National Gal-

will include enhancing staff awareness; expand- lery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the
ing employee assistance programs and training Performing Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson Inter-
programs for managers, supervisors, and em- national Center for Scholars—were established by
ployees; and drug testing of certain candidates Congress within the Smithsonian Institution.
. and employees. Each organization is governed by its own board of
Paul Taylor's Company B The Office OGRiGIOM fated a Tate :
Vadeivenehondine: m@ ihe Ultice of Nisk Management continued to trustees. In addition, the Institution provides ad-
; rovide professional risk and insurance manage- ini i i i
miere by the Houston P P : me 6 ministrative services on contract for Reading Is
Ballev@uriagvhe Texas ment to protect the Smithsonian’s assets against Fundamental, Inc., which is an independent
Festival at the John F. risk of loss. organization.
Kennedy Center for the w The Office of Sponsored Projects served the
Performing Arts. Smithsonian’s research effort by supporting the

John FE. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

As the national performing arts center, the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts pre-
sents and creates programming of the highest
standards that reflects the diverse cultural life of
the United States and recognizes the nation’s in-
ternational heritage. The Kennedy Center en-
courages an audience for the performing arts
from the widest possible population and,
through its commissioning and education pro-
grams, nurtures the arts and artists of today while
developing the audiences of tomorrow.

g In June, the nation’s capital was transformed
into Texas on the Potomac with the multi-

66
cultural, multimedia Texas Festival at the Ken-
nedy Center, funded by Exxon and other
generous donors from Texas. The first of many
such state and regional festivals, the Texas Festi-
val highlighted the rich cultural diversity of the
Lone Star State with a dazzling selection of thea-
ter, dance, music, film, and visual arts programs.
g The Board of Trustees of the Kennedy Center
created the Kennedy Center Community and
Friends Board, a group whose purpose ts to help
improve the quality of life in the greater Wash-
ington area through the Kennedy Center’s per-
forming arts and education and public service
programs.

m The Kennedy Center launched its innovative
Ballet Commissioning Project—in which six bal-

lets are to be created by American choreographers
and shared by six American companies—with the

world premiere of Paul Taylor’s Company B,
danced by the Houston Ballet to great acclaim.
The commissioning program is made possible
through the generosity of the Lila Wallace-
Reader’s Digest Fund, the National Endowment
for the Arts, the Knight Foundation, and the
Brown Foundation, Inc., Houston.

g ‘Something New at the Kennedy Center,”’ a
new series sponsored by the Philip Morris Com-
panies, Inc., featured five sold-out performances
by artists whose work crosses the traditional
boundaries of music, dance, theater, and film.

g The National Symphony Orchestra undertook
a 10-city North American tour sponsored by

Northern Telecom. The tour was led by Music Di-

rector Mstislav Rostropovich and featured the
American cellist Wendy Warner.

mw The Kennedy Center created Arts Centers and
Schools: Partners in Arts Education, a new insti-
tute that uses the Kennedy Centet’s education
programs as models to help arts centers and
school systems initiate or expand their education
programs. Fourteen arts centers and neighboring
school systems participated in the first session.

m The Kennedy Center initiated two new leader-
ship donor programs, the 100 Club and the
Trustees’ Circle, for corporate and individual do-
nors who pledge $100,000 or mote to the center.
More than $4 million in new funds have been
raised.

@ The seventh annual Open House Arts Festival
celebrated the Kennedy Center’s 2oth birthday
and the bicentennial of the District of Columbia.
The free event featured music, drama, and dance
by many of Washington’s finest artists.

National Gallery of Art

The National Gallery of Art, although formally
established as a bureau of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, is an autonomous and separately adminis-
tered organization governed by its own board of
trustees. The mission of the gallery is to serve the
United States in a national role by preserving,
collecting, exhibiting, and fostering the under-
standing of works of art at the highest possible
museum and scholarly standards.

mw The premier event in this year of achievement
was the gallery’s 5oth anniversary. In honor of the
occasion, the permanent collection galleries in
the West Building were refurbished and rehung
for the first time since the building was opened to
the public in 1941. The anniversary inspired an
outpouring of generosity from many gallery
friends, whose contributions included both works
of art and funds for the purchase of art. It culmi-
nated in a celebratory exhibition, “Art for the
Nation: Gifts in Honor of the 50th Anniversary
of the National Gallery of Art,’’ which attracted
many visitors, overwhelming attention, and criti-
cal acclaim.

g Gifts of funds totaling more than $25 million

a

A highlight of the acqut-
sitions by the National
Gallery of Art in its soth

anniversary year was The

Martyrdom of Saint Bar-
tholomew, 1634, 4y the
Spanish baroque artist
Jusepe de Ribera (15 91-
1652). The painting was a
gift of the 50th Anniver-
sary Gift Committee.
a

Through the Reading Is
Fundamental Open Book
program, children in

homeless shelters can now

have their own books.
(Photograph by Rick
Reinhard)

were received from individuals, foundations, and
corporations for purposes other than exhibition
support. In addition, in honor of the soth anni-
versary, more than 180 donors from 21 states, the
District of Columbia, and five foreign countries
gave close to 1,500 paintings, sculptures, and
works of graphic art to the gallery’s collections.

@ The soth Anniversary Gift Committee raised
funds for art purchases, the most outstanding of
which was The Martyrdom of Saint Bartholomew,
a moving work by the major seventeenth-century
baroque artist Jusepe de Ribera. The commit-
tee—along with the Collectors Committee and
the Circle and with additional support from the
Abrams family in memory of Harry N. Abrams—
also provided funds to purchase Cakes, a painting
by contemporary American artist Wayne
Thiebaud.

@ The gallery announced the receipt of seven
grants from private foundations to support three
new priorities for educational programming: art
and technology, new publications, and teacher
training. The first National Conference on
Teacher Programs, scheduled for 1992, will bring
together more than 100 museum and university
art education specialists to discuss the creation of
local teacher enrichment programs. Also funded
were scholarships for two outstanding educators
in each state to attend the third National
Teachers Institute, which focused on European
Renaissance art and history.

@ Iwo exhibitions celebrated commemorative
years for the Venetian master Titian, whose birth

date is thought to be 500 years ago, and the
Flemish-born Anthony Van Dyck, who died 3,50
years ago in 1641. An exhibition of approximately
150 paintings, drawings, sculptures, and photo-
graphs by the contemporary American master
Robert Rauschenberg, collectively known as the
“Rauschenberg Overseas Culture Interchange,”
included 29 works given to the gallery.

@ The second volume of the Systematic Cata-
logue of the collections, Spanish Paintings of the
Fifteenth through Nineteenth Centuries, by Jon-
athan Brown and Richard Mann, was published.
A video, Introduction to Sculpture, was produced
by the gallery’s audiovisual department in collab-
oration with the curators of sculpture and the ed-
ucation department and is being shown
continuously in the ground-floor sculpture gal-
leries. The Extension Service reached an esti-
mated audience of 86 million in the United
States and abroad through educational and pub-
lic television broadcasts and through short-term
and extended loans of materials.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Twenty-five years ago, Mrs. Robert McNamara
started the first Reading Is Fundamental (RIF)
project in Washington, D.C., to get books into
the hands of young people, to encourage them to
read, and to involve parents in their children’s
education. Since then, the RIF program has dis-
tributed more than 109 million books to young-
sters in all 50 states and in U.S. offshore
territories. Last year, some 121,000 citizens volun-
teered their time to run community-based RIF
projects serving nearly 3 million youngsters at
more than 12,600 sites, including schools, li-
braries, Head Start and other preschool pro-
grams, homeless shelters, migrant worker camps,
Native American reservations, hospitals, facilities
for children with disabilities, and juvenile deten-
tion centers.

m Children across the country celebrated 25 years
of promoting literacy during RIF’s annual Read-
ing Is Fun Week in April. In Washington, D.C.,
the Swiss Embassy hosted a celebration at which
First Lady Barbara Bush bestowed awards on the
winners of RIF’s two annual programs for young
people: In Celebration of Reading and the Na-
tional Poster Contest.
w To celebrate its silver anniversary, RIF stepped
up its efforts to serve more children, especially
those considered at high risk. Partnerships with
the private sector enabled RIF to add to its pro-
gram some 300,000 children at 1,000 sites and to
undertake a variety of initiatives, including a
three-year Kiwanis International program for
Head Start and other preschool children; RIF’s
Open Book program for children in homeless fa-
cilities; RIF’s City of Readers™ in Louisville,
Kentucky, which held a number of citywide read-
ing events; Shared Beginnings*™, RIF’s literacy
program for teen parents and their children; and
collaboration with adult literacy groups, which
was manifested in a growing number of family
literacy projects.

w RIF is developing reading programs for differ-
ent age groups, such as a program in Arkansas
targeted to fourth graders and RIF’s Running
Start™ program for first graders.

w ARIF program for teenagers gained national
recognition when President George Bush named
Club RIF of Mesa, Arizona, the 432nd Point of
Light, citing the teenagers’ establishment of a
RIF program for Native American children.

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

The Woodrow Wilson Center is an institute for
advanced study established by Congress in 1968 as
the official memorial to the nation’s 28th presi-
dent. To honor the career and character of Wood-
row Wilson the center brings together the world
of learning and the world of public affairs, ad-
dressing the spectrum of human knowledge and
creativity, from arts and humanities to the sct-
ences. The center welcomes fellows and guest
scholars from around the world, sponsors discus-
sion programs, and conducts publishing and ra-
dio programs that deliver the results of scholarly
research to a wide audience.

@ The year 1991 was one of achievement and pub-
lic accolade for many of the Woodrow Wilson
Center’s former fellows. Lee Hong Koo, a fellow
in the Asia Program from 1973 to 1974, was
named Korea’s ambassador to England. Dennis
McLean, a recent guest scholar, now serves as New
Zealand’s ambassador to the United States. Hun-

garian sociologist Elemer Hankiss, who was a cen-
ter fellow, is director of Hungarian Television.
Richard Breitman, Prasenjit Duara, and Richard
Stites were awarded prizes for books that were re-
searched and written at the center.

@ In May 1991, the Woodrow Wilson Center
sponsored a series of lectures on modernism and
modern literature by the distinguished Irish liter-
ary scholar Denis Donoghue, a former guest
scholar.

wg The Woodrow Wilson Center was awarded a
$987,000 grant from the John D. and Catherine
T. MacArthur Foundation to support a project on
the international history of the Cold War.

@ In collaboration with the Close Up Founda-
tion’s Washington Program, the center sponsored
a monthly seminar series for high school students.
The series has covered issues ranging from the
emergence of television as an important force in
the political process to the historical dimensions
of the Persian Gulf crisis.

@ The crisis in the Persian Gulf and its aftermath
provided a focal point for many of the Woodrow
Wilson Center’s programs and events during the
past year. Fellows explored topics related to the
tensions in the Middle East, and meetings ad-
dressed the conduct and implications of events in
the Gulf crisis.

w The center published six books during the past
year. In March 1991, the Johns Hopkins University
Press joined Cambridge University Press as a part-
ner of the Woodrow Wilson Center Press. Under
this joint endeavor, Johns Hopkins will copublish
volumes annually with the center and distribute
Woodrow Wilson Center Press titles.

In Apnil, the Woodrow
Wilson International

Center for Scholars cele-
brated the completion of
The Papers of Woodrow
Wilson by sponsoring a
conference on ‘The Lega-
cies of Woodrow
Wilson.’’ Here, U.S. Sen-
ator Dantel Patrick
Moynthan, former vice-
chairman of the Wilson
Center board, congratu-
lates Arthur S. Link, dt-
rector and editor of The
Papers of Woodrow
Wilson and professor of
American history, Prince-
ton University, at an eve-
ning dialogue honoring
Link's work.
Benefactors

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the support of the indi-
viduals, foundations, and corporations whose gifts, bequests, and
contributing memberships aided the work of the Institution during
the past fiscal year, October 1, 1990, through September 30, 1991.

The Smithsonian owes its founding to the generosity of one indi-
vidual. During most of its history since 1846, the Institution has re-
lied on a combination of both federal and private funding to carry
out the terms of James Smithson’s will. As a trust instrumentality of
the United States, the Smithsonian has received federal appropria-
tions to support its basic operations and selected initiatives.

Private support plays a vital role in providing the Institution with
the flexibility and independence essential to its creative growth. The
national and international reputation for excellence held by the
Smithsonian is in large part a result of the innovative, imaginative,
and special activities underwritten by public-spirited private citi-
zens. Of particular importance are gifts that have supported the
Smithsonian’s core functions—exhibitions, collections acquisition,
research, and public education—that are central to its
achievements.

Certain donors have requested anonymity. If the name of any
other donor has been omitted, it is unintentional and in no way
lessens the Smithsonian’s appreciation.

Donors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts of $1,000 or more to the
Smithsonian:

$500,000 or more

Southwestern Bell
Xerox Corporation

Foundation for Cultural Heritage
Phillip L. Graham Fund

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
The Pew Charitable Trusts

JO

$100,000 or more

American Association of Zoological Parks
and Aquariums

American Chemical Society

ASARCO Incorporated

Chesapeake Research Consortium, Inc.

Chevron U.S.A., Inc.

Computerworld Information Technology
Awards Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Katharine Graham

W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc.

Lotus Development Corporation

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation

McDonnell Douglas Corporation

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation

National Museum of History, Taipei

The Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.

Occidental Chemical Corp

Mr. and Mrs. David Rockefeller

The Rockefeller Foundation

Mrs. Else Sackler

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

Mr. T. T. Tsui

Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund

Harry Winston Research Foundation, Inc

World Wildlife Fund

$50,000 or more

Anonymous

The Aga Khan Trust for Culture

American Psychological Association

Ameritech

Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. Andrews

The Annenberg Foundation

Asmat Progress & Development
Foundation

The Barra Foundation

Bell Atlantic Charitable Foundation

BellSouth Corporation

Beneficial Corporation

Best Foundation

BHP-Utah International, Inc.

The Boeing Company

Consolidated Natural Gas Co.

Cyprus Minerals Company

Exxon Corporation

Fokker Aircraft U.S.A., Inc.

Jerome L. Greene Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Agnes S. Gund

Erna & Victor Hasselblad Foundation

Inter-American Foundation

The Island Fund in the New York
Community Trust

J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

William Douglas McAdams, Inc.

Merck Family Fund

Mobil Corporation

National Potato Promotion Board

NYNEX Corporation

The Pointer Foundation

Pacific Telesis Group

James Renwick Alliance

Mrs. Cecile Salomon

David Schwartz Foundation Inc.

Sears, Roebuck and Company

Mr. and Mrs. William Mason Shehan

Sony Corporation of America

Steelcase Design Partnership

Swedish Tobacco Company

Time Warner Inc.

US West, Inc.

Vision 300 Committee

$10,000 or more

Anonymous

Air Line Pilots Association

Allstate Insurance Companies
American Express Company
American Family Life Assurance Co.

American Postal Workers Union

American Society of Neuroradiology

AMS Foundation for the Arts, Sciences
and Humanities

The Anschutz Foundation

ARCO Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Arundel

Mrs. Russell Moore Arundel

Awards in Visual Arts

The Barnes Group, Inc.

Frances & Benjamin Benenson
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Sid Bernstein

Mr. and Mrs. George B. Bingham, Jr.

Brand Names Education Foundation

Brattleboro Museum & Art Center

Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Brewer

Broderbund Software, Inc.

Brother International Corp.

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Emil Buehler Trust

The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Campbell Soup Company

Government of Chiapas, Mexico

Mr. Peter B. Clark

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

Cleveland-Cliffs Inc.

Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc.

Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton

Conservation Treaty Support Fund

Queene Ferry Coonley Foundation, Inc.

The Honorable Holland H. Coors

Ms. Josephine R. Cunningham

D. C. Comics

The Tine W. Davis Family Foundation

Delsey Luggage Incorporated

Dibner Fund, Inc.

Eastman Kodak Company

Ecological Systems, Inc.

Elf Aquitaine, Inc.

Fairchild Space & Defense Corporation

Ms. Virginia Veach Finks

Roger S. Firestone Foundation

Folger Fund

Frace’ Fund for Wildlife Preservation

The Freed Foundation

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

Fuji Photo Film U.S.A., Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

General Electric Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold O. Ginnow

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

Ms. Elsie R. Griffin

The Harry Frank Guggenheim
Foundation

Miriam & Peter Haas Fund

Ms. Margaret L’Engle Hardin

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Virginia Y. Hendry

Hitachi America, Ltd.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

The Homeland Foundation

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems

IBM Corporation

Mrs. John Jay Ide

Indianapolis Motor Speedway
Corporation

International Association of Amusement
Parks

International Union for the Conservation
of Nature and Natural Resources

Johnson & Johnson

Peter T. Joseph Foundation

Max Kade Foundation, Inc.

Kajima Corporation

David Woods Kemper Memorial
Foundation

Ms. Sarah Kim

Robert J. and Helen C. Kleberg
Foundation

Kraft General Foods

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel Kremen, M.D.

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation
Mr. Harvey M. Krueger

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Laurel Race Course

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Lexus

Lutron Electronics Co., Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Marpat Foundation, Inc.

Merrill Lynch & Company

Mr. and Mrs. J. Kent Minichiello

Mitre Corporation

Ruth Mott Fund

National Geographic Society

National Space Club

NCR Corporation

New York State Council on the Arts

The New York Times Co. Foundation

Government of Norway, Ministry of
Environment

Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Nutter

Oberlin College

Overbrook Foundation

David & Lucile Packard Foundation

Mrs. Marvin Breckinridge Patterson

Pharmacy World Congress ‘91

Phelps Dodge Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Poole

The Prudential Insurance Co. of America

Ralston Purina Company

Riggs National Bank of Washington,
D.C.

Sara Roby Foundation

Rockwell International Corp.

Romanoff International, Inc.

Ms. Lucy T. Rooney

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

The Arthur Ross Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Royal Copenhagen

Helena Rubinstein Foundation

The Charles E. Sampson Trust

Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corp.

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer

Shell Oil Company Foundation

Esther Simon Charitable Trust

Mrs. Emma M. Sims

John Sloan Memorial Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Vance M. Smith III

SNECMA, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

Mr. Stephen M. Stroud

Mr. W. B. Dixon Stroud

Summers Group

Mr. Julius Tahija

Telectronics Pacing Systems, Inc.

Texaco Services, Inc.

Trust for Mutual Understanding

U.S. Borax & Chemical Corp.

United Air Lines, Inc.

United States League of Savings
Institutions

US West Foundation

Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual
Arts

Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research

Western Promotion & Advertising Fund

Whirlpool Corporation

Wildlife Preservation Trust International

World Wide Fund for Nature,
International

Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories

Zoologische Gesellschaft

Mr. David Zucker

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

Abramson Family Foundation, Inc.
Aetna Life and Casualty Co.

Allied Specialty Insurance, Inc.
American Masters Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Philip F. Anschutz
The ARRL Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. David Baird, Jr.

Ms. Donna Bayles

The Honorable Max N. Berry

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Biggs

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

BMW of North America, Inc

Bob’s Space Racers, Inc.

Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Milton Brechner

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

The Eli & Edythe Broad Foundation

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc.

Buck Investments

Mrs. Jackson Burke

C.E. & S. Foundation, Inc.

Marcus & Harryette Cohn Foundation

Consolidated Edison Co. of New York,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cousins

Mr. Thomas Cruise

Deep Sea Charters, Inc.

Dr. Charlotte S. DeMetry

Disney Development Company

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon

Ms. Susanne F. Donnelly

The Max & Victoria Dreyfus Foundation

Charles Engelhard Foundation

Mr. Donald G. Fisher

Walter & Josephine Ford Fund

Rita & Daniel Fraad Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Edward Garrard

Grand Marnier Foundation

Mrs. Martha Watson Griffin

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Halff, Jr

Hasenfeld - Stein, Inc.

Hayden Family Foundation

Fred Hayman Family Foundation

Henry J. and Drue Heinz Foundation

Homestake Mining Company

Howard University

Ms. Barbara M. Huntington

Mr. and Mrs. William Ireland, Jr.

The Reverend and Mrs. Owen A. Jones

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Peter Krueger-Christie’s Foundation

James Lally & Co.

William & Nora Lichtenberg Foundation

Lilly Endowment, Inc.

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Meredith J. Long

Managing Apple Computers in
Information Systems

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mars, Incorporated

Mr. William P. McClure

Nan Tucker McEvoy Foundation, Inc.

Herman Miller, Inc.

Ambrose Monell Foundation

Mystic Stamp Company

Ms. Jeannette D. Naman

National Fish and Wildlife Foundation

The Nature Conservancy

Newel Art Galleries, Inc.

John M. Olin Foundation

Open Systems Conference Board

PacifiCorp Foundation/ NERCO Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Pay

Ms. Dorothy N. Perkins

Mrs. Edwin R. Petzing

Mrs. John A. Pope

Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin

PRT Corporation of America

The Honorable and Mrs. S. Dillon
Ripley II

Ms. Ann R. Roberts

Mr. Richard Roob

Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

Ms. Dolores H. Russ

Ms. Elizabeth A. Sackler

Salad King, Inc.

Ms. Sandra L. Schafer

Mr. and Mrs. Alan E. Schwartz

Robert & Anna Shapiro Foundation

Simpson Paper Company

Smithsonian Luncheon Group

The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.

Trotter Education Foundation

Victor Company of Japan, Ltd.

Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Vogelpohl, Jr.

Dr. George B. Vogt

Mr. Gregory J. Wallance

The Sam M. & Helen R. Walton
Foundation

The Washington Post Company

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Wellin

Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore

Ms. Elizabeth F. Williams

Williams Family Foundation of Georgia,
Inc.

Mr. Stephen V. Winthrop

Ms. Sarah Cromwell Wise

Mr. Man-Shih Yang

Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Zable

Zoo Atlanta

$1,000 or more

Anonymous

Abbeville Press, Inc.

AFL-CIO

Mr. Garett J. Albert

Ms. Gloria Albrittain

Allied-Signal Inc.

Ms. Barbara W. Altgelt

Mr. Michael Altman

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul

American Association of Advertising
Agencies

American Portuguese Society Inc.

American Paint Horse Association

Amos Press, Inc.

Appaloosa Horse Club, Inc.

Arabian Horse Registry of America, Inc.

Archer-Daniels-Midland Co.

Arizona Federation of Stamp Clubs

Art Promotion Services Ltd.

Mrs. Vincent Astor

AT&T

NW Ayer Incorporated

Mrs. Alice Badger-Dangott

Mr. Louis C. Baker

Mr. Elmer Balaban

William N. Banks Foundation

Mrs. Anne H. Bass

Harry Bass Foundation

Frederick Batrus Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Russel L. Bearss

Beazer Materials & Services, Inc.

Bellcore

Dorothy G. Bender Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Morton A. Bender

Ms. Marinka W. Bennett

Bergman Family Charitable Trust

Ms. Ruth M. Berlin

Mr. Lewis W. Bernard

Mrs. Heidi J. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. Peter S. Bing

Ms. Mabel L. Bishop

Mrs. Dominique Bluhdorn

Mr. John R. Boker, Jr.

The Boston Park Plaza Hotel

Ms. Margaret L. Bougerie

Laura Boulton Foundation Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Herman B. Bouma

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon, and Eckhardt,
Inc. Advertising

BP America Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Clayton H. Brace

Mr. Lawrence N. Brandt

Mr. George W. Brett

Ms. Colleen D. Brindle

Ms. Marilyn Brody-Lane

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Bruckmann

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Brue

The Bunbury Company, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Bunker

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Burke

Leo Burnett & Company, Inc.

Mr. Dan W. Burns

Mr. E. T. Byram

C.A.T.S. Fund, Inc

Mr. Curtis E, Calder

Mrs. F. G. Cameron

Major General and Mrs. Daniel S
Campbell

Miss Helen R. Cannon

Capital Informer, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Carr

The Honorable and Mrs. Joseph P. Carroll

Leo Castelli, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr

Edward Lee Cave, Inc.

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Chase Manhattan Corporation

Chemical Bank

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

Christie, Manson & Woods International

Ms. Anne K. Christman

Chrysler Corporation

Cigna Corporation

Citicorp

Clairol, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace H. Clark

Mr. Willard G. Clark

The Coca-Cola Company

Saul & Amy Cohen Family Foundation

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Columbus Zoological Park Association

The Honorable and Mrs. Barber B.
Conable, Jr.

The Conde Nast Publications Inc.

CONTEL Corporation

Contemporary Art Docent Program

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Corning Incorporated

Ms. Margaret A. Coryell

Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance
Association

Ms. Betty V. Covell

Ms. Mary Workun Covell

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond E. Cox

Crain Communications, Inc.

Mr. Douglas S. Cramer

Mr. Ray Cravens

Creative Artists Agency, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mrs. Susan L. Cullman

Mr. Robert L. Cummings

Ms. Priscilla Cunningham

Mr. Robert L. Cunningham

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Curtis

Ms. Florence D’Urso

Mr. and Mrs. Leo A. Daly III

Mr. John H. Daniels

Mr. Richard Danziger

Mr. and Mrs. David E. Davis

The Davis Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Carl Davis

Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo, Sr.

Ms. Elizabeth De Cuevas

Deluxe Check Printers

Mrs. Mary J. Deutschbein

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

Didier Aaron, Inc.

Digital Equipment Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr.

Mr. N. L. Doligalski

Dominion Corporation

Mr. Dale F. Dorn

Dr. Michael A. Dorris and Ms. Louise
Erdrich

The Douglass Foundation

The Dudley Observatory

The Honorable and Mrs. Robert W.
Duemling

71
Dr. and Mrs. Jack Durell

Eaton Corporation

The Eaton Foundation

The Ebsworth Foundation

Mr. F. H. Edelmann

Mr. F. H. Ellenberger

The Elliott Bay Book Company

R.H. Ellsworth, Limited

The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
the United States

Mr. Ahmet M. Ertegun

Mr. and Mrs. Giuseppe Eskenazi

Estee Lauder Companies

The Ettinger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Thomas M. Evans

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Mr. Bayard Ewing

Mr. Fables Wildlife Conservation Fund

The Irving X. Fabrikant Foundation

Fairchild Industries Foundation, Inc.

Fairfax Square Associates II

Fannie Mae Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Feinberg

The Feminist Majority Foundation

Mrs. Nancy Fessenden

Harvey S. Firestone Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Fisher III

Mr. Max M. Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Fisher

Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann

Mrs. Julius Fleischmann

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry N. Flynt, Jr.

Mr. John Gilmore Ford

Mr. and Mrs. John Forsythe

Fossil Rim Wildlife Center

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Ms. Frances Freeman

Fulbright & Jaworski

Ms. Emma Gade-Hutaff

Gagosian Gallery, Inc.

The David Geffen Foundation

Lawrence M. Gelb Foundation, Inc.

Melvin and Estelle Gelman Foundation

General Dynamics Corp.

Georgia-Pacific Corporation

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Patrick A. Gerschel Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Irwin C. Gerson

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty

Giant Food Foundation, Inc.

Giddings, Ltd.

Mr. and Mrs. S. Parker Gilbert

Mr. George J. Gillespie

Kurt Gitter, M.D., and Alice Yelen

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Guilford Glazer

Mr. Raymond Goetz

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg

Mr. Clifford H. Goldsmith

The I. Grace Company, Inc.

The Gramercy Park Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Grey Advertising, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Mr. and Mrs. Martin D. Gruss

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore R. Guittari

Mrs. Florence L. Gussman

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Gutfreund

Mr. Jack Haas

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

The Armand Hammer Foundation

Mark Hampton, Inc.

Ms. Suzanne E. Hanas

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Harbert III

Mr. Jack P. Harlan

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Hatch

Theo T. Hayes Interior Design

Hayes Productions

Dr. and Mrs. Ray M. Hayworth

The Hearst Corporation

Wi

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Hechinger, Sr.

HJ. Heinz Company

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Hendricks

Hermes of Paris, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Herzman

Clarence and Jack Himmel Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Hinkle

Mr. Henry C. Hofheimer

Mr. and Mrs. James Burl Hogins

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin D. Holloway

Ms. Emma G. Holmes

Mr. Joseph E. Hotung

Mrs. Caroline H. Hume

International Arabian Horse Association

International Council for Bird
Perservation - U.S. Section

Dr. and Mrs. Nelson S. Irey

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Iselin

ITW Foundation

Mrs. Rolf Jacoby

Mr. Richard J. Janes

Mrs. Cornelia E. Jefferson

Noel Jeffrey, Inc.

Mrs. Carol B. Jenkins

Mr. Clyde Jennings

Jo-Demar Corporation

The Jockey Club

John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Deane F. Johnson

Oscar Johnston Cotton Foundation

Mrs. Patricia C. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mrs. Thomas W. Johnson

Mr. Woodrow C. Johnson

K Mart Corp

Andrew Kahane, Ltd.

Herman & Ruth Kahn Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Harry Kahn

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin R. Kantor

Mr. Maurice H. Katz

Ms. Karen Kaub

Mr. Douglas Keats

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Mrs. R. Grice Kennelly

The Honorable and Mrs. Randolph A.
Kidder

Ms. Misao Kikuchi

Mme. Tomo Kikuchi

Mr. Warren B. King

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney

Mr. E.C. Kirkpatrick

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kline

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick A. Klingenstein

Ms. N.R. Klusmeyer

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Mrs. Irene D. Kress

Mr. and Mrs. Sin-Ming Kwan

Ms. Phyllis Lambert

Landsman & Katz Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Marilyn Brody Lane

Lantzsch-Andreas Enterprises, Inc.

Mr. Chester H. Lasell

John S. Latsis (U.S.A.) Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald S. Lauder

Mr. Thomas Lawton

L.S.B. Leakey Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Steven S. Lear

Hon. and Mrs. Robert E. Lee

Jacob & Charlotte Lehrman Foundation,
Inc.

Ms. Yvonne Lenart

Mr. and Ms. Edward J. Lenkin

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin

The Honorable and Mrs. William
Leonhart

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mr. and Mrs. J.W. Levan

Mr. Stephan J. Levine

Sydney & Frances Lewis Foundation

Ms. Loretta S. Lifton

Eli Lilly and Company

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Linowes

Lintas: Worldwide

Mr. Russell B. Long

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Loomis, Jr.

Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation

Ms. Patricia C. Lusk

Mrs. Maria N. Lyras

Mr. Thomas MacCracken

James A. Macdonald Foundation

Mr. C. Richard MacGrath

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury, Jr.

Mad River Foundation

Magowan Family Foundation

Mrs. Jean Bronson Mahoney

Mars Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. William G. Marsh

Mr. and Mrs. William Marsteller

The Honorable and Mrs. William M.
Martin, Jr.

MCA Inc.

Mrs. James H. McCarthy

Mr. and Mrs. Roderick McColl

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

The Honorable George C. McGhee

Dextra Baldwin McGonagle Foundation

McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Mr. Gilbert D. Mead

Mrs. Ida C. Merriam

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

Metfuel, Inc.

Metropolitan Toronto Zoo

Metropolitan Partnership, Ltd.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Meyerhoff

The Mid-Atlantic Coca-Cola Bottling Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Millard

Mrs. Florence Bonnie Miller

Ms. Jaleh Taghavi Miller

Mr. Kenneth Miller

Mrs. Marie B. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Millhouse

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Mitchell

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. G. Palmer Moffat

Dr. N. Scott Momaday

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose, Jr.

Monsanto Company

Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Morrison

Enid & Lester Morse Foundation, Inc.

Mr. I. E. Murray, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Murray

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Muth

National Association of Wholesaler-
Distributors

National Peanut Council

National Trust for Historic Preservation

National Woman's Party

Otto Naumann, Ltd

Navy Mail Service Veterans Association

Mr. and Mrs. Bill Nelson

Ms. Paula H. Nelson

Mr. Charles F. Nettleship, Jr.

New York Zoological Society

Ms. Annalee Newman

Mr. P. B. Newman

Mr. and Mrs. John Nieto

Dr. and Mrs. Charles A. Noble, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Nooter

Norfolk Southern Corp.

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O’Connor

Ms. R. O'Hara

The Georgia O'Keeffe Foundation

Ogilvy & Mather

The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Alexander S. Onassis Center for Hellenic
Studies

Mrs. Gloria R. Oppenheimer

The Order of St. Ingnatius of Antioch

Orion Pictures Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. David Osnos

Pace Gallery New York, Inc.

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Paramount Communications Inc.

Parish-Hadley Associates, Inc.

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Peelle, Jr.

Peter Marks, Incorporated

The Pfeil Family Foundation

Pfizer Inc.

The Phi Beta Kappa Society

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. Lester Pollack

Mrs. Cynthia H. Polsky

Dr. G. J. Potter

Mrs. Sandra A. Potter

Mr. and Mrs. David Povich

Precancel Stamp Society, Inc.

Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado

Mr. and Mrs. Charles B. Preston

Princeton University

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Pritzker

Mr. David S. Purvis

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Rachlin

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

Mr. Roger L. Ranck

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Reeves

Dr. Nathan Reingold

Emerson & Delores Reinsch Foundation

Mr. Ernest R. Renzel III

Reuters Corporation

Rhone-Poulenc Inc.

Mr. Frank K. Ribelin

Frederick W. Richmond Foundation, Inc

Mrs. F. B. Riechman

RJR Nabisco, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Dr. Michael H. Robinson

Rock Foundation, Inc.

The Honorable and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller IV

Roden Associates, Ltd.

Roden Exploration Company

Roden Participants, Ltd.

Mr. and Mrs. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Ross

Rounder Records, Inc.

Ms. Mary Ell Ruffner

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells

RWS Foundation

Saity Originals Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams

Mr. and Mrs. Leveo V. Sanchez

Sandoz Corporation

Santa Fe Pacific Minerals Corp

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Scalamandre Silks, Inc.

Mr. Jay Scanlon

S. H. & H.R. Scheuer Family
Foundation

Mr. Hugo A. Schiattareggia

Mr. and Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Schmidt

F. Schumacher & Co.

O. P. Schuman & Sons, Inc.

Mr. William O. Schuman

Mr. Stephen J. Schwartz

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Scott

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons

Sealaska Corporation

Mrs. Florence B. Selden

Margaret Sell Interiors

Mr. and Mrs. Victor L. Sell

Paul M. & Deanz Lee Shatz Foundation

The Sherrill Foundation

Stephen Sills, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Silver

William E. Simon Foundation

Sister Parks International

Alan B. Slifka Foundation, Inc.

C. G. Sloan & Company, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Ms. Dorothy Small

Mr. Dean B. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith
Sanford L. Smith & Associates, Inc.
Ms. Frances D. Smyth

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Sokol

Mr. and Mrs. Morton I. Sosland
Sotheby’s, Inc.

Ira Spanierman Gallery

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer
Dr. and Mrs. Frank Stanton

Mr. and Mrs. Walter M. Stawicki
Mr. and Mrs. Saul P. Steinberg

Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Stempel
Mr. Robert A.M. Stern

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart
Mr. Samuel E. Stokes, Jr.

Mr. Alan D. Stone

Mrs. Charles H. Stout

Ms. Cynthia Stroud

Mr. W. B. Dixon Stroud, Jr.

Mr. J. Richard Taft

Mr. Saburo Takahashi

Koki Tanabe

Taubman Endowment for the Arts
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Taylor
Charlotte L. Taylor Revocable Trust
Dr. Joan E. Thomas

Mr. Robert M. Thomas

Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian Thompson
Mrs. Sandra Street Thompson
John M. & Sally B. Thornton Foundation
The Tides Foundation

Tiffany & Company

The Times Mirror Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan M. Tisch
Mr. Robert E. Torray

Mrs. C. Trenckmann

TRW Inc.

Miss Alice Tully

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Tully

The Twentieth Century Club

Mr. and Mrs. Guy F. Ullens
UNDP Representative in Ghana
The United States Trotting Association
United Technologies Corporation
Mr. Raymond E. Van Alstine

Mr. Steven Y. Vandenburgh

Mrs. Alexander O. Vietor

Dr. M. C. Vincent

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von Hoffmann

Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust

Mr. Jack Wallace

Mr. Clune J. Walsh, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Walton

Washington Guild of the American Gem
Society

The Honorable and Mrs. Thomas J.
Watson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William Weedon

Mr. Thomas W. Weisel

Wellington Foundation, Inc.

Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust

Pierre J. Wertheimer Foundation, Inc

Westinghouse Electric Corp

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Whalen

Rodney L. White Foundation

Mr. Shelby White

Mr. James E. Wiley

John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Ms. D'Neane Wilkinson

Mr. J. D. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. Randolph Williams

Eli Wilner & Company, Inc.

The Honorable and Mrs. Edward F.
Wilson

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.

Winn Foundation

Mr. Stanley W. Woodward

Mrs. Elizabeth Yaggy

Ms. Helen Yeakel

Young & Rubicam Inc.

Ms. Stefanie Zable

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Zeidman

Mrs. Robert Zicarelli

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Zoological Society of Philadelphia

Mr. Benjamin Zucker

Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle

The Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle recognizes and honors those
individuals whose exceptional gifts, over their lifetimes, have pre-

served the traditions of the Smithsonian Institution while furthering
its vision. Smithsonian Benefactors, through their selfless dedication

and generous philanthropy, have shaped the future of the Institu-

tion. This past year, the secretary of the Smithsonian established the

Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle to honor these distinguished indi-

viduals and to provide a lasting mark of their achievements.

The Smithsonian recognizes the gifts of Founders and Patrons of

the Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle listed below.

Honorary Founder
Enid A. Haupt
Founders

Russell B. Aitken

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. and Diana L. Altschul
William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans

Katharine Graham

Robert C. Graham, Jr., and Julie Graham
Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.
William A. and Patricia W. Hewitt
Ikuo Hirayama

Patrons

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson
Peter C. and Joan Andrews
Edward P. Bass

Michael J. Brophy

Hildegard Bruck

George E. Burch III

Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

Patricia C. Dodge

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

Kitty Fassett

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost
Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert
Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Jerome L. Greene

Barrick W. Groom

George W. Grosz

Agnes S. Gund

Joan D. Haig

Evelyn A. J. Hall

Drue M. Heinz

Lloyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman
John R. Huggard

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen
James M. Kemper, Jr.

R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.
William K. and Alice S. Konze
Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
T. T. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Robert and Helen Kuhn
Robert Lehrman

Sydney and Frances Lewis
Henry Luce III

John F. and Adrienne B. Mars
Kathleen C. Mason

Brooks and Hope B. McCormick
Nan Tucker McEvoy

Antony M. Merck

James and Lolly Mitchell

Jean Niemeier

Robert H. and Nancy Nooter
Frank K. Ribelin

Carlyn Ring

David Rockefeller

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.

Ganister
Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal
Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.
Cecile Salomon
Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz
Emma M. Sims
George L. Small
Sydney Stein, Jr.
E. Hadley and Marion Stuart, Jr.
A. Alfred Taubman
Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.
Jeffrey and Diane Tobin
Daniel Weinstein
Nancy Brown Wellin
Gay F. Wray

73
Smithsonian Corporate Membership Program

The Corporate Membership Program was launched in January 1990
to foster greater corporaté involvement and support for the Smith-
sonian Institution. Through generous annual contributions, these
companies have demonstrated the critical role an enlightened pri-
vate sector can play on a national level in advancing the public
good.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the following members
of the Corporate Membership Program:

Anheuser-Busch Companies
BellSouth Corporation

Capital Cities/ ABC, Inc

The Coca-Cola Company

CSX Transportation

DDB Needham Worldwide Inc
DMB&B/USA

Electronic Data Systems Corporation

Emerson Electric Company

Ford Motor Company

General Electric Company

International Business Machines
Corporation

Lee Enterprises, Incorporated

The Walt Disney Company McDonald's Corporation

The Dow Chemical Company Monsanto Company

Eaton Corporation TRW Inc

Bequests

It is with special appreciation that we remember and acknowledge
those friends who made gifts by will and thus continue the legacy of
James Smithson, our founder.

Unrestricted gifts become part of the Bequest Endowment Fund.
The principal of this fund is maintained in perpetuity, while the in-
come supports acquisitions, exhibitions, scholarly studies, educa-
tional outreach, and other functions of the Smithsonian. Some gifts
are designated for a special purpose by the donors. Gifts by bequest
can be structured to meet the donor’s needs and goals.

The following persons remembered the Smithsonian with gifts by
will:

Walter C. Groff
Dona I. Guimaraes
Johanne B. Hagens
Rebecca R. Henderson
Josephine Horazdosky
Marion K. Morgan

Edward J. Orth
Delilah W. Pierce

Anonymous
Virginia E. Appel
Ralph S. Barnaby
Susie Brummer
Helen W. Buckner
Evelyn Combes
Pauline Edwards
Frances B. Ferguson

Memorial and Commemorative Gifts

Memorial and commemarative gifts to the Smithsonian express
deep regard for loved ones, friends, and colleagues. These gifts help
support, in a very direct way, the Institution’s mission of education,
research, collections exhibition and preservation. Memorial and
commemorative gifts were made to funds that will perpetuate the
Smithsonian’s work in those areas of most importance to the persons

honored.

The following persons were so honored by their families and
friends:
Pat Chieffo Reva H. Kremen Buddy Rosenthal
Howard V. Covell Richard Louie Arthur Ross
Karen Cox Irene E. Magyar Irving Salomon
Gloria Haas Jan McColl Carl L. Selden

Ralph Hawkins
John Heinz III
Frank N. Ikard
Wayne O. Jefferson

Barbara McElhinny Andris Slapins
Henry Parish Lisa Taylor

George Priftis Charles Towle

Ida Hornstein Reingold Alexander Wetmore

74

Donors of In-Kind and Volunteer Support

In addition to the financial support of individuals, foundations,
and corporations, the Smithsonian Institution acknowledges donors
of in-kind gifts. Ranging from equipment for office or program use
to pro bono professional consulting services, such in-kind gifts con-
tribute greatly to the success of research and educational programs
as well as to efficient administration of the Institution.

Aer Lingus

Aeromotor Windmill Corp
All Nippon Airways
Antinori Premium Wines
Aviateca Airlines S.A
Baccus Importers

Balair

Cheri Barstow

Benetton Cosmetics Corporation
The Boeing Company
Brunschwig and Fils
Champagne Taittinger

S. Tebbs Chichester
Clinical Radiologists, PA
Colorlab

Cutco Cutlery Corp.
ERDAS, Incorporated
EDS Corp

Everfresh Juice Company
Federal Express International
German American Fund

Greek National Tourist Organization

HG Magazine
Henley Park Hotel

International Business Machines Corp.

Kahala Travel

Stephen C. LaVere

Lufthansa Airlines

Mediatech

Music Performance Trust Funds

Northwest Airlines

Pan American World Airways Inc.

Pentax Corporation

RasterOps Corporation

Reed College

Research Systems, Inc.

Rodel Audio Services

San Pellegrino Sparkling Natural Mineral
Water

F. Schumacher & Co.

Stolichnaya Vodka

Strathmore Sparkling Spring Water

Tennsco

United Airlines, Inc.

USAir, Inc.

Varig Brazilian Airlines

Whirlpool Corporation

Whyte & Mackay Distillers Limited

Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smithsonian to ac-

complish a variety of programs and to offer expanded services to the

public. The names of our docents and behind-the-scenes volunteers

are listed annually in the Torch (the employee newsletter). In fiscal

1991, 4,797 volunteers gave 478,419 hours of their time. This invalu-

able corps of volunteers brings expertise, experience, and enthusi-

asm to their work here, and we express to them collectively our great

appreciation for their dedication to the Smithsonian Institution.

Smithsonian Contributing Members

The Contributing Members of the Smithsonian National Associates

support the Institution’s work through generous annual

contributions.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and

recognize major gifts to the Institution. The Society, which is the

highest level of Contributing Membership, is composed of Annual

Members ($2,000), Life Members (appointed before 1985 for con-
tributing significant gifts to the Institution), and Endowed Life
Members. Endowed Life Members are individuals who make a one-

ume gift of $40,000, or a pledge of $45,000 not to exceed a three-
year period, to become lifetime Society Members. Extraordinary

contributions to the Smithsonian are recognized through the Soci-
ety’s Founder Medal award and its accompanying Life Membership.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges here the generous sup-

port of the James Smithson Society and the Patron Members
($1,200) of the Contributing Membership.
James Smithson Society
Endowed Life Members

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal and Ms. Ruth E.

Ganister

Dan and Alice Gilbert

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.
Konze

James Smithson Society Life
Members

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S$. Anderson

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Honorable and Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Ward Bitter

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun and Dr. Bertel
Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Barnet Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell, Jr.

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S$. Campbell

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

Reverend and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Cunningham

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II

Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy

Mr. Sam DeVincent

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover

Mr. Edward R. Downe, Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont

Mr. Mercer Ellington

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Patricia and Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt

Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mrs. Doris Stack Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome L. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Mrs. Richard Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

Mrs. Elizabeth W. Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Olga Hirshhorn

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Mrs. David Landau

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and Mr. Joshua M
Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Mr. John A. Masek

Honorable and Mrs. Robert M.
McKinney

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Mrs. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Honorable and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John H. Phipps

Mrs. John A. Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. John P. Remensnyder

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts

Honorable and Mrs. Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz

Honorable Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery

Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith

Mrs. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer
Doctors Yen and Julia Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardy! R. Tirana

Mr. Earl S. Tupper

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley
Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

James Smithson Society Annual
Members

Dr. J. Scott Abercrombie, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. W. Mike Adams
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.

Ms. Sarah J. Andersen

Colonel John S. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
Mr. Leonard E. B. Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Ms. Jean M. Auel

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman
Mr. and Mrs. John R. Barnett

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett
Rhoda and Jordan Baruch

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Berkey
Mr. John L. Black

Mr. and Mrs. William Blackie
Honorable and Mrs. Robert O. Blake
Mr. and Mrs. William W. Boeschenstein
Dr. and Mrs. Harold M. Boslow
Colonel Donald S. Bowman

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. and Mrs. Warren Brule

Mr. Edward A. Burka

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Burlingame
Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Butner
Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher L. Byrom
Mrs. Charles Pearre Cabell, Sr.
Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. Milton Cades

Mr. and Mrs. John Otis Carney
Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.
Mrs. Winifred T. Carter

Dr. and Mrs. David Challinor
Dr. William M. Chardack

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement
Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Cohen
Melvin S. and Ryna G. Cohen
Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Cole

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Coleman
Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Consolvo
Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mrs. Carole Davis Crocker

Mr. John D. Crow

The Crown Family

Dr. and Mrs. James H. Curl

Mr. and Mrs. Dan J. Daly, Jr

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo, Sr

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph N. Deblinger

Ms. Lois M. Delaney

Mr. Lowell DeYoung

Mr. and Mrs. Morse G. Dial, Jr

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon, Jr

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mrs. Fleur K. Dudman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Duemling

Mr. and Mrs. LeRoy Eakin III

Mr. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds III

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Miss Babs Eisman

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr.

Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Colonel Charles O. Eshelman

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Major Pamela C. Eyre

Mr. Stephen L. Feinberg

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Field

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone

Honorable and Mrs. William H
FitzGerald

Ms. Ellen L. Fogle

Mr. and Mrs. Owsley Brown Frazier

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

Mr. William May Garland III

Mr. and Mrs. Michael C. Gelman

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Gerber

Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Ms. Elizabeth W. Glascock

Carol R. and Avram J. Goldberg

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

George and Marge Graham

Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley Greene

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Honorable and Mrs. Najeeb Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Freddie Harby

Ms. Helen Leale Harper, Jr.

Mrs. W. Averell Harriman

Dr. and Mrs. John T. Hayes

Mr. and Mrs. Ray M. Hayworth

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen

John and Lucia Heard

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Henry

Mr. Stephen O. Hessler and Ms. Mary
Ellen Vehlow

Mr. James T. Hines, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

Mrs. Ruth Housek

Mrs. Rosemarie McCulloch Hughes

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. and Mrs. John Ippolito

Dr. and Mrs. Nelson S. Irey

Honorable and Mrs. John N. Irwin II

Mr. Eli S. Jacobs

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Jernigan

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Mr. Louis W. Jolliff

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. E. Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

Honorable Randolph A. Kidder

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

>
Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Honorable and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald J. Knecht

Mr. David Hamilton Koch

Dr. Jane E. Kosa

Ms. Elizabeth Gelman Kossow

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald E. Kron

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Lassman

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Lawson-Johnston

Mr. James K. Leach

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

The Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation, Inc.

Honorable and Mrs. William Leonhart

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Long

Ms. Doris J. Lothrop

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Ludwick

Mr. and Mrs. Fred R. Lummis, Jr

Dr. Steven Lunzer

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mr. James A. MacKinnon

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan

Mr. and Mrs, H. L. Mahoney III

Mr. Michael Maloney

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mrs. Virginia C. Mars

Ms. Mary Martell

Honorable and Mrs. William M.
Martin, Jr.

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Major General and Mrs. Raymond E
Mason, Jr.

Colonel Billie G. Matheson (Ret.)

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Ms. Mary B. McCulloch

Mr. and Mrs. James W. McCutcheon

Honorable and Mrs. Robert M
McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K. McLanahan

Ms. Merrill McLoughlin

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Melrod

Dr. Ruben F. Mettler

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mrs. Rebecca Molnar

Mr. David R. Montz

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. W. F. Morrisette

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Moser

Mr. Furman C. Moseley

Dr. W. Dickson Moss III

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Murphy, Jr.

Honorable Paul H. Nitze

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. William M. North

Mr. James D. Oglevee

Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. and Mrs. Steve Ott

Mr. George M. Page

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Honorable Daniel Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

Mr. J. Roy Pennell, Jr.

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. Allan R. Phipps

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Sally and George Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Picts

Jane P. Plakias

Mr. and Mrs. Zigmund J. Podell

Dr. Kazuko K. Price

76

Dr. Don W. Printz

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Rawn

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Carlyn Ring

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Roberts

Honorable and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller IV

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Rose

Mrs. Lois B. Rowland

Mr. Arthur N. Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Ms. Leidy Samson

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul III

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Sbar

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. and Mrs. Charles H. Schreyer

Mr. Harold A. Schwartz

Mrs. Catherine F. Scott and Mr. Gary D.
Rosch

Reverend and Mrs. Alfred R. Shands

Dr. and Mrs. Richard C. Shaw

Joan and Ev Shorey

Mr. and Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Sanford Slavin

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Mrs. Bernice Roe Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone

Honorable and Mrs. Robert D. Stuart, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Joan E. and Lee B. Thomas

Mr. and Mrs. James B. Tito

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. Walter L. Vail

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.

Ms. Alice B. Vincilione

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von Hoffmann

Colonel Harold W. Vorhies

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Waidner

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Keith S. Wellin

Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan

Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

Honorable and Mrs. John C. Whitehead

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence F. Whittemore

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Wile

Mr. David R. Williams

Ms. Pauline E. Williman

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Winn

Dr. Sheila Z. Wood and Mr. James L.
Annis

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Wray

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Patron Members

Mr. Terry L. Albertson
Mr. Walter Alber

Mr. Arthur Andraitis
Miss Edith Appleton
Ms. Janine F. Barre
Mr. Gene R. Bates

Mr. John Baum

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth W. Beckman
Mrs. Harriet F. Benson
Dr. Antonio Bosch
Mr. John F. Bricker
Mr. Keith S. Brown

Mr. E. T. Byram

Ms. Patricia Chamblin

Mr. Mark N. Cookingham

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph J. Coselli
Mr. Joseph Decaminada

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson

Mr. N. L. Doligalski

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Drummeter, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mrs. Margaret H. Gauger

Ms. Ruth C. Greenberg

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mr. Harold Haverty

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner
Mr. Frederick H. Heierding
Mrs. H. Houseman

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes
Mr. John H. Johnston

Dr. Charles Joseph

Mr. Robert M. Joyce

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Kayatta
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy
Dr. William M. King

Mr. Otto Kruse

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Lando
Mrs. M. H. Lar Rieu

Mrs. Jacques Leslie

Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Levan

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield

Mr. and Mrs. Terence McAuliffe
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon W. McBride
Mrs. James H. McCarthy

Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean
Mr. Vincent Mercurio

Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr.

Ms. Carla Michaels

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Montrose, Jr.
Mr. W. T. Moran III

Mr. John M. Murray

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Nickel

Ms. R. O'Hara

Mr. James Pastore

Mrs. Margaret Person

Mr. Paul E. Pontius

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor
Mrs. Helen G. Price

Ms. Nina Belle Redditt

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Rogers
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root
Mr. and Mrs. L. Rothschild

Mr. C. W. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Harold A. Serr
Mrs. W. Mason Shehan

Mr. Marty Silverman

Mr. Andrew Warren Singer

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Slawecki
Mr. Frank O. Smith

Mr. William C. Sterling, Jr.

Mr. W. K. Straley, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker
Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Turner III
Mrs. Maria C. Volpe

Ms. Mary Wibel

Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Wilson
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley
Financial Report

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Chief Financial Officer

The Smithsonian concluded the year with a balanced unrestricted
trust fund budget despite an increasingly weak national and local
economy, which took a toll on virtually all revenue-producing auxil-
iary activities. However, a balanced budget was only accomplished by
using previously established reserves and making significant cuts to
existing budgets. Further cuts to baseline expenditures are required in
fiscal 1992 to bring costs within reduced levels of income.

Despite continuing fiscal constraints facing federal budget policy
makers, the Institution’s appropriation support provided core fun-
ding for programs and operations and limited support for several new
initiatives, primarily in the areas of cultural pluralism, the environ-
ment, and education. Modest support was provided to address Smith-
sonian infrastructure needs. However, a large backlog of identified
needs in this category remains unfunded and will take most of the
current decade to eliminate at recent rates of funding increases.

Operations

Federal appropriations provided $272,880,000 to fund ongoing oper-
ations, approximately 14 percent more than fiscal 1990 after exclud-
ing the $15.0 million pass-through for the Kennedy Center. New
program support included $1.4 million to reduce Smithsonian Insti-
tution Traveling Exhibition Service participation fees, $1.0 million for
the National Museum of American Art’s Inventory of Outdoor Sculp-
ture, and $500,000 for Global Change research.

Government agencies provided project grants and contracts to fund
research at the Smithsonian. Funding provided by the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration, principally to the Smithsonian As-
trophysical Observatory, increased $8.0 million over the prior year.

Nonappropriated income from gifts, grants, endowments, current
investments, and revenue-producing activities supplemented funds
from federal sources. Unrestricted trust funds were allocated to cover
their proper share of administrative costs and other Institution-wide
program priorities. Allocations were made, as in the past but at re-

FEDERAL S & E FUNDS

$300
rs
$2504
af:
a
$200 4 ree
rd at
& $150 ae
z a
$100 + ae
ye =
$50 5 ee ee
oe i
0 ce
70) 72) 74 76.578 880), 822 184" (86> 188" 90
FISCAL YEAR

[ ™ CONSTANT DOLLAR —+— CURRENT DOLLAR

duced levels, to fund internal award programs for acquisitions, special
exhibitions, fellowships, scholarly studies, and educational outreach.
In addition, $2.3 million in revenue generated from auxiliary enter-
prises was transferred to endowment following past practice to build
this important asset for the future.

The Smithsonian is especially grateful to its many friends in the
private sector whose generosity contributed vitally to its work. Donors
are listed in the Benefactors section of this annual report.

Gross Net Net

Revenue Income Income
Source of Funds ($000s) ($000s) (%)
Federal Appropriation 272,880 272,880 74
Government Grants and Contracts 36,801 36,801 10
All Trust Sources 233,259 59,937 16
Total Available for Operations 542,940 369,618 100

Endowment

The Smithsonian endowment fund reached an all-time high of
$348.9 million during the fiscal year. However, the market value of
the endowment had dropped to $313.8 million by the close of the fis-
cal year, at which time the Institution had 33 percent of its portfolio

TOTAL ENDOWMENT FUNDS

Stee
peta
eR
oe Ss
ce

a
ces
ae Seat
a ate
eee

Sl
88 90

70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86
Fiscal Year

Market Value

Ti
in bonds, 4 percent in cash and cash equivalents, and 63 percent in
equities. The total return for the fiscal year was 24.7 percent.

The Institution continues to use its two balanced managers: Fiduct-
ary Trust Company of New York and Miller, Anderson and Sherrerd
for the majority of its holdings.

Regent Barnabas McHenry chaired the Investment Policy Commit-
tee of the Board of Regents. Having completed his term as regent,
Mr. McHenry leaves the committee after five years of dedicated ser-
vice. The Institution is very grateful for the counsel and leadership
that he provided to the committee. Regent William Bowen will re-
place Mr. McHenry as acting chair of the committee. The Institution
remains indebted to committee members Donald Moriarty, Charles
H. Mott, Jane Mack Gould, John W. English, Thomas J. Keresey, and
Regent Norman Mineta for their continuing service.

Construction and Plant Funds

In addition to its appropriation for salaries and other operating ex-
penses, the Institution receives federal support for the construction,
repair, and restoration of facilities. In fiscal 1991, $31,190,000 was
appropriated for work on fire detection and suppression systems, util-
ities, facade restoration and replacement, and routine repairs. Appro-
priations for other construction activities included $4,982,000 for
minor construction and construction planning.

Also, $1,542,000 was provided for new Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute research facilities; $7,391,000 for the planned Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian; and $1,492,000 for the
National Museum of Natural History East Court project. A separate
appropriation of $6,636,000 allowed the National Zoological Park to
continue a repair program and other projects in its master plan.

R & R APPROPRIATIONS

$35

70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90
Fiscal Year

(MRR EEG Zoo RAR |

Financial Management Activities

To improve financial management activities, the Smithsonian estab-
lished the position of Assistant Secretary for Finance and Administra-
tion and vested that position with responsibility as Chief Financial
Officer of the Institution. All financial offices report to the chief fi-
nancial officer. Additionally, current staff were redeployed to create
the Office of Financial and Management Analysis, a resource to im-
prove the delivery of financial services and to examine the cost effec-
tiveness of programs and operations.

Although progress was being made on the implementation of a
new accounting system, the new chief financial officer halted the
project temporarily to reaffirm the vision for the new system and to

78

TOTAL OPERATING FUNDS

$600 7
a
$5004 va
$4004 #
2 Ze
= $3004 See
= eae
$200 4 Se
te ee =
$100 4 ae ee eee
ee
0) SSS
70) 72 74 +76 78 [80 (82) (84) (865 88eNg90)

FISCAL YEAR

™ > CONSTANT DOLLAR ~+— CURRENT DOLLAR

revalidate system requirements and software. Changes in the comput-
ing environment have necessitated brief studies to reevaluate com-
puter capacity and operating system requirements. To ensure that the
eventual system meets the needs of its primary user and operator, the
responsibility for the project was assigned to the comptroller.

The Institution’s finance offices are taking part in an effort to im-
prove the quality of their products and services and the cost effective-
ness of their work by applying the principles of Total Quality
Management (TQM). All financial staff will receive training so that
planning for and implementation of TQM can begin in fiscal 1992.

Audit Activities

The Institution’s funds, federal and nonappropriated, are audited an-
nually by an independent public accounting firm, currently Coopers
& Lybrand. Coopers & Lybrand’s unqualified report for fiscal 1991 1s
reprinted on the following pages. The Smithsonian’s internal audit
staff, part of the Office of the Inspector General, regularly reviews the
Institution’s financial activities and fiscal systems, assists the outside
auditors, and undertakes special projects as required. The Defense
Contract Audit Agency audits grants and contracts received from fed-
eral agencies and monitors allocated administrative costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents, chaired
by Regent David C. Acheson, met three times during the fiscal year
pursuant to its fiduciary responsibilities under legislation pertinent to
the Institution and the bylaws of the Board of Regents. The commit-
tee reviewed the 1990 audit performed by Coopers & Lybrand and the
1991 audit plan and received reports from the Office of the Inspector
General on a wide variety of Institutional programs and procedures.

Related Organizations

The National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars were established by Congress within the Institution. Each or-
ganization is administered by its own board of trustees and reports in-
dependently on its financial status. The Smithsonian provides the
Wilson Center with certain fiscal, administrative, and support services
plus office space on a reimbursement basis.

Administrative services are provided by the Institution on a con-
tract basis for Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. The Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo (FONZ), an independent nonprofit organization, operates
under a concessions contract; proceeds accrue to the Zoo.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION OPERATING FUN
Fiscal Years 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991
(in $000,000s)

550

FUNDS PROVIDED

DS

500

450

400

350

300

250

200

150

100

50

1987 1988

550

FUNDS APPLIED

1989

500

450

400

350

300

250

200

150

100

33

SSSSSSSSSSSSY

ARReeeeeeweee

1990

1991

Nonap

Trust Funds

priated

(Gross Revenue

Unrestricted] Net
Trust

Funds

Restricted

Government Grants

and Contract

|__ Federal

Appropriation:

Ce eeeeeeeeee] Lo Plant and Endowment

50

1989

1990

1991

Auxiliary and Bureau Activities Expenses

Administration and Facilities Services

International
Activities

Excernal Affairs

Special Programs

Museums

Public Service

Research

Ws)
(
,
Table 1. Financial Summary (in $000s) j
FY 1990 FY 1991
INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS |
FUNDS PROVIDED:
FederalvAppropriations— (salaries! éExpenses) (6c © thetanmietea ae itieeicienisee ier eisai seit cision iettiiereit teres $225,479 $273,709
Government! Grants/& Comtracts «25 aecs hse yea ee nie ar ee Daa Sa Fe en sTo TCV ee ia aon over OCT oeevele eri Tole rewte ictaens 29,089 36,801
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
ForiRestricted Rurposesits scis,s(eiorstars sieys erhalten cee ola aoe nye AC NEPA eG eile tere Ce ee Ree rere teers 27,672 22,822
For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary &i/BureauActivities! Revemues— Gross) epeyereyeyete ale ele rayete tele letensy=t-yeealctot ted -yatereledelelevel-vaksielsiveiatereldareytelstseretieters 201,347 196,107
RessiRelarediExpensesi sepa eric ieee tae cis Saisie et toll eieiaet letter Vaile pati eer terrier (173,365) (173,322)
Auxtliarsabureauvactivittes/Revenues—- Net are ae titer teieterls earl ieee eer eee eerie 27,982 22,785
Investment \Gifts;& Other Income os ererccecs sate okey eer ces nai 5 eet era ee ee Ope oave ote vos Sues e ai Nor totens Pere Mgt REC ea eee 14,551 14,330
TotaliNewWnrestricted/éc specialiPurpose: Revenue ayy ele eil tlre iietehe tele eesti ei irre eee 42,533 37,115
TotallNonappropriated winust:Funds— Gross) jas atetey-i ctoetetrrertetetce cielatats toilette te etree eater raters ttre oie y eter rete 243,570 233,259
=o] (ol Ce Ste OAC Oo em oriCn acrins Gririertth a.ciorcoo ong Sooo corto oo bimanon 70,205 59,937
Totall Operating Funds:Provided—Gross} <7. ./s.<:<:«,a/spstereistoveyers rarer: «1 creo Pera /aperei sl otayocs c) ei) \avode os oheropovelafeterere, sisyermie taveraeversversyayseere 498,138 543,769
<I (onabiantatiao cand oO Aone oD ood apRnnOOndAeModS ScrooDecd GhbneD oicaccneuacocato 324,773 _370,447
FUNDS APPLIED (see Note 1):
te ld ae rae oon ere enadh Cano sDoonnantaccat codon satoomrnonbo sea oddone 83,943 100,154
Less'SA@\Overhead!Recovety’ .j<..</.s.c:6 0 <0 os cravavecararors sisievsterere n= eteeoteaststeveVereyalorels stetere lee eteietels sisi oon otore siete serekersieeierets (4,429) (4,459)
IMvisetanns ice, ge isos spe eyerexe syaversvolois s cosaceve/s ayer ctsisiapesstorstsegerone £1cleysccpevster tetera tet veyol-) olsyele taxe feteteteneVeneroishee yer clckerexcrrereteterensy she fel 128,791 132,982
01s) ents 0 o.goaias ea OC CCH Dr AG SSD OCC AEE Ga DUD COUcaadsoOn acin moCdO AMOR rOon no co cob anenbonaa Sosa dagopuae 7,625 /,225
InstitintionallInitiativess. j\crmeyatctere-cisreis sroreceis trey Teena evaeemesey vars etetetter terete take sieiors ols tteeeeronac ics oruerteeiereremcnerer ae 376 1,518
ExtermalvAffatits): <jgatecsperexayerapaiate oyoyaey sigh sera ao 1521p aah sPevaie Moves = Stone cone vonage terete tere oc al Ne veretcotete tore Coccseraue ct evarceemtca teem tetera 5,426 6,465
lI HET Neh {ll Sade BaaOoH ce ODOUR N estas 05050 6 sHenoO OD oun Undoandapos boo dGoonnoEgoaad1a00005dq000000 1,871 1,969
Associates (sq business Management -<rte4) 1/1 st) eee ie ieleii- te ec eceeeisclrhc ence acme rrr rrr 443, 261
Administration—Lederal:25). sytesets oe cerocsusls evsis earners ie stereo ess wi ocotesafste ctatetenePate olny acloteeederepetere teres actos etree rete eer cTaiore 19,690 36,407
INonapproprtated ilruista buns yer terete rater leet rors ate t rete tetas aVe hehe ete ete ene ares att ie tote cette ee elecot Settee trevor relate 14,585 16,238
LessiSmoithsonian'@OverheadiRecovery yar cctaye ce orleteisieyete = ieietoreieeelersie elev stelle elem nies ketete lator selec nai eineeeverenensreer= cele el (11,945) (10,107)
Bacilities;Senyices: ss, s:cysveltscsscjsvsyeroces sya sauslscsvoy sia, ane sess eet oTOPe Ie CUeIeT 10151515 Te aT TE Re UO GeO) Ss Lok eT To Vers TORT eRe ovoieo ras 67,003 73,634
jlotal\@perating HundsrApplicd iy errtertterteriete iene iets cereale risen sinnerman terres eieiereretteran: 313,379 362,287
diransters|(Nonappropriatedplmistsbods) merercterste etepte sete eyaeia cteitetetatetere tte telat elteielatsl tetera staietere liao tote erat teveiey arora tater
Warestricted!Fumds—To Plame 272 ose rcecnyesese. ete crevasses spss osc) cuss al evays faye levetece/syerenshetey aye) cle ciiecelesoreyovers isysisusv=aeleasne wet eretet-devesetevorans (5) (1,753)
cool Vo Shte 711 (1 |S ne Cee mci iocer ISO E DE CU OE thee ao csaccre shaedoude ameaaoS on aac 5,512 3,108
Restricted |Funds—ToEndowments<jccevesecereicterecersvoro le eevee teed veter=seretsts ote exe areola stere teeter terete Porenetsrsrecrciare stecteteroeetorerernore 2,164 5,732
Totali@peratinewkundsApplicdiécilransterred| Outeee eee eee eee eee eet ees eee cee ea Geert _ 321,050 _ 369,374
CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES:
Nonappropriated Trust—Restricted Purpose 4,028 (3,939)
Wnrestricted—GeneraliPurposese pert tee eee eerie rie erect: 468 3
—Special| Purpose: |. Satare ape. oictessistst avers eatoe ici eke ey porate ett ote kerey era eta Veer vate) stole 1,504 (4,198)
/No) see} SUELO! (CAINOA))! SoocandogscocngorcdocoocoqonRodeEnoOnrInhrooDbostWooncagacsvadEnsbunoboboOSOSDDOED (2,277) 9,207
"Total sy srs. Sra ts a par aietesP pavers Sch s Gyeners mus o/eiahees eas. £te Sees STRNVSy SUSE te pers cta va fap S10 ool weber Tobe ear ate Teneverete te elke ves e¥et= GuekeTerevele eels Porare $3,723 $ 1,073
YEAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:
Restricted|Purpose’s Soy..ci< cece sc, coe cists arts te see epseneoressete is col ote ohne oye Oe Ae creo ose Picternis es Ges Serban eer $ 24,975 $ 21,036
Wnrestricted—GenerallPurpose! seen ee ne ee nein ieee eee eee eee mene eee reer ae 13,769 13,772
=—=SpecialiPurpose! </. /cieisieisisre o1isiste Voreloisisolvelerele Tote oye) eke icvo) See terote eter ate reer te ey terete tee Tone etek etteremere dere 35,312 31,115
BU) eee oo oc On nEMGreEe EO Rann nee Hos Odueton on BEAM Aso Ure ObrACUoa pS ooseebcoadoDocaaDodccois $ 74,056 $ 65,923
OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS (see Note 3)
Ganal!Zone'Biological!AreaiFund) ¢ : «224 wire x 2cecemcesarsce oleate ois Same ete oe See Se earn Sere ee eee eR ERT era Sls 7 $159
(ohatisqt at (0)) ee. ea ee ee ore Ae see ct ndeoo sD anbounadaond sucaGuC op deus Coc odoonousde 41,211 53,233
TotaliBederalvA'ppropriation| (Including SiéqEvabove) leer -etnre tee aeee erect cic eeeeeeeer eater tt. $266,827 $327,101

Note 1: The funds applied for FY 1990 were regrouped to be consistent with organizational changes that occurred in FY 1991.

Note 2: The fund balance for federal funds represents no-year unobligated funds for instrumentation, collections acquisitions, repatriation, and exhibitions.
Also, included in this amount are unobligated funds from FY 1991, FY 1990, and FY 1989 annual appropriation accounts.

Note 3: Excludes $1,961 thousand received in FY 1990 and $837 thousand received in FY 1991 from the Department of State for research projects in India.
These amounts reflect a $41 thousand and $414 thousand exchange rate fluctuation for FY 1990 and FY 1991, respectively.

80
Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1991

(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $000s)

FUND BALANCES—Beginning of Year
FUNDS PROVIDED:

RederalvApptopriations. 2. .ses5- 22 2. e
Privestemen toll COMCeeysmraiaioyei es <eshececsncutelevevereseretsiers
Government Grants and Contracts ............
(GIES oo oo 8908 6b ey LODO COO IEEE ae eee

(OWNS? 5 4 acre. bio GS SED Oe EELS Oro ee aE eee een

FUNDS APPLIED:
Research:

PASSISCATAOECLOCALY Pete ey yee ie speste tale
Astrophysical Observatory .................--

Messi@Ovetncad NECOVELVA ese -ieria ci iat:
iicopicalResearchiInstitute: =. ..25-2-.-- 4. -- = 9:
Environmental Research Center ..............-
NationallZoolopicalliPatk 55-0060 sites =
SmaithsonianvAtchives:.1-\-5 3 orice is ee > =
Saatilegomem ILS ereeS ssoueceeascocansaceacce
International Environmental Science Program .. .
NGAGE C FROME 5coueeoosemocoosopoBGGe

sorallResearchie rice. ccsrteers re. cucssscbe sitnencreveuns

Museums:

PASSIStAM@SECLetaLyayeeto mia siete cratic. Acie sere =
IMUiseumpPropramisee (yj. sic syecies ejve ee teieere -

National Museum of Natural History/

National Museum of Man..................
National Air & Space Museum .................
National Museum of American History .........
National Museum of American Art ............
INatronallPortrait Galleys eect a. aoe
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden ......
rear Galllany Gt A\ie oot oppuooaseno aoe mo Oore
AtthugMesacklen Gallery) 252.) -2.+--222+6- =:
Archives OmAMericanvAtty-) seis eres a
Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design ....

National Museum of African Art

Total Museums

Public Service:

PNSSISTATITGSCCLCCALY Este he airy in in one teense theta a terns

Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception

(CONES? Sotus daSSeo-5:00 eid oD cae oe Siete

Institutional Initiatives:

External Affairs:
Assistant Secretary

Office of Special Events

Anacostia Neighborhood Museum.............
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ............
@OflicelohExhibits| Centrally sos sees ae
itravelinpyExhibition Service .....--..-2.-.-.--
National Museum of the American Indian ......
MUSELIE Sup pont CenteGe nts -ma sls cle

Development Office ..........0s0c0c0s0ee eee

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Total Unrestricted Restricted
Non- Government

Federal appropriated Auxiliary Special Grants and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
($1,907) $ 74,057 $13,769 $ = $35,313 $24,975 =
272,880 a= a _ — —
— 15,340 9,504 — 680 5,156 —_—
_ 36,801 — — _ — 36,801
= 23,137 347 a2 Dye)) 14,503 =
-- 188,355 —_ 178,073 10,282 — —
829 6,427 640 — 2,624 3,163 -—
273,709 270,060 10,491 185,825 14,121 22,822 36,801
271,802 344,117 24,260 185,825 49,434 47,797 36,801
1,210 1,020 425 _ 146 153 296
15,851 40,927 5,772 — 2,378 256 32,521
— (4,459) (4,459) = — = =
6,463 2,274 227 —_— 811 326 910
2,478 1,239 102 — 297 281 559
15,622 2,581 184 —_— 1,118 Ty 562
676 321 217 — 93 11 —_
5,652 593 557 _ 30 6 _
816 — — — — — _—
562 A 260 2,238 254 —
49,330 47,248 3,285 = 7,111 2,004 34,848
1,211 2A, 432 — 321 439 25
673 7 61 — 34 2 =
30,469 7,799 432 — 2,284 4,152 931
10,761 6,112 208 — 4,672 879 353
16,652 3,972 168 — 1,602 2,148 54
6,463 2,188 222 — 1,103 863 =
5,020 407 38 —_— 184 99 86
3,562 3,136 213 — 813 2,110 —
1,278 2,959 9} _— 719 2,231 _
3,092 2,271 89 — 800 1,382 _
Si 1,073 71 _— 1 1,001 —
1,786 3,026 1,025 — 1,456 515 30
3,612 422 60 — 210 152 a
1,092 121 108 _— 3 = 10
2,676 140 —_— — 126 14 --
1,989 106 _ — 106 — =
1,539 3,121 305 _ 2,044 766 6
4,380 447 347 66 — 34
2,617 — - — _ — --
100,009 38,614 3,788 — 16,544 16,753 1,529
359 287 170 — 116 1 _

175 1,154 1,119 — 34 1 —

825 731 679 — 49 3 —
1,362 1,434 776 — 240 131 287
673 474 425 — 39 10 _—
3,394 4,080 3,169 478 146 287
— 1,518 1,287 — 45 186 —
110 988 710 aa — 273 5
50 1,799 1,590 — 142 67 —
64 208 208 — — — —
Table 2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1991
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $000s) (continued)

MediatActivitiesmmrsstepncrtiatreci ei neia
Congressional! Liaison) 2:50:52. 55...
Melecommunications  -ermiecie seiistele isis
SmithsonianiPresstameiecriarreictetiteiie

Total External Affairs

International Activities ..............:

Associate/Proprams: y-t-t-vencre tenner
Business Management................
INCKNMGCUCT soodadmodndnspbauncod

Less Overhead Recovery

RacilittesiSenvicesieicieitereninteiecientetiet:

Transfers Out/(In):

Programsi(seeiNotenll) i iaerara <r scteyevs wstete
Net Auxiliary Activities ..............
Other Designated Purposes
Plan tetnnrea nett creee tictionn ties sini atele

Total Funds Applied

FUND BALANCES - End of Year (see Note 2) ...

Note 1: Includes Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

7,300

$ 65,923

Total Unrestricted
Non-

Federal appropriated Auxiliary Special
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose
— 15 — 15 _

314 78 78 — —
346 1,041 584 — 214
1,398 19,869 _ 19,800 50
2,282 23,998 3,170 19,815 406
841 1,128 698 = 178

— 96,254 303 95,855 18

— 49,150 _ 49,150 —
36,407 17,555 12,334 — 4,183
= (10,107) (10,107) = =
72,239 1,669 1,441 i 228
— — 4,692 — (4,692)

S: = (19,903) 19,903 =
= = 4,686 1,102 (5,890)
= (1,753) (1,705) - (48)
= 8,840 3,350 = (242)
= 7,087 (8,880) 21,005 (10,872)
264,502 278,194 10,488 185,825 18,319
$13,772 _— $31,115

Restricted
Government
Grants and
General Contracts
180 63
19 =
539 68
183 69
78 —
1,038 —
102 _—
5,732 —
5,834 —_
26,761 36,801
$21,036

Note 2: The fund balance for federal funds represents no-year unobligated funds for instrumentation, collections acquisitions, repatriation, and exhibitions.

Also included in this amount are unobligated funds from FY 1991, FY 1990, and FY 1989 annual appropriation accounts.

Table 3. Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (in $000s)
Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991

Government Agencies

Deparementiof/ Defense: A. seepte cis ne reer er eae eral ne especies One Gre ere ee Eee eure ee eee ETL roe Eee erat:
Department ofEnerey ver creer even creer erator eee eerie vores corey Tars sialic eee srcle Cis UC EEG eC crete

Department of Health and Human Services

Departmentofilnterton’ 2 ais, odie-cceielesarecis ia eokreres el sieuc le. ore Sites eraueette aya men saab ates a okonacle eeee cee Paar acre aes PNP

National Aeronautics and Space Administration (see Note 1)
National Science Foundation (see Note 2)

0) 1 Ciena Cree ee Aree ete a aor Eran Mtoe rote Sob CORO ERODE DOOD SUL EOOb AUD 6

FY 1990

FY 1991
$ 883

Note 1: Includes $760 thousand (FY 1990) and $849 thousand (FY 1991) in subcontracts from organizations receiving prime contract from the National Aero-

nautics and Space Administration.

Note 2: Includes $241 thousand (FY 1991) in National Science Foundation subcontacts from Chesapeake Research Consortium.
Table 4. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (in $000s)

Sales and Net
Membership Less Cost Gross Revenue
Revenue Gifts of Sales Revenue Expenses (Loss)
[ENC TSB) oss. bh ceeieinig Ce OE RLS CROCE CCIE EIR $185,049 $7,284 $100,070 $92,263 $65,495 $26,768
FY 1991:
PNSSOCIGLESIE LOR LATS we reerey cover eierei nie ep Slaves) cus cis Stale s Sievers Giclees ee $103,583 $7,752 $ 67,069 $44 266 $28,786 $15,480
Business Management: (see Note 1)
= Museumishops! Maili@rdetmee anit eerie ieee etic oe 49,037 —_— 21,940 27,097 23,335 3,762
E (COTICESSI OM SM AP SV eT ay shescterevchclone faysecasyciay eters vaysnavajacsiaréiaerecels 3,398 — — 3,398 2,955 443
a= (O) CLC LMM Dect re aay evens ey Susu to uty cust ees $bits SU ha avolfovnsiov sueheyssarbuc 890 — — 890 920 (30)
SEAIICHISO MATURE SS ee eran eye- Sees tovercrs es Sistine reve weche aerer sd yore a ranercernyever« 21,111 = 5.502 15,609 14,298 1,311
Mediapactivitiest (ScedNOtell)\eccccjar sisters eisicreusran eye evonie <ecuelepass 54 _ — 54 15 39
‘Trateall ENC TOR 2 ace ne Oe nin Sic ne ara nee $178,073 $7,752 $ 94,511 $91,314 $70,309 $21,005
Note 1: Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $1,621 thousand (FY 1990) and $1,102 thousand (FY 1991).
Table 5. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1991 (in $000s)
Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Keashrancsbquival ents imap eects cy ccarecc testers aver te scatsps:ojeyisns. cuslccval ani ss cayavenatens dvsness aid aceon ay ceacoyereienelateloneeeee ere Stoeee eros Crate siete eke $ 9,427 $ 9,427
Meal ITS so 5 og talb.alace orgted GOONER DIELS TERS CIO CRI CE REET eee Re a IIa et create cerca ao tree ntiren tenn 20,154 22,728
Tmecmimeal ReaSElN 4c sade eases onan. Gans FO BdE b SEI Ae GEEE ORR ee mein Ge Mann fan Sra ean 0 On pewatmios Snr 2,180 2,206
WeSm Governmcntand Government. bligationsianereenartiac errr ace a erie e eee Eee rene 67,080 71,407
BORED «5.0.0 00.4 0.950 6 ib WS BRNELO a cnr SPs ENE OTe APE SIC RCRCTEN ES ea te ROU eal et coe ae A iy 31,566 32,137
Comuailolle Mralvarael Quod sy. od. cern olsen Role U omen a Oe BORE RRR eR EI cee inter a nO moe Home sca deb necemeue td aes 3,345 3,940
SAS ooo0o5 00000000 GOO ATe ROTO OCR Oa DOCG RCO EO cE econ DCN ee cac ationos anace Tobe ca eoo tw oann 132,313 172,622
Recsinable wor Seer Ces Gall, Sooo po bat eeaS AAS ROOD ane oe HRI DON HD EE RRS SB UCHN aU ADE OpEEDooOAoSateoabooeeno be 6,171 6,171
‘oral eteales ACM! 5 5 agate EEG OO aoe ORT ee. ERA Sree ee ERE OnE croc emicicin cists minal Mena Eeere 272,236 320,638
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
caNItolU Roem ceastiby aim Ret pCtulity, bret -4etecrsrs orev pets one) 2) Ssccele fey) sire ee ars) Sleas, SSI ays LSE HEI or nm SIE ele nesses eee 1,120 1,122
REGRADIES 2.00.500560 050855 OURO RD OTE CE Bo POH SO ERASE ED Dane ote aoe ore acetone ts Aan haere onan 23 23
Pavestmentsimt Chatitallewlrustses partys teeters cere ie senshi cota eves eeu Ses reaeere le ARES ELe I ELISEO IRE 587 790
Toul Nonscolgs ENTS 4 a cloaca cae tows ae eee oid cicelas ce ree On cerrice met ocis Aamo mctoccesa ered 1,730 1,935
TOW ASES 2 o500 50h LabSUOSBECO SAE DOU HO Oe OCR SD OD REDO Ee eoorboe cdtome cree cdo enontocd odor oso ateeeaece $273,966 $322,573
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:
LIABILITIES:
BavableshOmsccuritiestUrchasec mere roe ere eras i= cistekere sie raveysrerersenerateyeicuererseiei tire ees ralel aaiere ere parr mere ore sieeeieierees $ 8,007 $ 8,007
WetcrrediRevenuc== Chalitab lent istsw ere meee Ie. Ce overs esse ee earner aa a sora otiys SE nr aed oo risa Mic oot RR es ercpene see 588 790
Total els -.9'53.0:6 3 bce. nOot DB SE AS 0 ORO EEE CHU dao b aS AE EG BRSIEETES bal COR otme Eom gaa eee oat ae 8,595 8,797
FUND BALANCE:
Parestriched (ait pose=wirueiemcd ow Mem taperar ratte ary teve elves cloresescx ie eve erete oleic sic fe ae cevatensrsyasclere ons fassvelsyepeicistere eietepeaaiettere tere re 2110 9,183
Oras ndowmmien tare eT re ore Nene eae Sea eI TSC I TINTS CEO ee oO 116,373 134,022
slotaliWnrestrictedtBurpose meer tasters eee Petecs iste ior Sc svar eis oka er Me chops asbancndra laden) WSN MED Rasa nS Fa eS ene ee 123,584 143,205
inqgubtemaal Papers Wane etaveloy Fences coon oos sb bon cop OUR enObTe SOND OD MONO Uno CH OD Road comdae SENSO mU aA eran eeant 92,612 112,718
@asitEmdowmienta ppc ree sg ares cre cask seen efecto ese a 7310 clement ee ey se vet e SU ae aay ACTA OR eae cio ote 49,175 57,853
otallRestrictediRurpose meeps eee eG cicvena. cise Soren ce Heoleravayeie) arcresefaigs sie asayerevsveraeyetnnte nearer nereerenedaer © sees Ge 141,787 170,571
oralhundibalances peemereee mister a Te ess ite ey ee cei Seas rales eiaoetc veaete Shchyckore tN Soa ou a nacho Preece pee era ee ites 265,371 313,776
NotaliiabilitiesandiundsBalancesmerr reer erste cisraveistsicicencrciss misc resedersieloe rie ee re Oe eee eres $273,966 $322,573

Table 5A. Market Values of Endowment and Similar Funds (in $000s)

Fund 9/30/87 9/30/88 9/30/89 9/30/90 9/30/91
Wrrestricted ter ceece ree cranes ehcln taetrae ead Mine eit einem $108,925 $101,432 $127,394 $117,123 $143,205
| URS Gag Se aM Eel cha irae Ea erat ok HOO Ren nthe Pa eNnS Geom aia io 50,380 44,228 53,731 47,963 57,775
OtherRestricted)niys « eccisietets o siciers 2. sata eons od Ais eater ee 74,816 75,169 98,540 89,430 112,796
MDotal ect yercvocsccrienscat cata eve ens coestoiere toh cvavehe) oicnsccieieranherobotoke rene Coreeh seekers: $234,121 $220,829 $279,665 $254,516 $313,776
Table 6. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment—Fund Balances at Market (in $000s)
Restricted
Unrestricted Freer Other Total
Marke tiVal we OU O01 occa cistasrieiver a reus excitons visu euaee le ranene vere roasterexonaveton teitocereisisreione it craters $116,075 $47,963 $ 89,291 $253,329
Changes
CTS ae Month a See Rint eRe CERO ane eR Tn OEM Soria eral ach etc anor iste 73 — 187 260
Transfers of Excess Yield (net of below)
Incerestand!Dividends!(See NOceel!)).< eiare<'ertieis=tenels)sleloie oystevanepetcteerevere elects siete 5,442 2,187 4,161 11,790
[ncomesPaidi @ tease ote cicssroraccyscuese ie area ei ela aieee sack RO To a Eee (4,261) (1,735) (3,302) (9,298)
Lranstersyou@ therilncome mrmacisterircie sider ei siceeisto ee eh aoe eee eee eae 1,993 —_ 4,378 6,371
MarkemValue!Depreciation yay-fetetaveteceressic:eveyaverereisy-yeysusialsieier terete re fatcroravar cee everest 22,871 9,360 17,948 50,179
MarkepValuc—9//30/,91u(seesNotel2)heeciicisiiere vieieerescieis Tate eitinteintciomieieie ieeioeiet tele $142,193 $57,775 $112,663 $312,631
Note 1: Income earned, less managers’ fees of $1,037 thousand.
Note 2: Nonpooled Endowment Funds have a market value of $1,145 thousand for a total endowment market value of $313,776 thousand.
Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1991
Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
ENKI97 Ae (CSSINTIC)) Goooeanooboouodocodenccduarecaveuotmpooas $ 240,758 $ 312,600 $ 10,266 —
Eliz becwbatky¢Memorialuserceratyaterttteiiytarieerioelnieerctetassierteter 86,424 109,357 3,285 —
Hodgkins Runa (SceyNotell) lerevercrereetetcierstete vetatetshole Totals) tela sfareterre eter 357,911 407,112 19,483 —
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J. Memorial Fund ...............-..--. 38,591 43,187 1,297 _
MOTO JOGA oacanacaconvotesonqacocb0OddeoueDbNoODGOONDE 431,124 570,584 17,140 =
MussinanspAllfrecle carrrcreverosaverstcitasteievsrstersteterete roi eieveveyarepemeveuse recorders ener orers 131,676 166,863 5,012 —
(ollinixcte lis Gs Alera oos obodosmobbooEodeooonamuenenacannasac 4,469 5,823 175 =
Poores Lucy and! Georgeiwa (SeeiNoteyl)) nae eriseietelsteyeteiee eric siele lerezerens 955,134 1,257,334 39,436 —
Rorcerbensy Kirke Memoniallereeccsieen eects ieiiecisieierrecrr 1,593,323 2,106,960 63,290 _—
Sanford George! Elu(see) Note) l)) meric meer steele sie eieleirtie teers 6,580 8,234 316 -
SmithsonyJames|(see)Noten)) irreesicerei mimeo eee seeriereereia siete 802,242 832,324 58,859 =
Soon Satna) eves: couecudoougandocoswasoddsSaxs000e00000008 74,127 78,565 590 _—
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux Research (Designated) ...........-.. 2,489,195 3,283,753 98,639 136,020
Subtotal ese yeas cic iesgeh Sra en Spet vara tok oreo oe away aol wel oe esl she mrsretonche todas ease 7,211,554 9,182,696 317,788 136,020
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
lal Chentye his pooacoocousopoesoconbanagnoceaoroocoooutnds 1,114,873 1,260,338 37,859 =
Rereusonwkrances ByEndowment. erence ieee 571,132 625,289 18,010 _
Rotrest RObDErt Lee i.e ccchsisyer seca s/ans zs cushs [erasers parisons eto Crores 5,665,113 6,349,513 190,730 =
GenerallEndowment((seeyNotell) ia sceaee eee erence: 93,277,124 107,512,434 3,227,018 —
Goddard\Robett\HS 555 s6e.)<rarisrere svatyersio restates Leechers isl revere erro 44,844 50,284 1,510 =
Habel Drese(secNoteul))) asec en escenaaace nearer er eeecernar 741 768 54 —
HaresGustayusiks «296 dciwissisewwus mane ec csien sl qacorte sere otsrasisiaierer 3,040 3,763 113 =
Plenitys Caroline yates raters tess, sctever ensues sis ect PS pM leans eee Ne) Seekers 7,515 9,281 279 —
Rlentya) osephrandiarrietAcn anne eee eee ere eee ter eer 301,614 371,203 11,150 =
HleystiMaude (Gi refs craiacteis cs syarcteic ser shasckstcusheyateiivenealaters, a vtstacem eden teearetays 546,246 617,842 18,559 =
BlintonGarrie Susan 2-5 cayeuary,caevele ce ener steeieie ote enefade elon este terete 151,225 180,739 5,429 =
Koteen Dorothy Bis -sce:scequerercisye cxsrsy alas steacies) PTs ee ete E 203,388 215,596 6,476 =
Mambert tPaulalC xncxs seve eirrveyse oe een ote IS Le reo errr 274,231 331,588 9,960 =

84

Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1991 (continued)

IMedimsyy Gracey len tas, stayety att oic-c/avaisisteleiosiceftar hol ferstens: <\eceus etaoaciavenss asses
OlD eA, eralls Bo aeo0 oo bo CO DOI e CRS o Borge GIG e Bee D ee eae
ETI PsMROVPROMESCALe perry tesa veicost-yevece ere mom ee neuen crveis s)Sicuessie Sayee
Rincesmwvalliami) onesi(Sce/ Note!) serimertrtaerieits seis see ieeesics >
Saitord a @laralltouisertrseyey (roel oiarsi sOO eck iioiaie steps icictew cis aero aea se
SmithsonianiBequest:bundi(see Note!l))) -casesc 2. .---2seece senses
Nulinere onalcihebndowmenteern crete seers scien sels its
TAT an, CATRON 6 a8 odo COMA B Se amet merece Gite ao ae aes eee
Abbotumwallanile (Designated) cmc. ee ciee veiias acces secs se.

Batstowhredenc ys ((Desionated) | apecmnsmeiiiicise sac cisisielscieisiae) sia
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) ...................
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) ...................
ind berehyChartlesAl (Designated) sa qasecieeecierscicc «ee cles es
Eyonw Marcus) ward w)r4 (Designated) r-si-paiayeeistai-ie oie sicveisieiee cic eae
MatrinyMariettalInternship)(Designated))...2-.25-.--22---22e+- ress
SmithsonianyAgency,Account(Designated) ©... ..........-.:...25+--
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) .................
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Endowment Fund (Designated) . .
Webbmjamesik srellowship(Designated)) 22-2 .c- ccc. 0. - eee tees ce- >

SHISGOE « 6 oonendinichg COCR EG OI OIIe Se SiO Oe ate een ae eee ene

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

AiikenwAnnic laure EndowmentFund) Gace aes cns+s-ee coe. eens
ANTEC, JERORS 9 ooh SB eae ne Gees CHESS Orae Sena arn a eater
Sainel, Speaear luilleariaed ooed oneedcop poodddad bo nan Caer pOreore
Barney pAlicelbikeiMemorial cyvacviajeleiricis ciel <evel= 2 ereleje)-ie eveyersreieie
Hatchel Orpen May Beet eta cp ore ay os ysrene) s suci theese ioietes ghereswun(eferansazerdinre-e) oy
Beavtepardm Catherine Memoriallpenneer erence eciscieaciite
BETO CUM GLIAL OCUCAV Gwar tyerrea sere srarayaietetsscrcs easter oes lavare snces sve /orbicias suenetere- stare
[Saray IN) vara! NWI. “Sis oxic SIR CORE EE eee Cre ree eT eee
Burch, George Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and Affiliated Theoretic
SclEMCes Ih anic mre rerarerter oa aire cucpeie) serie forte esidinven ase chee abe he
Canitilal, Rradeitd eA. G5 gous tence seeas Ob ocr o Una eon Seo ne
Keascymilomas Lincoln unpyar vais cree Boa crie sete) liens seeps 2a shah sss
KGhtanmbetiainmhrances leaimryae yey: aristsinciccs Ae sec mine eee siseicie sale eaves
Coopemhundtonkaleobiolopysas-cieaaaae cee te ae cass esses se Sas ce
DivisionvowMammialsCuratorsihund| eases seston eee ee eae
Dy rAKCHROUNG ATONE ery isi clay arse Oia ee eeccs ieee aiere aes eave
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund ....................
iDyikes, Chadles LISSESh aabodaseenge bod aoc> ence oon eeMeeadooeduder
Eatonmblartietsb iil tpsmmmyacmier-iincieiemici certs rche oeieciere aisierercicaee see
Bickemeyerphlorence BrevooLe sere rere reaas succes a:
Zapllay Memenell . sab ono dackactect mc aula ocloe eres aeons crete
Borbesmecwardiwaldoy serie. catesiieracres ere terse ac) syeiaic) si saiein ais eerern cits
Breer @hatlesilemep reise cis en ches cfaveie Gyatanie eee Gar ashe dese slams oe
Global Environmental Endowment Fund ......................-++:-
Ginnm, SagqalN, sasauacsb eae cen aoe Hemic tre eee eee eee
GOON, DEUTER NE ponsnacod to sepedee te Bao SURE Eer nee ante
isupcenheimyDanicliand!Blorences see nase eer en ees eeie asec eee
Hemvion, Janes (CasINGHe Wc aspoon sudposnnsonbosHanonueenennonods
HcndersongEdwatdiPyMeteotite/kund) seeeese eerie cee is: s2es eee
iewittyeleanomGakcpaiykundur acer yscrerrce crise ier cree cs ele
lew ciepsataly COOPeL Ne ee yarereiaiaee (oie svertielere eke sil everasieie.sieysteerel fevers 2
AIM V CCV UC lles tae erect euej=soie ie terertisho) tee hele ene eon esovene Sips Sikes wierd ote 8
lelialneod'c, ANINSTESS seine poste apo o enone oo tiseen ro cater ornate
Rlodgkinsshund(see!Notenl) prmeran ce acrcciemiarc is ce cities ee ai
itd lickamAllesyandiMaricnmmnmry eit ietrcteimcci ate ois me ascites oes
HiT wes, Ree bused owadec boas TE OUN SHES DoUIdn DU aC REBT amon doar
Eiintinstonibuplicationhund serrate ce ccinsce ee a
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ...............-...05.
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite Memorial ......................-
Xiamen, INFO EL 3 Gam seolacids Hm eu o DPE OR ee LT OER Ee GCI ea ee Ree ORES
Neral, WEG7II, Se aghum oc deceo mato eoactootiacOp Coes
Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment ....................
MelloniPublications Eadowment/Rund =2.-----j4-.0.----+-----2---7-
Milliken ae @othouty Memorial aeneeeee ener erases rece cace ce
Minctalibndowmien teenie peserrtars varicctarreris sia store jiaielereciae Saas
Niiaanall, WAM EGU, seoncegqsceoomcno gn acde combed mee ao ee ECan

$

$

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
5,418 6,150 185 _
182,452 211,125 6,342 _
764,217 850,634 26,904 _
3,795 4,506 172 =
251,505 288,588 8,669 -
1,208,215 1,044,878 32,368 _
439,123 774,073 23,298 _—
2,680 3,516 106 —
707,323 872,528 26,209 53,999
5,918 7,292 219 5,895
3,300,241 3,834,689 123,503 67,141
2,620,502 3,021,948 90,775 203,650
42,884 48,653 1,461 8,915
28,915 33,052 958 2,725
185,058 217,150 6,452 (448)
29,673 32,894 1,165 1,116
1,719,936 2,117,663 63,611 129,459
1,502,078 1,849,426 55,554 2,740
1,211,869 1,274,718 38,291 137,397
116,372,888 134,022,121 4,033,389 612,589
123,584,442 $143,204,817 $ 4,351,177 $ 748,609
286,343 $ = 354,193 $ 10,639 $ 12,638
214,798 285,787 8,585 12,358
193,505 255,464 7,674 16,834
153,961 204,797 28,123 85,345
180,311 211,840 6,363 65,996
232,153 286,186 8,597 106,024
19,070 Alby 635 4,551
171,185 212,334 6,378 16,066
1,773,717 1,922,017 57,735 98,874
227,124 314,873 9,458 636
74,387 Opi 2,756 10,370
151,169 201,084 6,040 32,612
207,342 230,285 6,801 172
16,008 18,835 536 2,186
994,853 1,180,118 35,298 221,908
306,520 341,498 10,258 67,163
286,225 347,701 10,444 67,746
65,612 70,152 2,107 3,671
58,334 77,587 2,831 13,014
30,781 32,911 989 1,722
960,360 1,052,451 30,813 75,930
46,907,664 57,775,367 1,735,484 2,551,438
3,073 3,273 98 164
161,295 181,014 5,437 46,755
164,462 182,215 5,473 24,182
639,528 739,244 22,206 60,744
5,978 6,934 365 4,099
177,429 187,949 5,646 8,838
39,101 46,477 1,421 2,603
231,042 274,338 8,241 11,131
39,007 48,115 1,445 18,462
8,565 11,449 344 1,452
148,070 153,621 10,868 30,331
285,389 355,794 10,688 10,327
102,835 136,840 4,111 16,277
256,238 273,969 8,230 14,352
19,449,072 24,029,630 721,814 —
314,619 360,627 10,648 11,471
15,440 18,705 562 7,944
105,369 140,206 4,212 61,655
670,451 781,265 20,785 20,785
445,110 480,494 14,139 21,951
1,151 1,366 41 262
527,266 630,994 18,954 2,153
TATED) 86,138 2,588 130
Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1991 (continued)

Museum of the American Indian—Heye Foundation ...............
Nelms; Henning: Endowment Fund). 2. )/csestert rss cites ole eels
Nelson Eawardlwilliamprsns clean ce coer ene
RetrocelligyosephiMemorialitemrays-ttcar actrees eer erate) tere
Reid Addisonwle(SeexNotesl) paca ciiete arte eietererrerereie votre ela teee
Ripley:S= Dillonfand|Matyilivingstom ~ << s-j\-mlseer sie 2) lets vist ticles
Roebling Fume scp verersee vor Prete isle sveraisas siatererenh te roeeceye wrsusveyerayere statayers
Rollins #Mirtamrand William yersrcurs sysicrceensteteteieteteiacetets ci stetedeledsietere eet
Schimites] Ohmi) cim crereretevcveh cy sxe sstetens sic eeeecte teeters netbeans carla
NHN} CRON Ln pans so ceeOnenqaeo Soda Roca orononaAnAeSnD 6
Spragueshu nd qajcensccnesrctvcrsha chore coacoucuecoteyeyer eerste eter acca iransecaier aise
SPrin Perse ra nike ye chacs rac chevers crests ayacele ema Peete aenelte avant eeeynareeerer
StemmmbaroldiPyMemosialle.os scree ee eee eect erie
Stevyenson\ JohnvA.MycologicaliLibrany: (jcyer-re-1e)-rorereresei 2i- (eee oie -teset=
STATE, MEG sOntse a5 sp oonamnooas apObodnAdAdooonnaDpatoaboos
Walcott;\GharlesiD:and!Mary Vaux Research i022 ce eee eee
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ..................05
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research .................000.
Waillemplibrencliih(e bogeodooscsbooobvadpcocuoduocuuAonons
Zetbecsurancesyprinckleprrateteeyayete ieee alesis ernie eee

Sub tocalaeye asec stored chat ones dere tolete oyna feveds abel bameuchekeltecrebenamee

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

NITRO GN TOU ECS A oopntenoddndcooppensdoondanobsa66006
ANUP AN ie rib CULL sevescrcievedsvose! a1 evenaveloucie te (ore sVeKereve reel sX «sy pee ese tensteterers
Bacon sVirginitayPurd yer yysycrcicrnsranusre herein rieieraret ere aceorer eee eae
Becker Georpelbaert ertxcccr ten pees. tee hn ree ae cers
Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund ....................
Penphausen; Luisita land! EranziEl Rum \jarpaeetete cere weitere ersl-feke tel
Desautelss Paulie ce rer pecccste crerele ors siolete siseiieicnsei eine cee ee
KriendsofiMusicEndowmentikuod) ceriiiecrmiitrcliidelseice iat
GaveriGordome se eye crea aye errs sansa casi etooPaeaterohe aor Seaport
Hachenberpy| GeorpeiPiand) Caroline reppin
Hammond, John, Performance SeriesFund .................+++:-
HansonyMartini Gustayiand|GarolineiRiy mien reitiieiteretetetiere
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund .............00 000 eee
Flirshhorny) osephikiBequestibundaenneteseeircicirene tachi
iihe}Holeniaviinist/Fundieyecc perce accretive kere eieieiaee
unterdoniEndowmentermcrs aeeeeniasieicaeiieeicieeinieeieieeiet ric
Johnson WE ARGREnim Otek separ cys ierare crept eietaletereds cleo ctoreusiore eterekersale
Woeb $Morrise capa cscescrcgetcrertere rey ty sayy enersiminin arooresorster ats let inveeag epee cee
None wAlnnette:Hiand| Edith) Gamneen aeeeeieei emia iet ee ere
Myer.Gatherines Walden ir cycreccys stereis exsisiorertexerecstoreverecfaloreiel= r-rel Baier
Noyes, Eran kab Sire orsearercye ov e215 aves yavesevsh ste rayev ayer rayovatevers aia,e enezeheteuemeysis
Noyes; Pauline Rite ps: oz rs. cyavervoso\ steve /siste euctates sunysteieyers e a/cvereveus ‘eterenevore
Pelli@orncliathivingstonggeenmise cee nero et ee eae
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton (see Note 1) .............-.
Rathbun Richard)/Memoriall meer ielsecieieiersincieieleieleieleesieltcterete
RoeblingssolanResearcharrereni tt Riese ere
Ruef BerthaMa, 3S on meric Gc ove asses mesons cee
Schultz: [eonardl Pee crac ervay stave cervcve tu tole, oar eaetine erereen ia et eee
Seidell' Atherton « rete anesis ceo eas ciertians ere an yar area
SmithsonianyArency Account. seen
Strong lia Ds cor etanveigers oo cers orsrsievarstereetosrevelersierais ereteversiotstanate
Witherspoon slhomasyAei Memorial sere ciaiee letersi eerie eit

Subtotal icc a sais. cr chees tare escsads fe cue ous schemes ieusaer costes ares rete
loraliRestrictediPurposewener ec aera eee enor cere rae rrer ee
INOUE ANIDON AG ISINIDIAUINIDS casnogceccccccuasnncuucsaba0c0c

Note 1: Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

86

$265,371,170

Principal

Book Market

Value Value
937,875 1,002,773
226,431 230,066
121,927 158,770
39,923 53,181
121,798 147,015
192,770 221,245
645,874 857,672
1,358,596 1,687,953
19,171 20,497
168,073 187,057
8,546,588 10,091,470
96,506 127,984
1,038,557 1,222,164
28,440 34,966
412,752 444,261
893,553 1,094,340
313,931 432,888
30,448 34,787
40,366 43,159
5,071 6,730
92,612,357 112,718,017
21,904 25,452
105,442 118,425
501,617 594,381
865,876 1,028,763
383,175 391,530
4,279,979 5,007,465
42,670 55,981
76,370 82,017
9,761 11,394
24,869 31,271
324,800 330,949
52,738 65,038
9,588,553 10,470,150
2,314,926 2,626,849
4,769,418 5,720,203
17,797,056 21,687,842
42,024 48,155
521,381 645,032
2,971 3,984
119,869 147,832
5,947 7,451
49,667 55,804
44,176 54,575
1,052,875 1,301,743
63,322 78,196
139,763 168,125
163,815 187,659
119,745 137,527
3,429,005 4,064,455
1,436,340 1,688,035
59,508 73,480
764,809 942,838
49,174,371 57,852,601
141,786,728 170,570,618

$313,775.45

Income

Net
Income

30,122
6,886
4,769
1,598
5,104
6,507

25,763

50,274

616
5,501
300,565
3,844

36,712
1,050

13,345

32,509

13,003
1,021
1,296

202

__ 3,407,547

752
3,557
17,854
30,902
1,953
166,511
1,653
1,593
339

939
9,273
1,954
252,542
75,832
178,489
645,914
1,446
19,376
120
6,227
224
1,676
1,639
39,712
2,349
5,050
5,637
3,916
122,090
52,105
3,146
28,321

1,683,091
5,090,638
$ 9,441,815

Unexpended
Balance

52,531
17,190

8,440
16,379
18,920

(223)
48,882
1,073
18,955
175,583
28,920
298,551
5,254
1,477
31,926
20,431
4,228
2,258
8,023

4,602,120

3,106
88,521
17,200

407,259
1,082

4

1,678
8,485
11,746
14,043
557,177
31,521
52,852
104,825
9,033
41,854
829
38,062
5,230
5,090
9,899
4,560
26,286
17,959
4,463
15,933
549,031
3,602
15,395
187,875

2,234,600
6,836,720
7,585,329
Table 8. Construction and Plant Funds
Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (in $000s)

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Appropriations:
INAGOTE Zoo) WYSTEN EI oe acta poten 5.0.00. no 0a AO Oe OG Batre Reet Ieee ama Oa rirchocoacnodag macs ae:
Restorationtand) Renovationion Building steryie-micriticrs rie esi seiis ieee aie esis ey cia ceseisis ie eicie icteric eee ree oer
ConstructionPlanninpjand! Minor Constmicttonie ar eis isl sisrs isl Sele) ears soe eis ele aici sick iain ieee eee
iiropicalReseatchiInstitute—ResearchyRacilitiest sce crise) 96: ele 247. 6 ol sea ei eee ise eee eee
National iMuscum\oitherAmeticanndianl ser maciceccciicer ic tie ace cise acc cis een eee eines er

Mocallkederal@atp propriattoms erroncriccsere ree ch veces eres chee eens Spas foe 6 Sod, everyone ve GM uavans tay Sicp eRe es tener uct came ONS ERLE ee

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other
Buyitonmentalireseatchl Cencter—LandlAcquisitions: aa «lis ee si) vee eile eee eee eee eee eee
iropicalpRescarchyinstitute—-Research)hactliticsi seer see eee ae cece criiacieerra eit sereeraieisiecior
(CoopebewittuNationallMuscum\ots Designina semen tise 1rrtieircise ieee cieieierietersi erratic ieietecieiees
OuadranglerandiR elated erry citer rer ee eee ite one ee satiate: see erelahn eee eae er en eee eee
MisitomlutonmationiandiReception|Centetaaemeecciare auc een cmciticie erence meeenaenierr erica rere
Aun anal Sande Nigein— DiS Saksessoeapee cosmodaen odeedeone denDEG cp onoEoud epocconebadeuRseoosanec
NattonalMuscnmiortheramericaniind aninereeeetterinnt ren ticnee nether richie eccrine cite ne
inccora GalleryrandyAud itocumimrper ren rete eye errors ie eek ter ek eee ee aera
Nationale MusecumyoreNaturaliltistotyGemllalllgeece errr ene eee aac ea eeetr ete caer ereinernrnin rer
Cine? »cocese socom ona ohoben ed HoAooe ee Mee ana ate eee Sea M oc omatacmee tna oe

atalino oe Sraemd eta Ue aeons Old odd Doct an iin aeeee eer men te ch toon dap tdntodiaee oso

Transfers from Other Funds:
Wisitorgloronmationandikeception Centersem err meeeer nro rcr set asec ciate eerie eeicerr nets srt
CoopeeMewitr NationaliMuscumioreDesigninen a serene sence ance ascii eet erie erie
NationalMuscumyomNaturallliscory,Gemtballienrs aay) teeeiciaeetcia eee ee eee ene reer re eennr
@uadranplcrandiRelated Wepre rs erry eee Ce ier eiinic i teerern alent STING ep nae eee CEA OCR OL Cr eecrine

“TReceall TAS: ‘a o.co Bee eek ea tne en CR oS Renee are RE, rR ode hal ORR eR

* Funds reclassified to current operating funds.

FY 1991

6,636
31,190
4,982
1,542
7,391
1,492

53,233

37
(222)*
49
(109)*
128
2,114
532

**The FY 1990 amounts are different from amounts reported in the Smithsonian Year 1990. These differences represent the FY 90 Gramm-Rudman-Hollings

sequestered amounts.
Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

Report of Independent Accountants
To the Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition
of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1991, and the
related statement of financial activity for the year then ended. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Institution’s man-
agement. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audit. We previously audited and
reported upon the financial statements of the Smithsonian Institution
for the year ended September 30, 1990, totals of which are included
in the accompanying financial statements for comparative purposes
only.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and dis-
closures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1991, and the results of its
operations for the year then ended, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. :

Washington, D.C.

December 20, 1991

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition, September 30, 1991
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1990) (thousands of dollars)

ASSETS:

Fund balances with U.S. Treasury and cashon hand ....................-..

Investments) (INotes3) ey -elsieicciesicieisieiets ices

Receivables\(INOte Ss iac-castinetreinlae ei eee eRe ne

Advance payments (Note 6).........

MIN VEMCOTleS a esr er ehecfayevornse fee craseisisnoreceuster tote eaxeraisiahaksio eter ae boere me cceiome eres
Rrepaidudeterrediexpense sand othe ha ernie ein ieee nie setae:
Propertyand equipment (Notes) emesis cisiiseeieeisisieicieseistenierieils

Wotalfassetsumrac crac icine

LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable:

(Accounts|payabletand(acctued expensesmame silent ninr
Igterfundipaya ble te srrcr asters siexs bere raves re et eichclaene erorerey cee ets cre Crsa
Payable for investment securities purchased ...........-.... 20. e eee eeeee
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) ................--.
Accrued iannuiall leayeiccrepever- = tector eestor ie eae Tee tore taretersves ses orev mae
Deferred revenue saree tay sreveicor see vers se eeyrereas) Rovere ctesstatevevars ere Ptelrersveeisrerrersers

Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)

FUND BALANCES (deficit):
Trust—Current:
Unrestricted general purpose . . .

Special purpose... jeisresavyarsecoistetsren es viv ered eerie eae oe

IREStrIcted i tcsere oe ae session ocr sraniencne Pre OOO OS eee
Trust—Endowment and similar funds (Note 4) ...................-000-00-
itrust——Plangtunds (Notes) meee eeenece reece ene eee eee eee
Federal—Operating funds (deficit) (Note 10) ..........-...0..0-e0eee sees
Rederal—~Constrictionifunds)-e ee cate sneer eee eee een Eee r ert eerer
Rederal==Gapital findsje,-2)-\al one sicisaetesincre as SOL eee eee

Total fund balances

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

88

Trust Federal Totals, Totals,
funds funds all funds 1990
ia fakeislatecererstatens $ 1,561 $148,442 $150,003 $113,059
Soh incor nee 326,610 326,610 323,863
sah erofoarae Gfoinr 44,031 11,024 55,055 58,081
yan ie ee veraie tele — 12,980 12,980 18,606
Sta oo tinaron 17,355 1,766 19,121 18,296
Ee. apetelsuece-epeneee 17,835 — 17,835 18,151
siayeitysucesrevepere tore 77,368 282,074 359,442 337,118
Feettee teers $484,760 $456,286 $941,046 $887,174
Lnonteisacere eee he eee $ 24,335 $ 28,485 $ 52,820 $ 47,694
Savaraeeens: casheerees 8,887 —_— 8,887 9,929
AAMC odd 8,007 _— 8,007 2,760
3, anasereeesrontoeters 4,476 = 4,476 3,532
Mats cent cen IE — 10,457 10,457 9,584
SE Saree: 36,655 — 36,655 43,286
wa bod dateretederekere 10,714 — 10,714 11,101
pean Hc eine 93,074 38,942 132,016 127,886
Rico Cia = 81,786 81,786 71,688
ots deanayavateesy sratets 13,772 ~ 13,772 13,769
Bees Boer cehor a 31,115 = 31,115 35,313
POOt Eta Comoe 21,036 _ 21,036 24,975
ss epavovene pans ancks 265,371 —_— 265,371 252,263
ssh attaorlaeva aterene 60,392 — 60,392 61,470
2 ic Pel ae Senet — 8,089 8,089 (531)
ne wae ec ce = 43,629 43,629 36,689
eek cates aber — 283,840 283,840 263,652
Sooneocusab an _391,686 335,558 727,244 _687,600
Ree eee $484,760 $456,286 $941,046 $887,174
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1991
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1990) (thousands of dollars)

Capital
funds

Totals,
all funds

$326,113
36,801
15,671
4,007

25,596
51,605

7,423
188,355

655,571

239,724
59,269
73,908
47,924

31,640
164,291

Totals,
1990

$266,690
29,089
18,447
5,025

24,485
45,006

12,124
194,062

594,928

215,668
40,577
67,272
39,140

28,992
164,802

829

(89)

Trust funds Federal funds
Endow-
ment
Totals, and Totals, Con-
trust Current similar Plant federal Operating struction
funds funds funds funds funds funds funds
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Appropriations (Note 10) ......... $ — $ — $ — $  — $326,113 $272,880 $53,233
Government grants and contracts ... 36,801 36,801 = _ -- — _—
Investmentincome =. .: +. <2... 15,671 15,339 = 332 = = =
Net gain on sale of securities ....... 4,007 = 4,007 i _ — —
Gifts, bequests, and
OUAG HANG 36 bo sacone cee Sener 25,596 23,138 261 2,197 —_ _— —
Additions to plant (Note 7) ........ 2,359 — ~ 2,359 49,246 — —
Rentals, fees, commissions, and other
(IN GW 10) oo-cts Goo Oe oe eee 6,427 6,427 i — 996 996 —
ANUeCITERV ACUTE Soe snocesdaenes 188,355 188,355 = — = = =
Total revenue and other
acklwOns +6 seneseoonaeuee 279,216 270,060 4,268 4,888 376,355 273,876 53,233
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research, educational, and collection
acquisition (Note 11) ........... 82,772 82,772 _ _ 156,952 156,952 =
Administrationiee es. 2 a+ < ee es 22,375 22,375 — _ 36,894 36,894 —
BaGUiblesISCLVICES| ern rae erie. = sci oie 1,669 1,669 — — 72,239 72,239 =
Acquisitionofiplant .5.....--.---- 1,631 = 1,631 46,293 — 46,293
Property use and depreciation
(NGG) ost sone 2,582 = — 2,582 29,058 = =
PAWXi tatypactivities| er-cherssee = <c.c: «- 164,291 164,291 — — — — _
Total expenditures and other
deductionsmereca seein 275,320 271,107 = 4,213 341,436 266,085 46,293
Excess of revenue and other
additions over (under)
expenditures and other
deductionsmeme nearer rc: 3,896 (1,047) 4,268 675 34,919 7,791 6,940
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
Additions (deductions) (Note 12) . _— (7,087) 8,840 (1,753) = — =
Net increase for the year ....... 3,896 (8,134) 13,108 (1,078) 34,919 7,791 6,940
Return from (to) U.S. Treasury
(NGS. 10) Sapo oote ee eet eeetete — = _ — 829 829 _
Fund balances at beginning of year . . 387,790 74,057 252,263 61,470 299,810 (531) 36,689
FUND BALANCES (DEFICIT) AT
ENDIOEAYVEAR: fie cnc 5 cicniceo- $391,686 $ 65,923 $265,371 $60,392 $335,558 $ 8,089 $43,629

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Smithsonian Institution
Notes to Financial Statements

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the
National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Perform-
ing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
which were established by Congress within the Smithsonian Institu-
tion (the Institution) but are administered under separate boards of
trustees.

The financial statements of the Institution with respect to Federal
Appropriations have been prepared on the obligation basis of ac-
counting, which is in accordance with accounting principles pre-
scribed by the Comptroller General of the United States as set forth
in the Policy and Procedures Manual for Guidance of Federal Agen-
cies. The obligation basis of accounting differs in some respects from
generally accepted accounting principles. Under this method of ac-
counting, approximately $44,458,000 of commitments of the oper-
ating fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, have been
recognized as expenditures, and the related obligations have been re-
ported on the Statement of Financial Condition at September 30,
1991, even though the goods and services have not been received.
Approximately $12,042,000 of these commitments are for grants un-
der the foreign currency program. Approximately $9,961,511 of these
commitments are for internal storage facilities and equipment at the
Museum Support Center. In addition, construction fund commit-
ments for other projects amounted to approximately $37,328,000 at
September 30, 1991.

The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds ob-
tained from private sources, government grants and contracts, invest-
ment income, and certain business activities related to the operations
of the Institution.

Fund Accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions placed on the
use of resources available to the Institution, accounts are maintained
in accordance with the principles of fund accounting. This procedure
classifies resources for control, accounting, and reporting purposes
into distinct funds established according to their appropriation, na-
ture, and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund;
however, in the accompanying financial statements, funds that have
similar characteristics have been combined into fund groups. Accord-
ingly, all financial transactions have been recorded and reported by
fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are self-
balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent the portion of appropriated
funds available for support of Institution operations.

Federal construction funds represent that portion of appropriated
funds available for building and facility construction, restoration,
renovation, and repair. Separate subfund groups are maintained for
each appropriation—Construction and Improvements, National Zoo-
logical Park, Restoration and Renovation of Buildings, Museum Sup-
port Center, and the Center for African, Near Eastern, and Asian
Cultures (Quadrangle).

Federal capital funds represent the value of those assets of the Insti-
tution acquired with federal funds and nonexpendable property
transfers from government agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted re-

go

sources, represent the portion of nonappropriated funds available for
support of Institution operations. Amounts restricted by the donor
for specific purposes are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject
to restrictions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the
principal be invested and that only income be utilized. Also classified
as endowment and similar funds are gifts that allow the expenditure
of principal only under certain specified conditions. Quasi-endow-
ment funds are funds established by the governing board for the same
purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such funds
may be expended with board approval. Restricted quasi-endowment
funds represent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipula-
tion that the principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of
time, but the governing board has elected to invest the principal and
expend only the income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant ac-
quisitions and funds expended for plant.

Investments

All investment income, except that of endowment and similar funds,
and gains and losses arising from the sale of investments and property
are accounted for in the fund in which the related assets are recorded.
Income of endowment and similar funds is accounted for in the fund
to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted
current funds. Gains and losses on the sale of investments are recog-
nized on the trade date basis using the average cost method.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is deter-
mined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method or retail cost
method (for those inventories held for resale). Merchandise inventory
approximated $17,355,000 and materials and supplies inventory ap-
proximated $1,766,000 at September 30, 1991.

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Szzzthsoniam magazine and Air &
Space /Smithsonian magazine is recorded as income over the period of
the related subscription, which is generally one year. Costs related to
obtaining subscriptions to S7zzthsonian magazine and Air & Space/
Smithsonian magazine are charged against income over the period of
the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other
auxiliary activities during the period in which the activity is
conducted.

Works of Art, Living or Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include works of art, li-
brary books, photographic archives, objects, and specimens, through
purchase by federal or private funds or by donation. In accordance
with policies generally followed by museums, no value is assigned to
the collections on the statement of financial condition. Purchases for
the collections are expensed currently. Proceeds from the deaccessions
are designated for future collection acquisitions.

Property and Equipment—Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds are recorded in
the capital funds at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over
their useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years
Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings were appro-
priated and reserved by Congress for the Institution and are not re-
flected in the accompanying financial statements. Property and
nonexpendable equipment acquired through transfer from govern-
ment agencies are capitalized at the transfer price or at estimated
amounts, taking into consideration usefulness, condition, and market
value.

Property and Equipment—Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for use by non-
income-producing activities are recorded at cost, or appraised value at
date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay
and the Carnegie Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal
values. Property and equipment are treated as a deduction of the cur-
rent fund and as a capitalized cost of the plant fund.

Property and equipment for use by nonincome-producing activities
are depreciated on the straight-line basis over their useful lives as
follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 10 years

Depreciation is recorded in the plant fund as a deduction to the in-
vestment in plant.

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds
and utilized in income-producing activities are capitalized at cost and
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives of 3 to 10 years.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts with the U.S.
Government, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the
Institution. Grant and contract revenue is recognized within trust
funds as expenditures are incurred.

Pledges

The Institution records significant pledges based upon letters signed
by donors. Pledges are recorded at net realizable value as a receivable
and as deferred revenue on the statement of financial condition. Rev-
enue from pledges is recognized in the year the pledged funds are
collected.

Gifts, Bequests, and Other Grants

The Institution recognizes revenue from gifts, bequests, and other
grants in the year the cash is received.

Contributed Services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made significant
contributions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s pro-
grams. The value of this contributed time is not reflected in these
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave in
accordance with federal law and regulations. However, only the cost
of the leave taken as salaries is funded and recorded as an expense.
The cost of unused annual leave at year-end is reflected in the accom-
panying financial statements as an asset and an accrued liability in the
federal funds.

Annual leave is expensed for trust employees in the trust fund as
earned.

2. Related Activities

The Institution provides certain fiscal and administrative services to
several separately incorporated organizations in which certain officials
of the Institution serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to
the Institution by these organizations for the aforementioned services,
together with rent for Institution facilities occupied, totaled $275,000
($200,000 for the trust funds and $75,000 for the federal funds) for
the year ended September 30, 1991. Deposits held in custody for
these organizations were $4,476,000 as of September 30, 1991.

The following summarizes the unaudited expenditures of these or-
ganizations for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1991, as reflected
in their individual financial statements, which are not included in the
accompanying financial statements of the Institution:

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. $8,709,000
Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars:
Federal appropriations $5,047,000
Trust funds $1,899,000

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a trade date basis, if purchased, or
estimated fair market value at the date of acquisition, if acquired by
gift. At September 30, 1991, investments were composed of the fol-
lowing:

Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)
Current Funds:
Short-term investments $ 60,893 $ 61,173
Endowment and Similar funds:
Pooled investments:
Short-term cash equivalents $ 29,581 $ 32,155
U. S. Government and quasi-government
obligations 67,079 71,407
Corporate bonds and other obligations 34,911 36,077
Common and preferred stock 132,313 172,622
Subtotal pooled investments 263,884 312,261
Nonpooled invesments:
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,120 1,122
Charitable trusts 588 790
Subtotal nonpooled investments 1,708 1,912
265,592 314,173
Plant funds:
Common stock 125 192
Total investments $375,538

$326,610

The deposit with the U.S. Treasury is invested in U.S Government
securities at a variable yield based on market rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and similar
funds are pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with
each individual fund subscribing to, or disposing of, units on the
basis of the per unit market value at the beginning of the month in
which the transaction takes place. Of the total units, each having a
market value of $378.07, 319,587 units were owned by endowment
funds, and 506,355 units were owned by quasi-endowment funds at
September 30, 1991.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships be-
tween cost and market values of the pooled investments at September
30, 1991.

91
($000s)

Market
Net value
Market Cost change per unit
End of year $312,261 $263,884 $48,377 $ 378.07
Beginning of year 251,801 249,570 2,231 312.32
Increase in unrealized net
gain for the year 46,146
Realized net gain for the
year 4,007
Total net gains for the
year $50,153

$ 65.75

4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution utilizes the ‘total return’’ approach to investment
management of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Un-
der this approach, an amount equal to the difference between actual
interest and dividends earned during the year and the amount com-
puted under the total return formula is transferred to or from the cur-
rent funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide,
as being available for current expenditures, an amount taking into
consideration such factors as, but not limited to: (1) 4'/2% of the
five-year average of the market value of each fund (adjusted for gifts
and transfers during this period), (2) current dividend and interest
yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scientists, and (4) inflation-
ary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index. However, where
the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less than
110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation),
the amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends
received.

The total return factor for 1991 was $11.37 per unit, equivalent to
4% of the five-year average of the Market Value of each participating
fund. Actual dividends and interest earned exceeded the total return
for the year, and this excess was transferred from the current funds to
the endowment funds (see Note 12).

5. Receivables

Receivables at September 30, 1991, included the following:

($000s)
Totals,
Trust Federal all
funds funds funds
Auxiliary activities and other accounts
receivable, net of $8,902 allowance for
doubtful accounts $16,900 $ — $16,900
Receivables for investment securities sold 6,171 - 6,171
Pledges receivable 6,190 _ 6,190
Endowment notes receivable 23 — 23
Reimbursements due from grants and
contracts 2,697 — 2,697
Interest and dividends receivable 3,163 — 3,163
Interfund receivables 8,887 — 8,887
Value of accrued annual leave — 10,457 10,457
Other — 567 567
$44,031 $11,024 $55,055

92

6. Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to government agen-
cies, educational institutions, firms, and individuals for services to be
rendered, or property or materials to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1991, the Institution had advances outstand-
ing to the General Services Administration of $8,823,000, principally
for construction services, including the Museum Support Center and
other projects to be completed in future fiscal years. The Institution
at that date also had advances outstanding to educational institutions
amounting to approximately $1,837,000, principally under the Spe-
cial Foreign Currency Program.

7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1991, property and equipment comprised the
following:

($000s) ($000s)
Trust
Current funds
Capital funds $ 23,607
Equipment 9,789
Building 3,963
Leasehold improvements 1,170
38,529
Less: accumulated depreciation and
amortization (15,148)
23,381
Plant funds
Land and buildings 64,659
Equipment 7,477
72,136
Less: accumulated depreciation (18,149)
pee eS
Total, trust funds 77,368
Federal
Capital funds
Property $ 460,450
Equipment 45,824
506,274
Less: accumulated depreciation (224,200)
Total, federal funds 282,074
Total, all funds $359,442

Included in the accumulated depreciation of the federal capital
funds is $22,408,000 of depreciation expense for 1991.

Depreciation and amortization expense in the trust funds for fiscal
year 1991 for income-producing assets amounted to $2,668,000 and is
included in the current funds. Depreciation of nonincome-producing
equipment and buildings for 1991 amounted to $2,582,736 and is in-
cluded in the plant fund. The balance of the plant fund at September
30, 1991, included $6,405,064 of unexpected funds for future plant
acquisitions.

8. Commitments and Contingencies

Leases for various Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide
for escalation of rents to coincide with increases in property taxes, op-
erating expenses attributable to the leased property, and the Con-
sumer Price Index.

The Institution’s operating leases require future minimum lease
payments as follows:
Lease payments (000s)
1992 $ 5,672,323
1993 5,478,231
1994 5,042,549
1995 3,075,628
1996 442,320

Thereafter 222,083
$19,933,134

Rental expense for office facilities aggregated approximately
$4,701,100 in 1991.

The Institution receives funding or reimbursement from govern-
mental agencies for various activities, which are subject to audit.
Audits of sponsored program costs have been completed through Sep-
tember 30, 1988; however, final resolution from the cognizant agency
for audits of fiscal years 1983 through 1988 has not occurred. Any ad-
justments that may result from those audits and the audits for fiscal
years 1989 through 1991 are not expected to have a material effect on
the Institution’s financial statements.

9. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1991, consists of the following:

($000s)
9% note payable to The Riggs National Bank, interest only
payable quarterly commencing December 31, 1986; interest and
principal payable quarterly commencing September 30, 1991
and ending on June 30, 1998 $10,714
$10,714

The aggregate amount due for all borrowings for the years ending
September 30, are as follows: $1,211 in 1992, $1,324 in 1993, $1,447
in 1994, $1,582 in 1995, $1,729 in 1996, and $3,421 in years
thereafter.

The proceeds of the note with The Riggs National Bank were used
to fund construction of a restaurant addition to the National Air and
Space Museum. Approximately $990,000 was recorded as interest ex-
pense and was paid by Auxiliary Activities funds for fiscal year 1991.

On December 18, 1991, the Institution entered into a debt agree-
ment in the amount of $3,800,000 for the purpose of financing a
warehouse facility. The note bears interest at a rate equal to 1% in ex-
cess of the Federal Funds Rate, which was 4.56% on December 31,
1991. The unpaid principal balance of this note is payable in quar-
terly installments of $63,333 until December 31, 1996. The remain-
ing unpaid principal balance is due December 31, 1996.

10. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for salaries and
expenses that are expended in the year received. Also included are
amounts approximating $18,136,000 received with the provision that
such amounts can be expended over a period greater than one year.

On November 5, 1990, the U.S. Congress enacted Public Law
101-510, the Defense Authorization Act, which prescribes the rules
determining the availability of appropriation balances and establishes
the procedures for closing appropriation accounts.

The major purpose of the act is to restructure annual appropriation
accounts. Beginning with the fiscal year 1989 appropriation accounts,
agencies are now required to maintain annual appropriations for a six-
year period. At the end of an appropriation’s six-year life, the appro-
Pfiation account is closed and any unobligated balances are then re-
turned to the U.S. Treasury. The act also provides for the phasing out

of unexpended previous year’s appropriations as of September 30,
1993.

Under the act, unobligated balances of annual appropriation ac-
counts from fiscal years 1989 and 1990, totaling $829,5 14, were re-
turned by the U.S. Treasury to the Smithsonian Institution and will
remain on the Institution’s records until the appropriation accounts
are closed.

The federal operating funds for the year ended September 30,
1991, included the following:

($000s)

Revenues and

_ other additions _ Return from Fund Balance

Appropti- (to) U.S. at Septem-
ations Other Treasury ber 30, 1991
Salaries and expenses $272,880 $ — $829 $7,301

Special Foreign Currency

Program = = = 89
U’S. India Fund (transfers

from Department of

State) — 837 — 623

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute — 159 76
$272,880 $996 $829 $8,089

The Institution has recorded an unrealized loss of $413,766 to reflect
exchange rate changes related to the U.S. India Fund.

On July 11, 1990, a settlement was awarded in the amount of
$3,022,350 arising out of a suit against the United States by a contrac-
tor who was defaulted by the General Services Administration for fail-
ure to complete a project for the Museum Support Center in a timely
fashion. This mandatory obligation falls outside the provisions of the
Antideficiency Act. According to accounting principles prescribed by
the Comptroller General of the United States, the Institution recog-
nized this expense, in fiscal year 1990, when settlement by the United
States resulted in an operating fund deficit. The Institution will re-
ceive appropriations in fiscal year 1992 of approximately $1,007,000
as a partial payment of the claim. The Institution will request appro-
priated funds in fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to pay the balance of the
claim.

11. Collections

In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, collec-
tions purchased and donated are not included in the statement of fi-
nancial condition. The Institution records the acquisition of
collections as an expense in the year of purchase and records the deac-
cession of collections as restricted revenue in the year of sale. For fiscal
year 1991, $4,924,997 was expensed to trust funds and $1,054,214 to
federal funds for the acquisition of collections and proceeds from
deaccessions in trust funds were $1,401,567. There were no deacces-
sions of collections purchased with federal funds in fiscal year 1991.

12. Transfer among Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) respective fund balances
for the year ended September 30, 1991:

93
($000s)

Current funds ee
Unre- similar Plant
stricted Restricted funds funds
Total return income $(1,215)
reinvested $(2,279) $3,494 $ —
Income reallocated for
special purposes (271) (39) — 310
Endowment reallocated to
restricted and
unrestricted funds 630 1,667 (2,297) —
Designated as quasi-
endowment (2,523) (4,527) 7,050 _
Other 2,126 (656) 593 (2,063)
Total transfers among
funds $(1,253) — $(5,834) $8,840 $(1,753)

13. Retirement

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by either the
Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Re-
tirement System (FERS). The features of both of these systems are de-
fined in published government documents. Under both systems, the
Institution withholds from the salary of each federal employee the
percentage of salary required; the Institution also contributes spe-
cified percentages. The cost of the programs for the year ended Sep-
tember 30, 1991, was $11,716,833.

The Institution has a separate retirement plan for trust employees.
Under the plan, both the Institution and the employees contribute
stipulated percentages of salary, which are used to purchase individual
annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with the em-
ployees. The Institution’s cost of the plan for the year ended Septem-
ber 30, 1991, was $6,482,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to fund the accrued costs of all
plans currently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the
plans.

14. Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions
of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations de-
scribed in that section are taxable only on their unrelated business in-
come. No provision for income taxes is required for the year ended
September 30, 1991, since the Institution had a net loss from unre-
lated business activity.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxa-
tion as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section
501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in that section are ex-
empt from all income taxation. The Institution has not as yet formally
sought such dual status.

94
S21JJO PUE SNEIING Is9y2 UI SINITATIIE [euoneiuasaid
Pur AprefOys Jo 1YBISIZAO ay) Ul PIEIOGE[OI SUINISNU PUL YIIEISII JOJ SI1IPIIIIIS JUBISISSE IY]. 4%

2a NIWWOD 1UaWadEUEW S,AIEIIIII »

weidOlg aeIOssy 1Uapisay UETUOSYIWS
weidolg alenossy [euUONeN UETUOSYITWS
auIzEsep uriuosy sims /aIvds % 41y
QUIZES ULIUOSY 1115

ssaig UONININsUy UETUOsSYyITWS
SUONEIUNWWOIIaT, JO 21JO

squaag [Eads Fo 2130

suOneay eUONeUIAIU] JO 291J7O
,SUONEIY JUSWUIIAOD JO IO
,luawdoyaaag jo ao

+SUIVdTV TV NYALXA
IO}
Arei1ai2ag 1UEISISSY

Jaquay vondas2y
SaTeIOssy pur UONBWIOFJUT JONUSIA
quawidojaaaq

susIpPny Opie” jo IPO
saregYy 11qNd JO 145

sweld01g FAOF jo HO
uoneosnpy

Arepuorag pue Ayequaway]q jo MPO
SOITAIIS 92U9I2FUO) jo MPO
J91U97) SOIINOSIY 20U3TI$ yeuonen

+SOIAMAS OITA Nd

Joy
Aye1a329g 1UBISISSY

ad1AJag uOnIqIyxy
Sulpaavsy, uOTINAsUy URTUOSYITWS

Tensiday IY JO DIO
sweid0i1g Wnasny JO 221}

TERUSS) SUT XAT OL 37 @)
xx AlaT[PD IeOg PeuONeN
x#Jaluay uoddng wasn
«UP JO Wnasnyp [PUOTIENY
/Atoasty [emnIeNY JO Winasny [euUOTIeNY
+ UPIPUT UBITIIWY 241 JO unasnyy [BUONeNY
x AJOISIF] URIIaWY JO Wnasny [euOTIeNy
4 ¢AJa][ED) YIM
+4UY UBeWY jo UNasny [euOreNy
yx UBIIY JO Wnasny yeuoNeN,
«x UMasny|y aoeds pure ily yeuoneny
Araypesy [PuoneusolUy
DPHO sotpmig [euorininsuy
4,Uapsley ainadyndg pue wnasny woyysi1y
«#USISIG JO Wnasny [euONeN ‘1Maz]-Jodooy
Aroyerogey jeonAjeuy uonearasuoD
yxy Jo Asaypey 19937
pue Araqpey Japyaeg “WW Inyuy
x4 Y URIOWY JO SOATYIIY
4 ,WINasny ensoIeUy

«SWNASNW
JO}
Ayeiaidag 1ueasIssy

1661 Apnf

ainisuy ysreasay yerdoyy, ueruosyaWwsS
wreigdolg Aisiaarq jedojorg

araydsorg ay) pue ue UONNINsuy UeTUOsYITWS

saeiqry uornansuy URTUOSYITWS

saaTyTy UORANINsU] URTUOSYITWS

J91UaD Yeasay [eUSWUOTIAUY UeTUOSyIWS

Asoveasasqg jeatshydonsy ueruosyiws

swesdolg AIeUDIUIIUINA) JO 21O,

saipnag Areurdiosipsaiuy JO 22130

slUBIQ) pue sdrysmoy[ay jo DPHO

SSQUdTEMY [BIUIWUOIIAUY JO AHO

rm PLZ | [eo1do}oo7Z yeuoneny

wreido1g 22uatdg [elUSWIUOTAU [PUONBUIDIUT

+HOUVASAN
JO}
Ayeizidag 1UeisIssy

uononssuoD pur UdISAq JO 21FO,
UONPAIISIIg IIOISTE] pue ArOISTEY [ein da yy Fo aHO
SAITAIIG SITUPIIBY JO IFO
Ayunisoddg yenbg jo 29139
juawaseuep Aisadorg pur durIeIIUOD JO I1JO
SINAIIS [PINUEUTY PUB sununosay jo DPHO
sdoyg wnasny ueruosyiWs
duIsuaory JoNpolg jo AHO
UOTSIATC, PE) (@) [reW
suorssa9U0D
IHO IUIWATeULW SSQUTISNG,

,JoInseal], 2Y2 JO IO

aHO SONAIIS [SACI]
s1a(org pasosuods jo 2130

IUaWasEUEW ¥sSIY JO IO
sa1Atag aydessoi0yg pur SuNUIIg JO 21jO

1adpng pure suruuryg Jo ajo

juswaseurW a2INOsay UONeWIOFJUT FO DPO

sodInosoy UBWNE{ FO 2DHO

sisdyeUy juswaseury pue [Bloueury fo aHO
SONATAS UOTIIIIOIg jo WHO

STATIS IU] q JO IO
Alayes pure luawadeury, [eIUIWUOIIAUY JO 21JJO

+SAALLVLLINI TV NOLLO.LILSNI +NOLLVULSININGY GNV JONVNIA *TISNNOD
JO} Joy TVYANAD
Aye1ai9ag 1UPISISSY Ayeiai9ag 1UPISISSy
saleinossy URTUOSYITWS
24) JO 2aIITWWOD Ss, UIWOA\, pseog Alosiapy
ouno9 ueruosyaTUsS winasny a2edg pur sry [euONeN pees see oos ay
preog [euoneyy saaisniy Jo pleog
sa1e1ossy UEIUOSYITLS uapsey aimidjnog pur wnasnyw woyysiiy | |
i sa1TWWwO0y SuNIsIA
JEOg AJOSIAPY |
Jo1ua) Saincaw ates ae EN 2) A231) 39914 | SYUVIOHOS YOd
uorsstwu07) [uno Arostapy 231/410 | YALNAD TVNOILLVNUALNI |
Asa|feQ weso0g [EUONeN aaiiwwoy uo Inpy [esMajND | NOSTIM MOUYGOOM |
Asoisip{ yesnieny jo winosnyw sao1sTuy JO pieog | |
JeuoneNy oy) jo Juno) yeuoneny udisaq jo winosnw yeuonen
saaisny c ‘nMay-Jedooy Oe) LUV dO AYSTIVD TVNOILVN
I] JO pseog ‘ueIpuy Jowadsuy | |
uP NaWyY 24) Jo Wnasny jeuoNeEN, aaIWWOD dunist~
UO}ssIUIOT) Axa] 29PPeS “WINGY *AUVLAMOAS YAANN JOIEO) | |
uy UboWwy jo winasnw JeuonenNy sIOIIIG jo pieog | SLUV ONINYOANHd qaHL wos |
uorss1usu07) UY UeDHaWY Jo saaryaay XAVIANOAS FHL ETERS UALNAO AGINNSM A NHOL
* ra | |

Uy UR NFy JO Wnasnp [euONeN,

uoneonpg uo jIuNOD AJosIApy

SNOISSINWOD GNV SCYVOd | sgaasnay, Jo sprvog aivsedag ropuy)
SLNAOFY JO GuYVO"d (i= ae ee |

NOLLO.LLLSNI NVINOSH.LINS
FERIA UF Ute

DEC 2 1993
Ret ae
MEDADTRAEAYT

Smithsonian Year

1992

Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution
for the Year Ended

September 30, 1992

Smithsonian Institution Press Washington, D.C. 1993
Secretariat

Office of

Government Relations

Office of Public
Affairs

Assistant Secretary
for the
SCIENCES

Assistant Secretary
for
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION

Assistant Secretary
for the
ARTS & HUMANITIES

Assistant Secretary
for the
ARTS & HUMANITIES

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Freer Gallery of Arc

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Institutional Studies Office

International Gallery

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American History
National Postal Museum

National Museum of the American Indian

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Museum Programs

Office of Quincentenary Programs

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Assistant Secretary

for

EDUCATION & PUBLIC SERVICE

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

National Science Resources Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Wider Audience Development Program

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Board of Regents

THE SECRETARY

UNDER SECRETARY

Assistant Secretary
for
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION

Business Management Office
Office of Accounting and Financial Services
Office of Contracting and Property Management
Office of Equal Employment and Minority Affairs
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Architectural History and Historic
Preservation
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Environmental Management and Safety
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Financial and Management Analysis
Office of Human Resources
Office of Information Resource Management
Office of Planning and Budget
Office of Printing and Photographic Services
Office of Risk Management
Office of Sponsored Projects
Office of the Treasurer
Smithsonian Ombudsman
Travel Services Office

Assistant Secretary

for
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Office of International Relations

Office of Conference Services

Office of Special Events

Office of Telecommunications

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Air & Spacel/Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian National Associate Program

Smithsonian Resident Associate Program

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts

National Gallery of Art

Woodrow Wilson
International

Inspector
Center for Scholars

General

General
Counsel

Assistant Secretary
for
EDUCATION & PUBLIC SERVICE

Assistant Secretary
for
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Assistant Secretary for
INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

Assistant Secretary
for the
SCIENCES

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum of Natural History
Museum Support Center

National Zoological Park

Office of Environmental Awareness

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of the Registrar

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Diversity Program

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Assistant Secretary

for
INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

National Museum of the American Indian National
Campaign Office

Office of Development

Smithsonian Women's Committee

Under Separate Boards of Trustees

Contents

Statement by the Secretary 4
Smithsonian Institution 6

Report of the Board of
Regents 7

Highlights of the Year 9

The Year in Review 29

Sczences

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
the Sciences 29

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory 29

National Museum of Natural History/
National Museum of Man 30

National Zoological Park 31

Office of Environmental
Awareness 32

Office of Fellowships and Grants 33

Office of the Registrar 33

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory 34

Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center 35

Smithsonian Institution Archives 35

Smithsonian Institution Libraries 36

Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Biological Diversity
Program 37

Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute 37

Arts and Humanities

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
the Arts and Humanities 38

Anacostia Museum 39

Archives of American Art 40

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 41

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design 42

Freer Gallery of Art 43

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden 44

Institutional Studies Office 45

International Gallery 45

National Air and Space Museum 45

National Museum of African Art 46

National Museum of American
Art 47

National Museum of American
History 48

National Museum of the American
Indian 49

National Portrait Gallery 50

Office of Exhibits Central 51

Office of Museum Programs 52

Office of Quincentenary Programs 53

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service 53

Education and Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Education and Public
Service 54

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies 55

National Science Resources
Center 56

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education 56

Wider Audience Development
Program 57

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs 57

Office of International Relations 58

Office of Conference Services 58

Office of Special Events 59

Office of Telecommunications 59

Smithsonian Institution Press 60

Smithsonian Magazine 60

Air & SpacelSmithsonian Magazine 61

Smithsonian National Associate
Program 61

Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program 62

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center 63

Institutional Initiatives

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives 64
National Museum of the American
Indian National Campaign
Office 65
Office of Development 66
Smithsonian Women’s
Committee 66

Finance and Administration

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration 67

Under Secretary

Office of the Under Secretary 68
Office of Government Relations 69
Office of Public Affairs 69

Affiliated Organizations

John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts 70

National Gallery of Art 70

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 71

Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars 72

Benefactors 73
Financial Report — 83

Smithsonian Year 1992 Supplement, con-
taining a chronology of the year and records
of Smithsonian advisory boards; visitor
counts; fellows, interns, and research associ-
ates; publications; staff; and donations to the
Institution, is published in microfiche edition
by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
Statement by the
Secretary

Robert McC. Adams

The Smithsonian's collections, a treasure of incal-
culable scientific and cultural value held in trust
for the nation, are the Institution’s central focus.
This was not the case initially, although a mu-
seum and art gallery were mandated in the origi-
nal Smithsonian Bill of Incorporation, passed by
the Congress in 1846. The will of the Smithson-
ian’s founder, James Smithson, had identified its
purpose as “the increase and diffusion of knowl-
edge,” and Joseph Henry, a noted physical scien-
tist and the first secretary, identified research as
the primary objective. At first there were, in any
case, neither funds nor facilities to pursue the goal
of amassing and exhibiting collections.

The gradual change of direction at the Smith-
sonian owes much to Spencer Baird, whom Henry
recruited as his assistant in 1850, and who later
succeeded him. Baird had begun his own formid-
able natural history collection while still a youth,
notably including some 750 species of American
and European birds. That collection, as well as a
larger concern for the importance of collections
and museums, accompanied him to Washington,
and this concern has remained with us ever since.

The search for new knowledge in a number of
fields remains a primary activity of the Institu-
tion, albeit one that today is seldom as visible to
the public as the exhibitions in our museums. But
while growing slowly, collections increase cumula-
tively in importance and spread unexpectedly into
new areas of relevance. In this way they have be-

come a magnet, helping to attract millions of visi-
tors to our nation’s capital every year. At the same
time, they pose a cascade of new questions, becom-
ing a magnet for scientists and scholars as well.
Much of our own staff's current research also is de-
voted to the puzzles and opportunities that our
own collections now are bringing to the fore. The
present total of some 140 million objects is un-
rivaled anywhere; that number staggers our imagi-
nations, as it surely would have Baird’s.

Welcome as this development is, we can never
lose sight of the accompanying challenges in man-
agement, conservation, and display. This annual
report is intended to provide readers with an over-
view of how we are meeting these challenges.
Most impressive is their almost overwhelming di-
versity, and the corresponding ingenuity and com-
plexity of the responses they call for.

Vast as our exhibition spaces are in what has
grown over the years to an aggregate of 16 muse-
ums and galleries and the National Zoo, it is obvi-
ous that only a small proportion of the immense
number of objects in our collections can ever be
found on exhibit at any one time. Yet it must be
emphasized that what remains out of sight 1s not
static and inert but living and changing. New ac-
quisitions continuously broaden and deepen the
value of the collections as a scholarly resource.
Fresh classifications and interpretive theories
emerge, based on the application to the collec-
tions of newly developed methodologies or the rec-
ognition of new problems awaiting study. In this
process, new features of objects may emerge as sig-
nificant, or objects formerly viewed as singular
may come to be better understood as having sev-
eral components that deserve separate status.

Conservation of collections, too, is a science in
continuous flux. It is being improved in many re-
spects by a host of new technologies, but at the
same time made more urgent by accelerating envi-
ronmental damage and the complex interactions
and unassured permanence of many artificial, hi-
tech materials that are flooding into popular use.
Limited, highly selective deaccessioning some-
times can strengthen our own holdings through
exchanges with other museums, or advance the
pace of research by making unneeded duplicates
available to specialists elsewhere. Since the flow is
seldom predictable or even, the burden of the ba-
sic paperwork needed to keep track of so many dif-
ferent kinds of transactions and moving parts can
be at times almost overwhelming.
Currently adding to this burden is the difficult
budgetary climate in which the Institution must
make its long-range plans as well as conduct its
daily operations. The Office of Management and
Budget and the Congress have been generous, at a
time when growing deficits have limited the in-
creases for most federally funded activities. But
mandated increases have for the most part been di-
rected toward the support of new programs and
facilities. When provision is made for the high
proportion of our costs represented by staff salaries
and benefits, funds to maintain previously ex-
isting programs have actually declined.

Exacerbating this problem has been the eco-
nomic recession, from which the country ts only
now emerging. Nonappropriated funds (net of the
expenses of our auxiliary activities) are used to
cover some 20 percent of the Institution's opera-
tions. Some of these funds are drawn from trust
and investment income reflecting earlier private
donations. But a larger proportion is more depen-
dent on the general state of economic well-being,
since it derives from the Smithsonian’s own busi-
ness activities—the Smzthsonian and Air & Spacel
Smithsonian magazines, the Smithsonian Press,
and our museum shops, restaurants, catalogue
sales, and product licensing. Funding from some
of these sources has not merely leveled off but
substantially declined, placing in jeopardy the
special uses to which nonappropriated funds are
devoted. This includes key categories like collec-
tions acquisition, special exhibitions, research, fel-
lowships, educational outreach, and new project
initiation.

We have clearly entered an era in which the
prospect of general growth, at a rate equivalent to
that characterizing several past decades, is no
longer realistic. Selective reductions may prove
necessary in some programs that are less effective
or central to our mission. Growth, where it does
occur, henceforth will require trade-offs of com-
pensating reductions in other activities. This 1s, in
fact, an era in which our first order of business 1s
to reassess carefully our ordering of priorities. To
do so is not a task for a single occasion, but rather
one that will need frequent repetition as we ap-
proach a new century. Considerable progress has
been made toward a reordering consistent with
the needs and opportunities that lie ahead of the
Smithsonian in the late 1990s. On that basis, we
have commenced with a modest downsizing of the
scale of operations so that it conforms more closely

with what can be foreseen as the resources avail-
able for it.

Concurrent with the careful and deliberate re-
duction in scale is an ongoing restructuring of the
Institution. This has several objectives. Greater
economies of operations are prominent among
them. Our primary goal, however, 1s to ensure
the Smithsonian reputation for excellence of re-
search and quality of public service even as a
leaner scale of operations is achieved.

Among other aspects of this restructuring are a
reduction in organizational complexity and a
clearer delineation of lines of authority. The objec-
tive is to speed and simplify decision-making,
both by bringing responsibility closer to those 1m-
mediately affected and by improving accountabil-
ity and eliminating redundancies. Consistent with
the principles of total quality management, em-
phasis has been placed on incentives for improved,
more responsive, and cost-effective service at every
level. These efforts were initiated by Under Secre-
tary Carmen Turner prior to her death in April
1992 and have been expanded and implemented
by her successor Constance Berry Newman.

It is compellingly evident that the receipt of
nonappropriated funds is more important to the
Smithsonian now than at any time in the past.
The generosity of private citizens throughout the
nation who, themselves, exemplify the spirit of
the Smithsonian presents me with an opportunity
to express my deep gratitude. Through their sup-
port, our volunteers, benefactors, and foundations
and corporations that have come to our assistance,
add a special dimension to the Smithsonian and
help to sustain some of the Institution’s core pro-
grams. Of particular note during fiscal 1992, the
Institution received four gifts in excess of one mil-
lion dollars each. The Benefactors section of Smzth-
sonian Year is dedicated to the many donors who
have helped to make the Smithsonian an exciting
and vibrant place. We are truly grateful.
Smithsonian
Institution

The Establishment, September 30, 1992

George H. W. Bush, President of the United
States

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United
States

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States

James A. Baker III, Secretary of State

Nicholas F. Brady, Secretary of the Treasury

Richard B. Cheney, Secretary of Defense

William P. Barr, Acting Attorney General

Manuel Lujan, Jr., Secretary of the Interior

Edward Madigan, Secretary of Agriculture

Robert A. Mosbacher, Secretary of Commerce

Lynn H. Martin, Secretary of Labor

Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and
Human Services

Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development

Samuel K. Skinner, Secretary of Transportation

Lamar Alexander, Secretary of Education

James D. Watkins, Secretary of Energy

Edward J. Derwinski, Secretary of Veterans
Affairs

Board of Regents and Secretary
September 30, 1992

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States, ex officio

J. Danforth Quayle, Vice President of the United
States, ex officio

Edwin J. Jake) Garn, Senator from Utah

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

Joseph M. McDade, Representative from
Pennsylvania

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from
California

Jamie L. Whitten, Representative from
Mississippi

David C. Acheson, Citizen of the District of
Columbia

Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of
Columbia

I. Michael Heyman, Citizen of California

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

R. James Woolsey, Citizen of Maryland

The Secretary

Robert McCormick Adams

Constance B. Newman, Under Secretary

Sudeep Anand, Treasurer

Kathy A. Bot, Special Assistant to the Secretary

Joseph M. Carper, Chair, Council of Information
and Education Directors

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

James C. Early, Assistant Secretary for Education
and Public Service

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for the
Arts and Humanities

Margaret C. Gaynor, Director, Office of
Government Relations

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the
Secretary

Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for the
Sciences

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration

Frank H. Talbot, Chair, Council of Bureau
Directors
Report of the
Board of Regents

This annual report briefly reviews the governing
activities of the Board of Regents conducted at
three meetings in 1992 (February 3, May 11, and
September 21) with the help of their supporting
committees and the secretary.

After receiving a comprehensive report on the
availability of collections, the regents endorsed
the establishment of the National African Ameri-
can Museum within the Smithsonian's Arts and
Industries Building. The proposed legislation
would also establish a 23-member board of trust-
ees for the museum.

In the context of having often discussed the dis-
persal of Smithsonian activities, the regents consid-
ered a proposal for a physical sciences museum as a
Smithsonian branch in Arlington, Texas. While
the board saw value in the establishment of a mu-
seum associated with the Super-Conducting Super
Collider Project and agreed to provide advice to-
ward this end, it rejected any formal affiliation
with the Smithsonian.

An organizational review presented to the
Board of Regents in February contained recom-
mendations on management responsibilities,
changes in organizational structure, and improved
delivery of certain administrative and program-re-
lated services. Changes to selected assistant secre-
taries’ titles clarified responsibilities and elimi-
nated dual reporting relationships. As a result of
other recommendations, the Office of Public Af-
fairs and the Office of Government Relations now
report directly to the under secretary, and the Res-
ident and National Associate Programs are being
merged.

The legal investigation and indictment of a re-
searcher for activities in Asia led the regents to re-

view their policy on the indemnification of Smith-
sonian officers, directors, and staff. The regents
also noted that the Institution is revising policies
and procedures for the administration of honorary
research associates and other researchers not on its
payroll. The secretary announced that a new pol-
icy regarding field collecting for research is to be
incorporated into the Institution’s revised policy
on collections management.

At their February meeting the regents recorded
their appreciation for Dr. William G. Bowen's
outstanding service as a member of the board and
designated him a regent emeritus. The regents
also approved the appointment of I. Michael Hey-
man as Chairman of their Nominating Commit-
tee; nominated Wesley S. Williams, Jr., from the
District of Columbia, and Barber B. Conable, Jr.,
of New York, for vacancies on the board; voted to
present the Samuel Pierpont Langley Medal to
Benjamin O. Davis, Jr., for his outstanding con-
tributions to aviation; designated the photo lab at
the National Zoo as the Barbara Watkins McEI-
hinny Lab in recognition of her contributions to
the Zoo and to photography; and voted to pur-
chase and improve property for a field research sta-
tion at Bocas del Toro, Panama. Secretary Robert
McC. Adams reported that he had awarded the
Secretary's Gold Medal for Exceptional Service to
Margaret C. Gaynor, the Institution’s director of
government relations.

Mr. Adams introduced a paper he wrote to
prompt discussion on one of the Smithsonian’s
perennial challenges: how best to represent and
communicate the present state of knowledge
within the contentious domain of American and
world culture. In a wide-ranging discussion, the
regents expressed appreciation for the secretary's
paper and encouraged him to publish it (see
“Smithsonian Horizons” in Swzthsonian magazine,
April 1992).

At the May meeting, Mr. Adams paid tribute
to the late Carmen Turner, who died in April
after serving as under secretary since December
1990. The board shared the secretary's apprecia-
tion for the permanent contributions she made to
the Smithsonian in her brief tenure.

The regents applauded the Smithsonian Na-
tional Board’s initiative and approved in principle
the proposed establishment of a special fund to
attract significant donations for enhanced support
of the Institution’s programs. Cognizant of the
strains on the Institution’s budget, the regents en-

|
couraged the secretary to explore the possibility of
soliciting voluntary contributions in museums on

an experimental basis. Mr. Adams indicated that

further study will be conducted on security, pub-

lic relations, and related considerations.

The secretary discussed the controversial issue
of quilts being reproduced under Smithsonian
license. He noted that new sources of production
are being sought and several educational programs
are being planned to promote the quilters’ craft.

The regents reviewed the applicability of the
Freedom of Information Act to the Smithsonian.
While the Institution has consistently used the
principles of the Freedom of Information Act as a
guide in responding to public requests for docu-
ments, the Smithsonian has not been legally re-
quired to do so. The U.S. Department of Justice
recently reaffirmed that view, notwithstanding a
ruling specific to a case brought in U.S. District
Court. The regents also discussed the relationship
of a variety of federal regulations to Smithsonian
operating procedures.

At their meeting on September 21, 1992, the
regents welcomed Constance B. Newman as the
Smithsonian's new under secretary, and the board
designated David Acheson and Senator Jake Garn
as regents emeritus upon the expiration of their
terms. The regents discussed the Institution's fed-
eral and trust budgets and plans to balance the
budget while preserving core programs during the
coming fiscal year. It was noted that permanent
programmatic and personnel reductions will cer-
tainly need to be made to meet substantial budget-
ary limitations. The regents approved the estab-
lishment of three named endowments, the Mary
Bohrn Abbott Fund, the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries Fund, and the National Museum of
Natural History Research Endowment Fund.

During the year the Board of Regents made the
following appointments and reappointments to
Smithsonian boards and commissions: David C.
Driskell, Frances Humphrey Howard, Robin B.
Martin, and Robert H. Nooter to the Commis-
sion of the National Museum of African Art; D.
Brainerd Holmes, Arthur Gray, Jr., and G. Rob-
ert Durham to the National Board of the National
Museum of Natural History; Ann Rockefeller
Roberts and Keith H. Basso to the Board of Trust-
ees of the National Museum of the American In-
dian; Ronald D. Abramson, Wendell K. Castle,
Barney A. Ebsworth, Patricia Frost, Melvin Len-
kin, David S. Purvis, and Linda Lichtenberg

Kaplan to the Commission of the National Mu-
seum of American Art; and Betty Evans, Richard
Hayden, and Sue Jane Smock to the Board of
Trustees of Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design.

Staff Changes

This year the Smithsonian family and its constitu-
ents were rocked by the death in April of Carmen
E. Turner, who had served as under secretary of
the Institution since December 1990. In her all-
too-short tenure, Mrs. Turner conducted a thor-
ough organizational review of the Institution and
effected a number of changes of long-standing sig-
nificance. Her contribution to the Smithsonian
was inestimable.

After a brief but extensive search, during which
time Alan Fern, director of the National Portrait
Gallery, served as acting under secretary, we were
delighted to attract Constance B. Newman, direc-
tor of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management,
to the position of under secretary. In the waning
months of the fiscal year, as part of her transition
process, Mrs. Newman and a team she assembled
conducted an extensive series of briefings on
Smithsonian programs and activities. Her find-
ings and recommendations will be invaluable to
continuing efforts to strengthen the Institution’s
fundamental operations in times of increasingly
constrained finances.

A number of changes in the ranks of senior
management merit special mention, including the
appointment of L. Carole Wharton as director of
planning and budget, Sudeep Anand as treasurer,
and Charles A. Hines as director of protection
services. We had the regretful duty of announcing
this year that the very accomplished Janet Sol-
inger, director of the Resident Associate Program
for some 20 years, is moving to the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for External Affairs where she
will undertake special projects. Her splendid
achievements are very much appreciated.

Toward year’s end we also realized the need to
effect reductions in personnel to balance the bud-
get and maintain forward motion in activities of
highest priority. Although this is always difficult
and disruptive, we still hold the maxim that
our most critical resource remains our highly re-
spected staff. As always, we are deeply grateful to
them all for their extraordinary support and effort
throughout the year.
Highlights of
the Year

Anacostia Museum

In early 1939, the Daughters of the
American Revolution barred the re-
nowned operatic contralto Marian Ander-
son from singing in their Constitution
Hall in Washington, D.C., because she
was black. Instead, Anderson performed
on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial be-
fore an integrated audience of about
75,000 people. Her Easter Sunday con-
cert has become a moving symbol of the
civil rights movement.

A captivating likeness of Anderson as
she appeared that day was featured in “To
Achieve These Rights: The Struggle for
Equality and Self-Determination in the
District of Columbia, 1791-1978,” the
Anacostia Museum’s major exhibition of
1992. Visitors to the exhibition were
able to listen to a recording of a radio
broadcast of the historic performance.

Developed as the museum’s contribu-
tion to the observance of the District of
Columbia’s bicentennial, “To Achieve
These Rights” is the first major exhibi-
tion to examine the role of Washington
and its residents in the national civil
rights movements throughout our coun-
try’s history. (Photograph by Harold
Dorwin)

9
Archives of
American Art

Almost 100 sketches and studies of Afri-
can and Asian subjects by the American
expatriate painter and writer Edwin Lord
Weeks (1849-1903) were given by a de-
scendant to the Archives of American Art
this year. Weeks was known for his mon-
umental paintings based on historical ept-
sodes or daily life in North Africa, the
Middle East, and India

After studying in Paris, Weeks spent
most of his time living and traveling in
Spain, Morocco, Egypt, the Middle East,
Iran, and India, returning only occasion-
ally to France and rarely to his native
New England. In a fashion typical of ad
venturous Europeans and Americans of
his day, Weeks followed a romantic
quest for what were then considered to be
exotic peoples and places. Although he re
corded what he saw with great clarity, as
this oil sketch indicates, his copious
travel writings reveal that he maintained
his distance from native peoples. Objec-
tionable though it may be to us today,
his goal was neither intimate association
with other cultures nor anthropological
accuracy but the production for submis-
sion to the prestigious annual Paris salons
of elaborate historical and genre paint-

ings, based on direct studies like Arab on
Horseback

Edwin Lord Weeks (American,
1849-1903). Arab on Horseback, n.d. Oil

on paper, 14/2 x 8% In. (36.8 x 21.6

cm). Edwin Lord Weeks Papers, Ar-

chives of American Art.

Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery

Nearly 500 people attended eight work-
shops at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
that were designed to help young people
and their adult companions learn about
Asian art through the museum’s collec-
tions. The popular free, drop-in work-
shops—called “ImaginAsia”—prompted
one parent to remark, “What a wonder-
ful way to introduce a museum to chil-
dren and get them to think about what
they see.”

The workshops focused on two spe-
cial exhibitions—* When Kingship De-
scended from Heaven: Masterpieces of
Mesopotamian Art from the Louvre”
and “Ancient Japan’ —and on the per-
manent exhibition “Monsters, Myths,
and Minerals.” Guided by an activity
sheet developed by the museum’s Edu-
cation Department, the participants ex-
plored the galleries with certain ques-
tions in mind. Then the children were
invited to create their own works of art

inspired by their impressions. The en-
thusiasm of adults and children for
these workshops in which they can par-
ticipate together has prompted the Edu-
cation Department to schedule more
programs designed especially for
families.
Center for Folklife
Programs and
Cultural Studies

More than 100 tradition-bearers from
New Mexico came to the 1992 Festival
of American Folklife to represent the cul-
tural vitality, diversity, and dialogue
that is a central part of the state’s heri-
tage. In re-created settings—town plaza,
range, home, and sheep camp—partici-
pants demonstrated traditions of family,
community, and religious life.

Los Bernalillo Matachines, a Hispanic
dance group, enacted Los Matachines, a
dance-drama found in both Pueblo
Indian and Hispanic communities. The
dance portrays the spiritual drama of the
Spanish Conquest by combining indige-

nous and European symbols in a sacred

and sometimes burlesque discourse. Two
lines of dancers holding rattles and tri-
dents step, bow, and turn to the graceful
music of violin and guitar. They are led
by Monarca, a monarch figure referred to
in some communities as Montezuma. La
Malinche, played by a girl dressed in
First Communion clothing, represents
the first Christian convert. Other charac-
ters are a bull and a clown-bogeyman
figure. The dance usually is performed on
special holidays. In Hispanic communi-
ties it tends to be religious in nature,
whereas in Pueblo Indian communities it

is more of a secular celebration. (Photo-

graph by Lyle Rosbotham ©1992)

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Modern polymeric materials are a fast-
growing presence in museum collections,
both in objects of historical and techno-
logical importance and in contemporary
art works. Although at first these materi-
als might seem to be quite stable, in real-
ity their long-term preservation poses
many problems.

At the Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory (CAL), scientific studies on objects
from Smithsonian collections help scien-
tists evaluate the ways in which materials

deteriorate with time and devise methods
to prolong the longevity of museum col-
lections worldwide. In one such project,
scientists are investigating the effects of
cold storage on the rubber materials in
the National Air and Space Museum’s col-
lection of space suits. Rubber crystallizes
at low temperatures, and long-term low-
temperature storage may make the suits
brittle, even after they are warmed to
room temperature. Here, CAL polymer
chemist Mary Baker and conservation fel-

low Eric Lange inspect a Project Mercury
spaceflight boot and astronaut Donald
“Deke” Slayton’s Mercury training suit.
They use a technology called differential
scanning calorimetry to study samples of
new rubber, as well as samples from deac-
cessioned suits such as this one, to deter-
mine the extent of crystallization in order
to establish proper storage and handling
procedures for the suits. (Photograph by

Doc Dougherty)
Cooper-Hewitt,
National Museum
of Design

For the past decade and a half, Cooper-
Hewitt, National Museum of Design has
concentrated on building its collections
by documenting the design process, from
the initial concept to the realized object.
Designers’ ideas and intentions and
their skill in selecting and success in ma-
nipulating materials with tools and tech-
nology are assessed, along with appear-
ance and function, to determine the
suitability of objects for the collections of
the National Museum of Design.
Through exhibitions and documenta-
tion of the permanent collection and ar-
chives, Cooper-Hewitt conveys the idea
that even the simplest of objects—such
as this chair—reflects a design, and that
design ts the result of a problem-solving
process. The 'vik-ter chair was created by
the New York furniture designer
Dakota Jackson (b. 1949). The entire
design process, including sketches and
notes for the initial concept, 67 working
drawings, and 2 models, is documented
in Jackson's gift to Cooper-Hewitt
Design is a process of shaping matter
to a purpose. It responds to an infinite
number of needs and desires. Jackson’s
aim was to create a chair that was beauti-
ful, comfortable, adaptable, and practi-
cal: the design becomes increasingly
graceful as the drawings progress, the
back and seat are curved, the back moves
in response to the sitter, and the chair is
made to stack. The archival documenta-
tion of the piece illustrates that the de-
signer drew and modeled for more than a
year until he was satisfied with the chair

design.

Dakota Jackson (American, b. 1949).
"Vik-ter stacking chair, 1991. Laminated
cherry wood, steel, 3434, x 19 x 20 in.
Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of De-
sign, gift of Zoe Jackson and Pierce Jack-

son. (Photograph by John Bessler)

14

Freer Gallery of Art

The small but growing collection of
Southeast Asian ceramics at the Feer Gal-
lery of Art was enriched this year by a
15th-century stoneware jar from Viet-
nam’s Le dynasty (1428-1793). The jar
was purchased by the Friends of Asian
Arts and the Smithsonian Institution Col-
lections Acquisition Fund. The tall, slen-
der vessel, decorated with cobalt pig-
ment painted under a colorless glaze, was
made at a kiln in the Red River delta in
northern Vietnam.

Fieldwork by foreign scholars in Viet-
nam had been curtailed by war and politi-
cal turmoil since the 1930s but is slowly
resuming. Recent research in ceramics
has identified the locations of several kiln
complexes whose products, made with
the fine white local clay, were traded to
international markets ranging from Ja-
pan to West Asia during the 15th and
16th centuries. The dating of cobalt-dec-
orated Vietnamese wares is still approxi-
mate because few objects are available to
fill the span between the famous bottle in
the Topkapi Saray Museum, Istanbul,
dated by inscription to 1450 (made in
Nam Sach district in the delta), and in-
scribed temple vessels whose earliest
dates fall within the final quarter of the
16th century. Moreover, on jars similar
to the Freer’s, the motifs as well as the
proportions of the registers in which they
are arrayed appear to be modeled after
Chinese blue-and-white jars of the 14th
century. On this jar, three mythical lion-
like beasts circle the shoulder above a pe-
ony scroll related in execution to the one
on the 1450 bottle, and elongated lotus-
petal panels rise nearly halfway up the
side. The base is coated with an iron
wash.

Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden

An extraordinary field of rich gold, articu-
lated by jagged areas of red, brown, and
white and by a quivering yellow, 1948-C
is among the finest of Clyfford Still’s
paintings. Together with his peers Mark
Rothko, Barnett Newman, and Jackson
Pollock, Still was a leader of the explo-
sion of Abstract Expressionist art in the
United States in the 1940s. Already the
beneficiary of a gift of three works from

re 7 :
f wey,
p yee
a 2 ed

«

° »

the artist in 1969, the Hirshhorn’s collec-
tion of Still’s work now ranks among the
finest in the world.

Clyfford Still (American, 1904-80).
1948-C, 1948. Oil on canvas, 807 x
68¥, in. (205.4 x 174.6 cm). Hirshhorn

Museum and Sculpture Garden, Joseph
H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund, 1992
(92.8). (Photograph by Lee Stalsworth)

National Air and Space
Museum

In a departure from traditional museum
displays on World War I aviation, the
National Air and Space Museum exhibi-
tion, “Legend, Memory, and the Great
War in the Air,” contrasts the romantic
myth of gallant combat in the sky with
the grim reality faced by the aviators who
fought and died during the war. The ex-
hibition uses photographs, posters, illus-
trations, models, implements of war, pe-
riod aircraft (all restored by museum
personnel), and other artifacts, along
with audiovisual presentations, to give
an accurate picture of aviation’s role in
the war and to examine the interplay be-
tween perception and reality in history.
A rare French Voisin VIII bomber dispels
the notion that all World War I military

aircraft were fighters. A re-created 1930s

movie theater presents clips from period
aviation films that introduced many to
the romantic view of the first air war.
“Legend, Memory, and the Great War
in the Air” explores the workings of his-
tory and asks viewers to evaluate rarely
challenged beliefs that guide aspects of
their lives and their society. The exhibi-
tion makes it clear that our judgment of
military aviation continues to be influ-
enced by the image of the fighter ace and
the bomber, legacies of the first air war.

Spad XIII fighter aircraft on display in
“Legend, Memory, and the Great War in
the Air.” (Photograph by Evan Sheppard)

National Museum
of African Art

The acquisition of a monumental bovine-
shaped slit gong, collected in Zaire in
the 1930s, was a highlight of the past
year at the National Museum of African
Art. The 98-inch-long wooden slit gong,
carved as a stylized bush cow, has a nar-
row tapered head with slender raised
nose, round ears, and short curved horns
ona long neck. The large ovoid body,
which functions as a resonance chamber,
is decorated with a carved border of zig-
zags. This instrument is similar to slit
gongs documented in the Ubangi region
of north central Zaire.

Large zoomorphic slit gongs such as
this one typically are played during ritu-
als, important ceremonial occasions, and
other events where musical accompani-

18

ment is desired. The gong is played by
striking a stick on either side of the slit.
Since the walls of the gong are of varied
thickness, the instrument produces both
high and low tones. The museum’s instal-
lation allows visitors to hear a recording
of the percussion produced by slit gongs.

The slit gong is part of the museum’s
permanent collection, which includes
works of art from numerous visual tradi-
tions from Western, Central, Eastern,
and Southern Africa. The museum is en-
gaged in an intensive effort to acquire
works of outstanding aesthetic quality.
The permanent collection is the founda-
tion for exhibitions and programs, re-
search, and publications.

Lobala, Yangere, and neighboring peo-
ples, Zaire and Central African Republic.
Slit gong. Wood, 98 in. (248 cm). Na-
tional Museum of African Art, 92-12-1,
purchased with funds provided by the
Smithsonian Collections Acquisition Pro-
gram and museum purchase. (Photo-
graph by Franko Khoury)

National Museum
of American Art

The National Museum of American Art’s
exhibition, “Homecoming: William H.
Johnson and Afro-America, 1938—
1946,” offered a visual testament to one
of America’s most important but most ne-
glected artists. Eighty vibrant paintings,
drawn primarily from the museum's 1n-
ventory of more than 1,000 works by
Johnson, ranged from images of everyday
life in the rural South to street scenes in
Harlem. The exhibition focused exclu-
sively on the artist’s work

in his native land, capturing in a folk-
inspired style the artistic, political, and
cultural accomplishments of African
Americans in the 1940s.

After closing in Washington, the exhi-
bition and a smaller companion show sur-
veying Johnson’s entire career began trav-
eling under the museum’s auspices to 10
museums throughout the United States.

Since the mid-1960s, the National
Museum of American Art has been ac-
quiring the work of African American art-
ists, bringing their long-ignored achieve-
ments into the artistic mainstream. In

1967, the museum was fortunate to re-
ceive from the Johnson estate hundreds
of paintings, drawings, and prints—a
collection that thus was rescued from im-

440

But he aeea

BUawaal iam
ERLE EVE ct

BBansi ny Rakim

rater ven eh

cs
oe
i)
Ac
Td
_
a

CHT A
ay
auf

(om pe
rr

ae iae
Wi smm

Guan
eatery § idl

ag

hg a
EIR pon ary
BOW een acs

an
OTT iT

minent destruction.

William H. Johnson (American,
1901-70). Mom and Dad, ca. 1944.
Oil on paperboard, 31 x 25% in.

(78.7 x 64.5 cm). National Museum of
American Art, gift of the Harmon
Foundation.

19
iS)
oO

National Museum
of American History

For the “American Encounters” exhibi-
tion, the National Museum of American
History collected contemporary objects
from Hispanic and Pueblo families in
New Mexico. One of those objects is E/
Gran Poder de Dios (The great power of
God), a painted wooden bu/to, or sculp-
ture, created by Marie Romero Cash and
enclosed in a tin 2icho made by her hus-
band, Don Cash. The sculpture is an im-
portant addition to the museum’s collec-
tion of Hispanic religious and tourist art.

Early in this century, Hispanic carvers
in New Mexico stopped making sacred
images and directed their production to-
ward tourist consumption. Marie Ro-
mero Cash, whose father made tourist tin-
ware to supplement his income as a
sheet-metal worker, is one of several con-
temporary New Mexican carvers who
have continued the secular and revived
the sacred traditions. She makes by/tos
like this one, derived from a r9th-cen-
tury piece, for collectors, but other exam-
ples of her work adorn Catholic churches
in New Mexico and Colorado.

Marie Romero Cash was born in Santa
Fe, but moved away as a young woman.
She took up carving when she returned
to New Mexico and studied the work of
1oth-century religious carvers like José
Rafael Aragon. “Many of us don’t know
where our roots are; we live in a cultural
gap,” Cash told “American Encounters”
co-curator Lonn Taylor. “I started cary-
ing when I moved back here. It made me
feel connected to New Mexico, and with
the r9th-century Hispanic artists here.”

Marie Romero Cash (American, b.

1942). El Gran Poder de Dios (The great
power of God), 1990. Wood, enclosed in
tin niche made by Don Cash, 37% x
17% x 15 in. (95 x 45 x 38 cm). Divi-
sion of Community Life, National Mu-
seum of American History. (Photograph
by Eric Long)
National Museum of the
American Indian

As the summer of 1992 drew to a close,
the staff of the National Museum of the
American Indian was hard at work pre-
paring for the November 15, 1992, open-
ing of the museum’s first exhibition,
“Pathways of Tradition: Indian Insights
into Indian Worlds.” This temporary ex-
hibition of 100 objects represents a cross-
section of American Indian culture and
creativity. Objects from 28 tribes in loca-
tions ranging from the Arctic Circle to
South America were chosen for the exhibi-
tion by 17 Native American selectors and
Rick Hill (Tuscarora), curator and the
museum’s assistant director for public
programs. The symbol Hill chose for
graphic reproduction and representation
of the exhibition is this Northern Plains
shield of bison hide with a deerskin cover
with the green-painted image of a snap-
ping turtle, a symbol of the Earth.

Objects selected for the exhibition
from more than one million artifacts in
the museum collection span the period
from 800 A.D. to the 1930s, articulating
the indigenous peoples’ continuing rela-
tionship with their homeland. They in-
clude a ceramic bow! decorated with ani-
mal images by the Taino, the first people
to encounter Columbus in the Western
Hemisphere; two pre-Columbian gold
pieces; a wooden deer mask and an in-
cised conch shell from the Spiro Mounds
in Oklahoma; carved house panels from
the Tlingit people of Alaska; a Teton
Sioux buckskin parasol decorated with
quillwork and beadwork; Pomo baskets
decorated with feathers from California;
cradleboards from various tribes; blankets
from tribes ranging from the Haida of
British Columbia to the Aymara of Bo-
livia; Zuni and Mimbres pottery from
New Mexico; and a wide range of other
items remarkable both for the variety of
their uses and the diversity of the people
who made them.

Shield with snapping turtle. Northern
Plains. Buffalo hide with deerskin cover,
pendant feathers and bells, 19 in. diame-

ter. Collection of National Museum of
the American Indian. (Photograph by
Karen Furth)

National Museum
of Natural
History/National
Museum of Man

Nv
NO

“Seeds of Change,” the largest exhibition
ever undertaken by the National Mu-
seum of Natural History, traces the pro-
found cultural and biological changes

that have occurred in the 500 years since
Columbus’s voyages to the New World.

The exhibition has garnered unprece-
dented national and international public-
ity and attracted large crowds since it
opened in October 1991, helping to
bring museum attendance to just over 7
million in fiscal year 1992. This master-
fully constructed 42-by-24-foot Spanish-
style portal made from more than 14,000
ears of specially grown red, blue, black,
and yellow corn marks the entrance to
“Seeds of Change.”

Columbus's voyages brought about
the first of many biological exchanges be-
tween the Old World and the New.
Through five case studies—corn, potato,
sugar, the horse, and disease—the exhibi-
tion explores the “seeds” whose seem-
ingly simple transfer led to complex cul-
tural and political change and ultimately
shaped the course of history.

“Seeds of Change” is a tremendous edu-
cational resource. The demand for stu-
dent and public tours is the greatest in
the museum’s history. Educational insti-
tutions and teachers from all over the
country are requesting copies of the teach-
ing guide and curriculum materials. Pro-
grams have included planting a garden
with a local elementary school and using
gardening to teach science, math, his-
tory, Music, art, environmental studies,
and an appreciation for diverse cultures.

Audiences throughout the country and
abroad will be able to see “Seeds of
Change” as versions of the exhibition
travel under the auspices of the museum,
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service, the American Library
Association, and the U.S. Information
Agency.
National Portrait
Gallery

The National Portrait Gallery has ac-
quired an important portrait of an early
American printer and publisher—one of
the handful of colonial women who
gained distinction in the public sphere.
Charles Willson Peale, in depicting
Anne Catharine Hoof Green, editor of
the Maryland Gazette, has given us a por-
trait of uncommon interest. In her hand,
Mrs. Green holds a document inscribed,
“ANNAPOLIS Printer to. . . ,” sym-
bolic of the satisfaction she must have felt
after earning the appointment to carry on
her husband's task as printer to the Prov-
ince of Maryland.

Anne Catharine Hoof married Jonas
Green in Philadelphia in 1738 and
moved with him to Annapolis, where he
became printer to the province. In 1745,
he began publication of the Maryland Ga-
zette, the only newspaper in the colony un-
til 1773. Anne Green was a participant
in her husband’s business affairs, fully ca-
pable of assuming his responsibilities
should the need arise. After Jonas
Green’s death in 1767, she continued
publication of the Maryland Gazette with-
out a break. Mrs. Green also fulfilled her
husband’s contract as printer to the prov-
ince and published an almanac yearly.
Her career as printer and publisher ended
only with her death in March 1775.

Charles Willson Peale—who painted
Mrs. Green in 1769, shortly after he re-
turned from study in London with Benja-
min West—was the preeminent portrait-
ist of America’s revolutionary generation.

Charles Willson Peale (American,
1741-1827). Anne Catharine Hoof Green,
1769. Oil on canvas, 36% x 28 in. (92.1
Xx 71.1 cm). Museum purchase and gift
of Governor's Mansion Foundation of
Maryland, Mrs. Hilda Mae Snoops, Exec-
utive Director and the Honorable Wil-
liam Donald Schaefer, Governor. (Photo-
graph by Rolland White)

3
National
Zoological Park

At 9:30 on the morning of June 9,
1992, a 90-ton crane lowered a 15,000-
pound, 40-foot New World mahogany
tree through an opening in the roof of
the National Zoo’s new “Amazonia” ex-
hibit building. The mahogany, which
has an 8-foot-square root box, is the
largest plant among the 229 species of
tropical trees, shrubs, epiphytes (some-
times called air plants), and vines that
grow in the 12,000-square-foot Amazon
rainforest and river habitat building. The
building is the centerpiece of the “Ama-

zonia” exhibit, which is in two parts: the

Habitat and the Gallery. The Habitat
opened in November 1992, and the Gal-
lery should open in late 1993.

To locate and acquire the 1,740 trees
and shrubs necessary to create an authen-
tic living rainforest, Zoo horticulturists
searched botanical collections in south
Florida. For more than a year before these
larger plants were trucked to Washing-
ton, D.C., they were conditioned for
transplanting by root pruning, selective
shading, and special feedings. They are
planted in a noncompacting soil mixture
that was developed by Zoo horticulturists
and can be used indefinitely inside ant-
mal exhibits.

The rainforest and river ecosystem Is es-
tablished under a specially engineered in-
sulating transparent domed roof. Misters
and climate-control devices enable visi-
tors to experience the heat and humidity
of the rainforest. Neotropical animals in-
cluding camouflaged insects, brightly col-
ored frogs, toucans, parrots, monkeys,
and many species of Amazon River fish
have also been settled into the exhibit.

“Amazonia” incorporates into its de-
sign and operation the “Biopark” philoso-
phy of Zoo Director Michael Robinson.
This concept treats nature, including hu-
man culture, from a broad perspective
and includes elements commonly associ-

ated with zoos, aquariums, botanical gar-

dens, and natural history museums. The
second phase of “Amazonia” will include
an 8,000-square-foot gallery that ex-
plains how the rainforest functions and
features exhibits on research techniques
in tropical biology and the dynamics of
global ecology. Through exciting new

methods of museum interpretation, visi-

tors to the exhibit will experience the

Amazon rainforest directly and learn
about the complex interrelationships of
organisms living in tropical ecosystems.
(Photograph by Jessie Cohen)
Smithsonian
Astrophysical
Observatory

A 6.5-meter-diameter mirror intended to
replace the six separate mirrors of the
Multiple Mirror Telescope was success-
fully cast at the University of Arizona,
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory’s partner in this replacement project.
The mirror is the largest single glass
blank ever cast in the United States. In
late April 1992, some 10 tons of borosili-
cate glass chunks were melted over a ce-

ramic mold in a special rotating oven.
Formed with a roughly parabolic front
surface by the spinning process, the mir-
ror had to cool and congeal over a two-
month period before it was ready for re-
moval and cleaning. Final grinding and
polishing is expected to take at least an-

other year. (Photograph by Lori Stiles)

25
Smithsonian
Environmental
Research Center

Scientists at the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center on the Chesa-
peake Bay in Edgewater, Maryland, have
been studying the population dynamics
of various woodland herbaceous plants for
many years. Changes in a species popula-
tion are related to changes in such factors
as weather, herbivore activity, or land
use. Detailed studies dealing with the
ecology of individual organisms are also
conducted to gain a better understanding
of the basic biology and ecology of a

spec 1es.

Shoichi Kawano (left), a Regents Fel-
low, and one of his graduate students are
collecting herb specimens at one of the
center's forest study sites. In collabora-
tion with Dennis Whigham, a plant ecol-
ogist on the center’s staff, Kawano is
studying the genetic diversity of wood-
land herb populations. Kawano is profes-
sor of botany and director of the herbar-
ium at Kyoto University in Japan.

(Photograph by Al Liszewski)

Pee *

-
“*

’

ae

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition
Service

In 1989, as the revolutions in Central Eu-
rope swelled to a climax, mass rallies,
workers’ strikes, and demonstrations be-
came daily events across Central and East-
ern Europe. Posters seen plastered on
walls and shop windows, hanging from
statues, and carried by the people pro-
claimed: “End Rule by One Party!”
“Marx Is Dead!” “40 Years of Lies!”

“Art as Activist: Revolutionary Posters
from Central and Eastern Europe,” an ex-
hibition of 82 revolutionary posters circu-
lated by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES), fol-
lows the democratic movement of Solidar-
ity in Poland, Gorbachev's perestroika of
the late 1980s, the fall of the Berlin Wall
in 1990, the collapse of the Communist
government in Czechoslovakia in 1989,
and the ongoing struggle for indepen-
dence in the Baltic republics.

Poster art serves many functions.
These posters are one way of studying
complex social and political change.
Poster art also is a critical means of self-
expression. Through art, activists try to
reach the people who need to hear the
message. Many of the posters included in
the exhibition were drawn for limited edi-
tions by highly acclaimed artists, silk-
screened by students, or hand-painted by
anonymous citizens united in their desire
for freedom.

In this 1988 gouache, Latvian artist
Vilnis Pikis expressed his wish for free-
dom from the Soviets by depicting the
morning star, a symbol of independent
Latvia, blazing through the Kremlin

wall.
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Field observations and experimen-
tation have been used in most of the
studies carried out by scientists at the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute (STRI). In recent years, however,
spectacular advances in molecular biol-
Ogy have permitted new approaches to
problems that fieldwork alone cannot
solve. With an eye toward these devel-
opments, STRI established one of the
few tropically based molecular system-
atics laboratories in the world. The in-
teraction between field-based and mo-
lecular scientists and the proximity to

tropical forests and coral reefs are pro-

viding a vital new perspective to the
study of tropical species.

Molecular biological techniques are be-
ing used to study brightly colored dart-
poison frogs. This species, Dendrobates
pumilio, collected from the Bocas del
Toro Islands of Panama, shows a remark-
able degree of diversity in color and pat-
tern. Somewhat paradoxically, three
other species of dart-poison frogs found
on these islands do not exhibit much
color variation. One hypothesis was that
D. pumilio has simply been present in the

islands longer than the other species, and

thus its populations have had more time

to diverge in color pattern. DNA se-
quence data collected for these species,
however, did not support this view. An-
other hypothesis—that sexual selection
in the form of female choice for male col-
oration may have contributed to the di-
vergence among populations—is being
evaluated. D. pumilio is the only dart-
poison frog species in the Bocas del Toro
Islands in which females care for their
young. All other species exhibit male pa-
rental care, a parenting strategy that may
permit females to be less choosy in their
selection of mates. (Photograph by Carl
C. Hansen)

The Year in
Review

Sciences

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for the Sciences

Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary

Since its inception, the Smithsonian Institution
has nourished a commitment to scientific re-
search. Scientific studies are carried on in several
arenas: specialized research institutes such as the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, and
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory; muse-
ums such as the National Air and Space Museum
and the National Museum of Natural History/Na-
tional Museum of Man; the National Zoological
Park and its Conservation and Research Center;
the Conservation Analytical Laboratory; and cen-
tral support units such as the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Archives, the Office of Fellowships and
Grants, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, and
the Scientific Diving Program. In all of these are-
nas, the Smithsonian’s scientific research is charac-
terized by breadth, depth, and outreach.

The Institution is well known for studies that
benefit the scientific community worldwide.
Smithsonian scientists are engaged in long-term
baseline monitoring of ultraviolet radiation reach-
ing the Earth. They are studying Caribbean coral
reef and mangrove ecosystems and investigating
the biological impact of deforestation. Using satel-
lite observation, they are examining pollution
damage to temperate forests.

Scientific research is by its very nature an indi-
vidual enterprise, but scientists often join forces to
carry out team projects. The Smithsonian ts com-
mitted to providing a working atmosphere that en-
hances creativity and leads to new insights about
the natural and human worlds. These insights
will enable us to deal more successfully with the
challenges we face now and in the future.

@ Environmental research continues to be the em-
phasis of the Institution’s scientific research pro-
grams. Projects include studies of the function of
natural and disturbed ecosystems and of the dy-
namic role of the Sun and atmosphere in the appar-
ent warming of the Earth’s temperature. It 1s
equally important to gain an adequate understand-
ing of the structure and composition of natural
communities and ecosystems so that their richness
and stability may be maintained or restored in the
face of increasing human pressures. An example of
such fundamental research is the work of the Insti-
tution’s systematic biologists, who have responsi-
bility for inventorying and describing the species
richness of the biosphere.

g Smithsonian anthropologists are exploring the
nature of changing cultures throughout the

world. Their research ranges from studies of con-
temporary West African art and culture to exami-
nation of the influence on the Caribbean of the im-
portation of peoples and their cultures during the
slave trade.

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Lambertus Van Zelst, Director

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) en-
gages in research and training in the conservation

and technical study of museum objects and other
materials of historic importance. CAL addresses
Using computer modeling
with mechanical proper-

tres measured in the labo-
ratory, Conservation
Analytical Laboratory sci-
entist Mark McCormick
Goodhart studies the re-
sponse of photographic ma-
terials to changes in
environmental conditions
im order to formulate bet-
ter storage and exhibit
conditions for these materi-
als, (Photograph by Doc
Dougherty)

questions of concern to archaeology and art his-
tory, as well as problems facing the Smithsonian
and other institutions in the preservation and con-
servation of their collections. A multifaceted train-
ing program provides unique educational opportu-
nities for students in conservation, materials

science, archaeology, and art history.

@ CAL has developed computer modeling tech-
niques for studying the effects of temperature, rela-
tive humidity, shock, and vibration on paintings.
The results of their application have enhanced
chemical research in the preservation of collections
in the Smithsonian and other museums through-
out the world. The models also are used to exam-
ine changes in the mechanical stability of photo-
graphic image layers. These studies supply the
information necessary for CAL to develop and rec-
ommend appropriate guidelines for the long-term
storage and exhibition of photographic materials.
@ Technical studies by CAL research collaborator
Aslihan Yener and CAL scientists Pamela Van-
diver and Emile Joel have resulted in a revision of
the traditional understanding of Near and Middle
Eastern tin sources in the Bronze Age. The studies
were carried out on materials excavated under
Yener’s direction at the site of Goltepe in the Tau-
rus Mountains of southeastern Turkey.

@ During her studies of the preservation of pro-
teins and nucleic acids in hard tissue from paleon-
tological and archaeological specimens, CAL re-
search biochemist Noreen Tuross has extracted

indigenous proteins from 350 million-year-old fos-
sil Lingula shells. Until this breakthrough, it was
generally thought that biomolecules could not sur-
vive in the fossil record beyond about 100,000
years.

@ Twenty-eight fellows or interns served at vari-
ous levels and in various CAL specialties during
the year. Ten courses were offered on conservation
topics, including two new subjects: “Leather for
Conservators” and “The Suction Table for Textiles
and Paintings.” Members of the Furniture Conser-
vation Training Program’s third class began their
course work in August and are expected to gradu-
ate in 1996.

National Museum of
Natural History/National
Museum of Man

Frank H. Talbot, Director

The National Museum of Natural History/Na-
tional Museum of Man (NMNH), the nation’s
largest research museum, is dedicated to under-
standing the natural world and the place of hu-
mans in it. With a staff of more than 600, in-
cluding 120 staff scientists, and the world’s
largest and most extensive collection of docu-
mented artifacts and specimens of plants, animals,
fossils, rocks, and minerals, now numbering more
than 121 million items, the museum conducts
scholarly investigations in anthropology and the
full range of the natural sciences. This extensive re-
search in the field and the laboratory is shared
with the scholarly community and the larger pub-
lic through publications, symposia, educational
programs, and a museum of popular exhibitions
that annually attracts more visitors than any other
natural history museum in the world.

@ Ovest, a quarterly minimagazine that takes read-
ers on a tour of behind-the-scenes research at the
museum, was introduced in October r991. Now
reaching nearly 9,000 supporters, Qvest has high-
lighted museum projects as diverse as the excava-
tion of African American artifacts from Southern
plantations, the unique bird life of Hawaii, con-
servation efforts in South America, and Antarctic
meteorites.
@ Three months before the cataclysmic eruption
of Mt. Pinatubo in the Philippines on June 15,
1991, the museum’s Global Volcanism Program
(GVP) was reporting volcanic activity at this
long-dormant volcano through its monthly
Global Volcanism Network. GVP data show that
the eruption was the world’s largest since 1932.
GVP is now working with interagency groups to
study the possibility that Mt. Pinatubo’s strato-
spheric products are causing a cooler climate.

m A team of curators, designers, scientists, archi-
tects, artists, educators, writers, and researchers
are at work on plans to renovate the museum’s
Hall of Geology, Gems, and Minerals beginning
in early 1994. The new hall, which will open in
late 1995, will incorporate the most recent earth
science concepts and highlight dynamic earth pro-
cesses, including crystal and ore formation, vol-
cano and earthquake origins, the theory of plate
tectonics, and the formation of the solar system.
w Terrestrial Ecosystems through Time, a landmark
history of life on the land from the earliest traces
of terrestrial organisms more than 400 million
years ago to the beginnings of human agriculture,
was published in July r992. An undertaking of a
consortium of museum scientists, the book pro-
vides access to the wealth of unique, thought-
provoking ecological information contained in the
fossil record.

@ In 1992, the museum began a $1 million, 14-
month renovation of its Insect Zoo, made possible
by a grant from Orkin Pest Control. The exhibi-
tion will feature a giant termite mound for chil-
dren to explore, as well as insects from the exotic
to the familiar in habitats ranging from tropical
rainforests to our own backyards.

@ Twenty-five undergraduates, including 17
women and 8 minority students, participated in
the summer session of the museum’s 1992 Re-
search Training Program, supported by the Na-
tional Science Foundation, NMNH, and the
Gesneriad Society. The heart of the program is the
individual research project of each participant, di-
rected by a museum scientist. Also offered are lec-
tures, discussions, laboratory demonstrations, col-
lection tours, and field trips.

@ Sites in Texas, Florida, Georgia, Ohio, and
Missouri installed regional variations of the mu-
seum’s successful Columbus Quincentenary exhibi-
tion, “Seeds of Change,” in a unique collaboration
with the museum and the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES). SITES and

|

latching a tarantula
feeding at the National
Museum of Natural His-
tory'’s Insect Zoo 15 a pop-
ular event. (Photograph
by Laurie Minor-
Penland)

the American Library Association have created a

panel version that is traveling to 75 libraries and

small museums in all 50 states and three territo-

ries. The U.S. Information Agency has produced
a poster version that has been distributed to more
than 70 international locations.

National Zoological Park

Michael H. Robinson, Director

Building on its historic mandate, the National
Zoological Park (NZP) has as its primary mission
the advancement of science, biological conserva-
tion, and education and recreation of the people.
To fulfill this mission, the Zoo has moved beyond
being a zoological park concerned only with ani-
mals to becoming a biological park with a scope
that extends to the entire living world and ex-
hibits that increasingly emphasize interaction and
holism. In pursuit of its mission, NZP exhibits a
range of living plants and animals on its 163-acre
facility in Rock Creek Park in Washington,
D.C., and maintains the Conservation and Re-
After years of scientific re-
search and testing, the
National Zoo saw its
first American flamingo
chick hatched on June 8,
1992. Increasing the size
of the flock is thought to
be a significant factor in
stimulating reproduc-
tion. (Photograph by
Jessie Cohen)

Oo

i)

search Center on 3,150 acres in Front Royal, Vir-

ginia, as a major animal breeding, conservation,

and research center.

@ Two Sumatran tiger cubs were born in March.
The propagation of this nearly extinct species is an-
other success in the Zoo's ongoing efforts to de-
sign and participate in long-term preservation
plans for endangered species.

m@ The Zoo's new “Amazonia” rainforest exhibit
opened in November. It features a vignette of the
Amazon River with numerous species of diverse,
colorful, and exciting fishes and a re-creation of a
moist tropical forest containing more than 229
species of plants. Within the exhibit, a simulated
research station allows visitors to explore the com-
plexities of tropical biology.

@ The Cheetah Conservation Station opened in
August. This state-of-the-art exhibit features a de-
vice that stimulates the cheetahs to chase a lure
around their enclosure at speeds of up to 35 miles
per hour. Interactive graphics provide information
on mating, social structure, hunting success, anat-
omy of high-speed running, and the massive ef-
fort now under way in zoos to preserve cheetahs
from extinction.

@ The Reptile Discovery Center opened in Sep-
tember. New interactive exhibits adjoining ani-
mal enclosures highlight features of the animals.
Special interpretive programs presented by keep-

ers and volunteers offer unique glimpses into the
world of reptiles and amphibians.

@ The staff of the Department of Zoological Re-
search (DZR) began a program in developmental
psychobiology and established a multimedia labo-
ratory. DZR conducted a varied slate of research
projects in Brazil (golden lion tamarins), Sri
Lanka (toque macaque), Chile (Juan Fernandez sea
lion), Panama (migratory birds), California (south-
ern sea otter and San Joaquin kit fox), Nevada (de-
sert tortoise), and Hawaii (amakihi, nene, and Ha-
wailan Crow).

@ The Zoo's New Opportunities in Animal
Health Sciences (NOAHS) Center initiated a new
outreach program to minority students with the
purpose of stimulating young people to take an in-
terest in science. NOAHS scientists regularly visit
inner-city junior high and high schools, where
they use hands-on items and interactive equip-
ment to give talks and demonstrations about the
Zoo's high-tech scientific programs.

Office of Environmental
Awareness
Judith Gradwohl, Director

The Office of Environmental Awareness (OEA)
works with bureaus, offices, and outside organiza-
tions to gather and disseminate timely and accu-
rate information on global environmental issues.
Publications, exhibitions, conferences, and work-
shops are designed for both the general public and
groups of professionals.

@ The Office of Environmental Awareness was
the recipient of the second annual Swim Environ-
mental Awareness Award to support work on the
National Forum on Ocean Conservation and the
exhibition “Ocean Planet.”

@ Participants in the National Forum on Ocean
Conservation, held November 19-21, 1991,
filled Baird Auditorium at the National Museum
of Natural History. Cosponsored by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the fo-
rum assembled 53 speakers to discuss problems
and solutions affecting the marine environment.
@ Planning continued for “Ocean Planet,” a trav-
eling exhibition on ocean conservation. Slated to
open at the National Museum of Natural History
in March 1995, the exhibition is a collaborative ef-
fort among OEA, the museum, and the Smithson-
ian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service.

g@ OEA’s colorful and informative poster, “A Bet-
ter World Starts at Home,” was redesigned and re-
printed to accompany the SITES exhibition, “No
Laughing Matter: Political Cartoonists on the
Environment.”

Office of Fellowships
and Grants
Roberta W. Rubinoff, Director

The Office of Fellowships and Grants manages the
Institution’s centralized fellowship and internship
programs, other stipend appointments, and other
programs that support research. These research
programs enable students and scholars from
throughout the world to visit the Institution and
use its varied resources. The office also administers
programs to increase minority participation in
Smithsonian research activities and disciplines.
Two competitive grant programs managed by the
office provide scholarly support for Smithsonian
professional staff.

@ The office offered awards to more than 900 stu-
dents, scholars, and scientists to utilize the Institu-
tion’s collections and resources.

@ A record 506 applications were received for the
Smithsonian Fellowship Program, an 11 percent
increase from 1991. Eighty-nine fellowships were
offered.

@ This year the office received 186 applica-
tions—an increase of almost 24 percent from
1991—for the Minority Internship Program.
Funds were provided to support 33 interns to
work on research and museum-related projects.

In collaboration with the Quality Education for
Minorities Network, the office placed three more
interns in science policy projects.

@ The office worked with the Office of Museum
Programs to design a new fellowship program in
museum practice, which was funded by the Smith-
sonian Women’s Committee to celebrate its 25th
anniversary. Four fellowships were offered this
year.

Intern Jay Jones does
fieldwork in Panama on
a project with Smithson-
tan Tropical Research In-
Stitute scientists involving
carrion-feeding insects
and the disease cycle.
This internship and
many others around the
Institution are sponsored
each year through the Of-
fice of Fellowships and
Grants’ Minority Intern-
ship Program.

Office of the Registrar

Mary E. Case, Director

The Office of the Registrar supervises the manage-
ment of the Institution’s vast collection of 139
million objects and specimens. By monitoring
Institution-wide collections management policies
and procedures, the office works to ensure in-
creased access to, and continued accountability
for, the national collections.

@ The office updated its principal guiding docu-
ment, Office Memorandum 808: Collections Man-
agement Policy, to encompass mandates on col-
lecting biological specimens and recovering loan
costs.

@ [In conjunction with the Office of Human Re-
sources, the office initiated a study of the classifi-
cation standard for the museum specialist and
museum technician series (GS—1016) to develop
a standard that accurately reflects collections
management activities in the modern museum
environment.
|

Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory astrono-
mers (from left) Patrick
Thaddeus, Seth Digel,
and Tom Dame with the
1.2-meter, millimeter-
wave radio telescope they
used to reveal two new
features of the Milky
Way: a thick layer of mo-
lecular hydrogen above
and below the galaxy
and a cluster of molecu-
lar clouds some 100,000
light years from its cen-
ter. (Photograph by Joe
Wrinn, Harvard Ga-

zette)

@ The office published A Primer to Endangered Spe-
cies, a guide for museum staff in obtaining federal
permits for specimens protected by endangered
species laws.

@ The workshop “Project Success through Prob-
lem Solving” helped participants clarify and solve
project management problems associated with mu-
seum collections management.

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Irwin I. Shapiro, Director

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
(SAO) is dedicated to studying the physical pro-
cesses that determine the nature and evolution of
the universe. A member of the Center for Astro-
physics (CfA), based in Cambridge, Massachu-
setts, SAO collaborates with the Harvard College
Observatory in a diverse program of research orga-
nized by various divisions: atomic and molecular
physics, high-energy astrophysics, optical and in-
frared astronomy, planetary sciences, radio and
geoastronomy, solar and stellar physics, and theo-
retical astrophysics. Facilities include the Fred
Lawrence Whipple Observatory (FLWO) in Ari-
zona, the Oak Ridge Observatory in Massachu-
setts, and a millimeter-wave radio astronomy
installation at CfA headquarters, as well as instru-
ments aboard satellites, rockets, and balloons.

@ A 6.5-meter-diameter mirror intended to re-
place the six separate mirrors of the Multiple Mir-
ror Telescope was successfully cast by SAO’s part-
ner in this project, the University of Arizona. The
mirror is the largest glass blank ever cast in the
United States.

@ An SAO-built far-infrared spectrometer flown
aboard a DC-8 aircraft contributed to studies of
ozone depletion over the Northern Hemisphere
and, in subsequent balloon flights, determined
new upper limits for ozone-threatening hydrogen
bromide in the stratosphere.

@ The first ground-based detection of trillion-elec-
tron-volt-level gamma rays from a source beyond
our galaxy was made by an international team of
scientists at the Whipple Observatory.

@ An SAO scientist, with colleagues elsewhere,
found strong evidence that Nova Muscae (a star
-arlier observed to explode into sudden brilliance)
is a binary system in which the primary compo-
nent is a black hole.

@ Millimeter-wave radio observations revealed
two new and surprising features of the Milky
Way: a thick layer of molecular hydrogen gas ex-
tending above and below the galaxy and a cluster
of molecular clouds some 100,000 light-years
from the galaxy’s center.

@ Observations of cyclic brightening on a star in
the Constellation Cetus show long-term variations
in magnetic activity—the first direct evidence of a
magnetic cycle on a star other than the Sun.

@ A tethered satellite system (TSS-1), conceived
and designed by SAO, was flown aboard a space
shuttle flight in July. Although engineering prob-
lems prevented a full test, deployment and re-
trieval of a small payload on a conducting cable
were shown to be feasible, and SAO studies of sys-
tem dynamics produced promising preliminary re-
sults.

m SAO continued the development of a submilli-
meter-wavelength radio telescope array, a two-
element optical and infrared interferometer, and
various instruments intended for space flight, in-
cluding a high-resolution imager for the Ad-
vanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility, an ultraviolet
spectrograph for the Solar and Heliospheric Obser-
vatory, and detectors for the Submillimeter Wave
Astronomy Satellite. The Whipple Observatory
dedicated an 1 1-meter optical reflector for
ground-based gamma-ray astronomy on January
22, 1992.
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center
David L. Correll, Director

Scientists at the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center (SERC) in Edgewater, Maryland,
conduct long-term interdisciplinary studies on
how human use of the air, land, and water affects
the Chesapeake Bay region. The center comple-
ments research activities with educational pro-
grams for students—from undergraduates to post-
doctoral fellows—and for the public. SERC’s
research is the primary contribution on the Chesa-
peake region to the U.S. Interagency Global
Change Program and an important component of
the International Geosphere/Biosphere Program.

® Responding to concerns that the stratospheric
ozone layer is threatened, SERC has, for 17 years,
monitored ultraviolet solar radiation at the Earth’s
surface with precision spectral radiometers. Re-
sults for the Washington, D.C., region published
in 1992 included a peak in the summer daily total
ultraviolet-B dose in 1983 that was 29 percent
above the long-term mean.

@ SERC evaluated the effects of land use on the
terrestrial sources of phosphorus in the Chesapeake
Bay. Cropland that had been cultivated and fertil-
ized discharged eight times as much total phos-
phorus as a mature hardwood forest that had never
been cleared. Phosphorus is a key nutrient in the
Chesapeake Bay and much of the total input de-
rives from cropland discharges.

@ Researchers at SERC determined that as nutri-
ents move from the watershed of the Chesapeake
Bay into the estuary, they are assimilated by
plankton, and dissolved inorganic phosphate ts re-
leased from eroded soil particles. As a result, the
ratio of available inorganic phosphorus declines,
and nitrogen becomes the limiting nutrient in the
tidal headwaters of the subestuaries of the bay.
Thus, management of nitrogen inputs is increas-
ingly needed.

@ SERC scientists conducted experiments to test
whether salinity or organic settlement factors re-
leased by attached adults determined where plank-
tonic larvae of three species of the barnacle genus
Balanus occur in the Chesapeake Bay. They found
that the interaction of both factors combined to
cause larvae to settle in their respective estuarine
zones.

a

Smithsonian Environmen-
tal Research Center Direc-
tor David Correll 15
shown on the roof of the
center in Edgewater,
Maryland, with an in-
strument that monitors
levels of ultraviolet radia-
tion reaching the Earth.
(Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)

ae

@ With National Science Foundation support, re-
searchers at SERC studied an unusual class of
sugar polymer known as chitin to see how much
of it is produced by various marine and estuarine
phytoplankton. This material has many of the
chemical properties of proteins and has been mis-
takenly lumped with proteins in global change
models of the carbon cycle. Diatoms, abundant in
coastal waters, have been shown to produce large
amounts of this material.

@ Automated instruments were used to measure
tidal exchanges of nutrients continuously at two
brackish marshes of differing elevations. The
lower marsh was found to import various organic
nitrogen and phosphorus fractions, while the
higher marsh exported organic fractions. Thus,
these marshes had contrasting nutrient buffering
effects.

Smithsonian Institution
Archives

William W. Moss, Director

The Smithsonian Institution Archives (SIA) en-
sures historic accountability for the Institution’s
national trust by preserving and providing access

to a constantly increasing volume and an ever-
changing technological variety of records of the In-

35
|

Dorothy Graham Edson
began research in the
Smithsonian Archives on
a biography of her fa-
ther, David Crockett
Graham, an American
missionary who spent the
years 1911-48 in
China and also collected
natural history specimens
for the Smithsonian. Gra-
ham 1s shown here with
several Chinese officials.

stitution’s proceedings and its accomplishments.

The Archives supports research, management,
planning, exhibitions, and other Smithsonian ac-
tivities; responds to public inquiries; and advises
archival programs both within and outside the

Institution.

@ The Archives staff began writing a new Guide to
the Smithsonian Archives, which will be published
for the Smithsonian's 150th anniversary in 1996.
The original guide, published in 1971, described
less than a thousand cubic feet of records. This edi-
tion will lead users to ro times that amount of
documentary historical evidence.

@ Lucher Chase Goldman donated the papers of
Edward William Nelson and Edward Alphonso
Goldman to the Smithsonian Archives. The rich
diaries, field notes, and correspondence relating to
late 19th-century investigations in Alaska, Mex-
ico, and the southwestern United States give schol-
ars firsthand evidence of landmark work by these
distinguished scientists. William Fitzhugh, cura-
tor of anthropology at the National Museum of
Natural History, is transcribing selected diaries
for publication.

@ The Archives published the second volume of
Guide to Photographic Collections at the Smithsonian
Institution, which deals with more than 2 million

images in Smithsonian science bureau collections.
The volume earned a finding aid award from the
Mid-Atlantic Regional Archives Conference. Pub-
lication of volume 3, a guide to more than 3, mil-
lion images in photographic collections in Smith-
sonian art museums, is scheduled for the fall of
1992.

@ The Smithsonian Videohistory Program, a five-
year project funded by the Alfred P. Sloan Founda-
tion, completed work on over 20 videohistory
projects undertaken by Smithsonian historians and
prepared a working guide to the resulting collec-
tion of video recordings. A Practical Introduction to
Videohistory: The Smithsonian Institution and Alfred
P. Sloan Experiment, by program director Terri
Schorzman and others, is scheduled for publica-
tion in 1993.

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Barbara J. Smith, Director

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) re-
ports a variety of new efforts this year in the use of
its collections for scholarship and study, the preser-
vation of a major historic collection, and the dis-
semination of information to its users. The Librar-
ies’ collections, accessible through an on-line
catalogue and available to Smithsonian staff and
outside scholars through a system of 17 branch li-
braries and through interlibrary loan, number
more than 1 million books, 15,000 current jour-
nals, 40,000 rare books, and 1,800 manuscript
groups. SIL supports the Institution's curatorial,
research, publishing, education, and public ser-
vice activities by providing reference and informa-
tion services and by building, organizing, manag-
ing, preserving, and restoring its collections.

@ To foster studies into the rich holdings in the
history of science and technology housed in SIL’s
Dibner Library, the Libraries inaugurated a re-
search awards program funded by the Dibner
Fund. The first two Dibner Library Resident
Scholars conducted research in Renaissance city
planning and in roth-century intercultural ex-
change in bridge construction.

m To preserve for future generations its collection
of materials relating to world’s fairs held between
1834 and 1914, SIL launched a massive preserva-
tion project, The Books of the Fairs, in which some
2,000 deteriorating volumes were microfilmed by
a commercial publisher. As part of the project,
SIL published an annotated, illustrated guide to
the collection containing an essay that sets the
world’s fair literature into its historical and schol-
arly context.

@ The range of disciplines that benefit by using
world’s fairs collections was demonstrated at a
symposium, “World’s Fairs and Modern Life,”
attended by scholars, collectors, and the public
and organized by the Libraries in cooperation with
the National Museum of American History. The
symposium and an SIL exhibition on world’s fairs
were funded by the Smithsonian Special Exhibi-
tion Fund and private supporters.

@ To assist Smithsonian scholars and program
staff in their research, the Libraries opened the
Database Searching Center in December. Funded
by the James Smithson Society, the center pro-
vides bibliographic information to offices around
the Institution via remote access.

Smithsonian Institution Man
and the Biosphere Biological
Diversity Program

Francisco Dallmeier, Director

The Smithsonian Institution Man and the Bio-
sphere Biological Diversity Program (SI/MAB)
deals with the challenge of protecting the biologi-
cal diversity of developing countries. The program
focuses on two objectives: (1) to provide biodiver-
sity sampling protocols for protected areas and
other highly diverse ecosystems of the world in a
way that will allow data from diverse sites to be
compared in time and space and (2) to strengthen
short-term professional training capabilities in
host countries and thereby increase the number of
managers and scientists in developing nations who
can address their countries’ conservation priorities.

@ During the past year, SI/MAB conducted suc-
cessful regional training courses on conservation
and management of protected areas and wildlands
in Guatemala, Ecuador, Bolivia, Panama, and
Peru.

@ Among SI/MAB research activities carried out
this year were the second posthurricane census of
the biodiversity plot in the Luquillo Biosphere Re-
serve, Puerto Rico; the four-year census of the four
biodiversity plots in the Beni Biosphere Reserve,
Bolivia; and the establishment of the first biodiver-
sity plot in the unique dry forest ecosystem of the
Virgin Islands National Park, St. John, U.S. Vir-
gin Islands.

@ An evaluation of the last five regional training
courses conducted by SI/MAB was completed this
year. Three forthcoming publications are expected
to improve and modify the courses to meet the na-
tional conservation objectives in the countries
where courses are held.

@ Publications produced this year included the
program’s first newsletter, four user’s guides and
three field guides to the biodiversity plots, and
two related papers.

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Ira Rubinoff, Director

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
(STRI), based in Panama, is the nation’s premier
center for basic research on the ecology, evolution,
and behavior of tropical organisms, with ex-
panding programs in molecular biology, plant
physiology, and paleoecology. STRI supports the

Sylvia Williams, direc-
tor, National Museum of
African Art (left), Bar-
bara J. Smith, director,

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries, and Janet L.
Stanley, librarian, War-
ren M. Robbins Library,
admire the newly pub-
lished Catalog of the
Library of the National
Museum of African
Art Branch of the
Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries. (Photo-
graph by Jim Young)
a

Héctor Guzman, coral
reef ecologist with the Owl
Spill Project at the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research
Institute, prepares core
samples for X-ray analy-
sis as part of a larger
study using coral cores to
reconstruct 100 years of
environmental change in
Bahia Las Minas, Pan-
ama. (Photograph by
Marcos A. Guerra)

38

work of a permanent scientific staff of 30, which

conducts research in the New and Old World trop-
ics, as well as the efforts of the many scientific visi-
tors who carry out field and laboratory investiga-

tions at its facilities.

@ Klaus Winter and collaborators began investi-
gating the biochemical basis of ecological adapta-
tions of tropical plants to various environmental
stresses. Their work will involve studies of the
functional significance of these adaptations under
conditions that simulate possible future increases
of atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide.
@ Analysis of microfossils in ancient lake sedi-
ments from the Amazon and Panama by the Qua-
ternary paleoecology group formed by Dolores
Piperno, Paul Colinvaux, and collaborators gave
the first strong evidence of climatic cooling of the
American tropics in the last ice age. In contrast,
studies on shallow-water marine fossils, as part of
the Panama Paleontology Program started by Jer-
emy B. C. Jackson and Anthony G. Coates at
STRI, demonstrate no major shift in temperature
for at least the past 2 million years. These conflict-
ing results suggest that climates on land and sea
shift more independently than global climate
models have indicated.

@ Initial surveys of the 50-hectare tropical forest
plot in Lambir National Park in Malaysian Borneo
indicated that it contains more than 1, 100 species
of trees, prompting scientists to hail the area as
one of the most species-rich tropical forests ever
discovered. Tree censuses also continued at Huai

Kha Khaeng in Thailand, another site collaborat-
ing with STRI’s Center for Tropical Forest Science
this year.

@ STRI anthropologist Olga Linares, elected to
the National Academy of Sciences this year, pub-
lished Power, Prayer and Production: The Jola People
of Casamance, Senegal (Cambridge University
Press). The book reflects more than 30 years of re-
search on these rice-growing people.

@ Glenn Tupper donated $1.5 million to STRI to
establish a permanent fund supporting scientific
research on tropical terrestrial and marine ecosys-
tems. A portion of the gift will be used to re-
model the former STRI administration building
to house the Center for Tropical Paleoecology and
to renovate the Naos Island Molecular Biology
Laboratories, where evolutionary research is con-
ducted on organisms separated by the rise of the
Isthmus of Panama.

@ Efforts in international scientific collaboration
were formalized in an agreement with the Pontifi-
cia Universidad Catolica of Ecuador and with the
establishment of the Mpala Wildlife Research
Trust, consisting of the Kenyan Wildlife Service,
the National Museums of Kenya, the Mpala Wild-
life Foundation, and Princeton University. STRI
will administer the Smithsonian’s interest in the
trust, created to support research on wildlife,
global change, and biological diversity, as well as
the education of future scientists in these fields.

Arts and Humanities

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for the Arts and Humanities

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for the Arts
and Humanities advises the secretary and the
under secretary on issues relating to museum poli-
cies, operations, and advocacy. Current priorities
of the office include accessibility, exhibitions, and
museum education.
@ The Accessibility Program convened a 113-
member Accessibility Liaison Council of Smithson-
ian bureau representatives. The council partici-
pated in a 10-month workshop series on accessibil-
ity issues and completed the first phase of a
comprehensive assessment of physical and intellec-
tual access to Smithsonian programs and facilities.
Members will develop a pan-Institutional plan for
improving access to the Smithsonian for staff and
visitors with disabilities.

@ The Experimental Gallery explores and pre-
sents exhibitions that take chances with exhibition
style, content, and process. Unlike the typical
changing exhibition space, the gallery is an open
“exhibition laboratory” in which museum pro-
fessionals from within and outside the Smithson-
ian can experiment with audience development,
interpretation, design, visitor learning styles, and
interactive techniques. Staff members from
participating museums also collaborate with
Smithsonian staff in developing evaluation strate-
gies, marketing plans, public programs, and
printed materials. Among the exhibitions pre-
sented in the gallery this year were “Finding Your
Way,” by the Exploratorium, San Francisco, Cali-
fornia; “Psychology: Understanding Ourselves,
Understanding Each Other,” by the American Psy-
chological Association, Washington, D.C.; and
“Etiquette of the Undercaste,” by Antenna The-
ater, Sausalito, California.

@ The National African American Museum Proj-
ect has identified more than 500 potential do-
nors—including artists, art collectors, filmmak-
ers, historians, and collectors of black memora-
bilia and family history—who have more than
15,000 objects and who want to support the new
museum with gifts, object loans, and financial
contributions. In early 1992, task force commit-
tees were established to assist with long-range
planning for the museum, which will document
and interpret the full range and breadth of experi-
ences of people of African descent in the United
States and throughout the diaspora. The commit-
tees met to define the museum’s research, collect-
ing, and exhibition objectives and to discuss a vari-
ety of issues relating to the museum’s structure,
operations, and programs.

@ Exhibitions that received awards from the Spe-
cial Exhibition Fund, administered by the office,
included “Crosscurrents of Modernism: Four Latin
American Pioneers” (Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden), “Black Mosaic: The Changing

Face of Black Life in Washington, D.C.” (Anacos-
tia Museum), and “Spiders” (National Museum of
Natural History). Acquisitions supported by the
Collections Acquisitions Program included
Charles Willson Peale’s portrait of Anna Green
(National Portrait Gallery) and a Genard printing
press (National Museum of American History).

@ Volume 6 (1844—46) of the Joseph Henry Pa-
pers, which document the life and times of the pi-
oneer American physicist and first secretary of the
Smithsonian, was published by Smithsonian Insti-
tution Press.

@ The American Studies Program provided semi-
nars and independent study opportunities for grad-
uate students in American studies or American his-
tory departments of affiliated universities to
undertake programs of formal course work at the
Institution.

Anacostia Museum

Steven C. Newsome, Director

The Anacostia Museum is a national resource de-
voted to the interpretation of the African Ameri-
can experience in Washington, D.C., Georgia,
Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, and
Virginia. The museum also examines contempo-
rary social issues and their impact on African
American communities in the region.

@ The museum’s first collection management pol-
icy was completed. The policy statement places
community-based collecting and education at the
core of the museum’s efforts to protect local and re-
gional African American patrimony.

@ The museum produced and premiered the film,
“Climbin’ Jacob’s Ladder.” The film, based on the
museum’s 1987 exhibition about the rise of Afri-
can American churches in Eastern cities, will be
used to encourage the protection and collection of
materials related to the African American church
and African American traditions of worship.

@ Bus service between the National Mall and the
Anacostia Museum was inaugurated. The bus will
also transport local school and civic groups to the
museum.

@ “To Achieve These Rights: The Struggle for
Equal Rights and Self-Determination in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, 1791-1978” opened in Janu-
a

Noted dancer, author,
choreographer, and an-
thropologist Katherine
Dunham spoke at an
Anacostia Museum event
in July 1992. (Photo-
graph by Harold

Dorwin)

40

ary. The exhibition is the first to examine the role

of the nation’s capital in the national civil rights
movement.

@ Juneteenth '92, the annual celebration of eman-
cipation, attracted more than 5,000 people, who
enjoyed live performances, craft demonstrations,
and an Underground Railroad reenactment on the
museum's George Washington Carver Nature
Trail.

@ The new African American Family History Pro-
gram provides local residents with instruction and
guidance in genealogical and community history
projects.

Archives of American Art

Richard J. Wattenmaker, Director

A national research repository with centers in
Washington, D.C.; New York; Boston; Detroit;
and San Marino, California, the Archives of Amer-
ican Art has the largest collection in the world of
original source materials on the history of the vi-
sual arts in the United States. These materials in-
clude documents, photographs, works of art on pa-
per, and interviews recorded on audio- and video-
tape. The Archives is dedicated to encouraging
research in American art and cultural history by
making its collections easily accessible. Original

materials are housed in Washington, D.C., with
microfilm copies of much of the collections avail-
able in each of the Archives centers and around
the world through interlibrary loan.

@ Work began ona revised, expanded edition of
the 1989 booklet, The Papers of African American
Artists. This publication features information
about the papers of 10 African American artists
and includes a comprehensive list of the papers
and oral history interviews of African American
artists in the Archives.

m@ A new semiannual newsletter for scholars and li-
brarians provides up-to-date information about re-
cent publications, forthcoming seminars, the com-
pletion of special Archives projects, and work in
progress.

@ In January, the Archives began an 18-month
survey project of American art—related archival
materials in public and private collections in
Paris. The purpose is to locate correspondence,
journals, sketchbooks, and unpublished manu-
scripts, along with exhibition, gallery, and ship-
ping records; school registration ledgers; and asso-
ciation or organization records that illuminate the
activities of American artists in France. The proj-
ect’s goal is to prepare a guide to all of the papers
located.

@ [ra D. Glackens (1907-91) donated a collec-
tion of papers relating to the life and works of his
father, artist William J. Glackens (1870-1938).
Included in the collection is a recorded interview
from 1936, the only known recording of the artist.
@ Ina three-hour taped interview on the eve of
her 99th birthday, Beatrice Wood (b. 1893) re-
flected on her experiences and early involvement
with the Paris and New York avant-garde in the
1920s and 1930s. The interview is part of the Ar-
chives’ Women in the Arts in Southern California
Project.

@ Two exhibitions from the collections of the Ar-
chives of American Art were mounted at the gal-
lery of the Archives’ New York Regional Center.
“Hiram Powers: An American Sculptor and His
Private Patrons” presented a selection from the pa-
pers of the influential roth-century American
sculptor. “Collections—Traces—Connections: Se-
lections from the Robert Smithson Papers”
featured aspects of the extensive papers of the con-
temporary sculptor and pioneer of Earth Art, as
well as paintings, film stills, and sculpture on
loan from other institutions.
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Milo C. Beach, Director

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, which opened to
the public in 1987, was established with a gift of
nearly 1,000 works of Asian art from Dr. Arthur
M. Sackler (1913-87). The permanent collection
has grown beyond the original donation through
gift, purchase, and transfer. Dedicated to ex-
panding public knowledge of the arts and cultures
of Asia through exhibition, research, and educa-
tion, the gallery also organizes and presents travel-
ing exhibitions, which are enhanced through a var-
ied schedule of free public programs, scholarly
activities, and special events.

@ This year, the Sackler Gallery organized and
presented three major loan exhibitions and issued
publications focusing on vastly different periods
and cultures. “Challenging the Past: The Paint-
ings of Chang Dai-chien” acquainted visitors with
the work of the foremost Chinese artist of the

2oth century. “When Kingship Descended from
Heaven: Masterpieces of Mesopotamian Art from
the Louvre” introduced Washington to one of the
world’s greatest collections of this ancient mate-
rial. “Ancient Japan” presented the culture of pre-
historic Japan as far back as 200,000 B.C.

@ The gallery continued its efforts to encourage
new groups of visitors through two workshops for
area teachers, one on the exhibition “The Arts of
China” and another on “When Kingship De-
scended from Heaven.” The Education Depart-
ment led discussions of how teachers could intro-
duce Chinese art and culture into the school
curriculum and how Mesopotamian art can be
brought into the schools’ study of ancient peoples
through comparisons of rulers then and now.

@ In its efforts to be accessible to many audiences,
the gallery produced a large-print brochure for vis-
itors funded by the Smithsonian Women’s Com-
mittee. The “hands-on” collection, a group of rep-
licas and other touchable objects that docents use
to help public tour participants understand as-
pects of Asian art, grew to 200 objects through do-

|
Artist Prentiss Taylor
sent his mother this photo-
graph postcard of himself
with dancer Bill Rob-
inson in Harlem, Febru-
ary 0, 1932. The
photograph is by Carl
Tan Vechten. On the
back of the card Taylor
wrote. “The gentleman in
this picture with me 1:
the world’s greatest tap
dancer—owns diamonds
(baseball and otherwise)
real estate—horses too I
reckon.”

|
This 11th-century schist
stele depicting the Hindu
god Vishnu with his to
avatars (the forms he has
assumed in different ages
to combat evil forces) was
made in northeastern In-
dia (now Bangladesh)
for a temple niche. The
sculpture was given to the
Arthur M. Sackler Gal-
lery by Dr. David
Jalin. (Photograph by
John Tsantes)
42

nations from the public and the docents them-
selves.

@ Scholarly activities included the publication of
New Perspectives on Chu Culture during the Eastern
Zhou Period, edited by Thomas Lawton, senior re-
search scholar. The book includes four essays on
the ancient Chinese state of Chu between 770 and
221 B.C. Two scholarly symposia, “Chang Dai-
chien and His Art” and the Sackler Gallery session
of “Mughal Gardens: Sources, Representations,
Places, and Prospects,” cosponsored with Dumbar-
ton Oaks, were made possible through the gener-
osity of Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler. A third sympo-
sium, “Art, Technology, and Society in Ancient
Japan,” was supported by a grant from the Japan
Foundation. Additional support was provided by
the Harold P. Stern Memorial Fund and by All
Nippon Airways Co., Ltd.

@ The cultural traditions of Korea were the focus
of the Series in Celebration of Korean Performing
Arts, featuring three free public concerts by Ko-
rean artists. The series was cosponsored with the
U.S.—Korea Foundation of Washington, D.C.,
and was made possible by funding from United
Technologies Corporation.

@ The Sackler Gallery collection benefited from
an outpouring of 65 gifts of art from China, Ko-
rea, India, and Japan. Among this year’s acquisi-
tions was a green-glazed stoneware jar from
China’s Han dynasty (206 B.C.—A.D. 220) pur-
chased with funds from the gallery’s membership
organization, Friends of Asian Arts at the Freer
and Sackler Galleries.

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design

Dianne H. Pilgrim, Director

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design is
one of the largest repositories for design, in the
world and the only museum in the United States
devoted exclusively to historical and contemporary
design. The museum strives to explain the design
process by recognizing the impact of design on so-
ciety, the natural environment, and the individual
and by acknowledging the interplay between cul-
ture and design. Its diverse programs include exhi-
bitions, publications, lectures, courses, school pro-
grams, and conferences keyed to significant design

issues. Cooper-Hewitt makes the collections avail-
able for study, research, and display and offers fel-
lowships, internships, and, in collaboration with
Parsons School of Design, a master’s degree pro-
gram in the history of European decorative arts.
Four curatorial departments—Decorative Arts,
Drawings and Prints, Textiles, and Wallcover-
ings—preserve, interpret, and add to the mu-
seum’s collection of nearly a quarter of a million
objects. The museum also houses a library and sev-
eral archival collections.

@ This summer the Arthur Ross Terrace and Gar-
den at Cooper-Hewitt was replanted by the horti-
cultural team of Linden B. Miller and Mary R.
Smith, who transformed the garden and terrace
into an oasis of beautiful flowers and shrubs. This
beautification added to the enjoyment of the mu-
seum’s many visitors and made Cooper-Hewitt’s
summer concerts and performances in the garden
even more spectacular.

@ Using funds from a federal appropriation desig-
nated for educational purposes, Cooper-Hewitt
presented a summer lecture-concert series, “De
Generacion a Generacion: Mexico's Living Tradi-
tions.” The series celebrated the culture and tradi-
tions that give form and meaning to Mexican
craft, ritual, music, film, and dance. The concerts
were held in the Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden.
@ During 1992, Cooper-Hewitt hired the archi-
tectural firm of James Stewart Polshek and Part-
ners to create a plan to address Cooper-Hewitt’s
problems of accessibility and renovate the mu-
seum’s two townhouses adjacent to the main build-
ing. The plan could serve as a model for other or-
ganizations facing the challenges of compliance
with the Americans with Disabilities Act as they
address the 20th-century programmatic needs of
museums while preserving the integrity of his-
toric structures.

@ The Colbert Foundation sponsored a benefit in
celebration of Cooper-Hewitt on June 2, 1992.
The foundation contributed $50,000 to the mu-
seum’s general operating funds.

g@ A major symposium presented by Cooper-Hew-
itt, “The Edge of the Millennium,” was a critical
exploration of the role of design at the approach of
the year 2000. The speakers included well-known
architects, industrial designers, graphic designers,
philosophers, critics, and psychologists.

@ Cooper-Hewitt cosponsored a two-day confer-
ence, “Universal Design: Access to Daily Living,”
with Pratt Institute's Center for Advanced Design
Research and Columbia University College of Phy-
sicians and Surgeons’ Department of Rehabili-
tation Medicine. The aim of the interdisciplinary
conference was to educate the public, designers,
and architects on practical and theoretical issues of
access and to explore how designers of all kinds
can create a “universally designed” environment
by developing and redesigning products, services,
transportation, and public spaces.

Freer Gallery of Art

Milo C. Beach, Director

The international reputation of the Freer Gallery
of Art is based on its outstanding collections of
Asian art dating from Neolithic times to the early
20th century and on its major holdings of works
by James McNeill Whistler (1834-1903). Addi-
tions to the collection through gift and purchase
have expanded the character of the original collec-
tion, which was presented to the United States by
Charles Lang Freer in 1906. The Freer Gallery
will reopen in May 1993 after extensive renova-
tion and expansion that will broaden its research,
exhibition, and educational programs.

@ Six masterpieces of Japanese painting from the
16th to the roth centuries from the Freer collec-
tion were conserved by specialists in Tokyo and
Kyoto and returned to Washington as part of a co-
operative effort among the gallery, the govern-
ment of Japan, the Tokyo University of Fine Arts
and Music, and the Art Research Foundation, a
Tokyo organization that supports international cul-
tural projects. Four paintings remain in Japan for
conservation, and additional paintings will be sent
for conservation under a continuing agreement.

@ The B. Y. Lam Foundation of Hong Kong
gave $1.5 million for the Freer to acquire Chinese
works of art. The gift was the largest from a sin-
gle donor that the gallery has received since it
opened to the public in 1923.

@ The Freer and Sackler galleries and the Metro-
politan Center for Far Eastern Studies of Kyoto, Ja-
pan, announced the creation of the Shimada Prize,
a biennial recognition of scholarship in the history
of East Asian art, to be awarded for the first time
in September 1993. The $10,000 prize, named in

honor of the distinguished and influential Japa-
nese scholar Shimada Shujiro, will be given to the
author of an outstanding recent publication in the
field of East Asian art history.

@ The Freer permanent collections grew by 143
works of art from Korea, China, Thailand, Viet-
nam, India, and Japan; these acquisitions in-
cluded 121 gifts and bequests. Six of the new
works were purchased with funds given by the gal-
lery’s member organization, Friends of Asian Arts
at the Freer and Sackler Galleries.

@ In preparation for the gallery's reopening, a
new Class of some 50 docents completed intensive
instruction in Asian art history and culture and
training in effective touring techniques. Together

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design, Direc-
tor Dianne Pilgrim poses
with dancers from the
National Dance Insti-
tute, a troupe for inner-
city children founded by

Jacques d’Amboise, after

their annual performance
in the Arthur Ross Ter-
race and Garden on July
28, 1992. (Photograph
by Katherine McGlynn)

|

This Japanese lacquer
box for writing equip-
ment, purchased by the
Friends of Asian Art at
the Freer and Sackler
Galleries and the Smith-
sonian Institution Collec-
tions Acquisition
Program, 1s the gallery's
finest example of gold
and silver decorated lac-
quer of the Muromachi pe-
riod (1392-1573).
Lacquer objects from this
period are seldom avail-
able, and the Freer has
only three others. (Photo-
graph by John Tsantes)

43
a

Washington, D.C., stu-
dents collaborate on a mu-
val-scaled painting for
the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden's
“Directions—Tim Rol-
lins and K.0O.S.: Ani-
mal Farm,” an
exhibition inspired by
George Orwell's novel.
(Photograph by Wend)
Vail)

44

with 50 veteran docents, the group will offer a
greater variety and number of public tours of the
Freer and Sackler galleries than had been possible
before.

w Seto and Mino Ceramics, by Louise Cort, assis-
tant curator for ceramics of the Freer and Sackler
galleries, with an appendix by Pamela B. Van-
diver, was published as the first in a series titled
Japanese Collections in the Freer Gallery of Art.
The book explores the colorfully glazed and eccen-
trically shaped ceramics from Mino and the fine
glazed pottery from Seto that are represented by
outstanding examples in the Freer’s collection.

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

James T. Demetrion, Director

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden ts
the Smithsonian Institution's gallery for modern
and contemporary art. The museum, which
opened in 1974, Is committed to increasing the
awareness and understanding of art through acqui-
sitions, exhibitions and publications, research ac-
tivities, public programs, and the presentation of
its collection in the galleries, plaza, and Sculpture
Garden. The museum provides a public facility

for the exhibition, study, and preservation of

\

1oth- and 2o0th-century art while presenting a
spectrum of contemporary work.

@ With the help of various acquisitions funds and
gifts from generous donors, the museum contin-
ued to acquire significant works by modern and
contemporary artists. Among the highlights for
the year were Clyfford Stull’s oil painting 1948-C
(1948); Christo’s mixed-media construction Ssore-
front (1964); Sigmar Polke’s acrylic painting Bun-
nies (1966); Rufino Tamayo’s oil painting The Solz-
tary One (1970); Christopher Wilmarth’s bronze
and steel construction Do Not Go Gently (1987);
Magdalena Abakanowicz’s burlap and wood sculp-
ture Four on a Bench (1990); and Tony Cragg’s
steel rack of rubber stamps, Sabcommittee (1991).

mw The museum’s plaza underwent a major trans-
formation designed by landscape architect James
Urban, of Annapolis, Maryland, in collaboration
with museum staff. Gradually, six grassy “rooms”
for the display of monumental sculpture from the
permanent collection took shape, enclosed by
trees and hedges and defined by granite paving.
The new plaza will also have a contemplative path-
way around its rectangular site and an access ramp
from the Mall side.

m “Crosscurrents of Modernism: Four Latin Amer-
ican Pioneers” provided a showcase for 94 works
by painters Diego Rivera (Mexican, 1886-1957),
Joaquin Torres-Garcia (Uruguayan, 1874-1949),
Wifredo Lam (Cuban, 1902-82), and Matta
(French, b. Chile, ro11). The exhibition, which
was widely noted in the press, celebrated the infu-
sion of New World culture into modern art. The
project was made possible by grants from the
Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund and an in-
demnity from the Federal Council on the Arts and
the Humanities. Concurrent programs, supported
by a grant from the Smithsonian Educational Out-
reach Program, included a scholarly symposium
and a Latin American festival for families with
workshops, dance, and musical performances. The
exhibition and programs were part of the Smith-
sonian’s Columbus Quincentenary observance.

g Exhibitions also included a midcareer retrospec-
tive for internationally celebrated, Washington-
born sculptor Martin Puryear and smaller shows
highlighting a theme, a group of works, or a site-
generated project by such contemporary artists as
Saint Clair Cemin, Alfredo Jaar, the collaborative
team of Tim Rollins and K.O.S. (Kids of Sur-
vival), Thomas Struth, and Francesc Torres.
gw Workshops highlighted the museum's educa-
tion programs. Sculptor Martin Puryear con-
ducted a workshop for 35 students from local high
schools, and 50 teachers spent an afternoon at the
museum in a training session on Puryear’s sculp-
ture. The Smithsonian Women’s Committee and
the Silver Spring and Prince George’s County
chapters of the LINKS, Inc., made the programs
possible. To create the centerpiece for their Direc-
tions exhibition, the South Bronx—based collec-
tive of Tim Rollins and K.O.S. held a week-long
workshop at the Duke Ellington School of the
Arts with 11 students from area schools.

@ Visitors were fascinated by A History of the Rus-
sian Revolution from Marx to Mayakovsky (1965), by
American artist Larry Rivers, newly reinstalled in
the permanent collection galleries. The mural-
scaled assemblage, which depicts one of the mod-
ern era’s most eventful narratives, gave viewers a
historical backdrop for contemporary events in
Eastern Europe.

Institutional Studies Office

Zahava D. Doering, Director

The Institutional Studies Office is a pan-Institu-
tional resource dedicated to the scientific study of
the characteristics, attitudes, opinions, and experi-
ences of Smithsonian constituencies. The office
conducts studies for senior management, muse-
ums, programs or research efforts within the muse-
ums, and Smithsonian offices and operations that
have a pan-Institutional focus. Among its topics
are audience and membership profiles, the educa-
tional value of the museum experience, and self-
study of Smithsonian operations, including ongo-
ing analysis of employee composition.

@ The office, in conjunction with the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Education and Public
Service, completed a major study, Educational Pro-
gram Inventory, based on a 1991 program inven-
tory. The study revealed the breadth and diversity
of Smithsonian educational activities.

@ Ongoing analyses of the racial, ethnic, and gen-
der composition of the Smithsonian staff helped
management monitor a changing environment.

@ Studies for Smithsonian bureaus and offices in-
cluded an assessment of visitor experience at the

exhibition “ ‘Degenerate Art’: The Fate of the
Avant-Garde in Nazi Germany” at both its Wash-
ington, D.C., and Berlin, Germany, venues. The
office also conducted surveys of the membership of
the Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design;
visitors to the Anacostia Museum; and partici-
pants in several Smithsonian concert series and
symposia.

International Gallery

The International Gallery presents exhibitions
that deal with significant topics from various disci-
plinary or cultural perspectives and that either
complement the work of Smithsonian bureaus or
represent an area outside the Institution’s collec-
tions. Public and scholarly programs are planned
in conjunction with exhibitions that appear in the
gallery, which 1s located in the S. Dillon Ripley
Center.

@ “ Degenerate Art’: The Fate of the Avant-
Garde in Nazi Germany,” an examination of mod-
ern works condemned by the authorities in Nazi
Germany, was featured this year in the Interna-
tional Gallery. A well-attended all-day forum,
“Degenerate Art: Perspectives and Issues,” was
presented in conjunction with the exhibition.

@ The gallery organized an exhibition of Arme-
nian tiles from Jerusalem titled “Views of Para-
dise: Tile Paintings by Marie Balian” for a show-
ing in the S. Dillon Ripley Center concourse.

@ The gallery was host to “Art as Activist: Revo-
lutionary Posters from Central and Eastern Eu-
rope,” organized by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service.

National Air and Space
Museum

Martin Harwit, Director

The National Air and Space Museum has the

largest collection of historic aircraft and spacecraft
in the world. The museum's goal is to explore and

45
a

Russtan President Boris
Yeltsin presents National
Air and Space Museum

Director Martin Harwit
with models of the Rus-
sian space shuttles Buran
and Energia. Yeltsin vis-
ited the museum on June
10, 1992, as part of his
official visit to Washing-
ton, D.C. (Photograph
by Carolyn Russo)

46

present the history, science, technology, and so-
cial impact of aeronautics and spaceflight and to
investigate and exhibit the nature of the universe
and our environment. The museum’s two histort-
cal research departments—Aeronautics and Space
History—conduct studies on the origin and devel-
opment of flight through the atmosphere and in
space, while the museum's two scientific labora-
tories—the Center for Earth and Planetary Studies
and the Laboratory for Astrophysics—carry out
programs of basic research in satellite remote sens-
ing of the environment, planetary surfaces and at-
mospheres, observational and theoretical astro-
physics, and the development of infrared

astronomical instruments for spacecraft.

@ The museum opened “Legend, Memory, and
the Great War in the Air,” which examines the
mythology of World War I aviation. The gallery
contrasts the popular perception of gallant knights
of the air with the gritty reality of early military
aviation. Accompanying the exhibition were a
book of the same title and a 10-week lecture and
film series.

@ The museum’s “Star Trek” exhibition commem-
orated the 25th anniversary of the popular 1960s
television series and examined how the series used
the science fiction genre to comment on the politi-
cal, social, and ethical issues of its time, including
superpower relations, civil rights and urban un-
rest, sexuality, and Vietnam.

® Scientific papers on the discovery of multiple
jets outflowing from newly born stars, the possibil-
ity of laser emission from coronal lines in galactic

nuclei, and a new theoretical model for the origin
of galaxies were published by the staff of the Labo-
ratory for Astrophysics. The Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies used new results from the Magel-
lan mission to Venus in comparing surface tec-
tonic features on the terrestrial planets and pub-
lished a rationale for a return mission to Chryse
Planitia on Mars, the site of the Viking I lander
that 1s part of the museum’s collection.

@ Efforts continue to reach out to diverse audi-
ences. “Say Yes to a Youngster’s Future,” a pro-
gram designed to enhance math and science learn-
ing among children of varied ethnic backgrounds,
was cosponsored by the National Urban Coalition
and the museum’s Minority Outreach Office. The
museum also offers a summer jobs program that
places local high school students in aerospace-re-
lated and museum jobs in the Washington, D.C.,
area.

@ The Aeronautics Department and the Smithson-
ian Institution Press marked the fifth anniversary
of the Smithsonian History of Aviation Series,
which publishes original monographs, reprints,
and translations and has been recognized as a sig-
nificant contribution to aviation history. Stanley
Sandler's Segregated Skies, an account of the
Tuskegee Airmen, and Michael Gorn’s The Univer-
sal Man, a biography of aerospace scientist Theo-
dore Von Karman, were both published this year
as part of the series. Also published this year by
Oxford University Press was Cardinal Choices,
which details the role of science advisers to the
presidents during the Cold War; the author is the
Department of Space History’s chairman, Gregg
Herken.

@ A temporary structure was erected at Washing-
ton Dulles International Airport to house the
SR-71 Blackbird, which has been stored outdoors
since it was received last year. The structure, 65
feet wide by 12 feet long, is all steel and was fabri-
cated on site with donated materials and services.

National Museum
of African Art

Sylvia H. Williams, Director

The National Museum of African Art is the only
museum in the United States dedicated solely to
the collection, preservation, research, exhibition,
and interpretation of the visual arts of sub-Saharan
Africa. The museum offers visitors the opportu-
nity to gain a better understanding of the extraor-
dinarily diverse cultures and visual traditions of
this vast region through its wide range of educa-
tional programs and its permanent and temporary
exhibitions. In addition, the museum serves as a
research and reference center, housing the Eliot
Elisofon Photographic Archives and the Warren
M. Robbins Library, a branch of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries, as well as exhibition galleries
and educational facilities.

@ The museum opened “Purpose and Perfection:
Pottery as a Woman’s Art in Central Africa,” a
new permanent exhibition featuring more than 60
vessels collected between 1900 and 1950.

@ The Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives en-
tered its entire collection of 26,500 field slides by
renowned Life magazine photographer Eliot Eliso-
fon into a new data base. The data base facilitates
access to the collection and allows museum staff
and archives visitors to conduct research by both
theme and ethnic group.

@ The museum acquired a monumental Ubangi
slit gong, carved in the form of a bush cow.

@ An exhibition of works by nine modern artists
from Nigeria, Cote d'Ivoire, South Africa, and
Kenya—‘Recent Acquisitions/New Dimen-

sions —featured etchings, linocuts, watercolors, @
Gilbert Bobbo Ahiaghle,

tapestries, and ceramics. é
an Ewe weaver from

@ Twenty-four men and women completed a
6 a: Ghana, demonstrates
nine-month docent training program. The mu-

seum now has 88 weekday and weekend docents.

@ The museum displayed a rare cast metal ring

Ewe weaving on a tradi-
tional narrow-strip loom
at the National Museum
of African Art. (Photo-
graph by James Young)

from the collection in the exhibition, “Between
Man and the Gods: Sacrifice and Ceremony on a
Cast Metal Ring.” The exhibition was the result
of research conducted by Curator Roslyn Walker.

National Museum of
American Art

Elizabeth Broun, Director

The National Museum of American Art is com-
mitted to the acquisition, preservation, study,
and exhibition of American painting, sculpture,
graphic arts, photography, folk art, and crafts. As
the largest collection of American art in the
world, the museum houses more than 36,500 ob-
jects. The Renwick Gallery, a curatorial depart-
ment of the museum, collects and exhibits Ameri-
can crafts and decorative arts and sponsors research
and educational activities in the modern craft
movement. Through all its programs for general

audiences and scholars, the museum seeks to ex-

|

Mrs. George Watson
(1765), by John Single-
ton Copley, was acquired
by the National Museum
of American Art in
1992. The painting was
a partial gift of Hender-
son Inches, Jr., in honor
of his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Henderson Inches,
and a museum purchase
made possible in part by
Mr. and Mrs. R.
Crosby Kemper through
Crosby Kemper Founda-
tions, the American Art
Forum, and the Luistta
L. and Franz H. Deng-

hausen Endou ment,

47
48

pand public understanding of American art and to
ensure that its collections include diverse artistic
achievements that were once unrecognized.

@ The Renwick Gallery, the nation’s premier col-
lection of American craft, observed its 20th anni-
versary in 1992 with a variety of public celebra-
tions, including a gala benefit in April and the
exhibition “American Crafts: The Nation’s Collec-
tion,” which highlighted the scope and promi-
nence of the Renwick’s acquisitions. The biennial
Patricia and Philip Frost Prize for Distinguished
Scholarship in American Crafts was established in
observance of the anniversary.

@ A unique new collection of landscape photogra-
phy, acquired by the museum over the past four
years entirely with outside support, was presented
in the spring exhibition “Between Home and
Heaven: Contemporary American Landscape Pho-
tography.” Numbering more than 300 images,
the collection addresses a significant concern of
many artists today: the fragile coexistence of na-
ture and human culture in the late 20th century.
A photography contest for high school students
was held in conjunction with the exhibition,
which will tour nationally to seven locations.

@ Save Outdoor Sculpture! (SOS!), a three-year
nationwide campaign to identify and record the
condition of outdoor sculpture located in 50
states, was officially launched in February by the
museum and the National Institute for the Conser-
vation of Cultural Property. By the fall, SOS! had
funded 63 projects in 36 states, and comprehen-
sive survey training sessions for representatives of
these projects were held at the museum in May
and September.

@ An exceptionally fine portrait, Mrs. George Wat-
son (1765), by John Singleton Copley (1738—
1815), the most renowned of America’s colonial-
era artists, was acquired through partial gift and
purchase. For more than a decade, the museum
had searched for a Copley of this quality for its col-
lections, which represent 200 years of American
artistic achievement.

@ “Folk Art across America,” a new installation
designed to recognize the creativity of self-taught
arusts and delight visitors with its rich variety,
opened in the spring on the museum’s first floor.
Embracing folk art as an equal partner in Ameri-
can art, the display of 60 objects, ranging from a
whimsical bottle-cap giraffe and visionary paint-
ings to fancy quilts and trade signs, redefines the

ways in which visitors are encouraged to think
about the history of American art.

w@ Free within Ourselves: African-American Artists in
the Collection of the National Museum of American
Art, published by the museum in association with
Pomegranate Artbooks, 1s a testament to the ex-
traordinary, yet often untold, contributions of
black artists to the nation’s art and culture. The il-
lustrated book presents a dramatic variety of paint-
ings, sculpture, and works on paper by 31 artists
from the 18th century to the 1980s. The museum
plans to distribute 4,000 copies to school systems
and educators nationwide, and an exhibition
based on the book will go on tour to museums
across the country for two years. The publication,
distribution project, and exhibition were funded
entirely by a donor.

National Museum
of American History
Roger G. Kennedy, Director

The National Museum of American History
(NMAH) preserves, honors, and celebrates the na-
tion’s heritage in exhibitions, concerts, books,
symposia, drama, films, recordings, and school
outreach programs that promote understanding of
the experiences and aspirations of all the American
people. As an educational institution, NNAH
uses its collections of more than 17 million ob-
jects—ranging from American Indian artifacts
and the original Star Spangled Banner to mighty
locomotives and tiny computer chips—to docu-
ment the amazing diversity and vitality of Ameri-
can culture and present this rich, living legacy to
audiences on the National Mall and beyond. Re-
search by scholars and specialists informs all
NMAH undertakings, including the stewardship
and conservation of the national treasures that
make up its collections, and the museum’s ar-
chives are one of the most comprehensive reposi-
tories of American history materials in existence.

@ ‘First Ladies: Political Role and Public Image”
is the first major museum exhibition to study first
ladies from Martha Washington to Barbara Bush
in the contexts of political history, women’s his-
tory, and the American public’s perceptions and
evolving expectations. The permanent exhibition
traces the experiences and impact of these women
through hundreds of historic photographs, docu-
ments, and personal artifacts. “First Ladies”
marked the welcome return to public view of 28
historic gowns and dresses from the popular First
Ladies Collection, removed in 1987 for extensive
conservation work.

mw “American Encounters,” a new permanent exhi-
bition commemorating the Columbus Quincen-
tenary, chronicles the experiences, struggles, com-
promises, and eventual coexistence among Ameri-
can Indian, Hispanic, and Anglo-American peo-
ples in the Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico that
began in 1539 with the arrival of Spanish soldiers
and missionaries. An old story with modern impli-
cations, it is told through historic and contempo-
rary artifacts, works of art, and audio and video re-
cordings of narrative stories, music, and dance.

@ The museum's Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks
Orchestra, in conjunction with the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, received
a $7 million grant from the Lila Wallace—Reader’s
Digest Fund—the largest single grant ever given
to the Smithsonian—to fund a 10-year program
of traveling exhibitions, performances, educa-
tional programs, recordings, and other activities
at the Smithsonian and throughout the United
States beginning in April 1993.

@ NMAH'’s Division of Musical History joined
with the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts, the Library of Congress, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, and the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars to present a festi-
val of performances, symposia, and exhibitions
marking the 200th anniversary of Mozart's death.

@ The National Numismatic Collection acquired
142 counterfeit dies of ancient Greek, Roman,
and Byzantine coins. These dies allow identifica-
tion and documentation of counterfeit coins that
have been considered authentic by experts and mu-
seums throughout the world.

@ [na continuing innovative partnership with
Washington, D.C., public schools, NMAH’s Di-
vision of Education introduced its pilot Young In-
terpreters Program, in which five high school ju-
niors trained and served as museum interpreters.
For six weeks during the summer, they performed
dramatic vignettes in the “Field to Factory” exhibi-
tion and gave cart demonstrations throughout the
museum. The students worked 30 hours a week

and received stipends from DC Arts, a District of
Columbia agency.

@ Duke Ellington’s first Broadway musical, “Beg-
gar’s Holiday,” unrecorded and lost for decades,
was discovered in fragments among the vast Duke
Ellington Collection in the museum's Archives
Center. NMAH’s Division of Museum Programs
reconstructed the score, with lyrics by John La-
touche, and produced the first performance in 45
years of Ellington’s composition as part of the
American Song series.

National Museum
of the American Indian
W. Richard West, Jr., Director

The National Museum of the American Indian 1s
an institution of living culture dedicated to the
preservation, study, and exhibition of the life, lan-
guages, literature, history, and arts of the native
peoples of the Western Hemisphere. Its formal
mission is to recognize and affirm to native com-
munities and the non-native public the historical
and contemporary culture and cultural achieve-
ments of the natives of the Western Hemisphere
by advancing—in consultation, collaboration,
and cooperation with natives—knowledge and un-
derstanding of native cultures. The museum has a
special responsibility, through innovative public
programming, research, and collections, to pro-
tect, support, and enhance the development,

|

First Lady Barbara
Bush, National Museum
of American History Di-
rector Roger Kennedy,

and Smithsonian Institu-
tion Secretary Robert
McC. Adams took a pre-
view tour of “First La-
dies: Political Role and
Public Image,” the first
mayor museum exhibition
to study the office of first
lady in the contexts of po-
litical history and
women’s history. (Photo-
graph by Eric Long)

49
|

Linda Poolaw, a Dela-
warelKiowa playwright
from Anadarko, Okla-
homa, and Abe Conklin,

PoncalOsage dancer, story-
teller, and traditionalist
from Guthrie, Okla-
homa, help select artifacts
im Storage at the Research
Branch of the National
Museum of the American
Indian in New York
City for one of the mu-
seum's 1994 inaugural
exhibitions at the Alex-
ander Hamilton U.S.
Custom House in Neu
York City. (Photograph
by Karen Furth)

maintenance, and perpetuation of native cultures

and communities.

@ More than 600 objects have been selected by 28
native selectors from throughout the Western
Hemisphere for “Points of View,” the working ti-
tle of one of four inaugural exhibitions under de-
velopment for the 1994 opening of the George
Gustav Heye Center of the museum in New York
City. “Points of View” will include documented
comments of the selectors. A collaboration among
20 contemporary artists representing various cul-
tures and disciplines, including performance and
visual artists and writers, is also being developed,
along with an orientation exhibition. The inaugu-
ral will include “Shared Visions: Native American
Painters and Sculptors in the Twentieth Century,”
an exhibition from the Heard Museum in Phoe-
nix, Arizona.

m@ “The Way of the People,” the first report of the
continuing dialogue and consultations with Amer-
ican Indians, was released. The report summarizes
the 11 consultations held through November 22,
1991. Dialogue between the museum and the Na-
tive American community began in 1991 and con-
tinued with six consultations held in fiscal year
1992, each attended by approximately 40 partici-
pants. The purpose of these meetings, which will
be a permanent aspect of the museum, is to obtain
programmatic information that will guide the de-
sign of the museum on the National Mall in
Washington, D.C., and the cultural resources cen-
ter in Suitland, Maryland.

@ Progress continued on the renovation and his-
toric preservation of the first two floors of the Alex-
ander Hamilton U.S. Custom House, which will
house the museum’s George Gustav Heye Center
in New York City. The rotunda was completea
for the November 15, 1992, opening of “Path-
ways of Tradition: Indian Insights into Indian
Worlds,” a temporary exhibition of 100 objects
representing a cross section of American Indian
culture and creativity and a microcosm of the mu-
seum’s mission. Objects for the exhibition were se-
lected by 18 American Indians, continuing the
policy of consultation and development by the peo-
ples and cultures that the museum represents.

@ Architectural firms to design the museum’s col-
lections research center in suburban Maryland
were selected in June. The design team consists of
James Stewart Polshek and Partners, of New York
City and San Francisco, a 50-person firm that was
honored in 1992 for a decade of design excellence;
Metcalf Tobey & Partners, of Reston, Virginia,
specialists in the design of technologically com-
plex buildings; and the Native American Design
Collaborative, an association of 24 Native Ameri-
can—owned architectural and engineering firms.
Louis Weller (Caddo/Cherokee), of Albuquerque,
New Mexico, is the chairman of the board of direc-
tors of the collaborative.

@ As the year ended, the Smithsonian had re-
quested submissions for qualifications of architects
and engineers to design and construct the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian on the Na-
tional Mall, which is scheduled for completion by
the end of the decade.

National Portrait Gallery

Alan Fern, Director

The National Portrait Gallery is dedicated to the
collection, preservation, exhibition, and study of
portraits of people who have made significant con-
tributions to American history and to the study of
the artists who created such portraiture. The gal-
lery sponsors a variety of scholarly and public activ-
ities for audiences interested in American art.

@ The National Portrait Gallery mounted several
special exhibitions this year. “Ralph Earl: The
Face of the Young Republic” was the first exhibi-
tion ever devoted to this artist's work. “Noble
Heritage: Five Centuries of Portraits from the Ho-
sokawa Family” was the latest in a series exhib-
iting foreign portraits. “Arnold Newman’s Ameri-
cans” celebrated the acquisition (by purchase and
gift) of 101 photographic portraits by this contem-
porary master, whose career spans more than 50
years. “‘The Spirit of Party’: Hamilton and Jeffer-
son at Odds” honored the 250th anniversary of Jef-
ferson’s birth and explored the interaction be-
tween these men and their circles of supporters.

@ Major acquisitions by the National Portrait Gal-
lery included a 1769 oil painting by Charles Will-
son Peale titled Anne Catharine Hoof Green, a rare
example of a portrait of a woman professional dur-
ing colonial times, and Thomas Jefferson, an oil
painting on panel copied in 1836 by Charles Bird
King from Gilbert Stuart’s 1805 medallion pro-
file, which was the image most admired by Jeffer-
son’s family and discriminating friends.

@ Special programs and events in 1992 included
“An Evening with Katharine Graham,” an inter-
view with the chairman of the board of the Wash-
ington Post Company, the latest in the gallery's
popular self-portrait series.

gw Among the many public programs at the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery this year were a poetry read-
ing highlighting the works of such American po-
ets as Carl Sandburg, Langston Hughes, Anne
Bradstreet, Walt Whitman, and Phillis
Wheatley, part of the series Cultures in Motion:
Portraits in American Diversity. Other programs
included staged bilingual readings from the plays
of Maria Irene Fornes, produced in collaboration
with the Gala Hispanic Theater; staged readings
of selected plays and poetry by Jessie Fauset and
May Miller; a dramatization of the efforts of inde-
pendent Hawaii's last queen, Liliuokalani, to pre-
serve her country’s culture and political status, as
well as her own reign; a theatrical presentation of
excerpts from the works of Theodor Geisel (Dr.
Seuss); and lectures, performances, and demonstra-
tions relating to the Hosokawa exhibition.

@ The Education Department held a number of
workshops for families drawing inspiration from
exhibitions and the collections. Among them
were photo workshops in conjunction with the
“Arnold Newman’s Americans” exhibition that in-
troduced participants to Newman’s individual
style and gave them an opportunity to explore
photographic composition and produce their own
Polaroid portraits.

@ The Catalog of American Portraits received a

grant from the Smithsonian Women’s Committee

to survey and record portraits in New Mexico.

@ The gallery’s publications this year included No-
ble Heritage: Five Centuries of Portraits from the Hoso-
kawa Family, by Jared Lubarsky, a catalogue docu-
menting the role of this prominent Japanese
family in government, art, and scholarship; Ar-
nold Newman’s Americans, with essays by Newman
and the gallery’s director, Alan Fern, which high-
lights the photographer's record of “a cross section
of the history of our times”; and “The Spirit of
Party”: Hamilton and Jefferson at Odds, by National
Portrait Gallery historian Margaret C. S.
Christman, an account of the roots of the bitterly
partisan rivalry between the two men in the
1790s.

Office of Exhibits Central

John F. Coppola, Director

The Smithsonian Institution’s largest and most
comprehensive exhibition producer, the Office of
Exhibits Central (OEC) works with Smithsonian

|

Musician Isaac Stern, by
the contemporary Ameri-
can photographer Arnold
Newman. This striking
close-up 1s an exception to
Newman’s usual practice
of photographing his sub-
jects in their living or
working environments.
One hundred one of New-
man’s works were added
to the collection of the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery
in 1992. (NPG file pho-
tograph by Rolland
White, © Arnold
Newman)
|

Office of Exhibits Central
model maker Richard Kil-
day builds a prototype of
a trail map for the visu-
ally impaired, which
will be installed at the
Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center.

museums and galleries in virtually every aspect of
exhibition design and production. OEC staff is ex-
pert in traveling and temporary exhibitions, as
well as permanent installations. The office also pro-
vides training and guidance on exhibit develop-
ment and state-of-the-art artifact storage and han-

dling facilities.

@ OEC continues to prepare a variety of exhibi-
tions for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service (SITES). This year, working with
curators from the National Museum of American
History, the office edited, designed, and produced
“Perpetual Campaign: The Making of the People’s
President” and “Who's in Charge? Workers and
Managers in the United States.” OEC also de-
signed, edited, and produced “Fragile Ecologies:
Artists’ Interpretations and Solutions,” an art exhi-
bition that addresses environmental concerns. In
addition, OEC created graphics for, edited, pro-
duced, crated, and shipped the SITES traveling
version of “Seeds of Change,” the major Columbus
Quincentenary exhibition of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History.

@ OEC has been actively involved in exhibits at
the International and Experimental galleries since
their inception. Recent projects have included
““Degenerate Art’: The Fate of the Avant-Garde
in Nazi Germany” and “Imperial Austria: Trea-
sures of Art, Arms & Armor from the State of
Styria,” as well as “The Kids Bridge,” which con-
fronts the issues of prejudice and racism.

@ OEC 1s involved in the establishment of exhibi-
tions in the Smithsonian’s newest museums: the
National Postal History and Philatelic Museum
and the National Museum of the American In-
dian. For the 1993 opening of the Postal Mu-
seum, for example, OEC is creating historically ac-
curate ship and railway models, as well as
sculpting horse and human mannequins. For the
National Museum of the American Indian, OEC
is editing scripts, fabricating exhibit furniture,
and sculpting mannequins for the two inaugural
exhibitions at the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Cus-
tom House in New York City.

@ OEC undertakes a broad range of projects for
the National Museum of Natural History, provid-
ing specialized services such as taxidermy, speci-
men restoration, freeze drying, and model mak-
ing, in addition to editing and design. For the
museum's new insect zoo, OEC ts creating models
and dioramas, editing text, and advising on ob-
ject selection.

Office of Museum Programs

Rex M. Ellis, Director

The Office of Museum Programs fosters public ac-
cess to the Institution by providing training and
professional development in museum practices.
These opportunities are available to staff, interns,
volunteers, and trustees from the Smithsonian and
from museums throughout the United States and
abroad.

@ The office continued its mandate to increase its
museology services to Smithsonian staff by spon-
soring “Managing Smithsonian Collections,” a
12-week training program attended by more than
40 employees from 15 Smithsonian bureaus and
offices. The course addressed the legal and ethical
responsibilities of assembling and maintaining col-
lections, explained practical measures used to man-
age and care for Smithsonian collections, and sug-
gested ways to communicate collections
management principles to other Smithsonian

staff.

@ The office’s American Indian Museum Studies
programs sponsored five collections and museum
management workshops at tribal museums and
cultural centers throughout the United States and
hosted two American Indian interns at the Smith-
sonian. The creation of the Native American Mu-
seums and Cultural Centers Resource File in the
Museum Reference Center will facilitate the shar-
ing of information with tribal museums and cul-
tural centers. The file contains printed and visual
resources collected by the office since 1981.

@ The promotion of leadership in museum man-
agement and methods continued through two pro-
grams. The Awards for Museum Leadership Pro-
gram recognized the achievements of people of
color who work in museums. This year the award
recipients gathered at the Smithsonian to debate
the resolution “Our society does not need cultur-
ally specific museums.” The Fellowships in Mu-
seum Practice Program, newly established
through a grant from the Smithsonian Women’s
Committee, is the first program in the United
States to fund research that strengthens and ex-
pands the educational role of museums.

@ The office provided orientation and counseling
services and career programs to more than 700 in-
terns at the Smithsonian. Recruitment and out-
reach were enhanced this year with the publica-
tion of a new edition of Internship Opportunities at
the Smithsonian Institution, a comprehensive descrip-
tion of 40 internship programs.

Office of
Quincentenary Programs

Alicia M. Gonzalez, Director

The Office of Quincentenary Programs coordi-
nated the broadest array of programs and activities
the Institution has ever presented for an anniver-
sary commemoration to observe the 500th anniver-
sary of Christopher Columbus’s 1492 arrival in
the Americas. This occasion offered the opportu-
nity to examine the cultural, historical, and scien-
tific repercussions of the meeting of two hemi-
spheres. Activities included exhibitions such as
“Seeds of Change,” “American Encounters,” and
“The West as America, 1820-1920: Reinterpret-
ing Images of the Frontier”; the Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife and the Potato Festival; and myriad
symposia, lectures, performances, publications,
video recordings, and television and radio series.
The pan-Institutional commemoration reflected

the diversity of Smithsonian research interests and
allowed the public to learn about the significance
of Columbus's voyages from a broad perspective.
A sampling of these activities follows.

@ The symposium “Images: Women in the Amer-
icas” examined the ways women have been por-
trayed among Europeans, Africans, and indige-
nous Americans from the period of contact
through contemporary times. The symposium,
which featured speakers from around the world,
looked at women’s achievements and changes in
their social status from a variety of class, color, ra-
cial, religious, and national perspectives.

@ The third issue of The New World, the newslet-
ter of the Office of Quincentenary Programs, was
published in August 1992; it examined the Asian
influence in the Americas. More than 10,000 cop-
ies of the newsletter—in English and Span-
ish—were distributed throughout the United
States, Latin America, and Spain.

w A five-part television series, “Buried Mirror: Re-
flections on Spain and the New World by Carlos
Fuentes,” premiered on the Discovery Channel on
April 19, 1992. The series offered a sweeping
view of Spanish and Latin American history and
was written and narrated by the well-known
author.

@ Meetings were held during the year to develop
a working paper on the Institute of the Americas,
a permanent program to focus on the history and
culture of the Americas. A study will be con-
ducted in 1993.

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

Anna R. Cohn, Director

The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (SITES) expands the Smithsonian’s pres-
ence beyond Washington, D.C., to millions of
people each year by circulating exhibitions to mu-
seums, libraries, science centers, historical soci-
eties, ZoOS, aquariums, community centers, and
schools. SITES programs represent a range of hu-
man perspectives. They pose questions, communi-
cate abstractions, and challenge visitors to make
connections among objects, people, places,
events, and ideas. By emphasizing diverse view-
|

“Africa’s Legacy in Mex-
ico: Photographs by Tony
Gleaton” brings to light
the African experience
and legacy in Mexico.
This 1990 photograph 1:
titled In My Grand-
mother’s House. (Photo-
graph by Tony Gleaton)

54

points and by using inquiry as a means for inter-
preting exhibition themes and images, SITES en-
courages visitors to explore the full breadth of
possibilities inherent in themselves, others, and
the world around them.

@ SITES, the National Museum of American His-
tory, the Office of Public Affairs, and the Office of
Development cosponsored a major media event in
May to announce a $7 million grant from the Lila
Wallace—Reader’s Digest Fund awarded to the
Smithsonian for a 10-year jazz initiative, “Amer-
ica’s Jazz Heritage.” This project will include trav-
eling exhibitions, performances, educational pro-
grams, recordings, special events, publications,
research, and radio programs at the Smithsonian
and throughout the United States.

@ SITES and the American Library Association
produced and began circulating a panel adaptation
of the National Museum of Natural History's ma-
jor Columbus Quincentenary exhibition, “Seeds of
Change.” Five copies began traveling nationwide
in January and will visit public libraries in all 50
states through early 1994.

m@ Nineteen SITES statf became federal employees
in April as the result of a significant federal appro-
priation for staff salaries and benefits received by
SITES in fiscal year 1991. Increased federal sup-
port for SITES will translate into more affordable
traveling exhibitions and thus into expanded op-
portunities for people across the country to experi-
ence the full range of Smithsonian programs.

@ [na distinctive partnership, SITES joined with
Washington's Corcoran Gallery of Art, the non-
profit organization New African Visions, and me-
dia giant Time Warner, Inc., to present “Songs of
My People,” a photography exhibition portraying

African Americans today. The exhibition opened
in Washington in February. Three copies are trav-
eling nationwide under the auspices of SITES
through 1994.

Education and
Public Service

Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Education
and Public Service

James C. Early, Assistant Secretary

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education
and Public Service advises the secretary and the
under secretary on policy matters relating to pub-
lic education, cultural pluralism and cultural eq-
uity, and wider audience initiatives. The office
and the units it oversees disseminate information
about the Smithsonian to national and interna-
tional audiences, collaborate with elementary and
secondary schools and educational associations,
and engage in applied research and the documenta-
tion of living cultures. The office also provides pol-
icy guidance and programmatic assistance to help
strengthen the Institution’s overall program of cul-
tural diversity.

@ This year the office focused on developing pol-
icy objectives and goals in education. While recog-
nizing the importance of the Smithsonian’s varied
educational activities, the office identified precolle-
giate educational programming as the top priority
for Institution-wide action.

@ Guidelines for the Educational Outreach Pro-
gram were revised. Grants were awarded in the fol-
lowing areas: teacher enrichment projects; Curricu-
lum development projects that match the needs of
school systems with the resources available at the
Smithsonian; educational projects that underscore
collaboration between museums and other educa-
tional institutions; and educational projects for
teenagers and families in “at-risk” socioeconomic
groups.

@ The Smithsonian published Educational Program
Inventory, the first study categorizing such activi-
ties at the Institution. The study provides the ba-
sis for the current priorities of the office: to foster
stronger collegiality among educators at the
Smithsonian and to monitor and coordinate educa-
tional programs to eliminate the duplication of ef-
fort and to ensure better allocation of budgetary
resources.

@ The Smithsonian's Cultural Education Commit-
tee advised the secretary to expand the employ-
ment of culturally diverse staff throughout the In-
stitution by placing greater accountability at the
managerial level. The committee's recommenda-
tions focused on the hiring and promotion of mi-
norities in research, curatorial, editorial, and con-
tract areas.

Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies

Richard Kurin, Director

The Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural
Studies engages in cultural conservation and repre-
sentation activities that promote continuity, integ-
rity, and equity for traditional ethnic, tribal, re-
gional, minority, and working-class cultures in
the United States and abroad. Staff folklorists, cul-
tural anthropologists, and ethnomusicologists re-
search the expressive traditions of American and
worldwide grass roots cultures. They publish and
present their work to scholarly and public audi-
ences through the Festival of American Folklife,
Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings, the Folklife
Studies monograph/film series, cultural education
programs, and the Folkways Archives.

@ The 26th annual Festival of American Folklife
featured three programs on the occasion of the Co-
lumbus Quincentenary that examined the encoun-
ters of New and Old World cultures: “New Mex-
ico,” “Creativity and Resistance: Maroon Culture
in the Americas,” and “The Changing Soundscape

in Indian Country.” A fourth program, “Workers
at the White House,” celebrated the 200th anni-
versary of the president's official residence.

@ The U.S. Virgin Islands program presented at
the 1990 Festival of American Folklife was staged
in St. Croix with support and collaboration from
the center and included the participation of Sene-
galese folk artists and the Freedom Singers.

@ In Indonesia, the first part of a 20-volume se-
ries on Indonesian music and verbal arts has been
published on Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings
with the help of the Ford Foundation. The re-
cordings use music to teach history, geography,
and social studies to Indonesian students. The col-
laborative project also helped train Indonesian re-
searchers, technicians, and archivists.

w A Mayan storyteller who participated in the
1991 Folklife Festival published a book about the
festival as he and other Chiapanecos experienced
it. A film documentary by a Chiapaneco team ex-
amines the participation of Chiapan Mayan people
in the festival in relation to that of other Indian
groups.

B Joint teams of folklorists from the United
States and the Commonwealth of Independent
States continue their fieldwork among American
communities and related populations in the for-
mer Soviet Union.

Young visitors to the
1992 Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife watch as Ra-
fael Cassiani Cassiani
demonstrates the use of a
bird trap. (Photograph
by Eric Long)

55
a

Members of school district
teams from LaGrange,
Georgia, and Baton
Rouge, Louisiana, work
together on a hands-on
sctence learning activity
for elementary children as
part of the National Sci-
ence Resources Center's El-

ementary Science
Leadership Institute.
(Photograph by Rick
Vargas )

National Science
Resources Center

Douglas M. Lapp, Executive Director

The National Science Resources Center (NSRC) is
operated by the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Academy of Sciences to help improve the
teaching of science in the nation’s schools. The
NSRC collects and disseminates information
about exemplary science teaching resources, devel-
ops innovative science curriculum materials, and
sponsors outreach and technical assistance activi-
ties to help school districts develop and sustain
hands-on science programs.

@ With its first Working Conference for Scien-
tists and Engineers on Precollege Science Educa-
tion, the NSRC launched the National Elemen-
tary Science Leadership Initiative (NESLI).
Twenty-eight scientists and engineers represent-
ing academia, federal research facilities, and pri-
vate industry participated. For one week, they
worked at the California Institute of Technology
with innovative science teaching materials, ob-
served hands-on science teaching and learning in
local public school classrooms, and discussed sci-
ence education reform issues with national leaders
in the field. Participants developed recommenda-
tions on how scientists and engineers can most ef-
fectively contribute to sustained improvement in
precollege (K—12) science education. The NSRC
has since begun national distribution of the recom-
mendations and plans to issue a formal report.

@ The NSRC’s NESLI project also supported two
Elementary Science Leadership Institutes, at-
tended by 29 teams of teachers, administrators,
and scientists from 84 school districts in 15 states.
Since 1989, 72 teams from schools serving nearly
2 million children in 32 states, the District of Co-
lumbia, Mexico, and Canada have participated in
these week-long institutes, which feature work-
shops and discussions on strategies for implement-
ing effective elementary science programs at the lo-
cal level.

@ The NSRC continued to develop, market, and
publish units of hands-on lessons as part of its ele-
mentary science curriculum project, Science and
Technology for Children (STC). To date, 18 STC
units have been trial-taught, 14 have been field-
tested, and 6 are available in commercial editions.
School districts across the country are now intro-
ducing the units into their elementary schools.

@ The NSRC continued to collect and catalogue
information for the publication of a guide to effec-
tive secondary school science teaching resources
similar to its elementary science guide. The ele-
mentary-level guide is being revised, and comput-
erized data bases of the information in both guides
are being upgraded for eventual access by science
educators through an electronic telecommunica-
tions network.

Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education

Ann Bay, Director

As the Smithsonian Institution’s central office for
precollege education, the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education draws on resources from
throughout the Institution to meet the needs of
teachers and students in the Washington, D.C.,
area and nationwide. The office also serves as a
clearinghouse of information about Smithsonian
educational materials and programs and works to
encourage communication and collaboration
among Smithsonian education units and between
those units and outside educational organizations.
An important goal of the office is to educate
young people and their teachers about the value of
museums and related institutions as learning re-
sources and about how to use museums and their
primary source materials to acquire factual knowl-
edge and analytical skills. These efforts involve col-
laboration with schools, school systems, universi-
ties, and other museums, reaching thousands of
teachers and millions of students each year. The of-
fice carries out programming in four categories:
professional development for teachers, curriculum
materials for schools, programs and materials for
children and teenagers, and clearinghouse ser-
vices.

@ For the second year, a collaboration with two
District of Columbia public schools in affiliation
with the Foxfire Foundation brought teachers into
Smithsonian museums for internships to develop
classroom materials and lessons on African Ameri-
can history and culture.

@ The office’s work in teacher preparation and en-
hancement included the second annual day-long
symposium, “Word of Mouth: Learning and
Teaching through Stories,” and a series of 11 one-
week courses on a variety of subjects relating to
school curricula. Course topics ranged from the
history of U.S. political protest to teaching ecol-
ogy to cross-cultural communications.

@ Supported by a grant from Brother Interna-
tional, the office published “Protest and Patrio-
tism,” a high school curriculum kit that helps stu-
dents explore the history of American protest by
examining populism, the civil rights struggle,
and the environmental movement. More than
15,000 copies were sent on request to schools na-
tionwide.

Wider Audience
Development Program
Marshall J. Wong, Director

The Wider Audience Development Program sup-
ports efforts to strengthen the Smithsonian’s inter-
action with culturally diverse communities. Exam-
ples of the program’s work include coordinating
pan-Institutional observances of federally desig-
nated ethnic and women’s heritage, organizing pe-
riodic forums for Smithsonian staff on issues relat-
ing to cultural pluralism, and collecting and
analyzing data on nontraditional audiences. The
program also provides operational support to the
Smithsonian Cultural Education Committee, a

group of private citizens that advises Smithsonian
management on cultural pluralism in education
and hiring.

@ For American Indian Heritage Month in No-
vember, the Honorable Elijah Harper (Ojibwa), a
member of the Canadian Parliament and honorary
chief of the Red Sucker Lake Band, spoke on sover-
eignty issues facing indigenous Canadians.

gm Dr. Wyatt Tee Walker, ethnomusicologist and
senior pastor of Canaan Baptist Church in Har-
lem, was the speaker for Black History Month ob-
servances in February. Walker spoke on the Afri-
can roots of black sacred music.

@ The Smithsonian’s commemoration of
Women’s History Month in March featured a talk
by U.S. Representative Eleanor Holmes Norton
(D-D.C.) on contemporary issues facing working
women.

@ During Asian Pacific American Heritage
Month in May, Evelyn Hu-DeHart, director of
the Center for Studies of Ethnicity and Race in
America, University of Colorado at Boulder,
spoke on Asians throughout the Americas.

@ The Hispanic Heritage Month keynote address
in September featured Luis Cancel, executive direc-
tor of the Bronx Museum of the Arts. Cancel
spoke about efforts to increase Latino representa-
tion in museum programs and exhibitions.

External Affairs

Office of the Assistant
Secretary for External Affairs

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary

The Smithsonian Institution’s response to the
needs and concerns of its many external constituen-
cies is the primary responsibility of the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for External Affairs. The of-
fice frames the Institution’s goals and impact be-
yond the National Mall by supervising its compo-
nent units, using print and electronic media
effectively, hosting diplomatic events and events
in honor of friends of the Institution, and ad-
58

dressing the role of the Smithsonian in national
and international affairs.

@ In preparation for the United Nations Confer-
ence on Environment and Development in Rio de
Janeiro in June, the Office of External Affairs
hosted conferences and briefings to discuss rele-
vant issues with scientists, private sector leaders,
members of Congress and their staffs, and federal
agency officials. Assistant Secretary Thomas E.
Lovejoy represented the United States as an alter-
nate delegate at the Earth Summit, the largest
gathering ever of heads of state. On his return, he
reported conference results through testimony at
congressional hearings, press conferences, and pub-
lic briefings.

@ The Sustainable Biosphere Project, developed
and conducted by the Office of External Affairs, is
the first serious effort to institute the principles
and practices of a sustainable biosphere interna-
tionally through six regional workshops to iden-
tify and disseminate successful management tech-
niques.

m@ The Office of External Affairs cosponsored with
the United States Information Agency a number
of conferences to enhance cultural exchanges with
the former Soviet Union. Among them were the
first meeting of Ministry of Education officials
from former Soviet republics and a joint confer-
ence of American and Soviet filmmakers on the vi-
sual record of World War II.

m@ Represented by Deputy Assistant Secretary
Marc Pachter, the Smithsonian actively partici-
pated in the President’s Committee on the Arts
and the Humanities, with special attention to its
international cultural advisory group, organized
to broaden national support for international cul-
tural exchange.

Office of
International Relations

Francine C. Berkowitz, Director

The Office of International Relations (OIR) pro-
vides technical assistance and diplomatic support
for Smithsonian programs abroad. It serves as the
link between the Smithsonian and foreign institu-
tions or individuals, as well as between interna-

tional organizations and government agencies.
The office assists with the technical details of inter-
national exchanges of museum objects and staff
and administers two funding programs to encour-
age international cooperation in scholarly research
and museum programs.

@ A prototype version of a Latin American exhibi-
tion on the rainforests of the Americas opened at
the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit in June 1992.
OIR provided international coordination for the
project consortium, which included 11 organiza-
tions from throughout the Western Hemisphere,
and also organized an education program for the
exhibition.

@ The office coordinated visits to the Smithsonian
by a member of the Supreme Council of Madagas-
car, the chairman of the British Council, the presi-
dent of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, minis-
ters of culture from Gabon, Senegal, and Turkey,
and ministers of education from all the republics
of the former Soviet Union. Each year OIR makes
arrangements for hundreds of official visits by for-
eign scholars and cultural or scientific officials.

@ OIR participated in the formation of the
U.S.—Mexico Foundation for Science in coopera-
tion with the University of California Consortium
on Mexico, the National Academy of Sciences,
and agencies of the U.S. and Mexican govern-
ments. On behalf of the Smithsonian, OIR staff
assumed working-level and leadership roles in
several binational cultural and scientific

commissions.

Office of Conference Services

Katherine Kirlin, Acting Director

The Office of Conference Services (OCS) helps
Smithsonian scholars and managers plan and coor-
dinate research conferences, international con-
gresses, and collaborative programs.

@ Throughout the year, OCS provided logistical
support for many research related conferences initi-
ated by Smithsonian scholars. In October 1991,
for example, OCS worked with the staff of African
and Caribbean Programs, located in the Interna-
tional Center, in managing the Columbus
Quincentenary conference, “ ‘Race,’ Discourse,
and the Origins of the Americas: A New World
View of 1492.”

@ In March, the office assisted with the 15th an-
nual conference of the Society of Ethnobiology,
sponsored by the Department of Anthropology,
National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man. Other collaborative programs co-
ordinated by OCS include “Toward an Educated
Society: Research and Policy,” held in May and
sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Secretary
for the Arts and Humanities and the National
Opinion Research Center.

Office of Special Events

Barbara H. Spraggins, Director

The Office of Special Events (OSE) organizes
events throughout the Institution that contribute
to developing and maintaining important present
and future constituencies. In 1992, the office coor-
dinated activities with Smithsonian bureaus, with
corporations, and with organizations whose mis-
sions coincide with those of the Institution.

@ Varied events represented the diversity of the
Smithsonian. Among them were dinners for the
United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, the Hispanic Association of Col-
leges and Universities, and the President’s Coun-
cil of Advisers on Science and Technology; a recep-
tion for the Garden Club of Bavaria; and a
luncheon for the National Opinion Research Cen-
ter. The office also coordinated events to support
exhibitions such as “Art as Activist: Revolutionary
Posters from Central and Eastern Europe.”

@ The office served as a clearinghouse for more
than 1,000 requests from groups that wish to co-
sponsor events at the Institution. The OSE also ad-
vises Smithsonian offices on matters of protocol.

Office of
Telecommunications

Paul B. Johnson, Director

The Office of Telecommunications produces and
markets audio, video, and film programs relating
to a wide spectrum of Smithsonian interests.
These programs extend the Institution’s reach to
audiences in the United States and abroad
through television and radio broadcasts and
through distribution in a variety of technologies
to home and educational markets. The office also
provides media planning and production services
to Smithsonian units.

@ Radio Smithsonian developed several new proj-
ects. “Spirits of the Present: The Legacy from Na-
tive America” aired on 410 stations in North
America; it was the most widely broadcast special
series ever distributed by American Public Radio.
“Folk Masters,” a series featuring traditional mu-
SiC artists in concert, received the Gold Award for
Music/Performance from the Corporation for Pub-
lic Broadcasting and launched its second season
with new programs recorded at the Barns of Wolf
Trap near Washington, D.C.

@ “Dream Window: Reflections on the Japanese
Garden,” a one-hour film that reveals the rich
beauty and artistry of the gardens of Japan, was
produced by the office in association with Kajima-
Vision, Tokyo. The film premiered nationwide on
the Public Broadcasting Service on November 6,
1992.

@ Videos produced by the office with several
Smithsonian bureaus helped enrich a range of new
exhibitions. Notable among these were five com-
plementary programs exploring the richly plural
society of New Mexico for the National Museum
of American History Columbus Quincentenary ex-
hibition “American Encounters”; an evocative
video produced for the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service on the tradition of
English silver making; and, for the Anacostia Mu-
seum, a video epilogue for the exhibition “To
Achieve These Rights: The Struggle for Equality
and Self-Determination in the District of Colum-
bia, 1791-1978.”

@ The office helped lead the Smithsonian into
new media technologies as “Treasures of the
Smithsonian,” a pioneering compact disc—interac-
tive (CD-I) program, met with great retail suc-
a

Humankind’s most power-
ful intellectual creation,
the book, 1s the theme of
Smithsonian Book of
Books, by Michael Olm-
ert, published this year
by Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press.

cess. Two companion CD-Is, “The Downhome

Blues” and “The Uptown Blues,” entered produc-
tion, and development began on two more titles,
“Duke Ellington: The Man and His Legend” and
“Space Exploration,” linked to exhibitions in the
National Museum of American History and the

National Air and Space Museum, respectively.

Smithsonian
Institution Press

Felix C. Lowe, Director

As the Institution’s publisher, the Smithsonian In-
stitution Press is an important component of the
Smithsonian's mission to increase and diffuse
knowledge. The Press publishes books, videos,
and recordings in connection with the Institu-
tion’s research, scholarship, collections, and exhi-
bitions, as well as with outside experts working in
areas Consistent with Smithsonian interests. The
Press serves scholars and general readers through
its four divisions: Smithsonian Books, the Smith-
sonian Collection of Recordings, the University

Press, and the newly established Video Division.

@ The University Press highlight this year was
Seeds of Change

Carolyn Margolis and published to accompany the

, edited by Herman Viola and

Columbus Quincentenary exhibition at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History/National Mu-

THE SMITHSONIAN BOOK oO}

BOOKS

seum of Man. The book received many outstand-
ing reviews in the scholarly and popular press as
one of the best books published on the Quincen-
tenary. It has been translated into Spanish and
Japanese and was a selection of two major U.S.
book clubs.

@ The two main titles from Smithsonian Books
were The Smithsonian Book of Books, by Michael
Olmert, and Washington, D.C.: A Smithsonian
Book of the Nation's Capital. The first is a 320-page
examination of the many-faceted world of the
book, humankind’s most powerful intellectual cre-
ation, while the second is a multiauthor celebra-
tion of our capital city in the year of its 200th an-
niversary :

@ The Smithsonian Collection of Recordings pro-
duced its first continuity series, American Songbook,
with volume 1 released on January 15 and suc-
ceeding volumes to be issued at six-week inter-
vals. The series features the best of American com-
posers Irving Berlin, George Gershwin, Cole
Porter, Jerome Kern, Harold Arlen, Richard
Rodgers, Lorenz Hart, and Oscar Hammerstein.
Alan Jay Lerner, Hoagy Carmichael, Duke Elling-
ton, Johnny Mercer, and Jule Styne, among oth-
ers, are still to come.

@ The Syzuthsonian Year 1991 Supplement—pro-
duced with its companion volume, Smithsonian
Year, by the University Press's manuscript editing
department—was published entirely from elec-
tronic files prepared by the bureaus and offices of
the Institution. This innovative method resulted
in a uniform and concise 211-page book, in con-

trast to the 432-page volume of the previous year.

Smithsonian Magazine

Ronald C. Walker, Publisher
Donald B. Moser, Editor

Smithsonian is a monthly magazine provided as a
benefit of membership in the Smithsonian Institu-
tion. With a circulation of 2.1 million, Smzthson-
zan 1s among the 30 largest magazines published
today. It appeals to its diverse audience with arti-
cles on history, the environment, conservation,
the sciences, and the arts. Monthly features in-
clude “Phenomena, Comment, and Notes,” a com-

mentary on nature and the natural world; “Smith-
sonian Horizons,” a column by the Smithsonian
secretary; and reviews of recently released nonfic-
tion. Smithsonian activities are covered in three
regular departments: “Around the Mall,” “Smith-
sonian Highlights,” and “The Object at Hand.”

@ During the year, the magazine addressed the
Columbus Quincentenary with three articles: on
the explorers thought by some to have discovered
America before Columbus; on the state of the con-
tinent, its fauna, flora, and human inhabitants at
the time of Columbus; and on Europe at the time
of Columbus. Other stories covered a range of sub-
jects: the Black Seminole, the electric car, artist
George Bellows, the mountain lion, Little Saigon,
chile peppers, ancient Troy, new telephone sys-
tems, and the U.S. Forest Service.

@ In partnership with the American Society of
Travel Agents (ASTA), Smithsonian magazine cre-
ated the annual AST A/Smthsonian Magazine Envi-
ronmental Award to recognize outstanding
achievements and contributions by individuals,
corporations, and countries toward furthering the
goals of the environmental movement. The first re-
cipients, honored at the Smithsonian in January,
were Brazilian rubber tapper Chico Mendes (recog-
nized posthumously), for his peaceful resistance to
deforestation in the Amazon rainforest, and the re-
publics of Costa Rica and Rwanda, for their envi-
ronmental efforts and conservation programs.

@ Smithsonian magazine was awarded the presti-
gious First Place Award of Excellence for “out-
standing coverage of the black condition” by the
National Association of Black Journalists. The
magazine was honored for its article, “Against All
Odds, Black Seminole Won Their Freedom,” writ-
ten by Scott Thybony and published in the Au-
gust 1991 issue.

Air & Space/Smithsonian
Magazine

Ronald C. Walker, Publisher
George C. Larson, Editor

Arr & SpacelSmithsonian magazine is published bi-
monthly as a benefit of membership in the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum and has a national
circulation of more than 330,000. Articles cover
the range of air and space—related topics that ap-

peal to the magazine’s general readership. Regular
features include “In the Museum,” an informa-
tional column on museum artifacts; “Soundings,”
news briefs on aerospace topics; “Above and Be-
yond,” a commentary on unusual personal experi-
ences in the air and space realm; and “Viewpoint,”
comments from the museum director.

B In fiscal 1992, Aur & Space/Smithsonian launched
a six-part series focusing on the most sought ob-
jects in the cosmos, from extrasolar plants to black
holes. A brief preface essay by astronomer Lau-
rence Marschall in the October/November issue in-
troduced the series of features.

@ The magazine celebrated its sixth anniversary
with a folded poster insert in the April/May issue
depicting the history of the quest for speed by in-
creasingly advanced aircraft, beginning with the
Wright brothers and culminating in the SR-71
Blackbird.

Smithsonian National
Associate Program
Joseph M. Carper, Director

The Smithsonian National Associate Program, the
national membership and public outreach arm of
the Institution, provides educational opportuni-
ties and activities to Associate members and the
general public in order to develop loyal national
and international constituencies for the Smithson-
ian. These activities deal with topics of concern to
the Institution and include educational tours, re-
search expedition programs, lectures, perfor-
mances, workshops, and in-depth seminars, all de-
signed to appeal to the current National Associate
membership, as well as to new audiences. An im-
portant source of income for the Institution, the
Smithsonian National Associate Program raises un-
restricted trust funds through surpluses generated
by its activities and through corporate and individ-
ual giving programs, including the Contributing
Membership, the James Smithson Society, and
the Young Benefactors.

@ Contributions from the Contributing Member-
ship exceeded $8 million, a 4 percent increase
over fiscal year 1991. The total number of Con-
tributing Membership households exceeded
70,000.

61
|

Smithsonian National As-
sociate Program Research
Expedition volunteers and
staff posing with video-
disc technology at the Of-
fice of Printing and
Photographic Services.

B James Smithson Society grants totaling
$430,850 were awarded to 15 Smithsonian proj-
ects. The Grant Review Board consisted of two
members of the Smithsonian Institution Council
and a Smithsonian Regents Fellow. The board,
with Secretary Adams's final approval, awarded
funds to the following projects, among others:
The Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural
Studies received a grant to cosponsor a photo-text
panel exhibit, “Making the White House Work,”
which will be mounted in the presidential librar-
ies. The National Air and Space Museum will de-
velop two complementary computer-interactive
programs for the new “How Things Fly” gallery,
allowing visitors to explore the physics of aerody-
namic lift. The National Museum of American
Art will create an activity book series to teach ele-
mentary school children fine art appreciation
through activities that draw extensively on the
museum's collections and curatorial staff. The
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) re-
ceived funds to renovate a 7-inch telescope and to
modify SAO public education programs so that
they are accessible to disabled visitors. The Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries was awarded a grant
to establish a one-year pilot study of a postgradu-
ate residency for a minority member of the library
and information sciences profession.

@ Participation in Smithsonian National Associ-
ate Program U.S. study tours increased by 13 per-

cent over fiscal 1991. International study tour en-

rollment increased by 13 percent, and

Smithsonian Odyssey tour participation increased
by 72 percent. Among the U.S. program high-
lights was the Delta Queen's inaugural cruise on
the Tennessee/Tombigbee Waterway. In addi-
tion, six groups took advantage of special behind-
the-scenes tours of the Smithsonian and other cul-
tural and historic landmarks during week-long
Odyssey tours of Washington, D.C. More than
250 Associates during the year took part in
“France through the Ages,” the most popular Od-
yssey tour. On other international tours, more
than 100 Associates participated in “Dutch Water-
ways” and visited the Floriade, a vast international
flower show that occurs every 10 years, while oth-
ers joined the Smithsonian's first midwinter pro-
gram in Tibet.

@ Smithsonian Research Expeditions had a re-
cord-breaking year with 20 teams of Associates
participating in scientific projects. A total of
$202,000 and more than 13,000 hours of volun-
teer labor were contributed to the Smithsonian.
Three projects were completed at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center (SERC), in-
cluding a photographic documentation empha-
sizing SERC research that will result in a publica-
tion and two projects on plant ecology. A team of
25 volunteers gathered information on the Crow
Indian role as veterans at the annual Crow Fair.
Two teams of Associates assisted geologist Bill
Melson of the National Museum of Natural His-
tory in monitoring Arenal Volcano in Costa Rica.
For the fifth year, a team of Associates helped the
National Air and Space Museum with the inven-
tory of aircraft technical files and manuals.

Smithsonian Resident
Associate Program

Janet W. Solinger, Director

The Resident Associate Program (RAP), the
Smithsonian's cultural, continuing education,
membership, and outreach arm for metropolitan
Washington, continues its mission to bring a rich
mix of cultural and educational programs to its
more than 145,000 area members and the general
public. Each year, more than 300,000 people at-
tend RAP’s events, which place increasing empha-
sis on cultural diversity and worldwide environ-
mental concerns. The loyalty of RAP members is
reflected in a membership retention rate of about
74 percent.

@ Highlights of the year included RAP’s gala cele-
bration honoring the 1ooth birthday of film great
Hal Roach; a stellar evening with Rosemary
Clooney; sold-out lectures by authors Robert Bly,
Carlos Fuentes, Terry McMillan, and Gloria
Steinem and by actress Kelly McGillis and archi-
tectural historian Vincent Scully; the Washington
film premiere of Howards End; performances by
American Indian singer Buffy Sainte-Marie and
African American singer Abbey Lincoln; and con-
certs by jazz pianists Ellis Marsalis and Marcus
Roberts.

m@ RAP continues to reach national audiences in a
variety of ways, including cosponsorship with the
Teaching Company of weekend seminars, which
are audio- and videotaped for national distribu-
tion; taping of RAP lectures by Smithsonian Ra-
dio for broadcast on National Public Radio's
“Speakers Corner’; an innovative collaboration
with the American Chemical Society and the
American Institute of Physics on 12 workshops
for young people, disseminated nationally; and six
three-day seminars annually for university, corpo-
rate, and government leaders.

@ This year, more than 6,000 students were en-
rolled in Campus on the Mall in a single term.
Courses with enrollment exceeding 400 included
“The Opinion Makers: The Media and the Shap-
ing of Public Opinion in the U.S.”; “France To-
day,” in collaboration with the Embassy of France;
“Probing the Mysteries of the Brain,” taught by
scientists from the National Institutes of Health;
“Behind the Scenes at the New York Times,” pre-
senting key Tzmes critics and columnists; and
“Murder They Wrote,” featuring some of today’s
foremost murder mystery authors.

@ Through its African American Studies Center,
RAP emphasizes its programming for the local Af-
rican American community. RAP public service
activities include its scholarship program for in-
ner-city young people and adults; Discover Graph-
ics, the free printmaking program for local public
high school students and teachers; and the annual
Kite Festival on the National Mall. RAP’s Discov-
ery Theater, the area’s only year-round live theater
for young people, commissioned the original pro-
duction Banneker to celebrate the Washington,
D.C., bicentennial. The performances enjoyed
record-breaking attendance and critical acclaim.

Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

Mary Grace Potter, Director

Since 1970, the Visitor Information and Associ-
ates’ Reception Center (VIARC) has served as a
central support unit responsible for Smithsonian
information and assistance programs for the pub-
lic, Associate members, staff, and volunteers. Sev-
eral VIARC programs operate seven days a week
and involve the coordination and direction of a
large corps of volunteers, who provide a primary
source of support for the Institution’s public infor-
mation programs and for project assistance behind
the scenes.

@ Open at 9 A.M. daily, the Smithsonian Informa-
tion Center assisted more than 1.6 million visi-
tors, including some 50,000 Associate members
and their families. Services were expanded to in-
clude a Museum Shop sales component.

@ Smithsonian Columbus Quincentenary pro-
grams were the training focus for VIARC’s 600-
plus volunteer information specialists, who staffed
16 museum information desks in 11 buildings
and the Institution’s central telephone lines. Some
96 information specialists volunteered for extra
duty to support the National Air and Space Mu-
seum “Star Trek” exhibition pass system, distrib-
uting more than 3,500 passes a day from the Feb-
ruary opening to Labor Day.

Resident Associate Pro-

gram camp counselor

Catherine Evans intro-
duces a group of RAP
summer campers to an
“Old World-New
World” garden, inspired
by the National Museum
of Natural History exhi-
bition “Seeds of Change.”
(Photograph by Richard

Strauss )

63
Volunteer Ben Axleroad,
a retired Episcopalian
minister, lends his broad
expertence and talents by
using his translation
skills, conducting research
on issues of accessibility,
or cheerfully stuffing en-
velopes. Axleroad 1s
among the nearly 1,100
Behind-the-Scenes volun-
teers who served the Insti-
tution In 1992.
(Photograph by Kyle
Hood)

64

@ The Public Inquiry Mail and Telephone Infor-

mation Service Unit processed some 43,678 pieces
of mail and responded to some 368,916 telephone
inquiries. The latter included some 1,467 calls for
information on Smithsonian heritage celebrations
and 31,679 to special “Star Trek” exhibition infor-
mation lines.

m VIARC’s Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Pro-
gram implemented a new customized personal
computer—based volunteer records management
system. Developed in-house at considerable cost
savings, this system greatly enhanced the effi-
ciency and effectiveness of registration and place-
ment activities for some 1,081 volunteers.

@ The Castle Docent Program added public Span-
ish-language tours of the building. During the
spring and autumn months, the program also
added tours of the Enid A. Haupt Garden.

@ The Information Resource Division updated
and maintained VIARC’s automated information
systems; redesigned the visitor orientation map
used on publications and wayfinding signs; pub-
lished monthly pan-Institutional information refer-
ence materials and quarterly issues of the volun-
teer newsletter InfoSpecial; and produced some 13
publications, including Planning Your Smithsonian
Visit, The Castle & Beyond, and special “samplers”
on Quincentenary and heritage celebrations.

Institutional Initiatives

Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Institutional
Initiatives

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary

The wide-ranging development activities of the
Smithsonian are the responsibility of the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Institutional Initia-
tives. The office coordinates the Institution’s
broad efforts with those of the bureaus and offices
to ensure that the Smithsonian receives the fullest
possible private support for its research, exhibi-
tions, and educational and public service activi-
ties. The office also conducts special studies and
demonstration projects on behalf of the

Institution.

@ During 1992, an Institution-wide task force of
development and administrative professionals re-
viewed Smithsonian fund-raising activities with
the goal of enhancing these efforts and increasing
their efficiency. The assistant secretary will be re-
sponsible for implementing the task force recom-
mendations.

@ The Office of Institutional Initiatives continued
to coordinate the implementation of the fund-rais-
ing effort for the National Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian, including the completion of staff hir-
ing for the national campaign office.

@ The assistant secretary worked with the Smith-
sonian National Board and the Office of Develop-
ment to design a new subfund of the Smithsonian
Trust as a conduit for the anticipated increase in
development activity by the National Board.

@ In June 1992, the assistant secretary hosted a re-
ception in Mazoe, Zimbabwe, for National Board
members who traveled to Zimbabwe and Botswa-
na on their annual study tour.
National Museum of the
American Indian National

Campaign Office

John L. Colonghi, Director

The National Museum of the American Indian
(NMAI) National Campaign Office is responsible
for conceiving and carrying out the fund-raising
plan adopted for the museum by the Smithsonian
Board of Regents. By legislative mandate, the In-
stitution is required to provide one-third of the
cost of constructing the museum’s facility on the
National Mall. The anticipated campaign goal of
$60 million includes funds for the Smithsonian
one-third share of construction in addition to
funds to endow the museum’s education and out-
reach programs.

@ The NMAI National Campaign continues to
sponsor and benefit from many fund-raising
events around the country, including the “Celebra-
tion for the American Indian” held annually in
Aspen, Colorado. The campaign also seeks finan-
cial and in-kind support from individuals, corpora-
tions, and foundations in pursuit of its fund-rais-
ing goal.

@ Since its inception in April 1991, the NMAI
national membership program has recruited more
than 50,000 members and generated gross reve-
nues of $1.8 million. The success of this program
demonstrates the broad base of support for the vi-
sion of the National Museum of the American
Indian.

@ The NMAI National Campaign has assembled
a prestigious Honorary Committee (see box), in-
cluding national Indian leaders, entertainment ce-
lebrities, and all living former U.S. presidents.
Committee members make a significant contribu-
tion by helping to establish a positive environ-
ment for the campaign, creating the enthusiasm
and momentum needed to generate funds, and as-
sisting the campaign staff in recruiting the active
support of another voluntary leadership group,
the International Founders Council, which will
take on the primary fund-raising role for the
NMAI.

HONORARY COMMITTEE
National Museum of the American Indian

National Campaign

Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell (Northern

Cheyenne), Chair
President George Bush
The Right Reverend Robert M. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Robert O. Anderson
Willard L. Boyd
Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn Carter
Ralph T. Coe
Kevin Costner
President Gerald R. Ford and Mrs. Ford
Barry Goldwater
R. C. Gorman (Navajo)
LaDonna Harris (Comanche)
James A. Joseph
Doris Leader Charge (Rosebud Lakota)
George F. MacDonald
Wilma Mankiller (Cherokee)
José Matos Mar
Paul Newman
President Richard Nixon and Mrs. Nixon
Arnold Palmer
Octavio Paz
Janine Pease—W indy Boy (Crow)
President and Mrs. Ronald Reagan
Robert Redford
W. Ann Reynolds
Rabbi A. James Rudin
Douglas W. Schwartz
Sargent Shriver
Martin Sullivan
Maria Tallchief (Osage)
Stewart L. Udall
James D. Wolfensohn

65
|

Mrs. Dorene D. Whit-
ney (La Jolla, Califor-
nia) and Mr. John
Mack Carter (New

York, New York) at the
opening for the National
Museum of American H1s-
tory exhibition “First La-
dies: Political Role and
Public Image.” Mrs.
Whitney is the national
chairman of Friends of
First Ladies. Mr. Carter
is editor-in-chief of
Good Housekeeping.
Contributions from both
organizations made the
exhibition possible.

66

Office of Development

Marie Mattson, Director

The mission of the Office of Development is to
generate private financial support from corpora-
tions, foundations, and individual donors for the
Smithsonian Institution to further its goals and ob-
jectives. The office is responsible for fund raising
in support of institutional priorities and selected
bureau projects and programs and for leading and
coordinating fund-raising initiatives, including re-
lated marketing activities, throughout the Institu-
tion. The office maintains central research and
record-keeping functions and provides other spe-
cialized support services, including management
of volunteer organizations, stewardship of grants,
maintenance of reference information and publica-
tions, maintenance of a pan-Institutional constitu-
ency data base, and development of an informa-

tion data base.

@ Private sector gifts, grants, and pledges to the
Smithsonian increased significantly in fiscal year
1992, with donations made in support of specific
projects and programs increasing by 66 percent
over 1991; general unrestricted gifts to the Institu-

tion increased by 39 percent. Major commitments

received this year include a 10-year, $7 million

gift from the Lila Wallace—Reader’s Digest Fund
to create and circulate jazz exhibitions and con-
certs and create related programs; $1.5 million
from Glenn Tupper in support of the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute; $1.5 million from
the Lam Foundation for acquisitions at the Freer
Gallery of Art; and $950,000 from Grupo IGS in
support of the “Where Next Columbus?” exhibi-
tion at the National Air and Space Museum.

@ The Smithsonian National Board, the Institu-
tion’s primary volunteer fund-raising organiza-
tion, held biannual meetings in Charleston, South
Carolina, and Washington, D.C. The board also
increased its activities in advancement and market-
ing support to the Institution.

@ During 1992, the office completed installation
of a new Institution-wide constituency and devel-
opment information computer system. With this
system, any Smithsonian development officer can
check on-line information about gifts and grants,
research requests, Cultivation activity, and solicita-
tion coordination.

Smithsonian Women’s
Committee

The Smithsonian Women’s Committee supports
the Institution through volunteer fund-raising
and public relations services. Funds raised by the
committee support educational and research pro-
grams throughout the Smithsonian.

@ In celebration of its 25th anniversary, the com-
mittee presented to the Institution a $175,000
Fellowship in Museum Practice. An additional
$10,000 was given to support the initial awards
under this fellowship.

@ The roth annual Washington Craft Show in
April attracted more than 14,000 visitors and net-
ted a record $180,000. The Christmas Dance held
at the National Air and Space Museum netted
$50,000, and the Fourth of July Picnic held on
the roof of the National Museum of American His-
tory showed a profit of $7,000.

@ The committee provided $216,435 in support
of 24 projects in 14 bureaus. These projects in-
cluded development of an educational kit on Na-
tive American cultures, creation of a guide to the
Smithsonian for disabled visitors, and construc-
tion of modest research facilities at the new Mpala
Research Center in Kenya.
Finance and
Administration

Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Finance and
Administration

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary

Operating behind the scenes at the Smithsonian, a
network of administrative support offices serves
the diverse operations of the Institution. These of-
fices oversee the management and use of financial,
human, and physical resources. Funding for these
central services in 1992 amounted to about 6 per-
cent of the Institution’s total operating expenses.

® The Office of Accounting and Financial Ser-
vices began expanded dialogue with and training
of users, with the goal of improving services. Dur-
ing the year the office also designed and imple-
mented a new data entry system that improved
the efficiency of processing financial transactions.
@ The Office of Architectural History and His-
toric Preservation continued research and publica-
tion on the architectural history of Smithsonian
buildings and oversight of the Smithsonian's obli-
gations for historic preservation.

@ The Business Management Office oversees four
revenue-producing activities: Museum Shops,
Mail Order, Product Development and Licensing,
and Concessions. The net income from these activ-
ities increased significantly from fiscal 1991.

@ The Office of Contracting and Property Man-
agement designed and implemented an auto-
mated requisition tracking system to ensure
timely action on procurement and installed a
“Help Desk” for customer assistance. Contracts
were awarded for a new mainframe computer and
construction of the George Gustav Heye Center of
the National Museum of the American Indian in
New York City.

@ The Office of Design and Construction contin-
ued to direct the facilities programming for the
National Museum of the American Indian. A de-
sign firm was selected this year for the museum’s

Suitland, Maryland, cultural resources center. The
office also supervised construction of the new
chiller plant at the National Museum of Natural
History/National Museum of Man, the plaza reno-
vation at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, the renovation of the Freer Gallery of
Art, and the replacement of the copper roof on the
Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design.

@ The Office of Environmental Management and
Safety continued its responsibility for ensuring
that safety, fire protection and prevention, indus-
trial hygiene, and environmental principles are in-
tegrated into all aspects of the Smithsonian.

@ The Office of Equal Employment and Minority
Affairs advances cultural and gender diversity, as
well as equal opportunity, by managing, monitor-
ing, and evaluating equal employment opportu-
nity and special emphasis programs. This year the
office established a resource network for minori-
ties, women, and individuals with disabilities; in-
creased the number of participants in the upward
mobility program; strengthened its monitoring of
cultural diversity efforts; increased the number of
complaints settled during the informal and formal
stages; and provided assistance to bureaus and of-
fices in achieving affirmative action objectives.

@ The Office of Facilities Services implemented
the Institution’s long-range facilities planning
process with the establishment of the Capital Pro-
gram Planning Board.

@ The Office of Financial and Management Analy-
sis began making improvements to the directives
issuance and distribution system. The office also
expanded its emphasis on leading and partici-
pating in comprehensive institutional studies and
analyses.

@ The Office of Human Resources led the devel-
opment of a new museum specialist occupational
study affecting approximately 1,200 positions
within the Smithsonian. The study will update oc-
cupational information, which will be used to de-
termine the grade level of these positions govern-
ment-wide.

@ The Office of Information Resource Manage-
ment worked closely with the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries and other users to evaluate replace-
ment systems for the Smithsonian Institution
Bibliographic System (SIBIS). The new system
will be called SIRIS (Smithsonian Institution Re-
search Information Systems) to reflect broader use
as an automated reference tool. A contract for the
new system was awarded at the close of the fiscal
68

year, with operation scheduled to begin in the
spring of 1993.

@ The Smithsonian Ombudsman worked with
employees and management as a neutral party in
solving work-related problems.

@ The Office of Plant Services continued to refine
employee training and development in the rapidly
changing field of facilities maintenance and man-
agement. Efforts in this area will assure the Insti-
tution of better service from a well-trained work
force.

@ The Office of Planning and Budget continued
its efforts to improve the Personnel Cost Projec-
tion System; undertook a comprehensive examina-
tion of the Institution’s planning process; and en-
gaged all members of the office in a team effort to
improve services to bureaus and offices.

@ The Office of Printing and Photographic Ser-
vices is using video disc technologies to develop
pioneering techniques for the preservation of pho-
tographic images while making them available si-
multaneously in electronic form. A program of
providing digitized Smithsonian photographs
through computer networks was expanded to in-
clude the Internet, a program that enables schools
and nonprofit organizations to obtain electronic ac-
cess to Smithsonian images without charge.

m@ The Office of Protection Services centralized se-
curity officer hiring procedures and worked to-
ward improving services by performing security
administration programs on site at major facili-
ties. Assistance in cultural property protection
was provided to the new Russian government
through international conference and outreach
programs.

@ The Office of Risk Management continued to
provide risk and insurance management services
to protect the Smithsonian’s assets against risk or
loss. The Institution’s master Disaster Prepared-
ness Plan was completed, and implementation is
under way.

@ The Office of Sponsored Projects served the
Smithsonian’s research effort by supporting the
work of 139 researchers, who submitted 221 pro-
posals valued at $69 million to federal and nonfed-
eral sponsors in 1992, an increase of 137 percent
over fiscal 1991. One hundred fifty-two grant and
contract awards having a value of approximately
$18.5 million were received from the federal gov-
ernment and other sponsors, an increase of 42 per-
cent over 1991.

® The Travel Services Office implemented its first

contract with a travel agency, and through this
contract received a rebate in excess of $148,000
for the year.

@ The Office of the Treasurer continues to man-
age the administration and investment of the
Smithsonian endowment and working capital
funds.

@ The Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council
initiated discussions with the administration on a
uniform family leave policy and more flexible
work schedules for employees; continued to re-
search options for an Institution-wide mentoring
program; and, through a Women’s History
Month program on employees in nontraditional
roles, inspired serious, constructive dialogue on
possible solutions to the problems women face in
many segments of the work force.

Under Secretary

Office of the Under Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

The under secretary is the chief operating officer of
the Smithsonian and is responsible for the day-to-
day administration of the Institution. Under Secre-
tary Constance Berry Newman also works with
Secretary Robert McC. Adams and the Board of
Regents to set long-range priorities for the Smith-
sonian and develop mechanisms for carrying them
out.

@ The organizational review study conducted by
the late under secretary, Carmen Turner, was im-
plemented during the year, resulting in the consol-
idation of several offices and the streamlining of
institutional operations.

@ A detailed analysis of each bureau and office
was carried out with the goal of restructuring the
Smithsonian to better meet its priorities and to
function more efficiently in the 21st century.
Office of

Government Relations

Margaret C. Gaynor, Director

The Office of Government Relations represents
the Institution on matters of legislation, policy,
operations, and governance to the Congress and
other government entities at the federal, state,
and local levels. It is the primary conduit of legis-
lative information, as well as the advocate of
Smithsonian interests in the legislative process.

@ Legislation providing for the appointment of
three new citizen members of the Board of Re-
gents and legislation to establish a National Afri-
can American Museum occupied the office
throughout much of the 102d Congress.

@ Areas of ongoing legislative activity include the
extension of the National Air and Space Museum,
biological diversity research and conservation, and
the acquisition of an administrative building for
various Smithsonian offices.

Office of Public Affairs

Madeleine Jacobs, Director

By coordinating publicity and advertising pro-
grams at the Smithsonian, the Office of Public Af-
fairs helps bring the Smithsonian story—its exhi-
bitions, research, public programs, and other
activities—to diverse cultural communities in the
United States and abroad. The office serves as an
information clearinghouse for print and broadcast
journalists by providing news releases (600 a
year), background papers, press conferences, pho-
tographic support, videotapes, logistical support,
and television and radio public service announce-
ments. The office’s publications include Research
Reports (a quarterly research bulletin), Svzzthsonzan
Runner (a bimonthly newsletter for Native Ameri-
cans), the Smithsonian News Service (a syndicated
monthly feature story service for newspapers), the
Torch (a monthly employee newspaper), and a
wide variety of visitor and special resource
publications.

® With support from the Educational Outreach
Program, the office formed and met with a Latino
Media Advisory Committee composed of distin-
guished communications experts from around the
nation. In the area of Latino outreach, the office
continued its year-long publicity and radio adver-
tising campaign on the Columbus Quincentenary
with a national radio promotion; continued bi-
weekly ads in two local Spanish-language newspa-
pers highlighting Smithsonian events of interest
to Latinos in the Washington, D.C., area; and im-
plemented several of the committee’s recommenda-
tions, including the provision of Spanish-language
flyers at several museum information desks and a
Spanish-language events line.

@ The office published and distributed two new
brochures funded by the Educational Outreach
Program. “Exploring African American Heritage
at the Smithsonian” is a four-color, 12-page visi-
tor brochure for secondary-school students and the
general public; “African & African American Re-
sources at the Smithsonian” is a 32-page brochure
with detailed information on research, collections,
employment, and internships for scholars, journal-
ists, students, and others.

@ The office expanded its publicity and advertis-
ing efforts on radio by participating, at no cost to
the Institution, in a weekly five-minute segment
on WMAL-AM radio highlighting activities at
Smithsonian museums; providing weekly paid
commercials to three local radio stations oriented
to African American listeners; and providing
weekly paid commercials to the largest Washing-
ton-area Spanish-language radio station and its af-
filiated television station.

@ The office prepared long-range communications
plans for the National Museum of the American
Indian, including publicity plans for the Novem-
ber 1992 opening of the exhibition “Pathways of
Tradition,” which is a prelude to the opening of
the museum’s New York facility in 1994.

69
70

Affiliated
Organizations

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, the National Gallery of Art, and the Wood-
row Wilson International Center for Scholars were
established by Congress within the Smithsonian
Institution, under their own boards of trustees.
The Institution provides administrative services
on contract for Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., an
independent organization.

John F. Kennedy Center for
the Performing Arts

James D. Wolfensohn, Chairman

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts plays a unique role in the cultural life of the
United States. It is the nation’s stage, presenting
the best of American and international artists in
year-round presentations on six stages. The Ken-
nedy Center's producing efforts, commissioning
programs, competitions, and apprenticeship and
training programs, stimulate the creation of new
arts and the development of new artists. The cen-
ter also seeds innovative programs that reach teach-
ers and students from prekindergarten through col-
lege in most of the 50 states.

@ The Kennedy Center was instrumental this year
in organizing the Arts Education Partnership
Working Group, a national bipartisan coalition of
artists, educators, community leaders, arts present-
ers, funders, and policy makers committed to
making arts education a meaningful part of educa-
tion reform. In another national initiative, the
Kennedy Center organized and hosted the Per-
forming Arts Centers and Schools Institute, a fo-
rum to explore and create new programs to incor-
porate the performing arts into the curriculum.

@ Through partnerships with Broadway produc-
ers and regional theaters, the Kennedy Center is

working to keep American musical theater alive
despite rising costs. Topping the list of new pro-
ductions supported by the Kennedy Center was
the Tony Award—winning Broadway sellout re-
vival of Guys and Dolls. In addition, the Kennedy
Center and the Metropolitan Opera Guild commis-
sioned Carly Simon to compose an opera for
young people for spring 1993.

@ The National Symphony Orchestra presented
the world premier performances of two commis-
sioned works by Russian composer Vyacheslav Ar-
tyomov: Gentle Emanations and On the Threshold of
a Bright New World.

@ The Kennedy Center Mozart Festival brought
some of the nation’s finest musical artists together
to mark the December 1991 Mozart Bicentennial.
The Kennedy Center collaborated with the Li-
brary of Congress, the National Gallery of Art,
the National Museum of American History, and
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars to organize a citywide celebration that in-
cluded performances, exhibits, and symposia.

@ The Kennedy Center Tribute to Germany
treated festival-goers to dozens of performances of
music by German composers, featuring fine Amer-
ican and German artists; classical and contempo-
rary ballet with the Stuttgart Ballet; masterworks
of modern dance; and theatrical productions.

@ Ongoing Kennedy Center activities included
the Arts Enterprise Zone Program, which brings
performances, master classes, and much-needed
role models and training to underserved neighbor-
hoods, and the Cultural Passport Program, which
encourages inner-city young people to explore the
vast cultural resources of the capital city. The Na-
tional Symphony Orchestra's NSO in Your Neigh-
borhood Program presented free community and
holiday concerts.

National Gallery of Art

J. Carter Brown, Director

The National Gallery of Art serves the United
States in a national role by preserving, collecting,
exhibiting, and fostering the understanding of
works of art at the highest possible museum and
scholarly standards.
@ In recognition of the 500th anniversary of Co-
lumbus’s first voyage to the Americas, the gallery
mounted the most wide-ranging exhibition in its
50-year history. “Circa 1492: Art in the Age of
Exploration” displayed more than 600 works of
art, as well as maps and scientific instruments bor-
rowed from lenders in the United States and 31
other countries. Programs accompanying the exhi-
bition included a two-day public symposium, two
special high school days for area students and their
families, and a family day—the first held in con-
nection with an exhibition—that drew more than
500 Washington, D.C., families.

@ Other exhibitions during the year included
“Albert Bierstadt: Art & Enterprise,” which fea-
tured more than 70 works by this r9th-century
artist, who was the first to capture the powerful
visual impact of the American West on a monu-
mental scale. A small but important exhibition
brought together for the first time since the turn
of the century the three National Gallery panels of
the recently restored Saint Anne Altarpiece by Ge-
rard David with six smaller panels believed to
have been part of the original altarpiece. Other ex-
hibitions focused on the Italian baroque artist
Guercino, on Kathe Kollwitz and Ernst Kirchner,
and on American Indian Art.

@ Nearly 1,000 works in the permanent collec-
tion were reorganized and reinstalled in refur-
bished galleries in the West Building. The East
Building galleries were reinstalled with 20th-cen-
tury art, including works acquired during the gal-
lery’s recent 50th anniversary year and major loans
from private collections.

@ The gallery’s collections were greatly enriched
by the acquisition of several collections. The
Armand Hammer collection of old master and
modern drawings includes drawings by Leonardo,
Raphael, Correggio, Tiepolo, Watteau, Frago-
nard, Ingres, and Degas. A group of 23 old mas-
ter drawings that had been collected by Ian
Woodner was given to the gallery by his daugh-
ters. William B. O'Neal gave 88 old master draw-
ings. A collection of 129 etchings and lithographs
by Lovis Corinth was given by the family of Sig-
bert H. Marcy, a close friend of the artist.

@ The Education Division introduced three new
audio tours of the permanent collection and pre-
sented a 24-session slide lecture survey of the his-
tory of Western art and eight lectures on the art
and artists of some of the world’s best-loved cities.
Grants from the Bauman Foundation and the Cir-

|

Among the National Gal-
lery of Art's acquisitions
this year was this paint-
ing by Claude Monet,
The Japanese Foot-
bridge, 1899. The
painting was a gift of
the late Victoria Nebeker
Coberly, in memory of
her son John W. Mudd,
with help from Walter
H. and Leonore An-
nenberg.

cle of the National Gallery of Art underwrote a
survey and directory of art museum—based teacher

programs.

@ The viewing audience for Extension Programs
materials was more than 43 million. For the first
time, the use of materials by individual public
and instructional television stations within the Af-
filiate Loan system outstripped the broadcast activ-
ity of national educational networks.

@ J. Carter Brown, who had been the gallery's di-
rector for 23 years, announced his decision to re-
tire. His successor, Earl A. Powell II, who had
been a curator at the gallery before becoming di-
rector of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art,
assumed his duties on September 8.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Ruth P. Graves, President

During the past year, nearly 3 million children
chose more than 9 million books and discovered
the pleasures of reading through Reading Is Fun-
damental, Inc. (RIF). Started in 1966, RIF has be-
come the nation’s largest children’s literacy pro-
gram, with a volunteer force of 141,000 citizens
and a network of grass roots projects stretching
from Maine to Guam, from the Virgin Islands to
Alaska. RIF serves young people at more than
14,000 sites and in a range of settings: schools, li-
braries, facilities for children with disabilities,
Head Start and Even Start centers, Native Ameri-
can reservations, migrant labor camps, juvenile de-
tention centers, hospitals, and clinics.

@ Among the new initiatives launched this year
were a $1 million effort in support of new and ex-

7I
72

isting RIF projects underwritten by Nestle USA;
the Chrysler- and GE-funded STAR (Science,
Technology, and Reading) program to engage
children in hands-on science activities that spark
an interest in books about science and technology;
a three-year New York Times Foundation pro-
gram to establish RIF projects in communities
where New York Times regional newspapers oper-
ate; and Family of Readers, which trains adult
learners to run RIF programs for their children.

@ While an Arkansas initiative is serving 8 out of
10 fourth graders throughout the state, two serv-
ice organizations—Kiwanis International and the
General Federation of Women’s Clubs—are estab-
lishing RIF projects for preschoolers across the na-
tion. The success of Running Start® for first-grad-
ers led Chrysler to extend the program into a
fourth year and expand its scope.

@ In Los Angeles, where RIF serves more than
30,000 children at 170 sites, RIF President Ruth
Graves led a highly successful book drive during
the American Booksellers Association convention
to help public libraries destroyed in the riots.

@ [n October, the Center for the Book in the Li-
brary of Congress hosted a children’s book party
to launch To Ride a Butterfly, a RIF anthology pub-
lished by Bantam Doubleday Dell to benefit RIF.
@ During the eighth annual Reading Is Fun
Week in April, First Lady Barbara Bush presided
over a ceremony in Washington, D.C.

Woodrow Wilson
International Center
for Scholars

Charles Blitzer, Director

The Wilson Center is an institute for advanced
study established by Congress in 1968 as the offi-
cial memorial to the nation’s 28th president. Its
mission is to honor the career and character of
Woodrow Wilson by bringing together the world
of learning and the world of public affairs. The
center achieves this mission by addressing the en-
tire spectrum of human knowledge and creativity,
from the arts and humanities to the sciences. The
center welcomes fellows and guest scholars from
around the world, sponsors discussion programs,
and conducts publishing and radio programs that
deliver the results of scholarly research.

@ A highlight of the year was the Wilson Cen-
ter's month-long citywide commemoration of the
200th anniversary of Mozart’s death. The Wilson
Center, together with other organizations, collabo-
rated to present a celebration of Mozart’s brilliance
that emphasized fresh insights into creativity.
Among the participants in the symposium and fes-
tival were internationally known scholars of eco-
nomics, history, music, philosophy, and psychol-
ogy, as well as novelist Anthony Burgess and nu-
merous musicians.

@ Another bicentennial program, cosponsored by
the Wilson Center and the National Archives,
commemorated the ratification of the Bill of
Rights. On December 15, Bill of Rights Day,
Chief Justice William Rehnquist delivered a
timely lecture on the topic of an independent judi-
ciary and individual rights.

@ The Wilson Center developed themes that will
provide a focal point for scholarly research and
events during the next few years: ethnicity, in
broad comparative international terms; the plight
of the world’s cities politically, economically, and
socially; and power sharing and governance in the
global process of the changing relationship of the
state and civil society.

@ “Dialogue,” the Wilson Center's nationally syn-
dicated radio program, was selected to join the
prestigious American Public Radio network.

@ The Wilson Center announced the appoint-
ment by the White House of Smithsonian secre-
tary emeritus S. Dillon Ripley and New York Uni-
versity professor of writing and literature Carol
Iannone as members of its board of trustees.

@ The Wilson Council, an advisory body of pri-
vate citizens, welcomed three new members: Al-
bert Abramson, an active member of the Washing-
ton, D.C., real estate and philanthropic
communities; Theodore Barreaux, counselor to
the comptroller general, General Accounting Of-
fice; and William Slaughter, a partner in the law
firm Ballard, Spahr, Andrews, & Ingersoll.
Benefactors

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the support of the
individuals, foundations, and corporations whose gifts,
grants, bequests, and contributing memberships have helped
sustain the work of the Institution over the past fiscal year,
October 1, 1991, through September 30, 1992.

The Smithsonian owes its founding to the generosity of one
individual, James Smithson. The spirit of private support, as
exemplified by James Smithson’s gift, continues to play a vital
role in providing the Smithsonian with the flexibility and in-
dependence essential to its creative growth.

During most of its history since 1846, the Institution has
relied on a combination of both federal and private funding to
carry out the terms of James Smithson’s will. As a trust instru-
mentality of the United States, the Smithsonian has received
federal appropriations to support its basic operations and se-
lected initiatives. The national and international reputation
for excellence held by the Smithsonian is in large part a result
of the innovative and imaginative activities underwritten by
visionary private citizens. Of particular importance are gifts
that have supported the Smithsonian’s core functions—exhibi-
tions, collections acquisition, research, and public educa-
tion—that are central to its achievements.

Several outstanding gifts during fiscal 1992 exemplify the
diversity and impact of private support on the Smithsonian’s
programs:

@ The Lila Wallace—Reader’s Digest Fund has awarded an un-
precedented $7 million to the Smithsonian to create a unique
national jazz celebration spanning 10 years. “America’s Jazz
Heritage,” to be implemented by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, the National Museum of Ameri-
can History, and the Office of Telecommunications, will in-

clude exhibitions, performances, educational programs,
recordings, special events, publications, research, and radio
programs at the Smithsonian and in cities around the country.
“America’s Jazz Heritage” will begin in spring 1993 with the
exhibition “Beyond Category: The Musical Genius of Duke El-
lington” at the National Museum of American History and
performances by the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Or-
chestra.

@ The Freer Gallery of Art received a major gift from the B.
Y. Lam Foundation, of Hong Kong, for the purchase of Chi-
nese works of art. It is the largest donation received from a
single donor since the gallery opened to the public in 1923,
and it will allow the Freer to make important additions to its
collections.

@ The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, headquar-
tered in Panama, has been the beneficiary of several major
gifts from Glenn O. Tupper since 1985, including support
for the construction of the Earl S. Tupper Research and Con-
ference Center, named in honor of his father, a noted philan-
thropist and founder of Tupperware. Mr. Tupper’s fiscal 1992
gift establishes a permanent fund to support scientific research
on tropical marine and terrestrial ecosystems and will assist in
renovating STRI’s previous administration building to house
the new Center for Tropical Paleoecology.

@ “Where Next, Columbus?”—an exhibition examining the
prospects for space exploration and discovery in the future,
was made possible by a unique consortium of international
corporate and government sponsors. The sponsors include the
McDonnell Douglas Foundation; Ameritech Foundation;
Grupo IGS, a real estate development company in Spain;
United Technologies Sikorsky Aircraft; GE Aircraft Engines;
Boeing Defense & Space Group, Helicopters Division; the
Spain ’92 Foundation; and United Airlines.

@ Friends of First Ladies, a group of more than 90 individuals
from around the country chaired by volunteer fund-raiser Dor-
ene D. Whitney, of La Jolla, California, contributed a substan-
tial portion of the funds needed to conserve the first ladies’
gowns and to install a new version of the first ladies exhibition
entitled “First Ladies: Political Role and Public Image.” This
fund-raising effort is endorsed by the seven most recent first
ladies.

@ Philip D. Reed, Jr., and Elizabeth B. Reed’s visionary con-
cern for animal preservation and environmental conservation
was recently expressed by gifts to the Smithsonian's New Op-
portunities in Animal Health Sciences (NOAHS) Center and
the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center (SERC) from
the Philip D. Reed Foundation, Inc. The Reeds’ gifts will en-
able the NOAHS Center to inaugurate two post-doctoral fel-
lowships in applications of biomedical research technology to
the preservation of endangered species. SERC will build an ed-
ucation/orientation center, named for the Reeds, for visitors
to its Chesapeake Bay facility.
@ Harry and Beverly Mandil, long-time members of the
Smithsonian, recently established an endowment fund to sup-
port the Harry and Beverly Mandil Internship at the National
Museum of American Art. The Mandils’ gift will allow a stu-
dent who would otherwise not be able to participate in the in-
ternship program to pursue professional training through full-
time work during the fall, spring, or summer semesters.

@ For ten years, Pear! Rappaport Kaplan served as a docent at
the Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of American
Art. When she died in August 1991, her family and friends

joined together and gave nearly 100 gifts to establish the

$500,000 or more

Grupo IGS
The John D. & Catherine T
MacArthur Foundation

$1,000,000 or more

Holenia Trust
B. Y. Lam Foundation

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper
Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest
Fund

Occidental Chemical Corp.
Sikorsky Aircraft

Spain ‘92 Foundation
Xerox Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr., (Princeton, New
Jersey) at the Exploring the Smithsonian Universe pro-
gram, May 1992. Through the Philip D. Reed
Foundation, they have supported scientific research pro-
grams. The Reeds are longtime members of the James
Smithson Society.

74

Pearl Rappaport Kaplan Fund in her memory, which has al-

ready begun to underwrite programs at the Renwick Gallery.

Donors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts of $1,000 or more to

the Smithsonian.

Certain donors have requested anonymity. If the name of

any other donor has been omitted, it is unintentional and in

no way diminishes the Smithsonian’s appreciation.

$100,000 or more

Anonymous

Abbott Charitable Trust

The Aga Khan Trust for Culture

American Psychological
Association

Ameritech

Association for Japan-U.S.
Community Exchanges

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

The Boeing Company

Brother International Corp.

Chesapeake Research
Consortium, Inc.

The Ford Foundation

General Electric Aircraft Engine
Group

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

William & Flora Hewlett
Foundation

Knight Foundation

Embassy of the State of Kuwait

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Henry Luce III

Mr. and Mrs. Harry Mandil

McDonnell Douglas Corporation

NY NEX Corporation

The Nomura Cultural Foundation

The Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.

Orkin Pest Control

The Pew Charitable Trusts

Philip D. Reed Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

The Rockefeller Foundation

Mr. David Rockefeller

Mrs. Else Sackler

Timex Corporation

Harry Winston Research
Foundation, Inc.

World Wildlife Fund

$50,000 or more

Anonymous

American Express Company

American Masters Foundation

American Society of Plastic &
Reconstructive Surgeons

The Annenberg Foundation

Beyond the Wall

Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards
Foundation, Inc.

Consolidated Natural Gas Co.

The Nathan Cummings
Foundation

Ethyl! Corporation

Exxon Corporation

Government of Finland

Government of Germany

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

The Hearst Corporation

International Business Machines
Corporation

The Island Fund in the New York
Community Trust

William T. Kemper Foundation

William Douglas McAdams, Inc.

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

The Honorable and Mrs. Daniel
P. Moynihan

National Corn Growers
Association

National Geographic Society

National Potato Promotion Board

The Nature Company

Norfolk Southern Foundation

Paramount Communications Inc.

Pitney Bowes

Swim Environmental Awareness

Time Warner Inc.

Wolf Trap Foundation for the
Performing Arts

XIV World Congress of
Accountants

Zoologische Gesellschaft
Professor and Mrs. Ikuo Hirayama (Tokyo, Japan)
at the Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle annual event,
September 1992. The Hirayamas have supported con-
servation and collection reinstallation activities at the
Freer Gallery of Art. Professor Hirayama has also ob-
tained Japanese corporate support for a scholarly ex-
change program. Professor and Mrs. Hirayama are
both artists, and Professor Hirayama 1s president of
Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music.

Lt. Col. and Mrs. William K. Konze, Ret.

U.S.A., (Oxon Hill, Maryland) at the James Smith-
son Society dinner, September 1992. The Konzes are
James Smithson Society Endowed Life members.

$10,000 or more

Anonymous

AMS Foundation for the Arts,
Sciences and Humanities

Abbott Laboratories

The Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia

Air Line Pilots Association

Air Products & Chemicals, Inc.

Allen & Company Incorporated

American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics

Ms. Elena D. Amos

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

The Art Research Foundation

Mrs. Marjorie Arundel

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Aspen/Snowmass Celebration for the
American Indian

Bank of America National Trust and
Savings Association

The Bay Foundation

Diane & Norman Bernstein
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Jr.

Blum-Kovler Foundation

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

The Eli & Edythe Broad Foundation

Mr. Eli Broad

The Brown Foundation, Inc

Emil Buehler Trust

Ms. Linda Butler

C&P Telephone Company

Cahners Publishing Company

University of California, Los Angeles

Champion International Corp.

Elizabeth F. Cheney Foundation

Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for
International Scholarly Exchange

Citibank N.A.

Clark-W inchcole Foundation

Cleveland-Cliffs Inc.

The Colbert Foundation, Inc.

Consolidated Edison Co. of New
York, Inc.

Queene Ferry Coonley Foundation,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cousins

Cray Users Group, Inc

Mrs. William C. Cummings

Ms. Florence D’Urso

Dallas Zoological Society

Dennis Trading Group, Inc.

The Derrymore Foundation

Dibner Fund, Inc.

Mr. David Dibner

Direct Marketing Association

Ms. Marna Disbrow

The Discovery Channel

Mr. Charles H. Dodson

Mrs. Anne C. Earhart

Earthwatch

Eastman Kodak Company

Economic & Social Commission for
Asia & the Pacific

Elf Aquitaine

F.T.P. Software, Inc

Fairchild Space & Defense Corp.

Family Circle Magazine

Federal Express Corp.

Fidicomiso Para La Cultura Mexico/
USA

Roger S. Firestone Foundation

Fracé Fund for Wildlife Preservation

Freeport-McMoRan Inc

Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson Fund, Inc

Bob Frink Chevrolet-GEO

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Luis E. Garcia, Inc

Gavel International

General Service Foundation

Embassy of the Federal Republic of
Germany

Gold Bond - Good Humor Ice Cream

Florence J. Gould Foundation

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies in the Fine Arts

Mr. Jerome L. Greene

The Greenstone Foundation

Ms. Linda A. Grimsley

The Harry Frank Guggenheim
Foundation

Mrs. Carol P. Guyer

Miriam & Peter Haas Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas, Sr.

The Herbert Hafif Family Foundation

Mr. John M. Harbert III

Fred Harvey, AMFAC Resort, Inc

Hayden Family Foundation

Mr. Richard M. Hayden

Mr. Lloyd E. Herman

Historic Georgetown Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

Hoftman-La Roche, Inc.

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg

Home Box Office

The Homeland Foundation

Mrs. Veronica A. Huber

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems

Mr. William J. Hume

IVI Travel

Inter Con Systems Corporation

Intermedics Orthopedics, Inc. and
Protek AG

International Conference
Management, Inc.

International Creative Management,
Inc

Investment Company Institute

Island Press

JHK & Associates

The Jacobs Family Foundation

Mr. Joseph J. Jacobs

James Renwick Alliance

The Japan Foundation

The Johnson Foundation (Trust)

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc

Kaman Music Corporation

Keebler Company

Ms. Narinder Kaur Keith

W.K. Kellogg Foundation

David Woods Kemper Memorial
Foundation

Mr. David Woods Kemper II

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr

The Khalili Family Trust

Mr. Peter B. Kovler

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. Harvey M. Krueger

Peter Krueger-Christie’s Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence W. Lane, Jr

Mr. Samuel Lehrman

Levi Strauss & Company

Richard Lounsbery Foundation

MCI Communications Corp
MCI Foundation

Manomet Bird Observatory

Marpat Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Martin Marietta Corporation

Masco Corporation

McCasland Foundation

Chauncey & Marion Deering
McCormick Foundation

Mr. Brooks McCormick

Mr. Antony M. Merck

Mill Pond Press Inc.

Ms. Mary V. Mochary

Morgan Stanley Realty, Inc

Mr. Richard Morrill

National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation

National Grocers Association

National Space Club

The Nature Conservancy

NeXT, Inc

New York State Council on the Arts

Nippon Express Co., Ltd.

The Norcliffe Fund

Omnicom Group, Inc.

The Ovitz Family Foundation

Mrs. Mary Marvin Patterson

Pedone & Partners, Inc.

Peninsula Community Foundation

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Mrs. Laura E. Phillips

Howard Phipps Foundation

Port Royal Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado

Protek AG

Red Sage LP

Emerson & Delores Reinsch
Foundation

The Research Board, Inc.

Roche Diagnostic Systems, Inc.

Roche Molecular Systems, Inc.

Susan & Elihu Rose Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

Helena Rubinstein Foundation

SEI Corporation

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Catherine F. Scott and Kenneth J.
Scott

Shell Oil Company Foundation

SNECMA, Inc.

Society of Petroleum Engineers

The Stride Rite Corporation

The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc

Daniel Swarovski Communications

Mr. Daniel Swarovski

Taubman Endowment for the Arts

A. Alfred Taubman Restated
Revocable Trust

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman

TGV Incorporated

The Truland Foundation

The Truland Systems Corp.

Turner Foundation, Inc.

U.S. Korea Foundation

United States Postal Service

US Sprint Communications Co.

USA Hosts

Mr. George A. Vaughn III

The Washington Post Company

Waste Management, Inc.

Frank Weeden Foundation

Westinghouse Electric Corp.

Wildlife Preservation Trust
International

76

The Winslow Foundation
Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff
Mr. John R. Young

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

AKC Fund, Inc.

Adolph Coors Company

David H. Ahrenholz, M.D.

Alexander Galleries

Mr. Arthur G. Altschul

American Association of Housing
Educators

American Envelope Company

American Film Institute, Inc.

Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.

Art Dealers Association of America

The Bailey Wildlife Foundation

Mr. David Baird, Jr

The Barnes Foundation

The Barra Foundation, Inc.

The Honorable and Mrs. Max N.
Berry

Botwinick-W olfensohn Foundation

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Buck Investments

Mrs. Jackson Burke

Caldwell Schools, Inc.

Major General and Mrs. Daniel Stone
Campbell, USAF Ret.

Caswell J. Caplan Charitable Income
Trust

Ms. Constance R. Caplan

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Chevron Corporation

Mr. Willard G. Clark

Mr. Melvin S. Cohen

Comissao Nacional Comemoracoes
Descrobimentos Portugueses

Conservation International

Ms. Florence Corder-W itter

Dr. William H. Cosby

Dr. Charlotte S. DeMetry

Digital Equipment Corporation

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation

E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co.

Ms. Anneliese Duncan

Family of Harry F. Duncan

Dr. Jack Durell

Mr. Gilbert S. Edelson

Electronic Data Systems Corp.

Mr. Takashi Endo

Richard C. & Susan B. Ernst
Foundation Inc.

Mr. John L. Ernst

Leslie Fay Companies, Inc.

Ms. Beatrice W. Feder

Walter & Josephine Ford Fund

Rita & Daniel Fraad Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr.

Ms. Suzanne E. Hanas

Henry J. and Drue Heinz Foundation

H. John Heinz II Charitable Trust

Mrs. Drue M. Heinz

Mrs. Teresa Heinz

Mrs. Eleanor B. Herzman

Alan Hilburg & Associates

Mr. Alan Hilburg

The Horn Foundation

International Bank of Commerce

International Design

Iris Foundation

Mr. Eugene J. Kaplan

Mr. Maurice H. Katz

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Victor Kaufman

Ms. Rajinder Kaur Keith

Mrs. Olive Dibben Kemp

Mrs. Janet Krissell

Mr. Eugenio Garza Laguera

Mr. James J. Lally

Mr. Robert Lehrman

Mrs. Jo Anne W. Lewis

William & Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation

Mr. Chung Pak Lin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Linton

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Mr. Meredith J. Long

Ms. Patricia C. Lusk

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney

Mars Foundation

Nan Tucker McEvoy Foundation,
Inc

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Mr. Robert L. McNeil, Jr.

Mr. Jeffrey W. Meyer

Miss Julienne M. Michel

Morning Star Gallery, Ltd.

Mrs. Grace Nelson

Overbrook Foundation

Mr. David Parker

Perkin-Elmer Corp.

Ms. Dorothy N. Perkins

Phillips Petroleum Company

Placer Dome U.S., Inc.

Mr. John J. Pomerantz

Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope

Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin

Mr. David S. Purvis

Frederick W. Richmond Foundation,

Inc.

Mr. Ralph C. Rinzler

The Honorable and Mrs. S. Dillon
Ripley II

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr.

Mr. Arthur Ross

Ms. Mary Ell Ruffner

Ms. Dolores H. Russ

The Salomon Foundation, Inc.

Family of Senator Leverett Saltonstall

Charles E. Sampson Memorial
Foundation

David Schwartz Foundation Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Schwartz

Nate S. & Ruth B. Shapero
Foundation

Robert & Anna Shapiro Foundation

Esther Simon Charitable Trust

Sylvia Sinsabaugh

John Sloan Memorial Foundation,
Inc.

Irvin Stern Foundation

Sunwest Financial Services, Inc.

Ellen Napiura Taubman, Ltd.

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Mrs. Sandra Street Thompson

Norman-Rita Tishman Fund, Inc.

Tourism Association of New Mexico

Mr. T. T. Tsui

Mrs. Patricia M. Tully

Ralph N. & Anina M. Walter
Charitable Trust

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin

Western Foundation of Vertebrate
Zoology

Mrs. Annie B. Wetmore

Mrs. Cheryl A. Wexler

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Wilcox

Zoo Atlanta

$1,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Aberle

Mr. Christopher Addison

Esthy & James Adler Philanthropic
Fund

Hon. and Mrs. James E. Akins

Alaska Federation of Natives

Mr. Garett J. Albert

Albuquerque Convention & Visitors
Bureau

Ald Too Inc.

Mr. Michael P. Alessio

Allied-Signal Corporation

Alsdorf Foundation

Mr. James W. Alsdorf

Ms. Ann Simmons Alspaugh

American Association of Owners &
Breeders of Peruvian Paso Horses

American Ornithologists’ Union

American Institute of Wine & Food

Mrs. Robert Amory

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Anderson

Colonel John S. Anderson

ARCO Foundation

Art Resource

Asian Cultural Council, Inc.

AT&T

Atochem North America Foundation

Ballen & Company

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman

Mr. Jack Banning

Ms. June Barrymore

Harry Bass Foundation

Mr. Curtis Batker

Ms. Donna Bayles

Mr. C. Victor Beadles

Bell & Howell Phillipsburg Co.

Bellcore

BellSouth Corporation

Mr. John T. Bennett

Mrs. Madeleine Bennett

Benzav Trading Company

Bergman Family Charitable Trust

Norman Bernstein Management

Mr. James H. Biben

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Binder

Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler

Mr. M. H. Blakemore

Board of Trade of the City of Chicago

Laura Boulton Foundation Inc.

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

W. J. Bowen Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Bowen

Mrs. Sook Bower
Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell T. Bowie

BP America Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. John Brademas

Mr. Samuel E. Braden

Mr. William J. Breuer

Mrs. Paulyne Brewer

Mr. Warren Brule

Mr. James L. Buckley

Mrs. John B. Bunker

Mr. Ralph V. Burney

Mr. Dan W. Burns

Ms. Marcy L. Burns

Mrs. Charles P. Cabell, Sr.

Camalott Charitable Foundation

Capital Informer, Inc.

Mrs. Kyle Adams Carney

The Honorable Joseph P. Carroll and
Mrs. Carroll

Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Cary

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins Catherwood,

Ife
Chambord, Inc.
Cheyenne Cultural Center
Ms. Allene R. Chiesman
Dr. Timothy W. Childs
Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Ms. Anne K. Christman
Mr. Kenneth Chu
Mr. Quincy Chuang
CIGNA Corporation
Citicorp
Mr. Roy S. Clarke, Jr.
Ms. Kay L. Clausen
Mr. and Mrs. Landon T. Clay
Mr. James A. Clements
CNG
Coca-Cola, Panama
Dr. and Mrs. David A. Cofrin
The Carl & Rene Cohen Foundation
Mr. Bertram J. Cohn
Cole National Corporation
Mrs. Dollie A. Cole
Mr. Jeffrey A. Cole
Colgate-Palmolive Company
Mr. Edwin I. Colodny
Columbus Zoological Park
Association
Commodity Exchange, Inc.
The Hon. Barber B. Conable, Jr.
Conservation Treaty Support Fund
Mr. Richard P. Cooley
Corning Incorporated
Mr. John Corroon
Mrs. Carole D. Crocker
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman III
Mr. John R. Curtis
The D & DF Foundation
Dallas Postal Customers Council
Mr. Frederick M. Danziger
Mr. Richard Danziger
Mr. John H. Darlington, Jr.
Daval Foundation
Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe
Mr. Steve Delonga
DeLuxe Corp. Foundation
Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Valerie Charles Diker Fund, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon
Mrs. Tatiana Dominick
Mr. Dale F. Dorn
The Douglass Foundation
Dresser Industries, Inc.
Mrs. Fleur K. Dudman
Mrs. M. D. Duggan
Duracell, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth

The Ebsworth Foundation

The Echo Foundation

Mr. James Economos

Dr. and Mrs. Albert S. Edgerton

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds III

Mr. Robert K. Edson

Mr. Robert Elkins

The Lois & Richard England
Foundation

Dennis Eros American Arts

Mr. and Mrs. Giuseppe Eskenazi

Estee Lauder Companies

Ms. Cynthia A. Evancho

Ms. Darlene M. Evancho

Mr. George Fan

Mr. and Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner

Mr. Paul B. Fay, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder

Dr. Robert S. Feinberg

Mr. Stephen L. Feinberg

Mrs. Nancy Fessenden

Fine Arts of Ancient Lands, Inc.

Harvey S. Firestone Foundation

Mr. Aiken W. Fisher

Mr. Charles T. Fisher II

Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann

Ms. Jane G. Flener

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry N. Flynt, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Mr. John Forsythe

Ms. Joanne du Pont Foster

Foundation for the National Capital
Region

Sandy Frank Entertainment, Inc.

Mr. George S. Franklin

Mr. Rodney P. Frelinghuysen

Mr. Michael R. French

Friends of Free China, Inc.

Mrs. Lloyd W. Frueh

Fund for New York City Public
Education

Mr. Robert V. Gallegos

Gallery 10, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr.

Mrs. Allece Garrard

General Dynamics Corp.

General Electric Company

General Motors Corp.

Georgia-Pacific

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Giant Food Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Paul R. Gibson

Mr. Richard Gilbert

Gilman Paper Co.

Kurt Gitter, M.D., and Alice Yelen

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg

Ms. Mary W. Goodwillie

Mr. Stephen Gordon

Mr. Arvin Gottlieb

Ms. Ruth C. Greenberg

Ms. Frederica H. Gries

Ms. Elsie R. Griffin

Mrs. Martha Watson Griffin

Gulf States Paper Corporation

Mr. Jack Haas

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Haas

Evelyn A.J. Hall Charitable Trust

Mr. John Van Hallie

Mr. Jack R. Harlan

Mr. and Mrs. Marion Edwyn
Harrison

John R. & Dora Haynes Foundation

Mr. Bernard Heineman

Mr. J. Marshall Hemphill

Mr. Samuel J. Heyman

Mr. David M. Hicks

Berry Hill Galleries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick D. Hill

Clarence and Jack Himmel
Foundation

Mr. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. Alan J. Hirschfield

Mr. Leroy E. Hoffberger

Mr. Henry C. Hofheimer

Mrs. Flora A. Hogins

Mrs. Richard W. Homer

Hotel Santa Fe

Mr. Joseph E. Hotung

Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell

Mr. Roy M. Huhndorff

Mrs. Jacquelin Hume

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter

Indianapolis Zoological Society, Inc.

International Envelope Company

International Centre for Diffraction
Data

Dr. and Mrs. Nelson S. Irey

Ms. Betty A. Jackson

Dr. Jay A. Jackson

Mrs. Maureen R. Jacoby

Mr. Richard J. Janes

Mr. Dick Jemison

Dr. Helen I. Jessup

Johnson & Johnson

Mrs. Patricia C. Johnson

Reverend Owen A. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. Subhash Kapoor

Mr. Jack Kay

Mr. Francis A. Keating

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Keats

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Keresey

Ms. Sarah Kim

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney

Mrs. Garfield King

Mrs. F. G. Kingsley

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Mr. Lincoln Kirstein

Ms. N. R. Klusmeyer

Seymour H. Knox Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III

Mr. Seymour H. Knox IV

Mr. Robert P. Kogod

Lieutenant Colonel William K. and
Mrs. Alice S. Konze

Ms. Phyllis R. Kraus

Ms. Dina K. Krissel

Mr. James D. Krissel

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Kreuger

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Lacock

Mr. Joseph R. Lasser

Mr. Thomas Lawton

Ms. Roxie Laybourne

Mrs. Sharon LeeMaster

Mr. Edward J. Lenkin and Ms.
Katherine L. Meier

Mr. Melvin Lenkin

Mr. Jacques E. Lennon

The Honorable William Leonhart

Mr. William G. Lerchen, Jr.

Liberty Maritime Corporation

Eli Lilly and Company

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Linn’s Stamp News

Mr. R. Robert Linowes

Mrs. Gam B. Louie

Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation

Mr. William E. Lucas

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch

Ms. Diana T. MacArthur

Mr. Thomas MacCracken

Dr. Gwen R. MacDonald

James A. Macdonald Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury

Mr. Peter L. Malkin

Ms. Helen J. Malmstead

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Marshall, Jr.

Ms. Johanne Master

Mastervision Productions, Inc.

Mrs. K. Mastick

Mr. Joseph J. Mathy

Mr. George T. Matteson

Mr. Patrick J. Maveety

George S. May International
Company

Mr. Don W. McClelland

Mr. Joseph McEwen

McGhee Production Company

The Honorable and Mrs. George C.
McGhee

The Meek Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Hassanali Mehran

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. R.K. Merrill, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

Ms. Evelyn J. Mettey

Mr. Otto E. Meyer

Mrs. Jane B. Meyerhoff

Michigan Mineralogical Society

Mr. Kenneth Miller

Mrs. Marie B. Miller

Mrs. George H. Milton

Mrs. Marcia D. Minichiello

Minneapolis Postal Customer Council

Mitchell Energy & Development Inc.

Mr. James A. Mitchell

Mr. Walter W. Mitchell

Mobil Corporation

Mobile Post Office Society, Inc.

Benjamin Moore & Co.

Moore Farms

Mr. W. T. Moran III

J.P. Morgan & Company, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Mr. Arthur H. Morowitz

Mr. John W. Morrison

Enid & Lester Morse Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.

Dr. George E. Mueller

Ms. Jane R. Mueller

Multi-Plastics, Inc.

Ms. Jeannette D. Naman

National Society of the Sons of the
American Revolution

National U.S.-Arab Chamber of
Commerce

National Affairs, Inc.

National Association of Dealers in
Antiques

National Gallery of Art

National League of Postmasters

National Women’s Christian
Temperance Union

The Native American Art Gallery

Ms. Ann Navarra-Greenberg

Navy Mail Service Veterans
Association

NCR Corporation

Wi
Nestle Beverage Company

Mr. Charles F. Nettleship, Jr.

Roy R. and Marie S. Neuberger
Foundation, Inc

New York Design Center, Inc.

New York Mercantile Exchange

The Newhall Land & Farming Co.

Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation

Mr. P. B. Newman

Niagara Envelope Company, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Nitze II

Mr. E. J. Nutter

Dr. Stephen J. O'Brien

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O'Connor

Oberlin College

Mr. Morris W. Offi

The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Oklahoma City Zoological Park

Dr. Michael Olding

Mr. David Allan Olive

Ms. Elsie Olson

Elis Olsson Memorial Foundation

Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries

Mr. L. Allen Osborne

Mrs. Glenna Osnos

PRT Corporation of America

Pace Gallery New York, Inc.

Ms. Mary J. Papworth

Parish-Hadley Associates, Inc.

Hon. and Mrs. Daniel Parker

Mr. Jerry Pasek

Paso Fino Horse Association, Inc

Mrs. Sandra L. Pay

Mr. Robert A. Perkins

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Perkins

Peruvian Paso Horse Registry of
North America

The Peters Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Peters

Mr. Rudolph A. Peterson

Mrs. Kathleen O. Petite

Mr. Roy Pfautch

Mr. Richard B. Pfeil

Philadelphia Bar Education
Foundation

Ms. Trigger Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. Barry M. Pierce

Poindexter Enterprises, Inc.

Mrs. Sandra A. Potter

Precancel Stamp Society

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Pritzker

Procter & Gamble Company

Dr. and Mrs. Alvin N. Puryear

Mr. Jack Rachlin

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Rainbolt

Mr. Harvey W. Rambach

Mr. Roger L. Ranck

Mrs. Lois S. Raphling

Mr. Louis H. Rappaport

Rastar Productions

Reader's Digest Association

Ms. Patricia Redmond

Mrs. Sanae I. Reeves

Mr. Nathan Reingold

Miss Marie K. Remien

Mr. Jack Rennert

Research Publications, Inc.

Reuters Corporation

RJR Nabisco, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Steven C. Rockefeller

Dr. Kenneth X. Robbins

Dr. Michael H. Robinson

78

The Honorable and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller IV

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

The Arthur Ross Foundation

Mr. Kevin Roth

Marietta Lutze Sackler, M.D.

Mr. James F. Sams

Mr. and Mrs. Leveo V. Sanchez

Sanderling Properties

Santa Fe Center Enterprises

Santa Fe Pacific Minerals Corp.

Saudi Arabian Oil Company

Scali, McCabe, Sloves, Inc.

Ms. Judith Schalit

Ms. Margaret Schink

Mr. Harold A. Schwartz

The Science Alliance

Mrs. Frances W. Scott

J.E. Seagram Corp

Margaret Sell Interiors

Mrs. Margaret Sell

Mrs. Dorothy M. Shelton

Mrs. Sandra G. Shelton

Mr. and Mrs. R. F. Sibert

Mr. and Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mrs. Manley H. Simons

Mr. Robert Skelly

Dr. William J.L. Sladen

C.G. Sloan & Company, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith

Ms. Laura Smith

The Smithsonian National Board

Ms. Frances D. Smyth

Ms. Wendy Snyder

Mrs. Lillian Sokol

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Solomon

Southwest Studio Connection

Southwestern Bell

Ira Spanierman Gallery

Mr. Ira Spanierman

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks

Mr. Jerry I. Speyer

Sc. Louis Zoological Park

Dr. Frank Stanton

Star Trading & Marine Inc

Mrs. Josephine H. Stawicki

Mr. John Steigerwald

Ms. Mary Irma Stevenson

Stoever Glass & Company

Mr. William Storey

Mrs. John M. Stuart

Sverdrup Corporation

Mr. Saburo Takahashi

Dr. and Mrs. Frank H. Talbot

Tambaran Gallery

Mr. Robert Ching Tang

Mr. Jeff Tarr

Mrs. Walter Tauer, Jr.

Texas Folklife Resources

Textron Charitable Trust

Dr. F. Christian Thompson

Mr. John Thompson

The Times Mirror Foundation

Mrs. Jean C. Tito

Mrs. Martha W. Tolman

Ms. Marana W. Tost

The Trophon Corporation

The Jean L. & Raymond S. Troubh
Fund

Mr. Thomas A. Troyer

Mr. Robert Truland

Mary Anna Scanlon shares a moment with Heston Long, the youn-
gest competitor in the traditional Native American dance competi-
tion of the 1992 Aspen/Snowmass Celebration. Proceeds from the
second annual celebration benefited the National Museum of the
American Indian.

TRW Foundation

Mr. F. Earl Turner

Mrs. Lillian Turner

Mr. Robert E. Turner III

United Technologies Corp.

US West, Inc

Mr. W. G. Van Allen

The Vanguard Group, Inc.

Mrs. Elena L. Vignelli

Dr. M. C. Vincent

Waddell Trading Company

Mr. Duane A. Wakeham

Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust

Dr. Lucy R. Waletzky

The Richard Wallace Company

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton

Mr. John C. Walton

Mr. Dennis E. Wamsley

Mr. and Mrs. George E. Warner

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Warner

The Hon. and Mrs. Thomas J.
Watson, Jr.

Mrs. Virginia Collins Weart-
McDaniel

Nina W. Werblow Charitable Trust

Mr. W. Richard West, Jr.

Miss Winifred E. Weter

Miss Shelby White

John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Mr. Austin B. Williams

Ms. Elizabeth F. Williams

Mrs. Harold B. Williams

Ms. Ann B. Willis

Eli Wilner & Company, Inc.

Mr. Eli Wilner and Ms. Barbara
Brennan

Mr. Alfred S. Wilsey

The Honorable Edward F. Wilson

Dr. Edward T. Wilson

Mr. Stephen V. Winthrop

Ms. Estelle R. Wolf.

Mr. Michael B. Wray

Mr. Man-Shih Yang

Ms. Helen Yeakel

Mr. Robert Yuen

Ms. Stetanie Zable

William & Marion Zeckendorf
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Zoological Society of Philadelphia

Mr. Benjamin Zucker
Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle

The Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle recognizes and honors those indi-
viduals whose exceptional gifts have preserved the traditions of the
Smithsonian Institution while furthering its vision. Benefactors’ gifts
reflect the donors’ personal interests and commitment and are as varied
and broad as the Institution itself. The Smithsonian Benefactors’ Cir-
cle exists to honor these distinguished philanthropists and to provide a
lasting mark of their achievements.

The Smithsonian recognizes the gifts of Founders and Patrons of the

Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle listed below.

Honorary Founder
Enid A. Haupt
Founders

Russell B. Aitken

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. and Diana L. Altschul
William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans

Katharine Graham

Robert C. and Julie Graham, Jr.
Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.
William A. and Patricia W. Hewitt
Tkuo Hirayama

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
T.T. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Patrons

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson
Peter C. and Joan Andrews
Marjorie Arundel

Edward P. Bass

James and Barbara Block
Michael J. Brophy
Hildegard Bruck

George E. Burch III
Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

David Davies

Patricia C. Dodge

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

Kitty Fassett

Rita Fraad

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost
Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert
Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Jerome L. Greene

Barrick W. Groom

Agnes S. Gund

Joan D. Haig

Evelyn A. J. Hall

Drue M. Heinz

Lloyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman
John R. Huggard

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen
James M. Kemper, Jr.

R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.
William K. and Alice S. Konze
Harvey M. and Connie Krueger
Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger
Robert and Helen Kuhn
Rogerio S. Lam

Robert Lehrman

Sydney and Frances Lewis
Henry Luce III

Harry and Beverly Mandil

John F. and Adrienne B. Mars

Kathleen C. Mason

Brooks and Hope B. McCormick

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Antony M. Merck

James and Lolly Mitchell

Honorable Daniel Patrick Moynihan
and Elizabeth Moynihan

Jean Niemeier

Robert H. and Nancy Nooter

Philip D. Reed, Jr., and Elizabeth
Reed

Frank K. Ribelin

Carlyn Ring

David Rockefeller

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal

Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Cecile Salomon

Catherine F. Scott

Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz

Emma M. Sims

James C. Slaughter

George L. Small

Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

E. Hadley Stuart, Jr., and Marion
Stuart

A. Alfred Taubman

Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.

Jeffrey and Diane Tobin

John Weeden

Daniel Weinstein

Nancy Brown Wellin

Gay F. Wray

Posthumous: Gifts through Will

Helen Buckner
Wilbur H. Claggett
Mildred J. Dassett
Robert C. Eddinger
Pauline Edwards
Frances B. Ferguson
Dorothy B. Koteen
Laura I. O'Dea
Alice I. Winterer

Smithsonian Corporate Membership Program

The Corporate Membership Program fosters corporate involvement and
support for the Smithsonian Institution. Through generous annual con-
tributions, these companies have demonstrated the critical role an en-
lightened private sector can play on a national and international level
in advancing the public good.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the following members of
the Corporate Membership Program.

AFLAC Incorporated

Anheuser-Busch Companies

BellSouth Corporation

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.

The Coca-Cola Company

CSX Transportation

The Walt Disney Company

The Dow Chemical Company

Eaton Corporation

Electronic Data Systems Corporation

Ford Motor Company

General Electric Company

Hitachi, Limited

International Business Machines
Corporation

Kajima Corporation

The Kansai Electric Power Company,
Incorporated

Lee Enterprises, Incorporated

McDonald's Corporation

Mobil Corporation

Monsanto Company

Simon and Schuster

The Southern Companies

Tokyo Electric Power Company

TRW Inc.

Bequests

It is with special appreciation that we remember and acknowledge
those friends who made gifts by will and thus continue the legacy of
James Smithson, our founder.

Unrestricted gifts become part of the Bequest Endowment Fund.
The principal of this fund is maintained in perpetuity, while the in-
come supports acquisitions, exhibitions, scholarly studies, educational
outreach, and other functions of the Smithsonian. Some gifts are desig-
nated for a special purpose by the donors. Gifts by bequest can be
structured to meet donors’ needs and goals.

The following persons remembered the Smithsonian with gifts by

will.

79
Marie B. Abbott
Florence S. Berryman
Mae Emilia Dahl
Matthew J. Delaney
Franz Denghausen
Robert C. Eddinger
Pauline Edwards
John Bruce Fegan
Walter C. Groff
Dona I. Guimaraes
Audrey K. Kingdon
Morris Leverton
Alice I. Winterer
Ellen T. Work

Memorial and Commemorative Giving
Program

Memorial and commemorative gifts to the Smithsonian honor loved
ones, friends, and colleagues. These gifts not only express special ap-
preciation for the individual being honored, but also help support, in
a very direct way, the mission of the Institution. Donors may choose
to apply the gift to the broadest work of the Smithsonian, or, in cer-
tain instances, may direct the gift to a specific area of interest to the
honoree.
The following persons were so honored by their families and

friends.

Paul Desautels

Harry F. Duncan

Gloria Haas

Honorable John Heinz III

Pearl Rappaport Kaplan

Gurdit Singh Keith

Karam Kaur Keith

Mahinder Singh Keith

Rajinder Kaur Keith

Narinder Kaur Keith

Robert Downey Kemp

Richard Louie

Brigadier General Edwin R. Petzing

Frederick Gaylord Pierce & Frederick
Smythe Pierce

Dr. Mary Rice

Senator Leverett Saltonstall

Antonio R. Sanchez, Sr.

John Berry Scott

Lisa Taylor

Carmen Elizabeth Pawley Turner

George A. Vaughn, Jr.

Alexander Wetmore

Donors of In-Kind and Volunteer Support

In addition to the financial support of individuals, foundations, and
corporations, the Smithsonian Institution acknowledges donors of in-
kind gifts. Ranging from equipment for office or program use to pro
bono professional consulting services, such in-kind gifts contribute
greatly to the success of research and educational programs, as well as

to efficient administration of the Institution.

All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd.

American Airlines

Anchor Brewing Company of San
Francisco

Apple Computer, Inc.

80

Don Baker

Clos Pegase Winery

Coutler Scientific Instruments

Electronic Data Systems Corp.

Excelsior Publishing

Flemish Community of Belgium

Geographic Data Technologies

Max Gurth

Embassy of Hungary

International Business Machines
Corporation

International Design

Knogo Corporation

Mazda Motors of America, Inc.

McArdle Productions, Inc.

Modine Manufacturing Company

Music Performance Trust Funds

Nairobi Hilton

Novadyne Computer Systems

Philips Interactive Media

Ridgewell’s Caterers

SNECMA, Inc.

Society for the Preservation of Greek
Heritage

Sun Microsystems, Inc.

TGV Incorporated

Tokyo National Research Institute of
Cultural Properties

WRC TV-4

Weadon Printing

White House Historical Association

The Willard Inter-Continental

Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smithsonian to accom-
plish a variety of programs and to offer expanded services to the pub-
lic. The names of our docents and behind-the-scenes volunteers are

lisced annually in the Torch (the employee newspaper). In fiscal 1992,
4,707 volunteers gave 464,680 hours of their time. These invaluable
volunteers bring expertise, experience, and enthusiasm to their work
here, and we express to them collectively our great appreciation for

their dedication to the Smithsonian Institution.

Smithsonian Contributing Members

The Contributing Membership of the Smithsonian National Associate
Program supports the Institution’s work through generous annual con-
tributions.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and
recognize major gifts to the Institution. The Society, which is the
highest level of Contributing Membership, is composed of Annual
Members ($2,000), Life Members (appointed before 1985 for contrib-
uting significant gifts to the Institution), and Endowed Life Members.
Endowed Life Members are individuals who make a one-time gift of
$40,000, or pledge $45,000 over a three-year period, to become life-
time Society Members. Extraordinary contributions to the Smithsonian
are recognized through the Society's Founder Medal award and its ac-
companying Life Membership.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the generous support of
the James Smithson Society and the Patron Members ($1,200) of the

Contributing Membership.
James Smithson Soctety
Endowed Life Members

Dan and Alice Gilbert

Lieutenant Colonel William K. and
Mrs. Alice S. Konze

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal and
Ms. Ruth E. Ganister

Colonel Billie G. Matheson, USAF
Ret.

Ruth Boyer Compton and Robert C.
Compton

Catherine F. Scott and Kenneth J.
Scott

James Smithson Society Life
Members

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeft

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

The Honorable Ralph E. Becker and
Mrs. Becker

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Bitter

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd

Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun and Dr.
Bertel Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Barnet Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell,

Jr.

Major General Daniel S. Campbell
and Mrs. Campbell

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

The Reverend and Mrs. Thomas G.
Cleveland

Mr. and Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Cunningham

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling III

Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy

Mr. Sam DeVincent

Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover

Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Downe, Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont

Mr. Mercer Ellington

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Fertozi

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Patricia and Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt

Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Mr. and Mrs. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mrs. Doris Stack Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome L. Greene

Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

Mrs. Elizabeth Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Olga Hirshhorn

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merril Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Mrs. David Landau

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and Mr. Joshua
M. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Mr. John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H.
Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Ms. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolph Pabst

The Honorable G. Burton Pearson
and Mrs. Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John H. Phipps

Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts

The Honorable Martin J. Roess and
Mrs. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz

The Honorable Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery

Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith

Mrs. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.

Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine Sergava Sznycer

The Doctors Yen and Julia Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams

Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Dr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten II

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

James Smithson Society Annual
Members

Dr. J. Scott Abercrombie, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Mike Adams
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
Mr. Leonard E.B. Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Ms. Jean M. Auel

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman
Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Barnett
Ms. Janine F. Barre

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Drs. Rhoda and Jordan Baruch

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs

Mr. John L. Black

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair

The Honorable Robert O. Blake and
Mrs. Blake

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Boeschenstein

Mrs. Richard W. Bolling

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Boskey

Dr. and Mrs. Harold M. Boslow

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Colonel Donald $. Bowman

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. Edward A. Burka

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Burlingame

Dr. Edwin W. Burnes

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mrs. Charles Pearre Cabell

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. and Mrs. John Otis Carney

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.

Mrs. Winifred Carter

Dr. and Mrs. David Challinor

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Melvin S. and Ryna G. Cohen

The Honorable William T. Coleman,
Jr. and Mrs. Coleman

Mr. and Mrs. David F. Condon III

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Consolvo

Mr. Mark N. Cookingham and Ms.
Nancy J. Robertson

Ms. Florence Corder-W itter

Mr. and Mrs. Merrill K. Cragun

Carole Davis Crocker

Mrs. Gretchen S. Crow

Mr. John David Crow

The Crown Family

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Curl

Mr. and Mrs. Dan J. Daly, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. T. Giffin Daughtridge

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo, Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph N. Deblinger

Mr. Geert M. Deprest and Ms. Laura
Travis-Deprest

Mr. Lowell DeYoung

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Dibona

Mr. S. J. Dimeglio

Ms. Marna Disbrow

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr.

Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Duemling

Mr. and Mrs. Leroy Eakin III

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds III

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Miss Babs Eisman

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr.

Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. Takashi Endo

Colonel Charles O. Eshelman

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Lt. Colonel Pamela C. Eyre

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Firestone

81
The Honorable William H. G
FitzGerald and Mrs. FitzGerald

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon J. Flesch

Ms. Ellen L. Fogle

Mr. and Mrs. Owsley Brown Frazier

Mrs. Lloyd W. Frueh

Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

Mr. William May Garland III

Mr. and Mrs. Larry T. Gauger

Mr. and Mrs. Michael C. Gelman

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Gerber

Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mrs. Elizabeth W’. Glascock

Carol R. and Avram J. Goldberg

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. Albert H. Gordon

George and Marge Graham

Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley Greene

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

The Honorable Najeeb Halaby and
Mrs. Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Freddie Harby

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. David H. Hausmann

Dr. and Mrs. Ray M. Hayworth

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Henry

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler

Ms. Gloria Hidalgo

Mr. James T. Hines, Jr

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

Mr. Austin I. Hubbard

Mrs. Rosemarie McCulloch Hughes

Mrs. Peter D. Humleker, Jr

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. John Ippolito and Ms. Diane M.
Laird-Ippolito

Dr. and Mrs. Nelson S. Irey

The Irwin Foundation

The Honorable John N. Irwin II and
Mrs. Irwin

Mr. Eli S. Jacobs

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

David S. and Patricia H. Jernigan

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. Erik Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly LI

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

The Honorable Randolph A. Kidder
and Mrs. Kidder

Dr. William M. King

F. M. Kirby Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Kirby

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

The Honorable Philip M. Klutznick
and Mrs. Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald J. Knecht

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Knight III

Mr. David Hamilton Koch

Dr. Jane E. Kosa

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald E. Kron

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

82

Mr. John E. Kuenzl

Mrs. James S. Lacock

Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L.
Lammerding

Mr. and Mrs. James K. Leach

Jacob & Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

The Honorable William Leonhart and
Mrs. Leonhart

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Long

Ms. Doris J. Lothrop

Jack and Betty Lou Ludwick

Dr. and Mrs. Fred R. Lummis

Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan Mac Millan

Mr. James A. MacKinnon

Mr. H. L. Mahoney III

Mr. Michael Maloney

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mrs. Virginia C. Mars

Ms. Mary Martell

The Honorable William McChesney
Martin, Jr. and Mrs. Martin

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Major General Raymond E. Mason,
Jr. and Mrs. Mason

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Ms. Mary B. McCulloch

Mr. and Mrs. James W. McCutcheon

The Honorable Robert M. McKinney
and Mrs. McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K.
McLanahan

Ms. Merrill McLoughlin

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Gilbert and Jaylee Mead

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W.. Meers

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Melrod

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James Robert
Montgomery

Dr. Robert H. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. W.F. Morrisette

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Moser

Mr. H. Duane Nelson

The Honorable Paul H. Nitze

Mr. and Mrs. William M. North

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Oglevee

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. George M. Page

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mr. and Mrs. Scott E. Pardee

The Honorable Daniel Parker and
Mrs. Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles

Mr. J. Roy Pennell, Jr.

John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. Allan R. Phipps

Mr. and Mrs. J. Michael Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Pitts

Mrs. Jane P. Plakias

Mr. and Mrs. Zigmund J. Podell

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Dr. Kazuko K. Price

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Radway, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Hart Rice

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Roberts

The Honorable John D. Rockefeller
IV and Mrs. Rockefeller

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Rogers

Ms. Marya Rowan

Mrs. Lois B. Rowland

Mr. Archur N. Ryan

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Sbar

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. Harold A. Schwartz

Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Shaw

Joan and Ev Shorey

Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Mrs. Bernice Roe Smith

Mr. Frank O. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Page W.. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T.J. Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone

The Honorable Robert D. Stuart and
Mrs. Stuart

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Dr. Russell Swanson and Dr. Marie
Swanson

Dr. Joan E. Thomas and Mr. Lee B.
Thomas, Jr.

Mrs. Margot K. Thomson

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. Walter L. Vail

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.

Ms. Alice B. Vincilione

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von
Hoffmann

Colonel Harold W. Vorhies

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Waidner

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.

Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan and Dr.
Deborah Black

Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

The Honorable John C. Whitehead
and Mrs. Whitehead

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence F.
Whittemore

Mr. Julius Wile

Mr. David R. Williams

Mr. and Mrs. W. Armin Willig

Ms. Pauline E. Williman

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Winn

Dr. Sheila Z. Wood and Mr. James
L. Annis

Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Young

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Patron Members

Mr. Walter Alber

Mr. Terry L. Albertson and Ms.
Kathleen A. Blackburn

Mr. Gene R. Bates

Mr. John Baum

Mrs. Anna S. Beckman and Mr.
Kenneth W. Beckman

Ms. Marguerite Bender

Miss Eliza H. Bishop

Ms. J. A. Boorman

Dr. Antonio Bosch

Mr. John F. Bricker

Mr. Keith S. Brown

Mrs. Cora S. Buell

Mr. E. T. Byram

Ms. Patricia Chamblin

Mr. Joseph Decaminada

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson

Mr. Douglas Dillon

Mr. N.L. Doligalski

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Ms. Ruth C. Greenberg

Mrs. Florence L. Gussman

Mr. Harold Haverty

Mrs. H. Houseman

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes

Mr. Stephen D. Ishmael

Dr. Jay A. Jackson

Mr. John H. Johnston

Dr. Charles Joseph

Mr. Robert M. Joyce

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy

Mr. Otto Kruse

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Lando

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield

Mr. Robert J. Lockridge

Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean

Mr. Vincent Mercurio

Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose, Jr.

Mr. W.T. Moran III

Mr. K. F. Mountcastle

Mrs. M. E. Newcomb

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Nickel

Ms. R. O'Hara

Mr. James A. Pastore

Mr. Paul E. Pontius

Mrs. Helen G. Price

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan

Ms. Nina Belle Redditt

Mr. and Mrs. L. Rothschild

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Rubin

Mr. C. W. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Gene F. Seevers

Mr. Harold Seybert

Mrs. \W. Mason Shehan

Mrs. Manley H. Simons

Dr. Harvey C. Slocum, Jr.

Mrs. V. Spratley

Mr. William C. Sterling, Jr.

Mr. R. Tevelde

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Turner III

Mrs. Maria C. Volpe

Ms. Mary Wibel

Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley

Mr. Walter R. Wright
Financial Report

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Chief Financial Officer

Introduction

The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal ap-
propriations and nonappropriated trust funds. Federal appropriations
are the primary source of operating funds to address the Institution’s
fundamental responsibilities in caring for and conserving the national
collections, sustaining basic research on the collections and in selected
areas of traditional and unique strength, and educating the public
through exhibitions and other outreach programs about the collec-
tions and research findings. Administrative and support functions are
also supported partially by federal appropriations. Federal appropria-
tions account for 71 percent of the Institution’s net operating funds.
In addition, capital outlays for building repair and restoration and for
Most new construction are also supported primarily through federal
appropriations, although certain construction projects, e.g., the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian and a planned West Court
complex at the National Museum of Natural History, rely heavily on
private fund-raising or other trust fund resources.

Trust funds account for the remaining 29 percent of the Institu-
tion’s net operating funds. The Smithsonian defines trust funds as all
funds it receives from sources other than direct federal appropriations.
These sources include gifts and grants from individuals, corporations,
and foundations; earnings from short- and long-term investments;
earnings from membership programs; and gross receipts from auxil-
iary activities such as Szzthsonian magazine, museum shops, food
service concessions, and mail order activities. The Smithsonian re-
ceives grants and contracts, primarily from other federal agencies, but
also from state governments, which are considered trust funds.

Smithsonian trust funds, depending on their source, purpose, and
applicable restrictions, are used for operations, construction, and en-
dowment. These nonappropriated trust funds are used to cover the
expenses of income-producing auxiliary activities, supplement federal
appropriations for programs, and cover an appropriate proportionate
share of the Institution's administrative expenses. The use of Smith-
sonian trust funds is further classified as restricted or unrestricted. Re-

stricted funds are those on which the donor or funding agent places
limitations. Seventy percent of the trust net operating funds are re-
stricted. Approximately 54 percent of the endowment is restricted as
well.

The following sections describe the Institution’s gereral financial
situation and its planned responses to changing conditions; specific fi-
nancial outcomes for fiscal 1992; measures, both organizational and
financial, to assure the future fiscal health of the Institution; and rela-
tionships with other affiliated organizations.

Financial Situation and Prospects

During fiscal 1992, an analysis of federal appropriations to the Insti-
tution for the past several years was conducted. That analysis revealed
that a major portion of each annual increment had gone not to sup-
port general operating expenses, but to support specific and/or ear-
marked purposes, such as the new National Museum of the American
Indian, major scientific instrumentation for the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory, new global change research programs, subsi-
dized participation fees for traveling exhibitions, and special
commemorative events such as the Columbus Quincentenary. Despite
the apparent increases in appropriation support, many factors, in-
cluding the need to apply increases to specific activities, had the effect
of eroding the purchasing power of the Institution's operating bud-
get. Other such factors include shortfalls in appropriations relative to
additional new costs, including mandated pay adjustments, employee
benefits, new regulatory requirements, and inflation.

Although the Institution's federal appropriation for operating ex-
penses was $97.3 million greater than in fiscal 1987, the fiscal 1992
funding level (in 1987 dollars) represented a decrease of $22.4 million
actually available for the core programs that were in place in fiscal
1987. This loss of purchasing power resulted in the inability to fill
many positions that perform essential functions, such as collections
care and facilities maintenance and repair; the deferral of the replace-
ment of scientific equipment; the postponement of the purchase of
library books and serials; and the reduction of other basic program
support.

At the same ume, the weakened national economy, along with a
decrease in the number of visitors, has led to decreased revenues from
the Smithsonian's various income producing activities. Unrestricted
trust fund income from these activities dropped to pre—fiscal 1987
levels. In response, the Institution reduced its budget allocations to
fellowships, collections acquisition, scholarly studies, educational out-
reach, and special exhibitions to 28 percent below the fiscal 1987 level
of $6.4 million.

Prospects for catch-up funding from both appropriated and nonap-
propriated sources are dim. Therefore, in planning for fiscal 1993, the
Institution conducted a comprehensive examination of each of its pro-
grams and activities, considering centrality to the Smithsonian’s mis-
sion, quality, and cost-effectiveness. As a result of that examination,
it has begun a multi-year restructuring program to restore and main-
tain financial equilibrium.
Fiscal 1992 Results

Fiscal 1992 Sources of Operating Funds
(Source: Tables 1 and 2)

Gross Net Net

Sources Sources Sources
Source of Funds ($000s) ($000s) (%)
Federal Appropriation 283,076 283,076 71
Government Grants and Contracts 42,689 42,089 11
Other Trust Resources 248,917 75,551 18
Total Available for Operations 574,682 401,316 100

The fiscal 1992 federal appropriation of $281.2 million, plus an addi-
tional $1.9 million for the Special Foreign Currency, U.S. India, and
the Canal Zone funds, provided the funding nucleus for ongoing pro-
grams of the Institution and limited support for the new National
Museum of the American Indian and for other areas of cultural plu-
ralism, environmental, and education initiatives. Modest increments
of funding were directed to the reinstallation of outdated exhibitions,
the upgrading and replacement of essential information systems, and
strengthening internal controls.

The Smithsonian concluded fiscal 1992 with a shortfall of $3.813
million in unrestricted general trust funds. The shortfall derived from
continued increases in expenditures while revenues from auxiliary ac-
tivities remained essentially flat in comparison to fiscal 1991. Al-
though management had already initiated reductions in baseline
expenditures, it became evident that additional cuts were required in
fiscal 1993 to bring costs within further reduced levels of unrestricted
trust income.

In fiscal 1992, government agencies sponsored research projects to-
talling $42.7 million at the Smithsonian, an increase of $5.9 million,
or 16 percent over fiscal 1991. Of this increase, $4.4 million repre-
sents funding from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion (NASA) to support research at the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory.

Other nonappropriated income from gifts, non-government grants,
endowments, current investments, and revenue-producing activities
totaling $75.55 million augmented funds from federal sources. The
Smithsonian is especially grateful to its many friends in the private
sector whose generosity contributed vitally to its work. Donors are
listed in the Benefactors section of this annual report.

Construction and Plant Fund's (Table 8)

In fiscal 1992, the Smithsonian received $23.599 million in direct ap-
propriations for replacement of major building systems at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History and the National Museum of
American History, as well as for repair, restoration, and code compli-
ance projects throughout the Institution.

Appropriations for major construction included $9.874 million for
reconfiguration of the National Museum of Natural History’s East

Court; $2.37 million for the planned National Museum of the Ameri-

can Indian; and $1.678 million for the initial design for the General
Post Office Building. The National Zoological Park received $7.899
million for repairs and other projects in its master plan, including the
Hall of Humankind and Amazonia. Appropriations for other con-

84

R & R Appropriations

Oo
c
i
S
Fiscal Year
MRaR CO Zooran |
Total Endowment Funds

$350

$300

$250 4
D
6 $200
= $150 +

$100

$50

go 4 —_—_________
70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 92
Fiscal Year
OC Market Value
Total Operating Funds

$600 +

$500
_ $400 +
no
i=
2
= |
= $

$200

nt ill | | |

0 Pit | See Ed l |
: 70 70 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 92

Fiscal Year
Federal ([] Unrestricted Restricted [Grants

struction activities included $5.234 million for minor construction
and planning for future capital projects.

Endowment (Tables 5, 6, and 7)

The Institution has a large number of endowment and quasi-endow-
ment funds. For investment purposes, these funds are pooled into a
consolidated portfolio, and the investment policy is focused on the
total return (i.e., dividends, interest, and realized and unrealized
capital gains) on the portfolio. Each year, the market value of the
portfolio increases by new gifts, net transfers, and the total return on
the portfolio. It is reduced by the annual payout for current expendi-
tures, fees, and expenses. Each fund within the consolidated endow-
ment purchases shares similar to an investor in a mutual fund. The
value of each share increases as the market value of the consolidated
portfolio (net of new gifts and transfers) increases and, annually, it re-
ceives the applicable payout per share for current expenditures.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smithsonian’s Board of
Regents oversees the development of the investment policy and the
annual payout for the consolidated endowment. The overall objective
of the endowment is to maintain its real purchasing power (net of
new gifts and transfers). Current policy calls for an average payout of
4.5 percent of the average market value over the prior 5 years. To
achieve the endowment objectives, the investment policy targets a
teal return of 5 percent.

During fiscal 1992, the market value of the consolidated endow-
ment increased to $343.6 million, a $29.8 million gain. Following
past practice to increase the endowment for the future, $3.1 million
in revenue generated from auxiliary enterprises was transferred to the
unrestricted endowment. The total return was 10.3 percent, the pay-
out was 4.2 percent of the five-year average market value, and fees
were 0.4 percent of average market value of the portfolio. With infla-
tion running at an annual rate of 2.4 percent, the real purchasing
power of the endowment increased by 3.8 percent. At fiscal year-end,
the portfolio of the Institution reflected 36 percent in bonds, 7 per-
cent in cash and cash equivalents, and 57 percent in equities.

Financial Management

In 1990, to assure effective financial management, the Smithsonian
established the position of assistant secretary for finance and adminis-
tration and later designated that position as chief financial officer of
the Institution. The chief financial officer has responsibilities for safe-
guarding all of the Institution’s assets and oversees all financial offices
to assure integrated financial planning and proper coordination of all
financial management functions.

Although not required to comply with the Federal Chief Financial
Officers Act of 1990, the Smithsonian has elected to comply volun-
tarily with the spirit and intent of its objectives for sound financial
management and internal controls. The Smithsonian is, in fact, well
ahead of most federal agencies in implementing the principal require-
ments of the act. In addition, the Institution’s finance offices are tak-
ing part in an effort to continuously improve the quality of their
products and services and the cost-effectiveness of their business pro-
cesses through total quality management (TQM). A program to train
all financial staff is under way and implementation of the program is
proceeding.

Specific financial management improvement initiatives undertaken
or completed in fiscal 1992 include

© an external review, arranged by the Private Sector Council, of the
management and organization of Smithsonian finance and admin-
istration by executives from the Eastman Kodak Company, the
Gillette Company, the Lockheed Corporation, and the American
Express Company;

¢ the development of a new accounts payable/ purchase order sys-
tem—to be completed by the end of fiscal 1993;

¢ the development of a more highly coordinated fund-raising pro-
gram plan;

© collateralization of Smithsonian funds on deposit with major banks
through the Federal Reserve Bank;

© the establishment of a Smithsonian-wide disaster preparedness
plan, the acquisition of a fully equipped disaster response trailer,
and completion or initiation of disaster preparedness plans at 22
separate Smithsonian facilities;

© initiation of a study to examine the planning and construction of
exhibitions and recommend opportunities for cost savings—to be
completed in fiscal 1993.

The Institution’s financial statements are audited annually by an in-
dependent public accounting firm. Along with the audit report,
management also receives a report from the auditors with suggested
operational improvements, which management acts upon as appro-
priate. Coopers & Lybrand’s unqualified report for fiscal 1992 is re-
printed on the following pages. The Smithsonian’s internal audit
staff, part of the Office of the Inspector General, assists the outside
auditors and regularly audits the Institution’s various programs, activ-
ities, and internal control systems. The Defense Contract Audit
Agency audits grants and contracts received from federal agencies, in-
cluding the allowability and allocability of indirect cost charges.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents met
three times during the fiscal year pursuant to its fiduciary responsi-
bilities and the bylaws of the Board of Regents. The committee re-
viewed the results of the 1991 audit of financial statements and the
1992 audit plan, received reports from the inspector general, and con-
ducted inquiries on a variety of topics directed at safeguarding the
Institution’s various assets.

Related Organizations

The National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Per-
forming Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars were established by Congress within the Institution. Each or-
ganization is administered by its own board of trustees and reports in-
dependently on its financial status. The Smithsonian provides the
Wilson Center with certain fiscal, administrative, and support ser-
vices, as well as office space, on a reimbursement basis.

Administrative services are provided by the Institution on a con-
tract basis for Reading is Fundamental, Inc. The Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo (FONZ), an independent nonprofit organization, operates
under a concessions contract; proceeds accrue to the Zoo.

(oe)
nN
w Table1. Financial Summary (in $000s)

INSTITUTIONAL OPERATING FUNDS

FUNDS PROVIDED:

Federal Appropriations—(Salaries & Expenses) & Other

Government Grants & Contracts .
Nonappropriated Trust Funds:

For Restricted Purposes

For Unrestricted & Special Purposes:
Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Gross
Less Related Expenses

Auxiliary & Bureau Activities Revenues—Net .... . sfetetieelec
Investment, Gift & OtherIncome! (12) see -teiety rire eerste
Total Net Unrestricted & Special Purpose Revenue
Total Nonappropriated Trust Funds—Gross_ .
—Net .
Total Operating Funds Provided—Gross ... .
—Net

FUNDS APPLIED:
Sclencetprras sone :
Less SAO Overhead Recovery

Arts and Humanities ......
Education and Public Service
International Activities . .
External Affairs . . .
Institutional Initiatives ... as
Associates & Business Management .
Administration—Federal (see Note 1) .
Nonappropriated Trust Funds ;
Less Smithsonian Overhead Recovery
Facilities Services .

Total Operating Funds Applied . . <<
Transfers (Nonappropriated Trust Funds)

Unrestricted Funds—To Plant

—To Endowment

Restricted Funds—To Plant ;

—To Endowment ..

Total Operating Funds Applied & Transferred Out . . .

CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES:
Nonappropriated Trust—Restricted Purpose . . .
Unrestricted—General Purpose ........
— Special Purpose .........

Restricted Purpose) cye.<,2cs.cteictestie cteiels < eisetevs sie) eusells sas loleihe elo lalat=
Unrestricted—General Purpose
—Special Purpose

OTHER FEDERAL APPROPRIATIONS (see Note 3)
Canal Zone Biological Area Fund .
Construction

Total Federal Appropriation (Including S$ & E above)

YEAR-END BALANCES—NONAPPROPRIATED TRUST FUNDS:

FY 1991 FY 1992
$ 273,709 $ 283,076
36,801 42,689
22,822 39,780
196,107 196,625
(173,322) (173,366)
22,785 23,259
14,330 12,512
37,115 35,771
233,259 248,917
59,937 75,551
543,769 574,682
370,447 401,316

143,568 156,520
(4,459) (5,009)
89,568 107,130

4,352 4,777
1,969 2,577
5,541 5,491
3,229 4,655
399 356
37,546 26,575
17,047 15,334
(10,107) (10,591)
73,634 77,484
362,287 385,299
(1,753) (232)
3,108 3,633
= 975
5,732 3,941
ee

(3,939) 7,096

3 (3,813)
(4,198) (3,558)
9,207 7,975
ee
$ 1,073 $ 7,700
$ 21,036 $ 28,132
13,772 9,959
31,115 27,557
—
$ 65,923 $ 65,648
$ 159 $ 154
53,233 50,653
————————

$ 327,101 $ 333,883

SSS SSS SSS

Note 1: The funds applied for FY 1991 were regrouped to be consistent with organizational changes that occurred in FY 1992.

Note 2: The fund balance for federal funds represents no-year unobligated funds for instrumentation, collections acquisition, repatriation, and exhibitions.
Also, included in this amount are unobligated funds from FY 1992, FY 1991, FY 1990, and FY 1989 annual appropriation accounts.

Note 3: Excludes $837 thousand received in FY 1991 and $1,325 thousand received in FY 1992 from the Department of State for research projects in India.

These amounts reflect a $414 thousand and $48 thousand exchange rate fluctuation for FY 1991 and FY 1992, respectively.
m Table2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1992
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $000s)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Total Unrestricted Restricted
Non- Government
Federal appropriated Auxiliary Special Grants and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
FUND BALANCES—Beginning of Year $ 7,300 $ 65,923 $ 13,772 $ $31,115 $21,036 $ =
FUNDS PROVIDED:
RederallAtppropriationss a... c-sse)ea 283,076 — — _ — — _
Pavestmentuncomen saris soe cise c sea ieaie. — 14,170 7,616 — 562 5,992 —
Government Grants and Contracts ............. — 42,689 aa — — —- 42,689
Giis 2.6.00 45S Ua RES cee See eee eee — 40,110 189 8,034 960 30,927 —
Sales and Membership Revenue ................ = 188,591 — 180,312 8,279 — —
Oc in res uci asohs, seh sasutys! sasasyesiuescnenanenecdiaus — 6,046 343 = 2,842 2,861 —
SS
Notalbrovidederree rerio cece: 283,076 291,606 8,148 188,346 12,643 39,780 42,689
WotaleAvatlablemasetasccrie acciciincemne 6 ack 290,376 357,529 21,920 188,346 43,758 60,816 42,689

FUNDS APPLIED:

Sciences:
ASTRUUG SEIN: Sagoo Sapo Tad ao ae Rae ase 843 1,148 516 — 112 177 343
OfficeotithelRepistrat nari eriycee acess aieel se 210 15 13 — 2 ~
Rellowshipsand\Grantsmee asses ee seer 397 2,296 125 o- 1,901 270 --
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies .............. 114 89 71 = (26) 44 .-
Astrophysicali@bsetvatory) ..-cese.- 2292-6 = oe 12,996 45,466 5,839 i 1,981 567 37,079
Wessi@vethead|Recovety) ...-.2-2ee ee. esa — (5,009) (5,009) = 7 = “=
iropical’Researchylnstitute eye ces ee = 6,785 2,387 202 — 860 675 650
Environmental Research Center ...............- 2,414 1,422 90 _— 285 207 840
NationallZoolopical)Park) <2. sees ee cece cee 16,617 3,826 172 = 1,731 912 1,011
Smithsonian Archives .......... Bye Fate cia eee 707 248 221 24 3 =
SMIchsoniami lel rarest crys eels clet-is ys eesti ee 5,997 770 638 130 2 —
International Environmental Science Program .... 901 — = - — = —
Major Scientific Instrumentation ............... 2,277 = — = — = —
National Museum of Natural History ........... 32,614 6,676 418 — 1,836 3,341 1,081
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ............. 2,722 95 — 7 Wi} 18 —
Museumisupports Center reer ese 7,090 — — — — — —
SS
MorallSctencesiererrrr ce cnt eter sa sae asisye 92,684 59,429 3,296 — 8,913 6,216 41,004

Arts and Humanities:

ASIA SEG? soaacnenaananaoeqaaceene ne 1,366 1,050 506 = 216 328 —
OftficerofMuseum\Proprams....6 22 -- +--+ --4-- 555 71 53 — 14 4 —
oscphilientysapersyyyn sets vise tas aetooets ees 269 8 = - 1 7 —
PMIMCHICANS SLU CICS Beet Petar ait eniersis aiaie/si 2 = activ - 106 19 o — 19 _ —
National Air & Space Museum ............ ane 11,500 7,334 253 = 4,432 2,147 502
National Museum of American History .......... 18,268 5,545 175 = 1,609 3,181 580
National Museum of the American Indian ....... 8,193 275 172 — 102 1 =
National Museum of American Art ............. 6,694 2,948 188 1,129 1,631 —
NationallPortraitGallerya ss. eee eae esse ee 4,038 599 34 — 332 231 2
AY PG: BuildingyManagen «05... .22+.000--4-- 1,219 7 — — 7 = =
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden ....... 3,980 6,523 216 — 642 5,665 —
eaer Galllany GENE soccocccescoonaonasedoune 3,262 3,057 9 = 370 2,678 —
AtthurMersackler Gallery seas anes yeaa ser 2,741 1,845 81 — 399 1,365 ==
ANT chivesiofAmencanvAh 4-52 14- + )-24s----4--- 1,236 970 94 _ _ 876 =
Cooper HewittMuseumiesns seers ee oan a 2,211 2,822 1,048 - 1,328 411 35
National Museum of African Art .............-. 3,723 230 32 — 58 140 i
Anacostia Neighborhood Museum ............. 1,087 193 166 7 26 1 =
OfficciofsExhibits|Centralleaysemceee see oo 2,093 66 - — 66 — —
iravelinosExhibitionisenvice ace ase eee oe 2,292 2,318 344 — 1,076 852 46

ociganoonesdcandans 74,833 35,880 3,371 — 11,826 19,518 1,165

[e.2)
~
@ Table2. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1992
(Excludes Canal Zone Biological Area Fund, Plant Funds, and Endowments) (in $000s) (continued)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Total Unrestricted Restricted
Non- Government
Federal appropriated Auxiliary Special Grants and
Funds Funds General Activities Purpose General Contracts
Education and Public Service
Assistant Secretary : : pic 384 389 298 = 70 21 —
Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies . . ; : : 1,318 1,596 761 = 365 207 263
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education 418 353 27 — 39 34 10
National Science Resources Center : 242 190 190 — = = _
Total Education and Public Service 2,362 2,528 1,519 — 474 262 273
International Center/ Activities : 909 1,668 658 126 725, 159

External Affairs:

Assistant Secretary . and $ 169 $ 936 $ 615 $ _ $ = $ 284 $ 37
Office of Telecommunications 322 970 586 — 97 256 31
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception 182 1,073 1,051 — 23 (1) —
Office of Special Events and Conference Sys 72 182 182 — — —
Smithsonian Press 1,530 19,701 o 19,510 141 48 2
Total External Affairs 2,275 22,862 2,434 19,510 261 587 70
Institutional Initiatives 55 4,952 4,440 _ 379 133 =
Associates . - - = 96,489 240 96,133 56 42 18
Business Management/ Activities ; 51,724 — 51,724 — — =
Admininistration 26,575 16,223 13,052 — 2,984 187 =
Less Overhead Recovery (10,591) (10,591) — — — —
Facilities Services 75,408 2,400 1,551 — 846 3 _—
Transfers Out/(In)
Programs (see Note 1).... 5 - ~ 4,487 — (4,487) — =
Net Auxiliary Activities - = (19,110) 19,110 — — —
Other Designated Purposes - - 3,521 1,869 (5,485) 95 —
Plant , I Paere es — 743 — —_— (232) 975 _
Endowment _ 7,574 3,093 —_ 540 3,941 —
Total Transfers ‘ _ 8,317 (8,009) 20,979 (9,664) 5,011 =
Total Funds Applied F 275,101 291,881 11,961 188,346 16,201 32,684 42,689
FUND BALANCES—End of Year (see Note 2) ... $ 15,275 $ 65,648 $ 9,959 — $27,557 $28,132 _

Note 1: Includes Collections Acquisition, Scholarly Studies, Educational Outreach, and Special Exhibitions Programs.
Note 2: The fund balance for federal funds represent no-year funding for instrumentation, collections acquisition, repatriation and exhibitions.

gw Table3. Government Grants and Contracts—Expenditures (in $000s), Fiscal Years 1991 and 1992

Government Agencies FY 1991 FY 1992
DepartmentofDefenselema eee eee Reriny sere vatere reine ASS AO ome SSRN eo so ABT Opie $ 883 S79
Department of Energy ........ e soa) nvaveica feo: S'Ewyey guid) eave vorsceaty sreyeyare ee eeEya oie ne Sues ae ehe uerepeaeke ete ores teue ers eons 425 499
Department of Health and Human Services ......... Seis soy ayes ettayt Sat ereyauee srs eget Phe soaaeie Te comers VASO ee 613 591
Departmentioflin tenors ys ccrc ck catty o oN soe PS ee a tei eR eee 1,242 807
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (see Note 1) ........- OE e acne con tamer Mer nan sine an omerccrs 31,616 35,999
National Science Foundation (see Note 2) .......... MI mee Pad ee eae ee tei doSauimocus daaod 852 1,627
Other lA e tte meniais hernaetas siete ieseus eevee scsieiee eIs PADS oeHUOT eens NaoeeoroOTonone ocho cearonoonenes 1,170 2,387

Total Se SAL ta aeEn ee ich are RAR rot an AO AB RARE OUT AO ORT T UIOO Subs boceeood DOB acaDE sees $36,801 $42,689

Note 1: Includes $849 thousand (FY 1991) and $895 thousand (in FY 1992) in subcontracts from organizations receiving prime contracts from the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Note 2: Includes $314 thousand (FY 1992) in National Science Foundation subcontracts from Chesapeake Research Consortium.

88
m Table 4. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Years 1991 and 1992 (in $000s)

Sales and Net
Membership Less Cost Gross Revenue
Revenue Gifts of Sales Revenue Expenses (Loss)
LENG TIGOM oo Crerchonc. hc Rees CRE SRS Oo ace See eee Cena $178,073 $7,752 $94,511 $91,314 $70,309 $21,005
FY 1992:
ANGST I MUFC oospquousbacGdoopbeesanoboDeS : $101,298 $8,034 $64,750 $44,582 $31,383 $13,199
Business Management: (see Note 1)
Museum) snops/ Matli@rden 7349-25-22 94-814 54,128 — 24,384 29,744 23,510 6,234
== (CONCESSIONS Hence ciserterteiniaera erates OLE eS 3,788 = — 3,788 2,923 865
—OUNE? oo ves > kon sea OaO Cee Dee on eee eee 1,436 = a 1,436 907 529
RTT ELISOMM ATE EESS Arye ye y-tey. yay cus eka cic severe ines yaud acai e kieets 19,502 — 4,992 14,510 14,518 (8)
Mediavactivities!(sce,Notenl)) eemernee recto eee ee 160 — a 160 — 160
‘Ihereall ENC TWOP. eeatars eee ora eaeceond Glee Bide cat en Re a ee $180,312 $8,034 $94,126 $94,220 $73,241 $20,979

Note 1: Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $1,102 thousand (FY 1991) and $1,869 thousand (FY 1992).

gm Table5. Endowment and Similar Funds September 30, 1992 (in $000s)

Book Market

Value Value
SSS
ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Cah ana! eopivallant 5 ag.doind cases Fe ogtimia mcig ae Moet eee REC e iat ia een Na ISH sane ceca SMMtaere: $ 24,890 $ 24,890
Muruallkundsmeeeerrran eric ct. SS Dts OTE TOS TEI TEL EMT eae ce ee Ain FPR hy CREB AS DIS aT ete tentaeee 23,928 26,916
MntertundiRecetvables eer cis cece iste see ee oie SOO Re tet oS me Ce Coed DU OR oe ots bea aa 2,545 2,545
US. Covcmomann anal Goren: OWA ONG .ococdeccensasgancsnoodesnoondaadbogoonooumenocudasuucoeseaoesede 70,586 73,360
Bond Se teres rears cre re en once ee moaives vio eaten leiden oneeneee tne Re TE ee Ae aI ear: 53,310 56,463
Comeantinle RsGgraal o.c.c6 ch bob Feo ce tee ee a I ere ee Ie TES BO co a UNE oot ere Se 1,861 2,482
SBS 9 2 sos 00549 .8SR.S 0 a0 AES SO ORIE ote ROE Cire oe ERE orn neo eR ee a ee 122,504 164,472
Recervalalle tor Sernegtites Sal lal sae, 8 roe Be acetone ee MERE ce Re Ro ene ee Peg 8 7,541 7,541

‘Woyezd| rave) baal TAWYTAS. in eentete 0 0 oC BREE Br 0c CREAN Ste Ree eNaeSE eedUePT SUE PORT inten AIRE oR ROR, Roe 307,165 358,669

Nonpooled Endowment Funds:

HoanttOneesrslireasUinyainyherpett ltyinaaurete crane cok icky, 2 scteers oe eh nde everest autve 2 ate Re ietcae oat ue ats O troncve aceon eneron eye ee uslersice 1,036 1,072
REGIWEINES 2.0.0 oe we 6 0 n-nag Gt AO. De OAD CRS Se aR TET Toe a Pon oe ne heat ee 20 20
MVeStOc netsh hati tall CMUrstseeaceeMe enter ee syne sete cs era ASR Gn ee an ee Ree eras = 595 834
Wouall INionysraallaclSnvaals 2 0 co teramoron annette eee eG Ciao eae nid ani oer IIR aoe aera tae 1,651 1,926
TRAE ANSSSES ww ora dts eye Bie SRO EAE ESE CE RE RETR PIER oes es Ra et on ER REARS) Derren ing Se ey a ere $308,815 $360,595

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:

LIABILITIES:

Pavaly les OmSecunilics burch aseciaee trary gs er F nay cel as soicie svat Vorcer Sotto ory eL tic ately eGR ERE tee $ 16,147 $ 16,148
DetenedsRevenuc—— Charitablem (stare eer errr eerie rhein oie noone eee iyi 595, 834
‘Wore IWel oy PGES iste, oetis Gee ae GER EASE EL ete Eee ae Ieee REE ce nen eae cer nee ere ee eee Te 16,742 16,982

FUND BALANCE:
Winrestricted IhUrposewlcieE EMG OWEN tear a aceee eis esc tal arer setae eye tasers se ee ere ea ater een SEE ee cen 7,793 9,849
@uasiEndowmien tees ey rte ce cree a vices cee essere etarese = peyaieuruerdutina ee ea melee arse ae ee ee 127,526 146,546
oral (Unrestricted URunposcmeeeterr meee Paste tsi secs sc ete rc ole avr aTe ay ee ae eco STL = EAE Poco 135,319 156,395
Resimienael Pimaages Mane |yetaOn Ti acon uated openers Ae Gated a Ona eee fact eo enone tO OAT iso an oemeeees 100,408 121,584
Quads ENGOwInen Cpr y wen erro erred se tear Ne Te Ree te epee te Pee CENTS Oe Sa ed ee eee he 56,347 65,634
srotaleRestricte dUPUtposemmeragerciy epee aes eres secrete si eine) te ete sea ry Stoh ae ones PERE P ote SMe L cae eT EIS ope ea uci fo ISIE ee anaes 156,755 187,218
‘Uo vall tiers | BATE aES « oes 0 0 oto tro tela Gia ate cro Ue EAE ree TOO RII Oe IE none Se an aE Sen een 292,074 343,613
ocaliMrabilitiessandlkundiBalancesmmeraryyercictsctee sac oer ota orien cee aoe OTe OS eee ee eee $308,816 $360,595
Sara
wm Table 5A. Market Values of Endowment and Similar Funds (in $000s)

Fund 9/30/88 9/30/89 9/30/90 9/30/91 9/30/92
Unrestricted .... ; : : $101,432 $127,394 $117,123 $143,205 $156,395
Freer P 3 : ee evi via th otters: 44,228 eine) 47,963 >What) 61,523
Other Restricted : ‘ ss : 75,169 98,540 89,430 112,796 125,695

Total ISAAC ASG POT OeT oS $220,829 $279,665 $254,516 $313,776 $343,613

@ Table6. Changes in Pooled Consolidated Endowment—Fund Balances at Market (in $000s)

Unrestricted Freer Restricted Total

Market Value—10/1/91 Bre eric $142,193 $57,775 $112,663 $312,631
Changes:
Gifts F . 94 oe 1,244 1,338
Transfers of Excess Yield (Net of below)

Interest and Dividends (see Note 1) 4,680 1,878 3,796 10,354

Income Paid Out : (4,771) (1,908) (3,845) (10,524)
Transfers of Other Income 3,775 — 4,056 7,831
Market Value Appreciation ; : : : 9,454 3,778 7,659 20,891

Market Value—9/30/92 (see Note 2) $155,425 $61,523 $125,573 $342,521

Note 1: Income earned, less managers’ fees of $1,140 thousand
Note 2: Nonpooled Endowment Funds have a market value of $1,093 thousand for a total endowment market value of $343,613 thousand.

m Table 7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE
Avery Fund (see Note 1) $ 257,525 $ 332,332 $ 11,034 $ —
Higbee, Harry, Memorial 92,454 116,451 3,612 —
Hodgkins Fund (see Note 1) 376,458 428,988 19,335 —
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J., Memorial Fund Be: - 40,972 45,989 1,426 _—
Morrow, Dwight W. : 462,588 607,599 18,843 —
Mussinan, Alfred : : 140,877 177,688 5,511 _
Olmsted, Helen A 4,790 6,202 192 —
Poore, Lucy T. and George W. (see Note 1) 1,023,570 1,337,858 42,876 =
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ayers wnt of 1,709,508 2,243,643 69,580 =
Sanford, George H. (see Note 1) ... : : 6,997 8,725 328 =
Smithson, James (see Note 1) or : . ; ; : 5 829,925 865,158 54,980 —
Smithson Society, James : ac : ; oer 176,824 181,638 4,059 =
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research (Designated) .. . 2,670,273 3,496,777 108,442 138,389
S200.
Subtotals Se os Sere AO crock 7,792,761 9,849,048 340,818 138,389

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Bcel@hanesiiekundieeenerenere Ace hers cee ees . Bear 1,184,373 1,342,099 41,621 —
Rereusons krancesi Bes Endowment seus csicies Heo doo ado 605,675 665,916 20,651 —
Rorresty Robert lee eee eee eee BOA Oro ee ona oie 6,015,246 6,761,421 209,685 —
General Endowment (see Note 1) ............- facta goa oie ee ae 102,271,760 117,626,928 3,612,168
Goddard? RobercH: 2-.-. sees e PeyepOieie te ora b iors repr see Sets 47,617 53,546 1,661 —
Habel, Dr. S. (see Note 1) eo cs bulerasiee ous sane saalegs Vaso MAN ores db caeiete aoe 766 799 51 —
Hart, Gustavus E. .. . Oe oe enon mere ici: eg ene ct 3,247 4,007 124 —
lentys Garolineaeee ener eee Fe SS nN ote vote ac waNe tess NOCHE: pedaciocoe 8,027 9,883 306 —
Henry, Joseph and Harriet A. ..........- SAA ROOM Oa cond Oe cine 322,084 395,284 12,259 =
EleysuMaude!Goeaasens eas Jasons GLa AGES SEE roe EE 580,316 657,922 20,404 =
Elinron Carrie: Susan eee cy occ res cvesocenn (alse eer tere rete tee TOO: : 161,192 192,464 5,969 —
KoteensDorothy( Bie: ects sano nue Fe eee en eee ee ee 215,277 229,582 7,120 —
Bam bertetPaulas Gare occis Ws: ares pe ctaersh eee he ee Ee ee 292,516 353,099 10,950 =
Medinuss Gracey fh sites, ss. crore erie ce eee eee eee 55/57) 6,549 203 =

90
m Table7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992 (continued)

Principal Income

Book Market Net Unexpended

Value Value Income Balance
ODeaslaurayls sie sco cya cerie scam sews cies React ace nord 194,094 224,821 6,972 —
HII PSMRO YAR WESCACEN eeeiepe ereaysps re lcreyerehers Gass ves sueus Sas aware a die enim ceatereuats 811,124 905,817 29,540 —-
Ninees., Wall teri J ores (GSN 1))is cog oon oenannooneenemedundauanccone 4,023 4,775 178 —
Wastorda Claraylouise macs imc meee sae cre eeieis aie ners seis RATEBEER OOD 267,419 307,309 9,530 —
Smithsonian Bequest bundi(see!Notel))) sae asses. sess. <ce ees lice os 1,916,023 1,756,077 46,526 _
Sinem Donald iesEndowmenteent ry naeemeeceeisis cia seryscteeeicle 481,757 824,227 25,614 —
Blcrpprantem GansO Murrey trac jeresteseicieyecscsi stems ee. Hievece tyeeectercre saqeceusis ereeneus cover 2,874 3,744 116 —
Witten, AVES io bind dging COO ROCCO One OE rae ete ee aoe Tet 149,633 141,478 2,477
Abbotts willamil. (Designated) 5. 2-42-22---s2-.0+-- od To oE anak 755,438 929,131 28,814 54,536
Bemony, ldcaslsate 1D); (Drs tericse))| aos ceceadnedesseansseooaeoocedade 6,320 7,765 241 6,136
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) .................... 3,303,872 3,882,543 119,638 —
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) .................... 2,787,143 3,217,989 99,796 194,664
mincaberr ne CharlesyAt (Designated) ee aetaci secre aie eee eis eee = 45,567 51,810 1,607 10,522
Lyon, Marcus Ward, Jr. (Designated) ............. Leen ate 30,738 35,196 1,092 3,729
MaremeMariettallncernship)(Desipmated)) 25 ..5.s-0 0.1077 ees els 197,032 231,237 Heirs 216
INIVINIB Resend (Destmnies))) Gaccooccsasscnepepue sed doaccunacoouene 91,960 89,382 462 462
Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) .....................-2..-- 24,267 28,137 998 145
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) .................. 1,836,711 2,255,041 69,933 57,608
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Endowment Fund (Designated) 1,438,764 1,806,748 60,404 17,662
Wwebbmjamesii rcllowshipi(Desipnated)) 42.05. -50----4 06025-4056 ver 1,282,162 1,357,412 42,096 170,300
Women’s Committee Fellowship (Designated) ...................2.... 184,775 186,345 5,779 1,167

Swell S.4 Fast cute Goorater rs ARCHER re ERR Ror eee ae

127,525,549

oraliW nrestricted| Purposes eels ayaeion asses ct aero reece: $135,318,310

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:

Aitken, Annie Laurie, Endowment Fund ..................-..+.-205.- $
ANU NGE, JEDTES 5 n.4-a:0'5 eS CRD BOO 6 COU EE NOSE ERG RoE ee OER IT
lsanral, Coem@ar hulGnon woh aegnelte ne bcoe soon DU Sbaen aa Omn Goeth te
Barney, Allee Like. IMINO so oe odocasoassadaasacnescouoonaaouanann
Bacchi Ore mim ay ene ee tere teeter ssc persis syavaaye (ores reverarkiere ate si eles seeeh

BOR, allamal WiC - an Gio Sale neue GONE cao ra eee pee
Burch, George, Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and Affiliated Theoretic
SGlencesihund Earn niin os exci rrats «cecroved ava e aaesen cine
Camigel, iieakar’s lo ‘nia cagidclamiaie freac6.0.n15 Fone Boe asEee Saree
(Caseymbhomasjlincolneepiyy yack aoe tee: Seve ne avec eee ae es
(Ghambperlatnmbrances!Meamerm tayo ene fet cos avac ci sscveaicichons ate esbieiare
Coopesbunditor/Paleobiolopyie nas sci a ceels cies sais. ous eee Olereie chee
Divistoniow Mammals; Curators! bunde mere erie ae cers oso e see ae
ID Ale IROUCAUE coo ad EAB a Eee mc 5 cia te eee eee aces
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund ......................
Dy kesmGhanlesmBequestess. tar: cajatersis sisrchstovcievale sisystereos) 415 sjeim ortiaye spe svete
LB2Gon, IBEGTEE AON SS 3 ot ae ch deta e os. de.re-o ioe eee cn aoe ae
iielkemayer, Mowers KOO os ouvocoundopaopocugsdaouceduecceadaa
PP loyaM Cmiorialinrae eevee vet Ses ceesy a soaked eyerateveus oie fas ievose es estvbiaie Bleraietay« «ys
RorpesseawardiWaldogerminrcnr cuca item akenc c manea a ieee betwee
rheeh, Chas LA oy bcs canted Ones ote uch ao oC eee Een eae mone
Global Environmental Endowment Fund .....................-+--+---
CGimin, SCTESING ecco pte serio oS Oo alaion @ ean ioe eee anit Slee are e
(Groom Batnicka wary saan a eters: sorscisioeie esis ies gfecis F cisia gisele wears Sloe
nerenhenmmDaniclandhlorencemeneereeceer rer reecenice eon ene ae
aml tone) ames\(Scel Noten) meee see seiner ince ce mceial sc
Henderson, Edward P. and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund .................
stern, leleamorG.. Restle) sseceocaccocuasan scecndbuncedequoce
IRCWGiy Seti NCanyisek > ane agdamcch Seto cd den DOHnee Hee Oncocooameo od
Intl rere, Wi = 3 eorere cca o 0 aeeet Ere ore eee oa Sees ee eee ri eect
LICCHCOCKAWAU DEKtsS Same et ase csc rrr eal Ps cc oece ons ois See eoe fens
noel sims emel(CeeINOWe I) nocoscccuccocosnbenunooaenonnasqoasanee
EicdlickapAlesvandiM ati@anerery se cy tiessior volar oeeceie aie sia srens vere een
ISDA NSS) SWS” Aaodos coc cde Coe Dom aps paar ponte ree emo Acca aaen re
Rinntin stone licationikund eeeeeeree earns ae eats
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography .............-..-.--.--
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial .................---.--

356,553
230,557
207,592
165,254
191,993
247,934

20,237
182,894

1,879,703
244,487
79,446
162,257
228,134
17,047
1,069,970
325,351
305,398
69,481
62,613
32,596
1,018,396
50,093,594
3,253
171,277
174,510
680,292
6,276
187,793
41,664
246,170
41,661
9,197
153,177
305,008
110,381
271,346
20,774,148
336,490

146,546,483

$156,395,531

$

426,427
304,327
272,037
218,083
225,583
304,751

22,523
226,108

2,046,703
335,300
97,703
214,129
253,110
20,057
1,266,451
363,651
370,257
74,703
82,620
35,046
1,120,726
61,523,394
3,486
192,757
194,035
787,201
7,286
200,142
49,493
292,135
51,236
12,191
159,678
378,875
145,718
291,742
25,588,490
385,952

4,502,156

$ 4,842,974

11,951
9,438
8,436
6,763
6,996
9,451

698
7,012

63,472
10,398
3,030
6,641
7,714
622
39,112
11,278
11,482
2,317
2,562
1,087
34,756
1,907,965
108
5,978
6,017
24,413
356
6,207
1,535
9,060
1,589
378
10,152
11,750
4,519
9,047
793,551
11,919

517,147

$ 655,536

$ 24,589
19,035
18,771
67,880
72,992

112,993
4,293
16,260

115,061
284
12,908
28,899
2,441
235,540
73,415
79,229
5,988
14,416
2,809
110,686
2,393,512
272
51,082
29,359
60,931
4,384
8,834
1,420
11,524
17,801
1,830
32,692
7,725
19,710
23,399

2,795

91
m Table7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992 (continued)

KeramacslNa al saseceraievare« ejcc.+sits sisisjojens srustsaeds
MandilHacry/and Beverly... <<. 3.....<4- -
MaxwellFiMary Ete. aacieis cts

Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment .....................

Mellon Publications Endowment Fund ......
Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ..........
MineraliEndowmentiaasesc eee se tnceioe
Mitchell WwalliamvACencacer icici cen entire

Museum of the American Indian—Heye Foundation .....

NMAI Educational Endowment Fund ......
Nelms, Henning, Endowment Fund ........
Nelson;Edward William =-..2...+...---+:
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial .............
ReidsAddison\ In (seeyNote'l)| oa... 2-2
Ripley, S. Dillon and Mary Livingston

RoeblingHundima-cseery te eee itor .

Rollins, Mirtam and William ..............
Schimitt-s/ohn)Jesee cr seers ee sae
SIMSNG Corse Wee eles ise ceri rere
Sprapucikundierrereiete ci aye esse

SprngersBranksr pimtacicicie ciel: asus el ee

StemnybiaroldsPyMemorialiseieriee nee
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library ....
StuattMaryiHornecic-care)yesieers or sesctsiane's
IVPTIG AMIS Soaqnacodo soe dbnoddaenve
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research

Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications
Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research

Wiillrams Blain Sci lsicsnecprise cereale es “ts
Zetbeeskrances Brinckleme eyelet

Subtotalti amore one eeee

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Abbotts MarieiBohitnyecns sc cisss asec ieeierel
Armstrong edwinijames ani. cence cic eile
AMUPEWVSU el ooopnoeaanvaouccseeepec

Bacon) VirginiaiPurdy) .. cscs - ace cae

RatemandRobertee epee cr nein
Beckers Georse berries crtaeiericrercie

Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund ...

Denghausen, Luisita L. and Franz H., Fund

IDRIS, ERUIN, bogcouimesodocanecaucus
Friends of Music Endowment Fund .........
Gaver’ Gordon) yz. .ieitvate oes cacislctcned cere reisye
Hachenberg, George P. and Caroline .......
Hammond, John, Performance Series Fund . .
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. .....
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ....
Hirshhorn, Joseph H., Bequest Fund .......
WhejHolentainist Bund isi yeeie steerer t tate
Hunterdon’Endowment:)...2....2.-.-2-e +.
Johnson Eo R= Fenimote) es... ee eee
RoebyiMorristc = racieeiiascreeis cr rae © sia
Long. Annette/E. andiEdithiG. 225-02...
Myer Gathering Walden seen cose aeeier
NoyesyiFrankiBy Gaerne satrccios occ coeeec
INO, REMICINES cosobsseshesaraqesor
Rell} CorneliaLivingstonye a. ee ce eres

Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton (see Note 1) ...................

Rathbun, Richard, Memorial ..............
Roeblingysolan/Researchwuem eee erreee ier

Ruetabertha Me ta 5 ete tacyos ascetic toe ee ne eiceicie sie eee:
Schultzaiteonard (Phish ac acre chose Oe oes Pe EEE

Principal
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balame

23,514 26,978 656 1,020
105,401 106,954 3,026 4,191
113,100 149,301 4,630 62,974
714,319 832,714 25,810 46,595
577,170 613,533 18,502 34,264
883 1,455 45 307
562,061 671,928 20,838 315
76,545 91,726 2,845 34
993,171 1,067,826 33,115 85,647
35,959 34,789 446 446
244,492 250,220 7,653 24,842
130,682 169,071 5,243 13,684
42,856 56,631 1,756 15,053
129,535 156,123 5,414 24,024
216,329 246,503 7,492 =
693,169 913,311 28,324 143
1,480,503 1,825,521 56,143 49,839
20,301 21,827 677 1,749
178,388 199,191 6,177 25,132
9,275,416 10,913,924 335,651 190,836
103,564 136,286 4,226 31,163
1,105,952 1,301,449 40,360 264,722

30,368 37,234 ENG}) 5,709 °
437,250 473,082 14,671 773
1,016,089 1,002,014 12,902 12,902
978,597 1,189,379 36,481 38,279
337,801 460,970 14,296 20,263
32,367 37,044 1,149 5,427
42,746 45,959 1,425 3,684
5,442 7,166 222 8,246

100,

OA

_

408,100

189,158

24,183
111,973
534,393
105,586
922,605
608,075

826,147

42,794
88,866
11,315
26,593
343,049
56,325

254,733
872,064
870,013
992,998

44,679
556,950
3,191
128,021
6,358
52,745
47,186

,101,818

67,634
149,034
174,163
127,329

121,584,215

183,855
27,955
126,107
632,940
106,483
1,095,501
617,050
10,680,004
56,734
94,989
13,013
33,300
352,418
69,258
8,343,557
2,225,269
7,727,118
23,094,784
51,279
686,877
4,242
157,423
7,935
59,424
58,115
1,363,534
83,269
179,031
199,833
146,449

3,751,070

950

853
3,911
19,629
3,302
33,974
18,885
303,568
1,851
2,798
393
1,033
10,929
2,148
313,234
78,429
198,664
716,216
1,590
21,301
132
4,882
246
1,843
1,802
42,841
2,582
5,552
6,197
4,542

4,658,022

950

3,417
92,716
3,302
17,048
1
394,224
1,082
1,542
9,517
17,906
12,924
390,006

225,134
10,623
20,879

960
46,076
5,476
4,933
11,701
(2,966)
27,476
21,050
1,775
23,329
gw Table7. Endowment Funds September 30, 1992 (continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
Sacill, Adnanernn gS in bemotonls doses Beas oe eee are Reet. M6 3,653,133 4,328,126 134,224 501,546
SmithsonianeAgency, Account /..ss-4+25:ssse5----+++2-- ee epee 1,473,830 1,745,649 54,791 6,888
SURO FITC] DS Se on one midis eaten cies eae eee A AIG oom Ooo Toe 63,560 78,247 2,427 18,839
WitherspoontsbhomasrAesMemofiall mn. ace ci eee s sees eee. 816,801 1,004 ,002 31,136 194,361
Swinictall oapcteds aa es der aan Get EO Renee Oo OIC Eee Eee ae : 56,347,302 65,633,770 2,026,855 2,062,715
sotaliRestricted|Purposeyaar cr see eiciociie ce eis a cicieisis eicresie cies eae 156,755,402 187,217,985 5,777,925 6,720,737
SS
TORATENDOWMENTSEWNDS) serccceeceice snc t case seems ciseeeee: $292,073,712 $343 ,613,516 $10,620,899 $7,376,273
SS
Note 1: Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
g Table 8. Construction and Plant Funds
Fiscal Years 1991 and 1992 (in $000s)
FY 1991 FY 1992
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Appropriations:
INationalpZoologicallbatk-atey set. jake piyexere tess ats ecsusretelefeslec: enesecel alas abe aye eesceraucy svasapeyone avail sy sunteeayed sreyepshasegaiekep aus) sraystsuesersis.c 6,636 7,899
RestoratronyandiRenovationyoiBuildings ares ieee cuseve scree cole s-ccueraters as eRe eset aed orauene es ested anefererteere arn eyeas 31,190 23,599
Consiction llnvaays Freel NMrere(ComammeiOn vesceseseounsqamenuuaopcodecscccocnsosscoocnsEaaaceboobesnoene 4,982 5,233
Tropicals cscatchilnstitute——Luppemhesearchykacilitieswaer yee ieee niece ee erent ieee helsieteeeteret eee tete 1,542 —
NationaleMuscumlotsthesAmettcany ndiangn see ae eee aaa at ceeeenceicerneeiecriccronccicmcciccimerciescrtr 7,391 2,370
NatiogaiMuseumloniNaturalliistoty East GOurt yr )-)yie ejers eect oie ceorets sietsistel sts Seles eps teense) oe eyete eel sled= ee) roles 1,492 9,874
ROB Constructo n ere srrcye «asters cee eveeares esstehe vee Sian fers, shove neue witeatue, oye tysiensveyers Sueiarbue loctyepeseses SyeNaieit, SystetedB/a dsaese tes - 1,678
Mocal¥ederalea p proprtationns: vay fee cece cre toys or ea ciete tene evens ore e.Ciede ene (eve) £94) uc) yfaysis tsusirsy irene) av shes a¥ faye uct she raie sel aysis yaepetshs suey siehsh= 53,233 50,653

Nonappropriated Trust Funds:
Income—Gift and Other

Bavitonmentalpesearchy Cen tetarme naar toys tray ey von snecice oiler retere eV aero re eee TMM rT tare ey otsier teeter 37 149
iiropicaliescarchylastitute—luppemReseatchi Facilities) ej: 2 tele ayers eyere) ye cekeneley ol sievterlsteisyere a eieitene evel eeiere tee sietels ote (222)* 576
(Cacjaceln Geis IN DScIIii vambign ane nek Octo aa Ren er eer cease terete Cee an mein CORREA On Meade asec aie Orca Ce 49 57
Wisitomintormationyancdikeception| Cen tctemet et eer ar eect eee eee eb eeer ene mercer cree erect (109)* 10
NEwonal Wiser one Annette linelety ssooevoccascocecccunadccccsaghdsco0caaehe sudeosaspnaseaacuasHose 128 2,022
meer Calllayy anal Auli go ears accep canoe darcomMpEoouEododsors odes sonden ons hoosepoosnasascooosee 2,114 686
NaturaliMuseumfosiNaturallllistony,Gemlial lier sevee tery ei eiele rete levetereiercesttale) iste tetsierats ot tte ee eer ekeleet eet ever) 532 352
NaturallMuseumtotyNaruraliiistotyllnsect:Zoormeriecioiie lees ietietere tterersteieteieraista-leteneter ste eteleroetera siete ribet retee rare — 105
Plo tall Mey conte mo casey Weve celtev etal oh ctoneredeyetrs sechie ea cnnt eee vatetensy susiaus1s/trstieusasis eebay sowass siete suederenzveve fo the ieversuseoys fesmhavercenneisnseus 2,529 3,957

Transfers from Other Funds:

WationaleMuseumvrotitherAmericam ind tami, = ce pe ietacs sccrcrs. ches anes stei al olaseesuee etberavetsncetack agus tetaiserersl acvepeetcter = erisieisrarsreias —_ 950
COORDS FEM NMR 5 Soencc so s08 saceag ocean nb asadoon ands sop oocen oD JouuanduDONS OopnOmUstongdoC deqoo aaiG 358 _—
NattrallMiuseumlomNaturaliidistocy;Gemiblall ieeer er et setae eee serena ey ears erence eres ete (48)* (202)*
NanuraliMusenmtotNaruralliisconylnsecteZoola see eieracicie eiceriier ltteer eereisetce setenv siete darter ietateiete etetereret = (6)*
Qvanhandeanclhig hielo 285.3 5 oe ents don cues en edoen aneene Saco ocaone npe redo core eco coe moans crm n arco bor (2,063)* =
Miocal wliranisfe rs wee rcs reek e reee pee a Ley caek Eanes stcy cece inre sn x ose se sMaanton al eracep sue vey arena sh caelee enor oe ahem se atic removes erst evet eens bas (1,753) 742
slLoraltundsiProvided meewwemmete tery the evens oa aenctet sue sapnc cays cnc savevey oh eoeittoncaensreu chalet eae usies trans, eecueyoreioneeeaates ees $54,009 $55,352

* Funds reclassified to current operating funds.
Coopers & Lybrand
Certified Public Accountants

Report of Independent Accountants
To The Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition
of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1992, and the
related statements of financial activity and cash flows for the year then
ended. We previously audited and reported upon the financial state-
ments of the Smithsonian Institution for the year ended September
30, 1991, totals of which are included in the accompanying financial
statements for comparative purposes only. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Institution’s management. Our responsi-
bility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and generally accepted government auditing stan-
dards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, ona
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1992, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

Washington, D.C. ~
December 23, 1992

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition, September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

Trust Federal Totals, Totals,
funds funds all funds 1991
ASSETS:
Fund balances with U.S. Treasury and cash $ 2,560 $158,587 $ 161,147 $150,003
Investments (Note 3) .......... 377,233 — 377,233 326,610
Receivables (Note 5) . 48,650 11,943 60,593 55,055
Advance payments (Note 6) — 12,635 12,635 12,980
Inventories 18,181 1,681 19,862 19,121
Prepaid, deferred expense and other 21,483 - 21,483 17,835
Property and equipment (Note 7) 77,270 311,553 388,823 359,442
Collections (Note 11) _ a — _
Total assets . $545,377 $496,399 $1,041,776 $941,046
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 23,949 $ 30,410 $ 54,359 $ 49,694
Interfund payable ........ Roos : Avie 11,617 — 11,617 8,887
Payable:forinvestment:securitiesipurchased)s)...21. « js1i= ele el=) i= seeisil= Se ol intavel = ales Bee 16,148 _ 16,148 8,007
Deposits held in custody for other organizations (Note 2) 5,839 — 5,839 4,476
Accrued annual leave .... . 3,437 11,483 14,920 13,583
Deferred revenue ..... Ene tate OO 50,497 i 50,497 36,655
Ronp-termidebe: (Note) Mise severe ceccrs eters ciaisetensreraies ele seto shes eer sre iter eviet rece tetenertets 13,113 = 13,113 10,714
SS
Rotallliabilitieswecers seen sertwy sete eee wae cir: teers oo ere retail aT er ere ee 124,600 41,893 °-. 166,493 132,016
eee
Wndeliverediordersy isco wrest eek dace see tine cies Soeteyoromine veer onsia nese Sele cents - 68,713 * 68,713 81,786

Commitments and contingencies (Note 8)

FUND BALANCES:

Trust—Current (Note 15):
Unrestricted general purpose
Special purpose
Restrictedi= =m:

Trust—Endowment and similar funds (Note 4) ..........--.-.---220000005

Trust—Plant funds (Note 7) ........
Federal—Operating funds (Note 10) . .

Rederal—Construction funds ance iee ieee oe ei
Rederal=Gapitalifundsires. .sescsec ence ose trocre eee aes meee

Total fund balances ...

Total liabilities, undelivered orders and fund balances ..............-..

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

94

REE Re oe 9,959 = 9,959 13,772
ES dee ee 27,557 = 27,557 31,115
eee 28,132 = 28,132 21,036
Aeon a 292,074 = 292,074 265,371
ee 63,055 = 63,055 60,392
eee TG | = 15,977 15,977 8,089
ose acini = 56,582 56,582 43,629
PAR noes: = 313,234 313,234 283,840

a
St eee: 420,777 385,793 806,570 727,244

ss ee
Paneer $545,377 $496,399 $1,041,776 $941,046

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

Trust funds Federal funds
Endow-
ment
Totals, Current and Totals, Con-
trust funds similar Plant federal Operating struction Capital Totals, Totals,
funds (Note 15) funds funds funds funds funds funds all funds 1991
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Appropriations (Note 10) ........... $ — $ = 3 — $ — $331,836 $281,183 $50,653 $ — $331,836 $326,113
Government grants and contracts ... 42,689 42,689 — — — — — — 42,689 36,801
Investment income .......... eee 14,563 14,170 — 393 — — -- os 14,563 15,671
Net gain on sale of securities ........ 17,790 — 17,790 i — — — 17,790 4,007
Gifts, bequests and other grants ..... 45,007 40,110 1,334 3,563 — _— — _ 45,007 25,596
Additions to plant (Note 7) ......... 3,032 — — 3,032 62,597 — — 62,597 65,629 51,605
Rentals, fees, commissions and othe
(INOteMONreatctecas cciac cc's cine me 6,046 6,046 — = 1,473 1,473 — — 7,519 7,423
Auxiliary activities... ... ae sates 188,596 188,591 5 = - — =_ _ 188,596 188,355

Total revenue and other
AGCGItIONSMeeseeen see eee bi 317,723 291,606 19,129 6,988 395,906 282,656 50,653 62,597 713,629 655,571

EXPENDITURES AND OTHER

DEDUCTIONS:
Research, educational, and collection

acquisition (Note 11) soe aoe 93,519 93,519 = — 174,678 174,678 — — 268,197 239,724
AGHVMCHATON sappcccooesracceene 23,343 23,343 — — 26,575 26,575 = — 49,918 59,269
acilitiessenvices) ©........--- rs 2,400 2,400 _ — 75,408 75,408 — — 77,808 73,908
Wequisitiononplant --.-..-..-.-.-- 2,439 — _— 2,439 37,700 — 37,700 = 40,139 47,924
Property use and depreciation

(Noe) esascuecoause Svancis alate foteys 2,629 — 2,629 33,203 = = 33,203 35,832 31,640
Auxiliary activities... .. Mi: see 164,302 164,302 — = = _ _ = 164,302 164,291

Total expenditures and other
deductionspesre ess 2: re 288,632 283,564 — 5,068 347,564 276,661 37,700 33,203 636,196 616,756

Excess of revenue and other
additions over expenditures and
other deductions ...... ates 29,091 8,042 19,129 1,920 48,342 5,995 12,953 29,394 77,433 38,815

TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS—
additions (deductions) (Note 12) ... — (8,317) 7,574 743 — — = = = =

Net increase (decrease) for the

V CALMPN RR Recelc cy tisversiz.cke.s Moe Lye 29,091 (275) 26,703 2,663 48,342 5,995 12,953 29,394 77,433 38,815
Increase in unobligated balances

(INGtEHO) er sie csie arce-n es egos j — — — — 1,893 1,893 = = 1,893 829

Fund balances at beginning of year .. . 391,686 65,923 265,371 60,392 335,558 8,089 43,629 283,840 727,244 687,600

FUND BALANCES AT END OF
VAAN, | 5 clo o'n Bane eee ae eae $420,777 $ 65,648 $292,074 $63,055 $385,793 $ 15,977 $56,582 $313,234 $806,570 $727,244

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Smithsonian Institution Combined Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

1992 1991
Trust Federal Total Total

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Excess of revenue and other additions over expenditures and other deductions ............. $ 29,091 $ 48,342 $ 77,433 $ 38,814
Adjustments to reconcile cash provided by operating activities:
IDE DIA ATO awed Vaden cata do ests Oc OC Te Rr en as Beem o oO omno cen sen cent A 5,028 25,830 30,858 27,658
Erovisionitonlossesonaccounts\receivableier srs a-eee eile re aetieie cele eerie 4,006 _ 4,006 5,276
GAN ONEFIOTSTONCGATONINS soacscassnocuessonsuascsedoosdsbsscosnseceosse (17,790) — (17,790) (4,007)
inicreasesinjunoblicated|balancesmemen erecta sree orcas retrace erreine -- 1,893 1,893 829
Smithsonian Institution Combined Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1992
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1991) (thousands of dollars)

as ee ee 1991

Trust Federal Total Total
(increase) idecreaselinireceivablesie acre rmrmcmet cicero tierce aerate (1,829) 107 (1,722) (287)
(Increase) decteaseiinimerchandiseinventoly)..cmm cern ie cece os eiee Clee eile (826) 85 (741) (825)
(Increase) decrease in prepaid, deferred expense and other ................00002 00005. (3,648) - (3,648) 316
Decrease iniadvance| paymentsig) tease rcineni ateledeieien tec eeie ein iieeceeies ie — 345 345 5,626
Increaseiin/accounts)payablesand\accmiediexpenses) cise e12eio ceri el-laivs elec eel sireieve tees 3,371 1,188 4,559 3,910
Increaselinidepositsiheldlinicustodys- ener aaa aetietieaiaseieeniiiee niece 1,363 _— 1,363 944
Increase|(decrease)linideterred|revenule aeraae a eetae ieee eet taser 11,146 — 11,146 (4,312)
Increase\(decrease)iniundeliverediordetsa-eaeeemeicecm cies eerie _ (13,073) (13,073) 10,099
Neticashiprovidediby/operatingractivittesia:.rtey-t-solepate cise lever oletel tetsteieicteteiet-leleie statis ere ster 29,912 64,717 94,629 84,041

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

Proceedsifromisalevofiproperty andiequipment eases ee eee ete ei ete 15 — 15 =
Payments for purchase of property and equipment ..............-----+0-e eee eres Boe (5,265) (54,572) (59,837) (48,766)
Purchases of investment securities ....... ie. SYsWaVe Tab, sha re ,Suatouyere eet sreye) ovo Sia) Exo he aaearere ake sige (509,374) — (509,374) (574,418)
Proceedsifromisaleiofiinvestmentsecufities soe eee nee eee y Else! 483,312 — 483,312 576,474

Net cash used for investing activities ........ SMT n rere oe Bes (31,312) (54,572) (85,884) (46,710)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt ... weet: DORE OSU CORRES : 3,800 — 3,800 -
Paymentsionilong=tetmidebtncsrrie sists a ins ereraietesinret ciniciet acre ciclciatererer rerctem terre rstiaieletere (1,401) — (1,401) (387)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ......... 00.0... 0 eee eee eee eee 2,399 = 2,399 (387)
Net increase in cash and fund balances with U.S. Treasury .... 2.00... ee eee BOE 999 10,145 11,144 36,944
Cash and fund balances with U.S. Treasury at beginning of year ................... Sherer: 1,561 148,442 150,003 113,059
CASH AND FUND BALANCES WITH U.S. TREASURY AT END OF YEAR ............. $ 2,560 $158,587 $ 161,147 $ 150,003

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.

Smithsonian Institution The trust funds reflect the receipt and expenditure of funds obtained from

Notes to Financial Statements private sources, government grants and contracts, investment income and cer-
tain business activities related to the operations of the Institution.

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basts of Presentation Fund Accounting

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions placed on the use of re-

of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts or the Woodrow sources available to the Institution, accounts are maintained in accordance

Wilson International Center for Scholars, which were established by Congress with the principles of fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources for

within the Smithsonian Institution (the Institution) but are administered un- control, accounting and reporting purposes into distinct funds established

der separate boards of trustees. according to their appropriation, nature and purposes. Separate accounts are
The financial statements of the Institution with respect to Federal Appro- maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying financial statements,

priations have been prepared on the obligation basis of accounting, which isin funds that have similar characteristics have been combined into fund groups.

accordance with accounting principles prescribed by the Comptroller General Accordingly, all financial transactions have been recorded and reported by

of the United States as set forth in the Po/icy and Procedures Manual for Guid- _ fund group.

ance of Federal Agencies. The obligation basis of accounting differs in some The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Institution are self-balancing

respects from generally accepted accounting principles. Under this method of as follows:

accounting, approximately $43,903,000 of commitments of the operating Federal operating funds represent the portion of appropriated funds avail-

fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, have been recognized as expendi- able for support of Institution operations. Separate subfund groups are main-

tures, and the related obligations have been reported on the Statement of Fi- tained for each appropriation as follows: Salaries and Expense, Special Foreign

nancial Condition at September 30, 1992 even though the goods and services Currency, Barro Colorado Island Trust Fund.

have not been received. Approximately $11,964,000 of these commitments Federal construction funds represent the portion of appropriated funds

are for grants under the foreign currency program. Approximately available for building and facility construction, restoration, renovation and re-

$11,088,000 of these commitments are for internal storage facilities and pair. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each appropriation—Con-

equipment at the Museum Support Center. In addition, construction fund struction and Improvements, National Zoological Park, Repairs and

commitments for other projects amounted to approximately $24,810,000 at Restoration of Buildings, Museum Support Center and the Center for African,

September 30, 1992. Near Eastern and Asian Cultures (Quadrangle).

96
Federal capital funds represent the value of those assets of the Institution ac-
quired with federal funds and nonexpendable property transfers from govern-
ment agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, rep-
resent the portion of non-appropriated funds available for support of Institu-
tion operations. Separate subfund groups of current unrestricted funds have
been reflected in the financial statements for auxiliary activities (representing
primarily the revenue and expenditures of the Smithsonian Associate Pro-
grams, including Szzsthsonian magazine and Aur & Space /Smithsonian maga-
zine, museum shop and mail order sales) and for special purposes
(representing internally segregated funds for certain designated purposes).
Amounts restricted by the donor for specific purposes are segregated from
other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restric-
tions of gift instruments requiring in perpetuity that the principal be invested
and that only income be utilized. Also classified as endowment and similar
funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal only under certain
specified conditions. Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the
governing board for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any
portion of such funds may be expended with board approval. Restricted quasi-
endowment funds represent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stip-
ulation that the principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time,
but the governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only
the income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted for future plant acquisitions
and funds expended for plant.

Interfund Balances

Interfund balances result from short-term advances/ borrowings between Insti-
tution funds and are repaid, without interest, on a continual basis.

Investments

All investment income, except that of endowment and similar funds, and
gains and losses arising from the sale of investments and property, are ac-
counted for in the fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income of
endowment and similar funds is accounted for in the fund to which it is re-
stricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current funds. Gains and
losses on the sale of investments are recognized on the trade date basis using
the average cost method.

Inventory

Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using
the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, standard cost method or retail cost
method (for those inventories held for resale).

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to S7zithsonian magazine and Air & Space /Smith-
sonian magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscrip-
tion, which ts generally one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to
Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine are charged
against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

Works of Art, Living or Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include works of art, library
books, photographic archives, objects and specimens, through purchase by
federal or private funds or by donation. In accordance with policies generally
followed by museums, no value is assigned to the collections on the statement
of financial condition. Purchases for the collections are expensed currently.
Proceeds from deaccessions are designated for future collection acquisitions.

Property and Equipment—Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds are recorded in the cap-
ital funds at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives
as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution's buildings were appropriated and
reserved by Congress for the Institution and are not reflected in the accom-
panying financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equipment ac-
quired through transfer from government agencies are capitalized at the
transfer price or at estimated amounts, taking into consideration usefulness,
condition and market value.

Property and Equipment—Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for use by nonincome-
producing activities are recorded at cost, or appraised value at date of gift, ex-
cept for gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Man-
sion, which have been recorded at nominal values. Property and equipment
are treated as a deduction of the current fund and as a capitalized cost of the
plant fund.

Propery and equipment for use by nonincome-producing activities is depre-
ciated on the straight-line basis over their useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 10 years

Depreciation is recorded in the plant fund as a deduction to the investment
in plant.

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds and uu-
lized in income-producing activities are capitalized at cost in the current fund
and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of
3 to 10 years.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts with the U.S. Govern-
ment, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to the Institution. Goy-
ernmental grant and contract revenue is recognized within trust funds as
expenditures are incurred.

Pledges

The Institution generally records pledges based upon letters signed by donors.
Pledges are recorded at net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred rev-
enue on the statement of financial condition. Revenue from pledges ts recog-
nized in the year the pledged funds are collected.

Gifts, Bequests and Other Grants

The Institution recognizes revenue from gifts, bequests and other grants in the
year the cash is received.

Contributed Services

A substantial number of unpaid volunteers have made significant contribu-
tions of their time in the furtherance of the Institution’s programs. This con-
tributed time is not reflected in these statements since no objective basis is
available to determine the value of these services.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with
federal laws and regulations. However, only the cost of leave taken as salaries is
funded and recorded as an expense. The cost of unused annual leave at year-
end is reflected in the accompanying financial statements as an asset and an ac-
crued liability in the federal funds.

Annual leave for trust employees is accrued as a liability and expensed in the
trust fund, as earned.

2. Related Activities

The Institution provides certain fiscal and administrative services to several
separately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institu-
tion serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by

97
these organizations for the aforementioned services, together with rent for In-
stitution facilities occupied, totaled $265,000 ($190,000 for the trust funds
and $75,000 for the federal funds) for the year ended September 30, 1992.
Deposits held in custody for these organizations were $5,839,000 as of Sep-
tember 30, 1992.

3. Investments

Investments are recorded at cost on a trade date basis, if purchased, or esti-
mated fair market value at date of acquisition, if acquired by gift. At Septem-
ber 30, 1992, investments were composed of the following:

Carrying Market
value value
($000s) ($000s)
Current funds
Short-term investments $ 62,502 $ 63,102
Endowment and similar funds:
Pooled investments:
Short-term 48,724 51,292
U.S. Government and quasi-government obligations 70,587 73,360
Corporate bonds and other obligations 53,309 56,882
Common and preferred stock 124,365 166,954
Subtotal pooled investments 296,985 348 488
Non-pooled investments
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,036 1,072
Charitable trusts 595 834
Subtotal non-pooled investments 1,631 1,906
298,616 350,394
Plant funds:
Common stock 125 215
U.S. Government securities 15,990 16,110
16,115 16,325
Total investments $377,233 $429,821

The deposit with the U.S. Treasury is invested in U.S. Government securi-
ties ata variable yield based on market interest rates.

Substantially all the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis (consolidated fund) with each individual fund
subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the per unit market value at
the beginning of the month within which the transaction takes place. Of the
coral units, each having a market value of $410.20, 323,919 units were owned
by endowment funds, and 525,629 units were owned by quasi-endowment
funds at September 30, 1992.

The following tabulation summarizes changes in relationships between cost
and market values of the pooled investments at September 30, 1992.

($000s) Market
Net value

Market Cost change per unit

End of year $348,488 $296,985 $51,503 $410.20

Beginning of year 312,261 263,884 48,377 378.07
Increase in unrealized net

gain for the year 3,126 =

Realized net gain for
the year 17,790 =
Total net gains for the
year $20,916 $ 32.13

4. Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution utilizes the ‘‘total return’’ approach to investment manage-
ment of endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Under this approach,
an amount equal to the difference between actual interest and dividends
earned during the year and the amount computed under the total return for-
mula is transferred to or from the current funds.

In applying this approach, it is the Institution’s policy to provide, as being
available for current expenditures, an amount taking into consideration such

No)
Co

factors as, but not limited to: (1) 4'/2% of the five-year average of the market
value of each fund (adjusted for gifts and transfers during this period), (2) cur-
rent dividend and interest yield, (3) support needs for bureaus and scientists,
and (4) inflationary factors as measured by the Consumer Price Index. How-
ever, where the market value of the assets of any endowment fund is less than
110% of the historic dollar value (value of gifts at date of donation), the
amount provided is limited to only interest and dividends received.

The total return factor for 1992 was $12.50 per unit, equivalent to 4% of
the five-year average of the Market Value of each participating fund. The total
return amount exceeded actual dividends and interest earned for the year and
this excess was transferred from the endowment funds to the current funds (see
Note 12).

The endowment fund balance is comprised of the following at September
30, 1992:

($000s)
Endowment—unrestricted $ 7,793
Endowment—restricted 100,408
Quasi-endowment—unrestricted 127,526
Quasi-endowment—restricted 56,347
$292,074
5. Receivables
Receivables at September 30, 1992 included the following:
($000s)
Totals,
Trust Federal all
funds funds funds
Auxiliary activities and other accounts
receivable, net of $5,854 allowance for
doubtful accounts $18,626 $ — $18,626
Receivables for investment securities sold 7,541 — 7,541
Pledges receivable 3,693 — 3,693
Reimbursements due from grants and
contracts 3,550 =— 3,550
Interest and dividends receivable 3,604 — 3,604
Interfund receivables 11,617 — 11,617
Accrued annual leave _ 11,483 11,483

Other 19 460 479
$48,650 $11,943 $60,593

6. Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to government agencies, edu-
cational institutions, firms and individuals for services to be rendered, or prop-
erty or materials to be furnished.

As of September 30, 1992, the most significant advances outstanding were:
$6,753,000 to the General Services Administration, principally for construc-
tion services including the Museum Support Center and other projects to be
completed in future fiscal years; and approximately $1,608,000, principally
under the Special Foreign Currency Program.

7. Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1992, property and equipment were comprised of the
following:

($000s) ($000s)
Trust
Current funds
Capital improvements $ 24,143
Equipment 11,148
Building 3,981
Leasehold improvements 1,170
40,442
Less: accumulated depreciation and
amortization (17,547)
22,895
Plant funds

Land and buildings 67,083
Equipment 8,070
75,153
Less: accumulated depreciation (20,778)
54,375
Total, trust funds $ 77,270
Federal
Capital funds
Property $ 513,916
Equipment 45,743
559,659
Less: accumulated depreciation (248,106)
Total, federal funds 311,553
Total, all funds

$388,823

Included in the accumulated depreciation of the federal capital funds is
$25,830,000 of depreciation expense for 1992.

Depreciation and amortization expense in the trust funds for fiscal year
1992 for income-producing assets amounted to $2,399,000 and is included in
auxiliary activities expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation of non-
income-producing equipment and buildings for 1992 amounted to
$2,629,000 and ts included in the plant fund.

The balance of the plant fund at September 30, 1992 included $8,680,000
of unexpended funds for future plant acquisitions.

8. Commitments and Contingencies

Leases for various Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for escala-
tion of rents to coincide with increases in property taxes, operating expenses
attributable to the leased property and the Consumer Price Index.

The Institution's operating leases require future minimum lease payments
as follows:

Lease payments ($000s)
1993 $ 9,513

1994 7,598

1995 5,343

1996 1,724

1997 1,108
Thereafter 2,877
$28,163

Rental expense for office facilities aggregated approximately $10,407,000 in
1992.

The Institution receives funding or reimbursement from governmental
agencies for various activities, which are subject to audit. Audits of sponsored
program costs have been completed through the fiscal year ending September
30, 1989, however, final resolution from the cognizant agency for audits of fis-
cal years 1983 through 1989 has not occurred. Any adjustments which may re-
sult from those audits and the audits for fiscal years 1990 through 1992 are not
expected to have a material effect on the Institution’s financial statements.

9. Long-term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1992 consists of the following:

($000s)

9% note payable to The Riggs National Bank, interest only payable
quarterly commencing December 31, 1986; interest and principal
payable quarterly commencing September 30, 1991, until June 30,

1998, with the remaining unpaid principal balance due June 30, 1998. $ 9,503

Note payable to Signet Bank, bearing interest at 1% in excess of the
Federal Funds Rate, which was 5.5% at September 30, 1992; interest
and principal payable in quarterly installments of $63,000 until
December 31, 1996, with the remaining unpaid principal balance due

December 31, 1996. 3,610

$13,113

The aggregate amount due for all borrowings for the years ending Septem-
ber 30, are as follows: $1,577,000 in 1993; $1,700,000 in 1994; $1,835,000 in
1995; $1,982,000 in 1996; $2,143,000 in 1997 and $3,876,000 in years
thereafter.

The proceeds of the note with The Riggs National Bank were used to fund
construction of a restaurant addition to the National Air and Space Museum.
The proceeds of the note with Signet Bank were used to finance a warehouse
facility for Institution museum shops. During the fiscal year ended September
30, 1992, approximately $1,085,000 was recorded as interest expense and was
paid by Auxiliary Activities funds.

10. Federal Operating Funds

The federal operating funds include appropriations for salaries and expenses
which are expended in the year received. Also included are amounts approx-
imating $25,475,000 received with the provision that such amounts can be ex-
pended over a period greater than one year.

On November 5, 1990, the U.S. Congress enacted Public Law 101-510, the
Defense Authorization Act (Act), which prescribes the rules for determining
the availability of appropriation balances and establishes the procedures for
closing appropriation accounts.

The major purpose of the Act is to restructure annual appropriation ac-
counts. Beginning with the fiscal year 1989 appropriation accounts, agencies
are now required to maintain annual appropriations for a five-year period fol-
lowing the year of appropriation. At the end of an appropriation’s five-year
life, the appropriation account is closed and any unobligated balances are then
returned to the U.S. Treasury. The Act also provides for the phasing out of un-
expended previous year’s appropriations as of September 30, 1993.

Under the Act, unobligated balances of annual appropriation accounts will
remain on the Institution’s records until the appropriation accounts are closed.

The federal operating funds for the year ended September 30, 1992 in-
cluded the following:

($000s)
Revenues and
other additions Fundibalancerat
Appropriations Other September 30, 1992

Salaries and expenses $281,183 $ — $15,274
Special Foreign Currency Program = 273
US. India Fund (transfers from
Department of State) — UB19) 361
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute oa 154 69
$1,473 $15,977

$281,183

On July 11, 1990, a settlement was awarded in the amount of $3,022,350
arising out of a suit against the United States by a contractor who was de-
faulted by the General Services Administration for failure to complete a proj-
ect for the Museum Support Center in a timely fashion. This mandatory
obligation falls outside the provisions of the Antideficiency Act. According to
accounting principles prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United
States, the Institution recognized this expense, in fiscal year 1990, when settle-
ment by the United States resulted in an operating fund deficit. The Institu-
tion received appropriations in fiscal year 1992 of approximately $994,000 as a
partial payment of the claim. The Institution will request appropriated funds
in fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to pay the balance of the claim.

The Institution has recorded an unrealized loss of $54,000 to reflect ex-
change rate changes related to the U.S. India Fund.

11. Collections

In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, collections pur-
chased and donated are not included in the statement of financial condition.
The Institution records the acquisition of collections as an expense in the year
of purchase and records the deaccession of collections as restricted revenue in
the year of sale. For fiscal year 1992, $8,340,000 was expensed to trust funds

99
and $1,587,000 to federal funds for the acquisition of collections, and pro-
ceeds from deaccessions in trust funds were $635,000. There were no deacces-
sions of collections purchased with federal funds in fiscal year 1992.

12. Transfers Among Trust Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) respective fund balances for the
year ended September 30, 1992:

($000s)
Current funds Endowmiene
Unre- and similar Plant
stricted Restricted funds funds
Total return income from
endowment $ 232 $ 277 $ (509) $ —
Income reallocated for special
purposes (44) 44 — —
Endowment reallocated to
restricted and unrestricted
funds 462 4,260 (4,722) —
Designated as quasi-
endowment (4,152) (8,477) 12,629
Other 196 (1,115) 176
Total transfers among funds $(3,306) $(5,011) $ 7,574 $743

13. Retirement

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by either the Civil Service
Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement System

15. Current Trust Funds Financial Activity

The financial activity for the current trust funds by fund type is as follows:

Revenue and other additions:

Government grants and contracts

Investment income

Gifts, bequests and other grants

Rentals, fees, commissions and other

Auxiliary activities

Total revenue and other additions

Expenditures and other deductions:

Research, educational and acquisition

Administration
Facilities services
Auxiliary activities

Total expenditures and other deductions

Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions

Transfers among funds—additions (deductions)

Net increase for the year
Fund balances at beginning of year

Fund balances at end of year

100

General
purpose

Auxiliary

activities

$ —

8,034

180,312

188,346

8,197

159,170

167,367

20,979

(20,979)

=

(FERS). The features of both of these systems are defined in published govern-
ment documents. Under both systems, the Institution withholds from the sal-
ary of each federal employee the percentage of salary required; the Institution
also contributes specified percentages. The cost of the programs for the year
ended September 30, 1992 was $13,021,000.

The Institution has a separate retirement plan for trust employees, in which
substantially all employees of the trust funds are eligible to participate. Under
the plan the Institution contributes stipulated percentages of salary which are
used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately
vested with the employees. Employees can make voluntary contributions, sub-
ject to certain limitations. The Institution's cost of the plan for the year ended
September 30, 1992 was $7,285,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to fund the accrued costs of all plans cur-
rently. There are no unfunded prior service costs under the plans.

14. Income Taxes

The Institution ts exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-
tion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. No provision for
income taxes is required for the year ended September 30, 1992 since the Insti-
tution had a net loss from unrelated business activity.

It is the opinion of the Institution that it is also exempt from taxation as an
instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section 501(c)(1) of the
Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income tax-
ation. The Institution has not as yet formally sought such dual status.

($000s)
Total
Special Unrestricted
purpose funds Restricted Total
Sa = $ = $42,689 $ 42,689
562 8,178 55992) 14,170
960 9,183 30,927 40,110
2,842 3,185 2,861 6,046
8,279 188,591 - 188,591
12,643 209,137 82,469 291,606
19,341 30,018 63,501 93,519
546 16,485 6,858 23,343
846 2,397 3 2,400
5,132 164,302 — 164,302
25,865 213,202 70,362 283,564
(13,222) (4,065) 12,107 8,042
9,664 (3,306) (5,011) (8,317)
(3,558) (7,371) 7,096 (275)
31,115 44,887 21,036 65,923
$27,557 $ 37,516 $28,132 $ 65,648

a

The Peacock Room, the only existing interior design scheme by James
McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) and an icon of the Freer Gallery of Art, was
enhanced this year through gifts of some 32 examples of Chinese blue-and-
white porcelain. The Freer Gallery of Art reopens in May 1993 after a four-
and-a-half-year renovation. (Photograph by John Tsantes and Jeffrey Crespi)

] Wit | ay] | } |
iz LC i i il

i

[a

any

te ?

i

=

] ra

winwaneayl

SVS ONIAN YEARSI993

INUNTOW EN RISIPOURIE Que 1M HE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
ORS Walle \OAVR IEINDIEID
SEP IMEIMIBIER SO, ISOS}

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS WASHINGTON, D.C. 1994
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Board of Regents

Under Separate Boards of Trustees

John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts

THE SECRETARY
National Gallery of Art

Woodrow Wilson

Secretariat

Office of

Government Relations

Office of Policy and
Program Development

Assistant Secretary
for the
SCIENCES

Assistant Secretary

UNDER SECRETARY

for
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION

Assistant Secretary
for the

ARTS & HUMANITIES

Assistant Secretary
for the

ARTS & HUMANITIES

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Scklaer Gallery and
Freer Gallery of Art

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Institutional Studies Office

International Gallery

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American History
National Postal Museum

National Museum of the American Indian

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Museum Programs

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Assistant Secretary
for

EDUCATION & PUBLIC SERVICE

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

National Science Resources Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Wider Audience Development Program

Assistant Secretary
for

FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION

Office of the Comptroller
Office of Contracting and Property Management
Office of Equal Employment and Minority Affairs
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Architectural History and Historic
Preservation
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Environmental Management and Safety
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Financial and Management Analysis
Office of Human Resources
Office of Information Resource Management
Office of Planning and Budget
Office of Printing and Photographic Services
Office of Risk Management
Office of Sponsored Projects
Office of the Treasurer
Ombudsman
Travel Services Office

Assistant Secretary
for
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Office of International Relations
Office of Special Events and Conferences
Office of Telecommunications
The Smithsonian Associates
National Program
Resident Program
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

Inspector

International
General

Office of Public Affairs

Business Management Office

Assistant Secretary
for
EDUCATION & PUBLIC SERVICE

Assistant Secretary
for
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Assistant Secretary
for

INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

Assistant Secretary
for the
SCIENCES

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum of Natural History
Museum Support Center

National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of the Smithsonian Instution Archives

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Assistant Secretary
for

INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

National Museum of the American Indian
National Campaign

Office of Development

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

Center for Scholars
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

THE YEAR IN REVIEW

SCIENCES

Office of the Assistant Secretary for the
Sciences

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum of Natural
History

National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of the Smithsonian Institution
Archives

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute

ARTS AND HUMANITIES

Office of the Assistant Secretary for the
Arts and Humanities

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design

Freer Gallery of Art

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

Institutional Studies Office

International Gallery

60

CONE BNGES

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art

National Museum of American
History

National Museum of the American
Indian

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Museum Programs

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

EDUCATION AND PUBLIC SERVICE

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Education and Public Service

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

National Science Resources Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Wider Audience Development
Program

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Office of International Relations

Office of Special Events and
Conferences

Office of Telecommunications

The Smithsonian Associates

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Magazine

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

63

66
67
67
67

68

INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

National Museum of the American
Indian National Campaign

Office of Development

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration

UNDER SECRETARY

Office of the Under Secretary

Business Management Office

Office of Government Relations

Office of Policy and Program
Development

Office of Public Affairs

AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

National Gallery of Art

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

BENEFACTORS

FINANCIAL REPORT

Annals of the Smithsonian Institution 1993, con-
taining a chronology of the year and records of
Smithsonian advisory boards, narrative reports
from museums and offices; visitor counts; fel-
lows, interns, and research associates; publica-
tions; staff; and donations to the Institution is
made available on Internet by the Smithsonian
Institution Press and the Office of Information
Resource Management.

Wo

STATEMENT BY THE SECREGARRa

ROBERT McC. ADAMS

The Smithsonian's original mandate to devote itself
to the “increase and diffusion of knowledge” has con-
sistently remained at the center of its responsibilities
since its founding in 1846. Still today, this resonant
and expansive phrase provides an accurate framework
for the Institution's operations and planning. “In-
crease” signals an involvement in research that ad-
vances the frontiers of understanding in fields of
scholarship where the Smithsonian has a traditional
role and strong comparative advantage. “Diffusion,”
on the other hand, speaks to programs of outreach
that communicate the present state of knowledge to
a wide public. How these two aspects of the Smith-
sonian’s mandate intersect and complement one an-
other is a serious question that is receiving close
management attention in this time of budgetary
stringency.

Research has been chosen as the central and unify-
ing theme for Smithsonian Year 1993. One important
area of research at the Smithsonian is based on its
enormous collections. Those in natural history are
the largest in the world and are under continuing
study by scientists from the many federal agencies as
well as Smithsonian staff. They play a crucial role in
providing the systematic, descriptive foundation
necessary for mapping contemporary biodiversity,
tracing the impact of environmental instability, and
advancing the understanding of long-term evolu-
tionary processes.

Collection-based research is no less important in
many cultural and historical fields. Here the individ-

ual objects are more likely to be of great significance

in themselves, in not a few cases constituting vener-
ated national treasures that attract the attention of
millions of museum visitors. Research on cultural
materials sometimes takes the form of analyses that
disclose details of provenance, design, and fabrica-
tion, but more commonly it involves looking out-
ward to the larger context of objects in their institu-
tional settings, their purposes or uses, and the
meanings attached to them. Much research of this
kind accompanies preparations for new exhibitions,
with assemblages of objects brought together for
this purpose being published together in exhibition
catalogues.

Whether devoted to history or science, museums
are sites for the production of new knowledge. The
fundamental principle is that many converging lines
of evidence take us further, and with greater certain-
ty, than relying on a single approach. Field studies of
biota distributions or geological stratigraphy, for ex-
ample, require detailed, museum-based knowledge
of species identifications if they are to be fruitful.
Documentary history answers many questions, but
again it can be greatly enriched if combined with
other perspectives drawn from studies of the context,
meaning, and use of artifacts known to or used by
historic actors. History from Things is the evocative
title of a recent Smithsonian publication that makes
and effectively illustrates this point.

Museum research, whether collection based or in
preparation for exhibitions, is no less likely to pro-
duce new and unexpected knowledge than is research
in an archive or laboratory. Disciplined, intensive
study of original materials such as works of art is al-
ways in itself a process of discovery akin to conduct-
ing field work in only partly explored terrain. Bring-
textual,

ing together independent lines of evidence

artistic, and contextual, for example—always creates
new puzzles when the lines fail to harmonize com-
pletely. Much of the work of Smithsonian scholars
involves collaboration and exchange with counter-
parts at other institutions around the world. Peer
review is a guiding principle here, just as it is in ad-
vanced research institutions everywhere.

Still another orientation of museum-based re-
search involves the nature of the educative process.
Schools divide their students into uniform, age-grad-
ed levels, and attendance requirements compel stu-
dents’ attention for long periods. Lifelong learning
in museums, on the other hand, is a product of indi-
vidual or family initiative and goes on mostly over
much shorter periods and with largely voluntary
groups. Museums provide an alternative mode of
learning, in other words, that is under additional
pressure to be broadly intelligible and appealing at
every age and educational level. Accordingly, there is
every reason to expect pioneering contributions from
museums that may enhance our ability to educate
more generally.

In virtually every field, what is known with cer-
tainty is very small in relation to areas of ignorance
and questions that we do not yet know enough even
to ask. One lesson that museums must accept, and
also teach, is humility. Even where evidence may
seem to support a single viewpoint, experience has
shown that it is almost inevitable for later work to
introduce richer, more complex understandings and
open the door to alternate interpretations. Increas-
ingly, therefore, museums find themselves entering
into partnerships with their audiences, offering in-

terpretations tentatively and inviting a dialogue

with visitors from which curators can also expect to
gain new insights. In this respect, too, museums be-
come centers for the production of new knowledge.

Not all Smithsonian research is museum related,
of course. The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory carries on strong theoretical and instrument-
based programs both in Cambridge and at the Insti-
tution’s observatory in Arizona. Natural and social
scientists from many Smithsonian bureaus—the
National Zoological Park, the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center on Chesapeake Bay, the
National Museum of Natural History, and the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama—
carry on field and laboratory studies that may have
any part of the world, and its entire evolutionary
record, as their focus. But there is always a logic to
such work. It builds outward from the known to the
unknown, employing new insights and methods to
solve new problems that always tend to be generated
even as older ones are mastered.

Millions of visitors come to the Smithsonian every
year. Many of them think of the Institution simply
as a passive storehouse of wonderful things or as
row upon row of great museums in which they can
expect to find final judgments imparted with author-
ity. Both expectations involve a distortion. Smith-
sonian curators wrestle endlessly with deriving the
fullest possible meaning and significance from the
treasures in the storehouse. And they know that
truth is an elusive goal that must be endlessly pur-
sued but will never be fully attained. Research, in
other words, is an absolutely fundamental part of
what makes the Smithsonian a living, ceaselessly
changing Institution that can offer rewarding dis-

coveries to all.

Le lalla.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of
Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of
the will of James Smithson of England, who in 1826
bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” After receiving the property and accepting the
trust, Congress incorporated the Institution in an
“establishment,” whose statutory members are the
president, the vice-president, the chief justice, and
the heads of the executive departments, and vested
responsibility for administering the trust in the

Smithsonian Board of Regents.

The Establishment, September 30, 1993

William J. Clinton, President of the United
States

Albert Gore, Jr., Vice-President of the United
States

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States

Warren Christopher, Secretary of State

Lloyd Bentsen, Secretary of the Treasury

Les Aspin, Secretary of Defense

Janet Reno, Attorney General

Bruce Babbitt, Secretary of the Interior

Mike Espy, Secretary of Agriculture

Ronald Brown, Secretary of Commerce

Robert Reich, Secretary of Labor

Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and
Human Services

Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development

Federico F. Pena, Secretary of Transportation

Richard Riley, Secretary of Education

Hazel R. O'Leary, Secretary of Energy

Jesse Brown, Secretary of Veteran Affairs

Board of Regents and Secretary,
September 30, 1993

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States, ex officio

Albert Gore, Jr., Vice-President of the United
States, ex officio

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

John W. Warner, Senator from Virginia

Joseph M. McDade, Representative from
Pennsylvania

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from
California

William H. Natcher, Representative from
Kentucky

Anne L. Armstrong, Citizen of Texas

Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District of
Columbia

Barber B. Conable, Jr., Citizen of New York

Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois
I. Michael Heyman, Citizen of California

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

Wesley S. Williams, Jr., Citizen of the District
of Columbia

The Secretary

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

James C. Early, Assistant Secretary for
Education and Public Service

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for the
Arts and Humanities

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the

Secretary

Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for the
Sciences

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for
External Affairs

Peter G. Powers, General Counsel

Mark W. Rodgers, Director, Office of
Government Relations

Linda St.Thomas, Acting Director, Office of
Public Affairs

Nancy Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration
REPORT OF THE BOARD®OF REGENGS

The Smithsonian Board of Regents held three plen-
ary meetings (February 1, May 10, and September
13) and numerous committee meetings in perform-
ing the governing activities of the Institution in
fiscal year 1993. Considerable change in the compo-
sition of the board occurred this year. The regents
conferred on Jamie L. Whitten and R. James Woolsey
the title of regent emeritus. On April 12, the Presi-
dent approved joint resolutions of the Congress ap-
pointing Hanna Holborn Gray, Barber B. Conable,
Jr., and Wesley S. Williams, Jr., as citizen regents.
The regents nominated Frank A. Shrontz and
Manuel L. Ibanez for statutory terms on the board,
elected Mr. Conable as chairman of the Executive
Committee and Homer A. Neal as a member of that
committee, and appointed Jeannine S. Clark to chair
the Audit and Review Committee and Mr. Williams
to chair the Investment Policy Committee. The
chancellor paid tribute to Anne L. Armstrong, who,
because of her impending resignation, attended her
last meeting as a member of the Board of Regents.
In several discussions, the regents considered the
Institution's restructuring process, agreeing with
management that without structural changes, the
Institution risks being unable to carry out its priori-
ties with excellence. Despite consistent support from
the Office of Management and Budget and the Con-
gress, the Institution has effectively lost purchasing
power for its core activities, and its unrestricted
Trust fund income has fallen to pre-1987 levels.
Management undertook a number of initiatives to
identify priorities, assess current operations, and,
consequently, close certain programs, designate new
sources and targets of fund raising, and enhance the

effectiveness of development and business operations.

The board took several actions to celebrate the
past and enhance the future of the Smithsonian.
Goals and plans to commemorate the Institution’s
150th anniversary in 1996 were determined. The re-
gents noted that nearly 50 years ago their predeces-
sors appointed a distinguished commission to con-
sider the Smithsonian’s future. Secretary Adams
suggested that, as both the sesquicentennial of the
Institution and the new century approach, a compa-
rable commission would be a salutary step. The re-
gents voted to establish the Commission on the
Future of the Smithsonian and appointed Maxine FE.
Singer, president of the Carnegie Institution of
Washington, as its chair.

Long concerned about the often-proposed dis-
persion of Smithsonian collections, the regents con-
sidered a new vision for Smithsonian information
systems and products in order to reach distant audi-
ences. Full development and implementation of an
“electronic Smithsonian” will likely require a long-
range commitment, partners in the information
technology sector, and strong and continuous sup-
port from regents, Congress, and private donors.

The regents endorsed the Smithsonian National
Board’s proposal to establish the Smithsonian Fund
for the Future. The fund will primarily seek endow-
ment gifts but will also serve as a channel for current-
use gifts from individuals, both unrestricted and re-
stricted, for all components of the Institution. The
fund will focus initially on the Smithsonian’s 150th
anniversary. These efforts will no doubt enhance the
staff's capacity to raise nonappropriated funds.

In recognition of recent financial contributions,
the Board of Regents established as part of the Insti-

tution’s endowment funds the Women’s Committee
Fellowship Endowment Fund, the Enid A. Haupt
Garden Endowment Fund, the Richard Louie
Memorial Endowment Fund, the National Zoologi-
cal Park Programs Endowment Fund, the S. Dillon
Ripley Library Endowment, and two endowment
funds for the Smithsonian Fund for the Future.

The regents recognized the generosity of Mrs.
Jeanette Cantrell Rudy to the National Postal Muse-
um and gratefully named an exhibition area in her
honor. Similarly, with the regents’ approval, the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History’s planned West
Court theater will be named the Samuel C. Johnson
Theater in recognition of this regent’s manifold con-
tributions to the Institution and his pledge to the
Smithsonian Fund for the Future to support educa-
tional film programming in natural history.

Mr. Adams reported on the resolution of the com-
plex issues stemming from licensing arrangements
for the production and marketing of quilts from
Smithsonian designs. The Smithsonian's March 20,
1993, memorandum of understanding with the
American Quilt Defense Fund provides for the re-
production of three quilt patterns in China under
an amended licensing agreement; the domestic re-
production of up to four patterns; and the study,
education, and conservation of the art of American
quilting.

The regents accepted the revised bylaws of the
board (formerly the national council) of the National
Museum of Natural History and made the following
appointments and reappointments to Smithsonian
boards: William B. Ellis, Isabella C. M. Cunning-
ham, Andrew Knoll, Jane Lubchenco, James Patton,
and James A. McClure to the board of the National
Museum of Natural History; John A. Friede, James
L. Hudson, Brian S. Leyden, and Frieda Rosenthal to
the commission of the National Museum of African
Art; George Gillespie, Enid Morse, Harry G. Robin-
son III, and Jorge L. Batista to the board of trustees
of Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design; and
Hugh Halff, Jr., Francoise Rambach, Norman Bern-
stein, Jacob Lawrence, and R. Crosby Kemper to the
commission of the National Museum of American
Att.

In other actions, the regents endorsed a demon-
stration on voluntary donations in selected Smith-
sonian museums and the National Zoo and asked the
secretary to assess the project and report to the board
by its May 1994 meeting. The regents also approved
Secretary Adams's acceptance of the Vasco Nufiez
de Balboa Award (in the grade of Grand Cross) from

the president of Panama for “his vision, interest, and

Vice-President Albert Gore

greets some lucky visitors as
Expand =
Your Horizons

he arrives at the Smith-

Become a Smithsonian
Member Today!

sonian Castle for a
Board of Regents meeting.
(Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

support” in relation to the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute. The board added its congratulations
on this richly deserved recognition.

The regents endorsed the redevelopment of the
National Museum of Natural History's West Court,
authorizing the secretary to borrow up to $35 mil-
lion on most favorable terms with the approval of
Congress. After a study determined that more than
20 Smithsonian bureaus and offices need over 3, mil-
lion square feet of additional space by the year 2010,
the regents approved the development of a new facil-
ity at the Smithsonian’s Suitland, Maryland, site to
store, document, research, and conserve collections.

The regents enjoyed legislative achievements in
the Congress, especially enactment of the National
Air and Space Museum Extension Act as Public Law
103-57. The act authorizes $8 million to plan and
design an extension of the museum at Washington
Dulles International Airport. Significant progress
was also realized toward the authorization of the
National African American Museum, extended
authorization of the National Museum of Natural
History East Court, and authorization of the redevel-
opment of the museum’s West Court. The secretary
expressed great pleasure with the opening of the
National Postal Museum, a joint venture with the
U.S. Postal Service.

At the September meeting, Mr. Adams reported

Paul Garber holds a model of
the Wright Flyer in this 1991
photo taken on the Mall by
Air and Space photographer
Carolyn Russo.

that he had concluded that it was time to ask the
regents to establish a committee to search for his
successor as Secretary. He noted that by next fall he
will have served 10 full years and that, by then, he
hoped the regents would be ready to install someone
as secretary who can carry forward the long-range
planning and executive direction of the Institution.
The regents praised the secretary for his outstanding
record of accomplishment during his first nine years.
A search committee to find a successor was composed
of regents Heyman (chair), Clark, Conable, Gray, and

Williams and regent emeritus William G. Bowen.

Staff Changes

As in every year, the Smithsonian has sustained its
share of loss from the departure of high-ranking
staff. We were deeply saddened by the news of the
death of our inimitable National Air and Space
Museum pioneer, Paul E. Garber, in September
1992. In fiscal year 1993, Roger G. Kennedy of the
National Museum of American History, Madeleine
Jacobs of the Office of Public Affairs, William W.
Moss of the Smithsonian Archives, Joseph Chmelik
of the Business Management Office, and Barbara H.

Spraggins of the Office of Special Events—each a

highly creative director whose utility to the Smith-

1G)

sonian was transcendent—left the Institution for
other pursuits. We were pleased to welcome Nancy
Johnson as our new senior business officer. As the
year drew to a close, we were pleased to appoint M.
Leslie Casson as comptroller. Very late in the previ-
ous year, it should be noted, we welcomed Era L.
Marshall as director of the Office of Equal Employ-
ment and Minority Affairs.

In a reorganization of personnel reporting to
Under Secretary Constance Berry Newman, Mar-
garet C. Gaynor, longtime director of the Office of
Government Relations, was assigned to the new
position of director of the Office of Policy and Pro-
gram Development and was replaced by Mark W.
Rodgers, a former member of the under secretary's
transition team. To help Interior Secretary Bruce
Babbitt establish the National Biological Survey,
Assistant Secretary for External Affairs Thomas E.
Lovejoy was detailed to the U.S. Department of the
Interior for the second half of the fiscal year. John F.
Jameson, senior adviser to the secretary, served as
acting director of The Smithsonian Associates this
year.

In times when increasing budget stringencies
place unforgiving pressures on our staff, we remain
particularly grateful to valued personnel who persist
in their tasks with enthusiasm. They are the life-

blood of the Institution and its continued success.
ISUEHEULIUGIEUES OE TEIEUE SCI AIR

Anacostia Museum

Six works of art, called “imitations” by the
self-taught artist Leslie Payne, were ac-
quired by the Anacostia Museum in 1993.
The works are based on Payne's recollec-
tions of a trip to a 1918 air show and creat-
ed from found materials.

Payne, a fisherman from rural Virginia,
began making his “imitations” in the
1940s. By the mid-1970s, his yard was a
simulated airfield, featuring model aircraft,
a tower, and a machine shop. Payne also
created fantasy trips, which he documented
in journals and instant photographs.

Richmond Times-Dispatch photographer
Bob Jones was the first to document
Payne’s work in 1972. Jonathan Green, di-

rector of the California Museum of Photog-

raphy, later saw his airplane “imitations”
and exhibited them at the museum (above)

in 1991. (Photograph by Jonathan Green)

1eu

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s acquisition
of this extraordinary sculptural teapot by
Ah-Leon (b. 1953) launches a program to
collect contemporary ceramics from China
and complements the gallery’s holdings of
2o0th-century Chinese paintings and mod-
ern Japanese ceramics. As the first contem-
porary Chinese ceramic in the collection,
Branch Teapot, made in 1992, highlights
new research in understanding the cultures
of present-day Asia.

The style of Branch Teapot is based on
traditional Chinese Yixing ware, best
known for purple clay teapots whose deco-
ration was often inspired by natural objects,
such as fruits or tree branches. The teapot
was one of four purchases made this year
with funds provided by Friends of Asian
Arts at the Freer and Sackler Galleries.

The Sackler Gallery is the only Smith-
sonian museum that is actively collecting
the contemporary arts of Asia. As part of
his inaugural gift, gallery founder Arthur
M. Sackler gave a group of 38 Chinese
paintings made in the 20th century. These
paintings were the basis for the gallery's
growing contemporary collection. By ex-
panding the scope of its holdings, which
are a primary resource for research, the
gallery attracts a larger circle of scholars
and offers its research staff a more extensive
selection of comparative material.

In an effort to look at the modern artist's
response to changing social and aesthetic
standards, the insights gained from study-
ing Branch Teapot and other 20th-century
Chinese objects and paintings in the Sack-
ler collection will be presented next year as
a section of the current exhibition “Arts of
China.”

Ah-Leon (Chinese, b. 1953). Branch Teapot,
1992. Stoneware, 42.2 x 43.1 x 17.3 cm
(16%. x 17 x 6'*/,¢ in.). Museum purchase,
Friends of Asian Arts at the Freer and
Sackler Galleries. (Photograph by Robb
Harrell)
Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design

The scholarly research for “The Power of

Maps,” which opened this year at Cooper-
Hewitt, National Museum of Design, fo-
cused on the unique relationship among
our world, issues of design, and the dissem-
ination of knowledge. Using more than
300 maps dating from 1500 B.C. to the
present, the exhibition explored cartogra-
phy, geography, cultural anthropology, and
computer science and linked these diverse
disciplines through design. One aim was to
dispel the idea that maps are neutral ob-
jects and show them instead as expressions
of particular viewpoints.

As the researchers for “The Power of
Maps” set out to locate objects to document
the exhibition themes, they took two
avenues: investigating sources of unusual

maps and searching for specific maps and

mapmakers. Among their most intriguing
finds were two maps of the Battle of the
Little Bighorn, one from the viewpoint of
the U.S. Army and the other from the per-
spective of the Sioux. They also encoun-
tered a researcher's dream in Richard Edes
Harrison, a leading 20th-century cartogra-
pher and writer long out of public life.
Harrison welcomed the exhibition team to
his studio and was their guide to his exten-

sive collection of hand-drawn and printed

maps dating from the 1930s to the present.

While every scholarly project requires
research, “The Power of Maps” went one
step further. By presenting maps in a new
light, it showed how creative research can
shape an exhibition that is both innovative
and accessible to a wide audience. (Photo-

graph by Bill Jacobson)

Ss)
14

Freer Gallery of Art

When the Freer Gallery of Art reopened on
May 9, 1993, after four and one-half years
of construction and renovation, it resumed
its position as a leading center for research
in the arts and cultures of Asia and 19th-
and early 20th-century American art. In
Japan, the sound of drums is a traditional
invocation at festivals and ceremonies, so it
was fitting that the reopening of the Freer
was heralded by Hono Daiko from Matto
City, Japan. The highly energetic perfor-
mance of this three-woman group drew
large crowds to the new pedestrian plaza on
the north side of the building. Inside, visi-
tors to the refurbished gallery saw the col-
lections, which are the basis for all research,
presented with better lighting, lower cases,
and clearer labeling than in years past.
During the period the Freer was closed,
additions to the collections continued to
broaden research possibilities. This year
the gallery added 26 works of art, includ-
ing 7 gifts and r9 purchases. One of these
objects—a Chinese bronze basin from the
early Western Zhou period (roth century
B.C.), purchased through the B. Y. Lam
Foundation Fund—adds to the Freer’s re-
sources as a center for the study of ancient
Chinese civilization. The basin is the first
provincial bronze from this period in the
gallery's collection. It is unusual for the
high quality of its manufacture, which sur-
passes the caliber of many outstanding
Freer bronzes from ancient metropolitan

centers. (Photograph by Roger Whiteside)
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

Long respected for his luminous geometric

fields of abstract color, American artist
Brice Marden transformed his painting
style in the mid-198os. Following a trip to
Asia in 1984, Marden became enamored of
Chinese calligraphy, and he began to attach
his brushes to long sticks to obtain a simi-
lar “seismographic” stroke. Marden’s initial
group of new paintings, first exhibited in
1987, featured strongly contoured brush-
work on opaque grounds. In contrast, Cold
Mountain 2 (1989-91) yields a subtle
rhythm of layered form and a deep, evoca-
tive space. The title refers to a book of
poetry written by Han-shan, an eccentric
Chinese recluse who lived during the Tang

dynasty (A.D. 618-907). His poems, writ-

ten in Cold Mountain, located in the
Tian-tai Mountains in southern China,
are considered among the most important
examples of Chinese Buddhist literature.
First exhibited in New York in the fall
of 1992, the series of six “Cold Mountain”
paintings and a series of attendant draw-
ings have since been seen in Minneapolis,
Houston, Bonn, and Madrid. Cold Mountain
2 is the first work by the artist to enter the

Hirshhorn collection.

Brice Marden (American, b. 1938). Cold
Mountain 2, 1989-91. Oil on linen, 274 x
366 cm (108 x 144 in.). Hirshhorn Muse-
um and Sculpture Garden, Holenia Pur-

chase Fund, 1992.

National Air and

Space Museum

Five hundred years ago, Christopher
Columbus sailed west across the Atlantic,
using the stars to guide him. Today, mod-
ern explorers are charting a course that may
eventually take humanity out among the
stars. How and why have we come from
seafaring to spacefaring? What challenges
and choices do we face now?

The newest permanent exhibition at the
National Air and Space Museum, “Where
Next, Columbus?”, asks visitors to consider
the motives and methods of exploration as
well as the options and possibilities for fur-
ther space exploration. The exhibition deals
largely with the many technical and physi-
ological challenges humans must overcome
before they can cross vast distances of space
or exist on other planets. Through a num-
ber of displays and attractions—including
interactive multimedia programs, feature
films, a three-dimensional star map, a hy-
droponic greenhouse tor frowing C rops on
Mars, and models of the U.S. Mars Ofserver
and a Russian Mars rover—visitors can
learn about many important dimensions of
space exploration

Among the issues that “Where Next,
Columbus?” addresses are the human moti-
vations behind exploration; the possibly
harmful effects of prolonged space travel on
the human body; the debate over whether
to send humans or robots into outer space;
the development of alternative propulsion
systems for long-distance space travel; the
possibility of extraterrestrial life; and ethi-
cal questions about establishing a human
presence on other worlds.

On display in the Exploring New
Worlds section of the exhibition are an ad-
vanced spacesuit designed for planetary ex-
ploration and a model of a Russian Mars

rover. (Photograph by C. Russo)

16

National Museum of
African Art

The National Museum of African Art's
major 1993 exhibition, “Astonishment

and Power: Kongo Minkisi and the Art of
Renée Stour,” explored the minkisi tradi-
tion of the Kongo peoples of central Africa
and the contemporary work of African
American artist Renée Stout, who draws
heavily on the visual and conceptual aspects
of minkis1.

The exhibition featured 31 visually im-
pressive figures or constructions, called
minkisi, made from natural and human-
made materials and intended as containers
for powerful medicines. Ritual specialists
used minkisi for various purposes, both
protective and aggressive.

Among the works on view was a dynam-
ic sculpture donated to the museum for its
permanent collection in 1991. Made from
wood, glass, iron, and other materials, the
figure is typical of minkisi. Many objects
were added to the figure over the years,
from mirror-covered medicine containers to
seed pods and a whistle. Carved in a natu-
ralistic style, the figure is posed with an
upraised arm that originally held a knife or
spear.

To help visitors understand minkisi in
Kongo thought and ritual practices, the ex-
hibition quoted from commentaries written
from 1912 to 1919 by young Kongo men
who had intimate knowledge of their own
culture and of traditions associated with
minkisi. Another important component of
the exhibition was an extensive schedule of
educational activities, including several
programs for adults and children with

Renée Stout.

Nkisi Nkondi, BaKongo, Congo and Zaire.
Wood, glass, iron, other materials, 42.3 cm
(16 5/8 in.). National Museum of African
Art, 9212-1, gift of Helen and Dr.
Robert Kuhn. (Photograph by Franko
Khoury)

iCF/
National Museum of
American Art

18

The National Museum of American Art re-
ceived one of the country’s finest concentra-
tions of work by artists who traveled to
New Mexico between 1900 and 1940 and
were captivated by the dramatic landscape,
clear light, and native cultures. These 22
paintings by 17 artists from the Midwest
and East Coast were given to the museum
by the late Arvin Gottlieb of Kansas City,
Missouri, who was affiliated with the muse-
um’s American Art Forum, a patrons’
group of distinguished collectors.
Highlights from the Gottlieb gift are
paintings by Victor Higgins, Kenneth
Adams, and Joseph Henry Sharp. “The

Arvin Gottlieb Collection: Paintings from

the American Southwest” was introduced
in an exhibition at the museum in
September.

The museum has long had a special in-
terest in the arts of the West, featuring
many painters drawn to the region in its
1986 landmark exhibition, “Art in New
Mexico, 1900-1945: Paths to Taos and

Santa Fe,” and in the permanent galleries.

Ernest Martin Hennings (American, 1886—
1956). Riders at Sunset, ca. 1935—-45. Oil
on canvas, 102.9 x 109.2 cm (40 1/2 x 43
in.). National Museum of American Art,

gift of Arvin Gottlieb.
National Museum of
American History

Each year the National Museum of Ameri-
can History brings the living riches of the
nation’s cultures and traditions to new and
appreciative audiences in more than 150 re-
search-based museum programs, free and
open to the public, that explore American
history through music, dance, song, film,
stories, and drama. In May 1993, the muse-
um took the Smithsonian more than 2,000
miles from Washington, D.C., to the
Southwest, producing the first Music of
New Mexico Festival in Santa Fe. This his-
toric, free, and unforgettable three days of
traditional Hispanic and Native American
music and dance saluted the artists, the
people, and the region’s enduring character
of cultural diversity.

The research that led to the festival
began in the late 1980s during planning
for public programs and publications to

accompany the museum’s Columbus

Quincentenary exhibition, “American

Encounters.” In studying the music and
dance traditions of northern New Mexico,
Howard Bass of the Department of Public
Programs became determined to collect,
preserve, and present to the widest possible
audience the region’s indigenous musical
treasures. Many of New Mexico's finest
artists performed at the museum. With
funding from the James Smithson Society
and assistance from folklorists and ethno-
musicologists, Bass also produced two
Smithsonian/Folkways recordings, Music of
New Mexico: Native American Traditions and
Music of New Mexico: Hispanic Traditions,
both selected by the Library of Congress for
its list of notable recordings for 1992.

A music festival, performances, and

recordings—all are indications of the quali-
ty of research the museum staff invests to-
ward the goals of education, outreach, and
culturally diverse programming. (Photo-

graph by Annie Sahlin)

19
National Museum of the
American Indian

20

The creation of “Celebrations,” an innova-
tive exhibition for the inauguration of the
George Gustav Heye Center of the Nation-
al Museum of the American Indian in New
York City, has opened some exciting new
avenues of research for the museum. The
exhibition, which will open in October
1994, will integrate objects from the muse-
um’s collections with art and performance
pieces created by 16 contemporary Indian
artists.

Last June, the artists visited the muse-

um’s Research Branch to select the objects.

As the curatorial staff listened to the artists’

responses and heard them describe how
they intend the objects to be used in the
exhibition, these specialists discovered new
ways of looking at familiar objects in the
collection.

During the development of the exhibi-

tion, the artists are being documented cre-

ating pieces at sites throughout the coun-
try. Documentation of a creative process
through video and audio recording offers a
unique research opportunity for scholars.
Observing artists as they create and listen-
ing to them talk about their work can lead
to a new understanding of the meaning of
contemporary Indian art.

In addition to “Celebrations,” the cura-
torial staff conducted research for “All
Roads Are Good,” which includes objects
selected by 23 native people from North
and South America. The staff worked close-
ly with the selectors to provide information
about the objects. A third exhibition, now
in the early stages of development, will
highlight curators’ choices of the finest
among the museum’s holdings. Research
for an accompanying publication focuses on
the historical and cultural meanings of the
objects. (Photograph by Walter Bigbee)
National Museum of
Natural History

At the National Museum of Natural Histo-

ry, critical behind-the-scenes activities—

research and collection management—are
becoming more visible to the public. This
three-inch piece of amber exemplifies the

trend.

The amber, mined in the Dominican
Republic, holds an extinct metalmark but-
terfly that is at least 20 million years old.
Exquisite preservation makes the finest
details visible, so that today a scientist can
identify the species as if it were just caught.
Purchased through a gift from the Smith-
sonian Women’s Committee, this specimen
is one of only five butterflies preserved in
amber known to exist. Such fossil speci-
mens provide tangible evidence of the di-
versity of life in the past, which ts critical
to understanding biological diversity today.

One of the museum’s paleobiologists

studies fossil insects, and he and a colleague

this year published a ground-breaking
paper challenging widespread views of in-
sect fossil history. Insights such as theirs
demonstrate the importance of collection-
based research, which is most effectively
conducted at museums.

This piece of Dominican amber is the
only one in the world on public display. It
is on view in the museum's popular exhibit
of live insects and their relatives, which was
completely renovated and reopened in Sep-
tember as the O. Orkin Insect Zoo. The
new insect zoo is the most recent perma-
nent exhibit to showcase the current re-
search of museum scientists, thus sharing
with visitors the excitement and value of

museum research and collections. (Photo-

graph by Chip Clark)
No
is)

National Portrait Gallery

Red Grooms’s three-dimensional color lith-
ograph of 1987, De Kooning Breaks Through,
is a witty and dynamic new addition to the
National Portrait Gallery’s collection. The
abstract expressionist painter Willem
de Kooning is depicted on a bicycle, burst-
ing through the picture plane. Perched on
his handlebars is a fierce-looking nude por-
trayed with violent slashes of color, clearly
in the style of the famous paintings of
women de Kooning made in the 1950s.
Combining fine lithographic color print-
ing and the unexpected three-dimensional
folding of the paper, Grooms'’s portrait pays
tribute to his older colleague while demon-
strating that he shares de Kooning’s ability
to break through cultural boundaries to-

ward a new artistic expression.

Red Grooms (American, b. 1937). De Koon-
ing Breaks Through, 1987. Lithograph on
sculpted paper on lucite, 119.4 x 83.8 x
22.2 cm (47 x 33 x 8 3/4 in.). National
Portrait Gallery, gift of the James Smithson
Society. (NPG file photograph by Rolland
White)

AS

National Postal Museum

The National Postal Museum opened its
doors to the public on July 30, 1993, as the
nation’s first major postal history and phi-
latelic museum. More than 5,000 people
attended opening day events, a sign of the
museum's importance to a wide communi-
ty that includes stamp collectors and postal
employees, families and educators. The
museum was established by an agreement
between the Smithsonian Institution and
the U.S. Postal Service in 1990.

The 75,000-square-foot facility, whose
acclaimed architecture borrows from
themes of postal history, is located on the
lower level of the newly renovated Wash-
ington City Post Office on Capitol Hill
next to Union Station. Five major exhibi-

tions focus on different aspects of postal

history and stamps: colonial history
through the Civil War, the evolution of the
postal service through the 2oth century,
mail transportation, the art of letter writ-
ing, and an extraordinary display of stamps
with an exploration of their history. Seven-
teen videos, three interactive computer de-
vices, six computer postcard kiosks, and an
array of interactive areas make the Postal
Museum a blend of the historic and the
contemporary.

The museum houses the world’s largest
collection of stamps, covers, and postal his-
tory artifacts, numbering more than 16
million items. It also has a major philatelic
library for public use. (Photograph by Dane
Penland)

Ne
Wo

National Science
Resources Center

In developing a series of hands-on science
curriculum units for the elementary grades
(one through six) for the Science and Tech-
nology for Children (STC) project, the Na-
tional Science Resources Center is follow-
ing a rigorous protocol that includes
repeated experimental use in classrooms as
well as the extensive involvement of teach-
ers, learning theorists, and scientists. This
research and development process produces
curriculum materials that are exciting for
children, scientifically accurate, and educa-
tionally sound.

In the first phase, STC research associates
review relevant literature and discuss their
ideas for unit topics with school adminis-
trators, master elementary school teachers,
and scientists. They conduct research on
prototype apparatus in the STC laboratory
and consult with Smithsonian researchers
and curators.

Once a unit topic and sequence of

lessons have been established, research asso-

4 ¥ au
nie ak “ys S

ciates trial-teach the sequence in Washing-
ton, D.C.—area public schools. Observations
made during trial teaching inform the
writing of a field-test edition, which is then
taught by teachers in at least 10 schools
across the country that have been selected
to represent the nation’s cultural, ethnic,
and socioeconomic diversity.

An advisory panel of educators and sci-
entists finally reviews each unit for scientif-
ic accuracy and pedagogical appropriate-
ness. Simultaneously, the project's
evaluation consultant reviews the assess-
ment sections of each unit.

Using information obtained from field-
testing and external review, STC research
associates revise the units and, working
with the NSRC’s publications staff, prepare
them for publication. Fourteen commercial
and field-test editions of the curriculum
units are now in use by school districts na-
tionwide. (Photograph by Eric Long)
National Zoological Park

In a birth heralded as the herpetological
event of the century, National Zoo her-
petologists successfully bred Komodo drag-
ons, the world’s largest lizard. Keepers
named one of the hatchlings “Kraken” after
the mythical Norse sea monster

The Zoo's accomplishment marks the
first time in history that these monitor
lizards have been propagated outside their
native Indonesia. It is also the first time the
hatching of Komodo dragons has ever been
filmed and the first time American her-
petologists have been able to examine

hatchlings, which are intricately patterned

and far more colorful than adults.

The 13 young are being sent to other
zoos to establish exhibition and education
programs. Cooperative breeding efforts be-
tween the National Zoo and the Cincinnati
Zoo have resulted in additional hatchings
This breeding initiative 1s part of a larger
conservation program that includes re-
search and conservation efforts sponsored
jointly by the National Zoo and the In-
donesian government. The highly endan-
gered Komodo dragons live only on four
small islands east of Java, so they are at se-
rious risk of any local or volcanic disaster

(Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

No
S\
Office of Fellowships
and Grants

For more than 25 years, the Office of Fel-
lowships and Grants has offered in-resi-
dence fellowship programs for predoctoral
students and postdoctoral scholars from all
over the world to conduct creative and in-
novative research in fields pursued by the
Smithsonian Institution.

This year a postdoctoral scientist at the
National Air and Space Museum used land-
scape analysis to study deforestation and
biodiversity in Madagascar and make pre-
dictions for biotic changes. Through the
Minority Faculty Fellowship Program, an-
other postdoctoral scholar conducted re-
search at the National Museum of Ameri-
can History on the yellow ribbon as a

patriotic symbol. He was particularly inter-

26

ested in the role of women in developing
the concept and marketing the ribbons. A
predoctoral fellow at the National Zoologi-
cal Park compared oocyte maturation and
in vitro fertilization in domestic and non-
domestic cats. This research will further
Smithsonian efforts to preserve endangered
species. Still another predoctoral fellow
worked in the National Museum of Ameri-
can History and the National Museum of
American Art on a multidisciplinary exam-
ination of how feminism and Native Amer-
ican Cultures intersected in women’s art of
the 1970s and 1980s ( above).

The Office of Fellowships and Grants
also administers fellowships funded by the

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to promote

research in the structure and evolution of
terrestrial ecosystems by Smithsonian sci-
entists and their colleagues at universities.
Under this program one of the senior fel-
lows worked with staff at the Laboratory for
Molecular Systematics of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History to analyze plant
diversification at the molecular and mor-
phological levels. (Photograph by Rick
Vargas)
Renwick Gallery

The Renwick Gallery of the National Mu-
seum of American Art, located near the
White House on Pennsylvania Avenue,
opened as the Smithsonian Institution's
American craft and design museum in
1972 ina French Second Empire-style
building that James Renwick, Jr., designed
in 1855 as the original Corcoran Gallery of
Art.

Today the Renwick houses the nation’s
premier collection of American crafts, with
outstanding 2oth-century works in glass,
ceramics, wood, fiber, and metal. The col-
lection contains about 300 objects acquired
through gift and purchase since 1972.
Many have been collected during the past
five years.

The James Renwick Alliance, a national
nonprofit organization, was founded in
1982 to encourage support for the gallery
and interest in American crafts. To date,
the alliance has donated more than
$220,000 toward the purchase of 46 excep-
tional craft objects, including John Ced-
erquist’s Ghost Boy (1992), shown here.

The gallery is also acclaimed for its exhi-
bitions, fellowships for scholarly research in
the modern craft movement, publication
series, and educational programs. The Ren-
wick’s research mission has been advanced
by the new Patricia and Phillip Frost Prize
for Distinguished Scholarship in American
Crafts and by stipends for study at the
gallery under the James Renwick Fellow-
ship Program for 20th-Century American

Crafts.

John Cederquist (American, b. 1946),
Ghost Boy, 1992. Birch plywood, poplar,
copper leaf, epoxy resin inlay, analine dye,
224 x 112 x 38 cm (88 x 44 x 15 in.). Gift
of the James Renwick Alliance, Anne and
Ronald Abramson, and museum purchase.
(Photograph by Bruce Miller)

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Supernovas represent the brief, brilliant,
and final outbursts of energy from stars en-
tering their last and fatal stage of life. As
the brightest such object seen from the
Northern Hemisphere in more than 20
years, Supernova 1993) captured the atten-
tion of the world’s astronomical community
in spring 1993. Discovered in the relatively
nearby and well-studied galaxy M81, the
supernova offered considerable insight on
the physics of stellar evolution. The larger
photo (top) shows the entire galaxy, with
the supernova shining prominently at the
lower right. The two smaller close-ups
show this outer spiral region before (left)
and after the cataclysmic explosion. (Elec-

tronic images by Brian Schmidt)

Smithsonian
Environmental
Research Center

Pollution of the Chesapeake Bay is due, in
part, to excessive concentrations of nitrate
in agricultural runoff from surrounding
croplands. This nitrate causes damaging
algal blooms and low levels of dissolved
oxygen. Most of the nitrate is transported
from the drainage basin to stream channels
in shallow groundwater. Bacteria in forest
soils along stream banks remove much of
the nitrate and convert it to nitrogen gases,
which diffuse to the soil surface.

Scientists have constructed special cham-

bers over patches of headwater streamside,

or riparian, forest soil to measure the re-
lease rates of gases such as nitrous oxide
produced by the soil bacteria. Using an au-
tomated tuneable infrared laser housed in a
small laboratory in the forest, they continu-
ously measure the concentrations of trace
gases in the air pumped into the chambers
and the air inside the chambers. From the
rate of pumping and the difference in con-
centrations inside and outside the chamber,
they calculate the emission rates of gases.
The chambers are long (66 feet) and thin to

avoid localized effects. Their long axis is

oriented across the path of the groundwater
flow. This technology allows continuous ac-
curate mapping of gas emissions through-
out the forest.

Measurements of gas emissions from the
soil and other key physical and chemical
environmental factors controlling soil bac-
terial processes are used to develop, cali-
brate, and test computer models of riparian
forests. The results are already influencing
how we manage our landscape. (Photo-

graph by Al Liszewski)
Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

The Isthmus of Panama has long been rec-
ognized as the highway for biotic inter-
change between the Americas, with cata-
strophic consequences for South American
vertebrates. But because of inadequate
fossils and age dating, the effects of isola-
tion on Atlantic and Pacific marine organ-
isms were not well understood. Studies
have been restricted to comparisons of liv-
ing species on opposite sides of the isthmus
and use of isthmian emergence as a basis for
testing assumptions about rates of molecu-
lar evolution—the so-called molecular
clock. Now, new geological and paleonto-
logical research at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute is providing the frame-
work to place these studies in historical
context

Earlier work suggested that Atlantic fau-
nas suffered mass extinction when the isth-
mus formed due to oceanographic changes
New sampling of fossil snails and clams by
Jeremy Jackson, Anthony Coates, and their
colleagues shows, however, that extinction
occurred more than 1 million years later
and was balanced by rates of speciation
high enough that diversity has changed
very little. Refrigeration due to the onset of
northern hemisphere glaciation may have

been res yonsible, but the causes of the ex-

tinctions remain controversial

The fossil data also suggest that isolation
of Atlantic and Pacific faunas occurred
gradually over millions of years. This find-
ing is Supported by comparisons of seven
species pairs of snapping shrimp (A/pheus),
such as the pair illustrated here, from
opposite sides of the Isthmus. Studies by
Nancy Knowlton and colleagues of diver-
gence in biochemical characteristics and re-
productive compatibility indicated that
these pairs did not all separate at the same
time. (Photographs by Marcos A. Guerra

and Carl C. Hansen)

THE YEAR IN REVIEW

SCIENCES

Office of the Assistant
Secretary for the Sciences

Robert S. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary

Since its inception the Smithsonian has nourished a
commitment to a scientific research program charac-
terized by breadth, depth, and outreach. The Smith-
sonian’s scientific studies, which are known for their
benefit to the entire scientific community, are carried
on not only in specialized research institutes such as
the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, and
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory but in
museums such as the National Air and Space Muse-
um and the National Museum of Natural History.
Basic research actively promotes the programs at the
National Zoological Park and its Conservation and
Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia, and at the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory, while central
units such as the Office of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Archives, Office of Fellowships and Grants,
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, and Scientific
Diving Program continue to support all research at
the Institution.

@ During 1993, global environmental research con-
tinued to be the emphasis of the Institution’s scien-
tific studies. Current projects include studies of the
function of natural and disturbed ecosystems and the
dynamic role of the Sun and atmosphere on the ap-
parent warming of the Earth’s climate. Of equal im-

portance is gaining an adequate understanding of the
structure and composition of natural communities
and ecosystems so that their richness and stability
may be maintained or restored in the face of increas-
ing human pressures.

¢ The Smithsonian Institution Man and the Bios-
phere Biological Diversity Program (SI/MAB) this
year conducted successful regional training courses
on conservation and management of protected areas
and wildlands in St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands,
Guyana, Venezuela, and Bolivia and at the National
Zoo's Conservation and Research Center.

¢ The Environmental Awareness Program began co-
ordinating design and production of “Ocean Planet,”
a traveling exhibition on ocean conservation support-
ed by the National Science Foundation, Times Mir-
ror Magazines, Inc., the Pew Charitable Trusts, the
Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation, and the David and
Lucille Packard Foundation. The exhibition, which
will open at the National Museum of Natural Histo-
ry in April 1995, is being developed in cooperation
with the museum and the Smithsonian Institution

Traveling Exhibition Service.

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Lambertus van Zelst, Director

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) en-
gages in research and training in the conservation
and technical study of museum objects and other

materials of cultural importance. CAL addresses

41

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory objects conser-
vator Harriet F. Beaubien
puts the finishing touches
on the reconstruction of a
fragile neolithic plaster
statue, about 8,500 years
old, found at the archaeo-
logical site of Ain Ghazal
in Jordan. (Photograph by
Doc Dougherty)

National Museum of Nat-
ural History marine mam-
mals specialist James Mead
has investigated many East
Coast bottle-nosed dolphin
deaths. His findings may
help reveal where and when
dolphins are most likely to
die in fishing nets, thus im-
proving efforts to protect
these animals. (Photograph
by Laurie Minor-Penland)

s)
No

questions of concern to archaeology and art history as
well as problems facing museums nationwide, in-
cluding the Smithsonian, in the preservation and
conservation of collections. A multifaceted training
program provides valuable educational opportunities
for students in conservation, materials science, ar-

chaeology, and art history.

¢ CAL scientists have combined their understanding
of the chemical deterioration and mechanical proper-
ties of materials to predict what deterioration will be
caused by environmental conditions and changes in
the materials. When applied to photographic mate-
rials, such predictions have enabled scientists to for-
mulate new optimal storage conditions that may
greatly reduce the cost of constructing and operating
cold storage facilities.

@ Ancient technology studies on materials excavated
at the Paleolithic sites (dating between 26,000 and
23,000 years ago) of Dolni Vestonice and Pavlov in
the Czech Republic and Kostienki in Russia contin-
ue to provide surprising insights. Earlier studies
identified a ceramic technology—subsequently
lost—that blossomed at these sites. Now, studies of
colored materials and mortars and pestles excavated
at Dolni Vestonice there indicate the processing of
pigments, although there is no conclusive evidence
of their use on artifacts. CAL archaeologists con-
tinue to explore the application of this technolo-
gy with colleagues in the United States, the
Czech Republic, Russia, and France.

¢ CAL, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries,
and the Office of the Smithsonian Institution
Archives have initiated a joint program that ad-
dresses a growing need for training in conserva-
tion and preservation of archival materials.
Drawing on CAL expertise in conservation and
the Libraries’ and Archives’ expertise in collec-

tions management, the program will provide

training within the settings of Smithsonian archival
research collections.

@ The second class of the Furniture Conservation
Training Program graduated in August, while the
joint Johns Hopkins University—CAL graduate pro-
gram in conservation science awarded its first two

doctoral degrees.

National Museum of
Natural History

Frank H. Talbot, Director

The National Museum of Natural History/National
Museum of Man (NMNH) is dedicated to under-
standing the natural world and the place of humans
in it. The nation’s largest research museum, it has a
staff of more than 600, including 120 staff scientists,
and the world’s most extensive collection of docu-
mented cultural artifacts and specimens of plants,
animals, fossils, rocks, and minerals, now numbering
more than 121 million items. Studies conducted by

the museum’s staff

and by scientists worldwide
using its collections—increase understanding of the
diversity, abundance, and ecological and evolutionary
relationships of plants and animals living today and
in earlier periods; shed light on the origin and evolu-
tion of the Earth and solar system; and enhance
knowledge of human evolution, adaptation, and cul-
tural history. Through its educational programs,
scholarly and popular publications, and many public
exhibits—which annually attract more than 6 mil-
lion visitors—NMNH leads the world’s natural his-
tory museums in disseminating knowledge about the
natural and cultural diversity of the Earth.

In 1993, the museum continued its tradition of
research, public programs, and collections acquisi-

tions and management with a range of activities.

@ The O. Orkin Insect Zoo opened on September National Zoological Park
10, 1993, replacing one of the museum's most popu-

lar attractions with an entirely new and expanded : . :
"a Ae a _ Michael H. Robinson, Director
exhibition. The insect zoo features a large variety of

live insects and many hands-on activities to encour- - : :
y The National Zoological Park (NZP) has as its pri-

age visitors of all ages to learn more about our di- tk as -
mary mission the advancement of science, biological

verse natural environment. It represents a collabora- 3
conservation, and the education and recreation of the

02 Se Reuin (BEING PIG retins Sete ats en people. To fulfill this mission, the Zoo has moved

entomologists, who together have created a stimulat- : : 3
8 8 beyond being a zoological park concerned only with

ing exhibit based on the latest research findings. : ;
animals to becoming a biological park with a scope

¢# The museum was host to the fourth annual Natur- :
; 3 Lr etd that extends to the whole living world and exhibits
al Science Institute for Teachers of Minority Stu-
dents, managed by NMNH's Office of Education.

Using the resources of the Naturalist Center, a group

that increasingly emphasize interactions and holism.
NZP exhibits a range of living plants and animals on

; - we . ike ne its 163-acre facility in Rock Creek Park in Washing-
of Washington, D.C., teachers participated in activi- 2 eer E ;
8 P P ton, D.C., and maintains the Conservation and Re-

ties designed to develop more positive attitudes to- ante :
8 2 P search Center on 3,150 acres in Front Royal, Vir-

ward teaching science in the classroom and to in- inh
gimia, as a major animal breeding, conservation, and

crease interest among teachers and students in Spo wey: -
research center. Scientists from the Zoo pursue re-

science and related studies.
@¢ NMNH geologist Richard Fiske, with his Japan-

ese colleagues, made a breakthrough discovery in

search around the world, advancing biological un-

derstanding and the conservation of life on Earth.

: : 5 : @ Amazonia, the Zoo’s most ambitious project in 50
1993 by locating the site of an underwater volcanic ne 5

: : : ears, opened in mid-November 1992. In the exhib-
eruption twice as large as the famous 1883 eruption yee P 99

ee : Be it’s first nine months, more than one-quarter million
of Krakatau. This finding, made with a mini-subma- q

: : : , visitors experienced the sights, sounds, and feel of an
rine, opens an entirely new field of volcanology in

a fe authentic rainforest. In fact, the exhibit is so authen-
today’s oceans.

; ne Pe tic that three species of birds have nested and reared
¢ The Museum's Repatriation Office returned to the P

Cheyenne and Arapaho tribes of Oklahoma human OUT Gy WN Seles O. isn bee Spavmcel Gel ns

remains collected by the U.S. Army after the Col- PIES CS EER BRONILNS EOGOUEIN Ne HOO

peeancl@reclaNascacre of 1864. The rerurn cook ¢ Zoo herpetologists successfully bred Komodo

monitor lizards (Komodo

place in a ceremony at the museum. It was one of

: Soa 2 : dragons), the world’s
several important repatriations of human remains

: : largest lizard, for the first
carried out in 1993.
¢ Don Wilson, director of NMNH'’s Biodiversity

Program, made a major contribution in 1993 to

time outside their native
Indonesia. Thirteen young were

studies defining biological diversity with the publi- navel cuelene eng Saat
cation of Mammal Species of the World. Wilson co-edit- S oun hee ee Coaperative
ed this indispensable handbook, which will not only paceching Gores vata whe

ee Cincinnati Zoo have resulted
serve the needs of scientists but also prove valuable

in additional hatchings. The
to many other users around the world. 8

¢ The museum made a significant contribution to pissasllos SHORE omy ENS
the Smithsonian Timelines of the Ancient World: A Visual
Chronology from the Origins of Life to A.D. 1500, pub-
lished this year. This book—the first of its kind—

depicts the chronological history of the world using

in situ research and
conservation program This giraffe, named

sponsored by NZP and

the Indonesian

“Stormy,” was born at the
height of a spring thunder-
storm at the National Zoo-
logical Park. (Photograph
by Jess 1e Cohen)

: sovernment.
maps, drawings, photographs, and text. Several De- 6

partment of Anthropology staff members were prin-
cipal collaborators on the sections on North, Central,
and South America, and the museum’s vast collec-
tions provided nearly all the objects used to illustrate
the Americas. Most of these objects had never before

been photographed or exhibited.

sO &
As part of a prozect
arranged and funded
through the Office of Fel-
lowships and Grants Mi-
nority Internship Program,
Nancy Smith of the Unt-
versity of Washington and
Christopher Guadiz of
Northeastern University
help analyze the population
dynamics and feeding be-
havior of Chesapeake Bay
fishes at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research

Center.

ea

¢ The New Opportunities in Animal Health Sci-
ences (NOAHS) Center held a live Cheetah Satellite
Field Trip from the Zoo’s Cheetah Conservation
Station to 3 million students in 10,000 elementary
and middle schools. This televised event enabled
students to talk directly with scientists and keepers.
@ The Golden Lion Tamarin Conservation Program
celebrated its roth anniversary. Managed by Zoo sci-
entists, it is the longest uninterrupted research and
conservation effort for any New World primate.
There are now more than 550 tamarins in zoos
worldwide; the wild population has doubled to
about 400; and 134 zoo-born tamarins have been
reintroduced to the wild. Protection and reforesta-
tion in the Poco das Antas Biological Reserve, the
only protected area for this species in Brazil, have
been greatly enhanced, and awareness and support
for conservation have increased dramatically among
Brazilians.

¢ Friends of the National
Zoo (FONZ) sponsored the
roth annual ZooFari gala,
with hundreds of local
restaurateurs and enter-
tainers providing a festive
variety of food, drink, and
music. This year 2,500
guests attended the event,
which raised $190,000 to
support many Zoo exhibi-
tion and research pro-
grams. FONZ volunteers
contributed 76,000 hours
of vital educational, re-
search, and animal care assistance during the year.

@ “Nuestros Bosques, Nuestra Herencia” (Our
Forests, Our Heritage) went on display in the Ama-
zonia Gallery in March. This Spanish-language ex-
hibit on rainforests was created by a consortium of
11 Latin American museums and conservation orga-
nizations and by the Smithsonian’s Office of Interna-
tional Relations.

# The Zoo made significant strides in recycling of
waste. Besides recycling large quantities of office
paper, cardboard, and aluminum cans, Zoo staff
turned brush and tree limbs into mulch for Zoo
grounds and composted herbivore manure, leaves,
and weeds into “ZooDoo” for the Zoo’s landscaping
program, ending the purchase of commercial

fertilizers.

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Roberta W. Rubinoff, Director

The Office of Fellowships and Grants manages the
Smithsonian's centralized fellowship and internship
programs, all stipend appointments, and other pro-
grams that support research. Through these research
programs, students and scholars from all over the
world come to the Institution to use its varied re-
sources. The office also administers programs to
increase minority participation in Smithsonian re-
search activities and disciplines. Two competitive
grant programs managed by the office provide schol-
arly support for Smithsonian professional staff.

¢ More than 900 awards were offered to students,

scholars, and scientists from the United States and

abroad to utilize the Institution's resources and col-

lections. These awards included fellowships, intern-
ships, and short-term travel awards.

¢ The office received a record 575 applications for
the Smithsonian Fellowship Program, a 12 percent
increase from 1992. Ninety-seven awards were of-
fered, 18 to people from underrepresented groups.
@ This year the office received a second grant from
the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for the Smith-
sonian Institution University Program in the Struc-
cure and Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems. Four
scientists received fellowships to conduct plant re-
search in conjunction with predoctoral and postdoc-
toral fellows and Smithsonian scientists.

¢ Two hundred ten applications were received for
the Minority Internship Program. Thirty-nine stu-
dents from 17 states and 28 schoos received awards
to assist in ongoing research and museum-related

projects in 16 bureaus and offices of the Institution.
Office of the Smithsonian
Institution Archives

Pamela M. Henson, Acting Director

The Office of the Smithsonian Institution Archives
(OSIA) was formed this year by combining the
Joseph Henry Papers Project and the Office of the
Registrar with the Smithsonian Institution Archives.
OSIA consists of an archives division, a history divi-

sion, and two national collections coordinators.

@ William W. Moss III, director of the Archives
since 1983, retired in 1993 and traveled to Beijing,
China, where he is teaching in the International Pro-
grams Office at the Foreign Affairs University. Be-
fore his departure, Moss received the Secretary's Gold

Medal for Exceptional Service and was named the

first archivist emeritus. He will continue to advise

the Smithsonian on matters relating to China.

@ The Joseph Henry Papers Project completed work
on volume 7, documenting the life of the Smith-
sonian’s first secretary from 1847 through 1849 and
the struggle to establish the Smithsonian as a center
for excellence in scientific research.

The Society of American Archivists awarded its
prestigious C. F. W. Coker Prize for finding aids to

the multivolume Guide to Photographic Collections at
the Smithsonian Institution, edited by Diane Vogt-
O'Connor. Three volumes have been published, and
a fourth has been completed.

¢ This year the archives division of OSIA purchased
16 original drawings of the Castle by James Ren-
wick, its architect. The drawings are being con-
served, photographed, and added to the architectural
drawings collection.

¢@ The office compiled and published the seventh an-
nual collection statistics and compliance report and
completed an international survey of automated mu-
seum collection documentation for the International

Council of Museums.

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Irwin I. Shapiro, Director

As a member of the Center for Astrophysics, based

in Cambridge, Massachusetts, the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) collaborates with
the Harvard College Observatory in a broad program
of research organized in divisions representing the
diverse interests of its joint staff: atomic and molecu-
lar physics, high-energy astrophysics, optical and in-
frared astronomy, planetary sciences, radio and
geoastronomy, solar and stellar physics, and theoreti-
cal astrophysics. Data-gathering facilities include the
Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory in Arizona, the
Oak Ridge Observatory in Massachusetts, a millime-
ter-wave radio astronomy installation in Cambridge,
and instruments built for flight aboard rockets, bal-
loons, and spacecraft. With resources in almost every
major area of modern astronomy and astrophysics,
SAO is uniquely positioned to study the physical
processes that determine the nature and evolution of

the universe.

¢@ Two small, expendable, tethered-satellite systems
conceived and designed by SAO scientists were
flown successfully in space in the spring of 1993.
The first, launched March 19, confirmed the predict-
ed performance and dynamics of the “satellite-on-a-
string” concept. The second, an electrodynamic
tether launched on June 26, demonstrated the ability
of a tether to generate an electrical current in space.
¢@ An ultraviolet coronagraph designed at SAO for
studies of the Sun’s hot outer atmosphere, or extend-

ed corona, was one of two instruments constituting

(Left) Spencer F. Baird,
second secretary of the
Smithsonian, 1s the subject
of a biography by Edward
F. Rivinus and Elizabeth
M. Youssef, published in
1993 by Smithsonian In-
stitution Press. Baird 1s
shown here with his wife,

Mary, and daughter, Lucy,

about 1887. His correspon-

dence is one of the most 1m-

portant collections of the
Office of the Smithsonian

Institution Archives.

A technician inspects the
back of the 0. 5-meter-

diameter glass blank creat-
ed in the University of
Arizona’s Mirror Labora-
tory as a replacement for
the six Separate elements of
the Smithsonian-Arizona

Multiple Mirror Tele scope.

(Photograph by Lori Stiles)

Ss)

Smithsonian Environmen-
tal Research Center techni-
cian Jay O'Neill examines
a sweet gum sapling in an
experimental plot. Japanese
honeysuckle will compete
with the tree for water, nu-
trients, and other resources

below and above ground.

the free-flying Spartan experiment package deployed
and retrieved by astronauts aboard the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Discovery
space shuttle in April. Observations of structures and

features extending far above the Sun’s surface suggest

scientists may be able to determine—and ultimately
predict—how hot, electrically charged gas is acceler-
ated out of the Sun at more than a million kilome-
ters per hour to form the solar wind.

¢@ The continued success of SAO’s rocket-borne solar
X-ray observation program led to a $5 million grant
from the U.S. Air Force to design a similar telescope
payload for a multipurpose satellite called SWATH,
or Space Weather and Terrestrial Hazards. The SAO
instrument will make long-term observations of
space debris in low Earth orbit and will provide
high-resolution images of the Sun's corona.

¢ Development of the submillimeter telescope array
(SMA), a unique astronomical instrument to observe
the largely unexplored submillimeter region of the
electromagnetic spectrum, marked some major mile-
stones, including the start of construction of a test
and assembly facility for the SMA’s six movable radio
antennas and the fabrication of a giant transporter
that will position the antennas in different configu-
rations.

¢ The cleaning of core material from the honeycomb
interior of the 6.5-meter replacement mirror for the
Multiple Mirror Telescope was completed by the
University of Arizona’s Mirror Lab in Tucson. Now
free of all core material, the blank is ready for the
nearly two-year process of grinding and polishing.

¢ The basic elements forming IOTA, an optical and
infrared interferometer intended for high-resolution
images of astronomical objects, were installed at the
Whipple Observatory. In this system, two small (45-
centimeter), movable telescopes will each gather
light from the same astronomical object and com-
bine it into one image, thus achieving an angular
resolution comparable to a single telescope with a

mirror 40 meters in diameter.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

David L. Correll, Director
The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

(SERC) in Edgewater, Maryland, conducts long-term

interdisciplinary studies of the interactions of flora

and fauna with their environment and disseminates
its findings to improve our stewardship of the bio-
sphere. Research and education at SERC take a range
of approaches to investigating ecological processes.
Using the geographic features of the Chesapeake Bay
region, SERC conducts intensive analyses of a com-
plex landscape of interconnected ecosystems. SERC's
research is the primary contribution on the Chesa-
peake region to the U.S. Interagency Global Change
Program and an important component of the Inter-

national Geosphere-Biosphere Program.

¢ Chesapeake Bay is undergoing adverse changes as
excessive amounts of mineral nutrients enter the bay
from diffuse sources, especially agricultural cropland.
SERC scientists measured nitrogen discharge rates
from each of the major geological formations on the
bay's drainage basin. They found that more than
twice as much nitrogen is discharged per acre of
cropland in the Appalachians and the Piedmont for-
mations as is discharged from cropland in the
Coastal Plain.

@ SERC scientists extended their studies of nitrate
removal by headwater streamside, or riparian, forests
from cropland drainage water to a different type of
site: the floodplain of a larger stream. As shallow
groundwater flowed through this floodplain forest,
nitrate-nitrogen concentrations decreased from 8
parts per million to less than 0.4 parts per million.
The efficiency of nitrate removal was almost constant
for all seasons of the year, and the nitrate was not
converted to other dissolved forms of nitrogen.

@ When agricultural fields are abandoned, a succes-
sion of plants colonizes them. In the Chesapeake re-
gion an important aspect of this succession is the
competition of vines with trees. A SERC study ex-
perimentally manipulated the above- and below-
ground competition between two species of vine and
a common native species of forest tree, the sweet
gum. The introduced vine, Japanese honeysuckle,
had greater effects on the trees than the native Vir-
ginia creeper vine; the effects were due largely to
root competition for soil nitrogen.

¢ Carbon dioxide concentration in the Earth’s at-
mosphere is expected to double in the next 50 years.
SERC scientists are using open-top chambers with
continuously elevated carbon dioxide concentrations
to study the direct physiological and ecological ef-
fects on natural plant communities. After four years,
the effects on the tidal marsh sedge Scirpus olneyz in-
clude higher photosynthetic efficiency and capacity,
reduced respiration, increased numbers of shoots,

roots, and rhizomes, and decreased water use. Two

grass species, Spartina patens and Distichlis spicata,
also had reduced water loss but have declined in size
due to increased competition from the sedge.

@ The brackish waters of Chesapeake Bay are among
the most productive in the world. Protozoans are an
important element in these very interesting and
complex food webs. SERC microbiologists studied
the dynamic interactions of a tintinnid ciliate, Favel-
la panamensis, and a nonphotosynthetic, parasitic di-
noflagellate, Duboscquella aspida. About a quarter of
these ciliates, whose summertime population in the
bay reaches 5,000 per gallon, were infected with this
dinoflagellate. Infections were seldom lethal to the
ciliate but sometimes forced it from its protective
casing.

@ SERC scientists studied the use of shallow, non-
vegetated tidal waters by aquatic animals in Chesa-
peake Bay. This type of habitat dominates most of
the bay’s area, but it has been little studied. Small
species of fish and crustaceans were most abundant at
water depths of less than two feet. In field experi-
ments with tethered animals, mortality increased
with depth.

Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

Barbara J. Smith, Director

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) supports
the research activities of the Institution’s staff, schol-
ars from around the world, and members of the pub-
lic by providing reference and information services
and by building, organizing, managing, preserving,
and conserving its collections. The Libraries’ collec-
tions—numbering 1.2 million volumes, with
15,000 current journals, 40,000 rare books, and
1,800 manuscript groups—are accessible in an on-
line catalogue, at 18 branch libraries, and through
interlibrary loan. SIL is a member of the Association
of Research Libraries and a special member of the

Research Libraries Group.

¢ The Libraries established two endowments to
acquire materials in support of research. With the

S. Dillon Ripley Library Endowment of some
$270,000 and the Special Collections Endowment
of $343,408, SIL has its first endowed funds to help
purchase the library materials that the research com-
munity relies upon.

¢ The Libraries installed a new computer system

Defe Tafelgebort FoltoSS. zu fteben.

procured from NOTIS, Inc., that
will bring enhanced searching
capabilities to Smithsonian staff
conducting research. The NOTIS
system supports the Smithsonian
Institution Research Information
System (SIRIS), which carries the
Libraries’ on-line catalogue and pro-

vides operational service for cataloguing,

y
acquisitions, and circulation. @
@ With a $19,000 grant from the %
Atherton Seidell Endowment, the Libraries %
began processing its world-class collection of

trade catalogues (estimated at 450,000 pieces)

to make these unique items more widely known

to the research community.

@ The Seidell Endowment awarded funds to pur-
chase a rare copy of a 1615 book on mathematical
instruments. This early work by Benjamin Bramer
builds on existing collections in the Dibner Library
of the History of Science and Technology and helps
scholars better understand objects in the Smith-

sonian’s collections.

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

Ira Rubinoff, Director

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI),
based in the Republic of Panama, is dedicated to in-
creasing our understanding of tropical nature and trop-
ical peoples and communicating this knowledge inter-
nationally to colleagues, students, and the public. To
this end STRI maintains a fine library, well-equipped
laboratories, and an array of forest and marine field sta-
tions to support the research of its 31 core staff and its

many students and visiting scientists.

@ On April 23, 1993, STRI celebrated the 7oth
birthday of its research station, Barro Colorado Is-
land, one of the first neotropical reserves established
for the study of a tropical forest and its animals.
New and influential approaches to the study of ani-
mal behavior and the defenses of plants against in-
sect pests were developed there, and new insights
into ecology, plant physiology, forest dynamics, and
many other topics came from work on this island.

@ Forest canopy studies became a permanent part of
the STRI research program with the purchase of a
construction crane now located in Panama's Metro-

politan Park, where it is used exclusively for studies

In his 1615 book on pro-

portional instruments, Ben-
jamin Bramer described the
construction and operation
of a new proportional com-
pass. The rare volume was
purchased this year by the
Smithsonian Institution

Libraries.

Fal
Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute scientist
Klaus Winter and intern
Juan Manuel DuPuy mea-
sure photosynthetic carbon
dioxide fluxes in the leaves
of a succulent plant from
Madagascar. (Photo by

Antonio Montaner)

Ow
(oe)

of the previously inaccessible tropical forest canopy.

Funds for the purchase were provided by the govern-
ments of Germany and Norway and members of the
Smithsonian National Board.

¢ In their study of canopy photosynthesis on Barro
Colorado Island, doctoral student Gerhard Zotz and
STRI scientist Klaus Winter found that by using
“spot” measurements of carbon dioxide exchange
from one leaf they can predict its total carbon gain
over 24 hours. These results greatly facilitate esti-
mates of the energy that a tree gets from its leaves
for building, maintaining, and replacing stems,
roots, and leaves.

¢@ STRI scientists Connie Kolman, Eldredge
Bermingham, and Richard Cooke and University of
Panama researchers Tomas Arias and Francois Sin-
clair completed a study of the population genetics of
the Ngobé Amerind tribe in western Panama. They
found sharp differences in mitochondrial DNA di-
versity in the Ngébé in relation to other Amerind
tribes. Their findings support archaeological and an-
thropological data suggesting the in situ fragmenta-
tion of an ancestral population in the central region
of Panama into small, sedentary units during the
Holocene.

@ STRI scientists Paul Colinvaux, Dolores Piperno,
and Richard Cooke, with postdoctoral collaborators
from the United States and Latin America, contin-
ued paleobotanical and archaeological studies of
lakes and habitation sites. Their purpose is to recon-
struct the natural and human influences on lowland
vegetation and faunas since the last glacial period
and document the evolution of human subsistence
strategies and social complexity.

¢ Based on long-term studies, STRI’s Center for
Tropical Forest Science has begun a program to
reestablish tropical forest on degraded agricultural
lands near the Barro Colorado Nature Monument.
With support from the Turner Foundation, the cen-
ter has established two tree nurseries that will pro-
vide 20,000 seedlings of native species to be planted

during the coming year.

ARTS AND HUMANITIES

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for the Arts and Humanities

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for the Arts and
Humanities advises the secretary and the under secre-
tary on issues relating to museum policy, operations,

and advocacy. Exhibitions, accessibility, and museum

education are the current priorities of the office.

@ The Accessibility Program convened an Advisory
Council on Accessibility composed of 18 interested
constituents with disabilities. The council advised
the program on matters such as developing institu-
tional policy on accessibility and writing design
guidelines for accessible exhibitions. Council mem-
bers participated in the program's 10-month lecture
series on accessibility and in training sessions for
various bureaus and offices.

¢ The Experimental Gallery continued to present
changing exhibitions that explore innovative and
creative approaches to audience development and
access, exhibition development, and context, tech-
nique, and style. Visitors viewed the exhibition
experiments—which this year included “The Kids
Bridge’—and offered their opinions.

¢ The American Studies Program provided seminars
and independent study opportunities for graduate
students in American studies and American history
departments of affiliated universities to undertake
formal course work at the Smithsonian.

¢ Legislation establishing a National African Amer-
ican Museum, to be located in the Arts and Indus-
cries Building, passed the House of Representatives
and awaits Senate action. The proposed museum will
document and interpret the experiences of people of
African descent in the United States and throughout
the diaspora. To date, the museum project staff has
identified more than 750 potential donors who have
more than 25,000 objects and want to support the
future museum by giving or lending objects and
making financial contributions.

@ Exhibitions that received awards from the Special
Exhibition Fund, administered by the office, includ-
ed “African Experiences” (National Museum of Nat-
ural History), “Before Freedom Came” (Anacostia
Museum), and “Mechanical Brides: Women and
Machines from Home to Office” (Cooper-Hewitt,

National Museum of Design).
Anacostia Museum

Steven Cameron Newsome, Director

This year the Anacostia Museum observed its 25th
anniversary, mounted three nationally important
traveling exhibitions, and continued to explore ways
to increase knowledge of the African American expe-
rience in Washington and the upper South. In addi-
tion to carrying on research and collections efforts,
the museum was involved in a series of new and ex-
citing collaborations and partnerships.

¢ The museum’s first collection management policy
statement was approved. At the core of the policy are
12 areas of inquiry and a community-based educa-
tion campaign designed to improve citizens’ ability
to care for significant material in their possession.

¢ Collections development activities focused on
three areas. The museum acquired the works of folk
artist Leslie Payne, 30 videotapes of African Ameri-
can worship traditions from Atlanta Interfaith
Broadcasters, and photographs and autograph books
from Anacostia resident Percival Bryant, which pro-
vide important insight into black community and
social life.

# The museum staff completed research for the
Black Mosaic Project, which will explore the multi-
cultural dimensions of Washington’s black commu-
nity. Focusing on the Jamaican, Afro-Latino, Brazil-
ian, Ghanaian, and Haitian communities, the project
explores the concepts of community, identity, and
race as they intersect in Washington’s dynamic cul-
tural environment. It will result in an exhibition
scheduled to open in August 1994.

# The museum established an ongoing partnership
with the Moten Elementary School in which the
museum staff works with students and teachers
throughout the school year to develop exhibitions
and programs. This year, Moten students and adults
from the community joined ceramic sculptor Martha
Jackson Jarvis in creating a work, The Table of Plenty.
¢ The museum mounted three traveling exhibitions
during the year. “Two Sculptors/Two Eras” explored
the work of Richmond Barthé and Richard Hunt.
“Body and Soul” related the history of the Alvin
Ailey American Dance Theater. “Always There”
gave voice to African Americans’ contributions to
quilting.

¢ The staff began work on a variety of new research
endeavors. “The Unbroken Circle” will examine cur-
rent trends in black church archives practices and

will document contemporary traditions of worship in

Sharon Abney braids the
hair of Carlotta Mooney in
a demonstration that was
part of the annual June-
teenth celebration on the
grounds of the Anacostia
Museum. (Photograph by
Harold Dorwin)

Washington. “Footsteps from the Past,” a collabora-

tive project with the Brentwood Historical Society,
will focus on the history of Maryland’s oldest incor-
porated black township. The staff is also working
with the D.C. Community Humanities Council to
develop an exhibition investigating community life
in one of the city’s public housing complexes, Po-
tomac Gardens. In an expansion of the museum's do-
mestic emphasis, the staff began exploring ways to
share its community-focused research methods with
the Birmingham Museum in England and, as an out-
growth of the Black Mosaic Project, started work on
“Passports: Contemporary Black Community Life

and Art in Europe.”

Archives of American Art
Richard J. Wattenmaker, Director

The Archives of American Art has the largest collec-
tion in the world of original source materials on the
history of the visual arts in the United States. The
Archives is a national research repository with cen-
ters in Washington, D.C., New York, Boston,
Detroit, and San Marino, California, and a survey
project to identify documentation on American art
in Paris. The materials it holds include letters, scrap-
books, photographs, works of art on paper, diaries,
and interviews recorded on audio-and videotape.
The Archives is dedicated to encouraging research
in American art and cultural history by making its
collections easily accessible. Its extensive and varied
holdings offer researchers an in-depth, primary re-

search base for advanced study not only in American

The papers of Robert C.
Scull (1915-86), promi-
nent collector of abstract
expressionist, pop, and min-
imalist art, provide valu-
able insights into collector-
artist relationships in the
New York art world of the
19505. The Scull papers,
now in the Archives of
American Art, include this
snapshot taken at the collec-
tor's summer place showing
Lucas Samaras on the
shoulders of Claes Olden-
burg and George Segal,
behind Patti (Oldenburg)
Mucha and Robert

Rauschenberg.

40

art history but in other fields, including cultural,
political, and social history. The Archives Journal,
published quarterly, presents articles based on re-
search conducted in the collections as well as book
reviews and collecting reports from the regional
centers.

@ The Archives published its newest finding aid to
the collections, A Guide to Archival Sources for French-
American Art History in the Archives of American Art,
which describes papers relating to American artists
who lived, studied, and worked in France.

@ The Gallery of the New York Regional Center
mounted two exceptional exhibitions of papers.
“Romare Bearden Draws, Too: Tradition to Form”
(January 7—March 12, 1993) displayed works never
before shown, including more than 60 pen-and-ink
drawings, watercolors, gouaches, a previously un-
known composition book, and the artist’s last col-
lages. “Dorothy Miller and Holger Cahill: An Exhi-
bition of Paintings, Sculpture, and Documents from
the Decade 1929-1939" documented the unique
collaboration of two figures who significantly influ-
enced the course of American art and created a
broader national audience for it. Dorothy C. Miller,
former curator of museum collections, Museum of
Modern Art, donated her papers and those of her
husband Holger Cahill, national director, Federal
Art Project, to the Archives, the Museum of Modern
Art, and the New York Public Library.

# Among the Archives’ significant acquisitions are

the papers of Frank Stella (b. 1936), one of the semi-

nal artists of the post-World War II era. These docu-

ments include Stella’s student writings on art, early
notebooks with drawings from his formative years,
original manuscripts of his famous Charles Eliot
Norton lectures at Harvard University, personal pho-
tographs, clipping scrapbooks, and other records.

¢ A five-and-one-half-hour oral history interview
was conducted with Eleanor Sayre (b. 1916), a schol-
ar and museum curator well known for her studies of
Goya. Sayre discusses her visits to the White House
with her maternal grandfather Woodrow Wilson, her
education at Bryn Mawr College, her graduate work
under Edward Forbes and Paul Sachs at Harvard, and
her experiences as a curator at the Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston, beginning in 1946.

@ With a grant from the Art Dealers Association of
America, the Archives has undertaken the first phase
of a series of oral history interviews of senior art deal-
ers. Those interviewed this year include Klaus Perls,
André Emmerich, Serge Sabarsky, Mrs. Leonard

Hutton, and Jane Kallir.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Milo C. Beach, Director

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, which opened to the
public in 1987, was established with a gift of nearly
1,000 works of Asian art from Dr. Arthur M. Sackler
(1913-87). The permanent collection has grown be-
yond the original donation through gift, purchase,
and transfer. Dedicated to expanding public knowl-
edge of the arts and cultures of Asia through exhibi-
tion, research, and education programs, the gallery
also organizes and presents traveling exhibitions,
which are enhanced through a varied schedule of free
public programs, scholarly activities, and special
events.

@ Recent archaeological finds in Sri Lanka and re-
search on the symbolic meanings of the decoration of
Chinese porcelain were presented in two internation-
al loan exhibitions this year. Most of the gold and
bronze objects on loan from the National Museums
of Sri Lanka for “The Golden Age of Sculpture from
Sri Lanka” were discovered during excavations spon-
sored by the government of Sri Lanka during the last
30 years. Imperial ceramic wares were presented in
an exhibition and a book, “Joined Colors: Decoration
and Meaning in Chinese Porcelain,” funded with
generous contributions by members of the Min Chiu
Society, Hong Kong.

¢@ More than 3,000 people attended a festival of Sri
Lankan dance and film made possible in part by the
Embassy of Sri Lanka and Air Lanka. The festival—
along with the exhibition of sculpture and a small
presentation of “Nineteenth-Century Photographs
from Sri Lanka” drawn from the archives of the Freer
and Sackler galleries—gave public exposure to the
Buddhist and Hindu traditions of this South Asian
nation.

¢ An anonymous donor presented the gallery with

a gift of $2.8 million to finance an endowment for
public affairs activities aimed at increasing awareness
of the gallery, its collections, and its programs. The
endowment supports the expansion of the gallery's
public affairs and advertising efforts, which have
been supported by private gifts and appropriated
funds since 1987.

@ The Sackler and Freer galleries established a
$900,000 publications endowment fund based on a
$300,000 gift from the Andrew W. Mellon Founda-
tion that was matched two-to-one by an anonymous
donor, the estate of Leon Pomerance, William
Douglas McAdams, Inc., and Elizabeth Ann and
Willard G. Clark. The first catalogue published
under the endowment, which will be used to support
research catalogues and monographic studies of
objects in the permanent collections, was Ancient
Iranian Metalwork in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
and the Freer Gallery of Art, by Ann C. Gunter, asso-

ciate curator of ancient Near Eastern art, and Paul R.

Jett, supervisory conservator, Department of Conser- Several thousand people at-

vation and Scientific Research. tended the free programs of
the 10-day Sri Lankan
Festival at the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery, which

included Sinhalese artists

¢ A large-format newsletter announcing materials
and programs available to teachers and students was
distributed to a local and national audience of

10,000 teachers. During the summer, some 350 <
performing traditional

dances. (Photo by Anusha

Dharmasena)

teachers came to the Sackler and Freer galleries for
specialized training. During the day-long sessions,
teachers from all disciplines were introduced to the
arts and cultures of Asia and offered suggestions on
introducing these subjects into the curriculum.

@ More than 100 objects were added to the collec-
tion this year, including a 17th-century painting of
a hunting scene attributed to the Mughal painter
Payag, which will be the subject of a small exhibi-

tion next year.

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Museum of Design

Dianne H. Pilgrim, Director

Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design seeks
co enrich the lives of all people by exploring the cre-
ation and consequences of the designed environment.
Design, a process of shaping matter to a purpose, 1s a
fundamental activity. The design object may be as
common as a paper cup, as distinctive as a crystal
goblet, or as complex as a city. Cooper-Hewitt inves-
tigates the uses, structures, effects, and meanings of
these products of design and their roles as forces for
communication and change in our daily lives. Four

curatorial departments—Drawings and Prints, Dec-

orative Arts, Textiles, and Wallcoverings—care for,
interpret, and add to the museum's collection of
nearly a quarter million objects. The museum also
houses a Department of Contemporary Design and a
reference library.

@ During 1993, the architectural firm of James
Stewart Polshek and Partners completed one phase
of a plan to integrate the museum's separate compo-
nents—the Carnegie Mansion and the Miller and
Fox Houses—into a unified, accessible complex.
They presented the designs for renovating the town-
houses as the site of a resource-research center, Cura-
torial offices, and collection storage. The architects
also submitted plans for an accessible front entrance
to the museum and a connector linking the Carnegie

Mansion, the townhouses, the terrace, and the gar-

41
Designer Cheryl R. Riley's
Coin Encrusted Tudor
Tables (1993) were fea-
tured in a one-person exhi-
bition at Cooper-Hewitt,
National Museum of De-
sign. (Photograph by Bill
Jacobson)

den. Construction is scheduled to begin in 1994.

¢ In two simultaneous exhibitions, Cooper-Hewitt
explored the link between symbolic form and sym-
bolic language as expressed in a particular culture.
“Czech Cubism: Architecture and Design, 19 10—
1925" highlighted the communicative power of
poetry and music as they inspired the design and
decorative arts of the Czech cubists during the early
2oth century. “A Memorial to Jan Palach,” an instal-
lation by American architect John Hejduk and poet
David Shapiro, related to their memorial to the
Czech poet who committed suicide in 1969 to
protest the Soviet invasion and occupation of
Czechoslovakia.

@ The museum added two paid summer internships
to its internship program. The Mark Kaminski In-
ternship encourages young students of architectural
history, design, and design criticism to explore the
extensive holdings of architectural drawings, the
archives, and related collections while working ona
specific project. The Crown Crafts/Perry Ellis Incern-
ship in the history of pattern, ornament, and decora-
tion in design was established for art history or de-
sign students to participate in the research, analysis,
and documentation of ornamental design in the col-
lections and library.

@ Special exhibitions included “The Power of Maps”
and “Mechanical Brides: Women and Machines from
Home to Office,” which challenged perceptions of
design as a neutral and unbiased medium. Exhibi-
tions highlighting the permanent collection includ-
ed “Revolution, Life, and Labor: Soviet Porcelains
(1918—1985)” and “From Background to Fore-
ground: Looking at an 18th-Century Wallpaper.”

¢@ The master of arts program in the history of deco-

rative arts cosponsored by the museum
and Parsons School of Design celebrated
the roth anniversary of the graduation
of its first class. Under the direction of
Maria Ann Conelli, the program contin-
ues to be a unique training ground for
future scholars, curators, and educators.
@ The one-person exhibition “Design
Process: Cheryl R. Riley” marked the
first major New York showing of Riley’s
furniture and lighting designs and the
first exhibition drawn from the muse-
um’s African American Design Archive.
The archive was established in 1991 to
ensure that cultural diversity is a hall-

mark of American design history.

Freer Gallery of Art

Milo C. Beach, Director

The international reputation of the Freer Gallery of
Art is based on its outstanding collections of Asian
art dating from Neolithic times to the early 20th
century and on its major holdings of works by James
McNeill Whistler (1834-1903). Additions through
gift and purchase have expanded the character of the
original collection, which was deeded to the United
States by Charles Lang Freer in 1906. Broad press
coverage and enthusiastic crowds of visitors accom-
panied the gallery's reopening following a four-and-

a-half-year hiatus for renovation and expansion.

The reopening of the Freer Gallery on Sunday,
May 9, its 70th anniversary, was marked by two new
books. Freer: A Legacy of Art, by Thomas Lawton, se-
nior research scholar, and Linda Merrill, associate cu-
rator of American art, presents research on the life
and aesthetics of gallery founder Charles Lang Freer.
The Princess and the Peacocks, a book for children by
Linda Merrill and Sarah Ridley, assistant head of
education, tells how the Peacock Room was created
and includes an illustration, based on recent find-
ings, of the room before James McNeill Whistler
intervened.

@ Katharine Graham, chairman of the executive
committee of the Washington Post Company board
of directors, and gallery director Milo C. Beach were
co-hosts for dedication festivities in the Eugene and
Agnes E. Meyer Auditorium on April 28. Afterward,
master cellist Yo-Yo Ma entertained guests with solo

selections in the galleries. The event marked the be-
ginning of a full calendar of public programs in the
300-seat auditorium, from the Bill and Mary Meyer
Concert Series of chamber music to traditional Asian
music and Asian films.

¢@ Nancy Lyons, a sixth-grade English teacher from
Howard County (Maryland) Public Schools, was se-
lected as the Freer teacher associate for 1993 to de-
velop curriculum materials for the gallery’s Japanese
collection. Working with members of the education
and curatorial staffs, she developed a booklet, trans-
parencies, lesson plans, and a list of resources for
teachers.

¢ The gallery's first Forbes fellow, Jong-Ouk Hong
of Seoul, Korea, began one year of research in the
Department of Conservation and Scientific Research
on September 1. The Forbes Fellowship, to be
awarded annually to a young scholar in the technical
study of works of art, was established in memory of
Edward Waldo Forbes, director of the Fogg Muse-
um, Harvard University, from 1909 to 1944, and
funded through the bequest of John S. Thacher, who
was instrumental in establishing the gallery’s techni-
cal laboratory in 1951.

# The Freer and Sackler galleries and the Metropoli-
tan Center for Far Eastern Art Studies in Kyoto,
Japan, named the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in
Kansas City, Missouri, as recipient of the first bienni-
al Shimada Prize for distinguished scholarship in the
history of East Asian art. The $10,000 award was
given for the museum's publication, The Century of
Tung Ch'i-ch'ang (1555-1636), a comprehensive ex-
amination of the life and work of China’s great Ming
dynasty painter.

@ The library of the Freer and Sackler galleries re-
ceived a grant from the Smithsonian's Research Re-

sources Program to safeguard fragile items in its

Ernst Herzfeld Papers, an important resource for the

study of Near Eastern architecture and archaeology.
Funds were provided to preserve and duplicate 3,850

glass photo negatives and rehouse 1,000 drawings.

Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden

James T. Demetrion, Director

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the
Smithsonian Institution’s gallery for modern and
contemporary art, is committed to increasing the
awareness and understanding of art through acquisi-
tions, exhibitions and publications, research activi-
ties, public programs, and the presentation of the
collection in its galleries and outdoor exhibition
spaces. The museum provides a public facility for the
exhibition, study, and preservation of r9th- and
2oth-century art while presenting a spectrum of

contemporary work.

@ With the help of various acquisitions funds as well
as gifts from generous donors, the museum contin-
ued to acquire significant works by modern and con-
temporary artists. Among highlights for the year
were Brice Marden’s oil painting Cold Mountain 2
(1989-91), Bruce Nauman’s wax over cloth sculp-
ture From Hand to Mouth (1967), Lucian Freud's oil
painting Nude with Leg Up (Leigh Bowrey) (1992),
Glenn Ligon’s oilstick painting Black Like Me No. 2
(1992), and Philip Guston’s oil painting Daydreams
(1970).

¢ In the fall of 1992, the Hirshhorn undertook a

major reinstallation of the permanent collection both

The first event in the festiv-
ities leading up to the pub-
lic reopening of the Freer
Gallery of Art—the dedi-
cation of the Eugene and
Agnes E. Meyer Auditori-
um—tfeatured reminiscences
of her parents by Katharine
Meyer Graham, chairman
of the executive committee of
the Washington Post Com-
pany board of directors.
Following the dedication,
master cellist Yo-Yo Ma,
shown here with Graham,
entertained guests in the
galleries. (© 1993 The
Washington Post;

reprinted with permission)
The Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden's
Conservation Laboratory
was the site of detailed
technical examination of
several works by Willem de
Kooning from the collection.
Infrared reflectography dis-
closed hidden underdraw-
ings in the artist’s works,
proof that he used drawing
and painting techniques
simultaneously in a charac-
teristic departure from tra-

ditional practices.

44

in its galleries and outside on the plaza and in the

sculpture garden. The new installation, called “The
Collection Reviewed,” integrates European and
American art, includes didactic materials, and puts a
new emphasis on contemporary art.

¢ The Hirshhorn’s exhibition program encompassed
retrospectives for the French artist Jean Dubuffet
and more contemporary American artists Eva Hesse
and Susan Rothenberg. Smaller shows focused on
works by American artist Alison Saar and Brazilian
artist Jac Leirner and included a site-generated pro-
ject by American artist Joseph Kosuth.

@ In conducting their research, the Hirshhorn’s six
curators interviewed artists and others in the modern
and contemporary art field, visiced libraries, and
studied exhibitions

# Among the education programs presented this
year were “Dancing with Dubuffet,” a specially com-
missioned 40-minute performance by the all-teenage
Amherst (Massachusetts) Ballet Theatre Company,
and Young at Art, family programs held monthly
beginning in May that enthralled more than 60 six-
to-nine-year-olds and their parents with tours of an
exhibition and hands-on art projects.

@ Ongoing technical examination of major works in
the collection received a new focus when the Conser-
vation Laboratory began a systematic examination of
the museum's paintings with an infrared reflectogra-
phy video system acquired with a grant from the

James Smithson Society.

Institutional Studies Office
Zahava D. Doering, Director

The Institutional Studies Office, now in its sixth
year, 1s a pan-Institutional resource dedicated to the
scientific study of the characteristics, attitudes, opin-

ions, and experiences of Smithsonian constituencies.

The office conducts applied research and studies
within the museums for senior management, pro-
grams, and research efforts and for Smithsonian of-
fices and operations. Among its study topics are au-
dience and membership profiles, the educational
value of the museum experience, self-study of Smith-
sonian operations, and ongoing analyses of employee
composition.

¢ The office completed the Smithsonian Institution
Accessibility Study, a major Institution-wide base-
line study on the accessibility of exhibitions, publi-
cations, audiovisual productions, programs, meet-
ings, training sessions, and receptions to people with
disabilities.

¢ Results were disseminated from baseline and fol-
low-up surveys in the 1991—92 Zoo Studies, a col-
laborative effort of the National Zoological Park,
Zoo Atlanta, and the Dallas Zoo to understand the
extent to which physical and conceptual changes to
their reptile-amphibian buildings (renamed Reptile
Discovery Centers) affected visitors’ experiences.

@ Studies for Smithsonian bureaus and offices in-
cluded assessments of visitor experience at the “Star
Trek” exhibition at the National Air and Space Mu-
seum and “The Power of Maps” and “Czech Cubism”
at Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of Design;
background research for “Ocean Planet,” a forthcom-
ing exhibition on ocean conservation; and an initial

study of the Smithsonian Early Enrichment Center.

International Gallery

Anne R. Gossett, Director

The International Gallery presents exhibitions that
deal with significant topics from various disciplines
or culcural perspectives and that complement the
work of Smithsonian bureaus or represent an area
outside the Institution's collections. Public and
scholarly programs are held along with exhibitions
that appear in the gallery, which is located in the
S. Dillon Ripley Center.

¢ “Imperial Austria: Treasures of Art, Arms and
Armor from the State of Styria,” an important collec-
tion of late medieval, Renaissance, and baroque art
and armor from the Landeszeughaus and selected
museums in Graz, Austria, was featured this year in
the International Gallery. Opening weekend festivi-
ties included a Knightly Day on the Mall with
demonstrations of period crafts, music, dance, and

mock combat.
@ In cooperation with the National Museum of the
American Indian, the International Gallery present-
ed “Shared Visions: Native American Painters and
Sculptors in the Twentieth Century.” During four
informal salon evenings, Native American artists
discussed their work and talked with visitors.

@ “Life in the White House,” sponsored by the
White House and Very Special Arts, included more
than 50 works by student artists with disabilities.
The exhibition was shown in the Escalator Gallery
in celebration of the 200th anniversary of the presi-
dent's house.

¢ The evolution of cut crystal from the 19th century
to the present was surveyed in “The Cutting Edge:
200 Years of Cut Crystal,” exhibited in the Rotunda
Gallery.

National Air and Space Museum
Martin Harwit, Director

The National Air and Space Museum has the largest
collection of historic air- and spacecraft in the world.
The museum's goal is to explore and present the his-
tory, science, technology, and social impact of aero-
nautics and spaceflight and to investigate and exhibit
the nature of the universe and the environment. Two
historical research departments—Aeronautics and
Space History—conduct studies on the origin and
development of flight through the atmosphere and
in space, while two scientific laboratories—the
Center for Earth and Planetary Studies and the
Laboratory for Astrophysics—carry out basic research
in satellite remote sensing of the environment,
planetary surfaces and atmospheres, observational
and theoretical astrophysics, and the development

of infrared astronomical instruments for spacecraft.

@ President Clinton signed legislation on August 2,
1993, establishing an extension for the National Air
and Space Museum near Washington Dulles Interna-
tional Airport in Virginia. The facility will provide
space to house and restore the museum’s collection of
airplanes and spacecraft, many of which are too large
for the building on the National Mall.

# Asa finale to the 1992 Quincentenary commemo-
ration of Columbus's voyages, the museum opened a
major new exhibition, “Where Next, Columbus?”
The exhibition focuses on the challenges and oppor-
tunities of the next 500 years of space exploration. It
deals largely with the many technical and physiolog-

ical challenges that humans must overcome to cross

vast distances of space or exist on other planets.

¢ Notable accessions to the museum’s collection in-
clude a MIG 21 jet fighter, which was transferred by
the U.S. Air Force. Aerobatic champion Patty
Wagstaff flew her award-winning plane, the Extra
260, to Andrews Air Force Base for presentation to
the museum. The museum also acquired collections
of memorabilia from General Curtis LeMay and
from General Benjamin Davis, leader of the first
squadrons of African American pilots—popularly
known as the “Tuskegee Airmen”—<into battle dur-
ing World War IT.

@ The Special Events Office coordinated more than
150 events at the museum and at the Paul E. Garber

Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Facility dur-

ing 1993. A highlight was the presidential inaugural

ball held at the museum in January, attended by
President and Mrs. Clinton and Vice-President and
Mrs. Gore.

¢ Using remotely sensed information from a variety
of satellites, researchers at the Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies continued their work on arid
lands, concentrating on both the natural processes of
sand transport and anthropogenic changes in central
Kenya. Investigations of the extent and rates of for-
est loss in Madagascar and the Czech Republic con-
tinued, augmented by several field trips to check in-
terpretations of satellite data.

@ Staff of the Laboratory for Astrophysics completed
development of an infrared Fabry-Perot observing
system used to obtain high-spectral resolution im-
ages of galactic and extragalactic sources. Observa-
tional studies of very young stars concentrated on
their mass loss rates and hydrogen emission charac-

teristics.

National Air and Space
Museum director Martin
Harwit greets aerobatic
champion Patty Wagstaff
as she emerges from the
Extra 260 following a fly-
ing demonstration. The
aircraft was presented to
the museum and formally

accepted into the aeronauti-
cal collection. (Photograph
by Mark Avino)

A young visitor creates a

clay vessel at the National
Museum of African Art,
where more than 8o chil-
dren ages © to 14 partici-
pated mm pottery workshops
in July 1993. (Photograph
by Janice L. Kaplan)

[es

National Museum of African Art
Sylvia H. Williams, Director

The National Museum of African Art celebrates the
rich visual traditions and extraordinarily diverse cul-
tures of Africa. Through its collections, exhibitions,
research, and public programs, it fosters an apprecia-
tion of African art and civilizations. The museum
also has a research and reference center—housing the
Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives and the War-
ren M. Robbins Library, a branch of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries—as well as exhibition galleries

and educational facilities.

@ The museum opened a major
exhibition, “Astonishment and
Power: Kongo Minkisi and the
Art of Renée Stout.” Minkis1,
frequently mischaracterized as
fetishes in the West, are visually
impressive figures or construc-
tions intended as containers for
powerful medicines. Stout, a con-
temporary African American
artist, draws on Kongo minkisi
traditions in her work.

@ The museum acquired an
exceptional Lega mask and two
rare Lega ivory pendants from
Zaire. The objects are on display
in the newly renovated Eastern
Zaire section of the permanent
exhibition “Images of Power and
Identity.”

@ The museum also acquired
three watercolor paintings by
Djilatendo, a Zairian artist (b. ca.
1890), and an oil painting by
artist Pilipili (1914—ca. 1992),
also from Zaire. Both artists draw
inspiration from nature and the
rich traditions of contemporary Zairian life.

¢@ An iconographically complex iron altar of the
Fon peoples of the Republic of Benin (formerly
Dahomey) was a gift to the museum this year. The
altar, which typifies the meeting and blending of
European and African cultures, is the focus for a new
exhibition in the museum's Point of View gallery,
which opened in 1993.

@ As part of its Living Artists series, the museum

hosted African American artist Renée Stout and

Gilbert Bobbo Ahiagble of Ghana. Stout presented a
gallery discussion of her work and a program for
children, while Ahiagble offered public weaving
demonstrations and workshops for adults, teachers,
and children.

¢@ An exhibition in the Point of View gallery—
“Elmina: Art and Trade on the West African

Coast” —explored the artistic developments set in
motion by the encounter between Europeans and the
Akan peoples beginning in the late 15th century.
Elmina, now in the nation of Ghana, was the site of
the first European trading post on the West African
coast. Among the works on view were unique gold
objects, appliqued and embroidered cloths, and brass

weights used in the gold trade.

National Museum of
American Art

Elizabeth Broun, Director

The National Museum of American Art is the na-
tion’s museum dedicated to the arts and artists of the
United States from colonial times to the present.
The museum’s principal goal is to provide collec-
tions and research resources that enable scholars and
the public to use and enjoy the American visual arts.
The museum, which includes the Renwick Gallery,
serves diverse audiences throughout the nation as
well as those who visit its two historic landmark
buildings in Washington, D.C. Outreach takes the
form of circulating exhibitions, educational materi-

als, publications, and automated research resources.

@ “American Art at the 1893 World’s Fair,” an exhi-
bition co-organized with the National Portrait
Gallery, presented 100 paintings and sculptures by
American artists shown at the Chicago fair and in-
cluded 20 works not seen publicly since 1893. The
exhibition was based on a five-year research project
and resulted in a major publication, Revisiting the
White City: American Art at the 1893 World's Fair,
which included essays and a catalogue of the Ameri-
can paintings and sculptures exhibited at the fair.
The project examined how Americans a century ago,
on the 4ooth anniversary of Columbus's crossing,
celebrated the historic voyage and how they viewed
their own rapidly changing world.

@ The Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of
American Art awarded its first biennial Patricia and
Phillip Frost Prize for Distinguished Scholarship in
American Crafts to the editors of Nebraska Quilts and
Quiltmakers (1992), published by the University of
Nebraska Press. The prize is awarded for an out-
standing published work that provides new insight
into the field of American crafts, including its his-
tory, theory, and noted artists. The $2,000 prize was
established in 1992 and funded by National Muse-
um of American Art donors Patricia and Phillip
Frost of Miami. The Renwick also encourages the
study of the modern craft movement through fellow-
ships for scholarly research.

@ At the Renwick, “American Wicker” was the first
museum exhibition of this subject, tracing the cul-
tural history of American woven furniture from

1850 to 1930. The project, based on three years of
research by Renwick curator Jeremy Adamson, ex-
plored the techniques, styles, and social history of
wicker. On view in period settings and illustrated in
the catalogue were chairs, tables, music stands, baby
carriages, and standing lamps reflecting a variety of
decorative styles.

¢@ The exhibition “American Impressions: Master-
works from American Art Forum Collections,
1875-1935" was selected from the impressive hold-
ings of the museum's supporting patrons’ group, the
American Art Forum. Among the works, seldom
seen publicly, were major paintings by Childe Has-
sam, Edward Hopper, Marsden Hartley, John Singer
Sargent, Walt Kuhn, and Georgia O'Keeffe.

¢ One of the nation’s finest concentrations of paint-
ings—22 works by 17 artists who were captivated
by New Mexico's dramatic landscape and native cul-
tures—was given to the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art by Arvin Gottlieb of Kansas City, Missouri,
who died in December 1992. Gottlieb was a mem-
ber of the museum’s American Art Forum. The exhi-
bition, “The Arvin Gottlieb Collection: Paintings
from the American Southwest,” opened in September.
¢ A new traveling exhibition, “Free Within Our-
selves: African American Art in the Collection of the
National Museum of American Art,” began a nation-
al tour to six museums from Connecticut to Califor-
nia. A testament to the contributions of black artists,
the exhibition includes 58 paintings, sculpture, and
works on paper by more than 30 internationally
renowned artists—among them Henry Ossawa
Tanner, Romare Bearden, William H. Johnson,
Elizabeth Catlett, and Sam Gilliam
lesser-known African American artists. The exhibi-
tion is based on a book of the same title published

by the museum and Pomegranate Artbooks.

as well as other

Abbott Handerson Thayer's
Angel (1889), exhibited
in Chicago at the 1893
World's Columbian Expost-

tion, appeared in a centen-

rsa as

nial exhibition sointly or-
ganized by the National
Museum of American Art
and the National Portrait
Gallery. (Collection of the
National Museum of

American Art)

National Museum of
American History

Spencer R. Crew, Acting Director

The National Museum of American History investi-
gates, collects, preserves, interprets, and honors the
nation’s heritage through original research, publica-
tions, exhibitions, and public programs that promote
understanding of the experiences and aspirations of
all the American people. Its collections of more than
17 million objects and the extensive holdings of its
Archives Center and the National Numismatic Col-
lection represent che social, cultural, scientific, and
technological development of the United States and
form one of the most comprehensive history collec-

tions in the world.

@ After 13 years at the museum's helm, Roger
Kennedy announced his retirement as director on
October 6, 1992. Smithsonian Secretary Robert
McC. Adams announced the appointments of
Deputy Director Spencer R. Crew as acting director
and Kennedy as director emeritus.

@ The museum's Education Division opened the
Hands On History Room, a popular 3,000-square-
foot space with more than 40 hands-on activities.
Museumgoers of all ages can find out what it is like

to harness a mule, pick cotton, build a sod house,

hal
Poignant and powerful
messages, farewells, trib-

utes, and salutes to men

and women who died in the

Vietnam War, left at the
Vietnam Veterans Memori-
al and collected and pre-
served by National Park
Service staff, went on dis-
play in October 1993 in
the National Museum of
American History exhibi-
tion “Personal Legacy: The
Healing of a Nation.”
(Photograph by Tracey
Eller)

48

send a message by telegraph, and make Spanish colo-
nial furniture

¢ The museum inaugurated the “History in the

News” exhibition venue with a case honoring the
life, work, and legacy of labor organizer Cesar
Chavez. This new forum makes possible a swift re-
sponse to current events and timely commemora-
tions of notable individuals

@ “Personal Legacy: The Healing of a Nation,” a

compelling exhibition organized by the Division of
Military History and the National Park Service to

mark the roth anniversary of the Vietnam Veterans

Memorial, drew thousands of visitors to see 500 ex-

amples of more than 25,000 mementos left at the

memorial by families, friends, and loved ones. Un-
adorned and unlabeled, the flags, dog tags, artificial
flowers, letters, stuffed animals, combat boots,
medals, and other artifacts collected and preserved
by National Park Service employees are eloquent tes-
timony to the price of war

@ “Beyond Category: The Musical Genius of Duke

HW VALESKO Jr * JAN
ERICK AAULMEYER + LUKE JAZLIN
LIAM P BENN + THOMAS A BE RG
BROOKS : NORMAN D ak
MCRUSIE Jr
TM FULLMER « FELTON RF UssabL
IE GOSCH + MICHAEL F GRISAFE Ir
D INGUILLO = TERRY LEE JENKINS
DMBOISE * DUANE H LANDWEHR \r
ARL D LYNCH « DENNIS | M ANSON
RY D MILLER + LARRY | NICHOLSON
ROY LRAMEY « JOHN D RHODES Il
ALD LSTORBO + VICTOR BSUTT ON
ODTENBIER + RIC HARD P VALADEZ
IN RAMBROGI « JOHN C ARK a
IK L BENISHEK * JOHN M BLAG RD
ALD W BUNN * PHILLIP D BURFOOT
CLAYBURN * SAML tt € c COPE AND
EDERIC H DAVE
RT R CATHERMAN
IAG *CURTE
SAWATOR
PHEN EL

+ PAULA REZENDES
+ SOLOMON £ THOMPSON

* LUTHER M CHAPPELL HARGULL
DAVID B COLE
ORGE k DOW

ED

ALL W RICH KL
pemet UGENE KWAI
BAC) A GILBERT R BARC

Ellington,” an exhibition that will tour the nation
through the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service, opened on April 29, the 94th an-
niversary of Ellington’s birth. It celebrates the
achievements of one of America’s greatest composers,
musicians, and innovators using memorabilia, musi-
cal instruments, posters, original photographs, vin-
tage film clips, and musical manuscripts from the
museum's Duke Ellington Collection.

¢ “The Past as Memory and Model: Honoring the
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, "orga-
nized by Richard Ahlborn of the Division of Com-
munity Life with guest curator Grace Cohen Gross-
man of the Skirball Museum of Judaica in Los
Angeles, opened in April 1993. The exhibition
demonstrated continuity and survival in Jewish
culture through the display of European artifacts
that established the Smithsonian Institution Judaica
Collection before 1890.

@ Project teams at the museum and the National
Air and Space Museum are organizing “The Smith-
sonian’s America: An Exhibition on American Histo-
ry and Culture,” which will travel to
Japan for the American Festival ‘94 in
+ THOMAS | BRA

+ PREDERIC D BL
(YONAL

July and August 1994 and offer Japan-
ese visitors a wide-ranging depiction

KING Jr RO
HLNRY |

of the American experience. The festi-

WILLIAy val—organized by NHK, the Japan

Broadcasting Corporation; Yomiuri
Shimbun; and MICO (Media Interna-
tional Corporation)—will commemo-
rate the 140th anniversary of the
Treaty of Kanagawa and the origins of
friendship between Japan and the
United States.

@ The National Postal Museum
opened to the public on July 30 as a
branch of the National Museum of
American History. The new museum
houses and displays the national phi-
latelic and postal history collection,
the largest and most comprehensive of
its kind in the world. Five exhibit gal-
leries tell the story of U.S. postal his-
tory, while more than 40 audiovisual
areas, interactive exhibits, and a Dis-
covery Center provide an exploratory,
participatory experience for visitors of
all ages. The museum's 40,000-volume
Library Research Center is the world’s
largest philatelic and postal history re-

search facility.
National Museum of the
American Indian

W. Richard West, Jr., Director

The National Museum of the American Indian is an
institution of living culture dedicated to the preser-
vation, study, and exhibition of the life, languages,
literature, history, and arts of the native peoples of
the Western Hemisphere. Its formal mission 1s to
recognize and affirm to native communities and to
the non-native public the historical and contempo-
rary culture and cultural achievements of the natives

in con-

of the Western Hemisphere by advancing
sultation, collaboration, and cooperation with na-
tives—knowledge and understanding of native cul-
tures. The museum has a special responsibility,
through innovative public programming, research,
and collections, to protect, support, and enhance the
development, maintenance, and perpetuation of

native cultures and communities.

¢ “Pathways of Tradition: Indian Insights into Indi-
an Worlds,” the museum’s first exhibition in the
Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House in New
York City, drew 35,000 visitors in the two and one-
half months it was on view. From November 15,
1992, to January 24, 1993, the temporary exhibition
offered the public a sampling of the one million ob-
jects in the museum’s collection and a preview of
what to expect when the George Gustav Heye Cen-
ter opens permanently in the Custom House on Oc-
tober 30, 1994.

¢ The museum staff continued research and devel-
opment of four inaugural exhibitions for the center.

“Celebrations” will culminate more than two years of

research and collaboration by a diverse group of
artists who will present their views and concepts of
creation, the importance of sacred places and objects,
and the effects on the Indian universe of conflicts
with Euroamerican beliefs and cultures. “Treasures”
will present 240 major objects, dating from 2000
B.C. to the present, selected by the curatorial staff for
their beauty, rarity, and historical significance, their
artistic achievement, and their embodiment of di-
verse cultures. “All Roads Are Good” will feature
260 objects selected by indigenous peoples. Twenty-
three selectors have identified the objects and record-
ed personal statements and perspectives that will
form the exhibition text. An orientation exhibition
will describe the history of the Delaware, or Lenni
Lenape, the first inhabitants of Manhattan Island;
the mission of the museum; the architecture of the
Custom House; and other points of interest in lower
Manhattan.

@ On February 19, 1993, the Smithsonian an-
nounced the selection of the firm of Geddes Brecher
Qualls Cunningham of Philadelphia in association
with Douglas Cardinal Architect Ltd. of Ottawa,
Ontario, Canada, to design the museum on the Na-
tional Mall. Cardinal, a Blackfoot Indian who de-
signed the Canadian Museum of Civilization in
Hull, Quebec, will be the principal designer.

¢ Consultations with Indian communities continued
in 1993, bringing to 22 the number of consultation
meetings held since 1990.

@ The Native American Dance Book, the first publica-
tion of the NMAI Office of Publications, won the
Golden Ink Award competition's Silver Award in all
categories, including design, printing, and editorial.
The book and the museum’s press kit, general
brochure, and stationery system won several graphics
awards during the year.

@ On July 17, the repatriation of nine Kwakiutl
potlatch objects from the National Museum of the
American Indian was marked by a celebration at the
Mungo Martin Big House, Thunderbird Park, Victo-

ria, British Columbia, Canada.

National Portrait Gallery

Alan Fern, Director

The National Portrait Gallery (NPG) is dedicated to
the exhibition and study of portraits of people who
have made significant contributions to American his-

tory and culture and to the study of the artists who

“We will always remember
who we are as long as we
keep dancing” 15 a
Cheyenne saying that W.
Richard West, Jr. (right),
director of the National
Museum of the American
Indian, 1s fond of quoting.
West danced with his fa-
ther, W. Richard West, Sr.,
80, other family members,
and Indians from more
than 30 tribes at the pow-
wow for the opening of
“Pathways of Tradition:
Indian Insights into Indian
Worlds” at the Alexander
Hamilton U.S. Custom
House in New York City,

future home of the museum's

George Gustav Heye Cen-
ter. (Photograph by Pamela
Dewey)

les

This modest-seeming print,

a gift of Robert L. McNeil,

J", is a dramatic new dis-
covery for the National
Portrait Gallery: Charles
Willson Peale’s long-lost
1778 mezzotint of George
Washington, previously
known to scholars and col-
lectors only through Peale’s
diaries and notebooks
(Photograph by Rolland
White)

50

created such portraiture. The gallery sponsors a vari-
ety of scholarly and public activities for audiences in-

terested in American art and American history.

¢ The gallery received a portrait of Arthur Ashe
painted by Louis Briel just before Ashe’s death. The
portrait was a gift from the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia and Virginia Heroes, Inc. Other gifts were por-
traits of Senator J. William Fulbright by Gretta
Bader and General Jonathan Wainwright by An-
tonin Sterba. Purchases included paintings of Paul
Laurence Dunbar, Joseph Jefferson, Rabbi Samuel
Isaacs, M.F.K. Fisher, and Eliot Porter (by Fairfield
Porter).

¢ Major purchases by the Department of Prints in-
cluded the 1710 mezzotint of Iroquois chief Tee Yee
Neen Ho Ga Row; Marius De Zayas’s charcoal draw-
ing of electrical inventor Nikola Tesla; Amos Doolit-
tle’s 1791 political print of George Washington enti-
tled Display of the United States of America; and 1
caricature portraits by Paolo Garretto. Gifts to the
department included a charcoal drawing of Paul
Haviland by Marius De Zayas and a large group of
works by the caricaturist Al Frueh. Through the

generosity of Robert L. McNeil, Jr., the gallery pur-

chased a newly discovered, unique 1778 mezzotint of

George Washington by Charles Willson Peale.

¢ The gallery acquired photographic portraits of
Native American potters Maria and Julian Martinez
and of Lorraine Hansberry, James Meredith, Willie
Mays, Mary McCarthy, and James Thrall Soby. The
gallery also acquired self-portraits by photographers
Imogen Cunningham, Ralph Steiner, Lotte Jacobi,
Beaumont Newhall, and Richard Avedon and a 16-
part Polaroid self-portrait by Chuck Close.

¢ Among special exhibitions this year was “In Pur-
suit of Fame: Rembrandt Peale, 1778-1860,” a
major exhibition on the life and art of the American
portraitist. Two simultaneous exhibitions—*The
Telling Image: Portrait Photographs from the
Archives of American Arc” and “The Family 1976:
Richard Avedon’s Portraits for Ro//ing Stone” —ex-
plored the photographic medium from very different
perspectives. “American Art at the 1893 World’s
Fair,” celebrating the tooth anniversary of the
World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, was co-
organized with the National Museum of American
Art. The gallery also showed portraits by Washing-
ton artist Marcella Comés Winslow and self-portraits
made in the 1970s and 1980s from the collection of
Washington, D.C., historian James Goode.

@ The exhibition catalogue In Pursuit of Fame: Rem-

brandt Peale, 1778-1860 was published in coopera-

— pee 2 ‘2
Wis Srcelleney fen Vafhing lon |

tion with the University of Washington Press. Revis-
iting the White City: American Art at the 1893 World's
Fair, created with the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art, was published by the University Press of
New England, supported by the Elizabeth EF. Cheney
Foundation. The Portrait in Eighteenth-Century Ameri-
ca was published for NPG by the University of
Delaware Press. A small catalogue for the James
Goode collection exhibition was supported by the
Marpat Foundation.

Cultures in Motion featured “A Conversation with
Thomas Jefferson and His Slave, Betty Hemings,”
“Happy Birthday, Dear Todd” (for Todd Duncan’s
goth birthday), “Women at an Exposition,” and
“Coming into Passion: Song for a Sansei.”

The gallery received two grants from the James
Smithson Society. One enabled the purchases of Red
Grooms'’s witty and evocative paper sculpture of
painter Willem de Kooning, De Kooning Breaks
Through, and a rare theatrical mask of Myrna Loy by
W. T. Benda. The other allowed the Catalog of
American Portraits to complete its survey of por-
traits in the state of Hawai. A substantial grant
from the Annenberg Foundation underwrote in part
the expenses of the exhibition and catalogue “In Pur-

suit of Fame: Rembrandt Peale, 1778-1860.”

Office of Exhibits Central

John Coppola, Director

The Office of Exhibits Central (OEC) provides
Smithsonian museums, galleries, and exhibitors with
expertise in the creation of permanent, temporary,
and traveling exhibitions, from concept to crating.
The office's services include thematic development,
writing, editing, design, prototyping, graphics pro-
duction, matting and framing, fabrication, model
making, artifact mounting, artifact reproduction,
gallery installation, and packing.

In the past year, OEC’s principal clients were the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES), the International Gallery, the Center for
Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies, the National
Museum of the American Indian, the National Mu-
seum of Natural History, and the National Postal

Museum.

¢ Among the exhibitions that OEC prepared for
SITES were “No Laughing Matter,” “Lincoln and
His Contemporaries,” “Songs of My People,” “The
Kids Bridge,” “The Realm of the Coin,” “Produce
for Victory,” “Major League/Minor League,” “Two
Eagles/Dos Aguilas,” “Before Freedom Came,” and
“Harlem Photographs by Aaron Siskind.”

@ OEC designed, produced, and installed “Imperial
Austria” and “The Power of Maps” for the Interna-
tional Gallery, installed “The Kids Bridge” for the
Experimental Gallery, and produced the graphics for
the Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Scud-
ies “U.S.-Mexico Borderlands” program at the 1993
Festival of American Folklife. For the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian, the office designed
and installed “Shared Visions” in the International
Gallery and edited the script and constructed
pedestals for the exhibition “Pathways of Tradition”
at the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House in
New York City. The office helped construct the O.
Orkin Insect Zoo at the National Museum of Natur-
al History and designed, edited, and produced the

museum's traveling exhibition “Crossroads Alaska.”

@ For the new National Postal Museum, OEC made
models, mannequins, and a complete railroad car for

the permanent installation.

Office of Museum Programs

Rex M. Ellis, Director

The Office of Museum Programs strengthens muse-
um services to diverse publics with information, as-
sistance, and scholarship in museum practices.
Through its programs and services, the office links
people, places, and institutions in ways that encour-
age dialogue, debate, and, ultimately, common

ground.

@ The office expanded information services to muse-

ums with the publication of a new quarterly journal,

the OMP Bulletin, which highlights current research

in museum topics and shares what is learned from

office programs. Working with the Smithsonian In-

stitution Libraries, the office is developing an on-line

database of museology thesis and dissertation topics

that will be added to the SIBIS bibliographic data-

base.

¢ The museum community received continued assis-

tance and training from the office through the Amer-

ican Indian Museum Studies program, which spon-

sored courses for American Indian tribal museums

and internships at the Smithsonian; through work-

shops for Smithsonian staff on exhibition planning

and development; and through the Awards for Muse-

um Leadership program, an annual management

seminar for people of color working in museums.

Consultation services

to Museums were ex-

panded this year

with assistance given

to the American As-

sociation of Muse-

ums, Anacostia Mu-

Senator Ted Stevens (D-
Alaska) reviews “Cross-
roads Alaska” with curator

seum, Arkansas
Territorial Restora-

tion, the Arkansas é é
Valerie Chaussonnet and

model shop supervisor Ben-
jamin Snouffer. The Office
of Exhibits Central de-
signed and produced the ex-

town of Blytheville,
Colonial Williams-
burg, Fort Wayne
(Indiana) Museum of
Art, National Park

Service, Puerto

hibition for travel through-
out Alaska. (Photograph

Rican Preservation by Richard Strauss)

[5%

“Beyond Category: The
Musical Genius of Duke
Ellington,” a joint travel-
ing exhibition of the Smith-
sonian Institution Travel-
ing Exhibition Service and
the National Museum of
American History, cele-
brates the achievements of
one of America’s greatest
composers, musicians, and
innovators. Pictured here in
ta. 1945-46 15 Duke
Ellington in his hometown
of Washington, D.C., with
Harry Duke in front of
Duke's record store, the
Quality Music Company.
(Courtesy Frank Driggs
Collection)

Trust, and Shadows-on-the-Teche, a historic house
museum in New Iberia, Louisiana.

¢ The office’s Fellowships in Museum Practice Pro-
gram sponsored four museum scholars at the Smith-
sonian during the year. Research topics ranged from
family learning in museums to collection manage-
ment policies

¢ This year the office hosted more than 700 Smith-
sonian interns at orientation and registration sessions
and provided career counseling and other programs

for interns.

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

Anna R. Cohn, Director

Since 1952, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service (SITES) has been sharing the
wealth of the Smithsonian's collections, research, and
exhibitions with audiences around the world. Each
year, millions of people beyond Washington, D.C.,
experience the treasures and opportunities of the
National Mall by visiting SITES exhibitions on view
in local museums, libraries, science centers, histori-

cal soc 1e€CieS, ZOOS, aquariums, Community centers,

and schools.

¢ In April, SITES and the National Museum of
American History opened “Beyond Category: The
Musical Genius of Duke Ellington,” the first exhibi-
tion in a 10-year series of jazz exhibitions, research

projects, and public programming called “America’s

Jazz Heritage, A Partnership of the Lila Wallace—

Reader’s Digest Fund and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion.” “Beyond Category” is traveling nationwide
under the care of SITES through mid-1996.

¢ SITES exhibitions continue to celebrate the many
voices of America’s multicultural society. “Africa's
Legacy in Mexico: Photographs by Tony Gleaton”
includes photographs of the little-known experience
of people of African descent living in present-day
Mexico. “Saynday was coming along . . . Silverhorn’s
Drawings of the Kiowa Trickster,” a joint project of
SITES and the National Museum of Natural History,
is the first exhibition organized with the collabora-
tion of the Kiowa community in Oklahoma and the
first to feature this important American Indian
artist's work. “The Kids Bridge,” organized by the
Children’s Museum in Boston, teaches children of all
races to value themselves and others.

@ Preparatory workshops play an integral role in
SITES outreach services. These workshops bring to-
gether curators, educators, content advisers, and
representatives from host museums to discuss critical
issues such as accessibility, exhibition themes and
content, and creative public programming. This
year, SITES held preparatory workshops
for “More Than Meets the Eye,” an exhi-
bition offering sighted audiences a new
awareness of how the blind and visually
impaired “see” their world; “Songs of My
People,” photographs documenting
African Americans in the early 1990s; and
“Strength and Diversity: Japanese Ameri-
can Women, 1885—1990,” an exhibition
chronicling the lives of four generations.

¢ The profound impact of SITES and the
Smithsonian on cultural life in small
communities was exemplified in the
April celebration at the Dane G. Hansen
Memorial Museum in Logan, Kansas
(population 680). The celebration—
which marked the museum’s 20th an-
niversary and the occasion of its 100th
SITES exhibition, “Perpetual Campaign:
The Making of the People’s President’ —
was typical of the ongoing support and
enthusiasm SITES generates in small mu-

seums and their communities.
EDUCATION AND
PUBLIC SERVICE

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Education and Public Service

James C. Early, Assistant Secretary

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education
and Public Service advises the secretary and the
under secretary on policy matters related to public
education, cultural equity, and wider audience initia-
tives. The office and the units it oversees disseminate
information on the Smithsonian to national and in-
ternational audiences, collaborate with elementary
and secondary schools and educational associations,
and engage in applied research and documentation of
living cultures. The office also provides policy guid-
ance and programmatic assistance to help strengthen
the Institution's general program of cultural
diversity.

# On August 30, the office published the Smith-
sonian Education Policy Statement, which establish-
es a common vision for education at the Smith-
sonian. The document is the culmination of a year of
extensive discussions involving every office and bu-
reau with educational responsibilities.

¢ To stimulate Institution-wide collaboration on ed-
ucation, the office organized several projects, includ-
ing a Town Meeting on Education; a science educa-
tion forum for educators and scholars representing
all Smithsonian science facilities; and an internship
briefing for minority students in the Washington,
D.C., area.

¢ Educational Outreach grants were awarded to
teacher enrichment projects; curriculum develop-
ment projects that match school systems’ needs with
the Smithsonian’s disciplinary and subject-matter

resources; projects that underscore collaboration

between museums and educational institutions; and
educational projects for “at-risk” socioeconomic
groups.

@ The Smithsonian’s Cultural Education Committee
continued to promote the employment of culturally
diverse staff throughout the Institution, with em-
phasis this year on the Office of Fellowships and

Grants and Smzthsonian magazine.

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

Richard Kurin, Director

The Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Stud-
les promotes continuity, integrity, and equity for tra-
ditional ethnic, tribal, regional, minority, and work-
ing-class cultures in the United States and abroad

through a variety of cultural conservation and repre-
sentation activities. Staff folklorists, cultural anthro-

pologists, and ethnomusicologists research the ex-

pressive traditions of American and worldwide grass-

roots Cultures. They publish and present their work
to scholarly and public audiences through the Festi-
val of American Folklife, Smithsonian/Folkways
Recordings, the Folklife Studies monograph-film
series, Cultural education programs, and the Folk-
life/Folkways Archives.

@ The 27th annual Festival of American Folklife
featured four programs. “U.S.-Mexico Borderlands”
presented the cultural creativity of people who live
on the border; “American Social Dance” offered audi-

ence participation in Appalachian, Iroquois, Cambo-

A Town Meeting on Edu-
cation for Smithsonian staff
featured Amina Dickerson,
director of education and
public programs, Chicago
Historical Society, as guest
speaker and Robert Sulli-
van, associate director of
public programs, National
Museum of Natural Histo-
ry, as one of several Smith-
sonian representatives. The
event Was sponsored by the
Smithsonian Council of
Bureau Directors. (Photo-
graph by Richard Strauss)

America’s Reunion on the
Mall attracted some
600,000 wisitors during
the 1993 presidential in-
augural festivities. The
Center for Folklife Pro-
grams and Cultural Stud-
ies helped define, program,
and produce the event and
coordinated the traditional
crafts and performance pre-
Sentations. (Photograph by
Carl Hansen)
Second-graders from Ami-
don Elementary School in
Washington, D.C., explore

a fulcerum’s function in the

“Balancing and Weighing”
unit of the National Science

Resources Center's Science
and Technology for Chil-
dren elementary science cur-
riculum progect. (Photo-
graph by Eric Long)

54

dian, Bolivian, and African American dance; “Kids’
Scuff” gave children an opportunity to take part in
urban children’s games and traditions; and “Metro
Music” highlighted performances by diverse groups
from the Washington, D.C., area.

¢ The center worked closely with the Presidential
Inaugural Committee and Festival Productions, Inc.,
to define, program, and produce America’s Reunion
on the Mall during the presidential inauguration.
The center coordinated all the traditional crafts and
performance presentations for the events on the Mall
and in the National Museum of American History,
National Museum of Natural History, Anacostia
Museum, and Ripley Center. The inaugural festival
attracted some 600,000 visitors.

¢@ Echnomusicologists and archivists from around

the world attended the conference, “New Directions

in the Collection, Preservation, and Dissemination of

Music and Dance,” funded by the Ford Foundation
and co-hosted by the Library of Congress American
Folklife Center

@ The Folklife/Folkways Archives continued to ac-
quire important documentation, including a collec-
tion of original field tapes of Frederick Ramsey, Jr.'s,
work with African American communities in the
South, the first-generation tapes of Leadbelly’s last
sessions, and a large collection of filmmaker Jim

Brown's footage.

National Science
Resources Center

Douglas Lapp, Executive Director

The National Science Resources Center (NSRC) is
operated by the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Academy of Sciences to help improve the
teaching of science in the nation’s schools. The
NSRC collects and disseminates information about
exemplary science teaching resources, develops inno-
vative science curriculum materials, and sponsors
outreach and technical assistance activities to help
school districts develop and sustain hands-on science
programs.

In the past year, the NSRC continued to expand
involvement of scientists and engineers, community
organizations, and teachers and school system offi-
cials through its National Science Education Leader-
ship initiative (NSEL) and its Science and Technolo-

gy for Children curriculum development project.

@ Under NSEL, the center held a second Working
Conference for Scientists and Engineers on Science
Education in the Schools at the University of Califor-
nia at San Francisco. The 38 participants observed
hands-on science teaching in public school class-
rooms and discussed science education reform issues
with national leaders in the field.

¢ As another part of NSEL, the center conducted
two National Elementary Science Leadership Insti-
tutes for 34 teams from school districts across the
nation. Since 1989, 105 teams from districts serving
more than 2 million elementary school children have
participated in these week-long institutes.

¢ Also under NSEL, the center began the revision of
its popular guide to exemplary curriculum materials
and sources of support for hands-on science teaching,
Science for Children: Resources for Teachers.

¢ Progress continued in the NSRC’s Science and
Technology for Children elementary science curricu-
lum development project. Fourteen of the 24
planned science curriculum units for grades one
through six are now available. Units field-tested last
spring included Organisms, a first-grade life science

unit, and Balancing and Weighing, a physical science

unit for the second grade.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

Ann Bay, Director

As the Smithsonian Institution’s central office for
precollege education, the Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education draws on resources from
throughout the Institution to create materials and
programs for teachers and students in the Washing-
ton, D.C., area and nationwide. The office also serves

as a clearinghouse about Smithsonian educational
materials and programs and encourages communica-
tion and collaboration among Smithsonian education
units and between those units and outside educa-
tional organizations.

An important goal of the office is to educate
young people and their teachers about the value of
museums and related institutions as learning re-
sources. These efforts, which involve collaboration
with schools, school systems, universities, and other
museums, reach thousands of teachers and millions
of students each year. The office carries out program-
ming in four categories: professional development
for teachers, curriculum materials for schools, pro-
grams and materials for children and teenagers, and
clearinghouse services.
¢ A pilot program with the National Faculty for the
Humanities, Arts, and Sciences extends the office's
work in developing new models for museum-school
collaborations. Working with schools and museums
in Atlanta, Seattle, St. Paul, and Washington, D.C.,
the program helps teachers explore ways to use mate-
rial culture across the curriculum and from a multi-

cultural perspective.

soy

@ The second edition of the Smithsonian Resource
Guide for Teachers was published and distributed to
schools across the country. This expanded and revised
edition lists more than 400 books, bibliographies,
guides, recordings, and posters. In addition to print-
ing almost 50,000 copies, the office published the
guide electronically as part of a year-long pilot pro-
ject with a commercial computer network.

@ The office, several museums, the Smithsonian En-
vironmental Research Center, and the National Zoo
joined with the District of Columbia Public Schools
to test a summer school program for first- through
sixth-graders. The office designed the curriculum
and coordinated the pilot program, which engaged
135 children in lessons based on exhibits and re-

search projects.

Wider Audience
Development Program

Marshall J. Wong, Director

The Wider Audience Development Program
(WADP) assists efforts to strengthen the Institution's
interaction with culturally diverse communities.
Examples of WADP’s work include coordinating
pan-institutional observances of federally designated
ethnic and women’s heritage commemorations, orga-
nizing periodic forums for Smithsonian staff on is-
sues relating to cultural pluralism, and collecting
and analyzing data on audiences. The Wider Audi-
ence Development Program also provides operational
support to the Smithsonian Cultural Education
Committee, a board of private citizens that advises
Smithsonian management on issues of cultural plu-
ralism in education and hiring.

@ WADP coordinated more than 20 public pro-
grams, including lectures, concerts, films, and the-
ater productions, on themes of significance to women
and communities of color. Highlights included an
address by Navajo Nation President Peterson Zah on
environmental issues facing indigenous people and a
lecture by University of California at Berkeley pro-
fessor Elaine Kim on the tensions between feminism
and nationalism among Asian American women.

¢ The office also coordinated the Smithsonian's pres-
ence at meetings of several ethnic studies associa-
tions to provide information about Smithsonian em-
ployment, traveling exhibitions, and research

opportunities.

(Above) In celebration of
Asian Pacific American

Heritage Month, a member
of the Hara Sho Kai
Bugaku Association of
Ashiya, Japan, performed
a traditional Japanese
court dance from the Heian
period. (Photograph by
Shoko Hara)

(Left) Geovani Cuevas, an
Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education sum-
mer high school intern,
works in the Enid A.
Haupt Garden, where he
learns firsthand about the
work of the Horticulture
Services Division. (Photo-
graph by David Kwan,
high school intern, Office of
Printing and Photographic
Services)

|>>|
During her visit to the
Smithsonian in April,
Crown Princess Maha
Chakri Sirindhorn of
Thailand (right) presents a
gift to Francine Berkowitz,
director of the Office of In-

ternational Relations.

DOTA RENVA I, JA TRIE THRES

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for External Affairs

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary

The Smithsonian's response to the needs and con-
cerns of its many constituencies is the primary re-
sponsibility of the Office of the Assistant Secretary
for External Affairs. The office frames the Institu-
tion’s goals and impact beyond the National Mall by
supervising its Component units, using print and
electronic media effectively, hosting diplomatic
events and events in honor of friends of the Institu-
tion, and addressing the Smithsonian's role in na-
tional and international affairs.

@ Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt asked Assistant
Secretary Thomas E. Lovejoy to help coordinate the
establishment of a national biological survey. During
his six-month assignment, Lovejoy worked to con-
solidate the biological research of several different
government agencies into a comprehensive, accessi-
ble database. This information will allow develop-
ment decisions to be grounded in sound scientific
research.

¢@ The office launched the planning for the Smith-
sonian’s 150th anniversary, to be celebrated in 1996.
Deputy Assistant Secretary Marc Pachter heads the
steering committee for the Institution-wide cele-
bration.

# The Smithsonian Council was transferred to the
office's jurisdiction in the fall of 1992. The council is
the major advisory body to the secretary on intellec-
tual, programmatic, and educational matters affect-
ing the entire Institution.

@ The office assumed responsibility for the activities
of the Smithsonian representative in Japan, Mrs.

Hanako Matano. Particularly important this year

was support for negotiations with NHK (Japan pub-

lic television) and the Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper
group to ensure the creation of an exhibit for the
American Festival ‘94 near Tokyo. The National
Museum of American History will produce the ex-
hibit “The Smithsonian's America” in cooperation

with the National Air and Space Museum.

Office of International Relations

Francine C. Berkowitz, Director

The Office of International Relations (OIR) provides
technical assistance and diplomatic support for
Smithsonian programs abroad. It serves as the link
between the Smithsonian and foreign institutions or
individuals as well as international organizations and
government agencies. OIR assists with the details of
international exchanges of museum objects and staff
and administers two funding programs to encourage
international cooperation in scholarly research and

museum programs.

¢ The office coordinated more than 75 official gov-
ernment visits to the Smithsonian during 1993, in-
cluding Crown Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn of
Thailand, Egyptian First Lady Mrs. Hosni Mubarak,
Sri Sultan Hamengku Buwono of Indonesia’s Yogya-
karta Province, and delegations from the Mongolian
Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Ministry of
Culture.

¢@ OIR provided international coordination for a
consortium of organizations from 11 Latin American
countries that developed an exhibition on the rain-
forests of the Americas. During 1993, the exhibition
opened in 20 Latin American cities and at the Na-
tional Zoo.

During the year, the office provided visa docu-
mentation for almost 170 foreign researchers and in-
terns working at Smithsonian museums and other
U.S. institutions.

¢ Among the conferences, meetings, and briefings
OIR organized for international groups were a week-
long seminar for Fulbright scholars from the Ama-
zon Basin in the Latin American Scholars Program at
American Universities; an all-day briefing on the
Smithsonian for the Ibero-American Cultural At-
tachés Association, which includes representatives of
Washington diplomatic missions of Spain, Portugal,
and 19 Latin American countries; and an interna-
tional conference on ex situ conservation organized
jointly with the U.S. Agency for International De-

velopment.
Office of Special Events
and Conferences

Katherine Kirlin, Acting Director

The Office of Special Events and Conferences (OSEC)
organizes events and conferences throughout the In-
stitution that contribute to developing and main-
taining important current and potential constituen-
cies. In 1993, the office coordinated activities with
Smithsonian bureaus, with corporations, and with
organizations whose missions coincide with those of
the Institution. Each year the office handles all
arrangements for Smithsonian Board of Regents and
Smithsonian Council meetings. The office also helps
Smithsonian scholars and managers plan and coordi-
nate conferences, international symposia, and collab-
orative programs.

¢ In October 1992, OSEC worked with staff from
the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery
of Art to present a symposium, “Art, Technology,
and Society in Ancient Japan.”

# In March 1993, the office helped the Program in
African American Culture in the National Museum
of American History coordinate a conference, “We'll
Understand It Better By and By: A National Confer-
ence on African American Gospel Music Scholarship
in Tribute to Pearl Williams-Jones.”

@ Other collaborative programs that OSEC coordi-
nated in 1993 included a workshop to plan educa-
tional components for the exhibition “Ocean Planet,”
sponsored by the Environmental Awareness Pro-
gram, and the conference “CO, Effects on Ecosys-
tems,” sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for External Affairs.

¢ OSEC also coordinated the National Science Re-

sources Center Presidential Awards Ceremony.

Office of Telecommunications

Paul B. Johnson, Director

The Office of Telecommunications (OTC) manages
the development and creation of video, film, audio,
and multimedia programs relating to the Smith-
sonian. These programs share the Institution with
audiences in the United States and abroad through
television and radio broadcasts and through distribu-
tion to home and educational markets by the latest
technologies. The office also provides media plan-

ning and production services to Smithsonian units

@ As part of the Institution’s commitment to the
study and dissemination of jazz, OTC created several
programs, with more to follow. For the National
Museum of American History—Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service exhibition “Be-
yond Category: The Musical Genius of Duke Elling-
ton,” OTC produced a short documentary and an
interactive video package. OTC’s Radio Smithsonian
produced a new national series, “Jazz Smithsonian,”
featuring the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orches-
tra in concert.

@ OTC and The Smithsonian Associates began ex-
ploring a Smithsonian Campus on the Air, envi-
sioned as a “museum without walls” for the 21st
century. This major new venture will carry Smith-
sonian programs and courses to viewers around the
world using cable, videocassette, satellite, and inter-
active disc.

¢ Filming began for two of the three Sthsonian
Expedition Specials being produced by Hearst Enter-
tainment in coordination with OTC for broadcast in
fiscal year 1994 on the Arts and Entertainment cable
network. One program looks at “The Elephants of
Timbuktu,” and the other focuses on Paul Taylor

of the National Museum of Natural History as he
studies the isolated Korowai people of Irian Jaya,
Indonesia.

¢ The office continued to develop new programs in
ongoing projects. Two compact disc—interactive
(CD-I) programs, The Downhome Blues and The Up-
town Blues, were the latest in a series produced with

Philips Interactive Media of America. Radio Smith-

sonian broadcast the second season of the award-win-

ning Folk Masters series, and the third season's pro-
grams were recorded live at the Barns of Wolf Trap,

to be aired beginning in January 1994.

Now in its third season,
Radio Smithsonian's Folk

Masters concert series is

recorded before a live audt-
ence at the Barns of Wolf
Trap and broadcast nation-
wide by American Public
Radio. Featured here are
the Texas Playboys and the
Sun Rhythm Section in a
rousing performance. (Pho-

tograph by Jeff Tinsley)

I

Cuban-born Celia Cruz
performed on the Washing-
ton Monument Grounds for
Hispanic Heritage Month
ma free concert sponsored by
the Resident Associates

Program.

Queen Bess, presenting

the brief but intense life of
America’s first African
American woman aviator,
has brought international
attention to the Smithsonian
Institution Press and its
diverse list of scholarly and
trade publications.

58

The Smithsonian Associates

John EF. Jameson, Acting Director

This was a year of transition, as the National and
Resident Associate programs merged into one orga-
nization—The Smithsonian Associates. With strong
support from the programs’ staffs and guidance from
within and outside the Smithsonian, the Associates
developed recommendations to achieve and sustain a
successful consolidation. The search began for a di-
rector for the combined organization. With increas-
ing evidence of collaboration, the two programs
maintained their separate membership and program-

ming activities during the year.

¢ Almost 20,000 participants atcended Campus on
the Mall courses. Courses with enrollments exceed-
ing 400 included “The American Musical Theater,”
featuring leading composers, lyricists, performers,
and directors; “Discovering Ireland,” in collaboration
with the Embassy of Ireland; “The Magic of Shake-
speare: Spotlight on Hamlet,” cosponsored with the
Shakespeare Theatre; and “Voices of the Game,” with
legendary baseball broadcasters reflecting on great
moments in America’s national pastime.

@ In its 15th season of live theater for young audi-
ences, Discovery Theater earned the 1993 Pup-
peteers of America Award and attracted more than
73,000 people to its performances. A highlight was
an original production of Unto These Shores, a story of
immigrants to this country.

@ More than 67,000 Resident Associates and others
from the Washington metropolitan area heard lec-
tures and performances by eminent scholars, authors,
and artists, including Nobel Prize-winning physi-
cists Leon Lederman and Steven Weinberg, leg-
endary jazz violinist Stephane Grappelli, paleontolo-
gist John Horner, and authors Tony Hillerman,
Annie Dillard, and Marian Wright Edelman.

¢ Contributions from the Contributing Membership
reached $8.5 million, a 6 percent increase over last
year. The total number of Contributing Membership
households reached 75,000 for the first time, also
reflecting a 6 percent growth. Membership in the
Young Benefactors grew to 2,280, a 9 percent in-
crease.

@ Eleven Smithsonian projects received James
Smithson Society grants totaling $328,000. An
additional $100,000 in Smithson Society funds was
allocated to the Institution’s special CARE (collec-
tions, acquisition, research, and education) funds.

@ The Smithsonian Associates kicked off a year-
long, 10-city series of events in California focusing
on cultural diversity. Statewide partners are Wells
Fargo Bank and the California Council for the Hu-
manities.

@ In 1993, The Smithsonian Associates offered 275
study tours and seminars across the United States
and throughout the world for 7,675 participants, a
slight increase over 1992. A new series, “Accessible
Adventures,” was designed to integrate people with
and without disabilities in wilderness learning expe-
riences. Groups traveled by canoe on the Missouri
River in Montana and through the Boundary Waters

of Minnesota.

Smithsonian Institution Press
Felix C. Lowe, Director
As the Institution’s publisher, with an audience that

includes the scholarly community, The Smithsonian

Associates, and the general public, the Smithsonian

Institution Press produces scholarly books, trade
books, recordings, and videos, as well as Smithsonian
Year and Annals of the Smithsonian. Publications of
the press’s five divisions are sold through a commis-
sioned retail sales force, direct mail, and copublish-
ing agreements. In addition, certain titles are dis-
tributed free to Depository Libraries and the

international academic community.

¢@ Smithsonian University Press featured Doris
Rich’s biography of Bessie Coleman, Queen Bess:
Daredevil Aviator, at the American Booksellers Asso-
ciation meeting. Cowrierspeak: A Phrase Book for
Couriers of Museum Objects, by Cordelia Rose, an illus-
trated script and phrase book in English, French,
German, Japanese, Russian, and Spanish, was hailed
as a publishing masterwork by the American Associ-
ation of Museums and the trade.

¢ Smithsonian Book Development copublished B/we
Planet with Harcourt Brace Jovanovich and Somer-
ville House Books. Aimed at young readers, the
book explores the science behind the “fragile planet”
theme of the film by the same name. The develop-
ment division also undertook five-year revisions of
the individual museum guides.

¢ Smithsonian Collection of Recordings released
three major collections, including The Blues: A
Smithsonian Collection of the Blues Singers, produced
with the Ozark Folk Center.

¢@ Smithsonian Books published Frontiers of Flight,
by Jeff Ethell, a companion to the 13-part Discovery
Channel series that aired in October 1992. Smith-
sonian Books also promoted Looking at Earth, written
by geologist Priscilla Strain and geographer Freder-
ick Engle and copublished with the National Air
and Space Museum and Turner Publishing. Based
on satellite imagery of the Earth, this book proved
exceptionally popular with The Smithsonian

Associates.

Smithsonian Magazine

Ronald C. Walker, Publisher
Donald B. Moser, Editor

Since its founding in 1970, Smithsonian magazine has
extended the Institution's message, expanded its in-
fluence, and increased its public visibility through-
out the United States and abroad. Considered one of
the greatest success stories in magazine publishing
history, Smzthsonian is now the 21st largest magazine

in the country, with a circulation of 2.1 million. Ir

continues to generate revenue for the Institution.

The editorial subjects of Smithsonian inevitably ex-
tend beyond the scope of the Institution’s museums.
Leading authors contribute articles about the arts,
history, the environment, conservation, and the sci-
ences, always written with the layperson in mind.
The goal is a magazine that appeals to a range of
readers’ interests.

Monthly features include “Phenomena, Comment,
and Notes,” a commentary on nature and the natural
world; “Smithsonian Horizons,” a column by the
Smithsonian secretary; and reviews of recently re-
leased nonfiction. Smithsonian activities are covered
in three regular departments: “Around the Mall,”
“Smithsonian Highlights,” and “The Object at
Hand.”

@ The new National Postal Museum and the new
Amazonia complex at the National Zoo were both
featured in articles during the year. Other stories re-
flected the broad interests of the Institution: Navajo
code talkers, amber, ancient Nubia, shark conserva-
tion, artist Luis Jimenez, the Agora, and the history
of the department store.

¢ In partnership with the American Society of Trav-
el Agents (ASTA), Smithsonian magazine awarded the
second annual ASTA/Smzthsonian Magazine Environ-
mental Award to Abercrombie & Kent International,
Inc., and British Airways. The award recognizes Out-
standing achievements by individuals, corporations,
and countries toward furthering the goals of environ-
mental conservation.

@ Smithsonian's article on American sign language,
which was widely reprinted, was a winner in the
print journalism category of the National Easter Seal
Society's competition for stories on issues affecting
the disabled.

@ In June, the magazine's advertising campaign re-
ceived a certificate of excellence at the Addy Awards
Event sponsored by the American Advertising Feder-
ation (AAF).

At the presentation of the

1992 ASTA/Smithsonian
Magazine Environmental
Award to Abercrombie &
Kent International, Inc.,
and British Airways are
(Left to right): Tom
Keesling, chairman, award
selection committee; Ron
Walker, publisher, Smith-
sonian magazine; Jorie
Butler Kent, vice-chair-
man, and Geoffrey Kent,
chairman, Abercrombie &
Kent; Earlene Causey, pres-
ident, American Society of
Travel Agents; and Sir
Colin Marshall, chairman,
Hugh Somerville, head of
environment, and David
Hyde, director of safety, Se-
curity, and em vonment,

British Airways.

59

Staff of the Visitor Infor-
mation and Associates’ Re-
ception Center gathered in
the Smithsonian Informa-
tion Center for a Federal
Times photograph an-
nouncing the center as recip-
zent of the Public Service
Excellence Award presented
by the Publi Employees
Roundtable. (Photograph
by Rich Mason)

60

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine

Ronald C. Walker, Publisher
George C. Larson, Editor

Arr & Space/Smithsonian magazine is published bi-
monthly as a benefit of membership in the National
Air and Space Museum. With a circulation of
330,000, it ranks in the top half of major magazines
in the United States. Since 1990, just four years after
its launch, Avr & Space/Smithsonian has generated rev-
enue for the Institution.

Articles continue to cover the range of air and
space—related topics that appeal to the magazine's
general readership. Regular features include “In the
Museum,” a column about museum artifacts;
“Soundings,” aerospace news briefs; “Above and Be-
yond,” a commentary on unusual personal experi-
ences in the air and space realm; and “Viewport,”

comments from the museum director.

¢ “Astronomy'’s Most Wanted,” a six-part series ex-
ploring research in the astronomy community, was
published in fiscal year 1993. The installment “The
Planet Hunters” won for the magazine and its au-
thor, Billy Goodman, the American Institute of
Physics Annual Science Writing Award.

¢ The seventh anniversary edition (April/May 1993)
carried a special treatment of planetary exploration,
including a pullout graphic supplement depicting
all interplanetary missions flown to date.

¢ The magazine published an excerpt from each
issue as a visitors’ guide and floor plan to the Na-
tional Air and Space Museum. The excerpt saves the
museum the cost of printing a separate monthly
brochure and also generates
advertising revenue.

@ During the summer, Air G
Space/Smithsonian went on-line
with America Online, a com-
mercial database service. In a
test of electronic distribution
of text materials, the maga-
zine offered to America On-
line subscribers two text ver-
sions of feature articles from
the August/September 1993
issue together with member-
ship information and the op-
tion of becoming an Associate [=
member through an electronic

application form.

Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center

Mary Grace Potter, Director

The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center (VIARC) is a central support unit responsible
for information and assistance programs for the pub-
lic, Associate members, staff, and volunteers. Several
VIARC programs operate seven days a week and in-
volve coordination and direction of two large corps
of volunteers, who are a primary source of support
for the Institution's public information programs

and for project assistance behind the scenes.

@ In its 23rd year VIARC received the 1993 Public
Employees Roundtable Award for Excellence in Pub-
lic Service in the federal category. VIARC was select-
ed for this honor from among some 300 nominees
for its ongoing public information activities and for
its project assistance services staffed by hundreds of
dedicated volunteers.

@ Midway through its third year, the Smithsonian
Information Center served its 6 millionth visitor,
making the Castle the fourth busiest Smithsonian
building on the National Mall. The center’s station-
ary information components, theater orientation pro-
gram, interactive touch-screen systems, and electron-
ic maps were updated during the spring and
summer, and a new unit was added to highlight the
Institution's scientific research activities.

¢ The opening of the National Postal Museum and

the reopening of the Freer Gallery of Art generated

the expansion of both of VIARC'’s centrally managed
volunteer programs. The number of museum infor-
mation desks staffed daily by volunteer information
specialists increased to 18 desks in 14 buildings, and
the number of volunteers registered and placed
through VIARC’s Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Pro-
gram rose to more than 1,200.

@ VIARC’s Public Inquiry Mail and Telephone In-
formation Service Unit processed some 43,000 pieces
of correspondence and responded to more than
327,000 phone inquiries. VIARC also expanded and
enhanced its information reference tools and updated
and revised hundreds of preprinted materials, bibli-

ographies, and leaflets in accessible 12-point type.

INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Institutional Initiatives

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary

The wide-ranging development activities of the
Smithsonian are the responsibility of the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Institutional Initiatives.
The office coordinates pan-institutional efforts with
those of the bureaus and offices to ensure that the
Smithsonian receives the fullest possible private sup-
port for its research, exhibitions, and educational and
public service activities. The office also conducts spe-
cial studies and demonstration projects on behalf of

the Institution.

# During 1993, the assistant secretary led a compre-
hensive review and revision of the Smithsonian’s
policies and procedures for seeking, accepting, and
administering support from external sources. A pan-
institutional task force has recommended extensive
changes to bring relevant policies up to date with
contemporary practices.

# The office continued to coordinate the fund-rais-
ing effort for the National Museum of the American
Indian. During 1993, the assistant secretary directed
a feasibility study of cause-related marketing as a
fund-raising technique for the Institution.

¢ The assistant secretary worked with the Smith-
sonian National Board and the Office of Develop-
ment to implement the Smithsonian Fund for the
Future as a conduit for increased development activi-
ty by the National Board.

@ At the request of the under secretary, the assistant
secretary began chairing the Institution’s 150th An-
niversary Marketing Committee. In coordination
with committees for program and community, the

committee will develop and execute a marketing

plan for the anniversary celebration during 1996.

National Museum of the
American Indian National
Campaign

John L. Colonghi, National
Campaign Director

The National Campaign of the National Museum of
the American Indian is responsible for carrying out
the fund-raising plan that the Smithsonian Board of
Regents adopted for the museum. By legislative

mandate, the Institution must provide one-third of

the construction cost of the museum on the National

Mall. The campaign has set a goal of $60 million for

this purpose and to endow the museum’s outreach

and education programs.

@ Twenty-six individuals have agreed to join the
International Founders Council, a committee of
prominent volunteers responsible for generating
most of the campaign’s fund-raising goal. Among
the council’s members are Smithsonian Secretary
Robert McC. Adams, former U.S. representative
Barber Conable, financier David Rockefeller, and
communications executive Ted Turner.

¢ During fiscal year 1993 the campaign raised $6.8
million toward its goal. The Ford Foundation made
a grant of $1.15 million, the largest foundation con-

tribution to date. In addition, a fund-raising gala in

New York City raised nearly $500,000 for the muse-

um’s construction fund.

Merrill Lynch and Co.,
Inc., and David Rockefeller
hosted a dinner to commem-
orate the opening of the
National Museum of the
American Indian's exhibi-
tion “Pathways of Tradi-
tion: Indian Insights into
Indian Worlds” at the
Alexander Hamilton U.S.
Custom House. From left
are Rockefeller, chairman of
the Rockefeller Group, Inc.,
museum trustee, and mem-
ber of the NMAI National
Campaign International
Founders Council; Con-
stance Berry Newman,
Smithsonian under secre-
tary; and Daniel P. Tully,
president and CEO, Mer-
rill Lynch. (Photograph by
Pamela Dewey)

61

Furniture maker Anthony
Beverly, who exhibited at
the 1993 Smithsonian
Craft Show, receives an
award for excellence from
Rebecca Klemm (right) and
show director Hope Price.

@ The national membership program launched in
March ro91 continues to be successful. The muse-
um’s membership now numbers more than 68,000.
Since its formation, the program has generated gross
revenue of over $4 million. Members have partici-
pated actively in special events in Washington, D.C.,
New York, Phoenix, Albuquerque, and other cities

throughout the country.

Office of Development
Marie A. Mattson, Director

The mission of the Office of Development is to gen-
erate private financial support for the Smithsonian
from corporations, foundations, and individuals. The
office is responsible for fund raising in support of in-
stitutional priorities and selected bureau projects and
programs and for leading and coordinating fund-
raising initiatives throughout the Institution. The
office maintains central research and record-keeping
functions, including reference information and pub-
lications, pan-institutional information and con-
stituency databases, and gift records. The office also
manages volunteer organizations and oversees stew-

ardship of grants.

# Major gifts and pledges to the Smithsonian during
fiscal year 1993 included $3 million from Enid A.
Haupt for the Enid A. Haupt Garden Endowment
Fund and a fellowship in horticulture; $3 million
from Janet A. Hooker for the Hall of Geology,
Gems, and Minerals, National Museum of Natural
History; $2.8 million from an anonymous donor for
a public affairs endowment at the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery; $1.15 million from the Ford Foundation for
the National Museum of the American Indian; $1
million from Smithsonian Regent Samuel C. John-
son for the Samuel C. Johnson Theater in the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History; and $1 million
from Glenn O. Tupper for the Tupper Endowment
Fund, Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

@ Wich the initiative and leadership of the Smith-
sonian National Board, the office established the
Smithsonian Fund for the Future, through which the
board will pursue major restricted and unrestricted
endowment gifts. During 1993, the fund received its
first $1 million gift.

@ Special events for 1993 included the second annu-
al two-day seminar, “Exploring the Smithsonian
Universe,” which offered individual donors and

prospects behind-the-scenes exposure to Smithsonian

activities; the Smithsonian National Board’s spring
meeting at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute in Panama; a high-level panel discussion on
technological and societal change for the Smith-
sonian Corporate Membership Program; and an 80th
birthday celebration (with the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries) for Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus S.
Dillon Ripley at which the S. Dillon Ripley Library

Endowment was announced.

Smithsonian Women’s
Committee

Jean Thompson, Chair

Since its founding in 1966, the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee has supported the Institution
through volunteer fund raising and public relations
services. The funds the committee raises support ed-
ucational and research programs throughout the

Smithsonian.

¢ In April, the 11th annual Smithsonian Craft Show
(formerly the Washington Craft Show) attracted
more than 14,000 visitors and netted a record
$205,000. The Holiday Dance held at the National
Air and Space Museum netted $50,000, and the
Fourth of July Picnic held on the roof of the Nation-
al Museum of American History showed a profit of
$8,000.

# The committee provided $234,786 in support of

27 projects in 13 bureaus. These projects included
pro) :

creation of the educational outreach program “Learn-

ing Is a Family Experience” at the National Air and
Space Museum; development of a television series on
“American Treasure Houses” by the Office of Tele-
communications; and publication of English- and
Spanish-language guidebooks to Barro Colorado
Island, Panama, site of the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute's research station.

@ The committee gave $10,000 to support awards
under the Fellowships in Museum Practice Program,

which it endowed in 1992.

FINANCE AND
ADMINISTRATION

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for Finance and Administration

Nancy Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary

Operating behind the scenes at the Smithsonian, a
network of administrative offices serves the diverse
programmatic needs of the Institution and facilitates
the management and use of financial, human, and
physical resources. Funding for central services in

1993 amounted to approximately 10.8 percent of the

Institution's total operating expenses.

Office of Architectural History
and Historic Preservation

Cynthia Field, Director

The Office of Architectural History and Historic
Preservation issued a Smithsonian-wide policy on
historic preservation and an accompanying Guide to
Historic Preservation at the Smithsonian, which together
define and illuminate the Smithsonian's historic
preservation practices. Years of architectural history
research culminated in 1993 in the publication of
The Castle: An Illustrated History of the Smithsonian
Building, a team effort of all members of the office

with the assistance of three graduate students.

Office of the Comptroller
M. Leslie Casson, Comptroller

The Office of the Comptroller designed and con-

structed the accounts payable/purchase order module
of a new Smithsonian Financial System. The module
will provide improved Smithsonian-wide on-line in-

quiry and reporting of accounts payable information.

Office of Contracts and Property
Management

Robert Perkins, Director

The Office of Contracts and Property Management
lists a number of significant achievements for the
year, including the successful implementation of an
automated procurement system and the integration
of quality management concepts into all contracting,
procurement, property management, and supply op-
erations. The office also established a consolidated
and comprehensive cost-saving procurement pro-

gram for commonly used supplies.

Joseph Henry's Bedroom in
the Henry apartments, photo-
graph by Thomas W. Smillie,

ca. 1878. From The
Castle.

The Office of Design and
Construction managed the
renovation of the Freer
Gallery of Art, which re-
opened in May 1993. The
progect included construction
of 13,000 square feet of
new storage and adminis-
tration space beneath the
original structure, gallery
renovation, roof and sky-
light replacement, renova-
tion of the auditorium, and
extensive site improvements,
(Photograph by Robb
Harrell)

Office of Design and

Construction

Robert P. Dillman, Director

The reopening of the renovated Freer Gallery of Art
in May marked the completion of nearly $18 million
of construction carried out under the Office of De-
sign and Construction (ODC). ODC managed the
construction of a chiller plant for the National
Museum of Natural History, completed a $5 million
renovation of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden plaza, and started construction on the $2
million, three-floor renovation of the Alexander
Hamilton U.S. Custom House in New York City for

the National Museum of the American Indian.

Office of Equal Employment and
Minority Affairs

Era L. Marshall, Director

This year the Office of Equal Employment and Mi-
nority Affairs (OQEEMA) established a program to
ensure that small, minority, and women-owned firms
receive equal opportunity and appropriate considera-
tion in the Smithsonian's procurement of goods and
services. QEEMA also developed and implemented

the SI Diversity Action Plan, which establishes ac-

countability for cultural diversity—affirmative action
initiatives at all levels of the Institution. Another
new system within OEEMA assesses the effectiveness
of the Smithsonian's recruitment efforts for minori-
ties and women and monitors and evaluates each

unit's employment practices.
y

Office of Environmental
Management and Safety

William Billingsley, Director

The Office of Environmental Management and Safety
continued its responsibility for ensuring that safety,
fire protection and prevention, industrial hygiene,
and environmental principles are integrated into all

aspects of Smithsonian operations.

Office of Facilities Services
Richard Siegle, Director

The Office of Facilities Services continued to encour-
age participation in management initiatives geared
toward improving services, strengthening opera-

tions, and optimizing use of resources.

Office of Financial
Management and Analysis

Rick Johnson, Acting Director

The Office of Financial Management and Analysis
completed a major phase of improvements to the di-
rectives issuance and distribution system. The office
also continued its emphasis on leading and partici-
pating in comprehensive Institution-wide studies

and analyses.

Office of Human Resources
Marilyn Marton, Director

The Office of Human Resources (OHR) embarked
on a multiyear project using computer technology to
reduce paperwork, increase the efficiency of person-

nel operations, and enhance productivity and service.
During this first year, OHR has replaced all outdat-
ed computer equipment, contracted for the installa-
tion of a local area network, and laid the groundwork
for the spring 1994 implementation of an electronic
personnel action system. This system will eliminate
forms and streamline processing, resulting in faster

service to clients.

Office of Information Resource
Management

Vincent Marcalus, Director

The Office of Information Resource Management

acquired and installed a new mainframe computer
to meet the requirements of the new Smithsonian
Financial System and new software for the Smith-

sonian Institution Research Information System.

Ombudsman

Chandra Heilman, Ombudsman

This year the Smithsonian Ombudsman worked
with management and nearly 200 employees as a
neutral party to resolve work-related concerns. The
Ombudsman joined with the Smithsonian branch of
the Agriculture Federal Credit Union to operate the
Smithsonian Employee Emergency Assistance Fund,
which made emergency loans to more than 50

employees.

Office of Plant Services

Michael League, Director

To promote a partnership for Smithsonian energy
management, the Office of Plant Services began pub-
lishing a newsletter for all Smithsonian employees.
Efforts in this area will assure that the work force is
better informed about energy costs and can work
with the Office of Plant Services to control energy

consumption.

Office of Planning and Budget
L. Carole Wharton, Director

The Office of Planning and Budget continued its ef-
forts to improve the Personnel Cost Projection Sys-
tem and revise the Institution’s planning process. In
addition, the office initiated a Smithsonian-wide
study in preparation for response to the Government
Performance and Results Act of 1993 and engaged
all members of the office in a team effort to improve

services to bureaus and offices.

Office of Printing and
Photographic Services

James Wallace, Director

The Office of Printing and Photographic Services ex-
panded its program of making digitized Smithsonian
photographs available through computer networks
to include America Online. Through this program,
which also includes the Internet, CompuServe, and
GEnie networks, schools and nonprofit organizations
can obtain electronic access to Smithsonian images.
Also this year, the office’s cold storage room was ex-

panded to provide environmental safeguards for the

growing photographic collection.

Nick Parrella, Photo Ser-
vices visual information
specialist, foreground,
makes a preliminary edit of
inaugural film as Natural
History photographer Carl
Hansen, center, discusses a
print with OPPS Chief of
Photography Dane Pen-
land, at right. At left, con-
tractor Andy Gordon pro-
duces an inaugural Photo
CD from the final image
selections. (Photo by Eric
Long)

65
Garber Facility building
26 (rear center) containing
collections from the Museum
of Natural History suffered
the brunt of the small tor-
nado that swept through
Suitland, Md., early on the
morning of Nov. 23. Ply-
wood sheets cover the side of
the Museum of American
History's building number
19 (to the right), which
lost part of its wall. (Photo
by Doc Dougherty)

66

Office of Protection Services
Charles A. Hines, Director

The Office of Protection Services, in conjunction
with Jacksonville State University in Alabama, de-
signed and implemented the world’s first university-
level museum security officer training course. Four
classes of “The Sentinels of Our Nation’s Treasures”
graduated in 1993. In response to the increased role
of occupational health at the Smithsonian and the
dramatic increase in demand for staff and visitor
medical services, the office invested in the expansion
of its Health Services Division by acquiring more
than 7,500 square feet for a health clinic at LEnfant

Plaza.

Office of Risk Management

Jacqueline C. Young, Acting Director

The Office of Risk Management continued to pro-
vide risk and insurance management services to pro-
tect the Smithsonian's assets against risk or loss. A
disaster response trailer was carefully outfitted and
stands ready to provide emergency conservation ma-

terials at the scene of a disaster.

Office of Sponsored Projects

Ardelle Foss, Director

The Office of Sponsored Projects served the Smith-

sonian’s research efforts by supporting the work of

149 researchers who submitted 140 proposals valued
at $23 million and by negotiating and accepting for
the Institution 95 grant and contract awards having

a value of $7.4 million.

Travel Services Office

Judith Petroski, Director

The Travel Services Office completed the second year
of a contract with a local travel agency, which has re-
sulted in a rebate of more than $170,000 to Smith-
sonian offices and bureaus. In addition to handling
travel arrangements for staff members, the office
processed reservations and tickets for a number of
meetings and conferences, including the consulta-
tions held by the National Museum of the American

Indian and the annual Festival of American Folklife.

Office of the Treasurer

Sudeep Anand, Treasurer

The Office of the Treasurer continued to manage the
Smithsonian endowment and working capital funds.
It established the financial viability of the National
Museum of Natural History West Court project and
began evaluating alternative funding sources for
major institutional projects. The office is also dispos-

ing of unneeded real estate.

UNDER SECRETARY

Office of the Under Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

As the chief operating officer of the Smithsonian, the
under secretary is responsible for the day-to-day ad-
ministration of the Institution. Under Secretary
Constance Berry Newman also works with Secretary
Robert McC. Adams and the Board of Regents to set
long-range priorities and develop mechanisms for
carrying them out.

@ The Smithsonian continued the process of down-
sizing and restructuring to meet stringent budget
requirements and prepare for the challenges of the

next decade. Continued growth and strength in the
future will require wise choices through a careful as-
sessment of priorities. Central to this effort was de-

veloping the flexibility to begin applying resources,
according to the Institution’s highest priorities,

among equally appealing and valid alternatives.

Business Management Office
Nancy Johnson, Senior Business Officer

The Business Management Office consists of four
revenue-generating activities: Museum Shops, Mail
Order, Concessions, and Product Development and
Licensing. It also oversees the Marketing Database,
which manages the names of people who have a rela-

tionship with the Institution.

¢@ The Museum Shops opened a new location at the
National Postal Museum. Small specialty shops,
including Dinostore in the National Museum of
Natural History, continued to do well.

@ The Mail Order division began redesigning its
catalogue to better emphasize Smithsonian museums
and their collections.

@ The Concessions division revamped the menus in
all public facilities to improve the food service of-
fered to visitors.

¢ The Product Development and Licensing division
added seven new licenses for the external sale of
Smithsonian-authorized merchandise. Sixty-two li-
censes now generate royalties for the Institution.

@ The Marketing Database began training market-
ing and development staff from Smithsonian bureaus
and offices in the use of internal databases for direct-

mail activities.

Office of Government Relations
Mark W. Rodgers, Director

The Office of Government Relations represents the
Institution on matters of legislation, policy, opera-
tions, and governance to the Congress and other gov-
ernment entities at the federal, state, and local levels.
It is the primary conduit of legislative information as
well as the coordinator and advocate of Smithsonian

interests and positions in the legislative process.

@ This year the office oversaw enactment of legisla-

tion appointing three new citizen members to the

Board of Regents; authorizing the Smithsonian to
plan and design an extension of the National Air and
Space Museum at Washington Dulles International
Airport; and continuing the development of the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History's East Court. The
two museum facilities will meet critical storage, con-
servation, and public programming space needs.

¢ Legislative negotiations continue to establish the
National African American Museum in the Arts and
Industries Building and authorize the development
of the National Museum of Natural History’s West
Court.

¢ The office represented Smithsonian interests in
legislative and executive branch deliberations in bio-
logical conservation, high-performance computing,
archaeological conservation, and American Indian
issues.

¢ To resolve the dispute over the reproduction of
Smithsonian quilts abroad, the office developed a
memorandum of agreement with representatives of
the American quilting community. The agreement
provides for cooperation and collaboration to foster
the study of traditional American quilt making.

@ The office established individual relationships
with each congressional office, resulting in improved
communication with the Institution, awareness of its
programs, and opportunities for outreach to nation-
wide constituencies. The office also developed a
“Congressional Reference Guide” to the Smith-

sonian’s history, operations, facilities, and programs.

Office of Policy and Program
Development

Margaret C. Gaynor, Director

The Office of Policy and Program Development
(OPPD) prepares analyses and reports for the secre-
tary and Board of Regents, anticipating long-range
policy and programming needs of the Institution.

@ This year OPPD helped organize the process to es-
tablish the Commission on the Future of the Smith-
sonian Institution, authorized by the Board of Re-
gents in September 1993. The commission will
consist of about 20 people whose reflections and con-
tributions will assist the regents in guiding the
Smithsonian as it moves into the 21st century.

¢ The office also contributed to planning and pro-
grammatic directions for the celebration of the

Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary in 1996.

67

MES DE LA HERENCIA HISPANA

The Office of Public Affairs
used this full-page adver-
tisement to promote the
Smithsonian's Hispanu
Heritage Month commemo-
rations in six local Latino
newspapers between Septem-

ber 9 and 18

68

ofrecemos todo un mundo de a
actividades para celebrar el €#{&
Mes de la Herencia Hispana:

<a
C5

b

Charlas

HEL Smithsonian
es para todos!

iY MUCHO, MUCHO MAS!

Para pedir envio de un calendario bilingue u
obtener informacion general en inglés, Hamar al
202/357-2700
Para escuchar una grabacion sobre
actividades en el Mes de Ia Horencia

Hamar
© al 202/357-4574 (inglés)

OXOKSOKOKOKS

Office of Public Affairs

Danza

Linda St.Thomas, Acting Director

The Office of Public Affairs acquaints the public, in-
cluding diverse cultural communities in the United
States and abroad, with the programs and policies of
the Smithsonian by working with newspapers, mag-
azines, television, radio, and general publications.
The office provides news releases (550 this year),
background papers, press conferences, photographs,
videotapes, logistical support, and broadcast public
service announcements. The office also produces a
number of publications: Research Reports (a quarterly
research bulletin), Smithsonian Runner (a bimonthly
newsletter for Native Americans), and the Torch (a
monthly employee newspaper), along with brochures

for the public
@ Madeleine Jacobs, director of the Office of Public
Affairs for seven years, left the Smithsonian after 14

years to become managing editor of Chemical and En-

gineering News, a weekly science newsmagazine. Prior

to her departure, Secretary Adams presented her
with the Secretary's Gold Medal for Exceptional Ser-
vice for her work on Smithsonian outreach.

@ In response to recommendations made by the Lati-
no Media Advisory Committee, the office worked
with the under secretary to establish the Task Force
on Latino Issues at the Smithsonian. The Spanish-

language events telephone line was updated biweek-

ly year-round, and the Latino print media advertis-
ing Campaign included placement of pan-Institu-
tional advertisements in six local Spanish-language
newspapers throughout the year.

¢ The office published The Smithsonian Institution: A
World of Discovery, a richly illustrated 128-page book
that explores behind-the-scenes research at the Insti-
tution, for members of Congress, visiting digni-
taries, potential donors, and journalists. The book,
also sold in the museum shops and through the
Smithsonian Institution Press, was made possible by
a grant from the James Smithson Society and re-
sources from the assistant secretaries.

@ With the Institutional Studies Office, the office
conducted a survey of African American visitors at
four museums to learn how visitors find out about

exhibits and activities in Smithsonian museums.

AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, the National Gallery of Art, and the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars were estab-
lished by Congress within the Smithsonian Institu-
tion, under their own boards of trustees. The Institu-
tion provides administrative services on contract for
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., an independent orga-

nization.

John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

James D. Wolfensohn, Chairman

Lawrence J. Wilker, President

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
plays a unique role in the cultural life of the United
States. As the nation’s stage, it presents the best of
American and international performing artists in
year-round presentations on five stages. Through its
producing efforts, commissioning programs, compe-
titions, and apprenticeship and training programs,
the center stimulates the creation of new arts and the

development of new artists. As the nation’s premier
educator in the performing arts, it seeds innovative
education programs that reach teachers and students
from prekindergarten through college in most of the

50 states.

@ In October 1992 the National Symphony Orches-
tra, the Kennedy Center’s resident artistic affiliate,
traveled to Alaska for the first program in a national
outreach initiative called National Symphony Or-
chestra American Residencies for the John E.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The tour
included public performances, educational events,
and cultural exchange with Native American artists.
The France Danse festival celebrated 200 years of
French choreographic genius with performances by
six internationally renowned companies, ranging
from the majestic Paris Opera Ballet to the ultra-hip
Compagnie Preljocaj. The festival featured discus-
sions with the artists, open rehearsals, dance work-
shops and master classes, concerts, films, and French
cuisine served in Kennedy Center restaurants.

@ “NSO in Your Neighborhood,” a series of educa-
tion programs and free concerts, strengthened com-
munity bonds by sending members of the National
Symphony Orchestra into Washington-area churches
to perform with church choirs for their congrega-
tions.

@ The 1993 Kennedy Center Imagination Celebra-
tion toured a program of music, dance, theater, and
folk performances for young people throughout the
United States. At home, more than 10,000 Wash-
ington-area young people, their families, and their
teachers attended the month-long festival. Two
highlights were the premiere of Romulus Hunt, an
opera for families by Carly Simon commissioned by
the Kennedy Center and the Metropolitan Opera
Guild, and Genie of the Lamp, a new play by 17-year-
old Beth Lewis about an autistic street person, pre-
sented as part of the Very Special Arts Festival.

¢ Eleven students from five states attended the first
National Symphony Orchestra Summer Music Insti-
tute, which offered talented music students the
chance to develop their artistry through three inten-
sive weeks of coaching, private lessons, and re-
hearsals with orchestra members.

@ The Kennedy Center launched its 1993—94 the-
ater season with its production of The Kentucky Cycle,
Robert Schenkkan’s seven-hour epic about the Amer-
ican experience, which won the 1992 Pulitzer Prize
for drama. Hailed as a “major event in the American
theater,” the Cyc/e was originally made possible by a
grant from the Kennedy Center's Fund for New

American Plays.

National Symphony Or-
chestra members perform

National Gallery of Art

with trombone students in
Barrow, Alaska, as part of
the first program in a na-

Earl A. Powell III, Director

The National Gallery of Art serves the United States tional outreach initiative of

the John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts.

in a national role by preserving, collecting, exhibiting,
and fostering the understanding of works of art at the
highest possible museum and scholarly standards.

@ The year's first major exhibition, “The Greek Mir-
acle: Classical Sculpture from the Dawn of Democ-
racy, The Fifth Century B.C.,” was the premiere
event in the U.S. commemoration of the birth of de-
mocracy 2,500 years ago. The exhibition of 34 mar-
bles and bronzes, which included some 20 works
that had never traveled outside Greece, presented the
era's great sculptural innovations in the depiction of
the human form.

@ In May, the gallery presented 80 works from the
extraordinary collection of French impressionist,
postimpressionist, and early modern paintings estab-
lished by the late Dr. Albert Barnes in Merion,
Pennsylvania. Due to the collector’s wishes, access to
the museum and reproduction of the works had been
restricted and the paintings had never been exhibit-
ed outside Merion. Relatively few people had seen
them before their exhibition at the gallery, which
drew more than 520,000 visitors.

@ Other exhibitions included “Ellsworth Kelly: The
Years in France, 1948-1954,” which traced a pivotal
period in which the artist turned from representation
to sophisticated, colorful abstraction. During an ex-

hibition of the photography of Alfred Stieglitz, a

69
William Michael Harnett’s
The Old Violin, 1886,
was a gift to the National
Gallery of Art by Mr. and
Mrs. Richard Mellon
Scaife in honor of Paul

Mellon.

A volunteer shares a book
with children at one of the
15,000 sites served by
Reading Is Fundamental.
Since RIF began nearl)
three decades ago, it has
brought more than 130
million books to America’s
youngsters and involved
millions of parents in their
children’s reading activi-
ties. (Photograph by Rick
Reinhard)

7O

three-day colloquium addressed conservation issues

related to Stieglitz’s palladium prints. An exhibition
devoted to the trompe l'oeil still lifes of William
Harnett was the first comprehensive exhibition since
the artist's death ror years ago. Other exhibitions
presented prints by Helen Frankenthaler; a survey of
the great age of British watercolors from the period
between 1750 and 1880; old master and modern
drawings from the gift and promised gift to the
gallery of William B. O’Neal’s collection; and 7¢
prints and drawings by the turn-of-the-century Ger-
man artist Lovis Corinth, a gift of the Sigbert H.
Marcy family.

¢ Purchases for the collections are made possible by
funds donated by private citizens. Some significant
acquisitions were a large landscape, The Fortress of
Konigstein (1756-58), by Bernardo Bellotto; The Old
Violin (1886), by William Harnett; and a large wa-

tercolor and gouache drawing by the Flemish painter

Jacob Jordaens entitled Saint Martin of Tours Healing

the Servant of Tetrodias (ca. 1630). Among the gifts re-
ceived during the year were works by Robert Frank,
Georgia O'Keeffe, Philip Guston, Jacob Lawrence,
Arthur Dove, Louise Bourgeois, and Helen Franken-
thaler, as well as 35 17th- and 18th-century draw-
ings from the collection of the late Arthur Liebman.
¢ The Education Program focused on the permanent

collection, inaugurating an annual series of lectures,

films, and talks with “Rediscovering Picasso at the
National Gallery of Art.” The education division also
published three new family guides to the collection
and issued a videodisc, American Art from the National
Gallery of Art, made possible through the generosity
of the Annenberg Foundation.

¢ The computerization of the Index of American
Design, a full inventory of the collection of more
than 18,000 watercolor renderings depicting Ameri-
can decorative arts objects, was completed after sev-

eral years of work.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.
Ruth Graves, President

Millions of children are developing a love of reading
through Reading Is Fundamental’s grassroots net-
work of 4,500 projects that span all 50 states, the
District of Columbia, and U.S. offshore possessions.
Last year more than 152,000 citizens volunteered
their time to bring 9.5 million books and reading
activities to more than 3 million young people. RIF
reaches youngsters at 15,000 sites and in many dif-
ferent kinds of settings: schools, Indian reservations,
libraries, hospitals, facilities for children with dis-
abilities, homeless shelters, migrant camps, clinics
for teen parents, juvenile detention centers, and even
a prison, where fathers hold RIF book distributions
and plan reading activities for their children on visi-

tors’ day.

Across the country, children were involved in
reading with older kids and community leaders, as
RIF celebrated its ninth annual Reading Is Fun
Week with a “Reading Buddies” theme. At a RIF

National Awards ceremony, six members of Congress

joined children from Washington, D.C.-area RIF

projects and shelters in honoring the RIF National
Poster Contest winner and the National RIF Reader.
@ Private-sector backing for RIF’s Project Open
Book®, which sets up reading corners for children in
shelters and other facilities for the homeless, this
year included American Express. By year’s end the
program was reaching nearly 206,000 children at
421 sites.

¢ With support from GE and Chrysler, RIF worked
closely with teachers and science resource specialists
to develop Science Technology and Reading
(STAR*™), an interdisciplinary program for upper
elementary students.

¢ In partnership with the Maryland State Depart-
ment of Education and two youth organizations, RIF
is launching a program in which students will earn
credits for sponsoring RIF programs.

@ RIF is working to expand Shared Beginnings, a
literacy program for teen parents and their children.
Demand for the program is high. This year, organi-
zations that work daily with teen parents obtained
grants underwritten by the Hearst Foundation to

operate Shared Beginnings programs.

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

Charles Blitzer, Director

The Woodrow Wilson Center was established as a
living memorial to the nation’s 28th president to
commemorate President Wilson’s lifelong commit-
ment to uniting scholarship with public affairs.
Through an annual fellowship competition, out-
standing scholars from around the world are invited
to Washington, D.C., for extended periods of re-
search and writing. The center also maintains an am-
bitious program of public meetings and publications
to explore issues and trends. The center carries out
these activities through its formal divisions: History,
Culture, and Society; International Studies; United
States Studies; and Regional Comparative Studies,
which includes the Kennan Institute for Advanced
Russian Studies and programs on Asia, Eastern and

Western Europe, and Latin America.

¢ This year the Wilson Center celebrated the
achievements of several former fellows who were ap-
pointed to positions in the Clinton administration.
Madeleine K. Albright is the U.S. permanent repre-

sentative to the United Nations. William A. Galston

The Woodrow Wilson Cen-
ter Press and the Johns
Hopkins University Press
celebrated the republication
of Herbert Hoover's The
Ordeal of Woodrow
Wilson, first issued in
1958, at a reception held
at the center. Here, Senator
Mark Hatfield, who wrote
a new introduction describ-
ing the extraordinary rela-
tionship between Wilson
and Hoover, s7enS copies.
(Photograph by Alan
Hart)

is deputy assistant to the president for domestic poli-

cy. Lynn Davis, a specialist in arms control policy,

is undersecretary of state for international security af-
fairs. Jenonne Walker has joined the staff of the Na-
tional Security Council, where she is responsible for
overseeing Eastern and Western European matters.
Joseph S. Nye, Jr., is chairman of the National Intel-
ligence Council of the U. S. Intelligence Community.
¢ The Wilson Center welcomed new trustees James
A. Baker II] and Marlin Fitzwater, who were ap-
pointed by President Bush. Serving as ex-officio
members are Warren Christopher, secretary of state;
Joseph Duffey, director, U.S. Information Agency;
Sheldon Hackney, chairman, National Endowment
for the Humanities; Richard Riley, secretary of edu-
cation; and Donna Shalala, secretary of health and
human services.

¢ A workshop on ethnic conflict in the former Yu-
goslavia brought together a distinguished group of
academic experts and diplomatic officials to discuss
prospects for peace in war-torn Bosnia. The results of
the workshop were published by the Wilson Center
Press and broadcast nationally on C-SPAN.

¢ The Wilson Center Press and the Johns Hopkins
University Press reissued The Ordeal of Woodrow Wil-
son, written by Herbert Hoover and first published
in 1958, with a new introduction by U.S. Senator
Mark Hatfield.

¢ A Wilson Center Dialogue program featured for-
mer U.N. Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick, Pulitzer
Prize—winning Washington Post columnist James
Hoagland, and University of Southern California
professor Ronald Steele in a panel discussion on “Se-
curity and the Single Superpower” at the Public

Radio Conference in Washington, D.C.

72

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the sup-
port of the individuals, foundations, and corpora-
tions whose gifts, grants, bequests, and contributing
memberships have helped sustain the work of the In-
stitution over the past fiscal year, October 1, 1992,
through September 30, 1993.

The Smithsonian owes its founding to the gen-
erosity of one individual, James Smithson. The spirit
of private support, as exemplified by James Smith-
son's gift, continues to play a vital role in giving the
Smithsonian the flexibility and independence essen-
tial to its creative growth.

During most of its history since 1846, the Institu-
tion has relied on a combination of federal and pri-
vate funding to carry out the terms of James Smith-
son's will. As a trust instrumentality of the United
States, the Smithsonian has received federal appro-
pfriations to support its basic operations and selected
initiatives. The national and international reputation
for excellence held by the Smithsonian is in large
part a result of the innovative and imaginative activ-
ities underwritten by visionary private citizens. Of
particular importance are gifts that have supported
the Smithsonian's core functions—exhibitions, col-
lections acquisition, research, and public educa-
tion—which are central to its achievements.

Several outstanding gifts during fiscal year 1993
exemplify the diversity, spirit, and impact of private
support on the Smithsonian’s programs:
¢ Mrs. Enid A. Haupt, a renowned New York phil-
anthropist who established the Enid A. Haupt Gar-
den as part of the Smithsonian’s Quadrangle complex
in 1987, gave $3 million to maintain the garden in
perpetuity and create the Enid A. Haupt Fellowship

in Horticulture, the first such fellowship at the

BENEFACTORS

Smithsonian. The Enid A. Haupt Garden Endow-
ment Fund is one of the largest endowment gifts
ever received by the Smithsonian from an individual.
Mrs. Haupt’s vision will ensure that future genera-
tions will continue to enjoy the Smithsonian's mag-
nificent rooftop garden.

¢ The National Museum of Natural History re-
ceived a $3 million contribution from Mrs. Janet A.
Hooker toward the renovation of the museum’s geol-
ogy, gems, and minerals exhibition. The renovation,
to occur between 1994 and 1996, will include en-
hancement of the current displays and addition of
new features and will incorporate up-to-date earth
science information. The new exhibition will be re-
named the Mrs. James Stewart Hooker Hall of Geol-
ogy, Gems, and Minerals in honor of Mrs. Hooker’s
generosity.

¢ The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery received $2.8 mil-
lion from an anonymous donor to create the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery Public Affairs Endowment. The
endowment will be used to support promotion of the
museum's programs and activities.

¢ Smithsonian Regent Samuel C. Johnson, Jr.,
affirmed his ongoing support of the Institution by
giving $1 million to create the Samuel C. Johnson
Theater Endowment at the National Museum of
Natural History. The gift is the first leadership con-
tribution through the Smithsonian Fund for the
Future, a Smithsonian National Board endowment
initiative. The Johnson Endowment will underwrite
educational programs in a new theater to be con-
structed as part of the museum’s West Court project.
¢ The National Museum of the American Indian
National Campaign received $1.15 million from the
Ford Foundation, the largest foundation gift to date
for the campaign. The gift will be used to link the museum’s pro-
grams to tribal communities throughout the Western Hemi-
sphere through telecommunications and special services provided
by the museum's Cultural Resources Center.

@ The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute again received a
significant gift from Mr. Glenn O. Tupper. Mr. Tupper gave an
additional $1 million to strengthen the Tupper Endowment

Fund, which will support scientific research in tropical biology.

Smithsonian National Board

The Smithsonian National Board is composed of community, corporate,
and cultural leaders from across the nation. As the Secretary's premier
volunteer advisory body, the Board considers issues related to institutional
advancement and public outreach. During fiscal year 1993, for example,
the Board established the Smithsonian Fund for the Fucure, an effort to
garner increased endowment support from the private sector, and its

members contributed nearly $500,000 in annual gifts to the Secretary's

Special Fund.

Current Members

Lloyd G. Schermer, chairman
Mrs. Margaret D. Ankeny
Mrs. Anne T. Bass

Mr. Joaquin F. Blaya

Mr. W. J. Bowen

Dr. John Brademas

Mrs. Jane C. Bradley

Mr. Stephen F. Brauer

Mr. Dan W. Burns

Mr. Cason L. Callaway, Jr.
Mr. Ivan Chermayeff

Mr. Landon T. Clay

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Mrs. Allison Stacey Cowles
Mrs. Joan Dillon

Mr. Peter E. Haas

Mr. John M. Harbert III
Mr. Marion Edwyn Harrison
Mr. Frank W. Hoch

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg
Mr. S. Roger Horchow
Mrs. Mary T. Kinnear

Mr. Robert V. Lindsay

Mr. Donald G. Lubin

Mr. Frank N. Magid

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney
Mrs. Adrienne B. Mars
Mr. Antony M. Merck
Mrs. Anne Murray Morgan
Dr. George E. Mueller

Mr. John N. Nordstrom
Mrs. Vivian W. Piasecki
Mr. Thomas J. Pritzker
Mr. David S. Purvis

Mr. Alvin N. Puryear

Mr. Robert Redford

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.
Mr. Clive Runnells

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Leveo V. Sanchez

Dr. Ivan Selin

Mrs. Holley Smith

Miss Kathleen D. Smith
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman
Mrs. Jean Thompson

Mr. Jeffrey N. Watanabe
Mr. Barry Lawson Williams

Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson
Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III
Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.
Hon. Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.
Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin
Hon. William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.
Mr. Seymour H. Knox III
Mr. Lewis A. Lapham

Hon. George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra D, O'Connor
Mr. S. Dillon Ripley

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.
Hon. Thomas J. Watson, Jr.
Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Resource Members

Mr. George B. Bingham, Jr
Mrs. Susan Catherwood

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. Thomas M. Keresey

Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan
Mr. John W. Morrison

Mr. Charles W. Schmidt

Mrs. Ellen Walton

Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff

¢ The Institution's research in plant biology was enhanced sig-
nificantly by the renewal of a $700,000 grant over three years
from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation for Fellowships in Ter-
restrial Ecosystem Studies, administered by the Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants. Scientists from the Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute and the National Museum of Natural History
have benefited from collaboration with fellows representing nu-

merous universities in the United States and abroad.

Smithsonian National Board members Frank Hoch, with his wife,
Lisina, and Dollie Cole experience a lift into the upper reaches of a
tropical forest on the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute's canopy
access crane during the National Board's spring meeting in Panama,
April 1-5, 1993.

Donors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts of $1,000 or more to the Smith-

sonian. Certain donors have requested anonymity. If the name of any

other donor has been omitted, the omission is unintentional and in no

way diminishes the Smithsonian's appreciation.

S1 million or more

Anonymous

The Ford Foundation

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

Lila Wallace—Reader's Digest Fund

$500,000 or more

Friends of the National Zoo
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
Pitney Bowes

$100,000 or more

American Chemical Society

American Express Company

Ameritech

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

The Chubb Corporation

Citicorp/Cicibank

Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis

The Greenwich Workshop, Inc

Hallmark Cards, Inc

Hughes Medical Institute

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

W. Alton Jones Foundation, Inc

John S. and James L. Knight
Foundation

The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

McDonnell Douglas Corporation

NYNEX Material Enterprises
Company

National Association of Letter Carriers

The Nature Conservancy

Occidental Chemical Corp

Orkin Pest Control

The Pew Charitable Trusts

Philip D. Reed Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

Margaret Knowles Schink

Mr. Bernie Stadiem

Timex Corporation

Wiken Promotion & Advertising

Harry Winston Research Foundation,
Inc

Mr. Ronald H. Winston

Wolf Trap Foundation for the
Performing Arts

$50,000 or more

Anonymous

AT&T

Mr. Archur G. Altschul

American Association of Zoological
Parks and Aquariums

American Postal Workers Union,
AFL-CIO

The Annenberg Foundation

Arcadia Foundation

BHP-Urcah International, Inc

BOC Health Care Inc

Brother International Corporation

Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards Foundation,
Inc

The Nathan Cummings Foundation

Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

The Barbara Gaunclett Foundation,
Inc

Mr. Robert C. Graham, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

The Island Fund in the New York
Community Trust

James Renwick Alliance

Dr. Karl V. Krombein

Mr. Robert B. Lehrman

Merrill Lynch & Company
Foundation, Inc

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation

Mr. John Murchake

National Corn Growers Association

National Geographic Society

National Grange of The Order of
Patrons of Husbandry

National Postal Forum

National Potato Promotion Board

National Rural Letter Carriers’
Association

Norfolk Southern Foundation

Overbrook Foundation

The Rockefeller Foundation

Mrs. Else Sackler

Mr. and Mrs. W. Mason Shehan

C. V. Starr Foundation

Steiff USA, L.P.

Time Warner

Turner Foundation, Inc

Mr. Robert E. Turner III

Frederick R. Weisman Art Foundation

Zoologische Gesellschaft

S 10,000 Or more

Anonymous

AMS Foundation for the Arts, Sciences
‘and Humanities

Mr. Alexander Acevedo

The Aga Khan Trust for Culture

Air Line Pilots Association

Alexander Galleries

American Advertising Federation

American Association for the
Advancement of Science

American Bankers Association

The American Law Institute

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc

Arianespace Inc.

Arts International

Mrs. Russel M. Arundel

Ascom Hasler Mailing Systems, Inc.

The Barker Welfare Foundation

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. Perry R. Bass

The Beinecke Foundation

The Bohen Foundation

Boston Whaler, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer

Mr. George W. Brett

The Brown Foundation, Inc

Browning-Ferris Industries Inc

Bryn Mawr College

Emil Buehler Trust

Mrs. Jackson Burke

California Council for the
Humanites, Inc

Cardiology Research Foundation

Ms. Agnes Carvel

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Chase Manhattan Bank N.A

Elizabeth F. Cheney Foundation

Chicago Architecture Foundation

Chrysler Corporation

Clark Construction Group Inc.

Robert Sterling Clark Foundation

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

The Coca-Cola Company

The Colbert Foundation, Inc

The Columbia House Company

Ruth Boyer Compton and Robert C.
Compton

Consolidated Edison Co. of
New York, Inc

Crowell & Moring

Crown Crafts, Inc

Mr. Tom Cruise

Ms. Josephine R. Cunningham

Cyprus Minerals Company

Evelyn Y. Davis Foundation

Democratic Party of South Carolina

The Dibner Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner

The Discovery Channel

Government of the District of
Columbia

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation

Dun & Bradstreet International

Duron, Inc.

DynCorp

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Ernst

Exxon Corporation

Fairchild Space & Defense Corp.

Mr. Paul Fireman

Roger S. Firestone Foundation

Richard Florsheim Art Fund

Folger Fund

Mrs. Kathrine D. Folger

Mr. Lee Merritt Folger

Mr. Randy Freer

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

General Electric Japan

J. Paul Getty Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Gilbert

The Gillette Company

Ms. Patricia L. Glaser

Glen Eagles Foundation

Gold Bond—Good Humor Ice Cream

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

Florence J. Gould Foundation

The Jerome L. Greene Foundation, Inc.

The Greenstone Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mr. H. Malcolm Grimmer

Grumman Corporation

Miriam & Peter Haas Fund

Mr. Peter E. Haas, Sr.

Drue Heinz Foundation

Heller International Group

Hewlett-Packard Co.

Hill Wynne Troop & Meisinger

Hillsdale Fund, Inc.

Hirsch] & Adler Galleries, Inc

Hitachi, Ltd.

Ruth S. and A. William Holmberg

Hong Kong Economic & Trade Office,
British Embassy

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems

IBM Corporation

Information Resources, Inc.

Instituto Nacional De Pesquisas
Espaciais

Inter-American Development Bank

International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources

Ittleson Foundation, Inc.

JAFRA Cosmetics, Inc.

Johnson & Johnson

Ms. Mary Eddy Jones

J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

W. K. Kellogg Foundation

William T. Kemper Foundation

The David Woods Kemper Memorial
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Mrs. Dorothy R. Kidder

Mr. John S. King

FE. M. Kirby Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Fred M. Kirby II

Kirkpatrick Foundation, Inc.

Seymour H. Knox Foundation

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Krueger Family Foundation

Mr. Walter Landor

Lee Foundation, Inc.

Sydney & Frances Lewis Foundation

Richard Lounsbery Foundation

Madison Charitable Fund, Inc.

Mr. Richard A. Manoogian

Mr. Stanley Marcus

Marpat Foundation, Inc.

Mars Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Martin Marietta Corporation

Masco Corporation

McDonald's Corporation
Secretary Robert McC. Adams yoins Secretary Emeritus 8. Dillon Rip-
ley’s three daughters (left to right)—Rosemary Lanius, Julie Miller,

and Sylvia Addison

at a gala celebrating Mr. Ripley's 80th birth-

day and the establishment of the S. Dillon Ripley Library Endowment
for the Smithsonian Institution Libraries.

McGraw Foundation

McNeil Consumer Products Company

Mr. Robert L. McNeil, Jr

Gilbert and Jaylee Mead

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffery W. Meyer

Mill Pond Press Inc.

Morning Star Gallery, Ltd

Enid & Lester Morse Foundation, Inc.

Henry & Lucy Moses Fund, Inc

Ruth Mott Fund

NCR Corporation

National Association of Postal
Supervisors

National Precast Concrete
Association, Inc

National Space Club

National Star Route Mail Contractors
Association

The Nature Company

Neiman Marcus

New York Telephone

The New York Times Company
Foundation

Carroll & Nancy O'Connor Foundation

David & Lucile Packard Foundation

Mrs. Mary Marvin Patterson

J. C. Penney Company, Inc

The Phzer Foundation, Inc.

Phelps Dodge Corporation

Philip Morris Companies, Inc

Mrs. Charles E. Phillips

Piasecki Aircraft Corp

Postal Commemorative Society

Price Waterhouse—U.S

Ralston Purina Company

Mr. William M. Ray

Mr. Michael Reagan

Reebok Foundation

Mr. Robert F. Rick

Ms. Ann R. Roberts

Mr. John R. Robinson

Rodale Press

Mr. and Mrs. Milton FE. Rosenthal

The Arthur Ross Foundation

Mr. Arthur Ross

Helena Rubinstein Foundation

Archur M. Sackler Foundation

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Kenneth I. Sawyer

The Betty A. & Lloyd G. Schermer
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer

The Science Alliance

Catherine F. Scott and Kenneth J. Scott

Shell International Petroleum Co. Ltd

Shell Oil Company Foundation

Mr. Charles Simon

The Sister Fund

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

The Society for Information

Management

Spring Creek Art Foundation, Inc

Stamp Venturers

Taubman Endowment for the Arts

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon F. Taylor, Jr

Texaco, Inc

Eugene and Clair Thaw Charitable
Trust

Tianminlou Foundation

Tiffany & Company

Transamerica Occidental Life
Insurance Company

Trust for Mutual Understanding

Turner Broadcasting Sales

Turner Broadcasting System,Inc

U.S. Borax Inc

USA Network

Unico Banking Group

Waltham Centre for Pet Nutrition

Mr. and Mrs. Milton H. Ward

Waste Management, Inc

The Hon. and Mrs. Thomas J
Watson, Jr

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A

Western Publishing Company

Lawrence A. Wien Foundation, Inc

Daniel F. Williams, Ph.D

World Wildlife Fund

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. Robert J. Wynne

Mr. John R. Young

Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

Sir Valentine Abdy

Mr. Roger Abelson

Ms. Ann Simmons Alspaugh

American Architectural Foundation

American Institute of Aeronautics &
Astronautics

Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr

Mrs. Dale Anderson

The Art Research Foundation

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Aspen National Indian Benefit

BPI Communications Inc

Barra Foundation, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. Austin Barrows

The Richard & Amelia Bernstein
Foundation, Inc

Mr. Richard A. Bernstein

Hon. and Mrs. Max N. Berry

The Boston Society of Architects

Bocwinick-Wolfensohn Foundation

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

The Eli Broad Family Foundation

Vaughn W. Brown Charitable Trust

Brunschwig & Fils, Inc

Buck Investments

C. E. & S. Foundation, Inc

Cahners Publishing Company

May. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S.
Campbell, USAF (Ret.)

Mr. Walter Carpenter

Carrier Corporation

Chevron

Chevy Chase Federal Savings Bank

Children’s Television Workshop

Mr. Willard G. Clark

Community Foundation for Monterey
County

ComputerLand

Conservation, Food & Health
Foundation, Inc

Mrs. Lammot du Pont Copeland

Ms. Florence Corder- Witter

Mr. Roger E. Covey

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman III

Dade Community Foundation

Mr. Donald Dan

Data East USA, Inc

Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr

Valerie Charles Diker Fund, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Diker

The Dillon Fund

Ms. Marna Disbrow

Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

The Douglass Foundation

Mr. Donald J. Douglass

Mr. and Mrs. G. Robert Durham

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Eberly

The Ebsworth Foundation

Mr. James Economos

Fidicomiso Para La Cultura
Mexico/USA

Mr. Richard B. Fisher

Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann

Walter & Josephine Ford Fund

Mrs. Rita Fraad

Freeport-McMoRan Inc

Mr. S. L. Fung

Fung, Yu & Co

Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation

Ms. Mary Helen Gildea

Mr. George J. Gillespie

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C, Glassell, Jr

Goldman, Sachs & Co

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies in the Fine Arts

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Gray, Jr

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian

Mrs. Carol P. Guyer

Walter and Elise Haas Fund

Mr. Walter A. Haas, Jr

Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr

Mrs. Alice Harris

Mr. Stanley Harris

Mr. Alan J. Hirschfield

Olga & Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Foundation, Inc

Mrs. Olga Hirshhorn

Mr. and Mrs. Christian C. Hohenlohe

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

Mrs. Dora Donner Ide

JVC Company of America

Mrs. Roy Z. Johnson

Mr. David A. Jones, Jr

Mrs. Linda Lichtenberg Kaplan

Mr. Maurice H. Katz

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc

Mrs. Loretta Kaufman

Mr. Victor Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III

Mrs. Jean R. Knox

Mr. Robert P. Kogod

Ms. Phyllis R. Kraus

Mr. James J. Lally

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Y. Larkin

Mr. Ralph Lauren

Ms. Roxie C. Laybourne

The General & Mrs. Curtis E. Lemay
Foundation

Mr. Melvin Lenkin

The Lerner-Gray Foundation, Inc

Mr. Alan D. Levy

Mr. Robert L. Lewin

William & Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation

Mr. Meredith J. Long

The Robert Mapplethorpe
Foundation, Inc

Friends of Karen Marchioro

The Stanley & Linda Marcus
Foundation

Col. Billie G. Matheson, USAF (Ret.)

Mr. William P. McClure

Chauncey & Marion Deering
McCormick Foundation

Mr. Brooks B. McCormick

Nan Tucker McEvoy Foundation, Inc.

Dextra Baldwin McGonagle
Foundation

McGovern Fund for the Behavioral
Sciences

McGraw-Hill, Inc.

McKinsey & Company, Inc

Mr. Scott McVay

Mr. John C. Meeker

Mrs. Withrow Weir Meeker

Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern
Art Studies

Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago

Miss Julienne M. Michel

Monsanto Company

Ms. Lucille G. Murchison

Mystic Stamp Company

Natural Heritage Trust

Mr. Assen Nicolov

72
Edward John Noble Foundation, Inc.

The Norcliffe Fund

Oceantrawl Inc.

October Art Ltd

Ralph E. Ogden Foundation, Inc.

John M. Olin Foundation

The P.I.E. Mutual Insurance Company

Ms. Sondra R. Peterson

Ellis L. Phillips Foundation

Phillips Petroleum Company

R. L. Polk and Company

Polo/Ralph Lauren Corporation

Mr. John J. Pomerantz

Mrs. Annemarie H. Pope

Lt. Col. Norman S. Portenoy,
USAF (Ret.)

Mr. Meyer P. Potamkin

Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado

Mr. David S. Purvis

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

Random House Inc.

Ms. Mary W. Renoll

Research Foundation of the City
University of New York

The Rex Foundation

Dr. Wynetka Ann Reynolds

Hon. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II

The Robbins Company

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Rosekrans, Jr

Mr. Arthur F. Sackler

Mr. and Mrs. David Saity

Salad King, Inc.

Charles E. Sampson Memorial
Foundation

Mr. James F. Sams

Sanderling Properties

Mr. Fayez Sarofim

Schwartz Family Foundation

David Schwartz Foundation Inc.

Mr. Alan E. Schwartz

Mr. Richard J. Schwartz

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro

Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel

Mr. William Kelly Simpson

John Sloan Memorial Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith

Mr. Maury L. Spanier

Steelcase Design Partnership

Irvin Stern Foundation

Dr. Judith P. Sulzberger

The Swiss Academy of Human and
Social Sciences

A. Alfred Taubman Restated Revocable
Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Bertrand L. Taylor III

Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation

Transmanche-Link

Mt. T. T. Tsui

VIPA Foundation

The Washington Biologist Field Club,
Inc.

The Washington Press

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin

Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research

Mrs. Alexander Wetmore

Mr. Gerald Weymes

Ms. Mary Gwen Wheeler

Mrs. Linda H. White

Wildlife Conservation International

Edward M. Wilson Foundation

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn

Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff

$1,000 or more

Anonymous

Abbeville Press, Inc.

Harry N. Abrams Incorporated

Abramson Family Foundation,Inc

Mr. Ronald D. Abramson

Mr. Garett J. Albert

Mr. Arnold J. Alderman

Ms. Linda G. Alexander

Mrs. Christine Allen

Mrs. T. Roosevelt Allen

Allied-Signal Foundation

Alsdorf Foundation

Mrs. James W. Alsdorf

American Society of Interior Designers

American Turkish Friendship Council

Ameleb Club of San Antonio

American Insticuce of Architects, New
York Chapter

American Institute of Architects

American Institute of Wine & Food

American Legion

American Underground Space
Association

John Beverly Amos & Elena Diaz-
Verson Amos Foundation, Inc.

Amos Press, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Antique Tribal Arc Dealers Association,

Inc.
ARCO Foundation
Art of the Past, Inc.
Aclantic Mutual Companies
Atwood Richards, Inc.
BP America, Inc.
Mrs. Thomas K. Baker
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Balzer
Mr. Robert Barbanell
BankAmerica Foundation
Barnett Banks, Inc.
Harry Bass Foundation
Mr. C. Victor Beadles
Mrs. Patricia Davis Beck
Bellcore
Benjamin Moore & Co.
Mrs. Maria W. Bennett
Dr. Richard H. Benson
Bentley Mills, Inc.
Mr. Richard H. Berg
Bergman Family Charitable Trust
Mrs. Ruth M. Berlin
Diane & Norman Bernstein

Foundation, Inc.
David Bernstein Fine Arts
Berry-Hill Galleries, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bevins
Beyond the Wall
Biblical Archaeology Society
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Bingham, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Moreton Binn
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair
Mr. George J. Blitz
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Bloch
Mr. Stuart Marshall Bloch
Mr. Huntington T. Block
Edith C. Blum Foundation
Blum-Kovler Foundation
The Boeing Company
Mrs. Howard M. Booth
Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie
W. J. Bowen Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Bowen
Mrs. John W. Bowman
Dr. and Mrs. John Brademas

Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley

Brazilian-American Cultural Institute,

Inc.

Ms. Colleen D. Brindle

Mr. Donald G. Brinkman

The British Embassy

Mr. Howard Brokaw

Mr. Donald A. Brown

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Mario Buatta, Inc.

Ms. Joan Bull

Mrs. John Lee Bunce

Mrs. John B. Bunker

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mr. David A. Burns III

Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton

Business Mail Express, Inc.

CH2M Hill Incorporated

Calgary Zoo

Mr. and Mrs. Cason J. Callaway, Jr.

Camalott Charitable Foundation

Mrs. Constance R. Caplan

Mr. Donald Carl

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Carr

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins Catherwood,
Jr.

Mrs. Hannah L. Caycon

Mr. Fan Chai

Chambord, Inc.

Chanel, Inc.

William E. Channing & Co., Inc.

Ms. Sarah James Chapin

Charvoz

Chemical Bank

Mr. and Mrs. Ivan Chermayeft

Ms. Allene R. Chiesman

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

Ms. Parscilla Meek Christy

Mr. Kenneth Chu

Mr. W. P. Chung

CIGNA Corporation

Mr. Dennis Cirillo

Mrs. Dexter Cirillo

Claritas Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Landon T. Clay

Mr. James A. Clements

Mr. Harmon M. Cohen

Mr. Saul Z. Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Marcus Cohn

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Mr. Edwin I. Colodny

Computer Associates International

Computer Sciences Corporation

Condé Nast Publications, Inc.

Conservation International

Consolidated Natural Gas Co.

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Coordination Council for North
American Affairs

Mr. Joseph Coppotelli

Corning, Incorporated

Mrs. Rosemary B. Corroon

Mr. Lloyd E. Cotsen

Ruth Covo Family Foundation

Mr. Henry P. Cowen

Mrs. William H. Cowles III

Crestar Financial Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth M. Crosby

Mr. Robert L. Cummings

Mr. John R. Curtis

Mr. Richard Danziger

Mrs. Wahleah Faulkner Davis

Mr. Wallace C. Dayton

The Debs Foundation

Mr. Joseph P. Decaminada

Mrs. Kathleen C. Delfino

DeLuxe Corporation Foundation

Mrs. Mary J. Deutschbein

Dewey Trading Company

Dexter Shoe Company

Mrs. Barbaralee Diamonstein-
Spielvogel

Orlando Diaz-Azcuy Designs, Inc.

Mr. John Henry Dick

Digital Equipment Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

Mr. Clarence Dodge, Jr.

Mrs. Tatiana Dominick

Mr. Larry D. Droppa

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Hon. and Mrs. Robert W. Duemling

Mrs. M. D. Duggan

The Dunoir Fund Trust

Dutch Institutional Holding Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz

R. H. Ellsworth, Limited

Mary Emmerling, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Takashi Endo

The Lois & Richard England
Foundation

Environmental Defense Fund

Eskenazi, Ltd.

Estee Lauder Companies

Fairmont Trading Company

Mr. George Fan

Federal National Mortgage Association

Mr. and Mrs. Avery C. Faulkner

Dr. Robert S. Feinberg

Mrs. Joan J. Feldman

Mr. Mark Richard Feller

Fenn Galleries

Dr. James J. Ferguson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Fireman's Fund Insurance Company

Harvey S. Firestone Foundation

Mr. Aiken W. Fisher

Miles & Shirley Fiterman Charitable
Trust

Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman

Ms. Jane G. Flener

Dr. Oliver S. Flint, Jr.

Florian Papp, Inc.

The Flowe Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Henry N. Flynt, Jr.

Mr. John Gilmore Ford

Mr. William C. Ford

Foucus/Infinity Fund

Ms. Jacqueline Fowler

Mr. George S. Franklin

Stephen & Barbara Friedman
Foundation

Alana & Lewis Frumkes Foundation,
Inc.

Mrs. Norma Lee Funger

GZA Geoenvironmental, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

Mr. Howard Ganek

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Gans

Ms. Cheryl Ganz

The JoAnn and Julian Ganz, Jr.,
Foundation Trust

Mr. Paul Vickers Gardner

Arij Gasiunasen Fine Art of Palm
Beach, Inc.

General Dynamics

General Electric Aircraft Engines

Georgia-Pacific

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Paul R. Gibson

Mr. Richard Gilbert
Mr. Norman E. Gill

Mrs. J. A. Gill

Mr. John D. Gilliam

The Howard Gilman Foundation

Dr. Kurt A. Gitter & Ms. Alice Yelen

Mr. and Mrs. Joel Givertz

Mr. Arnold B. Glimcher

Mr. Marc Glimcher

Mr. Robert G. Goelet

Mr. Matthew A. Gohd

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg

Mr. Mark L. Goldsmith

The Goodman Family Foundation

Mr. Stephen Gordon

Robert C. Graebner Chapter #17,
American First Day Cover Society

Mr. Donald E. Graham

Mrs. Katharine M. Graham

Mr. Stephen Graham

Ms. Margo Grant

Greater Washington IBM Club

Glenn Green Galleries

Mr. E. A. Greenlee

Mr. William Greer, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. Donald P. Gregg

Bruce Gregga Interiors, Inc.

Ms. Frederica H. Gries

Mrs. Alfred Grigis

Grow Tunneling

Mr. Charles Guggenheim

Gulf States Paper Corporation

Gwathmey Siegel & Associates
Architects

Mr. Jack Haas

Mohamed I. Hakki, Inc.

Haley and Aldrich Company

Mrs. Melville Hall

Mr. Robert A. Hamilton

Mr. Mark Hampton

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Harbert III

The Phil Hardin Foundation

Mr. Jack R. Harlan

Mr. Erwin Harris

Mr. and Mrs. Marion Edwyn Harrison

Law Offices of Marion Harrison

Mr. John W. Hechinger, Sr.

Mr. Charles Hess

Hill’s Pet Products, Inc.

Mr. Frederick Hill

Mrs. Janine W. Hill

Leslie Hindman, Inc.

Ms. Dorothy Hines

Mr. Howard Hirsch

Hirsch/Bender Associates

Ms. Minette Goldsmith Hoffheimer

Mr. Henry C. Hofheimer II

Hoechst Celanese

Mr. Jonathan Holstein

Ms. Lynne Honickman

Mrs. H. Earl Hoover

Mr. Raymond J. Horowitz

Elaine Horwitch Galleries

Mr. Mark Horwitch

Mr. Joseph E. Hotung

Mrs. Veronica A. Huber

Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell

Mrs. Caroline H. Hume

The Hunter Foundation

Mr. Allan B. Hunter

IFINT-USA, Inc.

Ingersoll-Rand

Mr. L. R. Inggels

Ms. Jane H. Ingram

Institute for Advanced Computer
Studies

Interior Space International

International Centre for Diffraction
Data

International Council for Bird
Preservation, U.S. Section

Dr. and Mrs. Nelson S. Irey

The Irwin Family

Mr. Robert Israel

Dr. Jay A. Jackson

Mrs. Maureen R. Jacoby

Mr. Richard J. Janes

Mrs. Yasmin Aga Khan Jeffries

Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust

The Jerusalem Fund for Education &
Community Development

Dr. Helen I. Jessup

Mr. and Mrs. George F. Jewett, Jr.

Mrs. Patricia C. Johnson

Mrs. Janine I. Joseph

Mr. William Josephson

Mrs. Florence Jue

Andrew Kahane, Ltd.

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mrs. Marjorie S. Kantor

Mr. Subhash Kapoor

H. Kaveeshwar

Mr. Jack Kay

Mr. Allan Keeff

Ms. Sharon H. Keim

R. C. Kemper Charitable Trust

Mr. David B. Kendall

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey Kenner

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Keresey

The Robert & Grayce Kerr
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. William G. Kerr

Mr. Arthur H. Keyes, Jr.

Mrs. Garfield King

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney

Mr. Lincoln Kirstein

Mr. Frederick A. Klingenstein

Ms. Nancy R. Klusmeyer

The Knoll Group

Mrs. Margaret R. Knudsen

Ms. Virginia D. Koch

Mr. Samuel W. Koffler

Mr. Steven W. Kohlhagen

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Kokin

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.

Konze

Mr. Arie L. Kopelman

Mrs. Kate Kopp

Dr. Charles Koski

Mr. Peter B. Kovler

Dr. S. Y. Kwan

Dr. Simon Sin-Ming Kwan

LBJ Family Foundation

Dr. Corliss Lamont

Landsman & Katz Foundation,Inc

The Allene & Jerome Lapides
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Chester H. Lasell

Mr. Leonard A. Lauder

Mr. Jerome Lederer

Naomi Leff & Associates, Inc.

Mr. John H. Lehman

Mrs. Suparp Lekagul

Lemberg Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Edward J. Lenkin & Ms.
Katherine L. Meier

Mr. Jacques E. Lennon

Hon. William Leonhart

Mrs. Linda S. Lese

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mr. Stephan J. Levine

The Max and Anna Levinson
Foundation

Mr. Marshall Levinson

Mr. Arthur Levitc, Jr.

Mr. James P. Liautaud

Mrs. Alexander C. Liggett

Eli Lilly & Company

Mr. Richard H. Lindberg

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Mr. R. Robert Linowes

William Lipscomb Co., L.P.

Ms. Elizabeth Lorentz

Mrs. Catherine H. Luhn

Mr. Peter Lunder

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Russ Lyon Realty Company

Mr. Dennis H. Lyon

Mr. Russ Lyon, Jr.

James A. Macdonald Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan

Dr. Iain Mackay

Magowan Family Foundation

Mrs. Doris M. Magowan

Mr. Ivan Makil

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Malott

Manchester Postal Customer Council

Mr. James Marinaccio

Mr. Peter Marino

Mr. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.

Mrs. Virginia Mae Mars

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Marshall, Jr.

Hon. and Mrs. William N. Marcin, Jr.

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Raymond E.
Mason, Jr.

Ms. Johanne Master

Mr. George T. Matteson

Ms. Nedra Matteucci

Jacob & Ruth Mazer Foundation, Inc

Mr. David Mazer

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

McGhee Production Company

Hon. and Mrs. George C. McGhee

Mr. George W. McKerrow, Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K. McLanahan

Mr. James E. McLeod

Medicine Valley Trading Company

The Meek Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Hassanali Mehran

Mrs. Constance Mellen

Mrs. Ida C. Merriam

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

The Merrin Gallery, Inc.

Ms. Vivian Merrin

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mr. and Mrs. Orto E. Meyer

Microsoft Corporation

Midtown Payson Galleries, Inc.

Mrs. Ellen G. Miles

The Arjay and Frances Miller
Foundation

Mrs. George H. Milton

Mr. Raymond J. Minella

Mr. and Mrs. J. Kent Minichiello

Mr. Robert H. Moffatc, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose, Jr.

Ms. Bridget Moore

Elayne Mordes, A.S.I.D.

J. P. Morgan & Company, Incorporated

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Mr. John W. Morrison

Morrison-Knudsen Corporation

Mr. K. F. Mountcastle

Dr. and Mrs. George E. Mueller

Mrs. Anne W. Murray

Museum Educational Charitable Trust

Myers Communications, Inc

NAMSB Foundation, Inc.

National Association of Postmasters of
the U.S., Texas Chapter

Naga Antiques, Ltd.

National Association of Secondary
School Principals

National Association of Dealers in
Antiques

National Fish and Wildlife Foundation

National Association of Life
Underwriters

Navy Mail Service Veterans Association

The Nelson Foundation

Mr. H. Duane Nelson

Mr. Howard Nelson

Nestle Beverage Company

The Netherlands-American Amity
Trust, Inc.

Roy R. and Marie S. Neuberger
Foundation, Inc

Neutrogena Corporation

The New York Community Trust

New York Foundation for the Arts

The New York Postal Customer
Council

Mr. P. B. Newman

Niagara Envelope Company, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. William A. Nitze II

Dr. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. James R. Northcutt

Mr. and Mrs. Lucio A. Noto

Mr. E. J. Nutter

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O'Connor

Mrs. Kay D. O'Rourke

The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

The Bernard Osher Foundation

Mrs. Glenna Osnos

Ms. Machiko Oyama

PPG Industries, Inc.

Pace Gallery New York, Inc.

Walter Pach Acquistion Fund

Pacific Enterprises

Mr. William Papp, Jr.

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mrs. Dorothy Parish

Parish-Hadley Associates, Inc.

The Parsons Corporation

Parsons, Brinckerhoff, Quade &
Douglass Inc.

Mrs. George I. Pattee

Mr. and Mrs. James Patton, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Payson

Perkin-Elmer Corp.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Perkins

The Peters Corporation

Mr. Gerald P. Peters

The Pfeil Family Foundation

Mr. Richard B. Pfeil

Phelps Dodge Foundation

Mr. Jim Philips

Mr. Lawrence S. Phillips

Phillips-van Heusen Foundation, Inc.

Beverly and Barry Pierce

Pine Mountain Benevolent Foundation,

Inc.
Mr. Max Pine
Mr. Joseph T. Pisciotta
Poindexter Enterprises, Inc.
Mr. Ronald Poon
The Port Royal Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Carol C. Price
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Pritzker

[77
Paul R. Gibson Associates
International

Dr. and Mrs. Alvin N. Puryear

RJR Nabisco, Inc

Mr. Jack Rachlin

Mrs. Lois S. Raphling

Dr. Patricia E. Redmond

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Reeves

Mr. Rodney D. Reeves

Dr. Nathan Reingold

Mr. and Mrs. Keith Reinhard

Emerson & Delores Reinsch
Foundation

The Research Foundation of State
University of New York

Mr. Danforth K. Richardson

Mr. James Riley

Ms. Nancy Rivera

Dr. Kenneth X. Robbins

Mr. David Rockefeller, Sr

Hon. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, [1V

Mrs. Mary Ellene Rockwell

Ms. Karol Kirberger Rodriquez

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Root

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Mrs. Gloria F. Ross

Ms. Katherine Ross

Mr. Gary Roth

Dr. and Mrs. Robert ¢

Clive Runnells Enterprises

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells

Mr. Ronald Ruskin

Ms. Dolores H. Russ

Mrs. Robert A. Ruyle

Ms. Elizabeth A. Sackler

Dr. Marietta Lutze Sackler

Mr. Marvin Sadik

Saga Musical Instruments

Rothenberg

Ms. Helen Leidy Samson

San Diego Community Foundation
Santa Fe Hotel Joince Venture
Santa Fe Pacific Minerals Corp
Dr. Rajindra K. Sarin

Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Mr. Charles W. Schmide

Mr. Anthony H. Schnelling
Mr. David Schoenbach

Mr. Morton L. Scholnick

Mrs. Gene Marble Schroeder
O.P. Schuman & Sons, Inc
Scott Publishing Company, Inc
Mrs. Frances W. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Isadore M. Scott

J.E. Seagram Corp

78

Mrs. Florence B. Selden

Mr. Iwao Setsu

Shannon and Wilson, Inc
Mr. J. Gary Shansby

J.F. Shea Company, Inc

Dr. Robert M. Shepard, Jr
Sherwoods Spirit of America
Dr. and Mrs. Roger J. Shott
Mr. and Mrs. R. F. Sibert
Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Mrs. Dorte Simmons

Esther Simon Charitable Trust
Mrs. Leo Simon

Mr. Stephen Simon

Mrs. Manley H. Simons
Mrs. Wilson Sked

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Skelly
Mrs. Alan P. Smith

Dr. Frank O. Smith

Mr. Dean B. Smith

Gordon and Norma Smith Family
Foundation

Miss Jean Chandler Smith

Ms. Kathy Daubert Smith

Ms. Laura Smith

SmithKline Beecham

Mr. and Mrs. Eliot Snider

Mrs. Lillian Sokol

Sotheby's, Inc

Ira Spanierman Gallery

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks

Mr. Carl Spielvogel

Mr. Theodore R. Stanley

Dr. Frank Stanton

Steelcase, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Storey

Mr. Stephen M. Stroud

Structure Tone, Inc

Ms. Marjorie Louise Stuart

The Summerlee Foundation

The Swiss African Society

TRW Foundation

TRW Space & Defense

Ms. Mahinder K. Tak

Mr. Saburo Takahashi

Dr. and Mrs. Frank H. Talbot

The Martin Tanabaum Foundation,
Inc

Mr. Robert Ching Tang

Mr. George Terasaki

Texas Folklife Resources

J. Walter Thompson Co

Mrs. Elinor B. Thompson

Dr. F. Christian Thompson

Mrs. Richard L. Thompson

Ms. Joyce Thurston

Time-Life Books, Inc

The Times Mirror Foundation
Tishman Speyer Properties

Mr. John Tishman

Mr. Donald G. Tober

Ms. Marana W. Tost

Mr. Theow H. Tow

Mr. Ted Trotta, Jr

Traveler's Companies

Mr. Alexander B. Trowbridge
Tyler Graphics Ltd

Mr. Kenneth E. Tyler

U.S. Council for Energy Awareness
US West

USG Interiors, Inc

United Technologies Corporation
Hon. and Mrs. Thomas G. Upton
Charlotte von Graffenried, Ph.D
Mr. and Mrs George W. Veale IV
Ms. Marion J. Veale

Dr. M. C. Vincent

Mr. John C. Waddell

Waletzky Charitable Lead Trust
Dr. Jeremy P. Waletzky

Walker Group/CNI, Inc

Mr. Kenneth H. Walker

Mr. Paul F. Walter

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Walton
Mr. John C. Walton

Mr. Allen Wardwell

Warner Brothers Television

Mr. Jack W. Warner

Mrs. Saul Warshaw

The Washington Post Company
Washington, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey N. Watanabe
Mrs. Arvid G. Wedin

Mr. and Mrs. Dietrich Weismann
Pierre J. Wertheimer Foundation, Inc

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker and son Gilbert S. Kahn attend the Na-

tional Museum of Natural History's Founders Dinner given to honor

the founding donors of the museum's National Gem and Mineral Col-

lection. Mrs. Hooker is wearing the 75-carat Hooker emerald, which

she donated to the museum in 1977. This year, she contributed $3 mil-

lion to the renovation of the new Hall of Geology, Gems, and Minerals,

which will be named in her honor on its completion in 1996.

acre garden she established and endowed. (Photo by Rick Vargas)

Robert Westheimer Family Fund

Westinghouse Electric

Mrs. Catherine M. Weston

Miss Winifred E. Weter

Shelby White

Dr. David E. Wilde

Mr. Julius Wile

Mr. Austin B. Williams

Dave H. & Reba W. Williams
Foundation

Mrs. Marguerite Neal Williams

Eli Wilner & Company, Inc.
Mr. Mark Winter

Wisdom Import Sales Company
Ms. Estelle R. Wolf

Mrs. Susie June Wolfe

World’s Finest Chocolate, Inc.
Yale University

You Bet Your Life Productions
Mrs. Anne T. Young

Ms. Emily S. Young
Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle

The Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle recognizes and honors those individ-

uals whose exceptional gifts have preserved the traditions of the

Smithsonian Institution while furthering its vision. Benefactors’ gifts

reflect the donors’ personal interests and commitment and are as varied

and broad as the Institution itself. The Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle

honors these distinguished philanthropists and provides a lasting mark of

their achievements.

The Smithsonian recognizes the gifts of Founders and Patrons of the

Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle as listed below.

Honorary Founder

Enid A. Haupt

Founders

Russell B. Aitken

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. and Diana L. Altschul
William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans

Katharine Graham

Robert C. and Julie Graham, Jr.
Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.
William A. and Patricia W. Hewitt
Ikuo Hirayama

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
T. T. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Patrons

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson
Peter C. and Joan Andrews
Marjorie Arundel

Edward P. Bass

Randy and Nancy Best
James and Barbara Block
Michael J. Brophy
Hildegard Bruck

George E. Burch III

Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

David Davies

Evelyn Y. Davis

Patricia C. Dodge

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

Kitty Fassett

Rita Fraad

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost
Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert

Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Jerome L. Greene

Barrick W. Groom

Agnes S. Gund

Joan D. Haig

Evelyn A. J. Hall

Drue M. Heinz

Lloyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman

Frank W. and Lisina M. Hoch

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

John R. Huggard

Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen

James M. Kemper, Jr

R. Crosby Kemper, Jr

William K. and Alice S. Konze

Karl V. Krombein

Harvey M. and Connie Krueger

Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger

Robert and Helen Kuhn

Rogerio S. Lam

Robert Lehrman

Sydney and Frances Lewis

Henry Luce III

Harry and Beverly Mandil

John F. and Adrienne B. Mars

Kathleen C. Mason

Brooks and Hope B. McCormick

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Antony M. Merck

James and Lolly Mitchell

Hon. Daniel Patrick Moynihan and
Elizabeth Moynihan

Jean Niemeier

Robert H. and Nancy Nooter

Philip D. Reed, Jr., and Elizabeth
Reed

Frank K. Ribelin

Carlyn Ring

David Rockefeller

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal

Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Cecile Salomon

Margaret Knowles Schink

Catherine F. Scott

Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz

Emma M. Sims

James C. Slaughter

George L. Small

Bernie E. Stadiem

Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

E. Hadley Stuart, Jr., and Marion
Stuart

A. Alfred Taubman

Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.

Jeffrey and Diane Tobin

John Weeden

Daniel Weinstein

Nancy Brown Wellin

Ronald H. Winston and Heidi Jensen-
Winston

Gay F. Wray

Posthumous:

Gifts through Will

Helen Buckner
Wilbur H. Claggete
Mildred J. Dassett
Charles P. Deibel
Robert C. Eddinger
Pauline Edwards
Frances B. Ferguson
Clinton B. Ford
Edward P. and Rebecca R. Henderson
Dorothy B. Koteen
Laura I. O'Dea
Alice I. Winterer

Smithsonian Corporate Membership Program

Since its inception in 1990, the Smithsonian Corporate Membership

Program has brought global corporate citizens into partnership with the

Smithsonian Institution. The Corporate Members listed below have

joined with the Smithsonian to support its vital work in education and

research while affirming the importance of exchanging information in an

increasingly complex world. The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges

the following members of the Corporate Membership Program.

AFLAC Incorporated

Anheuser-Busch Companies

BellSouth Corporation

Brother International Corporation

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.

The Coca-Cola Company

CSX Transportation

The Walt Disney Company

The Dow Chemical Company

Eaton Corporation

Electronic Data Systems Corporation

Ford Motor Company

General Electric Company

Hitachi Limited

Hunter Engineering Company

International Business Machines
Corporation

Bequests

S. C. Johnson & Son, Incorporated

Kajima Corporation

The Kansai Electric Power Company,
Incorporated

Lee Enterprises Incorporated

Marubeni Corporation

McDermott International,
Incorporated

MCI Communications Corporation

Mobil Corporation

Simon and Schuster

Sony Corporation of America

The Southern Company

Tokyo Electric Power Company

TRW Incorporated

With special appreciation we remember and acknowledge those friends

who made gifts by will and thus continue the legacy of James Smithson,

the Smithsonian's founder.

Unrestricted gifts become part of the Bequest Endowment Fund. The

principal of this fund is maintained in perpetuity, while the income sup-

ports acquisitions, exhibitions, scholarly studies, educational outreach,

and other functions of the Smithsonian. Some gifts are designated for a

special purpose by the donors. Gifts by bequest can be structured to

meet the donors’ needs and goals.

The following remembered the Smithsonian with gifts by will.

Marie B. Abbott
Wilfred M. Baldwin
Marie V. Brendel
David Collegeman
Charles P. Deibel
Clinton B. Ford

Dona I. Guimaraes
Edward P. Henderson
Karl V. Hirschmann
Betty J. Ives

Joseph R. Kimbell
George B. Vogt

Pe
Memorial and Commemorative Gifts

Memorial and commemorative gifts to the Smithsonian honor loved ones,

friends, and colleagues. These gifts not only express special appreciation

for the individual being honored but also help support, in a very direct

way, the mission of the Institution. Donors may choose to apply the gift

to the broadest work of the Smithsonian, or, in certain instances, may

direct the gift to a specific area of interest to the honoree

The following were so honored by their families and friends

Howard Cayton

Jill Dilger

Lester Dundes

David W. Gafill

Felix Ganz

Gildea

Carolyn McKerrow Glass

James ¢

Katharine Graham
Mark Kaminski
Peter Krueger
Ling-Ling
Howard Lippman
Richard Loute

Jan McColl

Dinny Morse

Frederick Gaylord Pierce and
Frederick Smythe Pierce

Eleanor Houghton Anderson Ray

Ida Hornstein Reingold

S. Dillon Ripley

Lillian Saxe

Elmer J. Scott

Carl L. Selden

Frances Smyth

Frank Stella

Stephen Thurston

Alexander Wetmore

Donors of In-Kind and Volunteer Support

In addition to the financial support of individuals, foundations, and cor-
porations, the Smithsonian Institution acknowledges donors of in-kind
gifts. Ranging from equipment for office or program use to pro bono pro-
fessional consulting services, such in-kind gifts contribute greatly to the

success of research and educational programs as well as to efficient admin-

istration of the Institution

Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream

Bentley Carpet Mills, Inc

The Brazilian Embassy

Richard O. Bierregaard

CVS Consumer Value Stores

DuPont Corporation

Earth Observation Satellite Company

General Motors Corporation,
Chevrolet Motor Division

Georgetown Floorcoverings

Halley Moving Systems, Inc

Hewlett-Packard Co.

Richard H. Hronik

Ilford Photo

Intercity Communications Network

Japan Airlines

The Japan Foundation

JLG Industries, Inc

Marjorie S. Kantor

Kenneth J. Kutz

Lufthansa German Airlines

Luso-American Foundation

M&M/ Mars

MacMillan/McGraw Hill

Merchant Tire

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffery Meyer

Music Performance Trust Funds

Paramount Home Video

Pioneer Laser Disc Corporation of
America, Inc,

Thacher Proffitt and Wood

Universidad Aut6noma de Nuevo
Leén—Centro de Informacion de
Historia Regional

US Travel

Verite Music

Willow Springs Tree Farm

a

i
:
'
|
:
;
{
t

Vice-President Albert Gore addresses members of the Smithsonian Cor-
porate Membership Program and Board of Regents at a luncheon fol-
lowing the May 10, 1993, Corporate Membership panel, “The Future
of Knowledge.” (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

Friends of the National Zoo

In support of the mission of the National Zoological Park, Friends of the
National Zoo (FONZ) is dedicated to providing biological education, to
preserving biological diversity, to protecting the environment, and to
serving the needs of visitors and the community for high-quality recre-

ational experiences. To that end, in Fiscal Year 1993 FONZ provided ser-

vices to 58,000 individuals through nearly 23,000 memberships; con-
tributed $27,000 towards purchase of a van for FONZ’s new Zoo on
Wheels program; gave 86,000 volunteer hours at the Zoo; sponsored Zoo
Olympics for D.C. children; and hosted “Orang Shebang,” the Zoo's
annual ZooFari benefit, which raised a record $190,000 for the Theodore

Reed Animal Fund.

Smithsonian Contributing Members

The Contributing Membership of The Smithsonian Associates supports
the Institution's work through generous annual contributions.

The James Smithson Society was created in 1977 to encourage and rec-
ognize major gifts to the Institution. The society, which is the highest
level of Contributing Membership, is composed of Annual Members
($2,000 or more), Life Members (appointed before 1985 for contributing
significant gifts to the Institution), and Endowed Life Members. Endowed
Life Members are individuals who make a one-time gift of $40,000 or
pledge $45,000 over three years to become lifetime society members.
Extraordinary contributions to the Smithsonian are recognized through
the Society’s Founder Medal award and its accompanying Life
Membership.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the generous support of the
James Smithson Society and the Patron Members ($1,200) of the

Contributing Membership.

Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smithsonian to accomplish
a variety of programs and offer expanded services to the public. The
names of docents and behind-the-scenes volunteers are listed annually in
the employee newsletter, the Torch. In fiscal year 1993, 4,844 volunteers
gave 540,715 hours of their time. These invaluable volunteers bring
expertise, experience, and enthusiasm to their work here, and we express
to them collectively our great appreciation for their dedication to the

Smithsonian Institution.

80

James Smithson Society
Endowed Life Members

Ruth Boyer Compton and Robert C.
Compton
Dan and Alice Gilbert

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.

Konze

Col. Billie G. Matheson, USAF Ret.

Gilbert and Jaylee Mead

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal and Ms. Ruth
E. Ganister

Catherine F. Scott and Kenneth J. Scott

James Smithson Society
Life Members

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Mr. David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.

Hon. Ralph E. Becker and Mrs. Becker

Mr. and Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. B. Narayana Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Bitter

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd

Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth Dowling Bruun and Dr.
Bertel Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein

Mrs. Barnet Burstein-Morris

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hubbard
Caldwell, Jr.

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S.
Campbell

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell, Jr.

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu

Rev. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton

Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Cunningham

Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II

Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy

Mr. Sam DeVincent

Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover

Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Downe, Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. duPont

Mr. Mercer Ellington

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mr. and Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Patricia and Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Gaines Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt

Mr. and Mrs. George Garfield

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Mr. and Mrs. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mrs. Doris Stack Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome L. Greene

Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.

Mrs. Elizabeth Henderson

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Edith Mansfeld Hills

Mrs. Olga Hirshhorn

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Thrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Merril Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Mrs. David Landau

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman and Mr. Joshua
M. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Mr. John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Mrs. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Hon. G. Burton Pearson and Mrs.
Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. Annemarie Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Roberts

Hon. Martin J. Roess and Mrs. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mr. and Mrs. Janos Scholz

Hon. Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery

Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard EF. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.
Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine Sergava Sznycer
The Doctors Yen and Julia Tan
Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor, Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardy! R. Tirana

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

Mrs. Milton Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda

Dr. and Mrs. Francis $. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. and Mrs. James Y. M. Wu
Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

James Smithson Society

Annual Members

Anonymous (2)

Dr. J. Scott Abercrombie

Mr. and Mrs. W. Mike Adams
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur G. Altschul
Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson
Mr. Leonard E. B. Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman
Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Barnett
Ms. Janine F. Barre

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Drs. Rhoda and Jordan J. Baruch
Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth W. Beckman
Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs
Mr. John L. Black

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair

Hon. Robert O. Blake and Mrs. Blake

Mr. and Mrs. William W.
Boeschenstein

Mrs. Richard W. Bolling

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Boskey

Dr. and Mrs. Harold M. Boslow

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Col. Donald S. Bowman

Mrs. John W. Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mr. and Mrs. Warren J. Brule

Mr. Edward A. Burka

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Burlingame

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Burnes

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Ms. Christine Cabell and Mrs. Murray

W. Cabell
Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. and Mrs. John Otis Carney

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter, Jr.

Mrs. Winifred T. Carter

David and Joan Challinor

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement

Dr.

and Mrs. David Cofrin

Melvin S. and Ryna G. Cohen
Hon. William T. Coleman, Jr., and

Mrs. Coleman

Mr. and Mrs. David F. Condon III
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Consolvo
Mr. Mark N. Cookingham and Ms.

Nancy J. Robertson

Ms. Florence Corder- Witter
Mr. and Mrs. Merrill K. Cragun
Carole Davis Crocker

Mr. John D. Crow

Th
Dr
Dr

Crown Family
. and Mrs. James H. Curl
~and Mrs. T. Giffin Daughtridge

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Evelyn Y. Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo, Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph N. Deblinger

Mr. Geert M. Deprest and Ms. Laura
Travis-Deprest

Mr. Lowell DeYoung

M

oe

and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Mr. S. J. Dimeglio

Ms. Marna Disbrow

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. N. L. Doligalski

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Hon. Robert W. Duemling and Mrs.
Duemling

Mr. and Mrs. LeRoy Eakin III

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Eberly

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds III

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Mi

ss Babs Eisman

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr.
Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. Takashi Endo

Col. Charles O. Eshelman

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Lt.

Col. Pamela C. Eyre

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson, Jr.

Mr.

and Mrs. John D. Firestone

Ambassador William H. G. FitzGerald
and Mrs. FitzGerald
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon J. Flesch

Ms

. Ellen L. Fogle

Mr. and Mrs. Owsley Brown Frazier

Ms

. Virginia Friend

Mrs. Lloyd W. Frueh
Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.
Mr.

. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

~ William May Garland III

and Mrs. Larry T. Gauger

. and Mrs. Michael C. Gelman &

The Morningstar Foundation

Dr.
Ms
Mr
Mr
Ms
Mr.

and Mrs. William H. Gerber
. Louise Dodd Gerken

and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

. Elizabeth W. Glascock

and Mrs. Joel Glick

Carol R. and Avram J. Goldberg

Mr.
Mr.

s. Ted R. Goldsmith
. Albert H. Gordon

George and Marge Graham

81

82

Mr. and Mrs. John Bradley Greene

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin B. Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

Hon. Najeeb E. Halaby and Mrs.
Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Freddie Harby

Mrs. James H. Harger

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mr. and Mrs. Max Harel

Mr. David H. Hausmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Hazen

Hon. John W. Hechinger and Mrs.
Hechinger

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Henry

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler

Ms. Gloria Hidalgo

Mr. James T. Hines, Jr

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Hopkins

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

Mr. Austin I, Hubbard

Mrs. Peter D. Humleker, Jr.

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. John Ippolito and Ms. Diane M
Laird-Ippolito

Dr. and Mrs. Nelson S. Irey

The Irwin Family

Mr. Eli S. Jacobs

Mr. and Mrs. George D. Jagels

David S. and Patricia H. Jernigan

Mrs. Roy Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. Erik Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

Hon. Randolph A. Kidder and Mrs
Kidder

Dr. William M. King

The F. M. Kirby Foundation

Mr. E. C. Kirkpatrick

Hon. Philip M. Klutznick and Mrs.
Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald J. Knecht

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Knight III

Ms. Barbara Korp-Daly

Dr. Jane E. Kosa

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald E. Kron

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. John E. Kuenzl

Mrs. James S. Lacock

Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig

Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Lammerding

Ms. Agatha Larson

Mr. James K. Leach

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

Hon. William Leonhart and Mrs.
Leonhart

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mrs. Millard Lewis

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Long

Ms. Doris J. Lothrop

Dr. and Mrs. Fred R. Lummis

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James A. MacKinnon

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan

Mr. H. L. Mahoney III

Mr. Michael Maloney

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars, Jr

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mrs. Virginia C. Mars

Ms. Mary Martell and Mr. Paul
Johnson

Hon. William McChesney Martin, Jr.
and Mrs. Martin

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Raymond E
Mason, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Brooks McCormick

Ms. Mary B. McCulloch

Mr. and Mrs. James W. McCutcheon

Hon. and Mrs. Roberc M. McKinney

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K
McLanahan

Ms. Merrill McLoughlin

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Meers

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Melrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr

Mr. and Mrs. James Robert
Montgomery

Dr. Robert H. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. H. Duane Nelson

Mr. Paul H. Nitze

Mr. and Mrs. William M. North

Mr. and Mrs James D. Oglevee

Mr. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. George M. Page

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mr. and Mrs. Scott E. Pardee

Mrs. Daniel Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles

Mr. J. Roy Pennell, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Peterson

Mr. Dave Pfuetze

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. J. Michael Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Pitts

Mrs. Jane P. Plakias

Mr. and Mrs. Zigmund J. Podell

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Dr. Kazuko K. Price

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Radway, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Hart Rice

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Carlyn Ring

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Roberts

Hon. John D. Rockefeller 1V and Mrs.

Rockefeller
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rosenthal
Ms. Marya Rowan
Mrs. Lois B. Rowland
Mr. and Mrs. Marcos Russek
Mr. Arthur N. Ryan
Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Ms. Leidy Samson and Ms. Kathy
Kempa

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Sbar

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. Harold A. Schwartz

Mrs. Clayton B. Seagears

Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt

Mr. Harold Seybert

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz

Dr. and Mrs. Richard C. Shaw

Mr. and Mrs. Clyde E. Shorey, Jr.

Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel

Mrs. Wilson Sked

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Mr. and Mrs. Albert H. Small

Mrs. Bernice Roe Smith

Dr. Frank O. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper

Ms. Susan Steinsapir

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone

Hon. Robert D. Stuart and Mrs. Stuart

Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan

Ms. Patricia S. Swaney

Drs. Russell and Marie Swanson

Mr. R. Tevelde

Joan E. Thomas, MD

Mr. Martin A. Thomas

Mrs. Margot K. Thomson

Mrs. C. Trenckmann

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. Walter L. Vail

Mr. and Mrs. C. Woods Vest, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von Hoffmann

Ms. Nancy Voorhees

Col. Harold W. Vorhies

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Waidner

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean, Jr.

Mr. Lawrence J. Whelan and Dr.
Deborah Black

Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

Hon. John C. Whitehead and Mrs.
Whitehead

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence F. Whittemore

Mr. Julius Wile

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Williams

Mrs. W. Armin Willig

Ms. Pauline E. Williman

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Winn

Dr. Sheila Z. Wood and Mr. James L.
Annis

Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman

Ellen and Bernard Young

Mrs. Robert Zicarelli

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Patron Members

Mr. Terry L. Albertson and Ms.
Kathleen A. Blackburn

Mr. Gene R. Bates

Mr. John Baum

Ms. Jeanne V. Beekhuis

Ms. Marguerite Bender

Miss Eliza H. Bishop

Ms. J. A. Boorman

Dr. Antonio Bosch

Ms. Jo Anne Brasel

Mr. John F. Bricker

Mrs. Keith S. Brown

Mr. E. T. Byram

Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Ms. Anne K. Christman

Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett

Mr. Fred Clements

Ms. Leslie A. L. Coggins

Mr. Joseph Decaminada

Mr. E. A. DeFalco

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson

Mr. Douglas Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mrs. J. A. Gill

Ms. Ruth C. Greenberg

Mr. Harold Haverty

Mr. and Mrs. William Herbster

Mrs. H. Houseman

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes

Dr. Jay A. Jackson

Mr. John H. Johnston

Mr. Robert M. Joyce

Mrs. R. H. Karns

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy

Ms. Rebecca Klemm

Mr. Octo Kruse

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Lando

Mr. John F. Larison

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield

Mr. Robert J. Lockridge

Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean

Mr. and Mrs. M. McNulty

Mr. Vincent Mercurio

Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy, Jr.

Mr. W. T. Moran III

Mr. K. F. Mountcastle

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Nickel

Mr. James A. Pastore

Mr. Stephen E. Peat

Mr. Paul E. Pontius

Ms. Ida Vander Poorte

Mr. H. Posner, Jr.

Mr. Elmer Rasmuson

Ms. Nina Belle Redditt

Mr. L. A. Roepcke

Mr. and Mrs. L. Rothschild

Ms. Marcia Rubenstein

Hon. James H. Scheuer and Mrs.
Scheuer

Mr. C. W. Scott

Mr. Harold A. Serr

Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Sheffield

Mrs. W. Mason Shehan

Mrs. Manley H. Simons

Mr. George J. Sisley

Dr. and Mrs. Harvey C. Slocum, Jr.

Mrs. V. Spratley

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Sterling, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Turner III

Mrs. Beatrice Utley

Col. and Mrs. W. G. Van Allen

Mrs. Maria C. Volpe

Mr. James E. Wiley

Mr. Meade Willis, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Willson

Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley

Mr. Walter R. Wright
FINANCIAL REPORT

NANCY D. SUTTENFIELD,
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Introduction

The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal
appropriations and nonappropriated trust sources. Federal appropri-
ations provide funding for the Institution’s operations, for building
repair and restoration, and for new construction. They currently
comprise approximately 70 percent of the Institution’s net operat-
ing revenues and are the primary source of funding for the Institu-
tion’s fundamental responsibilities: caring for and conserving the
national collections, sustaining basic research on the collections and
in selected areas of traditional and unique strength, and educating
the public through exhibitions and other outreach programs about
the collections and research findings. Federal appropriations also
fund a majority of the administrative and support functions.
Nonappropriated trust funds account for the remaining 30 per-
cent of the Institution's net operating revenues. The Smithsonian
defines trust funds as all funds it receives from sources other than
direct federal appropriations. These sources include gifts and grants
from individuals, corporations, and foundations; grants and con-

FY 1993 Sources of Net Operating Funds

FY 1993 Sources of Net Operating Funds

Federal 72%

Gifls & Grants 6%

Investments 5%
Memberships & Sales 4%

Gov't G&C 11% Other 2%

tracts from federal agencies and other government sources; earnings
from short- and long-term investments; and receipts from member-
ship programs and sales activities, such as Smithsonian magazine,

museum shops, food service concessions, and mail order catalogues.

Smithsonian trust funds, depending on their source, purpose,
and restrictions, cover the expenses of income-producing auxiliary
activities, allow the Institution to undertake new ventures and
enhance existing programs in ways that would not otherwise be
possible, and support a portion of the Institution's administrative
expenses. Funds received from donors or funding agents who have
placed limitations on their use are classified as restricted. Over 64
percent of the trust net operating funds received in fiscal 1993
were restricted.

While the primary support for the Institution’s capital program
is federal appropriations, growing constraints on the federal budget
have required that the Smithsonian rely increasingly on public-
private cooperation through both donative and business opportuni-
ties for new construction projects. Recent examples include the
National Museum of the American Indian, which will combine
support from the state of New York, New York City, federal appro-
priations and private donations, and the West Court complex at
the National Museum of Natural History which will be paid for by
income from business activities within the museum.

The following sections describe the external environmental
factors affecting the Institution’s general financial condition, the
Institution’s financial status and its planned response to changing
conditions; specific financial outcomes for fiscal 1993; measures,
both organizational and financial, to assure the future fiscal health of
the Institution; and relationships with other affiliated organizations.

Financial Situation and Prospects

Like most educational or nonprofit institutions, the Institution has
not been immune to the impact of a fragile and sluggish economy.
As income from revenue-producing activities has declined, net

unrestricted trust fund income generated through investments and

83
central auxiliary activities has fallen to pre-1987 levels. The much
reduced levels of income that the Institution is experiencing in the
1990's combined with increased unrestricted trust expenses during
the late 1980's has resulted in a serious imbalance in unrestricted
financing. At the same time, annual increases in federal appropria-
tions to the Institution, although generous and consistent, have
largely been dedicated to specific programs and projects, such as
the National Museum of the American Indian, and have not been
available for other general operating expenses.

In the spring of 1992, the Secretary initiated a comprehensive,
multi-year financial restructuring to permit the Smithsonian to
continue its history of excellence in research, exhibitions, and edu-
cational outreach. He established two near-term goals: to redirect
approximately $30 million within the federal operating budget
and to reduce baseline expenses supported by unrestricted trust
funds by $10 million.

During fiscal 1993, the Institution made significant progress
toward realizing these goals. With the understanding and support
of the Congress, over $14 million in federal funding was redirected
to cover high priority but unfunded operating expenses. At the
same time, the Institution reduced fiscal 1993 unrestricted trust
fund expenses by over $4 million. An early retirement program for
trust-funded employees will generate additional annualized savings
in fiscal 1994. In total, the workforce paid from unrestricted trust
funds has been reduced by over 8 percent.

In the process of achieving the economies described above, the
Institution realized many benefits. It sharpened its programmatic
planning and priority setting, eliminated redundant and outdated
programs not central to the Smithsonian mission, and examined
the appropriateness of sources and uses of program funding.

The Institution has undertaken numerous special studies in
preparation for the second phase of restructuring. These studies
focus not only on options for future year downsizing and cost con-
tainment, but also on identification of new revenue-producing
opportunities and fund-raising strategies. While the restructuring
that will restore financial equilibrium is not yet complete, the
Institution has made considerable progress toward restoring its
vitality and advancing toward its primary goals.

Total Funds Provided - Fiscal 1993

(Net of Auxiliary Activity Expenses)

Total Funds Provided - Fiscal 1993

(Net of Auxiliary Activity Expenses)

Fiscal 1993 Results

Revenues and other additions during fiscal 1993 totalled $670
million. When adjusted to eliminate auxiliary activity expenses of
$175 million, net revenues provided $495 million for operations,
construction and additions to endowment principal.

Operations (Tables 1, 2, and 3)
Fiscal 1993 Sources of Net Operating Funds

Percent
Gross Net Net
Sources Sources — Sources
($millions) ($millions)  (%)
Federal Appropriation 295.6 295.6 V2
Trust
Unrestricted 215.8 40.3 10
Restricted
Gov't Grants and Contracts 43.8 43.8 11
General Restricted E2922) 29.2 pay!
Total Available for Operations 584.4 408.9 100

The fiscal 1993 federal appropriation of $295.6 million provid-
ed the funding nucleus for ongoing programs of the Institution
and increased support for the new National Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian, the proposed African-American Museum, major scien-
tific instrumentation, and global change research. Approximately
$6 million of the $14 million in federal funds that were redirected
as part of the Institution's multi-year restructuring and realign-
ment covered the unfunded cost of legislated fiscal 1993 salary
adjustments. The balance of approximately $8 million was redi-
rected to high priority programs including exhibition moderniza-
tion at the National Museum of Natural History, replacement of
outdated research equipment, information resource management
initiatives, and preventive maintenance and building repairs.

The Smithsonian ended fiscal 1993 with an increase of $1.1 mil-
lion in the unrestricted trust fund balance, compared to a decrease
of $7.4 million for the previous year. Factors contributing to this
improved result were the reduction of baseline operating costs of
$4.1 million and the decision to forego on an interim basis the
annual $3 million transfer of unrestricted funds to endowment.
Net income from auxiliary activities improved slightly from fiscal
1992, providing over $24 million of the Institution's net revenues.
While food service concessions, the Smithsonian Press and product
development and licensing recorded significant gains, the Associ-
ates Programs, Mail Order and the Museum Shops experienced a
decrease in earnings, in part as a result of capital investments
designed to enhance future years’ revenues.

In fiscal 1993, the Institution received $43.8 million from gov-
ernment agencies, an increase of $1.1 million, or 3 percent, over
fiscal 1992. Support from government agencies constitutes an
important source of research monies for the Institution while also
benefiting the granting agencies by providing access to Smith-
sonian expertise and resources. Table 2 reflects the primary sources
of this funding. The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory ac-
counted for $39.2 million, or 90 percent, of all government grant
Table 1. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 1993 (in $000s)
Nonappropriated Trust Funds Total
Restricted Federal Funds and
= tora Nonappropriated
Gov't Noa: Trust Funds
Federal Un- Grants & Appropriated
Funds Restricted General Contracts Trust Funds FY 1993 FY 1992
FUND BALANCES - Beginning of Year . . $3,792 $37,516 $28,132 $ — $65,648 69,440 62,766
(see Note 1)
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations (see Note 2) .... $295,560 = = — — 295,560 281,183
Investment Income :.:....----:-----; — 10,086 9,059 — 19,145 19,145 14,170
Government Grants and Contracts ..... = = = 43,767 43,767 43,767 42,689
Gifts & Non-Government Grants ...... — 9,386 16,162 — 25,548 25,548 40,110
Sales and Membership Revenue ........ — 190,821 — — 190,821 190,821 188,591
OninG? 5 .co Un Hen eu 6 Cee cee eee ens — 5,490 4,037 — 9,527 9,527 6,046
Total Funds Provided ............. 295,560 215,783 29,258 43,767 288,808 584,368 572,789
sloralpAvatlablewenmerrarm-riaccracsce- 299,352 253,299 57,390 43,767 354,456 653,808 635,555
FUNDS APPLIED:
Sczences:
PASSISLANS SECLELALY) sfeereieletes eiclie line 853 469 254 320 1,043 1,896 2,198
@fficelofithe’Registrar 7. .-...--<---- — — — — — — 225
Fellowships and\Grants .-..........-- 437 1,659 360 _- 2,019 2,456 2,698
Astrophysical Observatory ............ 14,000 7,489 610 39,221 47,320 61,320 58,620
Less Overhead Recovery ............ — (6,048) — —- (6,048) (6,048) (5,009)
Tropical Research Institute ........... 7,691 1,345 834 522 2,701 10,392 9,190
Environmental Research Center ....... 2,459 270 152 795 1,217 3,676 3,844
National Zoological Park ............. 17,986 1,023 607 775 2,405 20,391 20,484
SmiuthsomianvArchives) saece5 2... <2 1,367 80 10 — 90 1,457 957
Smithsonianilibraries) 22.--.--...--5-- 6,794 743 61 — 804 7,598 6,780
International Environmental
DGlencebrop rane eet le <i) 735 ae — — —_ 735 903
Major Scientific Instrumentation. ...... 10,172 os — — — 10,172 2,282
National Museum of Natural History.... 35,082 1,978 3,457 1,248 6,683 41,765 39,368
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ..... 2,862 52 8 = 60 2,922 2,823
Museumisupport Genter) 22..5........ 3,125 1 — _ 1 3,126 7,104
MLOtallSGlemCes were scsi eas se tous spevcscususntvous 103,563 9,061 6,353 42,881 58,295 161,858 152,467
Arts and Humanities:
ACSC EAE SAALING & ago enaSeRene neat 1,878 912 3 — 1,085 2,963 2,422
Office of Museum Programs ........... 563 63 iil — 74 637 627
Nosephiilenntyskapersier sees sce ascii i — — — — —_ 278
AIMEL{CADSCUGIES| cece 2. ae cvicis ci cus — — — — — — 125
National Air & Space Museum ......... 11,860 4,945 1,504 368 6,817 18,677 18,872
National Museum of American History . 17,982 1,891 1,732 264 3,887 21,869 23,860
National Postal Museum.............. 447 15 35307 — B52 ayy Thy) =
National Museum of
thevAmericaniIndian -2..-......-.-- 9,072 237 14 — 251 9,323 8,485
National Museum of American Art .... . 7,673 1,271 L597 — 2,868 10,541 10,275
INationalliPortrart!Galleny) (ee ee 5,105 466 105 = S71 5,676 5,260
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden 4,121 653 1,796 — 2,449 6,570 10,524
RreemGallenyiotArteere veces eecieerir 2,368 200 4,881 — 5,081 7,449 6,332
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery ............ 3,040 8 SWZ — 1,580 4,620 4,595
Archives of American Art ............. 1,360 87 835 — 922 2,282 2,210
Cooper-Hewitt Museum ..............- 2,362 2,492 892 37 3,421 5,783 5,043
National Museum of African Art ....... 3,845 64 75 — 139 3,984 3,961
(Anacostia Musenm. sae seein desee es 1,153 222 27 — 249 1,402 1,283
Office of Exhibits Central ............. 2,245 34 — — 34 2,279 2,163
Traveling Exhibition Service .......... 2,261 1,002 1,782 il 2,785 5,046 4,619
Total Artand Humanities ........ 77,335 14,562 20,313 670 35,545 112,880 110,934
Education and Public Service:
PASSIStAnU, SECLE CAL Varies racist 408 307 26 — 333 741 775
Center for Folklife Programs
anci@ultunalustidiesssmerericeem ce = 1,230 Ee 120 (75) 1,216 2,446 2,919
Ofc of Elementary & Secondary Education 89 285 146 65 496 985 773

ie
Table 1.

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 1993 (in $000s) (continued)

Total

Restricted Federal Funds and
Total Nee Fetes
Gov't Nene onappropriate
4 Trust Funds
Federal Un- Grants & Appropriated
Funds Restricted General Contracts Trust Funds FY 1993 FY 1992
National Science Resources Center ..... 269 25 — — 215 484 433

Total Education and Public Service 2,396 1,978 292 (10) 2,260 4,656 4,900
International Center/Activities . 780 467 301 276 1,044 1,824 2,577
External Affatrs:

Assistant; SEGLEtaLy-mraetiter teristic renters 155 743 170 8 921 1,076 1,107
Office of Telecommunications ......... 362 616 211 2 829 1,191 1,295
Visitor Information &

Associates’ Reception Center........ 186 1,295 65 — 1,360 1,546 1,258
Office of Special Events & Conferences . . 95 138 — 138 233 DSS}
Smithsonian Institution Press ......... 1,532 16,513 31 — 16,544 18,076 21,231
ASSOGIAtESIELO PAI Sepiel-te etal lel tele cheleas stoi = 100,216 59 — 100,275 100,275 96,489
IMediarAtctivitiesrecrrmatstteriiisiereiatar — 21 — — AI 21 —

Total External Affairs ............. 2,330 119,542 536 10 120,088 122,418 121,635
Institutional Initiatives ............. 57 4,966 260 —_ 5,226 5,283 5,007
Business Management/Activities .... = 52,096 — == 52,096 52,096 51,724
Admininistrationinn rate lori eee 27,829 17,139 15532 = 18,671 46,500 42,933

Less Overhead Recovery .......... — (10,466) — = (10,466) (10,466) (10,591)

Racilitiestsenvices) sscciaeiiecie sneer 78,991 1,381 12 — 15393) 80,384 78,105
Transfers Out!(In):
A EASULYeyers sa ence esate ere eteeire reise 1,917 _- — — — 1,917 1,653
IO ET Ot oA OO aur ase Datta — (238) 2,249 (60) 1,951 1,951 743
OMNIS cosnaaounoponokednee se he = 4.234 3,380 — 7,614 7,614 SAS

slotalghcansterssetieiee eee 1,917 3,996 5,629 (60) 9,565 11,482 9,970

otal!/Funds Applied... ...-- 2... - 295,198 214,722 35,228 43,767 293,717 588,915 569,661

Increase/(Decrease) in Unobligated

Balance, Annual Appropriation .... . 4,815 = = — = 4,815 3,546
CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES ...... DAT! 1,061 (5,970) — (4,909) 268 6,674
FUND BALANCES - End of Year

(seeINotell)y 5 45 sictscrssrenteteveyersievsyevstorst ote

$8,969

$38,577 $22,162 ==

$60,739

$69,708 $69,440

Note 1: FY 1993 Federal fund balances include unobligated funds in annual and no-year appropriations, offset by the cost of unfunded annual leave. FY 1992
Federal fund balances and expenditures reflected in last year's report have been adjusted to incorporate the cost of unfunded annual leave.

Note 2: Excludes $154 thousand in FY 1992 and $179 thousand in FY 1993 received as a permanent indefinite appropriation for Canal Zone Biological Area

Fund. Also excludes $1,319 thousand received in FY 1992 and $1,145 thousand received in FY 1993 from the Department of State for research projects

in India.

86
Table 2. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (in $000s)

Sales and Net
Membership Revenue
Revenue Gifts Expenses (Loss)
TAY 1992. wiccbicatshGeepnDetDD Ap naa ns HOODS ae ae ee $188,591 $8,296 $173,366 $23,521
FY 1993:
Central Auxiliary Activities:
ANAC CARES RSIS, cog oaqdcobecncomaaconGcHedcouedoeeHNLonunor $103,764 $8,500 $100,183 $12,081
Business Management: (see Note 1)
—Museumpshops/Mail@rdetiserrciiericieieieielersiei-l-7 eis eee nie: ree 53,106 — 48,406 4,700
Pen LSCTICESSIONS EE i, Po TLCS Ne ee tedencike cree nO ayes mee 4,010 — 2,791 1,219
a tere mena eects cstete totes oe cterhrorenisucteNadays daveaeys ecg rasaiahansgarertacSet ae asa pare 2,092 _ 899 eis}
Simnideoniam IMTOO IES oncooongeoosdgguccdsuadscsuusaooonD 16,845 — 16,388 457
WMetitapa Ghivitiest(GeeuINOteml) im tusperaten-taict severe) siererelsPajsrsvaisiiopc¥stsea cfonets stcusuals 76 — 21 55
Bureau Auxiliary Activities:
Air and Space Theatre & Einstein Planetarium ...................... 4,216 — 2,359 1,857
Coopembewitt Museum met tsar rte lie eee sacri ts 1,004 32 694 342
Tieaniellings IS davl yO INAS casa nsuanoo Jedd sboobeskeeeccocosnoddoc 679 — 509 170
(CYTE soon todo BOB SO PIO RET Er oatOIeTCHE DIS TERRE RC ICE otic OCT En CRE eect SsistAsiehs 5,029 373 3,190 2,212
Trail EN’ MODs) 5c cuca don ae Bere thss ORD Te pat CCRT ane $190,821 $8,905 $175,440 $24,286

Note 1: Before revenue-sharing transfers to participating Smithsonian bureaus of $1,869 thousand (FY 1992) and $2,058 thousand (FY 1993).

Table 3. | Government Grants and Contracts-Expenditures, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (in $000s)

Government Agencies FY 1992 INES)
De PALLIMIEL HOLMDEL EMSC MEM META tet ney tres eae ftir overshot teva phon starab tena sete opel ate sonra everett a PRS APS ee ee es cbt a $779 $1,464
DgpEment OF EMEA? .osdiccnd SoD SO OOS EO NEO Oni plerts tie tar eaten itn PIM eterna on er AE ras Hen eG Wau ereas 499 676
Depanumentaomeleal thyandikluman: SELViCeS a patcl ores ser avsciers a edernisiercigioks Soyo fe ie 8 eee eee eerste 591 471
iDepacimerr Gi lator -y oeedOes GaSe aeta nnn da dou eE POU en nes macro S hres rons bpOhE os hha wninny dan nce 807 485
National PAeronauticsjand space, Administratioml(SeeNotel l)))2 24223 sistorere o)elohe oe) 10) eleva) ole) e ele ie ie lee © elas elope iaiee fete nin == B1999 37,402
NationalkScienceshoundationi(SeeyIN@te-2)) yay) -ns ste ssts eysicr stesso 's0s a syos ouaus) psc alone) = ate vile s0e ons) ehotede cloisin shots tate level siete aise toteiete aie = 1,627 1,897
QUIN? 2 ¢ o4.070°S BS ROU OOO DOO SG EO TCIICTTOCIOR IG CHIC cne nae er ca ciC crea ear ICCC er erie lista ste en renee err 2,387 1,372
Tarall «000 dsc eae 6 Oo SOE EE TERTO Rc CREAT eee ee eT ee oan ean orn EPEC cin Bt at Se 6 bie Poona Eh $42,689 $43,767

Note 1: Includes $895 thousand (FY 1992) and $204 thousand (FY 1993) in subcontracts from organizations receiving prime contracts from the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Note 2: Includes $314 thousand (FY 1992) and $118 thousand (FY 1993) in National Science Foundation subcontracts from Chesapeake Research Consortium.

lI
and contract activity at the Smithsonian in fiscal 1993. The
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) provided
the majority of this funding to support research.

Restricted income from gifts, non-government grants, and
endowments totalling $29.3 million supported a wide range of
educational and exhibition programs throughout the Institution.
The Smithsonian is especially grateful to its many friends in the
private sector whose generosity contributed vitally to its work.
Donors are listed in the Benefactors section of the report.

Endowment (Tables 4, 5, 6, and 7)

The Institution pools its endowment funds for investment purpos-
es into a consolidated portfolio, with each endowment purchasing
shares similar to an investor in a mutual fund.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smithsonian’s Board of
Regents establishes investment policy and recommends the annual
payout for the consolidated endowment. The investment policy
focuses on the total return (i.e., dividends, interest, and realized and
unrealized capital gains) on the portfolio. The Institution strives to
provide a growing stream of payouts for current expenditures and to
maintain the real purchasing power of the endowment. Current pol-
icy calls for an average payout of 4.5 percent of the average market
value over the prior 5 years. With this payout policy, to achieve the
endowment’s objectives, the investment policy targets a real rate of
return of 5 percent. The following chart illustrates the growth in
market value of the endowment funds over the past five years.

Market Value of Endowment Funds

Market Value of Endowment Funds

During fiscal 1993, the market value of the endowment increased
from $343.6 million to $387.6 million. The $44 million growth
included $10.5 million in new gifts and internal transfers. Particu-
larly noteworthy were gifts received for the Enid A. Haupt Garden
Endowment, the Sackler Public Affairs Endowment, and the Earl S.
Tupper Endowment for the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.
The total return for the consolidated endowment was 13.9 percent,
the payout was 4.6 percent of the average market value over the
prior five years, and fees were 0.3 percent of the average market
value of the portfolio. With an annual inflation rate of 2.7 percent,
the real purchasing power of the endowment increased by 7.4 per-
cent. At year-end, the Insticution’s consolidated portfolio comprised
59 percent in equities, 33 percent in bonds, and 8 percent in cash
and cash equivalents.

88

Construction and Plant Funds (Table 8)

In fiscal 1993, the Smithsonian received federal appropriations for
construction totalling $48.7 million. Approximately half, $24.2
million, was for general repair, restoration, and code compliance
projects throughout the Institution, including the replacement of
major building systems at the National Museum of Natural His-
tory and National Museum of American History. Appropriations
for major construction included $9.9 million for the reconfigura-
tion of the National Museum of Natural History's East Court and
$2.1 million for the planned National Museum of the American
Indian. The National Zoological Park received $7.8 million for
repairs and other projects in its master plan, including construc-
tion of the Aquatic Trail, Grasslands and Forest exhibits. Appro-
priations for minor construction and planning for future capital
projects totaled approximately $4.7 million.

Additions and transfers to plant funds totalled $14.2 million,
including $12.4 million for constructing facilities for the National
Museum of the American Indian and the first payment of a $3 mil-
lion pledge for construction of the Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
Hall of Geology, Gems and Minerals in the National Museum of
Natural History.

Financial Management

The Institution's Chief Financial Officer, the Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration, has responsibility for safeguarding all
of the Institution's assets, ensuring integrated financial planning,
and coordinating all financial management functions.
The Institution took the first major step towards replacement of
its outdated central accounting system with a phased implementa-
tion of a new accounts payable/purchase order module beginning
on October 1, 1993. This action coincided with the implementa-
tion of a new contracting system in the Office of Contracting and
Property Management. These two systems provide greatly en-
hanced control over and improved information about purchasing
and payables activities at the Smithsonian. Planning for imple-
mentation of a new general ledger and budgeting system is well
underway.
Other financial management improvement initiatives under-
taken in fiscal 1993 include:
¢ Expanded scope and depth of annual audit to assure compliance
with all relevant government and private sector standards.
¢ Reorganization and system upgrades by the Museum Shops,
reducing inventory investment by $1 million.

¢ Change from a fully insured health plan to a minimum premi-
um arrangement, whereby the Institution maintains its own
reserves and retains premiums until funds are required to pay
claims. This change allows the Institution to earn interest on the
over $1 million recovered.

¢ Identification of information technology priorities through an

Institution-wide information resource management planning

process. The resulting acquisition plan will result in wiser dis-

tribution of resources in this critical area.

¢ Implementation of a number of organizational and reporting
realignments recommended following an independent
Table 4. Endowment and Similar Funds, September 30, 1993 (in $000s)

Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
Cagn eoyal GaAs bss 6810 60 ote p.0.05 DO OA SOG ee OneNote iene Ar eee ear pe ee a arain cin KAAS $28,840 $28,840
NAc rarat MEU S Heerete tere tey=g-tefeisea eke psie eta isdeis ic eve evi skeativeecs.a-cscase PROSCAR Pen br coor ue.s aut sore oohiotEooucsnaucescuEs 28,726 33,602
lhaemiimeal REGWASE 5 < So's Stic 6.00 0 CO OOO OE EE eT ne nee ee eae we aa osoouh 2,511 2501
US, Guremment anal Covcinmene Oi AwOns so sesanadbuousuondodsnh sae daocudadusononsunnesnuconacoosensuenmuoue 60,166 64,670
BORaR. a2: cencon oo0d eae DOOD EO OU ee ee ee eee eis a ee a 66,230 70,707
Camvcnilole Pri@aral pa dauccdoudio sudo) ¢ Ot U tae tee ets at tne Rn rs oo. aca tet Se oy aera 1,428 1,785
SHOES ce o0.a0.0.0t-0-0,p cis 6 BOS Oba. RDI chat ate ee cena ea ne er ae or deat erature Trees 142,025 192,596
Reasivalalle (tar Saewanes Sal lela sore erotics arte cne cece ROR ECHR nr CRC et retina se ca I ean a ae RA 181 181
Trowail (Re) leal Intrenals: diets aie. ctaigtomcteic lotic oo ed ce RRC ee ne, ie orgs ira eee ae pal ee eae ew 330,107 394,892
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
HOR ELOM RSM LLEAS HI by gM CLP ECU CVs lens 7 ayers; = tones er eves saniniawaes: Tote feces) eadyises (sh onasctersWitelee: EDO ero ce EE PE eee 1,027 1,106
IREESIATIES 2.01 0 aoiecon Big pktea ib Bb .2-O TSO CET ERC tC ee ARR Re Rec a a nS ee ae eee Se 19 19
IamasEMeNGs fin Chynmiielollenyansis orotic oecieee ee nee eee RRR Se RST TR te etre oO on a nos 656 932
‘Terall INioayaeel lel LENT ATGIS, uc: cuaket aCe NENG ERG CCT ca RCC cea cae rare Reet eR BR A een eed 1,702 2,057
TRGGElL A\SSEES 0:8. ond och ba: ROO OPA EREROI CRG So CECE Ee EEE cs er PER oar SCS See eg ee eee es $331,809 $396,949
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:
LIABILITIES:
Piyalalies (or GReUOTES fwlliee acne,” pep getee nee ice Sree err ene ania Prater en olaeicioettadaiooc 5 nia. cacao nett irs Zener $8,430 $8,430
Delameal Rexvemtra— Chargielo 9 hat ene wa orcs See Oem een ENT A Onis MER Me inden Birra conc aiae Geren aa.ouirs mene ce 656 932
Tegal LARA CS. 5.0 asic & caps dane rac cae ons tt IO er 9, ce 9,086 9,362
FUND BALANCE:
Unrestricted Purpose:
THAR JERE 3.0 2 o are chore atenchrs 6 CODEN REIN T oeIERE CE RSET  ee nr ee a  A 8,405 10,846
(QWwAS STG ELGINS 5c ols orp crete etal ee ERE EE ent eee IrCC eta PS 138,938 163,546
Sora mW rites trictecl@vinpOsemesyeyst ect fe cissesrn crea 2 Srcyer cr <hsccsiar ste an eae hav onsy sue capone roecr 8 ST STO Ae eo san 147,343 174,392
Restricted Purpose:
Tinwi 1 mlORATNEINE. S'S o.Sy 3.ciG oR CONN ter er eRe ECR ee a ER Aa, rene oe ret ieee Le ota ee 114,337 140,329
(QUES EMELOTAAEDG- a 5.655 Ga SASS Bl Bae ee Oct ST ne en Ea itn Din ae nee ine mee NS ae 61,043 72,866
plotalBWestriccecp le UupOse mp esrt cyeytceisers: rae s avs eteensieycue 8 cee ws See COreney SOU ve ee NS I rnc Sicrare te Suse esCEe Rene Taro as 175,380 2135195
“Waveall Tayayal BER YESS 5s aaseceerevacdeahn es Sacre N EET eke eee eae ee eek a ee ee eee 322,723 387,587
‘Tenall ibfeloyiiigies amal imal Balkwess Sesuscccec sow es Geen oS bens Gt 2 Reena IMA cL tonts.o haters: Henan cas clon eee $331,809 $396,949
Table 5. Market Values of Endowment and Similar Funds (in $000s)
Fund 9/30/89 9/30/90 9/30/91 9/30/92 9/30/93
(UINRESOBEREED o.5.0.3:5 dG SS G0 ca Ce ere OC eS Oe eee een ee $127,394 $117,123 $143,205 $156,395 $174,392
IEE, 6 5 co e's GS SOD WACO TGS ISIEENG Oe Bret eee ne enn en 53,731 47,963 57,775 61,523 67,484
KO) EE TARES CLI GCE PEER TEP TCC oreercec ite crore cue reden rarest ts ey Recents I en CPE OOS 98,540 89,430 112,796 125,695 145,711
TORI 2.2 S:o-tighenenteee-tio pine RROD OOO IENe Ge CE re REE ERECT ERC ee $279,665 $254,516 $313,776 $343,613 $387,587

\
Table 6. | Changes in Market Value of Endowment and Similar Funds (in $000s)

Unrestricted Freer Restricted Total

MarkeciValveilOWUO Ds wc siacsstetecetarsteesjavataveysveysyeretersectatee sv crsvejetecstenereiefelsiets ete $156,395 $61,523 $125,695 $343,613
Changes:
Gi fest e acgera cr kcremeseschevexeuae lotta oie ehe ccleole cacele one one Maley teste kere tere caehoh = 79 — 5,785 5,864
(CHIGHONT SW amananpaeacno Shon Spee oncar nanmins saonecoooMsonspDaIdIo 3,725 — 2,920 6,645
InternalsDransters:, crayacpeczccsrs avaserevere one ekcteton (ene utes teopaieictoleteioretas eueatastsre (859) — (1,168) (2,027)
Other

InceresteandiDividends: @.ca.c crete scacraiciesiere erniene ein remo Sie Sere fene wick re 7,823 3,043 6,421 17,287

Marker valuesAppreciationyrtenn-telviciochoeeienerscnsishterstet stents: ct tatererctaianate 13,674 5,428 11,379 30,481

ROUTE BhoongnbbonD ona Qn os SoBdOodeoDanEUOoMoMatondapeuddnHodd (5,885) (2,290) (4,857) (13,032)

EROTICA ae pbddoadnbocbooussoouboundo dahon onoecans sodcghoods (560) (220) (464) (1,244)
Markerivalues9/3 0/98 cmcretettaeieeiietercrcyerers) evotetola oteterersieteneveseteretct a erate rene $174,392 $67,484 $145,711 $387,587
Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1993

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
Av eryaRund(SeeNlotenl.) maeteermtaptiblcin sysetercselel oletenserste nthedalene yteferte street $275,975 $363,771 $12,753 $ _
Eliz beemblarryaMemorialiirervarserereperclelalctoletereiete cre ietiets atelier -vercislekeretel as 99,186 127,734 4,334 =
odekinsyRundi(GeevNotel)) i i rercrcrsteperystateiedoteyatefarseo tals fet halls lotelarlefelatsioicrele 394,931 464,252 19,156 —
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J., Memorial Fund .............-.. de eset 43,631 50,445 1,711 —
Morcowal wiphtaw duentetrs mrteciictetetercferetovers attorneys otter sromn ols isrsia terete see 497,717 666,469 22,611 —
IMIDE Nbeenal, athens eatinaen meee Oto pat Ode ana s Ome Onc oUD So man ISwleitsyit 194,904 6,613 —
Olmsted hfe leniAven. 5.5 sas vorsisucue uk chs arorsds eerie scree alciare tusremeretcimee isis ateteys 5,149 6,803 231 —
Poore, Lucy T. and George W. (See Note 1) .......-. SIE Takaat 4 meee 1,099,466 1,466,033 50,521 —_—
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial ....... BS Ass sos Peace te CUE Oa ne 1,839,228 2,461,027 83,496 —
Sanford’ Georgevkin (Sees Notes) mmrccnteriacketieiclelsysteiirete eleretcls)sncicheleisisteeets 7,442 9,511 355 —
Soithsoneames;(SeedNoreil)) str tars cere ccislspsteter-fatets caetoter petal -/Vateiaterraeeenoiaye 268,246 280,437 7,815 —
Sree Sas cye |EGNGIY 555 canons vhocyoocoodadooabodudcodonaaonse 850,408 919,581 47,090 —
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research (Designated) ............. 2,872,444 3,835,576 130,131 125,358
Subtotal: dspiteec ct yoeiticcne toe caters atte eereiteaectnem eet satelels 8,404,974 10,846,543 386,817 125,358

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:
EtclkGhanlesvykle Rundtpsee mitre cise seis sae eenh ey etree err Geren tictpe mic 1,261,968 1,472,134 49,945 —
BersusonwbrancesiB yy ENGOwMent mletetetsssieterersicleteletaietellelelelelelatet=tsiciele)velorele 644,175 730,435 24,782 —
RorrestwRODerc lee Maman rer serescyetecicpsoecdhesa, persia eee teres eae eroven Snetas eters 6,406,168 7,416,527 251,622 —
Rundiforthe kucure— Unrestricted -aceeieiseeieiiete tice cites 48,617 50,620 675 —_—
GenerallEndowmenti(SeelNoterl))).c:. caer rae en aieteeeieeietteeicie cieacieicters 109,078,379 128,909,906 4,379,024 _—
Goddard Robertsee) .:..3/2e sci. acuateterstorsmsseskete tetera ateronetetteoyey sc) stores rss es 50,712 58,734 1,993 —
abel! (Dri Sx (SeenNotes)) meenatsicetercrcctaerncie teres Ceceaeeee teetnelc oreree)cyonces 785 849 43 —
lart,Gustavus: Eimer eerste cc ett iote ce erent PIO = 5G = bis eres 3,479 4,396 149 —
enry,:Caroline mercer orn te eee ae ee ee SNAP ae fitoe if 8,598 10,840 368 a
Fenny) osephtanditiarniet, AG, e.nenerieie cae eee erence erree tertor 344,938 433,582 14,710 os
leyssiMatidel Gis eer antec aceite tere reer eeaaee 618,354 721,668 24,484 co
Elintons Carrie Susanne tee ee ee En eeeei as 172,319 211,111 7,162 —
KoreenDorothysB acer rien cease ciate rcece eee 228,551 251,826 8,544 os
ambertyPaull ava ras stra ccvss techs cac epentictoiche tceshens toasts ei era ae 312,930 387,311 13,140 —_
Medinus\Grace\ Dix. credo cic Uh SRtcci nih ate sca stored coer ate cre eens 6,136 7,183 244 —
OjDea barra ere recccetcene Moc reval ners cctivers cheer eerie rer TCA CSTTOT IRS 207,093 246,604 8,367 =
Phillips; Roy Rs, sEstates’ whoa Pacigciae aoe sett erelaeterneic eee eer eeterer 863,495 993,580 36,607 —
TRESS AE eS (SESINGISIDY SScooeoccascaccdasnmucectdansenccs 4,267 5,205 194 —
Safford: Glarasouise teen iint ci nceee hoe ee Eee een 285,186 337,084 11,436 =
Smithsonian Bequest Fund (See Note 1) ...........--s00-eeeeeeee eens 2,267,457 2,173,163 73,836 —
SultnersDonaldbhivEndowmentaer eerie ea eeeree cree ceteine seer 529,467 904,116 30,652 —
Mae gartn Ganson} wan cei cstrsiciractacletaes acres eee Sica cae eet 3,091 4,107 139 =
Witnterer vALIGe Ts c5.15,csyesstsnd,ccstevapenecs ta. (a sayenevereneschonerers sraheusvenerssustene tena severe ies 157,845 155,219 D297); —_—
Abbott Walliamiles (Designated) Narre mete ceeracieiaseee eee 809,157 1,019,153 34,577 59,531
BatstowsbredericiOn (Desienated) menses eee Meee rere ner 6,769 8,518 289 6,425
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated). .................-- 3,258,009 3,974,061 129,062 —
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) .................... 2,973,196 3,529,776 119,756 202,879
MindberzhyiGharlessAm(Desipnated) ise aqaen seen ce erieeenieeeae 48,562 56,830 1,928 12,450
lyons Marcusaward Jr (Designated) inners tae ree eerie: 32,825 38,659 1,311 4,901
Martin Marietta Internship (Designated) .........-+-.2.e+2e-+e:++-ec:- 210,402 253,642 8,605, 2,422
INIMINIEResearch\(Designated)) saceeisnaetehen nese rece crioce 99,742 100,860 3,344 3,806
INZP Programs) (Desionated) I en-rese rete erecta 3,318,479 3,325,735 56,417 41,417

90

Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1993 (continued)

Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) ..................0...0..-.
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) ................-.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Eaelawamcne omel (Deseret) sescncoccctuccucenvnseseduonoupocar
Webb, James E., Fellowship (Designated) ........ eee Hn nio cg sree
Women’s Committee Fellowship (Designated) .......................

Subtotal rea bece erect aa | eatin sors aickerove Secs Savtpetinies ake

froraliWinrestricted Purposes tearac sees eet else) 111-11) etree

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
AtkenwAnnielcaunteyEndowment Bund) auc cce cee cece ces ee cities weiss
AN, | AENES: 2.0.0 BARD OS GARR ROR ROA a AHA aae eEANE Ee OR TORE nob Ooee
Bkvinel, Saenear eulllsaiin oo sonessssesoonosnneo sue eeeee ee neseepacoEes
Bkanmeyy, Allies lee, IM ienaieell 25 see snosaneoos soon aHOnanaoesaanooeaes
BACHE ORPD UUTIay Lata eye et terrae = ud = eictsoeltie rs Whe pore (ojasete ices et iayeseteeeps chs
Beaurerarde GatherinessMemOnialls ere as stele elas ls eieie)einie)= © sine + ae
Remsen, Cardone We voces nant SEeincrnecee ee Eee ee re TOD Oa OREe
Soom, lvaleard! WL see he see es De aaa Sneath alle nee oan ae Meee ee
Burch, George, Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and
AthiratedmbheoreticsciencesyRUNd .2-2- 40.00. 24s ee aclececeeeie es -
(Cantidlal, Nxealentes /i\s.5 6 op seu So oreo eT or eae Cee cae
(Casey, Iaoms ie oo4 soonqnncanaan sop enoossaeeneenae alo ada ooeE
Chamiberlainmbrancest eaten cr kctitts «eens clave ara oe Sus dee lay. 3 G syevae(ereneirons
Coopemkundstonbaleobiolopys crysis fers Vsti =i=1-) + ofa) = ol ayes ciegsieisio ie
Detbe lea Charl este Meese ves ea eet coho oi A cisa'g al eue snentievanotersisveveire
DivistontoimMammals\Gurators)Rkund) sssses cece see ee seca sae o
[Dyealige INSEE OI, Soe cto Oe DoDI CG © Dace a Rete Renee iene trae aeieyed acti ey
Drouet, Francis, and Louderback, Harold B., Fund .....................
Dykes Ghat les MBE IES Cheer teenie etevelsra dias seiepetebabaue,sisialised sep ctsehecs altace 2
atone lantiet@onil lips memwrrecsaevereparvaresererysicver wensrorars fe eevee. wk euayerae arene
Bickemeyerablorence BLevOOntmemee iin ciiyey ria escent oketed-sieisi ick
Bypyalley INiaaaO tll os kono. core a8 de orld anreien oer horn cenOran en Tenor Icica cman on ae
Hor besmEd warclewal cl Owmereyiiemny. snr sba say onesie tie tare ete ees mietiemea oe
ce etm Ghar lesM lemme dgevereter weve cstenct- ca cues sus cnccleyatvie tase Gua nieve tue Gea sta Stes e eae
Global Environmental Endowment Fund ......................-2+----
(Grr, SAE ING, .cicio.c. cate Soe SS ee ee Oe Oe Rep eee TORIC Ae
(Garo. Basic We 269555 sg Sees Ree ete ee Oe eo
(Guegedicim, IDaarclamael tiem Goosccocacucssoudaeseovodooeduaeen
RENO, AES (SSINCHE ID) ainecosssensbegacoDoUsO oom recoo oC DOs OE
FLAN em ACK Gra lcle riper te pere, poem ia. ere fatevcns pede seqayssersyobe s leielene¥spanarencl tay sa5ie
Henderson, Edward P. and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund .................
MewittewE leanomG-Repair hun) seyrge qe eei-iocie hie areca ee
IRL, Sate (Caer ois ctneen eae Soe Sia egy Meee eects crac aie
ML VeremVAC eileen se teyte ie tiacavatacrts create eovstinyeapt eee eee aiemomisbegs mate 2
PRE CHCOGR PAL CLES O MIRA Te ok cory arnirtl Ey Seid de Turon histatins
Inieale| ing ltrmel (Gasinewe l)) coosposnbegoss0eusonodssaddundooouaeone
EIcdhickawAlesrandeM antowan sre ne rick renectincknis ccctehnis ok scacrtveoscostuere nie
ISIE TSS, IBA 5.5659 6.4 bo ances ence Teme Tate OOOO e ORT oD Som ora
incime tonvonb)licationieundie reer eernreadehieek see setae aisiceiee
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography. .....................--
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial .....................-.
Xian, INFICEN" a glgig dis dg Clb Sa OO RA CICA ae Oe aD Minories
Xho Sei, NING 6 Se onds ob ROO a ABU Os OF Mc ee Reet cere mer citer
Mandi ilanryandiBeverlyareressnascriccnieneiintacs.cr cere cinerea
NERC IMERVIRs “aaesdodadaga sane gure ot Coes ad See o ao rae
Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment ...................-5-
MellonjPublicationssEndowment Fund) 22 9caeses- ses ssc. sae eee ene =
Miliikenwhie OothouteMemorialaeee see ereee cence once center.
MineralBEndowmentarmemer rere ci aise nce snares, svevslone asta seats eer
Mirchell aWrlliamypAC sreterier er rises fen icis.cicke aye clceat sists
Museum of the American Indian—Heye Foundation. ..................
INMATE ducationallbndowment Eund| eres. scse neers se eee:
iNelmsmienninesendowmentehund) secre oe cee eee 2 see eee aie
ING som, leh eral We Goo peck cto oe eas hoe nao Eeeeesane doneas
Retrocel liq) osepheMemorial aap peace meetin ek ice acc cern erence
Reid eA ddisonwle(SeesNoteil) parm tirn smntants a isos seins neem steers

Principal
Book Market
Value Value
17,606 22,570
1,967,090 2,473,530
980,830 1,408,149
1,516,230 1,643,525
195,549 204,399
138,938,456 163,545,607
$147,343,430 $174,392,150
381,208 467,744
248,152 333,813
223,321 298,394
177,863 239,212
205,035 247,439
329,055 398,849
21,539 24,705
204,038 256,221
1,998,036 2,245,006
263,873 367,786
85,095 107,170
174,637 234,876
252,575 287,545
104,365 104,588
18,206 22,000
1,155,310 1,401,405
418,072 471,788
326,805 406,131
73,799 81,941
67,389 90,625
34,622 38,442
1,146,648 1,295,110
53,650,662 67,484,324
3,455 3,823
182,421 211,433
185,729 212,835
725,805 863,472
6,561 7,856
1,695,041 1,691,574
311,367 333,616
44,525 54,288
263,060 320,439
44,623 56,200
9,902 13,372
156,953 169,718
326,914 415,584
118,806 159,836
296,678 328,432
22,253,585 28,067,729
358,805 423,346
25,074 29,592
52,831 54,381
111,584 117,316
IAN 163,767
762,464 913,394
996,406 1,061,148
967 1,596
600,910 737,030
81,848 100,613
1,054,909 1,171,286
48,033 48,436
260,947 276,486
140,457 185,452
46,130 62,118
137,961 170,652

Income
Net Unexpended
Income Balance

978 (18,702)
83,920 16,487
60,964 46,006
54,012 77,614
6,935 529
5,505,511 455,765
$5,892,328 $581,123
15,869 40,458
11,325 16,576
10,124 26,960
8,116 70,002
8,395 21,770
12,619 Sed)
838 3,996
8,484 9,933
76,117 159,697
12,478 35
3,636 14,064
7,969 29,691
9,576 —
2,661 2,661
746 PLT PSSI
47,325 79,105
14,976 12,141
ley T/S) 93,008
2,780 8,768
3,075 12,787
1,304 4,113
43,940 88,127
2,289,557 1,689,250
130 402
plays 54,972
ee2i 31,916
29,295 46,339
340 4,706
48,489 43,353
9,836 9,844
1,842 2,262
10,872 8,594
1,907 10,832
454 2,284
8,693 28,073
14,100 11,293
5,423 9,699
11,095 34,494
952,261 —
14,363 899
1,004 888
615 615
3,980 3,509
5,556 48,432
30,989 57,110
31,965 23,585
54 361
25,005 575
3,414 =
395739) 125,385
1,353 1,798
9,344 29,186
6,292 17,713
2,107 14,341
6,113 30,056

OI

Table 7. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1993 (continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
RipleyaS: Dilloniand’Mary Livingston) vyereiaers eistelcr- siteieis oivke te efoteeisie el 243,345 283,260 9,407 —
Roeblingyhundeerecerrrtcec i cerateihsettete oraotalertnwremtse stetasreatstotetere 745,974 1,001,801 33,988 979
RollinssMirtamyandpwwallliiamaiecrsntemtertersretetcreetelersbeseasrckssers rear tearare tenet 1,621,126 2,037,846 68,499 53,277
SacklenbublichAfairsmmee creme acti risen cineca erin eeeoeee ae 2,981,582 2,987,953 76,030 76,030
Schmnitea) oh nity resevererseyeewe ly -tcvaretveichetertcts tac tenetever Pekorustotert et Lerelveieraiey= 21,563 23,942 812 2,562
SimsvGeorge: W., Fazseteie eetgeyeisrare eet ofoleiete pene siato ete sintoravaesiayeraaesetaysley cers 189,904 218,491 7,413 32,545
Sprapueshundinra atc se hire hablo cre tre reer eeeten 10,116,134 12,183,315 409,525 152,303
Springer tRrankss 4 apeterstayore pvcerersponcve or cicie serene eats ei tas Teer REN rose 111,443 149,491 5,072 26,518
Stern sblaroldsPs’Memioriallprss cytes tener cick hath arcane ereiatals oe eee ee eI 1,181,197 1,427,545 48,433 291,721
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library .........-...-000000000% sates 32,521 40,842 1,386 6,395
Stuarts MaryEfOcmen: sverctcrsts;sasvovercveteysce, sleiee ayeasketare oteretesees?alelove[-veuaeuayeiepevetose 464,602 518,918 17,605 498
dibjsjelsulisy oo coy ododpemcnhdansonongge cnocahongbunocta een cocds 2,088,662 2,159,795 52,284 65,186
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ..............--.-+2-00- 1,077,918 1,335,498 44,752 53,194
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications .................. ee 364,453 505,633 ISA) 23,735
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research. ...............-2200000- 37,819 43,970 1,452 Aefl3)3)
Wirlltamss Blair, Se SKeWcregcee yeast stots ce tereerpererntetsheteteestavaeer ays savars Meee enc te 45,403 50,412 1,710 5,394
Zerbeederanices Brincklesy We... caacracrs ere ete Caras siete era's Ace TE 5,856 7,861 267 8,512
LitklewNancyBehrendly stepiisveracc sterile neler teteyeroke crete re leioinie eisrerststststevoron 20,241 20,671 167 =
Subtotal Vesti aia ye red cee ie See neha OEE RE BIO ee 114,336,531 140,329,178 4,692,670 3,898,732
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASIT:
AbbottwMariesBohrntrrerticrrcritiace cc Cece m atin een iy 201,728 203,647 6,901 473
PALINSCLOD PEC WNW) ANTICS aietet-fcrelstelafol foveal tevelet aerevatererst val tev stovexeiciel er eieesen cera 26,882 31,758 1,058 —_
INSET Cel ACG e hate anette Hat etic AUB Son Cocoon baobab Sidiip 119,264 138,325 4,693 3,710
Bacon teinial bucay canons metre eentctenecriciietseifersiateteisiske eee ae tere 570,988 694,265 23,554 68,359
BatemanyR ObeLter er en merit een CREE eee tae beee 111,742 116,799 3,963 Beli)
Becker Georges esse crema cn .cpocpersielayeiets react nereelsiewies sisielesolesee ele epamlote sc 985,943 1,201,643 40,768 15,653
Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund ...................05. : 564,452 596,070 21,060 285
Denghausen, Luisita LyandEranz’ Hl. Fund) 0-5-2. ccc ee cites ecinye ss: 10,443,628 11,714,777 397,450 152,030
DesaurelS seals Messen cre ster eer Memeo teiers ce hcrctostetre ny minerals 5,190 20,515 1,863 1,082
Friends of Music Endowment Fund ..................-- SopEwa Ghat as 107,447 117,478 3,883 2,640
Fund for the Future—Samuel C. Johnson Theater ..............6..2605. 253,120 260,544 2,947 2,947
Gavert Gordons ericrietere eros) roe Tae eer ees yt 13,633 15,839 516 1,102
ElaasMGlorias Fellowship sos sisysisharsieeisysisin searticisyertious siereisirel tvs sere stars 18,908 18,773 53 —
Hachenberg"\GeorgesPyand! Garoline? ssa scecs + cee ae 5 se eee ec sniens 28,519 36,526 1,239 10,757
Hammond, John, Performance Series Fund ................00e0eeeeees 363,425 386,564 13,115 21,615
Hanson; Martin'Gustav and Garoline R. 2.0.2 .05. eee eee eee eee eee 60,329 75,968 Psy Ti 14,697
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ...............202+0+eeeeeees 8,588,636 9,976,587 347,222 1,657
Eiirshhorniy) osephiida Beques cium eayeteparsyeietetere tatesisrctas elec fel sv-iereteieletelete 2,091,697 2,548,219 83,154 25
thetHMolenialirustikund| mest nist yn eee con ee eee ee neeee 6,322,758 7,451,841 244,166 400,067
Hunterdon Bndowment. sacle decries eine een sae Re een 20,635,524 25,644,851 865,642 152,302
Johnson sEARMRenimores seis cialis lelsiaoascle eietesete eerste leteieis terete ieee eaeeie eine ioe 47,644 56,247 1,908 5,901
oebeMorrish eaten he re ee ee een ebm te orate 596,663 753,428 255 G2 18,530
Tone wAnnettesrandubditht Guunenascticiias serena eterna 3,436 4,653 158 1,118
Hours RuchardsMemortall serssicrclalce sich iach eristesicteee cee oh ener 40,308 40,523 975 975
Myer) CatherinenwWaldentne vrais science Gece niet 137,123 172,675 5,858 54,352
INoy ess rankiB © ctetyntscesercsoet ce aa ee aie inate ieee eitae eer 6,816 8,703 295, 4,859
INovyesphaulineiRusesim cag. serie itera coco ct tines 56,180 65,182 2,211 5,146
PellMG@orneliaFivingstony --mersero eee cee oa ace ieee eee 50,546 63,746 2,163 12,883
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton (See Note 1) ................-. 1,180,654 1,495,645 50,743 4,571
RathbunwRichardwiMemorallaeerrerreerrreeee cre rceee eee rneaerten 72,448 91,337 3,099 26,639
RipleyMibrarys Sees epscus pars si aos ee Grates accent eels Toteeee Te oe 107,478 109,663 917 130,732
RoeblinprSolaniResearchy pase eae meer ene eae Eee 159,385 196,377 6,663 19,165
Rue fBerthalMe cies is do er Caio ec eae ie eee eR 185,717 219,195 7,437 9,212
SchulczaleonardiP rec reese en gee neocon chon ee ne eee 135,796 160,639 5,450 28,461
SeidellPAttherton\ stv cesteents, eich iac eee eee Oe eee 3,903,370 4,747,473 161,069 472,823
SmitbsonianyA gency /ACCOUn Girard eerie ere 1,539,654 1,880,414 65,224 (1,297,495)
Smithsonanyinscicucion lei brariess meee eet ee eer nenieete 362,829 361,520 9,034 4,194
Strom pry) Was]! rs ce casctercs apis ste sieh hesp ene ee ee ee eee ae 68,084 85,828 2,912 2253)
Witherspoon WhomasrAL Memotialiass ener eee eee earner near eneer 874,849 1,101,279 37,363 227,136
Subtotals: sc SnGccaoe eae se Oe ee ee Cenee e eeeee 61,042,793 72,865,516 2,454,865 604,471
sroraliRestricted/Purpose erence eee eee ene ee eee oe eee 175,379,324 213,194,694 7,147,535 4,503,203
INOVUNL INIDIONANIIINARAOINIDS 6. ce ccoonopdsncadacesconscksnannoos $322,722,754 $387,586,844 $13,039,863 $5,084,326

Note 1: Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

92

Table 8. Construction and Plant Funds, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (in $000s)

FY 1992

FUNDS PROVIDED

Federal Construction Appropriations:
INationaleZoolopicalliPark-srareutltetseltelcttieiele sneielsloa MESO KOO omens ated ea aomaggacdsgaSsdd ada
Renormienandl Reromiion Grails: sob sobsnoposoougebadacdoondsebaessosonbccnddatesnoccauasasondaroncaor
Consammerion Brianne cinal IM bimorE Comes) cogcucessoosaaeanonsnoondgdmonsbonnonpongnuscenenonutaomosenooede
Navional NSAI Oris Anema inelti spapop eases soso onenosedasadee coor soocuboodhdoosGudseccobaggosacccoes
INGEIODAEMMseTimromNaturaleldistonye-sbasty COULtE nei etrracccicr siti aeicieerieie sr ceieeicieis aise reece iain ate eerie tener
General Post Office Building - Construction ...................

Horalskederall onstruction pplopriat1ONs  ay.sa ino ys1e Vere 21<s2,<eheie,cios s,m nis sus sie nicun a ceistaicbe eucietemteereieel cies atceteni tennis esky ee

Nonappropriated Trust Plant Funds:
Income - Gift and Other:
Bnvitonmental Research Genter y.1).- r-less a cya stare fave agaselsae uns opens usnaca snc dong Regia © cteteare-e eareeto he opt eens er=nacs
trapicallkesearch) Institute = lupper Wesearch) Raciliciés. <2 nyt cp eee ee oem ee nase acide
agers tle witty MSE Urey oy- ote watts Pavers = aver cls asa re save fe hess “ovaredevsteysss Gua ones asSlbianiena dis raya sae bestMiue &gyevans)s abate aes leit ia eva\lomsrets fevers
Wisitoml ntormationrandeAssociates Reception Genteta. seis eee see aay ee eee isin cine eile eee neato
Nationa MviuseumuomcheyAimentGanvlmd tatty var.cs ayers isicncre eyopeco cee ys Si ecsse epee Feeeuc use ove vaucynie ears. ei evpe y= eer aPT Ve veer
reemGalleryand/ Auditorium. <..0........-..5-+---.--- Pe eA ee en ere teehee Re ote cca ectoiiaencis ir otic ho Sis
INationalavinsenmuonmNacuraleistarye—Gemilkdall eas scents asta laa eee = letersi: Sere eee areerar ser seer
National Mugammi@riNEammElshinomnyslintacde oe) Gapoobsode ndhpesendosbebeseasnuanonnuoccced5encoadenbccccuce

‘neil IBGE 5-0 cic ere ot des ara cia cen ha RAN o Chea On oe ep eS eee Pe es Oe en ig emcee gee Goce

Transfers from Other Funds

INationalvinsenmlonthers mericanyindians grrr. stusie2, <A. atantce aceite ete cae ACRE EE Aaa e cee aac ac
Paacr Gailllers7 araal Ziel wos gib tare a roneeaas penis ABBR AO eicini a ec e aS sisesisiete cestininia ier irs Arcee mo npp leche .crin eres
ING eonn eMUsenomomNaturallllistory—1Gemilbiall@errr cia etna oe eee eee eee eee erie sera
INeniond pMuseumbotNatucallilistonys-llnsecte7 oom racecar Cee cere iioiicieiiciee cece ieee
WistromlntormationandrAssociates) Reception! Gentetin saasa+ «rie eye-i)is eis ae cee ise eee eee ieee eee cee
OUNE? sscocsoosdd Stor cos DO ene ORS Roos ec aninactnn tm maine tar nmin in eh mtinccre ec c cae orice eee

‘Thoveall Roamals TPrraitelaal “ads Berne de avec eile os HEN Seen a aetna te tote a rere eal REG aE IG A

$ 7,899
23,599
55233)
2,370
9,874
1,678

50,653

149
576
7

10
2,022
686
352
105

JM

950

(202)*
(6)*

FY 1993

$ 7,833
24,192
4,641
2,132
9,914

48,712

153
68

46

1
10,245

* Funds reclassified to current operating funds.

P|
assessment of financial management functions conducted by the
Private Sector Council. These changes will result in better
economies of scale and improved accountabilities.

¢ Completion of a vulnerability assessment for the Institution’s
major management information systems, which resulted in the
adoption of tighter security standards and contingency plans for
all critical systems.

Audit Activities

The Institution’s financial statements are audited annually by an
independent public accounting firm. After an extensive evaluation
process, the Board of Regents selected KPMG Peat Marwick to
perform the Institution’s audit for fiscal 1993. Beginning in fiscal
1993, the audit plan was expanded to include a more in-depth
review of the Institution's internal control structure and confor-
mance with the Chief Financial Officers Act. In addition to the
audit report, management receives a report from the auditors with
suggested operational improvements, which management acts
upon as appropriate. KPMG Peat Marwick’s Independent
Auditors’ Report for fiscal 1993 and the accompanying financial
statements are presented on pages 95 through 100.

The Smithsonian's internal audit staff, part of the Office of
Inspector General, assists the external auditors and regularly audits
the Institution’s various programs, activities, and internal control
systems. In accordance with the government requirement for the

94

use of coordinated audit teams, the Defense Contract Audit
Agency, the Smithsonian Office of Inspector General, and KPMG
Peat Marwick coordinate the audit of grants and contracts received
from federal agencies, including the allowability and allocability of
indirect costs.

The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents met
three times during the fiscal year pursuant to its fiduciary responsi-
bilities and the bylaws of the Board of Regents. The Committee
reviewed the results of the 1992 audit of financial statements and
the 1993 audit plan, received reports from the Inspector General,
and conducted inquiries on a variety of topics directed at safe-
guarding the Institution's assets.

Related Organizations

The National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, and the Woodrow Wilson International Center
for Scholars were established by Congress within the Institution.
Each organization is administered by its own board of trustees and
reports independently on its financial status. The Smithsonian pro-
vides the Wilson Center with certain fiscal, administrative, and
support services, and office space, on a reimbursable basis.

The Institution provides administrative services on a contract
basis for Reading is Fundamental, Inc. The Friends of the National
Zoo (FONZ), an independent nonprofit organization, operates
under a concessions contract; proceeds accrue to the Zoo.
Independent Auditors’ Report

Board of Regents
Smithsonian Institution:

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condi-
tion of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1993, and
the related statements of financial activity and cash flows for the
year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Smithsonian Insticution’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and per-
form the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit

includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Smith-
sonian Institution as of September 30, 1993, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

KemG Keot Maw ithe

December 7, 1993

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: Statement of Financial Condition, September 30, 1993

(with comparative totals for September 30, 1992) (In thousands)

Trust Federal Total Totals
funds funds all funds 1992
Assets:
RUndibalancesswith) U.S. Mreasury-and\cash j0. 0.2... .. ee eee tee $1,364 165,420 166,784 165,496
EAVES ERNELIESH OUCGE5) Ripa acted retcie ever uses ene cenclcversuepeys.chpieseveieyekeysvcheyayeyere 399,111 - 399,111 372,884
Reaanaoaltes (Roe SD) vets bean Boe AO Oo eee ee Ee Cen Cee eae erie 45,971 — 45,971 48,650
AGKERES AVENGED (BOE ©) an povancod1s90bndenonsoarToecunaosoooocac - 11,767 11,767 13,095
IRUEMIORY soc ad¢edeonen omsdn Angtos ebb sous sounocecouoreenvouenacads 17,283 1,355 18,638 19,862
Prepaidaderenred expense amcdiochemysees-yelsyeleyys os = eletele oie) s cleo ararelor= 20,186 - 20,186 21,483
propertyancdleqmipment, Met (MOLE 7) ws ee ee en wee ne 84,335 330,671 415,006 388,823
Collleewions (mene: iliD)” oadedddse deus op hee enas Doan anc Res ammencrnnc cin ~ - - -
PLO tAlvASSEES Mame ieverererci sien cect ss cuctsiesohs seal ervey ests x ni cgesent as waereyesd selevereneyes $568,250 509,213 1,077,463 1,030,293
Liabilities:
Accounts) payable and accrued|expenses . =. 2.0... cece nse ee See eee wee 34,289 22,523 56,812 65,976
Payableifoninvestment.securities purchased) .. 0.0... 2.200. e sess sees 8,431 - 8,431 16,148
Wepositssheld inicustody/for others (note!2)) 2.222.252... tees ete ses 5,753 = 5,753 5,839
Acenedantauialuleaverryspyaarrte errs )o aac alse eeieere sevesinee eines 3,559 12,184 15,743 14,920
(Ds ernxee! EGU 5 G.a.ccated al eNee Gina EL CaSaer HOU RS on ci 46,763 = 46,763 50,497
iLajava-irammet Gla ote (nto ©) c.g acres tear a cae +e wea nee o> ceo mca 11,536 - 11,536 13,113
Wotallliabilictestmmrr erry ee ora etree ei acc tis ar roo Chino rare 110,331 34,707 145,038 166,493
Woaliqnidatediobligationsi(motey8)) -esece see ss od i= - 69,588 69,588 68,713
Commitments and contingencies (note 8)
Fund balances:
Trust:
Current:
Wnkestrictedseeneralupurposemeemeiarcirckrtcdd racists iaeienenias 10,193 = 10,193 9,959
Winirestrietedispeciall purpose maricricir priscilla crs eater 28,384 - 28,384 ZupODI,
IRS til GEC Mma rita veuepsicioteca ever swore trees seit afsies 4 wrepshaow Grama Revere neneteustinn tee 22,162 - 22,162 28,132
Encdowmentandisimilantunds. (note 4)) qacc.cesss ene cee anes cnc gee eure 322,723 = 322.723 292,074
Plkewane (aieavalS g6'g Bie Ole otb'a. ole o Se oierore co SLSR eG chet to eRe RGR eee ae SE En Ea 74,457 - 74,457 63,055
Federal:
Oper times @ore IO). scaccsccecoognnpesnanbegaosaaHoonboooed - 10,661 10,661 4,494
Comeinnction tain oo oactacaacns0 a0 oopmanUea amar nennaauoDoyo eae ~ 62,231 62,231 56,582
(Copercall Sentral! “5 3 occ oth aic'a etaraer orcig Dita om eae REL OEE eerie eemccre ~ 332,026 332,026 313,234
sLotaliifundibalancespeery see: tee te ecor Ys le asntictae operetta 457,919 404,918 862,837 795,087
Total liabilities, unliquidated obligations and fund balances 509,213

$568,250 1,077,463 1,030,293

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

95 |
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: Statement of Financial Activity. For the year ended September 30, 1993
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1992) (In thousands)

Trust Funds Federal Funds
Endowment Total Total
Current funds and similar Plant trust Operating Construction Capital federal Total Totals
(note 15) funds funds funds funds funds funds funds all funds 1992
REVENUE AND OTHER ADDITIONS:
Appropriations (note 10) ............. $ = = = — 295,560 48,712 = 344,272 344,272 331,836
Government grants and contracts ...... 43,768 = = 43,768 = = = = 43,768 42,689
[Investmentiincomel saci eee tite ce 19,076 = 493 19,569 = = = = 19,569 14,563
Net gain on sale of securities .......... 44 UWA U7 = EQS) = = = - ive2A5) 17,790
Gifts, bequests and private grants ...... 25,547 5,864 11,728 43,139 - - - - 43,139 45,012
Additions/to)plantmsctia eer tiene = = 10,542 10,542 = = 48,607 48,607 59,149 58,341
Rentals, fees, commissions and other
(NOCETUO) e-eniersmicnrscreciichrer critter. 9,527 - - 9,527 1,324 - — 1,324 10,851 7,519
AUxiliaryiactivities: errs sleeleecte « clerclcl che 190,846 — — 190,846 _ = = — 190,846 188,591
Total revenue and other
EYatalid Oy SG oae Renee Gedo 288,808 23,035 22,763 334,606 296,884 48,712 48,607 394,203 728,809 706,341
EXPENDITURES AND OTHER
DEDUCTIONS:
Research, education and
collection acquisition (note 11) ...... 91,804 - _ 91,804 186,795 = = 186,795 278,599 268,843
(Nelms gooudonacsdaccoccoone 24,285 - - 24,285 27,829 = = 27,829 52,114 50,021
RAGiItlesiSCLVICES) fein teted erie telaie eieicial lee 1,392 ~ _ 1,392 78,991 = _ 78,991 80,383 78,085
NOME UE IEG Gobnassscsbecoode = = 10,496 10,496 = 43,063 = 43,063 53,559 40,139
Property use and depreciation
(HOTEGT ene reer = = 2,816 2,816 2 — 29.815 29,815 32,631 28,544
Auxiliary accivitieswe sete setecrieeri ie: 166,671 = — 166,671 = = = — 166,671 164,302
Total expenditures and other
deductionstaraicrerntcee ieee 284,152 - 13,312 297,464 293,615 43,063 29,815 366,493 663,957 629,934
Excess of revenue and other additions
over expenditures and other
CEGUICTIONS, vractae tetas elec iene 4,656 23,035 9,451 37,142 3,269 5,649 18,792 PA sT/AK(0) 64,852 76,407
TRANSFERS AMONG FUNDS
(natey2)) -scistecmrcsetyeerevercPeivaicare ssicete (9,565) 7,614 1,951 ~ - - - - =
Net increase (decrease) for the year . (4,909) 30,649 11,402 37,142 3,269 5,649 18,792 27,710 64,852 76,407
Increase in unobligated balances (note 8) - - _ - 4,815 - - 4,815 4,815 3,546
Returned to U.S. Treasury (note 10) .... - - - — (1,917) - ~ (1,917) (1,917) (1,653)
Fund balances at beginning of year ..... 65,648 292,074 63,055 420,777 4,494 56,582 313,234 374,310 795,087 716,787
Fund balances at end of year ........... $60,739 322,723 74,457 457,919 10,661 62,231 332,026 404,918 862,837 795,087

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1993
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1992) (In thousands)

Trust Federal Total Totals
funds funds all funds 1992
Cash flows from operating activities:
Excess of revenue and other additions over expenditures
andfotherideductions yee eeree eet eee roe eee Eee ee $37,142 27,710 64,852 76,407
Adjustments to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation andiamortization ae saree ee eee ene ee 5,299 29,176 34,475 30,858
Loss on disposition of property and equipment .................-. = 313 313 =
Provision for losses on accounts receivable....................+--- 3,248 - 3,248 4,006
Gain on disposition of investments ...............2¢+-+e2-+eeee+: (17,215) — (17,215) (17,790)

el
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION: Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1993 (continued)
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1992) (In thousands)

Mncreasenmiunobligatedibalancestae4-ci2--s-+42---+--- 0.
Bundsireturned to WSs Mreasurye jer testes 2 2
(increase) }decreaseliniceceivablese sy). c<tseccislseis cisieicie sees essa
(increase) [decreaselnlinventOLys cr.) ere etsisie leis ei -)- isis) ore

(Increase) decrease in prepaid and deferred expense ................
Wecreasenmyadvance pay MeENts: sysctl istele cece ee esis sinc eyespyees

Cash flows from operating activities:

Adjustments to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities: (continued)

Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued expenses... . . .
Increase (decrease) in deposits held in custody ................
uicheasennvaccrued lan nual leavers swteril:ftielels o shopsteie io oj-temteee/ee asia
Increase (decrease) in deferred revenue....................-.0000-
Increase (decrease) in unliquidated obligations....................

Net cash provided by operating activities... .............0.00..
Cash flows from investing activities:
Payments for purchase of property and equipment ....................-.
PrrchasesrominvyestMen GSeGucitiess= aaiaiais feelers 2 e/a wis ie sais
Neticashiused!forinvesting,activities! yi. -(21- 222 saee eee.
Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceedsifrombissuance of long-term debt 22... 0...-02-e2- 22 ee eee eee
Repayintentsto Lome =termrcdebtaen res sera tatsi erie te sierra cic ierecrerersiere

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities ..............

Net increase (decrease) in fund balances with
WESmaliceasunysanid (cas hig caps eae hor osererociasecocevers xe cisracier-riore

Fund balances with U.S. Treasury and cash at the beginning of year .......

Fund balances with U.S. Treasury and cash at the end of year.............

Trust Federal Total Totals

funds funds all funds 1992
- 4,815 4,815 3,546
- (1,917) (1,917) (1,653)
(68) = (68) (1,829)
898 326 1,224 (741)
1,297 - 1,297 (3,648)

— 1,328 1,328 452
(6,482) (7,887) (14,369) 4,248
(86) - (86) 1,363

122 701 823 1,337
(8,025) = (8,025) 11,146
— 875 875 (13,073)
16,130 55,440 WA eSA) 94,629
(10,764) (48,607) (59,371) (59,822)
(593,865) - (593,865) (509,374)
584,531 — 584,531 480,855
(20,098) (48,607) (68,705) (88,341)
= = = 3,800
(CL S77)) = (Ql s/Z) (1,401)
(1,577) - (1,577) 2,399
(5,545) 6,833 1,288 8,687
6,909 158,587 165,496 156,809

$ 1,364 165,496

165,420 166,784

Supplemental information: Cash paid for interest was $986,000 and $1,079,000 in 1993 and 1992, respectively. See accompanying notes to financial statements.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Notes to Financial Statements: September 30, 1993

(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a) Basts of Presentation

These financial statements reflect the Smithsonian Institution's receipt and expendi-
ture of funds obtained from all sources. These include federal appropriations, pri-
vate sources, government grants and contracts, investment income, and certain
business activities.

Funds received from direct federal appropriations are shown in the columns titled
Federal Funds in the financial statements. These funds are accounted for on the ob-
ligation basis of accounting, which differs in some respects from generally accepted
accounting principles. Under this method of accounting, obligations of the federal
operating fund, such as purchase orders and contracts, have been recognized as
expenditures, and the related obligations have been reported on the Statement of
Financial Condition at September 30, 1993, even though the goods and services
have not been received.

All other funds are shown in the columns titled Trust Funds in the financial state-
ments. Trust funds are accounted for on the accrual basis of accounting.

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of
Arc, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, which were established by Congress within the
Institution, but are administered under separate boards of trustees.

(b) Fund Accounting

To ensure observance of the limitations and restrictions placed on the use of re-
sources available to the Institution, accounts are maintained in accordance with the
principles of fund accounting. This procedure classifies resources for control, ac-
counting and reporting purposes into distinct funds established according to their
nature and purposes. Separate accounts are maintained for each fund; however, in
the accompanying financial statements, funds that have similar characteristics have
been combined for presentation into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transac-
tions have been reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are self-balancing as
follows:

Federal operating funds represent appropriated funds available for support of the
Institution's operations and are generally available for obligation only in the year
received. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each appropriation as follows:
Salaries and Expenses; Special Foreign Currency; and the Barro Colorado Island
Trust Fund, which supports the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

Federal construction funds represent the portion of appropriated funds available for
building and facility construction, restoration, renovation and repair and are avail-
able for obligation until expended. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each
appropriation: Construction and Improvements, Repairs and Restoration of
Buildings, and the National Zoological Park.

Federal capital funds represent the value of the Institution’s assets acquired with
federal funds plus nonexpendable property transfers from U.S. Government agencies.

a
Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources, represent
nonappropriated funds available for support of the Institution's operations. Amounts
restricted by the donor for specific purposes are segregated from other current funds.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to restrictions of
gift instruments requiring chat the principal be invested in perpetuity and that
only income be expended. Also classified as endowment and similar funds are gifts
which allow the expenditure of principal only under specified conditions. Quasi-
endowment funds are funds established by the governing board for the same pur-
poses as endowment funds; however, any portion of such funds may be expended
with board approval. Restricted quasi-endowment funds represent gifts for restrict-
ed purposes where there is no stipulation that the principal be maintained in perpe-
tuity or for a period of time, but the governing board has elected to invest the prin-
cipal and expend only the income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted or internally designated for future
plane acquisitions, and funds expended for plant.

(c) Investments

Investments are stated at cost or amortized cost. Investments are recorded at cost on
a trade date basis, if purchased, or estimated fair value at date of acquisition if
acquired by gift.

All investment income, except that of endowment and similar funds, and gains
and losses arising from the sale of investments and property, are accounted for in the
fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income of endowment and similar
funds is accounted for in the fund to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, as rev-
enue in unrestricted current funds. Gains and losses on the sale of investments are
recognized on the trade date basis using the average cost method.

(d) Inventory

Inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the
first-in, first-out method.

(e) Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/Smithsonian
magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related subscription, which is
generally one year. Costs related to obtaining subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine
and Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine are charged against income over the period of
the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary activi-
ties during the period in which the activity is conducted.

(f) Works of Art, Living and Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include works of art, library books,
photographic archives, objects and specimens, through purchase with federal or pri-
vate funds or by donation. All collections are held for public exhibition, education,
or research in furtherance of the Institution's mission to increase and diffuse knowl-
edge to the public. The Institution provides protection and preservation services for
its collections.

In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, no value is assigned to
the collections on the statement of financial condition. Purchases of collections are
expensed currently. Proceeds from deaccessions are recognized as other revenue in the
year of sale, and are designated for future collection acquisitions. Ac September 30,
1993, approximately $8,500,000 was so designated in the trust funds.

(g)Property and Equipment

(1) Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds are recorded in the capital
funds at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives as fol-

lows:
Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution's buildings were appropriated and
reserved by Congress for the Institution and are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equipment acquired through
transfer from government agencies are capitalized at the transfer price or fair value.

(2) Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for use by nonincome-produc-
ing activities are recorded at cost, or appraised value at date of gift, except for gifts
of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie Mansion, which have
been recorded at nominal values. Property and equipment acquisitions are treated as
a deduction of the current funds and are capitalized and depreciated in the plant
funds.

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds for use by

98

income-producing activities are capitalized at cost in the current funds.
Property and equipment are depreciated on the straight-line basis over their use-
ful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 3-10 years

(h) Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution has a number of grants and contracts with the U.S. government and
other state and local governments which primarily provide for cost reimbursement
to the Institution. Governmental grant and contract revenue is recognized as reim-
bursable expenditures are incurred.

(1) Pledges

The Institution records pledges based upon letters signed by donors. Pledges are re-
corded at net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred revenue on the state-
ment of financial condition. Revenue from pledges is recognized in the year the
pledged funds are collected.

(7) Gifts, Bequests, and Other Grants

The Institution recognizes revenue from gifts, bequests and private grants in the
year the cash is received.

(&) Contributed Services and Facilities

A substantial number of volunteers make significant contributions of their time in the
furtherance of the Institution's programs. The Institution also uses certain facilities for
a nominal charge. The value of the contributed time and facilities is not reflected in
these statements as it is not susceptible to objective measurement or valuation.

(1) Annual Leave

The Institution's civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with feder-
al laws and regulations. Annual leave is recognized as expense as earned. The 1992
federal annual leave balances were previously reported as a receivable from the fed-
eral government. The 1992 comparative amounts, including fund balances, have
been restated to conform to the current federal accounting guidance.

Annual leave for trust employees is accrued and expensed in the trust fund as
earned.

(m) Fund Balances with the U.S. Treasury and Cash

Amounts represent cash deposited with financial institutions and balances held by
the U.S. Treasury which are available for disbursement.

(n) Reclassifications

Certain 1992 balances have been reclassified to conform with current presentation.

(2) Related Entities

The Institution provides certain fiscal and administrative services to several sepa-
rately incorporated organizations in which certain officials of the Institution serve
on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the Institution by these organiza-
tions for the aforementioned services, together with rent for Institutional facilities
occupied, toraled $165,000 for the trust funds and $75,000 for the federal funds for
fiscal year 1993.

Deposits held in custody for these organizations were $5,753,000 at September
30, 1993.

(3) Investments

At September 30, 1993, investments comprised of the following:
($000s)

Carrying value Market value

Current funds:

Cash equivalents $28,896 28,889
U.S. government obligations 32,212 32,814
Common stocks 6 1
61,114 61,704
Plant funds:
Common stocks 125 236
U.S. government obligations 8,775 8,831
8,900 9,067
Endowment and similar funds:
Pooled investments:
Cash equivalents 28,840 28,840

Mutual funds 28,726 33,602
U.S. government and
quasi-government obligations 60,166 64,670
Corporate bonds and other obligations 66,230 70,707
Common and preferred stocks 143,453 194,381
Subtotal pooled investments 327,415 392,200
Nonpooled investments:
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,027 1,106
Charitable trusts 655 932
Subtotal nonpooled investments 1,682 2,038
Total endowment and similar funds 329,097 394,238
Total investments $399,111 465,009

(4) Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution uses the “total return” approach to investment management of
endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Each year, the endowment pays out
an amount for current expenditures based upon a number of factors evaluated and
approved by the Board of Regents. The payout for 1993 was 4.6 percent of the aver-
age market value of the endowment over the prior five years. The difference be-
tween the income (i.e., dividends, interest and realized capital gains) and the payout
for the year is reinvested or withdrawn from previously accumulated returns. Actual
income exceeded the payout amount in fiscal year 1993 and the excess was trans-
ferred from current funds to the endowment and similar funds (see note 12).

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis, with each individual fund subscribing to or dispos-
ing of units on the basis of the per unit market value at the beginning of the month
within which the transaction takes place. At September 30, 1993, each unit had a
market value of $442. The market value of the pool’s net assets at September 30,
1993 was $386,461 ,000, representing all pooled investments (see note 3) plus net
receivables and payables related to investment transactions.

Each fund participating in the investment pool receives an annual payout equal
to the number of units owned times the annual payout amount per unit. The pay-
out for fiscal year 1993 was $15.00 per unit. Based on approved Board policy, if the
market value of any endowment fund is less than 110 percent of the historical
value, the current payout is limited to the actual interest and dividends allocable to
that fund.

Fund balances of the endowment and similar funds are comprised of the follow-
ing at September 30, 1993:

Units — ($000s)

Endowment - unrestricted 22,784 $ 8,405
Endowment - restricted 317,115 114,337
Quasi-endowment - unrestricted 369,397 138,938
Quasi-endowment - restricted 164,809 61,043
874,105 $322,723

(5) Receivables

Trust fund receivables at September 30, 1993 comprised the following:

($000s)
Auxiliary activities and other,
net of $923 allowance for
doubtful accounts $ 15,924

Investment securities sold 181

Pledges receivable 6,662
Grants and contracts 4,700
Interest and dividends receivable 3,297
Interfund receivables and other 15,207

$ 45,971
(6) Advance Payments

Advance payments represent prepayments made to government agencies, education-
al institutions, firms and individuals for services to be rendered, or property or
materials to be furnished.

At September 30, 1993, the Institution had advance payments outstanding to the
General Services Administration of $8,315,000, principally for equipment purchas-
es for the Museum Support Center and other projects to be completed in future fis-
cal years. Advance payments outstanding to educational institutions amounting to
$1,130,000 were principally under the Special Foreign Currency Program. Other
advance payments totaled $2,262,000.

(7) Property and Equipment

At September 30, 1993, property and equipment comprised the following:

($000s)
Trust:
Current funds:
Building $ 4,125
Capital improvements 25,061
Equipment 11,585
Leasehold improvements mar5 29.
42,300
Less - accumulated depreciation (20,065)
22.23
Plant funds:
Land and buildings 77,575
Equipment __ 8,119
85,694
Less - accumulated depreciation 23,594
62,100
Total trust funds $ 84,335
Federal:
Capital funds:
Buildings 281,305
Capital improvements 275,352
Equipment 49,688
606,345
Less - accumulated depreciation (275,674)
Total federal funds 330,671
Total all funds $ 415,006

Property use and depreciation expense in the federal funds for fiscal year 1993
included $29,176,000 of depreciation expense in the capital funds.

Depreciation expense in the trust funds for fiscal year 1993 for income-producing
assets amounted to $2,518,000 and is included in auxiliary activities expenditures
in the current funds. Depreciation for nonincome-producing equipment and build-
ings for fiscal year 1993 amounted to $2,816,000 and is included in the plant
funds.

Ac September 30, 1993, the fund balance of the trust plant funds included
$11,568,000 of restricted funds and $788,000 of unrestricted funds designated for
future plant acquisitions.

(8) Commitments and Contingencies
(a) Leasing Activities

Leases for various Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for escalation of
rents to coincide with increases in property taxes, operating expenses attributable to
the leased property and the Consumer Price Index. The Institution has the authori-
ty to enter into leases for up to 30 years using federal funds.

The Institution's operating leases for the warehouse and office spaces require
future minimum lease payments as follows:

($000s)

1994 $ 7,085
1995 6,513
1996 4,034
1997 3,594
1998 3,061
Thereafter 12,894
$ 37,181

Rental expense for these real property leases totaled $9,670,000 for fiscal year 1993.
(b) Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution receives funding or reimbursement from governmental agencies for
various activities which are subject to audit. Audits of these activities have been
completed through the fiscal year 1992. However, audits of fiscal years 1986 through
1992 have not been finalized with the cognizant agency. Management believes that
any adjustments which may result from those audits and the audits for fiscal year
1993 would not have a material effect on the Institution’s financial statements.

(c) Unliquidated Obligations

Unliquidated obligations totaled $69,588,000 at September 30, 1993 including
$41,721,000 in the operating funds and $27,867,000 in the construction funds.

The increase in unobligated balances reported in the Statement of Financial
Activity consists of adjustments to obligations which were estimated and recorded
in a prior fiscal year.

oS
(9) Long-term Debt

Long-term debt as of September 30, 1993 consists of the following:

($000s)
Unsecured note payable to Riggs National Bank, bearing
interest of 9%; interest only payable quarterly through Sep-
tember 30, 1991; interest and principal payable quarterly
commencing September 30, 1991 until June 30, 1998, with
the remaining unpaid principal balance due June 30, 1998. $8,179

Unsecured note payable to Signet Bank, bearing interest at 1% in
excess of the Federal Funds Rate, which was 5.0% at September
30, 1993, payable quarterly; principal payable in quarterly
installments of $63,333 until December 31, 1996 with remain-
ing unpaid principal balance due December 31, 1996. 3,35
Total long-term debt $ 11,536

E

The proceeds of the note with Riggs National Bank financed construction of a
restaurant addition to the National Air and Space Museum. The proceeds of the
note with Signet Bank financed a warehouse facility for Institution museum shops.
During the fiscal year 1993, $986,000 was recorded as interest expense in the auxil-
lary activities funds.

The aggregate amount due for all borrowings for years ending September 30, are
as follows:

($000s)
1994 $1,700
1995 1,835
1996 1,982
1997 4,486
1998 1,533

(10) Returned to U.S. Treasury

On November 5, 1990, the U.S. Congress enacted Public Law 101-510, the
Defense Authorization Act (the Act) which prescribes the rules for determining the
availability of appropriation balances and establishes the procedures for closing
appropriation accounts.

The major purpose of the Act is to restructure annual appropriation accounts.
Beginning with the fiscal year 1989 appropriation accounts, recipients are now
required to maintain annual appropriations for a five-year period following the year
of appropriation. At the end of an appropriation’s six-year life, che appropriation
account is closed and any unobligated balances are returned to the U.S. Treasury.
The Act also provides for the cancellation of fiscal years 1988 and prior appropria-
tions as of September 30, 1993.

(11) Accesstons and Deaccessions

For fiscal year 1993, $5,852,000 of trust funds and $1,070,000 of federal funds
were expended for the acquisition of collections. Proceeds from trust funds deacces-
sions were $997,000. There were no deaccessions of collections purchased with fed-
eral funds in fiscal year 1993.

(12) Transfers Among Trust Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) trust funds for fiscal year 1993:

($000s)
Current funds Endowment
and Plant
Unrestricted Restricted similar funds funds

Interest in excess of payout $ (1,364) (1,632) 2,996 -
Endowment reallocated to

restricted and unrestricted 988 2,879 (3,867) -
Designated as quasi-endowment (3,859) (4,626) 8,485 -
Other, net 239 (2,190) = 1,951
Toral transfers (5,569) 7,614 1,951

$ (3,996)

(13) Retirement Plan

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by either the Civil Service
Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The
features of both of these systems are defined in published government documents.
Under both systems, the Institution withholds from the salary of each appropriated
employee the percentage of salary required. The Institution also contributes specified
percentages. The cost of the programs for fiscal year 1993 was $15,009,000.

The Institution has a separate defined contribution retirement plan for trust
employees, in which substantially all employees of the trust funds are eligible to
participate. Under the plan, the Institution contributes stipulated percentages of
salary which are used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are
immediately vested with the employees. Employees can make voluntary contribu-
tions, subject to certain limitations. The Institution's cost of the plan for fiscal year
1993 was $7,451,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to pay the accrued costs of all plans currently.

(14) Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Section

50 1(c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. No provision for income
taxes is required for fiscal year 1993 since the Institution had a net loss from its
unrelated business activity.

Ic is the opinion of the Institution’s management that it is also exempt from taxa-
tion as an instrumentality of che United States as defined in Section 501(c) (1) of
the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all income taxa-
tion. The Institution has not yet formally sought such dual status.

(15) Current Trust Funds Financial Activity

Current unrestricted funds are comprised of separate subfunds. These subfunds include
the auxiliary activities fund that represents primarily the revenue and expenditures of
the Smithsonian Associates Programs, Smithsonian and Air & Space/Smithsonian maga-
zines, and museum shop and mail order sales; the special purpose fund that represents
funds internally designated for specific purposes; and the general purpose fund that
consists of all other unrestricted activity in the current funds.

The financial activity for the current trust funds by subfund for fiscal year 1993 is as follows:

($000s)
Unrestricted
General Auxiliary Special
purpose activities purpose Total Restricted Totals
Revenue and other additions:
Government grants and contracts $ - - ~ - 43,768 43,768
Investment income 9,184 = 833 10,017 9,059 19,076
Net gain on sale of securities 44 - - 44 - 44
Gifts, bequests and private grants 41 8,500 845 9,386 16,161 25,547
Rentals, fees, commissions and other 500 - 4,990 5,490 4,037 9,527
Auxiliary activities = 179,893 10,953 190,846 = 190,846
Total revenue and other additions 9.76 188,393 17,621 215,783 73,025 288,808
Expenditures and other deductions:
Research, educational and collection acquisition 10,593 - 15,806 26,399 65,405 91,804
Administration 7,769 7,881 626 16,276 8,009 24,285
Facilities services 1,248 = 132 1,380 12 15392
Auxiliary activities = 160,807 5,864 166,671 = 166,671
Total expenditures and other deductions 19,610 168,688 22,428 210,726 73,426 284,152
Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions (9,841) 19,705 (4,807) 5,057 (401) 4,056
Transfers among funds 10,07 19,705) 34 3,996) (5,569) (9,565)
Net increase (decrease) for the year $ 234 = 827 1,061 (5,970) (4,909)

100

ta

$

°°

SMITHSONIA
YEAR 199
SMITHSONIAN
YEAR * 1994

Annual Report of the
Smithsonian Institution

for the Year Ended

September 30, 1994

eRAey
yg cue

a pexonedels cc RHNIMEN
aaeroeer

yon 39
—

ae
5 as

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
WASHINGTON, D.C. ¢ 1994
Office of

Government Relations

Office of Policy and
Program Development

Assistant Secretary for the

SCIENCES

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Board of Regents

THE SECRETARY

UNDER SECRETARY

John F. Kennedy Center
for the Performing, Arts

National Gallery of Art

Woodrow Wilson
International
Center for Scholars

Inspector
General

General
Counsel
Office of Public Affairs

| Business Management Office

Assistant Secretary for
EDUCATION & PUBLIC SERVICE

Assistant Secretary for
FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION

Assistant Secretary for the
ARTS & HUMANITIES

Assistant Secretary for
ENVIRONMENTAL &
EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Assistant Secretary for

Assistant Secretary for the
ARTS & HUMANITIES

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Freer Gallery of Art

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Institutional Studies Office

International Gallery

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American History
National Postal Museum

National Museum of the American Indian

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Museum Programs

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Assistant Secretary for
EDUCATION & PUBLIC SERVICE

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

National Science Resources Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Wider Audience Development Program

INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

Assistant Secretary for

FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION

Office of the Comptroller
Office of Contracting and Property Management
Office of Equal Employment and Minority Affairs
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Architectural History and Historic
Preservation
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Environmental Management and
Safety
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Human Resources
Office of Information Resource Management
Office of Planning, Management, and Budget
Office of Printing and Photographic Services
Office of Risk and Asset Management
Office of Sponsored Projects
Ombudsman

Assistant Secretary for
ENVIRONMENTAL &

EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

Office of International Relations
Office of Special Events and Conferences
Office of Telecommunications
The Smithsonian Associates
National Program
Resident Program
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

Assistant Secretary for the

SCIENCES

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum of Natural History
Museum Support Center

National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Assistant Secretary for

INSTITUTIONAL INITIATIVES

National Museum of the American Indian
National Campaign

Office of Development

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

Under Separate Boards of Trustees
STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
EMERITUS

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR

THE YEAR IN REVIEW

Sciences

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
the Sciences

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum of Natural History
National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Office of Smithsonian

Institution Archives

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Tropical

Research Institute

Arts and Humanities
Office of the Assistant Secretary for
the Arts and Humanities
Anacostia Museum
Archives of American Art
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum

Freer Gallery of Art
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

Institutional Studies Office
International Gallery

National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
National Museum of

American History

National Museum of the
American Indian

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Office of Museum Programs
Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Education and Public Service
Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Education and Public Service
Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

National Science Resources Center
Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

Wider Audience

Development Program

Environmental and External Affairs
Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Environmental and External Affairs
Office of International Relations
Office of Special Events

and Conferences

Office of Telecommunications

The Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

GOINTEN TS

Institutional Initiatives

60 Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

61 National Museum of the American
Indian National Campaign

62 Office of Development

2 Smithsonian National Board
63 Smithsonian Women’s Committee

Finance and Administration
63 Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration

Under Secretary
66 Office of the Under Secretary
66 Business Management Office
67 Office of Government Relations
67 Office of Policy and

Program Development
67 Office of Public Affairs

Affiliated Organizations

68 John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

69 National Gallery of Art

70 Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

I

0 Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

72 BENEFACTORS

83 FINANCIAL REPORT

Annals of the Smithsonian Institution 1994,
containing a chronology of the year and
records of Smithsonian advisory boards,
narrative reports from museums and offices;
visitor counts; fellows, interns, and research
associates; publications; staff; and donations
to the Institution is made available on Internet
by the Smithsonian Institution Press and the
Office of Information Resource Management.
SEE sWUE IN I
BY Ee

Se Gi Ree arlene
WMI ICES

Robert McC. Adams

The following remarks were made at the installation
ceremony of the Smithsonian’s roth secretary on
September 19, 1994, by outgoing Secretary Robert
McCormick Adams:

“Increase and diffusion of knowledge” is a credo for
the Smithsonian to which I, and many others, reso-
nate very warmly. It has the drawback, however, of
providing neither guidelines nor limits in a time of
uncertainty as well as constraint. There is, of course,
no formula that applies to every setting. In the par-
lance of modern complexity theory, the task of man-
aging the Smithsonian involves uneasily threading
one’s way along a knife-edge ridge between two
deep but dangerously single-minded basins of at-
traction—change and opportunity on the one side,
and stability and caution on the other.

My own conviction is that a decade is long
enough to engage in this balancing act. Although

obviously also with feelings of regret, | am confident

of the timeliness of passing on this responsibility.
Overshadowing any other purely personal reaction
is a sense of satisfaction and pleasure at the choice
the Board of Regents has made for my successor.

I have come to know Michael Heyman well dur-
ing his three years as a regent, and even better dur-
ing recent months as this remarkably smooth and
cordial transition has been under way. He is an
acutely perceptive, supple, pragmatic, broad-ranging
generalist who believes in and understands this
Institution. (His breadth, I might add, is signifi-
cantly extended by Therese Heyman’s long profes-
sional experience in the arts.) I think he can be
counted upon to provide wise leadership during the
lean times that lie ahead—committed to the defense
of the Smithsonian’s core values and priorities while
always open to the prospect of new initiatives.

We are especially fortunate that he is deeply fa-
miliar with the public-private partnership on which
the Smithsonian has been based since the very outset
and on which it now must rely increasingly. But at
the same time, he is no less wise in the ways of pub-
lic organization and bureaucracies. He knows that
they, too, can and must be infused anew with vision
and the spirit of public service. They, too, can best
be improved and made more efficient through de-
centralization and a greater reliance on incentives
than on rules and restraints.

SA DE MEN 1
bY THE
SECRETARY

I. Michael Heyman

The following excerpts are from the installation ad-
dress of the Smithsonian’s roth secretary, I. Michael
Heyman, on September 19, 1994:

Every secretarial era reflects unique circumstances
and poses its own opportunities and problems. At
present, resources are relatively short. My recent
predecessors until a few years ago could count on

a generous Congress and executive branch. Public
fiscal prospects, however, are bleaker at this time.
While we must argue vigorously for special treat-
ment, realism counsels that we not depend solely
on public revenues to grow substantially in the near
future. Realistically, we must work very hard to
guard against erosion of our base budget and for
adequate resources to fund heavy future obligations.

This means that the Smithsonian must rely more
on private support from individuals and corpora-
tions. A systematic effort to increase private support
has started very well under Secretary Adams. We
must enhance that success by working closely with
donor groups. And we must enlarge our connections
with the corporate world.

This new era also demands from public (as well
as private) organizations increased fiscal account-
ability. We must use our resources efficiently and
intelligently both to husband them and to under-
score our credibility to those who provide them—
the government and our donors.

The Smithsonian resembles to me a great public
university with a very broadly stated mission: the
increase and diffusion of knowledge. Within this,
we have centered on three major tasks. First is pub-
lic education. Second is a university-like research

operation. The third task is hosting and maintaining,

at last count, 140 million objects.

It is crucial that we sustain excellence in all that
we do. If our resource base shrinks, we must be pre-
pared to jettison the less important of our activities
rather than reduce all our activities pro rata and
thus threaten the excellence of our most important
ones. And we must find ways to finance needed new
activities, including deeper participation in the envi-
ronmental debates raging in this country, develop-
ment of our capacity to give electronic access to our
collections throughout the nation, and educating all
of us about our origins in a way that will foster
senses of pride and thus counter separation and
make more attainable the creation of one set of
Americans out of many.

I am delighted to be named the roth secretary
of the Smithsonian Institution. I look forward with
pleasure to leading one of the great cultural and sci-
entific institutions of the United States. I urge all of
you to participate deeply in our 150th-year celebra-
tion through your energy, your creativity, and, when
the time comes, your pocketbook.
SMITHSONIAN
ONES ITO WT Gas

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of
Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of
the will of James Smithson of England, who in
1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the
name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establish-
ment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” After receiving the property and
accepting the trust, Congress vested responsibility
for administering the trust in the Smithsonian
Board of Regents.

Board of Regents and Secretary,
September 30, 1994

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United
States, ex officio

Albert Gore Jr., Vice-President of the United States,
ex officio

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

James R. Sasser, Senator from Tennessee

John W. Warner, Senator from Virginia

Thomas S. Foley, Speaker of the House of
Representatives

Joseph M. McDade, Representative from
Pennsylvania

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Jeannine Smith Clark, Citizen of the District
of Columbia

Barber B. Conable Jr., Citizen of New York

Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

Frank A. Shrontz, Citizen of Washington

Manuel L. Ibanez, Citizen of Texas

Wesley A. Williams Jr., Citizen of the District
of Columbia

The Secretary
I. Michael Heyman, Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

James C. Early, Assistant Secretary for Education
and Public Service

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Secretary for the
Arts and Humanities

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to
the Secretary

Robert S$. Hoffmann, Assistant Secretary for
the Sciences

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Assistant Secretary for
Environmental and External Affairs

Peter C. Powers, General Counsel

Mark W. Rodgers, Director, Office of
Government Relations

Linda St. Thomas, Acting Director, Office of
Public Affairs

Nancy Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary for Finance
and Administration
Smithsonian National Board,
September 30, 1994

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer, Chair
Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr., Vice Chair

Current Members

Mr. Lester M. Alberthal Jr., ex officio
Mrs. Margaret D. Ankeny

Mrs. Robert M. Bass

The Honorable Max N. Berry

Mr. Joaquin F. Blaya

Dr. John Brademas

Mrs. John M. Bradley

Mr. Stephen F. Brauer

Mr. Cason J. Callaway Jr.

Mr. Ivan Chermayeff

Mr. Landon T. Clay

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Mr. Peter R. Coneway

Mr. Thomas Edward Congdon
Mrs. William H. Cowles III

Mrs. Joan Kent Dillon

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton, ex officio
Mr. John M. Harbert III

Mr. Marion Edwyn Harrison, Esq.
Mrs. Ruth Sulzberger Holmberg
Mr. Roger Horchow

Mr. Richard Hunt

Mr. Robert L. James

Mrs. James W. Kinnear

Mr. Donald G. Lubin

Mr. Frank N. Magid

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney

Mrs. John F. Mars

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Dr. George E. Mueller
Mr. Thomas D. Mullins
Mr. John N. Nordstrom
Mrs. Vivian W. Piasecki
Mr. Heinz C. Prechter
Mr. David S. Purvis

Dr. Alvin N. Puryear
Mr. Robert Redford

Mr. Clive Runnells

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler
Mr. Leveo V. Sanchez
Dr. Ivan Selin

Mrs. Esther Simplot

Mr. Kenneth L. Smith
Ms. Kathy Daubert Smith
Mrs. E. Maynard Smith
Mr. Jeffrey N. Watanabe
Mr. Frank A. Weil

Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mr. Charles D. Dickey Jr.

The Honorable Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

The Honorable William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper Jr.

Mr. Seymour H. Knox II]

Mr. Lewis A. Lapham

The Honorable George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor

The Honorable S. Dillon Ripley II
Mr. Francis C. Rooney Jr.

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

N
Three plenary sessions (on January 24, May 9,
and September 19), a special meeting on May 25,
meetings of the regents’ standing committees, and
deliberations of its Search Committee for a new
secretary marked an extremely active year for the
Board of Regents.

The Board of Regents carried out its most impor-
tant responsibility in electing the roth secretary of
the Smithsonian, I. Michael Heyman. The Search
Committee originally consisted of regents Jeannine
S. Clark, Barber B. Conable Jr., Hanna H. Gray,
Mr. Heyman, and Wesley S. Williams Jr. and regent
emeritus William G. Bowen. After getting the search
off to a solid start, Mr. Heyman resigned in March
to become a candidate for the post himself. With
Mr. Conable as chairman, the committee considered
more than 300 candidates and recommended Mr.
Heyman. Agreeing that his talents and experience
were the best fit for the Smithsonian’s needs, the
members of the board elected Mr. Heyman on May
25, 1994. Chancellor William H. Rehnquist in-
stalled him as secretary in a ceremony in front of
the Smithsonian Castle on September 19.

The regents voted to recognize Secretary Robert
McC. Adams’s outstanding decade of service by
presenting to him the Institution’s most prestigious
award, the James Smithson Medal, and naming him
secretary emeritus.

The board paid tribute to regent William H.
Natcher, who died on March 29, 1994, at age 84.
A U.S. representative from Bowling Green, Kentucky,
for nearly 41 years and chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee, Mr. Natcher had been
a regent since January 1993. Representative Thomas
S. Foley of Washington, Speaker of the House, was
appointed to the board on June 29. Frank A. Shrontz
and Manuel L. Ibanez were appointed citizen
regents on May 4. Anne L. Armstrong, the first
woman to serve as a citizen regent and a regent
since 1978, retired from the board and was named
regent emeritus. The board approved appointments
of Homer A. Neal, Dr. Gray, and Dr. Ibafiez to the

RIGOUR IE Ole
THE BOARD |
OF REGEN

Nominating Committee and Dr. Gray to the
Investment Policy Committee.

The Commission on the Future of the Smith-
sonian Institution, supported by the Andrew W.
Mellon Foundation and the John D. and Catherine
T. MacArthur Foundation, met three times during |
the year. The commission, which was charged with
developing a vision for the Smithsonian as it moved
into the next century, was to submit a report for the
regents’ consideration in 1995. Commission Chair
Maxine F, Singer and other members reported on
the group’s progress at regents’ meetings.

The commission members, who were appointed
by the regents, are: Barber B. Conable Jr., Paul J.
DiMaggio, Sandra M. Faber, Henry Louis Gates Jr.,
Stephen Jay Gould, Robert E. Grady, Najeeb E.
Halaby, Neil Harris, Irene Y. Hirano, Ruth S.
Holmberg, Roy M. Huhndorf, Jorge Klor de Alva,
William H. Luers, Michael A. Mares, John S. Mayo,
Frank Press, Wilbur L. Ross Jr., John C. Sawhill,
Lloyd G. Schermer, Maxine F. Singer, Harold K.
Skramstad Jr., and R. James Woolsey.

Mrs. Clark represented the Board of Regents at
the opening ceremonies for the American Festival
*94 in Japan with Secretary Adams and Under
Secretary Constance B. Newman.

Smithsonian management believed that if trends
toward democracy in South Africa continued, the
Institution should lift its restrictions on investment
of Smithsonian funds in companies doing business
there. The Board of Regents delegated authority for
the decision to the Executive Committee, and on
March 8, 1994, the committee authorized removing
restrictions.

The Board of Regents authorized the secretary to
establish the following institutional endowment
funds: quasi-restricted funds to be known as the
Holenia Trust Fund II, the Gloria Haas Fellowship
Fund, the Smithsonian Fund for the Future—
Restricted, the Arthur Ross Garden and Terrace |
Endowment, the Robert Lane and Mildred !
Katchmar Lane Endowment, and the Elinor Merrell
Endowment as well as a quasi-unrestricted fund to
be known as the Smithsonian Fund for the Future—
Unrestricted.

The regents appointed the following individuals
to Smithsonian boards: Nancy Marks to the board
of trustees of Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum; Frederick Brown, Rita Fraad, Richard J.
Schwartz, Raymond J. Horowitz, Peter H. Lunder,
and Samuel Yanes to the commission of the
National Museum of American Art; Anthony
Beilenson, Julie Harris, Ruth $. Holmberg, Bette
Bao Lord, Thomas Mellon Evans, R.W.B. Lewis,
Barbara Novak, and Robert Morgan to the
National Portrait Gallery commission; I. Michael
Heyman, Gilbert Kahn, Quentin R. Lawson, Elmer
E. Rasmuson, Alan G. Spoon, and Howard H.
Williams to the board of the National Museum of
Natural History; and Helen Kuhn, Robert Farris
Thompson, Walter E. Washington, Joseph Golden-
berg, and Joseph E. Harris to the commission of the
National Museum of African Art.

The regents discussed the planning for the exten-
sion of the National Air and Space Museum at
Washington Dulles International Airport. They
approved in principle the Smithsonian’s receipt of
up to $3 million in interest-free loans from the
Commonwealth of Virginia for further planning,
authorized borrowing an initial $500,000 at no in-
terest from Virginia for extension planning, and del-
egated authority to the Executive Committee for
borrowing up to $2.5 million more as needed.

Over several meetings, the regents considered
plans for a National Air and Space Museum exhibi-
tion on the Enola Gay, the atomic bomb, and the
end of World War II. The regents were aware of the
inevitable controversy of this exhibition but urged
the museum director and the secretary to proceed
with a balanced presentation that includes the his-
torical events preceding the bombing of Hiroshima
and Nagasaki.

The regents received the report of the Smith-
sonian Task Force on Latino Issues, “Willful
Neglect: The Smithsonian Institution and U.S.
Latinos.” Secretary Adams took immediate steps to
implement a significant number of the task force’s
recommendations with the assistance of a special
consultant. These measures should lead to enhanced
programming and address the presence of Latinos
at the Smithsonian as a reflection of the nation’s
cultural mosaic.

The regents were concerned that the program to
request voluntary donations from Smithsonian visi-
tors, authorized during the previous fiscal year,
might be seen as the first step toward admission
fees. Boxes were first installed in unobtrusive loca-
tions, and the resulting donations were fewer than

expected. The boxes were placed in new locations,
and after receiving reports on the donations, the
regents authorized continuation of the demonstra-
tion program and requested annual reports.

The Board of Regents approved changing the
name of Cooper-Hewitt, National Museum of
Design, Smithsonian Institution, to Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum, Smithsonian Institution,
in order to promote a new graphic identity for the
museum. In recognition of Discovery Communi-
cations’ pledged endowment, the board gratefully
approved the naming of the National Museum of
Natural History West Court facility as the Dis-
covery Center. The regents expressed their gratitude
to Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Schermer for their magnifi-
cent gift and service to the Smithsonian Fund for
the Future and named the Castle’s Lloyd and Betty
Schermer Hall, Smithsonian National Board Room,
in their honor.

In several of their meetings, the regents discussed
the Smithsonian’s initiatives in electronic media. A
number of these programs are reaching thousands
of people throughout the nation on computer net-
works. The regents commended the path-breaking
nature of a proposed joint project with the Library
of Congress and the National Archives under the
auspices of the White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy. The project will create digital
images of r9th-century collections for use on the in-
formation superhighway.

After reviewing a range of planned activities for
the Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary observance in
1996, the regents authorized the secretary to seek
congressional approval for commemorative coins
issued by the U.S. Treasury and honorary American
citizenship for the Institution’s founder, James
Smithson.

Staff Changes

On September 19, 1994, Secretary Adams became
secretary emeritus and I. Michael Heyman, a law
professor and former chancellor of the University of
California at Berkeley, became secretary. Secretary
Adams’s 10-year tour was filled with great change
for the Smithsonian. With the installation of
Secretary Heyman, the Smithsonian can anticipate
still further changes and challenges. Both men par-
ticipated fully in a smooth transition.

On a steamy morning in July, the Smithsonian
paused at the Festival of American Folklife to pay
tribute to Ralph Rinzler, who died after a long ill-
ness. A former director of the Office of Folklife
Programs and assistant secretary for public service,
Mr. Rinzler was highly respected within the Insti-
tution and throughout the country as an affection-
ate, compassionate, and inspiring pioneer in efforts
to preserve, honor, and enjoy the many manifesta-
tions of American folk traditions.

During fiscal year 1994, Frank Talbot resigned
from the directorship of the National Museum of
Natural History to resume research and writing,
and Michael League, director of the Office of Plant
Services, retired after eight years in that post and
21 years at the Smithsonian. The Natural History
Museum’s Donald Ortner was named acting direc-
tor, and Patrick Miller of the University of New
Hampshire agreed to take Mr. League’s place. At
the National Museum of American History, Spencer
R. Crew was appointed director; he had been chair-
man of the Division of Social and Cultural History
and acting director of the museum. As the year
closed, Felix Lowe, director of the Smithsonian
Institution Press, retired after 17 years of service at

the press. Senior Adviser to the Secretary John

Jameson completed a year as acting director of

The Smithsonian Associates and became acting
director of the Office of Smithsonian Institution
Archives.

Among the most significant appointments
of the year were Mara Mayor, formerly of the
Annenberg/Corporation for Public Broadcasting
Project, to head The Smithsonian Associates and
Arthur “Lee” Denny of the Office of Information
Technology, State of Maryland, to assume the new

Ralph Rinzler listens
through headphones
during the 1988
recording session for
the album Folkways:
A Vision Shared.
(Photograph by
Dane Penland)

role of senior information officer. Miguel Bretos
from Paterson College in New Jersey accepted a
contract to advise the secretary and under secretary
on the implementation of recommendations from
the Task Force on Latino Issues.

The turnover in personnel this year was signifi-
cant. As in the past, the Institution owes a great
debt of gratitude to the many staff and volunteers
who served with distinction throughout the year.
Much of the integrity and progress of the Smith-

sonian rests with them and their successors.

Anacostia Museum

Ie NiGBULIG el rs
OF TV ivE Wiad

The Anacostia Museum’s major social and
cultural history exhibition, “Black Mosaic:
Community, Race, and Ethnicity among
Black Immigrants in Washington, D.C.,”
examined the linguistic, cultural, social,
and national diversity within Washington’s
black populations. Developed in partner-
ship with the featured communities, this
innovative exhibition had changing com-
ponents that focused on the music of Latin
America, Brazil, Haiti, and Jamaica as well
as on work, worship, food, festivals, holi-
days, and family celebrations. The multi-

lingual exhibition (with text in English,

French, and Spanish) covered important
social and cultural issues such as the
African diaspora, childhood memories of
countries of origin, race and ethnicity at
home and in the United States, reasons for
immigration, Washington-based connec-
tions with the home countries, and the de-
velopment of distinct communities in the
Washington metropolitan region. Juana H.
Campos (right) is shown visiting “Black
Mosaic” with her daughter Carmen Tor-
ruellas Quander to see her sewing ma-
chine, which was on exhibit. (Photograph
by Clifford Russell)

Archives of American Art

Last fall, the gallery of the New York Re-
gional Center of the Archives of American
Art exhibited one of its most important re-
cent acquisitions: the papers of renowned
postwar artist Frank Stella (b. 1936).
Stella’s stark black abstractions in the early
1960s touched off a new round of impres-
sive American painting and sculpture that
followed abstract expressionism, American
art’s breakthrough to international impor-
tance. “Stella!” contained extraordinary
gifts from the artist, including his famous
college thesis, notebooks, drafts of lec-
tures, the original manuscripts for his
Charles Eliot Norton lectures at Harvard
University (published as Working Space in
1986), and personal material. Perhaps the
highlight of the exhibition was the collec-
tion of seven largely unknown sketch-
books from the 1950s and 1960s, when
Stella began the black paintings and
shaped canvases that established his repu-
tation (a representative page is shown
here). A selection of his prints generously
lent by Ken Tyler, his master printer, com-
plemented the show. (Photograph by
Stephen Tucker)

12

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery’s first major
exhibition presenting the arts of Korea
found an enthusiastic audience among
Korean Americans and many other visitors
during its three-month stay. A variety of
public programs enriched “Korean Arts

of the Eighteenth Century: Splendor &
Simplicity,” including videos on Korean
culture, lectures, tours given by Korean-
speaking docents, and a commissioned
dance concert based on the exhibition by
the second-generation Korean American
artist Dana Tai-Soon Burgess, shown here.

Burgess, founding director and choreo-
grapher of the Moving Forward Dance
Company, used the exhibition to inspire
his five-part work “Searching for the Sun
and Moon,” which he and members of
Moving Forward performed at three public
concerts held in the Eugene and Agnes E.
Meyer Auditorium.

The performances were part of the
gallery’s efforts to express the richness of
Asian cultures by linking arts in many
media through both contemporary and
traditional interpretations. Presentation of
“Searching for the Sun and Moon” was
made possible with support from the
Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach Fund;
the Korea Society, Washington office;
and the Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Foundation.

The exhibition was organized by the
Asia Society Galleries, New York, in col-
laboration with the National Museum of
Korea. Its presentation at the Sackler
Gallery was made possible by public funds
and a grant from the Smithsonian Special
Exhibition Fund. The Asia Society’s Festi-
val of Korea was sponsored by Philip
Morris Companies, Inc. (Photograph by
John Tsantes)

5
)
Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies

Ralph Rinzler, a founder of the Festival of
American Folklife in 1967, was committed
to celebrating and presenting grassroots
culture. Through his devotion, the festival
has grown to become the largest annual
cultural event in the nation’s capital. Mr.
Rinzler died in July 1994 during the time
of the 28th annual festival. When the Thai
delegation heard of Mr. Rinzler’s death,
they dedicated a Buddhist ceremony to

his spirit.

Thailand was represented at this year’s
festival in a program that highlighted the
cultural activities vital in the home, the
public arts celebrated in Buddhist temples,
and the continuing influence of the court in
everyday life. Eighty-five participants from
Thailand joined thousands of Thai Ameri-
cans and almost a million visitors to cele-
brate the diversity and vitality of the coun-
try’s traditional arts.

Her Royal Highness Princess Chulab-
horn Didyasarin Mahidol and Thailand’s
ambassador to the United States inaugu-
rated the program. More than a dozen
Buddhist monks from several local wats
(temples) blessed the site and performed
chants each week for the well-being of the
participants and the audience. These cere-
monies took place in a traditional teak sala
(pavilion) constructed on the Mall by Thai
craftspeople especially for the occasion.

During the ceremony dedicated to
Ralph Rinzler, his photograph was placed
on the dais as the abbot from the Wat Thai
in Silver Spring, Maryland, intoned his
name as part of a chant. This dedication
and several other memorials during the
festival were appropriate tributes to Mr.
Rinzler’s inclusive vision. (Photograph by
Richard Strauss)

14

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum

Objects that have been central to
“women’s work” in 2oth-century Amer-
ica—including the telephone, typewriter,
washing machine, and electric iron—were
the focus of “Mechanical Brides: Women
and Machines from Home to Office” at
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum.
The exhibition juxtaposed three-dimen-
sional pieces with advertisements, film
stills, photographs, and personal narratives
to show how these everyday objects were
designed, marketed, used, and imagined.

At the “telephone wall,” visitors were
introduced to the cultural history of the
telephone. Designed in collaboration with
NYNEX Science and Technology, this sec-
tion of the exhibition featured telephones
on which visitors could hear recorded oral
histories of women who have spent their
lives working on the telephone. Lily Tom-
lin produced new material especially for
the exhibition, reviving her comic charac-
ter Ernestine, the telephone operator.

The curatorial team sought vivid ways
to incorporate individual experiences. A
15-minute video combined interviews
about laundry with film clips, commer-
cials, and documentary photographs.
Passionate quotations on housework, past
and present, were inscribed on bed sheets
hanging on a laundry line in the museum’s
sunlit glass conservatory.

“Mechanical Brides” reflected the
museum’s mission to explore how design
affects daily life by encouraging people to
think in new ways about the creation and
consequences of the built environment.
This exhibition looked at some of those
consequences by linking designed objects
to cultural identity. (Photograph by Bill
Jacobson)

LS
Freer Gallery of Art

His Majesty Emperor Akihito and Her
Majesty Empress Michiko of Japan visited
the Freer Gallery on June 12, 1994. It was
the first time in the gallery’s history that a
reigning Japanese emperor had visited.
The royal couple is shown touring the
Freer with Director Milo Beach. Sur-
rounded by members of the U.S. and
Japanese press corps, the royal party
viewed selections from the gallery’s
world-famous collection of Japanese art,
including paintings recently conserved and
remounted in Japan as part of a multi-
million-dollar effort to preserve important
Japanese art in cultural institutions world-
wide. The project, now in its third year, is

16

sponsored by the Japanese government and
private organizations in Japan.

Begun by Professor Ikuo Hirayama,
president of the Tokyo National University
of Fine Arts and Music and senior director
of the Art Research Foundation, the pro-
ject is supported by in-kind gifts and fund-
ing from the Art Research Foundation;
Tokyo National Research Institute for
Cultural Properties, a department of
Japan’s Agency for Cultural Affairs;

Tokyo National University of Fine Arts
and Music; and six distinguished private
conservation studios, which are donating
labor and supplies. The effort originally
involved 25 Japanese paintings in the Freer

collection dating from the 12th through
the roth century. Treatment of 23 paint-
ings has been completed, and the agree-
ment has been expanded to include addi-
tional works.

The emperor and empress also visited
the Freer’s East Asian painting conserva-
tion studio, where gallery specialists
trained in Asia combine high technology
with centuries-old methods to repair and
mount scrolls, screens, and album leaves.
The studio, which was established in 1924,
is one of only three such facilities in the
United States. (Photograph by John
Tsantes)
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden commemorated the goth birthday
of pioneer abstract expressionist Willem de
Kooning with a major traveling exhibition
showcasing its collection of paintings,
drawings, and sculptures by this preemi-
nent 2oth-century artist. Considered to

be the most comprehensive holdings of

de Kooning’s work in any public institu-
tion, the collection was built by founding
donor Joseph H. Hirshhorn, a loyal patron
and friend of the artist.

“Willem de Kooning from the Hirsh-
horn Museum Collection” was the first of
a number of international celebrations to
honor the Dutch-born American artist.
The exhibition presented the 50 most sig-
nificant works from the Hirshhorn collec-
tion and charted de Kooning’s evolution
and vigor in several media over nearly five
decades. It was accompanied by a 215-
page catalogue, copublished with Rizzoli
International Publications, with art histori-
cal essays by exhibition organizer Judith
Zilczer of the Hirshhorn and a guest
scholar; a section of previously unpub-
lished correspondence between Hirshhorn
and de Kooning; a conservator’s analysis
of de Kooning’s technique; and extensive
documentation. Public programs included
a roundtable discussion, a symposium,
several documentary films, two family
workshops, and a seminar for high school
juniors.

The Washington presentation was
made possible in part by a grant from
Time Warner Inc. Honoring an artist
whose work is widely known but seldom
seen in depth outside of a few cities, the
exhibition is touring in 1994-95 to
Barcelona, Atlanta, Boston, and Houston.

Willem de Kooning (American, b. 1904),
Woman, 1948. Oil and enamel on fiber-
board, 136.1 X 113.2 cm (53 5/8 x 44 3/8
in.). Gift of the Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Foundation, 1966. (Photograph by Lee
Stalsworth, © 1993 Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden)

17
National Air and
Space Museum

Destiny in Space, an IMAX film that ex-

amines space exploration by humans and

robots, opened in June at the National Air

and Space Museum. The 40-minute film
features footage taken during nine space
shuttle flights and includes the first IMAX
footage of a shuttle in flight around the
Earth. The film is the third in the IMAX
space-film trilogy presented by the
National Air and Space Museum and
Lockheed Corporation in cooperation
with the National Aeronautics and Space

Administration.

In breathtaking sequences created by
computers, the viewer is transported to the
broiling landscape of Venus and the vast
canyons of Mars. The scenes are highly ac-
curate visualizations of the data from space
probes, collected and analyzed by scientists
at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

Destiny in Space illustrates the roles
that robots can play in paving the way for
human space explorers, or as alternatives
to them. The film also shows how humans

live and work in space. Astronauts are seen

performing scientific experiments to learn

how weightlessness affects our senses and
how our bodies adapt to zero gravity.

Destiny in Space reveals how today’s
space technology extends our vision far be-
yond the solar system. It traces the launch,
servicing, and redeployment of the Hubble
Space Telescope, capturing the excitement,
tension, and importance of the mission.
The film also features stunning images of
astronomical discoveries made with the
Hubble telescope. (Photograph © 1994
Smithsonian Institution and Lockheed
Corporation)
National Museum of
African Art

A resplendent, ornately decorated Yoruba
crown—an important gift in 1994 to the
National Museum of African Art—was

the centerpiece of the exhibition “Beaded

Splendor.” The crown was one of 14 bead-

embellished works of art on view in the
museum’s Point of View Gallery, which
focuses on selected objects from the mu-
seum’s permanent collection and works on
loan from other institutions or individuals.
From a simple heart-shaped belt ornament
to the brightly colored crown, the works

helped museum visitors understand the im-

portant role these objects play in the per-
sonal lives of Africans and in the court life
of African kingdoms.

In Yoruba tradition, wearing a beaded
crown with a veil is the quintessential
sign of kingship. The faces on the crown
represent ancestors, one of whom might
be Oduduwa, the legendary founder of the
Yoruba peoples. The gathering of the
birds alludes to the world of the spirits
and the king’s ability to mediate between
the human and the supernatural realms.

The crown will eventually go on
permanent display in the museum’s
“Images of Power and Identity” exhibi-
tion, which presents masterworks from
the museum’s collection.

In conjunction with “Beaded Splen-
dor,” the museum published a 28-page
illustrated brochure that highlights the
history and importance of beads in Africa.
A family booklet produced by the mu-
seum’s Education Department introduces
children, their families, and their friends to
five other beaded artworks in the galleries.

Crown (ade), Yoruba peoples, Nigeria.
Glass beads, fiber, cotton, h. 78.1 x da.
22.8 X circ. 73.4 cm (30 3/4 X 8 7/8 x
28 7/8 in.). Gift of Milton F. and Friede
Rosenthal. (Photograph by Franko
Khoury)

et
Het
et
ei
¥ +

itn:

Diree

SA ATP Nae

19
National Museum of
American Art

The National Museum of American Art’s
popular exhibition “Thomas Cole: Land-
scape into History” brought together more
than 70 paintings to illustrate the rich vari-
ety of landscape formats Cole developed,
from wilderness views and pastoral scenes
to imaginary compositions and allegorical
history paintings. The exhibition was the
largest and most comprehensive display of
Cole’s work since the 1848 Cole Memorial
Exhibition at the American Art-Union in
New York.

Through the exhibition, a major publi-

20

cation, and a video in the installation,
cocurators William H. Truettner, the mu-
seum’s curator of painting and sculpture,
and Alan Wallach, Ralph H. Wark Profes-
sor of the Fine Arts at the College of
William and Mary, connected the artist’s
work to the social and political issues of
his time, the era of Jacksonian Democracy.
Cole’s dramatic five-part series The
Course of Empire (1835-36), of which
The Consummation of Empire is the third
and largest painting, was the centerpiece of
“Thomas Cole: Landscape into History.”

eine

The occasion marked the first time the se-
ries has been lent by the New-York Histor-
ical Society. It was also the first time since
1848 that the Empire works and Cole’s
other great allegorical series, The Voyage
of Life (1842, National Gallery of Art),
have been hung together.

Thomas Cole (American, 1801-48), The
Course of Empire: The Consummation of
Empire, 1835-36. Oil on canvas, 130.2 X
193 cm (51 1/4 x 76 in.). The New-York
Historical Society, New York City

National Museum of
American History

“Science in American Life,” a permanent
exhibition that explores the intersections
of science and society since the Civil War,
opened in April at the National Museum
of American History. Led by chief curator
Arthur Molella, chair of the Department
of Science and Technology, a team of 75
curators, educators, writers, designers,
scientific consultants, and production staff
invested more than four years in planning
and creating the exhibition.

“Science in American Life” is the mu-
seum’s first exhibition on the history of
science to feature an interactive area, the
Hands On Science Center (shown here),
in which visitors of all ages can study basic
scientific principles and techniques through

a wide and intriguing array of experiments.

Supported by $5.3 million from the
American Chemical Society, “Science in
American Life” moves from the founding
of the first university research laboratory
at Johns Hopkins in 1876 and the teaching
of science at a historically black college,
Hampton Institute, to the rise of industrial
research laboratories, the impact of science
on daily life in the 1950s, and the emer-
gence and social implications of genetic en-
gineering. It emphasizes the importance of
understanding basic science and the range
of practical and ethical issues related to
science and technology policy.

More than 900 artifacts, 600 historical
photographs and graphics, and 20 com-
puter and mechanical interactive displays
illustrate the theme that society and science

in modern America are inextricably linked.
On view are several re-creations of pioneer-
ing laboratories, a family fallout shelter,
several re-creations of pioneering laborato-
ries, and a life-size kitchen, living room,
and lawn from an Albuquerque, New Mex-
ico, housing development of the 1950s.
“Science in American Life” documents
shifting public attitudes toward the concept
of scientific and technological progress,
from science’s identification with social
progress in the 1920s to its wartime role in
national defense. It concludes with more
recent postwar concerns about environ-
mental safety and the ethical, moral, and
financial considerations that shape public
opinion, policies, and funding for scientific
research. (Photograph by Rick Vargas)

we
=
National Museum of the
American Indian

From the earliest planning stages, the
National Museum of the American Indian
has sought the advice and opinions of
native peoples about every aspect of the
museum. This involvement is essential to
the museum’s mission as an institution of
living cultures dedicated to the preserva-
tion, study, and exhibition of the life and
arts of the native people of the Western
Hemisphere.

This year, native participation was inte-
gral to preparations for the three exhibi-
tions prepared for the October 30, 1994,
opening of the museum’s George Gustav
Heye Center in New York City. An object
in the exhibition “Creation’s Journey:
Masterworks of Native American Identity
and Belief” exemplifies the museum’s
commitment to including the voices of the
peoples and cultures it represents.

In the concluding section, “Objects Live
When Used as Intended,” the ceremonial
bear shadakookh (crest hat) of the Chilkat
clan of the Tlingit of Alaska is exhibited.
The hat is somewhat analogous to a royal
crown, displayed on important ceremonial
occasions and worn only by the reigning
head of the family. Consistent with its pol-
icy about exhibiting sensitive material, the
museum asked for and received permission
from the Chilkat Tlingit to show the hat
and to photograph it being worn by the
only Tlingit man permitted to wear it. As
a result, visitors have a sense of the hat’s
intended use in the community.

An accompanying label by Richard W.
Hill (Tuscarora), special assistant to the
director, reads: “Each object in this exhibi-
tion has at least two histories—one before
it left native hands and one since it has
been in the hands of collectors. Seeing
these objects in a display case can never
replicate their original uses.”

Through consultations with the Chilkat
Tlingit and other native peoples, the
museum is presenting objects like the
shadakookbh to the public in ways that are
appropriate for the cultures the objects
represent.

bP
ie

Chilkat Tlingit shadakookh (crest hat) of a
bear, r9th century. Wood, copper, abalone
shell, h. 36 cm (14 1/8 in.)
National Museum of
Natural History

To appreciate the point of view of the spi-
der—an animal that is perhaps as different

is to

from humans as one could imagine
appreciate the surroundings we share with
other living things. “Spiders!,” a popular
exhibition at the National Museum of
Natural History, gave visitors a glimpse of
the world from the spider’s perspective.
Scientists estimate that there may be as
many as 170,000 species of spiders on our
planet. Just 34,000 species have been iden-
tified. “Spiders!” invited visitors to learn
about these fascinating animals through
live and mounted specimens, interactive
displays, weblike graphics, and spider
myths. Four deadly spiders were featured:

the brown recluse, black widow, Aus-
tralian funnel-web spider, and tropical
wandering spider.

Museum arachnologist Jonathan Cod-
dington—shown here enjoying a hands-on
activity with the comic book hero Spider-
Man and friends—says spiders are the
finest architects in the animal kingdom, en-
gineering fantastic webs like orbs, nets,
tangles, sheets, and funnels. In the exhibi-
tion, visitors could see a time-enhanced
video of web creation and weave their own
webs on a computer. Spiders! explained
how webs serve as homes, lifelines to food
and survival, and means of communication.

Victims of Venom, an award-winning

Petts Of Oo hk ROTM SMEten Onto weaver Clarity Are
CECE ON UY, VET STV CHRON Nvcae ky Caer

film, revealed the strategies spiders use to
catch their prey, including immobilizing
their targets with poison. Scientists are
now investigating the pharmaceutical uses
of spider venom for such conditions as
epilepsy and Alzheimer’s disease.
“Spiders!” was made possible through
the generous support of Marvel Entertain-
ment Group, Inc. Organized by the mu-
seum, the exhibition is being circulated
by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service to ro cities throughout
North America until 1998. (Photograph
by Laurie Minor-Penland)

OVE AANOT YOnS COR MN ME
SAMERE O. SAINERI SAE SEMEN

National Portrait Gallery

Kentucky statesman Henry Clay welcomed
artist John Neagle to Ashland, his home
near Lexington, in November 1842 so

that Neagle might paint a full-length like-
ness commissioned by the Clay Club of
Philadelphia. This portrait, laden with
political symbolism and engraved by John
Sartain, was an important campaign image
for the Whig Party in the 1844 presidential
election.

While Neagle was still in Lexington,
Clay told an acquaintance that the artist
was making a “faithful and spirited” por-
trait, a life study for the larger image. This
animated bust, praised by Clay as being
the “most perfect likeness of me that has
been hitherto made,” was recently ac-
quired by the National Portrait Gallery.

Clay’s favorite portrait remained in the
family of a well-known Philadelphia politi-
cian and newspaper publisher who had
been instrumental in the Clay Club’s com-
mission for the full-length portrait. When
it was sold in 1993, an inscription was dis-
covered on the reverse of the canvas denot-
ing it as the life portrait. This inscription
and the painting’s provenance make it
clear that the Portrait Gallery has acquired
the long-lost study—that “spirited” like-
ness of which Henry Clay was so fond.

John Neagle (American, 1796-1865),
Portrait of Henry Clay, 1842. Oil on
canvas, 70 X 54.5 cm (27 1/2 X 21 1/2 in.).
National Portrait Gallery, Gallery pur-
chase, 1994. (Photograph by Rolland G.
White)
National Postal Museum

The timeless importance of written com-
munication is a common theme of the
exhibits at the National Postal Museum.
The museum encapsulates the essential
role of the postal service in the history of
our nation while portraying the integral
part that personal letters have played in
recording and understanding that history.
Through letters shared between family and
friends, our cultural and social history is
poignantly revealed.

It is difficult for a contemporary audi-
ence, accustomed to the immediacy of tele-
phones, computers, and fax machines, to
understand that mail was once the prima-
ry communication source. The exhibit
“Binding the Nation” is a chronological
examination of postal history from colo-
nial times to the end of the roth century.
The flow of information was crucial to the
creation and maintenance of a democratic
system of government. The postal service
provided the delivery system for that
information.

The exhibit also highlights Benjamin
Franklin’s role in standardizing rates and
broadening the reach of the postal service,
the work of the Committees of Cor-
respondence, and the search for mail
routes to the far West. Well-known sub-
jects such as the Civil War and the Pony
Express are included alongside less famil-
iar stories of the early overland mail ser-
vice and antebellum efforts to control and
censor abolitionist newspapers by remoy-
ing them from the mail.

Letters are used throughout the exhibit
to bring history to life in an interesting
style. Presented with letters representing
diverse voices and issues, visitors have said
that they enjoy having the opportunity to
contemplate these colorful windows on
their past. (Photograph by Richard
Strauss)

2.
National Zoological Park

The National Zoological Park reached
another milestone in its effort to breed
endangered species when its first elephant
calf was born at 9:48 P.M. on December
14, 1993. Kumari, a female Asian elephant
who weighed 264 pounds at birth, is al-
ready a favorite of Zoo visitors. Kumari
means “princess” in Sinhalese, one of the
principal languages of Sri Lanka. Her
mother Shanthi (“peace”) was a gift

to the people of the United States from
Sri Lanka in 1976.

Assistant mammal curator John Lehn-
hardt devoted five years to making the
birth of Kumari a reality. The wild popula-
tion of Asian elephants has been reduced
to about 40,000. Because their numbers
will continue to decline, it is essential that
zoos make every effort to propagate these
magnificent animals to assure their contin-
ued existence.

Kumari was born after a 22-month
gestation period. At first, both mother and
calf had a difficult time. Six weeks of 24-
hour care from dedicated Zoo veterinari-
ans and keeper staff saved both newborn
and mother. Kumari reached a healthy
500 pounds in July 1994. (Photograph by
Jessie Cohen)

26

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory’s Project IOTA (infrared-optical tele-
scope array) is an innovative approach to
achieving sharper images of astronomical
objects by overcoming the size limits of
conventional telescopes. Two small tele-
scopes, each 45 centimeters in diameter, on
an L-shaped track gather light from the
same object and combine it into one image
with the same resolution that a single tele-
scope with a mirror 40 meters in diameter

could produce.
The IOTA system can create images of

objects the size of a city bus on the surface
of the moon—that is, an object more than
4 meters (12 feet) wide and some 400 mil-
lion meters (240 thousand miles) away.
The system can accurately measure the di-
ameters of bright stars and observe spots
on their surfaces, probe the cores of active
galaxies, and, at infrared wavelengths,
search for disks of dust and gas surround-
ing stars suspected of forming planetary
systems.

Located at SAO’s Whipple Observatory

in Arizona, Project IOTA occupies a site

just below the summit of Mt. Hopkins and
the Multiple Mirror Telescope. In this pho-
tograph, a late-summer thunderstorm cre-
ates a rainbow between the two movable
shelters housing the IOTA telescopes.
Project IOTA is a collaborative effort of
the Smithsonian Institution, Harvard Uni-
versity, the University of Massachusetts,
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Lincoln Laboratory, and the University of
Wyoming. (Photograph by Wesley Traub)

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Although forest is the dominant vegetation
over much of the world, it has been ex-
tremely difficult to study. Access to the
canopy, where much of the biological ac-
tivity occurs, has been very limited. The
use of modified construction cranes allows
scientists to gain safe, ready access over
large areas of forest canopy. Here scientists
from the Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center use a crane to study a decid-
uous hardwood forest dominated by tulip
poplars on the Coastal Plain of Maryland.

To understand better how the canopy
harvests sunlight for photosynthesis, scien-
tists measured leaf angles at different times
of day using the canopy leaves of a number
of individual trees from each of several tree
species. At times of high temperature and
light intensity, some species turn their
leaves parallel to the sunlight to avoid ab-
sorbing too much light. Light will pene-
trate deeper into the canopy than is the
case when the tree orients its leaves at a
right angle to the sunbeam. By varying the
leaf angles to match the environmental
conditions, the trees can carry out photo-
synthesis but avoid excessive moisture
losses from the leaves or destruction of leaf
components by photo-oxidation.

Such detailed information about how
individual trees of different species respond
to temperature and light intensity allows
SERC scientists to expand their under-
standing of this complex photobiology,
which has evolved over thousands of years.
The results may help us to comprehend and
interpret the information obtained from
satellites. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service

Reproductions of colorful posters, circu-
lated throughout the United States during
World War II to mobilize the nation’s sup-
port of the overseas war effort, began a
one-year tour in September 1994 under
the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES). “Pro-
duce for Victory: Posters on the American
Home Front, 1941-1945” is part of an in-
novative program tailored to the needs of
the country’s rural communities.

Five lightweight copies, reformatted
from the original exhibition organized by
the National Museum of American History
and SITES, are traveling to 25 locations in
Georgia, Illinois, Oregon, Utah, and West
Virginia in cooperation with the humani-
ties councils of those states. Curator Larry
Bird and labor history specialist Harry
Rubenstein, both of the museum, were the
curators for the original exhibition.

“Produce for Victory” focuses on the
artwork—displayed in factories, shop win-
dows, schools, and other public places—
that rallied a nation. This exhibition of 26
poster images also includes objects such as
ration cards, victory garden cookbooks,
period magazines, and airplane
spotter guides.

The freestanding panel version was
created with rural sites in mind. It is less
expensive, smaller, and more flexible than
many other traveling exhibitions, and it
was specially designed by the Office of
Exhibits Central to fit into smaller, tighter
public spaces. Rural exhibitors will com-
plement the display with local objects and
public programming.

This partnership between the Smith-
sonian and state humanities councils is
making the Institution’s offerings accessi-
ble in underserved areas of the nation, one
of SITES’ primary goals. Funding was
provided by the Rockefeller Foundation,
the Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund,
and the National Endowment for the
Humanities. (Poster by General Cable
Corporation, 1942)

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute (STRI) has initiated the most ambi-
tious exhibition project in its history at the
Culebra Island Marine Education Center.
Located near STRI’s major marine research
facility at Naos Island, Culebra features a
microcosm of Panama’s near-shore habi-
tats and a spectacular view of the Bay of
Panama and the entrance of the Panama
Canal. It is an ideal site to foster under-
standing by local residents and interna-
tional visitors of Panama’s marine environ-
ments and the importance of their
conservation.

Exhibitions at Culebra began in 1990,

when STRI, with support from the Smith-

sonian Women’s Committee, purchased
and installed large salt-water aquariums
for the display of marine fauna from both
sides of the Isthmus of Panama. STRI is
now developing “Where Land Meets Sea,”
which will incorporate indoor and outdoor
exhibits, including nature trails. The exhi-
bition will have displays on Panama’s geo-
logic history and the rise of the isthmus;
Panama’s marine environments; human use
of the area’s abundant marine resources
from 11,000 years ago to the present; and
important conservation issues. Outdoor
signs will describe the island’s habitats and
historical features, including the sandy
beach, rocky shore, dry forest, and rem-

nants of major military fortifications that
once defended the Panama Canal.

STRI’s Office of Education conducts en-
vironmental education programs, shown
here, for local schoolchildren and other
visitors several times a week at Culebra.
Development of the Culebra exhibition is
supported by the Smithsonian Special Ex-
hibition Fund, the Smithsonian Women’s
Committee, STRI internal funds, contribu-
tions from local corporations, and a major
grant from the Department of Defense
Legacy Resource Management Program.
(Photograph by Marcos A. Guerra)

Sciences

Office of the Assistant Secretary
for the Sciences

ROBERT S. HOFFMANN,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

Since its inception, the Smithsonian has nourished a
commitment to a scientific research program charac-
terized by breadth, depth, and outreach. The Smith-
sonian’s scientific studies, known for their benefit to
the entire scientific community, are carried on in spe-
cialized research institutes and laboratories, in muse-
ums, in the National Zoological Park, and in central
support units. In all its scientific endeavors, the
Smithsonian strives to maintain an institutional at-
mosphere that enhances creativity and stimulates new
insights into the natural and human worlds that will
enable us to deal successfully with the challenges we
face now and in the future.

¢ During 1994, scientific studies continued to em-
phasize global environmental research. Smithsonian
scientists are working to develop an adequate under-
standing of the structure and composition of natural
communities and ecosystems so that their richness
and stability can be maintained or restored in the face
of increasing human pressures. Through fundamental
research by the Institution’s systematic biologists, the
species richness of the biosphere is being inventoried
and described. In addition to environmental research
by Smithsonian scientists, anthropologists at the Insti-
tution are examining changing cultures, ranging from
contemporary West African art and culture to the in-
fluence on the Caribbean region of the importation of
peoples and their cultures during the slave era.

¢ The Environmental Awareness Program continued
design and production of “Ocean Planet,” a traveling
exhibition on ocean conservation that will open at the

TE NOE Ad
IN REVIEW

National Museum of Natural History in April 1995.
The program also participated in an interagency work-
ing group convened by the White House on federal
environmental research and educational activities.

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
LAMBERTUS VAN ZELST, DIRECTOR

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) en-
gages in research and training in the conservation and
technical study of museum objects and other materi-
als of cultural importance. CAL addresses questions
of concern to archaeology and art history as well as
problems facing museums, including the Smithsonian,
in the preservation and conservation of collections. A
multifaceted training program provides valuable edu-
cational opportunities for students in conservation,
materials science, archaeology, and art history.

¢ Conservation scientists at CAL announced an
important advance in understanding the effects of
environmental conditions on materials and complex
objects in museum collections. The allowable fluctua-
tions appear to be larger than had been generally as-
sumed, and it is now possible to calculate safe ranges
of relative humidity for storage and exhibition areas.
Significant savings in climate control costs may result.
¢ Inacollaborative project with the National Mu-
seum of African Art and outside scholars, CAL re-
searchers are using lead isotope mass spectrometry to
examine the origins of the metal ores used for the
manufacture of Benin bronzes. The project promises
to make interesting contributions to our knowledge
of these objects and the people who made them.

¢ Collaborative studies of Maya polychrome ceramic
vessels, in which CAL scholars’ research led to prove-
nance attributions, culminated with the opening of a
major traveling exhibition, “Painting the Maya Uni-
verse: Royal Ceramics of the Classic Period.” The
project made important additions to our understand-

By
Conservation Analytical

Laboratory intern
Elizabeth Brown prac-
tices furniture finishing
techniques as part of
her preparation for
admission to a graduate
conservation training

program.

32

ing of the political, social, and economic structure
of Maya society.

¢ The preservation of archival materials is the focus
of the RELACT (research collections, libraries, and
archives conservation training) program, conducted
by CAL in collaboration with the Office of the
Smithsonian Institution Archives and the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries. This year, many collec-
tions maintenance staff received training in preser-
vation management and practices, and staff in four
research collections undertook preservation pro-
jects. Several CAL conservation interns gained prac-
tical experience through the projects.

National Museum of
Natural History

DONALD J. ORTNER,
ACTING DIRECTOR

The National Museum of Natural History (NMNH)
is dedicated to understanding the natural world and
the place of humans in it. The nation’s largest re-
search museum, it has a staff of more than 600, in-
cluding 114 scientists, and one of the world’s most
extensive collections of cultural artifacts and speci-
mens of plants, animals, fossils, rocks, and minerals,
now numbering more than 121 million items. Stud-
ies conducted by the museum’s staff, and by scien-
tists worldwide using its collections, increase under-
standing of plants and animals living today and in
earlier periods; shed light on the origin and evolu-
tion of Earth and the solar system; and enhance
knowledge of human evolution, adaptation, and

cultural history. Through its educational programs,
scholarly and popular publications, and many
public exhibitions—which attract more than

6 million visitors annually—NMNH disseminates
knowledge about the natural and cultural diversity
of the Earth. In 1994, the museum continued its
traditions of research, public programs, and collec-
tion acquisition and management through a variety
of activities.

¢ “Spiders!,” a traveling exhibition created by the
museum and made possible through the generous
support of Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc., ex-
plored the fact and fiction of spiders. Visitors
learned how spiders solve the fundamental problems
that confront all living things, such as finding food,
producing healthy offspring, and fending off danger.
The exhibition curator was arachnologist Jonathan
Coddington.

¢ A new National Museum of Natural History—
Alaska State Museum Arctic Studies Center opened
in the spring of 1994 with the mission of generating
Alaska-based research and educational programs.
The five-year agreement calls for cooperation in
research, exhibit development, staff training, and
publications.

¢ “In Search of Giant Squid,” a new permanent
exhibition, explores and interprets the mystery and
complexity of the world’s largest invertebrates. A
bioluminescent “giant” squid, able to flash blue-
green light in the ocean depths, is a highlight of the
exhibition. The curator was Clyde Roper, a leading
authority on squids. Exhibition construction was
made possible by the generous support of the people
of Chevron.

¢ Museum paleobiologist Douglas Erwin is a joint
author of The Fossils of the Burgess Shale, a Smith-
sonian Institution Press book that provides the most
comprehensive look yet at one of this century’s most
important fossil finds, discovered in 1909 by Smith-
sonian secretary Charles Walcott.

¢ Museum botanists Mark and Diane Littler an-
nounced the alarming discovery that coralline reefs
in the South Pacific are being killed by an unknown
bacterial pathogen called coralline lethal orange.
Corallines are critical to the growth of reefs. The
Littlers are continuing studies of the long-term im-
plications of the pathogen and canvasing colleagues
throughout the Pacific on the range of distribution
of the disease.

¢ At the 1994 Society for American Archaeology
annual meeting, the museum’s J. Daniel Rogers
noted that archaeologists are finding that climate
change and overuse of natural resources have con-
tributed to the collapse of human cultures. Recent
archaeological work by the museum’s Melinda
Zeder at Umm Qseir in northern Mesopotamia

documented the expansion of grazing and farming

that led to the vast deforestation and decline in agri-
cultural productivity now evident in many parts of
West Asia.

¢ The Smithsonian Institution Man and the
Biosphere Program (SI/MAB), based at the museum,
focuses on problems associated with maintaining
global forest biodiversity. Projects are developed in
concert with sponsoring organizations and host
countries. This year, S/MAB conducted its second
five-week course in measuring and monitoring bio-
diversity, with participants from Asia, Latin Amer-
ica, Africa, and North America. A two-week course
in establishing plots for studying biodiversity was
held in Canada, where the methodology will be im-
plemented in national parks.

National Zoological Park

MICHAEL H. ROBINSON, DIRECTOR

The principal mission of the National Zoological
Park (NZP) is the advancement of science, biologi-
cal conservation, and the education and recreation
of the people. To fulfill this mission, the Zoo has
moved beyond being a zoological park concerned
only with animals to becoming a biological park
with a scope that extends to the whole living world
and exhibits that increasingly emphasize interac-
tions among animals and plants. NZP exhibits liv-
ing plants as well as animals on its 163-acre facility
in Rock Creek Park in Washington, D.C., and main-
tains the Conservation and Research Center on
3,150 acres in Front Royal, Virginia, as a major
animal breeding, conservation, and research center.

Scientists from the Zoo pursue research around the
world, advancing biological understanding and the
conservation of life on Earth.

¢ The birth of the Zoo’s first elephant calf, Kumari,
on December 14, 1993, was another milestone in
the Zoo’s efforts to conserve endangered species.
The female Asian elephant, which weighed 264
pounds, was born after a 22-month gestation pe-
riod. Other significant births or hatchings of threat-
ened species included a female gorilla (the third low-
land gorilla born in three years), a white-cheeked
gibbon, black-footed ferrets, Eld’s deer, flamingos,
and Komodo dragons.

¢ The refurbished Great Outdoor Flight exhibit,
one of the ro largest outdoor aviaries in North
America, reopened in August, 1994. This avian
habitat features North and South American birds
such as the scarlet ibis, roseate spoonbill, Inca tern,
blue heron, and white-faced ibis as well as a collec-
tion of state birds of the United States. New shrubs
complement the rock faces and waterfall, and a re-
designed pathway ensures access for people with
disabilities.

¢ Children of all ages from highly diverse commu-
nities had a firsthand look at the Zoo through sev-
eral new educational programs, including NOAHS
(New Opportunities in Animal Health Sciences) Sci-
entists in the Classroom project, funded by the
Hughes Foundation; the LIFE (Learning Is a Family
Experience) program (pioneered at the National Air
and Space Museum); and the Concerned Black
Men’s mentorship program. The children, and in
some cases their parents, learned about the Zoo
from the perspectives of keepers, curators, scientists,
and exhibit designers.

¢ “Is Conservation Going Extinct?”—an Earth
Day symposium organized by the Zoo’s Office of
Public Affairs—explored such central conservation
issues as the role of habitat fragmentation and
human population in the process of extinction; the
convergence of ecology, international development,
and anthropology into the new discipline of conser-
vation biology; and the differences between media
and public perceptions of conservation problems.

¢ The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ) sup-
ports the efforts of the NZP to increase public
awareness of wildlife conservation issues. This year,
FONZ members contributed more than 86,000
hours of vital volunteer assistance, ranging from ed-
ucational research to animal care; funded the Audio
Tour, a self-guided safari through 30 animal ex-
hibits; held its first annual Menagerie Masquerade
on October 30, at which 300 costumed spirits
danced to live music and consumed hors d’oeuvres,
treats, and drinks supplied by Washington-area
restaurants; and sponsored Giants, the annual Zoo-

Japanese Emperor
Akihito, an ichthyologist,
met with staff scientists
at the National Museum
of Natural History
during his visit to the
Smithsonian last summer.
Here G. David Johnson,
chair of the museum’s
Department of Vertebrate
Zoology and curator of
fishes, shows specimens
of the fish family that is
the emperor’s research
specialization.

3)
This 45-foot-tall tower,
one of eight erected this
year at the National Zoo,
will allow orangutans to

”

“commute” by overhead
steel cables between their
living quarters and Think
Tank, a new interactive
exhibit being built 500
feet away. The towers are
equipped with safety
features to keep the apes
from climbing down.
(Photograph by Jessie
Cohen)

34

Fari gala, which raised a record $210,000 for NZP

research, exhibits, and educational programs.

¢ “The Tropical Nature of Venezuela,” a
photographic exhibition provided by the Venezuelan
government, was on display in the Amazonia
Gallery during the summer. The exhibition featured
stunning scenes of protected natural areas in the re-
gions of Guyana, Los Andes, El Caribe, Los Llanos,
Amazonas, and Cordillera de la Costa.

¢ The Zoo’s Conservation and Research Center ex-
panded its training programs to include three-month
undergraduate internships as well as three one-week
intensive courses. A remote sensing—geographic in-
formation systems laboratory began operations for
use in international training programs and biodiver-
sity investigations.

Office of Fellowships and Grants

ROBERTA W. RUBINOFF, DIRECTOR

The Office of Fellowships and Grants manages the
Smithsonian’s centralized fellowship and internship
programs, all stipend appointments, and other pro-
grams that support research. Through these research
programs, scholars and students from throughout
the world come to the Institution to use its varied
collections and work with Smithsonian staff. The
office also administers programs to increase minor-
ity participation in Smithsonian research activities

and disciplines. Two competitive grant programs
managed by the office provide scholarly support for
Smithsonian professional staff.

¢ More than 900 awards were offered to students,
scholars, and scientists from the United States and
abroad to use the Institution’s resources and collec-
tions. These awards included fellowships, intern-
ships, and short-term travel awards.

¢ The office and the National Zoological Park
cosponsored a public talk by Paul Ewald about his
new book, Evolution of Infectious Disease (Oxford
University Press). The book grew largely out of re-
search conducted during Ewald’s George E. Burch
Fellowship, administered by the office.

¢ The office offered 77 awards under the Smith-
sonian Fellowship Program. Fifteen fellowships—19
percent of the total—were to students and scholars
from underrepresented groups.

¢ The Minority Internship Program had more than
200 applicants. Thirty-seven students from 16 states
and 29 schools received awards to assist in ongoing
research and museum-related projects in 16 bureaus
and offices of the Institution.

Office of Smithsonian
Institution Archives

JOHN F. JAMESON, ACTING DIRECTOR

The Office of Smithsonian Institution Archives
(OSIA), through its archives, institutional history,
and collections management divisions, serves as a
resource for Smithsonian administrative and pro-
gram activities, investigates and reports on signifi-
cant aspects of the Institution’s history, and advises
on museum, archival, and library collection man-
agement matters. OSIA responds to more than
2,000 requests for information and research assis-
tance each year.

¢ This year, OSIA used funding from the Institu-
tion’s Research Resources Program to begin, with
the assistance of the Conservation Analytical Labo-
ratory, a pan-institutional initiative to improve
preservation of archival collections. Other partici-
pants were the National Museum of Natural His-
tory’s Division of Fishes, the Freer Gallery of
Art—Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Archives, and the
National Air and Space Museum’s Aeronautics
Department.

¢ OSIA’s Institutional History Division undertook
several projects in preparation for the Smithsonian’s
15oth anniversary celebration in 1996. The staff
began to compile a chronology, revise and enlarge a
bibliography on Smithsonian history, and assemble

a database of photographic citations. Interns re-
searched the history of African Americans at the In-
stitution and Smithsonian—Latin American relations.
Oral history interviews of Theodore H. Reed, Louis
R. Purnell, Robert McC. Adams, and C. Malcolm
Watkins were recorded. With volume 7 of the
Joseph Henry Papers scheduled for publication in
1995, the staff began research on volume 8, which
documents Henry’s career from 1850 through 1853.
¢ The Archives Division appraised, boxed, and
transferred 231 cubic feet of records from the
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum. The
records included valuable documentation from the
Office of the Director, Department of Decorative
Arts, Registrar, Exhibitions Department, and a li-
brary collection on the history of the Cooper Union.
¢ The National Collections Program compiled and
published the eighth annual collection statistics,
which this year offered consolidated data on collec-
tions growth, acquisitions, deaccessioning, and loan
activity for museum, archival, and library collections.

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory
IRWIN I. SHAPIRO, DIRECTOR

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO)
is dedicated to the “increase” of knowledge—through
the discovery and explanation of the physical
processes that determine the nature and evolution
of the universe—and to its “diffusion”— through
dissemination of research results to the scientific
community, educational materials for teachers and
students, teacher training, and educational outreach
to the public.

Headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
SAO and the Harvard College Observatory form the
Center for Astrophysics (CfA), whose more than
200 professional staff are engaged in a broad pro-
gram of research in astronomy, astrophysics, and
earth and space sciences organized by divisions:
atomic and molecular physics, high-energy astro-
physics, optical and infrared astronomy, planetary
sciences, radio and geoastronomy, solar and stellar
physics, and theoretical astrophysics. Observational
data are gathered by instruments aboard rockets,
balloons, and spacecraft as well as by ground-based
telescopes at SAO’s Fred Lawrence Whipple Obser-
vatory in Arizona and Oak Ridge Observatory in
Massachusetts and at the millimeter-wave radio
installation in Cambridge.

Current initiatives include the creation of a sub-
millimeter telescope array in Hawaii, the conversion

of the Multiple Mirror Telescope to a single-mirror
instrument 6.5 meters in diameter, and preparation
for the launch of space experiments in x-ray, sub-
millimeter, and solar astronomy.

¢ The unusual orbital history of Comet Shoemaker-
Levy 9 and the prediction of its collision with Jupiter

The first full-time African
American on the Smith-
sonian’s guard force may
have been James Thomas
Gant (far right rear),
shown here with his co-
workers, ca. 1890-1900.
The Office of Smith-
sonian Institution Ar-
chives is documenting the
history of African Ameri-
cans at the Institution.

Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory scientists
(from left) Robert
Reasenberg, Charley
Noecker, and Robert
Babcock observe a vacu-
um chamber used to test
components of a pro-
posed space-borne tele-
scope designed to search
for planets outside our
solar system.(Photograph
by Jon Chase)
At the Smithsonian

Environmental Research
Center, scientists lower a
“caisson” into the Rhode
River to sample inverte-
brate populations near
underwater logs and

other large woody debris.

(Photograph by Greg
Ruiz)

36

were first established at SAO based on precise obser-
vations made at the Oak Ridge Observatory.

¢ The landmark CfA Redshift Survey of galaxy dis-
tribution was extended to the sky above the South-
ern Hemisphere. Done in collaboration with four
other observatories, this mapping brings the total of
galaxies surveyed to more than 14,000 and repre-
sents coverage of about one-third of the sky. The
striking bubblelike patterns of large-scale structure
seen earlier in the northern survey continue in the
south.

¢ An experiment conceived and designed at SAO
confirmed that a 20-kilometer-long, o.8-centimeter-
thick plastic cable could suspend a tethered satellite
with a minimum of oscillation and swing. The
tether, the longest object ever placed in orbit, was
the third such SAO-developed system successfully
launched by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration within a year.

¢ Project IOTA, a two-element optical and infrared
interferometer intended for high-resolution observa-
tions of astronomical objects, took its “first light”
(obtained the infrared signature of a single star) in
early December 1993. The system is installed at the
Whipple Observatory.

¢ SAO’s Science Media Group received a $2.6
million grant from the Annenberg-Corporation for
Public Broadcasting Math and Science project to
develop six educational videos exploring common
student misconceptions in science. As part of this
Private Universe Project, nationally televised interac-
tive evaluation conferences will elicit comment and
consultation on the videos from teachers.

¢ With a $240,000 grant from the National Science
Foundation, SAO provided 1o-week summer intern-

ships for 13 college undergraduates specializing in
astronomy and astrophysics. The program, which
emphasizes opportunities for women and minorities,
will be conducted at the observatory for two more
summers.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center
DAVID L. CORRELL, DIRECTOR

Research and education at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center (SERC) in Edgewa-
ter, Maryland, take a range of approaches to investi-
gating basic ecological processes and improving our
ability to protect and manage important natural re-
sources. Using the geographic features of the Chesa-
peake Bay region, SERC conducts intensive analyses
of a complex landscape of interconnected ecosys-
tems. SERC’s research is the primary contribution
on the region to the U.S. Interagency Global Change
Program and an important component of the Inter-
national Geosphere-Biosphere Program.

¢ A SERC study has been evaluating the impact of
the so-called ozone hole on oceanic phytoplankton.
Research into the effects of increased levels of ultra-
violet radiation has helped develop a model for pre-
dicting the short-term effects of ozone depletion on
photosynthesis. The model suggests that the ozone
hole might reduce near-surface photosynthesis by
12 to 15 percent.

¢ Scientists believe that the declining population of
long-distance migratory birds in temperate breeding
areas is due partly to the changing land use practices
that threaten tropical forests. In their studies of mi-
gratory birds that winter in the Yucatan Peninsula,
SERC scientists have concluded that traditional
agriculture involving the shifting cultivation of small
plots poses no threat to migrant species in the Yu-
catan. However, more recent land use forms, such
as mechanized agriculture and large-scale cattle
ranching, are harmful to most of these species.

¢ In their continuing investigation of the Chesa-
peake Bay food web, SERC scientists have shown
that the Baltic clam—one of the most abundant
shellfish in the bay—is extremely adaptable in feed-
ing in different environments. When there is a low
population of plankton, it prefers to graze on the
surface of the bottom sediments where it lives. To
do so, it must extend its siphon and expose itself to
predators such as crabs. Therefore, it is sometimes
advantageous for the clam to avoid predators by
feeding from the overlying water even if plankton
densities are low.
¢ Coarse woody debris, such as tree branches and
logs, gives aquatic animals refuge from their preda-
tors. When SERC scientists added debris to experi-
mental plots, the populations of crabs, small fishes,
and grass shrimp grew significantly. Access to coarse
woody debris also increased the survival of grass
shrimp in laboratory and field experiments. These
results indicate the need to maintain shoreline
forests and allow woody debris to accumulate along
estuarine shorelines.

¢ The concentration of carbon dioxide in the at-
mosphere is expected to double in about 50 years
due to the worldwide burning of fossil fuels and the
destruction of forests. In studies of salt marsh com-
munities and, most recently, a deciduous woody
shrub called a spice bush, SERC scientists have been
investigating how this increase will affect various
natural plant communities.

¢ Large organisms called planktonic dinoflagellates
commonly form “red tides” during the growing
season in the central part of Chesapeake Bay. They
obtain energy by photosynthesis and by ingesting
phytoplankton and small zooplankton. In another
aspect of ongoing studies of the bay’s food web,
SERC scientists found that these adaptable organ-
isms had more food vacuoles, or small cavities for
ingesting food, when large numbers of suitable prey
were available. At other times they derived their en-
ergy from photosynthesis.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries
BARBARA J. SMITH, DIRECTOR

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries supports the
research activities of the Institution’s staff, scholars
from around the world, and members of the public
by providing reference and information services and
by building, organizing, managing, preserving, and
conserving its collections. The Libraries’ collec-
tions—numbering 1.2 million volumes, 15,000
journals, 40,000 rare books, and 1,800 manuscript
groups—are available in 18 branch libraries and
through interlibrary loan, and its catalogue records
are accessible on-line. The Libraries is a member of
the Association of Research Libraries.

¢ To support Native American research and pro-
grams, the Libraries purchased, with funds donated
by Ruth L. Webb, an illustrated account by the
artist and topographer Heinrich B. Mollhausen of
the Pacific Railroad Survey of 1853. The S. Dillon
Ripley Library Endowment provided funds for pur-
chases of other books in Native American studies as
well as a 12-volume series on African American life

from 1861 to 1900 and the first of several projected
volumes of the Flora of Japan.

¢ Asa special member of the Research Libraries
Group, the Libraries participates in a resource-
sharing program along with more than 100 of the
nation’s largest research libraries. The program pro-
vides priority lending with expedited loan service,
giving Libraries users direct access to these premiere
collections.

¢ The Libraries opened two exhibitions this year in
its gallery in the National Museum of American
History. “Balloons: The Birth of Flight, 1783-
1793” displayed books from three branch libraries,
and “Tunnels!” featured books and manuscripts
tracing the development of tunnels from antiquity to
the present. At Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum, the branch librarian organized “Walter
Crane: Design for Children,” which included 19
lavishly illustrated books from the collection. The
Libraries’ exhibitions are funded with private dona-
tions and grants.

¢ After 34 years of providing research support
through the Translations Publishing Program, the
Libraries closed the program this year when the
Special Foreign Currency operating funds that sup-
ported it were exhausted. Since 1960, the Libraries
has distributed free of charge copies of 274 scientific

Secretary Emeritus S.
Dillon Ripley and his
wife Mary Livingston
Ripley (seated),
Smithsonian Institution
Libraries Director
Barbara J. Smith, and
David Challinor, science
adviser to the secretary,
examine the first purchas-
es made with funds from
the S. Dillon Ripley

Library Endowment,

established in 1993.
(Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)

Le
“N
Coral reef scientist

Hector Guzman is direct-

ing Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute efforts
to help the government
of Honduras develop a
management and pro-
tection plan for the
Cochinos Archipelago
on the Caribbean coast.
(Photograph by Marcos
A. Guerra)

38

books and articles translated into English and made

them available through the National Technical In-
formation Service.

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

IRA RUBINOFF, DIRECTOR

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI),
based in the Republic of Panama, is dedicated to re-
search on tropical nature and peoples and to com-
municating this knowledge internationally. To fur-
ther its mission, STRI operates tropical forest and
marine field stations, well-equipped laboratories,
and a major tropical science library. These facilities
support the work of more than 30 staff scientists
and hundreds of visiting researchers and students
each year.

¢ STRI’s new 32-meter (96-foot) general purpose
research vessel, the RV Urraca, was delivered in
April. Replacing the retired RV Benjamin, the new
vessel is equipped with a laboratory, darkroom,
scuba facilities, and the latest communication and
navigation gear. The increased size, capabilities, and
range of the Urraca will allow STRI scientists not
only to continue their work on both sides of the
Isthmus of Panama but to expand their studies
much farther afield.

¢ STRI was awarded a five-year contract to advise
the government of Honduras on management and
protection of the Cochinos Archipelago, a group of
small islands off the Caribbean coast that are desig-
nated for protected status. STRI will also initiate a
research and biological monitoring program for the
area, which contains a diverse, well-developed coral
reef system of considerable scientific interest.

¢ The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation awarded
STRI a three-year, $900,000 grant for plant ecologi-
cal research. Among the projects the grant will sup-
port are installation of a large-scale forest dynamics
plot in Amazonian Ecuador; studies in botanical pa-
leoecology; research in canopy biology using STRI’s
tower crane canopy access system; research in plant
physiological ecology; and studies in the molecular
biology of marine algae.

¢ STRI’s Oil Spill Project submitted its final report
on a five-year study of the consequences of a major
oil spill on coral reefs, mangroves, and other habi-
tats in Bahia Las Minas near STRI’s Galeta Marine
Laboratory on the Caribbean coast. The report,
which is the most comprehensive study of its kind,
has important implications for evaluating the conse-
quences of marine contamination and the effective-
ness of cleanup efforts.

¢ The first facilities for researchers opened at the
Mpala Research Center in Kenya, located at the
Mpala Ranch, a 48,500-acre working cattle ranch
on the Laikipia Plateau. Mpala is operated by a
consortium including the Smithsonian Institution
(with STRI, the National Museum of Natural His-
tory, the National Air and Space Museum, and the
National Zoological Park as the major participating
bureaus), National Museums of Kenya, Kenya
Wildlife Service, Mpala Wildlife Foundation, and
Princeton University. The center offers scientists and
students access to a rich savanna habitat where they
can examine interactions among wildlife, livestock,
humans, and the fragile landscape.

¢ The Tropical Forest Canopy Project submitted its
first report to the United Nations Environment Pro-
gram (UNEP) on research conducted with STRI’s
tower crane canopy access system. The crane, pur-
chased with the assistance of the Smithsonian Na-
tional Board and, through UNEP, of the govern-
ments of Finland, Germany, and Norway, has been
a major breakthrough in advancing understanding
of this highly diverse habitat. The report describes
25 research projects by scientists from 14 countries
on topics including pollination, insect biodiversity,
herbivory, seed predation, and the effects of carbon

t
i

dioxide levels, ultraviolet light, and microclimate on —

plant physiology.
Arts and Humanities

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
the Arts and Humanities

TOM L. FREUDENHEIM,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for the Arts
and Humanities oversees most of the Smithsonian
museums and service organizations. The office for-
mulates museum policy and works with bureaus
and offices to ensure its implementation. The office
also advises the secretary and the under secretary on
issues relating to museum policy, operations, and
exhibitions.

¢ Asa technical assistance and resource office, the
Accessibility Program worked with almost every
Smithsonian bureau to improve accessibility for
people with disabilities. The program provided
technical reviews of facilities and exhibitions, staff
and volunteer training, and accessibility services

for visitors. With the acquisition of a braille printer
and software, the program was able to translate
printed materials into braille for Smithsonian
organizations.

¢ The National African American Museum Project
presented an Elder Mentors Award to Cholly
Atkins, recognizing his contributions to American
music and dance. The project’s first exhibition,
“Imagining Families: Images and Voices,” opened in
August 1994. With photographs, installation art,
and slide-projected images from 15 American pho-
tographers, the exhibition is a photographic essay
about the American family experience. A catalogue
and a series of public and educational programs
were developed with the exhibition.

¢ By the close of the fiscal year, the National
African American Museum Project had identified
more than 1,500 potential donors who would sup-
port a future museum. The project’s quarterly
newsletter, Orator, is beginning its third year of
publication. Legislation authorizing the National
African American Museum was not approved by
the Congress. Future plans for the project were
scheduled to be discussed by the Smithsonian Board
of Regents in early 1995.

¢ Exhibitions that received awards from the Smith-
sonian Special Exhibition Fund, administered by the
office, included “Arts and Culture of the Islamic
World” (Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and National
Museum of African Art), “Red, Hot, and Blue”
(National Portrait Gallery), and “Barro Colorado

Island Visitor Center” (Smithsonian Tropical Re-
search Institute).

Anacostia Museum
STEVEN NEWSOME, DIRECTOR

The Anacostia Museum, a community-based, con-
stituency-focused museum, develops exhibitions and
programs that increase public awareness of the
black experience in Washington, D.C., and the
upper South. The museum strives to involve com-
munity residents in all its activities, including re-
search and exhibition development. Many such co-
operative and collaborative efforts marked this year.
¢ “Black Mosaic: Community, Race, and Ethnicity
among Black Immigrants in Washington, D.C.,” the
museum’s innovative exhibition examining national,
social, cultural, and linguistic diversity in Washing-
ton’s black population, opened on August 21, 1994.
An advisory board representing the Afro-Latino,
Brazilian, Haitian, Jamaican, Ghanaian, and Rasta-
farian communities worked with the museum in de-
veloping the exhibition. Members of each commu-
nity conducted significant sections of the research.
To celebrate the opening, the museum held a festival
featuring music, crafts, and foods.

¢ Inthe second year of the museum’s partnership
with Moten Elementary School in Anacostia, two
special exhibitions were developed. The first, a
panel exhibition mounted in the school, featured 16

Members of the audience

enjoy “Africa Fete ’94,”
a half-day festival of
diverse musical styles of
Africa and the African
diaspora, held at the
Anacostia Museum in
July 1994. (Photograph
by Harold Dorwin)
Alexander Calder drew
this map in a 1949 letter
to Ben Shahn that
marked the beginning of
a long friendship between
the two artists. The map,
which bears a striking
similarity to Calder’s
work, was on view in the
Archives of American Art
exhibition “Artist-Made
Maps.” (Ben Shahn
Papers, Archives of
American Art)

40

African American collectors who shared their ob-
jects and their expertise with the students. The sec-
ond, mounted in the museum, highlighted the stu-
dents’ collections and those of adults in the school’s
evening sewing class.

¢ To coincide with the presentation of the Walker
Art Center’s “Malcolm X: Man, Ideal, and Icon,”
the museum organized “Takbir! Allah Akbar! Pho-
tographs of African American Muslims in Washing-
ton” with the American Muslim Center. This exhi-
bition was the first in the nation to focus on African
American Muslims in a museum setting.

¢ In celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, the
museum mounted “Afro-Caribe: The Art of Dennis
Rivera.” Rivera, who works in Washington, San
Juan, and Paris, designed the 1993 Hispanic Heritage
Month poster.

¢ Work began on two new collaborative, commu-
nity-based projects that will result in exhibitions.
The first, “How Excellent: The African American
Church in Contemporary Society,” will address
black churches’ response to a variety of social issues
that affect the Washington-area black community.

It is an outgrowth of “Unbroken Circle,” the mu-
seum’s archival and documentation technical assis-
tance project. The second, “Positive: HIV and AIDS
and Washington’s African American Community,”
is the first attempt by a museum to present a com-
prehensive examination of AIDS and its impact on
African Americans.

¢ Director Steven Newsome traveled to South
Africa to conduct workshops at community art cen-
ters and the University of Fort Hare. He also met
with arts and cultural administrators and historians.

Archives of American Art

RICHARD J. WATTENMAKER, DIRECTOR

The Archives of American Art is the nation’s reposi-
tory for documentation of the visual arts and cul-
ture in the United States. It collects, preserves, and
makes available for study a range of records, origi-
nal papers, photographs, diaries, sketchbooks, and
oral history interviews. On the subject of art in
America, it is the largest archive in the world, hold-
ing more than 13 million documents.

Dedicated to encouraging research in American
art and cultural history, the Archives makes its col-
lections easily accessible through reference centers
across the country and an extensive interlibrary loan
program. Its catalogue database is available nation-
wide and internationally on the Internet and
through the Research Libraries Information Net-
work. The Archives’ varied holdings are a founda-

tion for advanced study in American art history and
in other fields. The Archives’ Journal, published
quarterly, presents articles based on research con-
ducted in the collections along with book reviews
and collecting reports from the regional centers.

¢ The Archives restructured some of its operations
during the year to make its microfilm collections
more accessible. In Boston, the New England Re-
search Center and its bank of unrestricted microfilm
were relocated to the Boston Public Library, where
the materials are now available during extended
evening and weekend hours. In San Francisco, an
Archives Depository opened at the M. H. de Young
Memorial Museum of the Fine Arts Museums of
San Francisco. California now has two Archives
microfilm libraries; the second is at the Huntington
Library, Art Collections, and Botanical Gardens in
San Marino.

¢ The Archives published its newest finding aids to
the collections—A Guide to Archival Sources for
Italian-American Art History in the Archives of
American Art and Philadelphia: A Guide to Art-
Related Archival Materials.

¢ The Archives and the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden cosponsored a symposium,
“Willem de Kooning Reconsidered,” which ex-
plored such topics as de Kooning’s early work in
the Netherlands, the critical response to his paint-
ings of women in the 1950s, and the continuity of
a pictorial tradition in his painting.

¢ The gallery of the New York Regional Center
organized a special exhibition of letters, diaries,

CALDER
— PAINTER HILL ROA
RF, 0. ROXBURY,

Tél WOodEuRY CONGRESS 3.2256
sketchbooks, and works of art from the Frank Stella
Papers. The gallery also presented “Provincetown
Papers: Selections from New Collections,” which
highlighted the newly available papers of Houghton
Cranford Smith, George Yater, and Ross Moffett,
and “The ‘Aura of Human Experience’: Jacob
Kainen from the Archives of American Art,” which
examined the career of painter, printmaker, writer,
teacher, and Smithsonian curator Jacob Kainen. Ex-
hibitions presented by the Washington Center of the
Archives included “Artist-Made Maps” and “The
Mural Drawings of George Biddle, 1935-1945.”

¢ Among the great strengths of the Archives are its
holdings related to women in the visual arts. Col-
lected as part of ongoing efforts to document art in
America, many of the papers were acquired well
before feminist history and women’s studies were
firmly established. Several significant recent acquisi-
tions in this area are the papers of artists Henriette
Wyeth, Florence Arnold, and Beatrice Wood, col-
lected by the West Coast Regional Center.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

MILO C. BEACH, DIRECTOR

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery is devoted to ex-
panding public knowledge of the arts and cultures
of Asia through exhibition, research, and education
programs. Founded on a gift of nearly 1,000 works
of Asian art from Dr. Arthur M. Sackler (1913-87),
the gallery opened in 1987. Its collection has grown
beyond the original donation through gift,
purchase, and transfer. The gallery’s calendar fea-
tures important thematic loan exhibitions, which
are enhanced through a varied schedule of free pub-
lic programs, scholarly activities, and special events.
¢ “Contemporary Porcelain from Japan,” an exhi-
bition of 30 innovative and dramatically varied
porcelain vessels by 30 Japanese artists, celebrated
the Japan Foundation’s gift of these masterworks to
the Sackler Gallery. The exhibition, presented in co-
operation with the Embassy of Japan, the Japan
Foundation, and the Kokusai Bunka Kyokai (Inter-
national Cultural Association), emphasized the
crafting of porcelain as a living art. An accompany-
ing videotape showed the makers at work, and
gallery text highlighted their commentary on the
creative process.

¢ The full-color journal Asian Art & Culture, for-
merly called Asian Art, began its seventh year with a
new name, a new design, and a new board of advis-
ers, including artists, writers, and scholars. Published
three times a year by the Sackler Gallery and Oxford
University Press, the journal examines new interpre-

tations of the arts, literature, and history of Asia as
they relate to cultural, social, and religious life.

¢ The gallery’s first example of Korean art—a 14th-
century painting of Ji-jiang, the bodhisattva (enlight-
ened being) revered by Buddhists for his merciful
deliverance of living beings from the world of suffer-
ing—was placed on exhibition this year. The paint-
ing, a hanging scroll executed in ink, color, and silk,
was an anonymous gift to the gallery.

¢ The Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art
organized a symposium, “Artists and Traditions:
New Studies of Indian Paintings,” in connection
with a small Sackler Gallery exhibition, “A Mughal
Hunt.” The exhibition examined how a scholar uses
evidence from other paintings to identify the sub-
ject, artist, and origin of a work of art. The sympo-
sium was made possible by the generosity of Leon
B. Polsky and Cynthia Hazen Polsky.

¢ A week-long symposium in Lahore, Pakistan,
culminated a three-year project to document the
evolution of urbanism and garden design under the
Mughals, a dynasty of Mongol and Turkic origin
that ruled most of present-day north India and
Pakistan for 200 years beginning in the early 16th
century. The project was a joint endeavor of the
Sackler Gallery; the School of Architecture and
Planning, Lahore University of Engineering and
Technology; and the Department of Archaeology of
the Government of Pakistan, with funding from the
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program.

¢ Funds provided by the Friends of Asian Arts at
the Freer and Sackler Galleries enabled the gallery
to acquire its first example of calligraphy from

This porcelain plate by
Japanese artist Hazama

Koichi was a gift to the

Arthur M. Sackler

Gallery from the Japan

Foundation. A contempo-

rary interpretation of the
traditional Kutani style,

the plate was shown

along with the work of

29 other artists in the
exhibition “Contem-
porary Porcelain from

Japan.”

41
New York City public
school teachers (from
left) Paul Kaplan, Helen
Henderson, Joyce Vagle,
and Michael Butler
designed a chair during
Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum's first

annual Summer Design

Institute. (Photograph by
Janet C. Koltick)

Japan, a hanging scroll by the 17th-century Bud-
dhist monk Obaku Kosen. Born in China, Kosen
emigrated to live and work in Kyoto at the principal
temple of the Obaku school in Japan. The artist’s
close association with the elite patronage of the em-
peror and the shogun relates the scroll to examples
of painting and lacquerware in the Sackler Gallery

collection.

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum

DIANNE H. PILGRIM, DIRECTOR

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum presented
a variety of exhibitions during 1994 that reflected
the museum’s mission to “enrich the lives of all peo-
ple by exploring the creation and consequences of
the designed environment.” These exhibitions en-
compassed many aspects of design, from consumer
culture in “Packaging the New: Design and the
American Consumer, 1925-1975” to individual ob-
jects in “A Royal Gift: The 1826 Porcelain Jewel
Cabinet.”

¢ For the first time, an exhibition created by
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum was
presented at the Smithsonian Institution in Washing-
ton. “The Power of Maps,” which featured more
than 200 maps from diverse periods and cultures,
opened to acclaim at the International Gallery on
the National Mall just one year after its debut at
the museum in New York. Both the New York and

Washington venues were generously underwritten
by the American Express Company. With the
Washington showing, the New York museum
established a presence in the nation’s capital while
bringing one of its most innovative exhibitions to

a broader audience.

¢ The museum unveiled a new graphic identity
created by the New York design firm of Drenttel
Doyle Partners. The graphic identity gives a visually
recognizable point of view to all the museum’s
communication, from stationery to signage to busi-
ness cards to the building itself. This new identity
signals a broad spectrum of changes reflecting the
museum’s mission: to raise public awareness about
the ways in which design affects every aspect of
daily life.

¢ With the Board of Education of the City of New
York, Division of School Facilities, the museum
cosponsored the first annual Summer Design Insti-
tute, “The Urban School: A Resource of Design Ed-
ucation.” Seventy-five public school teachers took
part in this collaborative effort. They worked with
architects, graphic designers, industrial designers,
urban planners, interactive multimedia specialists,
environmental educators, and museum educators to
explore how design shapes the world and how New
York City public schools can be laboratories for
design education across the curriculum.

¢ The museum concluded the preconstruction
phase of its $10 million renovation and accessibility
project. The firm of Polshek and Partners Architects
completed the design, which includes renovating
two townhouses into collection storage and study
centers and building an accessible connector be-
tween the Carnegie Mansion, the townhouses, and
the Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden. National De-
sign Museum staff planned and executed a complex
move of almost 48,000 collection objects from the
townhouses to temporary storage in the Carnegie
Mansion. In addition, plans were made to move
staff and offices from the townhouses to the Man-
sion for the duration of the project.

¢ In the spring of 1994, the museum held a gala
benefit auction. More than 400 friends of the
museum attended the benefit, which raised over
$40,000 for the National Design Museum’s general
operating funds.

Freer Gallery of Art

MILO C. BEACH, DIRECTOR

The Freer Gallery of Art, known around the world
for its outstanding collections of Asian art dating
from Neolithic times to the early 20th century and
for its important holdings of works by James
McNeill Whistler, opened to the public in 1923 as
the first art museum of the Smithsonian. Gifts and
purchases have expanded the number and character
of the original collection, which was deeded to the
United States by Charles Lang Freer of Detroit in
1906. While only a small portion of the gallery’s
holdings can be displayed at once, regular exhibi-
tion changes present the collections in all their
richness.

¢ The Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Auditorium of
the Freer Gallery was the Washington, D.C., venue
for Musicians from Marlboro, who presented three
free public concerts this year. The series commemo-
rates a long association between the Marlboro musi-
cians and the Meyer family and is given in memory
of the Meyers’ son, Dr. Eugene Meyer III, and his
wife, Mary Adelaide Bradley Meyer. The concerts
are generously supported by the Island Fund in the
New York Community Trust and Elizabeth E.
Meyer.

¢ Prime Minister Narasimha Rao of India was
honored at a tea given at the Freer by director Milo
Beach and Thomas Pritzker, cochairman of the
Indo-U.S. Subcommission on Education and Cul-
ture. After a tour of the South Asian gallery, the
prime minister greeted other guests, including Sena-
tor Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Mrs. Moynihan,
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler, and Smithsonian Secretary
Robert McC. Adams.

¢ Stephen Y. Liang was selected from among 120
high school juniors and seniors to serve as the Freer
and Sackler Galleries’ first Dick Louie Intern. The
eight-week summer internship, awarded annually to
a high school student of Asian descent living in the
Washington metropolitan area, is an opportunity
for a young person to gain practical experience in a
museum setting. The internship includes a stipend
supported through contributions to the Richard
Louie Memorial Fund, which honors the galleries’
late associate director.

¢ Two simultaneous Chinese calligraphy exhibi-
tions focused on the Freer’s large and varied collec-
tions. “Masterpieces of Chinese Calligraphy” ex-
plored the work of more than 30 masters from the
mid-first century B.C. to the 2oth century, with al-
most half of the scrolls, album leaves, and folding
fans dating from the Ming dynasty (1368-1644).
“Beyond Paper: Chinese Calligraphy on Objects”
examined the often-surprising uses of writing on
utilitarian and decorative objects made of clay, lac-
quer, metal, jade, bamboo, silk, wood, and rhinoc-
eros horn.

¢ Significant additions to the collection included a

mate to Herons and Water Plants, by an anonymous
Ming dynasty artist, which was the first Chinese
painting purchased by Charles Lang Freer. The simi-
lar hanging scroll, which shows a heron with a large
pink lotus blossom, was donated by Kyoichi Itoh,
an East Asian painting conservator on the gallery’s

staff, roo years after Freer’s purchase. Also this
year, a painting from India’s Mughal dynasty and a
Qing dynasty porcelain basin and hardwood stand
were purchased for the Freer using funds from the
Friends of Asian Arts at the Freer and Sackler Gal-
leries and an anonymous gift.

This 15th- to 16th-
century Ming dynasty
hanging scroll is the mate
to the first Chinese paint-
ing purchased by Freer
Gallery of Art founder
Charles Lang Freer. It
was given to the gallery
by staff member Kyoichi
Itoh exactly too years
after Freer’s original
purchase.

43
New York-based artist
Glenn Ligon with Mrs.
Joseph H. Hirshhorn at
the opening reception for
an exhibition of bis new
work at the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture
Garden. In the back-
ground is one of Ligon’s
stenciled wall drawings,
applied in oilstick, based
on writer Zora Neale
Hurston’s tronic rumina-

tions on “being colored.”

44

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

JAMES T. DEMETRION, DIRECTOR

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the
Smithsonian Institution’s showcase for modern and
contemporary art, is committed to increasing the
awareness and understanding of art through acqui-
sitions, exhibitions and publications, research activi-
ties, public programs, and the presentation of the
collection in its galleries and outdoor exhibition
spaces. The museum provides a public facility for
the exhibition, study, and preservation of r9th- and
2oth-century art while presenting a spectrum of
contemporary work.

¢ With the help of various acquisitions funds, as
well as gifts from generous donors, the museum
continued to acquire significant works by modern
and contemporary artists. Among highlights for the
year were Claes Oldenburg’s painted plaster-soaked
cloth relief 7-Up (1961), Gerhard Richter’s oil
painting The Annunciation after Titian (1973),
Georg Baselitz’s oil painting Meissen Woodsmen
(1968-69), Julian Schnabel’s oil painting Portrait
of Andy Warhol (1982), and Alison Saar’s carved-
wood sculpture Snake Charmer (1985).

¢ “The Collection Reviewed,” the Hirshhorn’s rein-
stallations integrating American and European art
with a new emphasis on contemporary art, included
single-gallery educational presentations of works by
Alexander Calder and Thomas Eakins and the de-
velopment of an area in the garden primarily for
whimsical and fanciful sculptures.

¢ The Hirshhorn’s exhibition program highlighting
contemporary American artists included a major
touring show of Willem de Kooning’s work from
the museum’s collection in honor of the artist’s goth
birthday. Video installations by Gary Hill and a
multigallery exhibition of mixed-media installations
by Felix Gonzalez-Torres were also presented, to-
gether with smaller shows focusing on works by
Glenn Ligon, Sue Coe, and Jeanne Dunning.

¢ Among the education programs presented this
year was the Mordes Lecture in Contemporary Art,
which launched an annual series sponsored by Dr.
Marvin Mordes and Elayne Mordes of Baltimore.
Also presented were a roundtable discussion and a
half-day symposium on Willem de Kooning. De-
signed to broaden public awareness and under-
standing of the Hirshhorn’s permanent collection,
“The Collection Reviewed” program included lec-
tures by sculptor Siah Armajani and painter Eliza-
beth Murray, artists represented in the museum’s
galleries.

¢ “Conversations with a Conservator” consisted

of informal talks by a Hirshhorn conservator, held

twice weekly during the summer, about the preser-
vation of the sculpture in the garden and plaza. Six
“Young at Art” family programs enthralled more
than 120 6-to-r1-year-olds and their parents with
tours of an exhibition followed by hands-on art
projects.

¢ More than 22,000 people attended free film pro-
grams featuring cutting-edge international indepen-
dent cinema, documentaries on contemporary
artists, and family-oriented animation.

Institutional Studies Office
ZAHAVA D. DOERING, DIRECTOR

The Institutional Studies Office (ISO) is a pan-insti-
tutional resource dedicated to the scientific study of
the characteristics, attitudes, opinions, and experi-
ences of Smithsonian constituencies. Its research
program includes long-term visitor studies at Smith-
sonian museums, background studies and assess-
ments of exhibitions and public programs, and
studies of staff. On a limited basis, ISO conducts
seminars in applied quantitative and qualitative
research and program evaluation and provides
technical consultation to cultural organizations
throughout the country.

¢ Anew ISO report, Visits and Visitors to the
Smithsonian Institution, provides a demographic
profile of the millions of local, national, and inter-
national visitors to Smithsonian museums and the

National Zoological Park. It is based on informa-
tion from ISO studies conducted between 1987 and
1993 and on data from the Smithsonian’s Office of
Protection Services, the U.S. Bureau of the Census,
and the Washington Convention and Visitors
Association.

¢ The office provided research and technical sup-
port for three activities associated with planning the
Smithsonian’s r5oth anniversary celebration. ISO
participated in all aspects of an economic impact
study conducted by the Greater Washington Re-
search Center. For a national telephone survey of
public expectations and views of the Smithsonian,
ISO assisted in questionnaire development, sample
selection, and data collection oversight. ISO also
tested, at a variety of United States locations, the
effectiveness of several proposed logo designs.

¢ Research for Smithsonian bureaus included an
assessment of visitor experience at the “Mechanical
Brides: Women and Machines from Home to Of-
fice” exhibition at Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum; background research for a forthcoming
study at the Freer Gallery of Art and Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery; preliminary research for a year-long
visitor study at the National Museum of American
History; data collection for an update of the 1988
National Air and Space Museum survey; and data
collection for a year-long visitor study at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

International Gallery
ANNE R. GOSSETT, DIRECTOR

The International Gallery presents exhibitions that
deal with significant topics from various disciplinary
or cultural perspectives and either complement the
work of Smithsonian bureaus or represent an area
outside the Institution’s collections. Public and
scholarly programs are planned in conjunction with
the exhibitions.

¢ Among the special programs and activities devel-
oped to accompany “The Power of Maps” were
teacher workshops for Washington metropolitan
area teachers, docent-led tours for schoolchildren, a
popular series of family day activities, and the publi-
cation of Geographic Journey. A collaborative effort
between Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum
and the International Gallery resulted in the success-
ful Washington presentation of this exhibition.

¢ Organized by the International Gallery in con-
junction with an important conference of archaeolo-
gists and biblical scholars, “In the Temple of
Solomon and the Tomb of Caiaphas” presented two
unique antiquities, an ivory pomegranate and lime-

stone ossuary, on loan from the Israel Museum and
the Israel Antiquities Authority.

¢ “Talents of the Brush: Jill Sackler Chinese Callig-
raphy Competition,” organized by the International
Gallery in cooperation with the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, featured more than 100 examples of the
highest achievements of the art of beautiful writing.

Regular calligraphy demonstrations and a rich menu

of other educational activities accompanied the
exhibition.

¢ “Sculptures from the Flames: Ceramics by Gustav
and Ulla Kraitz” presented contemporary Swedish art.

National Air and Space Museum

MARTIN HARWIT, DIRECTOR

The National Air and Space Museum takes great
pride in its status as the world’s most-visited mu-
seum and its ability to present high-caliber exhibi-
tions, films, and public programs. That tradition
continued in 1994, with a spectacular new IMAX
film and exhibitions and public programs that
brought attention to the environment and to women
in aviation.

Most of the activity, however, took place behind
the scenes. The museum increased its planning and
design efforts for a new extension near Washing-
ton’s Dulles International Airport. These efforts in-
cluded a continuation of master planning, ongoing
meetings with representatives of local government
and the Commonwealth of Virginia, and discussions
with community groups about the planned facility.

The contributions of
Patty Wagstaff, the first
woman to win the U.S.
National Aerobatic
Championship, were
highlighted in a 1994
exhibition at the Air and
Space Museum. The
plane in which Wagstaff
won the championship
was on view in the exhi-
bition. (Photograph by
Carolyn Russo)

45
The artist applies dye
to a silk canvas that

later went on view in the
Air and Space Museum
exhibition “Aerial
Inspirations: Silk Batiks
by Mary Edna Fraser.”

A student in a week-long
mask-making workshop,
held in conjunction with
the National Museum of
African Art exhibition
“Face of the Spirits:
Masks from the Zaire
Basin,” puts the finishing
touches on his creation.
(Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)

46

¢ In June, with partners Lockheed Corporation and
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
the museum premiered Destiny in Space, the third
film in its IMAX space-film trilogy. The film intro-
duces viewers to the excitement and challenges of
future human and robotic space exploration.

¢ Two exhibitions highlight the contributions of
women in aviation. “Patty Wagstaff: National Aero-
batic Champion” honors the three-time and current
U.S. champion. In “Aerial Inspirations: Silk Batiks
by Mary Edna Fraser,” the artist uses satellite im-
ages and her own aerial photography to create
beautiful abstract renderings of coastal and moun-
tainous regions of North America.

¢ As part of the museum’s commemoration of the
25th anniversary of the first lunar landing, the plex-
iglass covering of the Apollo rz command module
Columbia was removed for the first time in nearly
20 years so conservators could inspect and treat the
capsule and its contents. A new protective covering
was added in time for the July 19, 1994, anniver-
sary celebration. The conservation effort was made
possible by a generous contribution from Omega
Watch.

¢ The Educational Services Department expanded
its programming for visitors. Two events of excep-
tional quality were an evening program honoring
Bessie Coleman, the first African American to re-
ceive a pilot’s license, and a day-long paper airplane
workshop and contest.

¢ The museum expanded its internal research activ-
ities with two initiatives. A year-long visitor survey,
conducted in cooperation with the Smithsonian’s In-
stitutional Studies Office, will help determine how
visitors are being served and what improvements
can be made. A survey of museum employees led to
the formation of internal working groups that are
examining workplace issues.

¢ The museum began construction on an urgently
needed chemical corrosion treatment shop at the Paul
E. Garber Preservation, Restoration, and Storage Fa-
cility for treating metal aircraft and spacecraft com-

ponents and coating them with preservatives to en-
sure their long-term place in the national collection.

National Museum of African Art
SYLVIA H. WILLIAMS, DIRECTOR

The National Museum of African Art celebrates the
rich visual traditions and extraordinarily diverse
cultures of Africa. Through its collections, exhibi-
tions, research, and public programs, the museum
fosters an appreciation of African art and civiliza-
tions. It is also a research and reference center,
housing the Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives
and the Warren M. Robbins Library, a branch of the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries, as well as exhibi-
tion galleries and educational facilities.

¢ The museum opened a major exhibition, “Face of
the Spirits: Masks from the Zaire Basin,” accompa-

nied by an extensive series of programs for teachers
and the general public. The exhibition featured more
than 100 masks from 4o ethnic groups in the Zaire
River Basin.

¢ Acarved figure called an elek from the Baga
peoples of Guinea and Guinea Bissau was added to
the museum’s collection. A composite of a human
face, a bird beak, and the jaws of a crocodile, fig-
ures such as this one were used in agricultural rites
and funeral celebrations.

¢ The museum published The Voyage of King
Njoya’s Gift: A Beaded Sculpture from the Bamum
Kingdom, Cameroon, in the National Museum of
African Art. The illustrated volume, which examines
an important work in the permanent collection, was
written by Christraud Geary, curator of the Eliot
Elisofon Photographic Archives.

¢ The museum acquired an important collection
of Tuareg metalwork, including jewelry boxes, tea
glass containers, locks and keys, a sword and dag-
gers with sheaths, and a bed. The works will be
featured in a 1995 exhibition, “Art from the Forge:
Tuareg Metalwork.”

¢ The Eliot Elisofon Photographic Archives com-
pleted the first year of an extensive motion picture
film collection preservation and classification pro-
ject. The Smithsonian Research Resources Program
funded the project.

¢ The exhibition “Beaded Splendor” featured an
important new gift to the museum’s permanent col-
lection: a beaded crown from the Yoruba of Nige-
ria. In conjunction with the exhibition, the museum
published a 28-page illustrated brochure and an ed-
ucational guide for families.

National Museum of
American Art
ELIZABETH BROUN, DIRECTOR

The National Museum of American Art, the na-
tion’s museum dedicated to the arts and artists of
the United States from colonial times to the present,
provides collections and research resources that en-
able the public and scholars to use and enjoy Amer-
ica’s visual arts. The museum, which includes the
Renwick Gallery, serves diverse audiences through-
out the nation as well as those who visit its two his-
toric landmark buildings in Washington, D.C. Out-
teach takes the form of circulating exhibitions,
educational materials, publications, automated re-
search resources, and participation in an interactive
computer network.

¢ A major retrospective exhibition of works by
Thomas Cole (1801-48), America’s most important
landscape painter of the early roth century, opened
at the museum in March. “Thomas Cole: Landscape
into History” presented the rich variety of landscape
formats Cole developed and introduced new ideas
about the relationship of the artist’s work to the so-
cial and political issues of his day. The exhibition,

organized by William H. Truettner, the museum’s
curator of painting and sculpture, and Alan Wal-
lach, Ralph H. Wark Professor of Fine Arts at the
College of William and Mary, reexamined the mes-
sages Cole’s canvases might have conveyed to view-
ers during his era. For the first time in nearly 150
years, Cole’s two masterful allegorical series, The
Course of Empire (1834-36) and The Voyage of
Life (1842), were hung in the same exhibition.

¢ An outstanding collection of 22 contemporary
American crafts was presented to the Renwick
Gallery by KPMG Peat Marwick. The objects, made
from clay, fiber, wood, paper, and metal by 18 mod-
ern masters, included a large stoneware wall plate
by Peter Voulkos, two unusual collages on paper by
Lenore Tawney, two luminous porcelains by Rudolf
Staffel, and an earthenware “landscape” of five
lidded boxes by Wayne Higby.

¢ Eighty paintings from public and private collec-
tions representing the career of Jacob Kainen, long
known for his gift for form and color, were mounted
in a traveling exhibition that opened at the museum.
The works on view represented Kainen’s explora-
tion of abstraction and figurative subjects during
six decades. They included examples of his early,
expressive responses to human suffering during the
Depression; turbulent abstractions created during
the McCarthy era of the 1950s; evocative figurative
studies from the 1960s; and recent canvases noted

for their assured compositions and poetic color.

This view of the
Washington Monument
is one of 14 panels ina
full-circle panorama of
Washington, D.C., taken
by Mark Klett and
commissioned by the
National Museum

of American Art. The
commission was made
possible by Hogan &
Hartson and by Hines
Interests Limited
Partnership.

47
Familiar American icons
welcomed Japanese
visitors to “The Smith-
sonian’s America,” an
exhibition created by the
National Museum of
American History for
American Festival Japan
‘94 near Tokyo in July
1994. (Photograph by
Rick Vargas)

48

Virginia Mecklenburg, chief curator, was the exhibi-
tion coordinator.

« A 35-foot-long print of a monumental, full-circle
color panorama of Washington, D.C., which the
museum commissioned from photographer Mark
Klett, was highlighted in a summer exhibition. Klett
photographed the view from the Nancy Hanks
Tower of the Old Post Office Building on Pennsylva-
nia Avenue. It was shown with two historic panora-
mas of the city: an 1875 view from the Smithsonian
Castle on the National Mall, taken by railroad pho-
tographer Francis Hacker, and a 1903 view from
the Treasury Annex on Pennsylvania Avenue pho-
tographed by Frederick Brehm.

¢ The museum began to make extensive informa-
tion about its collections, publications, and activities
available to home and school personal computer
users through America Online. Selected publica-
tions—including articles from the quarterly journal
American Art and the text of the best-selling book
Free Within Ourselves, complete with images—can
be read on-line or printed. Press releases, exhibition
schedules, informational brochures, and up-to-the-
minute information about museum events are in-
cluded, as are digital images from the permanent
collection.

National Museum of
American History

SPENCER R. CREW, DIRECTOR

The National Museum of American History
(NMAH) dedicates its collections and scholarship
to inspiring a broader understanding of our nation
and its many peoples. Drawing on the 17 million
artifacts and the holdings of its Archives Center, the
museum creates learning opportunities, stimulates
the imagination, and presents challenging ideas
about our country’s past through original research,
publications, exhibitions, and public programs.

¢ “The Smithsonian’s America: An Exhibition on
American History and Culture” opened outside
Tokyo at the American Festival Japan ’94 in July.
The $40 million effort was supported by the Japan
Broadcasting Corporation (NHK) and Yomiuri
Shimbun, Japan’s largest newspaper. In a multime-
dia setting, “The Smithsonian’s America” presented
more than 300 icons of American life, including a
Kiowa tepee, an Apollo 15 space capsule, George
Washington’s mess kit, Judy Garland’s ruby slippers
from The Wizard of Oz, and Wilbur and Orville
Wright’s r9rr “Vin Fiz” airplane. Two weeks of
performances by traditional and contemporary
American musicians accompanied the exhibition.

¢ Secretary Robert McC. Adams announced the

appointment of acting director Spencer Crew, a
historian and a former NMAH curator, as director
of the museum.

¢ Museumwide task forces recommended new ap-
proaches to achieving the goals of a new museum
mission statement. The task forces were the leading
edge of a major strategic planning initiative de-
signed to restructure the museum and address the
challenges of the 21st century while striving to en-
hance the working environment for staff and make
the best use of resources.

¢ NMAH swept the top two categories in the
Smithsonian Exhibition Awards. Nancy McCoy of
the Education Division won the Superior Individual
Effort Award for creating the Hands On History
Room, and director Spencer Crew accepted the prize
for Best Overall Exhibition (“Field to Factory: Afro-
American Migration, 1915-1940”). A third award,
for Best Public Programs within an Exhibition, was
accepted by Lonn Taylor on behalf of the Depart-
ment of Public Programs for “American Encounters.”
¢ With the Woolworth Corporation’s announce-
ment that it would close 970 stores around the
country, Bill Yeingst of the Division of Community
Life began a successful campaign to acquire the
lunch counter from the store in Greensboro, North
Carolina. The sit-in that four black students began
there on February 1, 1960, led to the desegregation
of lunch counters throughout the South. Assistant
director Lonnie Bunch described the acquisition as
“one of the most significant in recent years for the
museum in the realm of human rights activities.”

¢ Descendants of some of the 5,000 black cowboys ©

who worked in Texas following the Civil War
gathered at the museum to share experiences of
ranching, rodeos, and racism and to sing traditional
cowboy songs. “Preserving the Legacy: African
American Cowboys in Texas” was produced by
Niani Kilkenny of the Program in African American
Culture.

¢ This year, the National Postal Museum mounted
its first major temporary philatelic exhibition,
“Gems of Hawaii: The Persis Collection of Hawai-
ian Stamps.” The museum also began work on the
second stage of exhibition openings and conducted
an impressive array of highly popular public pro-
grams, including lectures, seminars, and musical
performances.

National Museum of the
American Indian
W. RICHARD WEST JR., DIRECTOR

The National Museum of the American Indian
(NMAI) recognizes and affirms to native communi-
ties and the non-native public the historical and
contemporary culture and cultural achievements of
the natives of the Western Hemisphere by advanc-
ing—in consultation, collaboration, and coopera-
tion with natives—knowledge and understanding
of native cultures. The museum has a special re-
sponsibility through innovative public program-
ming, research, and collections to protect, support,
and enhance the development, maintenance, and
perpetuation of native cultures and communities.
Museum activities during the year were directed
toward fulfilling this mission.

¢ The installation of “All Roads Are Good: Native
Voices on Life and Culture,” one of three inaugural
exhibitions at the museum’s George Gustav Heye
Center in New York City, began in August as the
October 30, 1994, opening approached. The exhibi-
tion includes more than 300 objects chosen and de-
scribed in labels by 23 Native American selectors.
The second exhibition, “Creation’s Journey: Master-
works of Native American Identity and Belief,” fea-
tures 165 objects dating from 3200 B.C. to the 2oth
century, selected for their beauty, rarity, and histori-
cal significance from tribal groups throughout the
hemisphere. “This Path We Travel: Celebrations of
Contemporary Native American Creativity,” the
third exhibition, is a collaborative installation com-
bining sculpture, performance, poetry, music, and
video by 15 contemporary Native American artists.
¢ Publications and products developed in prepara-
tion for the opening of the Heye Center include
three exhibition books, a recording of Native
American music on compact disc and audiocassette,
a calendar, a postcard book, and T-shirts.

¢ Nobel Peace Prize laureate Rigoberta Menchu,

Quiche Maya exile from Guatemala, proposed a
Decade of Indigenous People to an audience of
1,200 during a speech sponsored by the National
Museum of the American Indian and The Smith-
sonian Associates.

¢ In ceremonies at the museum’s Research Branch in
the Bronx, New York, 86 ceremonial objects were
repatriated to the Pueblo of Jémez, New Mexico. The
board of trustees voted unanimously to return the
objects based on the museum’s repatriation policy,
which provides for the return of objects of religious,
ceremonial, and historical importance as well as com-
munally owned materials illegally acquired and later
transferred to the museum.

¢ The museum’s Repatriation Office mailed item-
ized inventories of the museum’s collections to tribes
with possible cultural affiliation to the materials.
The inventories went to more than 700 tribes recog-
nized under the Native American Graves Protection
and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) and to state-
recognized tribes not included under NAGPRA

but covered in policies adopted by the museum’s
board of trustees.

¢ Fifty-five people attended a repatriation workshop
sponsored by the museum, the Office of Repatriation
of the National Museum of Natural History, and the
Keepers of the Treasures, National Park Service. The
workshop was designed to inform American Indi-
ans, Native Alaskans, and Native Hawaiians who
are beginning the repatriation process about the
procedures outlined under NAGPRA.

National Museum of the
American Indian
Registrar Lee Callender
(left) and Registration
Technician Ann
Drumbeller (Onondaga)
prepare for the opening
of the museum’s George
Gustav Heye Center as
they unpack a jar made
by the Southern Cali-
fornia Serrano-Cahuilla
tribes. (Photograph by
Roy Gumpel)

49
Spanning the last 60
years and encompassing
presidents from Hoover
to Clinton, the National
Portrait Gallery exhibi-
tion “To the President:
Folk Portraits by the
People” showcased
one-of-a-kind creations
given as gifts of gen-
erosity and affection

to our heads of state.
(Photograph by Judith
Hummer)

5O

National Portrait Gallery

ALAN FERN, DIRECTOR

The National Portrait Gallery (NPG) is dedicated to
the exhibition and study of portraits of people who
have made significant contributions to American
history and culture and to the study of the artists
who created such portraiture. The gallery sponsors a
variety of scholarly and public activities for audiences
interested in American art and American history.

¢ A major special exhibition, “VanDerZee, Photog-
rapher (1886—1983),” featured more than 100 pho-
tographs by one of the most important African
American photographers of the 2oth century, James
VanDerZee, who is best known for the photographs
he took in New York’s Harlem during the 1920s
and 1930s. The Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service will circulate a smaller version of
the exhibition beginning in 1995. In connection
with the exhibition, the museum held a symposium
for a general audience about African American
photographers in America, 1920-50, “James
VanDerZee and His Contemporaries.” VanDerZee:
Photographer 1886-1983, by Deborah Willis-
Braithwaite and Rodger C. Birt, was published by
Harry N. Abrams to accompany the exhibition.

¢ With funds from the Research Equipment Pool,
the National Portrait Gallery and the National
Museum of American Art acquired an infrared
reflectography video system with accompanying
computer imaging capabilities for the museums’
shared Conservation Laboratory. Conservators will
use this equipment to expand the ongoing technical
examination of major works in the collection. The
Research Equipment Pool also funded the purchase
of a reflection densitometer and a colorimeter to
measure the effects of light damage on works of art
and a new deionized water system to provide filtered
water for testing and treatment.

¢ The gallery has acquired the ability to scan black-
and-white and color photographs up to 8 x ro
inches in size. Black-and-white or color prints can
be produced immediately, reducing reliance on com-
mercial laboratories. These images will be used in
the computerized collection management file and in
printed and electronic-media publications.

¢ The Catalog of American Portraits (CAP) contin-
ued its field survey of portraits in public and private
collections, cataloguing major collections in Kansas
and at the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute,
Massachusetts; New York Genealogical and Bio-
graphical Society; Seattle Art Museum; Westmore-
land Museum and Woodmere Art Museum, Penn-
sylvania; Hillwood Museum, Washington, D.C.;
and the collection of American portraits belonging

to Versailles. With a grant from the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee, CAP completed biographical
research on sitters and artists represented in Puerto
Rican collections. CAP staff continued to add digi-
tized images to the interactive research database.

¢ With a grant from the James Smithson Society,
the gallery purchased 24 color photographs of
prominent contemporary artists and architects by
Hans Namuth.

¢ A major exhibition, “Reporting the War: The
Journalistic Coverage of World War II,” showed the
experiences and perspectives of 35 men and women
—including Edward R. Murrow, John Hersey,

Bill Mauldin, and Margaret Bourke-White—who
brought the story of the war home to the American
people. Reporting the War: The Journalistic Cover-
age of World War II, by Frederick S. Voss, was
published by Smithsonian Institution Press to
accompany the exhibition.

Office of Exhibits Central

JOHN COPPOLA, DIRECTOR

The Office of Exhibits Central (OEC) provides
Smithsonian museums, galleries, and exhibitors with
expertise in the creation of permanent, temporary,
and traveling exhibitions, from concept to crating.
The office’s services include thematic development,

writing, editing, design, prototyping, graphics pro-

duction, matting and framing, fabrication, model
making, artifact mounting, packing, and installation.
This year, OEC’s principal clients were the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES), the International Gallery, the Center for
Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies, the National
Museum of Natural History, and the National Mu-
seum of American History.
¢ The exhibitions that the office designed, edited,
and produced for SITES included “Louis Arm-
strong: A Cultural Legacy”; “Before Freedom
Came: African American Life in the Antebellum
South”; “Mexico: A Landscape Revisited”; “The
Tongass: Alaska’s Magnificent Rain Forest”; “Sayn-
day was coming along . . . : Silverhorn’s Drawings
of the Kiowa Trickster”; “Produce for Victory:
Posters on the American Home Front, 1941-1945”;
and “More Than Meets the Eye.”
¢ For the National Museum of Natural History
and SITES, the office designed “Spiders!” and pro-
duced the models and some of the cases and graphic
panels for that exhibition. For the International
Gallery, the office designed and installed “The
Power of Maps” in collaboration with Cooper-
Hewitt, National Design Museum and “In the
Temple of Solomon and the Tomb of Caiaphas.”
OEC installed “Talents of the Brush: The Jill Sackler
Chinese Calligraphy Competition” in the Interna-
tional Gallery. For the National African American
Museum Project, a new client this year, the office
installed the project’s first exhibition, “Imagining
Families: Images and Voices.”

Office of Museum Programs

REX M. ELLIS, DIRECTOR

The Office of Museum Programs helps museums ful-
fill their public service mission. In its programs, the
office emphasizes the needs of staff working in small,
emerging, minority, and rural museums and, as the
Smithsonian’s central intern office, more than 600
participants in the Institution’s internship programs.
¢ Through its programming, the office continued to
bring new voices to the Smithsonian for discussion
and debate on issues affecting the Institution and
the national museum community. Programs in-
cluded “Interpreting Latino Cultures: Research and
Museums,” the 1994 Latino Graduate Training
Seminar coorganized with the Center for Mexican
American Studies, University of Texas at Austin; the
Asian/Pacific Islander/Smithsonian Institution Work-
ing Meeting on Collection Indexing; and the annual
Awards for Museum Leadership, a management
seminar for people of color working in museums.

¢ The American Indian Museum Studies program

sponsored workshops with the Makah Cultural and
Research Center in Neah Bay, Washington; the Ke-
naitze Indian Tribe I.R.A. in Kenai, Alaska; and the
Wichita and Affiliated Tribes in Anadarko, Okla-
homa. The program also organized the Research
Methods seminar in cooperation with the National
Museum of the American Indian.

¢ The office’s Fellowships in Museum Practice,
funded by the Smithsonian Women’s Committee,
sponsored four research projects at the Institution on
exhibitions as agents of social critique; current and
new approaches to traveling exhibitions; lifelong
learning and museums; and the development of sci-
ence education lessons about Maryland dinosaurs.

¢ The office inaugurated a new on-line database
featuring more than 2,000 citations to museology
theses, dissertations, and references to museum legal
and educational issues.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

ANNA R. COHN, DIRECTOR

Since 1952, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service (SITES) has been sharing the
wealth of the Smithsonian’s exhibitions, collections,
and research with audiences around the world. Each

Rex M. Ellis, director of
the Office of Museum
Programs, moderates a

town meeting held during
the Awards for Museum
Leadership program, an
annual management sem-
inar for people of color

working in museums.

St
This modern print of a
1932 photograph by
James VanDerZee, the
principal chronicler of
the Harlem Renaissance,
is featured in “VanDer
Zee: Photographer
(1886-1983),” culled
from a National Portrait
Gallery exhibition and
circulated by the
Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition
Service. (Photograph
courtesy of Consolidated
Freightways, Inc., Palo

Alto, Calif.)

year, millions of people beyond Washington, D.C.,
experience the treasures and opportunities of the
National Mall by visiting SITES exhibitions on view
in local museums, libraries, science centers, histori-
cal societies, zoos, aquariums, community centers,
and schools.

¢ “Beyond Category: The Musical Genius of Duke
Ellington,” an exhibition organized by SITES and
the National Museum of American History and the
inaugural exhibition of a ro-year Smithsonian jazz
initiative, America’s Jazz Heritage: A Partnership of
the Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund and the
Smithsonian Institution, began its national tour. In
October, the exhibition traveled to the Museum of
the City of New York, where it opened with a con-
cert at Harlem’s historic Apollo Theater that fea-
tured the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra.
The museum offered an impressive array of public
programs throughout the exhibition’s stay. In June,
“Beyond Category” traveled to the American Ad-
venture rotunda of Epcot Center at Walt Disney
World. “Ellington under the Stars: A Salute to the
Duke,” a musical tribute featuring many of Amer-
ica’s jazz legends, was planned in conjunction with
the exhibition. In addition, Disney’s All-American
College Big Band offered concerts that featured
Ellington’s best-known compositions. “Beyond
Category” will continue traveling the United States
through mid-1996.

¢ The Queens Museum of Art and SITES opened
“Louis Armstrong: A Cultural Legacy,” an exhibi-
tion that is also part of the America’s Jazz Heritage
initiative. Organized by the museum and SITES in

cooperation with the Louis Armstrong Archives at

Queens College, City University of New York, the
exhibition illuminates the life and countless contri-
butions of the artist who defined the modern voice
of jazz. It is traveling nationally under SITES’
auspices through 1996.

¢ In association with the Mexican Cultural Insti-
tute, Washington, D.C., and with support from the
Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Na-
tional Council for Culture and the Arts, Mexico
City, SITES opened “Mexico: A Landscape Revis-
ited/Mexico: Una Visi6n Paisaje,” spanning more
than 200 years in the history of landscape painting
in Mexico. The paintings, which were selected
from many of Mexico’s leading private collections,
museums, and galleries, illustrate the origins and
evolution of the landscape tradition and its various
expressions in r9th- and 2oth-century art. The exhi-
bition was made possible through the generous sup-
port of Vitro, $.A., Monterrey, Mexico. Additional
support was provided by the U.S.-Mexico Fund for
Culture. The exhibition will travel to museums in
North America through 1996.

Education and
Public Service

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Education and Public Service

JAMES EARLY, ASSISTANT SECRETARY

The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Education
and Public Service fosters and facilitates educational
activities—throughout the Institution, nationwide,
and in many foreign countries—that strengthen the
Smithsonian’s leadership role as a national educa-
tional institution. A particular emphasis is on pro-
grams that meet the needs of diverse constituencies,
especially underrepresented and underserved com-
munities, in the arts, humanities, and sciences. The
office and the units it oversees provide information
about the Smithsonian to national and international
audiences, engage in applied research and documen-
tation of living cultures, and collaborate with ele-
mentary and secondary schools, museums, and edu-
cational associations.

¢ The Educational Outreach Fund, an unrestricted
trust fund administered by the office, expanded its
scope to include the emerging needs of the Smith-
sonian’s educational units. A range of planning, im-
plementation, and consultation grants from the fund
focused on education, cultural interpretation, and
audience development.

¢ Through a new category of the Educational
Outreach Fund—Research in Museum Education—
two Smithsonian educators pursued independent
research and critical thinking projects. Proposals
were evaluated through a peer review process. One
research project proposed using established learn-
ing patterns to measure how elementary and sec-
ondary school students learn in programs cospon-
sored by museums and schools. The second project
proposed using new methods for teaching museum
visitors about difficult, complex contemporary art
exhibitions.

¢ The office appointed a director of college and
university relations to evaluate alliances between
colleges and universities and the Smithsonian. The
analysis will allow the Institution to suggest mutu-
ally beneficial collaborations with institutions of
higher education.

¢ David Perkins, codirector of Project Zero at
Harvard University School of Education, delivered
the keynote address, “Learning from Things,” at a
forum organized with the Council of Museum
Education Directors.

Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies
RICHARD KURIN, DIRECTOR

The Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Stud-
ies promotes the understanding and continuity of di-
verse contemporary grassroots cultures in the
United States and throughout the world. A primary
goal is to foster the importance of community cul-
ture in our society. The center produces the annual
Festival of American Folklife, Smithsonian/Folk-
ways Recordings, museum and traveling exhibi-
tions, documentary films and videos, symposiums,
and educational materials, and it maintains a docu-
mentary archive.

¢ The 28th annual Festival of American Folklife
featured four programs: “The Bahamas” presented
participants of African, British, and Seminole de-
scent who demonstrated and discussed traditions of
family, community, and religious life. “Culture and
Development” examined how grassroots culture has
contributed to participatory economic and social
development programs in Latin America and the
Caribbean with 16 self-help organizations from nine
countries. “Thailand: Household, Temple Fair, and
Court” highlighted the diversity and vitality of

Thai culture through the arts in those three settings.
Finally, “Masters of Traditional Arts” featured

A member of The
Bahamas delegation’s

exemplary traditional artists who are recipients of
the National Endowment for the Arts National
Heritage Fellowships.

¢ The African Immigrant Folklife Study continues

150-person Junkanoo
contingent to the Festival
of American Folklife
dances in a July 4th pro-

to work with African-born community scholars
living in the Washington area. This year, the group
completed a 12-week training program to develop cession. His costume and
skills in folklife research and begin to explore ideas the banner are made of
intricately cut and pasted
crepe paper. (Photograph

by Richard Strauss)

and issues of community cultural identity.

¢ The American Bus Association named the
Festival of American Folklife the Top Event in the
United States.

¢ The New Mexico program at the 1992 Festival
of American Folklife was restaged in Las Cruces,
featuring artists from 35 communities and repre-
senting every part of the state.

¢ “Workers at the White House,” a traveling
exhibition based on the 1992 Festival of American
Folklife program, is touring presidential libraries
across the nation.

¢ Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings continues to
use high-technology CD-ROM and multimedia CD-
interactive to disseminate traditional, community-
based art forms. Sounds from Folkways recordings,
for example, are among those used on the CD-
ROM Microsoft Musical Instruments, produced by
Microsoft Corporation.

National Science Resources Center

DOUGLAS LAPP, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

The National Science Resources Center (NSRC), a
program of the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Academy of Sciences, helps the nation’s

53
Rocks and Minerals reached the field-test stage. STC
units have been tested in more than 60 school dis-
tricts, and more than 12,000 have been distributed
for classroom use.

¢ The NSRC has continued to review exemplary
curriculum materials for the new edition of Science
for Children: Resources for Teachers, a guide to
hands-on science teaching. More than 50,000 copies

The National Science
Resources Center's 1994
institutes and conferences
featured workshops on
the elements of successful
elementary science educa-
tion programs. (Photo-

graph by Rick Vargas)

54

schools improve the teaching of science. The NSRC

collects and publishes information about current
science teaching resources, develops innovative cur-
riculum materials, and sponsors activities to help
teachers and administrators develop and sustain
exemplary hands-on science programs.

In the past year, the NSRC continued to involve
teachers and school system officials, scientists and
engineers, Community organizations, and corpora-
tions in science education reform through the Na-
tional Science Education Leadership initiative
(NSEL), the Science and Technology for Children
(STC) curriculum development project, and distrib-
ution and revision of the popular guide, Science for
Children: Resources for Teachers.
¢ This year’s Elementary Science Leadership Insti-
tutes, a part of NSEL, brought together teams of
lead teachers and top administrators from 34 school
districts for training in the planning and implemen-
tation of exemplary science education programs. To
date, 140 school districts have participated, serving
as many as 3 million children in kindergarten
through grade six.
¢ Scientists and engineers from universities, corpo-
rations, museums, and government laboratories
shared their views on critical issues in precollege sci-
ence education at the third annual Working Confer-
ence for Scientists and Engineers on Science Educa-
tion in the Schools, another component of NSEL.
¢ Sixteen of 24 STC hands-on science modules for
the elementary and early middle school grades are
now available in commercial or field-test editions.
This year, Chemical Tests, Measuring Time, and
Food Chemistry were published, and Soils and

of the first edition have been distributed in the
United States and abroad.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

ANN BAY, DIRECTOR

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
(OESE), the Smithsonian’s central office focusing on
precollege education, has a threefold mission: First,
it fosters communication and collaboration among
Smithsonian education units and between those
units and outside educational organizations. Sec-
ond, it makes Smithsonian resources available to
teachers and students in the Washington, D.C., area
and nationwide. Finally, it provides materials and
training that enable teachers and students to use
museums, and the primary sources they contain for
hands-on, experiential learning in classroom and
museum settings.

¢ Smithsonian Online—a pan-institutional project
via America Online—celebrated its first anniversary,
with subscribers in the first 12 months spending
almost 49,000 hours on-line. OESE coordinates
Smithsonian Online, which offers interactive ser-
vices as well as message boards, research services,
publications, and photographs.

¢ Collecting Their Thoughts, an activity guide that
shows teachers how to teach writing using muse-
ums, was published and distributed. It was also
published on-line and adapted for the spring 1994
issue of Art to Zoo, the office’s journal for elemen-
tary teachers. The publication was supported by a
grant from Brother International Corporation.

¢ A program with the National Faculty for the
Humanities, Arts, and Sciences has extended the
office’s work in developing new models for mu-
seum-school collaborations. Working with schools
and museums in Atlanta, St. Paul, Seattle, and
Washington, D.C., the program helps teachers ex-
plore ways to use material culture across the cur-
riculum and from a multicultural perspective.

¢ “Teaching and Learning in a Diverse Society,” a
series of professional development seminars, was
taught by Smithsonian staff with museum and
school educators in 10 California cities. The semi-
nars gave teachers an overview of their community’s

and the Smithsonian’s resources for multicultural
education. The program was funded by the Smith-
sonian Educational Outreach Fund, the California
Council for the Humanities, Wells Fargo Bank, and
ScottForesman.

Wider Audience
Development Program

MARSHALL J. WONG, DIRECTOR

The Wider Audience Development Program
(WADP) assists efforts to strengthen the Institution’s
interaction with culturally diverse communities. Ex-
amples of the program’s work include coordinating
pan-institutional observances of federally designated
ethnic and women’s heritage commemorations,
organizing periodic forums for Smithsonian staff on
issues relating to cultural diversity, and building col-
laborations with organizations, networks, and insti-
tutions that represent nontraditional audiences. The
program also provides operational support to the
Smithsonian Institution Cultural Education Com-
mittee, a board of private citizens that advises
Smithsonian management on issues of cultural
pluralism in education and hiring.

¢ This year, the program sponsored lectures and
panel discussions on topics as diverse as the impact
of pop culture on youth violence, gender influences
in visual art, and the current state of Asian Pacific
American film.

¢ Performing arts presentations included a festival
of Latino music and dance, a concert featuring a

traditional Japanese instrument, the shamisen, and a
tribute to women In jazz.

¢ The program cosponsored conferences and spe-
cial educational events with national organizations
such as the Japanese American Citizens League,
MANA (the national Latina organization), and the
Filipino American National Historical Society.

Environmental and
External Affairs

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Environmental and External Affairs

THOMAS E. LOVEJOY,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

The Smithsonian Institution’s response to the needs
and concerns of its many external constituencies is
the primary responsibility of the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Environmental and External
Affairs. The office frames the Institution’s goals and
impact beyond the National Mall by supervising its
component units, using print and electronic media,
hosting diplomatic events and events in honor of
friends of the Institution, and addressing the role of
the Smithsonian in national and international affairs.
¢ During a six-month assignment as science advisor
to Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt, the assis-
tant secretary coordinated the establishment of the
National Biological Survey and worked to consoli-
date the biological research of several different
agencies into a comprehensive and accessible data-
base.

¢ The assistant secretary served as cochair of the
Committee for Environmental and Natural Re-
sources (CENR) within the President’s National
Science and Technology Council. CENR is leading
the effort to coordinate federal environment and
natural resource research and development activities
and improve the links between the scientific and
policy components of the executive branch.

¢ Through its International Project Development
Group, the office worked with various Smithsonian
bureaus to develop sources of outside funding for
research and training initiatives.

¢ The assistant secretary chaired the planning advi-
sory group for a possible National Biodiversity In-
formation Center, which would link existing U.S.
databases on biodiversity in an electronic informa-
tion network.

Latin American dancers

join in a parade at the

third annual Fun Fiesta

Musical during Hispanic

Heritage Month 1993.
(Photograph by Vilma
Ortiz)

5S
56

¢ The secretary approved the final plan for the
Smithsonian’s 15oth anniversary observance. The
deputy assistant secretary for external affairs heads
the steering committee for the celebration.

¢ The secretary invited Thomas Ybarra-Frausto of
the Rockefeller Foundation to serve as chair of the
Smithsonian Council upon the retirement as chair of
Maxine F. Singer, who assumed a new role as chair
of the Commission on the Future of the Smithsonian
Institution.

Office of International Relations

FRANCINE C. BERKOWITZ, DIRECTOR

The Office of International Relations (OIR) pro-
vides technical assistance and diplomatic support
for Smithsonian programs abroad and for interna-
tional exchanges of museum objects and staff. It is
the Smithsonian’s channel of communication with
foreign institutions and individuals as well as with
international organizations and government agen-
cies. OIR administers two funding programs to
encourage international cooperation in scholarly
research and museum programs.

¢ The office coordinated more than 80 official
visits to the Smithsonian during 1994, including
the emperor of Japan, the ministers of culture from
Belarus, the Czech Republic, Mongolia, Norway,
and Tajikistan, and the president of the Slovenian
Academy of Sciences and Arts. The office continued
to handle arrangements for the long-term exchange
program between the Smithsonian and Japan’s Min-
istry of Construction, working with the Tokyo Uni-
versity of Fine Arts and Music.

¢ OIR obtained more than 200 foreign visas for
Smithsonian staff members traveling abroad and
provided U.S. visa documentation for more than
175 foreign researchers and interns working at the
Smithsonian and other institutions in this country.
¢ The office arranged for Smithsonian staff to ob-
tain permits to conduct research and collect or ex-
port specimens from a number of countries, includ-
ing Australia, the Bahamas, Germany, and Japan.

¢ Special conferences, meetings, or briefings were
organized by OIR for a number of international
groups, including the delegates to the ASEAN-U.S.
Economic Dialogue and planners for new museums
in Australia, Japan, and Thailand.

¢ To help Smithsonian staff who pursue re-search in
foreign countries or work with colleagues from
abroad, OIR prepared and distributed the Guide to
International Research and Exchanges, a 200-page
compendium of practical advice and useful technical
information.

Office of Special Events
and Conferences

KATHERINE KIRLIN,
ACTING DIRECTOR

The Office of Special Events and Conferences
(OSEC) organizes events and conferences through-
out the Institution that contribute to developing and
maintaining important current and potential con-
stituencies. In 1994, the office coordinated activities
with Smithsonian bureaus, corporations, and orga-
nizations whose missions coincide with those of the
Institution. Each year, the office handles all arrange-
ments for the Smithsonian Board of Regents, the
Smithsonian Council, and, this year, the Commis-
sion on the Future of the Smithsonian Institution.
The office also helps Smithsonian scholars and man-
agers plan and coordinate conferences, international
symposiums, and collaborative programs.

¢ In September 1994, OSEC coordinated all logis-
tics for the installation of I. Michael Heyman as the
roth secretary of the Institution. The office also or-
ganized the regents’ dinner in honor of Secretary
Robert McC. Adams.

¢ This year, OSEC coordinated several large con-
ferences, including the 75th Annual Meeting of the
American Society of Mammalogists, the Second In-
ternational Conference on Ancient DNA, and the So-
ciety for the History of Technology annual meeting.
¢ OSEC assisted staff from the National African
American Museum Project with arrangements for
the project task force meeting as well as for the spe-
cial event “From Tap to R&B: Celebrating Cholly
Atkins.” OSEC also worked with staff from the
Program in African American Culture at the Na-
tional Museum of American History to present a
symposium, “Currents of the Spirit in the African
Diaspora.”

¢ OSEC supervised the opening events for the In-
ternational Gallery exhibitions “Talents of the
Brush: The Jill Sackler Chinese Calligraphy Compe-
tition,” “Sculptures from the Flames: Ceramics by
Gustav and Ulla Kraitz,” and “The Power of
Maps.” Other special events coordinated by OSEC
included the Small and Disadvantaged Business
Utilization Program reception and the Black Family
Reunion celebration and reception.

Office of Telecommunications
PAUL B. JOHNSON, DIRECTOR

The Office of Telecommunications (OTC) shapes a
cohesive electronic media presence for the Smithso-

|
nian by combining the Institution’s unsurpassed re-
sources with advanced technologies and delivery
systems. OTC’s efforts include television and radio
broadcasts, multimedia productions, and video and
audio programs, all aimed at broadening the Smith-
sonian’s national and international audience.

¢ In preparation for creation of new multimedia
projects, OTC continued to identify partners and
funders, develop content with Smithsonian bureaus,
and serve as a primary liaison with the electronic
media industry.

¢ With 50 hours of original programming, Radio
Smithsonian was a leading source of programs for
public radio. It was heard on three continents, on
the Internet, and on cassettes sold nationwide. Major
series this year included the premiere of Jazz Smith-
sonian, hosted by Lena Horne; the fourth season of
the award-winning Folk Masters; and the sixth sea-
son of the Dialogue series, produced with the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
¢ Expanding outreach to multicultural audiences,
OTC released three new videos inspired by the Na-
tional Museum of American History’s exhibition
“American Encounters.” These programs about the
lifestyles of Latino and Native American people in

New Mexico will be distributed to schools and

general audiences. The office also began developing
the pilot for a television feature series for Spanish-
speaking audiences, highlighting Smithsonian collec-
tions, research, exhibitions, festivals, and perfor-
mances relating to Latino culture.

¢ Among the exhibitions that OTC supported with
productions were “Reporting the War: The Journal-
istic Coverage of World War II” at the National
Portrait Gallery and “Louis Armstrong: A Cultural
Legacy,” mounted by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service. In collaboration with
the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center, OTC updated the interactive orientation to
Smithsonian museums to include the National Postal
Museum and the renovated Freer Gallery of Art.

The Smithsonian Associates
MARA MAYOR, DIRECTOR

Created from the merger of the National and Resi-
dent Associate Programs, The Smithsonian Associ-
ates (TSA) strengthens the ties of the American
people to the Institution by providing a wide array
of educational programs on the National Mall and
around the world. Through TSA, participants can
become members, or “Associates,” of the Institution
and receive special benefits as well as the opportu-
nity to provide direct financial support for the work
of the Smithsonian.

¢ Membership grew to a new high of 134,200
households, including 77,100 Contributing Mem-
bers, 54,500 Resident Members, and 2,600 Young
Benefactors. Their joint contributions reached a
record $11.5 million.

¢ Through a competitive grant process, the James
Smithson Society awarded $432,000 to diverse pro-
jects that enrich collections, acquisitions, research,
and education programs throughout the Institution.
¢ Associates traveled on 330 study tours and semi-
nars to all seven continents and more than 35 states
and on 400 short study tours in the mid-Atlantic re-
gion. Led by experts and staff, Smithsonian travelers
learned about topics from the indigenous arts of
Bali, to theater in London, to environmental issues
in East Africa.

¢ The Smithsonian Associates’ offerings mirrored
the cultural diversity of the nation. More than 80
programs, including discussions with James Earl
Jones and Judith Jamison and a lecture on racism by
Cornel West, explored and celebrated the history,
research, and talents of African Americans. The cul-
ture and influences of Asian Americans, Latinos,
and American Indians were the focus of dozens of
other programs, ranging from a California series on
the theme of “Many Cultures—One Nation” to a

Abner Jay, minstrel banjo
player from Fitzgerald,
Georgia, brought 60
years of experience to the
Radio Smithsonian Folk
Masters program “Banjo
Breakdown.” The award-
winning Folk Masters is
now in its fourth season
and is broadcast nation-
wide by Public Radio
International.

DY
Nobel Peace Laureate

Rigoberta Menchu greets
participants after her lec-
ture and a musical tribute
to her sponsored by The
Smithsonian Associates.
(Photograph by Hugh
Talman)

58

tribute to 1992 Nobel Peace Prize winner Rigoberta
Menchu, a Quiche Mayan Indian from Guatemala.
¢ Highlighting the research, collections, and exhibi-
tions of the bureaus was an important goal. Through
the Research Expeditions program, volunteers con-
tributed 15,000 hours of service and $115,000 to
the projects of 25 Smithsonian scientists. Many edu-
cational programs were developed in conjunction
with exhibitions, including the National Museum of
American Art’s “Thomas Cole: Landscape into His-
tory,” the National Portrait Gallery’s “VanDerZee,
Photographer (1886—1983),” and Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum’s “The Power of Maps.”
¢ The Smithsonian Associates developed programs
for all ages. Preschoolers learned in summer camp
about moon travelers; more than 70,000 youngsters
attended live performances in Discovery Theater;
families experienced the thrill of flying at the annual
Kite Festival on the National Mall; and senior
citizens enjoyed daytime lecture series featuring
Smithsonian scholars.

Smithsonian Institution Press

FELIX C. LOWE, DIRECTOR

The more than 125 titles the Smithsonian Institution
Press publishes or distributes each year encompass a

range of scholarship, from technical academic sub-
jects to general-interest illustrated books, classic
recordings, historic videos, and publications created
with commercial partners. As the Institution’s pub-
lisher, the press also produces Smithsonian Year and
Annals of the Smithsonian as well as other docu-
ments for distribution to designated Depository Li-
braries and the international academic community.
¢ Smithsonian University Press received favorable
reviews for books such as The Bee Genera of North
and Central America, in Spanish and English, by
Charles D. Michener, Ronald McGinley, and Bryan
Danforth; South of the Border: Mexico in the Amer-
ican Imagination, another bilingual work, by James
Oles; American Indian Lacrosse: Little Brother of
War, by Thomas Vennum Jr.; and Reporting the
War: The Journalistic Coverage of World War II, by
Frederick S$. Voss. The Book Development division
copublished, with Dorling Kindersley, Smithsonian
Timelines of the Ancient World: A Visual Chronol-
ogy from the Origins of Life to A.D. 1500.

¢ Smithsonian Books copublished The Native
Americans with Turner Publishing; Atlas of Wild
Places with Marshall Editions Limited; and, with
the Roland Company, Nature on the Rampage, as-
sisted by Harm de Blij, geographer and television
commentator. This division also oversaw production
of the first five volumes of Ancient Civilizations.

¢ Smithsonian Collection of Recordings released
eight volumes in the American Songbook series and
two collections documenting radio shows from the
1930s, 1940s, and 1950s. A double-CD Duke
Ellington collection and a four-CD Louis Armstrong
set were produced in association with the Smithson-
lan jazz initiative, America’s Jazz Heritage: A Part-
nership of the Lila Wallace—Reader’s Digest Fund
and the Smithsonian Institution.

¢ Smithsonian Video division coproduced with the
Library of Congress a collection of vintage silent
films featuring fantasy, animation art, and films by
African American and women filmmakers. Addi-
tional releases include Eastern Europe: Breaking
with the Past—a 13-part series on the 1989 revolu-
tions targeted for teaching use—and the full-length
version of Dinosaurs.

Smithsonian Magazine

RONALD C. WALKER, PUBLISHER
DONALD B. MOSER, EDITOR

Since its founding in 1970, Smithsonian magazine
has extended the Institution’s message, expanded its
influence, and increased its public visibility through-
out the United States and abroad. Considered one of
the greatest success stories in magazine publishing

eens
The

enefra

of North and Central America (Hymenoptera: Apoidea)

Charles D. Michener, Ronald J. MeGinley, and Bryan N, Danforth

history, Smithsonian is now the 21st largest maga-
zine in the country, with a circulation of 2.1 million.
It continues to generate revenue for the Institution.

Editorial subjects inevitably extend beyond the
scope of the Institution’s museums. Leading authors
contribute articles about the arts, history, the envi-
ronment, conservation, and the sciences, always
written with the layperson in mind.

Monthly features include “Phenomena, Com-
ment, and Notes,” a commentary on nature and the
natural world; “Smithsonian Horizons,” a column
by the Smithsonian secretary; and reviews of re-
cently released nonfiction. Smithsonian activities are
covered in three regular departments: “Around the
Mall and Beyond,” “Smithsonian Highlights,” and
“The Object at Hand.”
¢ In July, to coincide with the Institution’s exhi-
bition at the American Festival Japan ’94, the maga-
zine ran a cover story on Matthew Perry and the

opening of Japan to the West. Copies were distrib-
_ uted to attending Smithsonian Corporate Members,
members of the press, and special guests.
¢ The Thomas Cole exhibition at the National Mu-
seum of American Art and the Korean art exhibition
at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery were featured in
articles during the year. Other stories reflected the
broad interests of the Institution: the architectural
restoration of Ponce, Puerto Rico; tropical vines;
tsunamis; Roberto Clemente; Comet Shoemaker-
Levy 9’s collision with Jupiter; Plessy vs. Ferguson;
kangaroos; and Modigliani.
¢ At this summer’s Unity ’94 Convention, which
brought together professionals from the four minor-

ity journalism associations, Smithsonian magazine
conducted a workshop on freelancing and cospon-
sored a reception for journalists interested in maga-
zine work.

¢ In partnership with the American Society of
Travel Agents (ASTA), the magazine awarded the
third annual ASTA/Smithsonian Magazine Environ-
mental Award to the government and people of
Bermuda and Sven Olof Lindblad’s Special Expedi-
tions, Inc. The award recognizes outstanding
achievements by individuals, corporations, and
countries toward furthering the goals of environ-
mental conservation.

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine

RONALD C. WALKER, PUBLISHER
GEORGE C. LARSON, EDITOR

Air & Space/Smithsonian is published bimonthly as
a benefit of membership in the National Air and
Space Museum. With a circulation of 320,000, it
ranks in the top half of major magazines in the
United States and has the largest paid circulation of
any aerospace periodical in the world. Since 1990,
just four years after its launch, the magazine has
generated revenue for the Institution.

Articles cover the range of air- and space-related
topics that appeal to the magazine’s general reader-
ship. Regular features include “In the Museum,” a

Smithsonian

December 1993

Ventriloquism

Here, Charlie McCarthy-
grand master of the
snappy comeback (p. 56)

The Bee Genera of North
and Central America,
published in Spanish and
English, garnered favor-
able reviews for Smith-

sonian Institution Press.

Featured on the cover of
Smithsonian magazine’s
December 1993 issue,
mannequin Charlie
McCarthy was mentioned
in an article about ven-
triloquism. Photographer
Theo Westenberger took
this shot of Charlie
McCarthy in his per-
manent home at the
Smithsonian Institution’s
National Museum of
American History.
Sheila Stampfli, president
of the Washington, D.C.,
Convention and Visitors
Association (left) present-
ed the 1994 Capital
Ambassador Award to
Katherine Neill Ridgley
of the Visitor Informa-
tion and Associates’
Reception Center during
National Tourism Week

in May.

60

column about happenings in the museum; “Sound-
ings,” short takes on events in the aerospace com-
munity; “Above & Beyond,” usually a first-person
account of a personal experience; “Viewport,”
comments from the museum director; and “Collec-
tions,” a narrated tour of less-visited aerospace
museums and collections.

¢ New products relating to Air & Space/ Smithson-
ian magazine included a three-video set, Dreams of
Flight, which traces the history of human flight;
in-depth “Special Reports,” the first of which de-
scribed the art and science of aircraft restoration;
“Showtime,” a magazine insert distributed at air
shows; an appointment calendar; and an informa-
tional publication for visitors to the museum’s the-
ater and planetarium.

¢ The award-winning series “Astronomy’s Most
Wanted” inspired a 1994 lecture series in Boston
and Washington sponsored by the Smithsonian As-
trophysical Observatory.

¢ Two issues included full-color graphic supple-
ments featuring classic airplanes: “Aircraft of the
Skunk Works” and “The X-Planes.” Both images
were available by mail order as posters.

¢ A new series on the Cold War began in the
August/September issue with a feature describing
top-secret missions to the Soviet Union and their
lingering after-effects.

¢ As part of its continuing participation in Smith-
sonian-wide experimentation with on-line services
through America Online, the magazine offered
access to the editors via e-mail during 1994.

Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center

MARY GRACE POTTER, DIRECTOR

As a central support organization, the Visitor Infor-
mation and Associates’ Reception Center (VIARC)
is responsible for a range of information and assis-
tance programs that serve the public, Associate
members, Smithsonian staff, and volunteers. Several
VIARC programs operate seven days a week and
involve the coordination and direction of two large
corps of volunteers, who provide the primary sup-
port for the Institution’s public information pro-
grams and for project assistance behind the scenes.
¢ VIARC’s on-line activities with commercial data-
base services expanded significantly during 1994. In
late March, an “Ask the Smithsonian” feature was
added to VIARC segments on America Online, re-
sulting in as many as 500 public inquiries a
month—a 40 percent increase. On-line previsit in-

formation was made available to the public through
the Internet and extended to more than 250,000

national and international travel agents via Travel-
File. Internally, VIARC’s continuing efforts to
provide automated reference sources to volunteer
information specialists staffing museum information
desks resulted in the addition of six more sites to the
VIARC network.

¢ Take Metrorail to the Smithsonian Museums, a
leaflet designed by VIARC and produced by the
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority,
was published in early summer. Distributed free of
charge through Metro and the Smithsonian, this
leaflet is VIARC’s second public service collabora-
tion with Washington’s transit authority.

¢ During National Tourism Week in May, in recog-
nition of efforts to facilitate travel industry access to
previsit information about the Smithsonian and its
activities, VIARC’s outreach coordinator Katherine
Neill Ridgley received the prestigious Capital
Ambassador Award presented annually by the
Washington Convention and Visitors Association.

¢ After months of painstaking revisions and in time
for the heavy spring volume of visitors, VIARC’s
popular electronic maps were reinstalled in the
Smithsonian Information Center, which continued
to serve record numbers of visitors.

Institutional Initiatives

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Initiatives

ALICE GREEN BURNETTE,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

The wide-ranging development activities of the
Smithsonian are the responsibility of the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Institutional Initiatives.
The office coordinates the Institution’s broad efforts
with those of the bureaus and offices to ensure that
the Smithsonian receives the fullest possible private
support for its research, exhibitions, and educa-
tional and public service activities. The office also
conducts special studies and demonstration projects
on behalf of the Institution.

¢ During 1994, the assistant secretary led the plan-
ning and implementation for marketing the Institu-
tion’s rsoth anniversary celebration in 1996. The
marketing plan encompasses public relations, adver-
tising, communications, fund raising, visitor ser-
vices, membership, telecommunications, and busi-
ness activities.

¢ The office continued to coordinate the

National Museum of the American Indian National
Campaign. During 1994, the assistant secretary
supervised planning the campaign’s events associ-
ated with the October 1994 opening of the mu-
seum’s George Gustav Heye Center in New York
City.

¢ The assistant secretary commissioned the Greater
Washington Research Center to assess the Institu-
tion’s economic impact on the Washington metro-
politan area. The study revealed that the Institution
generates 5 percent of the area’s gross regional
product each year—a total of $6.7 billion. Each
dollar that the Smithsonian spent in the area in
1993 stimulated an additional $16.35 in economic
activity. About 91 percent of the Smithsonian’s
total impact comes from spending by out-of-town
visitors.

¢ The assistant secretary continued to work with
the Smithsonian National Board and the Office of
Development to launch the Smithsonian Fund for
the Future and to implement the Smithsonian Insti-
tution Marketing Study.

National Museum of the American
Indian National Campaign

JOHN L. COLONGHI,
NATIONAL CAMPAIGN DIRECTOR

The National Campaign for the National Museum
of the American Indian is responsible for carrying
out the fund-raising plan that the Smithsonian
Board of Regents adopted for the museum. By leg-
islative mandate, the Institution must provide one-
third of the construction costs of the museum on the
National Mall. The campaign has established a goal
of $60 million to fund construction and an endow-
ment for ongoing educational and outreach pro-

grams. Now in its third year, the campaign devoted

1994 to strengthening its base of leadership and
donors, increasing visibility for the museum and its
fund-raising efforts, and raising a substantial por-
tion of its goal.

¢ Four new members joined the International
Founders Council, a committee of prominent volun-
teers responsible for generating most of the cam-
paign’s fund-raising goal: Ellen and William Taub-
man and Peterson and Rosalind Zah. The campaign
received major gifts during 1994 from David and
Peggy Rockefeller, the George Gund Foundation,
Nancy and Carroll O’Connor, and the Eugene and
Clare Thaw Charitable Trust. Additional corporate
and foundation support came from the Chase Man-
hattan Bank, the Merrill Lynch & Company Foun-
dation, Inc., Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., the
Kerr Foundation, Inc., the Procter & Gamble Fund,
and the Zemurray Foundation.

¢ To raise the visibility of the museum and its fund-
raising efforts and prepare for the opening of the
George Gustav Heye Center in New York City, the
campaign initiated a nationwide public relations
and advertising program and held a number of
special events throughout the country.

Ada Deer (Menominee),
Bureau of Indian Affairs
commissioner, with

W. Richard West Jr.
(Southern Cheyenne),
National Museum of the
American Indian director,
and Norbert Hill
(Oneida), chairman of
the museum’s board of
trustees at a fund-raising
event for the National
Campaign. (Photograph
by Carol Grace
Woodruff)

61
Smithsonian National
Board member Esther
Simplot and her husband,
Jack, admire artwork at a
black-tie dinner in the
Renwick Gallery of the
National Museum of

American Art.

¢ The Educational Foundation of America, the
Booth Ferris Foundation, AT&T Foundation, and
the New York Times Company Foundation pro-
vided support for the opening exhibitions at the
Heye Center.

¢ Charter membership in the museum now num-
bers more than 70,000. Since its formation, the
membership program has generated gross revenue
of more than $6.4 million. Interested individuals
may now call a toll-free number (800-242—NMAI)
to become members or request materials about the
museum.

Office of Development

MARIE A. MATTSON, DIRECTOR

The Office of Development generates restricted and
unrestricted private financial support for the Smith-
sonian from corporations, foundations, and individ-
uals to fund pan-institutional priorities as well as
bureau projects and programs. The office maintains
central research and record-keeping functions,
manages volunteer organizations, and oversees
stewardship of grants.

¢ Major gifts and pledges to the Smithsonian
during fiscal year 1994 included a $3 million en-
dowment gift from Discovery Communications for
the new Discovery Center complex at the National
Museum of Natural History; $2.5 million from the
Holenia Trust for the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden; $1.4 million from the Boeing
Company for the National Air and Space Museum
exhibit, “How Things Fly”; $1 million from Lloyd
G. and Betty A. Schermer for the Smithsonian Fund
for the Future; $1 million from the Estate of Franz
H. Denghausen for the Denghausen Endowment for
Acquisitions at the National Museum of American
Art; $1 million from the George Gund Foundation
for the National Museum of the American Indian
National Campaign; and $900,000 from the An-
drew W. Mellon Foundation for plant ecological
research at the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute.

¢ Lester M. Alberthal, chairman, president, and
chief executive officer of Electronic Data Systems,
chaired the Smithsonian Corporate Membership
Program. Under his leadership, the program has
grown to include 37 members from various indus-
tries and locations. In May 1994, the program’s
annual luncheon meeting brought together top-
ranking executives of national and international
companies, members of Congress, Smithsonian
research experts, and environmental experts to

discuss “Science Education for the Environment.”
¢ The office increased its emphasis on creative
forms of planned giving. Bequests and other de-
ferred gifts accounted for 18 percent of the total
funds raised in fiscal year 1994, underscoring the
importance of this renewed effort.

Smithsonian National Board

LLOYD G. SCHERMER, CHAIR

Smithsonian National Board members work for the
advancement of the Institution as advocates, as pri-
vate sector advisers to the secretary and under secre-
tary, and through personal financial support and
fund-raising activities.

¢ Lloyd G. Schermer and Wilbur Ross served as
chair and vice-chair during 1994. Board members
have elected Wilbur Ross as chair and Jean B.
Mahoney as vice-chair for 1995.

¢ With the leadership of the Smithsonian National
Board, the Smithsonian Fund for the Future endow-
ment initiative is helping to increase private contri-
butions and provide a long-term base of private
support.

¢ Board members contributed nearly $700,000 to
the Smithsonian. These funds were earmarked for
the Secretary’s Special Fund to underwrite research
fellows in the sciences and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Marketing Study. The contributions also sup-

ported special projects throughout the Smithsonian.

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

GLORIA HAMILTON, CHAIR

Since its founding in 1966, the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee has supported the Institution
through volunteer fund raising and public relations
services. The funds the committee raises support
educational and research programs throughout the
Smithsonian. Jean Thompson served as the commit-
tee’s chair until June 1994.

¢ In December 1993, the holiday dance held at the
National Museum of Natural History netted more
than $40,000. In April 1994, the r2th annual
Smithsonian Craft Show attracted more than
15,000 visitors and netted approximately
$254,000. The Fourth of July picnic held on the
roof of the National Museum of American History
showed a profit of $6,000.

¢ The committee provided $268,863 in support of
29 projects in 19 museums and offices. These pro-
jects included development of educational and out-
reach activities for the exhibition “Black Mosaic:
Community, Race, and Ethnicity among Black Im-
migrants in Washington, D.C.” at the Anacostia
Museum, development of an exhibition of quilt
making by Native American women at the National
Museum of the American Indian, and conservation
of garden designs by French art deco designers
André and Paul Vera at Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum.

¢ The committee gave $10,000 to support awards
under the Fellowships in Museum Practice Program,
which it endowed in 1992.

Finance and
Administration

Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Finance and Administration

NANCY SUTTENFIELD,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

Operating behind the scenes at the Smithsonian, a
network of central services serves the diverse pro-
grammatic needs of the Institution and facilitates
the effective management and use of financial,
human, and physical resources. Funding for finan-
cial and administrative services in 1994 amounted
to nearly $35 million, or approximately 8.5 percent

During a memorial tea
for Hildy van Roijen, the
first chair of the Smith-
sonian Women’s Com-
mittee, Mary Livingston
Ripley (right), founder of
the committee, and
Marian Cobb enjoy a
moment in the garden
that honors Mrs. Ripley.

of the Institution’s total operating expenses. Central

services for physical plant, security, and environ-
mental safety account for an additional $53 million
on behalf of the entire Institution.

Office of Architectural History and
Historic Preservation
CYNTHIA R. FIELD, DIRECTOR

The Office of Architectural History and Historic
Preservation organized a panel exhibition and pub-
lished an informational brochure on the history of
the west end of the Smithsonian Building known as
the Commons. The office has registered approxi-
mately 3,000 documents in the National Museum
of the American Indian architectural history, an in-
novative project to assemble the primary documents
relating to the future buildings of the museum.

Office of the Comptroller

M. LESLIE CASSON, COMPTROLLER

The Office of the Comptroller implemented the ac-
counts payable and purchase order modules of the
Smithsonian Financial System and began work on
the next phases, which include a new accounting
classification code structure. The office also created
a decentralized process for procuring and paying for
the Smithsonian’s training needs.

63
i het ATA

One project of the Office
of Design and Construct-
ion was a new research
greenhouse facility, which
opened this year at the
Museum Support Center
in Suitland, Maryland.
The new facility, run by
the National Museum of
Natural History’s Botany
Department, will allow
botanists to expand stud-
ies of living plants. The
“tall room,” pictured
here, accommodates trees
such as bananas and
palms. (Photograph by
Doc Dougherty)

64

Office of Contracting and
Property Management

ROBERT PERKINS, DIRECTOR

The Office of Contracting and Property Manage-
ment (OCPM) completed contracts and administra-
tion for building, renovation, and exhibit fabrica-
tion and furnishings for the George Gustav Heye
Center of the National Museum of the American In-
dian in New York City. The Travel Services Office,
now a division of OCPM, completed the third year
of a contract with a travel agency that will result in
a rebate of approximately $178,000 to Smithsonian
offices and bureaus.

Office of Design and Construction

ROBERT P. DILLMAN, DIRECTOR

The office completed construction on the $24 mil-
lion renovation of the Alexander Hamilton U.S.
Custom House in New York City for the George
Gustav Heye Center, which will house administra-
tive and exhibition space for the National Museum
of the American Indian. Other current projects in-
clude construction and renovation at the Museum
Support Center in Suitland, Maryland, to provide
expanded artifact storage for the National Air and
Space Museum and the National Museum of Ameri-

can History; design for the National Museum of the
American Indian’s Cultural Resources Center in
Suitland; and design for a renovation, restoration,
and accessibility project at Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum.

Office of Environmental
Management and Safety
F. WILLIAM BILLINGSLEY, DIRECTOR

The Office of Environmental Management and
Safety continued its responsibility for ensuring that
safety, fire protection and prevention, industrial hy-
giene, and environmental principles are integrated
into all aspects of the Smithsonian.

Office of Equal Employment and
Minority Affairs

ERA L. MARSHALL, DIRECTOR

The Office of Equal Employment and Minority Af-
fairs continued to monitor the effectiveness of the
Smithsonian’s recruitment efforts for minorities,
women, and people with disabilities. As part of the
Institution’s commitment to increase procurement
opportunities for small, minority, and women-
owned businesses, the office developed policies and
procedures to implement the Small and Disadvan-
taged Business Utilization Program. For employees,
the office initiated changes in the informal com-
plaints program with a view toward resolving com-
plaints before they are formally made.

Office of Facilities Services
RICHARD L. SIEGLE, DIRECTOR

The Office of Facilities Services, with other
organizations in the Facilities Services Group, initi-
ated collaborative efforts to improve service to the
Institution. Among these efforts were a team to 1m-
prove the development of the repair and restoration
program, initial implementation of a computer-
aided facilities management system, an organiza-
tional development project focusing on the treat-
ment of people within the Facilities Services Group,
and creation of a Smithsonian-wide leased space
management program.

|
|
if

|
|

{
Office of Human Resources
SUSAN G. ROEHMER, ACTING DIRECTOR

The Office of Human Resources (OHR) worked
closely with senior Smithsonian management in
efforts to reduce Smithsonian staffing levels. One
initiative was the offering of employee “buyouts,”
which were intended to encourage voluntary retire-
ment or separation. This program spared the Smith-
sonian potential staff reductions-in-force. The office
also initiated the second phase of a project that will
lead to a fully automated, paperless human
resources management system.

Office of Information
Resource Management
VINCENT MARCALUS, DIRECTOR

This year, the Office of Information Resource Man-
agement implemented the Smithsonian Institution
Research Information System, expanded the Smith-
sonian Institution data communications network
(SINET) to provide at least one connection to every
bureau and office, completed the transfer of collec-
tions information systems to the office’s mainframe
computer, and continued modernizing the
automated systems of The Smithsonian Associates.

Office of Planning,
Management, and Budget
L. CAROLE WHARTON, DIRECTOR

The Office of Planning, Management, and Budget
was created in November 1993 from a merger of
the Office of Planning and Budget with the Office of
Financial and Management Analysis. As part of its
effort to simplify processes and documents, the of-
fice streamlined the Institution’s budget submission
to the U.S. Office of Management and Budget, re-
sulting in substantial savings in production time and
costs. The office also has taken the lead in develop-
ing recommendations for implementing the Govern-
ment Performance Results Act.

Office of Plant Services

PATRICK MILLER, DIRECTOR

The Office of Plant Services oversees maintenance
and operation of Smithsonian buildings and grounds

and provides transportation, mail, audiovisual, and
other related services. This year, the office began
providing exhibit construction and minor space ren-
ovation assistance on a fee-for-service basis. The of-
fice also established a Customer Service Task Force
to investigate ways to improve customer service.
The office’s director, Michael League, retired after
21 years with the Smithsonian and was replaced by
Patrick Miller, formerly of the University of New
Hampshire.

Office of Printing and
Photographic Services

JAMES WALLACE, DIRECTOR

The Office of Printing and Photographic Services
(OPPS) continued to expand its program of making
digitized Smithsonian photographs available
through computer networks. More than one-half
million image files were delivered through the Inter-
net, America Online, CompuServe, and GEnie net-
works. In recognition of growing demands for diti-
gal delivery, the office formed an Imaging and
Technology Services Branch. The office also pro-
vided substantial support for professional training,
including sponsorship of a high school seminar with
the White House News Photographers Association

Finance and

Administration offices
were extensively involved
this year in preparations
for the opening of the
National Museum of the
American Indian’s
George Gustav Heye
Center. The center is
located on the first and
second floors of the
Alexander Hamilton U.S.
Custom House in New
York City, a beaux-arts
style National Historic
Landmark. (Photograph
by Roy Gumpel)

65
66

and a workshop for Native Americans cosponsored
with the National Park Service.

Office of Protection Services

CHARLES A. HINES, DIRECTOR

The Office of Protection Services reorganized and
decentralized its operations to improve support to
the Institution. In a pilot study initiated this year,
the office is examining posting and scheduling pat-
terns for security officers. Officers continued to par-
ticipate in a three-week course, “Training the Sen-
tinels of Our Nation’s Treasures,” conducted by the
office with Fort McClellan and Jacksonville State
University in Alabama. As an additional training
tool, the office acquired a video training simulator.

Office of Risk and
Asset Management

SUDEEP ANAND, TREASURER

The Office of Risk and Asset Management was cre-
ated by a merger of the Offices of the Treasurer and
Risk Management. The office manages the Smith-
sonian endowment and working capital funds and
provides risk and insurance management services to
protect the Institution’s assets against risk or loss.
The office also evaluates and develops financing for
large new trust projects and implements real estate
transactions.

Office of Sponsored Projects

ARDELLE FOSS, DIRECTOR

The Office of Sponsored Projects served Smith-
sonian researchers and scholars by supporting the
work of 130 principal investigators who submitted
200 new proposals valued at $30 million and by
negotiating and accepting for the Institution 170
grant and contract awards having a value of
approximately $12 million.

Ombudsman

CHANDRA HEILMAN,
SMITHSONIAN OMBUDSMAN

This year, the Smithsonian Ombudsman worked
with managers and approximately 250 employees as

a neutral party to resolve work-related concerns.
The Smithsonian Employee Emergency Assistance
Fund, coordinated by the Ombudsman and the
Agriculture Federal Credit Union, made more than
50 loans to help employees through personal finan-
cial difficulties.

Under Secretary

Office of the Under Secretary

CONSTANCE BERRY NEWMAN,
UNDER SECRETARY

As the chief operating officer of the Smithsonian,
the under secretary is responsible for the day-to-day
administration of the Institution. Under Secretary
Constance Berry Newman also works with the sec-
retary and the Smithsonian Board of Regents to set
long-range priorities and develop mechanisms for
carrying them out.

¢ Among the many projects involving the under
secretary this year were the Smithsonian’s participa-
tion in the American Festival Japan ’94, which re-
quired the coordination and cooperation of many
parts of the Institution; institutional support for the
opening of the George Gustav Heye Center of the
National Museum of the American Indian; an
increase in efforts to generate increased revenue
through public-private partnerships; and the devel-
opment of a plan for the Institution’s 150th anniver-
sary Commemoration in 1996.

Business Management Office

NANCY E. JOHNSON,
SENIOR BUSINESS OFFICER

The Business Management Office consists of three
revenue-generating activities: Retail Operations,
Concessions, and Product Development and Licens-
ing. It also oversees Business Development, which
identifies additional revenue opportunities for the
Institution, and the Marketing Database, which
manages the lists of people who have a relationship
with the Institution.

¢ A merger of the Museum Shops and Mail Order
divisions created one retail group responsible for
merchandising and operations. This new structure
offers a more efficient way to develop Smithsonian-
specific merchandise and target items that may be
profitable for both the shops and the mail order cat-
alogue. A single group will also be better organized
to seek the additional revenue opportunities that are
a vital part of long-term trust fund growth.

¢ The mail order catalogue and marketing strate-
gies have been redesigned to reach traditional cus-
tomers more effectively. The new catalogue contin-
ues to highlight individual bureaus and items from
specific collections as well as special events and
exhibitions.

¢ In cooperation with the Office of Architectural
History and Historic Preservation, the Concessions
Office renovated the Commons dining facility in the
Castle to re-create the look of the original refectory
space. A revised menu provides a better dining expe-
rience for Contributing Members, who are the main
customers of the Commons.

¢ Asa part of the “Smithsonian’s America” exhibi-
tion at the American Festival Japan 94, the Retail
Operations and Product Development and Licensing
divisions supplied merchandise for the special shop.
The merchandise reflected the collections of the
National Museum of American History and the
National Air and Space Museum, on which the ex-
hibition was based.

Office of Government Relations

MARK W. RODGERS, DIRECTOR

The Office of Government Relations represents the
Institution on matters of legislation, policy, opera-
tions, and governance to the Congress and other
federal, state, and local government entities. It is the
coordinator and advocate of Smithsonian interests
and positions in the legislative process as well as the
primary conduit of legislative information.

¢ During the year, the office oversaw enactment of
legislation appointing two citizen members to the
Smithsonian Board of Regents.

¢ The office was involved in continuing legislative
negotiations to establish the National African Amer-
ican Museum in the Arts and Industries Building.

¢ The office sought enactment of authorizing legis-
lation for the minting of commemorative coins to
be issued in observance of the Smithsonian’s 150th
anniversary.

Office of Policy and
Program Development
MARGARET C. GAYNOR, DIRECTOR

The Office of Policy and Program Development
(OPPD) prepares analyses and reports for the secre-

tary and the Board of Regents, anticipating the
long-range policy and programming needs of the
Institution.

¢ OPPD’s chief activity during 1994 revolved
around the activities of the Commission on the Fu-
ture of the Smithsonian Institution, which the Board
of Regents convened in September 1993 to examine
the cultural environment and nature of operations
of the Institution and recommend programmatic
and planning directions for the coming century. The
commission held its first meeting in January 1994,
with subsequent plenary sessions in June, Septem-
ber, and December. Issues that the commission
examined included sociodemographic trends and
impacts on audience development, educational pro-
gramming and research, and internal structure and
governance. The commission’s report to the Board
of Regents was expected in early 1995.

¢ OPPD also contributed to the institution-wide
planning for celebrating the Smithsonian’s 150th
anniversary in 1996.

Office of Public Affairs

LINDA ST. THOMAS, ACTING DIRECTOR

The Office of Public Affairs (OPA) acquaints the
public, including diverse cultural communities in the
United States and abroad, with the programs and
policies of the Smithsonian by working with news-

Producer Robert Johnson
(center), working in co-
operation with the
Smithsonian’s Office of
Public Affairs, directs the
videotaping of the
Alexander Hamilton U.S.
Custom House in New
York City. The footage
was used to publicize the
National Museum of the
American Indian in a
television public service
announcement. (Photo-
graph by Roy Gumpel)

Modern dance choreogra-
pher Twyla Tharp spent

the summer of 1994 at
the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Perform-
ing Arts creating new
works with this specially
assembled group of

dancers.

68

papers, magazines, television, radio, and general
publications. The office provides news releases (650
this year), photographs, videotapes, logistical sup-
port, and broadcast public service announcements.
The office also produces a number of publications,
including Research Reports (a quarterly bulletin),
Smithsonian Runner (a bimonthly newsletter about
Native American activities at the Smithsonian), the
Torch (a monthly employee newspaper), and
brochures for the public.

¢ Among the important media events that the office
held this year were press conferences announcing
the appointment of the new Smithsonian secretary,
the results of a study of the Institution’s economic
impact on the Washington area, and the outcome of
the Smithsonian-commissioned Latino Task Force
study. OPA coordinated publicity and national ad-
vertising campaigns for the October 30, 1994, open-
ing of the National Museum of the American
Indian’s George Gustav Heye Center in New York.
¢ This year, the office issued a number of updated
publications for visitors, including the Smithsonian’s
general information brochure in six languages (Ara-
bic, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, and Span-
ish) and “Smithsonian Access” (formerly “Smith-
sonian Institution: A Guide for Disabled Visitors”).
¢ The office continued its programs designed to
reach new audiences with a radio advertising cam-
paign geared to local African American listeners
and a print advertising campaign targeting Latino
readers.

¢ Planning for the commemoration of the Smith-
sonian’s r5oth anniversary in 1996 moved into
high gear this year, with the office playing a key
role on the marketing committee, which developed
a plan aimed at increasing public awareness of the
Smithsonian.

Affiliated Organizations

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, the National Gallery of Art, and the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars were es-
tablished by Congress within the Smithsonian Insti-
tution, under their own boards of trustees. The In-
stitution provides adminstrative services on contract
for Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., an independent
organization.

John FE. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

JAMES D. WOLFENSOHN, CHAIRMAN
LAWRENCE J. WILKER, PRESIDENT

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
plays a distinctive role in the cultural life of the
United States. Each year in its six theaters, it pre-
sents the best of American and international artists
to audiences numbering more than a million people.
Nationwide tours, television and radio broadcasts,
and performances in the community reach 20 mil-
lion others. Through its producing efforts, commis-
sions, competitions, and apprenticeship and training
programs, the center nurtures artists and stimulates
the creation of new works. Innovative programs for
teachers and for students of all ages in most of the
50 states make the center a leader in arts education.
¢ In March 1994, the renowned American conduc-
tor Leonard Slatkin was named the National Sym-
phony Orchestra’s new music director, succeeding
Mstislav Rostropovich, now conductor laureate,
who led the orchestra for 17 seasons.

¢ The Kennedy Center and Dance Theatre of
Harlem’s community residency began a three-year
collaborative program that gives more than 400
Washington-area young people and their families
opportunities to participate in the art of dance
through auditions, classes, lecture-demonstrations,
workshops, and performances.

¢ The Kennedy Center appointed Billy Taylor, the
distinguished jazz performer, historian, and lecturer,
as artistic adviser on jazz. His first program, a joint
project with National Public Radio, is a 26-session
series to be broadcast on NPR stations next year.

¢ The Kennedy Center Fund for New American
Plays awarded a total of $316,500 to five American
plays and the theaters that will premiere them and
to five other American playwrights. The awards cer-
emony also paid tribute to the fund’s founder, Roger
L. Stevens, the Kennedy Center’s founding chairman
and one of the most prolific producers in the Ameri-
can theater. In seven years, the fund has enabled
not-for-profit theaters to mount premieres of 49
new American plays, many of which have gone on
to win such accolades as the Tony Award and the
Pulitzer Prize.

¢ The Kennedy Center continued to be a catalyst
for the creation of new American dance works. In
September 1994, Twyla Tharp’s summer-long resi-
dency culminated in a public performance of works-
in-progress by Tharp and a specially assembled
group of dancers. A few weeks later, David Parsons’s
Mood Swing was given its premiere by the Pennsyl-
vania Ballet in the Opera House; it was the sixth
new work created by the Kennedy Center Ballet
Commissioning Project.

¢ The Kennedy Center Festival Australia celebrated
the arts and artists of Australia with a week of per-
formances, readings, film programs, street theater,
art exhibitions, and displays of native landscapes
and animals. The Australian Embassy, National
Zoological Park, American Film Institute, and
Library of Congress also participated in the festival.

National Gallery of Art

EARL A. POWELL III, DIRECTOR

The National Gallery preserves, collects, exhibits,
and fosters the understanding of works of art at the
highest possible museum and scholarly standards.

¢ The year opened with the first major exhibition
sent by the Portuguese government to the United
States, “The Age of the Baroque in Portugal.” The
exhibition included many extraordinary treasures
from the r8th century, a period of brilliant achieve-
ment and patronage in Portugal. An exhibition of
Renaissance portrait medals drew from the gallery’s
collection and from other museums throughout the
world. A retrospective exhibition of 80 paintings,
watercolors, and drawings by the early 20th-century
Austrian expressionist artist Egon Schiele was sup-
ported by the Austrian government and the city of
Vienna. A survey of the work of Willem de Kooning
from the late 1930s to the mid-1980s celebrated the
goth birthday of one of America’s foremost artists.
Two other exhibitions showed the prints of Roy
Lichtenstein from the 1950s to the present and the
photographs of Robert Frank, whose work influ-
enced the course of post-World War II photography.
The exhibition “The Waking Dream: Photography’s
First Century—Selections from the Gilman Paper
Company Collection” consisted of 260 works, some
rare or unique, that illustrated the beginnings of
photography. Exhibitions of contemporary works

Carved and gilded
reredos (at rear) from the
church of Sao Francisco,
Evora, along with other
18th-century Portuguese
works of art in the exhi-
bition “The Age of the
Baroque in Portugal” at
the National Gallery of
Art, November 7, 1993,
to February 6, 1994
(Photograph by Rob
Shelley)

included an overview of recent prints and sculpture
from the gallery’s Gemini G.E.L. Archive and “Mil-
ton Avery: Works on Paper,” featuring works given
by the artist’s family.

¢ Purchases for the collections are made possible by
funds donated by private citizens. Among the im-
portant acquisitions this year were a large landscape

by the American master Thomas Cole, Coast Scene
with Ruined Tower, and a recently discovered por-
trait of The Marquis de Beringhen by Jean-Baptiste
Oudry, the most important French 1 8th-century
painter of still life and hunting scenes. Another
painting by Oudry, Misse and Lutine, was given by
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene V. Thaw.

¢ A large gift of 31 French, English, and American
works from Paul Mellon included an early Winslow
Homer and three Toulouse-Lautrec paintings. Ruth
Benedict bequeathed 68 prints and drawings by
American and European artists from the réth to the
zoth century. Tyler Graphics donated a number of
prints by Frank Stella and Roy Lichtenstein, and
Dorothy and Herbert Vogel gave a colored-ink—
wash wall drawing by Sol Lewitt.

¢ Publications during the year included the first
systematic catalogue for the sculpture and decora-
tive arts collection.

69
In Parkersburg, West
Virginia, a General
Electric scientist explains
the principles of flight to
a fourth grader during
the field testing of STAR
Science Technology and
Reading, an innovative
Reading Is Fundamental
program that combines
hands-on science experi-
ments with literature and
a mentoring program.
(Photograph by Tom
Wildt)

7O

x
an

¢ The Education Division offered programs on the
French collection that included lectures, films, an
audio tour, a panel discussion honoring the bicen-
tennial of the Louvre, and a new guide to the
gallery’s French paintings. The division also distrib-
uted the Directory of Teacher Programs in Art
Museums in computer disk form to 1,500 teachers.
¢ The Office of Design and Installation received the
prestigious Presidential Award for Design Excellence
for consistently maintaining “standards of excel-
lence in exhibition design that are appreciated and
admired by museum goers and other institutions the
world over.”

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

RUTH GRAVES, PRESIDENT

During nearly three decades, Reading Is Fundamen-
tal, Inc. (RIF) has emerged as the nation’s largest
children’s literacy program, serving young people in
all 50 states, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and
Guam. Through RIF, young people are reading at
16,000 sites nationwide, including schools, li-
braries, housing projects, Native American reserva-
tions, hospitals, migrant worker camps, juvenile de-
tention centers, and homeless shelters. This year, a
record number of 166,000 volunteers put 10.5 mil-
lion books into the homes of 3.4 million youngsters.
¢ Twelve outstanding volunteers were honored as
Leaders for Literacy at RIF’s National Awards cere-
mony. Among the honorees were an octogenarian
who has started more than roo RIF projects in El
Paso, Texas, and a blind newspaper vendor who has
worked for 24 years to help children on Chicago’s
South Side become readers.

¢ RIF pilot programs begun in the late 1980s made
the transition to nationwide programs. For example,
RUNNING STARTR, for beginning readers, ex-
panded to schools and school districts in all 50
states through a grant from the Chrysler Corpora-
tion Fund.

¢ Project Open Book®, a program for homeless
and other seriously at-risk children, distributed its
millionth book. The program relies entirely on
donations from publishers and other private-sector
groups. As Open Book honorary chairperson, Miss
America Kimberly Aiken worked for recognition of
homeless children’s special reading needs.

¢ This year, RIF drew praise from Education Secre-
tary Richard W. Riley, who commended the pro-
gram for its “crucial work of preparing Americans
for life in the 21st century.” The New York Times
Company Foundation, in its president’s report, cited
RIF as “one of its most successful partnerships.”
Parenting magazine listed RIF as one of 15 national
charities that “really help kids,” while the Charity
Rating Guide, a publication of the American Insti-
tute of Philanthropy, gave RIF an “A plus” rating,
bestowed on fewer than 3 percent of the 300 orga-
nizations rated.

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

CHARLES BLITZER, DIRECTOR

The Woodrow Wilson Center is dedicated to reflect-
ing Woodrow Wilson’s ideals and concerns and hon-
oring him both as a president and as an educational
leader. Through an annual fellowship competition,
outstanding scholars from around the world are in-
vited to the center for extended periods of research
and writing. The center also sponsors public meet-
ings and generates publications that explore both
historical and contemporary issues.

¢ This year, the Woodrow Wilson Center cele-
brated its 25th anniversary by sponsoring a lecture
series on “The Complex Legacy of Woodrow Wil-
son.” Distinguished speakers from academia and
public life addressed subjects connected to President
Wilson’s interests and achievements at various
stages of his life. Speakers throughout the year in-
cluded Hanna Holborn Gray, president emeritus of
the University of Chicago; Madeleine K. Albright,
United States permanent representative to the
United Nations and a former fellow at the center;
James A. Baker III, former secretary of state; James
A. Florio, former governor of New Jersey; and Rep-
resentative David Price (D-N.C.).

¢ Vice-President Al Gore and Tipper Gore, who is
mental health adviser to the president’s Health Care
Task Force, joined other panelists in an Evening
Dialogue entitled “The Time Has Come: Closing the
Gap between Mental Health Policy and Medical
Reality.”

¢ The center’s Cold War International History
Project received widespread attention in leading
national newspapers for its efforts to uncover for-
merly classified material from the Soviet archives.

¢ David Levering Lewis, professor of history at

Rutgers University, won the 1994 Pulitzer Prize for
biography for W.E.B. Dubois: Biography of a Race,

1868-1919, a book he researched and wrote while a
fellow at the center.

¢ President Clinton appointed Joseph H. Flom, a
partner in the New York law firm of Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom, to be chairman of the
board of trustees of the Woodrow Wilson Center.
Flom brings wide experience in legal, business, and
philanthropic circles to his new position. He suc-
ceeded William J. Baroody Jr., chairman from 1982
to 1994.

In an Oval Office ceremony, President Bill Clinton signed into law legislation naming the space adjacent to the Woodrow Wilson Center’s new
home on Pennsylvania Avenue “Woodrow Wilson Plaza.” From left are Senator Mark O. Hatfield of Oregon; Joseph H. Flom, chairman,
Woodrow Wilson Center board of trustees; William T. Coleman, Jr., member, Wilson Council; William J. Baroody, Jr., former chairman,
board of trustees; Max M. Kampelman, former chairman, Woodrow Wilson Center board of trustees; Memphis A. Norman, staff specialist,
Office of Management and Budget; Frances Humphrey Howard, member, Wilson Council; Charles Blitzer, director, Woodrow Wilson Center;
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, former vice-chairman, board of trustees; Craig Dumas, architect, Federal Triangle Building,

Pei Cobb Freed & Partners; Alex Washburn, legislative assistant to Senator Moynihan.
Public-spirited citizens have supported the Institution’s many
and varied activities for almost one and one-half centuries.
Private support, as exemplified by James Smithson’s original
gift, plays an increasingly important role at the Smithsonian.
The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the support of the
individuals, foundations, and corporations whose gifts, grants,
bequests, and contributing memberships have lent critical
support and have had a major impact on the work of the
Institution over the past fiscal year, October 1, 1993, through
September 30, 1994:

¢ The George Gund Foundation committed $1 million to the
Construction Fund of the Campaign for the National Museum
of the American Indian.

¢ A group of donors established a fund for the creation of a por-
trait of Secretary Robert McC. Adams, which is displayed in the
Smithsonian Castle along with portraits of previous secretaries.

Smithsonian National
Board member Heinz C.
Prechter greets corporate
representatives Mr. and
Mrs. Nobuo Asai, from
the Smithsonian
Corporate Membership
Program, during
“Exploring the
Smithsonian Universe”
program for friends of
the Institution. (Photo-
graph by Richard Strauss)

BENEFACTORS

¢ The Luisita L. and Franz H. Denghausen Fund at the
National Museum of American Art received a $1 million distri-
bution from their estate. This endowment was established in
1988 and now is valued at over $9 million.

¢ Jeannette Cantrell Rudy committed $500,000 toward
exhibits and the maintenance of collections at the National
Postal Museum.

¢ Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer established a named endow-
ment fund with a gift of $1 million to the Smithsonian Fund
for the Future, which Mr. Schermer was instrumental in estab-

lishing during his tenure as chairman of the Smithsonian
National Board.

¢ The Holenia Trust Endowment Fund, established during the
lifetime of Joseph Hirshhorn, received $1 million from the
Holenia Trust toward support at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden.

Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle

The Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle recognizes and honors those
individuals whose exceptional gifts have preserved the traditions

of the Smithsonian Institution while furthering its vision. Bene-

factors’ gifts reflect the donors’ personal interests and commit-

ment and are as varied and broad as the Institution itself. The

Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle exists to honor these distin-

guished philanthropists and to provide a lasting mark of their

achievements.

The Smithsonian recognizes the gifts of Founders and Patrons
of the Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle as listed below.

Honorary Founder

Enid A. Haupt

Russell B. Aitken

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. Altschul

William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans

Katharine Graham

Robert C. and Julie Graham Jr.
Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.
William A. and Patricia W. Hewitt
Ikuo Hirayama

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
T. T. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson

Peter C. and Joan Andrews

Marjorie Arundel

Edward P. Bass

Randy and Nancy Best

James and Barbara Block

Michael J. Brophy

Hildegard Bruck

George E. Burch III

Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

Barber B. Conable Jr. and Charlotte
Conable

David Davies

Evelyn Y. Davis

Charles M. and Valerie T. Diker

Patricia C. Dodge

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

John L. and Margot P. Ernst

Kitty Fassett

Rita Fraad

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost

Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert

Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Jerome L. Greene

Barrick W. Groom

Agnes S. Gund

Joan D. Haig

Evelyn A. J. Hall

Martha A. Healy

Drue M. Heinz

Lloyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman

Frank W. and Lisina M. Hoch

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

John R. Huggard

Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen

Victor and Loretta Kaufman

James M. Kemper Jr.

R. Crosby Kemper Jr.

James W. and Mary T. Kinnear

Ethel Niki Kominik

William K. and Alice S. Konze

Karl V. Krombein

Harvey M. and Connie Krueger

Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger

Robert and Helen Kuhn

Rogerio S. Lam

Robert and Carrie Lehrman

Sydney and Frances Lewis

Henry Luce III

Harry and Beverly Mandil

John F. and Adrienne B. Mars

Kathleen C. Mason

Brooks and Hope B. McCormick

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Antony M. Merck

Jeffery W. and Janet Meyer

James and Lolly Mitchell

Lester S$. Morse Jr. and Enid W.
Morse

Honorable Daniel Patrick
Moynihan and Elizabeth
Moynihan

Jean Niemeier

Robert H. and Nancy Nooter

Carroll and Nancy Fields O’Connor

Al and Cecilia Podell

Philip D. Reed Jr. and Elizabeth
Reed

Frank K. Ribelin

Carlyn Ring

David Rockefeller

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal

Wilbur L. Ross Jr.

Jeanette Cantrell Rudy

Cecile Salomon

Margaret Knowles Schink

Catherine F. Scott

Lloyd G. and Betty L. Schermer

Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz

Charles Simon

Emma M. Sims

James C. Slaughter

George L. Small

Kathy Daubert Smith

Bernie E. Stadiem

Mrs. Sydney Stein Jr.

Doris Z. Stone

E. Hadley Stuart Jr. and Marion
Stuart

A. Alfred Taubman

Vernon L. Taylor Jr.

Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw

Jeffrey and Diane Tobin

John Weeden

Daniel Weinstein

Nancy Brown Wellin

Ronald H. Winston and Heidi
Jensen-Winston

Gay F. Wray

Nancy B. Zirkle

Posthumous: Gifts through Will

Florence B. Dowdy
Elinor Merrell
George J. Sisley
Donors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts or pledges of $1,000 or
more to the Smithsonian between October 1, 1993, and
September 30, 1994. Certain donors have requested anonymity. If
the name of any other donor has been omitted, it is unintentional
and in no way diminishes the Smithsonian’s appreciation.

$1,000,000 or more

Anonymous

American Chemical Society

The Boeing Company

Discovery Communications,
Inc.

The George Gund Foundation

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Holenia Trust

Mrs. Janet Annenberg Hooker

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G.
Schermer

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

Lila Wallace—Reader’s Digest
Fund

$500,000 or more

Philip & Henrietta Adler
Foundation

American Quilt Defense Fund

The Coca-Cola Company

Friends of the National Zoo

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

Mr. and Mrs. A. William
Holmberg

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll
O’Connor

Mr. and Mrs. David
Rockefeller Sr.

Mrs. Jeanette Cantrell Rudy

Mrs. Doris Stone (Zemurray
Foundation)

$100,000 or more

Anonymous

American Association of
Zoological Parks and
Aquariums

Amoco Eurasia Petroleum
Company

Mr. and Mrs. William S.
Anderson

Brother International
Corporation

The Chase Manhattan
Corporation

The Chubb Corporation

CITIBANK, N.A.

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards
Foundation, Inc.

74

The Hon. Barber B.
Conable Jr.

Corning Incorporated

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M.
Danziger

S. Sidney De Young Foundation

Mrs. Patricia C. Dodge

Mr. R. Hatfield Ellsworth

The Ford Foundation

Freeport-McMoRan Inc.

S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C.
Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. James W.
Kinnear

Mrs. Ethel Niki Kominik

Lannan Foundation

The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

NYNEX Corporation

Orkin Pest Control

Procter & Gamble Company

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed
Jr. (Philip D. Reed
Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells

Ms. Kathy Daubert Smith

Smithsonian Women’s
Committee

The Southern Company

Space Biospheres Ventures

Mr. Eugene V. Thaw (Eugene
and Clare Thaw Charitable
Trust)

Time Warner Inc.

Timex Corporation

Mr. Robert E. Turner III
(Turner Foundation Inc.)

VITRO

Mr. Ronald H. Winston (Harry
Winston Research
Foundation, Inc.)

Wolf Trap Foundation for the
Performing Arts

World Wildlife Fund

$50,000 or more

Anonymous

AMS Foundation for the Arts, Sciences
and Humanities

AT&T

American Express Company

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Bass

Booth Ferris Foundation

Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Chevy Chase Bank

Columbia First Bank

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Diker

The Walt Disney Company

Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

The Educational Foundation of America

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Ernst

Joseph and Bessie Feinberg Foundation

Georgetown Heritage Trust

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian

Mr. and Mrs. Peter E. Haas Sr.

Mrs. Patrick Healy III

Loretta & Victor Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Kerr Jr. (The
Kerr Foundation Inc.)

Peter Krueger-Christie’s Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffery W. Meyer

Norfolk Southern Corporation

Peter Norton Foundation

The Pew Charitable Trusts

Pleasant Company Publications, Inc.

Ralston Purina Company

James Renwick Alliance

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. and Mrs. B. Francis Saul II

Margaret Knowles Schink

Scripps Howard Foundation

The Tinker Foundation

Toyota USA, Inc.

Union Pacific Corporation

Zoologische Gesellschaft

$10,000 or more

Anonymous
Mr. Ronald D. Abramson (Abramson
Family Foundation, Inc.)

Lloyd G. Schermer addresses the
Smithsonian Institution Regents.
Lloyd and his wife, Betty A.
Schermer, made the first major

gift to the Smithsonian Fund
for the Future. (Photograph by
Eric Long)

The Academy of Natural Sciences of
Philadelphia

Secretary and Mrs. Robert McC. Adams

Air Line Pilots Association

Allen & Company Incorporated

Ms. Charmay B. Allred

Ms. Ann Simmons Alspaugh

Mr. Arthur G. Altschul

American Association for the
Advancement of Science

The American Law Institute

American Zinc Association

Anheuser-Busch Companies

Arcana Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Ascom Hasler Mailing Systems, Inc.

Aspen Celebration for the American
Indian

Avery Dennison Corporation

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Bachman Information Systems, Inc.

The Barker Welfare Foundation

Benzav Trading Company

The Honorable and Mrs. Max N. Berry

XVIle Biennale Internationale des
Antiquaires, Paris

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Bloom

Book of the Month Club, Inc.

The Boston Society of Architects

Botwinick-Wolfensohn Foundation

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Brokaw

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Browning-Ferris Industries Inc.

The Emil Buehler Trust
Mrs. Joan Bull

Mrs. Mary Griggs Burke

Mr. David A. Burns III

Cargill Incorporated

Carstar Automotive, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Berry Cash

Center for International Forestry
Research

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Chemical Bank

Chemical Manufacturers Association

Robert Sterling Clark Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

Cleveland-Cliffs Inc.

The Colbert Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton

Concreto, S.A.

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper

Mr. Robert Cosgriff

Mr. Lloyd E. Cotsen

Creative Artists Agency, Inc.

Ms. Josephine R. Cunningham

Cyprus Amax Minerals Company

Edward J. Daly Foundation

J. N. “Ding” Darling Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Carl B. Davis

Deskey Associates, Inc.

Dexter Shoe Company

Valerie Charles Diker Fund, Inc.

Government of the District of Columbia

Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc.

Ducks Unlimited, Inc.

Mr. G. Robert Durham

Ecuambiente S.A.

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds III
(Dean S. Edmonds Foundation)

Ernst & Young

Exxon

Fairchild Space and Defense Corp.

Ms. Audrey G. Falkenstein

Farmers Insurance Group

Roger S. Firestone Foundation

Fisher Scientific International, Inc.

Folger Fund

Mrs. Kathrine D. Folger

Mr. Lee Merritt Folger

Mr. Gerald J. Ford

Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson Fund, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

General Motors Corporation

Gerber Scientific, Inc.

Mr. Irwin C. Gerson

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Glen Eagles Foundation

Mr. Marc Glimcher

Goldman, Sachs & Co.

B. F. Goodrich Aerospace

Florence J. Gould Foundation

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies in the Fine Arts

Mr. Robert C. Graham Jr.

Mrs. Ruth C. Greenberg (The Mayer
Greenberg Foundation)

Mr. H. Malcolm Grimmer

Grumman Corporation

Mrs. Carol P. Guyer

Phoebe W. Haas Charitable Trust

Miriam & Peter Haas Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Haas

HarperCollins Publishers

The Hearst Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Drue M. Heinz
(Drue Heinz Trust)

Hill Wynne Troop & Meisinger

Mr. Barron Hilton

Hines Interests Limited Partnership

Hogan & Hartson

Home Box Office

Honeywell, Inc.

The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking
Corp., Ltd.

Hong Kong Economic & Trade Office,
British Embassy

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems

IEEE Computer Society

Imperial Archives

International Business Machines
Corporation

International Creative Management, Inc.

International Institute for Traditional
Music

Intersolv, Inc.

The Island Fund in the New York
Community Trust

Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs (The Jacobs Family
Foundation)

Jewish Federation of Greater Miami
Philanthropies Incorporated

Jewish Federation of the North Shore,
Inc. Endowment Fund

Christian A. Johnson Endeavor
Foundation (Ms. Julie Kidd)

The Honorable Max M. Kampelman

Mrs. Linda Lichtenberg Kaplan

W. K. Kellogg Foundation

Mrs. Dorothy R. Kidder

Mr. Fred M. Kirby II (F. M. Kirby
Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III
(Seymour H. Knox Foundation)

Embassy of the Republic of Korea

Mr. Sanford Krieger

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Krissel

Mr. Harvey M. Krueger (Krueger
Family Foundation)

Mr. Arthur Lazarus Jr.

Jerome H. and Dorothy Lemelson

Lionel Trains, Inc.

Howard & Jean Lipman
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Meredith J. Long

Richard Lounsbery Foundation

Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Peter H. Lunder

MCI Foundation

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Marine Spill Response Corporation

The Marks Family Foundation

Marpat Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Martin Marietta Corporation

Masco Corporation

William Douglas McAdams, Inc.

McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Mrs. Katherine Medlinger

Merck Company Foundation

Merrill Lynch & Company
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Sam Merrin (The Merrin
Gallery, Inc.)

Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer Foundation

Microsoft Corporation

Foundations of the Milken Families

Mobil Corporation

Morning Star Gallery

Morse Family Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse Jr. (Enid
& Lester Morse Foundation, Inc.)

National Geographic Society

National Space Club

The Nature Company

The Nature Conservancy

Neutrogena Corporation

New York State Council on the Arts

New York Stock Exchange

New York Telephone

The New York Times Company
Foundation

The New-Land Foundation

Ocean Spray

Mr. and Mrs. Morris W. Offit

Omega Watch

Mr. and Mrs. Abraham Ostrovsky

Overbrook Foundation

Pace Wildenstein

Pacific Telesis Group

David & Lucile Packard Foundation

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

James C. Penney Foundation, Inc.

Persis Corporation

Mr. Gerald P. Peters (The Peters
Corporation)

Philadelphia Community
Foundation, Inc.

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Mrs. Charles E. Phillips

Mr. Steve Pickelner

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

The Port Royal Foundation, Inc.

Postal Commemorative Society

Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado

Price Waterhouse-U.S.

Publicis/Bloom

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis S. Ranieri

Mr. William M. Ray

Refineria Panama, S.A.

Rock Foundation, Inc.

Mr. David Rockefeller Jr.

The Ida & William Rosenthal
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Arthur Ross (Arthur Ross
Foundation)

Ms. Harriet M. Ross

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr.

Mr. Robert M. Rubin

SEMASS Partnership

Saks Fifth Avenue

Ms. Leidy Samson and Ms. Kathy
Kempa

San Francisco Foundation

Savoy Pictures Entertainment

The Betty A. & Lloyd G. Schermer
Foundation

Mr. David Schoenbach

David Schwartz Foundation Inc.

Mr. Richard J. Schwartz

The Science Alliance

ScottForesman

Shell Oil Company Foundation

Mr. Charles Simon

Sir Speedy, Inc.

Mr. Bruce Slovin (Slovin Foundation)

Society of Industrial and Office Realtors

The Starr Foundation

Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada

T FH Publications, Inc.

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman (Taubman
Endowment for the Arts)

Mr. and Mrs. William Taubman (Ellen
Napiura Taubman, Ltd.)

The Institution lost a true friend

with the passing of the
Honorable Thomas J. Watson Jr.,
former IBM chairman,
Smithsonian Institution regent,
founding chairman of the
Smithsonian National Board, and
founder, Smithsonian magazine.
(Photograph by Richard Strauss)

Teradyne, Inc.

Tetra Pak Inc.

Time Inc.

Mr. John Tishman (John and Daniel
Tishman Fund)

Ms. Rita Tishman (Norman-Rita
Tishman Fund, Inc.)

Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance
Company

Trinitas Foundation

Turner Publishing, Inc.

Mr. Thurston Twigg-Smith

U.S. Borax Inc.

USX Corporation

Unico Banking Group

Uniroyal-Goodrich Co.

The United States Pharmacopeial
Convention, Inc.

Beatrix and Ladislaus von Hoffman

Andy Warhol Foundation for the
Visual Arts

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin

Ms. Eileen A. Wells

Lawrence A. Wien Foundation, Inc.

Wildlife Conservation International

Robert H. Winn Foundation

is)
Chancellor of the Smithsonian
Institution Board of Regents, the
Honorable William H. Rehnquist
(right), talks with Alan Fern,
director, National Portrait
Gallery (left), during the May
1994 Regents’ Dinner.
(Photograph by Nicholas J.
Parrella)

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
World Wildlife Fund-Canada
Worldesign Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. Robert J. Wynne

Mr. John R. Young

Zeneca AG Products

Zeneca Inc.

Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

Louis & Anne Abrons Foundation, Inc.

Albuquerque/Rio Grande Zoo

Alico

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Altshuler

American Conservation
Association, Inc.

American Federation of Mineralogical
Societies

American Life Insurance Company

American Society of Plant Taxonomists

Arianespace Inc.

Art Dealers Association of America

Asian Cultural Council, Inc.

Mr. Gary Avery

Aviation/Space Writers Foundation

Mr. David G. Baird Jr.

The Baird Family Fund at New York
Community Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Balzer

Banco General, S.A.

Banfi Vintners Foundation

Barra Foundation, Inc.

Baterias Nacionales, S.A.

Mr. Herbert A. Belkin

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Bernheim Jr.
(The Bernheim Foundation, Inc.)

76

Norman Bernstein Management

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

Philip Birnbaum Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Eli Broad (The Eli Broad Family
Foundation)

Brokaw Family Foundation

The Samuel Bronfman Foundation

Dr. Jeanette Grasselli Brown

Mr. Gerald E. Buck (Buck Investments)

C. E. & S. Foundation, Inc.

Camalott Charitable Foundation

Champion International Corp.

Chanel, Inc.

Chevron

Mr. John L. Colonghi

Consolidated Edison Company of New
York

Consolidated Natural Gas Co.

Copley Health Systems

Cornell University

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Mr. H. King Cummings (King and Jean
Cummings Charitable Trust)

Drs. William H. and Isabella C. M.
Cunningham

Dallas Semiconductor Corporation

Mr. Donald Dan

Dewey-Ballantine

Frederick Douglass Housing
Corporation

The Eberly Foundation

Electronic Industries Association

Dr. William B. Ellis

F. Hoffman-La Roche AG

Fidelity Investments

Fidicomiso Para La Cultura Mexico/USA

Mr. and Mrs. John Gilmore Ford

Walter & Josephine Ford Fund

Fort Worth Zoo

Mrs. Rita Fraad

The Freedom Forum

GFC Financial Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty (Ann &
Gordon Getty Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. George Gillespie III

Mr. Howard Gilman (The Howard
Gilman Foundation)

Mr. Robert D. Gleichenhaus

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Halff Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Harbert Ill

Mr. Richard M. Hayden

Herman Miller, Inc.

Herzog Heine Geduld, Inc.

Clarence and Jack Himmel Foundation

Mrs. Olga Hirshhorn

I.D. Magazine

Ingenieria R.M., S.A.

George M. Jaffin, Esq.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. James

Jaques Admiralty Law Firm

Mr. Leonard C. Jaques

Mr. David A. Jones and Ms. Mary
Gwen Wheeler

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Werner H. Kramarsky

Mr. and Mrs. James J. Lally

Ms. Kay Partney Lautman (Lautman &
Company)

Ms. Jeanne M. Lemmer

William & Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation

The Lucius N. Littauer
Foundation, Inc.

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Lubin

Kenneth Lynch & Sons, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Magid (Frank
N. Magid Associates, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Malott

Mars Foundation

Mr. Frank Martucci

Col. Billie G. Matheson, USAF Ret.

Mr. and Mrs. William P. McClure

Chauncey & Marion Deering
McCormick Foundation

Mr. Robert L. McNeil Jr.

Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Art
Studies

Wilson & Geo. Meyer & Company

The Minneapolis Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Mr. Anthony J. Mourek

NAMSB Foundation, Inc.

National Retail Federation

NationsBank of Maryland

Native Peoples Magazine

The Norcliffe Fund

Northeast Utilities

Omni Construction

Petrolera Nacional

Phelps Dodge Corporation

Phillips Petroleum Foundation

Placer Dome U.S., Inc.

Points of Light Foundation

Mrs. John A. Pope

Mr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin
(Vivian O. & Meyer P. Potamkin
Foundation)

Poten and Partners, Inc.

Mr. David S. Purvis

Raytheon Company

Honorable and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley Il

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. and Mrs. John N. Rosekrans Jr.

Helena Rubinstein Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. David Saity

Santa Fe Pacific Foundation

Sarah Cooper Associates, Inc.

Mr. Fayez Sarofim

Sarah I. Schieffelin Residuary Trust

Mr. Charles W. Schmidt

Mr. Alan E. Schwartz

Sea Group, Inc.

Nate S. & Ruth B. Shapero Foundation

Charles S. and Ruth C. Sharp
Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Mary S. Slusser

Snack Food Association

Hattie M. Strong Foundation

Mr. Robert Ching Tang

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor Jr.

Jim Thompson Thai Silk Co., Ltd.

Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation

US West Foundation

UTC/The Telecommunications
Association

United Technologies Corp.

Ventas Y Proyectos, S. A.

Ms. Alice Walton

Walton Family Foundation, Inc. (Mr.
and Mrs. John Walton)

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Werbel

Mr. and Mrs. W. Richard West Jr.

Mr. Harris K. Weston

Mrs. Alexander Wetmore

Mrs. Carol Wiiken

Ralph Wilson Plastics Company

Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick
Zoo Atlanta

$1,000 or more

Anonymous
21 International Holding Inc.
Foundation
AG Industries, Inc.
AKC Fund, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Abeles
Sir Valentine Abdy
Ms. Werner Abegg
Dr. and Mrs. Sander M. Abend
Mr. and Mrs. Laurence J. Adams
Esthy & James Adler Philanthropic Fund
The Advertising Club of Metropolitan
Washington, Inc.
Advertising Mail Marketing Association
Airbus Industrie of North America, Inc.
Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Company
Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute
Mr. Terry L. Albertson and Ms.
Kathleen A. Blackburn
Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Allied-Signal Corporation
Mrs. James W. Alsdorf (Alsdorf
Foundation)
American Association of University
Women
American Institute of Wine & Food
Mrs. Mary Armstrong Amory
Mrs. Dale Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Anderson
Mr. Philip S. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Dewalt H. Ankeny Jr.
Ms. Louise S. Ansberry
The Appleman Foundation
Miss Edith-Marie Appleton
ARCO Foundation
Arctic Slope Regional Corporation
Mr. Ian Arnof
Art of the Past, Inc.
Association of Space Development &
Information, Ltd.
Australian Government
BP America
Joshua Baer, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman
Bank America
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Barbanell
Barclays Bank
Barkin & Davis, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Barnett
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Barwick
Harry Bass Foundation
Mr. Sid R. Bass
Mr. John Baum
Mr. Claude P. Baumann
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred W. Baxter
The Bay Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. C. Victor Beadles
Ms. Nancy T. Behrman
Mr. and Mrs. William Beierwaltes
The Beinecke Foundation
Ms. Marguerite Bender
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Bennett
Mr. Anthony Berlant
Diane & Norman Bernstein Foundation
Berry-Hill Galleries, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Steven Bershad
Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler
Mr. Joaquin F. Blaya
_Dr. Charles Blitzer
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Bloch
Mr. William W. Boeschenstein

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Bonette

Ms. J. A. Boorman

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Mrs. Irene D. Bosse

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Dr. Edward G. Bourns and La Vida Liena

Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Bowen (W. J. Bowen
Foundation)

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Dr. Norman Boyer

Bremen House Inc.

Mr. William J. Breuer

Vaughan W. Brown Charitable Trust

Mr. Mario Buatta (Mario Buatta, Inc.)

The Honorable and Mrs. James L.
Buckley

Mrs. Barbara L. Buesing

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Bunker

Mrs. Ella Poe Burling

Mr. Dan W. Burns

Mrs. Lenora Burstein

Mrs. Charles M. Butler

Ms. Margaret S. Buzzelli

Mr. E. T. Byram

Mr. and Mrs. John Cacciola

Caldwell Schools, Inc.

Calgary Zoo

Cambodian Royal Government

Canadian River Trading Company

Canyon Records and Indian Art

Mr. and Mrs. Caswell J. Caplan

Christopher Cardozo, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John Otis Carney

Mr. and Mrs. Richard W. Carr

Caterpillar

Mr. Silas S. Cathcart

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins Catherwood Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. David Challinor

Ms. Anne Cox Chambers

Col. G. E. Chapin Jr. and M. T. Chapin

Charlotte Postal Customer Council

Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Mr. Joyce E. Chelberg

Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Cheramy

Chesapeake Environmental Protection
Association

Chicago Postal Customers Council

Ms. Allene R. Chiesman

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Christie’s

Ms. Priscilla Christy

Mr. Sang Ho Chung

In & Out Gifts Fund of the Greater
Cincinnati Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. Dennis Cirillo

Citibank Ecuador

Mr. and Mrs. Page B. Clagett

The Claggett/Rey Gallery

The Honorable Jeannine Smith Clark

Mr. James H. Clement

Mr. Fred Clements

Mr. James A. Clements

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall Cogan

Ms. Leslie A. L. Coggins

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Cohen

Coldwater Creek

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph F. Colin Jr.

Computer Associates International

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Conlon

Mrs. Marjorie Conroy

Mr. William Constantine

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Cooley

Coordination Council for North
American Affairs

Mr. Henry P. Cowen

Mrs. Joyce Cowin (The Joyce and
Daniel Cowin Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. William H. Cowles III

Mr. Douglas S. Cramer

Crane Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth M. Crosby

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Crystal

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar M. Cullman Jr.

Lewis B. & Dorothy Cullman
Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Susan R. Cullman

Mr. Charles A. Cunningham

Dr. Robert D. Cunningham

John D’ Addario Jr.
(The D’Addario Foundation for
the Performing Arts)

Mr. Frederick M. Danziger

Mr. John H. Darlington Jr.

Mr. F. Arnold Daum

Dr. Gail S$. Davidson

Mrs. Dominique S. de Menil

Wannia de Moreno

Mr. E.A. DeFalco

DeGrazia Art & Cultural Foundation

Dudley Del Balso

Mrs. Kathleen C. Delfino

DeLuxe Corp. Foundation

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Mrs. Mary J. Deutschbein

Dewey Galleries Ltd.

Mr. Hilton B. Dickerson

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey Jr.

Mrs. Gerald Dickler

Digital

Mr. David B. Dill

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

Diversified Expositions

Mr. and Mrs. Alan Docter

Marcellene S. Doctor, M.D.

Mr. Robert G. Donnelley (The
Donnelley Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Donner Jr.
(William H. Donner Foundation)

Dr. William H. L. Dornette and Ms.
Betty K. Dornette

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Douglass (The
Douglass Foundation)

Frederick Douglass Memorial &
Historical Association

Dover Fund, Incorporated

The Doyon Foundation

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

The Honorable and Mrs. Robert W.
Duemling

Mrs. M. D. Duggan

Ms. Mildred King Dunn

The Dunoir Fund Trust

U.N. ESCAP/UNDP Project

Dr. Gary F. Earle

Mr. Gordon Eastburn

Mr. and Mrs. Barney A. Ebsworth (The
Ebsworth Foundation)

Economos Works of Art

The Edipa Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Eli Lilly

Mr. James A. Elkins Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Giuseppe Eskenazi

Esso Standard Thailand, Ltd.

Estee Lauder Companies

Mr. Thomas M. Evans (The T. M.
Evans Foundation)

FKW, Incorporated

Mrs. Carolyn Stewart Fabrici

Fairmont Trading Company

Mr. and Mrs. Mark G. Falcone

Mrs. Myron S. Falk Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George Fan

Fannie Mae

Fayez Sarofim & Co.

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Feinberg

Mr. Stephen L. Feinberg,

Alfred and Harriet Feinman Foundation

Mrs. Joan J. Feldman

Mr. and Mrs. Steve Felsher

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Ms. Elizabeth W. Fischer

Mr. and Mrs. S. Fischer

FISH EXPO

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Fisher

Mr. and Mrs. John Fletcher III

Dr. Oliver S. Flint Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry N. Flynt Jr.

Ms. Dolores C. Foley

Foundation for New Era Philanthropy

Foundation for the National Capital
Region

Fountainhead Water Systems, Inc.

The Four Corporation

Rita & Daniel Fraad Foundation, Inc.

Susan L. Frame, Ph.D.

Ms. Karen P. Free

Mr. Stephen Friedman (Stephen &
Barbara Friedman Foundation)

Fundacion Esquel

Mr. Howard Ganek

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz Jr. (The
JoAnn and Julian Ganz Jr.
Foundation Trust)

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Reverend Mary Ellen Gaylord

Ms. Cornelia M. Geddes

The David Geffen Foundation

General Electric Company

General Mills

Georgia-Pacific

The Honorable Sumner Gerard (Sumner
Gerard Foundation)

Patrick A. Gerschel Foundation, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Paul R. Gibson (Paul R.
Gibson Associates International)

Mrs. J. A. Gill

Dr. Kurt A. Gitter & Ms. Alice Yelen

Glaxo, Inc.

The Glenmede Trust Company

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg

The Goldie-Anna Charitable Trust

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Dr. and Mrs. Charles Goodell

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Gordon

Mr. Milton M. Gottesman (The
Gottesman Fund)

Dr. Harry W. Graff

The Philip L. Graham Fund

The Gramercy Park Foundation, Inc.

Dr. Hanna Holborn Gray

Greater Long Island Postal Customer
Council

Greater Scranton Chamber of
Commerce

The Green Point Savings Bank

Mr. Stephen Greene

Ms. Frederica H. Gries

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Gulf States Paper Corporation

dal
Mr. Paul S. Gumbinner

Mr. and Mrs. Corbin Gwaltney

Mr. Jack Haas

The Honorable and Mrs. Najeeb E.
Halaby

Mrs. Evelyn Annenberg J. Hall (Evelyn
A.J. Hall Charitable Trust)

Mr. Melville W. Hall

Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Mr. Robert A. Hamilton

Mrs. Eleanor Tulman Hancock (Eleanor
Tulman Hancock, Inc.)

Mrs. Sandra J. Hardilek

Ms. Miriam Harel

Mr. Jack R. Harlan

The William H. & Mattie Wattis Harris
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Harris

Mr. and Mrs. Marion Edwyn Harrison

Mr. Harold Haverty

The Honorable John W. Hechinger Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. George L. Heldman

Ms. Rebecca Hemphill

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Henle

Mr. and Mrs. William Herbster

Ms. Catherine W. Herman

Ms. Lisa W. Hess

Mr. Caspar W. Hiatt

Mr. David M. Hicks (Hicks Charitable
Foundation)

Dr. Albert G. Hill

Mr. Frederick Hill

Ms. Minette Goldsmith Hoffheimer

Mr. Ronald W. Hoffman

Mr. Henry C. Hofheimer II

Mrs. Jean Hogan

Ms. Miriam S. Hogan

Mr. D. Brainerd Holmes

Ms. Robyn Horn

Sir Joseph E. Hotung

Houston Postal Customer Council

Mr. James L. Hudson

Mr. Frederick G. L. Huetwell

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip $. Hughes

Jaquelin Hume Foundation

Mr. William J. Hume

Ms. Jean Hunse

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter

Mr. R. Carlos and Ms. Pam Hyde-
Nakai

Mrs. Dora Donner Ide

Mr. L. R. Ingels

Institute of International Education

International Boston Seafood Show

Mr. William Ireland Jr.

The Irwin Family

Irwin International, Inc.

Mrs. Rolf Jacoby

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Janowsky

Dr. and Mrs. A. Janusz

Ms. Marian B. Javits

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Jessup Jr.

Jewish Communal Fund of New York

Johnson & Johnson

The Samuel S. Johnson Foundation

Mr. John H. Johnston

Mr. Robert M. Joyce

Mr. and Mrs. Stanton Jue

Mr. Arthur Jung Jr.

Mr. Andrew Kahane (Andrew
Kahane, Ltd.)

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob C. Kainen

Mr. Subhash Kapoor

Mrs. R. H. Karns

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice H. Katz

78

Mr. Roland Katz

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. R. Crosby Kemper Jr. (Enid &
Crosby Kemper Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Kennedy

Mrs. R. Grice Kennelly

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Keresey

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Kerr (The
Robert S. & Grayce B. Kerr
Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

Mr. Bruce A. Kinander

Mrs. F. G. Kingsley

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney

Mr. Lincoln Kirstein

Kito, Inc.

Dr. Walter Kleindienst

Mrs. Margaret R. Knudsen

Mr. L. L. Knuth

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mr. Robert P. Kogod

Mr. and Mrs. Steven W. Kohlhagen

Ms. Dina K. Krissel

Mr. James Krissel and Miss Jessica
Fowler

The Kristufek Agency

Mrs. Tahlman Krumm

Mr. Otto Kruse

Dr. Richard Kurin

Mr. Thomas J. Lamphier

Mrs. Edwin H. Land

Mrs. Emily Fisher Landau

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Lando

Mr. A. R. Landsman (Landsman &
Katz Foundation, Inc.)

Ms. Marilyn Brody Lane

Mr. and Mrs. John Lansdale

Mr. Chester H. Lasell

Mr. Leonard A. Lauder

Mr. Ronald S. Lauder

Mr. and Mrs. Mel Lavitt

Ms. Roxie C. Laybourne

Mr. Samuel Lehrman

The Lemberg Foundation

Mr. Edward J. Lenkin & Ms. Katherine
L. Meier

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin

Mr. Jacques E. Lennon

The Honorable and Mrs. William
Leonhart

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mr. Stephan J. Levine

Mr. Marshall Levinson

Ms. Phyllis Goldsmith Levinson

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney L. Lewis
(Sydney & Frances Lewis
Foundation)

The Lindemann Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Mr. and Mrs. R. Robert Linowes

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Linton

Mr. Edmund W. Littlefield

Longview Foundation for Education in
World Affairs and International
Understanding

Ms. Mary T. Lott

Dr. Thomas E. Lovejoy

Loving & Weintraub

Mrs. Catherine H. Luhn

Ms. Evelyn W. Lurie

Mr. Carol Lynton (Lynton Foundation)

Mr. Dennis H. Lyon

Mr. and Mrs. E. Phillip Lyon

Mr. Russ Lyon Jr. (Russ Lyon Realty
Company)

M/B Foundation

Mr. Thomas MacCracken

James A. Macdonald Foundation

Mr. William Mack (William Mack
Charitable Trust)

Ms. Carol Ann Mackay

Dr. Iain Mackay and Cynthia Mackay

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce K. MacLaury

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan

Mrs. Cecile E. Mactaggart

Mrs. Elena A. Macy

State Treasurer, Treasury Sabah,
Malaysia

Mr. and Mrs. James Marinaccio

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Marshall Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William Martin

Hon. and Mrs. William M. Martin Jr.

Raymond E. Mason Foundation

Major General and Mrs. Raymond E.
Mason Jr.

Ms. Johanne Master

Masters of Foxhounds Association

Dr. Wayne Mathews

Nedra Matteucci’s Fenn Galleries

Mr. Michael L. Maxwell

Ms. Beatrice Cummings Mayer

Mr. Takeo Mayuyama (Mayuyama &
Company Ltd.)

Mr. Kevin McAuliffe

McDonald’s Corporation

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

The Honorable and Mrs. George C.
McGhee (McGhee Production
Company)

Dextra Baldwin McGonagle Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K. McLanahan

Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean

Mr. and Mrs. James R. McManus

Mr. and Mrs. M. McNulty and Joy G.
McNulty

Mr. Edwin E. Meader

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Melville

Joe Mendelsohn III Fund of the Greater
Cincinnati Foundation

Menil Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Robert B. Menschel (Robert &
Joyce Menschel Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Antony M. Merck

Mr. Vincent Mercurio

Mr. and Mrs. E. Mercy Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Michelin Aircraft Tire Corporation

Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

Mrs. Marie B. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Miller (Robert
Miller Gallery, Inc.)

Ms. Rosetta A. Miller

Mr. Samuel C. Miller

Mr. Damon F. Mills

Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose Jr.

Monsanto

MONY

James Starr Moore Memorial
Foundation

Mr. W. T. Moran III

Marvin and Elayne Mordes

Mr. and Mrs. H.W. Morgan

Mr. John W. Morrison

Dr. and Mrs. George E. Mueller

Mrs. Jean Mulford

Ms. Patricia S. Murdock

The Museum Company, Inc.

Museum Educational Charitable Trust

NCR

Nabisco

Naga Antiques, Ltd.

Nashville Zoo

Mr. Andrew Nasser

National Academy of Sciences

National Association of Catering
Executives

National Capitol Section, AIAA

National Council of La Raza

National Fisherman Magazine

National Prescription Drug
Administration, Inc.

NationsBank

Nestle Beverage Company

Mr. Roy R. Neuberger (Roy R. and
Marie S. Neuberger Foundation, Inc.)

The New York Community Trust

New York Marriott Financial Center

The New York Vista

Ms. Annalee Newman

Mr. Bruce M. Newman

Conley Lott Nichols Machinery
Company

Mr. Robert Nichols

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Nickel

Dr. Beth B. Norden

Ms. Katherine Nordsieck

Nordstrom

Ms. Margaret M. Norton

Ms. R. O'Hara

Mrs. Kay D. O’Rourke

Ocean Trust

Oceantrawl Inc.

Mr. Harry Oelbaum (Harold & Nancy
Oelbaum Foundation)

Ogilvy & Mather

Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom (The
Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. Toshihiko Okoshi and Ms.
Machiko Oyama

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. and Mrs. David A. Olive

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Osnos

Ourisman Automotive Enterprises

Mr. Mandell J. Ourisman

Mr. and Mrs. Michael S, Ovitz (The
Ovitz Family Foundation)

PPG Industries Foundation

PRC, Inc.

Pacific Enterprises

Mrs. Elizabeth N. Paepcke

Mr. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. George I. Pattee

The Joan Whitney and Charles Shipman
Payson Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Payson

Mrs. Julian Peabody

Mr. Stephen E. Peat

Ms. Barbara Peck

Pepsi-Cola Company

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Perkins

Mrs. Thomas Perkins

Mr. William Peskoff

Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph A. Peterson

Mr. Richard B. Pfeil (The Pfeil Family
Foundation)

Pfizer

Phelps Dodge Foundation

Mr. Jim Philips

Mr. Howard Phipps Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Piasecki
Beverly and Barry Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. George S. Pillsbury

Lt. Col. Joseph T. and Mrs. Lee Barbaro
Pisciotta

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Platter

Pogo Producing Company

Mr. James S. Polshek

Polshek Metcalf Tobey and Partners

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Mr. H. Posner Jr.

Postal Customer Councils of California

Mr. Alan L. Potter and Louise B. Potter

Mr. and Mrs. William Potter

Mrs. Helen G. Price

Mrs. Thomas Malcolm Price

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Pritzker

Mrs. Marion Stirling Pugh

Dr. and Mrs. Alvin N. Puryear

Mr. and Mrs. Allen Questrom

RWS Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Rachlin

Mr. and Mrs. William Raczko

Dr. and Mrs. James L. Rand

Dr. and Mrs. David Raphling

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Rawn

Raytheon Service Company

Reader’s Digest

Ms. Nina Belle Redditt

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Reeves

Regional Airline Association

Dr. Nathan Reingold

Miss Marie K. Remien

Ms. Elizabeth G. Reynolds

Mrs. Nancy Clark Reynolds (Reynolds
Investments)

Dr. Wynetka Ann Reynolds

Rhodes College

Ms. Dora Laurinda Richardson

Mr. Daniel M. Ricker Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard Ridder

Mr. Jack L. Rivkin

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Mr. W. R. Robbins

Mrs. Juliet C. Roberts

Mr. John R. Robinson

Mr. and Mrs. John Robson

Mrs. Margaret McG. Rockefeller

Ms. Karol Kirberger Rodriguez

Mr. L. A. Roepcke

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Susan and Elihu Rose Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. L. Rothschild

Dr. James A. Rourke

Ms. Marcia Rubenstein

Mary A. H. Rumsey Foundation

Ms. Celia C. Rumsey

Mr. Herbert J. A. Runsdorf

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Ruskin

Sabah Parks

Ms. Elizabeth A. Sackler and Mr. Fred
Berner

Dr. Marietta Lutze Sackler

David Saity, Inc.

Salomon Brothers

Dr. Paul P. Salter

Mr. James F. Sams

San Antonio Museum of Art

San Francisco Gem & Mineral
Society, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Leveo V. Sanchez

Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation

Sargent Management Company

Mr. Robert Sarnoff

Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi
Aramco)

Ms. Charlotte M. Sawyer

Mr. and Mrs. Donald P. Scanlon

Hon. and Mrs. James H. Scheuer

Mr. Roger Schlemmer and Nancy
Schlemmer

Mr. C. William Schlosser (The Nancy B.

and C. William Schlosser Family
Foundation)

Ms. Helen G. Schneider

Mr. Anthony H. M. Schnelling

Mrs. Jean D. Schrader

Mr. Harold A. Schwartz

Scott Publishing Company, Inc.

Mrs. Frances W. Scott

Seafood Business Magazine

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

Sealaska Corporation

Mrs. Florence B. Selden

Mr. Christopher Selser

Mr. Harold A. Serr

Mrs. W. Mason Shehan

Dr. Spencer E, Sherman

Ms. Lynne Sherwood

Mrs. Richard E. Sherwood

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey R. Short Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. R. F. Sibert

Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Simmons

Sippican, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Sivard

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Skelly

Mr. Theodore J. Slavin

C.G. Sloan & Company, Inc.

Smith Barney Shearson Inc.

Mr. Dean B, Smith

Dr. Dwight Smith and Ms. Marillyn
Suzuki-Day

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith

Mr. Gordon H. Smith (Gordon and
Norma Smith Family Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Greg A. Smith

Miss Jean Chandler Smith

Laura C. Smith Grantee, Art Trust

Ms. Laura Smith

Ms. Frances D. Smyth

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Soderling

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Sokol

Mr. Jacques Soukup and Mr. Kirk
Thomas

Southwestern Bell

Mrs. Frank E. Spain

Mr. Maury L. Spanier

Mr. Ira Spanierman (Spanierman
Gallery)

Mrs. V. Spratley

Frank and Domna Stanton
Foundation Inc.

Dr. Frank Stanton

Mr. Philip Stanton

Mr. and Mrs. Terry Stent

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

B. Walter & Geraldine E. Sterenfeld
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs, William C. Sterling Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Storey

Mr. Harold Strickland

Mr. Jeffrey Sturgess

Sugar Foods Corporation

Sumitomo Corporation of America

Ms. Elizabeth Swetz

The Swiss Academy of Social Sciences

Synergos Institute

Syntex Pharmaceutical International Ltd.

TRW Foundation

June and John Hechinger, James Smithson Society members, conduct

an experiment in the Hands On Science Center of the “Science in

American Life” exhibit.

J. Richard Taft Organization

Dr. and Mrs. Frank H. Talbot

Walter Dorwin Teague Associates

Berrin Tekiner

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Temple

Terner Foundation

Textron Charitable Trust

Thai Farmers Bank

Thailand Education and Public Welfare
Foundation

Dr. F. Christian Thompson

The JHW Thompson Foundation

Mr. Joseph H. Thompson

Mrs. Richard L. Thompson

Mr. Stephen Tilton

Time-Life Books, Inc.

The Times Mirror Company

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Tober

Ms. Lucie Wray Todd

Ms. Marana W. Tost

Tower Foundation

Mr. Ted Trotta and Ms. Anna Bono

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond S. Troubh (The
Jean L. & Raymond S. Troubh Fund)

Ms. Helen Tucker

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Tucker

Mr. and Mrs. Charles A. Turner III

Mr, Richard O. Ullman

Mr. Kenneth Uyeda

Mr. and Mrs. J. Bernard
Vallandingham

Col. and Mrs. W. G. Van Allen

The Vanguard Group, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Veale IV

Mrs. Maria C. Volpe and Mr. Robert P.
Volpe

Mr. Thomas A. Waldron

Dr. Jeremy P. Waletzky (Waletzky
Charitable Lead Trust)

Walker/Free Associates

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Walton

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Walton

Mr. and Mrs. Allen Wardwell

Mr. Jack W. Warner

Washington Metropolitan Postal
Customer Council

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey N. Watanabe

Wear Me Apparel Corporation

Mr. John L. Weinberg

Mrs. Marjorie Weinberg

Mr. Richard Weiner

Ms. Harriet Weintraub

Mr. Myles and Ms. Vera V. J. Weintraub

Mr. Alex F. Weisberg Jr.

Westinghouse

Miss Winifred E. Weter

Shelby White

The Honorable John C. Whitehead (The
Whitehead Foundation)

Ms. Mary Wibel

Ms. Mary Ellen Wiggs

Mr. Julius Wile

Mr. James E. Wiley

Dr. Austin B. Williams

Mr. Dave H. Williams (Dave H. &
Reba W. Williams Foundation)

Mr. Meade Willis Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Willson

Eli Wilner & Company, Inc.

Mr. Eli Wilner & Ms. Barbara Brennan

The Honorable Edward F. Wilson

Dr. Edward T. Wilson

Mr. Mark Winter

Dr. and Mrs. Carl P. Wisoff

Mr. K.R. Wollenberg

Woo Lae Oak of Seoul

C. N. Wood Co., Inc.

Mr. Jahleel D. Woodbridge

Woolworth Corporation

Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mrs. Richard E. Wright

Mrs. Elizabeth Yaggy

Yale University

Mr. B. E. Yester and Mrs. Donna Yester

University of York

Zoological Society of Philadelphia

We)
Smithsonian Corporate
Membership Program

Since its inception in 1990, the Smithsonian Corporate Membership
Program has brought global corporate citizens into partnership with the
Smithsonian Institution. The Corporate Members listed below have joined
with the Smithsonian to support its vital work in education and research
while affirming the importance of exchanging information in an increas-

ingly complex world.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the following members of

the Corporate Membership Program.

Mr. Lester M. Alberthal Jr.

Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, EDS
1994 Chair, Smithsonian Corporate Membership Program

AFLAC Incorporated

American Express Company
Anheuser-Busch Companies
BellSouth Corporation

British Airways

Brother International Corporation
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.
Cardiology Research Foundation

Cellular Telecommunications Industry

Association
Chevy Chase Bank
CITIBANK, N.A.
The Coca-Cola Company
The Walt Disney Company
DuPont
EDS
Ford Motor Company
General Electric Company
Hitachi Limited
Hunter Engineering Company
International Business Machines
Corporation

James Smithson Society

Japan Airlines

S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Kajima Corporation

The Kansai Electric Power
Company, Inc.

Lee Enterprises, Inc.

Mars Incorporated

Marubeni Corporation

McCann-Erickson Worldwide

McDermott International, Incorporated

MCI Communications Corporation

Mobil Corporation

Northern Telecom

Scripps Howard

Simon and Schuster

Sony Corporation of America

The Southern Company

Sprint

The Tokyo Electric Power
Company, Inc.

The Contributing Membership of The Smithsonian Associates, of which
the James Smithson Society is the highest giving level, supports the
Institution’s work through annual contributions.

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the generous support of the
members of the James Smithson Society and the lifetime commitment of
the James Smithson Society Endowed Life Members. The Society, which is
the highest level of Contributing Membership, is composed of Annual
Members ($2,000 or more), Life Members (appointed prior to 1985 for
the contribution of significant gifts to the Institution), and Endowed Life
Members (a one-time gift of $40,000 or a pledge of $45,000). The com-
bined contributions of all members support a range of programs and
activities central to the Smithsonian’s core programs in exhibitions, educa-
tion, and research. Funding grants are issued on an annual basis through

a competitive selection process.

Extraordinary contributions to the Smithsonian are recognized through
the Society’s Founder Medal award, indicated by asterisks in the list.

James Smithson Society
Endowed Life Members

Ruth Boyer Compton

Dean S. Edmonds III and Lynn Ann
Edmonds

Dan and Alice Gilbert

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.
Konze

80

Col. Billie G. Matheson, USAF Ret.

Gilbert and Jaylee Mead

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Catherine F. Scott and Kenneth J. Scott

Shelby Shapiro

James Smithson Society

Annual Members

Dr. J. Scott Abercrombie Jr.

Mr. W. Mike Adams

Mrs. Robert Amory Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Mr. Leonard E. B. Andrews

Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Vivian Arpad

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

The Axlerod Memorial Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman

Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld

Ms. Janine F. Barre

Mr. and Mrs. John Bartlett

Rhoda and Jordan Baruch

Mrs. Anna S. Beckman

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs

Miss Eliza H. Bishop

Mr. John L. Black

Mr. William Blackie

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair

The Hon. and Mrs. Warren E. Blair

The Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Mr. and Mrs. William W. Boeschenstein

Mrs. Richard W. Bolling

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Mr. Roland S. Boreham Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Borten

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Boskey

Dr. and Mrs. Harold M. Boslow

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Col. Donald S$. Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mrs. Keith S. Brown

Mr. Warren J. Brule

Mr. and Mrs. George R. Bunch

George and Clare Burch

Karen and Edward Burka

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Burnes

Dr. J. A. Burwell

Mrs. Murray W. Cabell and Mrs.
Christine Cabell

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. and Mrs. John Otis Carney

Mrs. Winifred T. Carter

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Carter Jr.

David and Joan Challinor

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Clement

Mr. James R. Cochran

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin

Melvin and Ryna Cohen

Mr. and Mrs. David Cole

The Hon. and Mrs. William T. Coleman

Mr. and Mrs. David F. Condon III

Ms. Marjorie D. Conroy

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Consolvo

Mr. Mark N. Cookingham and Ms.
Nancy J. Robertson

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Mr. John D. Crow

Mrs. Gretchen Crow

The Crown Family

Dr. and Mrs. James H. Curl

Dr. and Mrs. T. G. Daughtridge

Charles A. and Gwendolyn P. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo Sr.

Dr. and Mrs. Philip C. Deaton

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph N. Deblinger

Mr. Geert M. Deprest and Ms. Laura
Travis-Deprest

Mr. Lowell DeYoung

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Mr. Douglas Dillon

Mr. S. J. Dimeglio

Ms. Marna Disbrow

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. N.L. Doligalski

Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Duemling

The Eberly Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Miss Babs Eisman

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins Jr.

Mrs. Russell C. Ellis

Mr. and Mrs. Takashi Endo

Col. Charles O. Eshelman

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Lt. Colonel Pamela C. Eyre

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson Jr.

The Hon. and Mrs. William H.
FitzGerald

Mr. Gordon J. Flesch

Ms. Ellen L. Fogle

Mr. Owsley Brown Frazier

Virginia Friend

Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Gallo

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Mr. and Mrs. Michael C. Gelman (The
Morningstar Foundation)

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Gerber

Ms. Louise Dodd Gerken

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mrs. Elizabeth W. Glascock

Carol R. and Avram J. Goldberg

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. Albert H. Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Graham

Mrs. Mary Graham and Ms. Molly
Graham

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Gross

Sheila and Patrick Gross

The Hon. and Mrs. Najeeb Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Hanes

Mrs. Freddie Harby

Mrs. James H. Harger

Ms. Helen Leale Harper Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Max Hartl

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman Jr.

Mr. Joseph H. Hazen

The Hon. and Mrs. John W. Hechinger

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner

Robert and Phyllis Henigson

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Henry

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler

Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo

Mr. James T. Hines Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace F. Holladay

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Hopkins

Mr. and Mrs. Roger Horchow

Mrs. Ruth Housek

Mrs. Peter D. Humleker Jr.

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter
Mr. John Ippolito and Ms. Diane M.
Laird-Ippolito

Mr. Ben F. Jackson

Dr. Jay A. Jackson

David and Pat Jernigan

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Mrs. Roy Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. J. Erik Jonsson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly II

Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering

The Hon. Randolph A. Kidder

Dr. William M. King

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Kinsey

Ms. Rebecca Klemm

The Hon. and Mrs. Philip M. Klutznick

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald J. Knecht

Mr. and Mrs. William T. Knight III

Ms. Barbara Korp-Daly

Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. John E. Kuenzl

Mrs. James S. Lacock

Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig

Edward and Beverly Lammerding

Mr. and Mrs. James K. Leach

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

The Hon. and Mrs. William Leonhart

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mrs. Millard Lewis

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Long

Ms. Doris J. Lothrop

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Ludwick

Mr. and Mrs. Fred R. Lummis

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan

Mr. and Mrs. James Mackinnon

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Virginia C. Mars

Ms. Mary Martell and Mr. Paul
Johnson

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Raymond E.
Mason Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mrs. J. Tate McBroom

Mr. Brooks McCormick

The Hon. James W. McCutcheon

The Hon. and Mrs. Robert M.
McKinney

Ms. Merrill McLoughlin

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. Paul Mellon

Shelley Kay Melrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

Mr. and Mrs. Arjay Miller

Dr. W. Raymond Mize Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James Robert
Montgomery

Dr. Robert H. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Ellen H. and H. Duane Nelson

The Hon. Paul H. Nitze

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. William M. North

Mr. and Mrs. James D. Oglevee

Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. George M. Page

5

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mrs. Daniel Parker

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Parker

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles

Mr. J. Roy Pennell Jr.

John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson

Mr. Dave Pfuetze

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. J. Michael Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Sally and George Pillsbury (The
Minneapolis Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Guy H. Pitts

Mrs. Jane P. Plakias

Mr. and Mrs. Zigmund J. Podell

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

The Rev. and Mrs. Charles Philip Price

Dr. Kazuko K. Price

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Radway Jr.

Mr. Elmer Rasmuson

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan

Mr. and Mrs, Philip D. Reed Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Hart Rice

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Rice

Mrs. Carlyn Ring

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Roberts

The Hon. and Mrs. John D.
Rockefeller TV

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rosenthal

Ms. Marya Rowan

Mrs. Lois B. Rowland

Mr. and Mrs. Marcos Russek

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Sbar

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. Harold A. Schwartz

Mrs. Clayton B. Seagears

Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt

Mr. Harold Seybert

Mr. Shelby Shapiro

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz

Mr. J. H. Sheffield and Mrs. Virginia K.

Sheffield
Mr. and Mrs. Allen E. Shore
Mr. and Mrs. Clyde E. Shorey Jr.
Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel
Mrs. Kathryne C. Simons
Mr. George J. Sisley
Mrs. Wilson Sked
Mrs. David E. Skinner
Dr. and Mrs. Harvey C. Slocum Jr.
Dr. Frank O. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Page W. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich
Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer
Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart
Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone
The Hon. Robert D. Stuart
Dr. and Mrs. William A. Sullivan
Ms. Patricia S. Swaney
Dr. Russell Swanson and Dr. Marie
Swanson
Mr. R. Tevelde
Joan E. Thomas, M.D.
Mr. Martin A. Thomas
Mrs. Margot K. Thomson
Frances and Guy Tortora
Helen Brice Trenckmann
The Truland Foundation
Mr. Walter L. Vail

Col. and Mrs. W. G. Van Allen

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von Hoffmann

Col. Harold W. Vorhies

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Waidner

The Raymond John Wean Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

The Hon. John C. Whitehead

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence F. Whittemore

Mr. Julius Wile

Mrs. W. Armin Willig

Ms. Pauline E. Williman

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson Jr.

Mr. John W. Winn

Dr. Sheila Z. Wood and Mr. James L.
Annis

Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley

Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Young

Mrs. Robert Zicarelli

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S$. Zlotnick

| James Smithson Society
Life Members

Ms. Anni Albers

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Mr. David K. Anderson*

Mr. and Mrs. William S$, Anderson*
Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod*

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains
Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck Jr.

Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Bitter*
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd
Mr. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Doctors Ruth and Bertel Bruun
Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Mrs. Barnet Burstein-Morris

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell Jr.
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S. Campbell
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell Jr.
Mr. Allan Caplan

Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Rey. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Mr. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell
Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II
Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy

Mr. Sam Devincent*

Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley *

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Mr. Edward R. Downe Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin*

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont

Mr. Mercer Ellington*

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans*

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Patricia and Phillip Frost*

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston

Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mrs. Doris Stack Greene

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome L. Greene

Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold

Mrs. Enid A. Haupt*

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen*

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen

Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.*

Mrs. E. W. Henderson and Ms. Jessica
Smith

Mr. Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn*

Professor Ikuo Hirayama*

Janet Annenberg Hooker*

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner

Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Mrs. David Landau

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman

Mr. Joshua M. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mrs. John A. Logan

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

Mr. John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac*

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Mrs. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

The Hon. and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John H. Phipps*

Mrs. Annemarie Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. Thomas M. Roberts

8r
The Hon. Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers Jr.
Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs
Mrs, Arthur M. Sackler*

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mrs. Janos Scholz

The Hon. Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith
Mrs. Raphael Soyer*

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler
Mr. Stuart M. Speiser*

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack
Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart Jr.
Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer
Doctors Yen and Julia Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper
Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mr. Earl S. Tupper*

Lillian Scheffres Turner*

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda
Dr. and Mrs. Francis S$. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson*
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

instances, may direct the gift to a specific area of interest to the honoree.
The following were so honored by their families and friends.

Robert McC. Adams
James Block

Lone Chan

Edward C. Ezell

Dave Faulkner

Lois Marie Fink
Carolyn McKerrow Glass
Agnes Gund

Gloria Haas

Jana Harcharek

Joe (Richard) Houbrick
Gertrude Howalt

Mike Ilyin

Katharine Kuh

Richard Louie

Marvin Mordes

David Pickelner
Eleanor Houghton Anderson Ray
Ida Hornstein Reingold
S. Dillon Ripley
Rosebud Yellow Robe
Minna Rosenblatt
Sunil Roy

Carl L. Selden

Alan P. Smith

Mary (Kit) Soderling
Stephen Thurston
Alexander Wetmore

Donors of In-Kind and Volunteer Support

Bequests

It is with special appreciation that we remember and acknowledge those
friends who made gifts by will and thus continue the legacy of James
Smithson, our founder.

Unrestricted gifts become part of the Bequest Endowment Fund. The
principal of this fund is maintained in perpetuity, while the income sup-
ports acquisitions, exhibitions, scholarly studies, educational outreach,
and other functions of the Smithsonian. Some gifts are designated for a
special purpose by the donors. Gifts by bequest can be structured to meet
the donors’ needs and goals.

The following persons remembered the Smithsonian with gifts by will.

Audrey K. Kingdon
Esther A. Manion

Elinor Merrell

Roy Rogers Phillips
Trigger V. Phillips

John S. Pietras

Mary McCarthy Roberts
George J. Sisley

Arthur R. Armstrong

Esther Hoffman Beller

Luisita L. and Franz H. Denghausen
Florence B. Dowdy

Beatrice T. Ganz

Geneva Goldbach

William C. Herbert

Helen Katchmar

Memorial and Commemorative Gifts

Memorial and commemorative gifts to the Smithsonian honor loved
ones, friends, and colleagues. These gifts not only express special appre-
ciation for the individual being honored, but also help support, in a
very direct way, the mission of the Institution. Donors may choose to
apply the gift to the broadest work of the Smithsonian, or, in certain

In addition to the financial support of individuals, foundations, and cor-
porations, the Smithsonian Institution acknowledges donors of in-kind
gifts. Ranging from equipment for office or program use to pro bono
professional consulting services, such in-kind gifts contribute greatly to
the success of research and educational programs as well as to efficient
administration of the Institution.

Amos Press Inc.

Apple Computer, Inc.

Barnstead/Thermolyne Corp.

Cabletron Systems, Inc.

Carlyle Suites Hotel

Christmas Tree Growers Assn.

Mr. & Mrs. William Eberhart

Fisher Furniture Division

Fusion Lighting, Inc.

General Analysis Corporation

General Electric Aircraft Engines

B. F. Goodrich Aerospace

The Government of the
Commonwealth of The Bahamas

Hach Company

Hewlett-Packard Co.

Holiday Inn Capitol

Inter-American Foundation

Intergraph Corporation

International Business Machines
Corporation

LAcademie de Cuisine

La Prensa

Carrie and Robert Lehrman

Lockheed Corporation

Macromedia, Inc.

Mitsubishi Electronics America, Inc.

Netframe Systems, Inc.

Oracle Corporation

Pioneer Electronics

Pitney Bowes Inc.

Polaroid Corporation

PPG Industries, Inc.

The Recording Industries Music
Performance Trust Funds

RGB Spectrum, Inc.

The Sign of the Dove

Thailand Office of the National
Cultural Commission

Toyopan Tesa

Turner Broadcasting System Inc.

US Industrial Tool and Supply Co.

Westvaco Corporation

White House Historical Association

Willow Springs Tree Farm

Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smithsonian to accomplish a vari-
ety of programs and to offer expanded services to the public. The names of our
docents and behind-the-scenes volunteers are listed annually in the Torch (the
employee newspaper). In fiscal year 1994, 5,256 volunteers gave 574,816 hours of
their time. These invaluable volunteers bring expertise, experience, and enthusiasm
to their work here, and we express to them collectively our great appreciation for
their dedication to the Smithsonian Institution.
FF INGA N Gr AGE eka P©) Reo

Introduction

The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal
appropriations and nonappropriated trust sources. Nonappro-
priated trust funds include all funds received from sources other
than direct federal appropriations. These sources include gifts
and grants from individuals, corporations, and foundations;
grants and contracts from federal agencies and other govern-
ment sources; earnings from short- and long-term investments;
and receipts from membership programs and sales activities,
such as Smithsonian magazine, museum shops, mail order cata-
logues, and food service concessions.

Federal appropriations provide funding for the Institution’s
core functions: caring for and conserving the national collec-
tions, sustaining basic research on the collections and in selected

areas of traditional and unique strength, and educating the
public about the collections and research findings through exhi-

NANCY D. SUTTENFIELD,
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

bitions and other public programs. Federal appropriations also
fund a majority of the activities associated with maintaining
and securing the facilities and with various administrative and
support services.

Smithsonian trust funds allow the Institution to undertake
new ventures and enrich existing programs in ways that would
not otherwise be possible. They provide the critical margin of
funding for innovative research, building and strengthening the
national collections, constructing effective and up-to-date exhibi-
tions, and reaching out to new and under-represented audiences.
In recent years, the Smithsonian has also begun to rely on trust
funds for a portion of the funding for major new construction
projects.

The following sections describe the external environmental
factors affecting the Institution’s general financial condition,

Children enjoy meeting a tortoise at an event
sponsored by the Friends of the National Zoo,
one of many public-private partnerships that
enrich the content and extend the outreach of
the Institution’s public programs.

83
the Institution’s financial status and its planned response to
changing conditions; financial results for fiscal year 1994; and
measures, both organizational and financial, being taken to en-
sure the future fiscal health of the Institution.

Financial Situation and Prospects

The Smithsonian approaches its 150th anniversary in 1996 in
an austere financial climate. Income from the business activities,
which have been confronted with decreased sales and rising pro-
duction costs, is declining. Federal increases, while generous,
have been directed primarily to specific programs or projects,
such as the National Museum of the American Indian, and have
not been available for other general operating expenses. The
amount of federal funds for general operations has been further
diminished by executive orders requiring reductions in the fed-
eral workforce and administrative costs. To conform with Presi-
dent Clinton’s executive order requiring the entire federal gov-
ernment to reduce its workforce by the end of fiscal year 1995,
the Institution offered its staff, both federal and trust, a volun-
tary separation incentive plan. By the middle of fiscal year 1995,
federal positions will have been reduced by 206, and trust fund
positions by 23. These 23 positions are in addition to 40 trust
positions previously eliminated as a part of the fiscal year 1993
restructuring process. Federal savings, which will accrue in
future years, will be withdrawn from the Institution’s budget.

Despite the rather significant changes in the external environ-
ment that have impacted upon the financial condition of all pri-
vate, public, and nonprofit organizations over the last several
years, the Smithsonian’s balance sheet remains stable and strong.
The strength of the balance sheet and the high level of liquidity
are solid evidence that recent actions to restructure financially
have been effective.

Efforts begun in fiscal year 1993 to contain costs and identify
new revenue-producing opportunities and fund-raising strategies
are continuing. All Institutional business activities are exploring
ways to improve productivity of staff, space, and inventory.
Two major reorganizations to reduce redundancies in operations
were accomplished this year. These include the combining of
two retail operations—the Museum Shops and the Mail Order
Division—and of two membership operations—the National
Associates and the Resident Associates. Other strategic changes
in the business activities include new restaurant concepts, fea-
turing the installation of up-to-date formats within existing
space; a focus on specialty museum shops; and a test of off-Mall
retailing.

One of the goals of the Institution’s restructuring plan is to
seek expanded levels of support from individual donors. With
information gathered over the past year from a series of focus
groups, a study of the economic impact of the Smithsonian on
the metropolitan Washington area, and a national telephone
survey of prospective contributors, the Institution has more in-
formation related to its private sector fund-raising potential than
at any time in its history. This information will provide a sound

84

basis for choosing the course of the future of fund-raising at the
Institution.

In addition to its effort to restore financial equilibrium in the
funding for its operating programs, the Institution must respond
to another need of compelling urgency—the deterioration and
obsolescence of its facilities, conditions which, if unaddressed,
place the collections and ongoing activities and public accessi-
bility at risk. Smithsonian facilities total more than 5.5 million
square feet of space and range in age from new to more than
140 years old. Funding for maintenance, repair and renovation
has not kept pace with the deterioration of the buildings, result-
ing in an unacceptable accumulation of deficiencies. The situa-
tion has been exacerbated by new legislative requirements for
life safety standards (such as removal of lead paint and chlo-
roflorocarbons), heightened public awareness of environmental
hazards, and the inflationary effect of delaying needed work.
The Institution seeks to achieve a balance between correcting the
unacceptable condition of its older buildings and maintaining
the current condition of its newer facilities through systematic
renewal and repair. An annual investment of $40 million would
enable the Institution to arrest the rate of decline in the four old-
est buildings with the greatest need—the Natural History, Arts
and Industries, Smithsonian Castle and American Art and Por-
trait Gallery buildings. At least $50 million annually is required
both to meet the full need for systematic facilities renewal and
to offset normal wear and tear in the newer buildings.

While the future is always uncertain, the Smithsonian is
determined it will not be without choices. With the arrival of
I. Michael Heyman as the new Secretary and the work of the
Commission on the Future to help shape a vision of the Smith-
sonian in the 21st century, the Institution is well positioned to
advance its mission in the years to come.

Fiscal Year 1994 Results

Revenues received by the Institution in fiscal year 1994 from
all sources totalled $678.5 million. Federal appropriations ac-
counted for $343.8 million, and nonappropriated trust funds
provided an additional $334.7 million. When adjusted to elimi-
nate auxiliary activity expenses of $183.1 million, net revenues
for operations, construction and endowment principal totalled
$495.4 million, reflecting virtually no change from fiscal year
1993. The table on p. 85 reflects revenues by source and broad
purpose of use.

Operations (Tables 1 and 2)

Federal appropriations of $304 million provided the core fund-
ing for ongoing programs of the Institution. An increase of $7.1
million above fiscal year 1993 appropriations provided addi-
tional support for operational requirements of the George
Gustav Heye Center of the National Museum of the American
Indian; inflationary increases in rent, utilities, salary and benefits
Fiscal Year 1994 Sources of Gross/Net Revenues

Gross Net Percent Net
Revenues Revenues Operating
(Smillions) ($millions) Revenues (%)
OPERATIONS
Federal Appropriations 304.0 304.0 72
Nonappropriated Trust Funds
Unrestricted 221.9 38.8 9
Restricted
Govy’t Grants and Contracts 45.7 45.7 11
General Restricted 34.7 34.7 a
Total Sources for Operations 606.3 423.2 100
CONSTRUCTION
Federal Appropriations 39.8 39.8
Nonappropriated Trust Funds ilaleZZ a7
Total Sources for Construction SileS) $1.5
ENDOWMENT
AND SIMILAR FUNDS 20.7 20.7
Total Revenues from All Sources 678.5 495.4

costs; and asbestos decontamination of collections which
became contaminated when a tornado damaged several storage
buildings in Suitland, Maryland.

A small drop in net unrestricted trust fund income was more
than offset by reduced expenditures and transfers, allowing the
Smithsonian to end the year with an increase of approximately
$0.8 million in the unrestricted trust fund balance.

Restricted income from investments, gifts, and non-govern-
ment grants and contracts totalled $34.7 million. As a conse-
quence of the Institution’s intensified effort to expand its public-
private partnerships and its focus on new fund-raising strategies,
restricted gift and non-government grant and contract income
increased by 38 percent over the previous year. These funds sup-
ported a wide range of educational and exhibition programs
throughout the Institution. Major funding received in fiscal
year 1994 helped to fund the operating budget of the National
Postal Museum, ecological research at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, the Science in American Life exhibit at the
National Museum of American History, and a joint initiative of
the Traveling Exhibition Service and the National Museum of
American History aimed at bringing jazz to public audiences
across the nation. The Smithsonian is especially grateful to its
many friends in the private sector whose generosity contributed
vitally to its work. Donors are listed in the Benefactors section
of this publication.

In fiscal year 1994, the Institution received $45.7 million in
contracts and grants from government agencies, an increase of
$1.9 million over fiscal year 1993. Support from government
agencies constitutes an important source of research monies for
the Institution while also benefiting the granting agencies by pro-
viding access to Smithsonian expertise and resources. As in prior
years, the majority of these funds were provided by the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration for research programs at
the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

Endowment (Tables 3, 4, and 5)

The Institution pools its endowment funds for investment
purposes into a consolidated portfolio, with each endowment
purchasing shares in a manner similar to shares purchased by an
investor in a mutual fund.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smithsonian’s Board
of Regents establishes investment policy and recommends the
annual payout for the consolidated endowment. The Smith-
sonian’s policies for managing the endowment are designed to
achieve two objectives: 1) to provide a stable, growing stream of
payouts for current expenditures and 2) to protect the value of
the endowment against inflation and maintain its purchasing
power. Current policy calls for an average payout of 4.5 percent
of the average market value over the prior S years. With this
payout policy, to achieve the endowment’s objectives, the invest-
ment policy targets a real rate of return of 5 percent.

During the year, the Institution conducted an in-depth study
of the long-term asset allocation policy of the endowment to
determine if it would allow the endowment to achieve its rate
of return objectives. The study recommended an increase in the
allocation to equities to increase the long-term return and in-
creased diversification into international assets to control overall
risk. The Investment Policy Committee accepted this recommen-
dation and it will be implemented in fiscal year 1995.

In 1994, free elections in South Africa signalled the end of
apartheid. Based on the recommendation of the Investment
Policy Committee, the Board of Regents lifted its restriction on
investment in companies operating in South Africa.

Following four years of significant growth, as depicted in the
chart below, the market value of the endowment decreased from
$387.6 million to $379 million during fiscal year 1994. Of the
$379 million, $166.8 million, or 44 percent, was unrestricted
and the balance of $212.2 million was restricted. New gifts and
internal transfers totalled $7.1 million while the payout was
$14.2 million and fees were $1.3 million. The total return on the
consolidated portfolio was -0.04 percent. This low return was
due to poor performance of the stock and bond markets caused
by rising interest rates during the year. At year end, the Institu-
tion’s portfolio was invested 58 percent in equities, 39 percent in
bonds and 3 percent in cash equivalents.

Market Value of Endowment and Similar Funds

($ millions) ea) Restricted, Freer

$500 7 E29 Restricted, Other

EES Unrestricted $388 $379

$400 4

$300 4

$200 4

$100 + Bee

$o ti
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994
Fiscal Year
Noteworthy gifts were received for the Enid A. Haupt
Garden endowment, the Earl S. Tupper endowment for the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, the Holenia Trust II
endowment for the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
and the Luisita L. and Franz H. Denghausen endowment for
American art.

Construction and Plant Funds (Table 6)

In fiscal year 1994, the Smithsonian received federal appropria-
tions for construction totalling $39.8 million. More than half,
$24 million, was for general repair, restoration, and code com-
pliance projects throughout the Institution. Although a substan-
tial sum, it is less than half the estimated $50 million per year
required to keep up with the deterioration in the physical plant
described earlier in this report. Appropriations earmarked for
new construction, alterations, and modifications totalled $10.4
million, of which $6.2 million was to continue development of a
collections study, reference and support facility in Suitland,
Maryland, for the National Museum of the American Indian. An
appropriation of $5.4 million was received for renovations, re-
pairs and master plan projects at the National Zoological Park,
including in fiscal year 1994, construction of Aquatic Trail and
African Grasslands exhibits.

Additions and transfers to nonappropriated trust construc-
tion funds, termed plant funds, totalled $12.7 million. Ap-
proximately $11 million was for constructing facilities for the
National Museum of the American Indian.

Financial Management

The Institution completed the first phase cf replacing its central
accounting system with the successful implementation of a pur-
chasing and payables module. Dramatic improvements in the
ability to ensure timely payments to vendors and to take advan-
tage of prompt payment discounts have resulted. Work is pro-
ceeding now on Phase II which involves the replacement of the
Institution’s general ledger, financial reporting, and management
information system.

Other financial management improvement initiatives under-
taken in 1994 include:

86

¢ A comprehensive study assessing the effectiveness of the cur-
rent Institutional management controls program resulted in the
formation of an oversight council and the implementation of a
new process which will substantially enhance internal controls.
¢ As part of the annual call for plans and budgets, organiza-
tions have developed strategic plans and planning processes
that are guiding them in more careful allocation of their scarce
resources.

¢ The use of performance measurements has become an inte-
gral part of Finance and Administration operations, and their
use is expanding across the Institution.

¢ Implementation of a single vendor concept for the purchase
of office supplies has resulted in decreased reliance on petty
cash, lower item pricing, and an efficient purchasing and
payment system.

¢ Seven key information resources management (IRM) initia-
tives were identified through the work of the IRM Vision Pro-
ject, an Institution-wide, participative review and planning
process. The IRM Vision Project provided a blueprint for the
long-range direction of information technology and short-term
goals to set a course for the future.

Audit Activities

The Institution’s financial statements are audited annually by
KPMG Peat Marwick, an independent public accounting firm.
The audit plan includes an in-depth review of the Institution’s
internal control structure. KPMG Peat Marwick’s Independent
Auditors’ Report for fiscal year 1994 and the accompanying
financial statements are presented on the following pages. The
Smithsonian’s internal audit staff, part of the Office of Inspector
General, assists the external auditors and regularly audits the
Institution’s various programs, activities, and internal control
systems. The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of
Regents provides an additional level of financial oversight and
review.

In accordance with the government requirement for the use
of coordinated audit teams, the Defense Contract Audit Agency,
the Smithsonian Office of Inspector General, and KPMG Peat
Marwick coordinate the audit of grants and contracts received
from federal agencies.
Table 1. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1994 (in $000s)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Total

Restricted Federal Funds and
Total Nonappropriated
Government Non- Trust Funds
Federal Grants and —_ Appropriated
Funds Unrestricted General Contracts Trust Funds FY 1994 FY 1993
FUND BALANCES - Beginning of Year
(Sees Noten!) Wycversiet te sciexeietereras uetasnoceeects $40,427 $38,577 $22,162 — $60,739 $101,166 $101,375
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations (see Note 2) ...... 302,349 — — — —_ 302,349 295,560
MVESEMENTEINGCOME see sxeie c.+-aieic «cbeteiewe. 6 — 9,607 8,661 — 18,268 18,268 19,145
Government Grants and Contracts ....... — _— _ 45,701 45,701 45,701 43,767
Gifts & Non-Government Grants ...... .. — 9848 22,327 _ 32,175 32,175 25,548
Sales and Membership Revenue ........- — 197,233 — —_ 197,233 197,233 190,821
OWN? ccd pOOBE RD EHEO SOR tCnere — 5,161 3,683 — 8,844 8,844 9,527
TOTAL FUNDS PROVIDED ......... 302,349 221,849 34,671 45,701 302,221 604,570 584,368
TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE ......... 342,776 260,426 56,833 45,701 362,960 705,736 685,743

FUNDS APPLIED:

Sciences:
csistantesecretabyaetaecc. soc) sus toevecleie al eee 968
Office of Fellowships and Grants ........ 55
Astrophysical Observatory ............. 13,051

Less Overhead Recovery .............- —
Tropical Research Institute ............. 8,087
Environmental Research Center ......... 2,557
National Zoological Park .............- 18,401
SmithsomianvArchives.....2.0esaeeees +: 1,120
Smiieoramiliivemes goecacosouoseess 6,178
International Environmental

Sense lowe ooganououse eae pane 671
Major Scientific Instrumentation......... 7,796
National Museum of

INEM SIG in? Gapen onen ora Up oa 35,896
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ...... 2,743
Museum Support Center .............. St172

MotalbSciencesieyeissorc cis: syessietereeioe eiesr cs 100,695

Arts and Humanities:

PNSSIStAN te SCCLELALY a << e-e <5 5) =: s) 310) ss ve oo. 1,587
Office of Museum Programs............ 850
National Air and Space Museum ........ 12,145
National Museum of

PNITICLICATIMELISLOLY, meetetsionartcrecscieere et ee 18,191
National Postal Museum ..............- 642
National Museum of the

LTGMET INNTEN coo obeeacounoneea oe 12,656
National Museum of American Art ...... 7,032
National Portrait Gallery .............. 5,145
Hirshhorn Museum and

Sapliimne Garcln saceosouccavcne0 00 4,026
Breer GalleryiotvActon trees niarn ie ene ees 2,157
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery ............. 2,851
Archives of American Art.............. 1,364
Cooper-Hewitt, National

DesigniMuseumunemercic ccc ceereee or 2,327
National Museum of African Art ........ 3,650
MACOSTA IMIEGINN sgocasnune000600 BO 1,240
@ffice’of Exhibits Central.............. 2,655
Traveling Exhibition Service ............ DI

Total Art and Humanities............ 80,735

Education and Public Service:

ATTOEME SINGS? Ap ech dao edomonedoes 50S
Center for Folklife Programs and ......
GnlturallStudiesterer-reriierielciteriere er siz

3,308
43
1

10,061

1,664
18,196

893
18,606

207
40,960
276
735
657

44,699

8,616
60
1

60,451

161,146

2,644
962
19,750

24,654
3,368

12,909
9,330
5,441

8,255
5,501
4,722
2,168

5,603
3,900
1,612
2,660
4,806

118,285

151,013
Table 1. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1994 (in $000s) (continued)

Restricted Federal Funds and
Total Nonappropriated
Government Non- Trust Funds
Federal Grants and — Appropriated
Funds Unrestricted General Contracts Trust Funds BYS1994 FY 1993

Office of Elementary and

Secondary Education .............- 514 98 154 85 537 1,051 983
National Science Resources Center 2! 18 — — 218 451 467

Total Education and Public Service 2,489 2,653 327 85 3,065 5,554 4,604
International Center/Activities .... . 527 437 56 169 662 1,189 1,603
External Affairs:
AssistantiSeCretalyserctersisusiatcrcnevaricnerchessais 195 667 194 = 861 1,056 1,073
Office of Telecommunications ......... 367 648 131 779 1,146 179
Visitor Information and Associates’

Reception) Cente tine omens) cteteren-rieherelstens 164 1,273 62 a 1,335 1,499 1,542
Office of Special Events and

Gonference Senvicess ie eres. oe eee 84 169 —_ — 169 253 215
Smithsonian Institution Press .......... 1,684 21,907 35 = 21,942 23,626 18,071
Ma gazinesiey-- cnevcuciscisunte tel sereielleteverecvoue — 63,119 — _ 63,119 63,119 66,636
The Smithsonian Associates ........... — 34,576 168 — 34,744 34,744 33,639
MediavActivities(. ete s!stetsrx s:cvsysrevereta «el 10 — — 10 10 21

MotaliexternalyA frairsysjisrcieiiercieienasiene 2,494 122,369 590 — 122,959 125,453 122,376
Institutional Initiatives ............... 18 5,370 329 _— 5,699 5,717 5,283
Business Management/Activities ... 2... . — 53,634 — — 53,634 53,634 52,096
Admininistrationt. cscretele siete aie teva ctelc 27,486 17,965 309 = 18,274 45,760 45,154

Less Overhead Recovery ............ (10,669) _— — (10,669) (10,669) (10,466)
Facilities'Services® aac.< sca cteeicts esas 80,862 1,589 6 — 1,595 82,457 79,183
Transfers Out/(In):
INGER son Deonoues cu OnOboDOuUGOE 1,163 — — — — 1,163 1,917
Dlanteernctocrs cteisis «miniticieernectenieactre o — (109) 1,493 _ 1,384 1,384 1,951
Endowment, yaa cccves steve versiate: secret sbatene — (466) 4,850 a 4,384 4,384 7,614

Wotalilcanstersscctee cee eee 1,163 (575) 6,343 a 5,768 6,931 11,482

TOTAL FUNDS APPLIED .......... 296,469 221,030 32,257 45,701 298,988 595,457 574,723
Expenses Against Prior Years’

Obligations) )-csys.0eycse eeieeectslcaels = orel 10,683 _ a — _— 10,683 9,854
CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES ...... . (4,803) 819 2,414 — 3,233 (1,570) (209)
FUND BALANCES - End of Year

(seetNotels)\)<c:s,ccc sreus cusuetor sieveyeress erenene $35,624 $39,396 $24,576 — $63,972 $99,596 $101,166

Nonappropriated Trust Funds

Total

Note 1: Asa result of changing from an obligation basis to an accrual basis of accounting for federal funds, the beginning fund balance has been restated to

exclude obligations.

Note 2: Excludes $179 thousand in FY 1993 and $225 thousand in FY 1994 received as a permanent indefinite appropriation for Canal Zone Biological
Area Fund. Also excludes $1,145 thousand received in FY 1993 and $1,459 thousand received in FY 1994 in foreign currency for research projects

in India.

Note 3: The Federal fund balance includes $32 million associated with no-year appropriations and $3.6 million associated with annual appropriations for

fiscal years 1990-1994.
Table 2. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Year 1994 (in $000s)

Sales and Net
Membership Revenue
Revenue Gifts Expenses (Loss)
SYM 9S Merrett eotenee ode Bauch cous aT oe wetiek eect ets oases) -s.1a” bila) actancacah'elansuioha ehenebaueel ere! onebeueraveioen’s $190,821 $8,905 $175,440 $24,286
FY 1994:
Central Auxiliary Activities:
IMEREVATES 0.0.6 010-010 5-0-6-6'0 6.0-00 6.0 6:0 0.0 OGIO an a SOT EMU eocen tio Geka chore aee oe $71,888 $7 $63,119 $8,776
HineRSmuLHSOnanPASSOGIATES Um-repe tHe chop cr eeerene os “aie 0s oveie) avatar aieueyelee eiaieseun lors toter oer 29,196 8,894 34,513 3,577
BTISIESSH alia PEMENE-tae Se new menen refctioRe ase cle cre vote sche ns,e yc enclofecopen® eve vehevexet ancl tenare
NItISELUIMES DOPS/ Vian O@ rd erage ciel cer cRersic tery ven c eeseveveseoreyer «coser e¥ehieve iene febeicustaledeioraene 54,924 — 50,268 4,656
ROQTICESSIOUS Me rr ret rete eerie crore cle or ehe ccs fect ol elena ele elena duacb ashes mane rxeoar nes 3,616 — 2,350 1,266
(QIENGE 5.0.0:0.0:0 or Brana ren Once RE CROToR GCM CROLE TORS Speen gare ne MSE 1,910 _ 1,015 895
Sri cHSOniANp NStitutlONRLESS ase ve vowel pepeiteye cess ser ci= <i seer cess eacceveuseexcie eu eisielele eicieustolotors 22179 — 21,840 339
Blectronicg Med rayACtivitiesarsysersis, se ste iicness/ ove) oasis! sinus slo ustiei enohevS tories tayravicueous vetewe ve TaveVore 130 — 10 120
Bureau Auxiliary Activities:
Mimandespacesheatrerand Einsteinpelanetariuml yey ee lejelselereicl sere a eleieleeieleisaeelciic 4,523 — 3529)7, 1,266
CoopertewittyNationall Design’ Museum ci -)ore e:e= aie eve oie) siete sl eyene eis efeleye ejcielelereuee 1,058 39 728 369
Micavelinege xn DItLonl SELVICE Key ayay siey Vere eray ces eccimaciisie  efereiensuen sivepayasais ohaieis. enatsinte aGelemiere 593 os 686 (93)
(CYNE? 4.500 Go ob tig On 6.6 6 CHISEL On DRO eT RG eI ROR aeRO SICH See ee eae ae 7,216 432 5,356 2292)
TIROVIZAIL, LNG TIO std eRe CHEE CPERCRORE ORICON RECHT ean ine ene ee ne $197,233 $9,372 $183,142 $23,463
Table 3. Endowment and Similar Funds, September 30, 1994 (in $000s)
Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
GashtandsEquivalentsperrsysrerse truer ycstehe foie one ecarc) eters eck ieee tee ene) Se COTS PAO IEE Re Grete $9,668 $9,668
iMborvell TRA: 6 wie Biod.d Orie -oTO CEB No SO OI NR CR ATER A DAA eee, ory ae et ag — a
linaarinal Reeatalls:5.6.aeb sens atten De OS CIE ER ST OI oI ESET einer re race Ee en ere res DES82) 2,582
WSs GovernmentzandiGovernment Obligations) «yi etoile aire ieee scree edeioleietstene cee eaeetereieseieiseieeiere 109,357 106,508
Boric SPR et pate eck sees ict falinecgetercbe rausceiianc, avensia ia acshaiacdalenate se aia td) aragnel ad ibhe tu sisted Soar omein ake 43,981 43,025
Commanilills Pata) 1... b bona pivot gro cert EO DITcan CO GU OmIOnmoitiarine ds Aerihorrtr ator mice 3 6,334 6,416
SEOCKS MRP PPM MNT ats Farccs ccna craters eats ssicsnesav ace, wdstatstedartena sevalocaietiea akc Suabeleande tomtom eee aie ed eed 177,400 211,946
Resavalsle tor Seeuniites Qs) las Sea eee cee ome ae aoe Om Seen e on acrine neat sas bb noe ae meme omcec 7,413 7,413
sHotalPPOoled pe unas were rect tee eye cele oe scarier sus soc nayfccay ston analos o eveuaue encape eitece wotebOyanspe hohe e SRO nae el oro evetees 356,735 387,558
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
LOA 1D WLS, Thieasimy Tin IRawssaiile rs es Ba oa. orto etemere lencre oieucrcnettar sane ctons cree ere Cot oe coo sO Ire Omer Eie coc 1,018 997
INSEAD 0.0:0.6.0 0'S- 0 GOR) ENGST TNC O IC CREO OS IER ROMO OPER nC cae rer tart ea Oe ene 19 19
investinentssins Gharita blewlintistS ivy verter aco ster se verse ce ey cestode Setds Po tauayreseascen suet antes aah ee Aire elec eev odo ore oueesee 459 694
satalsNonpooledthund seqemcmracewe aes ccteicas osseersberre ce rctaoot ame raey ot GRP aeD A OSE RG eee Eee es 1,496 1,710
TIROMIAIL, ASSISINS 8.9, 6:cra teases pio hn cree ONE E REE ace Col eBPS Ce NORCRORE NG RO OSS CROLL eee CT CIR ee CACC CRE oe tora $358,231 $389,268
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:
LIABILITIES:
PAV AEST OLASECULILIES ELIEGHASEC Uren weetce AME teVeresersa che s=-eo coer sie helere taser anegswepeventraveoereusierers sieue ouendiic esto oie estore $9,544 $9,544
DeteiedpRevennerdChartablewcusts meee wees eine Moreira serine isieie Cie noe ore 459 694
Potala cabilitiesgey eee eer ter uerae yeas ceK oC eave k sete Ce one Lovee oon Tenneson abate dete rans Heb ove neHE eeauavs ee pe uavotloesanyte 10,003 10,238
FUND BALANCE:
Unrestricted Purpose:
TRACE TENGE 5 o eidig SBA OHO CT eee Co att gs er tiee NE Es aR nee oi er Sie 9,147 10,636
QneG MG WME oe 5.4.600.9.0-0'3. au G0 SOS THES SIE Oe OTE G One CRORE G Sic OIE Mire PG GES eaio craic Eras 145,670 156,163
sloralWWnrestrictedRurpose rete tcyete ys crorets vs sierat sycv a: cuckossvetecea%o1 aucsci iavasayacaneueracchsianeie Pin aNee wiles steraiwaees eietens 154,817 166,799
Restricted Purpose:
ieee ndOwimenltaey wee ee ree ere te a toy. Se Since nee Hao cP chat ne dee ete ays te ae eee 124,964 138,586
QHESLIETGIGEE 6. dio 3:0 o:0 DOO Ot) IER HORNETS CO Coes BRE RPS Ecce CREE EEO SPI ai CIR ee eee 68,447 73,645
Tell Resaiteraal TERS io a'yigdie oc 65.0 OO a pecan a CIC b EU dO Dine EO OSI OREO aOR ae a Bins 193,411 212,231
MotaldhiindpBalancesmmarw yee eter cee koheriexcsciorstcusroweten wate foSeliorch saber oA evel Sigil ONO MCP Pieter ote ce aed eiattoces 348,228 379,030
OMAR TAB IOIIESFAIN DIRUIND IBAILAIN GES sacwicenaatrsicicien stare aeieis cicricheiemiee elect wiles oie ies ana $358,231 $389,268

89
Table 4. |. Changes in Market Value of Endowment and Similar Funds, Fiscal Year 1994 (in $000s)

Unrestricted Restricted Total
MarketaValuer 10/9/93) a. crc-vcscuckeber stones sVereversroveienscefe (auelarslioncnsysie istebehonsio silences stcusystersrencee $174,392 $67,484 $145,711 $387,587
Changes:
Giftsslinvew eaters aor eh rere ieve © sera lataerorohe val tlaliohenensuche ne med ovensusiaecsclerskeushobskestnesshove tedeastens meister ete 211 3,127 3,338
(GiEODES oasauhosonadosoADpaMAtoudocoscabodoooborO OUD CDAD EOD ODO bUe oO 337 5,650 5,987
Internalwbransfersvin/(@it)), -vercvavacoteterenerstoesteke tel ceeteeene apeeed chs YeF owed Porte clenedeneyeteneced= (1,241) (1,029) (2,270)
Other:
Interestyand: Dividends: |....c)c sels jevsxevevere cletotelsefatel sielvieaehe seve isueioxcis helleneyeieyettesehe edennenciete 7,356 6,358 16,562
Marketi ValuevAippreciationipaeserctsrnaracraicloneiclet-ter-iitieiencnenal nel euedotonat=lsy etter honctoncl<ieKeeers (7,388) (6,447) (16,684)
RES lites Bere Mo bicts Acro RO AOA on DDO Conn oc Pe OUUbo tO noe OWT.c SURO HO DS (6,309) (5,473) (14,226)
IMENEYatw tio onomancloepn cde Do onoUddhoomroanoeds mooonaoodeoonedl ox (S59) (487) (1,264)
Market \Valtve: 9/30/94 iis aitevoncteraiccoveteBorsts: o\/ohcdcleste teutverovesoserery eristcteusaehayciaises soecinanecnet $166,799 $64,821 $147,410 $379,030
Table 5. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1994
Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE - TRUE:
Averyakundil(SeesNoteuliyeter-jeie crepe tevers oisncdeverstereterorohetcnerotarcrersvegs ainete $292,507 $348,694 $13,522 $ —
DodgesPatriciay cyecscyers.s exe(oxelocshonetace-orosiavels 'svsl sts sks aca etasepawehedelge loys 174,921 170,485 535 —
Fund) forgkuture-Wnrestricted| s.ry-paciacincreil-aenereiotercheleiensiein et iiemelenens Soe S27 49,105 1,847 —
BigbeesilarrysiMemoriallie scretencucsct-veneeelocleielorstefeucicistetet stein vale cheletes 105,221 122,693 4,623 _—
Hodekinsskundi(SeeyNotent) epietervocist tetera atte leciereee terete ear tae 411,445 439,949 19,766 —
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J. Memorial Fund .................-. 46,014 48,454 1,826 —
IMOrrowsDwightaw cistern tcacterevsaerctotchereielicnctel ota)lencioksteuchce led susie Bakemslokens 529,203 640,168 24,119 —
MiussinansnAllfredicra accurselewe ate kenerste te oveneenererecch Wolensden Beaevereveuemerencsets 160,358 187,212 7,053 —
‘Olmsted sHelenyAvwpaye cise oxeiev oa weschek oie: cesar eens rake 5,470 6,535 246 —
RooresliucysIeandiGeorgewW.i(Sees Norell!) iy cueyer everel(e toele«lovepeleneiel ouelabeie 1,167,479 1,406,803 53,736 —
Rortersblenry, Kirkes Memorial) revcyesersteoieieveoieie == ee cehenesersiecchelouevelete 1,955,492 2,363,908 89,062 —
Sanford’ Georgedkin(SeevNote il) imeeccicienceiroecieiet tienen ciel- reunite 7,840 9,079 372 _—
SmithsonsJames}(Seex Nate) irrensanuencteverateleuctensicuseievelscuevsistenetciemereners 868,561 855,372 47,116 —
SmithsoniSociety] amesiejeieccy ckeuskateuaycuonsitens(ol svehevers cote yele keds snake) witey sence 316,944 303,828 10,627 =
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research (Designated) .......... 3,053,646 3,684,213 138,806 143,674
Subtotal cpa snovcstyciesreyensrategsna os arenctiseme shove recmy cunp uovoneestaley dete emeeorere 9,146,628 10,636,498 413,256 143,674

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE - QUASI:
Ett GharlestH 3 Fund ys sronaveravesocovegelevs ieieleyonovss Ay suoteuereceieacnshausts cvoueysione
Rergusonsrrances/Balbndowmentaermetareistieretnrclei Retell ferctedelset otetererrs
Forrest: Roberteliee ys crete jracscasereresa i aut sion eueie ee enabekcaencn re aaica oka to weno
RundiiforithetButurel|Unrestricted!s--isrerreiae iscre oiereerciersienierenieienetete
GeneraliEndowment (See) Note) )).1... «:c1ere: <reus1ccietese oie elere eve siencrenete
Goddard Roberti iatras nic ocveseiein enol toes oe teeter eae ete eran
HabelS!DrxSsi (See Notes): ava crevore ote vonctichave coussevcls exe Polotorereianevere shretereue
Fl arts uGiistavusses, She veccts oustiel esse. eveteverie ns tlena tere tsek elnetehe dens sus ceacyeleevex ste
lenrys Caroline eye rsrs these usreeteler rake ie ens eite  ehor ree ies
Henry) osephtandjmMarnietsAcwarrerierencrrerersieteietstereracieictearcrnetenearrets

Jnl CEMgISIeENn Gogo epoUboamUa oon ooanodonedadomca acon
Koteen; Dorothy 2Bisi acrsvsreuertray oy sesyevove-s roerte ar ces ene av Pk eecrorevetoterre esis
Fambert4P aula Gz precyeccasice vontcrspcicc ed tcae het ercnee Oe ease ern eae
Medinus:iGraceiles,  jrereyousio cies) enews siete (ole olersne clots efersierarersieucielone oes
(O}) DEE Vall bet Ol Matec ate eterna nec eohCr cin crt cect oestr ocho DO raro
Phillips; JRoysRevEstatersetc mentee ete ocr ar eee roe enero ote Ret tect re
Rhees; WilliamJonesi(SeesNotenll)l ra cirereietonsre ereeielereioterciereicienels ele
Safford Glaravlouise ise seccrsicersvectercveovebote vere pene tortie RT ACIO onic
Smithsonian) Bequestabundi(SeexNotewl)) er teryerteyeicteteietenekoneretctsperstmteker che
Sultner:DonaldiHSEndowment emcee octet ien- rt
lagearttGanson) erec-le ricer ei ere ea erence Reker renner eiietote rs
Wiriterers AliCe NE ois avaqcrssoro rece Pore eCor aeRO SE oR ene Ee
Abbotrawilliamil. (Designated) perstrenserereeitei tele tietieteie eneletar emer
Barstow.krederic) DN (Desipnated)/ia- me cmieiierenicteeaieieteieiemetaer
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) ..............----
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated)
Lindbergh, Charles A. (Designated)
Eyons MarcusywWardsi|ra(Designated)) .aiseracrereisterareielcrereersielner cies
Martin’Marietta) Internship) (Designated) eerie ens eereereteieneve eiereneietere

90

1,331,515
678,683
6,756,542
102,176
115,159,691
53,487
802

3,687
9,110
365,421
652,447
182,293
240,448
331,228
6,475
218,743
969,415
4,486
301,111
2,488,976
572,177
3,285
165,178
857,304
alia:
2,766,911
3,139,951
51,247
34,652
222,384

1,414,039
701,610
7,123,849
92,217
123,815,512
56,416
789

4,222
10,413
416,472
693,189
202,780
241,888
372,026
6,900
236,872
1,011,917
4,969
325,361
2,199,643
868,429
3,945
149,094
978,935
8,182
3,174,860
3,390,481
54,587
37,134
243,632

53,275
26,434
268,397
2,317
4,669,890

123,194
127,739
2,057
1,399
9,179

51,379
6,733
149,340
14,506
6,300
7,101
Table 5. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1994 (continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE - QUASI: (continued)
INMIN EWR esearchy(Designated)) cmesertereteeie ciereieic © sioekersieyoee eee ore : 152,347 144,043 4,250 8,056
IN Ababeopramisy Designated)) a -yav-1) pareve cps over sseersre. stan sfs)oueleterceis, cise 3,475,595 3,194,492 120,355 20,072
SmithsonianpAgency, Account (Designated)) © 2). 2.6.0 secs cs os 18,672 21,679 817 (19,110)
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) ............... 2,083,945 QoS olin, 89,515 39,973
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Endowmentshunds (Designated) ermyepeicrmeicisierstcies i clereiicreie ete aes 463,058 810,947 39,937 —
Webb jamesiE= Fellowship) (Designated) fije sc. s60 ccc se os os 1,593,874 1,578,666 59,478 133,087
Women’s Committee Fellowship (Designated) ..................... 205,205 196,333 eso: 6,529
Subtotalmeyrerreryein vn seierterciotscoie ns ace fer eusys ole evemtve susdeusiececel Snes 145,669,693 156,162,440 5,900,219 423,966
HOMMSONRESDRIGHEDIPURPOSE Mc oe scissors wane $154,816,321 $166,798,938 $6,313,475 $567,640

RESTRICTED PURPOSE - TRUE:

Aitken; Annie Laurie, Endowment Fund ....................--+-- 429,394 472,993 17,746 58,204
PANTIVENISM) ATTICS BM Prete eMeretctaretie tare au Sees Selle. ave op iles wna evs Seeley evel slice: evel eve 263,922 320,640 12,080 18,433
Bandas pencemnullertonimey er terete ereyatc rene rrcr tenses ete ser-aeet ela key eueuenersererere 237,418 286,619 10,799 21,394
RawneveicewhikewViem Orialuny-micnrrn- wen terclerarsieverexsekeversieoxcvsiciee orohets 189,164 229,773 8,657 46,706
Batehel orspemimay lag cvepe cores ce fe aro ose Mene ve 5180s 50'6 Sn5 oy 50 Shee Salle exsue evel dlecis 216,725 237,674 8,955 22,405
Beanrepards @athenines Memorialleyryr eee civerieine hice even aerate 347,898 383,109 14,434 70,104
Bercenm Ghar otteg Vane veycy-vav=ncswencnevarederewensrenerepeetavey oy alton ater shay cvatebereineroeus 22,706 23,730 894 4,454
Browne olan awa anteteye ates ave seohoial etches chee. si oietos ad cichteeisie ene oe 216,143 246,110 972: 10,771
Burch, George, Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and

Atiliatedwmiheoreticisciences Fund! saver «| 4a) cece cies eens cc creo nero 2,104,096 2,156,412 81,245 235,989
Carag! iG! 3.o.6.5:0 ems BO: BIDIIG ORIEL te be Cerone Re eee on 105,161 95,639 3,283 946
Wanteld MiredericktAtwe tas ters cents aici oisto- aro incre anal fone: clove 281,248 353,272 13,310 102
Cacayy Inomas [einselli tag o onloeis o.a.0"o: icicle Go orerciaig Gane oer een one 90,158 102,940 3,878 17,410
Ghamberlammbrancesslecagaraciny enter cleckue seh ieie eee 185,733 225,607 8,500 28,393
Coonemkundtombaleobiolopyarieicmie riers smite occ acre 296,372 306,189 10,754 4,072
Deibelm Charlessewee weet ers over tere leas oe Ries ar ke ae ale ies 109,306 100,461 3,785 6,446
DivisionofMammalsiGuratorsskund eee eie cece ceases ee pee. 19,246 2132. 796 3,293
Drake FOnhOn. 34.5 6oecia SOBs bho de OO Ue Bane ne eee 1,234,461 1,358,474 50,927 114,934
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. Fund .................. 440,360 453,169 17,074 17,615
Dykes @harlesmBequest maar ya sar cect evens is 6 cient seuieie eros sues 415,944 454,710 16,523 41,523
Batons iia rrieteruillipsmerey eras inc er aeitctoreoiers sieravs ote tystonisversin a io.ec 77,671 78,708 2,965 11,733
BickemeyerphiOreniCeIBrevOOLt! rsracteietstetelercieksrs eis le-siciein eisleue sic /eiete.ere 71,671 87,049 3,280 5,536
play Memorell 65 5.6.0.0-acm.oa neh. tia Com OD Oe CRITE ete e metre 36,438 36,925 1,391 5,504
RorbeswEdwardawaldovepyarcimiy- acenewaciievevomscise aisirtcuenspoisee eke | oie cis 1,207,832 1,244,001 46,869 106,163
Rreery Gharlesul emmys roe tcrsis, acto eee Neyo. .e osu ive co rows Oroveeh yer wish whkeyrave 56,838,783 64,821,193 2,442,195 2,049,867
Fund for Future - Samuel C. Johnson Theater .................-..-. 516,820 498.179 12,542 15,489
und) forshuture I Maryal. Ripley; Gardens «4.0 -. cceceisese 6 «eo 10,197 9,203 231 231
Rungsorgbuture—iethelu NikisKominik -y. je iy svsiieis) se) enroueeieiecie es eseiee 101,761 99,287 1,870 1,870
Global Environmental Endowment Fund ..................-+- 000: 3,635 3,673 138 541
(Gai, SERESTING Gio clgca mo Oe OO IRIE OG SOO OTERO ee eee eee ee 192,410 203,089 7,652 39,132
IGLOOMIBALLICKaW Me weyepete eta ot costar stereo cNe niece ec cn vete-eee stede Sues ver aera 195,783 204,436 7,702 26,624
CnepenhermyOanieliandiFlorence sameeren reece ee 766,598 829,397 31,248 20,860
eri ton, Jens (Ceo ING IN osecpcsouopocon ee oconeeueoead dons 6,815 7,417 348 5,040
JR ereyaye, Leatval AN, (Caemolern © oi oeeche ta cast Oro on Gite Oe LEER oe es ne 3,317,861 3,049,802 101,482 139,467
Henderson, Edward P. and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund ............. S278 320,451 12,073 12,778
ews item leanon GeyRepain und gerry cays mics ccd-ee eee nieces «el euee 47,090 52,145 1,965 3227;
HlewitteeSara hy COOpers torey eats recieves) slay cia lvere ease SAS oud i fenle iw eens 278,198 307,794 11,596 11,519
istiivcre, Wiaetll 3 o crete cake amen ee een 0 em anne ee 47,278 53,983 2,034 12,866
PLITCHCOCKMA Dente Scere eae nceheere cecdctiee fevers city eee ne ene ues 10,533 12,845 484 2,768
nodal kins iomal (Sao INR) Soseocoeso boot oneDenese suoene pone 160,299 157,864 8,698 88278
EirdlickamAlestandjyMaticwa ter cast ne ere esse wisie oie eves eiawi wien 346,547 399,184 15,040 13,686
IRIN NES, INRIBD “oS bie Sea OOO ENDO LO Ol ote OTR TENE oe ees 126,357 153,528 5,784 135395)
Rimunyon Nieto line) cos bonsonoddenoboessHeS on odoeeoe s 320,659 323,289 12,107 46,601
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ............... 00: BSE) STP 26,960,094 1,015,745 —
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial................-+-- 378,805 406,639 15,321 1,052
INapeyrneie, INEVS Ered to Oo Och BREO Ero ERO BUEN nee ee eee 26,472 28,424 1,071 1,917
Koni Deine Karl BVA PRIA hk ey te Paitercy oo isin: or anelichet pare eeeieieuer eee 55,400 52,235 1,968 615
Mandi SilascyeandtBeverlysersscemteencyaicr nc aiecs cvs. croetaisres eateteieie Saree 117,127 112,687 4,246 2,717
laxwel SEN atyal presse pe raisrcir ey aterote here naiara sialotncarorA ara sisiauavene 129,468 157,304 5,927 39,115
Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment ............-....- 805,615 877,349 33,055 90,165
MellonsPublications/ Endowment Hund) s2.4...+55202s25265555 o 4s 1,046,537 1,019,271 38,402 61,987
MillikentallsOothouty Memorial sein ciscs creme tere cs nae 1,042 1,533 58 419
WainleralEEndOwInentumareene rere rok yarns: coc Saciatete a ers eect settee 635,729 707,945 26,672 86
vitechel a allia men ee Treen Tre, Seamer ts cans nck ecuct ini miecnsiels 86,601 96,642 3,641 443
MoynihanswElizabethWerwurgryie tac cicta es miei sete ore ever once sic eke 51,149 46,161 1,159 1,159
Museum of the American Indian - Heye Foundation ................ 1,110,244 1,125,064 42,388 167,773
INMAT/Educational/Endowment Fund|...--...+eseesc-c sess e oes 54,297 50,401 1,790 —
Nelnisa ld enninpybndowmenthund pein ene ere eee 275,453 266,960 10,031 36,117
Nebom, Ralienal Willen cocoons moocoopanogeeodeeneegose bus 149,218 178,133 6,711 26,424
Hetxocel lim) osephyMemorialesery-reiicieis cine oeielelciniereie onnere seekers 49,065 59,667 2,248 11,939
ReidapAddisonile (SeexNotelt) ini ecyereic cic clcesreesieve enoie cue evasetnvere toleceus 145,509 163,350 6,457 33,411

91
Table 5. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1994 (continued)

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
RESTRICTED PURPOSE - TRUE: (continued)

Ripley,co-1illonvand!Mary/Eivingston) sere riecr-terereieisicealsneletenerdoroielereress 270,492 285,142 10,505 =
Roebling yRumd yy. yeusts cseie ie cots kena sucneieys (ole ovens tence teases eee ane tetereva/chetets 793,301 962,267 36,254 Vai!
Rollins#Miriamrand Walliarny eye schslersietel teusicneiedel olehetencn teresa) ere temencters 1,755,204 1,993,562 74,364 72,254
SacklersPublic Affairs ae oy e-cicrccre: sta sin thee ora ever chev ebier ete iatace enol awene 3,122,740 2,870,040 108,131 136,032
Saari (iil basccmoromemodomire og adiarnubdocs dace cacuie mot 22,694 22,997 866 3,428
SimsNGeorge Wie wes. svciayscenstoseoraain ucisicaeters teuedoneusvesetevefertrerersser mer Coreiets 200,226 209,868 7,907 40,452
Sisleys\ Georg epee crsescewncie eres) detoveicveucheeyetele stclere evelet apse tiereneueusY cl euevers 109,072 109,655 1,032 1,032
SprapuepBund oe oo s.cis;s.s)s0seseva-s ous etsteszel ecses sel cc succopecspuis etereceuevstelscehs 10,917,721 11,918,568 444,585 193,997
Springer: (hrank, ‘pzjersicns ca syeceioussonsusyens Co cevreley sucusironersesscehsic foronsvee\o)oVeiens 118,506 143,592 5,410 23,584
Stemi laroldie: 2 Memorial ieiersoctcuarsiasencieneastsncteceietensierevoroneyorettrcesiousherene 1,248,638 1,371,209 51,661 334,767
Stevenson; John A.,, Mycological Library... 0500.5 00000 00ce ee mene 34,451 39,230 1,478 7,173
Stuarts Mary HMornenm errr verdes iota cine taeet rete terete tetele mero et enema 489,117 498 440 18,779 47
Tupper, EarliStystcratecsvare tose croregecs tas tobe hater ec tote: hate eta Rereiie euletesons 3,269,799 3,127,996 95,859 23,099
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ............2-0+2 eee 1,174,526 1,314,836 48,875 59,103
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ...............2 005. 388,340 485,679 18,298 26,932
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research .............22-22 000+ 41,953 44,134 1,645 640
Williams: \BlainiGGlElsiovrc.-% aie <tekoms cel sehiieoimanlacie tee en Elaine: 47,785 48,423 1,824 WAM)
Ler bee wPrancesiBrinGkles vere rancieevareiche, teueatersiele round teen tetae ets sevsiers 6,228 7,550 284 8,797
Zirkle. Nancy Behrend). ejrccrecicloeyeninciet emer ecciers herent eiete ayers 42,324 41,032 952 —

Sirbtotal’ sapcrevaver shakey cto sicreve lous en choven Nets waclic key ele la: Sean Pel ore anit reins 124,964,239 138,586,174 5,168,205 4,715,996

RESTRICTED PURPOSE - QUASI:
Abbott); Marie Bohnm yee rcverere ave stelerateveteyevesevelolevoielel ckenateferete crave ceievene
ATMStrOnEMEGWINV AMES Mere -ieoleroinclctlereiers ol ctelelciesteerstenenerekoveiel sects
AisPanier Bleurileseperstesovets.cts soveloyetouecedetelatacate vege eral char evemere is lehave menses
Bacon Virginia rd ys wnarere. sisyoteleretcter staretel ay eicreisocvevalsteneceteietereterciuavereus
Batemans !RObert farciexerss «isis sexcva eyeveretocorehe tive, cincerete slave Gucropeberersteneuen says
Becker Georges Fig xeratcrs eis, sys nctons.suskenehensietencse seve) akevacale Paateoener rao eieans
Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund ...............0+ 000.
Denghausen; Luisitail;andikranz Ele Bund) faye eeiaie) «<< elses) ire
BDesantels: Paul EQ vane sciccscsccicre ss: oes eis averse eee rorls. a siete
Rriendsjof Music Endowment! bund paet-rere eterersieiauecei evelsiaieeeteteterenere teteters
GavertiGordon:ptccpopea char ers etota: cecteterster eee inc yarcbe dave teversie te tere ta anaes arate
HaasGloria, Fellowship) -tstszsy-serersuotsierede oeee/ si sleie avoir eieteisicieroheten eters
Fachenberg;| Georgeiey andl Carolinessni-recis ete sietrertsia talon
Hammond, John, Performance Series Fund ...........2.--s+.0+s0c>
Hanson) MartiniGustavand! Garoline R-)s.cim > a1 <)- 1- cicrersiereetereye) cre eee
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ............0+----2+ eee:
Hirshhorn Josephikis Bequest bund tererjoryacesteraicie eo eicteleneietciean eselioretele
bheyEoleniaglnustakund| rere vicrs, Terortete c aieiel aren eater rari ee
Whe} Holeniaplrustl Bund! secre -c ere tecieiearstc pote aleve aeeteiatevereteievel Creel
FunterdontiEndowmient ye -ieicreleeietieiotererelcielel ateleinte tetcioieveteretorieietevare
Johnson: EAR SRenimores isictuscas.csdteest ier eeleders oh roe oie ne cee
Manes Miuldred!Katchmiar: svc) sete rota hooters ocr eee rae
Boebs!MOrcisercteteyctsiarssces « eielionencraiwta eave toren atel syavereler sey exetelokare ei ew evekere
BHong:Annette:E: andiiEdithiG. ie.cisterctetete eee cievete eveieroetelerstore olereiatere
Louies 'RichardiMemoriall scm v.aclrssf ee oe we ieee Gee eee
Merrell MElinor tet p eae orstttcnctensct toes hearer eR Leieieereter:
Miers Gatherineawaldentcmreyereiiercrrerctoe eestor teletoieeicistoreretoiorerete
INoyestiranko Bivens nieve eren- cy cken-saten kore ercuho rete skate tetencrepeler Ke seuiers
INoyess Pauline Riggs 5 </.:-cccy~i's) sisters shez. icievevai here sear bopeueucrenexstonsWenatens
RellsiGorneliavivingston': vo co siciserscscer ta ore eres telelsrertaieterercvaciciorees
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton (See Note 1) ...............
Radley, rel IME oogomooomedenoaagsenoeooedongobos
Ripleydlibratyosrracis cute Store tenet tena eee iaaele tele ioe Een ISRO
RoeblingySolanjResearchiets-valercteeisciereleseuetonelcioiercioiieicloreiencicteiersieterare
Ross, Arthur, Garden and Terrace Endowment .................----
RuefiBérthalM. asim: as soaltuassietere snares meseicntiera tere kena ete
Schultz eonard iP avoe a cae fore sar oo nest ves eT eee OE ne
SeidellvAthert onal sens cnctctee: sete elcrsions, Wore ere ORO on RoI
SmithsonianvApencyzgAccountaarriseireieretorcabteie ten iererate racieieiate
Smithsonianunstitutionyli brariesse eerie ee reieciceeicnecie
Strong; JuliayD > <p yer crap ccterasye oe nee orl er Ee
WitherspoonssDhomas/Acy Memorialigeemiee erences

Subtotal

211,349
29,571
125,798
603,787
117,260
1,042,712
592,612
12,008,335
4,853
117,986
14,629
21,780
30,244
381,687
63,918
9,054,812
2,145,736
6,253,484
2,693,190
22,000,004
50,301
203,940
632,257
3,656
57,636
223,875
145,281
7,227
59,260
53,557
1,095,737
76,763
248,385
168,662
407,856
196,072
153,561
4,127,652
1,628,490
394,209
72,139
926,876

195,610
31,641
132,867
666,867
112,190
1,154,223
572,548
12,244,272
18,416
117,658
15,441
19,962
35,084
371,309
72,970
9,574,265
2,379,997
6,742,277
2,451,706
24,770,870
54,027
184,054
723,696
4,470
53,372
218,431
165,861
8,360
62,609
61,230
1,292,024
87,733
238,456
188,628
379,107
210,544
164,228
4,560,124
1,806,207
360,944
82,441
1,057,819

7,370
1,169
5,006

25,125
4,227
43,486
21,571
439,516
717
4,326
580
710
1,322
13,989
2,749
368,738
92,686
263,017
83,128

931,530
2,036
4,623

27,266
168
1,895
4,115
6,249
315
2,359
2,307
50,948
3,305
6,056
7,107
8,361
7,932
6,000
171,807
68,050
13,315
3,106
39,854

3,094

4,334
28,040

322,660
7,937
320
25,942
166
870
4,115
63,018
174
5,638
11,040
157,481
28.442
6,974
26,272
1,361
12,417
31,386
499,253
(1,334,959)

21,160
232,073

68,447,139
$193,411,378
$348,227,699

73,644,538
$212,230,712
$379,029,650

2,748,136 630,410
$7,916,341 $5,346,406
$14,229,816 $5,914,046

Note 1: Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.

92
Table 6. Construction and Plant Funds, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1993 (in $000s)

FY 1994 FY 1993
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Construction Appropriations:
INationalbZoologicall Parker cesparcqey-teccns¥ ee ena etstiny pov oss. cushousives ose saab ebenayee acatys eine case fatoseasycunlerelel saenahecc Pereueisieaet= $5,400 $7,833
RepairrandsRestoratiomoBuildingspryesstes crete. sdevole ssccustatsicheteves cla oem crs neve eteyeyer ei oteteensuerenene te eucyel kere eter 24,000 24,192
(Constnuction!Planningyand! Minor Constructions cree) cues) cre ote oi ckevevenete: eveetaverei ctoiensieieieneisec ei reiterate nelcte 4,200 4,641
NationaleMuseumiofitherAimertcamy indians rye reyst sie) e1 ois) «1 sic) sil telere) ciel eiciei eens ecsrolereioveleheteleieicieleneitelenskeieieicasiers 6,200 2,132
NationaleMiuseumiofNaturaliilistorys-yEasti COurt) tr. ye cieic «i eieersieieile circle cic eis aici telaicieieestel tel cleioiereloe — 9,914
MoralphederaliConstructionFA ppropriatlonsimepeele clensielsiaicisted-ieccelerel ne) cierto ere ki kociekeie eaters teicher 39,800 48,712
Nonappropriated Trust Plant Funds:
Income - Gift and Other:
Pnvironinentalgresearchy Gemtelpereraps usta heranect sue kone au chee Sie cre deses ayaa evaiteh siauare tere eecisdotoreasie ee okere ehexcueierscheraeche 141 153
Diopicalgresearchyinstitute —sluppemResearchyhacilitiesiysmv-.cis\y-telctcherelierstchetsichnc ase iinet eickeieteieneicnaren 42 68
Cooper newittyNationaluDesigny MUseUmitaye aieiotare si cis ci sie euers icici enera sverercrctelcecnelcrel sien sneiehebenerel sieleisisr cise 30 46
Wisitormintormationtand: Associatesm Reception Genter mars shpat caetoveieie i sucieiencieneicicietetecinteneis recientes _ 1
NanonaleviuseumloimthesAmenicanjindianterer seni ceitel ici Clacie ler cicicie eicientictaicieieeieieieteaiereiene iene sen 9,042 10,245
neers Gal lenyzariG ea Wi tOuimercreyencpeiedenskevfavel ctlese cclensiseysis, ems ehatisus. os eens) cusdcueneds nayicve geboneucyerancwerensdetonel auekene teyemers 13 121
NanonaleMuseumiotiNaturalebdistonys- Gemikdalli eres cue cles rciein ciel cechoiiciaie eiciekstoielioteisieinicielsieeieneicions 2,434 1,413
NationalauseumiofiNaturalldistony insect #20 ON. cise clere er cle fers si cieiorcie siaievie chereucreranelcuatene)eioionerenaiclcrer archers — 174
BERT E aL M ACC Cm RIT ere coe eat rape Fa hic asteK Sete wha Sa Var, 2) as'gnel oMloste Ce CauGwyelianietar ee, hepandyauial Gtaned ee tore ele loletane oiacerenstene te v6 11,702 12221
Transfers (to)/from Other Funds:
NationaleMuseumyroftheyAmericanilndianiee pps eyeicieicienciierieeexsicioteksbemictonereicicrenenoietercreieicicieteneasin cic reieriee 1,600 MAN ils}
Breer Gallenygand eA ucit Onur lies sere eneye tere cous. 5, Tous cece cre Ce wese yee kava ch oi ete te eres erate arene Sis HOGI eyeberstere — (25)
Nationally Museumiot Naturalllldistorya-1GemlbHallumerae secic tice iciciereieeie clieeeiecre icine ici eincete (216)* (51)
(Coopenhewitt.¢NationallDesipn’Museumury cies cts ae chckec icteric ticker (401)** —
Misitomlntormationyand Associates aReception Genter nian seine aeleeic eles cleieleieiieieiel ives cvereiensielelel crores = (84)
(UNEP oo o eo S it's Gd ET HAIT ERB Epeee ALOIS AIEEE RCRA ts Se RCA REE Ae eee ci ei iN ei — (2)
Wo ll THATS: 356-0 6-6 Bq aS God REORDER GOP IE GOIEICICIG CIO Renn SACI ERG Or ONS CIRO OS Coa 983 1,951

TIOTUNL, UUINIDS IIROMIDIED) «Se oaee ote eooapuaenoeenl bod oUoD CUS eUoAm nono uadE Sood dupdoMDoneS $52,485 $62,884

* Funds reclassified to current operating funds.
** Funds transferred to an endowment fund.

During the summer of 1994, the Smithsonian
Jazz Masterworks Orchestra performed many
free concerts for Washingtonians. The
Orchestra receives funding from a
Congressional appropriation and from the
Recording Industries Music Performance
Trust Fund.

it SMITHSONTAN

MASTERWORK
ORCHESTRA

MASTERWORKS
ORCHESTRA

Independent Auditors’ Report

BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition
of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1994, and the re-
lated statements of financial activity and cash flows for the year then
ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Insti-
tution’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and per-
form the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the fi-
nancial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit in-
cludes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Condition

statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reason-
able basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial! position of the Smithson-
ian Institution as of September 30, 1994, and the results of its oper-
ations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in note 12 to the financial statements, the Institu-
tion adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Statement
of Financial Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions, during fiscal year 1994.

KKemG Keat Maw tele

December 9, 1994

(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1993)(In thousands)

Assets:
Gashyand| balances;withyU:Ssslreasunysectertersiersicl ia tek sieve cietehereicieiers
Investments} (noters)trenexcserscyerctaree rev retersreisicuavad sieteteialieerarersusloreyeistsreletetevere
Receivables;andiadvances!(noteld)ip sesmicticnercrenerersucioie oi chateraleiaieceieeelererereierctele
INVentoryierry erect cca eter Ce eer
Prepaid, deferred expense and other

Property and equipment, net (note 6)
Collections (note 10)

Wiotalkassets i cevauaycreconstotence pares Pout ete censcore ore nene ae veteceser agen ReMTE Moen nate

Liabilities:
Accountsjpayableyandjaccmediexpenses) <jet-ioiele sore ole te lerstehedetstetstencistenetenedsiel=
Payable for investmentisecunities purchased .....2-.-.0c.-+reeese reese e>
Pepositsiheldifor others (note!2)) cm ioe cise) ne oi oleic ernenereiciictoreiereicnene
Accrued annual leave and voluntary separation costs (note 13)
Deferred revenue

Commitments and contingencies (note 7)

Fund balances:

Trust:

Current:
Wnrestrictedigeneralipurpose crcieeieiie te eerie oe neers
Wnrestrctedtspecialipurposemerrreeremere cic ieiiakiie ieee trier
Restricted! sveteg, ac oreranevace dusvessustenensitensussave ieds-ae ece.5 75 te eietoee mets onedar nara eres

Endowment and similar funds (note 4)

Plant funds

Federal:
@peratingitundsi(note9)saneee ee eee ee eee Eero
Construction: funds). ec.cs.0 arenes aeynetsiare ore ao ore ste FO EEO
Capital funds

Totalifund balances: .4../..00 ter aoa Oe

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

94

Trust Federal Total Totals

funds funds all funds 1993
$ 1,636 171,244 172,880 166,784
409,731 — 409,731 SIO mil
62,555 10,210 72,765 57,738
POSS 1,349 19,302 18,638
21,007 — 21,007 20,186
89,248 345,365 434,613 415,006
$ 602,130 528,168 1,130,298 1,077,463
39,794 19,869 59,663 56,812
9.544 = 9,544 8,431
5,867 6,217 12,084 5,753
4,219 18,025 22,244 15,743
43,625 — 43,625 46,763
3,103 — 3,103 11,536
106,152 44,111 150,263 145,038
11,019 — 11,019 10,193
28,377 — 28,377 28,384
24,576 — 24,576 22,162
348,228 — 348,228 322,723
83,778 — 83,778 74,457
— 47,986 47,986 52,382
— 89,357 89,357 90,098
—_ 346,714 346,714 332,026

495,978 484,057 980,035 932,425

$ 602,130 528,168 1,130,298 1,077,463

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended September 30, 1994
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1993)(In thousands)

Trust Funds Federal Funds
Current Endowment Total Total
funds and similar Plant trust Operating Construction Capital federal Total Totals
(note 15) funds funds funds funds funds funds funds all funds 1993

Revenue and other additions:
Appropriations (note 9) ............- $ — — — — 302,349 39,800 — 342,149 342,149 344,272
Government grants and contracts...... 45,701 — — 45,701 _— —_ — — 45,701 43,768
MAVESEMENE INCOME: 5 a.) 6.0.5.6 00 cere eee oe 18,268 _— 617 18,885 —_ _— — — 18,885 19,569
Net gain on sale of securities ......... (103) 17,382 — 17,279 —= —_ _— — 17,279 17,215
Gifts, bequests and private grants...... Ry WAY 3,338 11,075 46,588 —_ 46,588 43,139
MadiionsitOiplanty sce. 72h «cs ela-le = — _ 7,989 7,989 — — 47,674 47,674 55,663 59,149
Rentals, fees, and commissions

(ELGLELD) Mrenestests never aiouayorenersusheshedeusliatecs 8,947 —_— 10 8,957 1,684 — — 1,684 10,641 10,885
PMV IXA Ayia GELVITIES! aieyeyeie le eites oallee cron 1972233) _— — 197,233 — — — — 197,233 190,846

Total revenue and
Othemadditionspewe.ecc ae. esiersocs 302,221 20,720 19,691 342,632 304,033 39,800 47,674 391,507 734,139 728,843

Expenditures and other deductions:
Research, education and collection
Acquisition|(note 0)! oe .).c.csc0s esses ste 90,131 —_ — 90,131 198,917 _ — 198,917 289,048 278,548
AMTMMGTATON oo ccenb00 cue oUOee 27,671 — — 27,671 27,486 — — 27,486 a Si7 50,769
BAGH IEESISCLVICESH mie ater cieieieuc ie, solexcicveuaue 1,595 — — 1,595 80,862 — — 80,862 82,457 79,181
ANGGUISILION| OL plant yer -elele ce ere ov — — 8,764 8,764 —_— 40,542 — 40,542 49,306 50,501
Property use and depreciation

REG) 64.5 create Sie ene eee nee — a 2,589 2,589 — —_ 32,986 32,986 35,575 32,631
PANAMA LV PACUVILIES 2 r=lsys fons .c 1ey0)64./0..0 e403 173,823 — — 173,823 — — — — 173,823 166,671

Total expenditures and
other/deductions| .....-..-.-=-

i)
\o
we
i)

>
So

11,353 304,573 307,265 40,542 32,986 380,793 685,366 658,301

Excess (deficiency) of revenue
and other additions over
expenditures and other
deductions (note 13) .......... 9,001 20,720 8,338 38,059 (3,232) (742) 14,688 10,714 48,773 70,542

Transfers among funds

((7@G2 11) o6 poe bora Onecare aE (5,768) 4,785 983 — — — — —_— _ _—
Seen aaa

Net increase (decrease) for the year.... . 3,233 25,505 93241 38,059 (3,232) (742) 14,688 10,714 48,773 70,542
Returned to U.S. Treasury (note 9).... . _— — a — (1,163) — — (1,163) (1,163) (1,917)
Fund balances at beginning of year... . . 60,739 322,723 74,457 457,919 52,381 90,099 332,026 474,506 932,425 863,800
—_———_——————— ee eee

Fund balances at end of year ......... $ 63,972 348,228 83,778 495,978 47,986 89,357 346,714 484,057 980,035 932,425

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1994
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1993) (In thousands)

Trust Federal Total Totals
funds funds all funds 1993
Cash flows from operating activities:
Excess of revenue and other additions over expenditures
ariel Caner GA IeHONS or mano wa Aero Re ne Oe Dr an eee $38,059 10,714 48.773 70,542
Adjustments to reconcile to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciationtand amortization ener cies cei eee eee 4,024 31,670 35,694 34,475
Loss on disposition of property and equipment................-2+05- — 1,308 1,308 313
Provision for losses on accounts receivable .............0-00200ee0ee 2,609 _— 2,609 3,248
Gainyonrdispositiontofsinyestmentsie meee ine ee ieee (17,279) — (17,279) (17,215)
Fimals memrnceel zo) US. Wee Ghint ooo og oo ocooboEUeaeesueoadoeBOuOdS — (1,163) (1,163) (1,917)
(Increase) decrease in receivables and advances .............200eee005 (8,026) 1,558 (6,468) 1,260
(increase) idecreaseniniinventony meres ieterei sie ietee ea sie eicters ie cieiedstone crete (670) 6 (664) 1,224
(Increase) decrease in prepaid and deferred expense .................- (821) = (821) 1,297
Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued expenses ........... 2,589 (2,654) (65) (14,369)
Increase (decrease) in deposits held for others ...............2--..-5- 114 6,217 6,331 (86)
Increase in accrued annual leave and voluntary separation costs ......... 660 5,842 6,502 823
Wecreasenmideterredireventiememersrerc sites cic sca cee see cee coe ee erotecee ieee (3,138) — (3,138) (8,025)
—————— ee
Net cash provided by operating activities ...............----++--+--- 18,121 53,498 71,619 71,570
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended September 30, 1994 (continued)
(with comparative totals for the year ended September 30, 1993) (In thousands)

Gashiflows:frombinvesting activities:) 2... cae -eicieve erelereisiete etereieisicieisierecreree
Proceeds from the sale of property and equipment
Payments for purchase of property and equipment
Purchases of investment securities

Neticashiusediforinvesting:activities/wsyei-)-iiacieicleisielacisicre cioteneierssiele
Cash flows from financing activities - repayments of long-term debt ..........

Net increase in fund balances with U.S. Treasury and cash

Cash and balances with U.S. Treasury at the beginning of year

Cash and balances with U.S. Treasury at the end of year ..............-.2.-

Trust Federal Total Totals

funds funds all funds 1993
185 _ 185 =
(10,703) (47,674) (58,377) (59,371)
(828,110) _ (828,110) (593,865)
829,212 — 829,212 584,531

(9,416) (47,674) (57,090) (68,705)

(8,433) (8,433) (1,577)

7ai/2) 5,824 6,096 1,288

1,364 165,420 166,784 165,496

$ 1,636

171,244 172,880 166,784

Supplemental information: Cash paid for interest was $781,000 and $961,000 in 1994 and 1993, respectively. See accompanying notes to financial statements.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Notes to Financial Statements, September 30, 1994

(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

(a) Basis of Presentation

These financial statements reflect the Smithsonian Institution’s receipt and
expenditure of funds obtained from all sources. These funding sources in-
clude federal appropriations, private sources, government grants and con-
tracts, investment income, and certain business activities.

Funds received from direct federal appropriations are reported in the
columns titled Federal Funds in the financial statements. All other funds
are reported in the columns titled Trust Funds in the financial statements.
Federal funds and trust funds are accounted for on the accrual basis of
accounting.

Prior to fiscal year 1994, federal funds were accounted for on the obliga-
tion basis of accounting. Under this method of accounting, obligations of the
federal funds, such as purchase orders and contracts, were recognized as
expenditures, and the related obligations had been reported on the Statement
of Financial Condition, even though the related goods and services had not
been received.

The 1993 comparative balances, including fund balances, have been
restated to conform with current accrual basis reporting practices.

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National
Gallery of Art, the John E. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, which were established
by Congress within the Institution, but are administered under separate
boards of trustees.

(b) Fund Accounting

To ensure compliance with the limitations and restrictions placed on the use
of resources available to the Institution, accounts are maintained in accor-
dance with the principles of fund accounting. This procedure classifies re-
sources for control, accounting and reporting purposes into distinct funds
established according to their nature and purposes. Separate accounts are
maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying financial state-
ments, funds that have similar characteristics have been combined for presen-
tation into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions have been
reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are self-
balancing as follows:

96

Federal operating funds represent appropriated funds available for support
of the Institution’s operations and are generally available for obligation only
in the year received. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each appro-
priation as follows: Salaries and Expenses; Special Foreign Currency; and the
Barro Colorado Island Trust Fund, which supports the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute.

Federal construction funds represent the portion of appropriated funds
available for building and facility construction, restoration, renovation and
repair and are available for obligation until expended. Separate subfund
groups are maintained for each appropriation: Construction and Improve-
ments, Repairs and Restoration of Buildings, and the National Zoological
Park.

Federal capital funds represent the value of the Institution’s assets acquired
with federal funds plus nonexpendable property transfers from U.S. Govern-
ment agencies.

Trust current funds, which include unrestricted and restricted resources,
represent nonappropriated funds available for support of the Institution’s
operations.

Trust endowment and similar funds include funds that are subject to re-
strictions of gift instruments requiring that the principal be invested in perpe-
tuity and that only income be expended. Also classified as endowment and
similar funds are gifts which allow the expenditure of principal only under
specified conditions.

Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board for
the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such funds
may be expended with board approval. Restricted quasi-endowment funds
represent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that the
principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the govern-
ing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the income for
the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted or internally designated for
future plant acquisitions, and funds expended for plant.

(c) Investments

Investments are stated at cost or amortized cost. Investments are recorded at
cost on a trade date basis, if purchased, or estimated fair value at date of ac-
quisition if acquired by gift.

All investment income, except that of endowment and similar funds, and
gains and losses arising from the sale of investments, are accounted for in the
fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income of endowment and sim-
ilar funds is accounted for using the total return method (note 4) in the fund
to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted current
funds. Gains and losses on the sale of investments are recognized on the trade
date basis using the average cost method.

(d) Inventory

Inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined
using the first-in, first-out method.

(e) Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/
Smithsonian magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related
subscription, which is generally one year. Costs related to obtaining subscrip-
tions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/ Smithsonian magazine are
charged against income over the period of the subscription.

The Institution recognizes revenue and charges expenses of other auxiliary
activities during the period in which the activity is conducted.

(f) Works of Art, Living and Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include works of art, library
books, photographic archives, objects and specimens, through purchase with
federal or private funds or by donation. All collections are held for public
exhibition, education, or research in furtherance of the Institution’s mission
to increase and diffuse knowledge to the public. The Institution provides pro-
tection and preservation services for its collections.

In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, no value is
assigned to the collections on the statement of financial condition. Purchases
of collections are expensed currently. Proceeds from deaccessions are recog-
nized as other revenue in the year of sale, and are designated for future col-
lection acquisitions. At September 30, 1994, $9,055,000 was so designated in
the trust funds as quasi-endowment.

(g) Property and Equipment

Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds are recorded in the
capital funds at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful
lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings were appropriated
and reserved by Congress for the Institution and are not reflected in the
accompanying financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equipment
acquired through transfer from government agencies are capitalized at the
transfer price or fair value.

Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for use by nonincome-
producing activities are recorded at cost, or appraised value at date of gift,
except for gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay and the Carnegie
Mansion, which have been recorded at nominal values.

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds for use
by income-producing activities are capitalized at cost in the current funds.

Property and equipment are depreciated on the straight-line basis over
their useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 1S years
Equipment 3-10 years

(b) Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution receives grants and enters contracts with the U.S. government
and state and local governments which primarily provide for cost reimburse-
ment to the Institution. Governmental grant and contract revenue is recog-
nized as reimbursable expenditures are incurred.

(i) Pledges

The Institution records pledges based upon letters signed by donors. Pledges
are recorded at net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred revenue on
the statement of financial condition. Revenue from pledges is recognized in
the year the pledged funds are collected.

(j) Gifts, Bequests, and Other Grants

The Institution recognizes revenue from gifts, bequests and private grants in
the year the cash is received.

(k) Contributed Services and Facilities

A substantial number of volunteers make significant contributions of their
time in the furtherance of the Institution’s programs. The Institution also uses
certain facilities for a nominal charge. The value of the contributed time and
facilities is not reflected in these statements as it is not susceptible to objective
measurement or valuation.

(l) Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with
federal laws and regulations. Annual leave for all employees is recognized as
expense as earned.

(m) Cash and Balances with the U.S. Treasury

Amounts represent cash deposited with financial institutions and balances
held by the U.S. Treasury which are available for disbursement.

(2) Related Entities

The Institution provides certain fiscal, procurement, and administrative ser-
vices to several separately incorporated organizations in which certain offi-
cials of the Institution serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to
the Institution by these organizations for the aforementioned services, to-
gether with rent for Institutional facilities occupied, totaled $156,000 for the
trust funds and $75,000 for the federal funds for fiscal year 1994.

Deposits held in custody for these organizations at September 30, 1994,
were $5,867,000 and $6,217,000 for trust and federal funds, respectively.

(3) Investments

At September 30, 1994, investments comprised of the following:

($000s)
Carrying value — Market value

Current funds:

Cash equivalents $ 21,988 22,002
U.S. government obligations 38,284 36,516
Common stocks 6 AS

60,278 58,523

Plant funds:
Common stocks Hoi 1,161
U.S. government obligations

Endowment and similar funds:
Pooled investments:
Cash equivalents 9,668 9,668
U.S. government and
quasi-government obligations 109,357
Corporate bonds and

other obligations 43,981 43,025

106,508

Common and preferred stocks 183,734 218,362
Subtotal — pooled investments 346,740 377,563

97
Nonpooled investments:
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,018 997

Charitable trusts 459 694:

Subtotal — nonpooled investments 1,477 1,691
Total endowment and

similar funds 348,217 379,254

Total investments $ 409,731 439,184

(4) Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution uses the total return approach to investment management of
endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Each year, the endowment
pays out an amount for current expenditures based upon a number of factors
evaluated and approved by the Board of Regents. The payout for 1994 was
4.4 percent of the average market value of the endowment over the prior five
years. The difference between the income (i.e., dividends, interest and realized
capital gains) and the payout for the year is reinvested or withdrawn from
previously accumulated returns. Actual income exceeded the payout amount
in fiscal year 1994 and the excess was transferred from current funds to the
endowment and similar funds (see note 12).

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis, with each individual fund subscribing to or
disposing, of units on the basis of the per unit market value at the beginning
of the month within which the transaction takes place. At September 30,
1994, each unit had a market value of $425. The market value of the pool’s
net assets at September 30, 1994 was $378,033,000, representing all pooled
investments (see note 3) plus net receivables and payables related to invest-
ment transactions.

Each fund participating in the investment pool receives an annual payout
equal to the number of units owned times the annual payout amount per
unit. The payout for fiscal year 1994 was $16.00 per unit. Based on approved
Board policy, if the market value of any endowment fund is less than 110 per-
cent of the historical value, the current payout is limited to the actual interest
and dividends allocable to that fund.

Fund balances of the endowment and similar funds are comprised of the
following at September 30, 1994:

Units ($000s)

Endowment - unrestricted 23,405 $ 9,147
Endowment - restricted 326,068 124,964
Quasi-endowment - unrestricted 367,233 145,670
Quasi-endowment - restricted 173,414 68,447
890,120 $ 348,228

(5) Receivables and Advance Payments

Trust fund receivables at September 30, 1994 comprised the following:

($000s)

Auxiliary activities and other,

net of $1,528 allowance for
doubtful accounts $ 19,001
Investment securities sold 7,413
Pledges receivable 6,845
Grants and contracts 6,646
Interest and dividends receivable 3,442
Interfund receivables and other 19,208
$ 62,555

Advance payments of $10,210,000 represent prepayments made to govern-
ment agencies, educational institutions, firms and individuals for services to
be rendered, or property or materials to be furnished.

At September 30, 1994, the Institution had advance payments outstanding
to the General Services Administration of $5,331,000, principally for equip-

98

ment purchases for the Museum Support Center and other projects to be
completed in future fiscal years. Advance payments outstanding to educa-
tional institutions amounting to $2,556,000 were principally under the Spe-
cial Foreign Currency Program. Other advance payments totaled $2,323,000.

(6) Property and Equipment
($000s)

Trust funds

Current Plant Federal
funds funds Totals funds Totals
Land $ = 2,565 2,565 - 2,565
Buildings 4,125 83,452 87,577 297,986 385,563
Capital
improvements 26,484 - 26,484 302,034 328,518
Equipment 11,842 7,482 19,324 50,115 69,439
Leasehold
improvements 1,543 = 1,543 = 1,543

43,994 93,499 137,493 650,135 787,628

Less - accumulated
(22,062) (26,183) (48,245) (304,770) (353,015)

depreciation

Total $21,932 67,316 89,248 345,365 434,613

Property use and depreciation expense in the federal funds for fiscal year
1994 included $31,670,000 of depreciation expense in the capital funds.

Depreciation expense in the trust funds for fiscal year 1994 for income-
producing assets amounted to $2,103,000 and is included in auxiliary activi-
ties expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation for nonincome-producing
equipment and buildings for fiscal year 1994 amounted to $2,589,000 and is
included in the plant funds.

At September 30, 1994, the fund balance of the trust plant funds included
$15,669,000 of restricted funds and $793,000 of unrestricted funds desig-
nated for future plant acquisitions.

(7) Commitments and Contingencies

(a) Leasing Activities

Leases for various Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for esca-
lation of rents to coincide with increases in property taxes, operating ex-
penses attributable to the leased property and the Consumer Price Index. The
Institution has the authority to enter into leases for up to 30 years using fed-
eral funds.

The Institution’s operating leases for the warehouse and office spaces re-
quire future minimum lease payments as follows:

($000s)

1995 $ 9,429
1996 6,344
1997 5,496
1998 4,916
1999 3,841
Thereafter 10,297
$ 40,323

Rental expense for these real property leases totaled $10,559,000 for fiscal
year 1994.

(b) Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution receives funding or reimbursement from governmental agen-
cies for various activities which are subject to audit. Audits of these activities
have been completed through the fiscal year 1993. However, audits of fiscal
years 1992 and 1993 have not been finalized with the cognizant agency.
Management believes that any adjustments which may result from those
audits and the audits for fiscal year 1994 would not have a material effect on
the Institution’s financial statements.

(8) Long-term Debt

As of September 30, 1994, long term debt consists of an unsecured note
payable to Signet Bank totaling $3,103,000. The note bears interest at

1 percent in excess of the Federal Funds Rate, which was 4.75 percent at
September 30, 1994. Interest is payable quarterly; principal is payable
quarterly in installments of $63,333. Remaining unpaid principal balance is
due December 31, 1996.

The proceeds of the note with Signet Bank financed a warehouse facility
for Institution museum shops. During the fiscal year 1994, $152,000 was
recorded as interest expense in the auxiliary activities funds related to the
note with Signet Bank.

The aggregate amount due to Signet Bank for years ending September 30,
are as follows:

($000s)
1995 S$) 253
1996 253
1997 23597.
$ 3,103

During fiscal year 1994, the Institution paid off a note payable and accrued
interest to Riggs National Bank totaling $7,410,000. The Institution was as-
sessed a $200,000 prepayment penalty included in the payoff amount. Dur-
ing the fiscal year 1994, $632,000 was recorded as interest expense in the
auxiliary activities funds related to this note.

(9) Availability of Prior Years’ Appropriations

On November 5, 1990, the U.S. Congress enacted Public Law 101-510, the

Defense Authorization Act (the Act) which prescribes the rules for determin-
ing the availability of appropriation balances and establishes the procedures
for closing appropriation accounts.

The major purpose of the Act is to restructure annual appropriation
accounts. Beginning with the fiscal year 1989 appropriations, recipients are
required to maintain annual appropriations for a five-year period following
the year of appropriation. At the end of this six-year life, the appropriation
account is closed and any unobligated balances are returned to the U.S.
Treasury.

(10) Accessions and Deaccessions

For fiscal year 1994, $5,305,000 of trust funds and $1,085,000 of federal
funds were expended for the acquisition of collections items. Proceeds from
trust funds deaccessions were $1,178,000. There were no deaccessions of
collections purchased with federal funds in fiscal year 1994.

(11) Transfers Among Trust Funds

The following transfers increased (decreased) trust funds for fiscal
year 1994:
($000s)

Current funds Endowment and Plant

similar funds —_ funds

Unrestricted Restricted

Interest in excess

of payout $ (483) (585) 1,068 -
Quasi-endowment

reallocated to

restricted and

unrestricted 1,331 2,202 (3,533) -
Designated as

quasi-endowment (382) (6,467) 7,250 (401)
Other, net i (1,493) = 1,384

Total transfers 8 5 (6,343) 4,785 983

(12) Employee Benefit Plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by either the Civil Ser-
vice Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement System
(FERS). The features of both of these systems are defined in published gov-
ernment documents. Under both systems, the Institution withholds from the
salary of each federal employee the percentage of salary required. The Institu-
tion also contributes specified percentages. The Institution’s cost of the pro-
grams for fiscal year 1994 was $16,399,000.

The Institution has a separate defined contribution retirement plan for
trust employees, in which substantially all employees of the trust funds are
eligible to participate. Under the plan, the Institution contributes stipulated
percentages of salary which are used to purchase individual annuities, the
rights to which are immediately vested with the employees. Employees can
make voluntary contributions, subject to certain limitations. The Institution’s
cost of the plan for fiscal year 1994 was $8,426,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to pay the accrued costs of all plans
currently.

In addition to the Institution’s retirement plans, the Institution makes avail-
able certain health care and life insurance benefits for active and retired em-
ployees. The plan is contributory for retirees and requires payment of premi-
ums and deductibles. Retiree contributions for premiums are established by
an insurance carrier based on the average per capita cost of benefit coverage
for all participants, active and retired, in the Institution’s plan. The inclusion
of retirees in the calculation of average per capita cost results in a higher av-
erage per capita cost than would result if only active employees were covered
by the plan. Therefore, the Institution has a postretirement benefit obligation
for the portion of the expected future cost of the retiree benefits that are not
recovered through retiree contributions. The Institution’s policy is to fund the
cost of these benefits on the pay-as-you-go basis.

The Institution adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s State-
ment of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, during fiscal year 1994 and
elected to record the October 1, 1993, accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation (APBO) using the 20-year amortization option.

The following table presents the Plan’s funded status reconciled with
amounts recognized in the Institution’s statement of financial condition at
September 30, 1994:

$000s)
Accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation (APBO):
Retirees $ (2,477)
Eligible active plan participants (3,890)
Total APBO (6,367)
Plan assets at fair value 190
Accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation in excess
of plan assets (6,177)
Unrecognized prior service costs -
Unrecognized net gain (1,132)
Unrecognized transition obligation 6,195
Accrued postretirement

benefit cost $ (1,114)

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year ended September 30,
1994 includes the following components:

($000s)
Service costs $ 453
Interest costs 481
Amortization of transition
obligation over 20 years 326
Net periodic postretirement
benefit cost $ 1,260

99
The discount rate used to determine the APBO was 8.25 percent. A 10 per-
cent health care cost trend rate was assumed for fiscal year 1994 with this
rate decreasing .5 percent each year to an ultimate rate of 5 percent in fiscal
year 2005 and thereafter. If the assumed health care cost trend rate was in-
creased by 1 percentage point in each year, the net periodic postretirement
benefit cost would be higher by $167,000 and the APBO higher by $887,000
as of September 30, 1994.

(13) Voluntary Separation Costs

During fiscal year 1994, the Institution announced the Voluntary Separation
Incentive Program. This program was offered to meet employee restructuring
requirements of the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act. The Institution ac-
cepted 209 federal funds employees and 23 trust funds employees into the
program. Voluntary separation costs totaling $5,109,000 and $434,000 were
recorded to the federal and trust funds, respectively. The deficiency of rev-
enue and other additions over expenditures and other deductions of the fed-
eral operating funds resulted primarily from this transaction.

(14) Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Organizations

described in that section are taxable only on their unrelated business income.
No provision for income taxes is required for fiscal year 1994. (

It is the opinion of the Institution’s management that it is also exempt from
taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section
501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt
from all income taxation. The Institution has not yet formally sought such
dual status.

(15) Current Trust Funds Financial Activity

Current unrestricted funds are comprised of three distinct subfunds. These
subfunds include the auxiliary activities fund that represents primarily the
revenue and expenditures of the Smithsonian Associates, Smithsonian and Air
& Space/Smithsonian magazines, and museum shop and mail order sales. The
special purpose fund represents funds internally designated for specific pur-
poses and the general purpose fund consists of all other unrestricted activity
in the current funds.

The financial activity for the current trust funds by subfund for fiscal year 1994 is as follows:

($000s)
Unrestricted
General Auxiliary Special
purpose activities purpose Total Restricted Totals
Revenue and other additions:
Government grants and contracts $ - - - - 45,701 45,701
Investment income 8,758 - 849 9,607 8,661 18,268
Net gain (loss) on sale of securities (103) - - (103) - (103)
Gifts, bequests and private grants 58 8,901 889 9,848 22-327, 32175)
Rentals, fees, and commissions 326 - 4,938 5,264 3,683 8,947
Auxiliary activities = 183,843 13,390 197,2 - 197,233
Total revenue and other additions 9,039 192,744 20,066 221,849 80,372 302,221
Expenditures and other deductions:
Research, educational and
collection acquisition 10,698 - 16,570 27,268 62,863 90,131
Administration 9,954 8,153 818 18,925 8,746 27,671
Facilities services 1,094 = 495 1,589 6 1,595
Auxiliary activities - 164,962 8,861 173,823 = 173,823
Total expenditures and other deductions 1,74 173,11 26,744 221,605 71,61 293,220
Excess of revenue and other additions over
(under) expenditures and other deductions (12,707) 19,629 (6,678) 244 8,757 9,001
Transfers among funds 13,533 (19,629) 6,671 575 (6,343) (5,768)
Net increase (decrease) for the year $ 826 - (7) 819 2,414 3,233

100

Front cover: In 199.
to the Smithsonian’

New York to crea
on exhibit at the S
SMITHSONIAN
YEAR

+29.)

SO a PW err

L a OME — ——
& Home “= Back > Forward (= Reload Load Images Stop © Load Original

Current URL: | http://www.si.edu

| Page complete [SSAC Image complete

SMITHSONTAN

America’s Treasure House for Learning

cum mais! ee ton : : : ; - = :
Eg [PLACES] Eq JAcTivmies} a | RESOURCES }
EJ PEOPLE] Ed [Perspectives] EW PRODUCTS |

4

Reais oe.

Pa

oO

1846-1996

Smithsonian
SMITHSONIAN
NODE EE

1995

Annual Report of the Smithsonian
Institution for the Year Ended
September 30, 1995

PYBLICLIBA RARY_
sR UE DOCUENISDETMENT

cecwven

UN 3.0 1998

nat

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
Washington, D.C. © 1996
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION [lit 0; og | aaa aia
Board of Regents

Under Separate Boards of Trustees

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL
CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

Office of Planning, Secretariat
Management, and Budget

Inspector
General

THE SECRETARY

=
\
\
|
|
|
|
|
|
NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
\
\
\
\
|
|
|
!
|
4

Office of General Counsel

The Provost

Office of Government Relations The Under Secretary Assistant Proto

Assistant Provost Assistant Provost

for Arts &

Humanities

Office of Communications 5
for Educational

& Cultural

for the Sciences

Assistant Secretary
tor
Finance &
Administration

Other Functions

Assistant Secretary
tor
Institutional
Advancement

The Under Secretary

Programs

|

FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION

Office of the Comptroller
Office of Contracting and Property Management
Office of Equal Employment and Minority Affairs
Office of Facilities Services
Office of Architectural History and Historic
Preservation
Office of Design and Construction
Office of Environmental Management and
Satety
Office of Plant Services
Office of Protection Services
Office of Human Resources
Office of Printing and Photographic Services
Office of Risk and Asset Management
Office of Sponsored Projects
Ombudsman

OTHER FUNCTIONS

Business Management Office

Office of the Senior Information Officer
Office of Telecommunications

The Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine

The Provost

INSTITUTIONAL ADVANCEMENT

National Campaign for the National Museum of
the American Indian

Office of Membership and Development

Office of Special Events and Conference Services

Smithsonian National Board

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

SCI GES

Conservation Analytical Laboratory

National Museum of Natural History
Museum Support Center

National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Office of International Relations

Office of Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

ARTS & HUMANITIES

Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
Freer Gallery of Art

Center for Museum Studies

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Institutional Studies Office

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art
Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American History
National Postal Museum

National Museum of the American Indian

National Portrait Gallery

Office of Exhibits Central

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

EDUCATIONAL &
CULTURAL PROGRAMS

Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural
Studies

National Science Resources Center

Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education

Io

31

31

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

REPORT OF THE BOARD
OF REGENTS

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR
THE YEAR IN REVIEW

THE PROVOST
Office of the Provost

SCIENCES

Conservation Analytical Laboratory
National Museum of Natural History
National Zoological Park

Office of Fellowships and Grants
Office of International Relations
Office of Smithsonian

Institution Archives

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Tropical

Research Institute

ARTS AND HUMANITIES
Anacostia Museum

Archives of American Art
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
Center for Museum Studies
Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum

Freer Gallery of Art
Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

CON TENS

47. Institutional Studies Office

48 National Air and Space Museum

49 National Museum of African Art

50 National Museum of American Art

51 National Museum of
American History

52 National Museum of the
American Indian

53 National Portrait Gallery

54 Office of Exhibits Central

54 Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

EDUCATIONAL AND
CULTURAL PROGRAMS

55 Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

56 National Science Resources Center

57 Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

THE UNDER SECRETARY

57 Office of the Under Secretary

58 FINANCE AND
ADMINISTRATION

60 INSTITUTIONAL
ADVANCEMENT

61 National Campaign for the National
Museum of the American Indian

61 Office of Membership and
Development

62 Office of Special Events and
Conference Services

62 Smithsonian National Board

62 Smithsonian Women’s Committee

63 OTHER FUNCTIONS
63 Business Management Office

63 Office of Communications

65 Office of Government Relations

65 Office of Planning, Management,
and Budget

65 Office of Telecommunications

66 Office of the Senior
Information Officer

66 The Smithsonian Associates

68 Smithsonian Institution Press

69 Smithsonian Magazine

69 Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine

AFFILIATED
ORGANIZATIONS

7o John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts
71 National Gallery of Art
71 Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.
2 Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

74 BENEFACTORS

83 FINANCIAL REPORT

Annals of the Smithsonian Institution 1995,
containing a chronology of the year and records
of Smithsonian advisory boards; narrative re-
ports from museums and offices; visitor counts;
fellows, interns, and research associates; publi-
cations; staff; and donations to the Institution, is
made available on the World Wide Web by the
Smithsonian Institution Press and the Office of
the Senior Information Officer at
http://www.si.edu.

Cover: Original drawing and computer manipu-
lation by Jane Fitzgerald and James Killian of
F&S Graphic Design.

>)
5 PARE VGRINGe Byard Eee

SE @ Re Miy Awa

When I look back at my installation as Smithsonian
Secretary, in September 1994, it seems simultaneously
to have happened yesterday and a decade ago. I can
hardly remember doing anything else; yet I don’t
know where the year went.

For me, one of the most exciting events of the year
was the launching of the Smithsonian’s World Wide
Web site on May 8, 1995. The Smithsonian Home
Page (http://www.si.edu) is a gateway to more than
2,000 electronic pages and thousands of images in a
fully integrated, cross-referenced presentation of the
Smithsonian’s sites, people, and resources. This was
the first step toward fulfilling the commitment I made
at my installation, a promise that the Smithsonian
would become more than the place to visit in
Washington, that we should become present through-
out the country in new ways, and that we would
become deeply engaged in this new world of infor-
mation transmission and sharing. As of September
30, more than 8.5 million “hits” have been recorded
at the site.

At the heart of the information revolution is some-
thing far more than an advance in technology. It is
the fulfilling of one central promise of democracy: to
make knowledge available to as many citizens as
possible, and to allow that access to be shaped by
their needs. The “Electronic Smithsonian” gives us
an Opportunity to interact with America’s homes,
schools, senior-citizen and youth centers, universities,
museums, laboratories, and research centers in ways
undreamed of a few years ago. As we prepare for the
celebration of our rsoth anniversary in 1996, we
have continued to enlarge our technological capacity
and knowledge to extend the reach of our historic
mission. James Smithson’s goal of the “increase and
diffusion of knowledge” has been reborn for a
new century.

Three major challenges have also punctuated
the year:

First, leadership changed in Congress, and we
have had to get to know a whole new group of legis-
lators and staff whose actions can deeply affect us.

Second, the Enola Gay episode exploded, raising
other issues as well, and disproportionately domi-
nated attention internally and externally; we were
uncertain whether the Smithsonian would continue
to be cherished in the light of so much negative
publicity. However, a public opinion survey taken
before the exhibit opened showed encouraging re-
sults. Seventy-two percent of the people who were
surveyed said that the Smithsonian was extremely
important or very important as a major place in
which to understand American culture and American
history. Just fourteen percent said they were some-
what less favorable toward the Smithsonian given
what had happened.

Third, it became apparent that Congress was
going to take serious action to tame the budget defi-
cit, that our budget would have to be affected, and
that we would have to concentrate on where to re-
duce operations to live within a lower appropriation.

It appears that we have established a good relation-
ship with our oversight and appropriation committees
and others in the legislature. This is evidenced by fair
treatment in the budget process, real participation by
our Congressional Regents, both old and new, at
Institution events, and a showing of great interest in
various of our activities by the Speaker, other legisla-
tors, and key Congressional staff.

The Enola Gay imbroglio was an enormous trial.
The conflict required us to question anew how both
to respect scholarly integrity and to assure our gen-
eral and specific publics when we deal in controver-
sial areas that we are not using exhibitions to incul-
cate a particular viewpoint. This is no easy task, and
we now have a set of guidelines that set forth useful
processes for future exhibitions.

However, there is no substitute for good judgment
and a disposition to try to be objective, no matter
how hard the quest. I do not urge the avoidance of all
potentially controversial exhibitions. When they are
done well, they respect both subject and audience and
promote genuine understanding of tough issues.
The Smithsonian’s budget problems are very

real. We have received sympathetic treatment in
Congress which, at this writing, has saved the
planned Cultural and Conservation Center of the
National Museum of the American Indian (although
completion will also require the expenditure of
some private funds raised by the museum) and in-
creased our repair and renovation budget by 30
percent (a welcome enhancement to address serious
facility problems). However, by not funding man-
datory wage and inflationary increases Congress
has effectively cut our base budget by four to
five percent.

Since we cannot assume that this base cut is a
one-year phenomenon, it is clear that change in
the management structure and style of the Institu-
tion is required to prepare the Institution for the
challenges of the 21st century. We must continue
to reconfigure ourselves and to make permanent
reductions and consolidations. To that end, our
newly formed Provost’s Office (which replaces
three Assistant Secretary offices) will emphasize
service to the museums, research institutes, and
other program and support offices; coordinate cen-
tral oversight more efficiently; decentralize decision-
making; and encourage greater coordination and
cooperation among the various program units across
the Institution.

Tend this report on my first year as Secretary
with an enthusiastic look ahead at our rsoth year
celebration in 1996. We see the rsoth anniversary
as an opportunity to say “thank you” to the Ameri-
can public, which has supported the Smithsonian
for all these years, by offering many of our best
exhibits and programming.

Although there will be special exhibitions and
events here in the nation’s capital, the Institution’s
home, the most ambitious projects for our celebra-
tion will bring the national museums to millions of
people who may not plan to visit Washington next
year. If they cannot come to us, we will go to them.
These include a wonderful traveling exhibition,
“America’s Smithsonian,” which will take highlights
from the national collections to people around the
country, and television programs throughout the
year on CBS. And we will continue to expand and
enhance the role of the “Electronic Smithsonian.”

As we end the fiscal year, Discover Card and
Intel have joined the Smithsonian’s Corporate
Partner Program, which will support the network
television programming, the traveling exhibition,
and a celebration on the National Mall in Washing-
ton on August 10, 1996, the actual anniversary of
the act of Congress that established the Institution.
Thanks to their cooperation, the Smithsonian will
be able to touch the lives of Americans nationwide
in ways new to all of us.

I hope that these activities will both reinforce the
splendor and importance of the Smithsonian in the
minds of Americans and lead to expanded private
support for our undertakings. We have entered an
era in which the Smithsonian must rely more heavily
on private support from individuals and corpora-
tions, and this presents us with both challenges and
great opportunities.

I. Michael Heyman
Secretary

September 30, 1995
SMTP ES'@IN GAIN

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of
Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of the
will of James Smithson of England, who in 1826 be-
queathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the
Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the in-
crease and diffusion of knowledge among men.”
After receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress vested responsibility for administering the
trust in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

Board of Regents and Secretary,
September 30, 1995

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United
States, ex officio

Albert Gore Jr., Vice-President of the United States,
ex officio

Thad Cochran, Senator from Mississippi

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

Alan K. Simpson, Senator from Wyoming

Sam Johnson, Representative from Texas

Bob Livingston, Representative from Louisiana

Norman Y. Mineta, Representative from California

Barber B. Conable Jr., Citizen of New York

Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois

Samuel C. Johnson, Citizen of Wisconsin

Manuel L. Ibanez, Citizen of Texas

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

Frank A. Shrontz, Citizen of Washington

Wesley S. Williams Jr., Citizen of the District
of Columbia

The Secretary
I. Michael Heyman, Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

M. John Berry, Director of Government Relations

Thomas D. Blair, Inspector General

Miguel A. Bretos, Counselor for Latino Affairs

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Advancement

James D. Douglas, Acting General Counsel

James C. Early, Assistant Provost for Educational
and Cultural Programs

Tom L. Freudenheim, Assistant Provost for Arts
and Humanities

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to
the Secretary

Robert S. Hoffmann, Acting Provost

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Counselor for Biodiversity and
Environmental Affairs

Marc J. Pachter, Counselor for Electronic
Communications and Special Projects

Ross B. Simons, Acting Assistant Provost for
the Sciences

Nancy D. Suttenfield, Assistant Secretary for Finance
and Administration

David J. Umansky, Director of Communications

L. Carole Wharton, Director of the Office of
Planning, Management, and Budget
Smithsonian National Board,
September 30, 1995

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr., Chair
Mrs. Jean B. Kilborne, Vice Chair

Current Members

Sir Valentine Abdy

Mr. Lester M. Alberthal Jr., ex officio
Mrs. Margaret D. Ankeny
Mrs. Robert M. Bass

The Honorable Max N. Berry
Mrs. John M. Bradley

Mr. Stephen F. Brauer

Mr. Charles T. Brumback

Mr. Cason J. Callaway Jr.

Mr. Landon T. Clay

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Mr. Peter R. Coneway

Mr. Thomas Edward Congdon
Mrs. William H. Cowles III
Mr. Ivan Chermayeff

Ms. Joan Dillon

Mrs. Patricia Frost

Ms. Nely Galan

Mr. Bert A. Getz

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton, ex officio
Mrs. Marguerite Harbert
Marion Edwyn Harrison, Esq.
Mr. Paul Hertelendy

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg

Mr. S. Roger Horchow

Mr. Richard Hunt

Mr. Robert L. James

Mr. Edward C. Johnson III
Mrs. James W. Kinnear

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles

The Honorable Marc E. Leland
Mr. Donald G. Lubin

Mr. Frank N. Magid

Mrs. John FE. Mars

Mr. Michael Peter McBride
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Dr. George E. Mueller
Mr. Thomas D. Mullins
Mr. John N. Nordstrom
Mrs. Lucio A. Noto
Mrs. Vivian W. Piasecki
Mr. Heinz C. Prechter
Mr. David S. Purvis
Mr. Alvin Puryear

Mr. Robert Redford
Mr. Clive Runnells

Ms. Jill Sackler

Mr. Leveo V. Sanchez
Mr. Ivan Selin

Mrs. Esther Simplot
Mr. Kenneth L. Smith
Ms. Kathy Daubert Smith
Mrs. E. Maynard Smith
Mr. Kelso FE. Sutton

Mr. Jack W. Warner
Mr. Jeffrey N. Watanabe
Mr. Frank A. Weil

Mr. William R. Wiley

S&S

Honorary Members

Mr. Robert McC. Adams

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mr. Charles D. Dickey Jr.

The Honorable Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

The Honorable William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper Jr.

Mr. Seymour H. Knox II]

Mr. Lewis A. Lapham

The Honorable George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor

The Honorable S. Dillon Ripley II
Mr. Francis C. Rooney Jr.

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer

Mrs. Gay F. Wray
Ree OR Ol ai ab Or ake.)

OF FREGEINTS

The Smithsonian’s Board of Regents held plenary
meetings on January 30, May 8, and September 18,
1995, and sponsored committee meetings throughout
the year. The Executive Committee, the Nominating
Committee, the Audit and Review Committee, the
Investment Policy Committee, and the Personnel
Committee advanced the work of the board with in-
creasing effectiveness.

Membership on the board sustained a fair
degree of turnover. In the November 1994 elections,
House Speaker Thomas S. Foley and Senator James
R. Sasser were not returned to office and left the
Board of Regents at the end of the ro3rd Congress.
Senator John W. Warner resigned to take on addi-
tional Senate responsibilities. Representative Norman
Y. Mineta resigned from the Congress and thereby
left the board. The board designated all four of these
former Regents as Regents Emeritus. New Regents
from the Congress were Representative Bob
Livingston, Representative Sam Johnson, Senator
Alan K. Simpson, and Senator Thad Cochran.

There was also turnover among the citizen
members, as I. Michael Heyman resigned to become
Secretary of the Smithsonian and the second terms of
Jeannine Smith Clark and Samuel C. Johnson ex-
pired. To fill these vacancies, efforts were initiated to
provide for the appointments of three citizen mem-
bers and the reappointment of a third.

During the fiscal year, the Regents met with their
Commission on the Future of the Smithsonian, re-
ceived the commission’s report, and, with the assis-
tance of the new ad hoc Committee on Policy and
Programs, formulated responses to the reeommenda-
tions. Noting that a number of the recommendations
required the Secretary’s response over time, they
asked for a progress report at least once a year.
Working with the ad hoc committee and the Secre-
tary, the Regents adopted guidelines to help Smith-
sonian advisory boards fulfill their support functions.

Secretary Heyman engaged the Regents in discus-
sions of particularly difficult issues. After extensive

deliberations, the Regents publicly expressed their
support for the Secretary’s decision to cancel the long-
planned and highly controversial exhibition on the
Enola Gay and the end of World War II at the
National Air and Space Museum and replace it with a
display of the aircraft and related artifacts. After re-
viewing the findings of a National Academy of Public
Administration study on the organization and man-
agement of the museum, the board adopted guiding
principles for recruiting a new director and develop-
ing a mission statement.

The Board of Regents reviewed the Secretary’s
plans for reorganization of Smithsonian senior man-
agement and adopted changes in its bylaws to con-
form to the new organization. The Regents also ap-
proved revised bylaws for the Smithsonian National
Board and appointed its officers and membership. By
Regents’ resolution, the chairman of the Smithsonian
National Board will remain a nonvoting participant
in Regents’ meetings. The Regents also adopted revi-
sions to the bylaws of the Commission of the
National Portrait Gallery.

Several reports to the Board of Regents during the
year were especially significant with respect to the fu-
ture of the Smithsonian. The board received reports
on Latino initiatives, plans for the 1996 15oth an-
niversary year and the traveling exhibition “America’s
Smithsonian,” the development of the rsoth
Anniversary Corporate Partner Program, and the
debut of the Smithsonian’s home page on the World
Wide Web. The Regents also discussed issues of rev-
enue enhancement, development initiatives, and in-
creasing fiscal stringencies. In the latter context, the
Regents authorized the deaccession of the Barney
Studio House subject to review by the Executive
Committee.

In other actions, the Board of Regents approved
the development of an affinity credit card, endorsed
the phased planning of the extension of the National
Air and Space Museum and reaffirmed its placement
at Washington Dulles International Airport, and
voted to continue soliciting voluntary donations in se-
lected Smithsonian museums. The board also noted
that the Senate has requested a feasibility study on
collecting admission fees in the museums.

The Regents awarded the Joseph Henry Medal to
retiring General Counsel Peter G. Powers and to
Representative Sidney R. Yates, a Regent Emeritus, in
grateful recognition of their decades of extraordinary
service to the Smithsonian.

During the year, the Regents appointed the follow-
ing individuals to boards and commissions: Manley
Alan Begay Jr., George L. Cornell, Billy L. Cypress,
Dwight Gourneau, Gerald R. McMaster, Joann
Sebastian Morris, Nancy Clark Reynolds, Phyllis
Young, James A. Block, Ellsworth H. Brown,
Catherine Sweeney Fowler, Douglas M. George, Jorge
Flores Ochoa, Luci Tapahonso, and Bernard Julian
Whitebear to the Board of Trustees of the National
Museum of the American Indian; Kathleen Allaire,
Harvey Krueger, Richard Smith, Agnes Bourne,
Barbara Levin, and Richard Hayden to the Board of
Trustees of Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum; David C. Driskell, Frances Humphrey
Howard, Robin B. Martin, and Robert H. Nooter to
the Commission of the National Museum of African
Art; Nancy Ruth Morin, Alan K. Simpson, and
Stanley O. Ikenberry to the Board of the National
Museum of Natural History; Edwin I. Colodny, Ann
Cousins, Frank K. Ribelin, Wanda M. Corn, Rosa
Rionda de la Cruz, Paul D. Parkman, and Gerald L.
Pearson to the Commission of the National Museum
of American Art; Mrs. Hart Fessenden, Kurt Gitter,
Jill Hornor Ma, Aboulala Soudavar, and Paul Walter
to the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Visiting Committee;
and Roger Covey, Richard Danziger, and Cynthia
Helms to the Freer Gallery of Art Visiting Committee.

STAFF CHANGES

Throughout fiscal year 1995, under the new leader-
ship of I. Michael Heyman, various reorganizations
were undertaken to place greater emphasis on the re-
sponsibilities of the museums, research centers, and
offices. The Office of the Provost was established
under Robert S. Hoffmann, the Smithsonian’s former
assistant secretary for science. On an interim basis,
former Assistant Secretaries Tom L. Freudenheim and
James C. Early and Deputy Assistant Secretary Ross
B. Simons served as Assistant Provosts. Former
Assistant Secretary Thomas E. Lovejoy was named
Counselor to the Secretary for Biodiversity and
Environmental Affairs, former Deputy Assistant
Secretary Marc J. Pachter became Counselor to the
Secretary for Special Projects and the Electronic
Media, and Miguel A. Bretos served under contract
as Counselor to the Secretary for Latino Affairs.

Alice Green Burnette was given the new title of
Assistant Secretary for Institutional Advancement.

Retiring from the administrative ranks were Peter
G. Powers, the Smithsonian’s first General Counsel,
former Assistant Secretary John F. Jameson, and
Contracting Officer Robert P. Perkins. Other depar-
tures of note included Director of Government
Relations Mark W. Rodgers, Deputy Assistant
Secretary Claudine K. Brown, Director of Facilities
Services Richard L. Siegle, Director of Protection
Services Charles A. Hines, and National Air and
Space Museum Director Martin O. Harwit. We were
fortunate to have recruited by year’s end J. Dennis
O’Connor to become the Smithsonian’s first perma-
nent Provost on January 1, 1996; John E. Huerta to
assume the position of General Counsel on November
13, 1995; David J. Umansky, who was appointed to
the new position of Director of Communications in
March 1995; M. John Berry, who became Director of
Government Relations in April 1995; John W. Cobert
to assume the directorship of the Contracts Office;
Edith W. Hedlin, who became Director of the Office
of Smithsonian Institution Archives in October 1994;
and Nicole L. Krakora, who was appointed Director
of Special Events and Conference Services in June
1995.

To these officers and countless others, we owe a
debt of gratitude for their efforts to bring the
Smithsonian to its present greatness and envision its
possibilities for the future.
EAR

NGL GHW STOu ee

. mee
Sy

aon at - . —  —-— sat

Wa

= = ~~ ——-
= Yor ee
>a
Uf finc «ome
ALY ;
AAS
Yjy

1]

y

VECU LER re L
}

IMS
~ af
| 4

\
~~.
AAS
We
78

ad
|

af

]
i

aa
A
“
&
I
v
A

ii
i
il
i]

\

,

af
Tha

Swe:

> td

Wy

An important work by John Robinson
(1912-94), the most prolific visual chroni-
cler of black life in the Anacostia neigh-
borhood of Washington, D.C., became
part of the Anacostia Museum’s collection
this year. Here Look at Mine is a touching
portrait of the artist’s grandchildren at the
family dining table in their Southeast
Washington home. The painting realisti-

cally captures the youthful images and the
details of the household interior.
Robinson, who was primarily self-
taught, focused on local street scenes and
his favorite flower, the lilac. His work has
been exhibited at local cultural institutions
including the Anacostia Museum, the Cor-
coran Gallery of Art, and the Washington
Project for the Arts. In Here Look at Mine,

the museum has a long-term reminder of
the special relationship it shared with Mr.
Robinson and his family.

John Robinson (American, 1912-94),
Here Look at Mine, 1980. Acrylic on can-
vas, 61 X 88.9 cm (24 X 35 in.). Anacostia
Museum Collection. (Photograph by
Harold Dorwin)

IEAE
es of American Art

The Archives of American Art is preparing
for publication a comprehensive guide to
its papers of Latino and Latin American
artists that will be widely distributed free
of charge. The guide will highlight a
wealth of primary source materials such as
the diary that Carlos Lopez kept while
serving as an artist, war correspondent,
and photographer for Life magazine in
1943; 84 sketchbooks and journals of
painter Carlos Almaraz; the records of
Octavio Medellin’s art school in Dallas,
Texas; the correspondence and writings of
Edward Chavez, Antonio Sotomayer, and
Mel Casas; a collection of 3,504 color
slides documenting 741 murals in Califor-
nia; and significant documentation on Pa-
trocino Barela, Jose Guerrero, George
Lopez, Alexander Maldonado, Marisol,
José Moya del Pino, Manuel Neri, Michael
Ponce de Leon, Frank Romero, Diego
Rivera, and Emilio Sanchez. The guide
will also provide information about the
Archives’ extensive oral history interviews
of artists David Avalos, Judith Baca,
Edward Chavez, Raphael Ferrer, Luis
Jimenez, José and Malaquias Montoya,

and others from 1964 to the present.

Emilio Sanchez (Cuban American, b. 1921),
Senado, Cuba, 1946. Watercolor, 24.8 x
19.7 cm (9 3/4 X 7 3/4 in.). Emilio Sanchez
Papers, Archives of American Art.

OPE He ae

(AR Aga Re
Medd
Li) AP eee,
iy ~ Lee PP

MAG M. Sackler Gallery

Hiroshima Kazuo (b. 1915) is the last itin-
erant professional basketmaker in the
mountainous Hinokage region on Japan’s
island of Kyushu. Hinokage lies in steeply
sloped mountainous terrain where tea,
shiitake mushrooms, and charcoal are
produced. These products are intimately
linked to the bamboo baskets that figure
in their cultivation.

The exhibition “A Basketmaker in
Rural Japan” presented the complete
repertoire of baskets that Hiroshima
learned to make for use in the home, field,

and stream during his 64-year career as a

bamboo craftsman. The exhibition was the
first in the United States to focus on Japan-
ese baskets as objects of use. It exemplified
the Sackler Gallery’s efforts to identify
works of art with their makers and place
them within a cultural context.

Hiroshima Kazuo made his first trip
outside Japan to visit the gallery during
the exhibition. High points of his stay in-
cluded opportunities to meet the public,
the press, and guests at a reception in his
honor. Here he demonstrates the use of a
bamboo whirligig, a toy that he often
makes for the children of Hinokage. The

exhibition of Hiroshima’s baskets was
popular not only because of the simple
elegance of the objects and their weave,
but also because of the basketmaker
himself, who was represented in photo
murals and a videotape that were inte-
grated into the installation. Visitors were
invited to touch and hold four baskets that
Hiroshima had made especially for this
purpose. Most of the objects on view were
on loan from the Nakamuro Kunio Col-
lection, Department of Anthropology,
National Museum of Natural History.
(Photograph by Neil Greentree)
14

oem ae eS a le aha ch

YG

Sp ape

“he
%
i
,
he
{
{
4
,
bf
<
se
mi
5
.

A group of rare French wallpapers repre-
senting the work of some of the premier
wallpaper producers of the late 18th and
19th centuries has been added to the
renowned collection of wallcoverings in
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum.
Two panels are hand-painted and printed
to simulate bronze-inlaid wood, fooling
the eye with the virtuoso techniques for
which the French manufacturers are well-
known.

The museum’s wallcovering collection
consists of more than 10,000 pieces and is
the largest in the United States. All the
collections originally were assembled as a
design resource for the public’s use, a
function that continues today. The White
House used this resource in the recent ren-
ovation of the Blue Room. Joanne Warner,
assistant curator of wallcoverings, helped
the renovation committee choose wall-
coverings to reflect the history of the room
and complement the French objects that
President James Monroe purchased in
1817. Two wallpaper borders were repro-
duced from early-r9th-century French
papers in the museum’s collection.

When the museum’s $20 million reno-
vation project is complete in late 1996, the

wallcovering holdings will be housed along —

with other collections in the new Design
Resource Center, where they will be more
accessible than they are in current storage
areas. This improved storage and research
facility will help the museum achieve its
aim of making its collections available to
inspire students of design, as well as the
general public.

Wallpaper panel, Paris, 1833. Produced by
Amable Leroy (d. 1880). Block-printed,
hand-painted on handmade sheets.
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum,
Museum Purchase.
Freer Gallery of Art

Since the Freer Gallery reopened following
renovation in 1993, concerts of Asian
music and Western chamber music have
drawn audiences of music lovers to the
grassy plaza at the gallery’s north entrance
and to the Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer

Auditorium inside. At this twilight summer

concert, Partha Chatterjee played ragas,
or compositions, on the sitar, which re-
sembles a lute, and Samir Chatterjee

accompanied him on the tabla, or drums.

Three other concerts this year featured
the music of Afghanistan, North India, and
Pakistan as performed, respectively, by
Wali Ahmad Raoufi and Broto Roy, the
Gundecha brothers, and Shiv Kumar
Sharma with Shafaat Ahmed Khan. The
Bill and Mary Meyer Concert Series, now
in its third year, included six programs of
chamber music by such artists as Musi-

cians from Marlboro, Pamela Frank, and

the Takacs Quartet. A highlight of the con-

cert by the Shanghai Quartet was the
Washington, D.C., premiere of “Song of
the Ch’in” by the contemporary Chinese
composer Zhou Long.

The Bill and Mary Meyer Concert
Series has been established in memory of
Dr. Eugene Meyer III and Mary Adelaide
Bradley Meyer. It is generously supported
by The Island Fund in the New York Com-
munity Trust and Elizabeth E. Meyer.
(Photograph by Neil Greentree)

orn Museum and

-e Garden

The Drummer, a bronze sculpture by
British artist Barry Flanagan (b. 1941),
was acquired this year by the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden and in-
stalled outdoors, where it attracted a
steady stream of summer visitors. This
rubbery and volatile noisemaker, mischie-
vously poised on a mound, seems almost
human in scale and demeanor, as if sprung
from legends, proverbs, and fairy tales.

Flanagan, prominent among innovative
sculptors from Great Britain who chal-
lenged the previous generation’s influence,
began his career in the 1960s. He first
created humorously eccentric, fossil-like
compositions in rope, clay, and sand-filled
burlap. In 1979, after learning bronze cast-
ing, he turned to using traditional animal
subjects in highly untraditional ways. His
most consistent subject has been the hare.
Using a free-form yet anatomically accu-
rate style, he has conceived the creature as
leaping, dancing, tumbling, boxing, play-
ing cricket, and stretched out in headlong
flight. Today, Flanagan’s bronze hares are
compelling additions to museums, plazas,
and squares in cities around the world,
among them London, Minneapolis, New
York, and Osaka.

The Hirshhorn plaza, where Flanagan’s
work and some dozen other sculptures are
exhibited, won a 1995 Federal Design
Achievement Award. A renovation and
landscaping project completed in 1993 by
James Urban Associates of Annapolis,
Maryland, introduced trees, lawn areas,
and granite flooring to the site and im-
proved the structural, drainage, and acces-
sibility features. Chosen from more than
400 entrants, the revamped plaza was one
of 77 federal projects nationwide that re-

ceived Design Achievement Awards.

Barry Flanagan (British, b. 1941),

The Drummer, 1989-90. Bronze,

243.8 X 172.7 X 91.4 cm (96 X 68 X 36 in.).
The Joseph H. Hirshhorn Bequest Fund
and the Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase
Fund, 1995 (95.4). (Photograph by Lee
Stalsworth)

16

National Air and

Space Museum

Throughout 1995, the National Air and
Space Museum commemorated the soth
anniversary of the end of World War II
with exhibitions and programs that ex-
panded public understanding of this im-
portant period in modern history.

In April, the Grumman F6F-5 Hellcat
went on display. Hellcat pilots are credited
with destroying more than 5,100 enemy
aircraft in aerial combat and with achiev-
ing nearly 75 percent of the U.S. Navy’s
air-to-air victories. That same month, the
museum opened “Building the Arsenal of
Democracy: World War II Photographs
from the National Air and Space Museum
Archives,” which illustrated military and
civilian efforts to protect the country

against foreign invasion, the training of
U.S. pilots and troops, and wartime indus-
trial production.

The museum’s much-anticipated exhibi-
tion of the B-29 Superfortress Enola Gay
(above) showcased the aircraft’s carefully
restored forward fuselage, engines, and
vertical stabilizer. The gallery also included
a video featuring the men who flew the air-
craft on its historic August 1945 mission.

World War II combat fighter pilot
Quentin C. Aanenson gave the museum’s
annual Charles A. Lindbergh Memorial
Lecture. During his tour of duty, Aanenson
participated in some of the deadliest com-
bat of the war. He flew 51 missions in the

P-47 Thunderbolt with the 366th Fighter

Group and 24 missions with other groups
in the 9th Air Force, including rr missions
in P-51 Mustangs. The 366th Fighter
Group lost 90 of its 125 pilots to enemy
action. Nearly 50 years later, Aanenson
created A Fighter Pilot’s Story, a PBS docu-
mentary about his experiences.

The 1995-96 General Electric Aviation
Lecture Series opened with a panel dis-
cussion of Marine Corps combat aviation
in the Pacific war, from operations at
Guadalcanal in 1942 to aerial combat with
Japanese kamikazes in 1945. Participants
included two Congressional Medal of
Honor recipients and a recipient of the
Distinguished Flying Cross. (Photograph

by Carolyn Russo)
The acquisition of a superb, carved
wooden face mask from the Lele peoples
of Zaire was a highlight of the past year at
the National Museum of African Art. The
mask will be on view in the exhibition
“Images of Power and Identity,” which
serves as an introduction to the museum’s
permanent collection.

Masks of the Lele peoples, who live in
the Western Kasai region, are rare, so this
object is an especially important addition
to the collection. The mask has an elabo-
rate headdress embellished on the front
and back with cowrie shells and glass
beads of multiple colors. Beads and cowrie
shells were valuable trade items used ex-
tensively as currency and decoration in
Central Africa. The areas under the eyes
and the nose are covered with copper and

iron sheets secured by wood and iron pegs.

Lele masks such as this may have been
worn in dances for the funerary rites of
chiefs or used in annual reenactments of
the founding of the Lele peoples.

This mask will join the museum’s other
outstanding Central African masks from
the Chokwe, Lega, Pende, Hemba, and
Tetela peoples.

Mask, Lele peoples, Zaire. Wood, copper,
iron, pigment, fiber, cotton, wool, cowrie
shells, glass beads, 28 x 22 x 6 cm

(rr 1/16 X 8 11/16 X 2 3/8 in.). National
Museum of African Art (1994-14-001).
(Photograph by Franko Khoury)

18

The National Museum of American Art
embraced a rare opportunity to work with
the White House this year, producing a
popular exhibition, a publication, and a
state-of-the-art World Wide Web Internet
tour. A traveling exhibition of the “White
House Collection of American Crafts” pre-
miered at the museum’s main building in
Washington and will be featured in seven
or more American museums through 1997.
The exhibition is based on a remarkable
collection of 72 contemporary crafts as-
sembled for the home of the First Family
in honor of the Year of the American Craft
in 1993. Michael W. Monroe, then cura-
tor-in-charge of the museum’s Renwick

Gallery, advised the President and Mrs.
Clinton on crafts to complement the his-
toric furnishings of the public and private
rooms of the White House. Seventy-seven
artists supported the project by giving
works in glass, ceramic, wood, metal, and
fiber—modern expressions of traditions
dating to the first civilizations.

The exhibition is a stunning display of
color, texture, and virtuosity. Highlights
include Dante Marioni’s Yellow Pair
(shown here); Dale Chihuly’s Cerulean
Blue Macchia with Chartreuse Lip Wrap, a
gigantic, multicolored glass shell form that
is one of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s per-
sonal favorites; and a walnut rocking chair

created by Sam Maloof, who made a
similar chair for President Kennedy. Mrs.
Clinton expressed her enthusiasm for craft
objects “made by the hand” when she
spoke to 100 reporters at a museum press
conference to open the exhibition.

The museum inaugurated its home page
on the World Wide Web (http://www.
nmaa.si.edu) with a virtual tour of the ex-
hibition made possible by a gift from MCI.
Electronic visitors are guided through the
White House to see some of the objects in
their original settings. They can also ex-
plore each work in detail and see and hear
from the artists at work in their studios.
(Photograph by John Bigelow Taylor)

19
[]

ynal Museum of
‘American History

The Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center

for the Study of Invention and Innovation
was established at the National Museum
of American History on May 31, 1995,
through a $10.4 million gift from inventor
Jerome Lemelson, who holds more than
500 patents, and his wife Dorothy. Theirs
is the largest personal donation ever made
to the Smithsonian Institution.

The Lemelson Center’s primary mission
is to document, interpret, and disseminate
information about invention and inno
vation. Through public programs, ex
hibitions, research efforts, and electronic
outreach projects, the center hopes to
encourage Inventive creativity in young
people and foster an appreciation for the
central role of invention in the history of
the United States.

The Lemelson Center kicked off its “In
novative Lives” program for children and
young adults with a lecture-demonstration
by Hal Walker, a former aerospace engi-
neer who shared his ideas on innovation
as a career and explained his research on
lasers. He also helped illustrate the proper
ties and applications of laser light for 85
middle-school students in the museum’s
Hands On Science Center. Jerome
Lemelson, shown here, was also on hand
to work with the students. The Lemelson
Center’s programs are highlighted on its
World Wide Web home page, which can be
reached via the Smithsonian’s home page,
http://www.si.edu. (Photograph by Jeff

Tinsley)

National Museum of

‘the American Indian

When Moses Starr Jr., Southern Cheyenne
camp crier, gave a traditional blessing and
announced the opening of the George
Gustav Heye Center of the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian on Sunday
morning, October 30, 1994, a new era in
the presentation of Native American arts
and cultures began. After honor songs by
Louis Mofsie (Hopi/Winnebago) and the
Silvercloud Singers (left), museum Director
W. Richard West Jr. (Southern Cheyenne)
and Starr (right) led the gathering up the
stairs of the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Cus-

tom House in New York City and through
the museum’s entrance to see the inaugural
exhibitions.

The Heye Center is the first large public
museum to offer American Indians full in-
volvement in the planning, interpretation,
and presentation of the materials and
events of their cultures. Since 1990, the
museum has gathered the ideas and advice
of native peoples on every aspect of the
museum, including preparation of the

three premiere exhibitions—“Creation’s

Journey: Masterworks of Native American

Identity and Belief,” “All Roads Are Good:
Native Voices on Life and Culture,” and
“This Path We Travel: Celebrations of
Contemporary Native American Creativ-
ity.” The opening ceremonies, current and
future exhibitions, and continuing public
programs are the tangible result of work-
ing with Native American communities.
They confirm the museum’s commitment
to provide a forum for the voices of the
peoples and cultures it represents. (Photo-

graph by Roy Gumpel)
National Museum of

Natural History

A magnificent display of marine organisms
opened on May 19, 1995, in the National
Museum of Natural History. In “Exploring
Marine Ecosystems,” a new permanent
exhibition, visitors can explore two of
Earth’s most fascinating natural commu-
nities: a temperate rocky shore and a tropi-
cal coral reef.

Entering through a simulated undersea
kelp forest off the rocky coast of Maine,
visitors encounter two living model eco-
systems. Much more than simple aquart-
ums, the models contain self-sustaining
food webs that function much like those in

natural communities. The Maine Rocky

ied
ied

Shore Ecosystem represents intertidal and
subtidal communities in the Gulf of Maine,
featuring green sea urchins, hermit crabs,
northern lobsters, hard tube worms, and
deep-sea scallops. Regional plants include
kelp, knotted r »ckweed, crustose coralline
algae, and Irish moss algae. In the
Caribbean Coral Reef Ecosystem, visitors
see a striking array of marine life, includ-
ing stony corals, green reef crabs, pencil
urchins, magpie shells, and such exotic fish
as striped parrotfish, flamefish, French
grunts, damselfish, and blue tangs.

The exhibition also shows how healthy

ecosystems function through the interac-

2
'é
ay
.

tion of physical factors such as sediment
type, wave action, and sunlight with bio-
logical factors, including plants and ani-
mals. Visitors learn how healthy marine
ecosystems contribute to the well-being of
our planet and how people everywhere can
help protect them.

“Exploring Marine Ecosystems” is the
second part of a three-phase rejuvenation
of the museum’s Marine Hall. The first sec-
tion, “In Search of Giant Squid,” opened
in 1994. The renovation will culminate in
1998 with an exhibition devoted to the
diversity of marine life. (Photograph by
Laurie Minor-Penland)
"National Portrait Gallery

A distinguished veteran of the War of 1812
and the Mexican War, Winfield Scott was
nicknamed “Old Fuss and Feathers” for
his insistence on strict dress codes and con-
duct. Even in his later years, he was a
memorable figure—well over 6 feet tall,
ruggedly independent, and blunt of speech.
This portrait was painted by Robert
Walter Weir around 1855, about the time
Scott, general-in-chief of the U.S. Army for
nearly 20 years, was granted the rank of
lieutenant general. He was the first man
since George Washington to achieve the
honor.

Weir, a successful painter of portraits
and historical subjects (including The Em-
barkation of the Pilgrims for the Capitol
Rotunda) and professor of drawing at the
U.S. Military Academy at West Point,
undertook several portraits of Scott at the
request of the general’s friends. “The grati-
fication it will give the army,” the artist
was told, “the peculiar fitness you should
do them all, all alike combine to—I would
not say demand—you should not decline.”

This painting is one of several portraits
of Scott by Weir, all virtually alike, that
portray the general in full dress uniform.
The freshness of execution and vividness of
painterly detail mark this version as one of
the finest of Weir’s efforts to document the
forceful personality of his sitter and belie
his status by then as aging hero and failed
Whig presidential candidate. The portrait
is included in the exhibition “1846: Por-
trait of a Nation,” the gallery’s tribute to
the r5oth anniversary of the Smithsonian.

Robert Walter Weir (American, 1803-89),
Portrait of Winfield Scott, ca. 1855. Oil on
canvas, 86.4 X 68.6 cm (34 X 27 1/4 in.).
National Portrait Gallery, Gallery Pur-
chase, 1995.

a wee

aes

Soe

LLOLE EL ELLE Lee

oS)
il Postal Museum

The nation’s most famous error stamp, this
1918 24-cent “Jenny Invert” will be the
subject of a major philatelic exhibition
planned at the National Postal Museum
for the summer of 1996 in celebration of
the Smithsonian’s r5oth anniversary. One
sheet of roo stamps with the error escaped
detection and was sold in Washington,
D.C. This rarity, which is considered
among the gems of philately, features the
famous JN-4H biplane, also known as the
Jenny. The plane was actually printed first,
and the frame was printed upside down.
The exhibition of these renowned error
stamps is the first to be produced under the
auspices of Friends of Philately, a new
program of the National Postal Museum
that enables prominent stamp collectors to
underwrite philatelic exhibitions.

Airmail stamp, 1918. National Philatelic
Collection, National Postal Museum.

National Zoological Park

A history-making cheetah became a part of
the National Zoo’s Cheetah Conservation
Station this year. Jomu, a 21-month-old fe-
male, was one of the world’s first cheetahs
produced by artificial insemination. The
new arrival was a product of trail-blazing
research in assisted reproduction of endan-
gered cats conducted by the Zoo’s New
Opportunities in Animal Health Sciences
(NOAHS) Center and represents a break-
through in efforts to preserve endangered
species. Jomu was born at the Caldwell
Zoo in Tyler, Texas, June 4, 1993, follow-
ing artificial insemination of her mother by
a NOAHS mobile laboratory team under
the leadership of the Zoo’s Dr. JoGayle
Howard. At the Cheetah Conservation Sta-
tion, Jomu will become part of an ongoing
study of cheetah behavior that will enable
biologists to propagate the species success-

fully. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

uan Astrophysical

Groundbreaking for the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory’s submillimeter
array (SMA) of telescopes took place June
8 just below the summit of Mauna Kea,
Hawaii. Some 100 guests attended the cer-
emonies, including Smithsonian Secretary
I. Michael Heyman, representatives of
state and local government, and astrono-
mers from around the world. When com-
pleted in 1998, the SMA will consist of six
antennas, each 6 meters (21 feet, 6 inches)
in diameter, capable of operating together
as a single giant telescope 500 meters

(1,650 feet) in diameter. Sensitive to radia-

tion in the still largely unexplored submil-
limeter band between radio and infrared
wavelengths, the instrument will observe,
with unprecedented resolution, planets,

newly forming stars, galaxies, and quasars.

Shown here are the official “ground-
breakers,” posing with O’o sticks, tradi-
tional Hawaiian farming implements used
to cultivate taro and hand-carved from
native Kao wood. At front, from left, are
Robert McLaren, associate director, Insti-
tute for Astronomy, University of Hawaii;
Dean O. Smith, senior vice-president for

research and graduate education, Univer-

sity of Hawaii; Stephen K. Yamashiro,
mayor, Hawaii County; Eric Silverberg,
SMA project director; Don Hall, director,
Institute for Astronomy; Robert Hoff-
mann, acting provost, Smithsonian Institu-
tion; Al Castro, governor’s liaison, East
Hawau; Monsignor Charles A. Kekumano;
and chanter Kepi Maly. Rear, from left, are

James Moran, Smithsonian Astrophysical

Observatory; Ross Simons, acting assistant
provost for the sciences, Smithsonian Insti-
tution; and Secretary Heyman. (Photo-
graph by Eileen Harrington)

onian Environmental

ch Center

Oceangoing freighters often arrive in U.S.
harbors “under ballast,” with large water
filled tanks on board to stabilize the ship
at sea. When this ballast water is dis-
charged, living organisms from all over the
world are released, disrupting the food
web and causing problems that have an
economic impact. Scientists from the

Smithsonian Environmental Research

Center are study Ing these organisms 1n
two of the busiest seaports on the East
Coast—Norfolk, Virginia, and Baltimore,
Maryland.

Scientists sample the ballast water either
before it is discharged or immediately
after discharge in the waters next to the
freighters. Live pathogenic microorgan-
isms, shellfish parasites, and exotic species
are among the organisms commonly trans-
ported from harbors all over the world
to Chesapeake Bay. Even live finfish are
among the released organisms. These in-
troduced species have already caused many
problems in Chesapeake Bay and else-
where in the United States.

Scientists are establishing a detailed
database on the frequencies of release of
various living organisms, the sources of the
ballast water, and the survivorship of these
organisms in ballast tanks while ships
travel from port to port. Here a scientist
samples a freighter’s ballast water before it
is pumped into Baltimore harbor. (Photo-

graph by Gregory Ruiz)
‘Smithsonian Institution
Libraries

A new publication from the Smithsonian
nstitution I ibraries takes the reader ona
visual journey through the special collec
ions supporting research for the museums
and research centers that have been estab
ished during the Institution’s 1 50-year his
tory. Rare Books and Special Collections
in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries,

sublished this year by the Smithsonian In

stitution Press, provides a richly illustrated
sampling of the most valuable and unusual
treasures in the Libraries’ collections.

[he Libraries’ 1.2 million items include
40,000 rare books and 1,800 groups of
manuscripts that researchers use to identify
and study the Smithsonian’s vast assem
blage of artifacts and specimens. Smith
sonian staff consult the unique collection
of 285,600 trade catalogues, for example,
to document objects manufactured from
the r9th century to the present day. Taxon
omists still use the extensive holdings in
natural history to identify specimens in the
collections of the National Museum of
Natural History.

The handsome illustrations in Rare
Books and Special Collections provide a
glimpse into the collections of the Dibner
Library of the History of Science and
Technology, located in the National
Museum of American History; the Admiral

Dewitt Clinton Ramsey Room at the

National Air and Space Museum Branch;
and the Bradley Room at the Cooper
Hewitt, National Design Museum Branch.
Bern Dibner, whose collection of books
and manuscripts was donated to the
Libraries by the Burndy Library, is hon-
ored in a frontispiece; production of the
book was supported by the Dibner Fund.
Rare Books and Special Collections
in the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
underscores the broad scope ot research
interests embraced by Smithsonian muse-
ums and research centers and served by the
Smithsonian Institution Libraries. (Photo-

graph by Rick Vargas

Rare Books and
Special Collections

BONE OE

Smithsonian
Institution Libraries

t. Gav. Nat. Tab. UL fi

ithsonian Institution

W@Faveling Exhibition Service

“Louis Armstrong: A Cultural Legacy”
connects the arts of painting, collage,
drawing, and photography with the
art of jazz to illuminate the life and
countless contributions of Louis Armstrong
(1900/1901-71), one of the creative giants
of the 20th century. The exhibition pre-
miered in the fall of r994 at the Queens
Museum of Art in Queens, New York, and
will end its eight-city national tour at the
National Portrait Gallery in the summer
of 1996.

Many people know or recall Armstrong
only as a genial, world-famous entertainer

whose face, smile, and gravelly voice were

gag Nt a

nN

\
\ inated

instantly recognizable. Yet behind the
show-biz image was a revolutionary artist
—one of a handful of radical visionaries
who changed the face of art in the 2oth
century.

The exhibition follows Armstrong from
his youth in New Orleans, to his years in
Chicago and New York City, to his inter-
national status as “Ambassador of Jazz.”
Artworks and a vast array of artifacts and
memorabilia document Armstrong’s life.
Curator Mare Miller worked closely with
Michael Cogswell, curator of the Louis
Armstrong Archives at Queens College,

Julian Euell of the Armstrong House, and

Phoebe Jacobs, vice-president of the Louis
Armstrong Educational Foundation, to
assemble the more than 325 objects pre-
sented in the exhibition.

“Louis Armstrong: A Cultural Legacy”
is the second in a series of exhibitions tray-
eling as part of “America’s Jazz Heritage,”
a partnership of the Lila Wallace— Reader’s
Digest Fund and the Smithsonian Institu
tion. It was organized by the Queens Mu-
seum of Art and the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service and
funded in part by the National Endowment
for the Humanities. Additional support

was provided by Mobil Foundation, Inc.
‘Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

The Earl S. Tupper Library at the Smith-

sonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI)
is one of the world’s most comprehensive
resources on tropical nature and human
use of the tropics. It began in the 1920s
as a small book collection at the Barro
Colorado Island Field Station, and, by
1983, it was the first Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries branch to have its own

building. But by the early 1990s, the col

lection had expanded to more than 65,
volumes, and the number of patrons ex

ceeded 14,000. The library had outgrown

Its space.

This year, STRI completed a much-
needed expansion and renovation of its
library facilities thanks to a generous gift
from the family of Earl S. Tupper, the
founder of Tupperware. The new four-
story annex provides 1,600 square meters
(17,223 square feet) of space—enough
room to allow the collection to triple in
size. In the original building, the reading
area and staff work space have been
enlarged.

[The mosaic on the facade of the new

annex, created and contributed by the

noted Panamanian artist Brooke Alfaro,

symbolizes Panama’s role as a site of ex-
change: of marine life before closure of
the isthmus; of terrestrial life for the last
3 million years; of human populations and
cultures during the last 12,000 years; and
of commerce during the past 500 years.
The work, titled El Trueque (The Ex-
change) also symbolizes the continued in-
tellectual exchange that researchers and
students from around the world engage in
at STRI. (Photograph by Marcos A.

Guerra)

ens PROVOST

Office of the Provost

ROBERT S. HOFFMANN, ACTING PROVOST

On October 31, 1994, Secretary Heyman combined
the offices of three assistant secretaries to establish the
Office of the Provost and appointed former Assistant
Secretary for the Sciences Robert Hoffmann as acting
provost. The creation of this office marked a major
step in the strategic planning of a more efficient and
effective Institution. The Office of the Provost plans,
coordinates, facilitates, and evaluates the Institution’s
activities in research, collections management, exhibi-
tions, education, and cultural programs.

¢ During the year, the Office of the Provost initiated
activities to commemorate the Smithsonian’s 15oth
anniversary. Major programs include a lecture series
to accompany the traveling exhibition “America’s
Smithsonian”; “The Unseen Smithsonian,” a photo-
graphic exhibition illustrating the diversity and breadth
of research interests pursued by Smithsonian scholars;
an endowed chair in museum studies at George
Washington University; lectures and panel discussions
at scholarly and professional organization meetings
across the United States; and behind-the-scene tours
of program units to help staff and volunteers appreci-
ate and understand institutional activities.

¢ The 25-member Smithsonian Council assessed the
Smithsonian’s anthropological and cultural studies
programs, as well as programs of the Smithsonian’s
conservation biology community and the Conserva-
tion Training Council.

¢ Through James Smithson Trust funds—the Re-
search Opportunities Fund, Restricted Endowment
Funds, Scholarly Studies Program, Special Exhibition
Fund, Collections-Based Research Fund, and Educa-
tional Outreach Fund—the office distributed awards
to museums, research institutes, laboratories, and
other offices. The awards support innovative scientific

Tee, NOB BUR
JONP sla We,

endeavors; exhibitions that broaden public under-
standing of Smithsonian collections; and education,
cultural interpretation, and audience development
programs.

¢ The office initiated Institution-wide discussions
and workshops focusing on recent exhibitions and re-
search that resulted in new guidelines and improved
procedures for exhibition planning.

¢ The Council of Museum Education Directors orga-
nized a Smithsonian-wide conference that reviewed
national education reform goals and guidelines and
presented local, national, and Smithsonian examples
of the museum community’s involvement in education
reform.

¢ Smithsonian scholars from the sciences and the hu-
manities gathered at a conference focusing on the his-
tory and contributions of Smithsonian researchers. Japanese American
“What about Increase? The First Science and Human- _ percussionist Anthony
ities Dialogue” fostered a spirit of community, shared — Brown performs at the
Asian Pacific Ameri-
can Heritage Month

goals, and cooperative endeavor.

¢ The office continued support for the Material Cul-
ture Forum and the History Roundtable, which hold
regular discussions on topics that cross disciplines,

keynote event. (Photo-
graph by Rick Vargas)

Jia-sun Tsang, paint-

ings conservator at the

Conservation Analyti-
cal Laboratory, re-
moves the surface
coating from Charles
Willson Peale’s paint-

ing General Cropper,

in the collection of the

National Museum of

American History.

5
32

thereby encouraging communication and collegial
work among research staff.

¢ The Wider Audience Development Program coor-
dinated nearly 30 lectures, films, performances, and
other educational programs to explore different facets
of America’s multicultural heritage.

¢ The office supported several Smithsonian units in
organizing programs for Asian and Asian American
communities.

¢ The Accessibility Lecture Series offered to pro-
grams to staff from the Smithsonian and from cul-
tural organizations in the Washington, D.C., area on
topics such as universal design and audio description
tor performances.

¢ “Ocean Planet,” a traveling exhibition on ocean
conservation organized by the Environmental Aware-
ness Program, opened at the National Museum of
Natural History.

SCIENCES
Conservation Analytical Laboratory

LAMBERTUS VAN ZELST, DIRECTOR

The Conservation Analytical Laboratory (CAL) en-
gages in research and training in the conservation and
technical study of museum objects and other materials
of cultural importance. CAL addresses questions of
concern to archaeology and art history, as well as
problems facing museums, including the Smithsonian,

in the preservation and conservation of collections. A

multifaceted training program provides valuable edu-
cational opportunities for students in conservation, —
materials science, archaeology, and art history.

¢ The Biogeochemistry Program, in collaboration
with the Geophysical Laboratory of the Carnegie In-
stitution of Washington, developed molecular dissec-
tion techniques for light isotope ratio mass spectrom-
etry. Using these techniques, scientists compared
Cambrian-age brachiopod shells to modern shell ma-
terial from Hawaii. They also identified for the first
time the stabilization of DNA in the fossil record
through a mechanism involving crosslinking to the
protein collagen.

¢ Students in the Archaeological Conservation Train-
ing Program gained practical experience working at
excavation sites at Harappa, Pakistan, and Copan,
Honduras. At Copan, CAL began educational out-
reach efforts to archaeologists through collaboration
with the newly established Harvard University ar-
chaeological field school. At both sites, local archae-
ologists and museum professionals received theoreti-
cal and practical instruction in preservation and
conservation of museum collections and excavated
materials.

¢ Research in the preservation of photographic mate-
rials resulted in the development of a low-cost pack-
ing technique for cold storage. Storage at subzero
temperatures dramatically prolongs the expected life-
time of photographic materials. The new technique
maintains an appropriate humidity level and thus en-
ables the use of commercial freezer technology. This
technology can be scaled to the size of the collection,
making cold storage a feasible and affordable preser-
vation strategy.

¢ CAL produced the first two videotapes in a new in-
structional series that introduces basic principles and
practices of collections care and preservation—Furni-
ture Care and Maintenance and Rescuing Records:
Recognizing Values and Problems. The series is de-
signed for museum professionals and other collection
caretakers and managers who do not have conserva-
tion training.

National Museum of
Natural History

DONALD J. ORTNER, ACTING DIRECTOR

The National Museum of Natural History is commit-
ted to understanding the natural world, including the
role of humans in it, and making this knowledge avail-
able to people everywhere. The most-visited natural
history museum in the world, the museum reveals the
biological and cultural diversity of Earth through pub-
lic exhibitions and a variety of educational programs
and publications. It is also one of the world’s largest
research museums, charged with the care of more than
120 million cultural artifacts and specimens of plants,
animals, fossils, rocks, and minerals. Studies con-
ducted by the museum’s staff, and by visiting scientists
worldwide using its collections, shed light on the ori-
gins and evolution of Earth and the solar system, in-
crease understanding of plants and animals living
today and in earlier periods, and enhance knowledge
of human evolution, adaptation, and cultural history.

¢ Special exhibitions were a highlight of 1995 at the
museum. “Spiders!” completed its successful debut
presentation in January and began a North American
tour that will continue until 1998. In April, “Ocean
Planet” opened with the generous support of the Na-
tional Science Foundation, Times Mirror Magazines,
Inc., The Pew Charitable Trusts, Ford Motor Com-
pany, and Motorola. A new permanent exhibition,
“Exploring Marine Ecosystems,” opened in May,
followed by the traveling show “Royal Tombs of
Sipan” in June. Later in the year, visitors enjoyed the
museum’s first outdoor exhibition—a new butterfly
garden.

¢ Museum researchers continued their excellent
record of scholarly publication, writing and editing
some 600 papers and books. The most far-reaching
were three articles in the prestigious journal Science,
including a cover story on lichen-forming fungi by
Department of Botany researchers; a paper in the
journal Evolution suggesting that new species evolve
in bursts rather than continuously; a book compiling
all known information on worldwide volcanic ac-
tivity for the past 10,000 years; and two articles in
the Journal of Forensic Sciences on museum anthro-
pologists’ contributions to identification of human
remains.

¢ Museum board member Gilbert S. Kahn an-
nounced a gift of $2 million from his mother, Janet
Annenberg Hooker, to the Campaign for the Hall of
Geology, Gems and Minerals. The donation included
a four-piece jewelry suite of extremely rare fancy yel-
low diamonds. Mrs. Hooker contributed $3 million
to the campaign in 1992. The new hall will be named
in her honor when it opens in December 1996.

¢ The museum expanded its outreach dramatically
this year via the information superhighway. Online
services now available include a museum home page
on the World Wide Web (http://www.nmnh.si.edu);
an electronic version of “Ocean Planet”; scientific and
general-interest publications; collection information;
specialized bibliographies; comprehensive species lists

for some groups of organisms; and discussion centers

that link researchers around the world.

¢ Science has often transcended political boundaries,
but for decades the People’s Republic of China has re-
mained largely off limits to Western researchers. Re-
cently, however, a significant number of cooperative
projects between museum scientists and their Chinese
colleagues have begun. This year, two paleobiologists,
two botanists, a zoologist, and an expert in human
origins visited mainland China for scholarly ex-
changes and field work.

¢ The Smithsonian Marine Station at Link Port in
eastern Florida this year benefited from two generous
supporters. The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation agreed to a discounted sale of 3.2
hectares (8 acres) of land in Fort Pierce, Florida,
which will provide a permanent site for the facility.
The station also received a four-wheel-drive vehicle
from Ford Motor Company, a sponsor of “Ocean
Planet.”

National Zoological Park

MICHAEL H. ROBINSON, DIRECTOR

The National Zoological Park is being transformed
into a biological park that emphasizes the diversity
and interdependence of plants and animals. New ex-
hibits at the Zoo, such as the Amazonia, Wetlands,
and Cheetah Conservation Station exhibits, eliminate
the unnatural separation of plants and animals that

Michael Braun (right),
director of the Labo-
ratory of Molecular
Systematics at the
National Museum of
Natural History,
works with research
technician Chris
Huddleston to remove
frozen tissue samples
from a new liquid-
nitrogen storage sys-
tem, which maintains
specimens at ultra-
cold temperatures.
The frozen-tissue col-
lection augments the
museum's traditional
collections by provid-
ing a record of genetic
diversity at the molec-
ular level. (Photo-
graph by Doc
Dougherty)

>)
Se
Griff, the National
Zoological Park’s 13-
year-old Masai giraffe,
gave birth to a 114-
pound female calf on
June 5, 1995. The
5-foot, 10-inch new-
born stood and took
its first stumbling
steps in Just 28 min-
utes. Masai giraffes,
although not endan-
gered, are not com-
mon in North Ameri-

can zoos. (Photograph

by Lauren Erera)

characterizes most zoos and broaden appreciation for
the ecological relationships among living organisms.
Scientific studies conducted at the Zoo’s Rock Creek
Park facility in Washington, D.C., at the Conservation
and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia, and at
other locations in the United States and overseas fur-
ther the Zoo’s efforts to advance the understanding of
biological and veterinary science and to preserve dis-

appearing species and habitats worldwide.

¢ Jomu, one of the first cheetahs produced by artifi-
cial insemination, became part of the Cheetah Con-
servation Station. The 21-month-old female is a prod-
uct of research in assisted reproduction of endangered
cats conducted by staff from the National Zoo’s New
Opportunities in Animal Health Sciences Center
working at the Caldwell Zoo in Tyler, Texas.

¢ “Forever Changed: Birds on the Hawaiian Islands”
—an all-Smithsonian symposium organized by the
Zoo’s Office of Public Affairs—focused on the his-

(es
-&

tory, evolution, and conservation status of Hawaii’s
remarkable bird population. Scientists discussed the
discovery of the remains of recently extinct birds,
which provided DNA samples for analyses that forced
a rethinking of relationships between Hawaiian

bird species.

¢ The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ)
launched its first annual ZooArts Festival; opened a
new gift and food service facility; and initiated a
series of week-long overnight wildlife conservation
camps for children at the Conservation and Research
Center. ZooFari, FONZ’s 12th annual fund-raising
event, netted a record $240,000 for exhibition, edu-
cation, conservation, and research programs. FONZ
volunteers also contributed more than 100,000 hours
of assistance that supported a variety of projects.

¢ The Zoo won three major awards from the Ameri-
can Zoo and Aquarium Association. The golden lion
tamarin conservation program, which marked its first
decade of success in reintroducing golden lion
tamarin monkeys to Brazil, received the top Conser-
vation Award. The Zoo also shared honors with two
other zoos for collaborative work on behalf of the
endangered tiger and won an award for breeding
Matschie’s tree kangaroo.

¢ The Conservation and Research Center joined
Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc., and
Hewlett-Packard Company to form the Conservation
Technology Support Program, a consortium that pro-
vided $1 million in computer hardware, software,
and training to 30 nonprofit conservation organiza-
tions in the United States and abroad. This program
is improving biologists’ ability to analyze the environ-
mental impact of land and natural resource use.

¢ The Zoo and the Fairfax County, Virginia, Public
Schools coproduced four elementary school Science
Safari programs and an Electronic Field Trip for mid-
dle school students. Related curriculum materials
were created and distributed to participating schools.
The programs were broadcast to schools nationwide
via satellite downlink or cable television systems.

¢ A team of scientists led by the Zoo’s Daryl Boness
used a novel underwater videotape camera provided
by the National Geographic Society to gather never-
seen underwater images of harbor seals and informa-
tion on the seals’ behavior. The team traveled to Sable
Island in the North Atlantic Ocean to attach cameras
temporarily to the seals’ backs.

¢ The Conservation and Research Center recorded a
milestone with the first breeding of a Hawaiian
honeycreeper (the 777) outside the wild. Scientists at
the center are using this nonendangered species of
honeycreeper to develop husbandry and propagation
techniques for a number of Hawaii’s highly endan-
gered avian species.
Office of Fellowships and Grants

ROBERTA W. RUBINOFF, DIRECTOR

The Office of Fellowships and Grants supports and en-
hances research at the Institution, throughout the na-
tion, and overseas by linking the Smithsonian with stu-
dents and scholars from universities, museums, and
research organizations. Through fellowships, intern-
ships, and other visiting academic appointments, the
Smithsonian maximizes the use of its vast and unusual
resources and provides an important complement to
more formal modes of education. The office manages
centralized fellowship and internship programs and all
other stipend appointments, some of which are de-
signed to increase minority participation in Smithso-
nian research activities and disciplines. Two competi-
tive grant programs providing scholarly support for
Smithsonian professional staff also are administered
by the office.

¢ Approximately 900 students, scientists, and schol-
ars from the United States and abroad received ap-
pointments to use the Institution’s facilities and col-
lections. These awards included stipends for visiting
scholars and students, internships, and short-term
travel grants. Of the 66 awards made under the
Smithsonian Fellowship Program, 21 percent went to
students and scholars from underrepresented groups.
¢ With support from the Educational Outreach
Fund, the office coordinated a seminar series given by
nine Smithsonian research staff members at 16 large
U.S. universities with a significant number of students
from underrepresented groups. Students and faculty
learned about some of the research being conducted
at the Smithsonian and about the opportunities avail-
able to them here.

¢ Dr. Pedro E. Leon Azofeifa from the School of
Medicine at the University of Costa Rica received

the second George E. Burch Fellowship to study the
evolution of regulatory gene clusters in vertebrates.

¢ In the Smithsonian-wide Scholarly Studies Pro-
gram, 22 grants were awarded to provide up to two
years of research support in Smithsonian disciplines.

Office of International Relations

FRANCINE C. BERKOWITZ, DIRECTOR

From its inception, the Smithsonian Institution has
been an international organization. During the last
150 years, Smithsonian staff have ranged the globe, as-
sembling museum collections, collaborating on schol-
arly or public programs, and conducting research in

almost every country of the world. In 1965, the Smith-

sonian first established an international office to sup-
port its increasingly complex programs abroad and to
provide diplomatic and technical help for international
exchanges of museum collections and personnel. The
Office of International Relations (OIR) today coordi-
nates the Smithsonian’s interests abroad and is the cen-
tral reference source for its international activities. The
Smithsonian Foreign Currency Program, which the of-
fice administers, provides grants for research in a lim-
ited number of countries abroad.

¢ The December 1994 opening of the Cape Coast
Castle Museum in a former slave-trade fortress in the
West African nation of Ghana marked a milestone in
international cooperation for the Institution. With
assistance from several Smithsonian divisions and
funding from the U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment, the office coordinated an effort to train
Ghanaian staff in museum techniques and develop the
opening exhibition on the African diaspora.

¢ During 1995, the office obtained nearly 200 for-
eign visas for Smithsonian travelers and provided
U.S. visa documentation for 190 foreign researchers
and interns working at the Smithsonian and at col-
league institutions in this country.

¢ The office also handled arrangements for more
than 90 official government visits to the Smithsonian,
including those of the queen of Thailand, the presi-
dent of Cape Verde, the president of the Polish Acad-
emy of Sciences, and the South African minister of
arts, culture, science, and technology.

b+

The Smithsonian had

a major advisory role

PERE teeters

in the development of
Ghana’s Cape Coast

Castle Museum, which

opened in December

1994 in the renovated

facilities of a former

slave fort in this West

African country. (Pho-

tograph by Francine

Berkowitz)

>)

nan
The Laboratory of
Natural History in the
Smithsonian Institu-
tion Building ts shown
in this engraving from
An Account of the
Smithsonian Institu-
tion, written by
William Jones Rhees
in 1857. This historic
image 1s one of many
that will be used in ex-
hibitions and lectures
during the Smithso-
nian’s 150th anniver-

sary celebration.

Office of Smithsonian
Institution Archives

EDIE HEDLIN, DIRECTOR

The Office of Smithsonian Institution Archives spent
this year preparing for the Smithsonian’s r5oth an-
niversary. The Institutional History Division developed
research tools, programs, publications, and presenta-
tions on the history of the Smithsonian and its work-
ers. The Archives Division made substantial progress
on its enlarged and revised Guide to the Smithsonian
Institution Archives and received a grant from the
Atherton Seidell Endowment Fund to publish the new
edition during the anniversary year. The National Col-
lections Program expanded its annual Collection Sta-

tistics report and plans a special issue for 1996.

¢ The Archives Division opened a cold storage facil-
ity for special media on the grounds of the National
Zoological Park’s Conservation and Research Center
in Front Royal, Virginia. The facility provides a
steady, cool, and dry environment for the long-term
storage of microfilm, motion picture film, audiotape,
and videotape.

¢ The Archives Division, on behalf of the Archives
and Special Collections Council and with support
from the James Smithson Society, published an up-
dated and expanded brochure, Archival, Manuscript,
and Special Collection Resources, which outlines the
many documentary collections maintained through-
out the Smithsonian.

¢ The Institutional History Division produced two

databases—a bibliography and a chronology—that

support research into Smithsonian history. Both data-
bases are available online through the Smithsonian
Institution Research Information System and are ac-
cessible on the Internet. Staff members are working
on other databases, including a historical photograph
database expected to come online in 1996, and orga-
nizing several exhibits for the r5oth anniversary year.
During 1995, the Joseph Henry Papers Project staff
completed text editing of volume 8 of the papers of
the Smithsonian’s first Secretary.

¢ With the Center for Museum Studies, the National
Collections Program cosponsored an introductory
workshop on managing museum collections for staff

in small, emerging, minority, and rural museums.

Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory

IRWIN IL. SHAPIRO, DIRECTOR

The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) is
joined with the Harvard College Observatory in the
Harvard—Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, a col-
laborative enterprise dedicated to the discovery and
explanation of the physical processes that determine
the nature and evolution of the universe. A combined
professional staff of more than 250 scientists are en-
gaged in a broad program of research in astronomy,
astrophysics, and the earth and space sciences, orga-
nized by disciplines: atomic and molecular physics,
high-energy astrophysics, optical and infrared astron-
omy, planetary sciences, solar and stellar physics, and
theoretical astrophysics. Scientists gather observa-
tional data through instruments aboard rockets, bal-
loons, and spacecraft; through ground-based tele-
scopes at the Fred Lawrence Whipple Observatory in
Arizona and the Oak Ridge Observatory in Massachu-
setts; and through other instruments and laboratories at
the center’s headquarters in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
A science education department conducts basic re-
search on techniques for improving science and math-
ematics instruction, provides teacher training, and pro-
duces curriculum enhancement materials for teachers
and students. An extensive public outreach program
disseminates the results of SAO research to the scien-
tific community and to general audiences worldwide.
Current initiatives include the construction of a
submillimeter telescope array in Hawaii; the conver-
sion of the joint Smithsonian—University of Arizona
Multiple Mirror Telescope to a single-mirror instru-
ment 6.5 meters (21 feet, 6 inches) in diameter; and the
preparation of spaceborne instruments for experi-
ments in x-ray, submillimeter, and solar astronomy.

¢ SAO astronomers produced the best evidence to
date for the existence of massive black holes. Radio
observations of galaxy NGC 4258 revealed a disk of
material, only a few hundred times the size of our
solar system, rotating at velocities of up to 1,000
kilometers (620 miles) per second around a central
concentration of mass equivalent to some 40 million
Suns. Since stars cannot long survive packed so
closely together, the observations imply that a gigan-
tic black hole lies at the center of this disk.

¢ Groundbreaking for SAO’s submillimeter telescope
array (SMA) took place June 8 near the summit of
Mauna Kea, Hawaii. Smithsonian Secretary I.
Michael Heyman attended; among some 100 guests
were representatives of state and local government
and astronomers from around the world. When the
SMA is completed in 1998, it will have six dishes,
each 6 meters (19 feet, ro inches) in diameter, capable
of operating as a single, huge radio telescope 500
meters (1,650 feet) in diameter. This unique telescope
will make high-resolution images of such diverse
sources as planets, newly forming stars, galaxies,

and quasars.

¢ Preparation for the 1998 launch of the Advanced
X-ray Astrophysics Facility (AXAF) satellite contin-
ued. The telescope’s unusual cylindrical mirror seg-
ments were completed for coating, with surfaces far
exceeding the minimum requirements, and the high-
resolution camera under construction at SAO passed
its critical design review.

¢ Space for Women, a 20-page booklet encouraging
young women to pursue careers in astronomy and re-
lated fields, was produced and distributed by SAO’s
Public Affairs Office in cooperation with the observa-
tory’s Women’s Program Committee.

¢ Nearly 500 residents of southern Arizona attended
the official opening of the Whipple Observatory’s new
Visitors Center on January 7. The center features ex-
hibits on astronomy, natural science, cultural history,
and the environment produced in cooperation with
the U.S. Department of Agriculture/Forest Service and
the National Air and Space Museum.

¢ To better understand the laws governing the for-
mation of matter, SAO scientists created a special
form of magnetized xenon that enables them to mea-
sure precisely the spin rates of xenon atoms. The
laser-generated xenon is also being used in a collabo-
rative project with Harvard Medical School, where
doctors hope magnetized xenon gas might extend
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)—a common med-
ical diagnostic technique—to parts of the body, such
as the brain, not now well imaged by the technique.

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

DAVID L. CORRELL, DIRECTOR

Research and education at the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center (SERC) in Edgewater, Mary-
land, take a range of approaches to investigating basic
ecological processes and improving our ability to pro-
tect and manage important natural resources. Using
the geographic features of the Chesapeake Bay region,
the center conducts intensive analyses of a complex
landscape of interconnected ecosystems. SERC’s re-
search is the primary contribution on the region to the
U.S. Interagency Global Change Program and an im-
portant component of the International Geosphere-
Biosphere Program. Educational offerings range from
undergraduate internships and postdoctoral fellow-
ships to programs for a general audience.

¢ Rainwater dissolves many chemicals from the at-
mosphere and transports them to the land and surface
waters. SERC scientists have measured the volume
and composition of every rain event since 1973, the
longest record in the mid-Atlantic region. During this
period, rain has become more acidic, and calcium,
ammonium, and nitrate contents have increased,
making rainwater a more significant cause of excess
nitrogen in Chesapeake Bay.

Steve Murray (left),
associate director for
high-energy astro-
physics at the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical
Observatory, describes
the high-resolution
camera for the Ad-
vanced X-ray Astro-
physics Facility satel-
lite to National
Aeronautics and Space
Administration Ad-
muinistrator Daniel
Goldin (right),

as Project Scientist
Martin Zombeck
looks on. (Photograph
by Julie Corliss)

~]

eS)
A scientist from the
Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Cen-
ter takes a sample
containing parasitic
ciliate protozoans
from a dolphin at Sea
World of Florida.
(Photograph by

Wayne Coats)

¢ Shallow groundwater draining from croplands
often contains high concentrations of nitrate, which
has adverse effects on receiving waters if it reaches
them. SERC scientists have shown that most of this
nitrate is removed as the groundwater moves through
streamside forests. Using tuneable infrared lasers,
they are studying the nitrate removal mechanism by
measuring the concentrations of gases such as nitrous
oxide released from the forest as a result of nitrate
metabolism in the forest soils. The lasers are auto-
mated and allow continuous measurements from
many locations.

¢ The release of estrogen and testosterone from
intensive livestock operations, such as poultry and
cattle farms, is a potential threat to the health of re-
ceiving waters. SERC scientists have shown that con-
centrations of these hormones sufficient to have bio-
logical effects are commonly found in the streams
draining agricultural areas of the Chesapeake Bay
watershed. These hormones also reach the open
waters of the bay.

¢ SERC scientists have shown that dead tree branches
and trunks in the shallows along the shoreline of
Chesapeake Bay provide refuges from predation for
aquatic animals. The populations of species such as
grass shrimp, minnows, and young fish are signifi-
cantly higher in areas containing this coarse woody
debris. When shorelines are cleared of woody plants,
these shelters are no longer available.

¢ Fisheries managers are becoming more concerned
about the future of the blue crab industry in Chesa-
peake Bay. SERC scientists study many aspects of this
problem and have found that in shallow water areas

without refuges, 75 percent to 97 percent of juvenile
crabs are eaten by large crabs. Both recruitment of
new crabs and survival of juveniles are important
factors in adult abundance.

¢ Barnacles are among the most abundant fouling
organisms in coastal waters. Three species of the
same genus occur in various parts of Chesapeake Bay,
and SERC scientists have been studying the factors
that control where they grow. A combination of sa-
linity range and the presence of organic “settlement
factors” excreted by adults of the same species are
the cues that free-swimming larvae search for before
they attach to surfaces where they spend the rest of
their lives.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

BARBARA J. SMITH, DIRECTOR

The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) provides
reference and information services to the Institution’s
staff, members of the public, and scholars from around
the world. The Libraries’ collections of 1.2 million vol-
umes, 15,000 journals, 40,000 rare books, and 1,800
groups of manuscripts are available for use in the 18
branches of the Libraries’ system, and its catalogue
records are online on the Internet. SIL is a member of
the Association of Research Libraries and a special
member of the Research Libraries Group.

¢ An Online Index and Finding Guide to the Litera-
ture of African Art and Culture is being developed for
access on the Internet as part of the Libraries’ online
catalogue, thanks to an award of $197,250 from the
Getty Grant Program. Responding to the public’s
growing interest in non-Western art, Libraries staff
created the index of 52,000 citations to identify
source materials in this expanding field.

¢ The Libraries launched an electronic republishing
program with a pilot project supported by the Ather-
ton Seidell Endowment Fund. The full, searchable
text of two volumes in the Smithsonian’s Bureau of
American Ethnology series of Native American an-
thropology studies, long out of print, is being pre-
pared for electronic dissemination on the Libraries’
World Wide Web site (http://www.sil.si.edu).

¢ The exhibition “Science and the Artist’s Book,”
cosponsored by the Libraries and the Washington
Project for the Arts, explored how scientific ideas can
stimulate artistic creation. The year-long show in-
cluded original artist’s books inspired by and dis-
played with pioneering scientific studies in the collec-
tions of SIVs Dibner Library of the History of Science
and Technology.
¢ In conjunction with the opening of “Science and
the Artist’s Book,” Roald Hoffmann, Cornell Univer-
sity’s Nobel laureate in chemistry, poet, and author,
explored connections between science and art in the
1995 Dibner Library Lecture, “Chemistry Imagined.”

Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute

IRA RUBINOFF, DIRECTOR

The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI),
based in the Republic of Panama, is dedicated to re-
search on tropical nature and peoples and to commu-
nicating this knowledge throughout the world. To fur-
ther its mission, STRI operates tropical forest and
marine field stations, well-equipped laboratories, a re-
| search vessel, and a major tropical science library. These
facilities support the work of 35 staff scientists and

hundreds of visiting researchers and students each year.

o> ReERRERERRRRTT NT AECL MANET

Mon,
FARE

¢ Staff scientist D. Ross Robertson, in collaboration
with Gerald R. Allen, published Fishes of the Tropical
Eastern Pacific. The 350-page volume, the most com-
prehensive guide to the fish fauna of this region ever
produced, covers 680 species in 301 families. De-
signed to be used by divers, anglers, and naturalists,
as well as by scientists, the book features more than
500 color photographs and illustrations.

¢ New laboratory facilities opened at the Barro Col-
orado Island Field Station, greatly enhancing STRI’s
ability to carry out field studies in close conjunction
with detailed analytical work. The new building has
five individual laboratories, thirteen office-laborato-
ries, a chemistry laboratory, an instrument room, a
computer room, a darkroom, a herbarium, and a
walk-in freezer. Along with housing units for re-
searchers and living quarters for workers, this new
building completes a series of projects begun in 1987
to replace facilities dating to the 1920s.

¢ A major new field station for marine biological re-
search opened in the Cayos Cochinos Biological Re-
serve off the northern coast of Honduras. STRI oper-
ates the station in cooperation with a consortium of

Dave Spencer (right),
librarian of the
National Air and
Space Museum Branch
of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries,
welcomes a major gift
of a microfilm copy of
Trade-a-Plane maga-
zine from TAP Pub-
lishing Company.
Representing the com-
pany, Jean Durfee pre-
sented the gift of 114
reels of microfilm that
preserves the run of
the magazine from its
beginning in 1937.
Russell Lee (left), cu-
rator in the museum’s
Aeronautics Depart-
ment, notes that the
advertisements for
aircraft, flying instruc-
tion, and aviation
equipment in Trade-a-
Plane offer scholars

“a powerful tool for
understanding one of
aviation’s most tumuI-
tuous periods.”
(Photograph by
Carolyn Russo)
Secretary I. Michael
Heyman, on his first
visit to the Smith-

sonian Tropical Re-
search Institute, has
some hands-on experi-
ence with a sea urchin
with the help of Arge-
lis Guevara of STRI’s
Office of Education.
(Photograph by

Marcos A. Guerra)

40

private partners in Honduras and Switzerland, the
Honduras Coral Reef Foundation, and the Honduran
government. Incorporating a solar-powered labora-
tory and living space for 15 scientists, Cayos Cochi-
nos will be the site for studies of coral reefs and other
marine habitats and for an initiative in the sustainable
development of fishing and tourism.

¢ The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation awarded a
three-year grant of $350,000 to be shared equally by
STRI and the Organization for Tropical Studies
(OTS) to foster collaborative activities between these
preeminent tropical research organizations. The grant
establishes a STRI-OTS Steering Committee and sup-
ports joint workshops on research areas being pur-

sued independently by the organizations. In addition,
it will fund exchange visits by STRI and OTS re-
searchers, as well as visits by outside researchers.

¢ The Center for Tropical Forest Science began the
fourth census of the 50-hectare (123.5-acre) forest
plot on Barro Colorado Island in January 1995; pre-
vious censuses were conducted in 1982, 1985, and
1990. Researchers will measure and map some
240,000 trees of 300 species to obtain data on
growth, mortality, and forest regeneration. In addi-
tion, a new 5o-hectare plot has been initiated in a
high-diversity area of Yasuni National Park in Ama-
zonian Ecuador. This plot is expected to contain
290,000 trees and as many as 900 species.
ARTS AND HUMANITIES

Anacostia Museum

STEVEN CAMERON NEWSOME, DIRECTOR

The Anacostia Museum continued its tradition of in-
creasing public knowledge of the black experience
through direct engagement with a variety of con-
stituent groups in the development of exhibitions, pub-
lic programs, and research projects. The groundbreak-
ing exhibition “Black Mosaic: Community, Race, and
Ethnicity among Black Immigrants in Washington,
D.C.” was the anchor for activities that strengthened
the museum’s leadership in documenting and _ inter-
preting contemporary urban and community history
and culture. The collaborative strategies that the mu-
seum uses to develop and implement projects are mod-
els for other institutions.

¢ To complement “Black Mosaic,” the museum
sponsored two conferences about music. “Musica
Afro-Latino” explored the history of Latin musical
forms in Washington, D.C., and featured perfor-
mances and discussions by some of the city’s pioneers
and trendsetters. “Beyond the Reggae Beat” increased
public understanding of musical genres with origins
in English- and French-speaking Caribbean communi-
ties. Free concerts followed both conferences.

¢ Three notable exhibitions were installed in the
Community Gallery. “In Search of Common Ground:
Senior Citizens and Community Life at Potomac Gar-
dens” focused on eight residents of a public housing
development. “Art Changes Things: The Art and Ac-
tivism of Georgette Powell” was a retrospective view
of the life and work of a noted African American art
educator and artist who has been active since the
1930s. “Anacostia: Not the Same Old Story” was de-
veloped by students participating in the museum’s
partnership with the Lucy Ellen Moten Elementary
School.

¢ The National African American Museum Project
became part of the museum’s administrative structure
and was renamed the Center for African American
History and Culture. The center mounted two exhibi-
tions in the Arts and Industries Building. “Imagining
Families” offered a provocative examination of fam-
ily history through a variety of art forms. In “The
Harmon and Harriet Kelley Collection of Art,” the
public gained insight into the impact of individuals
who decide to commit themselves to collecting
African American art.

¢ An advisory board began consulting with museum
staff on plans for the 1997 exhibition “Speak to My

Heart: African American Communities of Faith and

Contemporary Life.” The exhibition, the second in a
trilogy of major contemporary urban history offer-
ings, will explore the social and cultural dynamics of
Washington’s African American spiritual institutions.
It will also address the impact of changes in vest-
ments, iconography, and liturgy on black religious
traditions.

¢ Plans for the museum’s Archives Study and Storage
Center were completed. Construction is slated for
1996 and 1997. The addition will enable the museum
to be more effective in collecting and caring for man-
uscript, archival, and photographic material that re-
flects black life.

Archives of American Art

RICHARD J. WATTENMAKER, DIRECTOR

The Archives of American Art is the nation’s reposi-
tory for documentation of the visual arts and culture
in the United States. It collects, preserves, and makes
available for study records, original papers, pho-
tographs, diaries, sketchbooks, and oral history inter-
views. On the subject of art in America, it is the largest
archives in the world, holding more than 13 million
documents. Dedicated to encouraging research in
American art and cultural history, the Archives makes
its collections easily accessible through reference cen-
ters across the country and an extensive interlibrary
loan program. Researchers may use its catalogue data-
base on the Internet and through the Research Li-
braries Information Network. The Archives’ varied

Artist Georgette
Powell encourages a
Moten Elementary
School student during
her workshop spon-
sored by the Anacostia
Museum. (Photograph
by Harold Dorwin)

41
Photograph of Mexi-
can architect Juan
O’Gorman at Watts
Towers in Los Angeles,
from the Esther McCoy
Papers in the Archives

of American Art

collections are a foundation for advanced study in
American art history and in other fields, including cul-
tural, political, and social history. The Archives’ quar-
terly Journal publishes articles based on research con-
ducted in the collections, as well as book reviews and

collecting reports from the regional centers.

¢ This year, the Archives of American Art began
identifying and increasing its resources for the study
of Latino art. A guide to Latino holdings is in
progress, and the Archives is actively pursuing the
papers of Latino artists throughout the United States.
A comprehensive survey of the collections revealed

a wealth of material, such as the diary that Carlos
Lopez kept as an artist, war correspondent, and pho-
tographer for Life magazine in 1943; sketchbooks
and journals of painter Carlos Almaraz; records of
Octavio Medellin’s art school in Dallas; correspon-
dence and writings of Edward Chavez, Antonio So-
tomayer, and Mel Casas; and a collection of 3,504
color slides documenting 741 Chicano murals in
California. Many other noted Latino artists are repre-
sented, either with significant documentation or in
tape-recorded interviews. Oral history interviews with
senior figures in the San Antonio Mexican American
art community will further augment the Archives’

holdings.

¢ The Archives Board of Trustees hosted a week-long
series of benefit events in California honoring Beatrice
Wood. The ror-year-old ceramicist received the 1994
Esteemed Living American Artist Award from the
Archives at a gala dinner, which she attended via
special satellite communication.

¢ The New York Committee of the Archives of
American Art held “A Salute to Agnes Gund,” honor-
ing the collector, patron of the arts, and chairman

of the Museum of Modern Art. The committee pre-
sented Gund with an original drawing contributed

by Frank Stella, and each of the 250 guests received

a limited edition print donated by Elizabeth Murray.
¢ “Katharine Kuh: Interpreting the New,” an exhibi-
tion celebrating the life and achievements of the
prominent art historian, critic, art dealer, and curator,
opened at the New York Regional Center exhibition
gallery in December 1994. A rich array of documents
from the Kuh bequest to the Archives were on view,
along with works of art by Mark Rothko, David
Smith, Isamu Noguchi, Alexander Calder, Marcel
Duchamp, and others.

¢ The West Coast Regional Center participated in
the exhibition “They Painted from Their Hearts: Pio-
neer Asian American Artists” at the Wing Luke Asian
Museum in Seattle. The exhibition catalogue includes
a directory of Asian American artists researched by
the Archives.

¢ The Stanton Macdonald-Wright Papers, which the
Archives had pursued since before the artist’s death in
1973, were acquired during 1995. The papers date
from 1907 to 1973 and include early correspondence
between Stanton and his brother Willard Huntington
Wright; a diary from Paris written in 1909 in which
Macdonald-Wright muses over aesthetics and records
his color theories; and five journal notebooks that the
artist kept from 1939 to 1973.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

MILO C. BEACH, DIRECTOR

The mission of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery is to pro-
mote public interest and scholarship in the art and cul-
ture of Asia through exhibition, research, education,
and publication. Founded on a gift of 1,000 works of
Asian art from Dr. Arthur M. Sackler (1913-87), the
gallery opened in 1987 and has built a reputation for
innovative approaches to stimulating interest in Asia.
The permanent collection, which spans Neolithic times
to the present, has grown beyond Dr. Sackler’s original
donation through gift, purchase, and transfer. The col-
lection provides a comparative basis for the gallery’s

important thematic loan exhibitions, which are en-
hanced through a varied schedule of free public pro-
grams, scholarly activities, and special events.

¢ With both the Sackler and Freer buildings open, in
full operation, and physically linked for more than
two years, the gallery conducted its first 12-month
visitor study. Working with the Smithsonian’s Insti-
tutional Studies Office and a four-member gallery
steering committee, the staff interviewed visitors for
seven days each month from October 1994 through
September 1995. When study results are tabulated,
staff expect to learn more about who gallery visitors
are and what they hope to gain from their museum
experience.

¢ The family program “ImaginAsia” benefited from
the addition of a part-time staff member, who ex-
panded these popular activities to complement cur-
rent exhibitions and developed a variety of related
hands-on activities. The public responded enthusiasti-
cally and in great numbers to the program’s increased
frequency and changing themes.

¢ During a one-day symposium, “Saints, Sufis, and
Siddhas,” six scholars of art history and religion pre-
sented papers examining the significance of the holy
personage, an overarching theme in the South Asian
artistic idiom. Sessions devoted to Hindu, Islamic,
and Buddhist “saints” were followed by an open dis-
cussion. The symposium was made possible by the
generosity of Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler.

¢ The gallery sponsored six free public film series
featuring recent and classic works from China, Tai-
wan, Hong Kong, Japan, Vietnam, Cambodia, and
the Philippines, as well as films from the United States
about Asia. Advertisements for the series appeared in
Asian community newspapers, and that exposure
helped attract large and diverse audiences to the films.
¢ The collections management departments of the
Sackler and Freer Galleries were combined in a single
department under a head registrar, who oversaw the
acquisition of 175 works of art through gift, pur-
chase, and transfer to the Sackler Gallery this year.
Among the significant gifts were 72 photographs of
Asia by Lois Conner; a group of archaic Luristan
bronzes; and a fine 14th-century Tibetan Buddhist
sculpture, which was purchased by the Friends of
Asian Arts and the Smithsonian Collections Acquisi-
tion Program.

¢ “Contemporary Japanese Porcelain,” an exhibition
of recent work by living artists, received top honors
as Best Overall Exhibition in the 1994 Smithsonian
Exhibition Awards. “A Mughal Hunt,” which exam-
ined the process by which a scholar traces the history
of an unidentified work of art, was cited for the excel-
lence of its labels.

Center for Museum Studies

REX M. ELLIS, DIRECTOR

The Center for Museum Studies serves a diverse con-
stituency of museum professionals, students, volun-
teers, and cultural resource specialists by offering
courses, seminars, fellowships, internships, informa-
tion services, and professional support. The center is
committed to fostering excellence, public service, and
diversity in the museum community. It also plays a
major role with Smithsonian interns, taking responsi-
bility for central intern services. Through program-
ming and counseling, the center ensures that all interns
use the unique resources of the Smithsonian to explore
the many facets of museum work.

¢ Anthony and Beatrice Welters established the Vin-
cent Wilkinson Endowment Fund at the center in

The Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery’s small collec-

tion of Tibetan art
was enhanced by this
14th-century gilded
metal sculpture of the
Bodhisattva (enlight-
ened being) Gandha-
hastin, posed with his
hand downward in the
varada gesture of
granting a wish while
holding a flower stem
in the other. The gem-
encrusted figure was
purchased by the
Friends of Asian Arts
and the Smithsonian
Collections Acquist-

tion Program.
OPPOSITE: According
to biographical infor-
mation from the 17th
century, the usually
astute samurai Yama-
moto Kansuke, shown
in this caricature por-
trait by Japanese artist
Gion Seitoku (1781-
1829?), committed
suicide after one of his
battle plans failed.
This hanging scroll
was purchased by
Friends of Asian Arts
and the Smithsonian
Collections Acquisi-

tion Program.

44

honor of Mrs. Welters’s father. The endowment

will fund African American interns in the center’s
Museum Intern Partnership Program. The Wilkinson
Interns will participate in internships at the Smith-
sonian and at smaller, community-focused museums.
¢ The center continued its national museum-related
services by offering a new series of training work-
shops for staff at small, emerging, rural, and minority
museums; through sponsorship of four museum re-
search projects by its Fellowships in Museum Practice
program; and by the annual Awards for Museum
Leadership program, a management seminar for
people of color working in museums.

¢ With the Inter-University Program, the center
sponsored the second annual Latino Graduate Train-
ing Seminar in Qualitative Methodology. Fifteen doc-
toral candidates participated in “Interpreting Latino
Cultures: Research and Museums.” The center intro-
duced a new 1o-week residency program linked to the
seminar, selecting four participants from the 1994
and 1995 seminars to participate.

¢ The American Indian Museum Studies Program
launched Perspectives, a series of technical pamphlets
for American Indian cultural centers. The program
also produced a directory of all participants since its

inception in 1991.

This carved tortoise-shell
comb, made in England
or France during the mid-
19th century, was fea-
tured in “Body Language:
Jewelry and Accessories
from the National Design
| yO Museum” at Cooper-
Hewitt, National Design
| Museum. (Photograph by
Dennis Cowley)

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum

DIANNE H. PILGRIM, DIRECTOR

As the National Design Museum, Cooper-Hewitt ful-
fills a unique role in the preservation and interpreta-
tion of design for a wide and diverse public. Through
challenging exhibitions, innovative educational pro-
grams for children and adults, and a world-renowned
collection, the museum explores the impact of design
on every aspect of our daily lives. The care, study, and
presentation of its collections, which are a resource for
designers, students, scholars, artisans, and the public,
is central to the museum’s mission. On completion of a
$20 million renovation and accessibility project in late
1996, the museum’s collections will be housed in the
new Design Resource Center, which will make the ob-
jects truly accessible for study.

¢ Agnes Cowles Bourne, a San Francisco furniture
and interior designer, and her husband Dr. James
Luebbers made a major contribution of $2 million to
the museum’s $20 million renovation and accessibility
project. Renovation of the museum’s two town-
houses, which will become the Design Resource Cen-
ter, began this year. Construction also began on a
connector linking the Carnegie Mansion, the town-
houses, and the Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden.

¢ As part of the Smithsonian’s efforts to increase its
Latino audience and expand its attention to Latino
contributions to history, art, and science, the museum
received a $98,000 appropriation to support educa-
tional programs, exhibitions, and a Latino design
archive. The museum established an African Ameri-
can Archive in 1991.

¢ The museum received seven Federal Design
Achievement Awards in a competition that drew
more than 400 entries. Honored for superiority in
design were the publication The Edge of the Millen-
nium: An International Critique of Architecture,
Urban Planning, Product and Communication De-
sign and the exhibitions “Cooper-Hewitt: A Design
Resource,” “Mechanical Brides: Women and Ma-
chines from Home to Office,” “Packaging the New:
Design and the American Consumer, 1925-1975,”
“The Power of Maps,” “Revolution, Life, and Labor:
Soviet Porcelain,” and “A Royal Gift: The 1862
Porcelain Jewel Cabinet.”

¢ This year the museum sponsored its second annual
Summer Design Institute. During this week-long pro-
gram, more than 100 public school teachers explored
ways that technology and design can enhance a vari-
ety of curriculum areas. Other innovative programs
for educators and students included “A City of Neigh-

borhoods,” which brings together educators and ar-
chitects to use the neighborhood and its resources to
enrich school curriculums; “Design Career Days,” in
which professional designers help high school stu-
dents explore social and environmental issues through
design; “Studio after School,” in which high school
students work with prominent design professionals to
increase their awareness of and interest in the urban
built environment; and “A Celebration of Craftsman-
ship,” which introduced more than 700 students to
traditional craft techniques demonstrated by artisans
from New York City and France.

¢ The museum continued its tradition of presenting
innovative and creative exhibitions. Highlights of the
year included exhibitions on the evolution of the
workplace, Dutch modernism and the applied arts
from 1880 to 1930, the work of graphic designer
Elaine Lustig Cohen, jewelry and accessories from
the museum’s collection, 1950s wallpapers, and an
analysis of an 18th-century bedcover. The museum
collaborated with the National Academy of Design
to present “Nature Observed, Nature Interpreted,”
an exhibition of r9th-century American landscape
drawings and watercolors.

¢ The museum’s annual benefit auction featured a
silent auction of more than 200 objects relating to
historical or contemporary design. Five hundred
museum supporters attended the event, which raised
more than $130,000 for the museum’s general oper-
ating funds.

Freer Gallery of Art

MILO C. BEACH, DIRECTOR

The Asian collections of the Freer Gallery of Art span
Neolithic times to the early 2oth century and are
known internationally for their quality. Although the
Freer is one of the Smithsonian’s two national muse-
ums of Asian art, it also houses a small but important
collection of work by roth- and early 2oth-century
American artists, including the world’s largest collec-
tion of works by James McNeill Whistler. The gallery
opened to the public in 1923 and was the first Smith-
sonian museum devoted to the fine arts. Charles Lang
Freer (1856-1919) of Detroit deeded the collection to
the United States in 1906; the Asian portion of his gift
has grown through purchase and donation to three
times its original size. While only a small percentage of
the gallery’s holdings can be displayed at once, regular
exhibition changes allow visitors to view a full range
of the collection over time.

45)
46

¢ A project to preserve some of the world’s great
art was initiated by the government of Japan and
private concerns in 1991, and the Freer Gallery was
the first institution in the United States to benefit
from this effort. By the time the project is completed
early in 1996, 40 of the gallery’s masterpieces of
Japanese painting, dating from the 12th through the
roth century, will have been stabilized, cleaned, and
remounted in the traditional format by specialists

in Japan.

¢ The Freer joined the National Gallery of Art and
the National Portrait Gallery in presenting a full
range of the art of American expatriate James
McNeill Whistler. “Whistler & Japan” was the first
exhibition at the Freer to focus specifically on the re-
lationship between the Japanese and American paint-
ing collections, and it examined Whistler’s interest in

Japanese art and its effect on his work. The gallery

also cosponsored a Whistler Scholars’ Colloquium
with the Centre for Whistler Studies, University of
Glasgow. The colloquium was held at the Freer, with
an opening reception at the British Embassy.

¢ The Freer and Sackler Library began major im-
provements in public service through an automated
cataloguing system that includes titles in Chinese,

Japanese, and Korean alphabets. Library staff have

begun to convert the 57,o00-volume card catalogue
to the electronic database, which eventually will be
accessible by computer worldwide.

¢ Visitors entering the gallery through the north
door can check current exhibitions and the day’s
events on two interactive video monitors that were
installed this year. Designed by gallery staff and
made possible by a generous grant from the Smith-
sonian Women’s Committee, the monitors attracted
approximately 4,000 visitor queries in the first month
of operation.

¢ The director was host of a reception in honor of
the visit of the Dalai Lama in September. His Holi-
ness toured the Buddhist galleries and addressed
guests about the importance of preserving the cultural
heritage of Tibet.

¢ A highlight among the 18 gifts, purchases, and
transfers to the Freer collection this year was the Por-
trait of Yamamoto Kansuke, a hanging scroll by Gion
Seitoku (1781-1829?), a Japanese artist known for
his religious and historical portraiture, as well as for
his paintings of courtesans. The subject of the Freer
portrait was the trusted adviser and brilliant military
strategist for one of 16th-century Japan’s most cun-
ning and powerful warlords. The painting was pur-
chased by Friends of Asian Art and the Smithsonian
Collections Acquisition Program.

Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden

JAMES T. DEMETRION, DIRECTOR

In October 1994, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden marked its zoth anniversary as the Smith-
sonian Institution’s showcase for modern and contem-
porary art. Today as in 1974, the museum remains
committed to increasing the awareness and under-
standing of art through acquisitions, exhibitions and
publications, research activities, public programs, and
the presentation of the collection in its galleries and
outdoor exhibition spaces. The museum provides a
public facility for the exhibition, study, and preserva-
tion of r9th- and 2oth-century art. A spectrum of con-
temporary work is always on view.

¢ With the help of various acquisitions funds and
gifts from generous donors, the museum continued to
acquire significant works by modern and contempo-
rary artists. Among the highlights for the year were
Chuck Close’s oil portrait Roy IT (1994), Barry Flana-
gan’s whimsical bronze sculpture The Drummer
(1989-90), Agnes Martin’s oil and graphite painting
on linen Untitled No. rr (1984), Ana Mendieta’s
earth sculpture Untitled (1984), Roberto Marquez’s
oil painting Theater of the World (1988), Juan
Mujfioz’s five-element composition of bronze figures
Conversation Piece (1994-95), and Andy Warhol’s
polymer and silkscreen ink Self-Portrait (1986).

¢ The Hirshhorn continued to present “The Collec-
tion Reviewed,” reinstallations integrating American
and European art with a special emphasis on contem-
porary art, in lower-level and third-floor galleries. In
second-floor galleries, works from the permanent col-
lection were seen again in June after a large-scale loan
exhibition and subsequent renovations had kept the
space occupied or closed for some eight months. An
educational presentation combined the Hirshhorn’s
holdings with material from other Smithsonian
sources to explore Thomas Eakins’s 1895 portrait of
Smithsonian ethnologist Frank Hamilton Cushing, a
major painting on loan from the Thomas Gilcrease
Institute of American History and Art in Tulsa,
Oklahoma.

¢ The Hirshhorn’s exhibition program highlighting
contemporary American artists included a major
show of Bruce Nauman’s sculptures, photographs,
drawings, and voice and neon installations, co-orga-
nized with the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and
touring internationally. A 20-year survey of abstract
paintings by Irish-born New York artist Sean Scully
also was presented, together with small-scale exhibi-
tions focusing on works by Gary Simmons and Cindy

Sherman. A smaller show featured drawings by Ger-
man artist Martin Kippenberger.

¢ Among the education programs presented this
year were those that accompanied the Bruce Nauman
exhibition. In an experiment in visitor information
services, roving docents in the galleries and a staffed
resource center encouraged visitors’ comments and
dialogue about this nontraditional art exhibition. In
the second annual Mordes Lecture in Contemporary
Art, renowned critic Peter Schjeldahl explored Nau-
man’s achievements. A panel titled “Nauman Then
and Now” included past and present champions of
the artist. Programs of music by the 2oth Century
Consort and films underscored influences on Nauman
or presented parallel visions.

¢ Cindy Sherman’s self-posed “film still” photo-
graphs were the inspiration for a film noir festival,

a class photography project at the Duke Ellington
School of the Arts in Washington, D.C., and two lec-
tures. “Cartoons, Popular Images, and Culture” was
the title of a dialogue-presentation by exhibiting artist
Gary Simmons and cultural critic Gina Dent. Eight
“Young at Art” family programs enthralled more
than 160 six- to eleven-year-olds and their parents
with tours of an exhibition followed by hands-on

art projects.

¢ More than 16,000 people attended free film pro-

grams featuring cutting-edge international indepen-
dent cinema, documentaries on contemporary artists,

and family-oriented animation.

Institutional Studies Office

ZAHAVA D. DOERING, DIRECTOR

The Institutional Studies Office is an Institution-wide
resource dedicated to the scientific study of the charac-
teristics, attitudes, opinions, and experiences of Smith-
sonian constituencies. Its activities include long-term
visitor studies at Smithsonian museums, background
studies and assessments of exhibitions and public pro-
grams, and studies of staff. On a limited basis, the of-
fice conducts seminars in applied quantitative and
qualitative research and program evaluation and pro-
vides technical consultation to cultural organizations
throughout the country.

¢ Two new reports from the office provide insights
into the visitor experience at the National Air and
Space Museum. The first, Air and Space Encounters,
is an update of a demographic study conducted in
1988. The second, Space Fantasy and Social Reality,
describes visitors to the popular Star Trek exhibition
and analyzes their responses to the contents.

President Clinton and
his daughter Chelsea
visited the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden on Octo-
ber 2. (Official White
House photograph)
America’s military
services segregated
troops by race until
1948. This photo
graph from the exhibi-
tion “Building the Ar-
senal of Democracy:
World War II Pho
tographs from the Na-
tional Air and Space
Museum Archives”
shows black troops
learning to plot a
bomber’s course using
multiple methods of
navigation at Hondo
Army Air Field, Texas.
(U.S. Air Force/
National Air and

Space Museum

photograph)

¢ Results from two other exhibition assessments
were also issued: Different Sites, Different Views: A
Study of the “Degenerate Art” Exhibition conducted
at both its Washington, D.C., and Berlin, Germany,
venues and Mechanical Brides: Women and Machines
from Home to Office at Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum. Data were collected for in-depth
assessment of “Science in American Life” at the Na-
tional Museum of American History and “Ocean
Planet” at the National Museum of Natural History.
¢ The ways that zoo visitors were affected by phy-
sical and conceptual changes to reptile-amphibian
buildings were published in From Reptile Houses to
Reptile Discovery Centers: A Study of the Reptile
Discovery Centers Project at the National Zoological
Park, Zoo Atlanta, and the Dallas Zoo.

¢ Year-long visitor surveys were completed at the
National Museum of Natural History, the National
Museum of American History, and the Freer Gallery
of Art and Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Analyses and

reports of the results are in progress.

National Air and Space Museum

ROBERT S. HOFFMANN, ACTING DIRECTOR

The National Air and Space Museum takes great pride
in its status as the world’s most visited museum. Dur-
ing this fiscal year, the museum planned for the cele-
brations in 1996 of the 2oth anniversary of its public

opening and the rsoth anniversary of the Smithsonian.

¢ In 1995, the museum was the focus of interna-

tional attention as staff tackled a challenging exhibi-

tion subject, the B-29 Enola Gay. The museum’s |
original draft script was the catalyst for a national |
discussion about the end of World War II. After
months of intense debate regarding the appropriate
way to present the subject, the original exhibition
was cancelled. It was replaced with an exhibition that |
focused on the aircraft, the men who flew it, and the
museum’s restoration effort. This exhibition, “Enola
Gay,” opened to the public on June 28, 1995. Nearly
300,000 people visited it in its first 90 days.

¢ In May, the Department of Space History acquired
the camera from the Corona, the world’s first spy
satellite, from the Central Intelligence Agency.
Michael Collins requested the camera in 1975 when
he was museum director. The museum renewed the |
request with each new CIA director, but the Corona

program remained classified until 1995. The Corona
is scheduled to go on display as part of the “Space
Race” exhibition opening in late 1996. |
¢ The Educational Services Department launched
several initiatives designed to make the museum’s col-
lections and research more accessible to the public.
The curriculum guides Destiny in Space and Chal-

lenges for Space Explorers quickly became two of the
most popular teaching aids the museum has ever of-
fered. With classroom activities tested by 200 teach-
ers nationwide, these guides bring to life the IMAX
film Destiny in Space and the futuristic space explo-
ration gallery “Where Next, Columbus?” Other new
avenues of support to educators include a World
Wide Web site (http://www.nasm.edu), a summer
science camp attended by more than 300 students
and families, and the Educators Exchange hands-on
workshops for teachers.

¢ In June, the museum launched its contributing
membership program, the National Air and Space
Society. During the first 40 days of the program, it
attracted more than 1,000 members. Funds generated
by the program will support the planning and even-
tual construction of the museum’s extension facility
at Dulles International Airport, as well as important
restoration, preservation, and educational programs.
¢ Three new museum publications chronicle some of
the greatest achievements of the century. The com-
panion guides Aviation: A Smithsonian Guide and
Spaceflight: A Smithsonian Guide (Macmillan USA)
celebrate the history of air and space flight. Treasures
of the National Air and Space Museum (Abbeville
Press) features more than 280 artifacts from the mu-
seum’s collection, including photographs, posters,
paintings, and sculpture from the museum’s archives
and art and popular culture collections.

¢ The eighth annual Mutual Concerns of Air and |
Space Museums seminar was held in March at the |
museum. This program, designed as a forum for shar-

ing ideas and knowledge, drew 91 museum profes-
sionals from around the world. The seminar is orga-
nized by the museum’s Office of Cooperative Pro-
grams and the American Association of Museums.

¢ The Center for Earth and Planetary Studies un-
covered new information about the large highland
plateaus that punctuate the rolling plains of the
planet Venus. These areas have been difficult to study
because they are among the roughest places on Venus.
New radar images reveal the “rockiness” of the ter-
rain, information that is of great interest to planetary
geologists.

National Museum of African Art

SYLVIA H. WILLIAMS, DIRECTOR

The National Museum of African Art celebrates the
rich visual traditions and extraordinarily diverse cul-
tures of Africa. Through its collections, exhibitions, re-
search, and public programs, the museum fosters an
appreciation of African art and civilizations. It is also
a research and reference center, housing the Eliot
Elisofon Photographic Archives and the Warren M.
Robbins Library, a branch of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries, as well as exhibition galleries and edu-
cational facilities.

¢ The museum opened the traveling exhibition
“Ancient Nubia: Egypt’s Rival in Africa,” which pre-
sented 300 artifacts that document the rise and fall

of Nubian kingdoms from 3100 B.c. to A.D. 400. In
conjunction with the exhibition, which was organized
by the University of Pennsylvania Museum, the mu-
seum sponsored an extensive series of activities for
the public and teachers, including workshops, panel
discussions, storytelling, and musical programs.

¢ In collaboration with the Museum of Fine Arts,
Boston, the museum presented “The Ancient Nubian
City of Kerma, 2500-1500 B.c.” This three-year loan
exhibition of works from the permanent collection

of the Museum of Fine Arts features objects from
Kerma, which was located on the Nile River. The ex-
hibition was organized by the Museum of Fine Arts
and its Department of Ancient Egyptian, Nubian, and
Near Eastern Art; all objects are from the Harvard
University—Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Expedition.
¢ The revised and refurbished exhibition “The An-
cient West African City of Benin, A.D. 1300-1897”
features the museum’s collection from the royal court
of the capital of the Kingdom of Benin as it existed
before colonial rule. Most of the works were a gift
from Joseph H. Hirshhorn to the Smithsonian Institu-
tion in 1966 and 1979; the objects were transferred

Rosine Soglo, first
lady of the Republic

to the National Museum of African Art in 1985 by

the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

¢ A capacity audience attended the interdisciplinary of Benin (right), views
panel discussion on “The Art and Culture of Ancient historic postcards
from the Eliot Eliso-

fon Photographic

Nubia,” sponsored by the museum’s Education De-
partment in conjunction with the exhibition “Ancient
Nubia: Egypt’s Rival in Africa.” Participants included = Archives during a visit
to the National Mu-
seum of African Art.
(Photograph by Janice
L. Kaplan)

historian Ismail Abdallah, College of William and
Mary; archaeologist David O’Connor, University of
Pennsylvania Museum; cultural anthropologist Ann
Jennings; and archaeologist Nettie K. Adams, Webb
Museum of Anthropology.

¢ The museum acquired Spoon, a conceptually com-
plex modern bronze sculpture by Amir I. M. Nour
(b. 1939), a contemporary sculptor who was born in
the Republic of Sudan and has lived in the United
States for most of his adult life. Another important
addition to the collection was a superb and rare
carved wood face mask from the Lele peoples of
Zaire, decorated with metal appliqué, beads, and
cowrie shells.

49
Assane Konte, artistic
director of the
KanKouran West
African Dance Com-
pany, demonstrates
dance for participants
and onlookers at the
National Museum of
American Art Fall
Family Day. The event
was held in conjunc-
tion with the exbibi-
tion “Free within
Ourselves: African
American Art from
the Museum’s Collec-
tion.” The show cele-
brated the largest and
most diverse collection
of African American
art in the nation.
(Photograph by

Eugene Young)

wn
(e)

National Museum of American Art

ELIZABETH BROUN, DIRECTOR

The National Museum of American Art, the nation’s
museum dedicated to the arts and artists of the United
States from colonial times to the present, provides col-
lections and research resources that enable visitors to
use and enjoy America’s visual arts at the museum
and, increasingly, by personal computer. The museum,
which includes the Renwick Gallery, serves diverse au-
diences throughout the nation, as well as those who
visit its two historic landmark buildings in Washing-
tons DG:

¢ The “White House Collection of American Crafts”
exhibition and its complementary Internet tour
(http://www.nmaa.si.edu//whce/americancrafts) show-
cased 72 outstanding examples of contemporary craft
by some of America’s most innovative artists in glass,
ceramics, wood, metal, and fiber. The works were
originally assembled for display in public and private
rooms of the White House in recognition of the Year
of the American Craft in 1993. The Internet tour al-
lows electronic visitors to see the objects in the White
House and visit the artists in their studios.

¢ With the introduction of its Gopher site on the
Internet in January, the museum expanded its effort

to offer resources on this widely used network. The
museum’s World Wide Web site (http://www.nmaa.
si.edu) premiered in late April with an unparalleled
complement of offerings, including an extensive
virtual tour of the “White House Collection of
American Crafts” exhibition made possible by a gift
from MCI.

¢ “Free within Ourselves: African American Art
from the Museum’s Collection” was a chance for the
museum to display a remarkably broad selection from
what has become the country’s most extensive public
collection of African American art. Nearly 200 works
in all media by some roo artists from the early roth
century to the present showed as never before the
scope of the African American contribution to the
visual arts in America. The show introduced a new
element in the museum’s growing African American
collection: photography. In conjunction with the ex-
hibition, the museum produced Affirmation Today,

a 30-minute video on the life and work of five artists.
PBS accepted the film for national broadcast in Feb-
ruary 1996.

¢ The museum continued to show great strength in
its acquisitions program. This year, some 600 works
were added to the collection, including major paint-
ings by American modernists Georgia O’Keeffe and
Robert Motherwell, a 24-foot-wide sculpture by
Louise Nevelson, and a collection of 300 prime ex-
amples of early American photography. The Renwick
Gallery acquired some 60 new examples of 2oth-
century American crafts.

¢ A new publication on the permanent collection,
National Museum of American Art, with 450 full-
color illustrations and accompanying text, invites
readers to explore the museum’s holdings. The book
is organized thematically to reflect the variety of
concerns and aesthetic visions that have shaped
American art during the past three centuries. A com-
panion CD-ROM will be issued in early 1996 in cele-
bration of the rsoth anniversary of the Smithsonian.
¢ Featuring oversized, colorful fiberglass sculptures
and powerful graphics, the exhibition “Luis Jiménez:
Man on Fire” was a popular hit in the fall. Based on
a show organized by the Albuquerque Museum,
“Man on Fire” emphasized the museum’s strong
holdings of the artist’s work, including Vaquero.
This Mexican cowboy on a rearing horse, on the
front steps of the building, has become the museum’s
unofficial symbol.
National Museum of
American History

SPENCER R. CREW, DIRECTOR

The National Museum of American History dedicates
its collections and scholarship to inspiring a broader
understanding of our nation and its many peoples.
Drawing on more than 17 million objects in its collec-
tions and the holdings of its Archives Center, the mu-
seum creates learning opportunities, stimulates the
imagination, and presents challenging ideas about our
nation’s past through original research, exhibitions,
publications, and public programs.

¢ Millions of early-morning television watchers got
a good look at the museum on February 8, 1995,
when it was the site of a special broadcast of Good
Morning, America on ABC. The show singled out the
museum as a worthwhile family vacation spot and
featured segments from different locations around
the building.

¢ To commemorate the soth anniversary of the end
of World War II, the museum presented several tem-
porary exhibitions. “Women War Workers” high-
lighted the contributions of women through photo-
graphs, cartoons, advertisements, sheet music, and
tools and equipment used by women during the war.
“Produce for Victory: Posters on the American Home
Front, 1941-1945” examined the images and under-
lying messages of the posters used to help mobilize
Americans. “World War II: Sharing Memories” of-
fered a look back at the war era through everyday
objects and through paintings of wartime scenes
commissioned by the U.S. armed forces. Hundreds

of visitors recorded their memories of the war in
notebooks provided in the exhibition.

¢ In aceremony at the museum, Hillary Rodham
Clinton presented the gown she wore to inaugural
balls in 1993 to the First Ladies Collection. The gown
is on exhibit in the “Ceremonial Court,” which dis-
plays artifacts belonging to past presidents and first
families and re-creates architectural details of the
1902 White House.

¢ “What’s American about American Quilts?” a
conference examining aspects of American and Euro-
pean quilting traditions, was presented in March with
support from the American Quilt Defense Fund. The
museum also opened the exhibition “Putting Her Best
Quilt Forward: Exhibiting at the Fair,” which focused
on how fairs gave women of the roth century an op-
portunity to display their talents and gather new ideas
for quilts. Both the conference and the exhibition
were offered in conjunction with Women’s History
Month and National Quilting Day.

¢ More than 300 junior and senior high school
students from 18 public schools in the Washington,
D.C., area participated in a showcase of poetry, song,
dance, and visual art during the Smithsonian’s fourth
annual Duke Ellington Youth Festival in April.

¢ John Singleton, director of Boyz ’n the Hood, was
among the participants at the conference “1oo Years
of Black Film: Imaging African American Life, His-
tory, and Culture” in February. The conference fea-
tured film screenings and lectures on topics related to
the history of African Americans in the film industry.
The four-day event was presented by the museum’s
Program in African American Culture and the Ethnic
Imagery Project of the Archives Center. Additional
sponsors included the Black Film Institute of the Uni-
versity of the District of Columbia and Black Film
Review magazine.

¢ More than roo calligraphied envelopes were on
view in “The Graceful Envelope,” a temporary exhi-
bition at the National Postal Museum. The most
“graceful” of these unique envelopes were illustrated
in a museum publication. Other temporary exhibi-
tions at the Postal Museum were “Best Wishes:
Holiday Greetings from the White House” and “Are
We There Yet! Vacationing in America.” Lectures,
demonstrations, and public programs at the museum
included “Mail By Rail,” the reunion and reminis-
cences of former railway mail clerks, and “Marilyn
Monroe,” a lecture in conjunction with the issuance
of the Marilyn Monroe stamp by the United States
Postal Service.

Spencer Crew, director
of the National Mu-

seum of American

History, welcomes
First Lady Hillary
Rodham Clinton for
the presentation of her
inaugural gown to the
museum. (Photograph
by Richard Strauss)

wn
=

National Museum of
the American Indian
Director W. Richard
West Jr. (Southern
Cheyenne), discusses
a model of the mu-
seum’s Cultural Re-
sources Center with
Assistant Director
for Public Programs
Charlotte Heth
(Cherokee), and Assis-
tant Facilities Planner
Duane Blue Spruce
(Laguna Pueblo). The
resources center is
scheduled to open in
Suitland, Maryland,
by the end of 1997.
(Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)

National Museum of the
American Indian

W. RICHARD WEST JR., DIRECTOR

The mission of the National Museum of the American
Indian is to recognize and affirm to native commu-
nities and the non-native public the historical and
contemporary culture and cultural achievements of
the indigenous peoples of the Western Hemisphere.
The museum accomplishes its mission by advancing—
in consultation, collaboration, and cooperation with
natives—knowledge and understanding of native cul-
tures, including art, history, and language. It has a
special responsibility, through innovative public pro-
gramming, research, and collections, to protect, sup-
port, and enhance the development, maintenance, and
perpetuation of native cultures and communities. Mu-
seum activities during the year were directed toward

fulfilling that mission.

¢ On October 30, 1994, the George Gustav Heye
Center of the National Museum of the American In-
dian, located in the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom
House in New York City, opened with three inau-
gural exhibitions. “Creation’s Journey: Masterworks
of Native American Identity and Belief” featured 165
objects selected for their beauty, rarity, and historical
significance. “All Roads Are Good: Native Voices on
Life and Culture” exhibited more than 300 objects
chosen by 23 Native American selectors. “This Path
We Travel: Celebrations of Contemporary Native
American Creativity” was a collaborative installation

combining sculpture, performance, poetry, music, and

video by 15 contemporary Native American artists.

¢ With the opening, the museum announced the

five recipients of the first annual Art and Cultural
Achievement Awards of the National Museum of the
American Indian: Allan Houser (Chiricahua Apache,
posthumously), Oren R. Lyons (Onondaga), N. Jana
Harcharek (Inupiat), Geronima Cruz Montoya (San
Juan Pueblo), and Katharine Siva Saubel (Cahuilla).
¢ In celebration of the Heye Center opening, the Na-
tional Museum of the American Indian Powwow was
held at the Jacob K. Javits Center in New York City.
Activities included gourd dancing, intertribal dancing,
Caddo stomp dances, Yupik dances, and Iroquois,
Ponca, and Osage social dances. A lacrosse work-
shop, a Northern Arapaho tipi construction demon-
stration, and arts and crafts sales were also featured.
¢ Among the publications and products released at
the time of the opening were books on each exhibi-
tion, a music recording, a calendar, a postcard book,
and T-shirts.

¢ The staff began moving more than 45,000 objects
from the old location of the museum at Audubon
Terrace in New York City to the Research Branch in
the Bronx, New York. The move is to be completed
by the end of 1995. Eventually, most of the r million
objects in the collection will be moved to the Cultural
Resources Center in Suitland, Maryland.

¢ The design of the Cultural Resources Center was
completed in March by the award-winning archi-
tectural firm of Polshek and Partners of New York
City, working with Metcalf Tobey Davis of Reston,
Virginia, in association with the Native American
Design Collaborative. The center is scheduled to open
in 1997.

¢ Douglas J. Cardinal Architects, Ltd., in collabora-
tion with Geddes, Brecher, Qualls, and Cunningham
(GBQC) Architects and in consultation with museum
staff and Native American consultants around the
country, has developed a conceptual design for the
new museum on the National Mall.

¢ The museum displayed 24 roth-century Navajo
wearing-blankets from its collections at the Ned A.
Hatathli Museum of the Navajo Community College
in Tsaile, Arizona. The display concluded with a
workshop with Navajo weavers, whose ideas will be
incorporated into the exhibition “Woven by the
Grandmothers: Nineteenth-Century Navajo Textiles
from the National Museum of the American Indian,”
planned for the fall of 1996 at the Heye Center.

¢ The Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation of
Connecticut made a $10 million contribution to the
National Museum of the American Indian National
Campaign. The gift is one of the largest to the Smith-
sonian in the Institution’s history.
National Portrait Gallery

ALAN FERN, DIRECTOR

The National Portrait Gallery is dedicated to the exhi-
bition and study of portraits of people who have made
significant contributions to American history and cul-
ture and to the study of the artists who created such
portraiture. The gallery sponsors a variety of scholarly
and public activities for audiences interested in Ameri-
can art and American history.

¢ Acquisitions in the Painting and Sculpture Depart-
ment include Ronald Sherr’s painting of George Bush
and Jan Woods’s bust of William Jefferson Clinton.
Among the other portraits acquired were Smithsonian
Secretary Emeritus Robert McCormick Adams, by
Burton Silverman; collector and art dealer Edith
Gregor Halpert, by Marguerite T. Zorach; General
Winfield Scott, by Robert Walter Weir; and poet
Gwendolyn Brooks, by Sara S. Miller. Among the im-
portant acquisitions by the Photographs Department
were a gift of 99 photographs from the estate of
George Tames, Washington photographer for the
New York Times from the 1940s through the early
1980s. The Print Department’s acquisitions included
a mezzotint of Benjamin Franklin by Charles Willson
Peale and a drypoint of Henry Marquand by Anders
Zorn.

¢ The gallery launched its virtual museum as part
of the Smithsonian’s World Wide Web home page on
the Internet (http://www.si.edu) and the Smithsonian
Online educational service on America Online. Fea-
tured by America Online for the Fourth of July holi-
day, the online image of Rembrandt Peale’s famous
“Porthole” portrait of George Washington was
downloaded nearly 1,400 times. Interested visitors
on America Online may comment, ask questions,
converse on message boards, and take part in online
chat sessions.

¢ In commemoration of the rooth anniversary of the
death of Frederick Douglass, the National Portrait
Gallery and the National Park Service co-organized
an exhibition on his life and legacy. Featuring paint-
ings, photographs, and memorabilia, “Majestic in
His Wrath” opened with a reception during which
actor Billy Dee Williams read one of Douglass’s most
famous speeches. The exhibition catalogue, Majestic
in His Wrath: A Pictorial Life of Frederick Douglass,
by gallery historian Frederick $. Voss, was published
by the Smithsonian Institution Press. The more than
70 illustrations in this softcover book include rare
daguerreotypes of Douglass and images of fellow
abolitionists and reformers.

¢ “In Pursuit of the Butterfly: Portraits of James

McNeill Whistler” was the first of four exhibitions
held in Washington during the summer of 1995 de-
voted to this American expatriate painter. Whistler
was the single most depicted artist before the 2oth
century, and the exhibition showed the evolution of
his carefully self-constructed role as a popular icon in
France and Victorian England. The exhibition cata-
logue, copublished by the National Portrait Gallery
and the University of Washington Press, was written
by Eric Denker, curator of the exhibition.

¢ Saint-Memin and the Neoclassical Profile Portrait
in America, by Ellen G. Miles, curator of paintings
and sculpture, was published in November 1994 by
the National Portrait Gallery and the Smithsonian
Institution Press. The book is the culmination of 20
years of research on the French émigré artist who made
nearly 1,000 likenesses of federal-period Americans.

¢ On July 21, 1995, the Hall of Presidents doubled
as a television studio when C-SPAN’s Washington

Journal broadcast a live program on the museum and

its collections. Host Brian Lamb interviewed Director
Alan Fern as camera crews rolled through the second
floor, providing viewers with a glimpse of the per-
manent collection on display. Taped segments in-
cluded presentations by curator of photographs Mary
Panzer, historian Frederick Voss, and an appearance
by curator of prints and drawings Wendy Wick
Reaves. The three-hour broadcast also included a live
interview with museum shop manager Jackie Jackson
on the shop’s offerings.

This portrait of
Charles Proteus

Steinmetz, whose

pioneering achieve-
ments in electrical
engineering earned
him the title the
“Wizard of Science,”
is a recent addition to
the National Portrait
Gallery’s photography

collection.

wn
Ss)

The Smithsonian Insti-
tution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service exhibi-
tion “Full Deck Art
Quilts” celebrates this
contemporary craft
and the talent and va-
riety of nationally rec-
ognized quilt artists.
The creative interpre-
tation of a 52-card
deck of playing cards
(plus two jokers) by
54 artists has resulted
in a spectacularly di-
verse collection, in-
cluding Nine of Dia-
monds, created in
1993 by artist and ex-
hibition coorganizer
Sue Pierce. (Photo-
graph courtesy Sue
Pierce)

Office of Exhibits Central

JOHN COPPOLA, DIRECTOR

The Office of Exhibits Central (OEC) provides Smith-
sonian museums, galleries, and exhibitors with ex-
pertise in the creation of permanent, temporary, and
traveling exhibitions, from concept to crating. The
office’s services include design and production, script
development, writing, editing, design, prototyping,
graphics production, matting and framing, fabrication,
model making, installation, design and production
consultation, and the handling, bracketing, and pack-
ing of artifacts.

¢ This year, OEC designed, edited, and produced five
exhibitions for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service (SITES)—“Full Deck Art Quilts”;
“Voyages and Visions: Nineteenth-Century Euro-
pean Images of the Middle East from the Victoria
and Albert Museum”; “VanDerZee, Photographer
(1886-1983)”; “Exotic Illusions: Art, Romance, and
the Marketplace”; and “Try This On: A History of
Clothing, Gender, and Power.” OEC also provided
SITES with services for “An Ocean Apart: Contem-
porary Vietnamese Art from the United States and
Vietnam.”

¢ For “Ocean Planet,” an exhibition developed by
the National Museum of Natural History, the Envi-
ronmental Awareness Program, and SITES, OEC’s
Model Shop created an exact wooden replica of a
r9th-century ship figurehead, hundreds of artificial
fish, several mannikins, and three bronze sea creatures.
¢ OEC played a part in many other exhibitions,
providing graphics for the 29th annual Festival of
American Folklife; design, editing, and model making
for “Science and the Artist’s Book,” organized by
Smithsonian Institution Libraries in collaboration
with the Washington Project for the Arts; model
making for “Exploring Marine Ecosystems” at the
National Museum of Natural History; and illustra-
tion for “Where Land Meets the Sea” at the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute.

¢ Senior Designer Mary Bird won two Federal De-
sign Achievement Awards for her design of “Spiders!”
and “Produce for Victory: Posters on the American
Home Front, 1941-1945.” OEC also received honors
from the Washington Building Congress for construc-
tion of a railway mail car at the National Postal Mu-
seum and from the Smithsonian Exhibition Awards
for Outstanding Team Effort on the museum’s inau-
gural exhibits.

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

ANNA R. COHN, DIRECTOR

Since 1952, the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Ex-
hibition Service (SITES) has been sharing the wealth of
the Smithsonian’s exhibitions, collections, and research
with audiences around the world. Each year, millions
of people beyond Washington, D.C., experience the
treasures and opportunities of the National Mall by
visiting SITES exhibitions on view in local museums,
libraries, science centers, historical societies, zoos,
aquariums, community centers, and schools.

¢ Ata signing ceremony in October 1994 hosted by
National Geographic Society President Gilbert M.
Grosvenor, Vice-President of Brand and Consumer
Marketing Jerry Florence of Nissan Motor Corpora-
tion U.S.A. presented a check for $950,000 to Secre-
tary I. Michael Heyman to become the national cor-
porate sponsor of the SITES—National Geographic

Society exhibition “Earth 2U, Exploring Geography.”
SITES later received an additional $936,000 from

Nissan for extensive national educational program-

SIZES

N

ming and public relations efforts in conjunction with
the exhibition.

¢ Two exhibitions chronicling aspects of the African
American experience opened in 1995. SITES pro-
duced a lightweight, freestanding version of “Before
Freedom Came: African American Life in the Ante-
bellum South,” a collaboration with the Museum of
the Confederacy in Richmond, Virginia. In partner-
ship with the American Library Association, SITES
produced a small-format, freestanding version of
“Beyond Category: The Musical Genius of Duke
Ellington.”

¢ SITES continues to bring Smithsonian exhibitions
and research to underserved rural audiences and to
strengthen its ties to organizations serving rural com-
munities around the country. Ongoing collaborations
with the Federation of States Humanities Councils
and a second National Endowment for the Humani-
ties grant will result in another tour of the National
Museum of American History—SITES exhibition,
“Produce for Victory: Posters on the American Home
Front, 1941-1945.” The exhibition will circulate in
Arizona, California, Indiana, and Nebraska begin-
ning in March 1996.

¢ Several exhibitions reflecting the diversity of the
SITES program began national tours in 1995. “Full
Deck Art Quilts” opened at the Renwick Gallery in
March. A small-format version of the National Mu-
seum of Natural History—-SITES exhibition “Saynday
Was Coming Along . . . Silverhorn’s Drawings of the
Kiowa Trickster” opened at the Kiowa Tribal Mu-
seum in Carnegie, Oklahoma. The national tour of
“Spiders!” organized with the National Museum of
Natural History and funded by Marvel Entertain-
ment, opened in New York City at the American
Museum of Natural History. In May, “VanDerZee,
Photographer (1886-1983)”—a National Portrait
Gallery-SITES exhibition—began its national tour at
the African American Museum of Fine Arts in San
Diego, California.

EDUCATIONAL AND
CULTURAL PROGRAMS

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

RICHARD KURIN, DIRECTOR

The Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies
joins scholarship with community service and educa-
tional outreach to promote the understanding and
continuity of diverse contemporary grassroots cultures
in the United States and throughout the world. A pri-
mary goal is to foster greater appreciation of and par-
ticipation in community culture in civil society. The
center produces the annual Festival of American Folk-
life, Smithsonian/Folkways Recordings, exhibitions,
documentary films and videos, symposia, and educa-
tional materials and maintains a documentary archive.

¢ The 29th annual Festival of American Folklife fea-
tured four programs. “The Cape Verdean Connec-
tion” brought together tradition bearers who live in
Cape Verde and those of Cape Verdean descent who
have immigrated to the United States. “The Czech
Republic” presented cultural traditions that are being
reexamined, revived, and transformed in light of the
country’s history and geographical position. “Voices
of First Nations Women” featured women singers
and musicians from 20 Native American groups
across the United States and Canada who perform
traditional songs, songs once sung only by men, and

songs developed from new and traditional forms of

Cape Verdean women
singers were among
the performers fea-
tured in this year’s
Festival of American
Folklife on the Na-
tional Mall.

top: Third-graders

from Sully Elementary
School in Sterling,
Virginia, explore the
properties of rocks
and minerals in a
curriculum unit from
the National Science
Resources Center's
Science and Technol-
ogy for Children pro-
gram. (Photograph by
Richard Strauss)

56

BOTTOM: As part of
the Office of Elemen-
tary and Secondary
Education's joint pro-
gram with the Na-
tional Faculty, George
Washington University
Professor John Vlach
discusses African
American folk art
with District of Co-
lumbia Public Schools
teachers. (Photograph
by Richard Strauss)

music. “Russian Roots, American Branches” united
singers and musicians from communities of Old Be-
lievers and Spiritual Christians (Molokans) in Russia
and the United States. The membership group Friends
of the Festival was formed to develop programs in
Washington and elsewhere that support the Folklife
Festival.

¢ Workers at the White House aired on WETA-TV
in February, and the exhibition of the same name is
on view at the Reagan Library in Simi Valley, Califor-
nia. When a second version of the exhibition opened
at a Washington, D.C., school, Hillary Rodham Clin-
ton and several White House workers attended. This
version will be installed as part of the National Park
Service’s new White House Visitors Center.

¢ The center’s educational outreach efforts contin-
ued, as three education kits—Borders and Identity,
Knowledge and Power: Land in Native American
Cultures, and Traditional Cultures of the Bahamas—
neared completion.

National Science Resources Center

DOUGLAS LAPP, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

The National Science Resources Center (NSRC), a
program of the Smithsonian Institution and the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, helps the nation’s schools
improve the teaching of science. The NSRC collects
and publishes information about current science teach-
ing resources, develops innovative curriculum materi-
als, and sponsors activities to help teachers and ad-
ministrators develop and sustain exemplary hands-on
science programs.

This year, the NSRC continued to involve educa-
tors, scientists and engineers, community organiza-
tions, and corporations in science education reform
through the National Science Education Leadership
Initiative (NSEL) and the Science and Technology for
Children (STC) curriculum project. The NSRC also
expanded its international role in science education re-
form through contacts with education leaders in Mex-
ico and South Africa.

¢ This year’s Elementary Science Leadership Insti-
tutes, a part of NSEL, brought together 38 teams of
lead teachers, top administrators, and scientists for
training in the planning and implementation of sci-
ence education programs. The teams represented
school systems from 18 states, Mexico, and South
Africa. Since 1989, 178 teams have participated in
the institutes. The NSRC also cohosted a regional
Science Education Leadership Institute with the New
York Urban Systemic Initiative. The week-long pro-
gram, modeled after the NSRC’s national institutes,
brought together more than 7o representatives from
New York City schools.

¢ Seventeen of 24 STC hands-on science units for
grades one to six are now available. This year,
Balancing and Weighing, Weather, and Floating and
Sinking were published. Animal Studies, Solids and
Liquids, Comparing and Measuring, and Land and
Water reached the field-test stage, and the develop-
ment of the final three units began. The NSRC also
began work on sets of science activity cards for
grades four to six that will complement STC units.

¢ The NSRC completed work on Resources for
Teaching Elementary School Science, a completely
revised edition of its best-selling annotated guide to
exemplary hands-on science curriculum materials.
The NSRC also began reviewing materials for a
middle school resource guide.

¢ The NSRC hosted “Corporate America’s Impact
on Elementary Science Education,” a one-day confer-
ence held at the New Jersey headquarters of Merck &
Co., Inc. Sixty corporate executives and managers
discussed how business and industry can work effec-
tively with school district leaders to bring about and
sustain science education reform.

Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education

ANN BAY, DIRECTOR

The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
(OESE), the Smithsonian’s central office for precollege
education, has a threefold mission. First, it makes
Smithsonian resources available to teachers and stu-
dents in the Washington, D.C., area and nationwide.
Second, it provides materials and training that enable
teachers and students to use museums and the primary
sources they contain for experiential learning in class-
room and museum settings. Third, it fosters communi-
cation and collaboration among Smithsonian educa-
tion units and between the Smithsonian and education
organizations.

¢ The office and Smithsonian magazine established
an educator’s membership in the Smithsonian. Mem-
ber educators receive a year’s subscription to the mag-

azine, as well as subscriptions to OESE publications.
¢ The District of Columbia Public Schools estab-
lished two museum magnet schools and named the
office as coordinator of the Smithsonian’s involve-
ment. OESE developed the concept and worked with
the school system to craft the proposal to the U.S.
Office of Education. The museum magnet schools will
show how the vast material and human treasures of
the Smithsonian can be used to the best advantage in
a public education setting.

¢ Publications available in print and electronic ver-
sions informed teachers about museum-based learn-
ing. Beyond the Frame: Using Art as a Basis for Inter-
disciplinary Learning showed how to use works from
five Smithsonian art museums in the classroom. Art
to Zoo, the office’s quarterly teaching guide for ele-
mentary and middle schools, adopted a new design,
editorial, and distribution strategy. The Smithsonian
Resource Guide for Teachers listed more than 500
publications available from the Smithsonian and its
affiliates.

¢ A program with the National Faculty for the Hu-
manities, Arts, and Sciences has extended the office’s
work in developing models for museum-school col-
laboration. Working with schools and museums in
Atlanta, St. Paul, Seattle, and Washington, D.C., the
program helps teachers explore ways to use material
culture across the curriculum and from a multicul-
tural perspective.

ete UID BIR SECRETARY

Office of the Under Secretary

CONSTANCE BERRY NEWMAN,
UNDER SECRETARY

As the chief operating officer of the Smithsonian, the
under secretary is responsible for the day-to-day ad-
ministration of the Institution. Under Secretary Con-
stance Berry Newman also works with Secretary I.
Michael Heyman, the provost, and the Board of Re-
gents to set long-range priorities and develop mecha-
nisms for carrying them out.

¢ The Smithsonian continued the process of down-
sizing and restructuring to meet stringent budget

Dale Smith (left) of the
John D. and Catherine
T. MacArthur Founda-
tion and John Cobert
of the Office of Con-
tracting and Property
Management shake
hands after signing a
contract for the pur-
chase of land for a
permanent site for the
Smithsonian Marine
Station in Fort Pierce,
Florida.

requirements and prepare for the challenges of the
next decade. Future growth and strength will require
wise choices through a careful assessment of priori-
ties. Central to this year’s effort was the establishment
of a strategic planning committee to examine poten-

tial restructuring of the Institution.

FINANCE AND
ADMINISTRATION

NANCY SUTTENFIELD, ASSISTANT SECRETARY

Operating behind the scenes at the Smithsonian, a net-
work of administrative offices serves the diverse pro-
grammatic needs of the Institution and facilitates the
management and use of financial, human, and physical
resources. Funding for financial and administrative
services in 1995 amounted to nearly $22 million, or
approximately 6.3 percent of the Institution’s total op-
erating expenses. Central services for physical plant,
security, and environmental safety account for an ad-
ditional $58 million on behalf of the entire Institution.

Office of Architectural History and
Historic Preservation

CYNTHIA FIELD, DIRECTOR

Research conducted this year reflects the breadth of
the Smithsonian’s architectural history. The office’s

study of the development of the National Air and
Space Museum brought into focus the complex early
history of the project from 1959 to 1972. A study of
the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden re-
vealed the impassioned interpretations of the nature of
the National Mall that were aired when this project
was planned. Two important chapters in the history of
the first National Museum (now the Arts and Indus-
tries Building) were written as the result of research on
the changing interior exhibition spaces and the mean-
ing of the original building design.

Office of the Comptroller

M. LESLIE CASSON, COMPTROLLER

The office continued design of a new general ledger for
the Institution, which will provide significantly im-
proved financial information. The office also stream-
lined the transmittal of vendor payment data to the
Department of the Treasury and participated in the
planning, development, and implementation of new in-
stitutional policies and procedures to comply with new
financial accounting standards promulgated by the Fi-
nancial Accounting Standards Board.

Office of Contracting and
Property Management

JOHN W. COBERT, DIRECTOR

This office provides central contracting and procure-
ment services for Smithsonian museums, research in-
stitutes, and offices. During fiscal year 1995, the office
supported planning efforts for the Smithsonian’s rsoth
anniversary celebration. Ongoing work included con-
tracting in the areas of design and renovation, Smith-
sonian business activities, acquisition of museum col-
lections, concession services, and office supplies and
services.

Office of Design and Construction

WILLIAM THOMAS, ACTING DIRECTOR

Construction began on the $20 million renovation,
restoration, and accessibility project at Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum. Other current projects in-

clude the East Court expansion at the National Mu-
seum of Natural History; design and procurement for
construction of the National Museum of the American
Indian’s Cultural Resources Center and design of the
museum’s building on the National Mall; and con-
struction of two buildings at the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center.

Office of Equal Employment and
Minority Affairs

ERA L. MARSHALL, DIRECTOR

This office monitors the effectiveness of the Smithso-
nian’s recruitment efforts for minorities, women, and
people with disabilities. As part of the Institution’s
commitment to increase procurement opportunities
for small, minority, and women-owned businesses, the
office developed policies and procedures for imple-
menting the Small Disadvantaged Business Utilization
Program. For employees, the office made changes in
the formal complaints program with a view toward re-
solving complaints before they are formally made.

Office of Environmental
Management and Safety

WILLIAM BILLINGSLEY, DIRECTOR

The office continued its responsibility for ensuring that
safety, fire protection and prevention, industrial hy-
giene, and environmental principles are integrated into
all aspects of the Smithsonian.

Office of Facilities Services

RICHARD H. RICE JR., ACTING DIRECTOR

This office, along with other organizations in the Fa-
cilities Services Group, focused on collaborative efforts
to improve service to the Institution. Among these ac-
tivities were long-range strategic facilities planning and
expansion of an organizational development project
on the treatment of people, with an emphasis on em-
powerment and leadership.

Office of Human Resources

SUSAN ROEHMER, DIRECTOR

In an ongoing effort to improve human resources pro-
grams and functions, the office identified ways to ex-
pedite the hiring process and give management greater
personnel authority and flexibility. The office also con-
tinued to streamline the personnel function through
state-of-the-art technology.

Office of Plant Services

PATRICK MILLER, DIRECTOR

This office oversees the maintenance and operation of
Smithsonian buildings and grounds and provides trans-
portation, mail, audiovisual, and related services. This
year, the office concentrated on improving customer
service. A new customer service branch provides a cen-
tral source for obtaining information and services.

Office of Printing and
Photographic Services

JAMES WALLACE, DIRECTOR

The office continued its transition into increased digi-
tal delivery of photographic images. Each month, an
average of 45,000 image files were delivered world-
wide on the Internet (http://photor.si.edu). Coinciding
with the launch of the Smithsonian’s World Wide Web
site, the office brought its own Web server online
(http://photo2.si.edu). By year’s end, this server was
delivering thousands of files daily from the office’s col-
lections. The office continued to provide digital image
files to the consumer public through America Online,
CompuServe, GEnie, and other online services.

Office of Protection Services

MICHAEL J. SOFIELD, ACTING DIRECTOR

The office continued to emphasize training for security
officers as it seeks to protect Smithsonian facilities and
collections. Nearly all officers have completed the first

ye)
60

round of basic training, which has been reinforced
with refresher and leadership courses. The office de-
signed a program to respond to the increasing threat of
violence in the workplace; provided a state-of-the-art
security system for the George Gustav Heye Center of
the National Museum of the American Indian; and de-
signed a security system for the Hope Diamond dis-
play, for the new Hall of Geology, Gems and Minerals
at the National Museum of Natural History, and for
the National Museum of the American Indian’s Cul-
tural Resources Center.

Office of Risk and Asset
Management

SUDEEP ANAND, TREASURER

This office manages the Smithsonian endowment and
working capital funds and provides risk and insurance
management services to protect the Institution’s assets
against risk or loss. It also evaluates and develops fi-
nancing for large new trust projects and implements
real estate transactions.

Office of Sponsored Projects

ARDELLE FOSS, DIRECTOR

This office served Smithsonian researchers and schol-
ars by supporting their efforts in submitting 161 pro-
posals valued at $24 million and by negotiating and
accepting for the Institution 120 grant and contract
awards having a value of $14.2 million. The staff also
supported researchers and scholars throughout the
lifetime of 600 ongoing awards valued at $50 million.

Ombudsman

CHANDRA HEILMAN, OMBUDSMAN

This year, the Smithsonian Ombudsman worked with
managers and approximately 250 employees as a neu-
tral party to resolve work-related concerns. The Smith-
sonian Employee Emergency Assistance Fund, coordi-
nated by the Ombudsman; the Employee Assistance
Program; and the Agriculture Federal Credit Union
made more than 75 loans to help employees through
personal financial difficulties.

INSTITUTIONAL
ADVANCEMENT

ALICE GREEN BURNETTE,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

The wide-ranging development activities of the Smith-
sonian are the responsibility of the Office of the Assis-
tant Secretary for Institutional Advancement. The of-
fice coordinates the Institution’s broad efforts with
those of the museums and research institutes to ensure
that the Smithsonian receives the fullest possible pri-
vate support for its research, exhibitions, and educa-
tional and public service activities. The office also con-
ducts special studies and demonstration projects on
behalf of the Institution.

¢ During 1995, the assistant secretary continued

to oversee marketing efforts for the Institution’s
r5oth anniversary celebration in 1996. The market-
ing plan includes activities in public relations, adver-
tising, communications, fund raising, visitor services,
membership, telecommunications, and business
operations.

¢ The office continued to coordinate the National
Campaign for the National Museum of the American
Indian. During the opening celebration for the mu-
seum’s George Gustav Heye Center in New York City
in October 1994, the campaign raised $1.3 million.

¢ In June 1995, the office coordinated a traditional
blessing ceremony and other events in connection
with groundbreaking for the Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory’s submillimeter telescope array atop
Mauna Kea, Hawaii. Associated events were sup-
ported by contributions from Aloha Airlines, Bank of
Hawaii, and GTE Hawaiian Tel.

¢ The assistant secretary held a seminar for the Insti-
tution’s marketing and development staff during
which participants heard presentations on the Smith-
sonian’s economic impact on the area’s economy, the
results of the Smithsonian Institution Marketing
Study, and the recruitment of Corporate Partners for
the r5oth anniversary.

¢ In 1995, Secretary Heyman joined the Greater
Washington Board of Trade. This membership led to
collaboration between the Smithsonian and the
board’s Greater Washington Initiative, which seeks |
to attract businesses to the metropolitan area. The
assistant secretary has provided leadership in this
collaboration, which will further enhance the rsoth
anniversary celebration.

National Campaign for the National
Museum of the American Indian

JOHN L. COLONGHI, NATIONAI
CAMPAIGN DIRECTOR

The National Campaign for the National Museum of
the American Indian is responsible for carrying out the
fund-raising plan that the Smithsonian Board of Re-
gents adopted for the museum. By legislative mandate,
the Institution must provide one-third of the construc-
tion cost of the museum on the National Mall. The
campaign has established a goal of $60 million to fund
construction and an endowment for ongoing educa-
tional and outreach programs.

¢ In October, the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Na-
tion made a contribution of $10 million—the largest
cash gift made to date to the campaign and among
the largest ever to the Smithsonian. News of the con-
tribution made national headlines and provided valu-
able visibility for the campaign’s fund-raising efforts.
¢ The opening of the museum’s George Gustav Heye
Center in New York City also provided visibility and
a fund-raising opportunity. An opening gala for
1,000 guests generated nearly $1.3 million in net rev-
enue, the most successful fund-raising event in the
Smithsonian’s history. The campaign also initiated
special advertising, direct-mail, and public relations
activities focused on the opening.

¢ Program support for the Heye Center was pro-
vided by the AT&T Foundation, the Booth Ferris
Foundation, the Educational Foundation of America,
Toyota, the Hearst Foundation, Inc., the New York
Times Company Foundation, and Con Edison.

¢ A national membership program continued to gen-
erate funds and to establish a nationwide base of sup-
porters for the museum. To date, the program has
generated gross revenue of almost $9 million. Mem-
bership outreach continued to be extensive. Special
member activities were held in New York, Los Ange-
les, and San Francisco.

Office of Membership
and Development

MARIE A. MATTSON, DIRECTOR

The Office of Membership and Development was cre-
ated during fiscal year 1995 when the Contributing
Membership Program merged with the Office of De-
velopment. The office generates restricted and unre-

stricted private financial support for the Smithsonian

from individual donors, Contributing Members, cor-
porations, and foundations to fund institutional prior-
ities and projects and programs in museums and of-
fices. The office maintains central research and record
keeping functions, manages volunteer organizations,
oversees grants, and directs the Contributing Member-
ship Program.

¢ The office is coordinating the Institution’s 150th
Anniversary Corporate Partner Program, an innova-
tive marketing and outreach vehicle designed to pro-
mote public awareness for the incomparable scien-
tific, historic, and cultural resources of the
Smithsonian.

¢ Major gifts and pledges to the Smithsonian during
fiscal year 1995 included a $10.4 million commitment
from the Lemelson Family Foundation for the Jerome
and Dorothy Lemelson Center for the Study of Inven-
tion and Innovation and a supporting endowment at
the National Museum of American History; a $1.1
million grant from the Corporation for Public Broad-
casting for the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observa-
tory; and $2 million from Agnes Cowles Bourne and
her husband Dr. James Luebbers for the collection
storage and study center at Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum.

¢ In keeping with its efforts to increase private sup-
port for the Institution and reach out to potential

In October 1994, the
Mashantucket Pequot
Tribal Nation made a
Siro million contribu-
tion to the National
Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian. At a news
conference announc-
ing the gift are (from
left) museum Director
W. Richard West Jr.,
Pequot Tribal Chair-
man Richard A. Hay-
ward, and Smith-
sonian Secretary I.
Michael Heyman.
(Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)

61
62

constituencies, the office has integrated the Contribut-
ing Membership Program into its strategic plan for
donor involvement, communication, and recognition.
In preparation for the Smithsonian’s 150th anniver-
sary celebration in 1996, the office has launched a va-
riety of creative initiatives designed to streamline the
program and expand the membership.

¢ The Smithsonian Corporate Membership Program
continues to expand with participation by corpora-
tions representing various industries and geographic
locations. The program grew from 37 members in
1994 to 47 members in 1995. In the spring, corpora-
tion executives, members of Congress, and Smithso-
nian leaders met at the annual Corporate Member-
ship Luncheon to discuss “The Power of Learning in
an Enlightened Information Age.” The program fea-
tured Smithsonian online capabilities and other edu-
cational initiatives that affect technology, science, and
the humanities.

Office of Special Events and
Conference Services

NICOLE L. KRAKORA, DIRECTOR

The Office of Special Events and Conference Services
(OSECS) organizes special events and conferences
throughout the Institution that contribute to develop-
ing and maintaining important current and potential
constituencies. In 1995, the office coordinated activi-
ties with Smithsonian museums and research centers,
corporations, and organizations whose missions coin-
cide with those of the Institution. Each year, the office
coordinates special events for the Board of Regents,
the Secretary, Under Secretary, and Provost, and for
the Smithsonian Institution Council. The office also
helps Smithsonian scholars and managers plan and co-
ordinate conferences, international symposiums, and
collaborative programs.

¢ OSECS coordinated the annual black-tie dinner
honoring members of the James Smithson Society,
held on October 14 at the National Zoo’s Amazonia
exhibition.

¢ The exhibition opening reception for “Voyages and
Visions: Nineteenth-Century European Images of the
Middle East from the Victoria and Albert Museum,”
a major International Gallery exhibition, was planned
and executed by OSECS.

¢ In May 1995, the queen of Thailand visited the
National Museum of Natural History to commemo-
rate the 5oth anniversary of the king’s accession to
the throne and to review the museum’s Thai collec-

tions. OSECS coordinated the program in Baird
Auditorium and the reception in the Rotunda.

¢ OSECS assisted staff and coordinated several
major conferences throughout 1995, including
“What’s American About American Quilts?” “The
Fourth International Conference on Tethers in
Space,” and the 58th Annual Meteoritical Society
Meeting.

Smithsonian National Board
WILBUR L. ROSS, CHAIR

JEAN B. KILBORNE, VICE-CHAIR

Smithsonian National Board members work for the
advancement of the Institution as advocates, as private
sector advisers to the Secretary and Under Secretary,
and through personal financial support and fund-rais-
ing activities.

¢ With the leadership of the Smithsonian National
Board, the Smithsonian Fund for the Future endow-
ment initiative is helping to increase private contribu-
tions and provide a long-term base of private support.
¢ Board members contributed nearly $625,000 in
annual support to the Institution. These funds were
earmarked for the Board Annual Giving Fund to un-
derwrite expansion of the Smithsonian’s constituen-
cies. The contributions also supported special projects
throughout the Institution.

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

GLORIA SHAW HAMILTON, CHAIR

Through its volunteer fund-raising and public relations
services, the Smithsonian Women’s Committee is an
ongoing source of support for a variety of institutional
programs.

¢ In 1995, the committee provided $240,936 in sup-
port of 23 projects at 13 Smithsonian museums and
offices. The Discovery Theater received a grant for
$7,400 from the Hildegard van Roijen Memorial
Fund.

¢ The Smithsonian Craft Show moved to the Na-
tional Building Museum this year and expanded to
120 exhibitor booths. The committee received 1,270
applications for the show, which promotes an aware-
ness of crafts in the Washington metropolitan area
and serves as a fund-raising event for the Smithso-
nian. During its 13 years, the show has generated
more than $1.2 million to benefit research and educa-
tional projects at the Smithsonian. This year, the
show, which features one-of-a-kind and limited edi-
tion pieces, raised more than $250,000.

OTHER FUNCTIONS

Business Management Office

NANCY E. JOHNSON, SENIOR
BUSINESS OFFICER

The Business Management Office consists of three rev-
enue-generating business activities: Retail Operations
(comprising Museum Shops and the Mail Order divi-
sions), Concessions, and Product Development and Li-
censing. It also oversees Business Development, which
identifies additional revenue opportunities for the In-
stitution. In midyear, oversight of the Marketing Data-
base was transferred to the Office of Membership and
Development.

¢ In June, Retail Operations opened its first perma-
nent retail location outside of a Smithsonian museum
in the new Observation Gallery at Baltimore-
Washington International Airport. The shop features
Smithsonian items and items related to flight. To
support the shop, general information about the
Smithsonian is displayed in the airport terminal.

¢ A new outdoor restaurant opened in July on the
plaza of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den. The Full Circle, which takes its name from the
museum’s architecture, is open from April through
September.

¢ Last year’s merger of the Museum Shops and Mail
Order divisions has resulted in almost $1 million in
savings in operational costs with minimal reduction
in staff. Sales for both operations have remained
steady.

¢ Product Development and Licensing signed several
important new licensing agreements in 1995, includ-
ing an agreement with Avon Products, Inc., for jew-
elry based on Smithsonian collections. This division
also spent significant time in preparing for the li-
censed merchandising opportunities that will result
from the Institution’s 150th anniversary celebration
in 1996.

Office of Communications

DAVID J. UMANSKY, DIRECTOR

The Office of Communications is responsible for the
public face of the Institution. Its Office of Public Af-
fairs is dedicated to media relations, publications, and
public relations. The Visitor Information and Associ-
ates’ Reception Center serves the Smithsonian’s 28 mil-
lion visitors a year, both directly and through the
tourism industry. Both groups began intensive prepa-
rations for observance of the Institution’s 150th an-
niversary in 1996.

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Through media relations and publications, the Office
of Public Affairs (OPA) informs the American public,
people around the world, and Smithsonian employees
about the exhibitions, programs, and research activi-
ties of the Smithsonian. The office provides the news
media with press releases (more than 6oo this year),
photographs, written materials, videotapes, and public
service announcements. Its publications include Re-
search Reports (a quarterly bulletin), Smithsonian
Runner (a bimonthly newsletter about Native Ameri-
can activities at the Smithsonian), the Torch (a monthly
employee newspaper), and the Blue Bulletin (a bi-
weekly administrative newsletter for staff), as well as
brochures for the public.

¢ When it was launched on May 8, the Smithsonian’s
home page (http://www.si.edu) instantly became one
of the most popular sites on the World Wide Web.
The home page features a rich variety of online exhi-
bitions, services, information, images, and sound
recordings.

Justice Sandra Day

O’Connor, an hon-
orary member of the
Smithsonian National
Board, greets fellow
board members and
benefactors at the an-
nual Smithsonian
Benefactors’ Circle
dinner. (Photograph
by Glenn Levy)
top: During the summer,
the Office of Public Af-
fairs helped coordinate
C-SPAN “school-bus”
visits and production of
the live morning show
“Washington Journal” at
several Smithsonian mu-
seums. Here, the C-SPAN
bus, which served as a re-
mote studio at a number

of the Smithsonian loca-

64

tions, is on the scene July
21 in front of the Na-
tional Portrait Gallery,
while C-SPAN broadcasts

from inside the museum.

Children’s groups and
other visitors were able to
board the bus to see how
television production ac-
tivities are carried out.
(Photograph by Marianne
Gurley)

BOTTOM: The Visitor In-

formation and Associates’

Reception Center tested
this prototype of the

rsoth anniversary banner

that will hang from lamp
posts on the National
Mall in 1996. (Photo-
graph by Eric Long)

¢ The opening of the “Enola Gay” exhibition at the
National Air and Space Museum was covered in-
tensely by U.S. and foreign news media. More than
200 journalists, including 85 television crews, at-
tended the media preview on June 27.

¢ Earlier in the fiscal year, OPA organized the pub-
licity campaign for the opening of the New York fa-
cility of the National Museum of the American Indian
on October 30. A week of special previews for the
media, donors, members, and other guests culminated
in a Native American blessing on the steps of the
building. Extensive media coverage reached millions
of Americans.

¢ This year, the office issued a number of updated
publications, including the Smithsonian’s general in-
formation brochure, Latino Resources at the Smith-
sonian, and Native American Resources at the Smith-
sonian. Information from these and other OPA
publications is available on the Smithsonian’s home
page on the World Wide Web.

¢ OPA continued its programs designed to reach
new audiences with a radio advertising campaign
geared to local African American listeners and a print
advertising campaign targeting Latino readers.

¢ Activities for the commemoration of the Smith-
sonian’s rsoth anniversary in 1996 began with a
news conference on March 27. Secretary I. Michael
Heyman described plans for the celebration, from a
major event on the National Mall to a traveling ex-
hibition of treasures from the collections.

VISITOR INFORMATION AND ASSOCIATES’
RECEPTION CENTER

Celebrating its 25th year, the Visitor Information and
Associates’ Reception Center (VIARC) continues its
responsibility for a range of information and assis-
tance programs serving the Smithsonian’s public audi-
ences, Associate members, staff, and volunteers. Sev-
eral of the center’s program’s operate seven days a
week and involve the coordination and direction of
two large corps of volunteers, who are the primary
source of support for public information programs
and behind-the-scenes project assistance.

¢ Activities in anticipation of the Smithsonian’s
rsoth anniversary included the placement of adver-
tisements in tourism industry publications and the
fabrication of flags and banners, including colorful
double-sided metal banners for the lamp posts on the
National Mall. The official anniversary logo was
added to all printed and electronic publications, the
orientation pylons along the pedestrian walkways,
and the Smithsonian Information Center’s theater
program.
¢ “Smithson’s Gift,” an exhibition destined for per-
manent display in the Smithsonian Information Cen-
ter, was developed as the result of a Castle docent’s
proposal for a sesquicentennial exhibition about
James Smithson.

¢ VIARC’s previsit planning information, calendar of
activities, and directory of exhibitions became avail-
able worldwide via the Smithsonian’s home page on
the World Wide Web.

¢ Outreach activities with the tour and travel in-
dustry contributed to a ro percent increase in visita-
tion to the Smithsonian Information Center, which
accounted for 50 percent of the Institution’s total
increase in visitation through August. Continuing
efforts to promote the Smithsonian as a primary U.S.
destination for foreign travelers included cohosting
two receptions: one for key international tour opera-
tors with the Washington, D C., Convention and
Visitors Association at the } Jational Air and Space
Museum and another the opening event for Les Clefs
d’Or honoring premier international concierges, in
cooperation with the Washington Area Concierge As-
sociation. On the home front, VIARC worked with
Bell Atlantic to provide a Smithsonian presence on its
new InfoTravel interactive multimedia system, avail-
able to guests in metropolitan Washington hotels.

Office of Government Relations

M. JOHN BERRY, DIRECTOR

As the primary liaison with the Congress, the Presi-
dent, and other federal, state, and local entities, the
Office of Government Relations represents the Institu-
tion on matters of policy, operations, and governance.
It is the coordinator and advocate of the Smithsonian’s
overall interests and positions in the legislative process,
as well as the central provider of congressional con-
stituent services and outreach activities.

¢ During 1995, the office initiated legislative efforts
to provide for the appointment of three new citizen
members to the Smithsonian Board of Regents, as
well as for the reappointment of a third.

¢ Government Relations staff sought enactment of
legislation authorizing the minting of commemorative
coins in observance of the Institution’s 150th anniver-
sary. Staff members also continued legislative negotia-
tions to establish the National African American Mu-
seum in the Arts and Industries Building.

Office of Planning, Management,
and Budget

L. CAROLE WHARTON, DIRECTOR

The Office of Planning, Management, and Budget pro-
vides analytical and budgetary information to aid the
Secretary and other senior staff in decision making.
Working with Smithsonian management, the office
presents the Institution’s budget request to the Con-
gress, executes and monitors current-year funding, de-
velops the Smithsonian’s response to the second phase
of the National Performance Review, and initiates
studies to support the Secretary’s strategic planning
process. The office is developing a network to allow
the rapid exchange of information with all Smithso-
nian units and the retrieval of documents central to the
Institution’s operations.

Office of Telecommunications

PAUL B. JOHNSON, DIRECTOR

The Office of Telecommunications, the Smithsonian’s
electronic media production center, accomplished sev-
eral of its major goals by developing unprecedented
programming in television, radio, and multimedia for
new audiences. These Smithsonian-based programs in-
volve the latest technologies, Institution-wide working
relationships, and solid marketing plans to assure suc-
cess in broadening the Institution’s reach.

¢ The office continued its leadership role in multime-
dia by creating new agreements with publishers for
the production of CD-ROM titles. New programs in
production or development are Information Age,
Insect World, and World War II Fighter Aircraft.
Each title will have a significant online component.
¢ Looking toward the Smithsonian’s 15oth anniver-
sary celebration, Radio Smithsonian obtained funding
for and created Black Radio: Telling It Like It Was.
This first radio series to document the history of
African American radio will air nationwide in 1996.
Two other Smithsonian radio series, the multiple-
award-winning Folk Masters and Jazz Smithsonian,
continued their successful runs on stations in the
United States and overseas.

¢ With the Smithsonian Institution Press, the office
began developing a major children’s television series
for 8- to 12-year-olds in conjunction with Lancit
Media Productions, Ltd. The first children’s series to
spotlight the Smithsonian, it will use the museums
and their collections as catalysts for exploration and

65
Native American singer and

storyteller Georgia Wettlin-
Larsen performs Assiniboine
Nakota and Ojibwe songs
and stories on Folk Masters,
Radio Smithsonian’s award-

winning public radio series.

66

adventure and offer a new opportunity for reaching
young audiences. Plans include simultaneous develop-
ment of multimedia programs, games, books, and an-
cillary educational materials.

¢ A new contract between the Smithsonian and Hot
Shots/Cool Cuts, Inc., will greatly enhance licensing
of the Office of Telecommunications’ extensive li-
brary of film and video footage. This arrangement
makes Smithsonian footage available to television and
film producers in a systematic manner and provides a
new source of revenue for the Institution.

Office of the Senior
Information Officer

ARTHUR DENNY, DIRECTOR

The Office of the Senior Information Officer was es-
tablished this year to develop Smithsonian information
technology policy and coordinate strategic manage-
ment. It incorporates the Office of Information Tech-
nology (formerly the Office of Information Resource
Management). In this year of restructuring, the office
began evaluating functional and organizational models
and established a strategic planning advisory group.
The office was also at the forefront of the Smithso-
nian’s electronic transformation.

¢ In April, the office cohosted the “21st-Century
Classroom” demonstration project, which showcased
an array of educational technology for the kinder-
garten through r2th-grade audience.

¢ In May, the office launched the Smithsonian’s
home page on the World Wide Web (http://www.
si.edu). The home page supplements the office’s other
online initiatives with extensive general information,
colorful exhibitions, and research material. It at-
tracted favorable notice in the general and trade press
and remains one of the most popular World Wide
Web sites.

The Smithsonian Associates

MARA MAYOR, DIRECTOR

The Smithsonian Associates reaches out to all Ameri-
cans, both on the National Mall and around the na-
tion, offering more than 1,500 educational programs
that reflect and build upon the intellectual diversity of
the Smithsonian. Study tours that span the world,
courses taught by outstanding scholars and artists, lec-
tures and performances by legendary figures, and live

theatrical performances for youngsters are all available
to those who wish to share in the Institution’s rich re-
sources. In addition, The Smithsonian Associates of-
fers special programs and benefits for National, Con-
tributing, and Resident members.

¢ To complement “America’s Smithsonian,” the trav-
eling exhibition for the r5oth anniversary celebration,
The Smithsonian Associates collaborated with the
Institution’s research community to develop “Smith-
sonian Voices of Discovery.” This program will

bring Smithsonian researchers to each city that the
exhibition visits to present lectures and workshops
for the general public and for academic and museum
specialists.

¢ To highlight collections and exhibitions across the
Smithsonian, The Smithsonian Associates offered an
array of programs, including a special farewell to the
National Museum of Natural History’s Mineral and
Gem Hall as it closed for renovation; a course about
the Ottoman Empire to complement the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service’s “Voyages
and Visions”; an all-day seminar illuminating the Na-
tional Museum of African Art exhibition “Ancient
Nubia: Egypt’s Rival in Africa”; and an introduction
to the National Museum of American Art’s “Free
within Ourselves” exhibition, led by its curator and
artists whose work was showcased.

¢ Those who are curious about new places and ideas
could choose from more than 350 study tours and
seminars that took place in 35 states and on all seven
continents. Topics ranged from Tibetan culture and
archaeology of the American Southwest to a trans-
Siberian adventure. Plans for 1996 include a special
trip to explore James Smithson’s England as part of
the rsoth anniversary celebration. An additional 350
short study tours in the mid-Atlantic region covered
subjects as varied as wildflowers, the battle of York-
town, and Pennsylvania’s electric railways. Smith-
sonian travelers were assured a unique educational
experience built on the Institution’s vast and enrich-
ing resources, expert study leaders and staff, and the
exceptional accommodations available only on Smith-
sonian tours.

¢ The Smithsonian Associates’ programs mirror the
cultural diversity of the nation. The history, research,
and contributions of the African American diaspora
were highlighted in more than 50 programs that in-
cluded a special evening with Archbishop Desmond
Tutu, conversations with legal scholar Derrick Bell
and journalist Derek McGinty, and discussions with
poet Sonia Sanchez and authors Nathan McCall and
Walter Mosley. The culture and influences of Asian
Americans, Latinos, and American Indians were the
focus of dozens of other programs, ranging from a
California series on the theme of “Many Cultures—

Competitors came
from all over the
world for The Smith-
sonian Associates’
Annual Kite Festival
on the National Mall,
cosponsored by the
National Air and
Space Museum.
(Photograph by Jeff
Tinsley)
The Fossils of the
Burgess Shale, an
award-winning book
from Smithsonian In-
stitution Press, fea-
tured specimens from
the collection in the
National Museum of
Natural History.

68

One Nation” to a performance by American Indian
poet Joy Harjo, a lecture by author Himilce Novas,
and a musical evening with the jazz quartet Poetic
Justice.

¢ To introduce youngsters to the wonders of a
Smithsonian-style education, The Smithsonian Associ-
ates offered programs that included summer camp
classes about “Inca Treasures: Ancient Lifestyles of
the Rich and Famous” and “Moon Travelers”; live
performances in Discovery Theater of plays such as
Sojourner Truth Speaks; and four original plays that
complemented the National Museum of Natural His-
tory’s “Ocean Planet” exhibition. Children enjoyed
workshops on such subjects as the chemistry of crys-
tals, the production of cartoons, and Chinese calligra-
phy. For families, The Smithsonian Associates offered
large-scale events such as the annual Kite Festival on
the Mall; short tours, including a tour of the Old Ex-
ecutive Office Building; and an overnight tour to
“Wonderful Woods Hole” on Cape Cod.

The GaN
Fossils \

Bureess
Shale

Derek E.G. Briggs
Douglas H. Erwin
Frederick J. Collier ~

Photographs by
Chip Clark

Smithsonian Institution Press

DANIEL H. GOODWIN, ACTING DIRECTOR

The more than 125 titles the Press publishes or distrib-
utes each year encompass a range of scholarship, from
technical science and academic subjects through gen-
eral-interest illustrated works, classic recordings, his-
toric videos, and high-volume works created with com-
mercial partners. As the Institution’s publisher, the Press
also produces Smithsonian Year and Annals of the
Smithsonian, as well as other documents for Depository
Libraries and the international academic community.

¢ Notable titles among the 74 new books from
Smithsonian Institution University Press were Hajj
Paintings: Folk Art of the Great Pilgrimage (also pub-
lished as a German edition); Ethics on the Ark, which
launched a series in zoo and aquarian biology and
conservation; and The Civil War in Popular Culture,
a History Book Club selection. Smithsonian Book
Development copublished, with Dorling Kindersley,
Smithsonian Timeline of Invention.

¢ Smithsonian Books published The Smithsonian:
150 Years of Adventure, Discovery, and Wonder in
commemoration of the founding of the Institution.
Smithsonian Books also published Discover America:
The Smithsonian Book of National Parks and copub-
lished, with Random House, the first four volumes of
The Smithsonian Guides to Natural America.

¢ Smithsonian Collection of Recordings published
the final four recordings in the American Songbook
Series, which honors zoth-century American song-
writers. Another series, the music of Great American
Orchestras, began publication in February. Among
the releases this year were I Got Rhythm: The Music
of George Gershwin and You'd Be So Nice to Come
Home To, a collection of the love songs of World War
Il. Two coproductions were undertaken—with BMG
Music, Victory Collection: The Smithsonian Remem-
bers When America Went to War, and with Sony
Music, the Grammy-award-winning Louis Armstrong:
Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, 1923-1934.
The final release this year was Big Band Renaissance,
another Grammy hopeful.

¢ Smithsonian Video released a 13-part series of se-
lected segments of Smithsonian World; coproduced,
with Station WGBH Boston, the Nova series Human
Origins; and released the five-part series Dreams of
Flight.
Smithsonian Magazine
RONALD C. WALKER, PUBLISHER

DON MOSER, EDITOR

Since its founding in 1970, Smithsonian magazine has
extended the Institution’s message, expanded its influ-
ence, and increased its public visibility throughout the
United States and abroad. Considered one of the great-
est success stories in magazine publishing history,
Smithsonian is now the 21st largest magazine in the
country, with a circulation of 2.1 million. It continues
to generate revenue for the Institution.

Editorial subjects extend beyond the scope of the
Institution’s museums. Leading authors contribute ar-
ticles about the arts, history, the environment, con-
servation, and the sciences, always written with the
layperson in mind. Monthly features include “Phe-
nomena, Comment, and Notes,” a commentary on na-
ture and the natural world; “Smithsonian Perspec-
tives,” a column by the Smithsonian Secretary; and
reviews of recently released nonfiction. Smithsonian
activities are covered in “Around the Mall and Be-
yond,” “Smithsonian Highlights,” and “The Object at
Hand.”

¢ Smithsonian-related features included cover stories
on the opening of the George Gustav Heye Center of
the National Museum of the American Indian and the
“White House Collection of American Crafts” exhibi-
tion. Articles or picture stories featured Smithsonian
bamboo research in Peru; the Smithsonian Institution
Science and the Artist’s Book” exhibition;
and Save Outdoor Sculpture!, a program cosponsored

> «

Libraries

by the National Museum of American Art.

¢ Other subjects reflected the magazine’s broad inter-
ests: Frederick Douglass, Haida artist Robert David-
son, the art of the Hermitage, the controversy over
the disposal of nuclear waste, the music of Motown,
the special world of left-handers, and the history of
trial by jury.

¢ A 25th-anniversary issue in April offered stories on
unexpected subjects, from the world inside a cubic
foot of air to a selection of little-known museums.
The magazine will present a special issue in the spring
of 1996 to commemorate the Institution’s 150th
anniversary.

¢ In partnership with the American Society of Travel
Agents (ASTA), the magazine awarded the fourth an-
nual ASTA/Smithsonian Magazine Environmental
Award to Inter-Continental Hotels Corporation and
the National Parks Board of South Africa.

¢ Through its electronic sites—via America Online
and a home page on the World Wide Web—Smith-
sonian now makes available each issue’s columns and
abstracts of feature stories.

Air & Space/Smithsonian Magazine
RONALD C. WALKER, PUBLISHER

GEORGE C. LARSON, EDITOR

Air & Space/Smithsonian is published bimonthly as a
benefit of membership in the National Air and Space
Museum. With a circulation of 320,000, it ranks in
the top half of major magazines in the United States
and has the largest paid circulation of any aerospace
periodical in the world. The magazine continues to
generate revenue for the Institution.

Articles cover the range of air- and space-related
topics that appeal to the magazine’s general reader-
ship. Regular features include “In the Museum,” a col-
umn about happenings in the museum; “Soundings,”
short takes on events in the aerospace community;
“Above and Beyond,” usually an account of personal
experience; “Collections,” a narrated tour of less-vis-
ited aerospace museums and collections; and “From
the Field,” a section in which scientists write about
their work.

¢ During the year, Air & Space/Smithsonian pre-
pared its first simultaneous editorial feature and
video, “Runways of Fire.” The subject was a program
of advanced test flight experiments during the 1950s
that involved launching fully loaded jet fighters from
flat-bed trucks in the event runways were damaged or
nonexistent. Although the program was never put
into action, the tests were successful. The one-hour
video was produced throughout the year to be pre-
sented along with a related story in the October/
November 1995 issue.

¢ A presence on the World Wide Web netted immedi-
ate success for Air & Space/Smithsonian. After only
two months of operation, the magazine’s online site
was awarded Point Surveys’ Top 5 Percent Award in
July, based on surveys of World Wide Web users and
experts in Internet design and content evaluation.

¢ The momentous occasion of the Smithsonian’s
rsoth anniversary coincides with the roth anniver-
sary of Air & Space/Smithsonian. The magazine staff
has been working on a special issue to celebrate these
anniversaries.

69
More than roo local
students participated
in low-cost dance
classes led by Dance
Theatre of Harlem
company members
during the second sea-
son of the Kennedy
Center/DTH Commu-
nity Residency pro-
gram. (Photograph by
Carol Pratt)

AFFILIATED
ORGANIZATIONS

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
the National Gallery of Art, and the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars were established by
Congress within the Smithsonian Institution under
their own boards of trustees. The Institution provides
administrative services on contract to Reading Is Fun-

damental, Inc., an independent organization.

7O

John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts

JAMES D. WOLFENSOHN, CHAIRMAN

LAWRENCE J. WILKER, PRESIDENT

As the John F, Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
entered its 25th anniversary season, it prepared to cel-
ebrate a quarter-century of achievement as a guiding
force in the nation’s cultural life. Its six theaters host
the finest American and international artists for per-
formances that attract nearly 2 million people each
year. Through television and radio broadcasts and na-
tionwide outreach efforts, the center reaches millions
more people across the country. The center has a
strong tradition of nurturing new works and young
artists, serving young people through its Education
Department, and offering exemplary art education
programs for teachers and students.

¢ The Kennedy Center’s new online network,
ARTSEDGE, provided access to information about
the center’s innovative teacher education programs.
Other national outreach programs included a touring
production of Alice in Wonderland and the center’s
third biannual “New Visions/New Voices” work-
shops for authors of new theatrical works for young
people.

¢ The National Symphony Orchestra (NSO) com-
missioned 25 new fanfares by American composers
in honor of the Kennedy Center’s 25th anniversary
season—also the NSO’s 65th season and its first
programmed by Music Director Designate Leonard
Slatkin. The NSO’s third annual American Residency
program took orchestra members to Maine for two
weeks of performances, master classes, and other
educational activities.

¢ The Kennedy Center celebrated the “Routes of
American Music” during its annual Open House Arts
Festival, which emphasized blues, jazz, gospel, and
other genres of American popular music. An ambi-
tious season of jazz programming included the second
season of Billy Taylor’s Jazz at the Kennedy Center,
taped for broadcast on National Public Radio.

¢ The “Exploring Ballet with Suzanne Farrell” resi-
dency program was opened to dance students nation-
wide in 1995. To mark its 25th anniversary, the cen-
ter launched a five-year retrospective of American
modern dance and extended the successful Kennedy
Center Ballet Commissioning Project. Meanwhile, the
second year of the Kennedy Center/Dance Theatre of
Harlem Community Residency initiative involved
more than roo local students and their families.

¢ The center’s new production of How to Succeed in
Business without Really Trying, starring Matthew
Broderick, played in the Opera House before begin-
ning a successful Broadway run. Washington audi-
ences had their first look at Angels in America, the
Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Tony Kushner devel-
oped with financial support from the Kennedy Center
Fund for New American Plays.

National Gallery of Art

EARL A. POWELL III, DIRECTOR

The National Gallery of Art serves the United States in
a national role by preserving, collecting, exhibiting,
and fostering the understanding of works of art at the
highest possible museum and scholarly standards.

¢ The temporary exhibition program continued to
offer a selection of subjects and artists designed to
appeal to widely diverse audiences. During the past
year, exhibitions included original Italian Renaissance
wooden architectural models of St. Peter’s in Rome
and the cathedrals of Florence and Pavia; “The Glory
of Venice: Art in the Eighteenth Century”; the work
of zoth-century Dutch painter Piet Mondrian; a Claes
Oldenburg survey; the mature work of Arshile Gorky;
the most comprehensive gathering of work by James
McNeill Whistler since 1904-05; and rare images by
pioneers of photography from the Mary and David
Robinson collection.

¢ With the opening of new, small-scale exhibition
space adjacent to the Dutch galleries, the National
Gallery now has an area suitable for the display of
smaller Dutch and Flemish paintings and related ob-
jects such as drawings, prints, and small sculpture.

¢ Purchases for the collection are made possible by
funds donated by private citizens. Outstanding
among them in 1995 were a major painting by the
early-17th-century Dutch artist Osias Beert the Elder;
a Claes Oldenburg soft sculpture, Clarinet Bridge;
and the Mary and David Robinson collection of early
photographs.

¢ Gifts to the collection included a group of impor-
tant r9th- and 2oth-century French works from Paul
Mellon; works by Jean Dubuffet, a partial gift from
Stephen Hahn; and a 1981 sculpture by Richard
Long, Whitechapel Slate Circle, from the Collectors
Committee.

¢ The gallery’s ongoing efforts to find frames appro-
priate to the period, style, and aesthetic character of
its paintings are transforming the appearance of the
permanent collection. Especially notable was the re-
placement of the frames of three paintings by the
Dutch master Johannes Vermeer.

¢ The education division inaugurated a new annual
series of lectures, gallery talks, and demonstrations
exploring artists’ materials and techniques. The divi-
sion also published 75 gallery guides; expanded the
annual National Teacher Institute; and offered a new
program for students at three District of Columbia

public schools.

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

RUTH GRAVES, PRESIDENT

Nothing is more important to a child’s academic suc-
cess than the ability to read. That is why Reading Is
Fundamental, Inc. (RIF) has been working for nearly
three decades to ensure that children become readers.
As the nation’s leading children’s literacy program, RIF
brings books and reading activities to some 3.7 million
young people each year. Backed by both the public and
private sectors, RIF operates at 18,000 sites in schools,

Boy in a Red Waist-
coat, 1888-90, by
Paul Cezanne, was
part of a major group
of French paintings,

drawings, and water-

colors given to the
National Gallery of
Art in 1995 by Mr.
and Mrs. Paul Mellon.

libraries, housing projects, Native American reserva-
tions, hospitals, migrant worker camps, juvenile deten-

lie pen

wit bh "

tion centers, and homeless shelters. In 1995, more than

184,000 citizens volunteered their time to RIF.

ty

«eA

¢ STAR (Science Technology and Reading)—RIF’s
supplemental curriculum for the upper elementary

i
bw
%

Reading Is Fundamen-
tal, Inc. is the first or-

ganization to distrib-
ute books to children
on a grand scale. Since
the program was
founded in 1966, RIF
has put more than 152
million books into the
hands of America’s
children. (Photograph
by Rick Reinhard)

grades that combines hands-on science activities with
reading—attracted considerable attention during the
year. Kendall/Hunt is publishing the eight-part STAR
“lab” series, and the GE Fund is underwriting an ex-
pansion of the program to schools in upstate New
York and New England. In July, RIF conducted a
course on the STAR program during a Smithsonian
summer seminar for teachers.
¢ As anew RIF spokesperson, Orlando Magic center
Shaquille O’Neal encouraged children to read in a
public service announcement produced by the Na-
tional Basketball Association and aired during the
NBA playoffs.
¢ A celebration at the National Museum of Natural
History was the culmination of RIF’s annual Reading
Is Fun Week. Washington Bullets star Juwan Howard,
a former participant in a Chicago RIF project, told
children what being able to read has meant to him.
¢ RIF President Ruth Graves announced the estab-
lishment of a RIF program at the Harlem Hospital,
where two new RIF Reading Rooms were dedicated
to the memory of Arthur Ashe, a longtime member of
RIF’s Advisory Council.

Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars

CHARLES BLITZER, DIRECTOR

The Woodrow Wilson Center honors the nation’s 28th
president by providing a place for free intellectual in-
quiry that strengthens links between the worlds of
ideas and public affairs. Through an annual fellowship
competition, scholars from around the world are in-
vited to the center for extended periods of research
and writing. The center also sponsors public meetings,
generates publications, and produces broadcast pro-
grams that make individual scholarship accessible to
policy makers and a broad public.

¢ A distinguished group of scholars and policy ex-
perts discussed the political and policy questions sur-
rounding the affirmative action debate in a program
at the center. Juan Williams, Washington Post jour-
nalist and guest scholar, was the moderator. The pan-
elists addressed beliefs about race, gender, equality,
and opportunity and debated whether affirmative
action is an essential policy tool for ameliorating the
damage of legal slavery and segregation or a racial
and gender spoils system that is unnecessary and
divisive.

¢ Through its new Environmental Change and Secu-
rity project, the center is playing an important role in
addressing the international ramifications of environ-
mental degradation. Workshops and seminars focused
on the relationship between environmental degrada-
tion and violent conflict; the environmental conse-
quences of war; environmental assistance to develop-
ing countries; and international perspectives on how
the environment affects security.

¢ Anthony Lake, the president’s national security ad-
viser and a trustee of the center, defended U.S. foreign
aid policies in a speech at the National Press Club,
given under the center’s auspices.

¢ Speakers in a new series on international financial
issues addressed recent exchange rate crises and the

VVVVVVV VV
AVA ASA.

rf

lessons of currency and sovereign liquidity problems.

The series analyzed current proposals to moderate or

prevent international financial crises.

¢ The center is unique among research centers in
bringing together academics, policy makers, and jour-
nalists to benefit from and contribute to the continu-
ing dialogue between public affairs and scholarship.
Academic participants during the past year included
former Russian economist Lilia Shevtsova; Roger
Louis, general editor of the Oxford History of the
British Empire; Yeats scholar Helen Vendler; and lit-
erary theorist Geoffrey Hartmann. Fellows participat-
ing from outside the academic community included
Anatoly Dobrynin, former ambassador from the So-
viet Union to the United States; author and feminist
Betty Friedan; Japanese journalist Susumu Awano-
hara; French diplomat and journalist Eric Rouleau;
counselor to the secretary of defense Larry K. Smith;
and journalists E. J. Dionne, John J. Fialka, Elizabeth
Pond, and Juan Williams.

At a Woodrow Wilson
Center Evening Dia-
logue on affirmative
action, panelists de-
bated the effects of
race- and gender-
based policies. From
left are the Honorable
William T. Coleman,
former Secretary of
Transportation and
senior partner,
O’Melveny and
Meyers; Christopher

Edley Jr., Harvard
Law School professor
and special counsel to
the President; Juan
Williams, Washington
Post journalist and
Wilson Center guest
scholar; Abigail
Thernstrom, senior
fellow at the Manbat-
tan Institute and
former Wilson Center
guest scholar; and
Glenn Loury, Uni-

versity Professor of
Economics at Boston

University.
BEN EEA G iO iRes

Public-spirited citizens have supported the Institution’s many
and varied activities for almost 150 years. Private support, as
exemplified by James Smithson’s original gift, plays an increas-
ingly important role at the Smithsonian. The Smithsonian Fund
for the Future has been established to continue this tradition of
private support begun by the Institution’s founder. The objective
of the Fund is to build a dependable base of long-term private
support, especially through endowments, for the programmatic
priorities of the Institution, so they will be secured for future
generations. The Institution gratefully acknowledges the support
of the individuals, foundations, and corporations whose gifts,
grants, bequests, and Contributing Memberships have lent critical
support and have furthered the work of the Smithsonian over the
past fiscal year, October 1, 1994, through September 30, 1995.
The following major gifts were received:

¢ The Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation of Connecticut com-
mitted $ro million for the National Museum of the American
Indian in support of the National Campaign for educational
endowment and the Construction Fund.

¢ The Lemelson Family Foundation pledged $10.4 million to

establish and endow the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center

At the Smithsonian Benefactors’
Circle awards ceremony, Enid
A. Haupt, seated with her
brother, the Honorable Walter
H. Annenberg, accepts a gift of
appreciation for her many con-
tributions to the Institution.

(Photograph by Glenn Levy)

for the Study of Invention and Innovation at the National Muse-
um of American History.

¢ Agnes Cowles Bourne contributed $2 million for the Design
Resource Center at the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Muse-
um in New York City.

¢ The Corporation for Public Broadcasting donated $1,104,850
for “Case Studies in Science Education” at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory.

¢ Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A. gave $1,884,500 for the
“Earth 2U” exhibition organized by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service.

¢ Mrs. Janet Annenberg Hooker made a $2 million gift to the
Hall of Geology, Gems, and Minerals at the National Museum
of Natural History.

¢ Glenn O. Tupper made an additional $1 million commitment
for the Tupper Endowment Fund for Tropical Research at the
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

¢ The Nippon Foundation (formerly the Sasakawa Foundation)
donated $770,000 for the Asian Heritage Fund at the National
Museum of Natural History.

¢ Numerous private citizens supported an endowment for the

Mary L. Ripley Garden.

74
Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle

The Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle recognizes and honors those
individuals whose exceptional gifts have preserved the traditions of
the Smithsonian Institution while furthering its mission. Bene-
factors’ gifts reflect the donors’ personal interests and commitment
and are as varied and broad as the Institution itself. The Smith-
sonian Benefactors’ Circle exists to honor these distinguished phil-
anthropists and to establish a lasting mark of their achievements.
The Smithsonian recognizes the gifts of Founders and Patrons of

the Smithsonian Benefactors’ Circle as listed below.

Enid A. Haupt

Russell B. Aitken

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. Altschul

William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans

Katharine Graham

Robert C. and Julie Graham Jr.
Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.
William A. and Patricia W. Hewitt
Ikuo Hirayama

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
TT. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson

Ann Simmons Alspaugh

Peter C. and Joan Andrews

Marjorie Arundel

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod

Edward P. Bass

Randy and Nancy Best

James and Barbara Block

Agnes C. Bourne and James Luebbers

Michael J. Brophy

Hildegard Bruck

George E. Burch III

Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

Barber B. Conable Jr. and Charlotte
Conable

Peggy and Richard M. Danziger

David Davies

Evelyn Y. Davis

Charles M. and Valerie T. Diker

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

John L. and Margot P. Ernst

Kitty Fassett

Rita Fraad

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost

Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert

George J. and Eileen D. Gillespie

FE. Warrington Gillet Jr. and Elesabeth I.
Gillet

Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Jerome L. Greene

Barrick W. Groom

Agnes S. Gund

George Gund III

Joan D. Haig

Evelyn A. J. Hall

Martha A. Healy

Drue M. Heinz

Lloyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman
Frank W. and Lisina M. Hoch
Ladislaus and Beatrix von Hoffman
Mrs. James Stewart Hooker
John R. Huggard

Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen
Victor and Loretta Kaufman
Gene A. and Freita F. Keluche
James M. Kemper Jr.

R. Crosby Kemper Jr.

James W. and Mary T. Kinnear
Ann and Gilbert Kinney

Ethel Niki Kominik

William K. and Alice $. Konze
Karl V. Krombein

Harvey M. and Connie Krueger
Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger
Robert and Helen Kuhn
Rogerio S. Lam

Ru Lennox Lang

Robert and Carrie Lehrman
Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson
Sydney and Frances Lewis
Henry Luce III

Harry and Beverly Mandil
Edwin D. and Nancy A. Marks
John F. and Adrienne B. Mars
Kathleen C. Mason

Brooks and Hope B. McCormick
Nan Tucker McEvoy

Antony M. Merck

Jeffery W. and Janet Meyer
James and Lolly Mitchell

Lester S. Morse Jr. and Enid W. Morse

Honorable Daniel Patrick Moynihan and

Elizabeth Moynihan
Jean Niemeier
Robert H. and Nancy Nooter
Carroll and Nancy Fields O’Connor
Charles Rand Penney
Al and Cecilia Podell
Lewis and Margaret Ranieri
Philip D. Reed Jr. and Elizabeth Reed
Douglas F. and Sanae I. Reeves
Frank K. Ribelin
Carlyn Ring
David Rockefeller
Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal

Wilbur L. Ross Jr.

Jeanette Cantrell Rudy

Cecile Salomon

Joseph H. Samuel Jr.

Margaret Knowles Schink

Catherine F. Scott

Lloyd G. and Betty L. Schermer

Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz

Shirley P. Sichel

Charles Simon

Emma M. Sims

James C. Slaughter

George L. Small

Kathy Daubert Smith

Bernie E. Stadiem

Mrs. Sydney Stein Jr.

Doris Z. Stone

E. Hadley Stuart Jr. and Marion Stuart

A. Alfred Taubman

Vernon L. Taylor Jr.

Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw

Jeffrey and Diane Tobin

John Weeden

Daniel Weinstein

Nancy Brown Wellin

Anthony and Beatrice W. Welters

Jerry R. and Carolyn L. White

Julius Wile

Ronald H. Winston and Heidi Jensen-
Winston

Gay F. Wray

Nancy B. Zirkle

Florence Coulson Davis
Patricia C. Dodge
Thomas McLaughlan

WS
Donors of Financial Support

The following donors have made gifts or pledges of $2,000 or
more to the Smithsonian between October 1, 1994, and Septem-
ber 30, 1995. Certain donors have requested anonymity. If the
name of any other donor has been omitted, it is unintentional and
in no way diminishes the Smithsonian’s appreciation. “ Denotes a
gift to the Smithsonian Fund for the Future, a citizens’ initiative to
raise endowment funds, both unrestricted and special purpose.

Anonymous

The Boeing Company

Ms. Agnes Cowles Bourne

Corporation for Public
Broadcasting

Mr. George Gund III

Mrs. Janet Annenberg Hooker

Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson
(Lemelson Family
Foundation)

Nissan Motor Corporation
U.S.A.

Mashantucket Pequot Tribal
Nation of Connecticut

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper
Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest
Fund

Friends of the National Zoo

Honduras Coral Reef Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin S. Marks

The Nippon Foundation
(formerly the Sasakawa
Foundation)

Anonymous

Bantam Books, a Division of
Bantam Doubleday Dell
Publishing Group

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

The Chubb Corporation

CITIBANK, N.A.

The Coca-Cola Foundation

Florence Coulson Davis Trust

Discovery Communications,
Inc.

The Ford Foundation

Freeport-McMoRan Ine.

J. Paul Getty Trust

The George Gund Foundation

Harbor Branch Institution, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

Mr. Samuel C. Johnson (S.C.
Johnson & Son, Inc.)

J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Mrs. Ru Lennox Lang

76

The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

Merrill Lynch & Co.
Foundation, Inc.

Morse Family Foundation

National Institute for the
Conservation of Cultural
Property

Orkin Pest Control

The Pew Charitable Trusts

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed
(Philip D. Reed Foundation,
Inc.)

James Renwick Alliance

Mrs. Jeanette Cantrell Rudy

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G.
Schermer (Philip &
Henrietta Adler
Foundation)

Sergeant’s Pet Products

Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Smithsonian Women’s
Committee

Mrs. Doris Stone (Zemurray
Foundation)

Eugene and Clare Thaw
Charitable Trust

Timex Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony
Welters’

Mr. Jerry R. White

Julius Wile

World Wildlife Fund

Anonymous

Mrs. Kathleen Allaire

American Physical Therapy Association

Embassy of the Commonwealth of the
Bahamas

Ms. Joan Bull

Mrs. Mary Griggs Burke (Mary
Livingston Griggs and Mary Griggs
Burke Foundation)

E. Rhodes & Leona B. Carpenter
Foundation

The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.

Chevy Chase Bank

Dr. Robert C.C. Chiu

The Educational Foundation of America

The Freed Foundation

Elesabeth Ingalls Gillet Foundation

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

The Jerome L. Greene Foundation, Inc.

Harbor Branch Oceanographic
Institution, Inc.

Mr. Richard M. Hayden (Hayden
Family Foundation)

The Island Fund in the New York
Community Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Kaufman

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney

Howard Kottler Testamentary Trust

The Ambassador & Mrs. L.W. Lane Jr.
Fund

Jacob & Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation, Inc.

M&M-Mars

MCI Foundation

National Grange of the Order of
Patrons of Husbandry

National Ocean Industries Association

Mr. Friden Neopost

New York State Council on the Arts

Norfolk Southern Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O’Connor

Pacific Mutual Foundation

Rockefeller Foundation

Space Biospheres Ventures

The Surdna Foundation

Time Warner Inc.

True North Foundation

Wolf Trap Foundation for the
Performing Arts

Anonymous

Abell-Hanger Foundation

Air Line Pilots Association

Mr. Arthur Altschul

American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers

American Apparel Manufacturers
Association, Inc.

American Business Conference

American Council of Life Insurance

American Express Company

American Quilt Defense Fund

Andersen Consulting

Arianespace Inc.

Armed Forces Communications and
Electronics Association

Aroaima Bauxite Company, Ltd.

Aspen Celebration for the American
Indian

Banco Del Pais

Banco General, S.A.

Baxter Diagnostics, Inc.

The Beinecke Foundation

The Honorable and Mrs. Max N. Berry

Lillian and Huber Boscowitz Charitable
Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer (Hunter
Engineering)

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Edward A. Burka

The Cape Verdean Folk Life Festival
Fund

Carnegie Corporation of New York

Mary Flagler Cary Charitable Trust

Center for Marine Conservation, Inc.

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

The Chickasaw Nation

CIRRUS System, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark

Cleveland-Cliffs Inc.

The Coca-Cola Company

The Colbert Foundation, Inc.

Communication Resources, Inc.

Communications Satellite Corp.

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Coneway
(Coneway Family Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Congdon

Consolidated Edison Co. of New York,
Inc.

Queene Ferry Coonley Foundation, Inc.

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper

Coopers & Lybrand

Mrs. Florence Corder-Witter

Camille O. and William H. Cosby Jr.

Mr. Lloyd E. Cotsen (Cotsen Family
Foundation)

A.T. Cross Co.

Cyprus Amax Minerals Company

Delsey Luggage Incorporated

Mr. David Dibner (The Dibner Fund,
Inc.)

Valerie Charles Diker Fund, Inc.

The Walt Disney Company

Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation’

The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation
Foundation

Elle Corporation

Fairchild Space and Defense Corp.

Fannie Mae Foundation

Fidelity Investments

Mr. Lee M. Folger (Folger Fund)

Ford Division

Ford Motor Company

Fortis, Inc.

Freddie Mac Foundation

Fundacao Luso-Americana Para O
Desenvolvimento

Fundacion Natura

Mr. Howard Gilman (Gilman Paper
Co.)

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Glen Eagles Foundation

Golden Key National Honor Society

Goldman, Sachs & Co.

Mr. and Mrs. W.L. Hadley Griffin

Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian

Ms. Agnes S. Gund

Gordon Gund & Llura Liggett Gund
1993 Charitable Foundation

Mrs. Carol P. Guyer (James C. Penney
Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Peter Haas (Miriam &
Peter Haas Fund)

Mr. Hugh Halff Jr.

Choate Rosemary Hall Foundation, Inc.

Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Mr. Charles U. Harris

Healthcare Insurance Services, Inc.

The Heard Museum

Mrs. Teresa Heinz (Heinz Family
Foundation)

Norman Hirschfield Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. A. William Holmberg
(The Sulzberger Foundation)

Hughes Danbury Optical Systems

International Business Machines
Corporation

IEEE Computer Society

Japan Marmoset Institute

Johnson & Higgins
Mrs. Roy Johnson

Mrs. Marjorie S. Kantor

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper Jr. (The
David Woods Kemper Memorial
Foundation)

Madame Tomo Kikuchi

The Knowles Foundation

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.
Konze (Alice Stockton Konze Fund)

Mr. Harvey M. Krueger (Krueger
Family Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. James J. Lally

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin Lenkin

Mr. Alan D. Levy

Sydney & Frances Lewis Foundation

William & Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Marion C. Link

Howard & Jean Lipman Foundation,
Inc.

Lockheed Martin Corporation

Mr. Meredith J. Long

Richard Lounsbery Foundation

Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation

Mr. Richard A. Manoogian

The Marks Family Foundation

Marpat Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mr. Robert L. McNeil Jr. (Barra
Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Katherine Medlinger

Metropolitan Washington Airports
Authority

Microsoft Corporation

Midland Bank

Molson Breweries USA, Inc.

Morris Animal Foundation

Enid & Lester Morse Foundation, Inc.

Henry & Lucy Moses Fund, Inc.

Motorola, Inc.

Ms. Lucille G. Murchison

NAMSB Foundation, Inc.

National Geographic Society

National Space Club

National Association of Postmasters of
the United States

NEC Corporation

New Bedford Cape Verdean
Smithsonian Committee

The New York Times Company
Foundation

Newman’s Own, Inc.

NYNEX Corporation

John M. Olin Foundation

Olympus Corp.

Oracle Applications Users Group

Organization of American States

Outdoor Advertising Association of
America

PaineWebber Group, Inc.

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

The Pinkerton Foundation

Postal Commemorative Society

Mr. and Mrs. Heinz C. Prechter (World
Heritage Foundation)

Price Waterhouse-U.S.

Procter & Gamble Company

The Procter & Gamble Fund

PROMAX International

Rabobank Nederland, N.V.

Ralston Purina Company

Refineria Panama, S.A.

The Rex Foundation

The Honorable and Mrs. S. Dillon
Ripley II

Ms. Ann R. Roberts

Dr. Helen Roberts

Mr. William D. Rollnick

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr.

Samuel & May Rudin Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler (AMS
Foundation for the Arts, Sciences and
Humanities)

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

Ms. Leidy Samson and Ms. Kathy
Kempa

Samsonite Corporation

Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corp.

Schindler Elevator Corporation

Mr. David Schoenbach

David Schwartz Foundation, Inc.

Seminole Tribal Museum Authority

The Shubert Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Jack R. Simplot

The L.J. and Mary C. Skaggs
Foundation

Spring Creek Art Foundation, Inc.

Jules & Doris Stein Foundation

Student Information System Users

System Planning Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

Teradyne, Inc.

The Tinker Foundation

Trust for Mutual Understanding

Turner Entertainment Group

UNDP Representative in Guyana

Unico Banking Group

Mr. and Mrs. Milton H. Ward

The Washington Post Company

Weatherhill, Inc.

Weigh-Tronix, Inc

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin

The Winslow Foundation

World Wildlife Fund-Canada

Worldesign Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Gay F. Wray (Roger S. Firestone
Foundation)

Xerox Corporation

Young Presidents’ Organization, Inc.

Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle

Anonymous

Aircraft Electronic Association

Alico

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin G. Alper

Ms. Ann Simmons Alspaugh

American Association for the
Advancement of Science

The American Society for Cell Biology

Harriett Ames Charitable Trust

Anheuser-Busch Companies

Baird Family Fund

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Bell Atlantic of Washington, D.C.

BellSouth Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Blanton

Blum-Kovler Foundation

Mr. Joseph Boyle

Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon and Eckhardt,
Inc. Advertising

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Bradley

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Mr. Eli Broad (The Eli Broad Family
Foundation)

The Samuel Bronfman Foundation

Mr. Lawrence G. Brown

Mr. Gerald E. Buck

Mrs. Mary Griggs Burke

University of California at Los Angeles

Cellular Telecommunications Industry
Association

Dr. and Mrs. Alexander Chase

Chevron

Chiat/Day/Mojo Inc. Advertising

Mr. and Mrs. Brice M. Clagett

Clark Charitable Foundation

Concreto, S.A.

Consolidated Natural Gas Co.

Corning Incorporated

Mr. and Mrs. Roger E. Covey

Joseph & Barbara Cowen Foundation
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mr. and Mrs. Carl B. Davis

DeGrazia Art & Cultural Foundation

Dewey Ballantine

S. Sidney DeYoung Foundation

Ducks Unlimited, Inc.

Exxon

Fleet Charitable Trust

Mrs. Leslie S. Fogg

Mrs. Rita Fraad

Georgetown Heritage Trust

Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation

Mr. Clifford H. Goldsmith

Grey Advertising, Inc.

Mrs. Joan D. Haig

Mr. and Mrs. Ben Hammett

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Harbert III

Hayes, Domenici & Associates

Drue Heinz Trust

Hines Interests Limited Partnership

The generous donation of Edwin
and Nancy Marks to Cooper-
Hewitt, National Design Muse-
um is acknowledged by the
museum's Director, Dianne H.
Pilgrim. (Photograph by

Glenn Levy)

77
Ira Rubinoff (left) and Secretary
I. Michael Heyman pay tribute
to Glenn O. Tupper (right) for
his generous support of the
Smithsonian Tropical Research

Institute. (Photograph by

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Ms. Laura S, James

Mr. and Mrs. Robert |

Mr. J. Rukin Jelks Jr

Ms. Narinder Kaur Keith and Ms
Rajinder Kaur Keith’

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly II

Mrs. Olive Dibben Kemp

Kenner & Company, Inc

Ms. Caroline Keyhoe

Mrs. Jean B. Kilborne

KPMG Peat Marwick

Mr. Werner H. Kramarsky

Mr. James N. Krebs

Mr. Peter L. Kreeger

Mr. Michael A. Lang

Lee Enterprises, Inc

James

Carrie and Robert Lehrman

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Lubin

Richard & Jane Manoogian Foundation

The Frank & Katherine Martucci
Endowment for the Arts

Mr. Frank Martucci

Mr. Dave Maxfield

Mr. and Mrs. William P. McClure

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy (Nan Tucker
McEvoy Foundation, Inc.)

McGraw-Hill, Inc.

Mobil Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Ellen Napiura (Taubman, Ltd.)

The Nature Company

Neutrogena Corporation

Newsweek, Inc.

Northeast Utilities Service Company

Ms. Antoinette Peskoff

Petrolera Nacional

Mrs. John A. Pope

Vivian O. & Meyer P. Potamkin
Foundation

The Prudential Insurance Co. of
America

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

Dr. and Mrs. David Raphling

Research Foundation of the City
University of New York

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

Royal Ontario Museum

78

Ms. Else Sackler

Charles E. Sampson Memorial
Foundation

Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation

Dr. Helen M. Scheirbeck

The Science Alliance

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Shapiro

Mr. Charles Simon

Mr. Theodore J. Slavin

Steelcase, Inc

The Summit Foundation

[.F.H. Publications, Inc

Mrs. Ellen N. Taubman

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon F. Taylor (The
Ruth & Vernon Taylor Foundation)

Norman-Rita Tishman Fund, Inc

Transoceanic Marine Inc

Troy Systems

Mrs. Milton Turner

Two Visions, Inc.

Ventas Y Proyectos, S. A.

Ms. Ada Vincent

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Weil (Hickrill
Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Alexander Wetmore

Wilkhahn, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff (The
Norcliffe Fund)

Anonymous

ARCO Foundation, Inc.

AT&I

Sir Valentine Abdy

Abramson Family Foundation, Inc.

Alexander Gallery

Ms. Charmay B. Allred

American Federation of Mineralogical
Societies

American Astronautical Society

Ameritech

Amoco Eurasia Petroleum Company

Mr. and Mrs. Dewalt H. Ankeny Jr.
(Ankeny Foundation)

Mrs. Louise S. Ansberry

Bank of America Foundation

Bank of Hawaii

Glenn Levy)

BankAmerica Corporation

J.N. Bartheld Galleries

Mr. Robert M. Barton

The Baruch Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Barwick

The Thelma Bauerdorf Revocable 1990
Trust

Beadles Lumber Company

Bellcore

Norman Bernstein Management

3erry-Hill Galleries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair

Dr. Charles Blitzer

Boeing Company International Affairs

Book of the Month Club, Inc.

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Mr. Frederick Brown

Mr. Donald Bruckmann

Cape Verdean Club of Falmouth, Inc.

Cape Verdean Cultural Preservation
Council

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.

Cenro Corporation

Ms. Allene R. Chiesman

Mr. Sang Ho Chung

City Parks Foundation, Inc.

The Clark Construction Group

Coldwater Creek

Compton Foundation, Inc.

The Hon. Barber B. Conable Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Cooley

Mrs. William H. Cowles III

King and Jean Cummings Charitable
Trust

Mr. Robert L. Cummings

Mr. Tom Daggy

Daka Corporation

Mr. John H. Darlington Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Carl B. Davis

Mrs. M.A. Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo Sr.

DC Community Humanities Council

Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe

Deluxe Check Printers Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

Mrs. Lacey Neuhaus Dorn

Mr. Donald Douglass (The Douglass
Foundation)

The Dunoir Fund Trust

Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth (The Ebsworth
Foundation)

Ehrenkrantz & Eckstut Architects, P.C.

Mr. James A. Elkins Jr.

Employees of Juno Lighting Inc.

Mr. Frank E. Everett

Mrs. Myron S. Falk Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. George J. Fan

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Feder

Fender Musical Instruments Corp.

Dr. Alan Fern

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Ms. Minna J. Finberg,

First National Bank of Chicago

Mrs. Dielle Fleischmann (The
Monomoy Fund)

The Flowe Foundation

The Fluor Foundation

Ms. Anne Forbes

Mr. and Mrs. John Gilmore Ford

Ms. Rosemary L. Frankeberger

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger

G.E. Fund

Gannett Outdoor Group

Georgia Pacific

Dr. Kurt A. Gitter and Ms. Alice Yelen

Mr. James C. Goodale

Gover, Stetson & Williams, P.C.

Glenn Green Galleries

Mrs. Gayle Greenhill

Barbara Guggenheim Associates, Inc.

Mr. Geoffrey Gund

Mr. Corbin Gwaltney

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Ms. Morella R. Hansen

Hariri Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Marion Edwyn Harrison

Offices of David C. Harrison

Ms. Harriet Sims Harvey

Hebrew Union College

Hicks Charitable Foundation

Hillsdale Fund, Inc.

Clarence and Jack Himmel Foundation

Sir Joseph E. Hotung

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes

Jaquelin Hume Foundation

Mrs. Peter D. Humleker Jr.

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter

Illinois Tool Works

Embassy of Japan

Johnson & Johnson
Jorge Scientific Corporation

S. Kann Sons Company Foundation,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice H. Katz

Mr. Jack Kay

R. C. Kemper Charitable Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Kennedy

The Robert S. & Grayce B. Kerr
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Kinnear

Klemm Analysis Group, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Seymour H. Knox III
(Seymour H. Knox Foundation)

Mrs. Blanche M. Koffler

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Mr. and Mrs. Steven Kohlhagen

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jon Landau

Lannan Foundation

William & Mildred Lasdon Foundation

Ms. Roxie C. Laybourne

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Lehrman

Lemberg Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Jacques E. Lennon

The Lerner-Gray Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Phyllis G. Levinson

Eli Lilly & Company Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Mr. and Mrs. R. Robert Linowes

Louisiana Seafood Promotion and
Marketing Board

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch Jr.

Mad River Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Magid (Frank
N. Magid Associates, Inc.)

Mars Foundation

The Honorable and Mrs. William M.
Martin Jr.

William Douglas McAdams, Inc.

Mrs. J. Tate McBroom

Ms. Maryann McCaffery

McDonald’s Corporation

Mr. John C. Meeker

Mrs. Withrow Weir Meeker

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Mennello

Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Art
Studies

Harvey S. Shipley Miller and Jon
Randall Plummer (The Miller-
Plummer Foundation)

Mission Viejo Imports

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moore

Mr. John W. Morrison

Dr. and Mrs. George E. Mueller

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Mullins

National Capitol Section, American
Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics

Nestle Beverage Company

Mr. Khan Usun Nimmanheminda

Mrs. Kay D. O’Rourke

Occidental Petroleum Corp.

Ohio Historical Society, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Osnos

The P.I.E. Mutual Insurance Company

Pacific Enterprises

Patrick Media Group

Mr. and Mrs. James Patton Jr.

The Joan Whitney and Charles Shipman
Payson Foundation

Mrs. Thomas Perkins

Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Pfeil

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Piasecki

Polaroid Corporation

Polo/Ralph Lauren Corporation

Mr. H. Posner Jr.

Ms. Judy Lynn Prince

Quad/Graphics

Mr.and Mrs. Jack Rachlin

Mr. John A. Radway Jr.

Mr. William M. Ray

Ms. Lola C. Reinsch (Emerson G. &
Delores G. Reinsch Foundation)

Mr. Frank K. Ribelin

Ms. Dora Laurinda Richardson

Ms. Nancy Rivera

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Mr. and Mrs. William Roberts

Mr. Lawrence Robinson

Ms. Karol Kirberger Rodriguez

Mr. L.A. Roepcke

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Richard & Hinda Rosenthal Foundation

Mr. Charles A. Ross

Mary A. H. Rumsey Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells

Ms. Elizabeth Sackler and Mr. Fred
Berner

Mr. Marvin Sadik

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams

Mr. and Mrs. Leveo V. Sanchez

Saturn Corporation

Saudi Arabian Oil Co. (Saudi Aramco)

F. Schumacher & Co.

Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton

Ms. Deborah Sampson Shinn

J.R. Short Milling Company

Dr. and Mrs. Roger J. Shott

Mr. Frank A. Shrontz

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Slusser

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith

Gretchen Smith Crow

Ms. Kathy Daubert Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth L. Smith

W. H. Smith Company

Mr. Ira Spanierman

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks

Spear, Leeds & Kellogg

Mr. Alan G. Spoon

Mr. and Mrs. Terry Stent

Mr. and Ms. Ellis M. Stephens

Ruth Hopkins Strode Trust

Dr. F. Christian Thompson

Tiffany & Co.

Mr. Clayton M. Timmons

Mr. John Travolta

US West

United Technologies Corporation

The Vallin Galleries

Mr. and Mrs. John C. Walton

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Warner (Gulf
States Paper Corporation)

The Washington Biologist Field Club,
Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey N. Watanabe

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Mr. Stephen A. West

Mr. and Mrs. W. Richard West Jr.

T.S. Whitecloud III, M.D.

The Honorable John C. Whitehead (The
Whitehead Foundation)

Mr. Eli Wilner & Ms. Barbara Brennan

Ms. Louise W. Willson

Dr. Edward T. Wilson

Mr. K.R. Wollenberg

Mrs. Richard E. Wright

Smithsonian Corporate
Membership Program

Since its inception in 1990, the Smithsonian Corporate Member-
ship Program has brought global corporation citizens into partner-
ship with the Smithsonian Institution. The Corporate Members list-
ed below have joined with the Smithsonian to support its vital work
in education and research while affirming the importance of
exchanging information in an increasingly complex world.

The Smithsonian Institution gratefully acknowledges the follow-
ing members of the Corporate Membership Program.

AFLAC Incorporated

American Express Company

Anheuser-Busch Companies

BellSouth Corporation

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.

British Airways

Brother International Corporation

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.

Chevy Chase Bank

Chrysler Corporation Fund

CITIBANK, N.A.

The Coca-Cola Company

Collins & Aikman Products Co.

ConAgra Pet Products Company

The Walt Disney Company

DuPont

EDS

Ford Motor Company

General Electric Company

Hitachi Limited

Hunter Engineering Company Sprint

International Business Machines The Tokyo Electric Power Company,
Corporation Inc.

Japan Airlines

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Kajima Corporation

The Kansai Electric Power Company,
Inc.

KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Lee Enterprises, Inc.

Mars Incorporated

Marubeni Corporation

McCann-Erickson Worldwide

MCI Communications Corporation

Microsoft Corporation

Mobil Corporation

NEC Corporation

Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.

Northern Telecom

NTT Data Communications Systems
Corporation

Samsonite Corporation

Scripps Howard

Sony Corporation of America

The Southern Company

Turner Broadcasting Sales, Inc.
Xerox Corporation

James Smithson Society

Contributing Members provide unrestricted funds for the Institu-
tion through annual contributions and special giving opportunities.

The James Smithson Society is the highest level of Contributing
Membership and includes Annual Members ($2,000 or more), Life
Members (appointed prior to 1985 for significant contributions to
the Institution), and Endowed Life Members (one-time gifts of
$40,000 or pledges of $45,000). Founder Medalists are Society
members who have demonstrated an exceptional commitment to
the Smithsonian (indicated by asterisks on the following list).

The Smithsonian gratefully acknowledges the generous support of
James Smithson Society members, the lifetime commitment of James
Smithson Society Life and Endowed Life members, and the remark-
able dedication of James Smithson Society Founder Medalists.

Col. Billie G. Matheson, USAF Ret.

Gilbert D. and Jaylee M. Mead

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Kenneth J. Scott and Catherine F. Scott

Shelby Shapiro

J. Henry Sheffield and Virginia K.
Sheffield

Edward A. and Karen Burka

Ruth Boyer Compton

Dean S. Edmonds III and Lynn Ann
Edmonds

Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.
Konze

72
Dr. J. Scott Abercrombie Jr.

Mr. W. Mike Adams

Mrs. Robert Amory Jr.

Ms. Sarah J. Andersen

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Mr. Leonard E.B. Andrews

Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Vivian Arpad

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

The Jean Axlerod Memorial Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman

Mr. Jack R. Barensfeld

Ms. Janine F. Barre

Drs. Rhoda and Jordan J. Baruch

Mrs. Anna S. Beckman

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs

Miss Eliza H. Bishop

Mr. and Mrs. Dean Blackwell

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Blair

The Hon. and Mrs. Warren E. Blair

The Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Mr. and Mrs. Walter A. Borten

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Boskey

Dr. and Mrs. Harold M. Boslow

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Col. Donald S. Bowman

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mrs. Keith S. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. George R. Bunch

Mr. and Mrs. George Burch III

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Burnes

Mrs. Murray P. Cabell

Ms. Christine Cabell

Dr. Cesar A. Caceres

Mr. Donald Carl

Mrs. Winifred T. Carter

Dr. and Mrs. David Challinor

Mr. James R. Cochran

Dr. and Mrs. David A. Cofrin

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin S$. Cohen

David and Margaret Cole

Ms. Nancy L. Connor

Ms. Marjorie D. Conroy

Mr. Mark N. Cookingham and
Ms. Nancy J. Robertson

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Ms. Gretchen Smith Crow

Dr. and Mrs. T.G. Daughtridge

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Mr. and Mrs. F. Elwood Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo Sr.

Dr. Philip C. Deaton

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph N. Deblinger

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Mr. Geert M. DePrest and Ms. Laura
Travis-DePrest

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Dillon

Mr. S.J. Dimeglio

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. N.L. Doligalski

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

The Eberly Foundation

=

80

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Miss Babs Eisman

Mr. and Mrs. Takashi Endo

Col. Charles O. Eshelman

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson Jr.

The Hon. William H.G. FitzGerald and
Mrs. FitzGerald

Mr. Gordon J. Flesch

Ms. Ellen L. Fogle

Mr. Owsley Brown Frazier

Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Mr. Ernest Gallo

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. and Mrs. Michael C. Gelman

The Morningstar Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. William H. Gerber

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mrs. Elizabeth W. Glascock

Carol R. and Avram J. Goldberg

Mrs. Ted R. Goldsmith

Mr. Albert H. Gordon

Mr. George C. Graham

Mrs. Mary Graham

Ms. Molly Graham

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

The Hon. and Mrs. Najeeb Halaby

Mrs. Freddie Harby

Mrs. James H. Harger

Ms. Helen Leale Harper Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Max Hartl

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman Jr.

The Hon. John W. Hechinger and Mrs.
Hechinger

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Henigson

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Henry

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler

Therese and I. Michael Heyman

Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo

Mr. James T. Hines Jr.

Mr. Ronald Hoffman

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Hopkins

Mr. William Hopkins

Mr. Richard B. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Peter House

Mrs. Peter D. Humleker Jr.

Mr. R. Bruce Hunter

Mr. John Ippolito and Ms. Diane Laird-

Ippolito
Drs. Jay and MaryAnne Jackson
David and Pat Jernigan
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaufman
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay
Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering
The Hon. Randolph A. Kidder
Dr. William M. King
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Kinsey
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Klaassen
Ms. Barbara Korp-Daly
Ms. Elizabeth G. Kossow
Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger
Mr. John E. Kuenzl
Mrs. James S. Lacock
Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig
James and Colleen Leach
Mr. Melvin F. Lee

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

The Hon. and Mrs. William Leonhart

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Long

Ms. Doris J. Lothrop

Ms. Mary T. Lott

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan

Mrs. Virginia C. Mars

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars Jr.

Ms. Mary Martell

Mr. Paul Johnson

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Maj. Gen. (Ret) and Mrs. Raymond E.

Mason Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mrs. J. Tate McBroom

The Hon. Robert M. McKinney and
Mrs. McKinney

Ms. Merrill McLoughlin

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Shelley Kay Melrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

Dr. W. Raymond Mize Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James Robert
Montgomery

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. H. Duane Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. William M. North

Mrs. Kay D. O’Rourke

Mr. James D. Oglevee and Ms. Susan
Marie Halliday

Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence B. Olds

Mr. George M. Page

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur M. Pappas

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles

Mr. J. Roy Pennell Jr.

John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson

Mr. Dave Pfuetze

Mrs. Charles Emory Phillips

Mr. and Mrs. J. Michael Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mrs. Jane P. Plakias

Mr. and Mrs. Zigmund J. Podell

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

Mrs. Charles P. Price

Mr. John A. Radway Jr.

Mr. Elmer Rasmuson

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward Hart Rice

Mrs. Carlyn Ring

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. I.A. Rosenbaum Jr.

Ms. Marya Rowan

Mr. and Mrs. Marcos Russek

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon

Ms. Leidy Samson and Ms. Kathy
Kempa

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Sbar

James H. Scheuer and Emily Malino
Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber

Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt

Mr. Paul M. Shatz

Mr. and Mrs. Allan E. Shore

Mr. and Mrs. Clyde E. Shorey Jr.

Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel

Mrs. Kathryne C. Simons

Mrs. Wilson Sked

Mrs. David E. Skinner

Dr. and Mrs. Harvey C. Slocum Jr.
Dr. Frank O. Smith

Mr. Raymond W. Soden

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich
Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer
Dr. Marjorie L. Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T.J. Stewart
Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone

Drs. Russell and Marie Swanson
Mrs. Richard L. Thompson

Mrs. Margot K. Thompson
Frances and Guy Tortora

Helen Brice Trenckmann

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland
Mr. Walter L. Vail

Col. and Mrs. W.G. Van Allen

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von Hoffmann
Col. Hal W. Vorhies

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Waidner

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean Jr.
The Raymond John Wean Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

Mr. Julius Wile

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson Jr.
Jane Ludwig Worley

Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mrs. Charlotte S$. Wyman

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Young
Mrs. Robert Zicarelli

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson*
Mr. David K. Anderson*

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod*

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett

Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett
Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck Jr.

Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Bitter*

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block*

. Leigh B. Block

. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

. Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Drs. Ruth and Bertel Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell Jr.
Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Daniel S$. Campbell
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell :

RES

James Smithson Society
Endowed Life Members Anton
Rosenthal and Ruth Ganister
enjoy the annual Smithsonian
Benefactors’ Circle recognition
dinner, where they were honored
as Patron members for their
continued gifts to the Institution.
(Photograph by Glenn Levy)

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell Jr.
Mr. Allan Caplan

Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C.C. Chiu
The Rev.& Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Mr. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell
Dr. and Mrs. E.J. Cunningham
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II
Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy

Mr. Sam Devincent*

Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley*

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Mr. Edward R. Downe Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin*

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont
Mr. Mercer Ellington*

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans*
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Patricia and Phillip Frost*

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome L. Greene
Mrs. Doris Stack Greene

Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Melville Hall

Mrs. Richard Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt*

Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen*

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr*
Mrs. E.W. Henderson

Mr. Edward L. Henning
Professor Ikuo Hirayama*

Mrs. Joseph Hirshorn*

Janet Annenberg Hooker*

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard lThrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Mr. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler
Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Mrs. David Landau

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L.E. Leininger

Mr. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon
Mrs. Sara L. Lepman

Mr. Joshua Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Mrs. Louis Lozowick

Mrs. Robert A. Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian
Mr. John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac*

Mr. Jack L. Messman

Mrs. Sandy Levey Miller

Mr. W.A. Moldermaker

Mr. Monroe Morris

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A-H. Mosmann
Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray
Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Mrs. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

The Hon. and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger
Mrs. John H. Phipps

Mrs. Annemarie Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

7

Mrs. Ralph C. Rinzler

Mr. Thomas M. Roberts

The Hon. Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers Jr.
Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mrs. Janos Scholz

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
Mrs. Raphael Soyer*

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mrs. Earl J. Spangler
Mr. Stuart M. Speiser*

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard ES. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart Jr.
Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Drs. Yen and Julia Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper
Mr. Richard W. Thompssen

Mr. and Mrs. Bardyl R. Tirana
Mr. Earl S. Tupper

Lillian Scheffres Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda
Dr. and Mrs. Francis $. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C.C. Wang

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson*
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol
Bequests

+ ewig a

It is with special appreciation that we remember and acknowledge those mee fs , E ‘ ; |
friends whose bequests have been received by the Institution, thus continu-
ing the legacy of our founder James Smithson.

Unrestricted bequests become part of the Bequest Endowment Fund. The
principal of this fund is maintained in perpetuity, while the income supports
acquisitions, exhibitions, scholarly studies, educational outreach, and other
functions of the Smithsonian. Some bequests were designated for a special
purpose by the donors.

The following persons remembered the Smithsonian through bequests

from their estates.

Mae Emilia Dahl
Patricia C. Dodge

Lowell B. Nesbitt
Kitty Parsons Recchia
Bruno E. Reilich
Frank Morse Robb

George Sisley

Florence B. Dowdy
Johanna B. Hagens
Helen Katchmar
Thomas McLaughlan Donald Sultner

Elinor Merrell

In October 1994, James Smithson Society members tour the new
Legacy Donors Amazonia exhibition at the National Zoological Park before their
é ) > ;
annual formal dinner. (Photograph by Glenn Levy)

Planned gifts to the Smithsonian have significantly enhanced the work of
the Institution since the first legacy gift made by James Smithson.

The following people have created their own legacies for future gener-

Donors of In-Kind and Volunteer Support

ations by establishing, during the year, one or more of the following
planned gifts: a bequest through living trust or by will, a charitable
: 1 § §

remainder trust, a gift of life insurance, or a gift to the Smithsonian : ; - 6

oi 2 In addition to the financial support of individuals, foundations, and cor-
Pooled Income Fund F
; porations, the Smithsonian Institution acknowledges donors of in-kind

gifts. Ranging from equipment for office or program use to pro bono pro-

William Burlson Lloyd and Betty Schermer

BernardipaScadion: fessional consulting services, such in-kind gifts contribute greatly to the
Jerry R. White

Mrs. Laurence Irven Wood

Gilbert Glass
Frank and Lisina Hoch success of research and educational programs, as well as to efficient

Douglas and Sanae Reeves administration of the Institution.

Motorola, Inc.
Norcold Division
Novadyne Computer Systems, Inc.

Apple Computer, Inc.

Bran & Luebbe, Inc.

Nick Caloyianis Productions

The Recording Industries Music
Performance Trust Funds

RunTime, Inc.

Colortone Press

Eastman Kodak Company
El-Yam Ships, Ltd.

Ford Motor Company Schmitten-Media-Agentur
Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

Thai Airways International, Ltd.

Memorial and Commemorative Gifts Rng ltrs live.
GSCS, Inc.

General Electric Aircraft Engine Group Times Mirror Magazines

Memorial and commemorative gifts to the Smithsonian honor loved ones,
friends, and colleagues. These gifts not only express special appreciation for
the individual being honored, but also help support, in a very direct way, the
mission of the Institution. Donors may choose to apply the gift to the broad-
est work of the Smithsonian or, in certain instances, may direct the gift to a
specific area of interest to the honoree.

The following were so honored by their families and friends.

David G. Baird

H. Huber and Lillian Boscowitz
Dick Grant

Agnes Gund

Elizabeth A. Hillman

Donald and Helen W. Keyhoe

Sister (Mrs. Henry) Parish
Peter Powers

S. Dillon Ripley

Sunil Roy

Edith Sims

Patricia Wagner

Mr. David P. Gianakos

The Greenwich Workshop, Inc.

Mr. Robert A. Hinkle

Holiday Inn Capitol

Hughes Information Technology
Corporation

Intergraph Corporation

Tokyo National Research Institute of
Cultural Properties

Trans-Lux Corporation

Transporte y Equipo, S.A.

United Airlines, Inc.

WSI Corporation

Donors of volunteer service further enable the Smithsonian to accomplish
a variety of programs and to offer expanded services to the public. The
names of our docents and behind-the-scenes volunteers are listed annual-
ly in the Torch (the employee newspaper). In fiscal year 1995, 5,412 vol-

unteers gave 472,

766 hours of their time. These invaluable volunteers

Katharine Kuh
Pauline Tina Lesnik

[oe]
lied

Ellen Wells
Alexander Wetmore

bring expertise, experience, and enthusiasm to their work here, and we
express to them collectively our great appreciation for their dedication to
the Smithsonian Institution.
Introduction

The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal
appropriations and nonappropriated trust sources. Nonappro-
priated trust funds include all funds received from sources other
than direct federal appropriations. These other sources include
gifts and grants from individuals, corporations, and foundations;
grants and contracts from federal, state, or local government
agencies; earnings from short- and long-term investments; re-
ceipts from membership programs; and receipts from sales activi-
ties, such as Smithsonian magazine, museum shops, mail order
catalogues, and food service concessions.

Federal appropriations provide funding for the Institution’s
core functions: caring for and conserving the national collec-
tions, sustaining basic research on the collections and in selected
areas of traditional and unique strength, and educating the pub-
lic about the collections and research findings through exhibi-
tions and other public programs. Federal appropriations also
fund a majority of the activities associated with maintaining
and securing the facilities and with various administrative and
support services.

IUIN EVINIG IDA IE. TIER IE

NANCY D. SUTTENFIELD,
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Smithsonian trust funds allow the Institution to undertake
new ventures and enrich existing programs in ways that would
not otherwise be possible. These funds provide the critical mar-
gin of excellence for innovative research, building and strength-
ening the national collections, constructing and presenting effec-
tive and up-to-date exhibitions, and reaching out to new and
under-represented audiences. In recent years, the Smithsonian
has also begun to rely on trust funds for a portion of the funding
for major new construction projects.

The following sections describe the external environmental
factors affecting the Institution’s general financial condition, the
Institution’s financial status, and its planned response to chang-
ing conditions; financial results for fiscal year 1995; and mea-
sures, both organizational and financial, being taken to ensure
the continued fiscal health of the Institution.

Scientist Roberto
Ibanez studies a frog
at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research In-
stitute in Panama in a
project to determine
the causes for a de-
cline in the amphibian
population. (Photo-
graph by Marcos
Guerra).

(oe)
De
Financial Situation and Prospects

The Smithsonian celebrates its 150th anniversary in 1996. It will
be an exciting year marked by the spectacular traveling exhibi-
tion, America’s Smithsonian, as well as many other grand events.
These events will be funded almost exclusively by private contri-
butions and funds generated from business activities related to
the events. Funding for these celebratory events exemplifies the
paradigm shift facing the Smithsonian and many education and
cultural organizations—less reliance on government and more
reliance on the private sector.

The transition to this new paradigm will be challenging for
the Smithsonian as it will be for many public institutions. For-
tunately, the Smithsonian enters the new year with a strong
balance sheet and excellent prospects for the future. The Smith-
sonian occupies a special place in the hearts and minds of Amer-
icans and receives generous support from its many constituen-
cies. Congressional and private support continues to be strong.
Through many years of prudent financial management, the
Smithsonian has built a sizeable and growing endowment and
adequate reserves. Moreover, the Smithsonian has taken decisive
action to address prospective funding shortfalls over the last few
years. Immediate steps have been taken in recent budgets both
to cut cost and enhance revenues.

More fundamentally, the Institution has recognized the need
to restructure—both programmatically and organizationally—
to meet the challenges of the future. To better inform the restruc-
turing process, the Smithsonian Board of Regents established
the Commission on the Future of the Smithsonian Institution in
September 1993. This Commission was asked to conduct “an
examination of the Smithsonian, its mandate and its roles, and
an examination of the cultural, societal, and technological fac-
tors that influence its capacity to act.” The Commission deliv-
ered its report to the Board of Regents in May 1995. The report
describes the Commission’s vision of the future of the Smith-
sonian and makes specific recommendations for making that
vision a reality. The Regents formed a committee to consider the
recommendations and to work with the Secretary in his strategic
planning process.

Last summer, the Secretary formed a Strategic Planning
Group of senior management staff to analyze, at a detailed level,
potential restructuring, consistent with the mission, vision, and
priorities of the Institution, that will assure fiscal stability. Sev-
eral restructurings have already taken place. The Office of Plant
Services, Design and Construction, and Architectural History
and Historic Preservation were consolidated into the new Office
of Physical Plant. This consolidation brings together three inter-
dependent organizations for more efficient management of the
Institution’s facilities.

The Smithsonian continues to take a close look at the effec-
tiveness of its revenue-producing and fund-raising activities.
Senior management currently is addressing several years of de-
clining revenues at Smithsonian magazine and examining a
major loss at the Smithsonian Institution Press this past fiscal
year. On the fund-raising side, the Institution plans to rely on
the promotion of its 150th anniversary celebration activities in

84

forming new and expanded relationships with individuals, cor-
porations, and foundations.

The deterioration of the Institution’s facilities continues to be
a major concern. The current rate of facilities deterioration and
obsolescence will, if not fully addressed, place the collections,
ongoing activities, and public accessibility at risk. Smithsonian
facilities total more than 5.5 million square feet of space and
range in age from new to more than 140 years old. Funding for
maintenance, repair, and renovations has not kept pace with the
deterioration of the buildings. Best estimates indicate that at
least $50.0 million annually is needed to fully meet the require-
ments for systematic facilities renewal and maintenance to offset
normal wear and tear. While funding in fiscal year 1995 was
only $24.0 million, prospects for a significant increase in fiscal
year 1996 are strong. Congress has been very helpful in working
with the Smithsonian to meet this challenge. It is hoped that in-
creased appropriations in future years will be at a level that will
arrest the rate of decline of those buildings in greatest need.

The Smithsonian faces significant challenges, but it has
prepared itself to meet them by emphasizing strategic planning,
focusing on a future vision, and by setting resource allocation
priorities that are tied to its mission and its core functions.

FY 1995 Sources of Net Operating Funds

Federal 71% — aS

~
~
y “.

Gifts &
Grants 4%

Investments 3%

és Membership & Sales 10%
“Other 1%

Gov't G&C 11%

Fiscal Year 1995 Results

Revenues received by the Institution in fiscal year 1995 from

all sources totaled $708.1 million. Federal appropriations ac-
counted for $358.0 million, and nonappropriated trust funds
provided an additional $350.1 million. When adjusted to
remove auxiliary activity expenses of $185.8 million, net
revenues for operations, construction, and additions to endow-
ment totaled $522.3 million, a 5.7% increase from fiscal year
1994. The following chart reflects revenues by source and broad
purpose of use.
Fiscal Year 1995 Sources of Gross/Net Revenues

Percent
Net
Gross Net* Operating
Revenues Revenues Revenues
($millions) — ($millions) (%)
Operations
Federal Appropriations 313°3 313.3 71
Nonappropriated Trust Funds
Unrestricted 226.8 41.0 10
Restricted
Goy’t Grants and Contracts 50.3 50.3 11
General Restricted 36.7 36.7 8
Total Sources for Operations 627.1 441.3 100
Construction
Federal Appropriations 44.7 44.7
Nonappropriated Trust Funds 7.0 7.0
Total Sources for Construction Sile7/ Sule
Endowment and Similar Funds 29.3 29.3
Total Revenues from All Sources 708.1 $22.3

* Net of expenses related to revenue-generating activities, e.g., museum
shops, restaurants, publications, etc.

OPERATIONS (TABLES I AND 2)

Federal appropriations of $313.3 million provided the core fund-
ing for ongoing programs of the Institution. An increase of $10.9
million from the fiscal year 1994 level funded the continued de-
velopment of the National Museum of the American Indian, the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory’s Submillimeter Tele-
scope Array, the move of collections to the Museum Support
Center, expanded Latino programming, and partial support for
inflationary increases in salaries and benefits. Unfunded but
mandatory inflationary costs for salaries and benefits, rent and
utilities were absorbed within baseline resources through cost
savings gained from restructuring of programs and activities.

Unrestricted trust fund income showed an increase of $4.9
million from last fiscal year. Several business activities, such as
Smithsonian magazine, restaurant concessions and museum
shops, along with investment income, showed healthy increases.
However, these increases were more than offset by the $4.5
million loss by the Smithsonian Institution Press. This unprece-
dented loss led the Institution to begin to reevaluate this activity
completely.

Restricted income from investments, gifts and non-govern-
ment grants and contracts totaled $36.7 million, a level that
sustains and modestly improves upon the large, 38% growth
last fiscal year. The Institution continues to intensify its fund-
raising activities and focus on new strategies. Last fiscal year
was the most successful year ever in raising funds for a wide
range of educational, exhibition, research, and related construc-
tion programs throughout the Institution. Major gifts and grants
received in fiscal year 1995 helped to support the National Postal
Museum, the exhibition “How Things Fly” at the National Air

and Space Museum, and the establishment of the Jerome and
Dorothy Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Inno-
vation at the National Museum of American History. The
Smithsonian is especially grateful to its many friends in the
private sector whose generosity contributed vitally to its work.
The names of major donors are listed in the Benefactors section
of this publication.

In fiscal year 1995, the Institution received $50.3 million in
contracts and grants from government agencies, an increase of
$4.6 million over fiscal year 1994. Support from government
agencies constitutes an important source of research monies for
the Institution while also benefiting the granting agencies by
providing access to Smithsonian expertise and resources. As in
prior years, the majority of these funds were provided by the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration for research
programs at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Other
projects funded included a study at the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center of the rising concentration of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere and support for sorting biological
specimens from the polar regions at the National Museum of
Natural History.

ENDOWMENT (TABLES 3, 4, AND 5)

The Institution pools its endowment funds for investment
purposes into a consolidated portfolio, with each endowment
purchasing shares in a manner similar to shares purchased by
an investor in a mutual fund.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smithsonian’s Board
of Regents establishes investment policy and recommends the
annual payout for the consolidated endowment. The Smith-
sonian’s policies for managing the endowment are designed to
achieve two objectives: 1) to provide a stable, growing stream
of payouts for current expenditures and 2) to protect the value
of the endowment against inflation and maintain its purchasing
power. Current policy calls for an average payout of 4.5 percent
of the average market value over the prior five years. With this
payout policy, to achieve the endowment’s objectives, the invest-
ment policy targets a real rate of return of 5 percent.

In fiscal year 1994, the Investment Policy Committee approved
a new asset allocation policy with higher exposure to equities to
increase expected return, while controlling risk through modest
international diversification. During fiscal year 1995, the Com-
mittee implemented this policy. The investment managers were
given global mandates, and new specialist investment managers
were hired for domestic and international equities.

As depicted in the chart below, the market value of the en-
dowment increased from $379.0 million to $434.6 million dur-
ing fiscal year 1995. Of the $434.6 million, $189.6 million, or
44 percent, was unrestricted, and the balance of $245.0 million
was restricted. New gifts and internal transfers totaling $3.4 mil-
lion were added to the endowment while the payout was $14.8
million. Investment management fees were $1.2 million. The
total return on the consolidated portfolio was 18.3 percent. At
year end, the Institution’s portfolio was invested 76 percent in
equities, 21 percent in bonds, and 3 percent in cash equivalents.

85
Market Value of Endowment and Similar Funds
(in $ millions)

($ millions)
$450 ORestricted, Freer
®Restricted, Other
$400 | “Unrestricted

$350 $324
$300 ~~ ie
$250
$200
$150
$100
$50

$0

"1991 +1992 1993 1994. 1995

Fiscal Year

CONSTRUCTION AND PLANT FUNDS (TABLE 6)

In fiscal year 1995, the Smithsonian received federal appropria-
tions for construction netting $44.7 million after a rescission
affecting both fiscal year 1995 and balances from prior years.
Net funds provided in fiscal year 1995 included $24 million

for general repair, restoration, and code compliance projects
throughout the Institution. Although the repair amount is a
substantial sum, it is less than half the estimated $50.0 million
per year required to keep up with the rate of deterioration in the
physical plant. Net funds earmarked for new construction, al-
terations, and modifications totaled $20.8 million. Included in
this amount is $19.5 million to continue development of a
collections, study, reference, and support facility in Suitland,
Maryland, and the Mall facility for the National Museum of the
American Indian; $3.0 million for renovations, repairs, and mas-
ter plan projects at the National Zoological Park, including con-
struction of the African Grasslands exhibit; and $2.4 million in
rescissions related to prior years.

Additions and transfers to nonappropriated trust construc-
tion funds, termed plant funds, totaled $10.2 million. Approxi-
mately $5.4 million was for construction of facilities for the
National Museum of the American Indian, $1.6 million was for
renovation of the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum,
and $2.2 million was for reinstallation of the Gem Hall at the
National Museum of Natural History.

Financial Condition

The Smithsonian Institution’s Statement of Financial Condition
represents the total assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the
Institution. Total assets of $1.2 billion far exceed total liabilities
of $187.0 million and are indicative of the financial strength of
the Institution. In fact, only $3.4 million of the $187.0 million in
liabilities represents long-term debt. The Smithsonian Institu-
tion’s assets increased by $96.0 million since the end of fiscal
year 1994, while liabilities increased by just $37.0 million for
the same period.

86

Financial Management

The Institution’s overall effectiveness in utilizing its newly imple-
mented purchasing and payables system accelerated during fiscal
year 1995. It began to use newly available data from the system,
such as transaction status, purchase volume by type of product,
individual staff output, etc., to generate efficiencies in procure-
ment and document processing. Significant progress was also
made on the second phase of a new accounting system that in-
cludes replacement of the Institution’s general ledger, financial
reporting, and management information system. A new coding
structure has been developed that will provide new opportunities
to report on and analyze programmatic activities and to increase
the utility of financial reports for management decision-making.

Other financial management improvement initiatives under-
taken in 1995 include:

¢ Finance units routinely make use of internal and external cus-
tomer feedback, strategic and operational planning, performance
measurement, and process reengineering to continually improve.

¢ New approaches have been developed to increase procure-
ments from minority and small business contractors.

¢ Teams developed the policies and procedures necessary to
implement new not-for-profit accounting standards for contribu-
tions (SFAS No. 116) and financial statement presentation (SFAS
No. 117) effective in 1996.

¢ Procurement efficiencies and improved customer service
were achieved through limited use of electronic data interchange
strategies and expanded delegations of authority while maintain-
ing effective internal controls.

¢ New systems, processes, and procedures were developed so
that the Institution could shift to Office of Management and
Budget Circular A-122, Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organiza-
tions, which covers federal grants and contracts received by the
Institution. Previously, the Smithsonian followed cost principles
for educational institutions.

e Work began on an initiative that will automate the plan-
ning and budget formulation process.

Audit Activities

The Institution’s financial statements are audited annually by
KPMG Peat Marwick, an independent public accounting firm.
The audit plan includes an in-depth review of the Institution’s
internal control structure. KPMG Peat Marwick’s Independent
Auditors’ Report for fiscal year 1995 and the accompanying fi-
nancial statements are presented on the following pages. The
Smithsonian’s internal audit staff, part of the Office of Inspector
General, assists the external auditors and regularly audits the In-
stitution’s various programs, activities, and internal control sys-
tems. The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of Regents
provides an additional level of financial oversight and review.

In accordance with the government requirement for the use of co-
ordinated audit teams, the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Smith-
sonian Office of Inspector General, and KPMG Peat Marwick coor-
dinate the audit of grants and contracts received from federal agencies.
Table 1. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1995 (in $000s)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds Total
Restricted Federal Funds and
Total Nonappropriated
Government Non- Trust Funds
Federal Grants and = Appropriated
Funds Unrestricted General Contracts Trust Funds FY 1995 FY 1994
EEE renee
FUND BALANCES: Beginning of Year ... . . $35,624 $39,396 $24,576 $ 63,972 $99,596 $101,166
FUNDS PROVIDED:
Federal Appropriations (see Note 1) ...... 313,254 313,254 302,349
InveStmentlNGOMels =, eG sie eevee ecece we 10,756 91915) 20,671 20,671 18,268
Government Grants and Contracts ....... 50,353 50,353 50,353 45,701
Gifts & Non-Government Grants........ 9,859 23,340 33,199 33,199 32,175
Sales and Membership Revenue ......... 193,808 193,808 193,808 197,233
(ONGE 6.5'9 618. 6. CIC OEE CRORE CREE eae 12,398 3,428 15,826 15,826 8,844
————————————
TOTAL FUNDS PROVIDED ......... 313,254 226,821 36,683 $0,353 313,857 627,111 604,570
ee
TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE......... 348,878 266,217 61,259 50,353 377,829 726,707 705,736
a
FUNDS APPLIED:
Sciences:
PNSSIStAN tA SECLELALY) eacisicucle sicie cic-sies ciel «| ai 1,168 507 76 18 601 1,769 1,644
Office of Fellowships and Grants ........ 179 1,612 334 1,946 2,125 1,713
Astrophysical Observatory ............. 13,878 8,739 452 44,684 53,875 67,753 62,077
Messi@verheadi Recovery, 24-426 46 o2 5 < (7,672) (7,672) (7,672) (6,879)
Tropical Research Institute............. 7,776 1,598 1,107 311 3,016 10,792 10,715
Environment Research Center .......... 2,564 236 45 1,142 1,423 3,987 35991
Nationall’ZoologicallPark =. 2.5.....6.. 17,604 1,362 3,128 748 5,238 22,842 21,168
SmithsomianyArchives ...c6ss0-0260.- + 1,202 105 39 144 1,346 125;
Smvdasomem luz goooeannosooneae 5,920 HS 134 4 913 6,833 6,937
International Environmental
SENS IOAN «59.6 panueooUeaeoe Oo 764 764 671
Major Scientific Instrumentation ........ 9,288 9,288 7,796
National Museum of Natural History .. . . 35,635 2,960 4,708 2,050 9,718 45,353 44,512
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ...... 2,950 160 44 204 3,154 2,803
Muscumsupport Genter |= <sce.. 60. oe 3,660 1 1 3,661 3,173
InternationalyRelations: che. ..-6e....«- 551 408 2 227 637 1,188 1,189
eS SS S=SS——E—E—_——EEEEE———— EL
potallSciencesperrmciscien 6 scr cccieusrs sie 103,139 10,791 10,025 49,228 70,044 173,183 162,335

Arts and Humanities:

PASSISTATITASECLECALY er feyetela\ feiens,<)ers e6) mys) .ne 71 600 24 1 625 1,596 2,644
Office of Museum Programs ........... 914 119 16 135 1,049 962
National Air and Space Museum ........ 1755) 9,254 959 853 11,066 22E8 4 19,750
National Museum of American History . . . 17,265 129th 1,842 123 3,876 21,141 24,654
National Postal Museum .............. 461 133 2,768 2,901 3,362 3,368
National Museum of the American Indian. . 12,504 336 325 661 13,165 12,909
National Museum of American Art ...... 6,837 2,250 1,812 4,062 10,899 9,330
National Portrait Gallery .............. 5,532 419 97 516 6,048 5,441
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. . 4,146 797 1,313 2,110 6,256 8,255
Breer GallenysotwAttae rise emetic cle 2,281 259 3,496 3,755 6,036 5,501
ArthursMe SackleriGallery ............. 3,149 237 1,801 2,038 5,187 4,722
Archives of American Art.............. 1,486 48 744 792 2,278 2,168
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum . . 2,398 2,163 600 49 2,812 5,210 5,603
National Museum of African Art ........ 3,861 167 (23) 144 4,005 3,900
National African American Museum ..... 449 293 100 393 842
/NTAECORIE IMIVGANION oooocascnencodecus 1,049 309 14 323 1,372 1,612
Office of Exhibits Central ............. 1,989 49 49 2,038 2,660
Traveling Exhibition Service............ 2,302 1,696 ISVS) 22 3,473 SEATS) 4,806
—SE———eeeEee—— a eee
Total Art and Humanities............ 79,349 21,040 17,643 1,048 39,731 119,080 118,285

Education and Public Service:

JACI SASSY o GoononcoeascsEne on 417 488 6 494 911 940
Center for Folklife Programs and
GulturaliStudiesparese reise 1,258 2,110 50S 2,615 3,873 Sli?
Office of Elementary and
Secondarygeducationemcnnrer aise ee 503 348 211 70 629 1,132 1,051
National Science Resources Center ....... 161 234 234 395 451
Cee
Total Education and Public Service ... . . 2,339 3,180 P22: 70 3,972 6,311 5,554
ee ee
Table 1. Source and Application of Operating Funds for the Year Ended September 30, 1995 (in $000s) (continued)

Nonappropriated Trust Funds Total
Restricted Federal Funds and
Total Nonappropriated
Government Non- Trust Funds
Federal Grants and — Appropriated
Funds Unrestricted General Contracts Trust Funds FY 1995 FY 1994
External Affairs:
Office of Telecommunications .......... 305 739 150 889 1,194 1,146
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception(Genter seyqeusr- seers = 269 1,330 2 1,332 1,601 1,499
Office of Special Events and
Gonference’Services 0.0... 2006s 56+ o- 194 194 194 253
Smithsonian Institution Press ........... 1,270 22,753 83 22,836 24,106 23,626
WEVEVAT chord o 0 OOD a os con can OOnee 62,576 62,576 62,576 63,119
The Smithsonian Associates ...........- 32,728 25 32,753 32,753 34,744
Media Activities: sc ctsncicieveisteteeeneuciey teseuelre 10

MotaliiExtemalAttairs). «.)cic. 0 cesicisie cues 1,844 120,320 260 120,580

Institutional Advancement ............. 88 12,716 494 13,210

13,298

124,397

of l7/

Business Management/Activities ......... 54,720 54,720 54,720 53,634
hinge! Sopogabaoebabooodaaoc 27,789 16,200 380 Uf 16,587 44,376 46,816
Less Overhead Recovery .........-.-.- (12,317) (12,317) (12,317) (10,669)
RacilitiesiSenvices) rales siverciensiele orl cLecicnele 82,246 1,404 26 1,430 83,676 82,457
Transfers Out/(In):
INCCIN ona eoom seco Gusueoos Ome 1,657 1,657 1,163
Plamitivenvese a werarsanicveterectots,< ate ctoreteiovels ere (594) 3,134 2,540 2,540 1,384
Endowmentscccivcescun cistelesstensueseonsueisrevenste 798 3,273 4,071 4,071 4,384
Motaliranstersyacraycriercrere mercneleverorenere 1,657 204 6,407 6,611 8,268 6,931
TOTAL EUNDS APPLIED vyccstenssersss 10 298,451 228,258 35957) 50,353 314,568 613,019 595,457
Expenses Against Prior Years’ Obligations . . 11,203 11,203 10,683
CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES ........ 3,600 (1,437) 726 (711) 2,889 (1,570)

FUND BALANCES—End of Year
(seeINote2) tog atisisertts tiooectemuen eee $39,224 $37,959 $25,302 $63,261

$102,485

$99,596

Note 1: Excludes $225 thousand in FY 1994 and $265 thousand in FY 1995 received as a permanent indefinite appropriation for the Canal Zone Biological Area Fund. Also

excludes $1,459 thousand received in FY 1994 and $966 thousand received in FY 1995 foreign currency for research projects in India.

Note 2: The Federal fund balance includes $32 million associated with no-year appropriations and $7.5 million associated with annual appropriations for fiscal years 1991-1995.

Table 2. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Year 1995 (in $000s)

Sales and Net
Membership Revenue
Revenue Gifts Expenses (Loss)
15) (ai oY a ee rat cat CHRICAD CRA acto Rc Ean CO AEE o Clo Poni occ oman comOnb on $197,233 $9,372 $183,142 $23,463
FY 1995:
Central Auxiliary Activities:
IMEFEVANIES "6 goo cod boneoo boc OOCm OUTDO UG CORD ODO DOOD ORO OO ODO ROMO EDUGEb< 71,906 7 62,576 9,337
Mihe!SmithsonianiAssociatestciarcrcieisieusiel oreo. cisco cuekeloieberetel telketorsreteleeshey Ratoni nelereb sie 31,462 8,781 36,914 S5020)
PGK IMELEENIAND GovehaocnncccKonodosoedonoCObaodo SoH OunOUOOOOODDOD 1. 463 (456)
Niuseumishops/Mailli@rdersrersmrcrertereten-Uctetelee net nctenotanneheter neti neteac are tenacestekererer ens 56,493 51,448 5,045
GONCESSIONS) Aven eV aers ReeS ReSTis STSNS Te eS elollod tte ote rate oe atrctro eatin coats epee 3,577 2,025 1,552
Otherto. 2: Sroneveroqsucuevercsctagsiedederclensiscetaisuogehowenet shes teluer Nei usPotioherotsl ere fets thonertonat 751 781 970
Smithsonian! Institutionshressy ges, ocscrcie.s evessuc ener aaeustudayaneneuctevenehcnelicnsucns isusbekers che) mieueuers 18,191 22,676 (4,485)
BlectroniciMediavA tivities sce c,cie us cuscorsycrsrelor nner icrele anon e tere nee totes eacr st aero Re ee 59 16 43
Bureau Auxiliary Activities:
Air‘and!Space)heaterjand'EinsteiniPlanetariumyl) muse -ty-ver-veehelbeliereeene ene noeel teneevene tor 4,275 2,960 1,315
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum ... 2... 2... cece ee eens ennee 817 502 315
travelingvExhibition: Services) crv) -scrmcucieerereircione cteretoer stearate eruerekekdsrorteeicrs 840 977 (137)
(Olds eee ene eer toedicish cc com omodutan 5 ho cGaoroscr ice cue con 4,430 560 4,453 53i7/

MOQUWALINCGIEES SoosacsueGs se doco oNSoaD UO OOU OO OU OND OOD OOO USO OOD OPO SOUSO $193,808 $9,348

$185,791

$17,365
Table 3. Endowment and Similar Funds, September 30, 1995 (in $000s)

Book Market
Value Value
ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment Funds:
(CAA GHG! CAPRIS 0,010 of. of UCU eae O RP oRTOLA, DI Pe CE eR CRRC TENG GEaerin aren am ene IGM Cin iIS en Gaia ae oeibemioe $24,638 $24,638
Iietaara gevayal IRaSTR ANNO + dad tae Foc er OPP OERGIO SS OI ER Reo ee eee ke 1,495 1,495
US Conemment anal Coneinmane ODA ao go opodoeoooGbanosGouddenueteuucscsencuoongoucbosEne 34,441 34,671
BORER 5 9 50.6 081g. 610a SOLER CLL O ones OR CTE Cae ee RS ee eae tar pt har oe 52,638 54,451
WOM VeKEDeMRLeLCLLeC Wrmemensense See Memes caccetets se ferarie, si oy sea cuclisire eye's neve cee swedevece eo tre eee oe ee es 7,054 8,387
SIGE 9 ¢ 0.0.0 6 Ha OSO OC OUE OU OIRO OO ae ee ee Se Ae 270,090 319,742
RECENAD EMOmmOECULIEESt SOM ine tence s topes (oSeriok scr eedorev an er'Sbentne ions lorsuevd evarwes’ sete itionace: See eee TO Ee 3,113 StS
Horalshooledshundspryesrersytere ior ct cuss e oe oie ani ere onan eos cscs ails wale Gayptids ace) A ea a AO 393,469 446,497
Nonpooled Endowment Funds:
Moaneeom UeoemlncasUbyainy Rene tual tye re ctevraysucs <2) sci ch ei'el siete seve tees cys (ayaire aire’ seven sveuaceutsieysleeenensseetercic elke tel aero anes 1,010 1,040
INGSENAITIES 9.0 0.0 86.018 6 Choe EDIE CO CRE INC AIC ICRU CR RCE RE RC a Eten ee ae ee ee er ee 18 18
NVESEMED ESE GhatitapleMLUStS xarecparer torent et eer cnses ne: sual eis carer aah a5 A/a) soc pNTe aera ore oS ease dee a I eae 1,467 1,580
‘TroWgzall IND ROG Sal ATG Bi ekeets eases clean eae Ceo a ee ge ae 2,495 2,638
WO! ASSES » o adn BSSBS OD OS Oe One oe ee eee eee ee $395,964 $449,135
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES:
LIABILITIES:
Rayan lectormoecunltiessRurchased tegen sian econcch Neve. <)cgayeds, svete ta constoye wat c eile ene sie toletaucueaic sue terckey MeVOR PARAS ae oY $12,923 $12,923
MetemedsReventice— @harita blewnustsmmrsysravsr = sccteccevcrelesere ren reyereen ee oclciev ee evn Seen eee eee 1,467 1,580
Sliotal PAtclbo tl itiesmmememee ve eclerensictece eens est cvsce i cn ce far cto Ge Sos 8 toad TSS OIG DEUS ON RO OTE nits wevaees 14,390 14,503
FUND BALANCE:
Uinnesimnaieal Pnpogs: Tinian mnie ‘aie oro Econ Deprape Sat oem cinta hel nonin cae ae oe ae aeas 9,890 12,004
@uastendowmien tac cress acta ene terse oisees SnYs CORT ORT roo ne eee 158,121 177,634
‘ikovall Unmesaieiaal Pingo g3 Semeneo coe one ae eR eco a een er eee cee meen On rea oes 168,011 189,638
IRESEICLEC BELG DOSeMIGUE PET COWEN EM et eee tetera cr sbsce oe ENE rovteyeitenceitel pone seat ee ieae ae ee en ee 137,785 159,595
@ asin dove en tant tcr sans oi fey skacouenc bess racine kona ees eer amen eer rece 75,778 85,399
Tefal Resimetaaal TANS GS. o:5 ceo cup o Geice Een tC OPT RCE ONRORPREN G SER eae ee oP Pree” en i eee eee 213,563 244,994
Tiga! [irerel BAERS 9’ o-0 Stat a ate ots GP ato OEY OS ets ROPE SNS ENTIRE AUSSIE Gs ra eee nee ee 381,574 434,632
oral Bera bilitresrancdph unde balances erctetor tee cece cy ce, atte sate vols aise Sua sec asscueval ovaj 8 one dash SSE Tae aad $395,964 $449,135
Table 4. Changes in Market Value of Endowment and Similar Funds, Fiscal Year 1995 (in $000s)
Unrestricted Freer Restricted Total
IMarketayal ies )/li/ G Aum mere anwna rea me ane Mont enue cla ui ahen ayers “ov arcuate couere tes aleveusas usta chiar $166,799 $64,821 $147,410 $379,030
Changes:
GESTS 9 oo-cre Ge So CARLO BP I OER a I er ae oe 171 — 1,553 1,724
GES—OWER 6 b0.b.5:6 0 SOO GETS BIO EIE. NOOR Oe ES A ne re ee atic 512 _— 1,946 2,458
FICGENIA MLATISLCLS PPMP Teter er voiewe craic paren eicee eros, cot) creo eee aes h Gisie is Biccomon eee (755) — 27 (728)
Other
nerestaan del) ivicendsimewe bye yen cperaucicryerescietoteu eases ererereusaese “<uavcrenessvousvonistens (eiesene re me eveies 8,080 3,127 7,173 18,380
Wianketavaluepatp prectaty On rely ayarspevsasierc tev ceeseveveveie succor @ eee lee) eel evs aie einks eve lerete ere tee 21,879 8,428 19,500 49,807
ary OU Gan eae eee fee BACAR ING, ss/sve cabiailababera Woeieuste var ecse sxaneiauaneieusratellnens (6,519) (2,519) (5,794) (14,832)
IMME RES IRZES:« 9:0 odie ata obrO/et OOLOIG I DEES ROI OREO ROTCIRC IE EPR oO CU PRI net rarer ote (529) (206) (472) (1,207)
Teas KC Em Vel Ue 9/3 (SMAI age ec is ayls ev icort ai = foal aRevecoteyohstignos Covered auaveue ty fe ceraieisligienes eit $189,638 $73,651 $171,343 $434,632

89
Table 5. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1995

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
LERPlnel(SoINoe 1) Gaogovncoodovoecpuccbdodnoudbomoaoone

Dodge, Patricia

Fund)forithe Ruture—Unrestricted . o.ajcarie cece of si sie cies ecie
Eligbeeslarcyaemoriallertyetua- tea viva kceaiteeeereertene tem enerere
Eiodekins#hundy(SeetNote Lica daiseinicleletersiste: emerson nemrcroterenaistane
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J. Memorial Fund ...................
Monon, ID tt Mbgodinngoecooéuadarionopodecddanodo0 au00
IMurssinan: Alfred izaewels teste svaccceseosdoneacets ove. suetebseehonensuieteyen he ucaeveters
Olmsted ME eleneA teas revacsr eo Nica sea ROSIE eeyee
Poore; Lucy, devand'George W. (See Note) 2.25. 2. os ce eos ne sels
Porterblennyakirke:femorialleasienetensicracieratnsicineretesterirckeiien ater
Sanford Georgeyits(SeesNotevl)) aarti acelin
Smithsonsjames (Seer Noteu) | spasiesrererrocieeiiei vere terior
SmithsontSocietyal ames) ey-r-y-qayectaieistcieeiierccie eter
Walcott Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research (Designated) ...........

Subtotal ...

UNRESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

Dodge, Patricia

Ettl, Charles H.

qo ISIN cso adnopsomoneoacopnDooddca0UDOUODDOG DOOO

Forrest, Robert

ISR, Gir cists Gaiohee pot anya Ecco Oto ne Ln Doonan

FundiforithesFuture——Unrestrictedi amici vieiale ha cniter tote ieee
General iEndowmenti(SeesNote!l) inns tonercrcroisieieiieiecinieeeioreeioe
Goddard SiRobert\ELe vps anes occ cca ets ahatothe oor ava UAL Ore usa ey nies
Habel SDriS-u(SeesNotend i) s cycreres cvs oancieievele easyelavarvers Gyr eva asia. sieve

Hart, Gustavus

Henry, Caroline

Inf, DocoonGODA ODD GGbI OOOO DNOODOGOUUDU OOO OOS 6

HenryalosephyandiarrictyAt :anuieaciectctici nici iki ieee

Heys, Maude C

labiaxonly (Crips goodundocousmotomouaunuoDSooedneao Aan5
Koteens, Dorothy s Bap ricer ceieiersiersues ste) scevalers <iars seotor vote eusievarces ops ceveunn

Lambert, Paula

Cr soconguUdo he moboDlUodododonoDadboDdouonegs

IMedinus;|Gracetineceertregerersrcherscscc ote oresconio rele Sheol herein doses

O'Dea, Laura I.
Phillips, Roy R.

Rhees, William

RIB State pegs age ay ecentyse Jolavens tonedeuakovane, b.e-alteueas orshowe. oe titeney erate
Jonesi(SeesNotevdl) Sen cyevcnc = Sronerertresenseediensteucia eons

Safford @laralliquise yer tore oi-kececstcnsvskotokciatahal sistao svn oyoanaveuer sre Sree
Smithsonian’ Bequest Hund) (SeeNote'l)! 2. 2.s0ccnc oe ers sclele cles
Sultner#Donaldibien ements to aie one eee
Mapgart GanSonunn.tepatcetercrerd te eitttcreilcr tine eiecatere iene eine

Winterer, Alice

Ib Cuoco oho hope Hoon 0 h00.otOGon Oa mde ncn Oe CmsocK

Abbott wallramiia(Designated) eeecienmcieicyrecrteiicnsntereneisieieieesiceetere
Barstow,sbrederic Di (Desiznated)\mnys cr ceieineiersieisieicie icici isi ciel
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund (Designated) ................-
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History (Designated) ................
MindberehssGhatlesAm(Desipnated) semmern erence eeticer entice
Lyons Marcusaward.y)ri(Desiznated) mecitlerraerneictseieteieteieniete neers
Martin’Mariettal Internship (Designated) 2-5. -.sesesccsee ene «cnn
INMINEDResearchi(Designated) cisco ciciietotnersictiersicieionrnersioneronee

NZP Programs

(Designated) | accrdccstrare. sverassve earcreraccrd meee re ere

Smithsonian Agency Account (Designated) ......................-
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund (Designated) ...............
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Endowment Fund

(Das ere) (GOINGS A) cooovavsocuedbvoooeusGoooDPEEoO Od00

Webb, James E.

seellowship\(Designated))animerrcre eerie ioe

Women’s Committee Fellowship (Designated) .............2-2. 0005

Subtotal .. .

RESTRICTED PURPOSE—TRUE:
AitkenwAnmiey Lainie vcs eater ee eee nie a ena Arce

Arthur, James

Axelrod Drabierbert:Roi qari serene eee rceoe
Baird sspencenhul lertonie tir tele reine mini een ernie
Barney yalice)bikeylemoriallen merece niceenceerneeenree
Batchelorsiem may Bs ee. id-40) ces ree toc ee eee

90

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance

$318,551 $395,100 $13,924 $ —
1,807 1,946 54 —
129,890 135,450 4,266 _—
114,738 139,406 4,767 —
437,251 490,816 20,208 —_—
49,773 55,054 1,883 —
578,860 727,376 24,873 —
174,880 212,716 7,274 —_—
5,977 7,425 254 —
1,274,690 1,596,361 55,375 —
2,138,859 2,685,932 91,845 —
8,465 10,229 382 —
967,672 993,115 14,179 —
349,522 366,720 47,772 —
3,339,427 4,186,096 143,144 107,224
9,890,362 12,003,742 430,200 107,224
214,891 221,911 7,588 —
1,441,201 1,606,667 54,940 —
733,106 797,187 27,260 —
7,309,133 8,094,297 276,785 —
415,499 425,203 12,858 —
124,750,403 140,888,139 4,815,544 —_—
57,863 64,101 2,192 —
827 858 44 —
4,014 4,797 164 _—
9,918 11,831 405 —
397,727 473,206 16,181 —
706,218 787,618 26,933 —
198,022 230,404 7,879 —
259,211 274,839 9,398 —
360,086 422,706 14,454 —
7,011 7,840 268 =
237,117 269,140 9,203 —
1,049,391 1,151,259 40,911 —_—
4,829 5,600 208 —
326,226 367,889 12,580 —
2,759,283 2,601,565 87,890 —
655,630 1,003,336 33,978 —
3,591 4,483 153 —
176,743 169,404 5,793 —
933,239 1,112,290 38,035 37,647
7,806 9,296 318 7,051
3,144,558 3,744,034 125,547 —
3,402,947 3,852,350 131,731 91,626
55,481 62,023 ADAM 13,343
37,532 42,192 1,443 7,743
241,283 276,821 9,466 166
163,520 163,666 52595) 13,653
B72 5,589. 3,629,662 124,116 3,188
20,354 24,633 842 (18,268)
2,268,243 2,699,576 . 92,315 55,045
— — 21,687 —
1,716,329 1,793,720 61,336 162,704
328,434 339,498 10,946 8,329
158,121,055 177,634,041 6,089,107 382,227
168,011,417 189,637,783 6,519,307 489,451
466,084 537,426 18,377 76,582
288,794 364,319 12,458 20,245
126,781 132,873 2,660 2,660
259,650 325,663 11,136 2,242
206,987 261,073 8,927 48,689
235,161 270,052 9,234 31,640
377,615 435,298 14,885 84,762
Table 5. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1995 (continued)

Principal

Book
Value

7

Bereenes GharlottenvVretlerieiara ie sien
BrowmeRoland Ware saereness crests snes

Burch, George, Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and

Affiliated Theoretic Sciences Fund ... .
(Cenmall ities 5 cio octee BuO nebo Go
@anfield) Frederick A. -..-..........
@aseylibomas) Lincoln) <2... <<... -1e-
Chamberlain, Frances Lea ...........
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology ........
desallegAllberntiandiPegpy seen. o-- 4 -
Metbeler@barlesiPeess sists 1 escs ace ein ah oe
Discovery Communications, Inc. ......
Division of Mammals Curators Fund .. .
Drakeykoundationiye- saree =e

Drouetbrancisand)ouderback, Harold B: ...........2..:-+-+++s++

Dykes @harlessBequest o- sse .c.e ce 22
atonuubtarnlet Poilips|jm ce « «se 6 es ae
Eickemeyer, Florence Brevoort ........
Eppleyg Memorial en seyecie o-rcrs as = =
Forbes, Edward Waldo ..........<<--
Breet @hanrlesileceears raterus siecs ees sand Gnd.c
Fund for the Future—Samuel C. Johnson

Wheater ss: hy sywunixciona avareres

Fund for the Future—Mary L. Ripley Garden ....................

Fund for the Future—Ethel Niki Kominik
Fund for the Future—Vincent Wilkinson

Global Environmental Endowment Fund

GrinmampoercellINe cycr.y<tsc ences es etree
GroombiBarnicka Wesel ree secre 2st
Guggenheim, Daniel and Florence .....
Hamilton, James (See Note 1) ........
Flauptenid A;Garden ............-

Henderson, Edward P. and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund .............

Hewitt, Eleanor G., Repair Fund ......
lewittSarabi@ooper =... -.-- +4.
elt vermin gl eeyetsiraysnt = faetsxcy sue isneysrsvcs
iBtdneoals, JAllyane'S, co aéanccnaeceses
Hodgkins Fund (See Note 1) .........
Hrdlicka, Ales and Marie............
elueshesmBruGe easily as 21s) eeiis oie eens es
Huntington Publication Fund .........

Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ...............--5-
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial ...........--....--

Kottler, Howard, Endowment for Ceramic
Lcrearmaaie INEVsr 3 actses Geo Cr aRenDnG Race Renee
iromlocin, aWdIN, Seogoone dono oo aes
Mandil, Harry and Beverly...........
IMpsayalll, MEIa7 Iss Soeuooucgous aoc

VALE: fo) | efissarccsisie Sle eos eueaierac

Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment ............-.----

Mellon Publications Endowment Fund . .
Milliken, H. Oothout, Memorial ......
MineralvEndowment: -2---.-0e-+.-«-
Mitche leaWilltamVAtm roy. aries = 22:
Moynihan, Elizabeth Brennan ........

Museum of the American Indian—Heye Foundation ...............

NMAI Educational Endowment Fund . . .
INgling, HEME ssaresceceoacounse
Nelson, Edward William ............
INesbittemlowellie rete rses.crncianses hens ware
Petrocelli, Joseph, Memorial ..........
Reid, Addison T. (See Note 1) ........
Ripley, S. Dillon and Mary Livingston . .
Reoeblingybundim sere ae co
Rollins, Miriam and William .........
SacklemRublicsattairs mae eae ae ea
Geant, JONI, cossotcunsaveoueror
Sits, Coos A oa o awe Ge Dee

The Sichel Family, Endowment for Research at the NZP .............

SisleyaiGeorgell] a Gate en ee ee eee
Sprageshund ile rrtreeie seis cise eres
SpringeryBrank ear yet sieceusrenctescie 21 ac0,%
Stern, Harold P., Memorial ..........
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library

24,547
235,233

2,271,367
112,579
308,651

98,143
203,233
362,367

67,377
117,099
350,918

20,885

1,353,708
475,512
451,216

83,776

78,423

39,303

1,304,328

61,866,904
816,500

52,873
109,463

52,473

3,920
208,164
211,641
830,934
7,211

3,554,431

351,985

51,135
302,073
51,465
11,530
165,372
377,511
138,266
353,596
25,670,841
410,347
75,264
28,676
59,452
125,868
141,670
873,670
1,125,601
1,161
690,644
94,098
54,730
1,197,514

169,886
12,086,695
129,644
1,355,001
37,494

Market
Value

26,963
279,636

2,450,169
108,668
401,397
116,963
256,340
390,970
67,399
114,146
361,780
24,011
1,557,966
514,903
516,653
89,430
98,907
41,955
1,413,468
73,651,475
828,848
53,952
112,812
54,153
4,173
230,755
232,285
942,381
8,232
3,465,262
364,104
59,249
349,723
61,336
14,595
171,554
453,563
174,443
375,884
30,632,739
462,034
76,479
32,296
59,350
128,037
178,733
996,866
1,158,122
1,741
804,385
109,808
52,450
1,278,326
97,408
304,539
202,400
22,676
67,795
184,743
339,841

176,950
13,796,539
163,152
1,558,003
44,574

Income
Net Unexpended
Income Balance
934 5,389
9,562 14,204
83,784 174,460
3,716 (Sy
13,726
4,000 15,132
8,766 26,721
12,468 9,541
576 576
3,903 10,349
5,362 5,362
821 1,643
53,014 144,320
17,607 DI OD
17,667 59,190
3,058 14,791
3,382 8,937
1,435 6,939
48,333 119,459
2,518,513 2,044,592
22,351 17,248
1,018 1,249
3,858 5,728
772 772
143 683
7,891 13,396
7,943 31,146
32,225 3,842
343 5,369
118,495 234,083
12,451 22,890
2,026 4,253
1S S9 15,787
2,097 14,963
499 3,268
8,819 35,902
15,510 16,840
5,965 21,361
12,780 59,381
1,047,487 —
1Se799: 1,940
218 218
1,104 3,022
2,030 B52.
4,378 2,133
6,112 32,340
34,088 124,252
39,602 101,589
60 478
27,506 419
3,755 648
1,794 2,953
43,712 168,508
2,401 Li
10,395 36,320
6,921 23,578
711 711
2,318 14,454
6,642 37,876
11,366 —
37,387 111
78,142 87,790
111,510 146,521
894 4,322
8,154 48,606
1,198 1,198
4,714 5,745
467,171 313,975
5,579 24,535
53,276 388,043
1,524 7,897
Table 5. Endowment Funds, September 30, 1995 (continued)
Se

Principal Income
Book Market Net Unexpended
Value Value Income Balance
StuiartalMarysOrner ye rscaxenswueeseete niente cists Corte hone eeeeeoreiane 527,780 566,340 19,366 208
TuppersBanliseyctecyercvst ah cots usiedcuaer ee roe eer eee 3,966,463 4,025,871 128,853 46,456
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ................ 0+. 1,313,451 1PS8253175) 51,702 75,510
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications .................--. 426,014 551,841 18,870 22,505
WWellsSD re] Olam Wetter cten syctene trices cyeh NPN ec oe es cee I Me ee eee 3,896 4,064 S1 S1
Williston, Samuel Wendell Diptera Research .................. 0... 47,510 52,469 1,774 672
Williams SBlainSchlsietesacricccrnictcusnciscydercinc ioe eieracioteic eer 51,541 55,019 1,881 9,100
Zerbeenkrances:Brincklen ra aryrnrr act aetctiterciene ra rea eee ina 6,813 8,579 293 9,090
ZirklesiNancy, Behrend eters csvsrs,ctel hor teterever coker ae coer setae 68,116 69,307 1,800 —
Subtotaltcter seyecucnsneyer see lessvere cin erento oy Ae tecue ae eras Mevaoteeee 137,784,999 159,594,814 5,417,987 5,210,268
RESTRICTED PURPOSE—QUASI:

AbbotteMarnetBohrniteysccdcs css ton to clea ciietc eres eC RE 226,522 22DE2'5 7. 7,600 944
AxchivesiofeAmenicanvActievactentercieterarmciereeh retiree reiterate 335,798 357,082 7,014 —
Nia a ixakiGntipuics ao doooghabopodounanoooobuUodedou soos 33,334 37,313 1,251 —-
AuiPanier Bleurtistern. mesa cerereGies cot ereaeeneus totine teen hcl oo oie en 136,105 150,967 5,162 5,496
Bacons Virginia Purdymeryemietvcrciere releaenasercrc cere cieaeretenrerie convener 655,515 757,711 25,910 48,938
Bateman ROberte.t p tossc seine rortetetarer eau he ere Oe ae 125,963 127,473 4,359 7,099
Becker Georgesben fever stele cre ete iors eeteve east one eae eee 1,132,244 1,311,457 44,845 66,414
Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund ................. 0005 637,024 650,543 22,245 587
DavissiGenewMemorialtryv- tr casks arteries eee ne a ennie 292,393 297,114 847 847
Denghausenssbulsitayeqand branzielemerrtepeperarcrateuseaerenesietn tne ciel eee 12,958,112 133912254 475,730 23,589
MesaurelssPaulp bse mee ee recs ae isis ese Neve teins eee es eee 7,044 21,717 728 82
EriendsiofiMusic Endowmentibund) ericiccc caer te eaters ici sicker 132,033 138,842 4,659 11,625
GaversiGordomta sinister stent teins ore NOISE eG CTR Leer to eels ee 16,904 18,681 639 1,588
HaasnGloriawikellowshipiqsvscnisianeen icine cia ciiaceiceiteiene cic 25,734 25232) 820 —
Flachenbere,| Georgeie:rand) Caroline ascm cei iieiieiiecic einer 32,966 39,864 1,363 13,442
Hammond, John, Performance Series Fund ..............2-++2-2 eee 410,489 421,890 14,427 8,210
Mansons Martin Gustav.and Caroline Re) a untrsioitnis ce ieee eral 69,578 82,910 2,835 19,270
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ............0.-.00ee 00s 10,137,916 11,265,603 381,775 27,000
Elirshhorns)) osephillewbequest.kundisemicemmcicia saci ceie oem 2,172,366 2,537,467 89,476 —_—
Whevloleniabhrusteaumduer ies c car eerie ie cone Tenner 6,789,211 7,676,323 262,739 —
ihevolentagirustalibundieei ee eee eee eee niece ater 2,978,574 2,884,907 96,892 —
unterdonsendowmentanmreieerciercic mitre hee eictencie ieee nen ene 24,132,510 28,370,039 966,912 427,672
JohnsonVEyReiFenimores aye eo aici oni Gore 54,492 61,387 2,099 6,536
Bane; Robert.andiMildrediKatchmar: sacs es acceincelee cee een 225,933 216,741 7,194 4,855
OebDMMOrris ae taty eh err antes ore So ioe on One A OTE Oe Eee 688,393 822,281 28,118 29,188
MongsAmnette EaandikdithilGs pyany. cree cienciesa hercicicreraie teenie 4,003 5,079 174 341
MouwesRichardiMemorialasnersi iio inet eee 62,144 61,022 2,080 1,750
McBaughinsihomasaan acronis wae erin hee ere ete oreo 104,947 108,306 1,543 1,543
MerrellGiBlinoncrteascperacisvoterc nite Serre oriole Cn 457,232 475,664 15,597 18,712
Niyery Gatherineawaldentinere Momento eee 158,146 188,455 6,444 1,364
INationallRostallMuseumiuRuec RIBUNG) sees cerelseinin ce eicitcite aie 132,548 136,790 1,949 1,949
INoyessbranks Bere -sqavarnsoncpe rat ateie of tote teie ns cheers CURES eee eine 7,876 9,499 325 406
Noyes Pauline (Riggs mrs spouse nice wets ce eis Ce ne Ree 64,116 71,138 2,433 6,002
RelliGornelias hivinestonmee seein eet eee ener 58,306 69,572 D279. 13,419
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton (See Note 1) ..............- 1,195,958 1,468,030 50,199 90,448
Rathbungkichardss\emorcal Geert rere eters eer eee at 83,568 99,684 3,409 28,222
RipleysSubllontliibranyernennaeecheerrecre cise Doe 277,812 282,658 9,606 14,143
Roebling SolanResearchtey ieee ee nin ee ee eine 183,294 214,324 7,329 25,919
RosswArthursGardentandilerraces soe etre ieee ei ee ieee 437,263 430,751 14,730 3,090
RuefiiBerthasMcsmuateaciys stent ole reen en tation oe et erie 212,404 239,226 8,180 16,697
SchultzsWeonardi Pea shieicer vcore Secor eae ee 171,444 191,676 6,410 36,010
SeidellAthertonias uence tn oe AEC eC enone 4,481,377 5,181,328 177,175 564,272
SmithsonianvA gencyzACcount eee reece iis eiretieiicieeiicienraene tere 1,768,596 2,052,259 70,177 (1,264,782)
Smithsonian}insti tutronylabraniesmaee see eee eee erence 422,046 410,313 14,230 5,533
Strong ituliayD wal erusaysne tee core sia erecta Cee eee 78,534 93,671 3,203 485
Witherspoons JihomaspAtalMemorialsyacicje) feel etree orion cine 1,008,930 1,201,921 41,100 230,325

Subtotal Pisais dc, Sect ee crero ersten eee eee ee te 75,777,697 85,399,418 2,894,311 499,230
ilotaluRestricted|Purposesmanaeemeeee ener eerie 213,562,696 244,994,232 8,312,298 5,709,498
MONA L LINDO MAMI INI MIAOINIOS ca coosiobonncetuceasouewoses cous $381,574,113 $434,632,015 $14,831,605 $6,198,949

Note 1: Invested all or in part in U.S. Treasury or other nonpooled investments.
Note 2: Endowment closed September, 1995.

92
Table 6. Construction and Plant Funds, Fiscal Years 1995 and 1994 (in $000s)

FY 1995 FY 1994
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Construction Appropriations:
National Zoological Park .............. rege reese ee es etera:icuayste degen Hisuepsraeiarsyeneasvenenays 3,042 5,400
Repair and Restoration of Buildings ..... : Ta ee ae eran Es GSI ONS CITES Ce bic Saw aoe 23,954 24,000
Construction Planning and Minor Construction ........... siteiay chal svel Scaiep Sirawarlovalayae tettatia wale dertagen eb eretyaerte? ¢ Siva 4,200
National Museum of the American Indian ....... Se er rays 3 Pi ae SION ier OR oho eee oats 19,469 6,200
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute ..... Pct re etees Oe COP kaiche citiria of ala comin, oer orn euaiere waar an (700)
Neiciomell Jive ginal Gores IMigetian DONS dete Goose godsoeucdedoundamombnouodsooonocoancedace 92
GenerallPosti@ fice Building. 226: 2s ccc as sce ue eee « eienee eens eee RR eRe Sian in aren tic Pitas Petts Sten (1,700)
Total Federal Construction Appropriations ................ BPRS eSioridic ooo Oinicho HSoIn a chase tease 44,728 39,800
Nonappropriated Trust Plant Funds:
Income—-Gift and Other
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum ................ a Sos Ssaie ph stioqabateusholeve route ete Peron reWe tet o] sua rae Met ays 1,613 30
Netiomnal! Mleoseiinn ON WeevamneMTCATt ale 4.5 pb Same nna ane one Bat ota oan Eno aoe dono Gee 2,894 9.042
NatoualeMiusenmo# NaturallElistory—Germi Hall) sc scojec ete wiepeiey ore ve ane wer ecs neo aneieae ee weieyer adores eeaeeweand 2,215 2,434
(OXUNET oc 2 oo 3,0:0.0 66.0 SiON CIE ORO LOT OO OR RCI ROI OIRO CREE Se on CR PSS ne Re R= eg Se en Oe 322 196
“WRGYEEN WO GYEAE 2 eg Ore det OSCR DTT CER ERE Races een a a OR ee 0 ee ee oe aS ae at 7,044 11,702
Transfers (to)/from Other Funds:
National Museum of the American Indian A Syscpetapeiatios Loran OCA a Oran ASO cio ee ODS ee as 2,496 1,600
CQUABP o 0 © 0 0:0 6.00.00 0-0 CEO OER ELERELLE OR Rae er ete Re ea mnt ee ene eae en ee eee a ee 44 (617)
Toga! TS HETRS 5. 65 .ocofuntit.d tee sale ROTOR CEC ERO IRIE ETE Sri eee RR me creek re ere as eeMee eT a en Net 8 2,540 983
“Tone Frocndle Prrasgtalivel s\n os a cen cee cern CoS ne eote e ee e oe e cen ee ae Fae eae we 54,312 52,485

$216,000 reclassified to current operating funds, and $401,000 transferred to an endowment fund.

Rita Mesquita of the National Institute for Amazonian
Research (INPA) and Don Wilson, Director of Biodiver-
sity programs at NMNH, examine regenerating forest in
the heart of the Amazon basin in an effort to learn more
about the effects of rainforest destruction and the result-
ing loss of biodiversity in the tropics. (Photograph by
Laurie Minor-Penland)

93
Independent Auditors’ Report

BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial condition
of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1995, and the
related statements of financial activity and cash flows for the year
then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Institution’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opin-
ion on these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and per-
form the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the

Statement of Financial Condition
September 30, 1995 (with comparative totals for 1994) (In thousands)

amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides
a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above pre-
sent fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1995, and the results of
its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in confor-
mity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Assets:
Cash and balances with U.S. Treasury $
Investments (note 3)
Receivables and advances (note 5)
Inventory
Prepaid, deferred expense and other (note 6)
Property and equipment, net (note 7)
Collections (note 11)
Total assets $
Liabilities:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $

Payable for investment securities purchased

Deposits held for others (note 2)

Accrued annual leave and voluntary
separation costs (note 14)

Deferredrevenue

Long-term debt (note 9)

EEE

Total liabilities

Fund balances:
Trust:
Current:
Unrestricted general purpose
Unrestricted special purpose
Restricted
Endowment and similar funds (note 4)
Plant funds
Federal:
Operating funds (note 10)
Construction funds
Capital funds

Total fund balances
Commitments and contingencies (note 8)
Total liabilities and fund balances

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

94

Trust Federal Total Total
funds funds 1995 1994
1,075 173,124 174,199 172,880
464.048 - 464,048 409,731
82,582 14,595 97,177 72,765
18,222 1,425 19,647 19,302
28,293 ~ 28,293 21,007
89,355 353,412 442,767 434.613
683,575 542,556 1,226,131 1,130,298
52,422 24,048 76,470 59,663
12,923 - 12,923 9,544
5,996 1,349 7,345 12,084
4,213 12,960 17,173 22,244
69,820 - 69,820 43,625
3,350 ~ 3,350 3,103
148,724 38,357 187,081 150,263
10,159 - 10,159 11,019
27,800 - 27,800 28,377
25,302 - 25,302 24,576
381,574 - 381,574 348,228
90,016 - 90,016 83,778
- 51,360 51,360 47,986

= 98,003 98,003 89,357
354,836 354,836 346,714

534,851 504,199 1,039,050 980,035
683,575 542,556 1,226,131 1,130,298
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Financial Activity for the year ended
September 30, 1995 (with comparative totals for 1994) (In thousands)

Trust Funds Federal Funds
Current Endowment
funds and similar Plant Total Operating Construction Capital Total Total Total
(note 16) funds funds trust funds funds funds federal 1995 1994
Revenue and other additions:
Appropriations (note 10) $ 313,254 44,728 — 357,982 357,982 342,149
Government grants and contracts 50,353 _ — $0,353 — 50,353 45,701
Investment income 20,671 —_— 984 21,655 21,655 18,885
Net gain (loss) on sale of securities (33) Iasi _ 27,518 — 27,518 17,279
Gifts, bequests and private grants 33,199 1,724 5,995 40,918 _— 40,918 46,588
Additions to plant — ~ 3,202 3,202 — — 41,634 41,634 44,836 55,663
Rentals, fees, and commissions (note 10) 15,859 — 24 15,883 1,231 — —_ 1,231 17,114 10,641
Auxiliary activities 193,808 _— — 193,808 — 193,808 197,233

Total revenue and other additions 313,857 29,275 10,205 353,337 314,485 44,728 41,634 400,847 754,184 734,139

Expenditures and other deductions:
Research, education and collection

acquisition (note 11) 104,521 — — 104,521 199,418 —_— — 199,418 303,939 289,048
Administration 25,736 — — 25,736 27,790 — — 27,790 53,526 55,157
Facilities services 1,429 — — 1,429 82,246 _ — 82,246 83,675 82,457
Acquisition of plant — — 2,600 2,600 — 36,082 — 36,082 38,682 49,306
Property use and depreciation (note 7) — — 3,907 3,907 — = 35,512 33,512 37,419 35,575
Auxiliary activities 176,271 — — 176,271 — 176,271 173,823
Total expenditures and other deductions 307,957 6,507 314,464 309,454 36,082 33,512 379,048 693,512 685,366
Excess of revenue and other additions

over expenditures and other deductions 5,900 29,275 3,698 38,873 5,031 8,646 8,122 21,799 60,672 48,773
Transfers (note 12) (6,611) 4,071 2,540 — _—
Net increase (decrease) for the year (711) 33,346 6,238 38,873 5,031 8,646 8,122 21,799 60,672 48,773
Returned to U.S. Treasury (note 10) (1,657) _ a (1,657) (1,657) (1,163)
Fund balances at beginning of year 63,972 348,228 83,778 495,978 47,986 89,357 346,714 484,057 980,035 932,425
ea Ea EE ee
Fund balances at end of year $ 63,261 381,574 90,016 534,851 51,360 98,003 354,836 504,199 1,039,050 980,035

————————————— eee

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

Smithsonian Institution Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended
September 30, 1995 (with comparative totals for 1994) (In thousands)

Trust Federal Total Total
funds funds 1995 1994

Cash flows from operating activities:
Excess of revenue and other additions over
expenditures and other deductions $ 38,873 21,799 60,672 48,773
Adjustments to reconcile to net cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization 5,499 33,302 38,801 35,694
Loss on disposition of assets 87 284 371 1,308
Provision for doubtful accounts 1,736 ~ 1,736 2,609
Net gain on sale of securities (27,518) - (27,518) (17,279)
Returned to U.S. Treasury - (1,657) (1,657) (1,163)
Increase in net receivables and advances (19,458) (4,385) (23,843) (6,468)
Increase in inventory (269) (75) (344) (664)
_ Increase in prepaid and deferred expense (7,286) - (7,286) (821)
Increase (decrease) in payables 6,045 4,179 10,224 (65)
Increase (decrease) in deposits held for others 129 (4,868) (4,739) 6,331
Increase (decrease) in accrued leave and other (6) (5,065) (5,071) 6,502

Increase (decrease) indeferred revenue 26,195 = 26,195 (3,138)
Net cash provided by operating activities 24,027 43,514 67,541 71,619

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchases of assets (6,203) (41,634) (47,837) (58,192)
Purchases of investment securities (1,433,791) = (1,433,791) (828,110)
Proceeds from sale of investment securities 1,415,159 = 1,415,159 829.212

Net cash used for investing activities (24,835) (41,634) (66,469) (57,090)

Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from long-term debt: 00 - 500

Repayments of long-term debt (253) = (253) (8,433)

wn
WwW
Smithsonian Institution Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended

September 30, 1995 (with comparative totals for 1994) (In thousands) (continued)

Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

Net increase (decrease) in cash and balances with
U.S. Treasury

Cash and balances with U.S. Treasury:

247 247 (8,433)

(561) 1,880 1,319 6,096

Beginning of year 1,636 171,244 172,880 166,784

End of year

See accompanying notes to financial statements.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Notes to Financial Statements, September 30, 1995

(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

These financial statements reflect the Smithsonian Institution’s receipt and
expenditure of funds obtained from all sources. These funding sources
include federal appropriations, private sources, government grants and
contracts, investment income, and certain business activities.

Funds received from direct federal appropriations are reported in the
columns titled Federal Funds in the financial statements. All other funds are
reported in the columns titled Trust Funds in the financial statements.
Federal funds and trust funds are accounted for on the accrual basis of
accounting.

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National
Gallery of Art, the John FE. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, which were established
by Congress within the Institution, but are administered under separate
boards of trustees.

Fund Accounting

To ensure compliance with the limitations and restrictions placed on the use
of resources available to the Institution, accounts are maintained in accor-
dance with the principles of fund accounting. This procedure classifies
resources for control, accounting and reporting purposes into distinct funds
established according to their nature and purposes. Separate accounts are
maintained for each fund; however, in the accompanying financial state-
ments, funds that have similar characteristics have been combined for pre-
sentation into fund groups. Accordingly, all financial transactions have been
reported by fund group.

The assets, liabilities, and fund balances of the Institution are self--
balancing as follows:

Federal operating funds represent appropriated funds available for sup-
port of the Institution’s operations and are generally available for obligation
only in the year received. Separate subfund groups are maintained for each
appropriation as follows: Salaries and Expenses; Special Foreign Currency;
and the Barro Colorado Island Trust Fund, which supports the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute.

Federal construction funds represent the portion of appropriated funds
available for building and facility construction, restoration, renovation and
repair and are available for obligation until expended. Separate subfund
groups are maintained for each appropriation: Construction and
Improvements, Repairs and Restoration of Buildings, and the National
Zoological Park.

96

1,075 _ 173,124 174,199 172,880

Federal capital funds represent the depreciated historical cost of the
Institution’s assets acquired with federal funds plus nonexpendable property
transfers from U.S. Government agencies.

Trust current funds which include unrestricted and restricted resources,
represent nonappropriated funds available for support of the Institution’s
operations.

Trust endowment and similar funds include both true and quasi-
endowment funds. True endowments are subject to restrictions of gift instru-
ments and require that the principal be invested in perpetuity and that only
income be expended. Also classified as endowment and similar funds are
gifts which allow the expenditure of principal only under specified condi-
tions. Quasi-endowment funds are funds established by the governing board
for the same purposes as endowment funds; however, any portion of such
funds may be expended with board approval. Restricted quasi-endowment
funds represent gifts for restricted purposes where there is no stipulation that
the principal be maintained in perpetuity or for a period of time, but the
governing board has elected to invest the principal and expend only the
income for the purpose stipulated by the donor.

Trust plant funds represent resources restricted or internally designated for
future plant acquisitions, and the depreciated historical cost of the
Institution’s assets acquired with plant funds.

Investments

Investments are stated at cost or amortized cost. Investments are recorded at
cost on a trade date basis if purchased, or at estimated fair value at date of
acquisition if acquired by gift.

All investment income, except that of endowment and similar funds, and
gains and losses arising from the sale of investments, are accounted for in the
fund in which the related assets are recorded. Income of endowment and
similar funds is accounted for using the total return method (note 4) in the
fund to which it is restricted or, if unrestricted, as revenue in unrestricted
current funds. Gains and losses on the sales of investments are recognized on
the trade date basis using the average cost method.

Inventory

Inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined
using the first-in, first-out method.

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/
Smithsonian magazine is recorded as income over the period of the related
subscription, which is generally one year. Certain costs to obtain subscrip-
tions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine are
charged against income over the subscription period.

The Institution expenses promotion production costs the first time the
advertising takes place. Direct-response advertising is deferred and amortized
over one year.
Works of Art, Living and Other Specimens

The Institution acquires its collections, which include works of art, library
books, photographic archives, objects and specimens, from purchases using
federal or private funds or by donation. All collections are held for public
exhibition, education, or research, furthering the Institution’s mission to
increase and diffuse knowledge to the public. The Institution provides pro-
tection and preservation services for its collections.

In accordance with policies generally followed by museums, no value is
assigned to the collections on the statement of financial condition. Collection
purchases are expensed currently. Proceeds from deaccessions are recognized
as revenue in the year of sale, and are designated for future collection acqui-
sitions.

Property and Equipment

Federal Funds

Property and equipment purchased with federal funds are recorded in the
capital funds at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful
lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Nonexpendable equipment 10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Institution’s buildings were appropriated and
reserved by Congress for the Institution and are not reflected in the accom-
panying financial statements. Property and nonexpendable equipment
acquired through transfer from government agencies are capitalized at the
net book value or fair value, whichever is more readily determinable.

Trust Funds

Property and equipment purchased with trust funds for use by
nonincome-producing activities are recorded at cost, or appraised value at
date of gift, except for gifts of certain islands in the Chesapeake Bay, which
has been recorded at nominal values.

Capital improvements and equipment purchased with trust funds for use
by income-producing activities are capitalized at cost in the current funds.
Property and equipment are depreciated on the straight-line basis over their
useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 3-10 years

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution receives grants and enters into contracts, with the U.S. gov-
ernment and state and local governments, which primarily provide for cost
reimbursement to the Institution. Governmental grant and contract revenue
is recognized as reimbursable expenditures are incurred.

Gifts, Bequests, and Other Grants

The Institution recognizes revenue from gifts, bequests and private grants in
the year the cash is received.

The Institution records pledges based upon letters signed by donors.
Pledges are recorded at net realizable value as a receivable and as deferred
revenue on the statement of financial condition. Revenue from pledges is rec-
ognized in the year the pledged funds are collected.

Contributed Services and Facilities

A substantial number of volunteers make significant contributions of their
time to further of the Institution’s programs. The Institution also uses certain
facilities for a nominal charge. The value of the contributed time and facili-
ties is not reflected in these statements as it is not susceptible to objective
measurement or valuation.

Annual Leave

The Institution’s civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with
federal laws and regulations. Separate rules apply for trust employees.
Annual leave for all employees is recognized as expense when earned.

Cash and Balances with the U.S. Treasury

Amounts represent cash deposited with financial institutions and balances
held by the U.S. Treasury which are available for disbursement. Cash interest
payments were $201,000 and $781,000 in 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No.’s 116 and 117

For fiscal year 1996, the Institution will be required to implement SFAS

No. 116 Accounting for Contributions Received and Contributions Made,
and SFAS No. 117 Financial Statements of Not-For-Profit Organizations.
Among the significant provisions of SFAS 116 is the recognition of pledges as
revenue when made. SFAS 117 requires changes in the display of financial
statements from fund accounting to a display based on the concept of “net
assets.” The impact of these pronouncements and the options available to
the Institution are under study.

(2) Affiliate Relationships

The Institution provides certain fiscal, procurement facilities and administra-
tive services to several separately incorporated affiliated organizations for
which certain officials of the Institution serve on the governing boards. The
amounts paid to the Institution by these organizations for the above services
totaled $169,000 for the trust funds and $370,000 for the federal funds for
fiscal year 1995.

Deposits held in custody for these organizations at September 30, 1995,
were $5,996,000 and $1,349,000 for trust and federal funds, respectively.

(3) Investments

At September 30, 1995, investments consisted of:

($000s)
Carrying value Market value

Current funds:

Cash equivalents $ 22,498 22,502

U.S. government obligations 49,720 49,434
Common stocks. 6 5
72,224 71,941

Plant funds:

U.S. government obligations 361 365
Common stocks: 125 288
486 653

Endowment and similar funds
Pooled investments

Cash equivalents 24,638 24,638
U.S. government and
quasi-government obligations 34,441 34,671
Corporate bonds and other obligations 52,638 54,451
Common and preferred stocks 277,144 328,129
Total pooled investments 388,861 441,889
Nonpooled investments:
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,010 1,040
Charitable trusts 1,467 1,580
Total nonpooled investments 2,477 2,620
Total endowment and similar funds 391,338 444,509
Total investments $ 464.048 517,103
——_———————————————

(4) Endowment and Similar Funds

The Institution uses the total return approach to investment management of
endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds. Each year, the endowment
Pays out an amount for current expenditures based upon a number of factors
evaluated and approved by the Board of Regents. The payout for 1995 was
4.2 percent of the average market value of the endowment over the prior five
years. The difference between the income (i.e., dividends, interest and realized
capital gains) and the payout for the year is reinvested or withdrawn from
previously accumulated returns. Actual income exceeded the payout amount
in fiscal year 1995 and the excess was transferred from current funds to the
endowment and similar funds (see note 12).

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment and similar funds are
pooled on a market value basis. Each fund subscribes to or disposes of units

7,
on the basis of the per unit market value at the beginning of the month that
the transaction takes place. At September 30, 1995, each unit had a market
value of $483. The market value of the pool’s net assets at September 30,
1995 was $433,351,000, representing all pooled investments (see note 3) net
of receivables and payables for investment transactions.

Each fund participating in the investment pool receives an annual payout
equal to the number of units owned times the annual payout amount per
unit. The payout for fiscal year 1995 was $16.50 per unit. Based on
approved Board policy, if the market value of any endowment fund is less
than 110 percent of the historical value, the current payout is limited to the
actual interest and dividends allocable to that fund.

Fund balances of the endowment and similar funds were comprised of the
following at September 30, 1995:

Units ($000s)

Endowment — unrestricted 23,370 $ 9,890
Endowment — restricted 330,504 137,785
Quasi-endowment — unrestricted 367,229 158,121
Quasi-endowment—restricted 176,984 75,778

Total endowment fund balance $ 381,574

(5) Receivables and Advance Payments

Trust fund receivables at September 30, 1995 consisted of:

($000s)
Auxiliary activities and other, net of $1,722 in allowances $ 18,907
Investment securities sold 3,113
Pledges 22,447
Grants and contracts 9,176
Interest and dividends due 2,520
Interfund receivables and other 26,419

Total receivables and advances ~ trust fund $ 82,582

Federal advance payments of $14,595,000 represent prepayments made to
government agencies, educational institutions, firms and individuals for ser-
vices to be rendered, or property or materials to be furnished.

At September 30, 1995, the Institution had advance payments outstanding to
the General Services Administration of $10,178,000, principally for equip-
ment purchases for the Museum Support Center and other projects to be
completed in future years. Advance payments to educational institutions
amounting to $2,316,000 were principally under the Special Foreign
Currency Program. Other advance payments totaled $2,101,000.

(6) Deferred Promotion Costs

At September 30, 1995 and 1994, respectively, prepaid, deferred expense and
other includes approximately $11,800,000 and $11,000,000 of deferred pro-
motion costs, mostly related to the Smithsonian Magazine, were reported as
assets. Promotion expense was $17,957,000 and $20,549,000 in fiscal year
1995 and 1994, respectively.

(7) Property and Equipment

Property and equipment at September 30, 1995 consisted of:

(3000s)
Trust funds

Current Plant Federal
funds funds Totals funds Totals
Land $ ~ 2,565 2,565 - 2,565
Buildings 4,125 86,012 90,137 310,359 400,496
Capital improvements 28,486 - 28,486 328,203 356,689
Equipment 13,335 7,484 20,819 50,207 71,026
Leasehold improvements 1,582 1,582 = 1,582
47,528 96,061 143,589 688,769 832,358
Accumulated depreciation (24,142) 30,092) (54,234) (335,357) (389,591)

Total property and equipment $ 23,386 65,969 89,355 353,412 442,767

Property use and depreciation in the federal funds for expenditure and other
deductions for fiscal year 1995 included $33,302,000 of depreciation
expense in the capital funds.

Depreciation expense in the trust funds for fiscal year 1995 for
income-producing assets amounted to $2,069,000 and is included in auxil-
lary activities expenditures in the current funds. Depreciation for non-income
producing equipment and buildings for fiscal year 1995 amounted to
$3,907,000 and is included in the plant funds.

At September 30, 1995, the fund balance of the trust plant funds included
$22,652,000 of restricted funds and $1,395,000 of unrestricted funds desig-
nated for future plant acquisitions.

(8) Commitments and Contingencies

Leasing Activities

Leases for Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for rent escala-
tions to coincide with increases in property taxes, operating expenses attrib-
utable to the leased property and the Consumer Price Index. The Institution
has the authority to enter into leases for up to 30 years using federal funds.

The Institution’s operating leases for the warehouse and office spaces require
future minimum lease payments as follows:

Year $000s
1996 $ 10,771
1997 9,137
1998 8,553
1999 7,900
2000 3,245
Thereafter 4,237

$ 43,843

Rental expense for these operating leases totaled $9,880,000 for fiscal year
1995.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Institution receives funding or reimbursement from governmental agen-
cies for various activities which are subject to audit. Audits of these activities
have been completed through fiscal year 1994. However, audits of fiscal
years 1993 and 1994 have not been closed with the cognizant agency.
Management believes that any adjustments which may result from those
audits and the audits for fiscal year 1995 would not have a material effect on
the Institution’s financial statements.

(9) Long-term Debt

All September 30, 1995, long-term debt consisted of an unsecured note
payable to Signet Bank totaling $2,850,000 and an interest-free loan from
the Virginia Department of Aviation totaling $500,000.

The Signet note bears interest at 1 percent in excess of the Federal Funds
Rate, which was 6.20 percent at September 30, 1995. Interest is payable
quarterly; principal is payable in quarterly installments of $63,333. The
remaining unpaid principal balance is due December 31, 1996. The proceeds
from the Signet Bank note financed a warehouse facility for Institution muse-
um shops. During the fiscal year 1995, $203,000 was recorded as interest
expense in the auxiliary activities funds for the note with Signet Bank.

The Virginia Department of Aviation provided the Institution with an
interest-free loan totaling $3 million, $500,000 of which was received by
year-end. This loan will help finance the planning, marketing, fund raising,
and design of the proposed National Air and Space Museum extension at
Washington Dulles International Airport. The Institution is scheduled to
repay the outstanding loan not later than June 30, 1998.

The aggregate amount due for outstanding loans for the years ending
September 30, are as follows:

Year ($000s)
1996 $ 253
1997 2,597
1998 500
$ 3,350

(10) Availability of Prior Years’ Appropriations

The U.S. Congress enacted Public Law 101-510, the Defense Authorization
Act (the Act) which determined prior year appropriations are only available
for a five-year period. Beginning with the fiscal year 1989 appropriations,
recipients were required to maintain annual appropriations for a five-year
period following the year of appropriation. At the end of this six-year life,
the appropriation account is closed and any unobligated balances are
returned to the U.S. Treasury. During fiscal year 1995, the Institution
returned $1,657,000 to the U.S. Treasury which represented the unobligated
balance for fiscal year 1990.

(11) Accessions and Deaccessions

For fiscal year 1995, $4,224,000 of trust funds and $2,160,000 of federal
funds were spent to acquire collection items. Proceeds from trust fund deac-
cessions were $601,000. There were no collection deaccessions purchased
with federal funds in fiscal year 1995. At September 30, 1995, proceeds from
deaccessions of $10,138,000 were designated for collections acquisitions and
preservation in the trust funds as quasi-endowment.

(12) Transfers Among Trust Funds

The following transfers were made among trust fund groups for fiscal year
1995S:

($000s)
Endowment

Current funds and similar Plant
Unrestricted _ Restricted funds funds

Investment retum in excess of payout $ (1,032) (1,309) 2,341 -

Quasi-endowment funds returned 872 1,170 (2,042) -

Designated as quasi-endowment (629) (3,143) 3,772 -
Other transfers, net 585 (3,125) = 2,540.
Total transfers $ (204) (6,407) 4,071 2,540

(13) Employee Benefit Plans

The federal employees of the Institution are covered by either the Civil
Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement
System (FERS). The features of both of these systems are defined in pub-
lished government documents. Under both systems, the Institution withholds
from each federal employee’s salary the required salary percentage. The
Institution also contributes specified percentages. The Institution’s program
costs for fiscal year 1995 was approximately $14,450,000.

The Institution has a separate defined contribution retirement plan for trust
employees, in which substantially all trust fund employees are eligible to par-
ticipate. Under the plan, the Institution contributes stipulated percentages of
salary which are used to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which
are immediately vested with the employees. Employees can make voluntary
contributions, subject to certain limitations. The Institution’s cost of the plan
for fiscal year 1995 was approximately $8,267,000.

It is the policy of the Institution to pay the accrued costs of all plans cur-
rently.

In addition to the Institution’s retirement plans, the Institution makes
available certain health care and life insurance benefits for active and retired
employees. The plan is contributory for retirees and requires payment of pre-
miums and deductibles. Retiree contributions for premiums are established
by an insurance carrier based on the average per capita cost of benefit cover-
age for all participants, active and retired, in the Institution’s plan. The inclu-
sion of retirees in the calculation of average per capita cost results in a high-
er average per capita cost than would result if only active employees were
covered by the plan. Therefore, the Institution has a postretirement benefit
obligation for the portion of the expected future cost of the retiree benefits
that are not recovered through retiree contributions. The Institution’s policy
is to fund the cost of these benefits on the pay-as-you-go basis.

The Institution adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers’
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, during fiscal
year 1994 and elected to record the October 1, 1993, accumulated postre-
tirement benefit obligation (APBO) using the 20-year amortization option.

The following table presents the Plan’s funded status reconciled with
amounts recognized in the Institution’s statement of financial condition at
September 30, 1995:

($000s)
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO)
Retirees $ (2,542)
Eligible active plan participants (4,664)
Total APBO (7,206)
Plan assets at fair value 190
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation in excess of plan assets (7,016)
Unrecognized prior service costs -
Unrecognized net gain (1,167)
Unrecognized transition obligation 5,869

$

Accrued postretirement benefit cost (2,314)

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year ended September 30,
1995 includes:

($000s.

Service costs $ 490
Interest costs 519
Amortization of transition obligation over 20 years 326
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost $1,335

The discount rate used to determine the APBO was 8.25 percent. A
10 percent health care cost trend rate was assumed for fiscal year 1995 with
this rate decreasing .5 percent each year to an ultimate rate of 5 percent in
fiscal year 2005 and thereafter. If the assumed health care cost trend rate
was increased by 1 percentage point in each year, the net periodic postretire-
ment benefit cost would be higher by $158,000 and the APBO higher by
$1,004,000 as of September 30, 1995.

(14) Voluntary Separation Costs

During fiscal year 1994, the Institution announced the Voluntary Separation
Incentive Program. This program was offered to meet employee restructuring
requirements of the Federal Workforce Restructuring Act. The Institution
accepted 209 federal funds employees and 23 trust funds employees into the
program. Voluntary separation costs totaling $5,109,000 and $434,000 were
recorded in the federal and trust funds, respectively. This program had no
carryover into fiscal year 1995 expenses and no similar programs were
announced in fiscal year 1995.

(15) Income Taxes

The Institution is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Organizations
described in that section are taxable only on their unrelated business income.
No provision for income taxes was required for fiscal year 1995.

It is the opinion of the Institution’s management that it is also exempt from
taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in

Section 501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in that section are
exempt from all income taxation. The Institution has not yet formally sought
such dual status.

(16) Current Trust Funds Financial Activity

Current unrestricted funds are comprised of three distinct subfunds. These
subfunds include the auxiliary activities fund that represents primarily the
revenue and expenditures of the Smithsonian Associates, Smithsonian and
Air & Space/Smithsonian magazines, and museum shops, concessions and
mail order sales. The special purpose fund represents funds internally desig-
nated for specific purposes and the general purpose fund consists of all other
unrestricted activity in the current funds.

MY)
The financial activity for the current trust funds by subfund for fiscal year

1995 is as follows:

I0O0

($000s)

Unrestricted
General Auxiliary Special
funds funds funds

Revenue and other additions:

Government grants and

contracts $ - - -
Investment income 9.824 - 932
Net gain (loss) on sale

of securities (33) - -
Gifts, bequests and

private grants 300 8,788 771
Rentals, fees, and

commissions 881 ~ 11,550
Auxiliary activities ~ 183.446 10,362

Total revenue and other additions 10,972 192,234 23,615

Expenditures and other deductions:

Research, educational and

collection acquisition 10,410 ~ 24,922
Administration 5,914 8,239 895
Facilities services 1,366 - 37
Auxiliary activities - 168,660 7.611

Total expenditures and other

deductions 17.690 176.899 33.465

Excess of revenue and other

additions over (under) expendi-

tures and other deductions (6,718) 15,335 (9,850)
Transfers among funds (note 12) 5,858 (15,335) 9,273
Net increase (decrease) for the year $ (860) = (577)

Total
Unrestricted Restricted

- 50,353
10,756 9915
(33) -
9.859 23,340
12.431 3,428
193.808 =

226,821 87.036
35,332 69,189
15,048 10,688

1,403 26

176,271 =

228,054 79.903

(1,233) 7,133
(204) (6,407)
(1,437) 726

Totals

50,353
20,671

(33)
33,199

15.859
193,808

313,857

104,521
25,736
1,429
176,271

307,957

5,900

(6,611)
(711)

ae ee

sour"
yun 30
z ne i
; eo

ier ae SEERA LOPE belek

vm) |

<>
2 ae

« D)

Annual Report for the

Smithsonian Institution

for the Year Ended

September 30, 1996

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
Washington, D.C. * 1997
COVER: A Spectacular fireworks dis-
play illuminated the Castle in honor of
the Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary.
The Institution’s Birthday Party on the
National Mall, August 10 and 11,
1996, was part of a year-long celebra-
tion that brought the Smithsonian to
the American public. (Photograph by
Charles H. Phillips)

FRONTISPIECE: An estimated
630,000 people helped the Smithsonian
celebrate its anniversary at the Birthday
Party. (Photograph by Richard
Hofmeister)

TITLE PAGES: Treasures from
Smithsonian collections that toured the
nation in “America’s Smithsonian,” the
Institution’s 150th anniversary exhibi-
tion, included the hat Abraham Lincoln

wore to Ford’s Theater on the night he

was shot, the command module from the

Apollo 14 lunar mission, and the ruby
slippers Judy Garland wore in The Wiz-
ard of Oz. (Background photograph by
Hugh Talman; photograph of ruby slip-
pers courtesy of Turner Entertainment)
BACK COVER: These school-

children in Los Angeles were among the
first to see “America’s Smithsonian.”

(Photograph by Eric Long)

Annals of the Smithsonian Institution
1996, containing a chronology of
the year and records of Smithsonian
advisory boards; narrative reports
from museums and offices; visitor
counts; fellows, interns, and research
associates; publications; staff; and
donations to the Institution, is made
available on the World Wide Web by
Smithsonian Institution Press and
the Office of the Provost at

http://www.si.edu.
ONTENTS

DMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION «
NTATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY
HEPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS
HEPORT OF THE PROVOST

MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH INSTITUTES

Anacostia Museum/Center for African Freer Gallery of Art 28 National Museum of Natural
American History and Culture 23 Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture History 37
Archives of American Art 24 Garden 30 National Portrait Gallery 39
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery 24 National Air and Space Museum 31 National Zoological Park 40
Center for Folklife Programs and National Museum of African Art 32 Smithsonian Astrophysical
Cultural Studies 25 National Museum of American Art 33 Observatory 41
Conservation Analytical Laboratory 26 National Museum of American Smithsonian Environmental Research
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design History 34 Center 42
Museum 27 National Museum of the American Smithsonian Tropical Research
Indian 36 Institute 43

EDUCATIONAL, MUSEUM, AND SCHOLARLY SERVICES 44

REPORT OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
INSTITUTIONAL HOVANCEMENT <2
AFFILIATED URGANIZATIONS 76

John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 76
National Gallery of Art 78

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. 79

Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 80

REPORT OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL UFFICER
MITHSONIAN [ASTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of
Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of
the will of James Smithson of England, who in
1826 bequeathed his property to the United States
of America “to found at Washington, under the
name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establish-
ment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge
among men.” After receiving the property and
accepting the trust, Congress vested responsibility
for administering the trust in the Smithsonian

Board of Regents.

BOARD OF REGENTS AND
SECRETARY
September 30, 1996

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States, ex officio

Albert Gore Jr., Vice-President of the United
States, ex officio

Thad Cochran, Senator from Mississippi

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

Alan K. Simpson, Senator from Wyoming

Sam Johnson, Representative from Texas

Bob Livingston, Representative from
Louisiana

Howard H. Baker Jr., Citizen of the District
of Columbia

Barber B. Conable Jr., Citizen of New York

Anne d’Harnoncourt, Citizen of
Pennsylvania

Louis V. Gerstner Jr., Citizen of Connecticut

Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois

Manuel L. Ibanez, Citizen of Texas

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

Frank A. Shrontz, Citizen of Washington

Wesley S. Williams Jr., Citizen of the District
of Columbia

The Secretary

I. Michael Heyman, Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

J. Dennis O'Connor, Provost

M. John Berry, Director of Government
Relations

Thomas D. Blair, Inspector General

Miguel A. Bretos, Counselor for Latino
Affairs

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary for
Institutional Advancement

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to
the Secretary

John E. Huerta, General Counsel

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Counselor for
Biodiversity and Environmental Affairs

Marc J. Pachter, Counselor for Electronic
Communications and Special Projects

David J. Umansky, Director of
Communications

L. Carole Wharton, Director of the Office of
Planning, Management, and Budget

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL
BOARD
September 30, 1996

Mrs. Jean Bronson Kilborne, Chairman
Mr. Clive Runnells, Vice-Chairman

Current Members

Sir Valentine Abdy

The Hon. Max N. Berry

Ms. Laura Lee Blanton

Mrs. John M. Bradley

Mr. Stephen F. Brauer

Mr. Landon T. Clay

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Mr. Peter R. Coneway

Mr. Thomas Edward Congdon
Ms. Allison Stacey Cowles
Mr. Frank A. Daniels Jr.

Mrs. Patricia Frost

Ms. Nely Galan

Mr. Bert A. Getz

Marion Edwyn Harrison, Esq.
Mr. Paul Hertelendy

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg

Mr. S. Roger Horchow

Mr. Richard Hunt

Mr. Robert L. James

Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries, ex officio
Mrs. James W. Kinnear
Mrs. Marie L. Knowles
The Hon. Marc E. Leland
Mr. Donald G. Lubin

Mrs. Elizabeth S. MacMillan
Ms. Holly Madigan

Mr. Frank N. Magid

Mrs. John F. Mars

Mr. Michael Peter McBride
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

The Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Mr. Thomas D. Mullins
Mr. Rupert Murdoch

Mr. John N. Nordstrom
Mrs. Lucio A. Noto

Mrs. Vivian W. Piasecki
Mr. Heinz C. Prechter

Mr. David S. Purvis

Baron Eric de Rothschild
Mr. A. R. Tony Sanchez
The Hon. Alan K. Simpson
Ms. Kathy Daubert Smith
Mr. Kenneth L. Smith

Mr. Kelso F. Sutton

Mr. Jeffrey N. Watanabe
The Hon. Frank A. Weil
Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin

Honorary Members

Dr. Robert McC. Adams

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mr. Charles D. Dickey Jr.

The Hon. Leonard K. Firestone
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

The Hon. William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper Jr.

The Hon. George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor
The Hon. S. Dillon Ripley II
Mr. Francis C. Rooney Jr.

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr.

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer

Mrs. Gay F. Wray
Smithsonian Institution

Board of Regents

The Secretary

Under Separate
Boards of
Trustees

John F. Kennedy

Inspector
General

Secretariat

General
Counsel

—

OPERATIONS
DIRECTORATE

Chief Financial

Officer

ymptroller

mtracting and

Property Management

sk and Asset

Management

onsored Projects

Senior Executive
Officer
mnsolidated
Administration
ual Employment and
Minority Affairs
iman Resources
nbudsman
Senior Facilities
Officer
vironmental
Management and Safety
ysical Plant
otection Services
senior Information
Officer
formation Technology
laging, Printing and
Photographic Services

Government

Relations

Communications

— Public Affairs

— Visitor Information
and Associates’
Reception Center

The Under
Secretary

BUSINESS
ADVANCEMENT
DIRECTORATE

Senior Business
Officer
Concessions
Marketing Database
Museum Business
Liaisons
Product Development
and Licensing
SI Retail

Smithsonian Press/
Smithsonian
Productions

Smithsonian
Magazine

The Smithsonian
Associates

INSTITUTIONAL
ADVANCEMENT
DIRECTORATE

Institutional
Advancement
Membership and
Development
Special Events and
Conference Services

Provost

ale

Center for the
Planning, Performing Arts

Management,
and Budget

National Gallery
of Art

Woodrow Wilson
International Center
for Scholars

The

ce

Assistant Secretary for

MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH EDUCATION, MUSEUM, AND
INSTITUTES SCHOLARLY SERVICES

Anacostia Museum/Center for Center for Museum Studies
African American History National Science Resources Center
and Culture Elementary and Secondary

Archives of American Art Education

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/ Exhibits Central
Freer Gallery of Art Fellowships and Grants

Center for Folklife Programs and International Relations
Cultural Studies Smithsonian Institution Archives

Conservation Analytical Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Laboratory Smithsonian Institution Traveling

Cooper-Hewitt, National Exhibition Service
Design Museum

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art

—Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American History

—National Postal Museum

National Museum of the
American Indian

National Museum Natural History

—Museum Support Center

National Portrait Gallery

National Zoological Park

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

’
A

National Museum
of American Art

Seay oe a eet ay Fat ae a6 yy BONS

American Art

we

ss e. Bottlecaps

THIEMENT BY THE yECRE THN

I. Michael Heyman

james Smithson, that generous, As I write these words, I have just completed my first two years as Secre-
tary of the Smithsonian Institution, the tenth in a long line dating back
mysterious donor who left his 150 years. It was my privilege to take up my responsibilities in 1994, just
as the Institution was planning to celebrate a century and a half
fortune to a nation he had never dedicated to the increase and diffusion of knowledge. The year just past
was that time of celebration and rededication. And what a year it was.
visited, would certainly be While I would be hard put to choose any one moment as the high
point of the celebration for me, three moments certainly stand out in
surprised to see the scope of the my memory. The first was the February opening in Los Angeles of
“America’s Smithsonian.” That unprecedented undertaking, requiring the
modern Smithsonian. We like to cooperation of our entire Institution, brought some of our greatest trea-
sures on national tour. It had seemed impossible to pull off in so short a
think he would be pleased. time. But there we were at our inaugural stop, the exhibition looked

wonderful, and the people of Los Angeles let us know how pleased they
were that they could visit the treasures they owned as citizens in their
own hometown.
The second moment occurred here in Washington. It was the time of
our Birthday Party on the National Mall. Luck was with us. Our actual
birthday, August 10, fell on a weekend. That weekend came, miracu-
lously, between the Olympics and the political conventions, so we
were likely to get public attention. And most fortunate of all, Washing-

ton’s weather turned in the most temperate August weekend in

memory. As a result, hundreds of thousands joined us in the
cavalcade of tents that spread out from the Capitol to the

Washington Monument. As Aretha Franklin completed
LEFT: The U.S. Capitol was a

fitting backdrop for the national
museum’s Birthday Party on
August 10 and 11. (Photo-

graph by Charles H. Phillips)

her joyous music, and fireworks the red color of the Cas-
tle exploded around it, I felt connected to this wonderful
place as an American, not only as the Smithsonian's
Secretary.

The third moment that holds my memory was more

RIGHT: Secretary I. Michael of a family occasion for those of us who work here.

Heyman with the chocolate It was a time we gathered to celebrate a number of

cake created in the shape of our “Unsung Heroes,” those men and women who

the Smithsonian Castle by
chefs from the New Eng-
land Culinary Institute.

had been nominated by their coworkers for their
service and dedication. As each of them came up to

the podium in Baird Auditorium, a cheer would rise
(Photograph by Carolyn
Russo)

from those who knew how good they were at their

jobs and could now share that knowledge with the
a

AT Be
It 2
a me

Painstaking planning and coordination are required to move the Smithsonian’s treasures from city to
city with “America’s Smithsonian.” In Los Angeles, the gleaming 1948 Tucker sedan (top) is eased
from the van that carried it cross-country from Washington, D.C. A specially built trailer transported
the Vin Fiz (bottom). The small white tags on the 40-foot wing explain how to reassemble the historic

aircraft. (Photographs by Jeff Tinsley)

10

rest of the Smithsonian. It was a
great moment for all of us, and it
reminded me again of the privi-
lege we share in having this as our
place of work.

No anniversary, even one this
big, is important for its own sake.
We use them as opportunities to
reflect on what we once were,
what we have become, and where
we are going. The 150th did just
that for us, and I would like to
share here some of my conclu-
sions about what this Institution
has come to represent for the
American people and, with their
support, how we might continue
to serve their needs.

James Smithson, that generous,
mysterious donor who left his for-
tune to a nation he had never vis-
ited, would certainly be surprised
to see the scope of the modern
Smithsonian. We like to think he
would be pleased. But there was
no way he, or the Americans who
took up his charge to create an
institution committed to the dual
purpose of research and education,
could have anticipated the mix-
ture of disciplines, collections,
programs, and public spaces we
have become.

There was no master plan for
the development of the Smithso-
nian, no defined series of goals
and attributes that predetermined
our growth. What Smithson left us
was an inspired and briefly worded
mandate and the resources to work
out its possibilities. His was as
much an act of faith as an act of
generosity.

Each nation has its own combi-
nation of attributes, its “genius.”
Ours proved to be particularly
suited to the spirit of Smithson’s
bequest. Once Congress, led by
John Quincy Adams, set up a
unique combination of public and
private governance and support as
the structure of the Smithsonian,
the Institution became a way that
the nation could respond to unex-
pected opportunities in the many
fields of cultural and scientific dis-
covery and support. Like the polit-
ical process set in motion by the
Constitution, and the pattern of
the market economy, growth with-
in the Smithsonian over the years
has sprung from ideas, energy, and
circumstances.

Among the many opportunities
that shaped the Smithsonian, the
most important was that provided
by our greatest ongoing donor,
the United States government. As
early as 1857, the Smithsonian was
asked to take on the care of the
many federal collections coming
in from such sources as continen-
tal and international expeditions.
As we continued to expand, taking
in, for example, the collections
presented at the 1876 Centennial
Exposition in Philadelphia, federal
support grew to its present level of
about 70 percent of our budget.

But opportunities continued to
flow from the private sector as
well. Many of the 20th-century
museums, collections, and public
spaces we now see as so funda-
mental to the modern Smithso-
nian emerged through acts of gen-
erosity by such individuals as
Charles Freer, Joseph Hirshhorn,
and Arthur Sackler, all of whom
enriched the scope and depth
of the arts represented in the
Smithsonian.

Other aspects of the modern
Smithsonian have been shaped by
such models of cooperation as
that between ourselves and Har-
vard in the support of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory,

or that with the government of
Panama to enable the work of the
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute. The National Museum of
the American Indian provides
another model of cooperation,
both public-public in working
with federal, state, and local
authorities and public-private in
the creation of a joint support
base. The museum also has an
opportunity to shape its program
for the future in partnership with
those whose cultures are repre-
sented in its collections. Crowded
into the history of the Smithso-
nian are literally thousands of
other instances of collections,
programs, research initiatives,
and other important purposes
energized by the commitments of
individuals who chose this place
to pursue and affirm a passion of
the mind and of the spirit.
Because there has been no rigid
master plan, because we have kept
ourselves flexible in response to
changing needs, opportunities,
and solutions, there can be no one
simple definition of what the
Smithsonian is or does. I count
this as a blessing. The Smithsonian
can never encompass all fields of
knowledge, and it need not win-
now itself down to a particular dis-
cipline, purpose, or field of inquiry.
Its strength lies in what it repre-
sents, in the statement it makes
about our nation’s commitment to
values of memory, curiosity, explo-
ration, inquiry, and explanation.
But there is no denying that the
Smithsonian’s development over
time has left it with a multiplicity
of tasks, resource bases, and per-
spectives that, day to day, provide
an enormous number of chal-
lenges. On certain days, I might
even want to call them tensions.

“America’s Smithsonian” visitors (top) look inside the
Freedom 7, in which astronaut Alan Shepard traveled on
May 5, 1961, to become the first American in space, and
(bottom) examine a 4.5-billion-year-old meteorite found in

1897 near Meteor Crater, Arizona. (Photographs by Richard

Strauss and Hugh Talman)

11
Performers in the Bahamian Junkanoo Rushout parade (top) wish the Smithsonian a spirited happy

birthday during the Mall celebration on August 10. The party began with an official welcome from
Secretary I. Michael Heyman (bottom). (Photographs by Charles H. Phillips and Chip Clark)

12

The first Secretary, Joseph Henry,
set out to fulfill Smithson’s bal-
anced mandate for increase and
diffusion of knowledge with a pro-
gram of research and publication.
His lack of encouragement for
museum-based collecting and
exhibition seems shortsighted in
retrospect. As the museum func-
tion grew under his successors, the
Smithsonian managed to flourish
as both a research center and a
collection of public museums.
Yet, Henry may have foreseen
that the balancing of research and
education commitments would
not be easy.

And as far as balancing goes,
what would Henry have thought
of a place that encompasses, to an
extent he never would have
dreamed, art and history as well as
science; a place increasingly inter-
ested in folk and popular culture,

|

I

\

\
no less than traditional museum
subjects; a place that presents
more and more the multiplicity of
cultures and experiences within
the United States and around the
world; a place at the same time
local, national, and global?

Like the nation that produced
it, the Smithsonian might best be
seen not as a planned product, but
as an ongoing, inclusive process of
working out the many goals, val-
ues, subjects, and experiences
important to the American people.
As we have expanded what we are,
whom we serve, what we aspire to
do, we have become more interest-
ing and useful than any master
plan could have anticipated. Inclu-
sion is not tidy or ever complete,
but it is dynamic and democratic.

One great advantage of the
150th anniversary is that it has
allowed many of us here to see the
forest as well as the trees. Each
day, we operate as museums,
research centers, programs, and
offices. We sometimes forget that
there is a Smithsonian as an over-
all framework and symbol. But
when we saw what was possible
when objects usually separated
across Our Museums were brought
together in the “America’s Smith-
sonian” exhibition, when we pre-
sented programs from across the
Institution together at one place
on the Mall, when we consulted
and negotiated with each other in
countless tasks, we saw that
greater whole, that shared purpose.

My vision for the future of this
great Institution is to find more
Ways to tap into that collective
purpose and framework without
stifling the initiative and creativity
within our individual museums,
research institutes, and offices. In
structure, I plan a judicious decen-

tralization of the functions best
performed away from the center,
while focusing on more opportu-
nities for cooperation across our
units, our disciplines, and our staff
communities. There are things, I
am convinced, that we can best
deliver as an entire Institution.
For one, I believe there is a
symbolic role we can play in serv-
ing as a common ground for the
multitude of cultures and perspec-
tives that make up our modern
democratic society. This Institu-
tion has for many years played a
vital part in Americans’ sense of
their nationhood. As the United
States becomes an even richer com-
posite of cultures and peoples, the
Smithsonian’s role as a national
meeting place will become even
greater, representing the satisfying
possibilities of our diverse society.
I glimpsed this recently in a
surprising way. At a state dinner
given for visiting Japanese digni-
taries in the Castle, we were enter-
tained by a remarkable Dixieland

band. There we were, hearing jazz
ring out in a Gothic chamber that

At the Birthday Party, visitors crowded the museums and

seemed for a moment to have outdoor pavilions for firsthand experiences with the people

been constructed for no other pur- and processes that are the Smithsonian. Here, exhibit devel-

pose. I don’t know what our oper Linda Deck (top) of the National Museum of Natural

Japanese visitors thought of it, but History explains how sculpted scale models are used in
for me, it was a chance moment
that captured the best of the
Smithsonian and of the United
States.

That mood of unexpected con-

preparing exhibitions. In the National Portrait Gallery
pavilion (bottom), visitors study reproductions of portraits
from the permanent collection. (Photographs by Chip Clark

and Marianne Gurley)

nections can be furthered in other
ways as well. The Smithsonian has
as much a role to play in connect-
ing generations as in connecting
cultures. This is a place where one
generation’s memories can be
secured and passed on to the next.
I have watched that happen as
grandparents told stories to their
grandchildren around museum
14

objects from their own youth, and
as their grandchildren, excited to
see treasures they recognized from
the popular culture, told them
stories in turn.

There are other ways that the
Smithsonian as a whole might
work to better serve our society.
We have always had education in
our charter, but the Smithsonian

weather and geological conditions
beamed only a few days before by
satellite.

It may be at exactly that junc-
ture of technology and education
that the Smithsonian will be able
to make significant contributions
in the future. Our recent massive
Institution-wide campaign to
develop a World Wide Web site

Packers gently remove small objects for “America’s Smithsonian” from a shipping

crate in Los Angeles. Instructions for repositioning the objects are detailed in pho-

tographs placed inside the crate lid. (Photograph by Eric Long)

may have a stronger role to play
in supporting and promoting
promising ideas, particularly those
that use our collections and exper-
tise to stimulate the curiosity of
new generations. One dramatic
example was our opening, on the
150th anniversary weekend, of a
remarkable hologram of the globe
on which visitors can see actual

has been successful beyond any-
thing we could have hoped in
attracting millions of electronic
“visits.” The task now is to find
resources to capture digitally the
objects in our collections that are
of potentially greatest interest and
use in the classrooms and homes
of America. Just as important is
our goal of understanding how

our curators can best use new
technologies to deliver informa-
tion in new ways. One group is
now at work developing an exhibi-,
tion uniquely configured for
cyberspace. I don’t know how it
will all turn out, but I know it is
an experiment worth making.
Tapping the Smithsonian’s
electronic potential was one of
the goals I set upon taking this
job two years ago. Another, which
also builds on the strengths of the
Institution as a whole, is a com-
mitment to find synergy in the
Smithsonian’s many important
efforts in biodiversity. Within the
last few years, we have created a
Council on Biodiversity and the
Environment with representation
from all relevant parts of the Insti-
tution. Together, the Conservation
and Research Center of the
National Zoo, the Zoo itself, the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory, the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center, and the
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute represent an extraordi-
nary ecological resource. The
Smithsonian, too, can provide a
useful neutral forum where diffi-
cult and complex topics related to
biodiversity can be discussed. We
have followed this up with an

|
Institute for Conservation Biology |

to stimulate joint projects and
thus make concrete the promise of,
cooperation among our scholars in)
different parts of the Institution. |
In so many things that we are
committed to achieve in the
future, we are only at the begin-
ning of our potential. In the fuller’
representation of major American
cultures, we look forward to the |

continuing development of the

National Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian and the growing role
Smithsonian employees were honored as

(Photograph by Richard Strauss)

of our new Center for African
American History and Culture.
Two years ago, upon my arrival,
we began an initiative to represent
the Latino cultures of the United
States more fully in the collec-
tions, programs, and staffing of
the Institution. We still have a
long way to go, but we are making
discernible progress.

The Smithsonian's electronic
transformation still awaits the
partners who will permit us to
devote resources equal to the
needs of creating visual databases
and prototypes of electronic ven-
tures that will meet both our edu-
cational goals and the needs of the
marketplace. We have a potential
role, too, in the creation of televi-
sion and radio programs that carry
the experience of the Smithsonian
to new audiences across the
nation and around the world.

When I took on this job, I was
convinced that my greatest chal-
lenge would be to find a way to
secure the Smithsonian’s financial

“Unsung Heroes” in quarterly ceremonies throughout the anniversary year.

future. Two years have done noth-
ing to change that view. In the last
few years of economic dislocation
and political transformation, the
very conditions under which we
and our society operate have
changed. For the Smithsonian,
public funding is still available to
support our core activities. In that,
we are luckier than most. But even
the optimists among us know that
we face a future of fewer available
public resources. If we can find
funds nowhere else, we are
doomed at best to a static future,
and at worst to one of continuing
erosion.

This is something I cannot
allow to happen on my watch.
Now that we have had a year of
celebration to remind us what we
mean to the American public and
to create new modes of national
access to our collections, our
expertise, and our function as
meeting ground, we must build
structures of support and growth
as innovative as those that built

the modern Smithsonian. We will
be alert to opportunities, but we
will also learn to create them.

My next years as Secretary will
expand on the lessons we have
learned during this gala 150th
year. They will be years marked by
the development of partnerships:
with the public and private sec-
tors, with organizations and indi-
viduals, within the Smithsonian,
and between the Smithsonian and
those outside it who share our
goals for America’s future.

More than ever before, the
Smithsonian intends to serve the
entire nation. As a public trust, we
exist to fulfill the public’s desires
and needs, whether these involve
building new dimensions of
knowledge, collecting valued
objects, honoring the nation’s
diverse heritage, or sometimes
simply having a good time.

What an opportunity we were
presented 150 years ago!

Thank you, Mr. Smithson.
=

Rose colored against the evening sky, the Castle
is the symbol of the Smithsonian for many
Americans. (Photograph by Charles H. Phillips)

EDORT OF THE HOARD OF HEbENTS

The Board of Regents took special measures to mark the 150th anniversary of
the Smithsonian Institution. They held their first meeting of the year in Los
Angeles on February 9, 1996, to participate in the benefit gala and public open-
ing of “America’s Smithsonian.” Regent Alan K. Simpson officially represented
the Board at the Los Angeles opening. As the exhibition traveled to other cities,
the Regents were represented by Manuel L. Ibanez in Kansas City, Daniel P.
Moynihan in New York, and Regent Emeritus Claiborne Pell in Providence. Bar-
ber B. Conable Jr. was the Board’s representative at the dedication of the Smith-
sonian’s 150th anniversary bell during the August 10 Birthday Party on the
National Mall. The annual Regents’ dinner was held May 5 at the National Por-
trait Gallery’s anniversary exhibition, “1846: Portrait of the Nation.”

On September 16, 1996, the Board met in Washington precisely 150 years
and nine days after the first meeting of the original Board of Regents. Chancel-
lor William H. Rehnquist called the meeting to order with historical anecdotes,
and the Board sat for a group photograph in honor of the occasion. The
Regents also were honored at a British Embassy dinner hosted by the Ambas-
sador and Lady Kerr.

Three new citizen members of the Board of Regents, Howard H. Baker Jr.,
Louis V. Gerstner, and Anne d’Harnoncourt, attended their first meeting in
May. Considering alternative approaches to enhancing their deliberations, the
Regents decided at that meeting to establish a Regents’ Committee of the
Whole, which convenes the afternoon before each Board meeting to discuss
informally and in depth select issues from the agenda. The Board also estab-
lished a broadly representative standing Committee on Policy, Programs, and
Planning. Members of the Board of Regents committees are as follows
(* denotes non-Regent member, ** denotes Regent Emeritus member):

Executive Committee: Barber B. Conable Jr. (chairman), William H. Rehnquist,
Homer A. Neal; Audit and Review Committee: Thad Cochran (chairman), Howard
H. Baker Jr., Sam Johnson, Jeannine S. Clark**, Charles McC. Mathias*, Norman
Y. Mineta**, Robert B. Morgan**; Investment Policy Committee: Wesley S. Williams
Jr. (chairman), Howard H. Baker Jr., Hanna H. Gray, John W. English*, Jane Mack
Gould*, Thomas M. Keresey*, Donald Moriarty*, Charles H. Mott*, Marian B.
Smith*; Nominating Committee: Hanna H. Gray (chairman), Manuel L. Ibanez,
Homer A. Neal; Committee on Policy, Programs, and Planning: Hanna H. Gray
(chairman), Barber B. Conable Jr., Alan K. Simpson, Louis V. Gerstner Jr., Anne
d’Harnoncourt, Manuel L. Ibanez, Wesley S. Williams Jr.; Personnel Committee:
Charles McC. Mathias* (chairman), Caryl P. Haskins**, Jeannine S. Clark.**

The Regents learned with regret that Senator Alan K. Simpson would retire at
The Smithsonian Regents gather for their 150th anniversary meeting, September 16, 1996. Seated in

front, from left to right, are: Manuel L. Ibariez, Howard H. Baker Jr., Thad Cochran, Chancellor

William H. Rehnquist, Secretary I. Michael Heyman, Hanna H. Gray, and Louis V. Gerstner Jr. Stand-

ing are: Frank A. Shrontz, Homer A. Neal, Bob Livingston, Wesley S. Williams Jr., Barber B. Conable

Jr., Smithsonian National Board Chair Jean B. Kilborne, Daniel P. Moynihan, and Alan K. Simpson.

(Photograph by Glenn Levy)

18

the end of the 104th Congress,
and they moved to designate him
a Regent Emeritus at that time.
The Board awarded the Joseph
Henry Medal to Regent Emeritus
William G. Bowen in grateful
recognition of his contributions to
the Smithsonian Institution as a
Regent and Regent Emeritus from

1980 to the present. The Board

also adopted a design for a Regents’

mace to be displayed in the
Regents’ Room and used in signifi-
cant institutional ceremonial
events.

As requested by the Congress,
the Board of Regents, through its
ad hoc Committee on Policy and
Programs, conducted an exhaus-
tive study on the feasibility of
admission fees and informed the
Congress that it does not favor
imposing admission fees at this
time. In another landmark study,
the Regents adopted a statement
of policy and guidelines for the
advancement of collections-based

affiliations with other organiza-

tions, with the understanding that
the Secretary will develop opera-
tional guidelines.

Secretary Heyman and his asso-
ciates gave the Regents a thorough
briefing on the status of the Insti-
tution’s complex financing. The
Regents approved budgets pre-
pared for fiscal year 1998 federal
appropriations and fiscal year
1997 trust funds. They also
approved a financial plan for the
Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary
activities.

Secretary Heyman and his staff
also briefed the Regents on the
scope of the Smithsonian’s pro-
gram to repair and renovate its
buildings, spelling out the ration-
ale for $50 million a year in fund-
ing to achieve reliable use of the
physical plant. The Regents were
given a preview of plans for the
National Museum of the American
Indian on the National Mall and
for the museum’s Cultural
Resources Center in Suitland,
Maryland. The Board also saw

plans for the Discovery Center in
the National Museum of Natural
History and was briefed on the
Institution’s financing strategies
for capital projects.

During the year, the Regents
approved revised bylaws for the
Smithsonian National Board and
for the boards of the National
Museum of Natural History, the
National Museum of American
Art, and the Cooper-Hewitt, }
National Design Museum. They

also approved the organizing prin-
ciples for the Board of the Nation- |
al Museum of American History. |
In addition, the Regents appointed |
or reappointed the following |
members to Smithsonian advisory |
boards: Laura Lee Blanton, Mrs.
John M. Bradley, Stephen F.

Brauer, Frank A. Daniels Jr.,

S. Roger Horchow, Mrs. James W.
Kinnear, Donald G. Lubin, Eliza-
beth S. MacMillan, Holly Madigan, |
Frank N. Magid, Mrs. John F. Mars,
Kenneth B. Miller, Norman Y.
Mineta, Rupert Murdoch, John N.
Nordstrom, Vivian W. Piasecki,

Eric de Rothschild, A. R. Tony
Sanchez, Alan K. Simpson, Kathy
Daubert Smith, and Nancy Brown
Wellin to the Smithsonian Nation-
al Board; Jorge Batista, Donald
Bruckmann, Joanne Foster, George
Gillespie, August Heckscher, Nan-
cy Marks, Kenneth Miller, Enid
Morse, William P. Raynor, Harry
Robinson, Arthur Ross, Robert
Sarnoff (honorary life member),
and Sue Jane Smock to the Coop-
er-Hewitt, National Design Muse-
um Board of Trustees; Jeannine S.
Clark, Stephen Jay Gould, and
David Levering Lewis to the Com- |
mission of the National Portrait
Gallery; Ronald D. Abramson, j
Barney A. Ebsworth, Patricia Frost,
Melvin Lenkin, Linda Lichtenberg
| Kaplan, Jesus B. Moroles, and
Rita Pynoos to the Commission
of the National Museum of Amer-
ican Art; John A. Friede, Elliot
Lawrence, Brian Leyden, and
Frieda Rosenthal to the Commis-
sion of the National Museum of
African Art; Thomas Eisner and

| Desiree Glapion Rogers to the
Board of the National Museum of
Natural History; Vine Deloria Jr.,
George Gund, Peter Johnson,
Lorette Kaufman, Albert Kookesh,
Henrietta Mann, Linda Manza-
nilla, J. Dennis O’Connor, and
Ofelia Zepeda to the Board of
Trustees of the National Museum
of the American Indian; and Mar-
ilyn Bergman, Lester L. Colbert
Jr., George M. Ferris Jr., George
Clemon Freeman Jr., William
Heseltine, Robert F. Hemphill Jr.,
and Elihu Rose to the Board of
the National Museum of Ameri-
can History.

Staff Changes
J. Dennis O’Connor, former chan-
cellor of the University of Pitts-
burgh, joined the Smithsonian in
January 1996 as the Institution’s
first Provost. Acting Provost Robert
S. Hoffmann, who had ably
shaped that office from three assis-
tant secretaries’ offices, continued
to serve as acting director of the
National Air and Space Museum.
Tom Freudenheim and James
Early, who had served as assistant
provosts after being assistant secre-
taries, took on duties, respectively,
as a fellow of the Woodrow Wil-
son International Center for Schol-
ars and a scholar in the Center for
Folklife Programs and Cultural
Studies.

Earlier in the fiscal year, the
Smithsonian was shocked by the
sudden death of Sylvia Williams.

She had served with distinction as
director of the National Museum
of African Art and as an insightful
counselor to the Secretary. Mrs.
Williams’ death is a great loss to
the Institution. While Provost
O’Connor conducted a search for
her successor, the museum was
ably managed by Acting Director
Patricia Fiske.

Searches for new directors at
two major museums were con-
cluded this year. In May, Robert
W. Fri was named director of the
National Museum of Natural
History after a long career at
Resources for the Future and
several federal agencies. Donald D.
Engen, a retired vice-admiral of
the Navy, former administrator of
the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, and most recently Ramsey
Fellow at the National Air and
Space Museum, became director of
the Air and Space Museum on its
20th anniversary, July 1, 1996.

Assistant Secretary for Finance
and Administration Nancy D. Sut-
tenfield left the Institution in the
early summer for a similar posi-
tion at Case Western Reserve Uni-
versity. She was awarded the Secre-
tary’s Gold Medal for Exceptional
Service in recognition of her ser-
vice as assistant secretary, acting
Under Secretary, and director of
the Office of Planning and Budget.
Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Finance Rick Johnson was
appointed chief financial officer,
and Anna B. Martin, executive
assistant to the Under Secretary,
was given additional responsibili-
ties as the senior executive officer
overseeing the Offices of Human
Resources, Equal Employment
and Minority Affairs, and the
Ombudsman.

In other actions, Richard H.

Rice Jr. was designated senior facil-
ities officer, and Carolyn E. Jones
was named director of the Office
of Human Resources. Thomas E.
Lovejoy, counselor to the Secretary
for biodiversity and environmen-
tal affairs, accepted additional
responsibilities as director of the
Smithsonian’s new Institute for
Conservation Biology.

This year, Daniel H. Goodwin,
director of the University Press
Division of Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press, was named director of
the newly formed Smithsonian
Press/Smithsonian Productions,
which merged the Press and the
Office of Telecommunications. As
the fiscal year came to a close,
David F. Morrell of the U.S. Secret
Service was appointed director of
protection services, and Vincent J.
Marcalus retired from his position
as director of the Office of Infor-
mation Technology.

Changes in staffing at these lev-
els are a mixed blessing. They give
people new opportunities and
bring new perspectives to the
organization, but they do carry a
cost in terms of institutional mem-
ory. When we welcome new staff
members, we owe a debt of grati-
tude to their predecessors, who
have worked so effectively on
behalf of the Smithsonian. The
Institution’s progress has always
been due in no small measure
to the dedication of its staff and
volunteers.

19
COvENGUsNGET ¥.

I have been impressed by the
diversity of activity that takes
place here, as independent
entities come together in a multi-
dimensional whole to pursue the
Smithsonian’s mission as a
research institution and a

national museum.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Gar-

Provost J. Dennis

den conservator Lee Aks prepares O’Connor

Auguste Rodin’s bronze sculpture Walk- (Photograph by
ing Man, 1900, for travel to Los Ange- __ Rick Vargas)
les, where it went on view in “Ameri-

ca’s Smithsonian.” (Photograph by Lee

Stalsworth)

COLLABORATION

nUV UD

J. Dennis O’Connor

AND

PORT UF Ti

This year, we celebrated the 150th anniversary of that remarkably eclec-
tic blend of activity known as the Smithsonian. As we worked together
to shape the celebration, an impressive spirit of community and collabo-
ration drove the efforts of the many organizations that make up this
complex institution.

When the Smithsonian was founded, its first Secretary, Joseph Henry,
envisioned a research institute devoted to scientific accomplishment and
the dissemination of knowledge. His successor Spencer Baird enlarged
this vision, vigorously leading the accumulation of a comprehensive
national collection. Baird’s Smithsonian foreshadowed something of
today’s Smithsonian: research activity, vast collections, and public exhi-
bitions and programs, all aimed at advancing knowledge and fostering
public education.

The historical patterns of the Smithsonian’s 150 years—weaving
together research, collections, and the diffusion of
knowledge—are especially evident in the Office of
the Provost. This office unites the various museums
and research institutes, the National Zoo, and other
units providing educational, museum, and scholarly
services. Its creation this year was a conscious
attempt to better coordinate the arts and humani-
ties, the sciences, and educational and scholarly
support programs, emphasizing shared goals and
endeavors.

In my first year as Provost, I have been impressed
by the diversity of activity that takes place here, as
independent entities come together in a multi-
dimensional whole to pursue the Smithsonian’s
mission as a research institution and a national
museum. We are one of the world’s most prominent
research centers, with scientists and scholars at work
around the globe. Their investigations range from using xenon gas to
make magnetic resonance images of water-deficient parts of the human
body to studying the challenges of conserving giant Asian elephants.
Our museums educate, delight, and inspire the millions of people who
visit them each year. They are our public face, the principal keyhole
through which people see the objects and consider the ideas that are a
distinguishing feature of the Smithsonian.
22

Senior furniture conservator Donald C.

Williams demonstrates marquetry and
craft skills in the Conservation Analyti-
cal Laboratory Birthday Party pavilion.

(Photograph by J. L. Russ)

We have an educational pur-
pose as well. It is based on the
notion that we are the repository
of the nation’s culture and her-
itage. The Smithsonian is not a
formal institution of learning, but
we have much to offer as a
resource for educators and as a
center of informal education, that
essential lifelong process that
enriches people’s lives beyond the
classroom.

Although each museum and
research center is a major organiza-
tion in its own right, with its own
focus and strengths (even its own
audience), the emphasis on collab-
oration was clear during the 150th
anniversary year. For the exhibi-
tion “America’s Smithsonian,” the
museums took the lead in suggest-
ing which objects to include and
how to present them. During the
Birthday Party on the National
Mall on August 10 and 11, the
museums, research institutes, and
offices created lively pavilions that
conveyed the flavor of the Smith-
sonian. Visitors could learn how a
museum exhibition is developed,
hear curators describe collecting

expeditions, ask astronomers about
their research on distant planets,
or watch art conservators practice
their craft. Inside the museums,
there was Irish music, African
dance, cowboy poetry, chamber
music, and much more.

Even in a large organization
like the Smithsonian, we must
make choices about what we can
do in our research, in our museum
activities, and in education. The
150th anniversary, and particular-
ly “America’s Smithsonian,”
pointed to significant opportuni-
ties to build affiliations for the
future—with communities, with
corporations, with universities and
other educational institutions,
with museums and research enti-
ties. Funding from the members of
the 150th Anniversary Corporate
Partners Program—Discover® Card,
Intel Corporation, MCI Communi-
cations Corporation, and Trans
World Airlines, Inc.—made possi-
ble the exhibition and many other
aspects of the anniversary celebra-
tion. By seeking partners, we can
do much more, and do it more
efficiently, more effectively, and
with vastly broader impact. As we
begin to master the potential of
technology, looking to the day
when there may be many museum
exhibitions in cyberspace, there is
even greater promise for collabora-
tive efforts drawing on the com-
plementary strengths of organiza-
tions within and outside the
Smithsonian.

In this section of Smithsonian
Year, reports from the museums,
research institutes, and offices
under the purview of the Provost
survey the highlights of a year of
celebration and collaboration.
Through stimulating exhibitions
and educational programs, impor-

tant research initiatives, and essen-
tial behind-the-scenes services and ,
activities, staff members worked |
within their organizations and as a |
cooperative whole to bring the
Smithsonian to the American
people during this 150th year.

The Smithsonian’s dual role—
as a leader in research and as a
national museum—has an emi-
nently American quality. The
determined pursuit of new hori-
zons in knowledge figures promi-
nently in the American story, and
so do the collection and preserva-
tion of the objects of our heritage
in museums, which are also cen-
ters of learning and enlighten-

ment. As one of the nation’s pre-
mier research institutions and as
the national museum, the Smith-
sonian has a special obligation to
help define American culture and
heritage. On our 150th anniver-

David Pawson of the National Museum

of Natural History’s Smithsonian
Marine Station at Link Port in Florida
talks with CBS News correspondent
Dan Rather about the echinoderms col- |
lected during their dive aboard the R/V |
Edwin Link. Their underwater adven-
ture off the Bahamas was shown on

one of three specials broadcast on CBS
during the anniversary year. (Photo- |

graph by Tom Smoyer)
sary, we renewed the dedication to
community and collaboration that
will help us meet that obligation.

MUSEUMS AND
RESEARCH
mNSTITUTES

ANACOSTIA
MUSEUM/CENTER
FOR AFRICAN
AMERICAN HISTORY
AND CULTURE

Steven Cameron Newsome, Director

The Anacostia Museum and its
Center for African American
History and Culture were both
highly visible during the 150th
anniversary year, providing strong
evidence of the Smithsonian’s
expanded role in preserving and
interpreting black history and cul-
ture for local, national, and inter-
national audiences. Several items
from the Anacostia Museum’s col-
lection were included in the exhi-
bition “America’s Smithsonian.”
The fur coat worn by singer Mari-
an Anderson at her 1939 concert
at the Lincoln Memorial high-
lighted an important moment in
the country’s evolving history of

race relations. Materials from the

Griffith family of Washington,
D.C., reminded visitors that
objects associated with everyday

_ life often become treasured parts

_ of museum collections.

¢ The Anacostia Museum organized
_ its first exhibition dedicated to show-
_ casing its collections. “Down Through
the Years: Stories from the Anacostia
_ Museum's Collections” offered visitors
_ the opportunity to see objects that are

rarely on public display and to engage
in a series of dialogues about why and
how these objects became part of the
collections.

e “Visual Journal: Harlem and D.C.
in the Thirties and Forties,” an exhibi-
tion in the Arts and Industries Building
mounted by the Center for African
American History and Culture, was an
important contribution to increasing
public understanding of the role of
African American photographers in
documenting the diversity of black life.
Through the works of Gordon Parks,
the Scurlock family, Robert McNeill,
and Marvin and Morgan Smith, visi-
tors witnessed life in two centers of
black culture during one of America’s
most dynamic periods of social
change.

¢ As part of the Smithsonian’s
150th Birthday Party, August 10 and
11, a shuttlebus ferried visitors from
the National Mall for a community
open house at the museum. The festiv-
ities featured community-based cultur-
al expressions ranging from former
Washington, D.C., police officers
singing 1950s-style doo-wop to
Trinidadian Americans presenting
carnival dances and costumes.

¢ To perpetuate the spirit of the
150th anniversary, the museum and
the Center for African American Histo-
ry and Culture engaged eight photog-
raphers to document African American

participation in the year’s activities.
One hundred fifty images were select-
ed for exhibition and publication. A
local quilting guild, the Daughters of
Dorcas, crafted a commemorative quilt
with the help of museum visitors. Two
works of art—a stained-glass panel and
an African-inspired ceramic—were cre-
ated on the museum grounds and
donated to the collection by the
artists.

e In recognition of the Prince
George’s County, Maryland, tricenten-
nial celebration, and as part of the
museum’s ongoing commitment to
exhibitions focused on community
and family history, “Footsteps from
North Brentwood,” developed in con-
junction with the North Brentwood
Historical Society, featured artifacts,
photographs, and documents that
illustrate the establishment and evolu-
tion of the first incorporated black
town in Maryland.

¢ Construction began on the muse-
um’s Archives Study and Storage Cen-
ter. The new center will enhance the
museum’s capacity to collect and care
for archival and photographic material,
especially material that reflects com-
munity-based organizations.

This wooden chest painted in 1889 by

E. Wats., a former slave, was featured in

“Down Through the Years: Stories from

the Anacostia Museum's Collection.”

(Photograph by Harold Dorwin)

Birthday Party
visitors took
home postcards
of this 1903
photograph of
Adolph A.
Weinman
(1870-1952)
sculpting a cow
in a pasture,
from the collec-
tion of the
Archives of.

American Art.

24

ARCHIVES OF
AMERICAN ART

Richard J. Wattenmaker, Director

Founded in 1954 by a group of
farsighted individuals in Detroit,
the Archives of American Art has
been part of the Smithsonian
Institution since 1970. It is the
nation’s repository for documenta-
tion of the visual arts and culture
in the United States. On the sub-
ject of art in America, it is the
largest archive in the world, with
more than 13 million documents
and 3,000 oral histories.

The Archives’ collections are
easily accessible through reference
centers across the country and
through an extensive interlibrary
loan program. Its catalogue data-
base is available to researchers
worldwide on the Internet and
through the Research Libraries
Information Network (RLIN). The
Archives’ varied holdings offer an
in-depth, primary research base for
advanced study not only in Ameri-
can art history, but also in other
fields, including cultural, political,
and social history. The Archives’
Journal, published quarterly, pre-
sents articles based on research
conducted in the collections as
well as book reviews and collecting

reports from the regional centers.

e In February, Archives of American
Art trustees Eli Broad, Mrs. Dona
Kendall, and Alan Levy hosted events
to honor the inauguration of “Ameri-
ca’s Smithsonian” in Los Angeles. Mrs.
Abby Levy organized an open house
and brunch at the West Coast Regional
Center of the Archives in the Virginia
Steele Scott Gallery at the Huntington
Library, San Marino. Tours of the cen-
ter featured demonstrations of SIRIS,
the Smithsonian Institution Libraries’
online catalogue, and displays of origi-
nal manuscript materials.

¢ “America’s Smithsonian” included
three exceptional images from the
Archives’ collections of photographs
of artists. On display in the “Imagin-
ing” component of the 150th anniver-
sary exhibition were photographs of
Georgia O'Keeffe by Alfred Stieglitz;
Yasuo Kuniyoshi by Max Yavno; and
Edward Hopper in his New York stu-
dio by George Platt Lynes.

¢ The Archives of American Art cel-
ebrated the Smithsonian’s 150th Birth-
day Party with its own pavilion on the
National Mall and a lively program
commissioned for the occasion. The
Archives and the Washington Stage
Guild presented From Reliable Sources,
an original theater piece incorporating
letters, diaries, writings, and other
sources from the Archives that spoke
to the joys and hardships of being an
artist in America. The presentation by
four actors and two musicians was
staged 12 times on the birthday week-
end to standing-room-only crowds.
Archives staff distributed a free post-
card of a popular photograph from
1903 of Adolph A. Weinman (1870-
1952) sculpting a cow in a pasture,
fielded questions about the preserva-
tion of papers and photographs, and
discussed the Archives’ critical role in
the American art world. The Archives
paid homage to the bond that unites
the vital traditions of art and scholar-
ship, fostering understanding of the
visual arts among a larger audience.

ARTHUR M. SACKLER
GALLERY
Milo C. Beach, Director

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery was
inaugurated in 1987 to increase
the range of Asian art activities at
the Smithsonian and develop an
active international loan exhibi-
tion program. The collections, ini-
tiated with a major donation by
Dr. Arthur M. Sackler (1913-87) of
New York City, have grown
through purchase and gift. The
Sackler Gallery, one of the Smith-
sonian’s two national museums of
Asian art, shares the historical
focus of its sister museum, the

Freer Gallery, but extends its scope
to include the contemporary
world, embracing a wider range of
media and artistic practice. |

¢ In celebrating the Smithsonian’s
150th anniversary, the Sackler and
Freer Galleries joined with two of their
neighbors, the Hirshhorn Museum and_
Sculpture Garden and the National
Museum of African Art, to remain
open one evening a week during the
summer. As part of the experimental
yet highly successful “Art Night on the
Mall” program, Sackler and Freer
docents volunteered as “explainers,”
answering questions and informally
providing information about art on
view in the two museums.

e Sackler Gallery loans to “Ameri-
ca’s Smithsonian” spanned five millen-
nia, from an ancient Chinese jade
prism made in 2500 B.c. to a colorful
porcelain plate made by a Japanese
artist in 1992. Also representing the
Sackler collection in the anniversary
exhibition was art from Turkey, Iran,
Egypt, and India.

e “Puja: Expressions of Hindu Devo-
tion” was the gallery’s first exhibition |
to be organized by a staff member in
the education department. Sarah Rid-
ley worked with curatorial consultant
Stephen Huyler and, through a major
outreach effort, drew on the knowl-
edge and resources of the local Hindu
eS a
‘e “ 7

Calligrapher Alvin Tsao introduces young celebrants to the painstaking art of Chinese

writing at the Sackler and Freer Galleries pavilion. (Photograph by Michael Bryant)

community. “Puja,” which was sup-
ported by a generous grant from the
Smithsonian Institution Special
Exhibition Fund, used video programs,
touchable and hands-on displays, and
a resource study area to help visitors
understand the ways in which much of
the South Asian art in museums serves
a purpose in Hindu worship. Education
programs for the exhibition were
underwritten by a grant from the
Smithsonian’s Educational Outreach
Fund.

¢ The Sackler Gallery’s first exhibi-
tion by a mature living painter took
form in “Paintings by Masami Terao-
ka.” This Japanese-born artist, now liv-
ing in Hawaii, uses traditional imagery
to examine such contemporary themes
as AIDS, sexuality, and cultural identi-
ty. To enhance the visitor’s experience
of the art, Teraoka, in narrating the
first audio guide produced by the
gallery, explained some of the ideas
behind his work. The exhibition was
made possible by a generous private
contribution, with additional funding
from the Smithsonian Institution Spe-
cial Exhibition Fund.

e “Preserving Ancient Statues from
Jordan,” an exhibition about the dis-
covery and preservation of eight of the
oldest human sculptures ever found in
the Near East, was the gallery’s first to
incorporate an interactive computer
program, both within the exhibition
and on the gallery’s World Wide Web
site. In addition to studying the power-

ful presence of these nearly life-size,
8,500-year-old statues, visitors could
use the computer to learn more about
their history and their reconstruction
by specialists at the Smithsonian's
Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

e Two symposia marked the Sackler
Gallery's scholarly calendar this year.
“Ancestral Glory: The Ritual Bronzes of
Ancient China,” cosponsored by the
Arthur M. Sackler Foundation and the
Sackler Gallery, celebrated the comple-
tion of the third and final volume in
the catalogue of ancient Chinese ritual
bronzes from the Arthur M. Sackler
Collections. “The Social Functions of
Art in the Ancient Near East,” gener-
ously funded by Mrs. Arthur M.
Sackler, brought together scholars
examining art and gender, magic,
ethnicity, and style. The objects in the
exhibition were lent by the Depart-
ment of Antiquities of Jordan. The
brochure and interactive computer
program were supported by a grant
from the James Smithson Society.

e Among the highlights of the Sack-
ler Gallery’s 121 acquisitions this year
were a Chinese limestone Figure of a
Mourner, made in the seventh century
during the Tang dynasty, and a stone
Figure of a Celestial Dancer, made in Kar-
nataka, India, in the 12th or 13th cen-
tury during the Hoysala period. Both
were purchased for the gallery by the
Friends of Asian Art and the Smithso-
nian Collections Acquisition Program.

CENTER FOR
FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS
AND CULTURAL
STUDIES

Richard Kurin, Director

The Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies joins scholar-
ship, community service, and edu-
cational outreach to promote the
understanding and continuity of
diverse contemporary grassroots
cultures. A primary goal is to foster
greater participation in communi-
ty culture and appreciation for its
role in a civil society. The center
produces the annual Festival of
American Folklife, Smithsonian
Folkways Recordings, exhibitions,
documentary films and videos,
symposia, and educational materi-
als. It also conducts basic ethno-
graphic research and maintains an
extensive documentary archive.
This year, the center had a promi-
nent role in the Smithsonian’s
150th anniversary celebration.

¢ The Smithsonian’s 150th Birthday
Party on the National Mall, coordinat-
ed by the Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies, celebrated the
Institution’s legacy with two days of
activities, performances, and exhibits.
Twenty-three outdoor pavilions repre-
sented Smithsonian museums, research
institutes, and offices. Some of Ameri-
ca’s greatest singers, dancers, and musi-
cians presented more than 100 perfor-
mances, all having a connection to
Smithsonian programs. The public
enjoyed spirited debates by celebrities
from politics, the arts, media, and sci-
ence; a fireworks display over the
Smithsonian Castle and Washington
Monument; and birthday cakes created
by America’s premier chefs. They also
sent thousands of personal birthday
greetings on a huge electronic screen.
An estimated 630,000 people attended,
and millions more participated through
the Internet and conventional media.
Staff from the Canine Division of the Office of Protection

Services are interviewed in the Smithsonian Memories tent
at the Festival of American Folklife’s “Working at the
Smithsonian” program. “150 Years of Working at the
Smithsonian,” a timeline exhibition, is in the background.

(Photograph by Rick Vargas)

¢ More than 1.126 million visitors
attended the 30th annual Festival of
American Folklife, which featured three
programs. “Working at the Smithso-
nian” paid tribute to the Institution’s
150th anniversary by honoring the
people who work here. Employees
demonstrated work skills and scientific,
historical, and art historical research
and gave storytelling sessions about
working at the Smithsonian. The pro-
gram was made possible by the Smith-
sonian 150th Anniversary Program
Committee and with funds from the
Smithsonian National Board. “The
American South” featured the music,
crafts, and foodways that contribute to
the rich and distinct southern culture
known worldwide. It was made possible
by and produced in coordination with
the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic
Games Cultural Olympiad and in coop-
eration with the Southern Arts Federa-
tion. Additional support was provided
by The Recording Industries Music Per-
formance Trust Funds. “Iowa—Commu-

26

nity Style” showed the
many ways in which the
spirit of community is evi-
dent every day in homes,
community centers,
schools, workplaces, and
places of worship through-
out the state. The presen-
tations included girls’ high
school basketball games;
Iowa-style caucuses; farm-
and water-related occupa-
tions; textile, celebratory,
and wood crafts; and
music and foodways. The
Iowa program was made
possible by and produced
in coordination with the
Iowa Sesquicentennial
Commission and the lowa
Arts Council on the 150th anniversary
of lowa’s statehood. Corporate sponsors
included the HON Industries Charitable
Foundation, John Deere, The Principal
Financial Group Foundation, Inc., and
Barr-Nunn Transportation, Inc.

¢ “Southern Crossroads,” a special
program on the American South, was
part of the 1996 Olympic Arts Festival
in Atlanta from July 18 through
August 3. In addition to music stages
and crafts presentations, the festival
included Southern Marketplace, a store
in Centennial Park that sold crafts,
music, and food. Attendance was
approximately 2 million. The program
was made possible through a coopera-
tive agreement with the Atlanta Com-
mittee for the Olympic Games.

¢ The Festival of Iowa Folklife, a
restaging of the lowa program from
the Festival of American Folklife, was
held on the state capitol grounds in
Des Moines from August 22 through
August 25. The event was a collabora-
tion of the Ilowa Sesquicentennial
Commission and the Smithsonian.
Attendance topped 80,000 visitors.

CONSERVATION
ANALYTICAL
LABORATORY

Lambertus van Zelst, Director

The Conservation Analytical
Laboratory (CAL) engages in
research and training in the con-
servation and technical study of
museum objects and other materi-
als of cultural importance. CAL
addresses questions of concern to
archaeology and materials science
as well as problems facing muse-
ums, including the Smithsonian,
in the preservation and conserva-
tion of collections. A multifaceted
training program provides valuable
educational opportunities for stu-
dents in conservation, materials
sciences, and archaeology.

¢ Ongoing research into the accessi-
bility of genetic information in historic
preserved natural history specimens
has produced some encouraging
results. The common technique of fix-
ing the specimens in formaldehyde has
severely limited the utility of many
collections for both DNA-based tech-
niques for systematic studies and iso-
topic analyses for environmental
reconstruction. Using a special extrac-
tion and purification technique devel-
oped at CAL, researchers have been
able to retrieve DNA fragments from
some preserved historic fish specimens
that could be amplified through poly-
merase chain reaction and then
sequenced. While it may not be possi-
ble to retrieve DNA from all specimens,
these results are promising for the
future research value of these collec-
tions as genetic repositories as well as
resources for studying the form and
structure of the specimens. |

¢ CAL celebrated the Smithsonian’s
150th anniversary with a pavilion at
the Birthday Party on the National
Mall, where visitors talked with conser-
vation scientists, participated in an
archaeology dig, and helped CAL
researchers assemble a historic time
capsule.

e A highly successful collaboration
with Suitland High School, a magnet
school for the arts in Suitland, Mary-
and, has led to agreements to expand
this joint program in which CAL staff
were involved in teaching a course on
materials and the arts. The ultimate
goal is the development of a science
and arts curriculum package that uses
the interdisciplinary nature of conser-
vation to illustrate relationships
between the two disciplines.

e With the collaboration and spon-
sorship of the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA), CAL organized a
four-day working meeting on the appli-
cation of nuclear and radiation tech-
niques in the examination and conser-
vation of cultural materials. The
meeting centered on the use of neutron
activation trace element analysis of
ceramics in archaeological research in
Latin America and on the use of radia-
tion for biodeterioration control in cul-
tural materials. As a result of the semi-
nar, IAEA has agreed to sponsor and
fund a three-year collaborative research
program, with CAL as coordinator.

e The Furniture Conservation Train-
ing Program graduated its third class
after completion of 12 two-week
courses and a one-year internship.

Four students in the class of 1996 have
found positions as institutional
conservators, and one is establishing a
private practice. Each graduate received
a master of arts degree from Antioch
University in an arrangement in which
successful completion of the CAL pro-
gram fulfills the degree requirements.

¢ This year saw the conclusion of
the multiyear research and conserva-
tion project revolving around sixth-
millennium B.c. plaster sculptures dis-
covered at ‘Ain Ghazal, Jordan, in
1985. After five years of intense efforts
by the CAL Objects Conservation Labo-
ratory to reconstruct the artifacts, a
group of completed figures went on
display at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery
in an exhibition resulting from collab-
oration between CAL and Sackler staff.

¢ As part of its increasing education
and outreach program activities, CAL
introduced a World Wide Web site
aimed at its variety of constituencies,
from conservation professionals to the
general public. The contents highlight
upcoming courses, internship and fel-
lowship openings, and current high-
profile CAL projects. Of special interest
to the public will be electronic versions
of the CAL “Guidelines,” practical

information on conservation and

related topics.

COOPER-HEWITT,
NATIONAL DESIGN
MUSEUM

Dianne H. Pilgrim, Director

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum is the only museum in
the United States devoted exclu-
sively to historical and contempo-
rary design. Through challenging
exhibitions and publications,
innovative educational programs
for children and adults, and a
world-renowned collection, the
museum explores the impact of

design on every aspect of daily life.

¢ Through the generosity of Cooper-
Hewitt, National Design Museum's
board of trustees, members, friends, and
staff, the museum raised the $7 million
needed to complete its $20 million ren-
ovation project. This renovation,
designed by Polshek and Partners Archi-
tects, is the first expansion of the muse-
um’s facilities since it reopened in 1976
in its East 91st Street location under the
auspices of the Smithsonian. The archi-
tects’ plan makes the landmark build-
ings, the terrace, and the garden acces-
sible while respecting the architectural
integrity of the historic structures and
landscape. Leadership gifts by trustees
Agnes Cowles Bourne, Barbara Riley
Levin, Nancy Marks, Enid
Morse, Arthur Ross, and the
rest of the board of trustees
significantly contributed to
the success of the fund-raising
effort. The Smithsonian Insti-
tution provided $13 million
toward the total cost.
¢ The first phase of the renova-
tion, which included the cre-
ation of a fully accessible front

entrance, improved temperature

A young designer proudly displays
her clock design at the Cooper-
Hewitt, National Design
Museum Birthday Party

pavilion.
AN EXTENSIVE RENOVATION FOR
COOPER-HEWITT, NATIONAL
DESIGN MUSEUM

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum has
been engaged in an ambitious renovation project
to turn its landmark structures in New York City
into an accessible, functional museum facility. The
$20 million project will link the museum's three
buildings, upgrade climate controls, and create a
Design Resource Center where the museum’s col-
lections will be available for study.

Many generous individuals and foundations
contributed to this successful campaign during fis-
cal year 1996. Barbara Riley Levin, a member of
the museum's board of trustees, pledged $1 mil-
lion and helped galvanize support for the project.
The Drue Heinz Trust funded the modernization
and expansion of the Study Center for Drawings
and Prints. With a $300,000 grant, the Henry Luce
Foundation supported the creation of a study area
in the Heinz Center. A challenge grant from
Arthur Ross, a long-time benefactor and champi-
on of the museum, inspired several significant
gifts. The generous support of Nancy Marks will
be recognized in the Nancy and Edwin Marks
Master’s Program Suite. In recognition of the
benevolence of long-time museum supporter and
trustee Enid Morse, a room in the new Design
Resource Center will be named the Enid Wien
Morse Garden Room. The renovation would not
have been possible without a $2 million gift from

Agnes Cowles Bourne in fiscal year 1995.

28

control and ventilation systems in the
Carnegie Mansion, and restoration of
the mansion’s conservatory, has been
completed. Work continues on the
Design Resource Center building and
the Agnes Bourne Bridge Gallery,
which links the Carnegie Mansion, the
Design Resource Center, and the
Arthur Ross Terrace and Garden. This
second phase will be completed in fall
1997. The third and final stage will be
the reopening of the museum’s sec-
ond-floor galleries in winter 1998.

¢ While the Carnegie Mansion’s
galleries were closed to the public to
accommodate the renovation project,
the museum mounted several off-site
exhibitions. “Six Bridges and the Mak-
ing of the New York Megalopolis,”
which was on view at the PaineWebber
Art Gallery, was funded by PaineWeb-
ber Group, Inc., the J. M. Kaplan Fund,
the Arthur Ross Foundation, MTA
Bridges and Tunnels, Dr. Margot
Ammann-Durrer, and Pro-Helvetia.
“The Avant-Garde Letterhead,” at the
American Institute of Graphic Arts,
received support from Crane & Com-
pany. “Help Design Frederick Douglass
Circle” was jointly organized with the
Central Park Conservancy at the
Charles Dana Discovery Center in
Central Park.

¢ On September 16, Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum reopened its
first-floor galleries with the exhibition
“Mixing Messages: Graphic Design in
Contemporary Culture,” which
explored the power and pervasiveness
of visual communications during the
last 15 years. Support from The Mead
Corporation, Microsoft, the Smithso-
nian Institution Special Exhibition
Fund, and Duggal Color Projects made
the exhibition possible.

e An active participant in the
Smithsonian's 150th anniversary cele-
bration, the museum was the setting
for one of three CBS Smithsonian Fan-
tastic Journey specials. Objects from the
permanent collection were shown
from the Great Hall of the Carnegie
Mansion as narrator Dan Rather intro-
duced the different parts of the show.
At the Smithsonian’s Birthday Party on
the National Mall, the museum’s pavil-

ion was “It’s Time to Celebrate.” Visi-
tors were invited to explore design by
creating a working clock. As part of the |
programming for the exhibition
“America’s Smithsonian” in New York ]
City, the museum hosted a behind-the- |
scenes tour for Smithsonian members.

¢ Modeled on the tremendous suc-
cess of the master’s degree program in
the history of decorative arts in New
York, a second program began this fall
in Washington, D.C. Cosponsored by
the museum, Parsons School of Design,
and The Smithsonian Associates, the
Washington program will focus on
American decorative arts of the 19th

and 20th centuries.

FREER GALLERY
OF ART
Milo C. Beach, Director

The Freer Gallery of Art, opened in
1923 as the first art museum of
the Smithsonian, was founded
with Charles Lang Freer’s gift to
the nation of art and a building to!
house it. Although the Freer is one’
of the Smithsonian’s two national
museums of Asian art, and its
Asian collections are world
renowned, its specialized holdings
of work by 19th- and early 20th- |

century American artists include
the world’s largest selection of art |
by the American expatriate James |
McNeill Whistler. |

¢ In recognition of the Smithso-
nian’s 150th anniversary, the Freer
Gallery presented “The Life of a Japa- |
nese Painting.” This major exhibition,
which was made possible by a gener-
ous grant from the E. Rhodes and
Leona B. Carpenter Foundation, cele- .
brated the Freer’s great collection of |
Japanese art, its pioneering efforts in |
East Asian painting conservation, and —

the completion of a five-year coopera-
tive venture to conserve 34 of the

}

Freer’s outstanding Japanese paintings)

I
|
!
|
|
it leading conservation studios in
japan. In addition to facilitating timely
reatment of Freer masterpieces, the
nultimillion-dollar conservation
sroject—sponsored by the government
ind private interests in Japan—helped
strengthen research ties between the
zallery and art institutions in Japan.
[he project was the subject of a feature
article in the 150th anniversary issue
of Smithsonian magazine in May.

e The Freer and Sackler Library was
elected as the United States repository
or the Japan Art Catalog Project, a
ooperative venture of the Japan Asso-
sjation for Cultural Exchange in Tokyo
ind the National Coordinating Com-
nittee on Japanese Library Resources
n the United States. Under the agree-
nent, the library receives 500 cata-
ogues a year from Japanese museums.
in return, the library assures timely
processing of the materials, houses
-hem in appropriate storage, and pro-
vides ready access, including inter-
ibrary loan and free copying.

e The Freer Gallery has the largest
-ollection of work by American artist
Thomas Wilmer Dewing. This year,
the gallery presented an exhibition,
‘Choice Spirits: Works by Thomas
Dewing and Dwight Tryon,” to com-
olement a traveling exhibition of
Dewing’s work that was shown concur-
‘ently at the National Museum of
\merican Art. Adding to the scholarly
>xamination of Dewing’s contribution
-o American art, the two museums
ointly organized a day-long sympo-
sium, “Aesthetic Value in the Gilded
Age,” which was supported by gener-
dus grants from Mary Dewing Morain,
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Lunder, and the
David Schwartz Foundation. On the
same weekend as the symposium,
pianist Brian Ganz gave two perfor-
mances on the Steinway piano decorat-
ed by Dewing for Theodore Roosevelt's
White House.

¢ The Cleveland Quartet selected
the Freer’s Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer
Auditorium as the Washington venue
for its farewell tour this year. Before
disbanding after 27 years of critically
acclaimed performances, the quartet
presented the Freer audience with the

Japanese artist Shima

United States premiere of Farewell
Quartet, composed in recognition of
the group’s conclusion by the Ameri-
can composer John Corigliano
(b. 1938). The concert was part of the
1995-96 Bill and Mary Meyer Concert
Series, which was established in mem-
ory of Dr. Eugene Meyer III and Mary
Adelaide Bradley Meyer. It is generous-
ly supported by The Island Fund in the
New York Community Trust.

¢ More than 2,000 visitors attended
the film festival “New from Hong
Kong,” held in the Meyer Auditorium
and presenting the Washington pre-
mieres of eight feature films from
Hong Kong’s flourishing motion pic-
ture industry. The Hong €

Michael Bryant)
Kong Economic and

Trade Office in
Washington
cosponsored the
week-long festival
with the Freer and
Sackler Galleries.

e Among the 55
works of art acquired by the
Freer this year was a hanging
scroll purchased for the
gallery by the membership
group Friends of Asian Art.
Beauty in the Guise of a Man
was painted with ink and
color on silk in the early

20th century by the

Sei’en (1893-1970), one
of three distinguished
women artists of her
time who were
prominent partici-
pants in a revival of

a tradition called
bijin-ga, or “pic-
tures of beauties.”

A Chinese dragon cavorts in front of
the Freer Gallery of Art at the 150th
Birthday Party. (Photograph by
30

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM
AND SCULPTURE
GARDEN

James T. Demetrion, Director

The Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, the Smithso-
nian Institution’s showcase for
modern and contemporary art, is
committed to increasing the
awareness and understanding of
art through acquisitions, exhibi-
tions, publications, research activi-
ties, public programs, and the pre-
sentation of the collection in its
galleries and outdoor exhibition
spaces. The museum provides a
public facility for the exhibition,
study, and preservation of 19th-
and 20th-century art while pre-
senting a spectrum of contempo-
rary work.

¢ For the Smithsonian's 150th
Birthday Party on the National Mall,
the Hirshhorn presented two days of

“Young at Art” family activities

designed to encourage creativity.

Enthusiastic children and adults literal-
ly jammed the museum's pavilion to
enjoy a one-person puppet show and
join in hands-on workshops exploring
mobiles, woodcarving, masks, drawing,
and puppet making. Each participant
received a list of works of art inside the
museum that related to their own cre-
ations. Also popular was an ongoing
face-painting workshop.

e Sixteen works of art from the
Hirshhorn’s collection were included in
the “America’s Smithsonian” exhibi-
tion. Among them were Auguste
Rodin’'s Walking Man, 1900, and Henry
Moore's Draped Reclining Figure,
1952-53, which weigh 273 kilograms
(600 pounds) and 386 kilograms (850
pounds), respectively. Both pieces, long
favorites of museum visitors, were lifted
three stories out of the Sculpture Gar-
den as the news media recorded the
packing and crating. At 282 centimeters
(111 inches), the crate for the Rodin
sculpture was one of the largest created
in preparation for the exhibition.

e “Art Night on the Mall,” an
extended-hours initiative shared with
the other Smithsonian art museums on
the National Mall, drew enthusiastic
visitors to the Hirshhorn over 14 sum-

Nam June Paik’s Video Flag, 1985-96, which has four laser discs, disc players,

and 70 13-inch monitors, is the first video installation in the Hirshhorn Museum

and Sculpture Garden’s collection. It was acquired this year through the Holenia

Purchase Fund in Memory of Joseph H. Hirshhorn. (Photograph by Lee Stalsworth)

mer Thursdays. Gallery talks, films,
and a resource center in conjunction
with the exhibition “Distemper: Disso-
nant Themes in the Art of the 1990s”
were featured.

e Through acquisitions funds as
well as gifts from generous donors, the
museum continued to acquire signifi-
cant works by modern and contempo-
rary artists. Among highlights for the
year were Nam June Paik’s kaleido-
scopic multimonitor sculpture Video
Flag, 1985-96, the museum’s first
acquisition of video art; a fluorescent
sculpture by Dan Flavin, Untitled
(Monument for V. Tatlin), 1967; Stephan
Balkenhol’s figurative wood sculpture
Three Hybrids, 1995; Sue Coe’s oil and
collage Malcolm X and the Slaughter-
house, 1985; Carmen Lomas Garza’s
alkyd and oil on canvas Earache Treat-
ment, 1989; Guillermo Kuitca’s oil on
canvas Mozart-da Ponte I, 1995; and
Doris Salcedo’s wood, cement, cloth,
and steel sculpture Untitled, 1995.

¢ The Hirshhorn’s exhibition pro-
gram highlighting international con-
temporary art underscored the achieve-
ments of two Germans: sculptor
Stephan Balkenhol in his first North
American museum showing and
painter Georg Baselitz in a critically
acclaimed 30-year survey on tour from
the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum
in New York, which organized the
exhibition. The thought-provoking
“Distemper: Dissonant Themes in the
Art of the 1990s” examined varied
responses to contemporary life by 10
midcareer artists from the Americas
and Europe. Smaller shows featured
the diverse visions of Americans Car-
men Lomas Garza (narrative paint-
ings), Beverly Semmes (a fabric
installation), and Byron Kim (mono-
chromatic abstractions).

Support for the Balkenol exhibition —
and its accompanying publications was
provided by a grant from Schmitter
Media-Agentur, Frankfurt am Main.
Additional support was provided by |
the Institute for Foreign Affairs, Federal
Republic of Germany. The museum
gratefully acknowledges the patronage |
of the ambassador of the Federal
Republic of Germany for the presenta-
tion of the exhibition in Washington. |
Phe Baselitz exhibition was made pos-
ible by Hugo Boss, with significant
\dditional support from Deutsche Bank
\G and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
‘ederal Republic of Germany. The
Nashington showing was made possi-
yle by the Holenia Trust Fund. Major
upport for the “Distemper” exhibition
vas provided by the Lannan Founda-
ion, with additional funding from
aul and Camille Oliver-Hoffmann,
he British Council, The Henry Moore
‘oundation, the Institute for Foreign
Affairs, Federal Republic of Germany,
ind the Mondriaan Foundation, Ams-
erdam. The Elizabeth Firestone Gra-
qam Foundation and the Washington
Post Company provided partial support
‘or the exhibition’s publications; the
srochure was printed courtesy of the
Washington Post Company.

¢ Other educational highlights
included a family day with Carmen
Lomas Garza celebrating Mexican
American culture, a writer’s workshop
with five authors helping participants
compose poetry and prose based on
paintings in the permanent collection,
and an artist-curator panel exploring
Byron Kim’s abstractions and Korean
celadon ceramics at the Freer Gallery of
Art. Eight “Young at Art” family work-
shops enthralled children and adults
during the year. In addition, more than
22,000 people attended free film pro-
grams featuring cutting-edge interna-
tional independent cinema, documen-
taries on contemporary artists, and
family-oriented animation.

NATIONAL AIR
AND SPACE MUSEUM

Donald D. Engen, Director

In 1996, the National Air and
Space Museum celebrated its own
20th anniversary as well as the
Smithsonian’s 150th. Throughout
the year, the museum presented
new programs, visitor services, and
activities to commemorate these

two milestones.

e A new gallery, “How Things Fly,”
opened in September as the center-
piece of the museum’s 20th anniver-
sary celebration. The gallery introduces
visitors to the science and technology
that make aviation and spaceflight
possible. Highlights include a Cessna
aircraft that visitors can enter and
dozens of interactive devices, including
the world’s only visitor-operated super-
sonic wind tunnel in a museum. “How
Things Fly” is made possible through
the generous funding of The Boeing
Company and a grant from the
National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, with additional sup-
port from the National Science Foun-
dation, the Smithsonian Institution
Special Exhibition Fund, and the James
Smithson Society.

¢ Treasured objects from the muse-
um’s collection, spanning the histo-
ry of air and space exploration, are
touring the nation with “America’s
Smithsonian.” They include the
Wright brothers’ wood-and-
fabric biplane the Vin Fiz,
which Calbraith Perry
Rodgers piloted on the
first United States
transcontinental

flight in 1911, and the space suit com-
mander David Scott wore on the Apol-
lo 15 lunar mission in 1971.

e In August, the museum marked
the Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary
with the premiere of a new IMAX fea-
ture, Cosmic Voyage. The film, narrated
by actor Morgan Freeman and spon-
sored by the Motorola Foundation,
takes viewers on a tour of the known
universe, from superclusters of galaxies
to the tiniest building blocks of the
universe.

¢ The National Air and Space
Museum Explainers made their debut
in 1996. The Explainers are a diverse
group of area high school and college
students who work in the “How
Things Fly” gallery performing demon-
strations and answering visitor ques-
tions. The Cessna Aircraft Company
has generously agreed to sponsor the
program through 2006.

¢ On July 1, the museum’s 20th
anniversary, retired Vice-Admiral

Donald D. Engen became director.

Retired Vice-Admiral Donald D. Engen, who was

named director of the National Air and Space
Museum this year, stands with the concept

» model of the museum’s Dulles Center.

| (Photograph by Carolyn Russo)
‘
IMPRESSIVE SUPPORT FROM THE
NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE SOCIETY

A new membership group, the National Air and
Space Society, is building a broad constituency
base for the National Air and Space Museum. The
society’s support is especially vital to the planning
and construction of the museum’s new center at
Washington’s Dulles International Airport as well
as to the continuing restoration and preservation

of the museum’s aviation and spacecraft collection.

The society had a highly successful first year,
attracting more than 6,000 individual donors and
raising more than $400,000. Members may join at
seven levels, ranging from $35 to $2,500 in annu-
al dues. The museum offered a variety of special
events for Air and Space Society members in
1996, including a lecture series featuring top
World War II aviators General Gunther Rall,
Colonel William Lawley, the Soviet fighter ace
General Vitali Grer Popkov, and others. Joseph

T. N. Suarez is director of the society.

Education Specialist Peter Pipim shares
folktales in the National Museum of

African Art pavilion during the Birth- =
day Party on the Mall. (Photograph by ;

Rick Vargas)

32

Other anniversary highlights included
the release of a 20th anniversary edi-
tion of the classic IMAX film To Fly!
and special “You Can Fly” weekend
activities with participants from a
cross-section of general aviation associ-
ations and organizations.

e At a special media event at Dulles
International Airport, the museum
unveiled the concept model for the
National Air and Space Museum Dulles
Center. The center will allow preserva-
tion and restoration work to continue
in a proper environment. It will also
give the public access to treasures from
the national collection, such as the SR-
71 Blackbird spy plane, the space shut-
tle Enterprise, and the fully restored
and reassembled Boeing B-29 super-
fortress Enola Gay.

¢ The new National Air and Space
Society grew to more than 6,000 mem-
bers. Flyer, a members’ newsletter,
made its debut. Throughout the year,
the museum sponsored special pro-
grams for society members in Wash-
ington, D.C., and around the country.

¢ In May, Apollo 11 astronaut and
former director Michael Collins
returned to the museum to present the
annual Charles A. Lindbergh Memorial
Lecture. In recognition of the 20th
anniversary, Collins’ lecture, “From
the Moon to the Mall,” recalled the
museum’s early history. In April,
Apollo 13 commander James
Lovell gave the annual Wernher
von Braun Memorial Lecture,
“Apollo 13: A Successful Failure.”

¢ In March, the National Air
and Space Museum welcomed its
175 millionth visitor.

NATIONAL MUSEUM
OF AFRICAN ART

Patricia Fiske, Acting Director

The National Museum of African
Art celebrates the rich visual tradi-,
tions and extraordinarily diverse
cultures of Africa and fosters an
appreciation of African art and
civilizations through its collec-
tions, exhibitions, research, and
public programs. The extensive
permanent collection reflects the
museum’s new interest in modern
African art and is a tribute to the
legacy of Sylvia H. Williams, who
served as the museum’s director
from 1983 until her death in Feb-
ruary 1996.

¢ With the acquisition this year of
70 works of art by modern African
artists, the museum expanded the scop¢
of its acquisitions and research. These
modern works—including paintings,
drawings, ceramics, and mixed media—
will be displayed in a new gallery to be

named for Sylvia H.
Williams.

e As part of its
ongoing educa
tional pro-
gramming
focusing on

ancient
Nubia, the

museum sponsored a lecture series
titled “Who Were the Ancient
Nubians?” The series, which drew the
largest lecture audience in the muse-
um’s history, explored issues raised by
“The Ancient Nubian City of Kerma,
2500-1500 B.c.,” an exhibition of
objects on long-term loan from the
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

e The museum joined in the Smith-
sonian’s 150th anniversary celebration
with a Birthday Party pavilion that
invited participants to experience
Africa through music, dance, and
storytelling. Among the objects the
museum contributed to “America’s
Smithsonian” were a Yoruba staff, a slit
gong in the shape of a bovine, a mask
and a gold pendant from Cote d'Ivoire,
and a Ghanaian double figure.

e In a continuing effort to share its
premier collection with communities
outside of Washington, the museum
made several significant loans this year.
Works from the collection were lent to
“Africa: The Art of a Continent,” a trav-
eling exhibition organized by the Royal
Academy of London and also held at
the Martin-Gropius-Bau in Berlin and
the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum
in New York, and to “Rings: Five Pas-
sions in the World of Art,” an exhibi-
tion at Atlanta’s High Museum of Art
that was developed in conjunction
with the summer Olympic Games.

¢ The critically acclaimed “Seydou
Keita, Photographer: Portraits from
Bamako, Mali” marked the first time
the museum has featured the work of
an African photographer. The exhibi-
tion presented 24 of the artist’s evoca-
tive portraits and attested to his
unique vision and artistic sensibilities.

¢ The exhibition “Three Explo-
rations: Yoruba, Temne, and Baga” pre-
sented curatorial research on three
unusual and rarely collected works of
art recently acquired by the museum.
The works—a Yoruba mask, a “Temne”
female figure, and a Baga ritual
object—were explored in terms of attri-
bution, iconography, style, use and
meaning, and history.

¢ The museum’s conservation
department was selected to host a
summer intern as part of a new pro-
gram sponsored by the Foundation of

the American Institute for Conserva-
tion and funded by the J. Paul Getty
Trust. The program was set up to
increase awareness of the conservation
profession among minority students
and to provide them with experience
working in a conservation laboratory.

NATIONAL MUSEUM
OF AMERICAN ART

Elizabeth Broun, Director

The National Museum of Ameri-
can Art, the nation’s museum ded-
icated to the arts and artists of the
United States from colonial times
to the present, provides collections
and research resources that enable
the public and scholars to use and
enjoy America’s visual arts at the
museum and by personal comput-
er. The museum, which includes
the Renwick Gallery, serves diverse
audiences throughout the nation
as well as those who visit its two
historic landmark buildings in
Washington, D.C.

¢ To commemorate the Smithso-
nian’s 150th anniversary, the museum
organized “Metropolitan Lives: The
Ashcan Artists and Their New York,” a
major exhibition of paintings that cap-
tured the unbridled energy of New
York City at the turn of the century.
Despite the challenges of opening an
exhibition in the midst of a federal
government shutdown, the museum
persevered and soon welcomed back
an eager public. A flurry of positive
media coverage ensued, including a
two-page spread in Time magazine and
an Associated Press story published in
newspapers across the country. After
closing on March 17, “Metropolitan
Lives” traveled to the New-York Histor-
ical Society, where it continued to
receive rave reviews from critics and
visitors. Generous gifts from the
William R. and Nora H. Lichtenberg
Foundation, the Overbrook Founda-
tion, and Mr. and Mrs. Richard J.

Schwartz provided support, assisted by
the Smithsonian Institution Special
Exhibition Fund.

e Also in honor of the Smithso-
nian’s anniversary, Consolidated Nat-
ural Gas Company Foundation estab-
lished an innovative Partnership in
American Art with the museum by
pledging $250,000 to support the pro-
gram goals of the photography depart-
ment over the next several years. The
company’s funding for the museum’s
major fall 1996 exhibition, “American
Photographs: The First Century from
the Isaacs Collection in the National
Museum of American Art,” was the
first benefit of this new partnership. In
addition, the gift supports the develop-
ment of an extensive World Wide Web
site on the museum’s entire photogra-
phy collection, with a special focus on
the Isaacs collection.

¢ The museum published its first
quarterly newsletter, dedicated to activi-
ties and programs at the museum and
its Renwick Gallery. From previews of
upcoming exhibitions and collection
highlights to glimpses behind the
scenes, the newsletter is designed to pro-
vide a broad view of museum offerings.

¢ In celebration of the 150th
anniversary, the museum inaugurated
a new Director’s Circle membership
program. Director’s Circle members—
the museum’s highest level of general
membership—and special guests
enjoyed an event-filled weekend at the
museum beginning with a dinner on
Friday and continuing with “A Day of
Art and Conversation” on Saturday.
The program included private tours of
the permanent collection and special
exhibitions with director Elizabeth
Broun, frame expert Eli Wilner, and
senior Curators Virginia Mecklenberg
and Richard Murray. Each annual
$1,500 Director’s Circle gift is dedicat-
ed to providing financial support for
education and outreach programs.

¢ Organized by Michael Monroe,
the former curator-in-charge of the
Renwick Gallery, and first shown at
the National Museum of American Art,
the heralded exhibition “The White
House Collection of American Crafts”
traveled to two locations this year: the
Museum of Fine Arts, Springfield,

33
34

Massachusetts, and the Los Angeles
County Museum of Art. The accompa-
nying virtual tour of the exhibition on
the Internet, which was made possible
by MCI, receives renewed interest with
each new tour destination.

e “America’s Smithsonian” includes
works of art from the museum’s collec-
tion that show the inspiration of the
American experience, including the
impressionist Childe Hassam’s view of
The South Ledges, Appledore, 1913; Fred-
erick Edwin Church’s majestic Aurora

Borealis, 1865; and George Catlin’s por-

trait of Corn, A Miniconjou Warrior, 1832.

¢ People of all ages experienced
American art as part of the Smithso-
nian’s Birthday Party festivities on the
National Mall. The design and installa-
tion department crafted the museum's
pavilion, and the education depart-
ment created special events. Visitors
participated in sandstone demonstra-
tions by Mr. Imagination (Gregory
Warmack), a Chicago-based artist;

posed with a cardboard rendition of
Cappy, the bottle-cap giraffe, a signa-
ture folk art work from the museum;
and designed and created their own
artistic wearable buttons.

e In perfect timing with the 150th
anniversary, the Renwick Gallery was
proud to welcome back the Centennial
Vases, which had been on loan to
“1876: A Centennial Exhibition” in the
Arts and Industries Building for 20
years. The vases were exhibited at the
Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia
in 1876 and presented to the United
States on the occasion of its 100th
birthday by the French government.
One vase, 1776: The Struggle, honors
the signers of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence; the other, 1876: Prosperity,
honors the United States presidents
from Washington to Grant. The vases
are on loan to the Renwick Gallery
from the Division of Ceramics and
Glass at the National Museum of

American History.

At the National Museum of American Art pavilion, Chicago-based artist Mr. Imag-

ination—shown displaying his signature bottlecap figures—encourages a young vis-

itor to create sand designs in paper. (Photograph by Leonard Stockman)

NATIONAL MUSEUM
OF AMERICAN
HISTORY

Spencer R. Crew, Director

The National Museum of Ameri-
can History dedicates its collec-
tions and scholarship to inspiring
a broader understanding of our
nation and its many peoples.
Drawing on more than 17 million
objects in its collections and on
the holdings of its Archives Cen-
ter, the museum creates learning
opportunities, stimulates imagina-
tions, and presents challenging
ideas about our nation’s past. Dur-
ing the Smithsonian’s 150th
anniversary year, the museum
joined efforts locally and across
the country to bring the Smithso-
nian to the American people.

¢ The museum presented five exhi-
bitions in conjunction with the 150th
anniversary. “Building a National Col-
lection: 150 Years of Print Collecting at
the Smithsonian” featured striking

prints from the museum’s holdings anc

focused on how private collectors and
public attitudes have influenced the
development of the collection. A new
book, Prints at the Smithsonian: The Ori-
gin of a National Collection, accompa-
nied the exhibition. “The Engraver’s
Art in U.S. Mint Commemorative
Coins” gave visitors a close look at the
$5 gold coin and silver dollar issued
August 10 to commemorate the Institu
tion’s 150 years. “Museums at the
Smithsonian: 150 Years of Collecting”
went on display in the Arts and Indus-
tries Building. “The 1896 Washington |
Salon and Art Photography” told the
story of the first formal art photogra-
phy exhibition in the United States,
which led the Smithsonian to add 50
of the images to the national collec-
tion. “Extending the Legacy: Planning
America’s Capital for the 21st Century”
showed the evolution of the initial
plan of the nation’s capital and
explained the Smithsonian’s important,

|
i
Equer Octavius =
Leonu® Romanus =

r
Picto SEES bas

The Italian engraver Octave Leoni (1587-1630)
created this Portrait of Thomas Salinus in
1625. The engraving appeared in the National
Museum of American History’s exhibition
“Building a National Collection: 150 Years of

Print Collecting at the Smithsonian.”

role in shaping the design and architec-
ture of the National Mall.

¢ The museum contributed to the
150th anniversary exhibition “Ameri-
ca’s Smithsonian” by lending more
than 50 of its most cherished artifacts,
including a Tucker automobile, George
Washington's battle sword and scab-
bard, and examples of First Ladies’
gowns. The museum also provided
staff time and talents in conservation,
exhibition production, packing and
shipping, installation, and research.
Museum staff conceived, researched,
wrote, and helped to create “American
Voices: Music at the Smithsonian,”
which accompanies the show and is
presented by Discover® Card. Musi-
cians from the museum’s own Smith-
sonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra per-
formed at each exhibition venue, and
as part of the “Voices of Discovery”
program, staff members lectured at
every stop.

e The museum helped spread the
word about the 150th anniversary cele-
bration through its support for “Smith-
sonian Minutes,” a series of 60-second

™~ Salinus

Retor -
\
yi

history quizzes broadcast by
the CBS Television Network
that offered information about
treasured Smithsonian artifacts
presented by well-known fig-
ures. Several of the spots fea-
tured objects from the muse-
um’s collections, including the
Star-Spangled Banner, Abraham
Lincoln’s hat, and a personality
quiz taken by Albert Einstein.
¢ To help ring in the Birthday
Party on the National Mall,
staff members provided essen-
tial technical support in the
creation, installation, and
operation of the new Smithso-
nian bell in the Castle’s clock
tower. For the party itself,
more than 70 staff members
helped present “Live 'n’
Jumpin’,” two days of perfor-
mances by 12 groups repre-
senting the diverse communi-
ties of Washington, D.C., and
their musical heritage.
e The 150th anniversary also
figured in scholarly work. The
museum honored the struggle
of African Americans for educational
advancement with the three-day sym-
posium “. .. Mind on Freedom: Cele-
brating the History and Culture of
America’s Black Colleges and Universi-
ties.” Staff of the Division of Costume
offered a year-long series titled “Looking
American: 150 Years of Collecting,”
which included lectures and research on
the collection of costumes and textiles.
¢ The National Postal Museum cele-
brated the 150th anniversary of the
Smithsonian and the 25th anniversary
of the United States Postal Service with
the creation of a new exhibition, “Rein-
venting Government: The Transforma-
tion of the United States Postal Ser-
vice.” A variety of public programs,
including a one-day symposium that
featured six postmasters general,
accompanied the exhibition. The muse-
um also participated in the issuance of
a commemorative postage stamp in
honor of the 150th anniversary and
offered hands-on activities and musical
performances in its Birthday Party
pavilion, “Postal Pandemonium.”

LEMELSON CENTER HONORS
INVENTION

Through the generosity of Jerome Lemelson, one
of America’s most prolific inventors, and his wife,
Dorothy, young people are exploring the wonders
of invention and innovation. The Jerome and
Dorothy Lemelson Center for the Study of Inven-
tion and Innovation was established at the
National Museum of American History in 1995
and dedicated in 1996. The Lemelsons’ gift of
$10.4 million to found the center was the largest
single gift from an individual ever made to the
Institution.

This unprecedented private support will allow
the center to preserve records and artifacts, carry
out a program of research, discussion, and publi-
cations, and engage young people in the study of
invention. A symposium series, along with pro-
grams such as “Innovative Lives,” a series of pub-
lic presentations, demonstrations, and hands-on
experiments, bring people together with inven-
tors. This year, for example, middle-school stu-
dents met James McLurkin, inventor of an elec-
tronic device that makes computers simulate the
sense of touch. For Women’s History Month,
Stephanie Kwolek—inventor of Kevlar™, a fiber
used in bullet-resistant vests—was the featured

“Innovative Lives” speaker.

35
A YEAR OF ACCOMPLISHMENT FOR
NMAI’S NATIONAL CAMPAIGN

The National Campaign for the National Museum
of the American Indian celebrated a momentous
accomplishment in fiscal year 1996. Driven by a
large-scale public-private partnership, the cam-
paign raised its congressionally mandated share
of the construction funds for the museums build-
ing on the National Mall. Hundreds of thousands
of donors on all levels are helping to create the
new museum—including Charter Members, who
collectively raised more than $6.5 million for the
construction fund.

Major gifts pledged in 1996 include contribu-
tions from the Turner Foundation, the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation, the DeGrazia Arts and
Cultural Foundation, and the Ahmanson Founda-
tion. The Greenwich Workshop, Inc., gave
$250,000 for “Stories of the People,” the muse-
um’s first exhibition on the Mall, which opened in
the Arts and Industries Building during the 150th
Birthday Party weekend.

The International Founders Council, a group of
leaders from throughout the Western Hemi-
sphere, provides direction for the campaign’s
marketing, public relations, and fund-raising
efforts. Smithsonian Secretary |. Michael Heyman

and Gene A. Keluche are cochairs of the council.

36

The model of the proposed National Museum of the American Indian, seen from

the north side facing the Mall, was unveiled this year. The building is scheduled to

open in 2002. (Photograph courtesy of Douglas Cardinal Architects, P.C.)

NATIONAL MUSEUM
OF THE AMERICAN
INDIAN

W. Richard West Jr., Director

The National Museum of the
American Indian is dedicated to
the preservation, study, and exhi-
bition of the life, languages, litera-
ture, history, and arts of natives of
the Western Hemisphere. In con-
sultation, collaboration, and coop-
eration with native peoples, the
museum works to protect and fos-
ter their cultures by reaffirming
traditions and beliefs, encouraging
artistic expression, and providing
a forum for Indian voices.

e During the Smithsonian’s 150th
anniversary year, the museum reached
a milestone in its development. The
National Campaign of the National
Museum of the American Indian suc-
ceeded in raising its share of the con-
struction funds mandated in legisla-

tion enacted by Congress in 1989 for
the new museum on the National
Mall. The resounding commitment of
individuals, foundations, corporations,
and Native American tribes throughou
the country enabled the museum to
succeed at this historic endeavor.

e Another milestone for the muse-
um was approval by the Commission
of Fine Arts of the concept design for
the new building on the Mall. The
architectural firm of GBQC Architects,
Philadelphia, in association with Dou-
glas Cardinal Architects Ltd. of Ottawa
Ontario, Canada, designed the build-
ing, which will be constructed on the
last available site on the Mall, east of
the National Air and Space Museum
and across from the National Gallery
of Art. It is scheduled to open to the
public in 2002.

e “Stories of the People,” the muse-
um/’s first exhibition at the Smithso-
nian in Washington, opened in the
Arts and Industries Building on August
10, the first day of the 150th Birthday
Party. The exhibition features 200
objects chosen by seven native selec-

tors representing six tribes or regional
groups from the Americas. It surveys
the last 150 years, a period of great
social and cultural change for native
peoples. Made possible through the
generosity of The Greenwich Work-
shop, Inc., “Stories of the People” will
be on view through August 10, 1997.

e The museum went live during the
Smithsonian's Birthday Party weekend
with CoNexus, a project developed by
the museum’s resource center and pub-
lic programs department to transmit
live performances over the World Wide
Web. The special Web page featured a
live simulcast of the museum’s activi-
ties, which was updated every few
minutes with text from on-site “video
curators.” CoNexus will occupy a per-
manent site on the Web, offering
worldwide computer access to public
programs at the museum’s George Gus-
fav Heye Center in New York City.

e The museum lent a number of
objects from its collection to “Ameri-
ca’s Smithsonian,” including feather
war bonnets from the Comanche and
Pawnee peoples, a bear-claw necklace
that signifies bravery and stature
among the Mesquakie peoples, and a
ceramic vessel by Rachel Namingha
Nampeyo (1902-85), a third-genera-
tion Hopi potter.

¢ Dedication ceremonies were held
October 18 on the site of the Cultural
Resources Center in Suitland, Mary-
land, scheduled to open in 1998. The
center will house the museum’s vast
collection of 1 million objects and pro-
vide space for research and community
services, including support for the
resource centers at the Heye Center
and the Mall museum.

¢ The museum hosted its first pub-
lic symposium, “The Changing Presen-
tation of the American Indian,” at the
Heye Center on October 7 and 8.
Prominent native and non-native
scholars gave papers and discussed the
presentation of the American Indian in
museums and the media during recent
decades. The Smithsonian’s 150th
Anniversary Program Committee pro-
vided support for the symposium.

NATIONAL
MUSEUM OF
NATURAL HISTORY
Robert W. Fri, Director

Participation in the Smithsonian’s
150th birthday celebration has
taken many forms at the National
Museum of Natural History, from
providing some of the museum’s
most interesting objects for
“America’s Smithsonian” to
attracting some 600 registrants for
the sixth North American Paleon-
tological Conference.

¢ The museum's most successful
temporary exhibition in this anniver-
sary year was “Landscape Kimonos by
Itchiku Kubota.” Kubota revived an
ancient Japanese dyeing technique to
create shimmering images of the natur-
al world on kimonos. The exhibition
catalogue is the best-selling catalogue
in Smithsonian history; the Museum
Shop sold more than 277,000 copies
during the five months “Landscape
Kimonos” was on view. The Nippon
Foundation provided funding for the
exhibition.

e On the eve of the 150th Birthday
Party on the National Mall, a Martian
meteorite containing possible evidence
of life on Mars went on display in the
museum amid intense interest from
local and national media. The 4.5-bil-
lion-year-old meteorite was collected
in Antarctica in 1984 during a joint
research project of the National Sci-
ence Foundation, the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration, and
the Smithsonian.

¢ Vice-President Al Gore, a Smithso-
nian Regent, participated in the August
2 preview of the HoloGlobe, which
opened to the public on August 10. A
collaborative effort of the museum, the
National Science Foundation, the
Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, and the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, the HoloGlobe provides three-
dimensional visualization that will
allow scientists studying climate change

THE HOPE DIAMOND’S
NEW DISPLAY

For many visitors, the Hope Diamond is synony-
mous with the Smithsonian. When the fabled dia-
mond is installed in the National Museum of Nat-
ural History's new Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall of
Geology, Gems, and Minerals, set to open in Sep-
tember 1997, it will have a custom-designed safe,
security system, and display case, created by
Diebold, Incorporated, of Canton, Ohio, and
donated to the Smithsonian.

The gift represents approximately $500,000 in
materials, design, and engineering time. Diebold
and the Hope Diamond have had a long associa-
tion. A vault manufactured by the firm has
secured the diamond since Harry Winston gave it
to the museum in 1958.

The Hope Diamond exhibit will be the center-
piece of the Harry Winston Gallery in the new
hall. The unique design of the display case allows
visitors to view the diamond from all sides.
Diebold engineers worked closely with Smithso-
nian designers, curators, and security personnel
for more than a year to create mechanisms to
exacting specifications and ensure that the case
will be both beautiful and secure. For future gen-
erations of Smithsonian visitors, the Hope Dia-
mond will remain one of the most memorable

objects in the nation’s collections.

37
and global resources to display their
data on a three-dimensional sphere.

¢ The Institution’s 150th Birthday
Party was the perfect setting for show-
casing the museum’s knowledgeable
scientific staff and Internet-accessible
resources. In the Online Smithsonian
pavilion, partygoers viewed the muse-
um’s many World Wide Web pages,
which feature resources such as the Arc-
tic Studies Center’s virtual exhibit, the
paleobiology department's Shark Tooth
Identification Key, and the botany
department’s botanical illustrations.

¢ Contemporary and historical
works by Smithsonian illustrators
reveal the changing yet timeless look
of scientific illustrations during the
past 150 years at the Smithsonian. The
exhibition “Eyes on Science” explores
science and art, complete with hands-
on activities in the “Drawing Room”
that encourage observation skills in
visitors ages 10 and up. The Smithso-
nian Women’s Committee and the
150th Anniversary Program Commit-
tee provided support for the exhibi-
tion. Allen Press, Inc., donated the
brochure printing; World Color Lan-
man Progressives, Inc., contributed col-
or separations for the brochure and
poster; and Reproductions, Inc., donat-
ed the poster printing.

¢ Successful partnerships with
regional and national universities, cor-
porations, and government agencies
have helped fuel the success of the
museum's Natural Partners Initiative.
As the Smithsonian seeks to expand its
educational outreach through elec-
tronic media, programs such as this
one are instrumental. One project, the
Electronic Classroom, opened on
March 19 with a videoconference
between museum and National Science
Foundation scientists in Antarctica.
Other Natural Partners projects have
included the HoloGlobe, World Wide
Web pages, and video broadcasts from

the museum’s Insect Zoo.
Ohn (Mount Fuji): Tender, Cool Dawn, an exquisite image of the natural world created on a kimono * Marine zoologist David Pawson

by the Japanese artist Itchiku Kubota, was on view at the National Museum of Natural History. from the Smithsonian Marine Station
at Link Port in Florida took Dan Rather
on an underwater adventure in the
R/V Edwin Link for the first of three
Smithsonian Fantastic Journey specials
broadcast on CBS for the 150th

38
nniversary. Diving off the coast of the
;ahamas, Rather and Pawson descend-
d into the deep sea to view and col-
ect echinoderms. The Marine Station
Iso took an important step toward
chieving its plans for a land-based
aboratory when it closed on the pur-
hase of 3.2 hectares (8 acres) of land
rom the John D. and Catherine T.
AacArthur Foundation on April 16.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT
sALLERY

\lan Fern, Director

‘he National Portrait Gallery is
ledicated to the exhibition and
tudy of portraits of people who
lave made significant contribu-
ions to American history and cul-
ure and to the study of the artists
vho created such portraiture. The
rallery sponsors a variety of schol-
itly and public activities for audi-
nces interested in American art
ind American history.

e “1846: Portrait of the Nation,” the
remier 150th birthday exhibition for
he Smithsonian, focused on the politi-
al, cultural, and social character of
\merica in 1846. The year bustled with
ictivity, including battles over slavery
n Congress, the beginning of the Mex-
can-American War, medical break-
hroughs in anesthesia, and the publi-
‘ation of Herman Melville’s Typee.
1846” was featured on C-SPAN with
nterviews with Alan Fern, director,
ind Margaret Christman, historian and
»xhibition curator. The exhibition was
nade possible by a grant from the
smithsonian Institution Special Exhibi-
ion Fund. “Rebels: Painters and Poets
of the 1950s” examined the revolu-
ions in painting and poetry on the
ast and West Coasts following World
War II. The “Painters” section included
such New York School artists as Jack-
son Pollock, Willem and Elaine de
<ooning, and Robert Motherwell. Jack
<erouac, Allen Ginsberg, and William
3urroughs were among the countercul-

John Vanderlyn’s portrait (ca. 1825) of Major Samuel Ringgold, the Mexican War's

first martyr in 1846, was included in the National Portrait Gallery’s exhibition
“1846: Portrait of the Nation.” National Portrait Gallery, gift of the William
Woodville Estate. (Photograph by Rolland White)

ture icons featured in “Poets.” A high-
light of the exhibition was the day-
long symposium and poetry reading
that included Gregory Corso, Robert
Creeley, Kenward Elmslie, Lawrence
Ferlinghetti, Allen Ginsberg, Kenneth
Koch, Michael McClure, and Jonathan
Williams. The exhibition was made
possible in part by a grant from the
Yamagata Foundation. “Red, Hot &
Blue: A Salute to American Musicals,”
jointly organized with the National
Museum of American History and
sponsored by Discover® Card, included
some 400 photographs, caricatures, set
designs, costumes, memorabilia, and
audio and video clips tracing the musi-
cal from its roots in 19th-century
vaudeville through the modern era.

Additional support was provided by
The Shubert Foundation, the Ira and
Leonore Gershwin Philanthropic Fund,
Hal and Judy Prince, and the Smithso-
nian Institution Special Exhibition
Fund. In-kind support was provided by
Red Hot & Blue Limited Partnership.

e Acquisitions of paintings and
sculptures during the Smithsonian’s
150th anniversary year include portraits
of Samuel Ringgold by John Vanderlyn,
Ginger Rogers by Isamu Noguchi,
Arthur M. Sackler by David Cregeen,
and Mary Garden by Mark Tobey.
Acquisitions of prints and drawings
include James Russell Lowell by Samuel
Laurence, Henry James and Charles
Yerkes by Max Beerbohm, and Harpo
Marx, Eva Le Gallienne, and Mae West

39
CAPTURING AMERICA’S FLAVOR
IN “1846”

To celebrate the Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary,
the National Portrait Gallery presented “1846:
Portrait of the Nation,” an exhibition tracing the
events that gripped the nation, as well as the
more mundane rhythms of daily life, in the year
the Smithsonian was founded. In 1846, the Mexi-
can-American War was in progress, America’s
expansionist zeal was contested in Congress and
with England over the Oregon boundary, and
social reformers championed causes from temper-
ance to transcendentalism. Among the significant
figures who captured the nation’s attention that
year were James K. Polk, Sam Houston, Edgar
Allan Poe, Dorothea Dix, Zachary Taylor, Samuel
F. B. Morse, and Brigham Young.

“Our goal was to present what it was like to be
alive in America in 1846,” said curator Margaret
Christman. “We also wanted to capture the lead-
ing characters of the day as they looked in 1846,
not 1820 or 1875.” The exhibition was made pos-
sible by a grant from the Smithsonian Institution
Special Exhibition Fund. Each year, this fund sup-
ports Smithsonian projects in the arts, humanities,
and sciences using money earned from various

Smithsonian business activities.

40

by Miguel Covarrubias. Notable pho-
tographs include a daguerreotype of
Peter Cooper and his family, a photo-
graph of John Wesley Powell, and a
daguerreotype of John Brown.

¢ The Portrait Gallery participated in
the traveling exhibition “America’s
Smithsonian” by lending 36 objects,
including Rembrandt Peale’s porthole
portraits of George and Martha Wash-
ington, paintings of Joe Louis, Robert
Kennedy, and Mary McLeod Bethune,
and photographs of Frederick Douglass,
Albert Einstein, and Kamehameha III.

¢ The development office has
focused on the creation of the Nation-
al Portrait Gallery Center for Biograph-
ical Film, a new onsite media center
dedicated to enlivening the study of
the great personalities of American his-
tory. The center will expand the con-
cept of portraiture by bringing film
into the Portrait Gallery and linking
this information with digitized images
of the permanent collection. Currently
in development is a database of bio-
graphic films held in archives through-
out the country. As part of this project,
two living self-portraits on Gwendolyn
Brooks and Al Hirschfeld were record-
ed. Funding was provided by Borders
Books & Music, and in-kind support
was received from HarperCollins Pub-
lishers for the Brooks portrait.

¢ The Portrait Gallery launched its
own site on the World Wide Web,
offering information on its collections,
exhibitions, programs, events, publi-
cations, and services. The site,
http://www.npg.si.edu, featured the
exhibitions “1846: Portrait of the
Nation” and “Rebels: Painters and
Poets of the 1950s.” Another section
spotlighted biographies of celebrated
Americans with links to related objects
and information on other Web sites.
Users may also search the gallery’s
online database of more than 10,000
objects in its collections and the more
than 60,000 portraits recorded in the
Catalog of American Portraits.

NATIONAL !
ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Michael H. Robinson, Director

During this 150th anniversary year
of the Smithsonian Institution,
the National Zoological Park con-
tinued its metamorphosis into a
biological park, which endeavors
to present the complexity, diversi-
ty, and interconnectedness of life
on Earth. Reflecting the biopark
mission, two significant new
exhibits, “Think Tank” and “Polli-
narium,” opened in fiscal year
1996. The Zoo continues to main-
tain the Conservation and

Research Center on 1,275 hectares
(3,150 acres) in Front Royal, Vir-
ginia, as a major animal breeding,

conservation, and research center. _
In addition, the Smithsonian |
Migratory Bird Center became part
of the Zoo’s biological programs
division.

e “Think Tank,” the only zoo or
museum exhibit in the nation that
focuses on the topic of thinking in
animals, opened in fall 1995. “Think
Tank” challenges visitors with the
question: Do the complex behaviors of
different animals indicate thinking?
One innovative aspect of the exhibit,
the Orangutan Language Project,
attempts to teach these giant apes lan-
guage skills through the use of interac- ”
tive computers—all in view of visitors |
who can pose questions to working
scientists.

¢ The Zoo opened its new Pollinari-
um, a living exhibit demonstrating |
firsthand the relationships between
plants and animal pollinators such as —
butterflies, hummingbirds, and honey —
bees. Pollinarium, a new section of the’
Invertebrate Exhibit, highlights plant :
reproduction, which many plants can-
not accomplish without help from
winged animals.

¢ On the Zoo’s highly rated new
World Wide Web site, visitors can read |
articles, explore the photo gallery, visit

Using a computer, National Zoo biologist Rob Shumaker works with orangutan

Indah to develop a vocabulary of symbols that helps Zoo scientists gain insights

into animal thinking. The Orangutan Language Project involves public demonstra-

tions in the Zoo’s new “Think Tank” exhibit. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

exhibits, and view slide lectures and
films of animals. In a joint National
Zoo-Ralston Purina Co. project, the
computer-using public could connect
to online coverage of the final days
of the pregnancy of an Asian rhino.
This project was designed to raise
awareness of the two partners’ Web
sites (http://www.purina.com and
http://www.si.edu/natzoo) and of the
Zoo's efforts in breeding endangered
species.

¢ The Friends of the National Zoo
(FONZ) initiated its first annual Zoo-
Fari for Kids—the children’s version of
FONZ’s annual fund-raising gala. Zoo-
Fari and ZooFari for Kids together
brought in $250,000 for Zoo educa-
tion, exhibition, research, and conser-
vation programs. In total, FONZ sup-
ported the Zoo with more than $1.5
million and over 100,000 hours of vol-
unteer service.

¢ A public symposium, “Elephants
on the Brink: Smithsonian Research
and Efforts to Conserve the Giant
Species,” highlighted the work of
Smithsonian scientists to conserve
Asian elephants in the wild and at the
Zoo. Special emphasis was given to vet-

erinary detective work on a lethal virus
that kills young Asian elephants and to
collaboration with a visiting German
scientist in using state-of-the-art ultra-
sound techniques to aid in artificial
insemination procedures.

e International conservation
research projects focusing on critical
habitats for migratory birds and
endangered species are being conduct-
ed by Conservation and Research Cen-
ter (CRC) scientists and collaborators
at sites around the world. The focal
species include the Burmese brow-
antlered deer, golden cheeked warbler,
wood thrush, scarlet tanager, and
Asian elephant. Also at CRC, artificial
insemination was employed for the
first time with extremely rare black-
footed ferrets, resulting in five females
producing 15 live young.

e A team of consulting physicians
who usually treat humans joined
National Zoo veterinarians to conduct
cardiovascular examinations of the
Zoo’s gorillas and orangutans. Cardio-
vascular data on great apes in zoos are
limited; gorillas, especially, are known
to have a relatively high incidence of
heart disease. These exams will provide

baseline data to which equivalent
exams at other zoos can be compared.
¢ Celebrating the Smithsonian's
150th birthday, the Zoo’s pavilion on
the National Mall featured special pre-
sentations on animals and behind-the-
scenes work. Staff from every part of
the Zoo—from carpenters, to geneti-
cists, to animal keepers—explained
their tasks and accomplishments to the
delight of thousands of pavilion visi-

tors on August 10 and 11.

SMITHSONIAN
ASTROPHYSICAL
OBSERVATORY

Irwin I. Shapiro, Director

In astronomy, perhaps more than
in any other science, the intro-
duction of new technology almost
always leads to new and unex-
pected discoveries. This relation-
ship between technical innova-

Secretary I. Michael Heyman (left) and Dr. Yuan-Tseh Lee,

president of the Academia Sinica of Taiwan, signed an agree-

ment in Honolulu on June 17 linking the two institutions in
a partnership to build and operate the submillimeter tele-
scope array now under construction on Mauna Kea, Hawaii.
The Taiwanese will contribute two antennas to the eight-

element instrument. (Photograph by Richard Wainscoat)

41
42

tion and scientific exploration is
nowhere better demonstrated
than in the history of the Smith-
sonian Astrophysical Observatory
(SAO). One of the world’s premier
astronomical research sites, SAO is
also a major center for the devel-
opment of new and powerful
astronomical instrumentation.
From the design of large optical
telescopes to the creation of
detectors capable of capturing pre-
viously invisible cosmic radiation,
SAO has introduced a host of
technical advances that have
changed astronomy.

Appropriately, in celebration of
the Institution’s 150th anniver-
sary, SAO recognized its long tradi-
tion of innovation in a series of
public lectures at its Cambridge,
Massachusetts, headquarters. Each
examined an unusual astronomi-
cal instrument spanning the full
range of SAO creativity, from the
19th-century invention of the
bolometer, through the multiple
mirror telescope, to the unique
submillimeter telescope array now
under construction on Mauna Kea,
Hawaii. SAO inventiveness, and its
results, are evident in these high-
lights from the year.

¢ A new Class of active galaxies—
thought to have massive black holes at
their centers and to be among the
most energetic objects in the uni-
verse—was discovered with the
ground-based gamma-ray telescopes
built and operated by SAO at the
Whipple Observatory in Arizona.

¢ The SAO-designed ultraviolet
coronagraph spectrometer aboard the
international Solar and Heliospheric
Observatory (SOHO) satellite produced
the first images of the Sun’s extended
outer atmosphere, or corona, including
observations of supercharged oxygen

and hydrogen atoms streaming from
the Sun in the solar wind.

e In an unusual collaboration
between SAO scientists and medical
specialists at Boston’s Brigham and
Women’s Hospital, an experimental
technique to enhance magnetic reso-
nance imaging through the use of
hyperpolarized atoms of xenon gas had
its first tests on living tissue, including
a human oral cavity. When inhaled,
the harmless gas can produce dramatic
improvements in the ability to image
areas with low water content, such as
the lungs and fatty brain tissue.

¢ The first two of the eight antennas
that will make up the submillimeter
array on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, were fab-
ricated and assembled on their mount
systems at the test facility in Massachu-
setts. The Institute of Astronomy and
Astrophysics of the Academia Sinica of
Taiwan joined SAO as a partner in the
project, agreeing to provide two of the
instrument's eight antennas.

¢ The Antarctic Submillimeter
Telescope and Remote Observatory
(AST/RO), operated by SAO and Boston
University at the South Pole, is provid-
ing unprecedented views of carbon
atoms in the galaxy as well as offering
an additional technique for measuring
the presence of ozone molecules in the
Earth’s atmosphere.

¢ SAO was selected to operate the
flight operations control center for the
Advanced X-Ray Astrophysics Facility
(AXAFP) satellite, now scheduled for
launch in 1998. Together with the pre-
viously awarded contract to operate
the AXAF science center, SAO will be
responsible for every aspect of the
space observatory’s mission after
launch—from planning observations,
to analyzing results, to archiving data
for the world scientific community.

e A special device for creating
images of astronomical objects emit-
ting infrared radiation, developed by
SAO and collaborators, won industry
recognition for its contribution to this
technology. The instrument has pro-
duced several outstanding and ampor,
tant high-resolution images, ranging
from the bright comet Hyakutake to
the “hot spot” on Jupiter where the
Galileo spacecraft entered the planet’s
atmosphere.

e An SAO astronomer, using the
Hubble Space Telescope, made the first
direct image of the surface of a star (
other than the Sun, observing the stel- ,
lar behemoth Betelgeuse and, inthe |
process, revealing the presence of a
huge, hot, and mysterious bright spot |
on its face.

e An SAO scientist was part of the
large international team that used a
global network of radio telescopes to
produce an extraordinary time-lapse
sequence of images showing the
expansion of debris from an exploding
star over a 12-month period.

SMITHSONIAN
ENVIRONMENTAL
RESEARCH CENTER

David L. Correll, Director

Research and education at the
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center (SERC) in Edgewa-
ter, Maryland, take a range of
approaches to investigating basic

ecological processes and improv-
ing our ability to protect and man
age important natural resources.
Using the geographic features of
the Chesapeake Bay region, SERC
conducts intensive analyses of a
complex landscape of intercon-
nected ecosystems.

e A new 12,000-square-foot office
and laboratory building opened at SERC_
this year. It replaced a renovated farm
building that was no longer structurally
sound and housed the administrative |
offices, education department, comput-—
er center, and research staff offices. |

¢ A new 4,700-square-foot educa- —

tional building was completed near thi
shoreline of the Rhode River. It will bel
used for visitor orientation and |
includes classrooms, exhibits, and a

teacher resource room. This facility

will allow a doubling in the number o:
visitors to SERC.
A high school student collects Chesa-

peake Bay plankton for population stud-
ies while aboard the Smithsonian Envi-
ronmental Research Center’s vessel R/V

Saxatilis. (Photograph by Mark Haddon)

e SERC continued its record of suc-
cess with competitive extramural
research grants by obtaining $1.7 mil-
lion in awards. These funds helped
SERC maintain its ambitious programs
n watershed research and marine
invasions.

¢ A series of new spectral radiome-
ters for continuously monitoring solar
ultraviolet radiation at the Earth’s sur-
face was completed and put into opera-
tion. SERC builds, calibrates, and oper-
ates the radiometers for its own use
and for the use of the U.S. Department
of Agriculture and the National Insti-
tutes for Standards and Technology.

¢ A new 120-foot-tall research tower
for atmospheric monitoring and
research was constructed and instru-
mented. This tower provides an ideal
site for measurements of solar radia-
tion, weather parameters, and atmos-
pheric deposition.

]

SMITHSONIAN
TROPICAL RESEARCH
INSTITUTE

Ira Rubinoff, Director

The Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (STRI) is committed to
the study of the organisms, ecosys-
tems, and peoples of the world’s
tropics. Based in the Republic of
Panama, STRI operates modern
laboratories, tropical forest and
marine field stations, a research
vessel, and a comprehensive tropi-
cal sciences library. Each year,
STRI’s 34 staff scientists and hun-
dreds of visiting scientists and stu-
dents use these facilities.

¢ In compliance with the Carter-
Torrijos Treaty of 1979, the Panama
Canal and most other remaining U.S.
properties in the country will revert to
the Republic of Panama on December
31, 1999. In advance of this event,
STRI has been negotiating new work-
ing agreements with its host country
to ensure its ability to carry out its
mission into the next century. On
August 6, Panama’s Interoceanic
Regional Authority, which oversees
land use in the Canal Area, signed a
renewable agreement that granted STRI
continued use of its present installa-
tions until 2020.

¢ In celebration of the Smithso-
nian’s 150th anniversary, STRI and the
University of Panama hosted the
Eighth International Coral Reef Sym-
posium from June 24 through June 29.
Some 1,200 professionals from 58
countries—almost double the previous
attendance—participated in the sym-
posium, which is held every four years.
The bilingual exhibition “Our Reefs:
Caribbean Connections,” on coral reef
ecology and conservation in the
Caribbean Basin, opened during the
symposium. Developed with support
from the Inter-American Development
Bank, the United Nations Environment
Programme, the World Bank, Fun-
dacion Natura, and the Smithsonian
Special Exhibition Fund, the exhibition

A LEADER IN PLANT SCIENCES
RESEARCH

The Smithsonian is a leader in the rapidly chang-
ing field of plant sciences. With extensive collec-
tions of more than 34 million herbarium and fossil
specimens, long-term databases, excellent facili-
ties, and some 50 experts at various museums and
research institutes, the Institution contributes to a
worldwide research effort. The work of Smithso-
nian scientists has a broad impact on key scientific
fields such as plant systematics and evolution,
physiology, ecology, and paleoecology.

A generous grant of $1.5 million from the
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, announced in
December 1995, will enable the Smithsonian to
continue an ongoing Institution-wide plant
research and fellowship program. With the grant,
the Institution will also establish a permanent
fund for advanced studies in plant science
research. Since 1989, the Mellon-funded program
has supported major breakthroughs by Smithso-
nian scientists and fellows and contributed to a
revitalization of the study of plant sciences at the
Institution. The participating organizations
include the Smithsonian Tropical Research Insti-
tute, the Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center, and the National Museum of Natural

History.

43
will travel to countries throughout the
region

¢ On March 12, STRI officially
opened to the public its Culebra
Marine Exhibitions Center, located on
a scenic island overlooking the
entrance to the Panama Canal. The
center includes an exhibition on Pana-
ma’s marine environments and
resources supported by the Fundacion
Smithsonian de Panama, a nature trail,

outdoor aquariums, and classrooms in

NATIONAL

SYKPOSIUMK

Luis D’Croz of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
and the University of Panama speaks to more than 1,200
participants at opening ceremonies of the Eighth Interna-
tional Coral Reef Symposium. D’Croz was cochair of the
organizing committee for the symposium, held in Panama

City June 24-29. (Photograph by Marcos A. Guerra)

old military bunkers renovated with a
grant from the U.S. Department of
Defense Legacy Fund. It has drawn
more than 22,000 visitors during this
fiscal year.

¢ STRI’s tropical forest canopy
research program received a major
boost with the donation of a tower
crane by the government of Denmark
through the United Nations Environ-
ment Programme. Funds for fellow-
ships for advanced training of scien-
tists from Latin America were also part

of this donation. The new crane, with

a 54.9-meter (180-foot) boom offering
access to more than about one hectare
(two acres) of canopy, will be erected
in moist forest on Fort Sherman near
the Caribbean coast. This site has twice
the rainfall of the area presently being
studied with the original crane, a tropi-
cal dry forest near the Pacific coast.

¢ The Center for Tropical Forest Sci-
ence has just completed the third
recensus of its 50-hectare (123.5-acre)
Forest Dynamics Plot on Barro Col-
orado Island in Panama. The recensus,
which entailed measuring a quarter
million trees of more than 300 species,
revealed several surprises. Researchers
found, for example, that mortality and
new tree recruitment changed dramati-
cally over 13 years

¢ In collaboration with the Embassy
of Panama, STRI developed a tropical
pavilion, “Panama: Where Land Meets
Sea,” to celebrate the Smithsonian's
Birthday Party on the Mall. Visitors
experienced the culture, sights, and
sounds of the tropics and learned
about STRI’s history of research and
exploration in Panama.

¢ STRI initiated several new projects
and cooperative agreements with inter-
national organizations and academic
institutions. In collaboration with
INRENARE, Panama’s National Institute
of Renewable Natural Resources, and
funded by the U.S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development, STRI is developing
a long-term monitoring program for
the Panama Canal Watershed. The
International Tropical Timber Organiza-
tion, with funds from Japan, Switzer-
land, the United States, and Norway,
approved a joint STRI-INRENARE
\pplied Forestry Research Project for
Darien Province on two key commer-
cial species: cativo, an important timber
tree, and tagua, or ivory-nut, a substi-
tute for elephant ivory. STRI also signed
agreements with Panama’s National
Institute of Hydrological Resources and
Electrification, which manages impor-
tant tropical forest watersheds; with the
University of Panama, to renew the
existing cooperative program; and with
Princeton University, for educational

programs in tropical biology.

ED UG Am KO INGA
MUSEUM,

AND SCHOLAR
SERVES

Each office under the Provost that
provides educational, museum,
and scholarly services across the
Institution was actively involved
in the 150th anniversary. These
organizations contributed in vari-
ous ways to “America’s Smithso-
nian,” took part in the August
10-11 Birthday Party and the Fes-
tival of American Folklife, and
organized anniversary exhibitions,
lectures, and symposia. Staff mem.
bers also helped plan the year’s
events by participating in the
150th Anniversary Coordinating
Committee and its subcommittees

on marketing,

program, and
community.
At the

same time,
they con-

tinued an
array of regular programs and
activities.

| Highlights of the year for the
Accessibility Program, Center for
oo Studies, Institutional Stud-
ies Office, National Science
Resources Center, Office of Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education,

ffice of Fellowships and Grants,

ffice of International Relations,
Office of the Smithsonian Institu-
‘ion Archives, Scientific Diving Pro-
am, Smithsonian Institution
ibraries, and Smithsonian Institu-
ion Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES) are described here.

“America’s Smithsonian”
The Institution’s educational and
scholarly resources strengthened
the public impact of “America’s
Smithsonian” as it began its
national tour. Through the exhibi-
tion, fascinating objects, education-
al materials, and presentations by
Smithsonian scholars link the Insti-
tution to communities and people.
In the “Discovering” section of
fhe exhibition, examples from the
somithsonian Institution Libraries’
collections reflect the pursuit of
scientific discovery. Visitors have

EFT: Rex Ellis, director of the Center
or Museum Studies, brought his knowl-
2dge of storytelling, African folklore,
ind early African American history to

Los Angeles in the “Voices of Discov-
pry” series. Here, he speaks to teachers
at a brunch sponsored by the Los
Angeles Times and the Los Angeles
County Office of Education.
(Photograph by John Oligny,

© 1996 Los Angeles

Times)

the rare opportunity to see some of
John James Audubon’s famous ren-
derings of birds and quadrupeds in
their habitats in volumes of his
Birds of North America (1839) and
Quadrupeds of North America
(1854). Objects related to Charles
Wilkes’ United States Exploring
Expedition of 1838-42, an impor-
tant step in the nation’s evolution
into an international scientific
power, include a volume of Wilkes’
narrative account. Also in the exhi-
bition and its catalogue are historic
photographs and letters, along
with information about the Smith-
sonian’s origins, from the Smithso-
nian Institution Archives.

Educational materials that sup-
port the exhibition include the
January-February 1996 issue of the
Office of Elementary and Secon-
dary Education’s Art to Zoo. Eighty
thousand copies of this quarterly
publication, which is funded by a
gift from the Pacific Mutual Foun-
dation, are distributed to schools
across the nation. It is also pub-
lished on the Smithsonian’s World
Wide Web site and on America
Online’s Smithsonian Online.
Another service for educators is
the office’s teacher workshop
series, which was offered for the
first time during the exhibition’s
Providence showing.

Scholars and researchers from
the offices reporting to the Provost
were among those who brought
the human side of the Institution
to communities where “America’s
Smithsonian” appeared through
“Voices of Discovery,” the public
program series organized by The
Smithsonian Associates. In Los
Angeles, Center for Museum Stud-
ies Director Rex Ellis conducted
workshops on storytelling in
museums and lectured on inter-
preting controversy. Rhoda S. Rat-
ner, head librarian in the Libraries’
history, technology, and art
department, talked in New York
about the Libraries’ collection of
trade catalogues. Paul H. Theer-
man, associate curator-in-charge in
the Smithsonian Institution
Archives, shared aspects of Smith-
sonian history with Providence
audiences.

Young collector Brian Fox, age 11,
shows off his vintage metal lunch
boxes in the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education’s Young
Collectors pavilion at the Birthday
Party. (Photograph by Tami Heilemann)

; belonging to the Smithsonian’s benefactor James
snithson, now in the collections of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries, were displayed in the 150th anniver-
sary exhibition “From Smithson to Smithsonian: The Birth

of an Institution.” (Photograph by Eric Long)

A NEW LIBRARY FOR RARE
NATURAL HISTORY BOOKS

The long-awaited construction of a new natural
history rare book library, expected to be complete
in early 1998, will allow the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries to concentrate in a single area its
rare books and manuscripts covering most aspects
of natural history. Many of these items are both
valuable and irreplaceable. To be located in the
National Museum of Natural History, the collec-
tion holds major works in natural history disci-
plines, including biology, zoology, anthropology,
geology, mineralogy, crustacea, ornithology, and
botany as well as a substantial collection of mate-
rials from voyages and expeditions. The rare
books—often objects of beauty in themselves—
frequently document the Smithsonian’s artifact
and specimen collections. Acquired primarily for
research, rare natural history books are also of
great interest in public exhibitions, where the
museum visitor can see at close range the results
of human observation and the working of artistic
hands of the past.

In support of this new library, Mrs. Jefferson
Patterson has made a commitment of $202,500 to
the Smithsonian Institution Libraries to under-
write the position of curator of rare books for

three years.

Public Celebrations

[he public had a closer look at the
Smithsonian’s extensive resources
during the Birthday Party on the
National Mall. For those who
sampled the nearly two dozen
pavilions, the experience was both
informative and fun. Ten thou-
sand children and adults visited
the Office of Elementary and
Secondary Education’s Young Col-
lectors’ pavilion, where 75 young-
sters ages 10 through 15 displayed
and discussed their collections—
from coins, stamps, and baseball
cards to rulers, Japanese chopstick
holders, and metal lunch boxes.
Libraries staff demonstrated home
pages, an online exhibition, and
electronic publications in the
Online Smithsonian pavilion. In
the pavilion shared by the Office
of Exhibits Central and SITES, visi-
tors found out how exhibitions
happen, from concept through
installation. Office of International
Relations staff explained the global
dimension of the Institution, and
the Smithsonian Institution
Archives invited the public to con-

tribute their observations about
the Smithsonian to the collection
When the Festival of American
Folklife showcased “Working at th)
Smithsonian,” a number of offices

under the Provost’s aegis were
highly visible. Staff from the Smit!)
sonian Institution Archives had ar |
especially active role. They orga-
nized the exhibition “150 Years of
Working at the Smithsonian” and |
the Smithsonian Memories tent,
where they recorded oral history
interviews with employees and vi:
tors, gathered written reminis- |
cences, and moderated discussion

Anniversary Exhibitions
Exhibitions were an important
aspect of education, collaboration
and community building during
the 150th anniversary year. “From
Smithson to Smithsonian: The |
Birth of an Institution” drew ater
tion to the origins of the Smithso|
nian in the bequest of an obscure’
British scientist, James Smithson,
and then followed the Institution’
through its early formative years. |
collaborative effort of the Smithse
nian Institution Libraries, the
Smithsonian Institution Archives,
the Architectural History and His-
oric Preservation Division of the
Office of Physical Plant, and the
Office of Exhibits Central, the exhi-
ition was on view in the Libraries’
sallery in the National Museum of
American History and available
ynline at http://www.sil.si.edu/

exhibits. “Mr. Smithson Goes to
Washington” and “From Colossus
to Crypt Room,” companion
exhibits based on a paper by
Richard E. Stamm, keeper of the
Castle Collection, and organized by
the Archives, describe how James
Smithson’s remains came to the

United States and trace the plan-

ning and construction of a proper

Lynn A. Sahaydak, picture researcher at Smithsonian Press, won first place in the

Objects category of the 150th Anniversary Community Photo Contest with this

detail of Vaquero, 1995, by Luis Jiménez. The sculpture stands on the front steps

of the National Museum of American Art.

monument for them in the Smith-
sonian Castle.

A juried exhibition, “Artists at
Work,” celebrated staff creativity
and inventiveness with 71 works
by employees in 21 Smithsonian
organizations. Organized by the
International Gallery and the
150th Anniversary Community
Committee, the exhibition was
designed and installed by the
Office of Exhibits Central. The
office also designed and installed
in the National Museum of Ameri-
can History an exhibition of
entries in the Smithsonian Com-
munity Photo Contest.

Symposia and Lectures
The Center for Museum Studies’
major contribution to the 150th
anniversary celebration was
“Museums for the New Millenni-
um,” a symposium that examined
the changing roles and future
structures of museums. Two hun-
dred participants from museums
throughout the world gathered at
the Smithsonian from September 5
through September 7 to share
ideas and strategies for meeting
future challenges. A technology
showcase highlighted innovations
in museum multimedia program-
ming. In a first for the Institution,
complete symposium proceedings
were posted to a World Wide Web
site within hours of each session,
creating an immediate online cur-
riculum on current museum issues.
Three thousand teachers, edu-
cation policy leaders, and museum
educators participated in the
Office of Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education’s national tele-
conference on “Museums as Part-
ners in School Reform,” held on
September 28. After welcoming

47
SITES BRINGS AMERICAN MUSIC
TO THE NATION

America’s music is as diverse as its people. Soon,
communities across the country will experience the
sounds of diversity in an innovative initative devel-
oped by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service with funding from Infiniti, a
division of Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.

Four exhibitions form the core of the program:
“Wade in the Water: African American Sacred
Music Traditions,” “This Land Is My Land: Woody

wu“

Guthrie’s American Vision,” “Jazz Age in Paris:
1914-1940,” and “Louis Armstrong: A Cultural
Legacy.” Live performances in the 1996 sum-
mer season of the Smithsonian Jazz Master-
works Orchestra and an eight-part series
about American jazz on Public Radio Interna-
tional will expose wide audiences to the
sounds of jazz. An oral history project about
jazz and a compact disc by the Smithsonian
Jazz Masterworks Orchestra complete the

initiative.

remarks by Secretary I. Michael
Heyman and Institute of Museum
Services Director Diane Frankel,
noted author and learning psy-
chologist Howard Gardner deliv-
ered the keynote address. Repre-
sentatives from four successful
museum-school partnerships
explained their approaches and
answered questions from the
national audience.

The Smithsonian also observed
its anniversary abroad. At the
year’s end, the Office of Interna-
tional Relations and the National
Museum of American History were
planning “Mr. Smithson’s Legacy,”
a tribute to James Smithson’s
homeland. Among the events to

be held in Great Britain were

7
\

scholarly symposia, lectures, a
public colloquium featuring Secre-
tary Heyman and the director of
the British Museum, and a video-
conference linking the Smithso-
nian with London’s Science Muse-
um. In another program organized
by the Office of International Rela:
tions, in cooperation with the
United States Information Agency,
three dozen Smithsonian staff lec-
tured about the Institution to
counterpart organizations and
public audiences abroad.

Kathryn Bullock of River Ridge,

Louisiana (center rear), won a nationa
contest to name the “Earth 2U” mas-
cot, Seymour D. Earth. Olympic speed-

skater Dan Jansen, shown here with

Kathryn and the four other contest _
finalists, is national spokesperson fot
“Earth 2U,” a cooperative effort of
the Smithsonian Institution Travel |
ing Exhibition Service and the |
National Geographic |
Society. (Photograph —
by Mark Thiessen
© National Geo- :

graphic Society)

In Washington, this year’s Dibn-
r Library Lecture, presented by the
mithsonian Institution Libraries
nd supported by The Dibner
und, also honored James Smith-
on, who was a mineralogist.
obert M. Hazen of the Carnegie
Astitution of Washington and
;eorge Mason University spoke
bout “Earth Sciences, Unanswered
Juestions, and the Dibner Legacy.”

Another anniversary event was
ne Eighth International Coral Reef
ymposium, held in the Republic of
anama and cohosted by the Smith-
mnian Tropical Research Institute
nd the University of Panama. Sci-
ntific Diving Program staff served
n the organizing committee and
lanned scientific diving field trips
or 53 divers from 18 countries
efore and after the symposium.

ruidance and Advice

he resources and guidance of sev-
ral offices were critical to the
evelopment of anniversary activi-
ies. Their involvement typified the
ommitment to collaboration that
qade the year so successful. Exam-
les include the Smithsonian Insti-
ation Archives, which was
qolved in a lengthy list of
nniversary projects. The Institu-
ional Studies Office supported a
ariety of activities, primarily by
roviding reliable information on
he public’s interaction with Smith-
onian offerings. The Accessibility
rogram worked closely with the
America’s Smithsonian” team,
itthday Party organizers, and oth-
t Smithsonian staff to ensure that
mniversary events were fully acces-
ible to people with disabilities.

ontinuing Activities
Juring the year, the many regular

Ctivities of Smithsonian offices

continued. Some used the anniver-
sary as an opportunity to plan for
the future. The Smithsonian Insti-
tution Libraries, for example,
established a Libraries 150th Fund
to purchase books for the 18-
branch system. The Smithsonian
Women’s Committee increased the
endowment supporting the Center
for Museum Studies’ Fellowships
in Museum Practice to $150,000.
Electronic initiatives continued to
expand, including new World
Wide Web sites such as the SITES
home page (http://www.si.edu/
sites) and a growing selection of
online exhibitions.

The National Science Resources
Center, operated jointly by the
Smithsonian and the National
Academy of Sciences, marked its
10th year of working to improve
the quality of science education for
children. This year, the center pub-
lished a revised edition of Resources
for Teaching Elementary School Sci-
ence, a guide to exemplary inquiry-
centered science curriculum mate-
rials and resources; completed its
24-unit Science and Technology
for Children curriculum project for
grades one through six; and
hosted two National Elementary
Science Leadership Institutes for
teachers, school administrators,
and scientists.

The Office of Fellowships and
Grants continued its tradition of
supporting and enhancing
research that links the Smithso-
nian with students, scientists, and
scholars from universities, muse-
ums, and research organizations.
This year, the office oversaw some
800 appointments that were
awarded to fellows from around
the world who used the Institu-
tion’s facilities and collections.

For more than 40 years, SITES

has invited people throughout the
country to experience the richness
and vitality of the Smithsonian
through its traveling exhibitions.
This year, SITES circulated exhibi-
tions to more than 200 towns and
cities. A highlight among new
offerings is the SITES—National
Geographic Society collaboration
“Earth 2U, Exploring Geography,”
which opened in Washington,
D.C. People in 40 American cities
will visit this hands-on family
exhibition as it travels during the
next five years. SITES also pub-
lished 250,000 copies of an “Earth
2U” curriculum guide for free dis-
tribution to teachers. Professional
educators developed and tested
the lessons in the guide, which
meet National Geography Stan-
dards. The exhibition and accom-
panying educational programs are
made possible through the gener-
ous support of Nissan Motor Cor-
poration U.S.A.

SITES also collaborated with
Artrain, America’s Museum on
Wheels, to develop “Art in Celebra-

yw

tion!” which explains the funda-
mentals of art appreciation using
original prints commissioned by
The Smithsonian Associates. “Art in
Celebration!” will visit railroad
stops in 100 communities over the
next two years, accompanied by a
resident artist-educator who lives
aboard the train.

Working in cooperation with
museums and research institutes,
the organizations that provide
educational, museum, and scholar-
ly services exemplified the same
collaborative spirit that made pos-
sible “Earth 2U” and “Art in Cele-
bration!” This spirit permeated the
Smithsonian community through-
out the year and is a significant
legacy of the 150th anniversary.

49
ACNE SINGS Sinaia OuNe tOsE Pe seketa IN ESR SpE I P*S

CPORT UF Tht UNDER \eCHe Tn

As we celebrated the richness of

our contributions to the nation,

we also paid tribute to our

internal richness: the wealth of

professions, ideas, experience,

and knowledge that distinguishes

this diverse institution.

Aretha Franklin headlined the free, all-
star evening concert at the 150th Birth-
day Party along with Buffy Sainte-
Marie, Trisha Yearwood, the Smith-
sonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra,

nd host Mickey Hart. (Photograph by
Chip Clark)

ae

aq
+
+
<<
a

Ls alg
faghiiy
LD AAAAS

Bye

Ph
*,

im
By!
My
a

Under Secretary
Constance Berry
Newman (Photo-
graph by Richard
Strauss)

Constance Berry Newman

On Saturday evening, August 10, glittering fireworks lit the sky above
the Castle in a spectacular finale to the first day of the Smithsonian’s
150th birthday celebration. An elaborate display like this one always
makes spectators wonder in amazement: How did they do it? The same
question could be asked about the ambitious Institution-wide enterprise
that led up to the 150th anniversary: How did we do it?

Planning and presenting the year’s programs and events was an
intense and energetic collaborative effort that brought out the best in
the Smithsonian. As we celebrated the richness of our contributions to
the nation, we also paid tribute to our internal richness: the wealth of
professions, ideas, experience, and knowledge that distinguishes this
diverse institution. Talented and creative employees from every corner of
the Smithsonian, working on demanding schedules, brought their indi-
vidual strengths to the complex tasks of organizing “America's Smithso-
nian,” producing the two-day birthday celebration
on the National Mall August 10 and 11, and plan-
ning a variety of other events.

Looking beyond the Smithsonian, we also cele-
brated our partnerships with corporations, founda-
tions, communities, and individuals throughout the
nation who are committed to helping us increase
the American public's sense of ownership and par-
ticipation in the Institution. Funding from the four
members of our 150th Anniversary Corporate Part-
ner Program—Discover® Card, Intel Corporation,
MCI Communications Corporation, and Trans
World Airlines, Inc.—supported the exhibition
“America's Smithsonian,” the prime-time specials
and “Smithsonian Minutes” on the CBS Television
Network, and the public Birthday Party on the Mall.
In Los Angeles, Kansas City, New York, and Provi-
dence, our partnerships with local governments and
community organizations helped us bring “America’s Smithsonian” to
more than a million people.

The imposing task of coordinating our Institution-wide anniversary
celebration belonged to the 150th Anniversary Coordinating Committee,
chaired by Marc Pachter, counselor to the Secretary. Building on a plan-
ning process that they began in late 1991, this group and its working
The National Museum of Natural History’s 4.5-million-

year-old fossil shark jaw is protected in transit by padded

wooden braces as it travels with “America’s Smithsonian.”

Once unpacked, it must be carefully secured in its display.

(Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

52

committees on marketing, pro-
gram, and community guided the
many aspects of the celebration as
it unfolded during the year.

For two highlights of the 150th
anniversary—the exhibition “Amer-
ica’s Smithsonian” and the August
10 and 11 Birthday Party—units of
the Under Secretary’s office were
significant team members. These

organizations also joined in many

other collaborative
efforts throughout
the year. Together
they expanded the
Institution’s public
visibility, developed
publications and
multimedia produc-
tions, presented pub-
lic programs, provid-
ed behind-the-scenes
expertise and ser-
vices, and created a
successful merchan-

dising program.

“America’s
Smithsonian”

The nation’s “firsts
and finests” were
the words the Provi-
dence Sunday Journal
chose to describe the
extraordinary
objects from the
Smithsonian’s col-
lections touring the
nation in “America’s
Smithsonian.” The
largest traveling
exhibition ever orga-
nized by a museum,
it opened February 9 in Los Ange-
les and continued to Kansas City,
Missouri (April 10—May 19), New
York City June 11-July 24), and
Providence, Rhode Island (August
21-September 19). Other cities on
the itinerary before the objects
return to the Smithsonian include
St. Paul, Minnesota; Houston; and
Portland, Oregon.

More than 300 icons of Ameri-
can history, art, and culture—presi-
dential artifacts, great works of art,
fabulous gems, dinosaur bones—
were carefully selected by museum
staff and the “America’s Smithso-
nian” team and organized in three

exhibition sections: “Discovering,”
“Remembering,” and “Imagining.”
Among the highlights: the well-
used compass William Clark car-
ried on his expedition to the
Northwest with Meriwether Lewis,
the ruby slippers that sparkled on
Judy Garland’s feet in The Wizard |
of Oz, the hat Abraham Lincoln
wore to Ford’s Theater the evening |
he was assassinated, a Tucker auto-
mobile, masterpieces by American |
artists Thomas Moran, Georgia
O'Keeffe, and Andy Warhol, and
prehistoric leaves and insects pre-
served in amber.

Each of the 150th Anniversary
Corporate Partners contributed an
exhibit to “America’s Smithso-
nian.” Discover® Card’s “American
Voices: Music at the Smithsonian” |
traces the history of American
music. In Intel Corporation’s
exhibit, visitors experience the
power of the computer through a
giant replica of a personal com-
puter. MCI Communications
Corporation created a “cyber play-
ground” that transports visitors to
the not-so-distant high-tech age of
communications. Trans World Air-
lines, Inc.’s exhibit showcases the
past, present, and future of airline
transportation.

Project Director J. Michael Carri-
gan led the team of curators,
designers, conservators, registrars,
educators, and other experts who
put together “America’s Smithso-
nian” in less than a year—a short
time frame to produce any exhibi-
tion, much less one of this size and
scope. The most impressive “first”
for this pioneering exhibition is its |
comprehensive focus; it is the first
Smithsonian exhibition to repre-
sent every layer of the Institution, |

|
every research organization as well |

including all the museums and

|
Pa
as public programs such as the Fes-
‘ival of American Folklife.

Birthday Party on the Mall
[he Smithsonian’s Birthday Party
yn August 10 and 11 stretched for a
nile along the National Mall, salut-
ng the nation’s heritage with musi-
sal performances, family activities,
ind exhibits. Weekend attendance,
iccording to conservative Smithso-
lian estimates, was 630,000. Led by
tichard Kurin of the Center for
‘olklife Programs and Cultural
studies, Smithsonian staff and vol-
inteers joined with performers,
echnical crews, food vendors, and
ireworks specialists to produce this
ree gala celebration.

Programs and performances
lelighted the participants, whose
iffection and enthusiasm for the
mithsonian were obvious. As one
risitor marveled, the Smithsonian
s “a whole tradition, our history,
yur values, our treasures. It’s edu-
ating the world.” The celebration
fficially began with an opening
eremony and the unveiling of two
mithsonian symbols. The Smith-
onian anniversary bell, a gift of
he A. T. Cross Company, was
aised to the north tower of the

Moderator Kitty Carlisle Hart listens as
arts journalist Joe Barber expresses his
views in a Session of “It’s Public Knowl-
edge.” The Smithsonian Associates
sponsored these spirited debates on the
Birthday Party weekend. (Photograph

by Joshua Taylor)

150TH ANNIVERSARY
POSTAGE STAMP

In celebration of the Smithsonian’s 150th anniver-
sary, the United States Postal Service issued a
commemorative stamp depicting the famous
Smithsonian Castle. The sunset-hued stamp was
designed by Tom Engeman of Carbondale, Col-
orado. The red sandstone Smithsonian Institution
Building, a familiar landmark on the National Mall,
symbolizes the Smithsonian to many visitors. The
Institution’s first building, it was designed by
James Renwick. When it opened to the public in
1855, it housed the entire Smithsonian.

The commemorative stamp was dedicated in a
ceremony at the National Museum of Natural His-

tory on February 7, 1996.

Gigantic video screens flashed
birthday greetings from visitors
of all ages. (Photograph by
Jim Wallace)
SER

op WE Tp,
Sa Us,

> Omithsonian “?

S 1846-1996, J

ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE
COINS

The United States Mint’s issuance of gold and sil-
ver commemorative coins was a fitting celebra-
tion of the Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary, con-
sidering that James Smithson’s original bequest
consisted of 104,960 British gold sovereigns. The
two coins—a $5 gold coin and a silver dollar—
were sold to the public through most Smithso-
nian museum shops and in the “America’s Smith-
sonian” shop.

The obverse of the gold $5 coin (above left),
designed by Alfred F. Maletsky, features a classical
bust of James Smithson. On the reverse, designed
by T. James Ferrell, is the Smithsonian sunburst
seal. The obverse of the silver dollar (above
right), designed by Thomas D. Rogers, shows the
Smithsonian Castle. An allegorical figure carrying
the torch of knowledge is featured in John M.
Mercanti’s design for the reverse, inspired by the
Smithsonian's Langley Gold Medal.

In September 1996, two sets of coins were car-
ried into space on the shuttle Atlantis (STS 79).
They are now in the collections of the National
Museum of American History and the National Air
and Space Museum. A portion of the proceeds
from the sale of each commemorative coin will be
dedicated to the maintenance and preservation
of the National Numismatic Collection in the

American History Museum.

54

Castle and rang for the first time at
noon on Saturday, August 10. A
new flag bearing the Smithsonian
sunburst—signifying the pursuit of
knowledge—was unfurled from the
top of the tower.

The Birthday Party offered
something for everyone. Capacity
crowds gathered for “It’s Public
Knowledge,” spirited debates fea-
turing well-known public figures
that were organized by The Smith-
sonian Associates and hosted by
actor E. G. Marshall. People of all
ages met Smithsonian staff and
enjoyed innovative activities in the
two dozen pavilions sponsored by
the Smithsonian’s museums and
research facilities. Corporate Part-
ner Discover® Card hosted a special
pavilion, “The
American Family,
Discovered.”

The electronic
Smithsonian was
highly accessible
during the Birth-
day Party, with
demonstrations
of state-of-the-art
World Wide Web
sites, digital
exhibits, and CD-
ROM products
planned by the
Office of Informa-
tion Technology
(OIT). More than
14,000 well-wish-
ers composed
birthday greetings
for an Electronic
Birthday Card,
also designed by

by Jeff Tinsley)

OIT. The messages were flashed on
gigantic outdoor video screens and
then became part of the Smithso-
nian’s electronic collection. Web
browsers who could not join in the

The Visitor Information and Associ-

ates’ Reception Center coordinated the
production of colorful banners herald-

ing the 150th anniversary. (Photograph

festivities logged onto the Virtual .
Birthday Party home page to leave
their messages.

On Saturday evening, the music
of Aretha Franklin, Buffy Sainte- |
Marie, Trisha Yearwood, and the
Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks
Orchestra filled the Mall in a con-
cert hosted by Mickey Hart. A con-
cert and dance party, headlined by
Celia Cruz with José Alberto El
Canario and his orchestra,
wrapped up the festivities on Sun-
day. And of course, the Birthday
Party had a cake—not just one,
but 18, all artfully decorated on
Smithsonian themes by noted pas-
try chefs and presented in an exhi
bition organized by The Smithso-
nian Associates.

Expanded
Public
Visibility
Through col-
laborative
efforts to
heighten pub-
lic visibility
and awareness
during this
anniversary
year, we
engaged the
media and the
public in the
Institution's
distinguished
history and its
vibrant pre- |
sent. The
Office of Pub-
lic Affairs
(OPA) orches-
trated an impressive national mediz
and public relations campaign that |
gave the Institution extensive expo-
sure. The Birthday Party received
prominent coverage worldwide
rom major newspapers, wire ser-
‘ices, and television and radio sta-
ions. In each of the four cities that
America's Smithsonian” visited,
ublic relations and advertising
ought significant television and
1ewspaper coverage and attracted
1undreds of thousands of visitors.
pecial campaigns marketed the
SOth anniversary commemorative
oins and stamp and promoted the
mithsonian’s participation in the
‘ournament of Roses parade.

OPA also worked closely with
he CBS Television Network on the
hree prime-time specials broadcast
n January, May, and August. One-
ninute vignettes about the Smith-
Oonian, called “Smithsonian Min-
ites,” were produced with the
issistance of the Office of Telecom-
nunications and OPA and broad-
ast throughout the year. In these
pots, prominent Americans share

~*SSESDOTY Sit-in ;

f 1944

anecdotes and pose mind-teasers
about well-loved objects in Smith-
sonian museum collections: Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter with Jonas
Salk’s polio vaccine bottles and
syringe, General Colin Powell with
the Star-Spangled Banner, actor
Robin Williams with Albert Ein-
stein’s pipe, Justice Sandra Day
O'Connor with Geronimo’s bow
and arrow, poet Maya Angelou
with the Southern Railway 1401
steam locomotive, and many more.
The Smithsonian offered its vis-
itors enhanced information during
the anniversary year. The Visitor
Information and Associates’ Recep-
tion Center (VIARC) expanded the
theater program in the Smithso-
nian Information Center and
maintained a master calendar of
events on the Smithsonian's World
Wide Web site (http://www.si.edu)
and America Online. VIARC’s pub-

The Office of Public Affairs worked with CBS News to find
the perfect artifacts for use in the “Smithsonian Minutes,”
broadcast throughout 1996. Here, Jesse Jackson stands in
the National Museum of American History at the historic
Woolworth’s lunch counter, where the first sit-in took place

in North Carolina in 1960. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

55

SMITHSONIAN FLAG AND MACE

Two important symbols of the Smithsonian
acquired new looks this year on the occasion of
the 150th anniversary. A new Smithsonian flag,
unveiled at the 150th Birthday Party on the
National Mall on August 10, features the univer-
sally recognized Smithsonian sunburst on a field
of contrasting blue and gold quadrants. The new
flag was presented by Smithsonian Officer Leon
Neal and was accompanied by the Smithsonian
Jazz Fanfare, composed by Smithsonian Jazz Mas-
terworks Orchestra conductor David Baker for the
Birthday Party.

The new Smithsonian mace was redesigned
this year by a group of Smithsonian graphic
designers. It emphasizes the torch, long used as
an emblem of knowledge, which connotes the

the Smithsonian’s mission as “an establishment

for the increase and diffusion of knowledge.”

lic inquiry phone lines were espe-
cially active, as volunteers handled
thousands of calls about “Ameri-
ca's Smithsonian” and the Birth-
day Party.

Millions of printed pieces focus-
ing on 150th anniversary facts,
events, and celebrations went out
to the public through the Smithso-
nian Information Center, museum
information desks, and pre-visit
mailings as well as in response to
mail, phone, and online requests.
OPA’s publications unit geared a
number of projects to the anniver-
sary, including a color information
brochure, special features in
Research Reports, and articles in
Smithsonian Runner, a newsletter
about Native American activities.
These and other publications had
broader distribution via the Smith-
sonian’s Web site.

The 150th anniversary had its
own visual identity, centered on the
sunburst logo and the traditional
blue-and-yellow colors of the Insti-
tution. Distinctive banners and
flags produced by VIARC pro-
claimed the anniversary from pub-
lic entrances to museums and
research facilities and from lamp-
posts on Mall walkways and near
Smithsonian buildings and gardens.
The new Smithsonian flag was a
collaborative effort of offices
throughout the Institution, includ-
ing the Architectural History and
Historic Preservation Division of the
Office of Physical Plant and VIARC.

The tour and travel industry
was a vital partner in promoting
150th anniversary events and
activities. VIARC reached this
audience through advertising in
selected trade publications and by
representing the Smithsonian at
professional meetings. Half a mil-
lion copies of a four-color card

promoting participatory events
were distributed, and some
300,000 travel agents worldwide
had online access to information

through TravelFile.

Communications during
the 150th
Multimedia communications were

vital to the 150th anniversary as

we continued to pursue innovative

opportunities for taking the
Smithsonian to the public. Using
the familiar realms of television,
books, and magazines and explor-
ing the new horizons of CD-ROM
and the Internet, the Institution
made its vast resources available.
Millions of U.S. households

tuned in to Smithsonian Fantastic

Journey, the three prime-time spe-

Smithsonian

* e

tie we
x . = 3 fe
ts.

eC +

On the cover of the May 1996 anniver-
sary issue of Smithsonian magazine,
the sunburst of the Smithsonian mace
is surrounded by images representing
the Institution’s range and richness
150 years after its founding. (Design
by Shub, Dirksen, Yates & McAllister,
Inc.; photographs by Alfred Harrell,
Mark Avino, John Tsantes, John Can-
calosi, Charles H. Phillips, Dane Pen-

land, Eugene L. Mantie, Lee Stalsworth,}

Chip Clark)

cials about the Smithsonian on
CBS, which drew enthusiastic
reviews and high ratings. The pro-
grams were made possible by the
four 150th Anniversary Corporate
Partners: Discover® Card, Intel
Corporation, MCI Communica-
tions Corporation, and Trans
World Airlines, Inc. Viewers sam-
pled highlights of the Institution,
including a report on packing and
preparations for “America's Smith-
sonian” from Kermit the Frog,
heart-stopping airplane stunts by
aerobatic pilot Patty Wagstaff,
whose plane is in the National Air
and Space Museum, and observa-
tions about elephant behavior
from the National Zoo’s John
Lehnhardt. In other segments,
National Museum of Natural His-
tory volcanologist Dick Fiske stood
on the edge of Mount Kilauea in
Hawaii while explaining what
happens when a volcano erupts,
and the Birmingham Sunlights
sang birthday greetings to the
Smithsonian, live from the Birth-
day Party on the Mall.

In an organizational change
that holds great promise for future
ventures, the Office of Telecom-
munications (OTC) merged with
Smithsonian Institution Press to
form Smithsonian Press/Smithso-
nian Productions. The new divi-
sion combines the Press’ program
of general-interest and specialized
academic publishing, classic
recordings, historic videos, and
popular works with OTC’s award-
winning radio and television
broadcasts and video and audio
productions.

Smithsonian Press’ publishing
efforts this year focused on the
150th anniversary, beginning with
The Smithsonian: 150 Years of Adven-
ture, Discovery, and Wonder from
Smithsonian Books and including
the full-color exhibition catalogue
America’s Smithsonian: Celebrating
150 Years. The Book Development/
New Media division created A Kid's
Guide to the Smithsonian and a new
Official Guide to the Smithsonian. The
Office of Telecommunications coor-
dinated video production for the

LEFT: A Kid’s Guide to the Smithsonian, by Ann

Phillips Bay, director of the Smithsonian's Office of

Elementary and Secondary Education, was published by

Smithsonian Institution Press to offer 8- to 12-year-olds,

parents, and teachers a way to navigate the Smithsonian’s

treasures. (Design by Linda McKnight; illustration by

Steven Rotblatt)

“American Voices: Music at the

Smithsonian” section of “America's
Smithsonian,” sponsored by Dis-
cover® Card. OTC also spearheaded
negotiations with Macmillan Digital
U.S.A. for distribution of the inter-
active CD-ROM 150 Years of Ameri-
ca’s Smithsonian, which features full-
color photography, animation
sequences, and supplemental audio,
video, and graphic elements.

Smithsonian magazine devoted
its May 1996 issue entirely to the
150th anniversary, with articles
reflecting the wealth of activity in
museums, research institutes, and
offices. Throughout the year, other
articles and columns related to the
anniversary. Special features in
Research Reports, published by the
Office of Public Affairs, informed
the 75,000 Contributing Members
and 8,500 scientists and scholars
who receive the quarterly.

The Smithsonian's Internet pres-
ence expanded during the year,
linking the public to even more of
the Institution's resources through
imaginative online offerings. The

Office of Tele-
communications
producers John
Tyler (left) and
Jacquie Gales
Webb (right)
map out a record-
ing session with
Lou Rawls for
Black Radio, the
award-winning
Smithsonian
radio series
broadcast nation-
wide during the
150th anniver-
sary year. (Photo-
graph by Robert

Zuckerman)
rized the Secretary to obtain a clock and a bell for
the tower. A clock was finally placed there in the
1960s, but a bell was never installed.

In celebration of mutual 150th anniversaries in
1996, the A. T. Cross Company at last fulfilled
Renwick’s plan by donating a bell to the Smith-
sonian. The bell was cast at London’s historic
Whitechapel Bell Foundry, where the Liberty Bell
was manufactured, and dedicated during the
Birthday Party on the National Mall on August 10.
After rising dramatically by a crane from the
stage in front of the Castle, the bell pealed from
the top of the tower for the first time at noon.
The inscription on the bell reads: “For the
increase and diffusion of knowledge; gift of the A.
T. Cross Company to the Smithsonian Institution
in our 150th year 1996.”

:

f

SMITHSONIAN BELL SPONSORED

BY A. T. CROSS COMPANY

James Renwick’s original architectural plans for
the Smithsonian Castle included a bell tower, and
in 1851, the Smithsonian Board of Regents autho-
58

popular World Wide Web site,
http://www.si.edu, was in great
demand, especially during the
Birthday Party weekend when
more than half a million people
logged on. Several new Web sites
were prepared or enhanced this
year by the Office of Information
Technology.

Inviting Public Programs

A varied menu of public programs
helped us increase the public’s
sense of ownership in the Smith-
sonian by reaching wide audiences
firsthand. Through lectures and
workshops, outreach efforts, exhi-
bitions, and the popular annual
Festival of American Folklife, the
150th anniversary had a people-
to-people flavor.

The eagerly anticipated tour of
“America’s Smithsonian” offered
an incomparable opportunity for
the Smithsonian experience to
permeate communities across the
nation. To broaden the audience
for the exhibition, the Office of
Public Affairs coordinated efforts
to distribute tickets to senior cen-
ters, scouting groups, Head Start
programs, and other community
organizations.

The innovative “Voices of Dis-
covery” program, created by
National Zoo Director Michael
Robinson and administered by The
Smithsonian Associates (TSA) under
the direction of Mara Mayor,
brought Smithsonian scholars to
the cities where the exhibition was
on view. In museums, schools,
libraries, colleges, and other gather-
ing places, they shared insights
from their own research or offered
behind-the-scenes glimpses of the
Smithsonian.

Typically, 10 scholars spent 10
days in each of the four exhibition

cities, presenting free lectures,
workshops, and symposiums in up
to 100 different organizations.
Historian Lonnie Bunch of the
National Museum of American
History traveled to Los Angeles,
where he once was a museum
curator, to talk about “Black Amer-
ica and the California Dream” and!
other facets of his research in
African American issues. Anthro-
pologist Alicia Gonzalez, who spe-
cializes in Mexican bread making
and Mexican culture, titled her
Los Angeles lectures “Edible
Baroque.” Pamela Vandiver shared
her conservation research scien-
tist’s perspective with New York
audiences in her lectures on the
technology of Tiffany art glass. In
Kansas City, geologist James Zim-
belman of the National Air and
Space Museum ’s Center for Earth
and Planetary Studies enthralled
students with his slide-show jour-
ney through the solar system.
Michael Robinson, a tropical biol-
ogist and animal behaviorist, lec-
tured in Providence about the fate
of the world’s tropics, which he
calls “the Fort Knox of biology”
for their wealth of genetic mater-
ial. The immense diversity of the
Smithsonian was evident in other
“voices of discovery”: costume anc
gender, Plains Indian traditional
art, volcanoes, the Wright broth-
ers, folk art of the Southwest, and
many other themes.

“Voices of Discovery” was made
possible in Los Angeles by The

Ralph M. Parsons Foundation and
The Ahmanson Foundation and in
Providence by The Champlin
Foundations.

Beyond “America's Smithso-
nian,” other public programs were
a showcase for the 150th year.
Among the highlights of TSA’s Res-
dent Associate programs were
yehind-the-scenes tours and adult-
‘hild workshops in museums, a
ecture on “James Smithson and
dis Legacy: The Early Years,” and
‘Living Legends” presentations
hat celebrated the achievements
of people like folksinger Pete
eeger and chef Julia Child. The
)ffice of Government Relations
nvited congressional staff to a
eries of four lectures by Smithso-
tian scholars. Special exhibitions
rom units of the Under Secretary’s
yffice included “Nineteenth-Cen-
ury Images of the Smithsonian
nstitution Building,” vintage
ints from the Castle collection
rganized by the Architectural His-
ory and Historic Preservation
Division, and “Smithson’s Gift,”
yrganized by VIARC.

For the “Working at the Smith-
onian” segment of this year’s Fes-
ival of American Folklife, the
Iffice of Physical Plant’s Horticul-
ure Services Division created a
ush garden based on a photograph
tom its Garden Club of America
collection, complete with fountain
ind stone pavement, and staff
nembers gave educational lectures.
Jesign and Construction staff
showed plans for the National Air
ind Space Museum’s Dulles Center
ind the National Museum of the
American Indian’s Mall museum,
and Craft Services personnel
offered a close-up look at faux
painting, welding, and plastering.

An Efficient Infrastructure
Guided by a shared mission,
Smithsonian staff joined forces to
build an infrastructure driven by
cooperation. Internal organiza-
tional boundaries became flexible,
and it was clear that, although we
may have different skills and

assignments, we are all in the
same business. This foundation,
and the positive attitude that sus-
tained it, made “America's Smith-
sonian,” the Birthday Party, and
countless other aspects of the
anniversary possible.

A good example was the com-
bined expert knowledge that went
into protecting the treasured
objects in
“America’s
Smithsonian”
during trans-
port and
while on
exhibit. The
Office of Con-
tracting and
Property
Management
negotiated
and contract-
ed for the
convention
center sites
and associat-
ed services,

transactions to accommodate tight
schedules. The General Counsel's
Office negotiated and completed
all the corporate partnership
agreements.

The Birthday Party’s success
depended on the carefully orches-
trated efforts of many different
organizations within the Smithso-
nian. More than 250 officers from
the Office of Pro-
tection Services
provided around-
the-clock security
support, many
working extra
shifts. In the ear-
ly morning
hours, staff from
the Horticulture
Services Division
supervised the
placement of
greenery to create
an inviting set-
ting on the Mall.
In anticipation of
the Smithsonian

The Smithsonian Associates joined Visi-

and then the

bell raising, the

tor Information and Associates’ Recep-

Design and ;
: tion Center volunteers at membership
Construction ny ;
Kee. information booths around the Mall
Division

during the Birthday Party festivities.

inspected the
sites to be
sure mechani-
cal systems met Smithsonian stan-
dards. The Office of Environmen-
tal Management and Safety
advised on fire protection specifi-
cations for the exhibition design.
The Office of Risk and Asset Man-
agement helped plan for protec-
tion, while the Office of Protec-
tion Services forged new
governmental and contractor part-
nerships to arrange and manage
security. The Office of the Comp-
troller played its team role by
expediting payments and travel

Design and Con-
struction Divi-
sion had con-
ducted a
structural engi-

(Photograph by Joshua Taylor)

neering assess-
ment to ensure that the bell would
have no negative impact on the
Castle building. Staff from the
Office of Imaging, Printing, and
Photographic Services and the
Office of Telecommunications
were on hand to document the
weekend’s activities for publica-
tion and for posterity.

The Institution’s volunteer tra-
dition was a great asset this year,
as our volunteers extended their
contributions of time and exper-
tise to help with many anniversary

59
projects. During the August 10 weekend. As “America's Smithso-

and 11 celebration, nearly 1,500 nian” toured the country, the
volunteers worked on special Institution reached into local com-
events and staffed museum and munities to recruit and train vol-
research institute pavilions, infor- unteers who greeted visitors,
mation and membership booths, processed tickets, provided general
and museum information desks. information, and escorted school

Many Smithsonian employees also — groups. In Providence, the exhibi-
contributed their time on that tion’s fourth destination, a record-

PRESIDENTIAL PROCLAMATION IN RECOGNITION
OF THE 150TH ANNIVERSARY

The Smithsonian received the following proclamation, on the occasion of the Institution’s 150th
anniversary, from the White House on February 7, 1996:

When James Smithson, an English scientist, died in 1829, he gave his entire estate “to the
United States of America, to found at Washington, under the name Smithsonian Institu-
tion, an Establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men.” This
extraordinary gift, amounting to one and one-half times the Federal budget of the day,
led to passage of an Act of Congress establishing the Smithsonian Institution. Signed by
President James Polk on August 10, 1846, this legislation created a Board of Regents to
oversee the execution of Smithson’s trust.

Today, 150 years later, the Smithsonian Institution is famed around the globe, and its
collections are enjoyed by thousands of Americans and foreign visitors every day.
Through dedicated original research, the preservation of an unequaled collection of arti-
facts, and the presentation of public exhibitions and programs, the Smithsonian truly
embodies its benefactor’s dream. As one of the foremost repositories of American her-
itage and culture, the Institution provides unique insight into our history and the devel-
opment of our vibrant national character.

As we celebrate the sesquicentennial of the Smithsonian Institution, let us recognize
the work done by its many museums, research facilities, and educational endeavors and
rededicate ourselves to the “increase and diffusion of knowledge” James Smithson sought
to advance. In doing so, we can more fully explore the wonders of our world and contin-
ue to bring people together for the common pursuit of knowledge.

Now, therefore, |, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by
virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United
States, and in honor of the memory of James Smithson and to commemorate the accom-
plishments of the Smithsonian Institution, do hereby proclaim August 10, 1996, as the
150th Anniversary of the Smithsonian Institution and urge the people of the United
States to observe this anniversary with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

in witness whereof, | have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of February, in the
year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-six, and of the Independence of the United
States of America the two hundred and twentieth.

a Lan

60

breaking 700 people were trained
as volunteers.
Occurring in the same year as
Smithsonian staff faced the chal-
lenge of two unprecedented gov- |
ernment shutdowns, the anniver-
sary was a welcome chance to
renew a feeling of community and

to recognize the commitment of

our employees. One hundred fifty
“Unsung Heroes,” nominated by
their coworkers for outstanding
service, were honored in four cere:
monies, and a plaque with their
names now hangs in the Castle.
The ceremonies were coordinated
by the 150th Anniversary Com-
munity Committee and the
Ombudsman. Across the Institu-
tion, monthly open houses gave
staff the opportunity to explore
the workplaces of their colleagues
in other organizations. Planned by
the Community Committee, these

informal group tours and discus-
sions were coordinated by the
Office of Human Resources and
the Office of the Provost.

Anniversary Merchandise
Promotion
Commemorative coins and a com-
memorative stamp headed the list
of collectible items created in con-.
junction with the 150th anniver-
sary. The U.S. Mint introduced lim
ited edition silver dollar and gold —
$5 commemorative coins, availabli
for one year. A portion of the sales)
proceeds goes to the Smithsonian’:
National Numismatic Collection ir
the National Museum of American
History. The coins are marketed
through the Museum Shops and
the Smithsonian Catalogue. The |
Castle and the Arts and Industries |
Building are shown on the 32-cent;
postal stamp, issued by the United)
States Postal Service on February 7)

Ei
The anniversary theme was front
ind center in the shops, mail order
catalogue, and merchandise adver-
‘ising throughout the year. The
Museum Shops designed bags, mer-
chandise cards and tags, signage,
yanners, and window displays car-
rying the 150th anniversary logo.
special events and merchandise
promotions captured the excite-
nent of anniversary events. Product
Development and Licensing devel-
oped a range of collectible mer-
chandise with the 150th anniver-
sary logo offered through the
catalogue and the shops. The selec-
tions included a necktie and a
Women’s Committee commemora-
tive scarf, a print of the Castle
by artist G. Harvey, men’s and
women’s watches, t-shirts, caps, tote
bags, a sweatshirt, and gift items
such as mugs, magnets, Christmas
ornaments, and bookmarks.

For “America's Smithsonian,”
the Museum Shops designed,
installed, and operated a 10,000-
square-foot shop that opened with
the exhibition in Los Angeles. As
the exhibition travels, staff contin-
ue to consult on shop design, mer-
chandise selection, and installa-
tion. During the Birthday Party on
the Mall, three successful sales
tents carried anniversary products.

An Institution of
Partnerships

As these highlights confirm, the
Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary
celebration was quite an accom-
plishment—for Smithsonian
employees and volunteers and for
our corporate and community
partners. In our internal partner-
ships, we engaged in dialogue
across organizations and gained
renewed respect for one another’s
roles. We learned to be adaptable,

to embrace a variety of perspec-
tives, and above all, to transcend
the traditional boundaries of our
thinking. Our external partner-
ships also broadened our horizons,
as we discovered how joint
endeavors with the private sector
and with communities can
strengthen our capacity to share
the Smithsonian with all Ameri-
cans. We conclude this momen-
tous year with the realization that
we are indeed an institution of
partnerships—dynamic, creative
working partnerships that will
guide us with confidence through
the Institution’s next 150 years.

The Kite Festival on the Mall celebrated three anniversaries:
the Smithsonian’s 150th, the National Air and Space Muse-
um’s 20th, and the festival’s 30th. The annual competition
is cosponsored by The Smithsonian Associates and the Air

and Space Museum. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

61
I EDDIE EE EEE ee

BUILDING PART N RS oP SS aEOeRe ariel heO mia aRoE

NOTIONAL qUVANCEMEN| |

Alice Green Burnette, Assistant Secretary

In our time, James Smithson’s
vision lives, not only in the
Smithsonian's collections,
programs, and staff, but in the
profound generosity of the people
who support this remarkable
institution and ensure that its

work continues.

62

In many ways, the Smithsonian of 1996 is a world away from the Smith:
sonian of 150, 100, or 50 years ago. One has only to walk along the
National Mall or explore the many Smithsonian sites on the World Widé

Web to appreciate the Institution’s evolution from a single building, the

original “Castle,” to the largest museum and research complex in the
world. When James Smithson left his extraordinary bequest to the
American people, his vision, “the increase and diffusion of knowledge,”
was broad enough to encompass things not yet imagined, and to endure
for generations. Today, the unique mission of this Institution remains
the same as it was the day its first Secretary, Joseph Henry, took office.
The Smithsonian is still “a college of discoverers,” as Henry called it,
dedicated to pursuing and sharing knowledge according to Smithson’s
historic instructions.

In our time, James Smithson’s vision lives, not only in the Smithso-
nian’s collections, programs, and staff, but in the profound generosity 0:
the people who support this remarkable institution and ensure that its
work continues. From a retired librarian in Jackson, Mississippi, to a
graduate student at the University of Texas, to an investment banker in
New York City, the Smithsonian’s members and donors are as interestiny
and diverse as the Institution itself.

In 1996, as we celebrated the Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary, we
were reminded again and again that gifts such as James Smithson’s have
had an indelible effect in shaping the history of the Institution. Private
support—from individuals, corporations, foundations, and organiza-
tions—has increased our collections, bringing beloved objects such as
the Wright brothers’ Flyer and the Hope Diamond to permanent homes:
in our museums. Private support has also enlivened our educational anc
research programs, and it has broadened our reach through everything
from traveling exhibitions to CD-ROMs.

The Smithsonian has never relied on federal funding alone to carry
out its special mission. But in today’s uncertain fiscal climate, private sup:
port is more critical than ever. The 150th anniversary was an ideal oppor-
tunity to spread the word about the Institution’s needs as a public-private
partnership and explore new avenues to obtain external funding and
increase revenue. While maintaining the collections and continuing the
Smithsonian’s traditions, with the inspiration and direction of Secretary
I. Michael Heyman, we initiated an unprecedented effort in 1996 to take
the Smithsonian off the Mall and bring it to the people of our country.
What will the Smithsonian be
50 years from now? We cannot
edict the future, but we can pre-
are for it to the best of our abili-
ies. We can strike a balance
etween stability and innovation,
naking wise choices in these
imes of limited resources while
ontinuing to fund the creativity
nd exploration for which the
mithsonian is known throughout
he world. Private support is the
ey to this balance. Without it,
he Smithsonian cannot carry
ames Smithson’s vision into the
ext millennium.

The Smithsonian gratefully
cknowledges the many individu-
ls, corporations, foundations, and
ganizations that have supported
he Institution over the years as
yell as those whose generous con-
ributions during fiscal year 1996
elped us achieve the successes
lescribed in this annual report.

ources and Uses of

‘unds Raised

during fiscal year 1996, the Smith-
onian raised more than $39 mil-
on in gifts, pledges, and non-
overnment grants. Donations
“om individuals formed $18.8
iillion (47.7 percent) of this total.
Aore than $3 million (7.9 percent)
f the total funds were derived
rom planned gifts from individu-
Is. Foundations and corporations
upported the Smithsonian by
ontributing $7.6 million (19.4
ercent) and $9.3 million (23.5
ercent), respectively. Of the total
unds raised, $28.7 million (73
ercent) was restricted to specific
rograms. During fiscal year 1996,
he Institution received 72 non-
overnment grants totaling $5.1
nillion. Private gifts and non-
Overnment grants made up 7 per-

Uses of Funds Raised

Funds Raised by Source
Fiscal Year 1996

Fiscal Year 1996

Exhibitions

Research $4,963,242 (12.6%)

$5,699,017 (14.5%)

Other
$583,342
(1.5%)

Individuals
$18,793,752
(47.7%)

Education &
Public Programs
$1,520,211 (3.9%)

Construction
$7,925,393
(20.1%)

Foundations
$7,633,172
(19.4%)

— Other
$1,009,635 (2.6%)

Designated to Museums

& Research Institutes Unrestricted

Corporations

$7,622,687 $10,651,265
Ves es Bequests (19.4%) (27.0%)
ex) $3,105,062
(7.9%)

cent of the Smithsonian’s net oper-

ating budget during this fiscal year. eS EOIN Ld es Bh Sa

150th Anniversary Corporate On the passing of their friend Mary Ripley in

Partner Program 1996, many individuals made memorial gifts to

The 150th anniversary was envi- the Mary Livingston Ripley Garden Endowment.

: : ; The endowment provides for long-term mainte-
sioned as a national celebration to

nance of the garden, which is located between
the Arts and Industries Building and the Hirsh-

horn Museum and Sculpture Garden and was

give Americans of all ages a greater
appreciation for the Smithsonian

and its impact on communities

across the country. The Institution named for the founder of the Smithsonian

forged a ground-breaking partner- Women’s Committee and wife of Secretary

ship with corporate America, Emeritus:s: Dillon Ripley:

implemented by the Office of Open daily, the garden is a quiet oasis to thou-

Membership and Development sands of National Mall visitors each year. Its

and called the 150th Anniversary unusual curvilinear design, along with a profusion

Corporate Partner Program, that of flowers in raised beds, lends a distinctive sense

brought the resources of four of intimacy and informality. The Smithsonian's

P ns : 2 Horticulture Services Division administers its ever-
high-profile and successful Ameri-

: ; hangi lanti I d attends to it |
can corporations to the Smithso- He Eo oe cera pie eee

nian in 1996. Sponsorship by Dis- maintenance:
cover® Card, Intel Corporation,

MCI Communications Corpora-

tion, and Trans World Airlines,

Inc., enabled the Smithsonian to

launch an ambitious and unprece-

dented marketing and outreach

150

1846-1996

Smithsonian

Proud Partners of the Smithsonian's 150th Anniversary

DISCOVER’ intel.

__ate
NCL TWA

63
Charles Kuralt welcomes guests to the “America’s

Smithsonian” benefit gala in New York. (Photograph

by Hugh Talman)

campaign, featuring a diverse
menu of activities, including
extensive programming and adver-
tising on the CBS Television Net-
work, the enormous Birthday
Party on the National Mall, and
even a Smithsonian float in the
Tournament of Roses parade. The
centerpiece of the 150th anniver-
sary celebration is the 100,000-
square-foot traveling exhibition
“America’s Smithsonian,” with
active Corporate Partner involve-
ment at all four venues in fiscal
year 1996.

“America’s Smithsonian”
Galas and Member Nights
“America’s Smithsonian” provided
an extraordinary backdrop for spe-
cial events in the four cities that
the exhibition visited this year.
Working with a fund-raising com-
mittee of dedicated volunteers in
each city, the Office of Member-
ship and Development and the
Office of Special Events and Con-
ference Services produced elegant
premiere fund-raising events in
Los Angeles, Kansas City, New
York, and Providence. Featuring
state and local officials, communi-
ty leaders, Smithsonian officials,
special guests, and other Smithso-
nian friends, these events raised
significant financial support while
fostering enthusiasm for the show
and broadening the Institution’s
constituency in these regions.
Among the highlights of these
evenings were a performance by a
local children’s chorus in Los
Angeles, the appearance of Charles
Kuralt as master of ceremonies in
New York City, and performances
by the Smithsonian Jazz Master-
works Orchestra at all the galas.
Member Night receptions in
Los Angeles, Kansas City, and New

York, with special guest speakers
and Smithsonian museum direc-
tors and curators, were special
opportunities for Contributing /
Members and other Smithsonian |
friends to preview “America's
Smithsonian” and get to know
their fellow members. Through
special marketing appeals and
computer kiosks in the exhibition,
the Contributing Membership pro
gram attracted hundreds of new
members and informed the public
about the many benefits of joinin;
the Smithsonian.

Smithsonian Fund for
the Future

To protect the level of the Smith-
sonian’s programmatic support
from the uncertainties of the
federal budget process, Secretary
Heyman set a goal for the Smith-
sonian: to substantially increase
the proportion of reliable, stable
funds derived from private
sources. To accomplish that goal,
the Smithsonian needs increasing
endowed funds to underwrite
innovation and maintain its tradi
tion of excellence.

The Smithsonian Fund for the
Future, launched by the Smithso-
nian National Board to coincide
with the 150th anniversary, will
significantly increase the current
endowment, guaranteeing sources
of income in perpetuity. At the
close of fiscal year 1996, the
Smithsonian Fund for the Future
endowments totaled more than
$17.4 million. Support for pro-
grams and exhibits has been pro-
vided by individuals through Funk
for the Future endowments,
including those for the Horticul-
ture Services Division of the Offic:
of Physical Plant, the National Air
and Space Museum, the National
Museum of American History, the
National Museum of American
art, and the Smithsonian Institu-
ion Libraries.

smithsonian Legacy Society
‘ver since James Smithson’s inau-
rural legacy, bequests and planned
rifts have been critical to the
ymithsonian’s work in research,
xhibitions, and educational pro-
‘rams and to the overall excel-
ence of the Institution.

In celebration of the 150th
nniversary, the Institution estab-
ished the Smithsonian Legacy
society to recognize and honor
hose who create legacy gifts of
iny kind: bequests through will,
iving trusts, charitable remainder
rusts, charitable gift annuities,
»00led income fund gifts, retire-
nent plan gifts, or life insurance
sifts. Through the society, the
nstitution acknowledges the gen-
rosity of all donors, whether their
egacy gifts were established
ecently or long ago. Those whose
xifts were known or arranged dur-
ng the 150th anniversary year are
lesignated Founders of the Smith-
onian Legacy Society. Those
Nhose planned gifts are known in
‘uture years will also be welcomed
nto the society.

Contributing Membership
Program

More than 70,000 individuals and
households across the nation sup-
port the Smithsonian through the
Contributing Membership pro-
gram. Annual dues, which range
from the $60 Supporting level to
the James Smithson Society level
of $10,000, fund the mission of
the Institution and its research,
exhibitions, acquisitions, and edu-
cational programs. In fiscal year

1996, the Contributing Member-
ship program provided $4.6 mil-
lion in net unrestricted funds.

The Contributing Membership
program underwent several major
changes during fiscal year 1996,
all designed to improve efficiency,
increase membership services, and
broaden the Smithsonian's con-
stituency. For example, Contribut-
ing Members may now reach the
Smithsonian by their own special
toll-free number. A new Contribut-
ing Membership Lounge, located
in the Arts and Industries Build-
ing, offers a private place where
members can relax during their
busy visits to the Mall.

The program’s new approach
has given Contributing Members
greater access to membership ser-
vices and more opportunities to
enjoy their relationship with the
Smithsonian. From volunteering
to work at “America's Smithso-
nian” to attending Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service events in their home-
towns, Contributing Members
increased their participation in the
life of the Institution during 1996
and showed a remarkable dedica-

tion to the Smithsonian's mission.

James Smithson Society

The James Smithson Society, the
highest level of Contributing Mem-
bership, celebrated 20 years of pri-
vate support to the Smithsonian in
1996. Through their annual dues
and special gifts, members of the
society have shown a deep com-
mitment to Smithsonian research,
exhibitions, collections, and educa-
tional programs. Since the society's
founding, members’ annual contri-
butions have totaled more than $5
million. Endowed life James Smith-
son Society memberships have cre-

ated a cumulative endowment bal-
ance of nearly $500,000.

The Smithson Society ended fis-
cal year 1996 with 414 members,
including individuals who support
the Smithsonian through annual
gifts of $2,000 as well as those
who donate $5,000 or $10,000 in
membership dues. Beyond the sat-

isfaction of supporting the Smith-

Smithsonian National Board member Ruth $. Holmberg,

with her husband William Holmberg, is thanked by Secre-
tary I. Michael Heyman (left) for her leadership in mobiliz-
ing participation nationally for the “America’s Smithso-

nian” benefit galas in celebration of the 150th anniversary.

sonian, members receive special
privileges and benefits through
these higher levels of membership.
Each year, the society holds a
weekend of behind-the-scenes
tours and a formal dinner that
brings its members together and
recognizes outstanding contribu-
tions to the Smithsonian. At the
October 1995 dinner, Smithsonian
Regent and U.S. Senator Daniel
Patrick Moynihan (D-New York)
presented the James Smithson
Founder Medal to Barbara H. and
James A. Block for their exception-
al leadership, volunteer spirit, and

financial support of the National

65
Campaign for the National Muse-

um of the American Indian.

Smithsonian Corporate
Membership Program

Since its establishment in 1990,
the Smithsonian Corporate Mem-
bership Program has enjoyed con-
tinued success in fulfilling its joint
mission of strengthening the
Smithsonian's relationship with
the business community and rais-
ing unrestricted funds for the Insti-
tution’s use. Capitalizing on the
Smithsonian's scope as the world’s
largest museum and research com-
plex, the program has been essen-
tial in promoting the Institution’s
latest projects while establishing
and maintaining relations with the

global business community.

British Airways Chairman Sir Colin Marshall (left), Provost

J]. Dennis O'Connor, and Regent Anne d’Harnoncourt enjoy
the annual meeting of the Smithsonian Corporate Member-

ship Program. (Photograph by Richard Strauss)

Corporate Membership is avail-
able at the $10,000 (Corporate
Patron) and $25,000 (Corporate
Leader) levels. In 1996, the program
enjoyed support from 52 members
and extended honorary member-
ship to another 79 members of the
business community who support-

ed the premiere galas of the Institu-

tion’s traveling exhibition “Ameri-
ca’s Smithsonian” across the coun-
try. The program succeeded in gen-
erating a total of $430,000 in
unrestricted funding for the Institu-
tion in fiscal year 1996.

Each spring, members are
encouraged to participate in the
Corporate Membership Program’s
annual meeting, a forum for busi-
ness leaders to meet and exchange
ideas with members of Congress
and the diplomatic community.
The meeting is also a time for the
Smithsonian to honor members
for their support of key projects.
In 1996, the annual meeting topic
was “How Leaders Collaborate to
Create Positive Change in the
Next Century.” The speakers
included Sir Colin Marshall, chair-
man of British Airways, and Dr.
Robert Woodall, vice-president for
environmental policy of The
Southern Company.

In addition to an invitation to

the annual meeting, members may

choose to highlight their partner-
ship with the Institution by hold-
ing an event at a Smithsonian
facility. Other benefits include dis-
counts on Smithsonian activities
for company employees, access to
behind-the-scenes tours for execu-
tives and clients, and invitations
to exhibition openings and other

special events.

Smithsonian Luncheon
Group

The Smithsonian Luncheon
Group, an organization of commit-
ted citizens from the Washington
region, meets regularly to learn
more about the Smithsonian and
provide a link to the community.
During fiscal year 1996, the Smith-
sonian Luncheon Group estab-
lished an endowment in honor of

the Institution's 150th annivenenl
Led by Chairman Lee M. Folger,
the members contributed more
than $150,000 toward the endow-
ment, which will provide needed |
and ongoing funding for Smithso-
nian educational programs, bene-
fiting the youth of Washington,
D.C., and surrounding areas.

Smithsonian National Board
Annual Giving Fund

The Smithsonian National Board, —

with 50 current and 16 honorary
members, is a cornerstone of the

Smithsonian's partnership with

the private sector. Members work
as advocates for the Smithsonian
and as advisors to the Secretary,
and they lend their support by
raising and contributing funds
themselves. Under the leadership
of Chair Jean Bronson Kilborne
and Vice-Chair Clive Runnells,
National Board members providec
the Smithsonian with valuable
contacts in the philanthropic and
business Communities, which wer
the keys to the success of anniver-
sary activities nationwide.

In calendar year 1995, led by
Allison S. Cowles, chairman of the
board’s Annual Giving Committee
board members—current, hon-
orary, and advisory—contributed
nearly $660,000 in annual suppor’
to the Institution. Of that amount
more than $300,000 supported
programs and outreach activities
for the anniversary, with the
remaining funds directed to
specific museums and projects.

Smithsonian Women’s

Committee

Smithsonian Women’s Committee
members—S6 active, 63 resource,
and 48 sustaining—logged 11,000
volunteer hours during 1996. Most
»f the volunteers’ time was dedi-
ated to organizing and staging the
uccessful Smithsonian Craft Show,
veld April 23 through April 26 at
he National Building Museum.
featuring museum-quality crafts
rom around the world, the show
aised a record-breaking $310,000
n 1996, to be awarded in grants
or high-priority Smithsonian pro-
ects. In honor of the 150th
inniversary, the committee
lesigned and produced a com-
nemorative Smithsonian scarf.

ymithsonian

Benefactors Circle

fhe Smithsonian Benefactors Cir-
le honors individuals who make
exceptional philanthropic contri-
jutions to the Institution. At the
all Benefactors Circle dinner,
samuel C. Johnson, donor and
ymithsonian Regent Emeritus, was
yaid tribute by Regent Wesley S.
Williams Jr. for his distinguished
ecord of contributions and volun-
eer leadership. In addition,
Regent and former U.S. Represen-
ative Norman Y. Mineta presented
he Joseph Henry Medal to Repre-
sentative Sidney Yates (D-Illinois)
‘or his service to the Institution
‘hrough the years. Twelve new
donors were also recognized,
receiving the Benefactors emblem.

Donors of In-Kind and
Volunteer Support

in addition to the financial sup-
port of individuals, foundations,
and corporations, the Smithsonian
[Institution acknowledges donors
of in-kind gifts. Ranging from
equipment for office or program
use to pro bono professional con-
sulting services, such in-kind gifts
contribute greatly to the success of

research and educational programs
as well as to the efficient adminis-
tration of the Institution.

Donors of volunteer service fur-
ther enable the Smithsonian to
accomplish a variety of programs
and offer expanded services to the
public. The names of our docents
and behind-the-scenes volunteers
are listed annually in the Torch
(the employee newspaper). In fiscal
year 1996, 9,026 volunteers gave
574,565 hours of their time. These
invaluable volunteers bring exper-
tise, experience, and enthusiasm to
their work here, and we express to
them collectively our great appreci-
ation for their dedication to the

Smithsonian Institution.

Memorial and
Commemorative Gifts

This year, many individuals made
contributions to the Smithsonian
in celebration of a special occasion,
such as an anniversary, or in mem-
ory of a loved one. For instance,
one of the highlights of the year
was a generous donation from
longtime Contributing Member
Thomas Judson of California in
memory of his wife, Geraldine,
whose name is inscribed on the
Honor Board in the Smithsonian
Castle.

The Memorial and Commemo-
tative program provides lasting
and meaningful recognition of a
loved one through a gift to the
Smithsonian and offers a unique
opportunity for individuals to be
remembered at a major institution
in the nation’s capital.

The Honorable Sidney Yates, recipient of the Joseph Henry

Medal, addresses Regent Norman Mineta, Secretary I.
Michael Heyman, and guests at the Smithsonian Benefac-

tors Circle awards ceremony. (Photograph by Glenn Levy)

67
Frank and Lisina Hoch, longtime

benefactors and former Smithso-
nian National Board members,
provided support for the renova-
tion of the Cooper-Hewitt,

National Design Museum.

SMITHSONIAN
BENEFACTORS CIRCLE

Honorary Founder

Enid A. Haupt

Founders

Russell B. Aitken

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. Altschul

William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans

Katharine Graham

Robert C. and Julie Graham Jr.
Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.
William A. and Patricia W. Hewitt
Ikuo Hirayama

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
I. T. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Patrons

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson
Ann Simmons Alspaugh

Peter C. and Joan Andrews
Marjorie Arundel

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod
Edward P. Bass

Randy and Nancy Best

James and Barbara Block

Agnes C. Bourne and James Luebbers
Michael J. Brophy

Hildegard Bruck

Joan Bull

George E. Burch III

Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

Marcus Cohn

Barber B. Conable Jr. and

Charlotte Conable

Peggy and Richard M. Danziger

David Davies

Evelyn Y. Davis

Charles M. and Valerie T. Diker

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

John L. and Margot P. Ernst

Kitty Fassett

Kathrine, Juliet and Lee Folger
The Folger Fund

Rita Fraad

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost

Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert

George J. and Eileen D. Gillespie

F. Warrington Gillet Jr. and

Elesabeth I. Gillet

Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Jerome L. Greene

Barrick W. Groom

Agnes S. Gund

George Gund III

oan D. Haig

velyn A. J. Hall

Martha A. Healy

Jrue M. Heinz

loyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman

Frank W. and Lisina M. Hoch

adislaus and Beatrix von Hoffmann

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

ohn R. Huggard
Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume
Gilbert S. Kahn

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen

Victor and Loretta Kaufman
Gene A. and Freita F. Keluche
James M. Kemper Jr.

R. Crosby Kemper Jr.

James W. and Mary T. Kinnear

Ann and Gilbert Kinney

Ethel Niki Kominik

William K. and Alice S. Konze
Karl V. Krombein

Harvey M. and Connie Krueger
Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger
Robert and Helen Kuhn
Rogerio S. Lam

Ru Lennox Lang

Robert and Carrie Lehrman
Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson
Barbara and Gerald Levin
Sydney and Frances Lewis
Henry Luce III

Frank J. Lukowski

Harry and Beverly Mandil

Edwin S. and Nancy A. Marks
John F. and Adrienne B. Mars
Kathleen C. Mason
Brooks and Hope B. McCormick
Nan Tucker McEvoy
Antony M. Merck
Jeffery W. and Janet Meyer (
James and Lolly Mitchell |
Lester S. Morse Jr. and Enid W. Morse
The Hon. Daniel Patrick Moynihan
and Elizabeth Moynihan
Eleanor Smallwood Niebell
Jean Niemeier
Robert H. and Nancy Nooter
Carroll and Nancy Fields O’Connor
Charles Rand Penney
Al and Cecilia Podell
Winifred and Norman Portenoy
Lewis and Margaret Ranieri
Philip D. Reed Jr. and Elizabeth Reed
Douglas F. and Sanae I. Reeves
Frank K. Ribelin
Carlyn Ring
David Rockefeller
Anton H. Rosenthal and
Ruth E. Ganister
Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal
Wilbur L. Ross Jr.
Jeanette Cantrell Rudy
Cecile Salomon
Joseph H. Samuel Jr.
Lloyd G. and Betty L. Schermer
Margaret Knowles Schink
Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz
Catherine F. Scott
Shirley P. Sichel
Emma M. Sims
James C. Slaughter
George L. Small
Kathy Daubert Smith
Bernie E. Stadiem
Mrs. Sydney Stein Jr.
E. Hadley Stuart Jr. and Marion Stuar
A. Alfred Taubman
Vernon F. Taylor Jr.
Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw
Jeffrey and Diane Tobin
R. E. Turner and Jane Fonda
John Weeden
Daniel Weinstein
Nancy Brown Wellin
Anthony and Beatrice W. Welters
Jerry R. and Carolyn L. White
Julius Wile
Ronald H. Winston and
Heidi Jensen-Winston
Elizabeth B. Wood
Gay F. Wray
Nancy B. Zirkle

Posthumous Gifts
Vera M. Macbeth
Charles J. Simon

YONORS OF FINANCIAL
UPPORT

Denotes a gift to the Smithsonian Fund

or the Future, a citizens’ initiative to raise
ndowment funds, both unrestricted and

pecial purpose.

1,000,000 or more

nonymous

folenia Trust

srome and Dorothy Lemelson
(Lemelson Family Foundation)*

{rs. Barbara Levin

ndrew W. Mellon Foundation

jissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.

fashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation of
Connecticut

fr. Arthur Ross

urner Foundation Inc.

ila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund

500,000 or more

fr. Harry R. Charles Jr.
jommonwealth of Virginia
Jiscovery Communications, Inc.
rue Heinz Trust

riends of the National Zoo

Ar. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch*

he Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.
avid & Lucile Packard Foundation
Ar. David Rockefeller

100,000 or more

nonymous

he Ahmanson Foundation

inheuser-Busch Companies

antam Books, a Division of Bantam
Doubleday Dell Publishing Group

Ar. and Mrs. James A. Block

tistol-Myers Squibb Foundation

sessna Aircraft Company

{arryette Cohn Fund for the National
Museum of American Art Docents
and the Furtherance of the Arts

Jomputerworld Information Technol-
ogy Awards Foundation, Inc.

Jonsolidated Natural Gas Company
Foundation

\rthur Vining Davis Foundations

Jayton Hudson Corporation (Target
Stores, the Department Store Divi-
sion and Mervyn's)

JeGrazia Art & Cultural Foundation

Jiscover® Card

Mr. and Mrs. John Ernst

‘ieldstead & Company

‘reeport-McMoRan Inc.

Mr. David W. Gengler

the Greenwich Workshop, Inc.

fhe George Gund Foundation

Mr. Samuel C. Johnson (S.C. Johnson
& Son, Inc.)

Mrs. Ru Lennox Lang

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin S. Marks

Merrill Lynch & Company
Foundation, Inc.

J. P. Morgan & Company, Incorporated

National Business Aircraft Association

Mrs. Paul M. Niebell Sr.

Pacific Mutual Foundation

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis S. Ranieri

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed Jr. (Philip
D. Reed Foundation, Inc.)

Rockefeller Foundation

Mrs. Jeanette Cantrell Rudy

Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

The Southern Company

Royal Thai Government

Eugene and Clare Thaw
Charitable Trust

Time Warner Inc.

Timex Corporation

Mr. Julius Wile (The Ruth & Julius
Wile Foundation, Inc.)*

Young Benefactors of the Smithsonian
Institution

Zemurray Foundation

$50,000 or more

Anonymous

Allen & Company Incorporated

Aquatic BioEnhancement Systems, Inc.

ARCO

The Honorable Winton M. Blount

Mr. Stephen Brauer (Hunter
Engineering Company)

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Brother International Corporation

Ms. Joan Bull

The Champlin Foundations

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation Inc.

Ecolab, Inc.

Mrs. Kathrine Dulin Folger

Mr. and Mrs. Lee M. Folger (Folger
Fund)*

General Electric Aircraft Engine Group

J. Paul Getty Trust

Mrs. Eileen D. Gillespie

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

The Jerome L. Greene Foundation, Inc.

Mr. George Gund III

The Island Fund in the New York
Community Trust

Mr. Victor Kaufman

Lannan Foundation

Lockheed Martin Corporation

M&M-Mars

MCI Communications Corporation

Mead Corporation Foundation

Microsoft Corporation

National Institute for the Conserva-
tion of Cultural Property

Natural Heritage Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O’Connor
The Ralph M. Parsons Foundation
Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Pitney Bowes

James Renwick Alliance

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells*

Mr. Robert Sarnoff

Mr. B. Francis Saul II (Chevy Chase
Bank)

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer
(Philip & Henrietta Adler
Foundation)*

Stag’s Leap Wine Cellars

TransBrasil S/A Linhas Aereas

Yamagata Foundation

$10,000 or more

Anonymous

Mrs. Sally Sample Aall

The Abington Foundation

Air Line Pilots Association

Alexander & Baldwin, Inc.

Mrs. Kathleen Allaire

American Academy Of Otolaryngic
Allergy Foundation Inc.

American Express Company

American Textile Manufacturers
Institute, Inc.

AMS Foundation for the Arts, Sciences
and Humanities

Andersen Consulting LLP

Ms. Joanne S. Anderson

Aroaima Bauxite Company, Ltd.

Mrs. Russell M. Arundel

Avery Dennison Corporation

Avon Products, Inc.

Embassy of the Commonwealth of
the Bahamas

Bank of America National Trust and
Savings Association

The Barker Welfare Foundation

George K. Baum & Company

Bayer Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon T. Beaham III

The Hon. and Mrs. Max N. Berry

Best Foundation

Big Brothers/Big Sisters Of America

Dr. Peter S. Bing

Mr. Thomas L. Blair

The Boeing Company

Lillian and Huber Boscowitz
Charitable Trust

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Mary Griggs Burke

The Capital Group Companies, Inc.

Cardiology Research Foundation

CARE Foundation

Case, Pomeroy & Company, Inc.

Casualty Actuarial Society

CBS Inc.

Central Pacific Bank

The CIT Group Foundation, Inc.

CITIBANK, N.A.

Cleveland-Cliffs Inc

Mr. and Mrs. Marcus Cohn

The Colbert Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Lester Lum Colbert Jr.

Comerica Incorporated

Coneway Family Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Coneway

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Congdon

Consolidated Edison Co. of
New York, Inc.

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper

Crane & Co., Inc.

A. T. Cross Company

Data General Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall H. Dean

The Gladys Krieble Delmas
Foundation

Dermik Laboratories

S. Sidney DeYoung Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

The Walt Disney Company

The Doe Run Company

Dun & Bradstreet International

Duron Paints and Wallcoverings

The Ebsworth Foundation

Ernst & Young

Eskimo Pie Corporation

Essence Communications, Inc.

Fannie Mae Foundation

Federal Express Corporation

Federal National Mortgage Association

Elizabeth Firestone-Graham
Foundation

First Interstate Bank of Arizona

Fleet Services Corporation

The Ralphs/Food 4 Less Foundation

42nd Street Development Corporation

Freeman Decorating Company

Fundacion Natura

Genentech, Inc.

General Electric Company

Ira and Leonore Gershwin
Philanthropic Fund

Mr. and Mts. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

Mr. Craig K. Grossenbacher

Gulf States Paper Corporation

Mimi and Peter Haas

Mr. Hugh Halff Jr.

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Mrs. Patrick Healy III

Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc.

Glen Holden Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. A. William Holmberg
(The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.)

Hong Kong Economic & Trade Office,
British Embassy

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

The Horn Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Hughes Aircraft Company

69
International City/County Manage-
ment Association

Imperial Bancorp

Institut fur Auslandsbeziehungen

Japan Marmoset Institute

Jaques Admiralty Law Firm

Mrs. Lois Straight Johnson

Mr. Thomas Judson*

J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Mr. Walter Keating

Ms. Narinder Kaur Keith and
Ms. Rajinder Kaur Keith*

Mr. James M. Kemper Jr. (The David
Woods Kemper Memorial
Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

F. M. Kirby Foundation, Inc.

The Knapp Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Steven Kohlhagen

KPMG Peat Marwick

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. Harvey M. Krueger

Landor Associates

Landsdowne Development
Corporation

Robert Lehman Foundation

Jacob & Charlotte Lehrman

Foundation, Inc.

Levi Strauss Foundation

Sydney & Frances Lewis Foundation

Foundation of the Litton Industries

Los Angeles Convention &
Visitors Bureau

Mr. & Mrs. Peter Lunder

Mr. and Mrs. Whitney MacMillan
(WEM Foundation)

Madge Networks, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John F. Mars

Mr. Frank Martucci

McAdams Charitable Foundation

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy (Nan Tucker
McEvoy Foundation, Inc.)

Meadows Foundation

Mrs. Katherine Medlinger

Mr. Paul Mellon

The Melton Arts Foundation

Merck Family Fund

Mr. Astra Merck

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

Milcom 96

Mobil Corporation

Mondriaan Foundation

Henry & Lucy Moses Fund, Ine.

Motta Internacional, S.A.

National Association of Secondary
School Principals

National Cable Satellite Corp.

National Postal Forum

National Public Radio

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Nelson

New York Mercantile Exchange

The New York Times Company
Foundation

70

The New York Times Company

Northern States Power Company

Northrop Grumman Corporation

O'Melveny & Myers

Occidental Petroleum Corp.

Paul and Camille Oliver-Hoffmann

Orbital Sciences Corp.

Mr. Mandell J. Ourisman

Mrs. Barbara Pauley Pagen

William S. Paley Foundation, Inc.

Panasonic Company

Pearson Art Foundation Inc.

JCPenney Company, Inc.

Pfizer, Inc.

Mary Pickford Foundation

The Pinkerton Foundation

The Hon. Charles Price II

Procter & Gamble Company

Protective Life Insurance Company

Prudential Securities Foundation

David and Chery] Purvis

Rabobank Nederland, N.V.

Ralston Purina Company

Rathe Productions, Inc.

Reader's Digest Association Inc.

Dr. Nathan Reingold

The Research Board, Inc.

Mrs. Kathryn Rinzler

The Hon. and Mrs. S. Dillon Ripley II

Ann R. Roberts Charitable Lead Trust

Sara Roby Foundation

Rockwell International Corporation

Rodale Press

Mrs. Gloria F. Ross

The Judith Rothschild Foundation

Samuel & May Rudin
Foundation, Inc.

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Securities Industry Association, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Ivan Selin (Nina & Ivan
Selin Family Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith*

Society of Competitive Intelligence
Professionals

Software 2000

Specialty Tools & Fasteners

Specialty Equipment Market
Association

The Starr Foundation

Subaru of America, Inc.

Sun America, Inc.

Mr. Kelso F. Sutton

Swatch Watch, U.S.A.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

The TCW Group, Inc.

Teradyne, Inc.

Texaco Foundation

The Times Mirror Company

Toyota Motor Corporation

Transamerica Life Insurance and
Annuity Company

TRW Space and Defense

Twenty-First Century Marketing
Group Inc.

Unico Banking Group

United States Postal Service

UtiliCorp United

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Walton

Mr. and Mrs. Jack W. Warner

The Washington Post Company

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Mr. Jeff Weller

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin

Wells Fargo & Company

Westrope and Associates

Harry Winston Research
Foundation, Inc.

Woodland Park Zoological Society

World Wildlife Fund-Canada

Mrs. Gay F. Wray (Roger S. Firestone
Foundation)*

Young Presidents’ Organization, Inc.

Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle*

Lotty Zucker Foundation

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

The Acorn Foundation

Alico

Alperin/Hirsch Family Foundation

American Friends of Turkey

American Zinc Association

Harriett Ames Charitable Trust

Mr. Peter C. Andrews

The Annenberg Foundation

Arizona Zoological Society

Louis Armstrong Educational
Foundation Inc.

Arthur Andersen LLP

Asian Cultural Council, Inc.

The Jean Axelrod Memorial
Foundation, Inc.

The Barr Fund

Mr. and Mrs. William Beierwaltes

The Beinecke Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

The Sol Bloom Family Foundation

Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Kansas City

Boatmen’s First National Bank

Boulevard Mortgage Company

Laura Boulton Foundation Inc.

Mrs. Karen Johnson Boyd

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Bradley*

Curtiss T. and Mary G. Brennan
Foundation, Inc.

The Eli Broad Family Foundation

Frances and Sidney Brody Charitable
Fund, Inc.

Mr. Donald Bruckmann

Buck Investments

Karen and Edward Burka

Burns & McDonnell

Camalott Charitable Foundation

Government of Canada

Iris & B. Gerald Cantor Foundation

CBS News

Central Plains Steel Co.

Chubb & Son Inc.

Mr. Sang Ho Chung

Clark Construction

Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark |

CNG Service Company {

Dr. and Mrs. David Cofrin |

Commerce Bank, N.A.

Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton

Corning Incorporated

Council of American Embroiderers

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cousins
(Cousins Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Roger E. Covey

Crane Foundation, Inc.

Cray Research Inc.

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman III

King and Jean Cummings
Charitable Trust

The Nancy M. Daly Foundation

The Jane & Worth B. Daniels Jr.
M.D. Fund

J. N. “Ding” Darling Foundation

Dart Industries, Inc.

Mts. M. A. Davis

Dewey Ballantine

Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner (The
Dibner Fund, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette

Mr. Donald J. Douglass

Dean S. Edmonds Foundation

EFD Inc.

Ms. Marjory Erdman Fairbanks

Dr. Alan Fern

Ferrell Companies, Inc.

Ferris, Baker Watts, Inc.

The Fifth Floor Foundation

The Fleming Charitable Trust

Mrs. Leslie S. Fogg

Forbes, Inc.

Fox, Inc.

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Ms. Rosemary L. Frankeberger

G. E. Fund

Sumner Gerard Foundation

Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Gilbert

Greater Kansas City Community
Foundation and Affiliated Trusts

Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Hadley Griffin

H & R Block, Inc.

Mr. Donald J. Hall

Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Mrs. Marguerite Harbert

The Hon. John W. Hechinger and
Mrs. Hechinger

Mr. and Mrs. Paul H. Henson

Mr. and Mrs. Paul Hertelendy

Hicks Charitable Foundation

Hitachi America, Ltd.
fr. and Mrs. A. William Holmberg
he Home Depot, Inc.
fr. John K. Howat
igersoll-Rand Company
itel Corporation
ternational Bank of Commerce
fr. and Mrs. Robert L. James
swish Federation of Cincinnati
mmy Dean Foods
al Kan Foods, Inc.
ansas City Power & Light Company
ansas City Southern Industries Inc.
fr. Alvin R. Kantor
arbara and William Karatz Fund
{r. Bruce Karatz
he Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.
aufman & Broad, Inc.
{rs. Jean Bronson Kilborne
{r. Cleon Knapp
noll International
{rs. Andrea T. Kove
fr. and Mrs. James J. Lally
Villiam & Mildred Lasdon
Foundation
ee Enterprises, Inc.
fr. Alan D. Levy
dmund J. Lewis, M.D.
foward & Jean Lipman
Foundation, Inc.
iz Claiborne Foundation
ockton Companies
ACI Government Markets
As. Elizabeth Marsteller
Jol. Billie G. Matheson, USAF Ret.
Ar. and Mrs. William P. McClure
AcCray Charitable Foundation
AcGraw-Hill, Inc.
Ar. Robert L. McNeil Jr. (Barra
Foundation, Inc.)
As. Cynthia R. Mead
Aercantile Bank of Kansas City
Aetromedia Company
‘the Henry Moore Foundation
is. Mary S. Morain
Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan
Yr. and Mrs. George E. Mueller
Mr. Peter W. Mullin
Ms. Lucille G. Murchison
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston
NAMSB Foundation, Inc.
National Building Museum
National Space Club
The Nature Company
Mr. Bruce M. Newman
ewsweek, Inc.
EX Corporation
cean Futures Foundation
pryLand USA
.E.X. Pilot Merger Fund
rt. and Mrs. James Patton Jr.
‘ayless Cashways, Inc.
r. and Mrs. W. Keith Pence
tr. Robert E. Petersen

Petrolera Nacional

Phelps Dodge Foundation

Mrs. Lillian Phillips*

Placer Dome U.S., Inc.

Mrs. John A. Pope

Mr. Simon Poyta

Mr. Heinz C. Prechter (World Heritage
Foundation)

Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado

R.I. Hospital Trust National Bank

Mr. Elmer E. Rasmuson

Kanwal and Ann Rekhi Fund

Rhode Island Convention Center

Mr. Frank K. Ribelin

Robertson Honda

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Rogers

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Ms. Elizabeth Sackler and
Mr. Fred Berner

Mr. and Mrs. David Saity

Charles E. Sampson Memorial
Foundation

Mrs. Vicki Sant (The Roger and
Vicki Sant Fund)

Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert D. Schimmel

Scurlock Foundation

Mr. J. Henry Sheffield

Siemer & Hand Travel

The Singleton Foundation

Mrs. Helen Belding Smith

Smithsonian Magazine

Mr. Orrin J. Smucker

Society of Professional Journalists

The Sosland Foundation

Dr. Norman F. Sprague

Sprint

Steinbaum Krauss Gallery Ltd.

The Summit Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Craig D. Sutherland

Textron Inc.

Norman-Rita Tishman Fund, Inc.

Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation

Lillian Scheffres Turner

Union Securities, Inc.

Van-American Insurance Company

Vance International, Inc.

Visible Interactive Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. William Don Wagner

Ms. Adelaide C. Ward

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

The Hon. Frank A. Weil (Hickrill
Foundation, Inc.)

Western New York Public
Broadcasting Association

Wolcott & Lincoln

Woodcock Foundation

A. W. Zimmer & Co. Central Clearing

$2,000 or more

Mr. Ronald D. Abramson
Aerospatiale, Inc.

AKC Fund, Inc.

AlliedSignal Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin G. Alper

Mr. Arthur Altschul

American Institute of Aeronautics and
Astronautics

The American Society for Cell Biology

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
(The Dayton Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. DeWalt H. Ankeny Jr.
(Ankeny Foundation)

ARCO Foundation

BankAmerica Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Barwick

Harry Bass Foundation

Battelle Memorial Institute

Mrs. Harold W. Cheel

Chevron Chemical Co.

The Chubb Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Roger A. Clark

Compton Foundation, Inc.

Computer Associates
International, Inc.

The Hon. Barber B. Conable Jr.

CONASE

Ms. Marjorie D. Conroy

Condé Nast Publications, Inc.

Richard and Mary Alice Cooley

Mr. Henry P. Cowen

Ms. Allison Stacey Cowles

Mr. Robert L. Cummings

Pictured with Secretary I. Michael Heyman at the 150th Birthday Party

are (from left) Smithsonian staff member Donna Ari and benefactors

Harry and Beverly Mandil of Maryland and Margaret Mason of Ohio.

Mr. C. Victor Beadles

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Bennett

Mrs. Elsie F. Bixler

Book-of-the-Month Club, Inc.

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

The British Embassy

Broward Shell Club, Inc.

Brown-Forman Corporation

Mrs. Poe Burling

Mr. and Mrs. Cason J. Callaway Jr.
(Pine Mountain Benevolent
Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Philip W. Carrott

Caterpillar Foundation

Cenro Corporation

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Drs. Isabella C. M. and William H.
Cunningham

Mr. Tom Daggy

Daily News

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dazzo Sr.

Dr. and Mrs. Francis de Marneffe

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey Jr.

Mrs. Joan C. Donner (William H.
Donner Foundation)

The Douglass Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Peter F. Drucker

Dunn Construction Company

EDS

The Edipa Foundation, Inc.

Elle Scientific Publications

Exxon Corporation

71

Katherine and George Fan Foundation

Mrs. Norman Farquhar

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Feinberg

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Fidelity Investments

The Flowe Foundation

Mr. Alan Ford

Mrs. Joanne Foster

Charlotte Ann Frick, PhD.

H. B. Fuller Company

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger

Ms. Nely Galan (Galan
Entertainment, Inc.)

Mr. Phil Gardner

Lawrence M. Gelb Foundation, Inc.

General Test Laboratories

Mr. and Mrs. Bert A. Getz

Dr. Kurt A. Gitter and Ms. Alice Yelen

Goldman, Sachs & Co.

The B. F. Goodrich Company

The Gottesman Fund

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Guggenheim, Asher Associates, Inc.

The Hon. Najeeb E. Halaby

Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Harris

Mr. and Mrs. Marion Edwyn Harrison

H. J. Heinz Company Foundation

Mr. J. Marshall Hemphill

Joe and Lucia Henderson

Arthur B. Hill Foundation

Mr. Frederick Hill

Mrs. Minette G. Hoffheimer

Sir Joseph E. Hotung

Mr. and Mrs. Peter House

Mr. and Mrs. Phillip S. Hughes

Jaquelin Hume Foundation

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter

International Business Machines Corp.

Illinois Tool Works Foundation

Ingenieria R-M, S.A.

International Fine Print Dealers
Association, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Jessup Jr.

Mr. Earle M. Jorgensen

Juno Lighting, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly III

Enid & Crosby Kemper Foundation

The Robert S. & Grayce B. Kerr
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Kinnear

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Hart Kinney

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles

Dr. Nancy Knowlton

The Seymour H. Knox
Foundation, Inc.

Kobra International LTD.

Mrs. Blanche M. Koffler

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Korn/Ferry International

Mr. Peter L. Kreeger

Dr. and Mrs. Gregory T. Kruglak

Mr. and Mrs. Jon Landau

Dr. Roxie C. Laybourne

7/24

Mr. Samuel Lehrman

Mr. and Mrs. Marc Leland

Leslie Goldberg Charity Fund

Mrs. Phyllis G. Levinson

Mrs. Gail K. Liebes

Eli Lilly and Company Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

R. Robert Linowes and
Ada H. Linowes Fund

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Loomis Jr.

Mr. Ronald S. Lushing

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch Jr.

Mrs. Caroline M. Macomber
(Alouette Fund)

Mr. Frank N. Magid (Frank N. Magid
Associates, Inc.)

Manatt, Phelps & Phillips

Mars Foundation

Mr. Tom Marsh

Maj. Gen. and Mrs. Raymond E.
Mason Jr.

Mr. David M. Maxfield

William Douglas McAdams, Inc.

Mr. Brooks B. McCormick

McKinsey & Company, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K.
McLanahan

McNeese State University Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Mennello

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Mercy Jr.

Mr. Harvey Meyerhoff

Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

Mr. John Mojdehi

John and Jane Morrison

Sr. Jose Agustin Moscoso

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth F. Mountcastle

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Mullins

Museum Associates

National Cultural Alliance

National Association of Postmasters
of the United States

Natural Resources Defense
Council, Inc.

Roy R. & Marie S. Neuberger
Foundation, Inc.

New Bedford Cape Verdean
Smithsonian Committee

Ms. Penny Nii

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Norden

Mrs. Kay D. O’Rourke

Ralph E. Ogden Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Osnos

Ms. Joan A. Payden

Ms. Antoinette Peskoff

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Piasecki

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Pierce

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pigott

Mr. John J. Pomerantz

PRC Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. William Raczko

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

Dr. and Mrs. David Raphling

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Reeves

Ms. Denise Rich

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Karol Kirberger Rodriguez

Mr. and Mrs. Francis C. Rooney Jr.

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Anton H. Rosenthal and
Ruth E. Ganister

Mr. Milton F. Rosenthal

Mrs. Judith N. Ross

Mary A. H. Rumsey Foundation

Ms. Else Sackler

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams

Saudi Arabian Oil Co. (Saudi Aramco)

Ms. Helen G. Schneider

Schott Foundation

Mr. Bruce Schreider

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Schwartz

M. Sigmund & Barbara K. Shapiro
Family Fund

Mr. Shelby Shapiro (The Jean Axelrod
Memorial Foundation)

Mr. Frank A. Shrontz

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Ms. Joyce Marie Sims

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Slusser

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence M. Small

Mr. Edgar O. Smith

Sotheby's, Inc.

Mr. Ira Spanierman

Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks

The Sparrow Foundation

Caryll M. & Norman F. Sprague
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John R. Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Terry Stent

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Sterling Jr.

Mr. and Mrs, Joseph T. J. Stewart

Ms. N. Taft

Mr. Robert C. Tang

Mr. David Teiger

Mr. John Travolta

Triborough Bridge & Tunnel
Authority

Tupperware

UMB Bank, N.A.

United Mine Workers of America

United Technologies Corp.

Mr. and Mrs. John Van de Kamp

Ms. Ada Vincent

Ms. Frances C. Wagenseil

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey N. Watanabe

Mrs. Alexander Wetmore

Shelby White Philanthropic Fund

Whitfield-Murray Historical Society

Dr. Austin B. Williams

Ms. Elsie V. Williams

Ms. Karen Hastie Williams and
Mr. Wesley S. Williams Jr.

Mr. Eli Wilner & Ms. Barbara Brennan

Edward Foss Wilson Charitable Trust

The Hon. William A. Wilson

Mrs. Mignon Winans

/
Woodworkers Alliance for Rain Forest
Protection
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Wright

SMITHSONIAN |
CORPORATE
MEMBERSHIP PROGRAN

Proud Partners of the 150th

Anniversary Celebration

DISCOVER® CARD

INTEL CORPORATION

MCI COMMUNICATIONS
CORPORATION

TRANS WORLD AIRLINES,
INC.

Corporate Leaders and Patrons

American Express Company

Anheuser-Busch Companies

BellSouth Corporation

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.

CH2M HILL

Chrysler Corporation Fund

Citicorp Securities

The Coca-Cola Company

Collins & Aikman Products Co.

The Walt Disney Company

DuPont

Fidelity Investments

Federal Express Corporation

Ford Motor Company

General Electric Company

Goldman, Sachs & Co.

Hitachi Limited

Hunter Engineering Company

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

The Kansai Electric Power
Company, Inc.

Kolbert Foundation, Inc.

KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Landor Associates

Lee Enterprises, Inc.

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Mars Incorporated

Marubeni Corporation

McCann-Erickson Worldwide

McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.

Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.

Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company

Microsoft Corporation

Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee

Mobil Corporation

New York Mercantile Exchange
Charitable Foundation

Newsweek, Inc.
Northern Telecom
NTT Data Corporation

rudential Securities, Inc.

eliance National

ears, Roebuck and Co.

kadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
and Flom

ony Corporation of America

he Southern Company

print

watch Watch, USA

exaco

issue Technologies, Inc.

he Tokyo Electric Power
Company, Inc.

urner Broadcasting Sales, Inc.

erox Corporation

onorary Members
AFLAC Incorporated
A. W. Zimmer and Company
Central Heating
American Express Company
RCO
ae Andersen, LLP
ank of America
. K. Baum and Company
Blackwell, Sanders, Matheny,
Weary & Lombardy, L.C.
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of
Kansas City
The Boeing Company
Brother International Corporation
Burns and McDonnell
The Capital Group Company, Inc.
Central Plains Steel Company
Chevy Chase Bank
CITIBANK, N.A.
CNG Service Company
Commerce Bank, N.A.

Daniels-McCray Lumber Company

Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette

E & Y Kenneth Leventhal Real
Estate Group

EDS

Ernst & Young LLP

Ferrell Companies, Inc.

First Interstate Bank

Fox, Inc.

Freeman Decorating Company

H & R Block, Inc.

Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc.

IBM Corporation

Imperial Bankcorp

J P. Morgan and Company, Inc.

J. Paul Getty Trust

Japan Airlines

Kajima Corporation

Kansas City Power and Light
Company

Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.

Kendall-Jackson Vineyards & Winery

Litton Industries

Lockheed Martin, IMS

Lockton Companies

Los Angeles Convention and
Visitors Bureau

Merchantile Bank of Kansas City

Metromedia Company

NEC Corporation

The New York Times Company

Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.

Northrop Grumman Corporation

O'Melveny & Myers

Occidental Petroleum Corporation

Payless Cashways, Inc.

Pfizer, Inc.

Ralph’s/Food 4 Less

Rathe Productions

Robertson Honda

Rockefeller Group, Inc.

Rockwell International Corporation

Roll International Corporation

Rothschild, Inc.

Scripps Howard

Sun America, Inc.

The TCW Group, Inc.

Time, Inc.

Time Warner, Inc.

Times Mirror/Los Angeles Times

Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.

Trust Company of the West

Union Securities, Inc.

UtiliCorp United

Vance International, Inc.

Visible Interactive Corporation

Wal-Mart Stores

Wells Fargo

Wolcott & Lincoln

JAMES SMITHSON
SOCIETY

Endowed Life Members
Karen and Edward Burka
Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton
Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds III
Dan and Alice Gilbert
Lt. Col. William K. and
Mts. Alice S. Konze
Col. Billie G. Matheson, USAF Ret.,
and Pearl Bell
Gilbert and Jaylee Mead
Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal and
Ms. Ruth E. Ganister
Catherine F. Scott and
Kenneth J. Scott
Mr. Shelby Shapiro
Mr. J. Henry Sheffield
Mrs. Virginia K. Sheffield

Annual Members
Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin G. Alperin
Mr. Arthur G. Altschul

Arthur Andersen LLP/Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas M. White

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Mr. Leonard E. B. Andrews

Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mrs. Mary M. Ashmore

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman

Ms. Janine F. Barre

Drs. Rhoda and Jordan J. Baruch

Jonathan Baum

Ms. Jeanne V. Beekhuis

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs

Dr. and Mrs. Peter S. Bing

The Hon. and Mrs. Warren E. Blair

Henry W. Bloch

Mr. and Mrs. William Bond

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Boskey

Mr. and Mrs. Russell A. Boss

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Col. Donald S. Bowman

Ms. Dorothy Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. and Mts. Eli Broad

Ms. Frances L. Brody

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mrs. Keith S. Brown

Mr. and Mrs. J. Kevin Buchi

Mr. and Mrs. George Burch

Ron Burkle

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Burnes

Ms. Alice Green Burnette

Mrs. Murray P. Cabell

Ms. Christine Cabell

Mr. Donald Carl

Ms. Eva M. Casner

Mr. and Mrs. John Carter

Mrs. Winifred T. Carter

Mr. John S. Chalsty

Col. and Mrs. George E. Chapin Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James R. Cochran

Dr. and Mrs. David A. Cofrin

Melvin and Ryna Cohen

David and Margaret Cole

Ms. Maxine S. Coleman

Ms. Nancy L. Connor

Mr. Mark N. Cookingham and
Ms. Nancy J. Robertson

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Mrs. Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Marshall H. Dean

Dr. Philip C. Deaton

Mr. and Mts. Joseph N. Deblinger

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Mr. Geert M. DePrest and Ms. Laura
Travis-DePrest

Mr. John J. De Stefano

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Mr. Barry Diller

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Dobbs Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. N. L. Doligalski

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

The Eberly Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Miss Babs Eisman

Mrs. Harriet J. Eiwen

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard England

Col. Charles O. Eshelman

Mrs. Eric Eweson

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson Jr.

Mr. James Ferrell

The Hon. William H. G. FitzGerald
and Mrs. FitzGerald

Ms. Ellen L. Fogle

Mr. Don Freeman

Mr. Cary J. Frieze

Mrs. Vernon W. Furrow

Mr. Ernest Gallo

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. Phil Gardner

Mr. and Mrs. Michael C. Gelman

The Morningstar Foundation

Mrs. David W. Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Gibson

Mrs. Elizabeth W. Glascock

Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Glenn

Mr. Albert H. Gordon

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Graham

Mrs. Mary Graham

. Molly Graham

. Catharine Graton

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry H. Green

Mr. Richard Green

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Greene

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

Mr. Gregory Guthman

Mr. Corbin Gwaltney

Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. Hall

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Hamblett

Ms. Helen Leale Harper Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Max Hartl

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman Jr.

Miss Nancy A. Haynes

The Hon. John W. Hechinger and
Mrs. Hechinger

Mr. and Mrs. David R. Heebner

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Henigson

Mr. and Mrs. Paul H. Henson

Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler

Therese and I. Michael Heyman

RS KS
ao

Mr. Andrew Heyward

Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo

Mr. James T. Hines Jr.
Hoechst Marion Russell, Inc.

73

SI ee,

Mr. Ronald Hoffman
Mr, and Mrs. Stephen Hopkins
Mr. William Hopkins and

Mr. Richard B. Anderson
Mr. and Mrs. Peter House
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel H. Howard
Mrs. Peter D. Humleker Jr.
Mr. R. Bruce Hunter
Mr. John Ippolito and Ms. Diane

Laird-Ippolito
Mr. Ray N. Ivey
Drs. Jay and Mary Anne Jackson
Mr. David A. Jacques
David and Pat Jernigan
Mrs. Lois Straight Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaufman
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay
Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan Kemper
Mr. and Mrs, Dwight M. Kendall
Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering
Mr. David A. King
Mr. and Mrs. Richard C. King
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Kinsey
Mr. and Mrs. George Kirkland
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Klaassen
Mr. John W. Kluge
Mr. and Mrs. Cleon Knapp
Ms. Elizabeth Gelman Kossow
Mr. Richard P. Krecker
Mr.
Mrs. James S. Lacock
Mr. Peter Ladell
Judge and Mrs. Marion Ladwig
Ms. Agatha Larson

i=)

and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. James K. Leach

Mr. Melvin F. Lee

The Hon. and Mrs. William Leonhart

Mrs. Margaret L. Lesher

Mr. John H. Leslie

Mrs. Jean Chisholm Lindsey

Mr. Jack Lockton

Mr. Frederick C. Lohrum

Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Long

Ms. Mary T. Lott

Mr. and Mrs. Edmund C. Lynch Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan MacMillan

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars Jr.

Mrs. Virginia C. Mars

Ms. Mary Martell

Mr. Paul Johnson

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Maj. Gen. (Ret) and Mrs. Raymond E.
Mason Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Harry C. McCray Jr.

an

Mr. and Mrs. Norman E. McCulloch Jr.

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mr. Paul Mellon

Shelley Kay Melrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman
Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Monrose Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. James Robert
Montgomery

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Michael F. and Emmy F. Morrissey

Mr. Peter W. Mullin

Mr. H. Duane Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Nelson

Ms. Brenda Nolte

Mr. and Mrs. William M. North

Mr. James D. Oglevee and Ms. Susan
Marie Halliday

Sture G. Olsson

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Oster

Mr. and Mrs. Richard F. Owen

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

Mr. and Mrs. William Pagen

Mrs. Mary J. Papworth

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. C. Wesley Peebles
Mr. and Mrs. W. Keith Pence
Mr. J. Roy Pennell Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Petersen
John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson
Mr. Dave Pfuetze

Jane P. Plakias

Mr. and Mrs. Zigmund J. Podell
Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky
Mr.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

=]

and Mrs. Henry Posner Jr.

The Hon. and Mrs. Charles H. Price II
Mrs. Charles P. Price

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Radway Jr.

Mr. Elmer Rasmuson

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed Jr.

Ms. Kate Renfrow

Lynda and Stewart Resnick

Mr. Edward Hart Rice

Mrs. Carlyn Ring

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Robertson

Mr.
Ms. Marya Rowan

Mr. Dave G. Ruf Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Marcos Russek

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Salomon
Mrs. Vicki Sant

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Sbar

James H. Scheuer and

=)

and Mrs. I. A. Rosenbaum Jr.

a

Emily Malino Scheuer
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Schreiber
Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt
Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz
Mr. and Mrs. Allan E. Shore
Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel
Mrs. Kathryne C. Simons
Dr. Henry E. Singleton
Mr. Thomas J. Skala
Mrs. David E. Skinner
Dr. and Mrs. Harvey C. Slocum Jr.
Dr. Clifford V. Smith
Dr. Frank O. Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Franchon M. Smithson

Ms. Angela L. Snider

Mr. Raymond W. Soden

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich
Sosland Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Edson W. Spencer

Dr. and Mrs. Norman F. Sprague
William C. Steere Jr.

Dr. Marjorie L. Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis M. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart

Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone

Mr. Edward C. Stotsenberg

Mr. and Mrs. Craig D. Sutherland

Mr. Tsuneo Tanaka

Mrs. Richard L. Thompson

Mrs. Margot K. Thomson

Mr. Stephen Tilton

Mrs. Jean C., Tito

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice B. Tobin

Helen Brice Trenckmann

Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland

Mr. Walter L. Vail

Col. and Mrs. W. G. Van Allen

Mr. Chuck Vance

Mr. and Mrs. Ladislaus Von Hoffmann
Col. Harold W. Vorhies

M
M
M

ta

and Mrs. William Don Wagner
and Mrs. Robert Waidner

and Mrs. John T. Walton

Mr. Robert W. Walton

Ms. Adelaide C. Ward

Ms. Liz Warlich

Mr. William F. Wayland

Mr. William Waytana

M
M

A yet ie

pabeety er

and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean Jr.

ot

Lawrence J. Whelan and
Dr. Deborah Black

Mr. and Mrs. Ben White

Mr. Julius Wile

Ms. Louise W. Willson

Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson Jr.
Mr. Stanley Woodward

a

Jane Ludwig Worley

Mrs. Frank L. Wright

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Wright
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph G. Wrobley
Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff
Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman

Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Young
Mrs. Robert Zicarelli

Mr. Hugh J. Zimmer

Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick
Ms. Nina Zolt and Mr. Miles Gilburne

Life Members
* Denotes James Smithson Society Founder
Medalist

Mr. Joseph V. Alhadeff

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton

*Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
*Mr. David K. Anderson

Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo f
*Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow :
Mrs. Frederic C. Bartlett f
Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett {

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty (
Mrs. Henry C. Beck Jr. |
Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry

Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

*Mr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Bitter

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Blauner

*Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Boyd

Mr. Lee Bronson

Drs. Ruth and Bertel Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Dr. & Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell Jr.
Maj. Gen. & Mrs. Daniel S. Campbell |
Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell

Mr. and Mrs. Lawson J. Cantrell Jr.
Mr. Allan Caplan

Mrs. George H. Capps

Dr. and Mrs. Robert C. C. Chiu
Mrs. Sandy Levey Christiansen

The Rev. & Mrs. Thomas G. Clevelance
Mr. Robert L. Coleman

Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Dr. and Mrs. Roger D. Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham

Dr. and Mts. Bruce E. Dahrling II
Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy,

*Mr. Sam Devincent

*Mrs. Gaylord Donnelley

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover

Mr. Edward R. Downe Jr.

*Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

*Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Evans
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

*Patricia and Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

Mr. and Mts. C. Paul Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott

Dr. and Mrs. Wilbur J. Gould

Mr. and Mrs. Jerome L. Greene

Mts. Doris Stack Greene

Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mr. and Mts. Melville Hall

Ars. Richard Harkness

Ar. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt

Ar. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Mr. Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.
Ars. E. W. Henderson

Ar. Edward L. Henning
Professor Ikuo Hirayama

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Janet Annenberg Hooker

Ar. Paul Horgan

yr. and Mrs. Howard Ihrig

Ar. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
fr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen

Ar. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
Ar. and Mrs. Louis Kaufman

yr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk

Ar. and Mrs. Peter M. Klein

Ar. and Mrs. Samuel W. Koffler
Ars. Lewis Kurt Land

Ars. David Landau

yr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Ar. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Ar. and Mrs. Harry E. Lennon
fr. Joshua Lepman

Ars. Sara L. Lepman

Ar. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Ar. and Mrs. John Levey

Ar. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

As. Betty H. Llewellyn

Ar. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Arts. Louis Lozowick

Ars. Robert A. Magowan

yr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Ar. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian
Ar. John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Ar. Jack L. Messman

Ars: Sandy Levey Miller

Ar. W. A. Moldermaker

fr. Monroe Morris

yr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann
Ar. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

yr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Ar. Mortimer L. Neinken

Ars. Melanie Newbill

Ats. Henry K. Ostrow

he Hon. and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson
Ar. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons
Ar. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger
Ars. John H. Phipps

Ars. Annemarie Pope

Ars. Abraham Rattner

Ars. Ralph C. Rinzler

Ar. Thomas M. Roberts

the Hon. Martin J. Roess

dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers Jr.
Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mirs. Janos Scholz

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery
Mrs. Helen Farr Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith
*Mrs. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Mr. and Mts. Earl J. Spangler
*Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Dr. Richard F. S. Starr

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky
Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart Jr.
Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Drs. Yen and Julia Tan

Mr. and Mrs. Vernon L. Taylor Jr.
Dr. and Mrs. David J. Tepper
Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. and Mrs. Bardyl R. Tirana
Mr. Glenn O, Tupper

Lillian Scheffres Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Vojvoda
Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Mr. Thomas E. Whiteley

*Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

BEQUESTS

The following persons remembered
the Smithsonian through bequests
from their estates:

Elsie L. Barber
Bertita E. Compton
Patricia C. Dodge
Charles H. Ettl
Johanna B. Hagens
Helen Katchmar
Louise I. Keister
Vera V. Macbeth
William J. Robinson
Charles J. Simon
Ferne R. Warren

SMITHSONIAN LEGACY
SOCIETY

Founders

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
Mrs. J. Paul Austin

George and Bonnie Bogumill
Mr. Michael W. Cassidy

Mr. Harry R. Charles Jr.

Miss Jean M. Chisholm

Mr. Earl Clayton

Ms. Patricia Daniels

Mr. Dennis Dixon

Mr. Gilbert Glass

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Mr. Lloyd E. Herman

Dr. and Mrs. Lee Houchins

Dr. and Mrs. James C. Hunt
Mr. Joseph E. Johnson

Ms. Lee Kush

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Leighty

Ms. Eleanor L. Linkous

Mr. Frank J. Lukowski

Mrs. Jane R. Moore

Mts. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas F. Reeves
Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer
Allan E. and Carol T. Shore
Mary F. Simons

Dr. Barbara J. Smith

Bernie Stadiem

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. N. Suarez
George D. and Mary Augusta Thomas
Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian Thompson
Jeffrey and Diane Tobin

Ms. Patty Wagstaff

Miss Catherine M. Walsh

MEMORIAL AND
COMMEMORATIVE
GIFTS

The following were so honored by
their families and friends:

Howard Russell Butler
Gloria Cooper

Eve Hanny

Charles Herseth
Geraldine Judson
Seymour Knox
Hank Lang

Thomas Lawton
Richard Louie
Charlotte K. Ramsay
Mary L. Ripley

Carl E. Weller

W. Richard West Sr.
Alexander Wetmore
Sylvia H. Williams

DONORS OF IN-KIND
SUPPORT

America West Airlines Inc.
ARCO
Canaan Productions/Nicol Avital

Walter Carpenter

Claritas Corporation

Clearr Corporation
Colortone Press
Corporacion La Prensa, S.A.
EDS

Hach Company

JLG Industries, Inc.
Jackson & Tull

Kendall-Jackson Winery, Inc.

George Khleifi

Leica, Inc.

Lightolier/Genlyte

Lockheed Martin Technical
Operations

NSI Technology Services Corp.

Nikon Inc.

Novadyne Computer Systems, Inc.

Persis Corporation

The Recording Industries Music
Performance Trust Funds

Rockwell International Corporation

Schmitter Media Agentur GmbH

Siemens Medical Systems, Inc.

Swales & Associates Inc.

Tamiya, Inc.

Trendmasters

United Airlines, Inc.

75

76

iil

RGANIZATION

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National

Gallery of Art, and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars were established by Congress within the Smithsonian Institution)
under their own boards of trustees. The Institution provides
administrative services on contract to Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., an
independent organization.

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR
THE PERFORMING ARTS
James A. Johnson, Chairman

Lawrence J. Wilker, President

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts celebrated its 25th
anniversary season in 1995-96, marking a quarter century of presenting
the finest performances of music, theater, and dance from this nation
and abroad; nurturing new works and supporting artists through active
producing, commissioning, and training programs; and serving the
nation as a leader in arts education. Its six theaters host performances
that attract nearly 2 million patrons each year. The center reaches out
to millions more in the community and throughout the nation throug
television broadcasts such as the annual Kennedy Center Honors,
touring productions, and performances presented around the
Washington area.

¢ The Kennedy Center welcomed new Chairman James A. Johnson in May
1996. Alma Gildenhorn and James H. Evans had served as cochairs through
much of the 1995-96 season. In late April, the Kennedy Center celebrated its
25th anniversary with an all-star benefit performance that was shown on PBS
beginning in the summer. The center also celebrated with a free 25th Birthday
Open House Arts Festival on the actual anniversary of the building’s opening on |
September 8, 1971. Attendance was estimated at 50,000 people, placing the festi-
val among the most successful in the center’s history.

¢ The National Symphony Orchestra launched a new era of its own with the
arrival of Leonard Slatkin as its new music director. The orchestra commissioned |
new works from American composers Claude Baker and Ron Nelson to celebrate
the Kennedy Center's anniversary and to herald Slatkin’s arrival. The orchestra’s
fourth American Residency took members to Montana and Wyoming for 10 days
of performances, master classes, and educational activities.

¢ The Kennedy Center coproduced the Broadway revival of Rodgers and Ham-
merstein’s The King and I, which earned four 1996 Tony Awards and was set to
make its Washington debut at the center in spring 1997. The center also commis-
oned a new musical from Broadway
‘gend Stephen Sondheim, Wise Guys,
hich will receive its world premiere
t the center.

e The Kennedy Center's jazz pro-
ramming expanded in 1995-96 with

1e launch of the “Art Tatum Piano
anorama,” a series of solo perfor-
lances paying tribute to an influential
zz performer, and the Mary Lou
Villiams Women in Jazz Festival, three
ays of all-star concerts, seminars,
Ims, and free jam sessions featuring
yp female artists. The third season of
Billy Taylor’s Jazz at the Kennedy
enter” featured more sessions of
lusic and discussion with guest artists
iped for broadcast on National Public
adio.

¢ The Kennedy Center/Dance The-

tre of Harlem Community Residency

initiative was extended following its
third season of dance training pro-
grams, lecture-demonstrations, and
performances for local students and
their families. Under the guidance of
its new artistic advisors for dance,
Charles and Stephanie Reinhart, the
center continued the five-year America
Dancing retrospective of modern dance
pioneers, sponsored by Philip Morris,
and extended the successful Kennedy
Center Ballet Commissioning Project.
e The Kennedy Center home page
on the World Wide Web debuted in
December 1995, offering detailed
information on programming as well
as education, producing, and outreach
initiatives. The National Symphony
Orchestra home page was introduced
in September 1996. Both can be found

at http://kennedy-center.org.

The Kennedy Center/Dance Theatre of
Harlem Community Residency initiative
in dance has reached hundreds of
Washington-area students and families
with training programs, lecture-demon-

strations in schools, and other activities.
An important National Gallery of Art acquisition in 1996 was this oil on canvas, Giant Magnolias

on a Blue Velvet Cloth (ca. 1890), by Martin Johnson Heade. Gift of The Circle of the National

Gallery of Art in commemoration of its 10th anniversary.

78

NATIONAL GALLERY
OF ART

Earl A. Powell III, Director

The National Gallery of Art serves
the United States in a national
role by preserving, collecting,
exhibiting, and fostering the
understanding of works of art at
the highest possible museum and

scholarly standards.

¢ The National Gallery of Art’s exhi-
bition program presented a comprehen-
sive retrospective of the work of
Winslow Homer; modern works of the
early 20th century from the Rothschild
family collections; 190 post-World War
Il works from the Robert and Jane Mey-
erhoff collection; an exploration of
Corot and other open-air painters in
Italy at the turn of the 18th century;
works by the 17th-century genre painter

Jan Steen; the rowing pictures of

Thomas Eakins; 120 3,000-year-old
Olmec sculptures from Mexico, includ-
ing a 10-ton colossal head, and jade and
serpentine masks and figurines; and two

major groups of drawings—old master
and modern works collected by the late
lan Woodner and a selection of Renais-
sance and baroque drawings from the
Devonshire collection at Chatsworth in
Derbyshire, England. The important
exhibition of the 17th-century Dutch
master Johannes Vermeer, which includ-
ed 21 of his 35 known works, was kept
open and available to the public with
private funds during the federal govern-
ment shutdown.

¢ The opening of the Micro Gallery
makes available to visitors the most
comprehensive interactive, multimedia
computer system in an American art
museum. Thirteen user-friendly com-
puters can design a visitor's personal
tour, illustrate in magnified detail
nearly every work of art on display in
the permanent collection, and offer
artists’ biographies and historical and
cultural background. Selected works
are discussed in depth with special
graphics and animation, including
aspects of conservation, current
research, and visual analyses.

e Purchases for the gallery’s collec-
tions are made possible by funds

donated by private citizens. This year’s |
outstanding acquisitions included
three Dutch paintings: a flower still life
by the 17th-century artist Ambrosius
Bosschaert the Elder, another flower
still life by the 18th-century artist Jan —
Van Huysum, and The Fall of Man by i
early-17th-century artist Hendrick |
Goltzius. A late-19th-century painting |
of magnolias by the American artist |
Martin Johnson Heade was also |
acquired.

¢ Gifts to the collection included a —
major group of late-19th-century |
avant-garde theater programs from the’
Atlas Foundation, 154 prints by Roy
Lichtenstein given by the artist, and a |
partial gift of a landscape by Bellotto |
from Lili-Charlotte Sarnoff.

¢ A documentary video produced
by the department of exhibition pro-
grams, James MacNeill Whistler: The
Lyrics of Art, received three awards: the
CINE Golden Eagle, the Silver Muse
from the American Association of

Museums, and the Telly Award in a
national competition of broadcast and
nonbroadcast video media. As a win-
ner of the Golden Eagle, the video wil
represent the United States at interna-
tional film festivals throughout the
coming year.

e The Center for Advanced Study i
the Visual Arts sponsored a two-day
symposium on “The Art of the Ancien
Spectacle,” which focused on aspects
of public and private festivals, rituals,
and theater in Greece and Rome.

¢ Twenty-eight galleries in the Wes
Building were closed for 11 months as
replacement of the 54-year-old roof |
and skylight system began. The exist- |
ing single-layer skylights, many of
which are cracked and have been pro-
tected with a temporary plastic cover-
ing, are being replaced with energy-
efficient multilayer glass that will
eliminate condensation and leaks, cor
trol transmission of harmful ultraviole
light, and reduce energy consumption

-EADING IS
UNDAMENTAL, INC.
ynda Johnson Robb, Chairman

uth Graves, President

eading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF)
a nonprofit volunteer organiza-
on that promotes children’s liter-
-y by bringing books and reading
tivities to young people, by
rowing their parents how to
ncourage reading in the home,
nd by building support for liter-
cy in the community. In 1996,

1e RIF program reached more
oung people than ever before in
s history: 3.8 million children.

e RIF marked its 30th birthday with
lore than 202,000 local citizens vol-
nteering their time to serve children
18,000 sites, including schools,
braries, Indian reservations, juvenile
stention centers, homeless shelters,
ospitals, clinics, schools for children
ith disabilities, and migrant programs
. all 5O states, the District of Colum-
ia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,

id Guam.

¢ To celebrate RIF’s 30th anniver-
ry, 28 children’s book authors and
lustrators participated in a four-day
[F Book and Author Fair organized by
sholastic, Inc., to benefit RIF. The par-
cipants included Newbery Medalist
an Craighead George; Judy Blume,
hose character Fudge is the subject of
television series; R. L. Stine, author of
1e best-selling Goosebumps series; the
eators of the Magic School Bus series,
ithor Joanna Cole and illustrator
ruce Degen; and Virginia Hamilton,
ho has won virtually every children’s
90k award, including the Hans Chris-
an Andersen Medal.

¢ RIF’s distinguished chairman
nne Richardson, who has devoted her
forts to children through half of RIF’s
istory, retired in 1996. Lynda Johnson
obb, a charter member of RIF’s board,
as unanimously elected chairman by
1e all-volunteer board of directors.

¢ Great Britain’s National Literacy
‘ust launched a three-year experimen-

tal RIF program to promote children’s
literacy. Arrangements have been made
for the trust to adapt the RIF program
and materials to a British audience.

¢ The National Basketball Associa-
tion produced a series of public service
announcements for RIF featuring NBA
superstars Shaquille O’Neal, Juwan
Howard, and Danny Manning. The
PSAs reached more than 305 million
viewers during the 1995-96 basketball

season.

Neil McClelland, director of the National Literacy Trust of Great Britain, and

Reading Is Fundamental President Ruth Graves visit a RIF project in Washington,
D.C. The Literacy Trust has launched a program modeled on RIF to promote chil-
dren’s literacy in the United Kingdom. (Photograph by Rick Reinhard)

e The west pavilion of the Library
of Congress was the scene of the 12th
annual Reading Is Fun Week celebra-
tion and National Awards Ceremony
honoring the winners of the RIF Poster
Contest and the National Reading Cele-
bration. These two reading incentive
programs were underwritten by the
Metropolitan Life Foundation. Joining
RIF children in celebrating the organi-
zation’s 30th anniversary were U.S.
Representatives John Dingell of Michi-
gan and Sam Farr of California, cele-
brated children’s author Patricia Polac-
co, and Education Secretary Richard W.

Riley. Secretary Riley urged the children
to keep on reading and thanked RIF for
“30 years of invaluable contributions to
the children of this country.”

¢ Across the nation, parents are
learning how to select children’s books
and conduct reading activities through
RIF’s Family of Readers”, which reaches
families in adult literacy programs,
GED programs, community colleges,
Head Start and Even Start centers, and

correctional centers. RIF teamed up

with Literacy Volunteers of America to
coproduce a new videotape, Becoming a
Family of Readers, that presents inter-
views with a range of families across
America who model book sharing and
advocate reading as an activity that
benefits everyone in the family.

79
At a Woodrow Wilson Center Evening Dialogue, distin-

guished scholars and members of Congress focused on the
reappraisal of Richard E. Neustadt’s pioneering study Presi-
dential Power: The Politics of Leadership. Among the
participants were (from left) Roger B. Porter, IBM Professor
of Government and Business, Harvard University, and Wil-
son Center senior scholar; Hugh Sidey, Washington con-
tributing editor, Time magazine; and Charles O. Jones,
professor of political science, University of Wisconsin—
Madison and Brookings Institution nonresident senior

fellow. (Photograph by Alan Hart)

80

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL

CENTER FOR
SCHOLARS

Charles Blitzer, Director

The Woodrow Wilson Center was
established as the official living
memorial to the nation’s 28th
president and as a place of free
intellectual inquiry reflecting the
full range of Woodrow Wilson’s
ideals and concerns. Through an
annual fellowship competition,
outstanding scholars from around
the world are invited to the center
for extended periods of research
and writing. In addition, the cen-
ter sponsors public meetings, gen-
erates publications, and produces
broadcast programs that make
individual scholarship accessible
to policy makers and a broad

public.

¢ Vice-President Al Gore gave a
speech in October 1995 on issues of
critical importance to the Russian-
American relationship. The presenta-
tion was cosponsored by the center’s
Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian
Studies and the U.S.-Russian Business
Council and was held in Washington,
D.C., on the eve of President Clinton’s
summit with Russian President Boris
Yeltsin.

¢ In June, a distinguished panel of
scholars and policy officials, led by for-
mer Speaker of the House Thomas S.
Foley and U.S. Senator Carol Moseley-
Braun, framed and catalyzed a debate
on the future of American foreign poli-
cy. The conference brought together
participants with diverse perspectives
who made connections across regions
and issues, including domestic policy
affairs, that are often missed in the
fragmented national foreign policy
debate.

¢ The center’s Division of United /
States Studies presented a conference
and evening dialogue titled “Presiden-
tial Power Revisited.” Several of the
country’s most eminent political scien
tists examined the politics of leader-
ship and the exercise of presidential
power today.

e At the 1996 United Nations Con-
ference on Human Settlements (Habi-
tat II) in Istanbul, the center presentec
its recently published volume, Prepar-
ing for the Urban Future: Global Pressure
and Local Forces, which resulted from ¢
1994 project coordinated by the cente
and involving the United Nations anc
the World Bank. Urban specialists fron
around the world, including practi-
tioners and academics representing a
variety of disciplines, convened at the
center to compile an agenda for cities
at the end of the millennium.

e President Clinton appointed cen:
ter trustee Joseph A. Cari Jr. as vice-
chairman of the board, succeeding
Dwayne O. Andreas, who served in
that capacity for six years. The Presi-
dent also named Stephen Alan Ben-
nett, Columbus, Ohio, and Daniel L.
Lamaute, Beverly Hills, California, as |
trustees. Several distinguished citizens
joined the Wilson Council, the center
group of private-sector advisors,
including John L. Bryant Jr., Washing)
ton, D.C.; Daniel L. Doctoroff, New
York; Fred P. DuVal, Washington, D.C
Michael B. Goldberg, New York; John
P. LaWare, Chestnut Hill, Massachu-
setts; Edwin Robbins, New York; and
Philip Rollhaus Jr., Chicago.

¢ The Wilson Quarterly, the center’:

journal of scholarly ideas, underwent
dramatic change in trim size, layout,
and typeface this year. The redesign
complements the magazine’s editorial
quality and its unique approach to
addressing scholarly issues.
Rick

ntroduction

he Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal appro-
riations and nonappropriated trust sources. Nonappropriated trust
inds include all funds received from sources other than direct federal
ppropriations. These other sources include gifts and grants from indi-
iduals, corporations, and foundations; grants and contracts from feder-
l, state, or local government agencies; earnings from short- and long-
2tm investments; revenue from membership programs; and revenue
rom sales activities, such as Smithsonian magazine, museum shops and
estaurants, mail order catalogues, and licensed products.

Federal appropriations provide funding for the Institution’s core func-

ions: caring for and conserving the national collections, sustaining
asic research on the collections and in selected areas of traditional and
nique strength, and educating the public about the collections and
esearch findings through exhibitions and other public programs. Feder-
| appropriations also fund a majority of the activities associated with
naintaining and securing the facilities and with various administrative
nd support services.

Smithsonian trust funds allow the Institution to undertake new ven-
ures and enrich existing programs in ways that would not otherwise be
iossible. These funds provide the critical margin of excellence for inno-
ative research, building and strengthening the national collections,
onstructing and presenting effective and up-to-date exhibitions, and
eaching out to new and under-represented audiences. In recent years,
he Smithsonian has also begun to rely, in part, on trust funds for the
unding of major new construction projects.

The following sections describe the external environmental factors
ffecting the Institution’s general financial condition, the Institution’s
nancial status, and its planned response to changing conditions;
nancial results for fiscal year 1996; and measures, both organizational
nd financial, being taken to ensure the continued fiscal health of
he Institution.

4imancial Situation
ind Prospects
‘he Smithsonian’s 150th Anniversary year was one of extraordinary

cccomplishment in carrying out the programs and activities of the Insti-

tion. This was especially true of those programs that were part of the

NANCIE qEPURT

Johnson, Chief Financial Officer

As part of the Smithsonian’s 150th anniversary celebra-
tion, 150 staff were honored as recipients of the Unsung
Hero Award, recognizing exceptional service and dedi-
cation above and beyond the call of duty. Pictured are
the Finance staff who won this award. From left to right
they are: Patricia Simrell, Paulette Pressley, Lorri Gruner,
Joyce O. McKinney, Ronald L. Alexander, Germaine P.
Beech, Ann Sloper and Chung Y. Yang.

81

150th celebration. The Institution took its show on the road
with the spectacular success of its traveling exhibition, Ameri-
ca’s Smithsonian. By the end of the fiscal year, the exhibition
had visited four (4) cities and had been seen by more than 1.1
million people. Additional cities will be visited in fiscal year
1997. Throughout the year outstanding efforts in education,
exhibition and research were well received by peers and the
general public. Three prime-time television specials showcased
the Smithsonian’s research and collections. Capping the year
was a marvelous two-day birthday celebration on the National
Mall. Through these efforts, the Smithsonian shared its trea-
sures of American history and culture with the American peo-
ple in unprecedented ways, both physically and electronically.
These activities represent a major investment in the future of
the Institution.

At the same time that the Institution takes pride in what it
has accomplished, it recognizes the significant financial chal-
lenges ahead. The federal budgetary environment, down turns
in specific business activities, and increased competition for
scarce grant and other philanthropic resources continue to
constrict the revenue side of the budget. On the expense side,
critically important investments in the development of new
revenue streams, new technologies, and meeting new legal
and other external requirements all put pressure on the bud-
getary equation, already stressed by aging facilities and on-
going program needs. The Smithsonian’s many responses to
these challenges include some that are short term in nature and
others that must necessarily take a longer term perspective.

The deterioration and obsolescence of the Institution’s
aging facilities present a major challenge. With over 5.5 mil-
lion square feet and buildings up to 140 years old, manage-
ment estimates that at least $50 million annually is needed to
fully meet the requirements for systematic facilities renewal
and maintenance to offset normal wear and tear. Congress
has been especially helpful in working with us on this chal-
lenge. Annual federal funding for facilities repair and restora-
tion was increased by $10 million to $34 million in fiscal year
1996. Funding was further increased to $39 million in the
Smithsonian’s fiscal year 1997 appropriation, a two-year
increase of 62.5%.

The Institution has taken a number of short- and long-
range steps to improve the return from its business activities.
Many of these steps have been successful in improving the
results of the Smithsonian business activities this year. To sus-
tain and expand these successes, the Institution has estab-
lished advisory boards for the business activities made up of
industry experts who have volunteered to share private sector
best practices and assist in the development of longer-term
strategies. Recruitment efforts are also underway to hire a

82

senior business officer with strong marketing skills to better /
coordinate Smithsonian business efforts. The most problemat-
ic area in Institution business activities continues to be the
Smithsonian Institution Press. It sustained a major loss for the
second year in a row. Some recommendations from external |
reviews have been put in place with additional actions to be |
taken in the near future. Unfortunately, these steps have not :
had sufficient time to generate any significant improvement tc
the bottom line. The Institution looks to significantly improve
performance for next fiscal year.

The Smithsonian 150th Anniversary activities included the
mounting of an exhibition of unprecedented size and com-
plexity. Significant non-recurring costs were incurred in fiscal
year 1996 with additional costs that will be incurred in fiscal
year 1997 for future venues. Some of these costs have been
recovered through corporate sponsorship and other fund-
raising activities. Additional revenue-generating strategies are
being developed to fully fund this activity. The Institution
recognizes that these 150th activities are an important invest-
ment in its future and is currently developing the optimal
approach to capitalize on this investment. In fact, this plan-
ning has already led to the identification of significant oppor
tunities for bringing new funds into the Smithsonian.

The Institution continues to look at a variety of ways to
reengineer, downsize and streamline the organization. This
past fiscal year Congress provided a special appropriation of
$3 million, which was supplemented by Smithsonian base
funding, for voluntary separation incentives of up to $25,000.
for staff willing to retire from Smithsonian service. That pro-
gram was successful in achieving a net reduction in the num-
ber of staff by approximately 140. |

The Smithsonian is prepared to meet the financial chal-
lenges it faces by focusing on a wide variety of strategies tied

FY 1996 Sources of Net Revenues

Federal Appropriations
68%

General Trust
17%

Donor/Sponsor Designated
4%

Gov't Grants &
Contracts
11%

fiscal Year 1996 Sources of Gross/Net Revenues

Gross Net* Percent
Revenues Revenues Net Revenues

(Sthousands) ($thousands) (%)
)perations
ederal Appropriations 354,343 354,343 68.6
yeneral Trust 271,637 55,662 16.6
Jonor/Sponsor Designated 20,795 20,795 4.0
yov 't Grants & Contracts 55,859 55,859 10.8
‘otal Sources for Operations 702,634 486,659 100.0

Net of expenses related to revenue-generating activities, e.g., museum shops,
estaurants, publications, etc.

O its strategic vision, its mission and its core functions. Inno-
ative and creative approaches will be needed to respond to a
1ew paradigm for the Smithsonian and many public institu-
ions—less reliance on the government and more reliance on
he private sector.

iiscal Year 1996 Results

‘evenues received by the Institution in fiscal year 1996 from
Il sources totalled $702.6 million. Revenue from federal
ippropriations accounted for $354.3 million, and nonappro-
iated trust funds provided an additional $348.3 million.
Nhen adjusted to remove auxiliary activity expenses of $185.9
nillion, net revenues totalled $516.7 million. The chart above
eflects revenues by source and broad purpose of use.

Jperations

Tables 1 and 2)

‘ederal operating revenue of $310.7 million provided the core
unding for ongoing programs of the Institution. The actual
mount appropriated of $311.2 million represented a decrease
yf $2.1 million from the fiscal year 1995 level. The appropria-
ion provided for an increase of $.7 million for the Smith-
onian Astrophysical Observatory’s submillimeter telescope
ray, $.2 million for the state of lowa’s participation in the
1996 Festival of American Folklife and $3 million for a volun-
ary separation incentive program. Reductions and unfunded
ncreases for inflationary costs for salaries and benefits, rent
ind utilities were absorbed within baseline resources through
‘ost savings gained from restructuring or reducing programs
ind activities.

General trust revenue was $271.6 million. Most income
ategories were generally consistent with last year. There was
1 modest overall increase in revenue related to 150th Anni-
yersary activities. Auxiliary activity net revenue was down
ipproximately 14% from 1995 levels. Several activities such as
he Smithsonian Magazine, The Smithsonian Associates, and the

Air & Space theaters showed increased net revenue. However,
this was offset by a second year of unprecedented loss by the
Smithsonian Press/Smithsonian Productions. The Institution
conducted several major reviews of that activity during the

year. Several recommendations from those reviews have been
implemented with additional steps to be taken in early 1997.

Revenue from donor/sponsor designated funds totalled
$20.8 million. The Institution continues to intensify its fund-
raising activities and focus on new strategies. Major gifts and
grants received in fiscal year 1996 helped to support such pro-
jects as the National Postal Museum’s Duck Stamp Exhibition,
the Florida Everglades Project at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, and the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center
for the Study of Invention and Innovation at the National
Museum of American History. The Smithsonian is especially
grateful to its many friends in the private sector whose generos-
ity contributed vitally to its work. The names of major donors
are listed in the Benefactors section of this publication.

In fiscal year 1996, the Institution received $55.9 million
in contracts and grants from government agencies, an
increase of $5.5 million over fiscal year 1995. Support from
government agencies constitutes an important source of
research monies for the Institution while also benefiting the
granting agencies by providing access to Smithsonian exper-
tise and resources. As in prior years, the majority of these
funds were provided by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration for research programs at the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. Other projects funded included an
exhibition on global change at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, support for the study of the effect of rising
atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration being carried out
by the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center and the
establishment of a system for monitoring the natural
resources of the Panama Canal watershed at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute.

Endowment

(Tables 3, 4, and 5)

The Institution pools its endowment funds for investment
purposes into a consolidated portfolio, with each endowment
purchasing shares in a manner similar to shares purchased by
an investor in a mutual fund.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smithsonian’s
Board of Regents establishes investment policy and recom-
mends the annual payout of the consolidated endowment.
The Smithsonian’s policies for managing the endowment are
designed to achieve two objectives: 1) to provide a stable,
growing stream of payouts for current expenditures and 2) to
protect the value of the endowment against inflation and

83

maintain its purchasing power. Current policy calls for an
average payout of 4.5% of the average market value over the
prior five years. With this payout policy, to achieve the
endowment’s objectives, the investment policy targets a real
rate of return of 5%.

In order to improve the performance of the endowment,

a specialist fixed income manager was added and an equity
manager was terminated. During the year, the equity exposure
of the portfolio was reduced from 76% to 71%, the fixed
income exposure increased from 21% to 28%, and the cash
equivalent exposure was reduced from 3% to 1% bringing the
asset allocation more in line with the investment policy goals
for the portfolio.

The Institution adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 124,
Accounting for Investments held by Not-for-Profit Organiza-
tions, at the beginning of fiscal year 1996. In accordance with
this standard, the Institution’s investments are reported at fair
value based on quoted market prices.

As depicted in the chart on this page, the market value of
the endowment increased from $434.6 million to $482.5 mil-
lion during fiscal year 1996. New gifts and internal transfers
totalled $6.5 million while the payout was $16.6 million and
fees were $1.2 million.

The total return on the consolidated portfolio was 13.6%.
At year end, the Institution’s portfolio was invested 71% in
equities, 28% in bonds, and 1% in cash equivalents. The
portfolio had 28% in foreign stocks and bonds and 72% in

U.S. securities.

Construction and Plant Funds (Table 6)
In fiscal year 1996 the federal construction revenue was $43.8
million. The actual federal appropriations for construction
amounted to $64.9 million. Net funds provided in fiscal year
1996 included $34.0 million for general repair, restoration,
and code compliance projects throughout the Institution.
Although this amount has increased over the prior year, it is
still less than the $50 million per year estimated to keep up
with the rate of deterioration in the physical plant. Net funds
earmarked for new construction, alterations, and modifica-
tions totalled $31 million. Included in this amount is $15
million for the Mall facility for the National Museum of the
American Indian; $3.2 million for renovations, repairs, and
master plan projects at the National Zoological Park; $8.7 mil-
lion for the East Court Project at the National Museum of
Natural History; $1 million for planning and design of the
National Air & Space Museum Dulles Center; and $3 million
for minor construction and planning.

Nonappropriated trust construction activity, also termed
plant funds, totalled $8.5 million. Approximately $6.3 million

Market Value of Endowment
(in $ millions)

483 {
435 /
388 379 |

500
450
400 344
350
300

1992 1993 1994 1995 1996

was for the construction of facilities for the National Museum
of the American Indian, $1.6 million for renovation of the
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, and $200 thousand
for the reinstallation of the Gem Hall at the National Museum)
of Natural History.

Implementation of SFAS 116, 117 and 124

On October 1, 1995, the Smithsonian Institution adopted the
provisions of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 116 (SFAS 116), Accounting for Contributions Received and
Contributions Made, No. 117 (SFAS 117), Financial Statements of:
Not-for-Profit Organizations, No. 124 (SFAS 124), Accounting for
Certain Investments Held by Not-for-Profit Organizations. These
new accounting standards required several significant changes
in the accounting and reporting of financial activity and posi-
tion by the Smithsonian, and make comparisons with finan-
cial results from prior years difficult. Consequently, only fiscal:
year 1996 results are presented in the audited financial state-

ments that follow.

SFAS 116 requires not-for-profit organizations to record rev-
enue from pledges made by donors to contribute funds to the’
Institution (referred to as “unconditional promises to give”)
in the year the pledge is made. Formerly, revenue from
pledges was deferred and not recorded until the funds pledgec
had been received by the Institution. Pledges received in fiscal:
year 1996 were recorded by this new method, and a cumula-
tive adjustment for the impact of this change on prior years
also was recorded. The cumulative adjustment increased net
assets by $21.8 million.

SFAS 116 also required a change in how the Smithsonian
accounts for its federal appropriations. Under the new stan-
dards, the federal appropriations are accounted for as exchang
transactions, which means the revenue is earned as expendi-
tures are incurred. Formerly, the entire appropriation was rec-
ognized as revenue in the year received. Unexpended appropri-

tions are now recorded as a liability, when formerly they were
corded as fund balances. A cumulative adjustment was made
) reflect the impact on prior years of this change, which
»duced net assets and increased liabilities by $162.3 million.

Certain types of funding received by the Smithsonian have
reviously been reported as restricted funds, meaning that the
inds could only be used for specific purposes or had other
sstrictions on them that limited their availability for the
eneral purposes of the Institution. These sources included
stricted gifts from donors, research projects sponsored by
rants or contracts from foundations, other donors or the
overnment, and earnings on endowment funds where the
onor of the endowment placed restrictions on the use of
lose earnings. Restricted revenues and the expenses incurred
ith those funds have previously been reported in a separate
olumn on the financial statements.

SFAS 116 introduced a new concept for accounting for
stricted net assets (formerly referred to as restricted funds).
wo categories of restricted net assets must be reported: 1)
=mporarily restricted net assets, where a donor has required
hat the funds be spent for specific purposes or only at a spec-
ied time, and 2) permanently restricted net assets, where the
onor has required that the funds never be spent, e.g., a gift
> the endowment where the original gift must be invested
1 perpetuity and only the earnings can be spent. When the
ot-for-profit organization fulfills the restrictions placed by
onors on temporarily restricted net assets, the net assets are
eclassified to unrestricted net assets. Spending temporarily
estricted net assets in accordance with the restrictions fulfills
he restrictions, hence, the expenses are reported as unrestricted
xpenses. No expenses are reported as restricted expenses.

SFAS 117 requires not-for-profit organizations to prepare
heir financial statements using the three new net asset cate-
ories: unrestricted net assets, temporarily restricted net
ssets, and permanently restricted net assets.

SFAS 124 requires not-for-profit organizations to record
avestments at market value instead of cost. The Smithsonian
ecorded its investments by this new method in fiscal year
996 and recorded an adjustment to net assets to record the
mpact of this change related to investments purchased in pri-
r years. This adjustment increased net assets by $52.9 million.

Footnote 2 to the audited financial statements, which fol-

ws, describes the adjustments made to the financial state-
ents as a result of implementing these three new standards.

inancial Position

he Smithsonian Institution’s Statement of Financial Position
resents the total assets, liabilities, and net assets of the Insti-
tion. Total assets of $1.3 billion far exceed total liabilities of

$355.0 million and are indicative of the financial strength of
the Institution. During fiscal year 1996, the most significant
change in the Institution’s financial position was the growth
of the endowment by over $50.0 million through investment
earnings and realized and unrealized gains on the endowment
investments. Liabilities at September 30, 1996 of $355.0 mil-
lion were higher than the $187.0 million at September 30,
1995 due to the reclassification of unexpended federal appro-
priations from net assets (formerly fund balance) to liabilities
in accordance with treatment of the federal appropriations
under SFAS 116 as exchange transactions (see Implementa-
tion of SFAS 116, 117 and 124 above).

Financial Management
The Institution was successful in implementing a new general
ledger, financial reporting and management information sys-
tem. The ledger was available in September to record advance
procurement documents for fiscal year 1997. This system
replaces an almost 20-year-old ledger and moves the system
off an unreliable hardware platform. Significant advantages of
the new system are an automated funds control module, a
new coding structure that will provide new opportunities to
report on and analyze programmatic activities, on-line access
to current information, and flexible reporting capabilities to
increase the usefulness of financial data for decision making.
As we move into next fiscal year, the final elements of
the general ledger will be put in place. In addition, work on a
new accounts receivable system and a new fixed asset system
will begin.

Other financial management improvement initiatives under-
taken in 1996 included:

¢ Development of a new, automated budget system which
will automate budgeting, operational planning, access to Con-
gressional appropriation history, strategic planning and policy
development components. In addition, it will assure greater
accuracy, integrity and utility of budget and planning data;
streamlined processes; and efficient interfaces with internal
and external databases. Various elements of the system will be
brought on-line throughout fiscal year 1997.

¢ Improvements to enhance internal controls throughout
the Institution, consistent with the Federal Managers Finan-
cial Integrity Act. An oversight council was established to
monitor revised processes and policies. A number of steps
have been streamlined while improving the effectiveness of
the internal controls review process.

e Implementation of new not-for-profit organizations
accounting standards, Statements of Financial Accounting
Standards Nos. 116, 117 and 124.

85
The team pictured above successfully implemented the general ledger module of the Smithsonian
Financial System. Looking happier and more relaxed than during the long hours of a demanding project

are: seated from left to right—Bonnie Farrell, Ann Ruttle, Melanie Dann (Project Director), Fran Rooney,

Ginevra Portlock and standing from left to right—Dolores Osborne, Ralph Brandt, Chung Y. Yang, Minnie

P. Carmichael, Leslie Casson (Comptroller), Rick Johnson (CFO), Carolyn Tucker (Project Director), Jen

Juang, and Patricia Simrell.

¢ Modification of off-the-shelf software to provide a tool
for streamlining the generation of travel forms and improving
their accuracy. The software will be rolled out to all units
beginning in fiscal year 1997. A project to electronically route
the travel forms will begin in fiscal year 1997.

e Using software for electronic preparation of time sheets
in order to eliminate duplicate data entry. Completion of the
project for all units is planned for the end of fiscal year 1998.

Additional financial management improvement initia-
tives planned to start in fiscal years 1997 and 1998 include
the following:

e Development of a formal 5-year financial management
improvement plan.

e Electronic routing of documents.

e Streamlining of travel policies and procedures.

e Increasing the use of electronic funds transfer (EFI) for
all payment types.

e Training emphasis to assure that central as well as unit
financial and procurement staff have the skills, knowledge,

and ability to do a quality job.

86

Audit Activities
The Institution’s financial statements are audited annually by |
KPMG Peat Marwick, an independent public accounting firm.
The audit plan includes an in-depth review of the Institution’
internal control structure. KPMG Peat Marwick’s Independent
Auditors’ Report for fiscal year 1996 and the accompanying
financial statements are presented on the following pages.
The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff, part of the Office of
Inspector General, assists the external auditors and regularly
audits the Institution’s various programs, activities, and inter-
nal control systems. The Audit and Review Committee of the
Board of Regents provides an additional level of financial
oversight and review.

In accordance with the government requirement for the

use of coordinated audit teams, the Defense Contract Audit
Agency, the Smithsonian Office of Inspector General, and
KPMG Peat Marwick LLP coordinate the audit of grants and
contracts received from federal agencies.

able 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1996 (in $000s)

——————————————————————————————————

Trust Funds

Donor/ Government Total
Federal General Sponsor Grants & Trust Total
Funds Trust Designated Contracts Funds FY 1996

EVENUE & GAINS:

Federal Appropriations (see Note 1) .........-....-...-. 310,519 —_ — — — 310,519
Endowment Payout & Investment Income.............-. — 15,216 5,057 _— 20,273 20,273
moverment Grants:and Contracts «2.0.06 5.8 eee ee es — — — 55,859 55,859 55,859
MonOm/ MS POUSOL Designatede scissile rie - —- 30,062 15,738 — 45,800 45,800
Salles Giayal Mia taller o) EVES Gooeeecoousguoc coud uuOT —_ 192,302 — — 192,302 192,302
pederali@onstnuctlOnl <0. sy ee2G ccm. ces Hee eee cee es 43,824 — — — — 43,824
ILC nara. ce sect ere semenaatsiotaye wie. ieis «Gio eta — 34,057 _ _ 34,057 34,057

POPATIRE VENUE StIGAINS <2. cc clc oe wes cc ecb tees 354,343 271,637 20,795 55,859 348,291 702,634
XPENSES:

Research, Education and Collections Management
Museums & Research Institutes:

INTACORWAL IMITCE IO Gis Golo bho ble a oa Gacielsroiceco oicen ooimicscen 1,077 493 33) — 526 1,603
— Center for African American History and Culture. ... 476 — — — _ 476
PUR IMESEOIMATNETICGATINATE «co wiclow. a aise eas ste em else 1,543 35 665 — 700 2,243
/Nnilaweie IML, Setar Gallen? oa cbcgeaccnsosuo0usuuKG 2,997 395 221 os 616 3,613
n@ar GaVllein7 OP AME «SSR dwec coud oo sooo UdoO J oMmON 2,582 233 3,845 — 4,078 6,660
Center for Folklife Programs & Cultural Studies ....... 1,705 1,304 950 — 2,254 3,959
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ................ 2,809 33 16 26 75 2,884
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum. ........... 2,423 2,253 602 26 2,881 5,304
Hirshhorn Museum & Sculpture Garden ............. 4,221 496 992 — 1,488 5,709
National Air and Space Museum. ................... 12,056 2,831 1e25 il isy / 5,579 17,635
NationaleWMiuseum) of African Art ...........e80c2s-- 3,709 198 58 — 256 3,965
National Museum of American Art ................. 7,289 1,202 1,437 — 2,639 9,928
SM ERESTINV VL Reem npe sary eta eee = Seca isifenscirsiye et aiads evan cnaiiene Seelieve ve — — — — _ —
National Museum of American History .............. 17,683 1,503 2,512 116 4,131 21,814
Patton Postal MUSEUM . 2). <0 lets ace cle ace toes ss er 516 3,100 2,825 —_ 5,925 6,441
National Museum of the American Indian. ........... 11,023 S72 485 3 4,200 1SE223)
National Museum of Natural History................ 36,375 2D, 4,677 1,831 9,280 45,655
== MECe EAM SUlO) NO ACHES 45 choos podo noe oD Boe 2,654 I _ — 1 2,655
Neiiomell Pomme Grilleiny 55 5655s 50600000000 n00000 5,094 334 280 — 614 5,708
Nainomeall ZoolopicalliPeis,” 4 oceecoueccugcopcensdcas 18,512 941 1,476 966 3,383 21,895
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory ............. 14,921 2,484 722 49,051 52,257 67,178
Smithsonian Environment Research Center .......... 2,545 207 88 1,371 1,666 4,211
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute ............. 8,326 1,287 1,341 871 3,499 11,825
Total Museums & Research Institutes. .............. 160,536 25,814 24,456 55,778 106,048 266,584
Education, Museum & Scholarly Services:
GentemtOorm NiuUselim:StUGIeS! eee mccgene | eearere eee se shape oil 991 80 12 — 92 1,083
Natonalscience Resources(@enter 20... 2% «eee 192 244 1 i 245 437
Elementary & Secondary Education................. 490 271 17/8) 26 476 966
Pein ite @emtra lus seer cscke sos fucmeuswe si ceainin ae ule dene 2,406 142 — — 142 2,548
HElows hipsiam GN Gra Mier eeenetste alsa -yevel state = eieeteie 297 1,402 170 — ies? 1,869
MTLCMMAt ON AlRElATIONS ) 95 sxe sie e-cucueis, casio. 2 aha) tise ese eal s 2,509 350 96 53 499 3,008
SmuthsonianelnstitutionmvATGhIVeS: @ee.ses. 20252 s05-- 1,295 94 81 — 175 1,470
Smithsonian lnstitution Mibranies) 9....5:-..-c..-++--- 6,170 758 134 —_— 892 7,062
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service .. . 2,469 624 1,558 — 2,182 4,651
Total Education, Museum & Scholarly Services ..... 16,819 3,965 PD Pasi 79 6,275 23,094
Auxiliary Activities (Programmatic) .................... 1,610 217 194 _ 411 2,021
International Environmental Science Program ........... 795 — = = — 795
Maj onscientiic Instrumentation) 32. sae. wee ee 2) = _ _ _- O29
PMINe HI GASISIMItMASOMAy | ac seoseicis Slaw wdicwsicl sce Ghee we ale eres — 57,454 — — 57,454 57,454
BuoOmvear Annual sAPPLOpLiatlONS =~). .t).)-fae ee ee lee ele) ol > 10,383 — — — — 10,383
Total Research, Education and Collections Management
before Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense .. 199,872 87,450 26,881 $5,857 170,188 370,060
Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense ......... 95,830 5,693 117 — 5,810 101,640
‘otal Research, Education and Collections Management ... 295,702 93,143 26,998 $5,857 175,998 471,700
Auxiliary Activities:
Smithsonian Press / Smithsonian Productions .......... — 19,535 a a 193535 19,535
Sumidngomiein MEREVAINE oanoodoaccopoocanodou0eUS = $8,258 = = 58,258 58,258
imheIuuthsomianvAsSsOciates: = cies Sas cae tienes) — 35,661 — —_ 35,661 35,661
SIPR Et al lines secsoseseece vette nare airs Suny siteeay aaa stata dtin yes et stste aes _ 61,637 — — 61,637 61,637
87

fable 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1996 (in $000s)—(continuted) (

Trust Funds
Donor/ Government Total
Federal General Sponsor Grants & Trust Total |)
Funds Trust Designated Contracts Funds FY 1996 |
Media Activities) 5 sis ne. ors eee even courere neueed Steud a encueh ayes — 23 — ~— 23 234
Upobir Aoballieiny Nemhaiae3—= 5oooccsneoccmannno on ODL — 10,779 — — 10,779 10,779 |
Total Auxiliary Activities (including Overhead) .......... = 185,893 = — 185,893 185,893
Wess(@verhicad eocye rae aire aati ne ere RE ar = (9,244) = = (9,244) (9,244)
Moye il epaberay AG EKALEES: soscodcongco0cene090nN DODO OS — 176,649 — — 176,649 176,649
|
Administration:
Institutional Advancement:
INI EINESSTSGIRY CooSagonaovomaeeoomaaceoooae sas _— S64 — — 564 564
Memibershipran Geb evel Opie nite nmt-rlcie itn h- elena tte: — Zen 89 — 2,220 2,220
Special Events and Conference Services................ 98 316 — _ 316 Aa
TotaliinstitutionalyAdvancement 22)... eee nee 98 3,011 89 — 3,100 3,198
Administrative and Support Offices .................... 31,972 24,603 292 2, 24,897 56,869
Total Administration before Allocation of Facilities
andyDepreciationyEXxXpPenSepe enters relents rare rience ie 32,070 27,614 381 2 Pa Ye) 60,067
Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense ........... 15,838 _ — _ _— 15,838
MotaVvAdministrationes savecacuciees creek ores obe hole a eer ncreieese 47,908 27,614 381 2 27,997 75,905
Visitor Information & Associates’ Reception Center ......... 245 — 1,365 1 1,366 1,611
y Nob ogua ah jug: unloyotnyay centon ents ORCC ean one ee ctres tien O-O MONET G cache Gea bet 29,939 22,891 7,547 2 30,440 60,379
Off CeVOF THEHPrOVOSE: scara. cash ncteus: stoners feta ccsuechenoners Woatel wares 1,788 1,729 244 — 1,973 3,761
Facilities Services:
Racilities:SenviceS» cs.srcc cde mya a os chapaeva nancies Giewcleny aauereseme 81,849 2,034 117 — PA AMS 84,000
Allocation of Facilities Services Expenses to Functions ...... (81,849) (2,034) (117) _ (2,151) (84,000)
Total RacilitiesiServices| -yoijcheye xen cs seen ea avant ota hehe — _ — — — —
TOWALIEMPENSES?® syicsfecaisiesy seus lostsieaehen eee ssustists iss «+ oaachiay tops 343,610 297,406 2379) 55,859 380,644 724,254
Endowment Return Reinvested ..........2.000eeeeeeee — 29,551 11,810 —_ 41,361 41,361

Net increase (decrease) in net assets before changes in
ARAL pnb NES CaskacceodaconoousncdvoCoUODE 10,733 3,782 5,226 — 9,008 19,741

Note 1 Includes $312 thousand revenue recognized as a permanent indefinite appropriation for the Canal Zone Biological Area Fund. Also, include”
$1,856 thousand revenue recognized in foreign currency for research projects in India.

Table 2. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Year 1996 (in $000s)

Sales and Net

Membership Revenue Gifts Expenses Revenue (Loss)

1D eg E12 Ee eee teen Ph ee i ecm eh Ua oa a ata act a Gr re tat teeta Bx 193,808 9,348 185,791 17,365
a EEE Eee

FY 1996: |
Central Auxiliary Activities
AVENE V Abo CUuea and ious eertcinie 6 oraieinnne en cen cinites oo Oicerieas omeate se Hoe coca OLIN 67,850 7 $8,258 9,599
he SmithsomianvAssociatesyy oc. ce cw oes eee ate ae ee 31,635 7,946 35,661 3,920
Business: Management: 2 cei cseqer sccichm suey sie den ctcnes cree teplenee ston ope isieueqeleus nou etoney<acteyen ste — — 485 (485)
Museum Shops/Maili@rder a. stv acts ae erste ein clei sort ie is iene) oie ene 62,409 — 58,364 4,045
GPOMEESSIONS! oe Ok se eRe Ror ee RRL ene a a ee Splaluls —_— 1,956 1,155
Rroduct#DevelopmeniszanGilicensin Ser ercrieiei een nether nen een eee 1,879 a 832 1,047
SmithsonianidnstitutioniPressy (eraser cieiciat nace enter nen enna cic een at 11,744 — 19,535 (7,791)
Electronic) MediavActivities!: st mruaces sciccrs Onecare ron eens 153 — 23 130
Unit Auxiliary Activities
Airand Space) Theaterand | Hinstein!Planetanum! ee eeeeiierieieiia 5,139 — 2,948 2,191
Gooper-Hewitt) National! DesigniMuseumils eis qo ere see ee ere 490 11 198 303
iravelingiExhibition Services smi ieee ices ecicnnteee Ie ieie eee 1,053 —_ 1,013 40
(O) 0 OVS Care aaa eae Re eer erica Meese gn aera ri Bille eee ts cetera ts tet Aan eal Had 6,839 578 6,620 797
ANODE GTO eae ree cera cicno etorat cron oaol Ss cla. o 6. Gea cc co Goo Goo oe oO 192,302 8,542 185,893 14,951

88

able 3. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1996 (in $000s)

Market
Value

SSETS:

ooled Consolidated Endowment:
25m ding! GGA. scodeddssndoose coon ope Guu O Nag GUO o Ob oEmO oS CodO GeO UNO OOddOUMCOODUOMaD Donna ama Dood $22,655
—onarr REGSINGIDIG. 5 Siero. 66:6 phe'O-0 OOO DRA IERE, eRe ORE REDE RE LENE Per PRE RC teteS  teey rete Gow oso acl CLA ee OCR OCR Ronn i Sy/7/
Se OuciIiMmenicand @lasi- Governments ©bliGatlOmS ec -ieiiee elidel e elcn sneha ieten need Meneli cette testes odtetet(oues <rrarraticuchel(etrel ariel feife 51,737
paras Roma ama Qiner Ollie. ocg0cp0npondannanoboG Gedo umoso nooo UDO ONDA ab OO GD ODOC MOB Ion ON MO ndon oo 39,441
MeREITEAC LIAMICM ALELETRC CES COCKS) eteee ey ern oeeuerer ever Soe tese be seins, a. avs Rhiclich ooh ena coueteine ter ecerebe to oe oeemeber ta Uetsolie teneteaemeden Mcyeuettaneeer shoo 28 Were tne tetera aha e 383,795
PICA CR OSCE TORS OIG wttencncha cieiere aie ctieee ae) Sila Seca na Sine BY ete) eho CNR aPrAre aye Rae oie opie We MoMena TeNensunitet sieve tiene cotelteNotatte io, clfsus: ere etenetiauie te 7,558
sical Poole! AGRI. o:B oro ofio brotd Git © alain CRORE: Cota ROL REE RCRD OIRO RUCK S (ke Gra. oitic cue Cecien Geri Casio Ot aican eric Pitkin ets nea 506,563
lonpooled Endowment and Similar Activities:

Fim tO) UNS. Tezgunny iit RerReSIUHIG? ooo cooc owes sued anon NaOH OMOO eC o KOO dO Osa eC oDeoOND OE SE OMOODo OO DPUoEHUEOdeonooe 1,020
-MARIBAS WO (GINS — (GHIRIS 2) eh eater Grete o OGEE ate EEE AN RCE STE SURI nOr sis. Gr rark scree. cit outmost Peconic ouch CIRRORS Caen NRCC coeur ae 8,496
LIES 1 Give.o Chennilelele bales 5 eats sisena aarti Resin erie GeoiG cidieke 5 clascsnia ang Loli chico, crarcear encechce racine cara cai lerterra ernie res 2,047
axil NompoOoled AWS .ocongs otoosougsopoos Adon OmO DC OTUOSObUoDU ASOD OSC od DOD OMOS Dono ODD RUE OOE OOD MOM Au 11,563
“SEB ASBER 5 oo S.cpg hucnn BAG: ac eya OG HORE ORE OCLC ORI REE RE CREE REESE CLAIRE cr ARS ty ley re Peery ne Pee On Ai Tere A NS er $518,126
[ABILITIES AND NET ASSETS:

IABILITIES:
2 “EDS HOF TASTES (DUNE 55 occu bobo hod OU Sane bo ObeS GuOudooDODSoDO DOs dmobooOmODo oom oMEMaL ade odooe ood $25,194
PEER CCRREME TUE hanitaly] Culntistsumc, « cretere seer fire sad Genser uch e rennet as sawrobre alga MNS MSRE Loe CAL SST Poh Oa cessoy > OIC SNuCe Nous sore Guls) Gye ns lbs airelierye natieeys 25
aN TLAPETI@S on. Sickle LSB Sees Ba eRe TO RG, Te ISS REI REET ea ENN eA SPST ea Ones Oe i a ene ee tid eee a Ad eee gee Beers eer 25,219
JET ASSETS
ES WLC Cl METS rs ae Pe ony che eae Pagiayen anteusute| lave cart esieanye cord Sincte Wane fe mation we me TAS ae HON EIEN ees loeraIe ral Ne Vesely coe deat ei sycapeub teers! hy, stenlea Somes Ison auels 184,334
cLrEsoncied Designated 505 oped bo b0% 8 ov an Dose poomeD moc agicnondn sot bend ho DOr CoOo abo oe sh mbna ote oo aol 141,282
Pcp Onaaihy REKamekaGl: 5 235.0050 aba on PAS G0 CUNO SRA SHOOT OAS 1 aG.86 Meebo 0600 > OD OO cto cla. aR Oe. com cid wou 117,763
py SIEGE IRESTMIGIRC! . oo cog Qo OCO ODED OSU OMMOMH NEO DG OMOODOCOURDAO UDR SEgSpPoODoOUBoUUEDOC DC OmoMUEH OMG OUD EDD OOS 49,528
ESE MNCIMASS CL Same MR ta storcoorcctarstioat ot iced auestoceich, fats Saker seicr Me aeieds josfasenr ae Sabre anc pee retrace cueL ai corm auc pesweaule loins atea ei sonapts ies ex Srenle else Riioya sere sahle 492,907
Seetmlar alsin et eStATIGNINGL@ASSELS Ia sactaqres meron ayieds, oaNer sea reg Bae Sos AA heuennana BT orenicsteme reMeNe Toon) ol eete issues Gregan alene tists mylecere eo tenes esehe jeveens $518,126
able 4. Changes in Market Value of Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1996 (in $000s)

Unrestricted Temporarily Permanently
Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Total

Pekecvaliebndowment=TO/M/95 2 cues tne sect seine ep eye site $165,700 $124,910 $108,603 $35,419 $434,632
‘hanges
SES I i ar ce a) a c.f ops cn otis asusbay gaya 8 ualendesuenaceuasshe — — — 1,909 1,909
Mee Tital Mi canlStensmeysrusyrionseshoun uke rajnusreak eSiGe se) eS siete outs 2,582 2,873 (2,917) 2,038 4,576
ther

MATCEGS teat Levi CET G Sia aici cast eucveesiers ciara euslo seller suey 22) onto Rye eiceutue nets 9,230 6,314 5,790 354 21,688
UenINate Walle Aeonxehiuloal Gobocanoenoamenadononooenanss 14,544 12,245 10,702 — 37,491
PEM@IOE 2 3 °S.c.0:16:0, Gighe-o-o Crags SONG Ceo RRR CNET OSTA ga ie Preee rer (6,474) (5,060) (4,688) (354) (16,576)
MIBIMGYEGTES TREES cos o, 6:0 ey 6 oe -Eco BAGS. 0.0/0) 0) ORORCaE Gp Ren NERC AEC eee (1,248) — — a (1,248)
farketavalieikndowment =9/30/96) . oc a0 cee See ce See o enene ete the $184,334 $141,282 $117,490 $39,366 $482,472
PTETBISCSHLOR GLY Ceperee tye ates barcud cneneteie pamcticns, wockeneseesiens oe eased Sraudie — — 20 8,476 8,496
ALO TNR: 3 43. bhosene eo oto 0b ent oro eae EAR Re Geneon ener — _ 253 1,686 1,939
Aarket Value Endowment and Similar Activities - 9/30/96 ....... $184,334 $141,282 $117,763 $49,528 $492,907
fable 5. Endowment and Similar Activiities September 30, 1996

UNDESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE:
Avery Fund (See Note 1)
Dodge, Patricia
Fund for the Future-Unrestricted (See Note 1)
Fund for the Future-Glass, Gilbert W. (See Note 1)
Fund for the Future-Schermer, Lloyd G. and Betty (See Note 1) .
Higbee, Harry, Memorial
Hodgkins Fund (See Note 1)
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J., Memorial
IMfoniitonny IDNMARAMIE NN, oS an So aeddudncdaecosoucbeoodoCoOssS
Mussinan, Alfred
@OlmstedEelems Alyy. ava ceks cathoew este asec ee per use tiga) vee eL cr eey shoes
Poore, Lucy T and George W. (See Note 1)
Porter, Henry Kirke, Memorial
Sanford, George H. (See Note 1)
Smithson, James (See Note 1)
Smithson Society, James (See Note 1)

Subtotal

UNDESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI:
Dodge, Patricia
Ettl, Charles H.
Ferguson, Frances B.
Forrest, Robert Lee
Fund for the Future-Unrestricted (See Note 1)
General Endowment (See Note 1)
Goddard sRoberthblyiew anc. stom seis ete cxeraere trac. scercucmaceecets
Habel, Dr. S. (See Note 1)
HantiGustavsiberves avr ererel sie ois od cherie ares lare ceters ceca
Henry, Caroline
lsiciainy/, JON a Ciel NEMA ANS 6 cae GoodagsboaKsanGddonenG:
nO) IMEC Cy ong hose dsuansoodenotobasoesanbacso00N0
Hinton, Carrie Susan
INVA GL, IDO OWW I, Sosoncesodooooeubdosdeooegnahbooos
Lambert, Paula C.
Medimtis Grace ila mucin cos s seen Nore sro cee cee vue SPesyeuceey aye al utes
O’Dea, Laura I.
Phillips, Roy R., Estate
Rhees, William Jones (See Note 1)
Safford, Clara Louise
Smithsonian Bequest Fund (See Note 1)
SLiltroVs hel Dloy actos Maa eee ete ne teen Re Aste coke SoG oCine c
Taggard, Ganson
Winterer, Alice I.

Subtotal

Total Undesignated Purpose

DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE:
Aitken, Annie Laurie
Arthur, James
Axelrod, Dr. Herbert R.
Baird, Spencer Fullerton
Barney, Alice Pike, Memorial (See Note 1)
Batchelor vbimimanbs hire yer ence at sce) wren one auceaeaare, Srsheu are ey emesis
Beauregard, Catherine, Memorial
Bergen, Charlotte V.
BLOW WROLAN GW: Es prcteies ep etee ears tee Ee ES reece ie
Burch, George E. Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and

Affiliated Theoretic Sciences
Camel Fund
Canfield, Fredrick A.
Casey, Thomas Lincoln
Chamberlain, Francis Lea
Cooper Fund for Paleobiology
DavisyHOUndatOn is. 1.5 aa reac Oe mee nee ree ren
deSalle, Albert and Peggy
Beibel}/Gharles: Poi ch bn wre eee eC Lo nae

90

Market Values

Unrestricted Temporarily — Permanently Total

Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Market Value
381,765 _ — 49,334 431,099 |
78,657 — - 721,685 800,342 |
50,598 — — 697,070 747,668
— — -- 54,128 54,128

— — - 311,447 311,447
121,962 — — 30,672 152,634
322,129 _ a 202,927 525,056
25,278 _ — 35,000 60,278
696,388 _ — 100,000 796,388
193,908 _ — 38,990 232,898)
7,130 — a 1,000 8,130
1,456,046 — a 288,941 1,744,987
2,650,608 _ — 290,162 2,940,770
8,377 _ -- 2,706 11,083
183,860 _ oe 776,389 960,249
115,966 _ _ 508,500 624,466
6,292,672 — 4,108,951 10,401,623
242,965 _ — — 242,965
1,787,348 _ -- — 1,787,348
872,824 oa — — 872,824
8,862,276 _ — 8,862,276
693,391 — 20,000 — 713 739m
156,407,941 - — — 156,407,941
70,183 — — _ 70,183
886 — _ — 886
5,252 — —_ _ 5,252
12,954 — _ — 12,954
518,103 — ~~ — 518,103
862,347 — — — 862,347
252,264 — -- _ 252,264
300,916 _ = = 300,916
462,812 _ - — 462,812
8,583 — — — 8,583
294,675 on — _— 294,675 —
1,265,727 = = = 1,265,727 —
6,069 — —_— = 6,069 |
402,794 _ _ — 402,794 |
3,422,539 a 52,420 os 3,474,959 —
1,098,531 = = — 1,098,531
4,908 _— — _— 4,908
185,477 — — — 185,477
|
178,041,765 _ 72,420 — 178,114,185
eee
184,334,437 — 72,420 4,108,951 188,515,808
— 263,417 — 325,000 588,417

— _ 344,298 54,587 398,885

— _ 25,480 120,000 145,480

— 306,200 — 50,362 356,562

— 270,844 — 606,570 877,414

— _ 235,674 60,000 295,674

— 39,972 141,227 476,599

— — 19,521 10,000 29,521

- 235,873 _ 70,295 306,168

_ — 1,013,750 1,668,889 2,682,639

_— 18,178 — 100,800 118,978

— — 393,248 46,233 439,481

_ _ 127,061 1,000 128,061

— _ 245,661 35,000 280,661

— 270,523 — 194,349 464,872

— _ 5,052 125,000 130,052

— 8,794 —_ 65,000 73,794

— 24,976 — 100,000 124,976
able 5. Endowment and Similar Activiities September 30, 1996 (continued)
a a EE SSS sss

Market Values

Unrestricted Temporarily — Permanently Total

Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Market Value

— ————————————————————————————————————————E——————————————————EE——————————————
Discovery Communications, Inc. (See Note 1) .............. —_ —_— 88,791 2,254,240 2,343,031
MDivisionlon Mammals GuratorsshuUNnGss. eee see - ae ee ne — 17,388 — 8,901 26,289
MIRE BH OLIN GAO Ge errno cients sok ce cwkelejels sels ewe ks ee — — 1,306,414 414,886 1,721,300
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. ................ — — 309,684 254,072 563,756
Sykes, Cihamlas, ECWESNEs cseooogoononscocdccddnanEuMoNS = _— 466,055 131,978 $98,033
Salim, Rarer Plmillips -oaakesodoodsoosneoocuouebedoRoe = S13),5)1L2) — 64,403 97,915
BIGkeme yer sElOremGe) BLEVOOTE eesti t-te ee = — — 97,792 10,500 108,292
oyplleyy Micim@mncl 6 = So8o6 5 6 oo oe em se ceicrcico on oloiiorcrecicig or — 15,721 — 30,214 45,935
SRI COm AC MALGBW cll Oper yeie aici niayeseeae secs elesersrseelio ere (6 1S ye, sss — 728,662 — 818,912 1,547,574
Tame, (CMAs IL, SE goeualo @ ole BIG oierosalGretarci cle Seco ke cepncRcn ic acaeaEae — 3,193,646 75,487,216 1,958,591 80,639,453
Fund for the Future-Samuel C. Johnson Theater ............ = = 167,873 1,003,120 1,170,993
Fund for the Future-Mary L. Ripley Garden ................ — 11,756 _ 117,846 129,602
Fund for the Future-Ethel Niki Kominik .................. = 23,516 a= 100,000 123,516
Fund for the Future-Vincent Wilkinson (See Note 1) ......... — 9,291 — 150,000 159,291
Fund for the Future-Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson (See Note 1) — — — 4,559,132 4,559,132
Fund for the Future-Smithsonian Luncheon Group (See Note 1) — 1,540 — 87,022 88,562
Fund for the Future-Frank J. Lukowski (See Note 1) ......... — — _ 164,238 164,238
Global Environmental Endowment Fund ................. — 1,569 — 3,000 4,569
Siimain, SRG ING 6 o.5 o1gieelo © eao Grolblo dro c-cia olor nip Oi canae arena — 180,786 — 71,863 252,649
Groom, Rerinclk WE 3 & Sip ona pio © oo tae cea cenictorn MICICRE IES Remeron a = 154,324 — 100,000 254,324
Guscenheim, Daniel and Florence .-..............-..... — — 780,686 251,108 1,031,794
Similiar, JAuMeS (SEEING aS ne oae one nods clog mode bormre oD 4,598 oa 4,150 8,748
Hizwyart, Binigl A, Gaiolein QoS oesscusoocgdoebeodbo om D OUD —_— — 687,064 3,106,978 3,794,042
Henderson, Edward and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund ......... — — 141,394 257,256 398,650
Figen), UloyGl 8. (GEOINGIE1)) Sb5eccssgcubaopesepsueooos — — — SpyLl7/s) 55,175
EW camor G-REpPain RUM) =e ele cicis cies «2 eiser es a= — 49,867 — 15,003 64,870
lew, Sala Coo ser docs noso codoen saad. dens creed cere — 294,272 — 88,633 382,905
Sliver, Wirull .os0.ceccopodeneuepopeoa noun oo old coos mas — — 60,156 7,000 67,156
BATEGI COG ROMA ehta Ssuegs Gis SiG © ean chee Aoav scrote asia} ener ey sie snectiecece _- — 14,779 1,200 15,979
Hlodlgiaims luiavel (GENO) sosaceeaasgsccdnvocuucd GGG — 31,191 — 146,012 177,203
EincdlickawAlesiand Marie... .% soe naee thew seesaw oss — 425,596 — 71,000 496,596
SlwiiMeS, BANGS 5 o6 gec5 6059s Seb so ddo ods 0 oa noo CoUeIGcomD — — 181,642 9,352 190,994
Huntington Publication Fund (See Note 1) ................ —_— 137,001 — 509,988 646,989
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ............ —_ — 30,123,536 3,415,606 33,539,142
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial ............. — 282,693 — 223,178 505,871
Kottler, Howard, Endowment for Ceramic Art .............. — 8,736 — 75,000 83,736
NN Rane, INE > 4.2.0 Gpoctectolo so DIGI OnO RCSD UGE el Oneeta aa ICC cena ae — 235295), — 12,103 35,360
jerome, [Real We <5 6 Gee etanon oe cece crOlcec tc Ronen tetanic ne ara — 12,801 — 52,180 64,981
LEMS, Inia avnvel Iior, JNGhiteEloK MIL G5 oocnbe os ood o ou ob odo — 9,868 — WA 3} 127,591
iveinghil, Inevany chal Bavediy” Be oboe coos so cle 0 obb oO bao oDoD — — 40,185 100,000 140,185
MAS iAmiiGKeEbequOtNatOD) jc. ursyalel= eo cle sie wim le oi oi _ — 6,874 500,000 506,874
aeaneGlll, MBIT Be 4. orp crpteele: Bek Seta eRe eee ote IST OS an 1 CRO DCR FCN ICRea — 175,690 — 20,000 195,690
Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment........... — 435,983 — 655,465 1,091,448
Mellon Publications Endowment Fund ................... — 368,003 — 900,000 1,268,003
RiallikenwH-Oothout, Memorial ...........5. 0065200088688 — 1,464 — 443 1,907
eMINTCE AMETCGSVUTTIOLN ey ie) 28sec, dhs Suck che ernie) «lg, hie Bue ce ee ee ee aa — — 701,696 179,008 880,704
MMT SITE LIPMVV TL TTATINO Arms Nee sikaae eyes, 1 SOS SIE Asie ies Ge ee eee _ 96,154 — 24,072 120,226
MioyiihiansbuzaAbeth BrenMAM yer ce sei eee oe 2 i — 7,265 50,161 57,426
Museum of the American Indian-Heye Foundation .......... — 479,025 — 920,587 1,399,612
NMAI Educational Endowment Fund (See Note 1) .......... — 23,008 — 232,047 255,055
SSIES, IRGIVOiANS: 3 Be agence Comoe esis tia EeniDIe acEen CoOIOoIo IS —_ 119,359 — 215,671 335,030
RNEISOTMR GC WATCMWANITATIO cqeesusnewes sts t-celeyeia:e sasveve ny eis w cos tuscnsel's — 191,603 — 30,000 221,603
“Sasori, LO WGIIL”, oi A bi5 ecto oc ete eet ae eRe te eee ene ee — — 4,828 20,000 24,828
J Smoeelhy, ESe ols}, MaOGEll 6645504 nne00cb ooo ouoo DOOD — — 64,227 10,000 74,227
eI PACCISOMMlel SCENNOLE Lier cr cla tucisie eieas et ehe eset, sin ore sere © — — 180,541 20,560 201,101
Ripley, S. Dillion and Mary Livingston ................... — 223,044 = 166,050 389,094
FOROS TUiAGl p25 6.0516 0 © xd SOAS GE A Or Fe ONO ore form, oro Domo Ieee — — 1,047,088 150,000 1,197,088
ROlinsavViinrantranGo williams 2.4 -scrcetecie oe ss 2 oe oe cle woe — 1,982,184 — 590,604 2,572,788
Pe CRIETHE MED LICH ALLAITS ys)-poucyers (tel cteleb el eiclinciss Se cots in Abe oh eos —_ — 713,538 2,856,875 3,570,413
Brel Ibinton) OLNIG eer seer ere tencicievectce ny cus cepts eave auceecel sles — 9,792 — 18,817 28,609
STEALS IEG COLE CDV Viernes) cteneieyc cysts eveuart an (eye cicts) ate avedayel aoa eile — 151,082 — 110,000 261,082
The Sichel Family, Endowment for Research at the NZP ...... _ 16,471 — 200,000 216,471
LISI, GORE Io no oesadduoasnecosbeascrooqnlnocipesU eed — 34,982 — 158,757 193,739
Jona Gwe TRUTG) no wia 6 cata we 4.0% ah-cs Bm able ole cco eee aS — 11,034,658 — 4,346,831 15,381,489
CDRINGSe INCI ConmoedaoeanracH es ouconouonpoBUaaEaD = 148,632 = 30,000 178,632
PACT Mt ALO Cub: mViemOMall pers a aeciereconctwe mens ensiel ssanersjerdis eran — 1,247,724 — 458,101 1,705,825
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library .................. — 38,751 — 10,053 48,804
SGT, MEN OME? “Sooo bd asec dowlon 505 coping ermamooe — — 328,648 291,426 620,074
“Tepsyoi, Rawls; (GaSINOWe 1D) soe dsebccsboonoconvouuuaponde — 959,085 — 6,077,985 7,037,070
Walcott, Charles D.and Mary Vaux, Research .............. — 1,240,774 — 479,450 1,720,224
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications ............. — $24,075 — 80,124 604,199

91
tela

{
(
lable 5. Endowment and Similar Activiities September 30, 1996 (continued) !
Market Values
7
Unrestricted Temporarily — Permanently Total
Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted — Market Value
;
DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE: (Continued)
Wells Jr JOM. Pxtioscas geekwarcna natch herent aero — — 727 4,276 5,003 |
Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research .............. _ 30,505 — 26,942 57,447 |
Williams Blainand iE lsiedtancncaceaetcctsucicne meatus ce cus ean — 20,617 — 39,622 60,239
Wood, Elizabeth B. and Laurence I. (See Note 1) ............ — = aa 270,968 270,968
Zerbees Frances BrinGkle:  cisccieta, oto wroloarte tare ois aeetewe ie. erticetel one — 8,393 — 1,000 939
Hidde, Neva Wiel oweaXel (SES INOUE 1) Sococconnddc0cc0egcecds — 14,881 — 102,868 117,749
eC
Subtotal o ct tteyn dara an busee alos Sarai Ba) Shilo: leborsies ports _ 26,626,335 115,753,816 44,844,638 187,224,789
DONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI:
Abbott; MariesBOntissnaeneaciieran eh ean ae Meee eases scene — 243,345 — — 243,345
Archives:of AmeniCanvArtey oo ic tac conte. nar eealae eels eee deuesfere eres — 406,401 — _— 406,401
/NariQiaroyakess IXokitaEVeNES 6 odacononoopo doo oD oOo MODDOD000 —_— 42,360 — — 42,360
Au Pari ensBleuri! Ay wAeacicrencun wustecstedscansteucseyetetonel Sarariarteterehepare — 165,290 — —_— 165,290
sFGOVa}, Wily atoIENIROIGIY Su oovon Kaeo dD DOUDOO DOSE OUoDLDeOO — 829,602 — — 829,602
BatemaneRovent) Aani-rmetvomeveuobud eksyieutetnnencn-iwenretoe — 48,320 91,248 oa 139,568
Becker) (George icjenere ts wysceesinlesevedeltnisomuelsralisviousyi\jenctens tenseiote > _ 1,435,886 — — 1,435,886
Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund .............. —_ 712,266 = = 712,266
Davis): Gene: Memorial! tivsscrorcessiocsie cistern ieyenenonalentue vaste sot — 325,304 — —_— 325,304
Denghatisen) euisita Dear brarZ) le ctteeyetat aia alateltelclecienetetelelsi= — 15,232,231 _— — 15,232,230
Desavitelst Ral ike senna. seet vedere hon toes Acuewek click ots ok orev oveces crooner enone — 24,653 — — 24,653
Friends of Music Endowment Fund ...................... = 160,023 = — 160,023
GaversGordOny edetueiche secs aerearel at ohare: w gelter oaievenailclee ues enews els oyerens a= 20,453 _— — 20,453
Ina, Glo, FAO ah) oooocoogocoeno coo DUdDDGONNTOE — 5,648 24,579 — 30,227
Hachenbereh George! PyandiiGarolime eye vege ee eerie = _ 43,646 — — 43,646
Hammond, John Performance Series Fund ................ — 461,919 _— = 461,919
Hanson, Martin Gustav and Caroline R. .................-. — 90,777 —_ — 90,777
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund ................. — 12,813,470 — — 12,813,470
Hirshhorn) JOsephuri:, Bequest Puma tyr ene ety stencils steno _ 2,602,857 — — 2,602,857
Dheiolemiaslnustwhuadl wey, svecote apeacharerorerelcldewevekewe levee eteneh — 8,321,733 — —_ 8,321,733
he ELolentanlints tub lly aye ete wrcestereetienereurenrcweie oka, aroremeie nue nee _— 3,138,802 — —_— 3,138,802
WA SOHO MUCH WOGlI Soe coocuscoo dos b ooo UasO DOGS — 1,036,834 _— — 1,036,834
Houchins, Lee and Chang-Su (See Note 1)................. _— — 73,405 — 73,405
Munterdonsbndowmmneniticnec rcicrusnsiecterersreucielcnsucleneiol sien ciereeiere — 31,061,760 —_ — 31,061,760
OVI oro, OIG AS ob taVo) KS Nooo oso docuueoUm bor acne eaeurud — 67,211 — — 67,211
Lane, Robert and Mildred Katchmar ..................... i SS72271 — a 337 ,22h
ME OD INIOTEIS! es rairsereharel oy cate ne cate a aigar a sercaiyan evlenkanS arvosawov ch aifer senha) mek —_ 900,298 — — 900,298
ILorars; /Mabatstadold, Chaval XothdM(C. og cacacnccadaguacssuosduud — 5,560 — — 5,560
MouiemRichardiuNlemOniallsjawecm ers torelovs nave cedareveraiauctepenerste relcesee — 72,745 — — 72,745
IMIGILEWEIMIEVA, WMeIMES, sonondadacdaononmndnoKsuuooboKaGGC — 118,582 — — 118,582
Merrell MBlinOne ds. atte cat wee sralei are eels eves taitend ayes ketene aes — 124,842 395,953 — 520,795
INAGGIG (CELIO MIMO WANG osasaasoscopcdsoboogcsabodnede — 206,335 — = 206,335
INOY.ESpi Era ka trpescticnspvotcnct a eoef Meee ked-t oct ieneitel aetna tere = 10,400 — — 10,400
INGHES, EITM, gaouo ans ohconanooocouGemacdaeCOne _ 77,888 _ — 77,888
Relit@orneliadiivinestomerrncstenetcieen-isicetcn ak e een mert — 76,173 — — 76,173
Ramsey, Adm. and Mrs. Dewitt Clinton .................. _ 1,607,316 _ — 1,607,316
Read aobenl, Rikemeinal, Mimo 52 song onc ob asec ae occu co Ouse — 109,142 — — 109,142
Reeves, Douglas F. and Sanae lida (See Note 1) ............. — — 127,677 — 127,677
EHH Sy IOMNOTM MOAB oo ooo CONC o oo NOOODO SONS SOURS OOK — 71,208 245,063 = 316,271
Roebling solani Researchers n-ne ne rene Nek ketal eened bench nel eelteke leeds — 234,659 — _— 234,659
ROSSwActoUmGardenvanGuleniaces- rarer ierineer ei eieieieicn erences —_— 111,768 673,026 — 784,794
Rivet Bertha Mey casts ose chews eb eut ches ead tered cet nei ae eons ks en etiee ves — 261,924 — — 261,924
Schultz; Whe@ mandy ec ittercccncmerstsucud «cers recone & pxenemebpereancke — 215,336 — —_— 215,336
Seidel AtihertOmwizicc.ce.o o Sier sate hosriota: ocers eu eushyegetele teases tie sre — $,672,927 — — 5,672,927
Smithsonianimnstitutionibraniesi cee cies cece eiieieiela — 152,050 305,646 — 457,696
Strom Julia Des sisecai teats cued teers greets mvornencpenesteene teva Neuse — 102,559 — — 102,559
Witherspoon; ThomasyA:, Memorial’ 272 )- eerie siieieieree erree se —_ 1,315,957 — —_ 1,315,957
Subtotal c<.c02- Src tae Sse tein oe ene omver — 91,075,687 1,936,597 — 93,012,284
(otalsDononDesionated BurpOSeirmer mieten nate ee _ 117,702,022 117,690,413 44,844,638 280,237,073 —

BOARD DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE:

EE
/

Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research .............- a 4,009,086 — $74,182 4,583,268 |
ee SE ESE EE eee
Subtotalll inc: esascrgle bene’ io eee ee ne — 4,009,086 —_— 574,182 4,583,268

92

fable 5. Endowment and Similar Activiities September 30, 1996 (continued)
Market Values

Unrestricted Temporarily — Permanently Total
Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Market Value

,OARD DESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI:
sia, WHITE oI Os S feed c-pnrceced choles lola Reece cree ene em at — 1,217,823 — — 1,217,823
ATS OWE Ul Gil Minn. wale iey-Ptemsy nee shekslctsache cli Sicis ioe Sais ececaus = 10,178 — == 10,178
Mizshhorm Museum Acquisition Fund .................... — 4,211,331 — — 4,211,331
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History .................... — 4,217,857 — — 4,217,857
_umelbaaln, ClaanGo al 9 ctwoos a0 opnopoo uuu Uo bEgecasacce = 67,908 = = 67,908
OM, MARES WEG IIS ooeccagganecesobupooumOouoGSuoT — 46,195 —_— = 46,195
‘idetilin Meni lhateipakathoy Schaal ooo sooo obo Dp ooo oo moo ne — 303,086 — — 303,086
MMIUNIB] IReaeeincla?. a-eG ace ats 2 etougndreity ca Seen ee Ia CR cee — 179,194 _ — 179,194
SIZDP IPRORESWIMS 5 5 o.00-0 diagno emo o> DICIO Oo moma Dore ore 6 — 3,974,041 — - 3,974,041
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund .................. = 2,955,710 = — 2,955,710
V@le1o}, JARAES 18,5 allo Aotl 9) Sob ao oie ool ooo Do oom anes mie ene — 1,963,907 — — 1,963,907
Momenmsi@oumttee KellOWSMIp) ---¢- eee e a cece wc ne _ 424,011 — = 424,011
BS CHEO Ell MMMM ie, aiel ole fallete, sox. cuelie exer eyeue iets ee FPS Rigiaheun ailbns — 19,571,241 — — 19,571,241
PealeboardemesignmatedbUnpOSe een. wteksiie ele os = emis lel ees —_— 23,580,327 — 574,182 24,154,509
(OTAL ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES ............ 184,334,437 141,282,349 117,762,833 49,527,771 492,907,390

Jote 1: Invested all or in part in nonpooled investments

fable 6. Construction and Plant Funds, Fiscal Years 1996 and 1995 (in $000s)

FY 1996 VY ILD)

UNDS PROVIDED
ederal Construction Appropriations:

“SRMemall ZECCA PANS oasoegueronlb > FHOne HEME Goo DOD DO DoS oh BOS SOBA aD Coos OomEoobOnn Boge 3,250 3,042
J SOG Cine! NESOnAtOM Ot BWHGTINGS “52 cosconsaueon Abas otoodeesodee cmceeeoc Enesco uooFbomasooEOOEE 33,954 23,954
MOF COPMIUCHOM saagnateed0660'5o 50 DoD Sane RA DB eon 5 ldo oid ac Hoa Eog ob Hae otio gam meat 2,994 $71
ATOT ale NACSe lie Olatin CeATINED CATUITLCLIATA Sees eersh ies was Siem cole tee arene eta. est-tseeite tere) aero ne nateinne cai ete eye ee muehe Tore reastetohts fomenetoeys 15,000 19,469
TRG pNGall NESS! lhmsyalqotKS > bho) overe NeECeereln IEVOUNKES: Gino oo eee boo oshoe bncoosocooncbooedberesgcnuoUOR — (700)
Nano Mall ANF Bake! SORES IMiuCeioiad IDWS >aeaOlnl oo op aka semsabednoanedbeoneaondancgcoedo bobs bones” 1,000 92
Fananll Rost Ones unikalineylshingsolovoyial aaa oo oro wean cote rem oo. do oichens ein © ood Ga ore one oo chain a Hienola Oren 6 (1,700)
REnonalMinscumlOmNatinalulistonybast! Court BUiGimge. ye. 5 oie) =) elelaryerseeis ees) stetPelee ier erase pe sss) ie 8,700 —
‘ional eclkerall Copmsnbrciato) ni7s\ojomojarkaiouh! Se 5 auger eraansORenn ao oan senso oud es oud Ooo boos ooo mmo oF 64,904 44,728

Jonappropriated Trust Plant Funds:
ncome - Gift and Other

COOME = IneHtE, Nemo Ell IDeSiegm MIRE, 55 oanb as ono cco U Gn dno ego ooo TOD DOOD uc o moc ONOoUBoUOEOOOeE 1,630 1,613
Tonal eVinseurmeotetinevAum eri Gaty Il Gia A rs selverens x 21e: 4) q Bact ¢ (0 oy aisiinsi toe ee oeeee raya OPIS Mins miles eset cost hus sl owen ate se es evel 6,302 5,390
Naiomall Minseuinn OH NEUE! IBIGoIn7a CERES owe eo opcoc esse Sa nacobecomseonopedooeBsnoneo noone 211 PANS)
NzinOmell Aue ial Sake IM howaeina IDOMAS Ws qusaSoin Gooo Ac noo ssn boscoesouuadsodudn ont oaddousoGGouUAOD 500 —
BO) Le aR ete ore eco s ehheviny s ia Natal yc veo 2h 3-a es beeresre te core ema omtee ah anela Re eats esfopmoNs os Sesa’s) Gwe ta) ta ettaraurs Fas Se Aire favlevionls 349 366
Beryl METIS ta RES OUILGES eae ews ales lc suaile Soins euler st eye aussi ten oj cb eliotn sheets, slccigentutsieateme cs levis aha, els) ctataneyeaa(caWausnche cons cicllsyfe)aliel 8,992 9,584
EEdWResourcesseroviaeds(hederallam GaGrUst)) scat. ascot ous)'s ys 2-Sesveus secrencuedane losuodone eo eiedeperey sisi sisi Glasee Sie cis eyeustis eimtons 73,896 54,312

Includes $900 thousand in FY96 and $2,496 thousand in FY 95 provided for construction of the National Museum of the American Indian
NMAI) from the NMAI Membership Program.

93

Independent Auditors’ Report

BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial
position of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30,
1996, and the related statements of financial activity and cash
flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are
the responsibility of the Smithsonian Institution’s manage-
ment. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and Government Auditing Stan-
dards, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and sig-
nificant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Statement of Financial Position September 30, 1996 (in thousands)

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of!
the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1996, and
the changes in its net assets and its cash flows for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted account-
ing principles.

As discussed in note 2 to the financial statements, effective
October 1, 1995, the Smithsonian Institution adopted the
provisions of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards
Nos. 116, Accounting for Contributions Received and Contribu-
tions Made; 117, Financial Statements of Not-for-Profit Organiza-
tions; and 124, Accounting for Investments Held by Not-for-Profit
Organizations.

Washington, D.C. KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

January 17, 1997

Trust Federal Total
Funds Funds Funds
Assets:
Cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury $ 3,413 198,061 201,474
Receivables and advances (note 4) 59,607 13,397 73,004
Prepaid and deferred expenses (note 5) 23,559 — 23,559
Other assets (note 6) 4,000 — 4,000
Inventory 19,226 1,001 20,227
Investments (note 7) 538,657 — 538,657
Property and equipment, net (note 10) 97,145 367,839 464,984
Collections (note 6) = = —
Total assets 745,607 580,298 1,325,905
Liabilities:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 36,188 27,738 63,926
Payable for investment securities purchased 25,194 = 25,194
Deferred revenue 51,047 — 51,047
Long-term debt (note 11) 3,097 — 3,097
Deposits held for others (note 12) 6,883 — 6,883
Accrued annual leave and voluntary separation costs 4,549 16,230 20,779
(note 13)
Unexpended federal appropriations (note 2) — 183,720 183,720
Total liabilities 126,958 227,688 354,646
Net Assets:
Unrestricted:
Funds functioning as endowments (note 8) 325,616 _— 325,616
Operational balances and net property and equipment 100,759 352,610 453,369
Total unrestricted net assets 426,375 352,610 778,985
Temporarily restricted:
Funds functioning as endowments (note 8) 117,763 — 117,763
Donor contributions for ongoing programs 24,983 _— 24,983
Total temporarily restricted net assets 142,746 _— 142,746
Permanently restricted:
True endowment 47,842 — 47,842
Interest in perpetual trusts 1,686 = 1,686
Total permanently restricted net assets (note 8) 49,528 — 49,528 ,
Total net assets 618,649 352,610 971,259
Commitments and contingencies (note 14)
Total liabilities and net assets $ 745,607 580,298 1,325,905

See accompanying notes to the financial statements

94

MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

-atement of Financial Activity For the Year Ended September 30, 1996 (In thousands)

Unrestricted

Temporarily Permanently
Trust Federal Restricted Restricted
Funds Funds Total Trust Funds Trust Funds fotal
perating revenue and gains:
Government funding and other revenue:
Federal appropriations (note 2) $ — 354,343 354,343 — — 354,343
Government grants and contracts 55,859 _ $5,859 — — 55,859
Short-term investment income (note 9) 3,682 = 3,682 15 — 3,697
Endowment payout (note 9) 11,534 _ 11,534 4,688 354 16,576
Private grants 3,187 — 3,187 — _— 3,187
Rentals, fees, and commissions 34,057 _ 34,057 — — 34,057
Auxiliary activities 192,302 _ 192,302 — = 192,302
Total government funding and other revenue 300,621 354,343 654,944 4,703 354 660,021
Contributions:
Program support 26,875 _ 26,875 4,499 4,429 35,803
Construction of facilities = — — 6,810 — 6,810
Total contributions 26,875 — 26,875 11,309 4,429 42,613
Total operating revenue and gains 327,496 354,343 681,839 16,012 4,783 702,634
Net assets released from restrictions 19,618 — 19,618 (19,618) — —
Total operating revenue, gains and other additions 347,114 354,343 701,457 (3,606) 4,783 702,634
kpenses:
Research, education and collections management 171,230 294,992 466,222 _ — 466,222
Auxiliary activities 176,649 — 176,649 _ — 176,649
Administration PH SIEM 47,908 75,905 _ — 75,905
Total expenses 375,876 342,900 718,776 _— — 718,776
Increase (decrease) in net assets from operations (28,762) 11,443 (17,319) (3,606) 4,783 (16,142)
ndowment return reinvested (note 9) 29,551 — 29,551 11,804 6 41,361
hange in net assets related to collection items not capitalized:
Proceeds from sale (note 6) 50 — 50 — — 50
Proceeds from insurance recoveries (note 6) 22 — 2 — —
Collection items purchased (note 6) (4,820) (710) (5,530) — (5,530)
Net increase in net assets before changes in accounting principles (3,979) 10,733 6,754 8,198 4,789 19,741
umulative effect on prior years (to September 30, 1995) of
recognizing promises to give as revenue and federal appropriations as
exchange transactions (note 2) — (162,322) (162,322) 12,529 9,320 (140,473)
umulative effect of prior years (to September 30, 1995) of recognizing
investments at fair value (note 2) 34,732 — 34,732 18,209 _— $2,941
et increase (decrease) in net assets 30,753 (151,589) (120,836) 38,936 14,109 (67,791)
et assets, beginning of the year 395,622 504,199 899,821 103,810 35,419
et assets, end of the year $ 426,375 352,610 778,985 142,746 49,528
2e accompanying notes to the financial statements
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statement of Cash Flows For the Year ended September 30, 1996 (In thousands)
Trust Federal Total
Funds Funds Funds
Cash flows from operating activities:
Net increase (decrease) in net assets $ 83,798 (151,589) (67,791)
Adjustments to reconcile net increase (decrease) in net assets to net
cash provided by operating activities:
Cumulative effect on prior years for SFAS 124 implementation (52,941) — (52,941)
Cumulative effect on prior years for SFAS 116 implementation (21,849) 162,322 140,473
Proceeds from sales of collections (SO) — (SO)
Proceeds from collection insurance recoveries (2) — (2)
Collection items purchased 4,820 710 5,530
Depreciation and amortization 6,061 32,103 38,164
Gain (loss) on disposition of assets 86 222 308
Contributions for increases in endowment (3,542) — (3,542)
Contributions for construction of property (6,810) — (6,810)
Appropriations for repair and restoration and construction of property = (64,904) (64,904)
Investment income restricted for long-term investment (360) — (360)
Provision for doubtful accounts 6,941 — 6,941
Net realized and unrealized gain on sale of securities (37,298) — (37,298)
Decrease in receivables and advances (16,603) 1,198 17,801
Decrease in prepaid and deferred expense 4,734 _ 4,734

Increase in other assets

(4,000)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Statement of Cash Flows For the Year ended September 30, 1996 (In thousands) (continued)

Trust Federal Total
Funds Funds Funds
Adjustments to reconcile net increase (decrease) in net assets to net
cash provided by operating activities: (continued)
(Increase) decrease in inventory (1,004) 424 (580)
Increase in payables and accrued expenses 21,763 3,690 25,453
Decrease in payable for investment securities purchased (12,271) — (12,271)
Increase (decrease) in deposits held for others 887 (1,349) (462)
Increase in accrued leave and voluntary separation costs 336 3,270 3,606
Decrease in deferred revenue (18,773) — (18,773)
Increase in unexpended funds with the U.S. Treasury — 21,398 21,398
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities (12,871) 7,495 (5,376)
Cash flows from investing activities:
Proceeds from sales of collections 2 = 2
Proceeds from collection insurance recoveries 50 — 50
Collection items purchased (4,820) (710) (5,530)
Purchase of property and equipment (14,578) (46,752) (61,330)
Proceeds from the sale of property and equipment 641 = 641
Purchase of investment securities (884,121) — (884,121)
Proceeds from the sale of investment securities 907,576 — 907,576
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities 4,750 (47,462) (42,712)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Contributions for increases in endowment 3,542 — 3,542
Contributions for construction of property 6,810 — 6,810
Appropriations for repair and restoration and construction of property _— 64,904 64,904
Investment income restricted for long-term purpose 360 _ 360
Repayments of long-term debt (253) — (253)
Net cash provided from financing activities 10,459 64,904 75,363
Net increase in cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury 2,338 24,937 PL PHS)
Cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury:
Beginning of the year 1,075 173,124 174,199
End of the year $ 3,413 198,061 201,474

Cash paid for interest during fiscal year 1996 was $181,000.

See accompanying notes to the financial statements

(1) Organization

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846 in accordance
with the terms of the will of James Smithson of England, who, in 1826, bequeathed
his property to the United States of America “to found at Washington, under the
name of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion
of knowledge among men.” After receiving the property and accepting the trust,
Congress vested responsibility in the Smithsonian Board of Regents to administer
the trust.

The Smithsonian Institution (Smithsonian) is a museum, education and research
complex of 16 museums and galleries, and the National Zoological Park. Research is
carried out in the Smithsonian's museums and facilities throughout the world. The
Institution's extensive collections number over 139 million objects. During fiscal year
1996, over 24 million individuals visited the Smithsonian museums and facilities. The
Smithsonian receives its funding from federal appropriations, private gifts and grants,
government grants and contracts, investment income, and various business activities,
including the Smithsonian magazines, mail-order catalogue, museum shops, food ser-
vices, and publications. A substantial portion of the Smithsonian's annual operating
budget is funded from annual federal appropriations. Certain construction projects
are funded 100 percent from federal appropriations, while others are funded using
amounts raised from private sources, or a combination of federal and private funds.
The federal operating and construction funding is subject to the annual federal appro-
priations process, and significant cuts in federal funding would significantly impact
the Smithsonian’s financial situation.

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of
Art, the John F, Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars, which were established by Congress within the
Smithsonian, but are administered under separate boards of trustees.

(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

These financial statements present the financial position, financial activity, and cash
flows of the Smithsonian Institution from all funding sources, prepared on the accrual
basis of accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Funds received from direct federal appropriations are reported in the columns titled

96

Federal Funds in the financial statements. All other funds are reported in the column
titled Trust Funds.

Changes in Accounting Principles

On October 1, 1995, the Smithsonian Institution adopted the provisions of State-
ments of Financial Accounting Standards No. 116 (SFAS 116), Accounting for Contribu- |
tions Received and Contributions Made; No. 117 (SFAS 117), Financial Statements of Not- —
for-Profit Organizations; and No. 124 (SFAS 124), Accounting for Certain Investments Held:
by Not-for-Profit Organizations.

SFAS 116 requires the recognition of unconditional promises to give (pledges) as
revenue upon receipt of the pledge and the use of discount factors to reflect the time |
value of money and any estimated uncollectible amounts. Revenue from pledges was }
previously deferred until payment was received. The Smithsonian adopted the new s
dard by recording the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in fiscal
year 1996 increasing net assets by $21,849,000, reported as part of the cumulative effec
on prior years of recognizing promises to give as revenue and federal appropriations as
exchange transactions in the accompanying statement of financial activity. The Smith-
sonian has elected to release temporarily restricted net assets on a retroactive basis.

The Smithsonian classifies the revenue associated with federal appropriations and
certain grants and government contracts as exchange transactions. Auxiliary activities
revenue primarily results from exchange transactions in the form of sales, subscrip-
tions, license arrangements, sponsor agreements, and other transactions. However, au
portion of auxiliary activities (e.g., Contributing Membership and the Smithsonian
Associates) are partially supported through member contributions and are accounted -
for as such. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 116, the Smithsonian classified
unexpended federal appropriations as a liability since revenues are not earned until —
expended. This resulted in a decrease in unrestricted net assets of $162,322,000 whi 1
was reported as part of the cumulative effect on prior years of recognizing promises
give as revenue and federal appropriations as exchange transactions in the statement
of financial activity. ]

SFAS 117 requires significant changes in the format and content of the basic finan-
cial statements, including the reporting of all equity by three categories of net assets:
unrestricted, temporarily restricted, and permanently restricted. These changes are
retroactively reflected in net assets as of the beginning of fiscal year 1996, and are
restated as follows: 1
($000s)

Total (as
Temporarily Permanently previously
Unrestricted Restricted Restricted reported)
Trust:
Unrestricted general purpose $ 10,159 - - 10,159
Unrestricted special purpose 27,800 - - 27,800
Restricted 20,769 4,533 - 25,302
Endowment and similar funds 255,594 90,561 35,419 381,574
Plant funds 81,300 8,716 - 90,016
fotal 395,622 103,810 35,419 534,851
Federal:
Operating $1,360 = - 51,360
Construction 98,003 - - 98,003
Capital 354,836 - - 354,836
Total federal 504,199 - - $04,199
Total net assets as restated $ 899,821 103,810 35,419 1,039,050

SFAS 124 requires that certain investments be reported at fair market value that were
formerly reported at cost. Changes in fair market value during the fiscal year are
‘eflected in the statement of financial activity. The Smithsonian adopted SFAS 124

yn October 1, 1995, resulting in an increase in net assets of $52,941,000, reported as
sumulative effect on prior years of recognizing investments at fair market value in the
iccompanying statement of financial activity.

Trust Funds

Non-appropriated funds are classified as trust funds, and primarily arise from contri-
dutions, grants and contracts, investment income and gains (or losses), and auxiliary
activities. Trust net assets are classified in accordance with SFAS 117 and are reported
is follows:

Unrestricted net assets

Net assets that are not subject to any donor-imposed stipulations on the use of the
unds. Funds functioning as endowments in this category represent unrestricted assets
which have been designated by management as quasi-endowments and accumulated
excess total return on the endowment pool not subject to donor-imposed restrictions.

Temporarily restricted net assets

Net assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations on the use of the assets that may be
net by actions of the Smithsonian and/or the passage of time. Funds functioning as
‘ndowments in this category represent donor-restricted contributions that have been
lesignated by management as quasi-endowment and accumulated excess total return
yn the endowment pool subject to donor-imposed restrictions. Donor contributions
epresent unspent gifts and promises-to-give of cash and securities subject to donor-
posed restrictions which have not yet been met.

Permanently restricted net assets

Jet assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations that the principal be maintained
ermanently by the Smithsonian. Generally, the donors of these assets permit the
mithsonian to use all or part of the income earned on investment of the assets for
ither general or donor-specified purposes.

Federal Funds

he Smithsonian receives federal appropriations to support the Smithsonian's operat-
g salaries and expenses, repair and restoration of facilities, and construction. Federal
ppropriations are reported as exchange transactions. Thus, federal appropriation rev-
nue is Classified as unrestricted and is recognized as expenditures are incurred. Unex-
ended appropriations represent goods and services that have been ordered but not
et received and appropriated funds that have not yet been obligated, and are record-
d as liabilities on the statement of financial position.

The Smithsonian received appropriations for operations of $310,705,000 in fiscal
ear 1996. Federal appropriations for operations are generally available for obligation
mly in the year received. In accordance with Public Law 101-510, these annual
Ppropriations are maintained by the Smithsonian for five years following the year of
Ppropriation, after which the appropriation account is closed and any unexpended
alances are returned to the U.S. Treasury. During fiscal year 1996, the Smithsonian
turned $1,372,000 to the U.S. Treasury which represents the unexpended balance

r fiscal year 1991.

The Smithsonian received appropriations for repair and restoration of facilities

nd construction of $64,904,000 in fiscal year 1996. Federal appropriations for repair
nd restoration of facilities and construction are generally available for obligation
ntil expended.

Federal appropriation revenue recognized in fiscal year 1996 can be reconciled to

e federal appropriations received in fiscal year 1996 as follows:

($000s)
Repair &
Salaries & Restoration
Expenses and Construction Total
Federal appropriation revenue $ 310,519 43,824 354,343
Unexpended 1996 appropriation* 40,261 64,904 105,165
Amounts expended from prior
years’ obligations (39,873) (43,824) (83,697)
Other funding (202) - (202)
Federal appropriation received 310,705 64,904 375,609

Federal expenses recognized in fiscal year 1996 can be reconciled to the federal appro-
priations received in fiscal year 1996 as follows:

($000s)
Repair &
Salaries & Restoration
Expenses and Construction Total
Federal expenses $ 317,168 26,442 343,610
Unexpended 1996 appropriation* 40,261 64,904 105,165
Depreciation and amortization expense (6,307) (25,796) (32,103)
Supplies consumption - (424) (424)
Loss on disposition of assets - (222) (222)
Unfunded annual leave and voluntary
separation (3,270) = (3,270)
Amounts expended from prior years’
obligations (39,873) (43,824) (83,697)
Capital expenditures 2,928 43,824 46,752
Other expenses (202) : (202)
Federal appropriation received $ 310,705 64,904 375,609

The $343,610,000 in Federal expenses includes $710,000 in purchases of collections.
Federal unrestricted net assets primarily represent the Smithsonian’s net investment
in property, plant and equipment purchased with or constructed using federal appro-
priated funds.

* Unexpended appropriations for all fiscal years total $183,720,000 at September
30, 1996, and consist of $64,637,000 in unexpended operating funds and
$119,083,000 in unexpended repair and restoration and construction funds. Unex-
pended operating funds include amounts for the Museum Support Center move and
the National Museum of the American Indian. Unexpended repair and restoration
funds represent amounts available for on-going major repair and restoration of the
Smithsonian’s museums and facilities. Unexpended construction funds represent
amounts appropriated but not yet expended for construction of new facilities.

Cash and Balances with U.S. Treasury

Amounts represent cash deposited with financial institutions, balances held by the
U.S. Treasury that are available for disbursement and short-term U.S. Treasury securi-
ties. Securities are carried at market value. At September 30, 1996, cash equivalents of
$5,725,000 are included in cash and balances with U.S. Treasury in the statement of
financial position.

Investments

The Smithsonian’s marketable and debt securities are reported at fair value based

on quoted market prices. Changes in fair value are recognized in the statement of
financial activity. Purchases and sales of investments are recorded on the trade date.
Investment income is recorded when earned, and gains and losses on the sale of
investments are recognized on the trade date basis using the average cost method.
As mandated by Congress, the Smithsonian maintains two $500,000 Treasury invest-
ments relating to the original James Smithson gift.

Contributions Receivable

Contributions receivable that are expected to be collected within one year are report-
ed at the net realizable value. Contributions receivable that are expected to be collect-
ed in future years are discounted to present value and reported at net realizable value.
Conditional contributions receivable are not recorded until material conditions have

been met.

Inventories

Inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market, and consist primarily of mer-
chandise inventory, books, recordings, and office supplies. Cost is determined using
the first-in, first-out method.

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/Smithsonian
magazine is recognized over the period of the subscription, which is generally one
year. Certain costs to obtain subscriptions to the magazines are charged against rev-
enue over the subscription period.

97
Phe Smithsonian expenses promotion production costs the first time the advertis-
ing takes place. Direct-response advertising relating to the magazines is deferred and
amortized over one year.

Split Interest Agreements and Perpetual Trusts

Split interest agreements with donors consist primarily of irrevocable charitable
remainder trusts. Contribution revenue and assets are recognized at fair value on the
date the trusts are established. Assets are adjusted during the term of the trusts for
changes in the value of the assets, accretion of discounts, and other changes in the
estimated future benefits.

The Smithsonian is also the beneficiary of certain perpetual trusts held and admin-
istered by others. The present values of the estimated future cash receipts from the
trusts are recognized as assets and contribution revenue at the dates the trusts are
established. Distributions from the trusts are recorded as contributions and the carry-
ing value of the assets is adjusted for changes in the estimates of future receipts.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment purchased with federal or trust funds are capitalized at cost.
Property and equipment acquired through transfer from government agencies are
capitalized at net book value or fair value, whichever is more readily determinable.
Property and equipment acquired through donation are capitalized at appraised value
at the date of the gift. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives as follows:

Buildings
Major renovations
Equipment

30 years
15 years
3-10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Smithsonian’s buildings, primarily located in the
District of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, were appropriated and reserved by
Congress for the Smithsonian’s use. The Smithsonian serves as trustee of these lands
for as long as they are used to carry out the Smithsonian’s mission. These lands are
titled in the name of the U.S. government and are not reflected in the accompanying
financial statements.

Collections

The Smithsonian acquires its collections, which include works of art, library books,
photographic archives, objects and specimens, by purchase using federal or trust
funds or by donation, All collections are held for public exhibition, education, or
research, furthering the Smithsonian's mission to increase and diffuse knowledge to
the public. The Smithsonian protects and preserves its collections, which total more
than 139 million items. The Smithsonian's Collections Management policy includes
guidance on the preservation, care and maintenance of the collections and procedures
relating to the accession/deaccession of items within the collections.

The Smithsonian’s policy is to not capitalize its collections, therefore, no value is
assigned to the collections on the statement of financial position. Purchases of collec-
tion items are recorded as expense in the year in which the items are acquired. Con-
tributed collection items are not reflected in the financial statements. Proceeds from
deaccessions or insurance recoveries from lost or destroyed collection items are reflect-
ed as increases in the appropriate net asset class, and are designated for future collec-
tion acquisitions.

Items that are acquired with the intent at the time of acquisition not to add them
to the collections but rather to sell, exchange, or otherwise use for financial gain are
not considered collection items, and are recorded at fair market value at date of
acquisition as other assets in the statement of financial position.

Annual Leave

The Smithsonian’s civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with
federal laws and regulations. Separate rules apply for trust employees. Annual leave
for all employees is recognized as expense when earned.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Smithsonian receives grants and enters into contracts with the U.S. government
and state and local governments, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to
the Smithsonian. Governmental grants and contracts are classified as exchange
transactions, therefore unrestricted revenue is recognized as reimbursable expendi-
tures are incurred.

Contributions

The Smithsonian recognizes revenue from unrestricted contributions as unrestricted
revenue in the period promises are received. Unrestricted contributions with pay-
ments due in future periods are initially recorded as temporarily restricted support,
and are reclassified to unrestricted net assets when payments become due.
Temporarily restricted contributions are recorded as temporarily restricted revenue in
the period promises are received. When donor restrictions are met, the temporarily
restricted net assets are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and are included in net
assets released from restrictions in the accompanying statement of financial activity.

Permanently restricted contributions are contributions restricted by donors for the
Smithsonian's endowment and are recorded as permanently restricted revenue in the
period received.

Gifts of long-lived assets are recorded as unrestricted revenue in the period received.

98

p
In-kind contributions of goods and services totaling $10,279,000 were received in

fiscal year 1996 and recorded as program support in the accompanying statement of
financial activity. The nature of the in-kind contributions primarily includes donated
space and contributed collection items held for sale. :
A substantial number of volunteers also make significant contributions of time to
the Smithsonian, enhancing its activities and programs. In fiscal year 1996, more tha
9,000 volunteers contributed over 574,000 hours of service to the Smithsonian. The {|
value of these contributions is not recognized in the financial statements.

Fundraising Expenses }

The Smithsonian raises unrestricted, temporarily restricted and permanently restrictec
private financial support from individual donors, corporations and foundations to
fund Institutional priorities, programs and projects. Fundraising expenses, which
totaled $6,002,000 in fiscal year 1996, are expensed as incurred, and are reported
within administration in the accompanying statement of financial activity.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying value of financial instruments in the financial statements approximates
fair value.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent asset)
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of rev
enues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from thos:
estimates, however, management does not believe that actual results will be materiall
different from those estimates.

(3) 150th Anniversary Celebration

The Smithsonian celebrated the 150th anniversary of its founding in fiscal year 1996:
Activities included three prime-time television specials highlighting Smithsonian
research and education programs and collections, a weekend birthday celebration on)
the National Mall in August, numerous lecture series and symposia, and several spe-
cial exhibitions on 150th topics in the museums. A goal of the celebration was to ta
the Smithsonian out to the American people. To accomplish this, the largest traveling’
exhibition in Smithsonian history, America’s Smithsonian, was developed, showcasing )
300 of the Smithsonian’s most prized collection items. A U.S. tour is underway that
will continue into 1997. The tour opened in February 1996, and traveled to four citiey
during fiscal year 1996.

The plan for funding the 150th anniversary activities was built on attracting 10
national corporate sponsors. Four sponsors were secured. Consequently, expenses
exceeded sponsorship resources. Despite the shortfall, planned activities have proceec
ed as they are considered an important investment in the future of the Smithsonian.
A number of strategies are being actively pursued or have already been put in place te
limit future costs and to ensure that funds raised for future tour sites will be sufficien’
to cover costs. In addition, 150th activities have led to the identification of business
opportunities that could significantly reduce the funding shortfall. As a result, man-
agement anticipates that continuation of America’s Smithsonian into fiscal year 1997
will have no significant adverse impact on operations.

(4) Receivables and Advances
Receivables and Advances consisted of the following at September 30, 1996:
($000s)

Federal

Auxiliary activities, net of $790 in allowances $ 19,424 19,424

Investment securities sold 7,558 - Te
Contributions receivable 19,621 - 19,621)
Grants and contracts 7,341 - 7,341
Interest and dividends due 1,854 - 1,854
Advance payments 1,262 U3}, 319)7/ 14,659 |
Charitable trust 2,047 - 2,047
Total receivables and advances $ 59,607 13,397 73,004 ©

Contributions Receivable

Contributions receivable (pledges) are recorded as revenue when received. Pledges for
which payment is not due within one year are discounted based on United States

Treasury risk-free obligation rates according to their corresponding terms. As of Sep-
tember 30, 1996, the aggregate discounted amount due to the Smithsonian as contri-
butions receivable was as follows: |

'
($000s)

Less than 1 year

1 to S years

More than S years

Allowance for uncollectible promises
Discount to present value

Total contributions receivable

Conditional Contribution Receivable

The Smithsonian had an unrecorded conditional contribution receivable of
$9,000,000. This money is to be restricted for specific capital projects.

Advance Payments

federal advance payments of $13,397,000 represent prepayments made to govern-
nent agencies, educational institutions, firms and individuals for services to be ren-
Jered, or property or materials to be furnished. At September 30, 1996, the Smith-
onian had advance payments outstanding to the General Services Administration of
510,020,000 for equipment purchases for the Museum Support Center and other pro-
ects to be completed in future years. Advance payments to educational institutions
mounting to $2,153,000 were principally under the Special Foreign Currency Pro-
ram. Other advance payments totaled $1,224,000.

5) Deferred Promotion Costs

\t September 30, 1996, prepaid and deferred expenses include approximately
55,254,000 of deferred promotion costs, mostly related to the Smithsonian magazine.
-romotion expense was $17,935,000 in fiscal year 1996.

6) Accessions and Deaccessions

‘or fiscal year 1996, $4,820,000 of trust funds and $710,000 of federal funds were
pent to acquire collection items. Proceeds from trust fund deaccessions were $50,000.
there were no deaccessions of collection items purchased with federal funds in fiscal
rear 1996. At September 30, 1996, accumulated proceeds and related earnings from
leaccessions of $12,813,000 were designated for collections acquisition in the trust
unds. Non-cash deaccessions result from the exchange, donation, or destruction of
ollection items, and occur because objects deteriorate, are beyond the scope of a
nuseum’s mission, or are duplicative. During fiscal year 1996, the Smithsonian had
10n-cash deaccessions of works of art, animals, aviation and musical objects. Con-
ributed items held for sale total $4,000,000 and are reported as other assets in the
tatement of financial position.

7) Investments

\t September 30, 1996, investments consisted of the following:

($000s)
short-term investments:
Cash equivalents 7,024
U.S. Government obligations 32,783
39,807
nvestments restricted for acquisiton of plant:
U.S. Government obligations 202
ndowment and similar investments:
Pooled investments:
Cash equivalents 22,655
U.S. Government and quasi-government obligations $1,737
Corporate bonds and other obligations 39,441
Common and preferred stocks 383,795
Total pooled investments 497,628
Nonpooled investments:
Deposit with U.S. Treasury 1,020
otal endowment and similar investments 498,648
otal investments $538,657

8) True Endowment and Funds Functioning as Endowments

he Smithsonian uses the “total return” approach to investment management of
‘ooled true endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds, referred to collectively
s the endowment. Each year, the endowment pays out an amount for current expen-
itures based upon a number of factors evaluated and approved by the Board of
egents. The payout for 1996 was 4.5 percent of the average market value of the
ndowment over the prior five years. The difference between the total return (i.e.,
ividends, interest and realized capital gains and unrealized capital gains) and the
ayout is reinvested when there is an excess of total return over payout or withdrawn
rom previously accumulated returns when there is a deficiency of total return to pay-
ut. Total return exceeded the payout amount in fiscal year 1996 and the excess was
einvested in the endowment asset pool. The excess of total return is reported as non-
erating revenue in the accompanying statement of financial activity (see note 9).
Substantially all of the investments of the endowment are pooled on a market val-
e basis, with individual funds subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the
T unit market value at the beginning of the month with which the transaction
kes place. At September 30, 1996, each unit had a market value of $528. The market
alue of the pool's net assets at September 30, 1996, was $481,282,000. This repre-
nts all pooled investments plus net receivables and payables related to investment
ansactions.

Each fund participating in the investment pool receives an annual payout equal to
the number of units owned times the annual payout amount per unit. The payout for
fiscal year 1996 was $18.25 per unit. Based on approved Board policy, if the market
value of any endowment fund is less than 110 percent of the historical value, the
current payout is limited to the actual interest and dividends allocable to that fund.

Net asset balances of the endowment consisted of the following at September 30,
1996:

($000s)
Unrestricted $184,334
Unrestricted-designated 141,282
Total unrestricted 325,616

Temporarily restricted 117,763
Permanently restricted 49,528

Total endowment net assets $492,907

(9) Composition of Total Return from Investments

Total return from investments consisted of the following at September 30, 1996:

Composition of Endowment Return:

($000s)
Endowment payout $ 16,576
Investment income in excess of payout 5,112
Total investment income 21,688
Less: investment fees (1,248)
Net investment income 20,440
Realized and unrealized gains/losses 37,497
Endowment total return $ 57,937

Total return is reported as $16,576,000 in operating revenue and $41,361,000 in non-
operating revenue in the statement of financial activity.

Composition of Short-Term Investment Total Return:

($000s)
Investment income $ 3,889
Net realized and unrealized loss (192)
Short-term investment total return $ 3,697
(10) Property and Equipment
Property and equipment consisted of the following at September 30, 1996:
($000s)
Trust Federal
Funds Funds Total
Land $ 2,387 2,387
Buildings and capital improvements 131,099 682,55: 813,652
Equipment 21,785 $1,191 72,976
Leasehold improvements 1,562 - 1,562
156,833 733,744 890,577
Accumulated depreciation (59,688) (365,905) (425,593)
Total property and equipment $ 97,145 367,839 464,984

At September 30, 1996, trust and federal buildings and capital improvements includ-
ed $6,858,000 and $43,374,000 of construction in progress, respectively. Depreciation
expense for fiscal year 1996 totaled $32,103,000 in the federal funds and $6,061,000
in the trust funds.

(11) Long-term Debt

At September 30, 1996, long-term debt consisted of an unsecured note payable to
Signet Bank totaling $2,597,000 and an interest-free loan from the Virginia Depart-
ment of Aviation totaling $500,000.

The Signet note bears interest at 1 percent in excess of the Federal Funds Rate,
which was 6.09 percent at September 30, 1996. Interest is payable quarterly; principal
is payable in quarterly installments of $63,333. The remaining unpaid principal bal-
ance is due on December 31, 1996. The proceeds from the Signet Bank note financed
a warehouse facility for Smithsonian museum shops. During fiscal year 1996,
$178,200 was recorded as auxiliary activities interest expense for the note with
Signet Bank.

99

The Virginia Department of Aviation agreed in fiscal year 1995 to make available to
the Smithsonian an interest-free loan facility totaling $3 million, of which $500,000
was drawn in fiscal year 1995. This loan facility is intended to assist in the financing
of the planning, marketing, fund raising, and design of the proposed National Air and
Space Museum extension at Washington Dulles International Airport. The Smith-
sonian is scheduled to repay the outstanding loan not later than June 30, 2000.

(11) Long-term Debt

The aggregate amount due for principal repayment during future years ending Sep-
tember 30, are as follows:

($000s)
1997 $3) 2/597,
2000 500
Total $ 3,097

(12) Affiliate Relationships

The Smithsonian provides certain fiscal, procurement, facilities and administrative
services to several separately incorporated affiliated organizations for which certain
officials of the Smithsonian serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the
Smithsonian by these organizations for the above services totaled $165,000 of trust
funds and $70,000 of federal funds for fiscal year 1996.

Deposits held in custody for these organizations at September 30, 1996, were
$6,883,000, and were recorded in the trust funds.

The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ), an independent S01(c)(3) organization,
raises funds for the benefit of the Smithsonian’s National Zoological Park. Funds
received by the Smithsonian from FONZ are recorded as unrestricted revenue and
totaled $277,000 in fiscal year 1996.

(13) Voluntary Separation Costs

During fiscal year 1996, the Smithsonian announced a voluntary separation incentive
program for federal employees. This program was authorized in the Smithsonian’s fis-
cal year 1996 annual appropriation. The Smithsonian accepted 203 federal employees
into the program. Voluntary separation costs totaling $6,572,000 were recorded in the
federal funds.

(14) Commitments and Contingencies

Leasing Activities
Leases for Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for rent escalations to
coincide with increases in property taxes, operating expenses attributable to the leased
property and the Consumer Price Index. The Smithsonian has the authority to enter
into leases for up to 30 years using federal funds.
The Smithsonian’s operating leases for the warehouse and office spaces require
future minimum lease payments as follows:

($000s)
1997 $ 11,293
1998 9,527
1999 8,664
2000 3,814
2001 1,975
Thereafter 4,094
Total $ 39,367

Rental expense for these operating leases totaled $19,663,000 for fiscal year 1996.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Smithsonian receives funding or reimbursement from governmental agencies for
various activities which are subject to audit. Audits of these activities have been com-
pleted through fiscal year 1995, however, audits of fiscal years 1993, 1994 and 1995
have not been closed with the cognizant federal audit agency. Management believes
that any adjustments which may result from these audits and the audit for fiscal year
1996 will not have a material adverse effect on the Smithsonian’s financial statements.

(15) Employee Benefit Plans

The federal employees of the Smithsonian are covered by either the Civil Service
Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The

100

terms of these plans are defined in federal regulations. Under both systems, the
Smithsonian withholds from each federal employee's salary the required salary per-
centage. The Smithsonian also contributes specified percentages. The Smithsonian’s
expense for these plans for fiscal year 1996 was approximately $14,949,000.

The Smithsonian has a separate defined contribution retirement plan for trust fun;
employees, in which substantially all such employees are eligible to participate, Und;
the plan, the Smithsonian contributes stipulated percentages of salary which are use
to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with thy
employees. Employees can make voluntary contributions, subject to certain limita- ,
tions. The Smithsonian’s cost of the plan for fiscal year 1996 was $9,039,000.

In addition to the Smithsonian's retirement plans, the Smithsonian makes availab)
certain health care and life insurance benefits to active and retired trust fund employ,
ees. The plan is contributory for retirees and requires payment of premiums and
deductibles. Retiree contributions for premiums are established by an insurance carri:
based on the average per capita cost of benefit coverage for all participants, active an)
retired, in the Smithsonian's plan. The inclusion of retirees in the calculation of aver:
age per capita cost results in a higher average per capita cost than would result if onl’
active employees were covered by the plan. Therefore, the Smithsonian has a postre-
tirement benefit obligation for the portion of the expected future cost of the retiree
benefits that is not recovered through retiree contributions. The Smithsonian’s policy
is to fund the cost of these benefits on the pay-as-you-go-basis.

The Smithsonian adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s SFAS No.
106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, during)
fiscal year 1994 and elected to record the October 1, 1993, accumulated postretire-
ment benefit obligation (APBO) using the 20-year amortization option.

The following table presents the plan’s funded status reconciled with amounts rec-
ognized in the Smithsonian’s statement of financial position at September 30, 1996:

4

($000s

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:
Retirees $ (2,599
Active plan participants (5,586
Total (8,175
Plan assets at fair value 206

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation in excess of plan assets
Unrecognized prior service costs =
Unrecognized net gain (1,17@)
Unrecognized transition obligation

Accrued postretirement benefit cost $ (3,606)

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year ended September 30, 1996
includes:

Service costs
Interest costs

Amortizaion of transition obligation over 20 years
Return on assets

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost

The discount rate used to determine the APBO was 8.25 percent. A 10 percent
health care cost trend rate was assumed for fiscal year 1996, decreasing .5 percent
each year to an ultimate rate of 5 percent in fiscal year 2006 and thereafter. If the
assumed health care cost trend rate was increased by 1 percent in each year, the net
periodic postretirement benefit cost would be higher by $200,000 and the APBO high
er by $1,140,000 as of September 30, 1996.

(16) Income Taxes

The Smithsonian is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Organizations described in that
section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. Periodical advertising
sales is the main source of unrelated business income. An IRS determination letter has’
been received supporting the Smithsonian's tax-exempt status. No provision for
income taxes was required for fiscal year 1996.

It is the opinion of the Smithsonian's management that the Smithsonian is also
exempt from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section
501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all
income taxation. The Smithsonian has not yet formally sought such dual status.

|

THSONIAN
YEAR

Ezy

G/-

y
Z

Pal Pt é 4 : see
OO a Smithsonian Institution
aD ue

_

We Teen
wees

MITHSONIAN YEAR

VNUAL REPORT OF THE
MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

R THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997

MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS

lashington, D.C. # 1998
COVER: As part of a Young at Art pro-
gram at the Hirshhorn Museum and
Sculpture Garden, children on an “art
hunt” look for patterns in New Figura-
tion, by Tony Cragg. (Photograph by
Ricardo Blanc)

FRONTISPIECE: Visitors of all ages en-
joy the carousel on the National Mall.
Behind it is the Arts and Industries
Building, the Smithsonian's second
oldest building. (Photograph by
Charles Phillips)

TITLE PAGE: Even the youngest children
appreciate the richness of various cul-
tures through museum experiences.
The Smithsonian Office of Education's
Museum Magnet Schools often use
objects that children can touch to make
ideas come alive. (Photograph by

Eve Morra)

BACK COVER: On “Mars Day!” at the
National Air and Space Museum,
September 27, 1997, visitors use 3-D
glasses to see the Mars Pathfinder
landing site on a computer monitor.
(Photographs by Carolyn J. Russo)

Annals of the Smithsonian Institution
1997, containing a chronology of
the year and records of Smith-
sonian advisory boards; narrative
reports from museums and offices; —
visitor counts, lists of fellows, in-
terns, and research associates; pub-
lications; staff; and donations to
the Institution, is made available
on the World Wide Web by Smith-
sonian Institution Press and the
Office of the Provost at
http://www.si.edu.

CONTENTS

25 MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH INSTITUTES

25 Anacostia Museum and Center for African American History and Culture
26 Archives of American Art

28 Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

29 Center for Folklife Programs and Cultural Studies
30 Conservation Analytical Laboratory

31  Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum

32 Freer Gallery of Art

33 Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

34 National Air and Space Museum

36 National Museum of African Art

37 National Museum of American Art

38 National Museum of American History

40 National Museum of the American Indian

41 National Museum of Natural History

42 National Portrait Gallery

43 National Zoological Park

45 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

46 Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

48 Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

49 EDUCATION, MUSEUM, AND SCHOLARLY SERVICES

59 REPORT OF THE UNDER SECRETARY

70 MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT
88 AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

89 John F Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
90 National Gallery of Art

91 Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

92 Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

93 FINANCIAL REPORT

SMITHSONIAN

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WAS CREATED BY

ACT OF CONGRESS IN 1846 IN ACCORDANCE WITH

THE TERMS OF THE WILL OF JAMES SMITHSON OF

ENGLAND, WHO IN 1826 BEQUEATHED HIS PROP-

ERTY TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA “TO

FOUND AT WASHINGTON, UNDER THE NAME OF

THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION, AN ESTABLISH-

MENT FOR THE INCREASE AND DIFFUSION OF

KNOWLEDGE AMONG MEN.” AFTER RECEIVING THE

PROPERTY AND ACCEPTING THE TRUST, CONGRESS

VESTED RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTERING THE

TRUST IN THE SMITHSONIAN BOARD OF REGENTS.

BOARD OF REGENTS AND
SECRETARY
September 30, 1997

BOARD OF REGENTS

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor, ex officio

Albert Gore Jr., Vice-President of the United
States, ex officio

Thad Cochran, Senator from Mississippi

Bill Frist, Senator from Tennessee

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

Sam Johnson, Representative from Texas

Bob Livingston, Representative from
Louisiana

INSTITUTION

Esteban E. Torres, Representative from
California

Howard H. Baker Jr., Citizen of the District of
Columbia

Barber B. Conable Jr., Citizen of New York

Anne d’Harnoncourt, Citizen of
Pennsylvania

Louis V. Gerstner Jr., Citizen of Connecticut

Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois

Manuel L. Ibanez, Citizen of Texas

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

Frank A. Shrontz, Citizen of Washington

Wesley S. Williams Jr., Citizen of the District
of Columbia

MA ETSIEGRIETARY,

I. Michael Heyman, Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

J. Dennis O'Connor, Provost

M. John Berry, Director of Government
Relations

Thomas D. Blair, Inspector General

Miguel A. Bretos, Counselor for Community
Affairs

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the
Secretary

John E. Huerta, General Counsel

Thomas E. Lovejoy, Counselor for
Biodiversity and Environmental Affairs

Marc J. Pachter, Counselor for Electronic
Communications and Special Projects

David J. Umansky, Director of
Communications

L. Carole Wharton, Director of the Office of
Planning, Management, and Budget

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL
BOARD
September 30, 1997

Mrs. Jean Mahoney, Chairman
Mr. Clive Runnells, Vice-Chairman

CURRENT MEMBERS
Sir Valentine Abdy

The Hon. Max N. Berry
Mrs. Laura Lee Blanton

Mrs. John M. Bradley

Mr. Stephen F. Brauer

The Hon. Henry E. Catto
Mr. Peter R. Coneway

Mr. Thomas Edward Congdon
Ms. Allison Stacey Cowles
Mr. Frank A. Daniels Jr.
Baron Eric de Rothschild
Mr. Archie W. Dunham

Mts. Patricia Frost

Ms. Nely Galan

Mr. Bert A. Getz

Mr. Paul Hertelendy

Mrs. Ruth S. Holmberg
Mr. S. Roger Horchow

Mr. Richard Hunt

Mr. Robert L. James

Mrs. Donald W. Jeffries, ex officio
Mrs. James W. Kinnear
Mrs. Marie L. Knowles
The Hon. Marc E. Leland
Mr. Donald G. Lubin

Mrs. Elizabeth S. MacMillan
Ms. Holly Madigan

Mr. Frank N. Magid

Mrs. John F. Mars

Mr. Michael Peter McBride
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

The Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Mr. Thomas D. Mullins
Mr. Rupert Murdoch

Mr. John N. Nordstrom
Mrs. Lucio A. Noto

Mrs. Vivian W. Piasecki
Mr. Heinz C. Prechter
Mrs. Charles H. Price

Mr. A. R. Tony Sanchez
Mr. David M. Silfen

The Hon. Alan K. Simpson
Ms. Kathy Daubert Smith
Mr. Kenneth L. Smith

Mr. Kelso F. Sutton

Mr. Jeffrey N. Watanabe
Mr. Frank A. Weil

Mrs. Nancy Brown Wellin
Mr. Anthony Welters

Mr. Daniel W. Yohannes

HONORARY MEMBERS
Dr. Robert McC. Adams

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III

Mr. Charles D. Dickey Jr.

Mr. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

The Hon. William A. Hewitt
The Hon. George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor
The Hon. S. Dillon Ripley II
Mr. Francis C. Rooney Jr.

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr.

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Smithsonian Institution
Board of Regents

The Secretary

Under Separate
Boards of Trustees

John F. Kennedy
Center for the
Performing Arts

Plannin Membershi
Inspector & P , A -
ai Secretariat Management, and National Gallery
of Art
and Budget Development

Woodrow Wilson
| International Center

for Scholars

The Under The
Secretary Provost
General Government Communications Special Events
Counsel Relations — Public Affairs and
— Visitor Information Conference
and Associates’ Services
Reception Center
ie i

OPERATIONS DIRECTORATE

Finance
Comptroller
Contracting and
Property Management
Risk and Asset Management
Administration
Equal Employment and Minority
Affairs
Human Resources
Ombudsman
Facilities
Environmental Management and
Safety
Physical Plant
Protection Services
Information Technology
Imaging, Printing & Photographic
Services
Information Technology

Business MANAGEMENT
DIRECTORATE

Smithsonian Magazine
Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian Businesses

—Retail

—Concessions

—Product Development and

Licensing
—Smithsonian Press/Productions

MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH
INSTITUTES

Anacostia Museum and Center for
African American History
and Culture

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/
Freer Gallery of Art

Center for Folklife Programs and
Cultural Studies

Conservation Analytical
Laboratory

Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

—Renwick Gallery

—National Postal Museum
National Museum of the
American Indian

—Museum Support Center
National Portrait Gallery
National Zoological Park

Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center

National Museum of American Art

National Museum of Natural History

EDUCATION, MUSEUM, AND
SCHOLARLY SERVICES

Center for Museum Studies
Exhibits Central
Fellowships and Grants
International Relations
National Science Resources Center
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service
Smithsonian Office of Education
Sponsored Projects

Other Support Services:
Accessibility Program
Institutional Studies
Scientific Diving Program

National Museum of American History

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

STATEMENTOBY THE SECRETARY

I, MICHAEL HEYMAN

BEFORE | TOOK UP MY RESPONSIBILITIES AS SECRETARY OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITU-

TION IN SEPTEMBER 1994, | HAD ENJOYED 35 YEARS AS A MEMBER OF AN ACADEMIC

COMMUNITY, THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY, AND 10 AS CHANCELLOR.

ONE OF THE QUESTIONS | AM REGULARLY ASKED IS WHETHER | MISS THE WORLD OF

STUDENTS AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO SHAPE THEIR EDUCATION.

THE ANSWER IS YES, | DO. | MISS THE COMPANY OF UNDERGRADUATES AND GRADU-

Above: Secretary |, Michael Heyman
(Photograph by Richard W. Strauss)

ATES. FOR SOMEONE OF MY GENERATION, TEACHING THE YOUNG IS A WAY TO TOUCH

Left: Transfixed by the wonders visible

through a magnifying glass, a child

experiences the world of education at THE FUTURE. BUT | AM QUICK TO ADD THAT | HAVE NOT LEFT THE WORLD OF EDUCA-
the Smithsonian. (Photograph by Laurie

Minor-Penland)

TION; | HAVE SIMPLY EXCHANGED ONE KIND OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION FOR

ANOTHER. JAMES SMITHSON'S MANDATE TO DEDICATE THE SMITHSONIAN TO “THE INCREASE AND DIFFU-

SION OF KNOWLEDGE” WELL OVER 150 YEARS AGO KEEPS THIS GREAT COMPLEX OF MUSEUMS AND

RESEARCH INSTITUTES FOCUSED ON GOALS THAT ARE AT THE HEART OF EDUCATION.

THERE ARE DIFFERENCES, OF COURSE. MUCH OF THE EDUCATION THAT HAPPENS WITHIN THE SMITH-

SONIAN UNIVERSE CAN BE DESCRIBED AS INFORMAL RATHER THAN FORMAL. WE ARE NOT A DEGREE-

GRANTING INSTITUTION, NOR DO WE SHEPHERD THE YOUNG THROUGH THE STAGES OF CLASSROOM
10

Art specialist Wanda Aikens shows

students from the Lucy E. Moten
Elementary School the art of mask
making. The sessions are part of the
Anacostia Museum's longstanding
educational partnership with the
school. (Photograph by Harold Dorwin)

experience from elementary
through high school. We present
to the public, both school-age and
adult, a wealth of programs that
represent and reinforce the excite-
ment of learning about the human
and the natural worlds. We have
no alumni because there is no
fixed starting or ending point to
what we offer.

In recent years, however, the
Smithsonian has taken more and
more interest in making its re-
sources directly available to Amer-

ica’s schools. In the last decades of |
this century, our nation has come
to recognize a need to find new
ways to support the education of
our children and to help prepare
them for a rapidly changing world.
The Smithsonian has developed
educational materials and pro-
grams based on actual objects and
other primary resources that, in
effect, take our museums and re-
search institutes to the classroom.
We feel we have something to of-
fer schools that is special to our
own learning environment.

Traditionally, education has re-
lied heavily on texts and lectures,
questions and discussions. Words
are at the core of the experience.
Object-based education focuses
the learning experience more on
artifacts and primary documents
in a manner that taps children’s
diverse learning styles while stim-
ulating interest and providing a
deeper understanding of the sub-
ject. As one teacher put it, “Even
young children can often be
helped to understand quite com-
plex concepts when they can dis-
cover them concretely manifested
in objects.”

One Smithsonian project for
schoolchildren based on this ap-
proach is “Of Kayaks and Ulus,”
which was created largely by the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory for grades 7 through 10. The
project, originally presented in a
kit but soon available on the Inter-
net, involves Bering Sea Eskimos
and emphasizes the journals and
collections of a famous 19th-
century Smithsonian naturalist,
Edward Nelson.

The kit contains a teachers’
guide, which suggests, for in-
stance, that students view 10
“mystery” slides of objects from
the Eskimo culture, then ponder
how these objects were made and
used. Further discussion usually
elicits hypotheses about the envi-
ronment in which the people who
made these items lived, the natural
resources they depended upon,
their ability as craftspeople, and
similar topics. After this process,
the students learn that all the ob-
jects, and many others, are in a
collection at the Smithsonian
amassed by Nelson. Then they are
introduced to reproductions of
Nelson’s letters, journals, photo-
graphs, drawings, and field notes.
There are many other examples
of similar projects developed by
the Smithsonian. One is a popular
science curriculum featuring
hands-on experiments for students
in grades 1 through 6. Created by
the National Science Resources
Center (a joint initiative of the
Smithsonian and the National
Academy of Sciences), the curricu-
lum enables children to learn by
doing experiments as well as by
reading texts and listening to
teachers. As one of the world’s pre-
mier research institutions, we are
ideally suited to help students bet-
ter understand science by teaching
them not only what we know but
also how we know it. The program,
called Science and Technology for
Children, is used in more than 20
percent of the nation’s school dis-
tricts, and similar curricula are now
being fashioned for grades 7 and 8.
One of the pleasures of my posi-
tion as Secretary is the opportunity
to visit schools and see some of
these programs in action. I can also
keep in touch with students, though
they are somewhat younger than
the Berkeley undergraduates I once
knew. Last year, I observed classes
using the NSRC science curriculum
while I was visiting Anchorage,
Alaska. It was a delight to see fifth-
and sixth-graders not only reading
about science but actually handling
objects that had scientific impor-
tance. This is a wonderful way to

teach the scientific method. The
pupils hypothesized about the out-
come, did the steps, and saw the
results. They learned as much
when they were wrong as when

they were right.

Another time, I was surrounded

by a kinetic first-grade group visit-
ing the Hands On History Room at
the National Museum of American
History. The objects here were not
scientific but historical, evoking
the early 19th century, and they
were all piled into a big box. I was
one of the adults telling that ex-
cited group stories about the ob-
jects and clothing. The excitement
mounted when the children were
invited to try on the clothing; one
great big red cape was particularly
popular. I know something impor-
tant was happening there: the
stimulation of curiosity and the
glimmerings of a world beyond
their own experience. It was one of
the best times I have had at the
Smithsonian.

As I have come to know the
range of educational activities con-
ceived by my colleagues in the mu-
seums, the research institutes, and
in our central Smithsonian Office
of Education, I continue to be im-

pressed by the inventiveness of
their strategies. The National
Portrait Gallery, for example, takes
to classrooms “The Trial of John
Brown,” in which costumed

gallery staff play the roles of judge,

The legendary journalist Walter Cronkite
displays his newly awarded James
Smithson Bicentennial Medal to a sell-
out crowd following an interview with
Marc Pachter, counselor to the Secre-
tary, in a program sponsored by The
Smithsonian Associates. (Photograph
by Hugh Talman)
attorneys, and witnesses in a mock
trial of the 19th-century abolition-
ist, while students serve as jury.
The National Postal Museum has
put together an activity book in
which students create their own
postage stamps and another book

that is a guide to building letter-

writing relationships across
generations.

Other materials among the
455 items listed in the latest Smith-
sonian Resource Guide for Teachers
include such imaginatively titled
booklets as Birds over Troubled
Forests, from the Smithsonian Mi-
gratory Bird Center of the National
Zoo, and the Smithsonian Office of
Education’s Image and Identity:

Clothing and Adolescence in the

1990s, which explores the clues
that clothing provides to under-
standing culture.

Studies indicate that skillfully
done object-based education is a
successful means of engaging
young people and teaching a vari-

ety of skills and subjects. If these

inform teachers and to offer rele- |
vant training, especially in the
Washington metropolitan area.
Summer seminars for teachers,
conducted largely within Smith-
sonian museums and research in-
stitutes, focus on how to use mu-

seum collections in the teaching

A videoconference electronically linked students in Washington, D.C., Cleveland,

and Indiana during the week-long program “Electrified, Amplified, and Deified: The

Electric Guitar, Its Makers and Players” sponsored by the National Museum of

American History’s Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention

and Innovation. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

techniques are to be widely used in
schools and museums, consider-
able resources must be invested in
the preparation and distribution of
materials and, most important, in
teacher training. Teachers who are
confident they can use these new
techiques find object-based educa-
tion an exciting way to enhance
learning.

Phe Smithsonian has been in-

volved in a number of activities to

process. Similarly, Smithsonian
staff have worked with the Na-
tional Faculty, a nonprofit educa-
tional organization, in extensive
teacher training programs around
the country that involve curators
from the Institution and local mu-
seums as well as distinguished uni-
versity professors.

The Smithsonian also brings
thousands of Washington-area
teachers together at an annual
Teachers’ Night to see displays and
discuss materials and programs for
local schools. As a way to reach
more educators, we have begun to
use the Internet to share curricu-
lum ideas and lesson plans. By the
year 2003, an Education Resource
Center in the Arts and Industries
Building will allow teachers to try
out a variety of curriculum kits
and other materials on site. A vir-
tual version will also be available
on the Smithsonian Education
World Wide Web site (/ittp://
educate. si.edu/).

In these ways, the Smithsonian
can collaborate with all schools
interested in our approach to ob-
ject-based and research-linked
education. But two schools in the
District of Columbia are taking the
Smithsonian connection one step
further. In the fall of 1996, Robert
Brent Elementary School and
Stuart-Hobson Middle School be-
came Museum Magnet Schools
through a partnership forged be-
tween the District of Columbia
Public Schools and the Smithsonian
Institution under a grant from the
U. S. Department of Education. The
Smithsonian Office of Education
describes this partnership as “a
groundbreaking program for ele-
mentary and middle school stu-
dents allowing them to pursue real
questions, becoming both teacher
and student, observer and curator.”

Using an interdisciplinary and
thematic approach, students in
these schools collect, study, and
interpret objects to learn science,
art, geography, history, and poten-
tially a multitude of other sub-
jects. What strikes me as particu-
larly remarkable about this
program is its core insight that
students may learn best when they
have the opportunity to present
their learning to new audiences.
In February 1997, the Washington
Post reported on a tour that Erica

The National Zoo’s new Amazonia Science Gallery invites visitors to experience the

excitement of scientific inquiry. These young people are helping Dr. Matthew

Hamilton with a DNA isolation procedure. (Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

Webster, 14, of Stuart-Hobson
Middle School gave “a wide-eyed
group of kindergarteners” of a
Native American history exhibi-
tion she and her eighth-grade
classmates had developed. Erica’s
sure command of the material
came across as she sat with the
younger students in a 12-foot-tall
tepee made of bed linens.

Erica’s principal, Yvonne Lewis,
described the total immersion of
her eighth-graders in Native Amer-
ican culture. “Their lives became
these people’s lives. Across the
board, in all their classes, whatever
they were working on was tied to
Native Americans.” Examples she
gave were the use of geometry to
design tepees and igloos; the use of

food and culture as the basis of es-
says and poetry; and science teach-
ing focused on Native American
agricultural strategies.

This is modern learning at its
best—active and imaginative.
These students are engaged in their
learning and as a result are in-
vested in it. They make observa-
tions, see connections, and find
meaning for themselves. Like the
curators they resemble, they con-
duct research and then choose
ways to communicate their discov-
eries to others. It is an encouraging
start to an experiment we are
watching closely to determine
long-term educational benefits.

The Museum Magnet Schools
project is one of a number
presided over by the Smithsonian’s
Office of Education, led by its ener-
getic director Ann Bay. It reflects
not only the Institution’s commit-
ment to object-based and interdis-
ciplinary education but also our

commitment to partnerships as

the foundation of all our educa-
tional efforts. Whether working in
Washington or elsewhere around
the nation, Bay’s office emphasizes
community-based outreach. The
Smithsonian goes to communities
that invite us to work with them,

learning centers for preschool
children. I’ll let the center’s direc-
tor, Sharon Shaffer, describe a
typical day:

“Children are fascinated by
things that go, such as bikes, cars,
trucks, and planes. A group of

More than 16,000 students from nearly

500 school groups took part in educa-
tional programs at the National Mu-
seum of Natural History this year. Be-
yond the Mall, several thousand more
linked up with the museum electroni-
cally through its innovative Natural
Partners Initiative. (Photograph by
Steve Barrett)

building bridges between local
museums and schools. This was the
theme of one of our most valuable
150th anniversary projects, a na-
tional teleconference jointly spon-
sored with the Institute of Museum
and Library Services, which pre-
sented models of successful mu-
seum-school partnerships.

Our magnet school program is
new, but another formal attempt
to test the value of museum-based
education dates to 1988 and the
establishment of our own Smith-
sonian Early Enrichment Center
(SEEC). The founding board envi-
sioned this program as a national
model, establishing museums as

three-year-olds may listen to the
story Curious George Rides a Bike. A
museum visit sets the stage for ex-
panding their understanding of bi-
cycles as the children search for a
bike that is just like George’s. As the
hunt develops, the children view a
unicycle, a tandem bike, and an an-
tique bicycle. They discuss the size
and number of wheels on each bike
and, as they observe wooden
wheels and rubber tires, consider
why some wheels look different
from others. They want to know
about spokes and chains and gears
and handlebars.” The experience
continues back in the classroom as
children listen to the old-time
song, “A Bicycle Built for Two,”
pretend to pedal around the room,
and create collages of bicycles.

A recent analysis of five years of
test data shows that children par-
ticipating in the SEEC program
exceeded expected achievement in
all areas. Two-thirds of SEEC pre-
schoolers score in the 99th pecen-
tile in nationally normed science
tests upon completion of the pro-
gram. The application of the SEEC
curriculum, known as Museum
Magic, outside the Smithsonian was
tested in the fall of 1997 in Cleve-
land through an arrangement with
University Circle, Inc., in collabo-
ration with five pre-schools and
seven cultural institutions.

No report on the Smithsonian’s

“

new strategies for the “diffusion of
knowledge” would be complete
without an electronic dimension.
There are those who see electronic
outreach as a threat to direct
people-to-people interaction. | am
not one of them. At the Smith-
sonian, we see successful electronic
communication as built on human
connections. The more we share
our resources electronically, the
more we can be of service to our
many publics and to the educa-
tional goals we all share.

One of my first priorities as Sec-
retary was the creation in 1995 of
a World Wide Web site, which has
given many Americans easy access
to a range of our collections and
fields of expertise. More recently,
my colleagues have created experi-
mental electronic programs that
will invite the richest possible in-
teraction between Smithsonian
resources and the needs of our
nation’s classrooms. Among the
most remarkable of these is the
Natural Partners Initiative, led by
the National Museum of Natural
History in close partnership with
the National Zoological Park and
the Smithsonian Environmental

Two high school students work together to develop fashion design concepts at

Gap, Inc.'s design headquarters during the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Mu-
seum’s Design Career Day, “Come As You Are.” (Photograph by Kerry Macintosh)
As part of a dance program in the Hirshhorn Museum's Sculpture Garden, a

“Young at Art” participant standing near Joan Mird’s Lunar Bird imagines what it
would be like to explore outer space. (Photograph © Paul Gillis)
Research Center and, outside the
Smithsonian, the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration’s
Stennis Space Center, Mississippi
State University, the Council for
Great City Schools, and many
other partners now and to come.
This initiative has already begun
to benefit classrooms as far from
the Smithsonian’s home base in
Washington as Alabama, Califor-
nia, Florida, Iowa, Mississippi,
North Carolina, Tennessee, and
Wyoming.

This creative new program has
been designed to enliven the way
science is taught. It will electroni-
cally link scientific and educa-
tional institutions, technical ex-
perts, teachers, and firsthand
experiences in a local classroom
setting. The program uses state-of-
the-art technologies to enable live
two-way videoconferencing be-
tween Smithsonian content ex-
perts and students and teachers
wherever they are situated, as well
as virtual tours of exhibits, links to
remote Smithsonian research sites,
and teacher training and enhance-
ment conferences, among a wealth
of strategies.

In the words of its founders, the
Natural Partners Initiative will “al-
low educators to become immersed
in content that was previously very
difficult to access. It will further
support those teachers in using
inquiry-based learning. Natural
Partners would like to see every
classroom become a museum.”

So would we all.

Teachers in Nebraska, who have online access to the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art's collections, visit the museum to see art firsthand and participate in work-
shops about using “remote” art resources in the classroom. (Photograph by Mil-
dred Baldwin)

Fifth-graders from Oak View Elementary School in Montgomery County, Maryland,
conduct experiments with model ecosystems during their work on a curriculum

unit from the National Science Resources Center’s Science and Technology for
Children program. (Photograph by Richard W. Strauss)
REPORT. OF. THE BOARD Gr REGENTS

THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS’ COMMITTEES THROUGHOUT THE YEAR SUBSTANTIALLY

STRENGTHENED THE THREE PLENARY MEETINGS IN FEBRUARY, MAY, AND SEPTEMBER 1997. THE BOARD

WELCOMED ITS NEWEST CONGRESSIONAL MEMBER, REPRESENTATIVE ESTEBAN E. TORRES (D-CALIF),

WHOSE APPOINTMENT BY THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE ON FEBRUARY 25, 1997, FILLED A LONGSTANDING

VACANCY ON THE BOARD AND BROUGHT THE MEMBERSHIP TO ITS FULL STATUTORY CAPACITY. THE BOARD

NAMED REGENT FRANK A. SHRONTZ TO ITS INVESTMENT POLICY COMMITTEE AND ELECTED REGENT

WESLEY S. WILLIAMS JR. TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

THE REGENTS’ COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE, ESTABLISHED LAST YEAR, EFFECTIVELY ENHANCED THE

BOARD'S OVERSIGHT OF THE INSTITUTION. THE COMMITTEE'S MEETINGS ATTRACTED THE PARTICIPATION

OF MANY REGENTS ON THE SUNDAY AFTERNOONS PRECEDING REGULAR MONDAY BOARD MEETINGS.

MEMBERS DISCUSSED IN DEPTH SUCH TOPICS AS THE STATUS OF DEVELOPMENT AND THE SMITHSONIAN'S

NEEDS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR A NATIONAL CAMPAIGN; THE SMITHSONIAN'S STRATEGIC PLAN (KNOWN

This statue of Joseph Henry ALSO AS THE RESPONSE TO THE GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE RESULTS ACT); AND
(1797-1878), the first Secretary of

the Smithsonian and the most famous

American physical scientist of his day, SPACE NEEDS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PLANNED RENOVATION OF THE PATENT OFFICE
has stood outside the north entrance to

the Smithsonian Castle since 1883.

(Photograph by Charles Phillips) BUILDING AND ENHANCEMENT OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE NATIONAL PORTRAIT
Gallery, National Museum of
American Art, and Archives of
American Art. In addition, the
Committee of the Whole discussed
the operations and plans of the
National Museum of Natural
History and the Freer and Sackler
Galleries with their respective
directors and advisory board
representatives.

The Audit and Review Commit-
tee exercised its primary responsi-
bility for oversight of the Institu-
tion’s financial operations. This
committee is the Regents’ principal
contact with the Institution’s ex-
ternal auditors and receives the
yearly report on its fiscal transac-
tions. The committee also receives
the Smithsonian inspector gen-
eral’s findings and frequently re-
views particular functions and
operations that have come to its
attention. In the past year, such
reviews included new accounting
standards, insurance and risk fund-
ing, and tax issues related to the
Institution’s business activities.

The Investment Policy Commit-
tee continued to monitor and
meet with each of the current in-
vestment managers of the Institu-
tion’s endowment. The committee
terminated one investment man-
agement firm based on its rela-
tively weak performance, redistrib-
uting its funds and some funds
from another balanced manage-
ment firm to other specialized
investment managers. In other
actions, the committee’s rules of
operation, proxy voting guidelines,
and standards of conduct and dis-
closure were adopted; a $21 per-
unit payout rate for fiscal year
1998 was approved; and the com-
mittee discussed the use of index
funds and investments in alterna-
tive investment classes.

Among its many actions
throughout the year, the Board of
Regents established the Smith-

sonian’s charitable gift annuity
program, approved an agreement
with Novus Services, Inc., for a
Smithsonian affinity credit card,
and authorized tax-exempt financ-
ing for the construction of the
Discovery Center in the National
Museum of Natural History. In
addition, the Regents approved
the sale of the Barney Studio
House for the benefit of the Na-
tional Museum of American Art,
reported to Congress that the Na-
tional Campaign for the National
Museum of the American Indian
raised more than $37 million in
fulfillment of its statutory require-
ment for construction of the Mall
museum, worked with the Secre-
tary to ensure that the continuing
tour of “America’s Smithsonian”
would incur no additional deficit,
and established the Smithsonian
Center for Latino Initiatives.

Particularly notable among the
Regents’ discussions were the
Smithsonian policy on cospon-
sored special events, the implica-
tions of early institutional affilia-
tions, the principles of a corporate
sponsorship policy, and the chal-
lenges of certain exhibitions in
contemporary art and American
history. The Regents named the
Visitors’ Center at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute for
STRI’s first director, the late Dr.
Martin H. Moynihan; named an
exhibition gallery in the National
Postal Museum for Guido Craveri,
president of Harmers Auction SA,
a leading stamp dealer, and Tito
Giamporcaro, a prominent philate-
list; and named Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum’s Center
for the Study of Jewelry and Pre-
cious Metals for Joseph A. DiPalma
and his sister Flora DiPalma
Hoffman. As the year ended, the
Regents considered a significant
potential gift to the National Mu-
seum of Natural History.

The Regents were pleased to
award Joseph Henry Medals to
Dr. Frederick G. Seitz, president
emeritus of Rockefeller University
and chair of the Joint Advisory
Committee of Sponsoring Institu-
tions of the Joseph Henry Papers
Project, and Dr. Tomas Ybarra-
Frausto, chairperson of the Smith-
sonian Council and the Latino
Oversight Committee. Dr. Seitz
and Dr. Ybarra-Frausto were hon-
ored for their significant contribu-
tions toward the Smithsonian’s
mandate for the increase and diffu-
sion of knowledge.

With the assistance of their
Committee on Policy, Programs,
and Planning, the Regents estab-
lished the National Advisory Board
of the National Zoological Park,
the National Advisory Board of the
Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center, the Development
Board of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries, and the Council of
Philatelists of the National Postal
Museum. The Regents expressed
great appreciation to these and the
many other advisory boards that
assist in the oversight of the
Smithsonian’s museums, research
institutes, and major programs.

The Board of Regents appointed
the following individuals to the In-
stitution’s advisory boards: Max N.
Berry, Henry E. Catto, Peter R.
Coneway, Thomas Edward Cong-
don, Archie W. Dunham, Richard
Hunt, Robert L. James, Nan Tucker
McEvoy, Thomas D. Mullins,
Heinz C. Prechter, Carol Ann
Swanson Price, David M. Silfen,
Kenneth L. Smith, Frank A. Weil,
Anthony Welters, and Daniel W.
Yohannes to the Smithsonian Na-
tional Board; Alison Bernstein,

H. P. Claussen, Dollie Ann Cole,
Neil Harris, Irene Hirano, Thomas
W. Langfitt, Seymour L. Schwartz,
and Marvin D. Williams to the Na-
tional Museum of American His-

tory Board of Trustees; Joseph M.
Goldenberg, Joseph E. Harris,
Robert Farris Thompson, and Wal-
ter E. Washington to the Commis-
sion of the National Museum of
African Art; Kay Allaire, Harvey
Krueger, Elaine La Roche, Barbara
A. Mandel, Richard Smith, and Ed-
ward A. Weinstein to the Cooper-
Hewitt, National Design Museum
Board of Trustees; Cynthia Helms,
Marie Lam, and Robert Tang to the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Visiting
Committee; David L. Dilcher, Ed-
ward O. Gaylord, Colin Patterson,
and Marshall Turner to the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History
Advisory Board; Duane Cham-
pagne, George L. Cornell, Billy L.
Cypress, Charles Diker, Dwight
Gourneau, Joann Sebastian Morris,
and Ted Stevens to the Board of
Trustees of the National Museum
of the American Indian; Joan
Adams Mondale and Roger Harri-
son Mudd to the Commission of
the National Portrait Gallery;
Sylvia Ripley Addison, David
Challinor, Jeannine Smith Clark,
Katharine C. Crittenberger,
Leonard C. Jaques, Barbara J.
Smith, and Kevin Starr to the De-
velopment Board of the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries; and
Tomas Bjaringer, George Brett,
Chan Chin Cheung, Guido Cra-
veri, Enzo Diena, Tito Giampor-
caro, Surajita Gongvatana, Erivan
Haub, Tim Hirsch, John Hotchner,

Norman Hubbard, Azeezaly Jaffer,
Alvin and Marge Kantor, Frank
Mandel, Arthur Morowitz, Hassan
Shaida, David Sundman, Donald
Sundman, and Steven C. Walske to
the Council of Philatelists of the
National Postal Museum.

STAFF CHANGES

On October 4, 1996, the Smith-
sonian community paid tribute to
Mary Livingston Ripley, the late
wife of Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon
Ripley. Mrs. Ripley was remem-
bered for her many contributions
to the Smithsonian during her hus-
band’s tenure, including the estab-
lishment of the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee, the enhance-
ment of Smithsonian gardens and
orchid collections, and her avid
work as a photographer, entomolo-
gist, and collaborator in Mr. Rip-
ley’s ornithological fieldwork.

The Smithsonian’s senior man-
agement was bolstered this year
with the arrival of Robert V. Hanle,
formerly at the University of Min-
nesota Foundation, in the new
position of executive director for
development. Appointed from
within the Smithsonian ranks were
Roslyn A. Walker as director of the
National Museum of African Art;
Nancy E. Gwinn as director of
Smithsonian Institution Libraries,
succeeding Barbara Smith, who re-
tired this year; and James B. Con-
klin, replacing Arthur Lee Denny

as senior information officer.
Several highly accomplished
members of the senior staff have
left for other vineyards. Assistant
Secretary for Institutional Ad-
vancement Alice Green Burnette
left to pursue other opportunities
on a part-time basis. Marie A.
Mattson, director of the Office of
Membership and Development,
moved to a similar position at the

John F. Kennedy Center for the

Performing Arts after receiving the
Secretary’s Gold Medal for Excep-
tional Service. David L. Correll left
his position as director of the
Smithsonian Environmental Re-
search Center to become senior sci-
entist. As the year ended, Patrick J.
Miller resigned as director of the
Office of Physical Plant to accept a
comparable post at Harvard Med-
ical School.

It is always difficult to lose
senior personnel who have con-
tributed so unstintingly to the
advancement of Smithsonian in-
terests. The compliment that other
organizations pay in this respect
is bittersweet. But, by the same
token, the Institution has both
acquired and nurtured from
within a staff highly regarded for
its talent and dedication. The vi-
tality of the Smithsonian staff is
central to its success, and the con-
tinued strength of the Institution
in this sense has never seemed
more assured.

21
REPORT OF TIE PROVOsy

J. DENNIS O'CONNOR

Above: Provost J. Dennis O'Connor
(Photograph by Rick Vargas)

Left: “Amber: Window to the Past,” on
view at the National Museum of Natural
History throughout the summer of
1997, presented amber as studied by
paleobiologists, paleobotanists, cultural
anthropologists, and art historians. This
hymena flower comes from the tree that
formed the amber. (Photograph by

Chip Clark)

TWO VITAL PROCESSES OF DISCOVERY CONVERGE AT THE SMITHSONIAN: RESEARCH

AND EDUCATION. TO “DIFFUSE” KNOWLEDGE WE MUST FIRST “INCREASE” IT, SO THE

RESEARCH CONDUCTED BY OUR SCHOLARS AND SCIENTISTS IS A NECESSARY PRECUR-

SOR TO THE EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCES OUR VISITORS ENJOY. AS PROVOST, | HOLD AN

ENVIABLE POSITION AT THE POINT OF CONVERGENCE, WORKING WITH THE INSTITU-

TION’S GREAT MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH CENTERS AS THEY HELP THE PROCESS OF DIS-

COVERY TO FLOURISH.

AND FLOURISH IT DOES. IN THE SMITHSONIAN'S MUSEUMS, WE CELEBRATE AND

INSPIRE DISCOVERY, LARGELY THROUGH EXHIBITIONS AND PUBLIC PROGRAMS. SOME

EXHIBITIONS ARE STRUCTURED ATTEMPTS TO CONVEY INFORMATION OR MEANING THROUGH THE USE OF

OBJECTS, WHETHER HISTORICAL, SCIENTIFIC, OR ARTISTIC. OCCASIONALLY, WE PRESENT AN IMPRESSIVE

OBJECT (A WORK OF ART, A SKELETAL STRUCTURE, A HISTORICAL ARTIFACT), GIVE VISITORS INFORMATION

ABOUT IT, AND INVITE THEM TO TAKE FROM IT WHAT THEY WISH. WE HOPE THAT THEIR EXPERIENCE

EXTENDS THEIR PERSONAL HORIZONS AND STIMULATES THEM TO EXPLORE DIFFERENT WAYS OF THINKING,

QUESTIONING, SEEING, AND UNDERSTANDING.

NM
Ww
[his year’s diverse exhibitions
blurred the line between education
and research, from the extraordi-
narily effective new Janet Annen-
berg Hooker Hall of Geology,
Gems, and Minerals at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History,
to the National Postal Museum’s

fascinating story of invention and

innovation, “Undercover: The Evo-

lution of the American Envelope.”
\ varied and vibrant selection of

exhibitions from the Anacostia

Museum and Center for African
American History and Culture ap-
peared throughout the year in the
Arts and Industries Building. One
of them was jazz bassist Milt Hin-
ton’s photographs of “Life on the
Road” with Dizzy Gillespie, Hank
Jones, Cab Calloway, and other
renowned musicians. At the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery, “King of the
World: A Mughal Manuscript from
the Royal Library, Windsor Castle”

presented both beautiful works of

art and the intriguing story of life
in 17th-century India under the
reign of the builder of the Taj
Mahal.

The scientists and scholars who
work in the Smithsonian’s research
organizations engage in discovery
of another variety. We can point
with great pride to the newly re-
leased book on the rise and closure
of the Panamanian Isthmus during
the last 10 million years, a coopera-
tive effort of the Panama Paleontol-

Provost J. Dennis O'Connor officiates as Their Highnesses Maharaja Gajsingh II and

Maharani Hemlat Rajye of Marwar-Jodhpur, India, cut the ribbon opening the exhi-
bition “King of the World: A Mughal Manuscript from the Royal Library, Windsor
Castle,” at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. (Photograph by John Tsantes)

ogy Project led by Anthony Coates
and his colleagues at the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute.
This already-classic work explains
the formation of species through-
out North and South America bet-
ter than any other study.

Two other compelling discover-
ies show the level at which Smith-
sonian scientists lead the expan-
sion of knowledge. Researchers
from the Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory and their col-
leagues announced new findings
that strengthen the case for black
holes. Using satellite measure-
ments of x-ray binary stars, they
verified the existence of the “event
horizon,” the one-way membrane
that traps matter and energy in-
side a black hole. At the National
Museum of Natural History, there
was new proof that a catastrophic
asteroid impact caused the extinc-
tion of dinosaurs and other organ-
isms 65 million years ago. A deep
sea core went on display that con-
tains material from the asteroid
along with evidence of the extinc-

tion of a major group of marine
microscopic organisms.

Discovery has also flourished in
our educational programs this
year, including the Smithsonian
Office of Education’s Museum
Magnet Schools, its Smithsonian
Education Web site, and the
Smithsonian Early Enrichment
Center’s innovative early child-
hood curriculum.

One of our priorities in the last
year has been to take discovery
beyond the Mall in a way that we
have not done before—by extend-
ing electronic outreach, for in-
stance. Some Smithsonian exhibi-
tions have companion sites on the
World Wide Web, and there are
virtual exhibitions as well. Some
say this experience in cyberspace
is a far cry from standing next to
the original, and they are ab-
solutely right. On the other hand,
not all of our 260 million citizens
can come to Washington to expe-
rience objects firsthand. Looking
ahead, we see the prospect for dra-
matic changes in our educational

MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH INSTITUTES

| ANACOSTIA MUSEUM AND CENTER FOR AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY AND CULTURE

potential as we digitize several
million images from Smithsonian
collections for online access.

The Smithsonian also took steps
to more firmly engage the public
with the Institution when the
Board of Regents created the
Smithsonian Center for Latino
Initiatives under the Office of the
Provost. When it opens in 1998,
the new center will promote inter-
nal links as well as connections
between the Smithsonian and
Latino communities.

These reports from the Smith-
sonian’s 16 museums, its research
institutes, and its offices illustrate
the convergence of research and
education. They share the thread
of discovery, whether in a tropical
forest canopy, at the far reaches of
the solar system, in a classroom,
or in an exhibition gallery. For
scholars and the public alike, the
Smithsonian is indeed a place for
wondering, questioning, and
learning.

Steven Cameron Newsome, Director

The Anacostia Museum and Center
for African American History and
Culture expanded their tradition
of leadership in increasing public
understanding of the historical ex-
periences and cultural expressions
of people of African descent living
in the Americas. At the same time,
the museum enhanced its strate-
gies for engaging constituencies in
the development of research proj-
ects, public programs, and exhibi-
tions, especially those that focus
on contemporary social and cul-
tural issues.

@ The Anacostia Museum received a
$600,000 grant from the Lilly Endow-
ment—the largest ever awarded to the
museum—for the development of the
exhibition “Speak to My Heart: African
American Communities of Faith and
Contemporary Society.” The project
takes a unique approach to engaging
the community in exploring the dy-
namic relationship between African
American communities and churches or
other religious organizations. The exhi-
bition will open in the Arts and Indus-
tries Building in April 1998.

g@ Construction of the Archives Center
at the museum building was completed.

The center will house archival, photo-
graphic, and video collections as well as
new collections focusing on the African
American family and community his-
tory and African American participation
in film and the performing arts.

g@ While the museum’s public spaces
were closed during the Archives Center
construction, education and program
staff took outreach activities to commu-
nity settings, including schools, senior
citizen centers, health care facilities, and
shopping centers. Among the offerings
was a workshop series that helped fami-
lies, churches, and civic organizations
create Black History Month programs.

25
Community Partners in Education

Each day at the Lucy E. Moten Elementary School in
the Anacostia neighborhood of Washington, D.C.,
students embark on an adventure in learning—
about their community, about African American
history, and about themselves. The six-year-old
partnership between the school and the Anacostia
Museum and Center for African American History
and Culture is a natural extension of the museum's
commitment to community-based educational pro-
grams.

The partnership is based in a classroom at the
school, where the coordinator has built closer
relationships with administrators, teachers, stu-
dents, and parents. This arrangement allows the
museum to be a prominent factor in the day-to-day
education of the students.

Benefiting from a multidisciplinary approach to
learning, Moten students are deeply involved with
museum and community resources. Building pride
and self-esteem is a special focus. Students are in-
troduced to a broader world through discussions
with experts on African American history and cul-
ture, field trips to local museums, and special pro-
grams with individuals and community arts and
historical organizations.

The program for the 1997-98 school year con-
tinued with a grant from the Freddie Mac Founda-
tion. “The partnership between the Anacostia Mu-
seum and the Lucy E. Moten Elementary School
provides an engaging, creating learning environ-
ment,” says Leland C. Brendsel, chairman and CEO
of Freddie Mac and chairman of the Freddie Mac
Foundation. “At the foundation, we look for ways to
brighten the lives of children in our community, and
this is a terrific way.”

26

I ee

g At the director's invitation, leaders of
community-based museums and cul-
tural organizations began planning an
international conference on museums
and community development to be
held in early 2000.

@ Staff representatives held discussions
with the Prince George’s County, Mary-
land, Arts Council about the develop-
ment of an arts education center in Lan-
dover Mall in partnership with five local
cultural organizations. The museum's
participation will significantly increase
the Institution’s community outreach
to residents of the Maryland suburbs.

| ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Richard J. Wattenmaker, Director

Established in 1954 to enable and
encourage research in American
art history, the Archives of Ameri-
can Art has grown to include more
than 13 million items, the world’s
largest single source for documen-
tary materials on the visual arts of
the United States. The collections
contain correspondence, diaries,
business papers, journals, and
other documentation of artists, art
institutions, collectors, critics,
dealers, and scholars. The Archives
also houses oral and video history
interviews, photographs, and
works of art on paper, including
many artists’ sketchbooks.

Central to the Archives’ mission
is sharing the treasures of its
unique research collections with
the broadest possible audience. As
a member of the Research Libraries
Group, the Archives makes its au-
tomated catalogue accessible
through the Research Libraries In-
formation Network (RLIN). Other
outreach efforts include an active
interlibrary program of collections
on microfilm and the publication
of a scholarly quarterly Journal.
Researchers may visit regional re-
search and collecting centers in

@ Throughout the year, the museum
and the center presented critically ac-
claimed exhibitions in the Arts and In- ‘
dustries Building: “Feeling the Spirit:
Searching the World for the People of
Africa,” “Invoking the Spirit: Worship
Traditions in the African World,” “The
Black Transatlantic Experience: The
Photography of Chester Higgins Jr. and
Stephen Marc,” “The Jazz Age in Paris,
1914-1940,” “Life on the Road: The
Photography of Milt Hinton,” and
“Caribbean Visions: Contemporary
Painting and Sculpture.”

Washington, D.C., New York,
Boston, Detroit, and San Marino,
California. The Archives also pub-
lishes finding aids and guides to its
collections and regularly supports
or organizes symposia, confer-
ences, and exhibitions related to
its holdings. The Archives’ re-
sources are also available through
the World Wide Web.

@ This year, the Archives published
three important books as well as its
Journal. Reading Records: A Researcher's
Guide to the Archives of American Art
provides a comprehensive overview of
the collections. Paris: A Guide to
Archival Sources for American Art History,
underwritten by a grant from the
Florence Gould Foundation, a sup-
porter of cooperative French-American
ventures, will help scholars locate the
many original documents on American
artists in Parisian archives. A Finding
Aid to the Walter Pach Papers provides a
detailed description of the papers of a
pivotal figure in American art circles in
the first half of the 20th century.

@ Liza Kirwin, the Archives’ southeast
regional collector, gave a talk on Latino
primary sources and opportunities for
research at the Archives as part of the
1997 Latino Graduate Training Seminar
in Qualitative Methodology, sponsored
NEW YORK

1913

International Exhibition
of Modern Art

Association of American Painters
and Sculptors, Inc.

February Seventeenth to March Fifteenth

Catalogue 25 Cents

by the Smithsonian’s Center for Mu-
seum Studies and the Inter-University
Program for Latino Research.

g Interns and fellows made significant
contributions to the Archives’ work
throughout the year. Gabriela H. Lam-
bert, a participant in the Smithsonian's
Minority Internship Program, arranged,
preserved, and described the papers of
Tomas Ybarra-Frausto, scholar and
chair of the Smithsonian Council and
the Latino Oversight Committee. Un-
der the new James E. Webb Internship
Program for Minority Graduate Stu-
dents in Business and Public Adminis-
tration, Maria C. Gaztambide worked
on an intensive project to collect docu-
mentation on Puerto Rican artists and
arts organizations active in Puerto Rico
and New York City. A third intern, An-
nie Livingston, processed the papers of
Oberlin College professor Ellen Hulda
Johnson. Tey Marianna Nunn held a
10-week graduate fellowship, awarded
by the Smithsonian’s Center for Mu-
seum Studies, to advance her disserta-

tion research on Hispana and Hispano
artists of the Works Progress Adminis-
tration in New Mexico.

g Supported by the Fund for Latino Ini-
tiatives, the Archives conducted a nine-
month survey of art-related primary
source material in South Florida. Kaira
Cabanas, a former Archives intern, un-
covered significant new collections
while forming stronger relationships
between the Archives and Cuban
American art Communities.

@ This year, the Archives continued to
lend materials to museums and other
cultural institutions throughout the
world. This important form of outreach
ensures that documents from the col-
lections are included in exhibitions as
supporting documentation for the ob-
jects on display. Among the borrowing
institutions were the Phillips Collec-
tion, the Paul Robeson Cultural Center
at Rutgers University, the California
African-American Museum, the Mu-
seum of the City of New York, and the
National Portrait Gallery.

Among the rich resources of the
Archives of American Art are docu-
ments from the historic International
Exhibition of Modern Art (the Armory
Show) of 1913, which introduced
modern art to American audiences.
(Walt Kuhn, Kuhn Family Papers, and
Armory Show records, Archives of
American Art)

Wider Access to the Archives of American Art

Today's enthusiasm for American art was not as
widespread when the Archives of American Art was
founded in 1954. There was no existing institution
for the study of American artists, no full-time pro-
fessor of American art history, and even our finest
painters, sculptors, and craftspeople were scarcely
studied. The Archives’ founders wisely recognized
the need to preserve valuable sources and make
them available to researchers. This year, two foun-
dations made significant gifts toward this goal.

With a $500,000 challenge grant from the
Brown Foundation—the largest single grant to the
Archives in its history—the Archives has estab-
lished the William E. Woolfenden Endowment Fund
in honor of a former director of the Archives. The
Woolfenden Fund will guarantee the publication of
the Archives’ quarterly Journal and expand its
readership.

The Getty Grant Program of the J. Paul Getty
Trust awarded the Archives a grant of $214,500
to fund the arrangement and description of three
major collections of gallery records: the Jacques
Seligmann Galleries, Kraushaar Galleries, and the
Robert Schoelkopf Gallery. These three collections,
which document crucial art world activity in Amer-
ica throughout the 2Oth century, are in constant
demand by researchers.

Other grants this year—from the Judith Roth-
schild Foundation, the Anhmanson Foundation, and
the Henry Luce Foundation—also contributed to
the arrangement and description of frequently
used collections.

27
| ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

Milo C. Beach, Director

September 28 marked a full decade
since the opening of the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery. Founded to share
the historical focus of its sister mu-
seum, the Freer Gallery of Art, the
Sackler Gallery also has increased
the range of Asian art activities at
the Smithsonian, developed an ac-
tive program of international loan
exhibitions, and embraced con-
temporary art and a wide range of
media and artistic practice.

28

Artist Ah-Leon of Taiwan assembles
Bridge, his 60-foot, trompe |’oeil
ceramic sculpture, in preparation for its
exhibition at the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery. (Photograph by Rob Harrell)

g “Bells of Bronze Age China,” a public
symposium presenting international
research on an ancient musical and
artistic tradition, was sponsored by the
AMS Foundation for the Arts, Sciences,
and Humanities in observance of the
gallery’s 10th anniversary. Some 1,200
guests attended festivities following the
symposium.

g The anniversary celebration focused
on Chinese culture, which had been a
particular interest of gallery founder
Arthur M. Sackler, M.D. (1913-87),
with a lecture by the cele-
brated composer Tan Dun
about his Symphony 1997,
Heaven, Earth, and Mankind,
written for the transfer of
Hong Kong to China. A week
later, the gallery joined its
Quadrangle complex neigh-
bors in welcoming the public
to a 10th anniversary open
house featuring music, birth-

day cake, entertainment, and
family activities.

g The public had its first op-
portunity to see the 44
paintings and two illumina-
tions from a contemporary
account of the 17th-century
reign of Shah-Jahan, builder
of the Taj Mahal, in the exhi-
bition “King of the World: A
Mughal Manuscript from the
Royal Library, Windsor Cas-
tle,” organized by the Sackler
Gallery in conjunction with
the Royal Library and shown
in celebration of the SOth
anniversary of the indepen-
dence of India and Pakistan.
The exhibition, which re-
sulted from research by gallery director
Milo Beach, opened at the National
Museum of India, Delhi, then traveled
to the Queen’s Gallery, Buckingham
Palace, London, before opening its
United States tour with a presentation
at the Sackler Gallery.

§ Visitors are enjoying continuous dis-
plays of fresh flowers in the Sackler

pavilion made possible through an en- |
dowment from Mrs. Else Sackler of
New York City. Mrs. Sackler’s gift is an
expression of “deepest gratitude and
appreciation for the extraordinary tal-
ent, imagination, and unrelenting
commitment which the director and
the entire staff have devoted to achieve
all that Dr. Sackler envisioned for the
Sackler Gallery in 1987.” Cooperating
in this project are staff from the Smith-
sonian Horticulture Division, who se-
lect and arrange the flowers.

g A long-term loan from the Art and

History Trust, which maintains one of
the outstanding private collections of
the arts of the book from Persia and
Mughal India, resulted in “Art of the
Persian Courts,” a presentation of
nearly 100 paintings, manuscripts,
drawings, and works of calligraphy
spanning the 14th to the 19th century.
In addition to providing material for
this and future exhibitions, the Art and
History Trust loan enhances the Sackler
and Freer Galleries’ resources as a pre-
eminent center for the study of manu-
scripts from the Islamic world.

w A group of 80 rare ceramic vessels
from the 9th- to 14th-century Khmer
empire (encompassing present-day
Cambodia, Thailand, and Laos) was
presented by Mr. and Mrs. Osborne
Hauge and Mr. and Mrs. Victor Hauge,
and nine of the vessels were placed on
view in honor of the gallery’s anniver-
sary. The collection richly represents
the diversity of Khmer ceramic forms
and glazes in a region where gallery-
sponsored fieldwork is under way.

@ Combined influences from Chinese
and American sources form the con-
temporary artistic vision of Taiwanese
artist Ah-Leon, creator of Bridge,
1993-96. This 60-foot-long trompe
l'oeil ceramic sculpture, echoing the
hyperrealism of a 400-year-old Chinese
pottery tradition, challenged visitors to
consider the boundaries between illu-
sion and reality during its four-month
presentation at the gallery.
| CENTER FOR FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS AND CULTURAL STUDIES

| Richard Kurin, Director

The Center for Folklife Programs
and Cultural Studies joins scholar-
ship with community service and
educational outreach to promote
the understanding and continuity
of diverse contemporary grassroots
cultures. A primary goal is to foster
greater participation in community
culture and appreciation for its role
in a civil society. The center pro-
duces the annual Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife, Smithsonian Folkways
Recordings, exhibitions, documen-
tary films and videos, symposia,
and educational materials. It also
conducts basic ethnographic re-
search and maintains an extensive
documentary archive. This year,
the center was active in developing
and producing many educational
outreach projects and materials.

@ The 31st annual Festival of American
Folklife was held on the National Mall
from June 25 through July 6. Programs
included “The Mississippi Delta,” with
blues, barbecue, and catfish; “African
Immigrant Folklife: Building and Bridg-
ing Communities,” with participants
from more than 30 countries; and “Sa-
cred Sounds: Belief and Society,” with
religious music performed by groups
from a variety of traditions, including
Christian choirs from South Africa and
Kentucky, Jews and Muslims from
Jerusalem, Native Americans, and Japa-
nese American Buddhists from Hawaii.
The third Ralph Rinzler Memorial Con-
cert featured the New Lost City Ram-
blers, Wade and Julia Mainer, and oth-
ers who defined the old-time music
revival. The legendary rhythm and
blues musician Rufus Thomas pre-
sented a special interview and perfor-
mance for the “Mississippi Delta” pro-
gram in cooperation with the Rhythm
and Blues Foundation. Support for
these programs came from the Missis-
sippi Band of Choctaw Indians, the
Mississippi Arts Commission, the

Recording Industries Music Perfor-
mance Trust Funds, the Smithsonian
Educational Outreach Fund, the Repub-
lic of South Africa Department of Arts,
Culture, Science, and Technology,
Friends of the Festival, Bob Dylan, and
the Rhythm and Blues Foundation.

g@ Smithsonian Folkways’ hit of the
year was the Anthology of American Folk
Music, edited by Harry Smith. The six-
CD boxed set includes 84 musical selec-
tions originally recorded in the 1920s
and 1930s, an enhanced CD with a
companion Web site, liner notes, and
historical booklets. This reissue of the
anthology, first released in 1952,
gained unprecedented media attention,
high sales, and critical acclaim, includ-
ing several Grammy Award nomina-
tions. The reissue was supported by
Nick Amster and Microgroove.

@ A multimedia learning guide, lowa
Folklife: Our People, Communities, and
Traditions, was distributed to 1,200
schools and senior citizen centers in
Iowa. Produced in cooperation with
the lowa Sesquicentennial Commission
and funded by Pioneer Hi-Bred Interna-
tional, Inc., the guide grew out of a
program at the 1996 Festival of Ameri-
can Folklife. Lesson plans, an audio
CD, two videotapes, and a resource di-
rectory will be used in Iowa to teach
about local culture.

@ Smithsonian Folkways issued a suite
of special recordings for Black History
Month. Two highlights, both produced
by Bernice Johnson Reagon, were a
Paredon label reissue, Give Your Hands
to the Struggle, and Wade in the Water, a
four-CD boxed set tied to a Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service exhibition and the Peabody
Award-winning 26-part series on Na-
tional Public Radio, Voices of the Civil
Rights Movement.

@ The Indonesian Ministry of Culture
released the first six volumes of an an-
thology of Indonesian music, with ex-
tensive booklets in Bahasa Indonesia.
The series is licensed from Smithsonian
Folkways, which produced the original

Senegalese glass painter Dame Gueye
from Greenbelt, Maryland, teaches his
technique to a young visitor in the
“Teaching and Learning Culture” area of
the Festival of American Folklife’s

“African Immigrant Folklife” program,
organized and produced by the Center
for Folklife Programs and Cultural Stud-
ies. (Photograph by Rick Vargas)

English-language version and trained
Indonesian students and archivists un-
der a Ford Foundation grant.

@ The center coordinated efforts with
other Smithsonian units and the South
African Ministry of Culture to develop
joint programs on the public represen-
tation of culture. Young South African
professionals did residencies at Smith-
sonian museums and the Festival of
American Folklife, and Smithsonian
staff advised on the development of
the Robben Island Prison Museum.

NM
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Lambertus van Zelst, Director

In keeping with its emphasis on
the characterization and preserva-
tion of collection material, the
Conservation Analytical Labora-
tory (CAL) continues to expand its
audience beyond the traditional
constituency of museum and
preservation professionals.
Through workshops and courses,
electronic publishing, collabora-
tive curriculum development proj-
ects, and formal teaching, CAL
staff have vigorously extended

their outreach efforts while main-

taining solid connections within

the museum community.

g@ A major new educational outreach
initiative focuses on Hispanic American
polychrome veneration art on wood
called imagenes. The first event was a
three-day workshop, “Preservation of
Imagenes,” with an international group
of faculty and attendees. Future activi-
ties include teacher workshops, a sec-
ond preservation workshop, an instruc-
tional film, reference materials, and an

international conference resulting in a

major scholarly publication.

g Studio and laboratory exercises were
field-tested in CALs interdisciplinary
art and science curriculum project, be-
ing developed in collaboration with
Suitland High School, a magnet school
in Prince George’s County, Maryland.
The project, called STATS (Science
Teaching Art Teaching Science), inte-
grates the scientific aspects of artistic
materials and techniques. It will culmi-
nate in a package of course outlines,
reference materials, instructional video-
tapes, CD-ROMs, slides, and other re-
sources for secondary school teachers
nationwide. The package will be avail-
able in print and online forms.

g Alternative communications media
are integral to many CAL projects. The
CAL Web site, http://vww.si.edu/cal/,
provides an important connection to
the public by presenting schedules of
events, reports of activities and pro-
grams, and authoritative brochures on
collections care for those interested in
preserving personal artifacts. Video
recording is used frequently to docu-
ment projects and create new instruc-
tional products, and CAL’s offerings to
the public and preservation colleagues
are expanding. Usually, instructional
videotapes are available to multiple au-
diences, including people with disabili-
ties and non-English-speaking users.

@ With the impending millennium and
the heightened interest in preserving
artifacts in time capsules, CAL staff
have developed an off-the-shelf,
archival-quality time capsule of modest

Objects conservators Carol Grissom
and Harriet Beaubien at the
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
align sections of a Jordanian plaster
sculpture from the sixth millennium B.C.
before assembling It and completing
the conservation treatment. A group of
the sculptures was exhibited in
“Preserving Ancient Statues from
Jordan” at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.
(Photograph by Doc Dougherty)

size and cost. The time capsule is in-
tended primarily as a tool for teaching
materials science, specifically artifact
deterioration and preservation. It is
expected to reach the marketplace in
fiscal year 1998.

@ CAL staff created and led several for-
mal off-site teaching activities, includ-
ing a three-month ancient materials
technology course in the People’s Re-
public of China, a two-week workshop
in archives preservation in Chile, and
an ongoing association with the Har-
vard University archaeological field
school in Copan, Honduras. Staff fre-
quently lecture and make presentations
to professional societies and academic
and civic organizations throughout the

world. Of particular interest were the
many public outreach activities related
to the restoration of sixth-millennium
B.C. plaster statues in the Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery exhibition “Preserving
Ancient Statues from Jordan” and the
Institut du Monde Arabe exhibition
“Jordanie” in Paris. An interactive com-
puter program featuring details of the
statues’ original construction and their
reconstruction at CAL was especially
popular.

g@ CAL continues its highly regarded
in-house courses. The offerings range
from the Furniture Conservation Train-
ing Program, much of which is avail-
able to the public, to the Research
Libraries and Archives Collections

| COOPER-HEWITT, NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM

Dianne H. Pilgrim, Director

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum, the only museum in the
United States devoted exclusively
to historical and contemporary de-
sign, explores the impact of design
on every aspect of daily life. As the
museum began celebrating its cen-
tennial during 1997, its tradition
of educational outreach continued
through challenging exhibitions
and publications, innovative edu-
cational programs for children and
adults, and access to its world-
renowned collection.

@ The year-long centennial celebration
began with a birthday party on June 2
for the museum’s members and contin-
ued through September 30 with the
opening of “Design for Life: A Centen-
nial Celebration,” an exhibition that
used the permanent collection to show
that design is a central facet of human
life. A book by the same title accompa-
nied the exhibition, and the museum
will present a variety of related special
lectures and seminars. The exhibition
was sponsored by generous donations
from the Barbara and Morton Mandel
Family Foundation, Mr. and Mrs. Lester

S. Morse Jr., the Arthur Ross Founda-
tion, the Shaw Contract Group, and the
Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund.
@ Other exhibitions rounded out the
museum’s calendar in 1997. “Henry
Dreyfuss Directing Design: The Indus-
trial Designer and His Work, 1929-
1972” examined the contributions of
an industrial design pioneer and re-
ceived critical acclaim. “Mixing Mes-
sages: Graphic Design in Contempo-
rary Culture” explored the power and
pervasiveness of visual communication
through more than 300 works pro-
duced during the past decade. The
Mead Corporation supported the in-
stallation cost and donated paper for
the exhibition brochure, the educa-
tional activity guide, and even the ex-
hibition labels; technology was sup-
ported by Microsoft. “The Jewelry of
Tone Vigeland” was a retrospective of
the Norwegian jewelry designer’s work.
In “Do-It-Yourself Architecture for the
Great Outdoors,” a group of tents was
on display in an outdoor exhibition.
“Disegno: Italian Renaissance Designs
for the Decorative Arts,” an exhibition
of works on paper, explored Renais-
sance concepts of design and their im-
pact on the decorative arts.

Training program (RELACT) focusing
on Smithsonian research collections
and archives, to collaborative courses
with George Washington University
and other institutions. The participants
are often new to the conservation field,
and sometimes they represent entirely
new audiences for the Smithsonian.
Courses this year included artifact ma-
terial technology for appraisers, the
technology of coatings for violin mak-
ers and restorers, and applications of
nuclear chemistry for artifact analysis
for scientists and archaeologists from
Latin America, held in collaboration
with the International Atomic Energy
Agency.

@ Cooper-Hewitt's strong reputation for
educational outreach was evident in the
“Design Career Days” and “Studio after
School” programs, which bring New
York City’s public high school students
together with professional designers to
explore social and environmental issues.
This year, “Design Career Days” high-
lighted industrial design, graphic de-
sign, set design for film and television,
and fashion design. Students in “Studio
after School” worked with designers in
the comic book industry, architects, the
creative staff at MTV, and others.

mg The museum also offered a selection
of workshops for educators and stu-
dents. A presentation by designer-in-
residence Wendy Brawer comple-
mented “Henry Dreyfuss Directing
Design,” and the community-based
teacher workshop series “City of
Neighborhoods,” supported by the
Pinkerton Foundation and the New
York Times Foundation, focused this
year on the Fort Greene and Clinton
Hill neighborhoods of Brooklyn. At the
week-long Summer Design Institute,
teachers worked with internationally
known designers and educators to ex-
plore resources for critical thinking
and problem solving. Public programs

31
32

The “Design for Space” segment of the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum's

centennial exhibition “Design for Life” examined the ways we design the spaces

we inhabit. (Photograph by Bill Jacobsen)

| FREER GALLERY OF ART
Milo C. Beach, Director

When the Freer Gallery of Art
opened in 1923, it was the first
Smithsonian museum to be de-
voted to the fine arts. Founded on
a gift to the nation from Charles
Lang Freer of Detroit, the gallery is
known internationally for the
quality and breadth of its collec-
tion of Asian art and for its special-
ized examples of work by 19th-
and early-20th-century American
artists, including the world’s largest
selection of art by the American ex-
patriate James McNeill Whistler.

@ Results of a three-year campaign to
acquire extraordinary works of art in
observance of the Freer’s 75th anniver-

sary next year have enriched the
gallery’s collections through gifts, sup-
ported purchases, and endowment
fund purchases. These recent additions,
bridging four millennia and represent-
ing a broad swath of Asia, will be un-
veiled next fall in a celebratory exhibi-
tion and accompanying publication.

g [n recognition of the Freer’s nearly
75 years of scholarly leadership in
Asian art history, Freer Gallery Visiting
Committee member Sir Joseph Hotung
established an endowment to support
acquisitions by the Freer and Sackler
library, which is the largest Asian art
library in the United States. A separate
endowment from Nancy Fessenden, a
member of the Sackler Gallery Visiting
Committee, inaugurated the Director’s
Initiative Fund to identify, plan, and

included “Crosscurrents,” the open-air
summer concert and lecture series,
which emphasized diversity and de-
sign. The museum also hosted Les
Journées des Artisans, a four-day “living
exhibition” of master artisans and
craftsmen from New York and France,
presented with the Colbert Foundation.
g@ At the museum’s annual “Behind-
the-Scenes” night for university stu-
dents and faculty, staff were on hand
to discuss resources of interest to re-
searchers and students. The museum
also held an Educator Open House, at
which department staff gave guided
tours of the exhibitions and spot-
lighted activities for students.

g@ The museum was a prolific publisher
in 1997 with the following catalogues:
Mixing Messages: Graphic Design in Con-
temporary Culture (with Princeton Ar-
chitectural Press); Disegno: Italian Re-
naissance Designs for the Decorative Arts
(with Kendall/Hunt); Henry Dreyfuss:
The Man in the Brown Suit (with Riz-
zoli); and Design for Life. The museum
also copublished a survey of 20th-cen-
tury design, The Look of the Century,
with Dorling Kindersley.

support innovative education projects
at the galleries.

@ Visitors benefited from the informed
perspective of Peggy and Dick Danziger,
New York collectors and users of tea
utensils, who served as guest curators of
“An Invitation to Tea.” Designed to
elicit the special pleasures of the cen-
turies-old tea ritual as represented by
25 objects from the Freer collection, the
exhibition taught viewers about the
spirit of tea by asking them to imagine
how the wares were used in various
combinations to create moods appropri-
ate to different seasons and occasions.
@ The Freer’s Haft Awrang (Seven
Thrones), a magnificent illustrated vol-
ume of poems by Abdul-Rahman Jami,
a 16th-century Persian mystic, repre-
sents the last great example of royal
patronage in Iran. Since it was acquired
in 1946, it has been considered a trea-
sure of the Freer collection and a funda-
mental element of the gallery’s status as
a center for the study of Persian paint-
ing. To prepare for publication of a fully
illustrated monograph, the “Freer Jami”
was unbound for conservation, and its
28 exquisitely painted illustrations and
lavish illuminations were exhibited
together for the first time.

@ The 31 examples of American art in
the exhibition “Art for Art’s Sake” dem-
onstrate what gallery founder Charles
Lang Freer considered the universality
of beauty, a principle that guided his
acquisition of art from widely separated
time periods, cultures, and media.
Freer’s belief in “art for art’s sake,” more
formally known as aestheticism, ex-
plains the gallery’s juxtaposition of
Asian and American art, a paradox that
often stimulates questions from visitors.
g With literature and nonfiction about
Asia and by Asians making up a large
portion of the gallery’s shop inventory,
visitors were drawn to a successful new

series of educational programs about
books, including several book discus-
sion groups. Among the noted authors
who presented public readings and
book signings this year were John Al-
ton, Robert Arnett, Vikram Chandra,
Oleg Grabar, Jessica Hagedorn, Kenro
Izu, Michael Ondaatje, Matthieu Ricard,
Lisa See, and Mridula Mitra Vyas.

A father and daughter look closely at
Japanese screens during an “Imagin-
Asia” family program in the Freer
Gallery of Art. After exploring the
galleries, participants make a work of
art inspired by what they have seen.
(Photograph by Michael Bryant)

| HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

James T. Demetrion, Director

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden, the Smithsonian In-
stitution’s showcase for modern
and contemporary art, is commit-
ted to increasing the awareness
and understanding of art through
acquisitions, exhibitions, publica-
tions, research activities, public
programs, and the presentation of
the collection in its galleries and
outdoor exhibition spaces. The
museum provides a public facility
for the exhibition, study, and
preservation of 19th- and 20th-
century art while presenting a
spectrum of contemporary work.

@ Two new publications in November
broadened knowledge of the art of our
time. A free Family Guide encourages

interactive gallery responses among
parents and children. The full-color
foldout guide, supported by the Smith-
sonian Special Exhibition Fund, won
honorable mention in the 1997 Ameri-
can Association of Museums publica-
tions competition. Well received
nationally, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden: 150 Works of Art features a
chronological panorama of 20th-cen-
tury art in succinct, informative essays
and color images. Copublished with
Harry N. Abrams, Inc., this 166-page
volume was a capstone to the Smith-
sonian’s 150th anniversary celebration.
@ Novel approaches to educating an
uninitiated public were particularly
successful this year. A Resource Center
focusing on complex contemporary
art—a concept inaugurated for exhibi-
tions in 1994 and 1995—was imple-
mented in 1997 for works in the per-

manent collection installed on the

third floor. For several hours each week
a trained staff member interacted with
visitors at a “station” in the Abram
Lerner Room there. Earlier in the year a
Writers’ Workshop encouraged 60 as-
piring authors, who used imagery from
the Jeff Wall exhibition of backlit
photographs as sources for their liter-
ary works.

@ Museum educators introduced young
people to the museum through perfor-
mances and hands-on activities. Eleven
“Young at Art” programs brought sev-
eral hundred six- to nine-year-olds and
accompanying adults to six museum
exhibitions for creative activities such
as T-shirt design, storytelling, and im-
provisational theater and dance. Sev-
eral times during the year, teachers ex-
plored the galleries and developed
methods for taking their insights back

33
34

to the classroom. Workshops for credit
were offered to teachers of all disci-
plines from Prince George’s County,
Maryland. The D.C. Art Teachers Asso-
ciation had an all-day session with mu-
seum educators. Class presentations by
artists focused on the collection and in-

spired many young people to visit the
museum on their own.

@ Technical, scientific, sociological, and
ethnographic interests were linked to
modern art via two exhibitions in the
ongoing “Collection in Context” series.
The series is drawn from the Hirsh-

A Family Guide featuring 12 full-color “artcards” offers a self-guided tour of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden for children and adults. (Photograph by
Lee Stalsworth)

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Donald D. Engen, Director

The National Air and Space Mu-
seum’s collection ranges from early
Chinese kites to the Hubble Space
Telescope test vehicle. This year,
current events in the United
States, around the world, and in
space focused attention on many
of the museum’s exhibitions and
artifacts. The Space Shuttle-Mir
mission, the Mars Pathfinder mis-

sion, and Linda Finch’s around-
the-world flight are just a few of
the events that provided opportu-
nities for the museum to enhance
public understanding of its collec-
tion, research, and exhibits.

m “Space Race,” a new permanent exhi-
bition that opened May 16, chronicles
the Cold War drama and technological

horn’s collection and other Smith-
sonian sources and supported by the
Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund.

The presentation from November 20‘
through May 7 of Paul Gauguin’s Hina ‘|
with Two Attendants, a tamanu-wood

sculpture carved in Tahiti in 1892, used |
objects from the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery, National Museum of Natural
History, and Smithsonian Institution
Libraries to show how this French artist
absorbed ideas from other cultures in
developing his Synthetist style. An-
other exhibition in the series, begin-
ning May 23, used documents from the
Archives of American Art, Library of
Congress, National Air and Space Mu-
seum library, and elsewhere to eluci-
date the development of a Machine
Age style in Raymond Duchamp-
Villon’s 1914 masterwork The Horse.

@ Summer programs for “Art Night on
the Mall” at the Hirshhorn brought to-
gether the disciplines of film and art.
With “The Hirshhorn Collects: Recent
Acquisitions 1992-1996,” a weekly
Thursday-evening gallery talk on a sin-
gle object was followed by a screening
of a film whose approach, subject, at-
mosphere, or technique made for
thought-provoking parallels. Earlier in
the year, the Hirshhorn’s film series
again presented several programs with
D.C. FilmFest, an ongoing cooperative
venture that helps galvanize a growing
local film community and bridge the
fields of contemporary art and film.

competition between the United States
and the former Soviet Union. Space
Hall was renovated for the exhibition,
which showcases what is perhaps the
most historically significant collection
of objects from the Soviet and Ameri-
can space programs. The display on the
Russian space station Mir and the
IMAX film Mission to Mir generated
great interest. “Space Race” is also fea-
tured on the museum’s World Wide
Web site, http:/Avww.nasm.si.edu/.

@ Design and fund raising continued
for the National Air and Space Museum
Dulles Center. This 700,000-square-foot
complex will be the world’s leading
aerospace restoration and archival facil-
ity when it is completed in 2001.

@ Discoveries by the Mars Pathfinder
mission complemented the museum's
research on climate change on the Red
Planet. Museum scientists have uncov-
ered evidence of past episodes of pre-
cipitation on Mars, and the appearance
and chemical results found at the
Pathfinder site lend further support to
their conclusions.

g In anticipation of the July 4 Mars
Pathfinder landing, the Department of
Space History and the Center for Earth
and Planetary Studies placed two moni-
tors in the “Where Next, Columbus?”
exhibition displaying data from the
mission. The monitors are updated
daily with the latest images and rover
“movies.” Models of Pathfinder and the
microrover Sojourner were also installed.
From July 29 through September, a
sweeping 360-degree color panorama of
the Mars landing site, taken by the
Pathfinder camera, was on display in
the “Milestones of Flight” gallery.

m Women’s achievements in flight were
highlighted in the museum in 1997.
From June 14 to September 12,
“Women and Flight,” a Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
exhibition showcasing the work of mu-
seum staff photographer Carolyn
Russo, was on display. The Extra 260,
the airplane flown by aerobatic cham-
pion Patty Wagstaff, was reinstalled in
the “Pioneers of Flight” gallery. In a
lecture in October, pilot and aviation
historian Linda Finch discussed her
around-the-world flight marking the
60th anniversary of Amelia Earhart’s
famous last journey.

g In anticipation of the opening of the
Dulles Center, restoration continued
on many artifacts, including the Aichi
MO6A1 Sieran II and the Hawker Hurri-
cane. In its Restoration Loan Program,
the museum continues to restore im-
portant artifacts in partnership with
other organizations. The Horton gliders
are being restored in Germany at the

Deutsches Technikel Museum, where
they will be on display, and the Apollo
13 capsule is being restored at the
Kansas Cosmosphere, where it will be
exhibited.

@ The museum’s public service and ed-
ucation programs provided docent-led
tours and demonstrations to more than
13,000 students and reached tens of
thousands of the general public. The
Cessna-sponsored Explainers program

in the “How Things Fly” gallery, in

which young people from area colleges
answer visitors’ questions, continued to
be a great success. The museum’s inter-
active audio tour became available this
year in French, Spanish, German, and
Japanese.

@ Lighting for the high bay areas of the
museum was the subject of research
and practical application in the past
year. Background research, supported
by the U.S. Department of Energy, Fu-

sion Lighting, 3M Corporation, and the

“Space Race,” a new permanent exhibition at the National Air and Space Museum,

traces 50 years of international competition and, more recently, cooperation be-

tween the United States and the former Soviet Union. (Photograph by Eric Long)
museum, considered lighting needs,
available ceiling space, and the safety
of the artifacts. The replacement sys-
tem reduced energy costs by more than
25 percent and provided superior light-
ing for the museum’s collection.

@ The Spirit of Texas, the helicopter that
H. Ross Perot Jr. and J. Coburn flew
around the world in 1982, was rein-
stalled in the “Pioneers of Flight”

gallery. Other artifacts that have gone

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Roslyn A. Walker, Director

The National Museum of African
Art celebrates the rich visual tradi-
tions and extraordinarily diverse
cultures of Africa and fosters an ap-
preciation of African art and Civi-
lizations through its collections,
exhibitions, research and public

programs. The museum's educa-

tional offerings, derived from the
permanent collections and special
exhibitions, give audiences
provocative and insightful views of

the world of African art.

@ In January, Roslyn A. Walker, a long-

time senior curator at the museum and

ational Museum of African Art Director Roslyn A. Walker presents Vice-President

Al Gore with a museum catalogue during a reception hosted in conjunction with

the U.S—South Africa Binational Commission meeting. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

on display include a GOES weather
satellite model and a motorcycle that
aircraft builder Glenn Curtiss completec
in 1906 to test an engine for aircraft use
g@ Exhibits commemorating the 50th
anniversary of the U.S. Air Force in-
cluded a Korean War-era F-86 Sabre jet
fighter, a collection of Air Force aircraft
models, and works of art from the Air

Force collection.

a specialist in Yoruba art, was named
director, succeeding Sylvia H. Williams,
who served from 1983 until her death
in 1996. Walker plans to lead the mu-
seum in exciting new directions as it
enters its second decade on the Na-
tional Mall. Plans for the future include
expanding communication with the
museum's many audiences through
new media; ensuring that facilities, ex-
hibitions, and programs are accessible
to all visitors; presenting both the
finest examples of classical African art
and the work of modern African artists;
and reaching beyond the museum and
the nation’s capital through traveling
exhibitions and electronic media.

@ In 1997, the museum celebrated its
10th year on the National Mall with a
series of special events. The celebration
began with the installation of kinetic
sculptures by the contemporary Niger-
ian artist Sokari Douglas Camp in the
museum’s pavilion. The artist also en-
gaged visitors at two public programs.
In September, a birthday party for the
Quadrangle complex launched the mu-
seum’s next decade, which promises to
be as rich as the past 10 years have been.
g The popular exhibition “A King and
His Cloth: Asantehene Agyeman Prem-
peh I” was one of several activities
based on the museum’s important col-
lection of textiles. The exhibition fea-
tured a multimedia presentation that
invited visitors to explore the history
and symbols of the magnificent adinkra
cloth. An original play for young audi-

ences, cosponsored by The Smithsonian
Associates and presented by Discovery
Theater, brought the 19th-century
shanaian king and the cloth to life.

gs Among the museum's important ac-
juisitions this year were works of mod-
rn art, including a mixed-media as-
semblage, The Notorious Green Car,
1995, by the South African artist Willie
Bester, and the 10-foot-high sculpture
Erosion, 1992, by El Anatsui of Ghana.
significant works of classical African art
hat were added to the collection are a
striking Ibibio mask from Nigeria, a
highly original Dogon sculpture from

Mali, and a superb carved altar tusk
from the Benin Kingdom in Nigeria. In
addition, Constance Stuart Larrabee, a
renowned and frequently exhibited
photographer, donated some 5,000 of
her black-and-white photographs of
South Africa to the museum.

g An array of tours, workshops, and fo-
cus programs offered students of all
ages their first encounters with real
works of African art. One highlight was
an all-day symposium, “Four Rivers of
Africa: Historical Archaeology and Art
in Africa,” which drew a standing-room

audience. The museum plans to pub-

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Elizabeth Broun, Director

The National Museum of American
Art, the nation’s museum dedi-
cated to the arts and artists of the
United States from colonial times
to the present, provides collections
and research resources that enable
the public and scholars to use and
enjoy America’s visual arts at the
museum and by personal com-
puter. The museum, which in-
cludes the Renwick Gallery, serves
diverse audiences throughout the
nation as well as those who visit
its two historic landmark buildings
in Washington, D.C.

g The museum released its first CD-
ROM in November 1996. Copublished
with Macmillan Digital USA, National
Museum of American Art features a selec-
tion of 762 objects from the permanent
collection. Its elegant interface and
wealth of interconnected, accessible in-
formation have earned rave reviews
and first prize in the Art and Culture
category of Milia, the annual multime-
dia conference in Cannes, France. CDI
Japan and its principal, Harezo
Shimizu, generously provided funding
for production of the CD-ROM.

g@ The museum produced two multime-
dia kits for junior and senior high
school students, Land and Landscape:
Views of America’s History and Culture
and Latino Art and Culture. Each kit in-
cludes a color video program, an exten-
sive study guide and workbook, and
color reproductions of paintings and
photographs, Land and Landscape was
funded by annual gifts from members
of the Director’s Circle and by the
Laura Barney Trust.

g Through grants from the Nebraska
Department of Education, the museum
has made its resources available online
to help Nebraska teachers—and teach-
ers everywhere—develop curricula for
core disciplines. In July, teachers from
school districts throughout Nebraska
came to the museum to see and learn
about the collection firsthand and par-
ticipate in workshops and discussions
about using remote art resources in the
classroom.

g In the spring, the museum launched
its new Internet magazine, jdel Corazon!
(“From the Heart”). This interactive
webzine focuses on Latino artists in the
collection, such as Carmen Lomas
Garza, Agueda Martinez, and Irvin
Trujillo. Biographies and examples of

lish papers from the symposium in fis-
cal year 1998.

@ Workshops and demonstrations by
practicing artists engaged attentive au-
diences eager to meet and talk with
them. Well-known Kenyan ceramist
Magdalene Odundo, whose work was
featured in the exhibition “Ceramic
Gestures: New Vessels by Magdalene
Odundo,” visited the museum several
times. On one visit, she participated in
the series “African Ceramics in Perspec-

0

tive,” which focused on the ceramic

arts of Africa and the African diaspora.

Evelyn Ackerman's Stories from the
Bible, 1984-85, was among the recent
gifts featured in “The Renwick at 25,”
an anniversary exhibition at the Ren-
wick Gallery of the National Museum of
American Art. Forty stories from the

Old Testament are illustrated in these
3-by-3-inch enamels. (Photograph by
Bruce Miller)

WwW
their work are featured, with commen-
tary by curator Andrew Connors. jdel
Corazon! was developed in cooperation
with the Texas Education Network
(TENET) to provide remote, activity-
based curriculum material for grades K
through 12 based on the museum’s
rich holdings of Latino art. The we-
bzine is made possible by a grant from
the James Smithson Society and can be
found at http:/Avww.nmaa.si.edu
hispanic/webzine/index.html.

m@ The Renwick Gallery, a department
of the National Museum of American
Art, celebrated its 25th anniversary in
1997. A special exhibition, “The Ren-
wick at 25,” featured 100 masterpieces
in clay, glass, metal, wood, and fiber,
highlighting recent acquisitions and

promised gifts. The gallery also wel-

comed the public to a family day with
craft demonstrations, workshops, and
puppet theater performances. During
the anniversary year, the renovated
and reinstalled second-floor permanent
collection galleries were unveiled. “The
Renwick at 25” was made possible by
the generous support of Sherley and
Bernard Koteen and Wiley, Rein &
Fielding and by the Smithsonian Spe-
cial Exhibition Fund. The reinstallation
was made possible by the James Ren-
wick Alliance, Virginia McGehee
Friend, Shelby and Frederick Gans,
Elmerina and Paul Parkman, and the
Smithsonian Special Exhibition Fund.
g@ The museum presented a variety of
exhibitions and special installations
during 1997. Highlights included

“American Photographs: The First

| NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Spencer R. Crew, Director

Che National Museum of American
History dedicates its collections
and scholarship to inspiring a
broader understanding of our na-
tion and its many peoples. The
museum creates learning opportu-
nities, stimulates imaginations,
and presents challenging ideas
about our nation’s past. Education
lies at the core of the museum's
mission, as it seeks both to draw
new and more diverse audiences to
the museum and to take the mu-
seum’'s research, scholarship, and
public programs to audiences out-

side its walls.

@ Museum visitors and electronic audi-
ences from the Midwest joined in a
two-week festival, “Electrified, Ampli-
fied, and Deified: The Electric Guitar,
Its Makers and Players.” Programs in-
cluded an exhibition of guitars from
the collection of Scott Chinery, a sym-
posium, films, informal talks with
guitar makers, an interview with leg-
endary guitarist and inventor Les Paul,

evening concerts with guitar greats

Century,” showcasing the museum’s re-
cently acquired Charles Isaacs collec-
tion of exceptional early American pho-
tography; “Singular Impressions: The
Monotype in America,” presenting the
first history of the monotype printmak-
ing process in America; “David Hock-
ney’s Snails Space: Painting as Perfor-
mance,” featuring a double-canvas
painting and accompanying floor piece,
illuminated by dramatic lights that re-
act with the painted hues; and video
artist Nam June Paik’s most ambitious
work to date, Megatron/Matrix, with

215 video monitors transmitting com-
pelling imagery and sound. These ex-
hibitions were made possible through

a combination of public and private

support.

Visitors to the National Museum of American History try out guitars and crowd

around exhibits at the “Makers’ Displays,” part of the week-long program “Electri-
fied, Amplified, and Deified: The Electric Guitar, Its Makers and Players,” sponsored
by the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Innova-

tion. (Photograph by Richard W. Strauss)

Junior Brown, Pat Metheny, and others,
and a videoconference. The festival was
the second offering in the annual series
“New Perspectives on Invention and
Innovation,” sponsored by the mu-
seum’s Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson
Center for the Study of Invention and
Innovation.

gm Beyond Category: The Duke Ellington
Education Kit reached classrooms this
year. This one-of-a-kind curriculum for
grades 6 and up explores Ellington's life
and music in the context of social and
cultural history. Activities incorporate
music, history, art, drama, creative ex-
pression, and language arts. The Divi-
sion of Education and Visitor Services
collaborated with the Program in
African American Culture, Division of
Cultural History, Archives Center, and
the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service
to develop the kit, which
was published by Dale Sey-
mour Publications. The
work was made possible by
a generous grant from
America’s Jazz Heritage, A
Partnership of the Lila Wal-
lace-Reader’s Digest Fund
and the Smithsonian Insti-
tution. The kit took much
of its inspiration from the
Duke Ellington Youth Proj-
ect, a continuing collabora-
tion between the museum
and the District of Colum-
bia public schools.

g@ The Lemelson Center
continued “Innovative
Lives,” its lecture-demon-
stration series that intro-
duces middle school stu-
dents to the lives of
inventors and entrepre-
neurs. Last year’s speakers
included Wilson Great-
batch, the inventor of the
implantable cardiac pace-
maker, and Patsy Sherman,
whose discoveries led to the develop-
ment of Scotchgard. To celebrate the
150th birthday of Thomas Edison, the
museum joined the Henry Ford Mu-
seum and Greenfield Village in Michi-
gan in an electronic field trip for mid-
dle school students.

g “La Francophonie Noire: The Roots
and Evolution of the Franco-Creole
Diaspora in the Americas” was this
year’s Black History Month program,
produced by the Program in African
American Culture. The film festival,
oral histories, demonstrations, music
and dance performances, symposium,
and cultural marketplace revealed the
links between modern American cul-
ture and the Creole culture of
Louisiana, the Caribbean, and Africa.
Black Film Review and the Anacostia
Museum and Center for African Ameri-
can History and Culture gave financial
support to the program.

g Every concert by the Smithsonian

Jazz Masterworks Orchestra and the en-

Visitors at the National Postal Museum

enter information into one of the many
interactive computer stations in “What's
in the Mail for You!”, an exhibition about
direct mail marketing in the United
States. (Photograph by Charles Phillips)

sembles of the Smithsonian Chamber
Music Society brings audiences great
music and performances illuminated
by the study of music history. Before
many concerts, hour-long discussions
with scholars and performers offer new
insights into the music. This year, the
Chamber Music Society inaugurated
“Future Music,” a collaboration in edu-
cation with Washington’s Levine
School of Music that brings students to
the museum for performances, work-
shops, and tours of the Collection of
Musical Instruments. For more than 25
years, the Chamber Music Society has
relied on the financial support of the
Friends of Music at the Smithsonian.
The Jazz Masterworks Orchestra is sup-
ported by a congressional appropriation,
the Recording Industries Music Perfor-
mance Trust Funds, and Nis-
san Motor Corporation U.S.A.
g In September, the museum
launched its new Web site,
http://www.si.edu/nmah, which
features virtual exhibitions of
artifacts not on display in the
museum, special activities for
kids and classrooms, music
clips, finding aids for archival
materials, and more.

@ The National Postal Mu-
seum is dedicated to expand-
ing public understanding of
American history as inter-
preted through postal history
since 1673. This year, the mu-
seum produced a new activity
book for children, funded in
part by the Sennett Founda-
tion; conducted an impressive
array of public programs; in-
troduced two new education
videos celebrating the cre-
ation of Rural Free Delivery;
and lent more than 300 ob-
jects to other institutions as
part of its educational out-
reach. The museum’s newest
gallery, “What's in the Mail
for You!” is a state-of-the-art interactive
exhibition on the evolution and impor-
tance of direct mail from the 19th cen-
tury to the present. The exhibition was
made possible by a generous grant from
Pitney Bowes, Inc.

Ww
(6)
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN

W. Richard West, Director

The National Museum of the
American Indian is dedicated to
the preservation, study, and exhi-
bition of the life, languages, litera-
ture, history, and arts of natives of
the Western Hemisphere. In con-
sultation, collaboration, and coop-
eration with native peoples, the
museum works to protect and fos-
ter their cultures by reaffirming
traditions and beliefs, encouraging
artistic expression, and providing a
forum for Indian voices. Through
innovative public programming,
research, and collections, the mu-

seum works to fulfill its mission.

Navajo Nation Museum staff member

Verna Francisco (top) works with Su-
san Heald, conservator at the National
Museum of the American Indian, on the
installation of “Woven by the Grand-
mothers: Nineteenth-Century Navajo
Textiles from the National Museum of
the American Indian.” NMAI staff held a
workshop in museum methods for
Navajo Museum trainees before the ex-
hibition opened. (Photograph by Szabo
Photography)

@ Construction of the museum’s Cul-
tural Resources Center in Suitland,
Maryland, began during the past year.
As the heart of the National Museum
of the American Indian, the Cultural
Resources Center has three purposes: to
house, protect and care for the 1-mil-
lion-object collection; to be the focal
point for research, community service,
and outreach; and to support the mu-
seum’s public facilities on the National
Mall and at the George Gustav Heye
Center in New York City. The center is
scheduled to open in the fall of 1998.
g In July, the Kresge Foundation
awarded the museum a $500,000 chal-
lenge grant to help fund construction
of the Cultural Resources Center. To
stimulate private giving
to the facility, the foun-
dation has required the
museum to raise the
more than $1.5 million
needed to complete the
construction fund be-
fore the grant is dis-
bursed. The museum
must raise the necessary
funds by October 1,
1998.

mg “Woven by the
Grandmothers: Nine-
teenth-Century Navajo
Textiles from the Na-
tional Museum of the
American Indian”
opened in October at
the George Gustav
Heye Center. This exhi-
bition of some 45 spectacular examples
of Navajo weavings from the museum’s
unparalleled collection is traveling to
museums in Arizona and Washington,
D.C., under the sponsorship of Mobil
Corporation. Efforts to further the mu-
seum’s mission to “consult, collabo-
rate, and cooperate with native peo-
ples” across the hemisphere were
realized in a special training program
held in conjunction with “Woven by
the Grandmothers” in August. The
program—which began in Window

Rock, Arizona, the capital of the
Navajo Nation—brought together
several aspiring Navajo museum pro-
fessionals to learn about exhibition in-
stallation, conservation, and registra-
tion while the exhibition was on view
at the Navajo Nation Museum. The
Navajo trainees continued their in-
struction in Washington, D.C., when
the exhibition traveled to the National
Museum of Women in the Arts. The
museum is also reaching out nation-
ally with another exhibition, “New-
born Ancestors: The Art and Articles of
Plains Indian Children,” which went
on view for a year beginning in March
1997 at the San Francisco Airport.

gw On Match 27, just two and a half
years since the Heye Center's opening
in October 1994, attendance broke

1 million. Weekly attendance soared
during the summer months to 13,000
visitors a week, a 54.5 percent increase
over last summer's figures. Year-end
attendance topped 600,000, almost
double last year’s attendance.

mg The museum continues its commit-
ment, under federal law and museum
policy, to repatriate human remains
and objects of religious and cultural
patrimony to native groups throughout
the hemisphere. Among the most sig-
nificant returns this year was to the
Haudenasaunee (Iroquois Confederacy)
in May. The 19 strands of wampum—
Iroquois history documented in metic-
ulously stranded shells—were the sec-
ond return of wampum to the Iroquois
people in less than a year.

@ A traditional Native American star-
pattern quilt commissioned by the mu-
seum was installed in May in the Ray-
burn House Office Building on Capitol
Hill. The quilt was made by Nellie
Menard (Rosebud Sioux) and replaces a
quilt previously on loan from the Ana-
costia Museum. Director W. Richard
West and Representative Ralph Regula
(R-Ohio), chairman of the House Com-
mittee on Appropriations, were on
hand for the dedication.
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Robert W. Fri, Director

Educational outreach at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History
takes many forms. New media—
including the World Wide Web,
videoconferencing, and electronic
field trips—make collections and
staff expertise available to scien-
tists and students beyond the Na-
tional Mall. Exhibitions and pub-

lic programs present the latest
discoveries and ideas in anthropol-
ogy and the natural sciences to
more than 5 million museum visi-
tors each year and, we hope, inter-
est young people in the excite-
ment and creativity of working in
these fields.

Administrators, scientists, and
educators realize, however, that to
remain a trusted voice about the
natural world, human origins, and

cultural diversity, it is not enough
to present an authoritative and
balanced view of the current state
of science. Many contentious pub-
lic policy issues turn on scientific
evidence, and people look to sci-
ence for answers. Unfortunately,
science rarely cooperates, for scien-

tists are trained to raise questions,

and they approach answers with
skepticism. As a result, their work
reflects uncertainty more often
than resolution. To educate the
public fully about science, the mu-
seum’s exhibitions and programs
must go beyond presenting inter-
esting new discoveries and inter-
pretations to address how scien-
tists pursue knowledge and why
science is constantly changing.

@ In September 1997, the museum
opened the Janet Annenberg Hooker
Hall of Geology, Gems, and Minerals,
the most ambitious renovation of a
permanent exhibition ever carried out
at the Smithsonian. The hall incorpo-
rates new understandings of the forces
that shape Earth (the theory of plate

tectonics, for example, was in its in-

fancy when the old geology exhibi-

The new Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall
of Geology, Gems, and Minerals at the
National Museum of Natural History
showcases the Smithsonian's incompa-
rable collections of gemstones, mineral
specimens, and meteorites against a
rich background of geological and plan-
etary science. Visitors to the Moon, Me-
teorite, and Solar System Gallery learn
what meteorites and Earth rocks bil-
lions of years old reveal about the earli-
est moments of the solar system
(Photograph by Chip Clark)
42

tions were created) and technically so-
phisticated research that sheds light on
the origins of the solar system. Visitors
can choose a capsule summary or a
deeper exploration of contemporary
geoscience. More than 3,000 speci-
mens, including touchable meteorites,
expand on the exhibition’s main
themes, and interactive displays such
as a working seismograph and a
meteor “collision” with Earth via com-
puter invite visitors to learn more.

The new hall is named in honor of
Mrs. Janet Annenberg Hooker in recog-
nition of her $5 million contribution
toward its creation. More than $13 mil-
lion was raised to build the hall, which
was funded entirely through private
donation.

g@ The museum’s Senate of Scientists
launched an informal discussion series
called “Spotlight on Research.” Weekly
discussions held in the exhibition gal-
leries introduce the public to museum
scientists’ work and emphasize the re-
search value of the museum's incompa-

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Alan Fern, Director

The National Portrait Gallery is
dedicated to the exhibition and
study of portraits of people who
have made significant contribu-
tions to American history and cul-
ture and to the study of the artists
who created such portraiture. The
gallery sponsors a variety of schol-
arly and public activities for audi-
ences interested in American art
and American history.

gw “Red, Hot & Blue: A Salute to Ameri-
can Musicals,” a collaboration between
the National Portrait Gallery and the
National Museum of American History,
was the major exhibition of the year.
Presented at the Portrait Gallery from
October 25 through July 6, it was spon-
sored primarily by Discover Card.

rable collections. This year’s topics in-
cluded ichthyology, botany, human
origins, geology, and meteor studies.

g “Amber: Window to the Past” ex-
plored the paleobiological value and
the enduring aesthetic appeal of amber.
Displays of amber-based research at the
museum, docent tours, and public pro-
grams on paleobiology, cultural anthro-
pology, and molecular systematics
complemented the exhibition, which
was organized by the American Mu-
seum of Natural History, New York
City. The museum received favorable
publicity for the exhibition and for
Amber Identi-Days, when museum pa-
leobotanist Francis Hueber identified
countless pieces of amber jewelry
brought in by the public.

g Public programs enhanced the mu-
seum’s presentation of “Global Warm-
ing: Understanding the Forecast,” a
traveling exhibition produced by the
Environmental Defense Fund and the
American Museum of Natural History.
Five panel discussions with museum

Approximately 200,000 visitors, includ-
ing Tony Bennett, Liza Minnelli, Carol
Channing, and Gregory Peck, saw the
exhibition. Museum shop sales sur-
passed previous records, and the lav-
ishly illustrated book accompanying
the exhibition became a Book-of-the-
Month Club alternate. Public programs
ranged from original musical perfor-
mances at both museums to a conver-
sation between curators Amy Hender-
son and Dwight Blocker Bowers and
Broadway legend Hal Prince that was
sponsored by The Smithsonian Associ-
ates and videotaped for broadcast on
the Ovation arts cable network. The cu-
rators are developing a touring version
of the exhibition with the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
and a documentary film on the role of
musicals in American culture.

scientists and prominent guest speakers
drew nearly 1,000 scientists, policy
makers, and policy advocates.

@ The museum’s O. Orkin Insect Zoo
celebrated its 20th anniversary with
Bugfest '97. For two decades, Insect
Zoo staff and volunteers have shared
their passion for six- and eight-legged
creatures with tens of thousands of
children while educating museumgo-
ers of all ages about the function of in-
sects in maintaining the environment.
@ Museum staff and volunteers hosted
more than 16,000 students in nearly
500 scheduled school tours. The Natu-
ralist Center, Insect Zoo, “Exploring
Marine Ecosystems” exhibition and
laboratory, and Discovery Room were
particularly popular. “Exploring Ma-
rine Ecosystems” was the site of the
museums first Natural Partners Initia-
tive electronic field trip. Teachers, stu-
dents, and the museum’s partner insti-
tution for this inaugural program, the
Indiana Academy, all called the day a
great success.

g Other exhibitions included “Edith
Wharton's World: Portraits of People
and Places,” which marked the 100th
anniversary of the publication of
Wharton’s book The Decoration of
Houses and featured artifacts that re-
flected the writer’s cosmopolitan life.
“Mathew Brady’s Portraits: Images as
History, Photography as Art,” made
possible in part by assistance from
Siemens, was the first comprehensive
study in this century of the photogra-
pher’s entire career. Portraits from the
gallery’s collection in “Breaking Racial
Barriers: African Americans in the Har-
mon Foundation Collection” re-created
the 1944 exhibition organized by the
Harmon Foundation to combat racial
prejudice. “Le Tumulte Noir: Paul
Colin’s Jazz Age Portfolio” featured col-
orful lithographs celebrating Josephine
Baker and the jazz craze in 1920s Paris.
@ The earliest recorded photographic
portrait of abolitionist John Brown, a
daguerreotype made in 1847 by Augus-
tus Washington, was acquired this year.
The purchase was made possible by a
generous contribution from Betty Adler
Schermer, whose great-grandfather
fought next to Brown in Kansas. Other
notable acquisitions included a self-
portrait drawing by Jacob Lawrence,
screenprints of Marilyn Monroe by
Andy Warhol, the gallery’s first acquisi-
tion of animation cels by the Walt Dis-
ney Studio, a sculpture of Irving Berlin,
and paintings of Merce Cunningham,
Joseph Brant, and Lionel Hampton.

@ The gallery celebrated two years of
presenting its collections, programs,
and exhibitions to researchers and the
public on the Internet. A monthly por-
trait quiz on America Online attracted
a regular following, with gallery exhibi-
tion catalogues awarded to the win-
ners. The World Wide Web site,
http://www.npg.si.edu, received several
awards, including CNET Best of the
Web, Education Index Top Site, Lycos
Top 5%, and ThirdAge Special Site. The
Catalog of American Portraits added
collections in Oregon, North Dakota,
and South Dakota to its research data-
base, which is accessible on the Web.

@ The gallery continues to reach out to

new audiences and share its collections
and mission with people who are un-
able to visit. Senior adults enjoyed
programs inspired by the permanent
collection and special exhibitions, de-
veloped by the Education Department
and presented at the gallery or at other
sites. “Portraits in Music” recalled the
music of the audience’s youth, and “Il-
luminated Lectures” addressed themes
from American history.

g A variety of other programs engaged
the public in the National Portrait
Gallery. Susan W. Dryfoos's film The
Line King: The Al Hirschfeld Story made
its Washington, D.C., premiere at the
gallery. Black Broadway, an original
“Cultures in Motion” musical produc-
tion presented in conjunction with
“Red, Hot & Blue,” captivated an audi-
ence of unprecedented size. The gallery
and Discovery Channel cohosted a be-
hind-the-scenes tour on the theme of
Presidents Day for members of Congress
and their families. In March, Dorothy
Height, president of the National Coun-
cil of Negro Women, was interviewed by
Marc Pachter in the series “Living Self-
Portraits.” Sylvia Jukes Morris gave a lec-
ture on her new biography of Clare
Boothe Luce. Saul Bellow was honored
on his 82nd birthday as the gallery ac-
quired a portrait of the Pulitzer
Prize-winning author by Sarah Yuster.

[ NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Michael H. Robinson, Director

The primary mission of the Na-
tional Zoological Park in its 108th
year continues to be the advance-
ment of science, biological conser-
vation, and the education and
recreation of the people. In fulfill-
ing its mission, the Zoo has be-
come a biological park that empha-
sizes the interdependence of
plants, animals, and environments.
The new Amazonia Science Gallery
exhibit and award-winning World
Wide Web site introduce zoogoers

and online visitors to the many sci-
entific studies by Zoo and Smith-
sonian researchers that reveal the
intricacies of the living world. The
163-acre Zoo facility in Washing-
ton, D.C., is complemented by its
3,150-acre wildlife Conservation
and Research Center in Front
Royal, Virginia.

g On April 16, the National Zoo marked
the 25th anniversary of the arrival of
the giant pandas. Hsing-Hsing and Ling-

Believed to be the earliest photographic
portrait of abolitionist John Brown, this
ca. 1847 daguerreotype by the African
American daguerreotypist Augustus
Washington is an important recent addi-
tion to the National Portrait Gallery's
collection. (Photograph by Rolland
White)

Ling were a gift to the people of the
United States from the people of China
as a symbol of friendship and goodwill
following President Richard Nixon’s trip
in February 1972. Twenty-seven-year-
old Hsing-Hsing, the surviving animal
of the original pair, is very likely the
most famous zoo resident in the United
States. An estimated 75 million people
(3 million annually) have visited the
Zoo’s giant panda exhibit since 1972.

mg The Amazonia Science Gallery, which
opened in December, showcases biodi-
versity and the work of Smithsonian
44

scientists. Included in the gallery are
displays about the complex variety of
life in the Amazon rainforest; a biodi-
versity study center where visitors use
microscopes to examine collections of
insects; and laboratories where working
scientists investigate animal behavior,
genetics, and nutrition. A focal point of
the new exhibit is the Earth Situation
Room, which incorporates projected
satellite images and a computerized
database that display geophysical, bio-
logical, and human factors affecting
life on our planet.

@ Zoo efforts to breed the endangered
greater one-horned Asian rhinoceros
resulted in a double suc-
cess. On September 18,
Chitwan, a female, was
born to 11-year-old
Mechi, and on October
31, Himal, a male, was
born to 11-year-old Kali.
[hese remarkable calves
grew to more than 1,000
pounds in only 10
months. The propagation
of these rhinos in zoos is

critical, as only a few

thousand survive.
g@ The Friends of the Na-
tional Zoo (FONZ) sup-

a

ported the Zoo with mor
than $1.5 million from
its concessions, more
than $500,000 from
fund-raising efforts such
as National ZooFari and
Adopt a Species, and
100,000 hours of volun-
teer service. FONZ sup-
port includes managing
school education pro-
grams, most of which are
funded by grants and by
special events such as the
new Wildlife Art Festival.
These programs reached

nearly 20,000 school-

animal conservation facility in Ohio,
collaborated on the use of artificial in-
semination to produce four scimitar-
horned oryx calves. The birth of the
two males and two females between
June 13 and June 20 is an important
advance in the conservation of this
highly endangered species. These
healthy calves represent the largest
number of oryx offspring ever pro-
duced by artificial insemination.

g@ The National Zoo’s conservation ef-
forts were featured in a special satellite-
to-schools teleconference on October
29, produced by Kurtis Productions,

Inc. “The Battle to Save Endangered

children in 1997 with
self-guides, outreach kits, and other
materials. In addition, public education
programs funded by FONZ reached
about 72,000 children and adults.

@ The Zoo’s Conservation and Re-
search Center (CRC) and the Wilds, an

This greater one-horned Asian rhinoc-

eros is one of two born this year at the
National Zoo. Because only a few thou-
sand of these rhinos survive, the propa-
gation of this species in zoos is critical.
(Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

Species” reached an estimated 3 to 5
million students in 11,000 schools
across North America. Two of the spe-
cies featured, the black-footed ferret
and the Florida panther, are alive to-
day due in part to the collaborative
efforts of reproductive biologists from
the National Zoo.

g@ The Conservation and Research Cen-
ter conducted a special course, “Ad-
vanced Conservation Training,” for 83
scientists, managers, graduate students,
and conservation organization repre-
sentatives. Participants received train-
ing from CRC staff in the latest conser-
vation biology methods and theories as
well as in remote sensing
and in genetics and biodi-
versity monitoring and
sampling. CRC staff con-
ducted the same training
course in 1997 in China,
Burma, Thailand, and
Brazil.

g@ The Howard Hughes
Medical Institute 1997 Pre-
College Science Education
Initiative for Science Mu-
seums, Aquaria, Botanical
Gardens, and Zoos
awarded a $100,000, four-
year grant to the Zoo. The
funds will support the up-
dating of the Zoo’s science
education materials, devel-
opment of new materials
and activities for teachers,
and expansion of the
teacher workshop program
at the Zoo.

g The Zoo's Latino Pro-
gram recruited Latino pro-
fessionals to develop and
promote science outreach
programs for Latino com-
munities. In 1997, Adrian
Cerezo, education/exhibit
fellow, was instrumental
in developing the educa-
tion and interpretation
programs at the Amazonia Science
Gallery. Carlos Ruiz-Miranda, coordina-
tor of the Zoo Latino Program, and
Michelle Garcia, education specialist,
completed a three-year science out-
reach program with local schools.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Irwin |. Shapiro, Director

In this “Year of the Comet,” the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Obser-
vatory (SAO) had ample opportu-
nity to show why astronomy,
blessed with often spectacular im-
ages of extraordinary celestial phe-
nomena, has such potential to in-
spire, inform, and educate the
public about science and technol-
ogy. For example, in a scene dupli-
cated at scores of other sites
around the country, more than
3,000 people willingly stood for
hours in bitter cold atop the roof
of the observatory’s complex in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, to
catch a glimpse of comet Hale-

Bopp. As a partner with Harvard
College Observatory in the joint
Center for Astrophysics, and in co-
operation with the National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration
(NASA), the University of Arizona,
and the University of Hawaii’s In-
stitute for Astronomy, SAO pursues
a broad program of investigation
into the physical processes that
have created and shaped the Earth,
the solar system, the galaxy, and
the universe. In books, magazines,
videos and films, teacher work-
shops and summer institutes, pub-
lic lectures, interpretive displays at
the Whipple Observatory Visitors

Center in Arizona, and, increas-
ingly, on the World Wide Web,
SAO research results are incorpo-
rated into science education curric-
ula for the nation’s schools and en-
hance outreach programs for

diverse audiences.

w A team of scientists led by an SAO as-
tronomer discovered and described an
entirely new kind of solar system ob-
ject—an icy miniplanet. They deter-
mined that it and others like it might
be denizens of the vast, dark, no-man’s-
land between the Kuiper Belt of frozen
small celestial bodies beyond Pluto’s or-
bit and the Oort Cloud of comets that

forms a halo around the solar system.

The Smithsonian Castle might look this way if a black hole with the mass of Saturn

appeared in the middle of the National Mall. This effect, called a gravitational lens,

is the focus of a new study by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics.

(Image created by Brian McLeod)
46

@ The belief that giant, Jupiter-like
planets might be common to stars like
the Sun was bolstered by the discovery
of such an object orbiting Rho Coronae
Borealis, a star in the constellation
Northern Crown. A team of SAO as-
tronomers and colleagues from two
other institutions found the object us-
ing a special spectrograph on the 1.5-
meter telescope at the Smithsonian's
Whipple Observatory in Arizona. The
discovery had an unusual twist: the
planet is orbiting far closer to its parent
star than anyone had previously imag-
ined possible—even closer than tiny
Mercury is to our Sun.

g SAO published a large-scale color
poster showing the graphic result of

a 20-year survey of giant molecular
clouds in the Milky Way conducted by
two identical 1.2-meter radio tele-
scopes, one on the roof of the SAO
complex in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
and the other on a mountaintop in

Chile. The poster was made available to
students, researchers, and amateur as-
tronomers worldwide.

@ Based on satellite observations of
x-ray binary stars, SAO scientists and
their colleagues confirmed the exis-
tence of a previously theoretical
phenomenon known as an “event
horizon,” the one way membrane sur-
rounding a black hole and the point at
which all forms of matter and light be-
gin to fall into this gravitational trap.
g@ The unique cylindrical mirrors de-
signed by an SAO scientist to form the
heart of the Advanced X-Ray Astro-
physics Facility (AXAF) space observa-
tory, scheduled for launch in late 1998,
were successfully tested by NASA and
found to exceed all premanufacture
specifications. In space, the mirrors
should have a resolving power 10 times
greater than those in any previous

x-ray telescope.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Ross Simons, Acting Director

The Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center (SERC) advances
stewardship of the biosphere by in-
vestigating the effects of human
activities on natural systems.
SERC’s home research site on the
shore of the Chesapeake Bay pro-
vides unique opportunities to
study a variety of interconnected
ecosystems, but SERC research also
extends to sites around the globe.
SERC's educational programs reach
people of all backgrounds, includ-
ing schoolchildren, teachers, the
general public, and environmental
scientists-in-training.

@ Since April, school groups from
Washington, D.C., Maryland, and Vir-
ginia have been coming to SERC’s new
Philip D. Reed Education Center to ex-
plore the Rhode River estuary with fish-
nets, crab traps, and boundless enthusi-
asm. The center, which includes a

multipurpose classroom, library, ex-
hibit hall, and office, will host nearly
10,000 students and teachers partici-
pating in environmental education
each year.

@ SERC played a major role in develop-
ing and leading aquatic and terrestrial
programs for Gallaudet University’s
Summer Institute in Biology. Focusing
on deaf teachers and teachers for the
deaf, SERC education staff used the
new Reed Education Center and the
surrounding natural ecosystems for
hands-on programs in estuarine, wet-
land, and forest ecology.

g An innovative traveling exhibition
that illustrates the ecology of the blue
crab and related SERC research was
produced with the help of volunteers,
teachers, interns, and students. “A
Gripping Tale of the Blue Crab” is
circulating to public schools accompa-
nied by a teacher’s manual and instruc-
tional materials.

@ Forests at SERC became the testing
ground for a National Aeronautics and

@ Ultraviolet and optical images of the
giant star Mira and its hot companion,
obtained by two SAO scientists and
their colleagues using the Hubble Space
Telescope’s Faint Object Camera, repre- |
sent both the first ultraviolet images
and the first separate spectra of the two
stars. The unique views suggest that
material from Mira’s extended atmo-
sphere is being drawn onto the smaller
companion by the latter’s strong gravi-
tational attraction.

@ The direction to the center of the
Milky Way galaxy—a point around
which all stars, including the Sun, ro-
tate and which is hidden from optical
view by dust between the stars—has
been determined by SAO radio as-
tronomers and colleagues to within
0.03 arcsecond, a measurement uncer-
tainty equivalent to less than the width
of a penny as seen from a distance of
65 kilometers.

Space Administration instrument that
probes the canopy structure with lasers.
Mounted on aircraft or spacecraft,
SLICER (Scanning Lidar Imager of
Canopies by Echo Recovery) will col-
lect information on the production,
complexity, and developmental stages
of vast areas of forest.

g With an expanding global network of
monitors, SERC is tracking increases in
ultraviolet (UV) light caused by deple-
tion of stratospheric ozone. SERC also
studies the effects of UV light on pho-
tosynthesis by marine algae in Arctic,
Antarctic, and temperate regions. One
study has shown how natural sun-
screens produced by marine plankton
called dinoflagellates protect their pho-
tosynthetic apparatus from ultraviolet
damage.

@ In a new SERC field experiment lo-
cated at the Kennedy Space Center, car-
bon dioxide concentration is doubled
in stands of scrub oak enclosed in 12-
foot-tall, open-topped chambers. This
simulation of future atmospheric con

Jitions has revealed effects on photo-
synthesis, root and shoot growth, soil
moisture, and interactions of plants
ind insects.

gs Nonindigenous species are invading
the world’s coastal waters at accelerating
rates due to transport of marine organ-
isms in the ballast water of cargo ships.
The SERC Invasions Biology Program is
comparing the patterns and impacts of
species introductions in coastal ecosys-
tems in the Chesapeake Bay, Florida,
central California, and Alaska. Congress

has named SERC as the national clear-
inghouse for information on patterns of
ballast water delivery in relation to bio-
logical invasions.

@ Data collected over nine years on
phytoplankton blooms in the Rhode
River (a subestuary of the Chesapeake
Bay) show that blooms can be pre-
vented either by low rates of phospho-
rus release from sediments in the river
or by low inputs of nitrogen from the
Susquehanna River, the main source of

freshwater to the upper Chesapeake Bay.

School groups explore the Rhode River with seine nets to learn about estuarine

ecology at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center. (Photograph by David

A. Colburn)

SERC’s New Reed Education Center

At its 2,600-acre complex on the Rhode River near
Annapolis, Maryland, the Smithsonian Environmen-
tal Research Center (SERC) offers abundant oppor-
tunities for seeing research in action and learning
about the history of ecological interaction at the
edge of the Chesapeake Bay. Education at SERC
can mean exploring tidal and freshwater marshes
on the Java History Trail, measuring water quality
indicators in the river and on the bay, or traveling
by canoe to observe wildlife in wetlands areas and
along forested riverbanks.

The new Philip D. Reed Education Center, which
opened this year, offers a warm, informal environ-
ment for welcoming students and other visitors
who enjoy SERC programs. There is expanded
space for indoor program components, along with
more room for teacher workshops, seminars, pro-
grams for college students, and changing, flexible
interpretive exhibits. A new teacher resource li-
brary contains reference materials on current top-
ics in environmental research and education. For
casual visitors, the Reed Center is a place to learn
about the complexity of ecosystems and find infor-
mation about the Chesapeake Bay and SERC's re-
search programs.

The Reed Center is the product of public-private
partnership. The Philip D. Reed Foundation con-
tributed almost half the funds for its construction,
while partial funding for the exhibit hall came from
the Estate of Esther Hoffman and the Smithsonian
Women’s Committee, and other private donors
supported the teacher resource library. With this
new facility, SERC hopes to double the number of
visitors it serves to nearly 10,000 each year.

48

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Ira Rubinoff, Director

The Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (STRI) is dedicated to the
study of the organisms, ecosys-
tems, and peoples of the world’s
tropics. With a permanent staff of
35 scientists and hundreds of visit-
ing researchers from throughout
the world who use its facilities
each year, STRI also reached out to
various audiences through its edu-

cational and public programs.

g An agreement signed on June 20 by
Panamanian Foreign Relations Minister
Ricardo Arias and Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute director Ira Rubinoff
ensures that STRI operations in Panama
will continue beyond the termination
of the Panama Canal Treaty on Decem-
ber 31, 1999.

gw STRI's new Center for Tropical Paleo-
ecology and Archaeology officially
opened on January 30 in a renovated
1919 building that originally housed
all of STRI. The center brings together
researchers who are studying tropical
environments and climates as early as

20 million years ago and as recent as

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Director Ira Rubinoff and Panama's
Minister of Foreign Affairs Ricardo

Arias shake hands after signing the
agreement that ensures STRI operations
in Panama beyond the termination of
the Panama Canal Treaties on Decem-
ber 31, 1999. (Photograph by Marcos
A. Guerra)

the advent of human colonization of
the New World tropics during the last
15,000 years.

g A second canopy crane funded by
the government of Denmark was in-
stalled by STRI in very wet forest on
the Caribbean side of the Panamanian
Isthmus. Seven canopy cranes are now
in operation or under construction
worldwide. Earlier in the year, STRI and
the United Nations Environment Pro-
gramme hosted a conference in
Panama where representatives of the
seven intensive canopy research pro-
grams formed a network to standardize
data collection to make comparisons
among sites.

@ The original laboratory building on
STRI's Barro Colorado Island biological
reserve was renovated as a visitor center
with support from the Fundacion
NATURA, the Robert E. Silberglied
Memorial Fund, and the Eugene Eisen-
mann Fund. It was dedicated to the
memory of Martin H. Moynihan, S PRI's
first director. The new visitor center
houses the permanent exhibition “The

Forest Speaks,” which focuses on animal

communication and features the is-

land’s history and current STRI research.
g As part of the celebration of the In-
ternational Year of the Reef, the STRI
exhibition “Our Reefs: Caribbean Con-
nections” began its tour. After opening
at Miami International Airport for a
three-month run supported by Dade
County, the exhibition traveled to
Washington, D.C., where it was on dis-
play at Union Station, thanks to the
Henry Foundation, and at the Inter-
American Development Bank head-
quarters. With support from the Corpo-
racion Panamena de Aviacion, the
exhibition started its Caribbean tour at
the San Pedro Sula International Air-
port in Honduras, hosted by the Hon-
duras Coral Reef Fund.

w STRI’s Marine Exhibition Center, a
partnership with the Fundacion Smith-
sonian de Panama, received more than
60,000 visitors in fiscal year 1997. Lo-
cated at the Pacific entrance to the
Panama Canal, the center is dedicated
to the education and conservation of
marine environments. From March
through September, the Panama Canal
Commission's exhibition “Harnessing
the Forces of Nature” was on view.

EDUCATION, MUSEUM, AND SCHOLARLY SERVICES

| CENTER FOR MUSEUM STUDIES

Working with museum profession-
als, students, and volunteers from
the United States and around the
world, the Center for Museum
Studies offers programs and ser-
vices designed to strengthen mu-
seums’ capacity for public service.
The breadth of this year’s activities
illustrates the center’s outreach.

Fifteen Ph.D. candidates came to
the Smithsonian for “Interpreting
Latino Cultures: Research and Mu-
seums,” an intensive two-week
program that stimulates new per-
spectives on archival and museum
collections. The annual seminar is
cosponsored by the Inter-Univer-
sity Program for Latino Research.
Humanities Fellowships in Latino
Studies, a new three-year program
for Latino scholars funded by the
Rockefeller Foundation, will begin
in 1998.

To address the needs of tribal
museums and cultural centers, the
center’s American Indian Museum

Studies Program created the Mu-
seum Development Award, a year-
long program of consultation and
training. The People’s Center of
the Confederated Salish and
Kootenai Tribes in Pablo, Montana,
was the first recipient.

The Vincent Wilkinson Endow-
ment Fund, which supports
African American students’ partici-
pation in the Museum Intern Part-
nership program, underwrote part-
nerships between the National
Museum of American History’s
Program in African American Cul-
ture and the Great Plains Black
Museum in Omaha, Nebraska, and
between the National Museum of
African Art and Spelman College
Museum of Fine Art in Atlanta,
Georgia. A third partnership was
established between the National
Museum of Natural History’s De-
partment of Anthropology and
Pennsylvania State University’s
Matson Museum of Anthropology.

NATIONAL SCIENCE RESOURCES CENTER

The National Science Resources
Center (NSRC) advocates an in-
quiry-centered approach to science
education in which students learn
to ask questions, gather informa-
tion, develop theories, plan and
carry out investigations, and com-
municate their ideas. The center,
operated jointly by the Smith-
sonian and the National Academy
of Sciences, collects and publishes
information about current science
teaching resources, develops inno-
vative curriculum materials, and
sponsors outreach activities to
stimulate and support science edu-
cation reform.

A new book from the NSRC, Sci-
ence for All Children: A Guide to Im-
proving Elementary Science Education
in Your School District, describes the
center’s rationale for implement-
ing an inquiry-based science pro-
gram, presents the five elements of
the NSRC model for systemic sci-
ence education reform, and pro-
files eight school districts that
have created successful programs.
In addition, work is nearing com-
pletion on a new guide, Resources
for Teaching Middle School Science.

It is a companion volume to
Resources for Teaching Elementary
School Science, published in 1996.

Partnerships in Science Education Reform

For the National Science Resources Center (NSRC),
partnerships are an effective force in stimulating
systemic change in science education. The NSRC
has established long-term partnerships with six
major corporations and foundations to promote

K through 8 reform in more than 100 urban, rural,
and suburban schools. The partners are the Bayer
Foundation, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation,
the Merck Institute for Science Education, the Dow
Chemical Company, the DuPont Company, and the
Hewlett-Packard Company. Together, these corpo-
rations and foundations have provided more than
$1.2 million of support to the NSRC and more than
$8 million to school districts in the communities
where they have sites.

Anders Hedberg, director of the Center for Sci-
ence Education, Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuti-
cal Research Institute, says that partnership has
multiple benefits because it “guides educators, ad-
ministrators, scientists, and business professionals
not only in how to pursue educational reform but
also in how to work effectively and efficiently
across professions with groups that have vastly
different business objectives.” This year, the
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation provided funding
to work with the Puerto Rico Public Schools and
the University of Puerto Rico on local K through 6
science education reform.

Partnerships also extend the impact of reform
initiatives by consolidating and strengthening indi-
vidual efforts. Joan Tharp, community relations
specialist with the Hewlett-Packard Company, says
that “because of our partnership with the NSRC,
Hewlett-Packard has moved from sponsoring
isolated activities in individual classrooms to a
focused, comprehensive, and long-term effort to
improve the public schools in our communities.”

The NSRC itself is a joint effort of the Smith-
sonian and the National Academy of Sciences.
Scientists and engineers from academia and the
business community, as well as educators, play a
strong role in the development and implementation
of NSRC programs.

49
50

With major funding from the
National Science Foundation, the
NSRC began work on Science and
Technology Concepts for Middle
Schools (STC/MS), a curriculum
program for grades 7 and 8. This
new project will build on the suc-
cess of the NSRC’s Science and
Technology for Children (STC)
program for grades 1 through 6.
This year, three sets of STC Discov-
ery Deck science activity cards
were completed. The decks are be-
ing developed to accompany the
12 STC units for grades 4 through
6. Each deck is designed to rein-

force the key science concepts in a
unit and relate them to children’s
lives.

At the NSRC’s annual K through
8 Science Education Leadership In-
stitutes, teams of teachers, school
administrators, and scientists work
with nationally recognized experts
to develop plans for implementing
an inquiry-centered curriculum in
their communities. This year’s in-
stitutes brought together 29 teams
from school systems in 15 states,
Puerto Rico, and Sweden. The U.S.
teams represented 46 school dis-
tricts that serve more than 800,000

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

In the spirit of creative partner-
ship, the Office of Exhibits Central
(OEC) offers a range of services
that bring exhibits to life. Organi-
zations within and outside the
Smithsonian turn to OEC experts
for consultation on exhibition de-
velopment, training in processes
and techniques, and design, edit-
ing, graphic production, model
making, and fabrication.

OEC’s early involvement in the
exhibition process contributes to
the effective visual realization of
ideas. This year, OEC participated
in the conceptual development of
several projects, including an exhi-
bition about the Burgess Shale
with the National Museum of Nat-
ural History and the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (SITES) and a permanent
presentation of the 150th anniver-
sary exhibition “Smithson’s Gift”
for the Smithsonian Institution
Building.

As part of its mandate for out-
reach and training, OEC worked
with Jon Weinberg from the South
African National Gallery in Cape
Town, who sought guidance in
staffing the exhibit process and de-
veloping exhibitions for travel. In
two continuing partnerships, OEC
exchanged staff and expertise with
the Cape Coast Castle Museum
project in Ghana and advised the
Latino American Youth Center in
Washington, D.C., on the design
and development of a gallery and
an inaugural exhibition.

OEC’s exhibits specialists know
how to make exhibitions appealing
and understandable to different au-
diences and exhibitors. This year,
OEC developed new uses for a suc-
cessful small-exhibition format cre-
ated in 1995 in collaboration with
SITES and various state humanities
councils. Using this format, ex-
hibitors in communities the Smith-
sonian has not typically served

students in kindergarten through
grade 8. Since 1989, 240 teams
representing school districts with
more than 6 million school-
children in these grades have
participated.

With a one-year planning grant
from the National Science Founda-
tion, the NSRC is developing a
strategy for reforming K through 8
science education through regional
partnerships. The proposed plan
involves many public and private
institutions working with 300
school districts nationwide.

gained affordable access to “Pro-
duce for Victory: Posters on the
American Home Front, 1941-1945,”
“Barn Again: Celebrating an Ameri-
can Icon,” and “Vanishing Am-
phibians,” all circulated by SITES.
OEC also continued to provide ex-
hibition services for a variety of
Smithsonian clients. Among the
year’s highlights were “American
Voices: Latino Photographers in the
United States” and “Seeing Jazz”
for the International Gallery and
SITES; “The Jazz Age in Paris, 1914—
1940” for the Center for African
American History and Culture and
SITES; “The Flag in American In-
dian Art” and “The Art of Jack
Delano” for SITES; a diorama and
models for the National Museum of
Natural History’s Janet Annenberg
Hooker Hall of Geology, Gems, and
Minerals; and “Audubon & the
Smithsonian” for the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries.
OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS

Each year, more than 800 students
and scholars from universities, mu-
seums, and research organizations
around the world come to the
Smithsonian to use its collections
and facilities. The Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants (OFG) manages
these centralized fellowships and
internships and administers all
stipend appointments, which are a
vital element of the Smithsonian’s
educational role. This year’s partic-
ipants ranged from distinguished
scholars and scientists (see sidebar)
to graduate and undergraduate
students.

Postdoctoral fellow Stephen Ins-
ley, for example, came from the
University of California, Davis, to
study competition, cooperation,

and the evolution of complex
communication in northern fur
seals at the National Zoological
Park. In the Smithsonian Museum
Shops, graduate student Cesar Bo-
cachica from the University of
Puerto Rico, Mayaguez, analyzed
current marketing programs dur-
ing his James E. Webb Internship.
Molly Senior, an undergraduate in-
tern from Bemidji State University,
Minnesota, helped develop a book
of photographs and poetry at the
National Museum of the American
Indian under the Native American
Program.

The office also manages compet-
itive grant programs for Smith-
sonian staff.

Dr. Tracie E. Bunton, a veterinary pathologist in the Division of Comparative Medi-
cine at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, became the George E.
Burch Fellow during 1997.

Burch Fellow Contributes to Cancer Research

The Smithsonian is an extraordinary resource for
scholars and students who seek concentrated time
to study particular subjects in their fields. Fellow-
ships, internships, and short-term visits are a val-
ued tradition at the Smithsonian and provide im-
portant links between the Institution and the
academic community.

For Dr. Tracie E. Bunton, a veterinary pathologist
from Johns Hopkins University, the prestigious
George E. Burch Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine
and Affiliated Theoretic Sciences has provided a
rare opportunity for intense concentration on her
research. Bunton is examining the development of
cancer markers in a species of fish exposed to en-
vironmental contaminants, hoping to uncover basic
mechanisms that can be applied to human cancer
development. This comparative knowledge could
expand the scope and vision of human cancer de-
tection and intervention therapy.

Funded largely by a gift from the assets of the
Burch Heart Research and Education Fund, the
Burch Fellowship encourages creative research that
potentially benefits human health and the human
condition. The greatest value of the award, Bunton
says, is the freedom and flexibility to pursue inde-
pendent research. As a result, she has made signif-
icant progress.

The Burch Fellowship and other centralized fel-
lowships and internships are managed by the Of-
fice of Fellowships and Grants.

51
Joseph Henry Bicentennial

In 1846, the first Board of Regents sought a per-
son of “eminent scientific and general acquire-
ments” to serve as the first Smithsonian Secretary.
Joseph Henry, a noted scientist often referred to as
the successor to Benjamin Franklin, was their
choice.

This year marked the bicentennial of the birth of
Henry, an influential figure in 19th-century Ameri-
can science and culture who set the Smithsonian
on its course toward the increase and diffusion of
knowledge. Henry was best known in the scientific
community for his work in electromagnetism. He
also invented the electric motor, and he laid the
foundation for a national weather service.

Henry believed that basic scientific research was
vital to American society, and he felt strongly that
the Smithsonian should be a leading research insti-
tution. When the illustrious senator from Illinois,
Stephen A. Douglas, accused the Smithsonian of
engaging in research of “no practical bearing,”
Henry came to the Institution’s defense. “The dis-
covery of today, which appears unconnected with
any useful process, may, in the course of a few
years, become the fruitful source of a thousand
inventions,” he wrote.

Henry also promoted the link between research
and education. He was, by all accounts, an out-
standing teacher, having taught at the Albany
Academy in New York and the College of New Jer-
sey (now Princeton University). “In Henry's world
view, Support of basic research resulted in superior
teaching, superior textbooks, and superior popular
expositions of science,” writes Marc Rothenberg,
editor of the Joseph Henry Papers. “Henry be-
lieved that by serving the research community, the
Smithsonian served a larger public.”

In recognition of the Henry bicentennial, several
professional organizations, state and local govern-
ments, and the Smithsonian engaged throughout
the year in commemorative activities, which culmi-
nated on December 17, 1997, the anniversary of
Henry’s birth. The Office of Smithsonian Institution
Archives, which includes the Joseph Henry Papers
project, was the lead organization in the commem-
oration. For more on Henry, visit the project’s Web
site at http://www.si.edu/archives/ihd/jhp.

52

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

As the Smithsonian's liaison with
individuals and institutions
abroad, with international organi-
zations, and with government
agencies, the Office of Interna-
tional Relations (OIR) supports the
Institution’s position as a leading
international center for education
and research. Among its activities
this year, OIR worked with the
United States Information Agency
and American embassies abroad to
organize a special program that
permitted Smithsonian staff to de-
liver lectures about the Institu-
tion’s research, collections, and ac-
tivities to public audiences, local

museum communities, and schol-

arly counterparts in two dozen
countries around the world.

OIR’s Afro-Caribbean Project
continued to provide specialized
assistance to museums in Jamaica
and Ghana for the development of
new national museums. The office
also obtained foreign visas and
passports for almost 200 Smith-
sonian staff traveling abroad,
arranged U.S. visa documentation
for almost 190 foreign scholars
and students wishing to do work
at the Smithsonian, and set up vis-
its with Smithsonian staff for more
than a dozen individuals and
groups of educators from other
countries.

OFFICE OF SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES |

Through a range of activities, the
Office of Smithsonian Institution
Archives (OSIA) led the commemo-
ration of the bicentennial of Joseph
Henry’s birth (see sidebar). Henry,
the first Smithsonian Secretary, was
a major figure in 19th-century
American science and culture. At
the same time, OSIA’s three divi-
sions—the Smithsonian Institution
Archives, the Institutional History
Division, and the National Collec-
tions Program—continued their
tradition of service to the Smith-
sonian community and the schol-
arly and general public.

To improve electronic access to
its resources, OSIA made the 1996
Guide to the Smithsonian Archives
available online through the
Smithsonian Institution Research
Information System (SIRIS) and
created a new Web site (/ittp://
www.si.edu/archives/). OSIA is also
participating in a test of the

Joseph Henry, first Secretary of the
Smithsonian, is shown in an 1875 por-
trait by Henry Ulke. (National Portrait
Gallery)
Dublin Core, a developing stan-
dard for the exchange of archives,

library, and museum information.
The National Collections Program
initiated the formal review and re-
vision of the Smithsonian Collec-
tions Management Policy to en-
sure that the policy statement is
current and effective. Throughout
the year, staff members shared
their expertise as speakers on mu-
seum archives, collections manage-
ment, and Smithsonian history at
local, national, and international
forums and as instructors for the
annual Museum and Library
Archives Institute.

OFFICE OF SPONSORED PROJECTS

The Office of Sponsored Projects
served Smithsonian researchers
and scholars this year by support-
ing their efforts to submit 208 pro-
posals valued at $47.9 million and
by negotiating and accepting for
the Institution 194 grants and con-
tracts having a value of $17.5 mil-
lion. Among the offices that re-
ceived external funding for
educational outreach projects this
year were: the Center for Folklife
Programs and Cultural Studies
from the Iowa Sesquicentennial
Commission for a multimedia

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

With 17 branches in Washington,
New York, and the Republic of
Panama, more than 1.2 million
volumes, and growing Internet ac-
cess, the Smithsonian Institution
Libraries supports all facets of the
Institution’s educational mission.
The scholarly community and the
public also benefit from the Li-
braries’ services.

This year, the Libraries contin-
ued to expand its digital library,
making specialized Smithsonian re-
sources available to scholars as
never before. A second full-text
electronic edition from the Smith-
sonian’s Bureau of American Eth-
nology (BAE) publications was pub-
lished on the Libraries’ Web site
(http://www.sil.si.edu). The BAE’s
work has had a significant impact
on the development of American
anthropology as a formal disci-
pline, and scholars and the public
throughout the world continue to
consult its publications.

Partnerships with other libraries
enhance the Libraries’ service. In a
new cooperative initiative with
other member libraries of the

Chesapeake Information and Re-
search Library Alliance, staff of
consortium members can borrow
circulating materials from the Na-
tional Agricultural Library and any
of the five regional university li-
braries in the consortium.

The Libraries was a focal point
for research and professional de-
velopment, welcoming scholars,
professional librarians, and interns
for concentrated study, profes-
sional training, and informational
tours. In the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Libraries/Dibner Library Resi-
dent Scholar Program, three schol-
ars conducted research in aspects
of the history of science. A visiting
professional librarian from Roma-
nia, sponsored by the SOROS
Foundation and the Library of
Congress, studied automated cata-
loging activities in the Cataloging
Services Department. Over the
year, three interns gained practical
experience working alongside pro-
fessionals. The Libraries also
hosted several groups of profes-
sionals and students for educa-
tional tours.

learning guide; the National Sci-
ence Resources Center from the
National Science Foundation for
the Science and Technology Con-
cepts for Middle Schools and Ca-
pacity Building for Science Educa-
tion and Reform programs; the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory from Mississippi State Univer-
sity/Bell South Corporation for
support of a Natural Partners Ini-
tiative project; and the Smith-
sonian Office of Education from
the National Faculty for a joint
program for teachers.

Leslie Overstreet, Smithsonian Institu-

tion Libraries’ curator of rare books for
the Natural History Rare Book Library,
holds a volume of N. J. Jacquin’s Rare
Horticultural Plants from the Schoenbrun
Botanic Gardens, published in Vienna,
1794-1804. (Photograph by Hugh
Talman)
54

Popular exhibitions are a vital
education and outreach tool for
the Libraries. “Audubon & the
Smithsonian,” which opened in
the Libraries’ Exhibition Gallery in
the National Museum of American

Bags of Refined Sugar in the Warehouse

of the South Puerto Rico Sugar Co.,
1942, is one of the eloquent images of
Puerto Rico on view in the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
exhibition “The Art of Jack Delano.”

History, brought together Audubon-
related objects from numerous
Smithsonian collections. Some
came to the Institution as a result
of Audubon’s friendship with
Spencer F. Baird, the second Smith-

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVIC!

sonian Secretary and creator of the
U.S. National Museum. The exhibi-_
tion also highlights Audubon’s
Birds of America and his study of
mammals, The Viviparous Quadru-
peds of North America.

As its acronym suggests, the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service (SITES) extends the
collections, research, and museum
expertise of the Smithsonian Insti-
tution to “sites” across the nation
and beyond. Since 1952, SITES has
traveled thousands of exhibitions
for the education and enjoyment
of people in every state and in sev-
eral foreign countries.

Small towns in Alabama, IIli-
nois, Ohio, and Oregon experi-
enced the Smithsonian this year as
“Barn Again: Celebrating an Amer-
ican Icon,” the second exhibition
in SITES’ rural initiative, began its
national tour. Especially designed
for display in rural community cul-
tural institutions, this small-scale
exhibition will travel to 32 differ-
ent locations in eight states
through 1998. Each state’s human-
ities council is working with SITES
to develop educational programs
and training resources for the host
institutions. “Barn Again” is made
possible through the generous sup-
port of the National Endowment
for the Humanities, the Smith-
sonian Special Exhibition Fund,
and the Smithsonian Educational
Outreach Fund.

“Vanishing Amphibians” began
its national SITES tour in March
1997, taking Smithsonian research
to 21 alternative learning locations
(including state parks, libraries,
and shopping malls) through the
year 2000. This colorful, small-for-
mat exhibition describes the
unique physiology of amphibians,

explores the threats to these deli-
cate creatures, examines the effects
of amphibian disappearances on
local environments, and presents
what scientists are doing to address
the problem. The exhibition was
coorganized by SITES and the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

Through collaborative efforts
with other organizations, SITES
reaches even wider audiences. The
National Endowment for the Hu-
manities has awarded a grant of
more than $250,000 to the Ameri-
can Library Association (ALA) to
produce a new version of the SITES
exhibition “The Jazz Age in Paris,
1914-1940.” Three copies of the
exhibition will be produced by
SITES and the ALA. The exhibition
will tour libraries throughout the
country beginning in late 1998.
“The Jazz Age” is a program of
America’s Jazz Heritage, A Partner-
ship of the Lila Wallace-Reader’s
Digest Fund and the Smithsonian
Institution.

The educational resources that
supplement SITES exhibitions ex-
tend the Smithsonian’s impact.
This year, for example, Nissan Mo-
tor Corporation U.S.A. supported
the development of a World Wide
Web site and a CD-ROM (pub-
lished by Simon & Schuster) based
on “Earth 2U, Exploring Geogra-
phy.” These outreach projects are
part of the continuing support that
Nissan has provided for the 40-city
tour of the exhibition, developed
by SITES and the National Geo-
graphic Society.

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF EDUCATION

This year, the Office of Elementary
and Secondary Education was re-
named the Smithsonian Office of
Education (SOE), signaling a broad
mission of supporting and advanc-
ing education within the Smith-
sonian and to its diverse audi-
ences. Through publications and
electronic media, professional de-
velopment programs for educators,
and partnerships with museums,
school systems, and other organi-
zations, SOE promotes learning
through the power of objects.

An innovative arts and humani-
ties curriculum is now in place in
the Smithsonian Museum Magnet
Schools, operated by the District of
Columbia Public Schools in part-
nership with SOE. Students at
Robert Brent Elementary School
and Stuart-Hobson Middle School,
located on Capitol Hill, develop
oral, written, scientific, visual, and
technological skills as they ob-
serve, study, and discuss what they
see and experience at the Smith-
sonian. SOE marshals the resources
of the National Museum of Ameri-

can History, the National Postal
Museum, the National Museum of
American Art, and the Anacostia
Museum to create a foundation for
experiential learning at the Institu-
tion and in the classroom. Initial
evaluation shows 96 percent regu-
lar attendance and dramatic de-
clines in discipline problems. Fac-
ulty attribute these developments
to a positive change in students’ at-
titudes toward school and an in-
crease in parental involvement.

Educators nationwide can find
ideas for teaching with objects
through SOE’s new World Wide
Web site, Smithsonian Education
(http://www.educate.si.edu/). The site
offers classroom-ready lessons and
activities, a listing of nearly 500 ed-
ucational products, a summary of
school tours and professional de-
velopment programs for teachers,
and links to education throughout
the Smithsonian.

Nearly 3,000 educators attended
Teachers’ Night at the Smithso-
nian, which provides an overview
of the exceptional teaching re-

Lively, interactive World Wide Web activities engage a child’s intellect and curiosity.
Smithsonian Education, a new Smithsonian Web site, shows how to bring museum
resources into the classroom. (Photograph by Eve Morra)

“The Art of Jack Delano” and Banco Popular

With support from Banco Popular of Puerto Rico,
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service (SITES) has organized a new bilingual ex-
hibition celebrating the work of the important doc-
umentary photographer Jack Delano. Best known
for his photographic work for the Farm Security
Administration during the New Deal era, Delano
adopted Puerto Rico as his home and immersed
himself in its culture for more than 50 years. He
died at age 83 in August 1997, shortly before
“The Art of Jack Delano” opened at the Rafael Car-
rion Pacheco Exhibit Hall at Banco Popular in Old
San Juan.

SITES exhibitions are supported through a com-
bination of federal government appropriations and
monetary and in-kind contributions from founda-
tions, corporations, and individuals. Host institu-
tions pay a small percentage of the exhibition cost
through a participation fee.

The Delano exhibition was a natural choice for
Banco Popular, which is expanding throughout the
United States and the Caribbean and has a long
history of enhancing the social and economic wel-
fare of the communities it serves. The exhibition is
the first Smithsonian project that Banco Popular
has sponsored.

Jack Delano settled in Puerto Rico after World
War Il, impressed by the spirit and dignity of its
people in the face of hardship. “The Art of Jack
Delano” features work from all segments of his
distinguished career as a photographer, filmmaker,
graphic artist, book designer, and composer. The
exhibition began a 10-city U.S. tour after leaving
Puerto Rico, as SITES continues to take the Smith-
sonian’s exhibitions, research, and collections to

| dnundreds of communities throughout the nation.

National Faculty—Smithsonian Program for Teachers

A groundbreaking initiative from the Smithsonian
Office of Education (SOE), developed in partner-
ship with the nonprofit National Faculty organiza-
tion, links university faculty, Smithsonian staff, and
teachers. Everything from art to zoology can be
pursued in depth in graduate-level seminars de-
signed to improve teachers’ mastery of their sub-
jects, help them develop new teaching approaches,
and stimulate their leadership skills.

Each two- to three-year program grows from
discussions with teachers and administrators in a
school district about areas where the schools
would like to strengthen their curricula. After ideas
solidify, the school district selects a team of teach-
ers who take part in six seminars locally, with uni-
versity professors and Smithsonian curators and
scholars serving as faculty. The group then attends
an intensive Summer Institute at the Smithsonian,
where they also learn how to integrate objects, col-
lections, and other museum resources in their
teaching. When the teachers return to their commu-
nities, they train colleagues using the knowledge
they have gained.

“This program was the best professional devel-
opment experience I've had,” says Alan Doud, a
high school physics teacher who participated in the
program from 1993 to 1995. “It enabled me to
bring the humanities and history into my physics
lessons. It gave the teachers a chance to get out of
the classroom and be exposed to a lot of disci-
plines and experiences that we might not otherwise
have the opportunity to explore. The program
broadened our horizons.”

sources available at the Smith-
sonian and several other invited
museums, historic sites, and cul-
tural organizations. Held at the
National Air and Space Museum
and organized by SOE, Teachers’
Night features displays, workshops,
hands-on demonstrations, free ma-
terials, and the chance to talk with
museum staff members.

In collaboration with other
Smithsonian units, SOE presented

ACCESSIBILITY PROGRAM

The Accessibility Program serves
all Smithsonian units and their
various audiences. The program’s
activities this year show the range
of information and services it
provides.

At the Provost's request, the pro-
gram convened an oversight coun-
cil to develop recommendations
on institutional accessibility priori-
ties. The council considered infor-
mation from Smithsonian units’
five-year plans on accessibility im-
provements and from the pro-
gram’s extensive work with the Of-
fice of Physical Plant on facilities
accessibility.

In conjunction with its responsi-
bility for policy and implementa-
tion guidelines, the program
conducted four seminars with
Smithsonian staff and outside ad-
visers with disabilities to create
guidelines for accessible program
and media design. Program staff

BIODIVERSITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS

Fiscal year 1997 was an organiza-
tional year for the Institute of
Conservation Biology. Two team-
taught courses on biodiversity and
conservation biology, which drew
on the expertise of scientists and
curators from throughout the

56

Smithsonian, were offered at the
Washington, D.C., campus of
Johns Hopkins University and at
Duke University. In addition, the
institute initiated a significant
partnership with Shell Oil Com-
pany focusing on a drilling project

several classes for area teachers
that showed how to incorporate
Latino perspectives and materials
into the classroom. The seminars,
supported by the Institution’s
Fund for Latino Initiatives, were
the centerpiece of SOE’s Summer
Seminars program, which offers
continuing education credits in
Maryland, Virginia, and the Dis-
trict of Columbia.

then presented this and other ac-
cessibility information in training
sessions for Smithsonian staff and
outside museum professionals.

The Smithsonian Guidelines for
Accessible Exhibition Design—devel-
oped by the program in collabora-
tion with Smithsonian exhibition
departments—are the first of their
kind in the United States. After the
guidelines were distributed to
Smithsonian staff, the program re-
ceived more than 200 requests for
copies from around the world.

Support for Smithsonian units
also included providing accessibil-
ity services for visitors, such as
sign-language interpreters, Real-
time captioning, and translating
documents into braille. This year,
the program arranged nearly 500
hours of services for visitors at-
tending Smithsonian Associates
courses, FONZ lectures, and do-
cent-led museum tours.

for natural gas in the lower
Urubamba region of Amazonian
Peru. Smithsonian and Peruvian
scientists have been engaged in a
biological survey to minimize the
environmental impact of the
project.

COMMUNITY AFFAIRS AND SPECIAL PROJECTS

As the national museums, the
smithsonian recognizes that the
ull inclusion of America’s cultural
liversity is an essential compo-
lent of excellence. The counselor
o the Secretary for community af-
airs and special projects, based in
he Office of the Provost, has
worked toward dynamic engage-
nent between the Institution and
uistorically underrepresented au-
liences, especially Latinos.

By the end of the year, the office
vas nearing completion of a two-
year study of Smithsonian Latino
ictivities. The study was under-
‘aken by the Latino Oversight
Sommittee, a distinguished 14-
nember group that includes four

members of Congress. The com-
mittee’s report will recommend
steps to make Latino participation
in history, arts, and culture an in-
tegral part of the Smithsonian.

In collaboration with the Latino
Oversight Committee, the coun-
selor for community affairs and
special projects convened the first
national conferences of directors
of Latino museums and commu-
nity arts and cultural organiza-
tions. The directors have since
formed the National Council of
Latino Museum Directors, the first
organization of its kind in the
United States.

The office also oversees the
Smithsonian Fund for Latino Ini-

INSTITUTIONAL STUDIES OFFICE

\s an Institution-wide resource
ledicated to the scientific study of
ymithsonian constituencies, the
nstitutional Studies Office (ISO)
-onducts applied research and
tudies within Smithsonian muse-
ims and offices. This year, ISO
-ontinued its efforts to understand
ind assess the impact of some of
he Smithsonian’s educational out-
each activities. For example, a
study at the Hirshhorn Museum
ind Sculpture Garden investigated
he effect of text labels and panels
yn the experience of visitors to the
exhibition “Richard Lindner:
-aintings and Watercolors,
1948-1977.” A study of “Visual
ournal: Harlem and D.C. in the
Thirties and Forties,” an exhibition
it the Center for African American
distory and Culture, explored dif-
erences and similarities in the
nays that visitors responded to

photographs in the exhibition.
The impact of evocative photo-
graphs was also examined in a
background study conducted at
four “America’s Smithsonian”
venues in preparation for a future
exhibition on the origins of rock
and soul music. At the National
Zoological Park, an ISO study as-
sessed the educational effective-
ness of “Think Tank,” an exhibi-
tion on animal thinking behavior.
These and other, similar studies
serve two important purposes:
they provide offices and curators
with specific information critical
to planning and implementing ef-
fective projects, and they advance
our understanding of the strengths
and limitations of exhibitions and
public programs as educational
media.

tiatives, which funded 24 projects
this year, including the acquisition
and accession of the Teodoro Vidal
collection of Puerto Rican folk ma-
terial at the National Museum of
American History and the National
Museum of American Art. The
fund also supported the exhibi-
tions “Latinos in Aviation” at the
National Air and Space Museum
and “American Voices,” organized
by the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, as
well as future exhibitions of Taxco
silver at Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum and Carlos Al-
fonzo at the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden.

SCIENTIFIC DIVING PROGRAM

With its museums, the National
Zoo, and research stations
throughout the world, the Smith-
sonian Institution has one of the
largest Scientific Diving Programs
in the country. The program pro-
motes and supports the safety of
approximately 180 scientific divers
and establishes policy for activities
conducted under Smithsonian aus-
pices. During this fiscal year, the
Smithsonian hosted the 16th An-
nual American Academy of Under-
water Sciences Scientific Diving
Symposium, “Methods and Tech-
niques of Underwater Research.”
The symposium proceedings were
edited by program director
Michael A. Lang and Carole C.
Baldwin of the National Museum
of Natural History Department of
Vertebrate Zoology. Smithsonian
scientists contributed 13 of the

29 papers.

57
REPORT OF: THE UNDER SECRETARY

| CONSTANCE BERRY NEWMAN

ee
“ae

ver
Loree

eye
tae

Above: Under Secretary Constance
Berry Newman (Photograph by Richard
W. Strauss)

Opposite: Kite-making workshops for
kite-flyers of all skill levels are a popular
attraction at the Kite Festival on the
Mall. This annual event, cosponsored by
The Smithsonian Associates and the
National Air and Space Museum, draws
contestants from around the world for
its handmade kite-flying competition.
(Photograph by Eric Long)

ONE OF THE BEST WAYS TO UNDERSTAND THE ESSENCE OF THE SMITHSONIAN INSTI-

TUTION IS TO LOOK AROUND—NOT JUST AT THE INTRIGUING OBJECTS ON EXHIBIT OR AT

THE RAPT FACES OF VISITING YOUNGSTERS, BUT AT THE PEOPLE WHO WORK HERE.

INSIDE EACH BUILDING, SECURITY PERSONNEL WELCOME STAFF AND VISITORS WHILE

KEEPING TRAINED EYES OUT FOR THEIR SAFETY AND THE SAFETY OF THE COLLECTIONS.

AT MUSEUM INFORMATION DESKS, VOLUNTEERS FIELD QUESTIONS, GIVE DIRECTIONS,

AND SUGGEST PLACES TO VISIT. COMPUTER SPECIALISTS MAKE SURE THE INSTITU-

TION’S INFORMATION SYSTEMS ARE HUMMING, ELECTRICIANS MAINTAIN THE SYSTEMS

THAT ILLUMINATE THE NATION’S TREASURES, AND PAINTERS PREPARE GALLERY WALLS

TO DISPLAY MAGNIFICENT WORKS OF ART.

THE SMITHSONIAN'S SUCCESS IS ALL ABOUT PEOPLE. CURATORS, SCIENTISTS, EDUCATORS, DE-

SIGNERS, COLLECTIONS MANAGERS, AND CONSERVATORS MAKE VISIBLE, INDISPUTABLE CONTRIBUTIONS TO

WHAT WE DO. YET, WE MAY TAKE FOR GRANTED THE EQUALLY VALUABLE CONTRIBUTIONS OF MANY OTHER

EMPLOYEES, OFTEN WORKING BEHIND THE SCENES. KNOWLEDGE IS “INCREASED AND DIFFUSED” THANKS

TO EVERY ONE OF THEM, WHATEVER THEIR JOB DESCRIPTIONS MIGHT BE.

59
60

A}

The Office of Public Affairs worked with the Today show on a live broadcast from the
31st annual Festival of American Folklife. Shown here are weather personality Willard

Scott (center) with festival participants (from left) Gilroy Chow, Lisa Chow, Sally
Chow, and Bradley Chow, from Clarksdale, Mississippi. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

We began this year with a chal-
lenging act to follow: the Smith-
sonian’s 150th anniversary celebra-
tion in fiscal year 1996. We
sustained the anniversary spirit
throughout the Institution, in team
efforts to engage the American peo-
ple in their Smithsonian. The Insti-
tution’s service, financial, and ad-
ministrative organizations were
critical to those efforts, as they con-
tinued to provide a strong founda-

tion for education and outreach.

A CONTINUING CELEBRATION
The 150th anniversary traveling
exhibition “America’s Smith-
sonian” was in Saint Paul, Min-
nesota, at the beginning of the fis-
cal year and then traveled to
Houston, Texas; Portland, Oregon;
Birmingham, Alabama; and San
Jose, California. More than 3 mil-
lion visitors have had the opportu-
nity to see highlights of the na-
tion’s collections since the
exhibition opened in February

1996. “Voices of Discovery,” ad-
ministered by The Smithsonian
Associates, again brought Smith-
sonian scholars to the exhibition
venues for nearly 400 free programs
in museums, schools, libraries,
senior centers, and other sites.

An advertising, marketing, and
publicity campaign in each city,
designed and implemented by the
Office of Public Affairs (OPA),
raised public awareness of the ex-
hibition. OPA’s work on “America’s
Smithsonian” and other anniver-
sary projects earned the Silver
Anvil Award of Excellence from
the Public Relations Society of
America. In the spring, the Smith-
sonian contracted with Rathe Pro-
duction, Inc., and PGI, Inc., to
manage transportation, installa-
tion and deinstallation, special
events, and public relations for the
exhibition in future locations.

WELCOMING A

DIVERSE AUDIENCE

We should never assume that peo-
ple know what the Smithsonian
has to offer. We need to communi-
cate actively with those who visit

and those who do not, with loyal
audiences and with others who are
new to the Institution. We must
also recognize that some groups
have not been well represented in
our collections, exhibitions, and
programs. We are taking steps to
broaden the coverage, and we are
being more aggressive in our effort
to reach out to a wider audience.
Outreach to the Latino commu-
nity was an emphasis this year.
OPA’s ongoing projects reached
Latino audiences in the Washing-
ton, D.C., metropolitan area and
across the nation. The office repre-
sented the Smithsonian at local
and national Hispanic events such

as the annual U.S. Hispanic Cham-
ber of Commerce conference; be-
gan a partnership with the Bravo
Group, a national Hispanic mar-
keting group; and created target
bilingual publicity campaigns for
several exhibitions. The Visitor
Information and Associates’ Recep-
tion Center (VIARC) reached
potential visitors through La
Cumbre, the primary travel trade
show for travel agents and tour
operators who send visitors to
Washington from Latin America.

A LIFETIME OF LEARNING
People of all ages can find abun-
dant learning opportunities at the

Smithsonian magazine's revitalized design by Don Morris Design was introduced
with the July 1997 issue.

61
Discovery Theater Turns 20

For young people from all over the Washington,
D.C., area, a trip to Discovery Theater is a memo-
rable treat. Over the years, Discovery Theater has
presented original productions, contemporary and
traditional live puppetry, theatrical performances,
dance, storytelling, and musicals—all designed to
entertain, educate, and enlighten young audiences.

As one of its 20th anniversary season produc-
tions, Discovery Theater commissioned a theatrical
piece in collaboration with the Education Depart-
ment of the National Museum of African Art, based
on the life of King Asantehene Agyeman Prempeh |,
ruler of the Asante nation from 1888 to 1896.
Performances coincided with the exhibition of King
Prempeh’s adinkra cloth at the museum. School
groups attending Discovery Theater could schedule
a docent-led tour of the exhibition to learn more
about the significance of the ceremonial adinkra
cloth and the depth of meaning symbolized in its
rich iconography. This project was supported by a
grant from the Smithsonian Educational
Outreach Fund.

Youngsters come to Discovery Theater with
school and youth groups and on Saturday outings
with their families. Ticket prices are kept low to give
everyone a chance to attend. Presentations are
geared to specific age groups, while themes reflect
the interests of diverse audiences. A free Learning
Guide for each production helps teachers prepare
children for the experience. The productions are
often interactive, opening avenues of self-reflection
and offering enjoyable ways for parents and teach-
ers to demonstrate life’s lessons.

Opposite: Ethno-Tec Creations of San
Francisco presented Asian Treasure Bag
at Discovery Theater during the presi-
dential inaugural celebration in January
1997. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

62

Smithsonian. The Smithsonian As-
sociates, Smithsonian magazine,
and Smithsonian Press/Smith-
sonian Productions bring educa-
tion, enlightenment, and enjoy-
ment to wide audiences and
strengthen the bond between the
American people and their na-
tional museums.

The Smithsonian Associates (TSA)
truly has something for everyone.
Consider some offerings on TSA's
rich menu this year: an eight-week
Campus on the Mall course exam-
ining the impact of Jackie Robin-
son’s breaking the baseball color
barrier 50 years ago; a chance for
families to meet Kermit, Elmo,
Miss Piggy, and other Muppets in
an unprecedented look at the late
Jim Henson’s genius; and the first
Smithsonian Associates voyage to
the North Pole, on board a nu-
clear-powered icebreaker.

TSA took educational programs
across the nation during fiscal year
1997. Along with “Voices of Dis-
covery,” national outreach initia-
tives included a new audiocassette
series. “Voices from The Smith-
sonian Associates” showcases pop-
ular Resident Associate programs
such as Microsoft's Bill Gates, jour-
nalists David Brinkley and Walter
Cronkite, historians Stephen Am-
brose and James McPherson, and
writers P. D. James and Pat Conroy.
Art in Celebration!, an exhibition of
TSA’s commissioned artworks orga-
nized in collaboration with the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, continued its

three-year, 40-state tour on Artrain.

The tour is sponsored by Chrysler
Corporation. Some 360 Smith-
sonian Study Tours, in the United
States and around the world, in-
cluded family-oriented trips to the
Galapagos Islands and Kenya.
Many TSA programs have be-
come signature Smithsonian
events and local traditions. Discov-

ery Theater, the only continuous
live children’s theater in the Wash-
ington area, celebrated its 20th
season. Many of the 75,000 young- |
sters who delight in Discovery
Theater performances each year
are experiencing theater for the
first time. The annual Smithsonian
Kite Festival on the Mall, one of
the premier handmade kite com-
petitions in the world, was again
sponsored jointly by The Smith-
sonian Associates, the National Air
and Space Museum, and participat-
ing kite-flying clubs. At TSA’s sum-
mer camp, some 450 youngsters
ages 4 to 13 discovered the won-
ders of the sea, learned about an-
cient Pompeii, took an imaginary
trip to the Moon, created their
own Web pages, filmed their own
science fiction videos, and more.

For design and decorative arts
historians, TSA began offering a
two-year master’s degree program
in the history of 19th- and 20th-
century American decorative arts.
Created in cooperation with
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum and Parsons School of
Design, the program gives students,
unique access to materials on
American art and design history
contained in the Smithsonian’s
unparalleled holdings.

Smithsonian magazine, read by
nearly 8 million people each
month, is a vital educational out-
reach vehicle. Academic institu-
tions, associations, and textbook
publishers use its articles as course
material or for information. About
70 percent of the more than 500
reprint requests received this year
were from organizations with an
educational purpose or affiliation.
Smithsonian took on a polished
new look with the July 1997 issue,
the first redesign in the magazine's
27-year history. Air & Space/Smith-
sonian magazine finished its 11th
year of publication, providing 1.2

64

Volunteer information specialists tour the Smithsonian greenhouses during a con-

tinuing education program organized by the Visitor Information and Associates’

Reception Center. (Photograph by Jeff Powley)

million readers with focused edito-
tial content relating to the collec-
tions of the National Air and Space
Museum and information of inter-
est to the aerospace community.
Smithsonian Press/Smithsonian
Productions (SP/SP) reaches both
popular and scholarly audiences
through a variety of media, pub-
lishing more than 100 books and
recordings each year. This year,
SP/SP celebrated the American mu-
sical with Red, Hot & Blue, written
by curators Amy Henderson and
Dwight Blocker Bowers to accom-
pany the popular National Portrait
Gallery—National Museum of
American History exhibition. A
four-CD set, Star-Spangled Rhythm,
showcased nearly 90 years of the

musical’s recorded history and fea-
tured many rare, never-released
performances.

New titles for a popular audi-
ence from SP/SP included Snakes in
Question and Bats in Question, part
of the “Smithsonian Answer Book”
series. These inviting, easy-to-read
books, written by Smithsonian ex-
perts, satisfy the curiosity of both
adults and children. SP/SP also
launched a major 16-volume pop-
ular series in partnership with Ran-
dom House Publishers, the Smith-
sonian Guides for Natural America.

SP/SP’s notable contributions to
scholarly literature this year in-
cluded The Origin and Early Diversi-
fication of Land Plants: A Cladistic
Study, by Paul Kenrick and Peter R.

\

|

Crane, considered one of the most
important books on the assembly
of terrestrial ecosystems. Another
new publication, the second vol-
ume in Tom D. Dillehay’s Monte
Verde: A Late Pleistocene Settlement
in Chile, received national atten-
tion for rewriting the chronology
of the peopling of the Americas.

The 13-part radio series from
SP/SP, Black Radio: Telling It Like It
Was, won prestigious radio honors,
in the Alfred I. DuPont-—Columbia
University Awards and the George
Foster Peabody Awards. The series
has run on nearly 200 radio sta-
tions around the country. Major
production began on the television
project River of Song: Music along
the Mississippi, as PBS announced
its intention to broadcast the
three-hour series nationally in
1998-99. A companion radio se-
ries, funded by the Corporation fo)
Public Broadcasting, will air on
public radio, and a related book is
also planned. Slaves No More, a
new radio project featuring the
recollections of former slaves
recorded in the 1930s by the
Works Progress Administration, re-
ceived major funding from the Na:
tional Endowment for the Human:
ities and the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting.

EXPANDED PUBLIC
AWARENESS

Engaging the public in the Smith-
sonian requires another kind of
educational effort: building aware-
ness of the Institution, its educa-
tional mission, and its multifac-
eted public service. Throughout
the year, we used various strategies
to generate public interest and
understanding.

When people plan a visit to the
Smithsonian, they need accurate
and complete information. This
year, VIARC staff reviewed descrip-
tions of the Smithsonian for the
1998 editions of 35 major Wash-
ington, D.C., guidebooks. On the
Smithsonian Web site, VIARC pro-
vides a current Institution-wide
calendar and exhibition listings,
along with suggestions for plan-
ning a visit and information about
how to volunteer. VIARC also
strengthened its links with the lo-
cal, national, and international
tour and travel industry by partici-
pating in key national meetings
where the Smithsonian’s represen-
tative met individually with nearly
250 tour operators.

Teachers, students, and re-
searchers can turn to the useful
“Resources” brochures, produced
by OPA, for information on collec-
tions, databases, publications, fel-
lowships, internships, and more.
This year, a fourth title, Asian Pa-
cific American Resources at the
Smithsonian, was added to the se-
ries. OPA also published four issues
of the newsletter Smithsonian Insti-
tution Research Reports, which in-
forms members of Congress, schol-
ars and scientists, library users, and
Smithsonian Contributing Mem-
bers about the many research ef-
forts around the Institution. Smith-
sonian Year 1996, prepared by OPA
with Smithsonian Press/Smith-
sonian Productions, was a special
thematic annual report focusing
on the 150th anniversary and its
related activities and programs.

Special events and conferences
drew thousands of people to the
Smithsonian this year, extending
the Institution’s connections to a
variety of organizations and indi-
viduals. The Office of Special
Events and Conference Services
produced nearly 400 events that
increased public awareness and of-
ten raised revenue. Among the
highlights were a reception honor-
ing the president of Honduras,
hosted by the Smithsonian Tropi-
cal Research Institute; the 1997

Computerworld Smithsonian
Awards presentation ceremony; a
World Wildlife Fund environmen-
tal preservation symposium; a din-
ner celebrating the dedication of
the Franklin Delano Roosevelt
Memorial; and the first Great
Smithsonian Press Sale, which
drew several thousand shoppers
over three days in June.

The Smithsonian's congression-
ally mandated activities stressed its
core educational mission and pro-
gramming. Through presentations
at hearings, live demonstrations,
site visits, lectures, and distribution
of program materials, the Office of
Government Relations raised con-
gressional awareness and enlisted
the assistance of members of Con-
gress and their staff in promoting
their constituents’ participation in
Smithsonian programs. During the
year, members of Congress joined
in bringing the National Museum
of Natural History’s Natural Part-
ners Initiative and National Science
Resources Center programs to their
communities.

PRODUCTS WITH AN
EDUCATIONAL MESSAGE

The Smithsonian is committed to
developing and licensing products
that reflect its educational values
and extend its message. From a
business point of view, offering
merchandise of high quality helps
strengthen the Institution’s finan-
cial base. From an education point
of view, an exhibition catalogue, a
CD-ROM, or a product carrying a
descriptive card contribute to peo-
ple’s knowledge of our collections
and research and stimulate interest
in the Smithsonian.

This was a banner year for the
Museum Shops, with sales exceed-
ing $33 million, a 16 percent in-
crease over fiscal year 1996. Shops
supporting the exhibitions “Red,
Hot & Blue: A Salute to American

Vital Volunteers

They are the Smithsonian's most active ongoing
partnership: the nearly 8,000 men and women who
contributed their time this year to the Institution's
mission of education and public service. Volunteers
are a familiar presence as they invite a child to
climb on the highwheeler in the Hands On History
Room at the National Museum of American History,
staff the Smithsonian's public inquiry telephone
lines, or assist with Smithsonian Associate pro-
grams.

More than 1,000 volunteers serve as docents;
every museum, the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center, and the Smithsonian Institution
Building all have docent programs. The Visitor Infor-
mation and Associates’ Reception Center (VIARC)
manages two Institution-wide programs in which
2,068 participants contributed 275,989 hours this
year. In VIARC’s Behind-the-Scenes Volunteer Pro-
gram, volunteers support everyday activities in
offices, conservation labs, libraries, and elsewhere.
The Volunteer Information Specialist Program staffs
information desks in most Smithsonian buildings.

This year, 470 volunteers turned out to help the
Festival of American Folklife run smoothly. On the
“America's Smithsonian” tour, more than 2,100 vol-
unteers helped their communities enjoy treasures
from Smithsonian collections. Through Friends of
the National Zoo (FONZ), the Smithsonian
Women's Committee, and Young Benefactors, more
than 1,600 volunteers helped generate financial
support for the Institution.

“Without question, volunteers are one of the In-
stitution’s richest and most enduring assets,” says
Secretary |. Michael Heyman. They will be “instru-
mental in securing the viability of the Smithsonian
into the next century and beyond.”

65
66

The new National Airport terminal in

Washington, D.C., boasts a Smithsonian
Museum Shop, operated in partnership
with Lanta Concessions, Inc. (Photo-
graph by Charles Phillips)

Musicals” at the National Portrait
Gallery and “Amber: Window to
the Past” at the National Museum
of Natural History (NMNH) were
especially successful. At NMNH,
two new shops opened in Novem-
ber, with spacious and inviting de-
signs that incorporate actual mu-
seum artifacts and make the shops
integral to the museum visit.

Off the Mall, a new shop with a
varied selection of merchandise
opened in the new Washington
National Airport terminal, oper-
ated in partnership with conces-
sionaire Lanta Concessions, Inc.

The successful shop at Baltimore-
Washington International Airport
continued to offer aviation-related
merchandise. Both airport shops
also provide information designed
to attract visitors to the Smith-
sonian and promote membership.
The Smithsonian Catalogue, like
the Museum Shops, continues to
reflect the educational values and
the rich diversity of the museums
and research institutes. Every prod-
uct receives curatorial approval.
The catalogue enjoyed its best sales
year ever, with the holiday 1996
edition posting record sales.

Through licensing agree-
ments, the Smithsonian
also promotes its educa-
tional mission. This year,
Natural Science Industries,
Inc., expanded its line of
children’s science kits, and
Soundprints began issuing
teachers’ guides to accom-
pany its children’s books
and tapes. The Institution
signed a new agreement
this year with Scientific Ex-
plorer, Inc., for educational
activity kits.

A STRONG
INFRASTRUCTURE

In support of the Smith-
sonian’s educational mis-
sion, crucial work goes on
in finance, administration,
facilities, and information
technology. A spirit of team-
work guides these service-
oriented divisions, which
often work in concert with
museums, research insti-
tutes, and offices.

Staff development and x

recognition were a focus in
several Smithsonian units
this year. The third annual
Secretary's Award for Excel-
lence in Equal Opportunity
Program, cosponsored by the Of-
fice of Equal Employment and Mi-
nority Affairs and the Secretary’s
office, recognized four employees
for their outstanding contribu-
tions. The Unsung Heroes awards,
which began in the 150th anniver-
sary year and continued through
December 1996, honored Smith-
sonian employees nominated by
their colleagues for exemplary ser-
vice. The program was coordinated
by the Ombudsman.

Other offices provided vital in-
ternal support. The Office of the
Comptroller, for example, guided

< *
RS aoserstip With the Smithso ion exhibit

x
x

x gt
Red, Hot & Blue! ot the Nov
x x

x

Star-Spangled Rhythm, a four-CD set
issued by Smithsonian Institution Press
to coincide with the National Portrait
Gallery—National Museum of American
History exhibition “Red, Hot & Blue,”
showcases that extravagant 2Oth-
century art form, the musical.

ao

the new Smithsonian Fi-
nancial System general
ledger and financial report-
ing system through its first
year. The Office of Human
Resources held its first open
house, designed to inform
employees about the ser-
vices available to them.

The Office of Physical
Plant worked on five major
expansion initiatives this
year. Inside the courtyards
at the National Museum of
Natural History, two major
projects are under way. The
East Court Building will
provide expanded staff of-
fice space, a Smithsonian
Early Enrichment Center, a
rare book library, public re-
strooms, and collections
space. The museum’s new
Discovery Center/West
Court Building will feature
a Discovery Room, a large-
format movie theater, and a
restaurant. This year, the
Office of Risk and Asset
Management began the
process of obtaining ap-
proval for $40 million in
tax-exempt financing for
the project.

Construction progressed
on the National Museum of the
American Indian’s Cultural Re-
sources Center in Suitland, Mary-
land, set to open in fall 1998. De-
sign of the Mall museum advanced
to the construction documents
phase, based on schematic design
approvals from the Commission of
Fine Arts and the National Capital
Planning Commission early in the
year. The design of the National
Air and Space Museum's Dulles
Center is also moving ahead.

Several major projects led the
way for Smithsonian repairs and
renovations to existing buildings.

67
HSONIAN

] INSTITUTION

SMIT

The Smithsonian
“Castle” 1855 “ult

The Smithsonian Card

Consumers who use the Smithsonian Card from
NOVUS Services, Inc., are assisting Smithsonian
programs in research, exhibitions, collections, and
education. A percentage of each purchase made
with the Smithsonian Card goes to the Institution.
NOVUS Services also makes a donation each time
a Smithsonian Card is issued or renewed.

NOVUS Services is promoting the Smithsonian
Card through a national marketing effort. In addition
to showing their support for the Smithsonian, Card-
members earn points toward U.S. Series EE Savings
Bonds when they make purchases with the Smith-
sonian Card.

The relationship with NOVUS Services grew out
of the Smithsonian's partnership with Discover
Card, a business unit of NOVUS Services and the
first partner of the 150th Anniversary Corporate
Partner Program.

68

Design fee negotiations are under
Way to renovate the Arts and In-
dustries Building to renew offices,
exhibit halls, child care facilities,
and other spaces. Design was com-
pleted on two projects: accessibil-
ity improvements and a new roof
for the National Museum of Amer-
ican Art and the National Portrait
Gallery and skylight and window
wall replacements for the National
Air and Space Museum. At the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History,
mechanical renovations continued
on the upper floors.

The Office of Contracting and
Property Management continued to
provide contractual support for
“America’s Smithsonian” and for
media and entertainment projects
developed through a relationship
with a Hollywood agent, Creative
Artists Agency. The office awarded
several multimillion dollar con-
tracts, including those to build the
National Museum of the American
Indian’s Cultural Resources Center
and the Discovery Center at the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.

In addition to providing opera-
tional support for information sys-
tems throughout the Institution,
the Office of Information Tech-
nology began a three-phase pro-
cess of upgrading SINET, the
Smithsonian’s internal data com-
munications network. This year,
several buildings were wired or re-
cabled, some network software and
electronics were upgraded, and
MCI was selected as the new Inter-
net service provider. The Office of
Imaging, Printing, and Photo-
graphic Services added tens of
thousands of photographs of
Smithsonian artifacts and special
events to its already large collec-
tion. Many of these images will be

i
\

a

digitized for public Internet access
and internal use as part of the
large-scale project to digitize

{
|
|
|
|

Smithsonian collections. |

{

As the fanfare of the Smithsonian’s |
150th anniversary subsided, we re-
turned to business as usual this
year. But the Institution’s “busi-
ness’”—its mission of increasing
and diffusing knowledge—is
hardly “usual.” The Smithsonian is
for everyone, from the second-
grader to the distinguished scholar.
That is a far-reaching mandate,
and fulfilling it requires a multi-
plicity of skills and talents. At the
Smithsonian, we are fortunate to
have staff who are dedicated to our
mission and committed to excel-
lence. Thanks to their collabora-
tive efforts, this unique center for
education, research, and enjoy-
ment continues its tradition of
outstanding public service.

Upper right: The design of the National
Air and Space Museum's Dulles Center,
the world’s leading aerospace restora-
tion and archival facility, took shape this
year. This model was created by the ar-
chitectural firm Hellmuth, Obata &
Kassabaum. (Photograph by Eric Long)

Lower right: By the summer of 1997,
the National Museum of the American
Indian's Cultural Resources Center in
Suitland, Maryland, had begun to take
shape. The facility will open in the fall
of 1998. (Photograph by Debra Nauta-
Rodriguez)
MEMBERSHIP AND DEVELOPMENT

ROBERT V. HANLE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR DEVELOPMENT

THIS YEAR, THE SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION CARRIED OUT JAMES SMITHSON'S MANDATE FOR THE “INCREASE

AND DIFFUSION OF KNOWLEDGE” IN INNOVATIVE WAYS. IT WAS A YEAR OF CONTINUED MOMENTUM, THANKS

TO A WIDE RANGE OF PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS WITH MANY INDIVIDUALS, CORPORATIONS, AND FOUN-

DATIONS. THE COMBINED ENERGY OF ALL THESE FRIENDS OF THE INSTITUTION HELPED US MOVE TOWARD A

GREATER NATIONAL PRESENCE AND DEEPER INVOLVEMENT BY INCREASINGLY DIVERSE AUDIENCES.

“AMERICA'S SMITHSONIAN,” THE TRAVELING EXHIBITION CENTERPIECE OF THE 150TH ANNIVERSARY

YEAR, CONTINUED TO INVIGORATE THE SMITHSONIAN'S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE NATION BY REACHING PEO-

PLE WHERE THEY LIVE. FUNDED ENTIRELY THROUGH PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS WITH NATIONAL COMPANIES,

LOCAL BUSINESSES, AND INDIVIDUAL PHILANTHROPISTS, AND WITH SUBSTANTIAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT IN

EACH CITY IT VISITED, THE EXHIBITION HAD REACHED NINE CITIES ACROSS THE NATION BY THE END OF THE

FISCAL YEAR. MORE THAN 3 MILLION PEOPLE, NEARLY HALF OF THEM SCHOOLCHILDREN, HAVE SEEN

“AMERICA’S SMITHSONIAN.” EACH STOP ALONG THE TOUR FEATURES EXTENSIVE SUPPORTING PROGRAMS,

INCLUDING LECTURES, SPECIAL TOURS FOR CHILDREN, TEACHER TRAINING WORKSHOPS, AND “VOICES OF

DISCOVERY” PRESENTATIONS IN LIBRARIES, COMMUNITY CENTERS, AND SCHOOLS.

70
Funds Raised by Source

Fiscal Year 1997

Foundations
$9,085,045
(18.35%)

Individuals
$20,444,084
(41.3%)

Other
$3,640,213
(7.35 %)

The many bridges the Smith-
sonian has built to its extended
family yielded impressive results.
Old friends enlarged their support,
and new friends began to explore
their interests. In Edgewater, Mary-
land, the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center opened its
new Philip D. Reed Education Cen-
ter, thanks to the generosity of the
Philip D. Reed Foundation and
James Smithson Society members
Philip and Betty Reed. As a result,
twice as many children and their
teachers will be able to learn more
about the complex interactions in
the ecosystem of the Chesapeake
Bay based on SERC’s ongoing envi-
ronmental research.

Private support helped the
Smithsonian Office of Education
expand its services to teachers and
students in Washington, D.C., and
nationwide and to increase access
through the World Wide Web. Indi-
viduals supported such projects as
the Hands On Science Center at the
National Museum of American His-
tory and the newly established po-
sition of curator of rare books at the
Rare Book Library currently under
construction at the National Mu-

Uses of Funds Raised

Fiscal Year 1997

Designated to
Museums &
Research Institutes

seum of Natural History. Privately
funded internships continued to
open Smithsonian resources to
more young people. These are just
some of the many ways that the
Smithsonian family gave the Insti-
tution its very personal and pas-
sionate support.

As we pursue a proactive future
that builds on our recent efforts, it
is clear that we must devise new
funding strategies. We need a
strong foundation from which to
launch the ambitious dreams that
have always characterized the
Smithsonian. The Smithsonian Na-
tional Board was instrumental in
planning a national capital cam-
paign—the first in the Institution’s
history—that will secure our
prospects for the 21st century. In
its planning phase, the campaign
has already benefited from the
thoughtful efforts and expertise of
the National Board as well as the
insights and work of the Secretary
and senior staff. As the campaign
progresses, we will be able to trace
its genesis to our 150th anniver-
sary and the momentum that cele-
bration generated.

Exhibitions

$7,909,793 Research
(16%)

$2,831,738 (5.8%)

Education &

rE ee Public Programs
. 0
Corporations $3,517,930 (7.1%)
$15,429,431 ae
(31.2%) Acquisitions &
Collections
Unrestricted $4,620,993 (9.3%)
10,745,082 F
Bequests : Qi 7%) Construction
$910,446 ; Other $6,545,697
1.8% $392,536 9
(1.8%) $392,536 (13.2%)

REACHING PEOPLE

WHERE THEY LIVE

This year, the Office of Member-
ship and Development built on
the success of “America’s Smith-
sonian” and other 150th anniver-
sary initiatives and expanded our
commitment to take the Smith-
sonian to the American people.
Many groups and individuals
within and outside the Institution
joined together to help us achieve
our goals.

150TH ANNIVERSARY
CORPORATE PARTNER
PROGRAM

The innovative relationship the
Smithsonian established with the
150th Anniversary Corporate Part-
ner Program continued as the four
partners—Discover® Card, Intel
Corporation, MCI Communica-
tions Corporation, and Trans World
Airlines, Inc.—helped the Institu-
tion reach audiences nationwide
through their support of “Amer-
ica’s Smithsonian.” In addition to
their financial commitment, we are
grateful for their promotional,
technical, and consulting support,

71
72

t
|
}

The Smithsonian Corporate Membership Program presented the inaugural Smith-

sonian Corporate Leadership Award to Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A. Shown

here (from left) are Secretary |. Michael Heyman; Senator Bill Frist, Smithsonian

Regent; Robert Thomas, president and CEO, Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.; and

Howard Baker, Smithsonian Regent. (Photograph by Terry McCrea)

which were crucial to the exhibi-
tion’s success in reaching millions
of people. The Smithsonian’s rela-
tionship with Discover® Card has
grown to include the Smithsonian
Card issued by NOVUS Services,
Inc., which will generate addi-
tional revenue for the Institution.

“AMERICA’S SMITHSONIAN”
The traveling exhibition of Smith-
sonian treasures visited five more
cities this year, winning new

friends for the Institution on both
coasts, in the Midwest, the South-
east, and the Southwest. Each exhi-
bition opening offered the opportu-
nity to showcase the Smithsonian
and welcome new supporters to
benefit previews. Working with vol-
unteer fund-raising committees in
each city, the Office of Membership
and Development organized spec-
tacular kickoff galas. Proceeds from
these events support the exhibition
and accompanying programs, such

as teacher workshops and lectures
by Smithsonian scholars and scien-
tists in each community, attended
by thousands of people.

The Saint Paul, Minnesota, gala
in October, chaired by Douglas
and Louise Leatherdale and George
and Sally Pillsbury, helped spur the
biggest turnout yet for the exhibi-
tion. More than 454,000 people
saw “America’s Smithsonian” dur-
ing its Saint Paul run.

In Houston, Texas, in December,
former President George Bush and
Mrs. Bush served as gala chairmen,
along with Mr. and Mrs. Philip J.
Carroll and the Hon. Charles W.
Duncan Jr. and Mrs. Duncan as
cochairmen. Texas Governor
George W. Bush greeted guests.
Mrs. G. Walter McReynolds served
as an adviser on the gala, setting
the Houston style and tone. The
event set a fund-raising record for
the galas, thanks largely to the
tireless work of Smithsonian Na-
tional Board members Mr. Peter R.
Coneway and Mr. Clive Runnells.

Each gala was a special opportu-
nity to get to know Smithsonian
supporters in that region. The April
event in Portland, Oregon—the
only Pacific Northwest venue—
drew guests from throughout the
area. The cochairmen were Senator
Mark O. Hatfield and Mrs. Hatfield,
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Schnitzer,

Mr. and Mrs. Brian Booth, and
Mr. and Mrs. Bud Lindstrand.
Guests had a preview of Portland’s
state-of-the-art convention center,
which was completed in time to
host “America’s Smithsonian” as
its first exhibition.

The Birmingham, Alabama, gala
in May, chaired by Mrs. Carolyn S.
Blount and Mrs. Marguerite J. Har-
bert, launched the exhibition’s suc-
cessful stop in the Southeast. The
exhibition returned to the West
Coast and more rave reviews with a
gala in San Jose, California, in July,

chaired by Smithsonian National
Board members Mr. Paul Herte-
lendy, Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy,
and the Hon. Norman Y. Mineta.

It is important to maintain the
ties and friendships developed dur-
ing the 150th anniversary. With
that in mind, the Smithsonian Na-
tional Board is helping us return to
“America’s Smithsonian” cities by
hosting reunion events for our
supporters and volunteers. These
activities and other nationwide ef-
forts by the National Board con-
tinue to bring increased philan-
thropic support to the Institution.

As the new regional Smithsonian
associations program gets under
way, people across the country will
be able to enjoy other Smithsonian
treasures as a result of long-term
loans to local museums. In the first
agreement, the Institution will
share 19th-century artifacts with
the proposed National Museum of
Industrial History in Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania. Other regions may
soon welcome Smithsonian arti-
facts to their backyards as we de-
velop more such relationships.

ONLINE ACCESS
The Smithsonian’s World Wide
Web site attracted 10 million visi-
tors each month—nearly half as
many as the 23 million people who
visit Smithsonian museums on the
National Mall every year. The Inter-
net is an exciting place for experi-
mentation and a fertile ground for
exploring new ways of taking
Smithsonian resources to people
where they live. The Office of
Membership and Development
enhanced its own online presence,
as the Corporate Membership
Program (http://www.si.edu/
youandsi/join/corp/scmp) and the
Contributing Membership
(http://www.si.edu/youandsi/join/
members/cm) launched interactive
pages. The goal is to provide re-

sources not available elsewhere
and to help the public understand
the crucial need for funding be-
yond the operational support the
Smithsonian receives from the fed-

eral government.

Of course, the Smithsonian contin-
ues to amaze and astonish. Bus-
loads of schoolchildren marvel at a
dinosaur’s bones for the first time,
seniors enjoy the music of their
youth performed live by the

Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Or-
chestra, and families explore new
vistas of contemporary art to-
gether. In these and countless
other ways, people become more
aware of how deeply important the
Smithsonian is to their lives. As
the Institution seeks promising
avenues for sharing its resources
and for extending lifelong learning
opportunities to all Americans, we
are grateful for the generosity of
our members and donors. Through

“America’s Smithsonian” came to the Southeast in Birmingham, Alabama. At the

opening gala are (from left) Winton “Red” Blount, gala cochairmen Marguerite

“Wita” Harbert and Carolyn Blount, and Secretary |. Michael Heyman. (Photograph

by Terry McCrea)

WwW
74

At the Houston “America’s Smithsonian” gala, former President George Bush and

Barbara Bush, cochairmen, welcome (from left) Smithsonian Provost J. Dennis

O'Connor, Under Secretary Constance Berry Newman, Secretary |. Michael

Heyman, and Therese Heyman. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

their commitment, they help us
achieve our goals while sharing
their enthusiasm for the Smith-
sonian with others.

SOURCES AND USES OF
FUNDS RAISED

During fiscal year 1997, the Smith-
sonian raised more than $49.5
million in gifts, pledges, and non-
governmental grants. Donations
from individuals formed $20.4 mil-
lion (41.3 percent) of this total.
More than $910,000 (1.8 percent of
the total) came from planned gifts
from individuals. Foundations, in-

cluding those established by indi-
viduals, contributed $9 million
(18.35 percent). Corporations con-
tributed $15.4 million (31.2 per-
cent). Of the total funds raised,
nearly $39 million (over 78 per-
cent) was restricted to specific
programs.

The Smithsonian gratefully ac-
knowledges the many individuals,
corporations, foundations, and or-
ganizations that have supported
the Institution over the years as
well as those whose generous con-
tributions during fiscal year 1997
helped us achieve the successes
described in this annual report.

SMITHSONIAN

NATIONAL BOARD

In addition to their efforts with
“America’s Smithsonian” galas and
regional reunions, Smithsonian
National Board members worked
tirelessly for the Institution across
the country. Led by Chairman Jean
Mahoney and Vice-Chairman
Clive Runnells, the board’s 52 cur-
rent, 110 advisory, and 15 hon-
orary members continued their
dedicated service, advising the Sec-
retary, providing programmatic
support, and serving as advocates
for the Institution in their own
communities. The board continues
to build bridges to corporate and
philanthropic leaders, and its
members are some of our most ef-
fective goodwill ambassadors.

In calendar year 1996, Jane
Bradley chaired the Board Annual
Giving Committee. Under her lead-
ership, board members’ cumulative
annual contributions totaled
$1.183 million, the largest amount
to date. This support went toward
Smithsonian science research and
biodiversity projects for which the
Secretary had designated support;
benefit events for “America’s
Smithsonian”; and other projects
across the Institution designated
by board members.

The board generously gave an
additional $815,014 to the Smith-
sonian Fund for the Future, an
endowment that will provide long-
term support for the Institution.
The board’s support is critical to
the success of many promising
projects that could not move
forward without their directed
philanthropy.

SMITHSONIAN

BENEFACTORS CIRCLE

The Smithsonian Benefactors Cir-
cle recognizes and honors those
whose generous gifts have pre-
served the traditions of the Smith-

sonian Institution and furthered
its vision. At its October 1996
meeting, the Benefactors Circle
honored Mr. and Mrs. Jerome
Lemelson with its annual award,
which was accepted by their son,
Eric Lemelson. The Lemelsons
were recognized for their visionary
support, which enabled the Smith-
sonian to establish the Jerome and
Dorothy Lemelson Center for the
Study of Invention and Innovation
at the National Museum of Ameri-
can History. The center docu-
ments, interprets, and dissemi-
nates information about invention
and innovation, encourages inven-
tive creativity in young people,
and fosters an appreciation for the
central role invention plays in
American life.

The Joseph Henry Medal was
given to William Gordon Bowen,
president of the Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation, in recognition of his
longstanding leadership and com-
mitment. Bowen was a member of
the Board of Regents for 12 years
and continues to advance the
Smithsonian’s mission in his cur-
rent role.

Associate Justice Ruth Bader
Ginsburg joined Secretary I.
Michael Heyman in bestowing
honors upon these philan-
thropists. In addition, 10 new pa-
trons received the Smithsonian
Benefactors Circle emblem for
their contributions.

SMITHSONIAN
LEGACY SOCIETY
The Smithsonian was founded
through a bequest, and many dedi-
cated people have followed James
Smithson’s example in making
planned gifts to the Institution. A
special group was established dur-
ing the 150th anniversary year to
honor those who have made
legacy commitments.

Twenty-five members from

around the country attended the
inaugural luncheon of the Smith-
sonian Legacy Society on June 13.
Chaired by Gloria Shaw Hamilton,
the group recognizes the support
of individuals who have made
long-term commitments to the
Smithsonian through charitable
annuities and other legacy gifts.
More than 60 people form the
founding group.

Secretary Heyman told the soci-
ety: “Many visionary individuals
have helped advance the Institu-
tion’s tradition of excellence in ex-
hibitions, public education, and re-
search. Legacy gifts have always
played a key role. You are the select
group following James Smithson,
that enigmatic Englishman who

left his entire fortune to an ideal,
an Institution for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge. ... I’m
confident that the Legacy Society
will grow to become one of the
strongest, most important mem-
bers of the Smithsonian family.”

CONTRIBUTING MEMBERSHIP
Smithsonian Contributing Mem-
bers from across the United States
and around the world continued
to support the Institution through
membership dues and special gifts.
They also responded generously to
Provost J. Dennis O’Connor’s spe-
cial letters highlighting Smith-
sonian programs in urgent need of
private funds. Moreover, Con-
tributing Members displayed their

Gloria Hamilton, founding chairman and member of the Smithsonian Legacy Soci-
ety, welcomes member Bernie Stadiem to the society's inaugural luncheon meet-
ing. The Legacy Society was established this year to honor Smithsonian support-
ers who have made legacy commitments in the form of bequests, charitable

annuities, and other planned gifts. (Photograph by Rick Vargas)

75
A Smithson Society Member’s Commitment

Nearly 30 years ago, Mrs. Alton Grimes was con-
cerned that her young son was not thriving in
school. She decided to enroll him in a Resident
Associate program at the Smithsonian, hoping that a
different educational environment might help. She
was pleased and impressed with the quality of the
experience, and especially with her son's renewed
enthusiasm for learning. The Smithsonian program,
she believed, added something valuable to her son's
formal classroom education.

Since 1967, Mrs. Grimes has made an annual
contribution to the institution that made such a dif-
ference for her son. A James Smithson Society mem-
ber, she enjoys visiting Smithsonian museums with
her grandchildren. This year, she made a generous
unrestricted gift to the Institution. For Mrs. Grimes, a
stock transfer was a viable way to give, but it is just
one of many options.

Many individuals across the nation realize the
value of supporting the Smithsonian. Some, like Mrs.
Grimes, have known the rewards of education at the
Institution. Others may have seen a SITES exhibition,
visited the Mall museums on a trip to Washington, or
explored the Smithsonian through the World Wide
Web. Their collective generosity helps sustain the
quality of the Smithsonian experience.

76

loyalty by exceeding the goal of a
challenge grant from individual
members of the Smithsonian
National Board.

This year the Contributing
Membership gave $8,995,000 in
unrestricted contributions. This
support helps the Smithsonian
maintain its reputation for excel-
lence and bring exciting new pro-
grams to a national audience, in-
cluding Contributing Members’
home communities.

JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY

This dedicated organization at the
highest level of Contributing
Membership continued to be a key
source of private support, assisting
the Institution through annual
dues of $2,000, $5,000, and
$10,000. The society’s annual
meeting and dinner were held in
October and then again in May, in
a permanent move to a spring
event. At the October dinner,
Agnes Cowles Bourne received the
Society’s Founder Medal for her
support of the Cooper-Hewitt, Na-
tional Design Museum. In May,
the dinner coincided with the an-
nual “Smithsonian Treasures” be-
hind-the-scenes tours, which have
become one of the most popular
benefits of Contributing Member-
ship. The society awarded James
Smithson Society Founder Medals
to two longtime members: Mr. and
Mrs. Philip D. Reed Jr., for the
Philip D. Reed Foundation, and
Mrs. Jefferson Patterson.

Mr. and Mrs. Reed have been
benefactors of both the National
Zoological Park and the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research
Center (SERC). They established
fellowships for gifted young scien-
tists and other activities through
the Zoo’s NOAHS (New Opportuni-
ties in Animal Health Sciences)
program. Their personal concern

for the environmental health of
the Chesapeake Bay was expressed
in a construction gift for an educa- '
tion and orientation center at i
SERC in Edgewater, Maryland.
Mrs. Patterson has been in-
volved with the Smithsonian on
various levels, from her personal
commitment as a member of the
Smithsonian Women’s Committee,
to her support of the National Mu-
seum of American History, the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History,
the National Portrait Gallery, and
the Smithsonian Quadrangle proj-
ect, to her multiyear endowment
of the curator of rare books posi-
tion at the Rare Books Library now
under construction in the Natural
History Building. She is a noted
photojournalist who, with her late
husband Jefferson Patterson, has
supported the Smithsonian for
many years.

JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY
ENDOWED LIFE MEMBER
PROGRAM

The James Smithson Society En-
dowed Life Member Program
gained Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Kaufman as new members. In this
program, an endowment gift of
$40,000 or more is managed as
part of the Institution’s investment
portfolio, where the principal re-
mains and grows over time. Earned)
income from the endowment gift
supports the member’s annual
Smithson Society dues. The James
Smithson Society Endowed Life
Members are a growing group of
lifetime partners who are securing
the Smithsonian for the next
generation.

CORPORATE

MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Corporate Mem-
bership Program, established in
1990, strengthens the Institution’s
relationships with the business
community. The Institution’s work
in this area has opened doors to
new partnerships and stimulated
many fascinating projects.

Corporate Membership is avail-
able at the $10,000 Corporate Pa-
tron level and the $25,000 Corpo-
rate Leader level. During 1997, the
program enjoyed support from 38
members and extended honorary
memberships to another 136 cor-
porations that supported “Amer-
ica’s Smithsonian” premiere galas
in their regions. The program gen-
erated $800,000 in unrestricted
funds for Smithsonian projects in
>ducation and research.

At the annual Corporate Mem-
bership luncheon in the Smith-
sonian Castle in May, more than
125 corporate representatives ex-
changed ideas about how support
for cultural institutions helps them
reach their business goals. Frank
Shrontz, Smithsonian Regent and
chairman emeritus of the Boeing
Company, gave the keynote ad-
dress, “Innovative Relationships:
How Public and Private Sector
Goals Converge to Create Eco-
nomic and Cultural Value.” Smith-
sonian National Board member
Joan Noto and Smithsonian Re-
gent Senator Thad Cochran also
spoke.

Secretary Heyman announced
the creation of the Smithsonian
Institution Corporate Leadership
Award for outstanding contribu-
tions to the Smithsonian’s work
and presented the first award to
Robert J. Thomas, president and
chief executive officer of Nissan
Motor Corporation U.S.A. The
award recognizes Nissan’s diverse
support for Smithsonian education
programs, including the traveling
exhibition “Earth 2U, Exploring
Geography” and various music
programs.

The Corporate Membership Pro-
gram also welcomed seven new
members and introduced its Web
site, littp://www.si.edu/yvouandsi/
join/corp/scmp.

SMITHSONIAN

WOMEN'S COMMITTEE

The Smithsonian Women’s Com-
mittee advances the interests of
the Smithsonian through fund-
raising activities and special proj-
ects. The committee has 57 active
members, 63 resource members,
and 48 sustaining members.
Chaired this year by Mrs. Donald
W. Jeffries, the committee distrib-
uted $293,000 in competitive
grants to 25 projects in 11 mu-
seums and offices.

The committee’s awards pro-
gram is the result of its successful
and profitable annual Smithsonian
Craft Show, which celebrated its
15th anniversary in April. From

more than 1,300 applicants, 120
exhibitors in all media were se-
lected to show their wares. The
event, held at the National Build-
ing Museum, presents the nation’s
finest contemporary crafts and
raises money for the committee’s
educational and outreach pro-
grams benefiting the Smithsonian.

SMITHSONIAN

LUNCHEON GROUP

The Smithsonian Luncheon
Group, a circle of supporters from
the Washington area who meet
regularly to learn about Smith-
sonian programs, met five times
this year. Chairman Lee M. Folger,
who had provided outstanding ser-
vice to the group as a member and
as chairman for two years, com-
pleted his term in June. Folger was
instrumental in establishing the
Smithsonian Luncheon Group En-
dowment for education programs

At the Smithsonian Luncheon Group's final meeting of the year, retiring develop-
ment officer Arthur Gardner (right) congratulates outgoing chairman Lee M. Folger.
Folger helped establish the Smithsonian Luncheon Group Endowment for education
initiatives for Washington, D.C.-area youth. (Photograph by Rick Vargas)
78

In April 1997, Smithsonian National Board members enjoyed a visit to the National

Zoo's Conservation and Research Center in Front Royal, Virginia. (Photograph by

Kenneth Miller)

that benefit Washington-area
youth. He was succeeded by Ben

Crisman, a Washington attorney.

SMITHSONIAN

WASHINGTON COUNCIL

This year, the Smithsonian Wash-
ington Council was established as
a new initiative of the Secretary
and regional leaders dedicated to
expanding the Smithsonian’s rela-
tionship with the entire Washing-
ton region. The council’s executive
committee, chaired by Washington
attorney and philanthropist R.
Robert Linowes, met three times to
discuss ways that the Smithsonian
can have a greater impact on com-
munity audiences.

The Smithsonian Washington
Council was formed to help all
area residents learn more about the
Smithsonian and take full advan-
tage of its unique resources. Nearly
7 million of the Institution’s 23
million annual visitors live in the

District of Columbia, Maryland,
and Virginia. The Smithsonian is a
full partner in the life of this com-
munity and a major contributor to
the region's rich cultural, educa-
tional, and economic life. Genera-
tions of residents from all socioe-
conomic, geographic, and racial
backgrounds have been enriched
by Smithsonian museums, research
endeavors, public exhibitions, and
educational programs on and off
the National Mall. The council will
ensure that the Smithsonian, the
region’s museum, continues to
serve as the community’s class-
room.

OTHER VITAL SUPPORT

In addition to acknowledging fi-
nancial support from individuals,
foundations, and corporations, the
Smithsonian recognizes donors of
in-kind gifts. Ranging from equip-
ment for office or program use to
pro bono professional consulting

services, such gifts contribute
greatly to the success of research
and educational programs and to
the efficient administration of the ,
Institution.
Volunteers help the Smithsonian
advance its programs and offer ex-
panded services to the public. The
names of docents and behind-the-
scenes volunteers are listed annu-
ally in the Torch, the Smithsonian’s
employee newspaper. In fiscal year
1997, 7,743 volunteers gave
605,724 hours of their time. These
invaluable volunteers bring exper-

tise, experience, and enthusiasm to
their work, and we express to them
collectively our sincere apprecia-
tion for their dedication.

A GROWING FAMILY

The Institution’s success in con-
necting with people of all ages, in-
terests, and backgrounds is directly
related to the commitment of indi)
viduals, corporations, and founda-
tions nationwide. Our dedicated
network of supporters helps us
find the resources necessary to cre-
ate the first-class programs for
which the Institution is known
around the world. From the teach-
ers who take part in the National
Faculty-Smithsonian Program to
improve knowledge in their sub-
ject areas to Corporate Members
who involve their employees in
the Institution, everyone can be a
part of the Smithsonian.

The Smithsonian, like no other
institution, crosses many disci-
plines, incorporates living history,
popular culture, and science, and
connects in meaningful ways with
people everywhere. We must keep
it strong and vital through public-
private and public partnerships,
sustaining its capacity to bring
learning and enjoyment to the
widest possible audience.

Philip D. Reed Jr. (Second from right) and his wife Betty were recog-
nized this year with the James Smithson Society Founder Medal at the

society's May 1997 dinner. The Reeds supported the Smithsonian En-
vironmental Research Center and established a fellowship for promising
young scientists at the National Zoo’s Conservation and Research Cen-

ter NOAHS program. Joining the Reeds are David Wildt, NOAHS co-

founder (right), Smithsonian staff member Donna Ari (left), and Ewing
Miller. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

SMITHSONIAN
BENEFACTORS CIRCLE

Honorary Founder
Enid A. Haupt

Founders

Russell B. Aitken

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. Altschul

William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans

Katharine Graham

Robert C. and Julie Graham Jr.
Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.
William A. and Patricia W. Hewitt
Ikuo Hirayama

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
T. T. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Patrons

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson

Ann Simmons Alspaugh

Peter C. and Joan Andrews

Marjorie Arundel

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod

Edward P. Bass

Randy and Nancy Best

Peter and Helen Bing

James and Barbara Block

Winton and Carolyn Blount

Agnes C. Bourne and James Luebbers

Michael J. Brophy

Hildegard Bruck

Joan Bull

George E. Burch III

Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

Scott Chinery

Marcus Cohn

Barber B. Conable Jr. and
Charlotte Conable

Guido Craveri

Joseph F. Cullman III

Peggy and Richard M. Danziger

David Davies

Evelyn Y. Davis

David Dibner

Charles M. and Valerie T. Diker

Joseph Di Palma

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

Robert H. Ellsworth

John L. and Margot P. Ernst

Kitty Fassett

Nancy Fessenden

Kathrine, Juliet and Lee Folger

Rita Fraad

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost

Tito Giamporcaro

Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert

George J. and Eileen D. Gillespie

FE. Warrington Gillet Jr. and
Elesabeth I. Gillet

Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Jerome L. Greene

Barrick W. Groom

Agnes S. Gund

George Gund III

Joan D. Haig

Evelyn A. J. Hall

Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Marguerite J. Harbert

Martha A. Healy

Drue M. Heinz

John Hendricks

Lloyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman

Frank W. and Lisina M. Hoch

Ladislaus and Beatrix von Hoffmann

Janet Annenberg Hooker

Sir Joseph E. Hotung

John R. Huggard

Mrs, Jaquelin H. Hume

Gilbert S. Kahn

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen

Victor and Loretta Kaufman

Gene A. and Freita F. Keluche

James M. Kemper Jr.

R. Crosby Kemper Jr.

James W. and Mary T. Kinnear

Ann and Gilbert Kinney

Ethel Niki Kominik

William K. and Alice S. Konze

Karl V. Krombein

Harvey M. and Connie Krueger

Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger

Robert and Helen Kuhn

Rogerio S. Lam

Ru Lennox Lang

Robert and Carrie Lehrman

Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson

Barbara and Gerald Levin

Sydney and Frances Lewis

John Livermore

Putnam Livermore

Henry Luce III

Frank J. Lukowski

Barbara A. Mandel

Harry and Beverly Mandil

Edwin S. and Nancy A. Marks

John F. and Adrienne B. Mars

Kathleen C. Mason

Brooks and Hope B. McCormick

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Katherine Medlinger

Antony M. Merck
Jeffery W. and Janet Meyer
James and Lolly Mitchell
Lester S. Morse Jr. and Enid W. Morse
The Hon. Daniel Patrick Moynihan
and Elizabeth Moynihan
Eleanor Smallwood Niebell
Jean Niemeier
Robert H. and Nancy Nooter
Carroll and Nancy Fields O’Connor
Charles Rand Penney
Al and Cecilia Podell
Winifred and Norman Portenoy
Lewis and Margaret Ranieri
Philip D. Reed Jr. and Elizabeth Reed
Douglas F. and Sanae I. Reeves
Frank K. Ribelin
Carlyn Ring
David Rockefeller
Anton H. Rosenthal and
Ruth E. Ganister
Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal
Wilbur L. Ross Jr.
Jeanette Cantrell Rudy
Cecile Salomon
Joseph H. Samuel Jr.
Lloyd G. and Betty L. Schermer
Margaret Knowles Schink
Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz
Catherine F. Scott
Shirley P. Sichel
Emma M. Sims
James C. Slaughter
George L. Small
Kathy Daubert Smith
Bernie E. Stadiem
Mrs. Sydney Stein Jr.
E. Hadley Stuart Jr. and Marion Stuart
A. Alfred Taubman
Vernon F. Taylor Jr.

Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw

Jeffrey and Diane Tobin

R. E. Turner and Jane Fonda

John Weeden

Daniel Weinstein
Nancy Brown Wellin
Anthony and Beatrice W. Welters

Jerry R. and Carolyn L. White

Julius Wile

Ronald H. Winston and
Heidi Jensen-Winston

Elizabeth B. Wood

Gay F. Wray

Nancy B. Zirkle

Posthumous Gifts

Henri Keyser-Andre Revocable Trust
designated by Mr. Jerry Perles

79
Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg congratulates William Gordon

Bowen, president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, after he re-

ceived the Joseph Henry Medal at the October 1996 Smithsonian

Benefactors Circle dinner. (Photograph by Glenn Levy)

DONORS OF
FINANCIAL SUPPORT

*Denotes a gift to the Smithsonian Fund for
the Future, a citizens’ initiative to raise
endowment funds, both unrestricted and

special purpose

$1,000,000 or more

Anonymous

Prof. Ikuo Hirayama

Ruth S. Holmberg*

Jerome H. and Dorothy Lemelson
(Lemelson Family Foundation)*

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

Metropolitan Arts Council

Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A

Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation
of Connecticut

Lila Wallace-Reader’s Digest Fund

$500,000 or more

Ms. Agnes Cowles Bourne

Mr. Harry R. Charles Jr.

Corporation for Public Broadcasting

Mr. Guido Craveri

Discovery Communications, Inc.

Friends of the National Zoo

The Kresge Foundation

Lilly Endowment, Inc.

The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

Merck Company Foundation

David & Lucile Packard Foundation

80

Nancy Brown Wellin (The Brown

Foundation, Inc.)

$100,000 or more

Anonymous

\lyeska Pipeline Service Co.

American Gastroenterological
Association

Bayer AG Group

BellSouth Corporation

Bing Fund, Inc

The Hon. Winton M. Blount

BP America Inc.

Caterpillar, Incorporated

Cessna Aircraft Company

Mr. Scott Chinery

Computerworld Information
Technology Awards
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mts. Joseph F. Cullman III*

Cyprus Amax Minerals Company

Mr. Joseph A. Di Palma

Fannie Mae Foundation

Mrs. Hart Fessenden

Fidelity Foundation

Fieldstead & Company

Fundacion Natura

J. Paul Getty Trust

Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation

The Greenwich Workshop, Inc.

The George Gund Foundation

Mr. George Gund III

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Hendricks

Sir Joseph E. Hotung

W.K. Kellogg Foundation

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.

Konze (Alice Stockton Konze Fund)

Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Levin

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc.

Morton & Barbara Mandel Family
Foundation

Metropolitan Life Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffery W. Meyer

Mississippi State University

Mobil Corporation

Monsanto Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse Jr. (Morse

Family Foundation)
National Geographic Society
Newmont Mining Corporation
Nippon Foundation
Novus Services, Inc.

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson (Marpat
Foundation, Inc.)*

Peabody Holding Company, Inc

Phelps Dodge Corporation

Public Resource Foundation

James Renwick Alliance

Mrs. Else Sackler

Margaret Knowles Schink

Shell Oil Company

Shell Prospecting & Development
(Peru) B.V.

Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

Ms. Elizabeth H. Solomon

The Summit Charitable
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene V. Thaw
(Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw
Charitable Trust)

lime Inc.

Timex Corporation

Turner Entertainment Group

Turner Foundation Inc.

United Technologies Corp.

WestPoint Stephens Inc.

Wisconsin Sesquicentennial
Commission

Xerox Corporation

Young Benefactors of the Smithsonian

Institution
Zemurray Foundation

Zoologische Gesellschaft

$50,000 or more

Acuson

Akaloa Resource Foundation

American Express Financial
Advisors, Inc.

ASARCO Incorporated

AT&T/AT&T Foundation

Banco Popular de Puerto Rico

Barrick Goldstrike Mines Inc.

The Hon. and Mrs. Max N. Berry

Brother International Corporation

Ms. Joan Bull

Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation*

Champion International Corp.

The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.

Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for
International Scholarly
Exchange (USA)

Columbia/HCA Healthcare
Foundation, Inc.

Consolidated Natural Gas Company
Foundation

Mr. Pedro Cuatrecasas

Mr. Barney A. Ebsworth (The
Ebsworth Foundation)

Ecolab, Inc.

Enron Corporation

Mr. Lee M. Folger (Folger Fund)*

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Gateway 2000

Mr. and Mrs. F. Warrington Gillet Jr.
(Elesabeth Ingalls Gillet
Foundation)*

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.

Goldman, Sachs & Co.

Mr. Jerome L. Greene (The Jerome L.
Greene Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Alton Barger Grimes

Hewlett-Packard Co.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch*

Houston Endowment Inc.

The Japan World Exposition
Commemorative Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Victor Kaufman

Keidanren Nature Conservation Func

Lalique North America, Inc.

Jacob & Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation, Inc.

Lockheed Martin Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Malott
(Camalott Charitable
Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. John E. Mars

Mead Corporation Foundation

Mississippi Arts Commission

The National Museum of Korea

New York State Council on the Arts

Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O’Connor

Pacific Mutual Foundation

Mr. James E. Pehta

The Perot Foundation

Mr. Elmer E. Rasmuson

Regional Citizens Advisory
Council, Inc.

Blanchette Hooker Rockefeller Fund

Mr. Arthur Ross (Arthur Ross
Foundation)

Mr. B. Francis Saul II (Chevy Chase
Bank)

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer
(Philip & Henrietta Adler
Foundation)*

Siemens Capital Corporation

The Gertrude E. Skelly Charitable
Foundation

Tamiya, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Welters*

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
(Wolfensohn Family Foundation)

Mr. Richard W. Wortham III (The
Wortham Foundation, Inc.)

$10,000 or more

Anonymous

Abbott Laboratories Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald D. Abramson
(Abramson Family
Foundation, Inc.)

AC Nielsen

Ahmanson Foundation

Air Line Pilots Association

Alexander & Baldwin, Inc.

American Express Company

American Society for Training &
Development

American Stock Exchange, Inc.

American Zoo & Aquarium
Association

AMS Foundation for the Arts, Sciences
and Humanities

Mr. Nick Amster

Arthur Andersen, LLP

Mr. and Mrs. Peter C. Andrews

Anheuser-Busch Companies

Aquatic BioEnhancement Systems, Inc.

ARCO/ARCO Foundation, Inc.

Embassy of Australia

The Jean Axelrod Memorial
Foundation, Inc.

Bank of Hawaii

The Barker Welfare Foundation

Bechtel Foundation

The Beinecke Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John T. Bennett

Bernina of America, Inc.

A. M. Best Company, Inc.

Black & Decker (US), Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Jack S. Blanton (Scurlock
Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

The Sol Bloom Family Foundation

Boart Longyear Company

Barbara Boggs Associates Inc.

Ms. Constance E. Boone

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

Broadcast Music, Inc.

Mrs. Agnes Brown

BYK Gulden

Capital Re

Mr. James R. Cargill

E. Rhodes & Leona B. Carpenter
Foundation

Ms. Gennice T. Carter

Chevron Corporation

| Miss Jean Chisholm

| Mr. and Mrs. Willard G. Clark

Mr. Lawrence Clayton

Mr. Ernest H. Cockrell (The Cockrell
Foundation)

Marcus & Harryette Cohn
Foundation

Harryette Cohn Fund

Mrs. Dollie A. Cole

Comerica Incorporated

Communication Resources, Inc.

Conde Nast Sports for Women

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Coneway
(Coneway Family Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Congdon
(Argentum Foundation)

CONSOL Coal Group

Consolidated Edison Co. of
New York, Inc.

Dr. G. Arthur Cooper

Coopers & Lybrand

COREStaff Inc.

Corning Incorporated

Council of Private Art Consultants

Joseph & Barbara Cowen
Foundation Inc.

King and Jean Cummings
Charitable Trust

Mr. Frank A. Daniels Jr. (Julia and
Frank Daniels Fund)

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Danziger

Eric de Rothschild

Deloitte & Touche, LLP

S. Sydney DeYoung Foundation

The Dibner Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Diker (Valerie
& Charles Diker Fund, Inc.)

Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation

DuPont

Duggal Charitable Foundation

Charles W. Duncan Jr. and Anne S.
Duncan

Duron Paints & Wallcoverings

E-Stamp Corporation

Earthwatch

eci Telecom

Egon Zehnder International, Inc.

Mr. James A. Elkins Jr.

Engelhard Corporation

J. Epstein Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. John Ernst (Richard C. &
Susan B. Ernst Foundation Inc.)

Exxon Company, U.S.A.

Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden

First Bank System

First Hawaiian Foundation

Fluor Corporation

The Ford Foundation

Freddie Mac Foundation

The Freed Foundation

Freeman Decorating Company

Friden Neopost

Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost

Fundacion Smithsonian de Panama

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Gans

Genentech, Inc.

Mr. David W. Gengler

George H. Lewis & Sons

The Hon. Sumner Gerard (Sumner
Gerard Foundation)

Glen Eagles Foundation

Mts. Viola Seff Goldberg

The Gordon Fund

Florence J. Gould Foundation

Graham Foundation for Advanced
Studies in the Fine Arts

The Hon. C. Boyden Gray*

Mary Livingston Griggs and Mary
Griggs Burke Foundation

Mimi and Peter Haas (Miriam & Peter
Haas Fund)

Mr. Hugh Halff Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ben Hammett

Hayes, Domenici & Associates

The Hearst Foundation, Inc.

H. John Heinz II Charitable Trust

Mr. Brian C. McK. Henderson

Henry Foundation

Mr. Paul Hertelendy

Hewlett-Packard Company
Foundation U.S.

Mr. Alan J. Hirschfield (Norman
Hirschfield Foundation)

Hitachi Limited

Hoffman-La Roche, Inc.

The Homeland Foundation

Homestake Mining Company

Hong Kong Economic & Trade Office,
British Embassy

Mr. Rampa R. Hormel

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Houston Chronicle

Houston Lighting & Power Company

Mr. John K. Howat

Hubbard Broadcasting, Inc.

Hughes Aircraft Company

Hunter Engineering Company

Husqvarna Viking Sewing Machine
Company

Dr. and Mrs. Stanley O. Ikenberry

Independence Mining Company, Inc.

International Business Machines
Corporation

International Union for the
Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources

Iowa Sesquicentennial Commission

ITT Hartford

Jackson & Tull Chartered Engineers

Jane’s Information Group

Japan-United States Friendship
Commission

The Jaques Admiralty Law Firm

Johnson Matthey

Lois Straight Johnson Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

Kansai Electric Power Company, Inc.

J. M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Mr. Richard Kaufman

Kennecott Corporation

The Robert S. & Grayce B. Kerr
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mr. Fred M. Kirby II (F. M. Kirby
Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. Seymour H. Knox IV (The
Seymour H. Knox
Foundation, Inc.)*

KPMG Peat Marwick

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Krispy Kreme Doughnut Corporation

Mr. Harvey M. Krueger

Peter Krueger-Christie’s Foundation

Ms. Lee Kush

The Hon. and Mrs. L. William Lane Jr.
(The Ambassador & Mts. L. W.
Lane Jr. Fund)

Lannan Foundation

Levi Strauss Foundation

Mrs. Lilly S. Lievsay

Foundation of the Litton Industries

Richard Lounsbery Foundation

Joe and Emily Lowe Foundation

Elizabeth S. MacMillan (WEM
Foundation)

The Mariners Museum

The Marks Family Foundation

Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.

Dr. Carol Master

McGovern Fund

Medical and Science Communications
Development Corporation

The Melton Arts Foundation

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

Mr. Eugene Bradley Meyer

Ms. Paula Paster Michtom

Mid-Coast Cable Television

Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing
Company

Minnesota Zoo Foundation

Monsanto Company

Montgomery Watson Americas, Inc.

The Henry Moore Foundation

Mr. John M. Morss

Ruth Mott Fund

Mr. Rupert Murdoch

National Association of Secondary
School Principals

National Audubon Society

National Automobile Dealers
Association

The National Faculty

National Osteoporosis Foundation

The National Outdoor Leadership
School

National Retail Federation

Natural Heritage Trust

NEC Foundation of America

New York State United Teachers

The New York Times Company
Foundation

NIKE, Inc.

Noble Drilling Corporation

Northern States Power Company

81
Northwest Bancorporation, Inc.

Ralph E. Ogden Foundation, Inc.

Orbital Sciences Corporation

Orkin Pest Control

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Osnos

Outdoor Advertising Association of
America

Outdoor Life Network

Ovation, Inc.

PaineWebber

Mr. Max Palevsky

PanEnergy Corp.

Park Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. James Patton Jr.

William Penn Foundation

Pershing Division of DLJ
Securities Corp.

Mrs. Cynthia A. Carrafa Petrello

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Mr. Jean P. Pierret and Ms. C. Diane
Christensen (The Christensen Fund)

Placer Dome, Inc.

Playworld Systems

Mr. and Mrs. William Potter

Mrs. Lewis T. Preston

Price Waterhouse

Procter & Gamble Company

The Henry & Henrietta Quade
Foundation

Ralston Purina Company

Mr. and Mrs. Lewis S. Ranieri

Reliance National

Mr. Edward Hart Rice (The Rice Family
Foundation)

Ann R. Roberts Charitable Lead Trust

Ms. Ann R. Roberts

Sara Roby Foundation

Rockefeller Foundation

Mr. David Rockefeller Jr.

Mr. David Rockefeller Sr.

Susan and Elihu Rose Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr. and The Hon.
Elizabeth McCaughey Ross

Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.

The May and Samuel Rudin Family
Foundation

Mary A. H. Rumsey Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Clive Runnells*

Arthur M. Sackler Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Sackler

Ms. Elizabeth Sackler and
Mr. Fred Berner

Mr. Shinji Sakai

Mr. A. R. Tony Sanchez

Sara Lee Corporation

Sarah Cooper Associates, Inc.

Mr. Fayez Sarofim (Fayez
Sarofim & Co.)

SBC Foundation

Mr. Richard J. Schwartz (David
Schwartz Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. E. C. Scurlock

Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.

82

Service Employees International Union

Ms. Eiko Shimizu

Siemens Corporation

Silicon Graphics, Inc.

Sims Family Limited Partnership

Mr. Richard M. Smith

Mr. Orrin J. Smucker

South Carolina Inaugural Ball

St. Jude Medical

The St. Paul Companies, Inc.

Stag’s Leap Wine Cellars

Star Tribune

Ms. Anne B. Stern

Subaru of America, Inc.

The Sulzberger Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Kelso F. Sutton

Mr. Ernest C. Swigert

Tarver Family Fund

Charles W. and Judy Spence Tate
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. A. Alfred Taubman

TC Group, LLC

Ms. Ann Tenenbaum

Teradyne, Inc.

Texaco Foundation

Time Warner Entertainment Company

Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc.

Trust for Mutual Understanding

Uncle Ben’s, Inc.

Unico Banking Group

United Parcel Service

Van Cleef & Arpels, Inc.

Vest Financial Services, HD

Vitol S.A., Inc.

The Waggoners Foundation

Miss Catherine Walsh

Walt Disney World Company

The Washington Post Company

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Dr. Thomas T. Weis

Mr. Keith S. Wellin

Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research

Mrs. Wesley West

Mr. and Mrs. Herman T. Wilson Jr.

Mrs. Isabel Brown Wilson

Windgate Charitable Foundation

Robert H. Winn Foundation

Harry Winston, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Ronald H. Winston

Mrs. Gay F. Wray (Roger S. Firestone
Foundation)*

Young Presidents’ Organization

Yurie Foundation

Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle*

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Ahmad Adaya

Adobe Systems

Alaska State Society

American Association of
Blacks in Energy

American Friends of Turkey

American General Corporation

American Investment Company

American Type Culture Collection

American Zinc Association

Harriett Ames Charitable Trust

Andersen Consulting, LLP

Applied Energy Services, Inc.

Arch Coal, Inc.

ARCO Coal Company

Avery Dennison Corporation

Dr. Herbert R. Axelrod (Dr. Herbert R.
Axelrod Foundation)

Baker & Botts, LLP

Bank of America National Trust and
Savings Association

Bank One, Texas, NA

The Barr Fund

Mr. Robert W. Bauman

BMC Software, Inc.

The Boeing Company

Ms. Charlotte T. Bordeaux

Laura Boulton Foundation Inc.

Ruth Bowman Fund

Bristol Bay Native Corporation

Mr. Eli Broad (The Eli Broad Family
Foundation)

Bruno’s Inc.

Mr. Gerald E. Buck (Buck Investments)

Charles E. Burchfield Foundation

Mr. Edward A. Burka

Mrs. Mary Griggs Burke*

Catto Foundation

Center for Strategic &
International Studies

The Chase Manhattan Foundation

The Chronicle Publishing Company

Mr. Kenneth Chu and Ms. Betty Lo

Mr. Thomas Colville

Corporation for Educational
Communications

Council for Advancement and
Support of Education

Mr. and Mrs. Roger E. Covey

Ms. Allison Stacey Cowles

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Mrs. Barbara R. de Marneffe

Degussa Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner

Douglas!Gallagher

The Max and Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation Inc.*

Mr. and Mrs. Peter F. Drucker

Ducks Unlimited, Inc.

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds III (Dean S.
Edmonds Foundation)

Environmental Defense Fund

Katherine and George Fan Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. Robert S. Feinberg

Dr. Alan Fern and Mts. Lois Fern

Mr. George M. Ferris Jr. (George M.
Ferris Jr. Foundation)

Mrs. Leslie S. Fogg

Dr. and Mrs. Charles H. Foster

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Ms. Rosemary L. Frankeberger

Mr. George C. Freeman Jr. (Hunton & ,
Williams)

Ms. Virginia McGehee Friend

Charles L. Gambier Trust

Gamma-Metrics

Mr. Phil Gardner

Mr. Edward O. Gaylord

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty (Ann &
Gordon Getty Foundation)

Ms. Elizabeth Gordon

The Mayer Greenberg Foundation

Mr. W. L. Hadley Griffin

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Haas (Colleen
and Robert D. Haas Fund)

Sam F. Hamra Jr. and June S. Hamra

Mrs. Linda G. Haque

Harnischfeger Industries Inc.

HD Vest Financial Services

{

Hecla Mining Company

Mrs. Drue M. Heinz (Drue Heinz Trust)

Mr. Robert F. Hemphill Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Hicks (Hicks
Charitable Foundation)

The Clarence and Jack Himmel
Foundation

Hoffman Construction Company

The Hoglund Foundation

Honeywell, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Noriyoshi Horiuchi

Thomas D. Hormel Trust

Hoss Charitable Foundation

Mrs. Susan M. Hulsey

Mrs. Caroline Hume

IMC Global Operations Inc.

Institute for Intercultural Studies

Inter-Regional Financial Group, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Franklin A. Jacobs

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Jessup Jr.

Jet Propulsion Laboratory

JLG Industries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Alvin R. Kantor

Barbara and William Karatz Fund

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly II

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall

Kenworth Truck Company

Kerr-McGee Corporation

King Research Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Kinnear

Mr. S. Lee Kling

Mr. and Mrs. Steven Kohlhagen

Komatsu Mining Systems, Inc.

Koniag, Inc.

KPRC/TV 2

Mr. Werner H. Kramarsky (The Fifth
Floor Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Ms. Swoosie Kurtz

Mr. and Mrs. James J. Lally

Mr. Philip A. Lathrap

Lee Enterprises, Inc.

Edmund J. Lewis, M.D.
William & Nora Lichtenberg
Foundation, Inc.

Liddell, Sapp, Zivley, Hill &
LaBoon, LLP

The Hon. and Mrs. James Lilley

Mr. A. G. Lindstrand

Howard & Jean Lipman
Foundation, Inc.

Liz Claiborne Foundation

Ms. Holly Madigan

Mrs. Jean Mahoney

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Malott

Morton and Barbara Mandel
Foundation

Mr. Thomas H. Maren

Mr. Frank Martucci

Mr. and Mrs. Edgar M. Masinter

Col. Billie G. Matheson, USAF Ret.

The May Department Stores Company

Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. William P. McClure
MCI Communications Corporation
McMillan Associates
Mr. Robert L. McNeil Jr. (The Barra

Foundation, Inc.)
Mr. Paul Mellon*
Mr. Olan Mills II
The Mnuchin Foundation
Marvin and Elayne Mordes
Multifoods
NAMSB Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. John Ulric Nef
New York Mercantile Exchange
Newsweek, Inc.
Mr. Henry V. Nickel
Nordstrom, Incorporated
Norfolk Southern Foundation
Northwest Mining Association
Norwest Corporation
NYNEX Corporation
John M. Olin Foundation
Orimono Interiors
Pacific Gas & Electric Co.
Pacific Power
Samuel P. Pardoe Foundation
Dr. Paul D. Parkman

The Martin Paskus Foundation, Inc.

Ms. Helen Ann Patton

JCPenney Company, Inc.

Mr. George S. Pillsbury (The
Southways Foundation)

Pioneer Press

Pitney Bowes

Mrs. John A. Pope

Lt. Col. Norman S. Portenoy,
USAF (Ret.)

Porter-Cable

Portland General Electric Co.

Dr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin

Mr. Walter Pozen

Mr. and Mrs. Heinz C. Prechter (World

Heritage Foundation)
Ms. Kathleen A. Preciado
Public Broadcasting Service

Rabobank Nederland, N.V.

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

Reader's Digest Association Inc.

Sanae I. and Douglas F. Reeves

Mr. Burton J. Reiner

Resources for the Future, Inc.

Rhythm & Blues Foundation

Mary Livingston Ripley Charitable
Lead Trust*

Mr. and Mrs. John W. Roberts (Solite
Corporation)

Rockwell Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Roob

Dr. Mariette Lutze Sackler (Marietta
Lutze Sackler Family Trust)

SAME 97

Charles E. Sampson Trust

San Jose Mercury News

Mr. and Mrs. Roger W. Sant

Santa Fe Pacific Gold Corporation

The Julius Schepps Company

The Betty A. & Lloyd G. Schermer
Foundation

Mr. Harold J. Schnitzer

Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.

Service America Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. J. Henry Sheffield

Mr. Theodore J. Slavin

Mr. and Mrs. H. Robert Slusser

Mr. Alan G. Spoon

Mrs. Ann M. Stack

Jules & Doris Stein Foundation

Hattie M. Strong Foundation*

Svedala Industries, Inc.

SYSCO Corporation

T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan
Services, Inc.

Taipei Council of Agriculture

Tamrock

Suzanne and Michael Tennenbaum
(Tennenbaum & Co., LLC)

Texaco, Inc.

Texas Commerce Bank—Houston N.A.

Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation

Man-Kong Tsui

Dr. Stephen Turner and Mrs. Lillian
Scheffres Turner

John M. Ullmann, Inc.

Unique Binders, Inc.

Vance International, Inc.

Wallace Genetic Foundation

Weatherford Enterra, Inc.

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Weigh-Tronix, Inc

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Weil (Hickrill
Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Guy Weill

Western Fuels Association Inc.

Wiley, Rein & Fielding

Mr. Eli Wilner & Ms. Barbara Brennan

Women in Mining

World Wide Fund for Nature

World Wildlife Fund

Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff*

$2,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. Davey L. Adams

Mr. Laurence J. Adams
Adelson Galleries, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Melvin G. Alper
Alsdorf Foundation

Amdahl Corporation
American-Scandinavian Foundation
Ameritech

Miss Barbara Ames

Mrs. Joan Andrews

APCA (Advancement & Promotion of

Charitable Activities)

Aspen Celebration for the
American Indian

BankAmerica Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Barwick

Bateman Engineering Inc.

Ms. Doris J. Bates

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen D. Bechtel Jr.
(S. D. Bechtel Jr. Foundation)

Albert Beekhuis Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. William Beierwaltes

Berry-Hill Galleries, Inc.

Booz, Allen & Hamilton, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Bowen (W. J.
Bowen Foundation)

Bradley Arant Rose & White, LLP

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Bradley

Mrs. Wiley T. Buchanan Jr.

Ms. Kate Budd

Bunge Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. John B. Bunker

Dr. Irving F. Burton

California Water Service Company

Embassy of Canada

Government of Canada

Central Pacific Bank

Dorothy Jordan Chadwick Fund

Dr. Victoria Chan-Palay

Christie’s, Inc.

The Chubb Corporation

Citicorp Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. John Clemmons Jr.

Mrs. Lora R. Clemmons

Cline-Lofftus Foundation

Coeur d’Alene Mines Corporation

Computer Associates
International, Inc.

The Hon. Barber B. Conable Jr.

Conservation, Food & Health
Foundation, Inc.

Corporate Design Foundation Inc.

Ruth Covo Family Foundation

Cultural Resources, Inc.

Mr. Ian M. Cumming (Cumming
Foundation)

Mrs. M.A. Davis

Mr. Torkum Demirjian and Ms. Dany

Kornfield (Ariadne Galleries)
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey Jr.
The Walt Disney Company
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Donner Jr.

The Douglass Foundation

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Mr. and Mrs. Sikander A. Durrani

East Side House Winter Antiques Show

R. H. Ellsworth, Ltd.

Mr. Robert Ellsworth

Mrs. Myron S. Falk Jr. (The Edipa
Foundation, Inc.)

Federation of AT&T Global
Information Solutions
User Groups

Mrs. S. Fischer

Mrs. Mary Jane Fisher

The Flowe Foundation

Ms. Anne Forbes

H. B. Fuller Co. Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger

gaLAn entertainment

The JoAnn and Julian Ganz Jr.
Foundation Trust

Mr. Fred Ganz

Mr. Phil Gardner

Mr. Joseph G. Gavin

Lawrence M. Gelb Foundation, Inc.

General Electric Company

Mr. Bert A. Getz

Mr. George J. Gillespie III

Dr. Kurt A. Gitter and Ms. Alice Yelen

Mrs. Charles C. Glover

Leslie Goldberg Charity Fund

William H. Goldiner, M.D.

Brent and Walter Goo

Mr. Henry C. Goodrich

The Gornick Fund

Mr. Richard H. Graham

Gramp Foundation

Greening America

Mr. and Mrs. Calvin B. Gross

Guggenheim, Asher Associates, Inc.

Ms. Agnes S. Gund

Harbert International, Inc.

Harcourt General, Inc.

G. E. Herrick

Hinduja Foundation

Mr. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. Jeffrey C. Hines

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard C. Hoeft

Ms. Nancy Hoffmann

Mr. Thomas E. Hopkins

Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter

Mr. Alvin J. Huss Jr.

Mrs. Zamzam Hussain

Illinois Tool Works Foundation

Dr. and Mts. Stanley O. Ikenberry

Imation Corporation

Government of India Tourist Office

Integrated Device Technology, Inc.

Intermarine Incorporated

ITT Industries, Inc.

Mrs. Shirley Jacobs

The Japan Foundation

Johnson & Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Stanton Jue

83
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice H. Katz

Mr. Jack Kay

Mr. Walter Keating

Miss Narinder Kaur Keith and Miss
Rajinder Kaur Keith*

Enid & Crosby Kemper Foundation

The David Woods Kemper Memorial
Foundation

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles

Mrs. Blanche M. Koffler

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

The Korean Foundation

Koteen Foundation

Dr. Karl V. Krombein

Mr. and Mrs. Jon Landau

Dr. and Mrs. Emanuel Landau

Ms. Hilva B. Landsman

Dr. Thomas Lawton

Dr. Roxie C. Laybourne

Mr. and Mrs, Marc Leland

Mr. and Mrs. Jacques E. Lennon

Helen and Joseph Lewis Fund

Jan R. & Daniel R. Lewis
Philanthropic Fund

Mrs. Gail K. Liebes

Eli Lilly and Company Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Mr. John H. Lindsey

R. Robert Linowes and Ada H.
Linowes Fund

Lippincott & Margulies

Mrs. Jean R. Ljungkull

Lockheed Martin Missiles & Space
Company

Lucent Technologies

The Lucy Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Yo-Yo Ma

Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Magid (Frank
N. Magid Associates, Inc.)

Mars Foundation

Ms. Barbara H. Marshall

Raymond E. Mason Foundation

Mr. Takeo Mayuyama

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy (Nan Tucker
McEvoy Foundation, Inc.)

MCI Government Markets

Mr. and Mrs. Alexander K. McLanahan

Dr. G. Walter McReynolds

The Meeting Manager

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Mennello

Mr. Paul E. Merkle

Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern
Art Studies

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Miller

Mr. Kenneth B. Miller

Mobil Foundation

J. P. Morgan & Company,
Incorporated

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Mr. and Mrs. S. Reed Morian

Jane and John Morrison

Mr. Peter A. Moskovitz and Ms.
Candida Fraze

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth F. Mountcastle

84

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Mullins

Mr. Jack Nash (Nash Family
Philanthropic Fund)

National Gallery of Art

National Postal Forum

The Nature Conservancy

Nestle Beverage Company

Netherland-America Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Lucio A. Noto

T. J. O'Gara Family Charitable
Foundation

Mr. Bengt Ohman

Mrs. Sandra Oken

OXO International

Parseghian Family Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Pearl

Pearson Art Foundation, Inc.

Penguin Books USA Ine.

Mr. Frederick Petrie

Phelps Dodge Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Pierce

Lt. Col. and Mrs. Joseph T. Pisciotta

Mr. Elliott I. Pollock

PRC, Inc.

Prince Charitable Trusts

David and Chery! Purvis

Qantas Airways Ltd.

Dr. and Mrs. David Raphling

Regardless Films, Inc.

Rollie and Ruth Remmel

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Karol Kirberger Rodriguez

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Francis C. Rooney Jr.

Mr. Samuel G. Rose

Rosekrans Fund

Royal Cup, Inc.

Ms. Shirley Z. Johnson and
Mr. Charles Rumph

Mrs. Shirley Ann Ryan

The James & Betty Sams Family
Foundation

Sargent Management Company

Saudi Arabian Oil Company

Mr. Morton L. Scholnick

Mr. and Mts. Roy A. Schotland

Seacoast Foundation

Donald and Estelle Sell

Mr. and Mrs. Iwao Setsu

M. Sigmund & Barbara K. Shapiro
Family Fund

Mrs. John Farr Simmons

Ms. Joyce Marie Sims

Smith, Graham & Co.
Asset Managers, LP

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith

Kathy Daubert Smith

Solectron Corporation

Space Systems Loral

Mr. Ira Spanierman

Mrs. Harriet Spencer

Mr. Bernie Stadiem

Mr. and Mrs. Terry Stent

Mr. and Mrs. William C. Sterling Jr.

Stewart & Perry

Mr. Robert C. Tang

Texas Folklife Resources

Textron Lycoming

Joseph H. Thompson Fund

Dr. F. Christian Thompson

Mr. Clayton Timmons

VLSI

Von Maritime, Inc.

Ms. Frances C. Wagenseil

Mr. Steven C. Walske

Mr. Paul F. Walter

Mrs. Saul Warshaw

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Wean Jr.

Edward A. and Sandra R. Weinstein
Philanthropic Fund

Westinghouse Electric

Miss Winifred E. Weter

Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation

Ms. Shelby White and Dr. Leon Levy
(Shelby White Philanthropic Fund)

The Whitehead Foundation

Mr. Julius Wile*

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley S. Williams Jr.*

The Hon. Edwin D. Williamson

Dr. Edward T. Wilson

Mr. Joseph G. Wirth

Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley

Wright Runstad Associates, LP

SMITHSONIAN
CORPORATE
MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM

Proud Partners of the 150th
Anniversary Celebration

Discover® CARD

INTEL CORPORATION

MCI CoMMUNICATIONS
CORPORATION

TRANS WoRLD AIRLINES, INC.

Corporate Leaders and Patrons
A. B. King, Inc.

AJ Contracting, Inc.
Anheuser-Busch Companies
ARCO

AT&T

Bayer Corporation

BellSouth Corporation

Black & Decker, Inc.

BMG Entertainment

BP America

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.

Capital Cities/ ABC, Inc.

The Capital Group Companies, Inc.
CH2M Hill

Chrysler Corporation Fund

The Coca-Cola Company

The Colbert Foundation, Inc.
Crate & Barrel

Daimler-Benz A.G.

DataWorks

Desgrippes, Gobe & Associates

The Walt Disney Company

Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette

DuPont

Fidelity Investments

Ford Motor Company

General Electric Company

Hitachi Limited

Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc.

Hunter Engineering Company

The Jaques Admiralty Law Firm

S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc.

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

The Kansai Electric Power
Company, Inc.

KPMG Peat Marwick, LLP

Lee Enterprises, Inc.

Levenger

Litton Industries

Mars Incorporated

Marubeni Corporation

McCann-Erickson Worldwide

Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee

Mobil Corporation

Newsweek

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
& Flom, LLP

Sony Corporation of America

Southern Company

Sprint

Robert A. M. Stern Architects

Texas Instruments

The Tokyo Electric Power
Company, Inc.

Xerox Corporation

Honorary Members

Adobe Systems, Inc.

AFLAC Incorporated

Alabama Power Company

ALTEC Industries, Inc.

American General Corp.

Amdahl Corporation

AmSouth Bancorporation

Andersen Corporation

Arthur Andersen, LLP

A. T. Cross Co.

Baker & Botts, LLP

Bank of America

Bank One, Texas N.A.

George K. Baum and Co.

BE&K, Inc.

Birmingham News Company

Blackwell, Sanders, Matheny, Weary
and Lombardy, L.C.

Boatmen’s First National Bank of
Kansas City

The Boeing Company

Booz, Allen & Hamilton

British Airways

Brother International Corporation

Brookfield Lepage Management

Burns and McDonnell
California Water Service Company
Central Plains Steel Company
Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.
Chevy Chase Bank
The Chronicle Publishing Company
CITIBANK, N.A.
Compass Bancshares
Continental Cablevision
Cookson America
Cowles Media Company
Daniel Foundation of Alabama
Daniels-McCray Lumber Company
Dayton Hudson Corp.
Deloitte & Touche, LLP
Doherty, Rumble & Butler
Dorsey & Whitney
E & Y Kenneth Leventhal
Real Estate Group
Ecolab, Inc.
EDS
Edwards & Angell
EFD Inc.
Electronics for Imaging
Ellerbe Becket
Energen Corporation
Enron Oil & Gas Co.
Ernst & Young, LLP
Exxon Company, USA
Faultless Starch/Bon Ami Company
Fayez Sarofim & Co.
Ferrell Companies, Inc.
First Bank System
Fleet National Bank
Foley’s
Fox, Inc.
Freeman Decorating Co.
Gateway 2000
General Mills, Inc.
George H. Lewis & Sons
Gibson Creative
Gulf States Paper Corporation
Green Tree Financial Corporation
H & R Block, Inc.
Hallmark Cards, Inc.
H. B. Fuller Company
Hewlett-Packard Company
Foundation
Hoffman Construction Company
Honeywell, Inc.
Houston Chronicle
Hubbard Broadcasting, Inc.
IBM Corporation
Imation Corporation
Integrated Device Technology
Inter-Regional Financial Group
International Multifoods
J. Paul Getty Trust
Japan Airlines
Jemison Investment
Kajima Corporation
Kansas City Southern Industries, Inc.
Kendall-Jackson Vineyards & Winery
Kenworth Truck Co.
Margorie Kovler Foundation

KPRC-TV2, Houston

Liddell, Sapp, Zivley, Hill &
LaBoon, LLP

Lockheed Martin, IMS

Lockton Companies

3M Company

Medtronic, Inc.

Merchantile Bank of Kansas City

Metromedia Company

Mid-Coast Cable Television

Minnesota Mutual

NEC Corporation

The New York Times Company

NIKE, Inc.

Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.

Noble Drilling Corp.

Nordstrom, Inc.

Northern States Power Company

Northrop Grumman Corporation

Northwest Bancorporation

Norwest Corporation

O'Melveny & Myers

PacifiCorp

Pacific Gas & Electric Co.

Pan Energy Corporation

Parisian, Inc.

Payless Cashways, Inc.

Pfizer, Inc.

Protective Life Corporation

The Providence Journal Company

Quantum Corporation

Rathe Productions

Regions Financial Corporation

R. I. Hospital Trust National Bank

Robertson Honda

Roll International Corporation

Rothschild, Inc.

St. Paul Companies, Inc.

St. Paul Pioneer Press

Shell Oil Company

Solectron Corporation

Sonat, Inc.

South Central Bell

South Trust Bank

Southwestern Bell

Space Systems Loral

Star Tribune of the Twin Cities

State Farm Insurance

Sun America, Inc.

Texaco USA

Texas Commerce Bank

Textron, Inc.

Time, Inc.

Time Warner, Inc.

Times Mirror/Los Angeles Times

Torchmark Corporation

Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.

Union Securities, Inc.

UtiliCorp United

Vance International, Inc.

Vitol, SA Inc.

VLSI Technology, Inc.

Vulcan Materials Company

Wal-Mart Stores

Weatherford Enterra, Inc.

Wells Fargo

WestPoint Stevens

Wolcott & Lincoln

Wyman-Gordon, Inc.

A. W. Zimmer & Co., Central Clearing

JAMES SMITHSON
SOCIETY

Endowed Life Members

Pearl Bell and Col. Billie G. Matheson,
USAF Ret.

Karen and Edward Burka

Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton

Mr. and Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds

Mr. Daniel D. Gilbert

Richard and Elaine Kaufman

Lt. Col. and Mrs. William K. Konze

Gilbert and Jaylee Mead

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Catherine F. Scott

Shelby Shapiro

Mr. J. Henry Sheffield

Mrs. Virginia K. Sheffield

Annual Members

Mrs. Robert Amory Jr.

David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Mr. Leonard Andrews

Mr. William Arndt

Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Ms. Barb Audiss

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman

Mr. E. William Barnett

J. E Barre

Rhoda and Jordan Baruch

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Jonathan Baum

Albert Beekhuis Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Beggs

Mr. Michael E. Bershaw

The Hon. and Mrs. Warren
Emerson Blair

The Hon. and Mrs. Robert O. Blake

Mr. John H. Blazek

Mr. and Mrs. William J. D. Bond

Dr. Michael Bonsignore

J. A. Boorman

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Mr. and Mrs. Bennett Boskey

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Col. Donald S. Bowman

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mrs. Keith S. Brown

Mr. J. Kevin Buchi, Dr. Kathleen M.
Buchi

George E. and Clare M. Burch

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Burnes

Ms. Alice Green Burnette

The Hon. George H. W. Bush and
Mrs. Bush

Mrs. Helen Cabell and Christine Cabell

Mr. Donald W. Carl

Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Carroll

Mae Casner

Col. and Mrs. George E. Chapin Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest H. Cockrell

Dr. and Mrs. David A. Cofrin

Melvin and Ryna Cohen

Nancy L. Connor

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Cooley

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Gretchen S. Crow

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Davis

Anna M. Day

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Day

Mr. and Mrs. Desi DeSimone

Ms. Ann Demitruk

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Mr. Geert M. Deprest and Ms. Laura
Travis-Deprest

Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. DiBona

Douglas Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Wesley M. Dixon Jr.

Norbert and LaVerne Doligalski

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Duncan Jr.

The Eberly Foundation

Barton D. and Debra J. Eberwein

Rear Admiral (Ret.) and Mrs. Edward
H. Eckelmeyer

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Miss Babs Eisman

Mrs. Harriet J. Eiwen

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard England

Col. Charles O. Eshelman

Dorothy D. Eweson

Mr. and Mrs. Michael Fayad

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson Jr.

Ms. B. J. French

Mr. Cary J. Frieze

Virginia Sugg Furrow

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. Phil Gardner

Michael and Susie Gelman

Mary O’Brien Gibson

Mr. and Mrs. David Ginkel

Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Glenn

Mr. Devon Graham

George C and Erna M. Graham

Mrs. John B. Greene

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Mrs. Ann Y. Grim

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

Calvin and Marilyn B. Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

Bruce Guthrie

Mr. Corbin Gwaltney

85
Stephen and Jocelin Hamblett
Robert V. and Rita S. Hanle

Mr. Niles Hanson

Ms. Helen Leale Harper Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Hartl

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman Jr.
Miss Nancy A. Haynes

Philip and Maureen Heasley

The Hon. and Mrs John Hechinger Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. David Heebner

Mr. Robert M. Henry

Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen O. Hessler

Therese and I. Michael Heyman

Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo

Mr. James T. Hines Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Hopkins

William L. Hopkins and Richard B.
Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. Peter House

Mr. and Mrs. John Hrnecir

Mrs. Peter D. Humleker Jr.

Mrs. Lee Hunter

R. Bruce Hunter

John B. Ippolito, Diane M.
Laird-Ippolito

Drs. Jay and Mary Anne Jackson

David A. Jacques

David and Pat Jernigan

Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. V. Johnson

Mrs. Roy Johnson

M

Mr. Robert A. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Kay

Mr. Neil E. Kelley

Mr. Don Kiest

Mr. and Mrs. Norman V. Kinsey

Scott A. Kisting

Ms. Elizabeth Gelman Kossow

Robert E. and Elizabeth W. Krueger

. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson

=)

mo

Mr. Bruce LaBoon

Mrs. James S. Lacock

The Hon. and Mrs. Marion Ladwig

Edward and Beverley Lammerding

Mrs. William Leonhart

Mrs. Jean C. Lindsey

Mr. Bud Lindstrand

Mr. Carl A. Lohmer

Charles E. Long, EVP and Secretary,
Citicorp/Citibank

Mr. Frank J. Lukowski

Edmund C. Lynch Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. A. Bryan Mac Millan

Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars Jr.

Virginia C. Mars

Mary Martell and Paul M. Johnson

Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli

Maj. Gen. Raymond E. Mason Jr. and

Margaret E. Mason
Dr. Wayne Mathews
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. Norman McCulloch Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean

86

Mrs. Henry S. McNeil

Mrs. G. Walter McReynolds

Mr. Paul Mellon

Shelley Kay Melrod

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

Mr. and Mrs. Randall Meyer

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert S. Miller

Jerry M. Miller and Dorothy T. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Olan Mills II

Mr. Peter Monrose

Mr. and Mrs. James Robert
Montgomery

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. and Mrs. John Murphy

Mr. H. Duane Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. Charles O'Connell

James D. Oglevee and Susan Marie
Halliday

Sture G, Olsson

=

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

C. Wesley and Jacqueline Peebles

John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony G. Petrello

George and Sally Pillsbury

Jane P. Plakias

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky/
The Polsky Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Charles L. Poor

The Rev. and Mrs. Charles Price

Claire and John Radway

Mr. Elmer Rasmuson

Mr. Dan Rather

Mrs. Carol H. Ray

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan

Philip and Elizabeth Reed

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Rice

Mr. Peter B. Ridder

Carlyn Ring

Ms. Gay A. Roane

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Jack and Diane Robertson

Ms. Nancy J. Robertson and Mr. Mark
N. Cookingham

Mrs. I. A. Rosenbaum Jr.

Marya Rowan

Ms. Marcia Rubenstein

Marcos and Dina Russek

Mr. William R. Salomon

Ms. Leidy Samson

Vicki and Roger Sant

Mr. Fayez Sarofim

Albert and Thelma Sbar

Ambassador James H. Scheuer and
Emily Malino Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Schnitzer

Elizabeth and Edwin Schreiber

Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Shapiro

Mr. and Mrs. Marc J. Shapiro

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz

Ms. Virginia B. Shimer

Allan E. Shore

Mts. Shirley P. Sichel

Mrs. David E. Skinner
Dr. and Mrs. Harvey C. Slocum Jr.
Dr. Frank O. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Sonnenreich

Harriet and Edson Spencer

John and Anna Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm T. Stamper
Dr. Marjorie L. Stein

Ann C. Stephens

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart
Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Tate

Ms. Marjorie E. Thomas

Mr. Randell C. Thomas

Mr. Glenn F. Tilton

Mr. Stephen Tilton

Mrs. Jean C. Tito

Mrs. Helen Brice Trenckmann
Mr. and Mrs. Walter R. Truland
Mr. Mike Turner

Ms. Evelyn Twigg-Smith

Col. and Mrs. W. G. Van Allen
Mr. and Mrs. L. Von Hoffmann
Col. Harold W. Vorhies

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Waidner

Mr.
M
M
M
M
M

=

and Mrs. Steve Wasserman
James R. Webb

and Mrs. Ben White
. Beverly White

John C. Whitehead

and Mrs. Kenneth Wilkerson
Mr. and Mrs. Michael T. Willis
Mr. and Mrs. Herman T. Wilson
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley

Betty Rhoads Wright

Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Wright
Mr. and Mrs. T. Evans Wyckoff
Mrs. Charlotte S. Wyman

Moe om Ww Hw oe

Ellen and Bernard Young
Mary L. Zicarelli
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

Life Members

Mrs. Anni Albers

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Axelrod
Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow
Mr. and Mrs. Preston R. Bassett
Mrs. Donald C. Beatty

Mrs. Henry C. Beck Jr.

Mrs. Ralph E. Becker

Mrs. Clay P. Bedford

Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin

Mrs. John A. Benton

Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat

Mr. Richard A. Bideaux

Edwin W. Bitter

Mr. Robert Blauner

Mr. Leigh B. Block

Dr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd
Lee Bronson

Mrs. David K. E. Bruce

Dr. Ruth D. Bruun

Mrs. George E. Burch

Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein

Mrs. Hyman Burstein

Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Mrs. Barnet Burstein-Morris

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell Jr.

Mrs. Catherine B. Cantrell
Lawson J. Cantrell

Mr. Allan Caplan

Mrs. George H. Capps

Carol Chiu

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Dr. and Mrs. Roger Cornell

Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham
Dr. and Mrs. Bruce E. Dahrling II
Mr. Sam DeVincent

Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy

Mr. John R. Doss

Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Edward R. Downe Jr.

Dr. Dale B. Dubin

Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont
Mr. Mercer Ellington

Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac

Thomas M. Evans

Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Dr. and Mts. Phillip Frost

Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider

Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Mrs. George Garfield

Mr. and Mrs. Julius Garfield

Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson

C. Paul and Pat S. Gilson

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott
Mrs. Maureen Gould

Doris Stack Greene

Jerome L. and Dawn Greene
Mrs. Chaim Gross

Mrs. Melville Hall

Mrs. Richard Harkness

Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mrs. Lita Annenberg Hazen

Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr.
Edward L. Henning

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn

Mrs. James Stewart Hooker

Mr. Paul Horgan

Dr. and Mrs. Howard Thrig

Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
Mr. and Mts. Jacob Kainen

Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
Dr. Annette Kaufman

Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk
Peter Merrill Klein
Blanche M. Koffler

Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land

Mrs. David Landau

Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz

Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger

Harry E. and Jane F. Lennon

Mrs. Sara L. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Sydney Lewis

Ms. Betty H. Llewellyn

Mr. and Mrs. Jack Lord

Adele Lozowick

Mrs. Robert Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

john A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Messman

Mr. W. A. Moldermaker

Mrs. Edmund C. Monell

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

The Hon. and Mrs. G. Burton Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John H. Phipps

Mrs. John Alexander Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Mr. John P. Remensnyder

Kate Rinzler

The Hon. Thomas M. Roberts

The Hon. Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers Jr.

Mrs. Helen Goodwin Rose

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mrs. Peter G. Sachs

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mrs. Janos Scholz

The Hon. Hugh Scott

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery

Mrs. Helen F. Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith

Mrs. Raphael Soyer

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Earl and Trudy Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mts. Harvey G. Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart Jr.

Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Drs. Yen and Julia Tan

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

Lillian Scheffres Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley
Mr. Leonard John Wilkinson

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams
Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mr. and Mrs. Laurence C. Witten II
Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol

BEQUESTS

The following persons remembered
the Smithsonian through bequests
from their estates:

Barbara A. Bailey

Helen C. Codding
Bertita E. Compton
Gary Sinclair Dodge
Patricia C. Dodge
Charles L. Gambier
Matty-Elaine Herzfelder
Ranghild C. Johnson
Helen Katchmar

Henri Keyzer-Andre
Marion C. Link

John S. Pietras

Henry Blackman Plumb
Jane Ann Preddy
William J. Robinson
Charlotte Salinger

Selig J. Silverman
George Sisley

Stanley C. Tigner

SMITHSONIAN LEGACY
SOCIETY

Founding Chairman
Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Founders

Mr. H. V. Andersen

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
Mrs. J. Paul Austin
Anonymous

Anonymous

George and Bonnie Bogumill
Mark and Eileen Boone

Mrs. Agnes M. Brown

Mr. Michael W. Cassidy
Fenner A. Chace Jr.

Mr. Harry R. Charles Jr.

Miss Jean M. Chisholm

Mr. Earl Clayton

Mr. Lawrence G. Clayton

The Hon. Barber B. Conable Jr. and
Mrs. Conable

Ms. Patricia Daniels

M

ara

Dennis O. Dixon

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner

Mr. Gilbert W. Glass

Mr. Lloyd E. Herman

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Hoch

Dr. and Mrs. Lee Houchins

Mr. John R. Huggard

Dr. and Mrs. James C. Hunt

Mr. Joseph E. Johnson

Miss Narinder K. Keith

Miss Rajinder K. Keith

Lt. Col. William K. and Mrs. Alice S.
Konze

Ms. Lee Kush

Mrs. James Spencer Lacock

nde an

Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Leighty

Ms. Eleanor L. Linkous

Mr. Frank J. Lukowski

Mr. Ronald W. McCain

Ms. Lowen McKay

Mrs. Jane R. Moore

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson

David and Chery] Purvis

Mr. and Mrs. Frank K. Rabbitt
Sanae I. and Douglas F. Reeves
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Rick
George W. and Margaret P. Riesz
Mt. Stuart W. Rosenbaum

Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer
Allan E. and Carol T. Shore

Mrs. Warren Sichel

Mary F. Simons

Dr. Barbara J. Smith

Kathy Daubert Smith

Lt. Col. Irene M. Sorrough
Bernie Stadiem

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. N. Suarez
George D. and Mary Augusta Thomas
Dr. and Mrs. F. Christian Thompson
John and Ellen Thompson
Jeffrey and Diane Tobin

Mr. David E. Todd

Ms. Patty Wagstaff

Miss Catherine M. Walsh

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Ward

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Watts

Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. White
Mrs. Laurence I. Wood

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Zapart

Dr. P. Joseph Zharn

Mrs. Nancy Behrend Zirkle

MEMORIAL AND
COMMEMORATIVE
GIFTS

The following were so honored by
their families and friends:

Marcellus G. Bates
Marilynn J. Bauman
Bertita Compton
Laurence E. Fleischman
Frank N. Ikard
Seymour Knox III
Frank Kurtz

Richard Louie

Irving Moskovitz
Walter Scholz
Gertrude Skelly
Barbara J. Smith

J. T. Vida

Sylvia H. Williams
William J. Woolfenden

DONORS OF IN-KIND

SUPPORT

Air India

American Airlines

America West Airlines Inc.

American Hardware Manufacturers
Association

Apple Computer, Inc.

Eric and Linda Archer

The Birmingham News Company, Inc.

British Airways

Mr. Scott Chinery

Colorcraft of Virginia

Continental Airlines

Diebold Incorporated

Eastman Kodak Company

Gateway 2000

Guest Services, Inc.

Hughes Information Technology
Corporation

Hughes/JVC

KISS Food Services

The Longview Fibre Company

Mead Corporation Foundation

National Automobile Dealers
Association

Navajo Nation

Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A.

Ms. Jane Paden

The Recording Industries Music
Performance Trust Funds

Rockland Research Corporation

San Jose International Airport

Silver Dollar City Inc.

Southwest Airlines

Toshiba America, Inc.

TransBrasil Airlines

Unique Binders, Inc.

U.S. Airways

Calvert Woodley Discount Wine and
Spirits and Wine Alliance

87
lo)
co

AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

THE JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, AND THE

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS WERE ESTABLISHED BY CONGRESS WITHIN THE

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION UNDER THEIR OWN BOARDS OF TRUSTEES. THE INSTITUTION PROVIDES ADMIN-

ISTRATIVE SERVICES ON CONTRACT TO READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC., AN INDEPENDENT ORGANIZATION.

Billy Taylor, the Kennedy Center's artistic adviser for jazz, interacts with young mu-

sicians during the debut performance on the Kennedy Center's Millennium Stage.
Hosting free daily performances of music, dance, and theater, the Millennium Stage
is one in a series of initiatives that bring the performing arts to the broadest possi-
ble audience. (Photograph by Carol Pratt)

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

James A. Johnson, Chairman

Lawrence J. Wilker, President

in April 1996, the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts
marked its 25th anniversary as a
presidential memorial and one of
the world’s most celebrated per-
forming arts centers. The Kennedy
Center presents the finest perfor-
mances of music, theater, and
dance from this nation and abroad;
makes the performing arts available
to the greatest possible audience
through free and discounted per-
formances as well as other outreach
programs; nurtures new works and
supports artists through its produc-
ing, commissioning, and training
programs in a variety of disciplines;
and serves the nation as a leader in
arts education. The Kennedy Cen-
ter’s six theaters host performances
that attract more than 2 million
patrons annually; the annual tele-
cast of the Kennedy Center Honors
and other broadcasts reach mil-
lions more across the country; and
the center reaches out to the na-
tion with touring productions and
performances.

m™ Kennedy Center Chairman James A.
Johnson initiated a set of programs in
February 1997 designed to make the
center, and the performing arts in gen-
eral, accessible to the broadest possible
audience. These “Performing Arts for
Everyone” initiatives include free per-
formances every evening of the year on

the new Millennium Stage and the
construction of a new TICKETplace dis-
count ticket booth, which opened to
the public in June in Washington’s Old
Post Office Pavilion.

@ The first season of the Kennedy Cen-
ter African Odyssey, a multiyear cele-
bration of the music, dance, and the-
ater of Africa and the African Diaspora,
featured theater from South Africa,
music and dance from Cote d'Ivoire,

a griot storyteller from Gambia, and
exhibitions of stone sculpture from
Zimbabwe and textiles from through-
out the African continent. Included
were the world premieres of two
Kennedy Center dance commissions
and three ensembles making their
American debuts.

g@ The Kennedy Center Concert Hall
closed in January for extensive renova-
tions, with the goal of making the the-
ater a national model for public ac-
commodation and accessibility for
people with disabilities. The Concert
Hall, which reopened just nine
months later in October, was the first
of the center’s theaters to undergo
these improvements. Other Kennedy
Center theaters will follow in future
years as part of an ambitious calendar
of construction.

@ With its home theater under con-
struction, the National Symphony Or-
chestra (NSO)—in its first season under
Music Director Leonard Slatkin—per-
formed innovative programs in the
center’s other theaters. The NSO’s fifth
American Residency took orchestra
members to Arizona for more than a

week of performances, master Classes,
and educational activities in the spring.
In the fall, the NSO held its inaugural
Beethoven Festival, part of a revolution
in programming that will surround the
regular concert schedule with thematic
festivals spaced throughout the year.
During its first concert tour of Europe
under Slatkin’s direction, the orchestra
was greeted with critical and popular
acclaim.

m@ The Kennedy Center coproduced the
Broadway hit Titanic, which earned the
1997 Tony Award for Best Musical.
Meanwhile, the center’s coproduction
of The King and I, a 1996 Tony winner,
made its Washington debut at the cen-
ter in the spring before embarking on a
nationwide tour. The center’s “Imagi-
nation Celebration” commissioned two
new works during 1996-97: an original
play titled Children of the Sun from
Pulitzer Prize winner N. Scott Moma-
day and an adaptation of Judy Blume’s
popular children’s book Tales of a
Fourth Grade Nothing. Tales will tour to
communities nationwide during the
1997-98 and 1998-99 school years.

g In fall 1996, the Kennedy Center
launched a national program to include
the arts in the curricula of every school
system across the United States. The
“Creative Ticket for Student Success”
campaign, spearheaded by the center’s
Alliance for Arts Education Network
and its nationwide affiliates, united or-
ganizations and individuals in encour-
aging educators, parents, and elected
officials to make the arts a regular part
of the life of every American child.

89
90

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART

Earl A. Powell Ill, Director

The National Gallery of Art serves
the United States in a national role
by preserving, collecting, exhibit-
ing, and fostering the understand-
ing of works of art at the highest
possible museum and scholarly
standards.

@ The gallery’s exhibition season be-
gan with “Olmec Art of Ancient Mex-
ico,” a panoramic overview of the
achievements of Mexico’s oldest civi-
lization, which flourished from 1200
B.C. to A.D. 300. Other exhibitions in-
cluded a survey of the French master of
light and shadow, Georges de la Tour
(1593-1652); drawings by Michelan-
gelo and other artists he influenced
from the collection of Queen Elizabeth
Il; an extensive selection from the
world’s greatest collection of Chinese
art in “Splendors of Imperial China:
Treasures from the National Palace Mu-
seum”; rarely glimpsed narrative paint-
ings and portraits in “The Victorians:
British Painting in the Reign of Queen
Victoria, 1837-1901”; early works of
the fertile and precocious genius Pablo
Picasso, from age 11 to his invention of
cubism; and a groundbreaking exhibi-
tion of ancient Angkor and Cambodian
sculpture from the museum of Phnom
Penh, the national collection of Asiatic
art in Paris, and other international
museums.

@ The Education Division developed
materials for the gallery’s World Wide
Web site, created a hypercard compo-
nent of the American art videodisc,
and digitized works of art for the up-
coming videodisc on European art. The
division served an audience of 29.7
million through lectures, tours, sym-
posia, academic programs, school tours
and teacher training, and the loan of
educational materials on art and cul-
ture. Working with the education staff,
Maryland Public Television produced a
one-hour interactive electronic field
trip from the Picasso exhibition. The
program was broadcast live on seven
public television stations and seen by

The bronze cast of Augustus Saint-Gaudens’ acclaimed memorial to Colonel Robert’
Gould Shaw and the Massachusetts 54th Regiment, the first African American
combat infantry regiment raised in the North during the Civil War, is on long-term
loan to the National Gallery of Art from the Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site.
(Photograph by U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Saint-Gau-

dens National Historic Site)

more than 40,000 students in Mary-
land and the District of Columbia.

@ Purchases for the gallery's collections
are made possible by funds donated by
private citizens. Among the paintings
acquired this year were an early
Winslow Homer depiction of a quiet
moment during the Civil War, Home,
Sweet Home; The Miraculous Draft of
Fishes by the 16th-century Venetian
artist Jacopo Bassano; a large work by
French cubist Francis Picabia, The
Procession, Seville; a late-18th-century
watercolor landscape by German artist
Johann Georg von Dillis; and the un-
worn and unreworked copperplate for
Rembrandt's etching Abraham Enter-
taining the Angels.

@ Gifts to the collection included a
gouache by Picasso of The Death of Har-
lequin, with an oil sketch on the re-
verse, from Paul Mellon; 40 works by
Alexander Calder from Klaus Perls, the
artist’s dealer in the United States; a
painting by the 16th-century Italian
artist Cariani and an oil sketch by
Rubens, both bequeathed by Lore
Heinemann; 18 sheets (some double-
sided) of drawings by Winslow Homer

from the Civil War given by Dr. Ed-
mund Zalinski II, a descendant of the
Civil War major who received them
from the artist; a 1929 photograph,
Shadows of the Eiffel Tower, by the Hun-
garian photographer André Kertész
from the Andre and Elizabeth Kertész
Foundation; and five photographs by
the innovative photographer Harold
Edgerton from the Harold and Esther
Edgerton Family Foundation. A gift of
more than 230 contemporary prints
was received from Crown Point Press,
one of the leading print publishing
workshops in the United States, and its |
founder Kathan Brown.

@ The newly restored plaster memor-
ial to Colonel Robert Gould Shaw and
the Massachusetts 54th Regiment by
Augustus Saint-Gaudens was unveiled
in a new installation in the West
Building. The 18-foot-wide sculpture is
on long-term loan from the Saint-Gau-
dens National Historic Site in Cornish,
New Hampshire. The bronze cast of
the memorial stands on Boston Com-
mon and is considered one of this
country’s greatest sculptural monu-
ments.
READING IS FUNDAMENTAL, INC.

Lynda Johnson Robb, Chairman

William Trueheart, President

‘eading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF),
he nation’s oldest and largest chil-
iren’s literacy organization, has put
nore than 173 million books into
he hands of children over the last
1 years. RIF’s extensive literacy
yutreach to more than 3.7 million
hildren annually in all SO states,
he District of Columbia, Puerto
tico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam
s made possible by a volunteer
orce of some 219,000 local citi-
ens. Volunteers at 17,000 locations
ind in all kinds of settings—
chools, libraries, Head Start and
ven Start programs, migrant
vorker camps, hospitals, clinics,
1ousing projects, Boys and Girls
Subs, schools for children with
lisabilities, juvenile detention cen-
ers, and Native American reserva-
ions—report that RIF dramatically
shanges children’s reading habits
ind gets parents involved in their
hildren’s reading.

a William Trueheart was selected as
\IF’s new president by the all-volunteer
IF Board of Directors. A former presi-
lent of Bryant College in Rhode Island
ind a visiting scholar at the Harvard
Jniversity Graduate School of Educa-
ion, Trueheart has held numerous posi-
ions in higher education, including as-
istant dean and director of the master
of public administration program at
farvard’s John F. Kennedy School of
sovernment. RIF President Ruth

staves, who had led the organization
ince 1976, retired in 1997.

a First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton
nvited RIF to celebrate Reading Is Fun
Week at the White House in April. On
qaand for the festivities were U. S. Educa-
ion Secretary Richard W. Riley, the win-
qets of RIF’s National Reading Celebra-
‘ion and Poster Contest, Representatives
William Goodling of Pennsylvania and
Thomas Sawyer of Ohio, Miss America

Tara Holland, award-winning children’s
author-illustrator Tomie dePaola, actor
Larry Sellers, and the Indiana Pacers’
Reggie Miller.

g@ In response to the Presidents’ Summit
for America’s Future, which called for
commitments to provide fundamental
resources to America’s children, Reading
Is Fundamental pledged to serve an ad-
ditional 1.5 million children by the end
of 2000. To meet that goal, RIF will ini-
tiate new partnerships in education, so-
cial services, business, and government,
according to RIF Chairman Lynda John-
son Robb, who served as cochairman of
the Presidents’ Summit and now
cochairs America’s Promise.

@ On November 1, RIF and Visa U.S.A.
launched “Read Me a Story,” a national
campaign to raise awareness of the im-
portance of reading aloud to children.
Highlights included a
15,000-mile, 61-city
cross-country bus tour
of storybook charac-
ters; television com-
mercials promoting
reading by actor
Danny Glover; and a
grand finale at 3-Com
Stadium in San Fran-
cisco, during which
Visa U.S.A. President
Carl Pascarella pre-
sented RIF with a
check for $1 million.
mg To promote youth
literacy, RIF stepped
up its partnership with
the National Basketball Association by
celebrating March as NBA Reading
Month. NBA Commissioner David
Stern, a RIF Advisory Council member,
kicked off the program at a West
Harlem RIF project and NBA teams and
employees followed suit by reading
aloud to children. March also saw the
debut of the NBA’s newest public ser-
vice announcements for RIF featuring
the Indiana Pacers’ Reggie Miller and
the Miami Heat’s Tim Hardaway.

@ At each stage of a child’s develop-
ment, there is a RIF model program de-
signed to promote reading. In 1997,
RIF continued working with the private
sector to bring those programs to more
children. For example, RUNNING
START®, targeted to first graders, gained
national recognition for its effectiveness
and found two new backers in the
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation and the Reader's Digest
Foundation.

@ RIF third graders voiced their own
ideas about what motivates them to
read at nationwide literacy town hall
meetings held during the annual Miss
America Organization National Day of
Service. The meetings were moderated
by Miss America titleholders from

each state.

Reading Is Fundamental Chairman Lynda
Johnson Robb (left) and RIF President
William Trueheart (right) join RIF chil-
dren and “Curious George” during the
kickoff of “Read Me a Story,” a cam-
paign sponsored by RIF and Visa USA to
raise awareness about the importance of
reading aloud to children. (Photograph
by Rick Reinhard)

91
WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

Charles Blitzer, Director

[he Woodrow Wilson Center was
established as the official living
memorial to the nation’s 28th
president and as a place of free
intellectual inquiry reflecting the
full range of Woodrow Wilson's
ideals and concerns. The center’s
congressional mandate is to
strengthen the links between the
worlds of ideas and of public af-
fairs. Through an annual fellow-
ship competition, outstanding
scholars from around the world
are invited to the center for ex-
tended periods of research and
writing. In addition, the center
sponsors public meetings, gener-
ates publications, and produces
broadcast programs that make in-
dividual scholarship accessible to

policy makers and a broad public.

g@ In a ceremony on November 1, the
center signed a lease for its new home
in the Ronald Reagan Building. As the
center's founding legislation intended,
scholars and staff will be housed in a
distinctive structure on Pennsylvania
Avenue in Washington, D.C. The
move is scheduled to occur in the
summer of 1998.

@ Joseph Flom, chairman of the center's
board of trustees, and his wife Claire
announced in November their inten-
tion to make a $1 million challenge
grant to the center for funds to finish
the interior of the new building. The
grant required the center to raise an ad-
ditional $2 million by July 31. Approxi-
mately $750,000 was raised from indi-
vidual donors, while the remaining
$1.25 million was secured from a bene-
fit dinner held in New York City.

@ On June 10, more than 500 guests
gathered in New York City to honor
Joseph Flom and John B. McCoy of
Bank One for their contributions to the

world of learning. Federal Reserve

Board Chairman Alan Greenspan deliv-
ered the keynote speech. The event
represented the largest fund-raising
effort in the history of the center.

@ Charles Blitzer, the center’s director
since 1988, informed the board of
trustees of his intention to retire from
that position on July 24, 1997. Flom
said that Blitzer “will leave behind a
body of accomplishment that speaks
eloquently of his stewardship, most
notable among these the growing ranks
of the distinguished alumni of the cen-
ter, who constitute one of our best and
brightest hopes for the next century,
and a fitting home for the Woodrow
Wilson Center on Pennsylvania Av-
enue, appropriate to its charter as the
official memorial to a great president.”
g@ Edward Tenner, a 1995-96 Woodrow

Wilson Center Fellow, visiting scholar

in Princeton University’s Department

of Geosciences, and author of Tech
Speak and Why Things Bite Back, testi-
fied before the House Committee on
Rules, Subcommittee on Rules and Or-
ganization, to discuss the effects of
technological innovation on the politi-
cal and legislative processes. Because
the center’s scholars provide unique
perspectives on critical issues, they are
frequent participants in national dia-
logues with political leaders and opin-
ion makers.

g In January, former Secretary of State
Warren Christopher participated in a
roundtable discussion of environmen-
tal diplomacy at the center. The meet-

ing brought together public- and pri-
vate-sector experts to consider how the
environment relates to United States
foreign policy and security objectives.

A benefit dinner honored Joseph H. Flom, chairman of the Woodrow Wilson Center
Board of Trustees, and John B. McCoy, chairman of Banc One Corp. Shown here

with Flom are Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, the evening’s fea-

tured speaker; Joseph A. Cari, vice-chairman of the Board of Trustees; and Donald
Drapkin, member of the Wilson Council and chairman of the dinner. (Photograph

©Hollander Photographic Services)
FINANCIAL REPORT

RICK JOHNSON, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

INTRODUCTION

The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from
both federal appropriations and nonappropriated
trust sources. Nonappropriated trust funds include all
funds received from sources other than direct federal
appropriations. These other sources include gifts and
grants from individuals, corporations, and founda-
tions; grants and contracts from federal, state, or local
government agencies; earnings from short- and long-
term investments; revenue from membership pro-
grams; and revenue from sales activities, such as
Smithsonian magazine, museum shops and restau-
rants, mail order catalogues, and licensed products.

Federal appropriations provide funding for the In-
stitution’s core functions: caring for and conserving
the national collections, sustaining basic research on
the collections and in selected areas of traditional and
unique strength, and educating the public about the
collections and research findings through exhibitions
and other public programs. Federal appropriations
also fund a majority of the activities associated with
maintaining and securing the facilities and with vari-
ous administrative and support services.

Smithsonian trust funds allow the Institution to
undertake new ventures and enrich existing programs
in ways that would not otherwise be possible. These
funds provide the critical margin of excellence for in-
novative research, building and strengthening the na-
tional collections, constructing and presenting effec-
tive and up-to-date exhibitions, and reaching out to
new and under-represented audiences. In recent years,
the Smithsonian has also begun to rely, in part, on
trust funds for the funding of major new construction
projects.

The following sections describe the external envi-
ronmental factors affecting the Institution’s general fi-
nancial condition, the Institution’s financial status,
and its planned response to changing conditions; fi-
nancial results for fiscal year 1997; and measures,
both organizational and financial, being taken to en-
sure the continued fiscal health of the Institution.

FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PROSPECTS

Having celebrated its first 150 years in fiscal year
1996, the Smithsonian began long-term planning for
its future. In order to respond to funding and pro-
grammatic challenges, the Smithsonian needed a
blueprint for moving forward into the next millen-
nium. The first step was to develop a strategic plan.
Building on the earlier work of the Commission on
the Future and their May 1995 report, senior manage-
ment and the Board of Regents developed a strategic
plan in fiscal year 1997.

A major focus of that plan is to take the Smith-
sonian to the American people, expanding its reach
beyond Washington through traveling exhibits, elec-
tronic exhibits on the World Wide Web, and affilia-
tions with museums across the nation. This goal is
important for two reasons. First, a significantly larger
number of citizens will have the opportunity to share
in the Smithsonian’s programs, knowledge, and arti-
facts. Second, it will expand and develop a national
constituency that will be critical to helping the Insti-
tution meet its funding requirements in the future.

The 150th anniversary traveling exhibition, “Amer-
ica’s Smithsonian,” continued to play an important
role in this strategy. The exhibition visited five more
cities and was seen by an additional 1.8 million peo-
ple in fiscal year 1997. The Smithsonian continues to
build upon relationships developed as a result of this
exhibition.

The major new strategy in the Smithsonian’s out-
reach focus is its Affiliation Program. The Board of Re-
gents adopted the new policy on this collections-
based program to provide greater public access to the
Smithsonian and to provide an alternative means for
the exhibition of its collections. The policy allows for
larger portions of Smithsonian collections to be avail-
able to audiences beyond the geographic limits of the
Smithsonian’s museums. Collections will be made
available in a context created by the proposing orga-
nization and will, therefore, reflect the interests and
needs of local constituencies. These collaborations al-

94

low museums to fill gaps in their exhibitions, research
collections, and programs at their own expense and
result in the exhibition and study of collections that
might otherwise be in storage.

The Institution faces continuing financial chal-
lenges. While Congress has been supportive, federal
budget balancing efforts make obtaining federal ap-
propriations to support new programs and facilities
more difficult. Revenues from the Smithsonian’s busi-
ness activities have been declining or flat. Contribu-
tions received, although significant, have not been at
a level consistent with the potential for such support.
At the same time, the Smithsonian must find ways to
fund the significant and costly activities required to
maintain the Institution as a world-class organization
and provide the care, display, access, and research that
our many important collections require.

In fiscal year 1997, the Smithsonian engaged a con-
sultant with significant experience in publishing and
retail activities to perform a complete analysis of all
its business activities. He made a number of recom-
mendations that the Smithsonian plans to implement
in the near future. These recommendations include
hiring key business staff, including a chief operating
officer; strengthening the planning and financial
analysis function; clarifying conflicting goals; improv-
ing management information systems; focusing more
on customers and competitors; and making strategic
investments in the businesses. More detailed recom-
mendations for each activity are being developed.

The Smithsonian must also increase the support it
receives from private contributions. The Institution
hired Robert Hanle, previously the vice-president and
director of development at the University of Min-
nesota, as executive director for development to lead
this important initiative. He has begun working
closely with the Secretary to develop a capital cam-
paign for the Institution that will focus on raising
funds for construction and endowment.

The Smithsonian’s interest in corporate fund rais-
ing was the topic of discussion at the Smithsonian
Council. After various subcommittees researched spe-
cific topics, they presented a series of workshops and
presentations, focused on how to develop win/win
partnerships with corporations. Corporate representa-
tives, Council members, and Smithsonian representa-
tives described how both the Smithsonian and the
corporations can meet their respective goals and
objectives through creative partnerships without in
any way diminishing those of the other.

Even with enhanced income levels, some new
initiatives will likely require external financing. Con-

sequently, where a strong case can be made that an
investment will generate an adequate return, the
Smithsonian is open to considering debt financing.
One example of this is the Discovery Center project a
the National Museum of Natural History. The Discov-
ery Center will include a 3-D large-screen theater, a
new restaurant, programmatic space, and an ex-
panded museum shop, which is already open. After a
careful analysis of the new income to be generated
from the business activities included, the Smithsoniar
issued tax-exempt bonds to finance construction of
the facility. The bonds were issued in January 1998.
The Institution received triple A ratings from Stan-
dard & Poor’s and Moody’s for this financing.

The financial challenges facing the Smithsonian
have served as a catalyst for new and innovative ap-
proaches to funding and delivering Smithsonian pro-
grams. These new approaches will help ensure that
the Smithsonian remains a vital and vibrant asset for
the American people in the next millennium.

i

FY 1997 SOURCES OF NET REVENUES

Federal Appropriations
70.3%

General Trust
8.7%

Donor/Sponsor
10.6% Gov't Grants &
Contracts
10.4%

FISCAL YEAR 1997 SOURCES OF GROSS/
NET REVENUES

Gross Net* Pe
Revenues Revenues Net k
(S$thousands) (Sthousands) (

Operations

Federal Appropriations 383,468 383,468 i
General Trust ** 230,706 47,337
Donor/Sponsor ** 57,968 57,968

Gov't Grants & Contracts 56,703 56,703

Total Sources for Operations 728,845 545,476 1

*Net of expenses related to revenue-generating activities, e.g., musev
shops, restaurants, publications, etc.

**General Trust is reduced from Table 1 by the Donor/Sponsored
Contributions. This is a change from the prior year’s presentation.

-ISCAL YEAR 1997 RESULTS

fevenues received by the Institution in fiscal year
997 from all sources totaled $728.8 million. Revenue
rom federal appropriations accounted for $383.5
nillion, and nonappropriated trust funds provided an
\dditional $345.3 million. When adjusted to remove
tuxiliary activity expenses of $183.4 million, net
evenues totaled $545.4 million. The chart on the
receding page reflects revenues by source and broad
yurpose of use.

JPERATIONS

TABLES 1 AND 2)

‘ederal operating revenue of $313.5 million provided
he core funding for ongoing programs of the Institu-
ion. The fiscal year 1997 operating appropriation of
)318.5 million represented an increase of $7.3 million
rom the fiscal year 1996 level. Increases to cover cer-
ain uncontrollable costs included $5.0 million to
over the cost of the January 1997 pay raise, $2.0 mil-
ion for additional utility costs, and $1.0 million for
ncreases in rental costs. In addition, the following
rogram increases were provided: $.7 million to fund
nitial operation of the Smithsonian Astrophysical
)bservatory submillimeter telescope array, $.6 million
or voice and data systems for the National Museum
yf Natural History’s East Court project, and $.2 mil-
ion for the Mississippi Delta program at the 1997 Fes-
ival of American Folklife.

General trust revenue was $261.7 million. Most
ncome categories were generally consistent with last
ear. There was a drop in revenue related to 150th
nniversary activities as they wound down. Auxiliary
\ctivity revenue was up approximately 5 percent from
996 levels. The magazines had an outstanding year,
vith net revenues up 34 percent. Smithsonian Press/
mithsonian Productions continued to operate at a
oss. However, the level of the loss decreased by 68
yercent. The Institution continues to evaluate this sit-
1ation and develop strategies for eliminating this loss.

Revenue from donor/sponsor designated funds
otalled $27.0 million. The Institution continues to
ntensify its fund-raising activities and focus on new
trategies. Major gifts and grants received in fiscal
year 1997 included $2.9 million from the U.S. Postal
ervice for operations of the National Postal Museum,
}.9 million from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
0 support tropical ecosystem studies at the Smith-
nian Tropical Research Institute, and $.6 million
tom the Lilly Endowment Inc. for an exhibition at
he Anacostia Museum. The Smithsonian is especially
srateful to its many friends in the private sector

whose generosity contributed vitally to its work. The
names of major donors are listed in the Benefactors
section of this annual report.

In fiscal year 1997, the Institution recorded $56.7
million in income from contracts and grants from
government agencies, an increase of $.8 million over
fiscal year 1996. Support from government agencies
constitutes an important source of research monies
for the Institution while also benefiting the granting
agencies by providing access to Smithsonian expertise
and resources. As in prior years, the majority of these
funds were provided by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration for research programs at the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory. Other awards
included $.8 million from the National Science Foun-
dation for the National Science Resources Center at
the Smithsonian to develop science and technology con-
cepts for middle schools, $.6 million from the Depart-
ment of Energy for atmospheric studies at the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research Center, and $.3 million
from the Department of Agriculture in support of an
exhibit at the National Museum of Natural History.

ENDOWMENT

(TABLES 3, 4, AND 5)

The Institution pools its endowment funds for
investment purposes into a consolidated portfolio,
with each endowment purchasing shares in a
manner similar to shares purchased by an investor
in a mutual fund.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Smith-
sonian’s Board of Regents establishes investment
policy and recommends the annual payout for the
consolidated endowment. The Smithsonian’s policies
for managing the endowment are designed to achieve
two objectives: 1) to provide a stable, growing stream
of payouts for current expenditures and 2) to protect
the value of the endowment against inflation and
maintain its purchasing power. Current policy calls for
an average payout of 4.5 percent of the average market
value over the prior 5 years. With this payout policy,
to achieve the endowment’s objectives, the invest-
ment policy targets a real rate of return of 5 percent.

As depicted in the chart on the following page, the
market value of the endowment increased from
$482.5 million to $600 million during fiscal year
1997. New gifts and internal transfers totaled $8.5
million while the payout was $18.2 million and fees
were $1.2 million.

The total return on the consolidated portfolio was
27.35 percent. At year end, the Institution’s portfolio
was invested 72 percent in equities, 27 percent in

S35
96

MARKET VALUE OF ENDOWMENT AND
SIMILAR FUNDS (IN $ MILLIONS)

600 Fae are a]
550
500

483

435

388 379

Ee
1993 1994 1995 1996 1997

bonds and 1 percent in cash. The portfolio had 23
percent in foreign stocks and bonds and 77 percent in
U.S. securities.

CONSTRUCTION AND PLANT FUNDS (TABLE 6)
In fiscal year 1997, the federal appropriations for con-
struction amounted to $52.8 million. This included
$39.0 million for general repair, restoration, and code
compliance projects throughout the Institution. With
the support of Congress, this amount continues to
move closer to the $50 million per year required to
maintain systematic renewal of the physical plant.
Funds earmarked for new construction, alterations,
and modifications totaled $13.8 million. Included in
this amount is $4 million for the Mall museum for
the National Museum of the American Indian; $3.8
million for renovations, repairs, and master plan proj-
ects at the National Zoological Park; $3 million for
planning and design of the National Air and Space
Museum Dulles Center; and $3 million for minor
construction and planning.

Nonappropriated trust construction funds, also
termed plant funds, totaled $7.8 million. Approxi-
mately $4.6 million was for the construction of facili-
ties for the National Museum of the American Indian,
$1.7 million was for renovation of the Cooper-Hewitt,
National Design Museum, $1.0 million was for the re-
installation of the Gem Hall at the National Museum
of Natural History, and $500,000 was for the National
Air and Space Museum Dulles Center.

FINANCIAL POSITION

The Smithsonian Institution’s Statement of Financial
Position presents the total assets, liabilities, and net
assets of the Institution. Total assets of $1.4 billion far
exceed total liabilities of $323.0 million and are in-

dicative of the financial strength of the Institution.
During fiscal year 1997, the most significant change
in the Institution’s financial position was the growth
of the endowment by over $117.0 million through in:
vestment earnings and realized and unrealized gains ©
on the endowment investments. i

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

The Institution was successful in operating its new
general ledger, financial reporting and management
information system. Although software problems
from the payroll feeder system initially limited the
usefulness of standard reports, all problems were re-
solved prior to year-end. Online access to current
data, funds control, and reporting by programmatic
categories are key advantages of the new system.

To fully take advantage of current financial system
capabilities, several initiatives are planned for next
fiscal year. They include using electronic funds trans-
fer for all payment types, distributing software that
will allow units to custom design financial reports to
meet specific needs, a new accounts receivable sys-
tem, and travel system software to generate standard
travel documents.

Other financial management improvement initia-
tives undertaken in fiscal year 1997 included:
¢ Implementation of several modules of a new, auto--

mated budgeting system. The budget system will

now feed budgets directly into the accounting sys-
tem. Units have the ability to directly redistribute
their budgets across object classes.

¢ Completion of a draft five-year financial manage-
ment improvement plan. It is currently being re-
viewed by staff, customers, and stakeholders.

¢ Conversions of the Smithsonian Investment Man-

agement System to meet the requirements of the
new general ledger coding structure.
e¢ Replacement of the sponsored project data base,
which had reached functional limits, with a new,
expanded system that will improve reporting and
analysis.

¢ Development of an individual development plan
program for Finance staff that will plan training for
each staff member to improve the performance of
core job responsibilities as well as provide opportu-
nities for career growth. The program will be fully

implemented in fiscal year 1998.

Additional financial management improvement
initiatives planned to start in fiscal years 1998 and
1999 include the following:

e Electronic routing of documents and reports.
¢ Streamlining of policies and procedures.
e¢ Development and implementation of a new fixed
asset system.

e Development and implementation of a risk man-
agement system.

e Evaluation of the payroll system to determine
whether it meets current requirements efficiently
and economically.

AUDIT ACTIVITIES

The Institution’s financial statements are audited an-
aually by KPMG Peat Marwick, an independent pub-
lic accounting firm. The audit plan includes an in-
depth review of the Institution’s internal control
structure. KPMG Peat Marwick’s Independent Audi-
tors’ Report for fiscal year 1997 and the accompany-
ing financial statements are presented on the follow-
ing pages. The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff, part
of the Office of Inspector General, assists the external
auditors and regularly audits the Institution’s various
programs, activities, and internal control systems.
The Audit and Review Committee of the Board of
Regents provides an additional level of financial
oversight and review.

In accordance with the government requirement
for the use of coordinated audit teams, the Defense
Contract Audit Agency, the Smithsonian Office of In-
spector General, and KPMG Peat Marwick coordinate
the audit of grants and contracts received from federal
agencies.

~_ ee

The Office of Contracting established a new training program to meet the needs
of staff involved in the Institution’s contracting activities. In the program's first
quarter, 161 staff, representing 28 units, attended highly interactive classes on
project management, contract management and federal contracting (pictured
here). (Photograph by Rick Vargas)
Table 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1997 (in $000s)

Trust Funds j
Donor/ Government Total |
Federal General Sponsor Grants & Trust Total,
Funds Trust Designated Contracts Funds TNE UE,
REVENUE & GAINS:
Federal Appropriations (see Note 1) ...............+.+.-- 313,523 — — = — 313,523
Endowment Payout & Investment Income................ a 14,184 5,914 — 20,098 20,098
Government Grants'and!Gontracts@e a eciaceaee — — — 56,703 56,703 56,703
Donori/Sponsonsscrs- pei erie etre rerio a 30,980 21,074 — $2,054 52,054
SdlesrandiMembershipiReventiemerrrcitetitrrteritrrorn iter — 202,467 — — 202,467 202,467
Construction eee chron ee oe eee Onecare 69,945 — —_— — a 69,945
QOUHEE! (ote c ofc thcneder ee POEM aite a ors ey <i eh eee a= ee — 14,055 _— — 14,055 14,055
TOTAL REVENUE &/ GAINS? 2-320) sense eerie 383,468 261,686 26,988 56,703 345,377 728,845
EXPENSES:
Museums & Research Institutes:
Anacostia Museum/Center for African American
HistonyzandiGulttremeer eee cen et aera 1,681 562 75 — 637 2,318
ArchivesiomAmentcanvAnt: sre cress ciietcione ieee nero nenenete 1,471 45 802 — 847 2,318
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/Freer Gallery of Art ........... 5,482 3,429 833 — 4,262 9,744
Center for Folklife Programs & Cultural Studies. ......... 1,744 TGS) 223 — 1,338 3,082
Conservation Analytical Laboratory ................... 2,913 42 4 29 7S 2,988
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum. .............. 2,516 2,923 999 22 3,944 6,460
Hirshhorn Museum & Sculpture Garden ................ 3,954 4,728 235 — 4,963 8,917
NationalvAirand!SpacesMuseumiys= 02 ec ere seieieleleie) eret= 11,819 2,669 2,502 550 6,221 17,540
NationaliMuseumof/AfricanArti<..22 055.02 eee ress 3,697 529 30 — 909 4,256
National Museum of American Art (incl. Renwick) ....... 7,028 1,916 1,309 — 3,225 10,253
National Museum of American History ................. 17,065 2,520 2,642 80 §,242 22,307
NationaliPostaliMuUseuimiitsrs siete cs) oieretetenetarancmeraterencwere ree 513 7 5,477 — 5,548 6,061
National Museum of the American Indian............... 11,541 1,710 3,138 —_— 4,848 16,389
National Museum of Natural History. .................. 36,669 6,547 7,244 2,082 IIS 957/3) $2,542
—INATISCUUIM SUD POTt GENCE Lae clei: cielo biel-Kersstenctereieiekeie ielene 3,194 _— — — — 3,194
National!Portrait!Gallerysiics.yerreseieyere sia teieneitete eo) oieistiates sta 4,544 732 307 —_ 1,039 5,583
NationaliZoologicaliBark:vejoresescis sieretereisteveieleucte lepers isvensenaltene 18,350 1,225 671 747 2,643 20,993
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory ................ 24,861 6,744 ler 50,199 58,155 83,016
Smithsonian Environment Research Center. ............. 3,048 282 87 1,345 1,714 4,762
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute ................ 8,653 1,596 1,378 1,491 4,465 13,118
Total Museums & Research Institutes. ............... 170,743 39,385 29,168 56,545 125,098 295,841
Education, Museum & Scholarly Services:
GentenforNiuseumiStudieSsssircterrerersicteietoreeiercictcieie eiaie 961 120 — — 120 1,081
Rlementary; Gc Secondary, Education) ism ei eiet- v)-1-tstele ole ire 626 559 223 59 841 1,467
ExhibitsiGentral? o. Sacra o tc ecccre ernie wes eie eons. | Cocoon 1,909 98 36 — 134 2,043
RMR abhor GrneINs sadecooacccaccangnuosnouanuce 77 1,359 1 — 1,360 1,5 3337/
InternationaliRelatlons scr aeicrsieeiceeicielrercietreicneiaioiencion: 2,269 396 97 31 524 2,793
National Science Resources Center ..................--; 195 349 (4) 56 401 596
TCIRTOVOSEH oi Srctavare rege: cushey er oeaes ni avaicacks eneutie ter oualed orstey oaVeTe 1,763 1,347 23 —_— 1,370 3,133
Smithsonian Institution Archives S22)....-s. ceee sees 1,210 134 40 = 174 1,384 |
SmithsonianInstitution libraries) co -e os cite ce eee 5,999 1,024 43 — 1,067 7,066
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service ..... 2,696 689 1,500 —_ 2,189 4,885
Sponsored Projects) merit te eee — 970 — — 970 970
Total Education, Museum & Scholarly Services ..... 17,805 7,045 1,959 146 9,150 26,955
Auxiliary Activities)|(Programmatic)) 35-525. 24. 2 as-e en 1,607 — 84 — 84 1,691
Americasismithsonianaace center ernte ieee — 28,055 2,092 —_— 30,147 30,147
Prion Year AnnualvAppropriations 2 cee ieee sree sie 6,133 — — — _— 6,133
Alo) ¢:| eeeeionriee Tons Sees oe oe eto OOM aio oo mon eC 196,288 74,485 33,303 56,691 164,479 360,767
Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense .......... 93,025 4,787 (1,229) — 3,558 96,583
MOtal rs aie. Gi win sewed Ree Ae NCC OGL RCI ee 289,313 79,272 32,074 56,691 168,037 457,350
Auxiliary Activities:
Smithsonian Press / Smithsonian Productions. ........... — 11,972 — — 11,972 11,972
SmithsonianiMagazinessanerareeiece niece —- 55,825 — a $5,825 55,825
he SmithsonianvAssociatesie eee eee —_ 34,832 —_— 34,832 34,832
SWRetaile.5.c.2c ke teve ines whee eases ape Cer esa — 63,744 — — 63,744 63,744

98
Table 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1997 (in $000s)—(continued)

Trust Funds
Donor/ Government Total
Federal General Sponsor Grants & Trust Total
Funds Trust Designated Contracts Funds FY 1997
(Unni Avuballlienay NetihninieSs S 5 46 650 cogodedseuouUooO One GS — 16,996 _ — 16,996 16,996
Total Auxiliary Activities (including Overhead) ......... — 183,369 — —_ 183,369 183,369
Administration:
MembershipandiDevelopme;nt i... ees. ese = 638 2,708 368 = 3,076 3,714
Administrative Offices (Net of Overhead Recovery)........ 32,897 6,563 86 12 6,661 39,558
Total Administration before Allocation of Facilities
anciDepreciatiomiExXpenses 22-2. 8. cesses 33,099 PHA 454 12 9 737 43,272
Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense .......... 17,038 360 (93) — 267 17,305
MoOtalAGministratiON’ ooo.5 6 eee es 1cie wo wus oe etree we) Susan os 50,573 9,631 361 12 10,004 60,577
BAGG AGES OlnVil COSI eer cpeec re zee eve ce ov eyie es <reussorey soe saveveusile 0s 81,945 1,059 (1,322) — (263) 81,682
IDE MAGAMOM,. sale nH 66 006008 UO SE Mmm se ena 28,118 4,088 — — 4,088 32,206
Allocation of Facilities Services and
IDEPHRACENTO A WO) ewHENONNS So sonsonoanoouenoouoodo06 (110,063) (5,147) 1,322 = (3,825) (113,888)
Total Facilities Services and Depreciation ............. a o- — _ _ —
MOMATHEINPBINSES  oo05 ccc cccc ele eialeiele aces elects See suena als 339,886 272,272 32,435 56,703 361,410 701,296
Endowment Return Reinvested. ...................06. — 75,988 33,295 — 109,283 109,283
BrOceedSsMrOmCOMeCtOMS) . 5. ce csicie ies siete = eisie ci eiele wes — 2,719 — — 2,719 2,719
Net increase (decrease) in net assets ................... 43,582 68,121 27,848 95,969 139,551
Net assets, beginning of the year ..................... 352,610 — — — 618,649 971,259
INetassetsnendiofthe year: oer mer sss oie oe oe oo 396,192 — — — 714,618 1,110,810

Note 1 Includes $302 thousand revenue recognized as a permanent indefinite appropriation for the Canal Zone Biological Area Fund. Also, includes
$1,863 thousand revenue recognized in foreign currency for research projects in India.

Table 2. Auxiliary Activities, Fiscal Year 1997 (in $000s)

Sales and Net

Membership Revenue Gifts Expenses Revenue (Loss)
FY NGG) 5.0.6 6.6:0:0:0. 05 SS OReEIN DOO MEE Eee en MRC acme 192,302 8,542 185,893 14,951
FY 1997:
Central Auxiliary Activities
IMAC RVATIES 5. 3.0:6 5 6 o.8-C1olO. 6 6.6 DOIG CONS OIG Iter et Ren CRSEC Ene one Irae nenPEr ERE MC se ieeceetr ecaczc 68,683 1 55,825 12,859
MessmaTtMASOMiAaMPASSOCIATCS aie exer sie ears Se etary wie es we) elee.istidiie ie sudjisveveneiss@ oe 0s 34,347 - 34,832 (485)
MUREUIN SNS MEMLOWEE 5 ocecascnaanenen ooo bo pDeuM DDE DbUDE ONO Gr 64,855 - 60,949 3,906
(COMCESSIOMG?  o.0-croladarg-0 w:c8016-0:025 G0 ie C/E OSE ee eae OREN eC CER nn eee ear e 3,242 - 1,953 1,289
RroductDevelopmenttsamG MiGemSimgs eerie. = «le: e flor wie ene crete = -)a) eee eile el 1,596 - 839 757
SHAM SOM aM MStICCt OMMETESS weteseneney a eect cis iei ey cn siiensdo ue: shoe rey «(ee se-e ob eifeiayiereyser «isin 9,506 - LEO 72: (2,466)
BU CGLLO mi GANIeGT ABA ChiVAtle Seen cyeuce see) a. siiay strersefieivey ct outst love iarlis ore lenieu@ isn aieueusrioweve 99 - - 99
Unit Auxiliary Activities
Air and Space Theater and Einstein Planetarium ....................-.-. 5,001 - 2,943 2,058
@ooper-Hewitt, Nationals Desiom MUSeUmas ec. ce se ee eet ee ne ee teiee = 1,126 17 624 519
Ihranvelhiays Lay atll yaoi SEINAKGESs occa ncocaneccen cbgnpe DOU bOUoUMoObaDOOOU UST 25 775 (13)
(OWNS » owmdgomede coe Oe SSUES 6B EO ETS REI OEE iene catenin cect ieee 13,275 813 12,657 1,431
INQAUAIL IY IQ Ds. oe opdoheeb es o:u6-0- 010 o Onn EBRD FRPIO Ice CIS eee ER eR CRe Rear Cr cece een 202,467 856 183,369 19,954

* The Business Management Office expenses were allocated to Museum Shops/Mail Order, Concessions, and Product Development and Licensing.
Table 3. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1997 (in $000s)

Market
Value

Nee

ASSETS:
Pooled Consolidated Endowment:

Gashkandequiival emtsiprrr rat rrerse rrr astra teaver teres tar terest
OMNEIRACIWANS pe ssaconeornonrocdpedanoacnooecnoSanEEonOC
US Government and Quasi-Government Obligations ............
Corporate Bonds and Other Obligations ......................
GommrontandibrefermediStocksmamrci erin elite een terae eral
ReceivablestorSecunities:Soldisrreriicira erty -atdterie tiki okerienetel

TotaMPooledtAssets eet eat lee he ch cr te ee re rnien ee oe

Nonpooled Endowment and Similar Activities:

VoanitovUSailreasunyamul Crpetiiitivaspencien-taaeNcnekototekoianskekewat-neterantelle
eOLIMAES KO (GINMOs GiGi cegeasnaaodoonnonsngeesoono ooo NdOHO
PromisesitoiGive)-| Charitable smusty eyarrpeterereeiete) Ne ste ste eto oe -teli Pale

TotalyNonpPooledvAssetsiepacevarriercr terra tacit rrerat rarest

MO tALWASSEES! cwirtaretncnenotsneace Meuoereleey sila ssUee Mere sions. once seco oneneeerete de cae

LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS:
LIABILITIES:

Pavablestonsecuntesipurchased|mererin hist kkeieieeieie= eit nteestele
Deferred Revenue—Charitable Trusts ................ceeeeeees

TRo\ ell) Helo) 1 bln TOR Men SIDtic tan.ckcecH aero oto tcicre, 3 chor siencecieis

NET ASSETS

Unrestricted iirc iim teienerenstare
UnrestrictediDeslomated errr ttetcietsireetetetel kien rete neeeree
USM EVN aK Sonos pombopns or épocgcbonooUnGk opener
Permanenthyahes tr Cted i ariritanician iii btiteh-eoror eran ike

MOTAIWIN GRASSES ec auch enone seasnehanekes shedenelorcinuene ucvons Kosei eieicdevenster ee roke

|
SIRE Ca SOIC RC Racca aor ae OAc ace MC acu CeO MCHTMNcSEITAO.010°0-0 9-0 4,646 |

ee ODOT aL MNO DSHS GSS o0n008000 601,086

prAcsroeUedne osibobomacddo poco D eee SU dDDEHOO OO Bose ous 609,556
PHO O CHUN Don THO OMIDOO San ODMR OOD DOUUDO oon oGGOC oc Os 611,806

Table 4. Changes in Market Value of Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1997 (in $000s)

Market ValuelEndowment= 10/1/96. 54. ......0++ neces access.
Changes:
GIFS HM yoiave tis Sas Sica a ote Scie cio suo auO vores, snavoreie eer svenenete eueuaersiass
Intermalslrara Skers) ope ters ences os ers east oe Insta aes OS Sona Toe
Other
InterestrandiDividendsierenes ee cere che ieeisene onesie
MarketiValuevAppreciatiomycre cicero cheteieieieiclersrcicisistsrenereietensicie
PayOutl ae centages iaterenn acyeverer sd aia teu ny et alten cy arcu aatareie gasses sient
IN EVORYS WRC oe cite Dine eyo OMO-O OBE Oo ano Gh OaMnO oa oO c
Market Value Endowment - 9/30/97 ...................-52.--
PLOMISES: CO!GIVE sc ose os lev soeras as oleae aeons Mis end a Sievanar age eee aaes
Charitable Truststaeeerpe cece sesso ses iene ete eon eran
Market Value Endowment and Similar Activities - 9/30/97 ........

100

Unrestricted Temporarily Permanently
Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Total

184,334 141,282 117,490 39,366 482,472

0) O 0) 2,916 2,916
(99) 2,759 (2,030) 4,914 5,544

9,260 6,015 6,155 423 21,853
40,821 33,182 32,596 0 106,599
(7,040) (5,259) (S,452) (423) (18,174)
(1,250) 0) 0) 0 (1,250)

226,026 177,979 148,759 47,196 599,960

0) 0 20 7,364 7,384
0) 0) 310 1,902 2,212

ee

226,026 WIS) 149,089 56,462 609,556

fable 5. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1997

JNDESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE:
Ameny FgmnGl(GaSANGiIe I 45's oo 5 ob AOE eine onsen reerernO IC
DOTS, PRIMER. 6. pool cget0b0.0.0 5 OCDE SO DIG OEIC aE tots:
Fund for the Future-Unrestricted (See Note 1) ...............
Fund for the Future-Glass, Gilbert W. (See Note 1) ...........
Fund for the Future-Schermer, Lloyd G. and Betty (See Note 1) .
Fund for the Future-Holmberg, Ruth S. (See Note 1) ..........
IRI SIAS), Rainy, MOEN § 6c coon opHDoUOMdDOO UU BOoDUGGODS
lnlagitikins Fin! (GEG INO) poo ooo pacdoopeooosooouuU dene
Morgan, Gilbert B. and Betty J., Memorial ..................
puonmaarny, (DIA WWE 6 cee etooo ee 0 > on 0 Sin Olonin a oein SO oloin ais sot
MRCS SINAC Cars terete weies one top cce eye eeuatisyerreycarca cepleriaiis|-syis sneue valieyansie-eie.ce)
RON ere MEL CLG UIBA Cp tecere ges reverspepeeetcut sera cusin's stteisca isles o's, set
Rooreseucyelancd George WwW. (SseelNote ll) oe ee oe
ROULGPE MEM GVENIE Re MVICIMOTIG lier ere eee = + eteiciefucisis ete 2 els
Savaui@inal, Ceaortye inl, (SasINGwe 10) Socoucs seneoosoee co sooo d 6
SMa Meo My, eres (SSOINOK 1) % ooo > oI oe oe momo emer co
SUMS OmeSOGleby ames) (SC@INOLE TM) So. ee es pe eee we

SIO 5 a.o oo WSS OS ROTI O'S CRU Ene Coe ee eee

JNDESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI:
DOGS, PHIMGE > seta doodac ced oas Oden Doe omer na a omae coe
lEind |, (Claaills [RL oe eager aaclo.o Erg Coenen ei aor eae
EE OUISO I MELARICCSUE ere sye ie) cliogeiatal ener saneteret esos «a ncveus: tone, 20s ei sinte
ROUES Gal RODE TMC CRS sreuniee cre «creme gene gens resiensvene evveser cngneveadhs fave rebsrisilen tue
Fund for the Future-Unrestricted (See Note 1) ...............
Generalebmdowment (SE@INOtE TD) oi. oi. ce spew esenece ee oust sae
Kerra rclme ODER Ede retateeessstey sic cccue eve «revere xe. -e scue)in lentes ce eyerauaiev a
Higtogil, (Dre, Gs. (GEO NCIC) Sore cca once ore eee ere
HN eeceairom Gr1S CANUISH Peeeeraey see ira oye yairerefouese fe. creas) seve oueeacdrs\s cine veseceys
PACU VaR @ ALO NUNC Pmt eM Nour cease recieve cusyetiecS.e-e ene siete ions terione
Inn, JOS OM GiNGISENEEAS ssopaanosodoeeos aeeeaeaocars
IRIS, MEWS Ca soe oor ors terd oid co Bao ING CIS ieee ce Seo oe
FAME TMM@ARGIELSIISATI para Sieg se iareie,cieas cise sieve wus sla ese eens wor canes ene
ROtEenDOLOEVID eee s met erie ioe ses ee wap seis yee
LSvanlO@Mnt, PHILA CG, sceate eves tete toch Di hehe rON CARE eRe R ne mere een
IMigGlinwG, GIAGS lly o'Sts Coin Sloto BLE Ate oro Eee nnn One Ss
COHIDOA , ILAXCRA Ik. 5 cab argo etoncnents Cao cP ORO eee nee ee ns ed
PLAWIUWDS,, IOV? IRs, HESTENWE a5 9 a5 arn cco, OO clas CORRE a See oO Seem
Rheesawalliamjones;(SeesiNote 1!) onc cee cee es ass ee ee
Salone @laraglolis@uerra twee pervsietaete +) sce cieesiecd eveue ack aoe ae aie
SMILsomanybequestsbund) (SeeNOte 1) = 2.8.2.2 50-5.--. 4.
SHEMET, IDO MAAIG! 1H, gas Busta ierele fol GeceeokD eo nS eee reece
IRRGENGl, (CAMEO 5 ceaen sauedas OS ee Tee See eee cnOCro ce
WHICH, IOS Ica 6S Sta oo otoreta a OO ClO ERE eee eee ene eae

SWDWUAl os oo waloso dee Siterons Cth OG CIGIREO ne oie eee

YONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE:
PATTER CUBA TATE GH RA UIT Cues era worsen cee ck enswaye sche cve code Se condi creole
ANTON ON, JBTONES 3 & overos ohereed © Cra toD ECS Co CARGOES REE ne CEE
NSCIFOC gD rgb CLOeCKuRaan rs < ne cisie eicialsicteie sede gees susmi tus
BernGl, SOIC EGHAM o ogo cecomonabawos oe OoH OE OOobo OS
BameyeAliceibike Memorial (SeeiNote 1)" ..225--.---------
BatGhelouenimlinalleereryrty epi teicen mince se moeis aes ee eeee eines, as
BeaAliLerardn Catherines Nem Onial memes weyers siereeae chistes ate
Sengeim, Clem OV WE ccosd a B clenecia! atid a alenentels co Aten Carncicearonoio on
[Simonniny LAO) etree WAVE crc naires Shera ice cL cpouth OF ONES eS OH ECE RRO
Burch, George E. Fellowship in Theoretic Medicine and .......
Affiliated Theoretic Sciences
(CANENG) AEDTAYG |i gota hero) oie 6 hols 08d cls 0 OAS One ener ae eee
(Carmaelkal 1agxobil S/N sus 6 neste. 0 ct) 6 © OO GOL ODBC IC REE an ere
CAND MaonmaS UNCON oo5 ao cdonco cas oo ene UeeO CMO ne
@hamberlainwikramcisyWea eve oe sieve ee cues er eistees a, sneveue es ear ela
Coopemhunditonbaleobiologyaeecmrertetrt yeni -le iene laste aie
(Wiratrecasasys| OSS wbOtani callie see cis eee ee = elscecsy crave, sheeeve
Gnlimanjosephabsilii(SeeiNotenl)) reer ee cie ee eee ciel
DavishOUNGATOM seme reer ar ieteonorn cnc oo 21s occa ste aus eebratee

Unrestricted

475,775
281,450
217,331
0)

0)

0)

156,283
415,935
38,832
875,464
246,277
8,958
1,842,847
3,311,872
10,639
286,564
238,531

8,406,758

297,598
2,189,253
1,069,087

10,855,053

854,569

191,250,724

15,866
634,604
1,056,255
308,989
368,580
566,880
10,514
360,936
1,551,744
7,311
493,367
4,055,523
1,345,821
6,012
227,184

217,619,248
226,026,006

oooooooo ocooocooo°ococeEe

Unrestricted
Designated

o;joooo0oo0oq0oqooqo0coocnoocoo

SRO LOLS SSIS LSS SIS ISSO lOO lO lO Olio lOlo lo lOiqic)

395,729
0)
10)
386,377
335,119

Market Values

Temporarily
Restricted

S ]| DOSS QOS SerteyvVvea4qyoywey7owrsye)

oooocooooocococoqo9cncoco°ocosd

nn
<i
00
©
oro

75,894
75,894

0

433,992
58,192

0)

0)

302,159
442,540
26,159
68,845
1,616,970

0)
492,070
155,857
308,771

34,876
5,056
0)
34,295

Permanently
Restricted

49,334
960,518
719,307

74,043
416,015
809,445

30,672
202,927

35,000
100,000

38,990

1,000
288,941
290,162

2,706
776,389
548,582

5,344,031

o;joocoo0ooco0c0qocooococoocoo0oo°coeocoooo

5,344,031

325,000
$4,587
120,000
50,362
771,569
60,000
141,227
10,000
70,295
1,668,889

100,800
46,233
1,000
35,000
237,520
54,368
100,000
125,000

Total
Market Value

525,109
241,968
936,638
74,043
416,015
809,445
186,955
618,862
73,832
975,464
285,267
9,958
2,131,788
3,602,034
13,345
1,062,953
787,113

any

13,750,789

297,598
2,189,253
1,069,087

10,855,053
874,569
191,250,724
85,965

980

6,433
15,866

634,604
1,056,255

308,989

368,580

566,880

10,514

360,936

1,551,744
Trou

493,367
4,111,417
1,345,821

6,012

227,184

217,695,142
231,445,931

720,729
488,579
178,192
436,739
1,106,688
362,159
583,767
36,159
375,013
3,285,859

145,731
538,303
156,857
343,771
615,328

$9,424
100,000
159,295

101

Table 5. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1997 (continued)

Market Values

Unrestricted Temporarily Permanently Total

Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted — Market Yale

GISEINS, AMP ICMIRGY RA GoocwocnbosnHeosbdooseososeoued 0) 8,794 16,593 65,000 90,387 ,
Deibel@harlesiPyy eke megan car sconast ere ster en eran eee ee 0) 53,078 0) 100,000 153,078
Discovery Communications, Inc. (See Note 1)............... 0 0 344,137 2,340,679 2,684,816
Division/ofMammials:Gurators FUNG!) alae oe oe ae eer 0) 23,299 0) 8,901 32,200
Dodge, Gary and Rosalind, Memorial ..................... 0 0) 4,338 25,000 29,338
DrakeFoundationyeetiers.o oe tare eters Slee ee ee eee Ce ee 0 0 1,695,427 431,038 2,126,465
Drouet, Francis and Louderback, Harold B. ................. 0 0) 447,970 254,072 702,042
Dykes GharlesBeEques ts niscetet tenet tert me et tcne esther ersten 10) 0) 639,169 131,978 771,147
Ratonmilarrietiphillipsperryetertl-iichateerriee ert teneiieie nee eek 0 $5,528 0) 64,403 119,931
Bickemeyer HlorenceiBrevoOrtay: ster clea sole eiisiciersieke secie aie 0 0 122,142 10,500 132,642
Eppleyatfem oniallipyssrynectactcvorte ut erlener nie iien ttcccnenteteas ence 0 26,050 0 30,214 56,264
Forbes wEGwardiawaldo) tr se-c.otiteieucnae: ctevece cncttaltene euete reuemeleiae: an kaire 10) 1,076,651 10) 818,912 1,895,563
BreeruCharlesiles, servensyecverscsies Gi.treic tore Gen een roi aI on een eo 0 $,312,587 91,500,920 1,958,591 98,772,098
Fund for the Future-Samuel C. Johnson Theater ............. 0 0 431,183 1,003,120 1,434,303
Fund for the Future-Mary L. Ripley Garden ................. 0) 11,756 29,753 123,516 165,025
Fund for the Future-Ethel Niki Kominik ................... 0 51,289 0 100,000 151,289
Fund for the Future-Vincent Wilkinson (See Note 1).......... (0) 9,291 21,354 144,522 175,167
Fund for the Future-Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson (See Note 1) 0) 0) $20,580 4,833,136 5,353,716
Fund for the Future-Smithsonian Luncheon Group (See Note 1) 0 29,157 0 123,299 152,456
Fund for the Future-Frank J. Lukowski (See Note 1)........... 0 0 0 128,477 128,477
Fund for the Future-National Postal Museum ............... 0 0 3,825 25,000 28,825
Fund for the Future-Craveri/Giamporcaro (See Note 1) ........ 0 0 3,181 500,000 $03,181
Global Environmental Endowment Fund .................. 0 2,596 (0) 3,000 5,596
(Ciiloro at U Nts o opt Clown & bomcoC cdot oo Ocade tine oaabloe 0 237,597 0 71,863 309,460
GrOOMBAarriGK Wiser eave craieiens, sie Wantevacsiey aperoienane Gon Several 0 PH Sy 22 0 100,000 Sill SZ
Guggenheim) Danieliand)Blorencer yer sierra cisterns 0 0 1,012,696 251,108 1,263,804
Hamiltonysamesi(SeeuNotell))i smerersrsreyalcisscreruevciecuercucrene terse 0 6,042 0 4,150 10,192
HavptabniGvAn Gardenigemia stitch inkl iciarreaeirerieterrstc ale 0 0 1,540,195 3,106,978 4,647,173
Henderson, Edward and Rebecca R., Meteorite Fund .......... 10) 0 231,035 257,256 488,291
Ferman uloy alike (SCGuNOted)) ierraerrericieereeverereereicensrerrenenc ree 0 0 (0) 69,065 69,065
Hewitt BleanonG. Re pail RUnGi a) -ie ceptor erelenetrteneleroieiete 0 70,897 0 15,003 85,900
Hewitt))SarahiiGoOoper a coc «sieve cae. dusie cere ts cehenarecseens ane totes 0 402,209 0 88,633 490,842
Fliers Var oils ryeeye vars, 5 vce, «easyeve to cre viied seaverstevensue tore fear aers faite 0) 0 US\ PSV) 7,000 82,257
Furayamalkundi(SeeyNotel) rrr rsicyet-isrcbeyrkeeerieteln ena ieeetarehe 0 0) 151,991 2,495,159 2,647,150
HItGhGOCkK FAIDELtS 5 po reatteccrsictoua otuclevarcnouctere tare Ier aca ee 0) (0) 18,372 1,200 19,572
Hodgkins) Rundi (SeeiNotelll) ini ccciielacieierelanyersicisia arc leteieierer ais 0 50,123 0 146,012 196,135
HOtune:SinlOsepho gre cyt tere ine eer rate creretecnieie cieterete 0 0 9,558 100,000 109,558
Hirdlicka;Alesiandi Mariel a.iannasie arc eurtohessicioa sateen ee 0 425,596 111,665 71,000 608,261
Hughes s Bruce vei acces vort cies pec ely sae iste eee RA STO odo 0 0) 224,589 9,352 233,941
Huntington Publication Fund (See Note 1) ................. 0 231,558 (0) 505,538 737,096
Johnson, Seward, Trust Fund for Oceanography ............. 0 0 37,665,172 3,415,606 41,080,778
Kellogg, Remington and Marguerite, Memorial .............. 0) 396,444 (0) 223,178 619,622
Kottler, Howard, Endowment for Ceramic Art............... 0 8,736 18,829 75,000 102,565
Rramatr Nad aver cc crc o-cersc} cresanek ec et os cee ice ae 0 23,257 7,951 12,103 43,311
Krombeins IRarlive. erisnste Aneta touseenerna'acavarsrvere ensue susteaedotversteus citys 0 12,801 14,612 52,180 79,593
Tang anankand Ru kGuGationallec rer cistrscncnenctepenchctstoretere yet 0 38,558 0 VIE 723; 156,281
Marnidil iarnysandBeverl yarn cy-tner-)-yerstarerererateetee tee iater eect 0) 0 71,708 100,000 171,708
Mashantucketibequot Nationie -ra-yrrireeicieis ee eine 0 0 120,848 500,000 620,848
Maxwell Many Est ..cyere, ses, sre tsccpaucuchepsicrerehs,@ Cysiel eh ele ey ol stecmretett 0 175,690 44,004 20,000 239,694
Mellon Foundation-Advanced Studies in Plant Science Research 0 0 14,759 300,000 314,759
Mellon Foundation Challenge Grant/Endowment ........... 10) 681,406 0) 655,465 1,336,871
Mellon Publications Endowment Fund .................... 0 368,003 285,124 900,000 159533}, 11727/
Milliken ba OothoutyMemoOriallerr etree ieee eee 0 2,530 0) 443 2,973
MineraliBndowmentim sci. cists cia clatter sree ioieroe iene nic ine 0 0 899,732 179,008 1,078,740
Mitchell WilliamyAs #095 oi ccrtars ero cess ater sie OR es eae torte 0) 123,188 (0) 24,072 147,260
Moynihan BlizabethiBrennanwer ence teres rin 0 0 20,178 50,161 70,339
Museum of the American Indian-Heye Foundation .......... 0 793,743 (0) 920,587 1,714,330
NMAI Educational Endowment Fund (See Note 1) ........... 0 56,999 0 253,048 310,047
INGihiokp Mats ovovlich:€ Qe aeaternths Geena ccm ote ano coon Gomtcats 0) 194,772 0 216,098 410,870
Nelson#EdwardiWilliambean neces ee tee eee 0 191,603 49,830 30,000 271,433

Nesbittaliowelliterray sess saint oh oe en nee eee 0) (0) 10,411 20,000 30,411 |
Retrocellijosephy Memorial emilee terete retina 10) 0 80,918 10,000 90,918
ReidwAddisoniia(SeesNotell) eames eel eee 0 0) 223,460 20,561 244,021
Ripley, S. Dillion and Mary Livingston ....................- (0) 223,044 89,279 180,833 493,156
RoOeblin RUM! Fcc-noocterRen severe ache ere er eee Or Oe ERS (0) 0) 1,316,266 150,000 1,466,266
ROIS, Whine Ginvel WUE 5 coocadaoedasnoonnoesesecous 0) 2,566,577 0 639,085 3,205,662

SacklervElse/Flowelie ean Ee ye eee eee 0 (0) 60,491 398,237 458,728
Sackler/PubliciAffairs™..cj1.0 tee eee oe one eee 0) 0) 1,516,383 2,856,875 4,373,258
Slavesthacel (ove Marans aera cc oe on deeded n amapmda gases. 0) 16,225 0) 18,817 35,042
SimsHGeOrgev Wai «4 toe seen sree aoe eee AeA eee 0 209,790 10) 110,000 319,790
The Sichel Family, Endowment for Research at the NZP ....... 0 16,470 $3,595 300,000 370,065

102
fable 5. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1997 (continued)

Market Values

Unrestricted Temporarily — Permanently Total
Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Market Value

SHIA, GROUSE I, scocwsopoco oes qeadnecDpocUESSOUDAOOUDY 0) 34,982 200,137 883,008 1,118,127
SPARS INGING| os sod b oss dearord0ooDUsGaDeOooDSeSGOnBoOOoG 0 14,528,470 0 4,636,675 19,165,145
Sonimgar, NBA 2 ogcoanngonco0d0OboGopeeoeouo Go UU OCDE 0 148,632 40,167 30,000 218,799
SrennmearoldiPyMemoriall =. acre secs s- ccs e ce sees sea es 0 1,247,724 383,573 458,101 2,089,398
Stevenson, John A., Mycological Library ................... 0 38,751 10,974 10,053 59,778
Sivan, MER7 IRON C4 ope aehb 5546 Gi Dara eee ae cesta 0) 0) 468,078 291,426 759,504
Thvyoyoer, aud S. (GaSINGIO 1) has coon og doo meo Romeo one soos 0) 2,216,902 0) 5,969,382 8,186,284
Walcott, Charles D.and Mary Vaux, Research ............... 0) 1,633,072 0 $24,850 2,157,922
Walcott Research Fund, Botanical Publications .............. 0 659,936 10) 80,124 740,060
WLS. IDE, Tolamm WWE Je & ecco eg 500) OCI ee ene ne eee 0) 0) 2,336 4,376 6,712
Williston, Samuel Wendell, Diptera Research ............... 0) 30,505 13,109 30,942 74,556
WA raratsm bl alianGubisie® S17 is sya © se es cede Sauna ae Sate es 0) 34,163 0 39,622 73,785
Wood, Elizabeth B. and Laurence I. (See Note 1) ............. 0 0 10) 222,333 222,333
ACT MCOMATATICESHDIIINGKIC’ sc yous cis ievereraile esis s isp ssi 06 e0e Guba Bans eo 0) 8,393 DENA, 1,000 11,505
AinklemNancy Behrend (See Note 1) 2. 35. 2s eee ce 0) 38,134 0 117,868 156,002

SWOWOUA 2's. o.d a iaro Old DOLE RO ORC 0) 36,756,071 146,819,748 50,543,365 234,119,184

YONOR DESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI:

Abbott wianeyBOnnmter cs scl tua voclecice ss cee biieag new es aie 0) 298,064 0) 0) 298,064
PAREhUMESTOLATEHI CATAL s acitue acleiecs csorls sites bee awe space odes 0 515,093 0 0 515,093
ATMS TOMS, EGAN | CUNES SG ae 0 Cop OOOH Deo bob Soom ena OG 0 53,690 0 (0) 53,690
PACMAG ERE Cline rats Auer: abe cic cet ayo) tte @ elleneve chet auene Seow eyerase 1) 210,510 10) (0) 210,510
BAGOT MR VATOUMITAME UT GY ine y- tate -fPelaiaiiaite/ellel oles © foe) cos aloieie, siebols ol > © (0) 1,016,147 0) 0) 1,016,147
Bakoriamnmn OMeL tama rmcier, @Secreks oie suse ov s\’acaie lols dassraarte eis eee 0) 79,703 91,248 0 170,951
HECNEG, (GEORGE. o oc omopomao Hoodoo DOH OUOCeGROedaaU0DnUD 0 1,758,761 10} 10) 1,758,761
(Commo, ACHAT. Spee ceo Gs Oe Caren acts see aeneee rect 0) 41,740 286,820 0) 328,560
Compronybentutalb., Memorial. 2.2 2. oe ee ee ee ee 0 5,553 32,000 0) 37,553
Cooper Hewitt Acquisition Endowment Fund ............... 0) 872,427 0) 10) 872,427
DAW ASMGGEMOm NM CMMOTI Alyse tens. fee) rere fone: slsve iene Seduce, etleccie Ge wade 10) 404,951 0 0) 404,951
Denghausenuisita lang! Kran Zs oe. 3 oe ese wn ee 0 18,657,361 0 0 18,657,361
WES AUG ISA Meme inoue eens iettfersvsieicts ues ese eS bewia a ok Ee O 31,247 0 0 31,247
Friends of Music Endowment Fund ...............-22-+0+- O 201,099 0 O 201,099
Garey, GOO o's bs ace eb 6 ie 6 ULC NO RIEL CHE OR EaC ECCI Renee ane 0) 26,811 0) 0) 26,811
AAS GLOLIAMREMOWSIUP a or. gererescteesioie (oleleree ous e tse eis eee eee 0 14,017 26,179 0 40,196
achenbershasGeorgelband Caroline) 5.0. eee ee oe 0) 53,461 0) 0) 53,461
Hammond, John Performance Series Fund ................- 0) 565,786 0 0 565,786
Hanson MantiniGustavaand @aroline Ry... 2.2.6 eee ee 0) 111,189 0) 0) 111,189
Hirshhorn Collections Endowment Fund .................. 0 14,336,808 (0) 0) 14,336,808
Eursithonn | Osephyie, bequest kumd <2 5.2... 5255-252 -- 5% 0 3,015,834 0 0 3,015,834
PT eRETOLGITAMIUISTAR UNG! A opioarecs. siege co cress. @ eis es syeuejeie sowie Seeuseue 0 9,141,187 0 0) 9,141,187
ew OleriawnustiR cm GUM 2s yh cccrs sce ce we enc essere eoaybsee, ove ay ars 0) 3,975,575 0) 0) 3,975,575
BIMCHOLeTATAMIRUISTABUING MIN 2.52 stone crane ciepeve eons ois due oo ane aUayeuaray s 0 1,314,134 0 0 1,314,134
HouchinssLeciand) Chang-Sul (See Note 1)... 22.2... ..2....- 0) 0) 73,728 0) 73,728
FACATCT COMBE TY GOWINEM te eis coe oie rotero ie ties eusisee ereveiere e eceyere eis ss or (0) 38,046,329 0 0) 38,046,329
TO WMSOMMESRERCMIMOLe ss cies ete we edad sees sees 0 82,324 0 (0) 82,324
Keyzer-Andre, Henri, Conservation Internship .............. 10) 7,380 150,000 10) 157,380
aneskobertand Mildred Katchmar 2-....2..-c.-2-26-05-4- 0 413,056 0) (0) 413,056
LEG), IMIOTHS: 6 010 6 oS DL RO OLOIC OLOIOID OIC CoO nena eet ee cena 0) 1,102,740 0 0 1,102,740
iors, ANaimeadS 19, Cuavel UGhMIC, Soo6on codp nos onD oor oOo UCIE 0) 6,811 0) 10) 6,811
OMe mI Ghargenfemoniall 9% 205 sis. .petavs coc cescevene se srece eoetcs cole sits (0) 97,091 0) 0) 97,091
INGE OVCHTIM) OND mee eetcch itis chtvsis ersucoetenevtycuenesjecener ees ecg) seus 0 30,237 59,798 (0) 90,035
MELA nits, INNOWES oO acm oo con n.G Han Seo Eelam Otero ccd come 0 145,246 0 10) 145,246
Nierrel MB Lim Onpeewercie eae spi sdencesieterensctere.cyeueiechna soe gine ve <tuaye 0) 398,221 239,680 0) 637,901
MiyeruGathenmesWalGemyarreryeriers isis) tecleije ss tire cue e epee ve (0) 252,732 (0) 10) ZO2 2)
INO VES ETAT RGD Meppermn aaron teapot beh gia oie ve eis) Shes foresee ve eke er evelons 6 0) 12,738 0 0 12,738
IN@WES, PEWS US 5 co oid au onc ococes > Uae Gene op gD 0) 103,324 10) 0) 103,324
Orfihipeadwarda=e Memorial treet ec ales et cha see eee 0) 3,910 23,354 0 27,264
Rella@omeliartivinestonumerey-brcickee ie cie eels cs 2 ss castes se 0 93,301 (0) 10) 93,301
Pyaimalo}, InIGGINT 21g 6 6aret. oo Go OUI 0B eo OI eR eee eae ORE 0) 15,496 0) 0 15,496
Ramsey, Adm.and) Mrs: Dewitt| Clinton. 2.22.52... 02.-.+°-- 0 1,968,738 0 0) 1,968,738
Rathbun RichardhMemoriall eye cyceaieve aie eueue deere sense se syeney sya cree ene 0 133,684 10) 0 133,684
Reeves, Douglas F. and Sanae lida (See Note 1) .............. 0 10) 181,016 10) 181,016
RUDE, Ss ID erm Ilorin S546 26.000 boo be Bese oe EoD er IOI on 0) 244,192 173,479 10) 417,671
ROG TMAG NOE NEEKIN shocascnnansuse san oeneboe posed ooD 0) 287,424 10) 10) 287,424
Ross wArthurGardenlanderraGes 14 46 se ccc se Se ee 0 308,032 653,231 0 961,263
ieqiretty eid nM [sngin'o c SG 'ttoloai ato O'D-Ai0 OO NO CRORE a eRe eee eC (0) 320,820 0 0 320,820
SGhTEZ Le Omar ePogepre ropes ay su-Rercievs Chay sa orekes Srsticon sire eneciyreusses 6) a 50 0) 263,757 0) 0) 263,757
SerdellPAthentombuy steers eenere ter cheer ster retetes evade ov= duets: ls: sie! syiei's tae 0 6,948,546 0 (0) 6,948,546
SUMEMSOManinstitutiOmMli brATICS tee spduete cle cece ee 2s ee ciel one 10) 357,918 202,696 (0) 560,614

Table 5. Endowment and Similar Activities September 30, 1997 (continued)
Market Values

Unrestricted Temporarily Permanently Total
Unrestricted Designated Restricted Restricted Market Value.
Sito) ok: Fe) MCW a re ncietare DOU UMe Oe On eam on oo aeedcielD c 0 125,620 0 0 125,620,
Witherspoon; ThomasvAt,; Memorial! (27.0nevscjettere ay teelelatetositens (0) 1,611,865 (0) 10) 1,611,865
AS b110) C0) 2) Wines tae ire Ai ee ee ey one ai Ret eR A AiR ere Sojc 0) 110,082,680 2,193,229 O 112,275,909
TotalsonorDesignatedtPunposey vy ci -ievel ete ter = roteietsoorerevere <r ete 0 146,838,751 49,012,977 50,543,365 346,395,093
BOARD DESIGNATED PURPOSE - TRUE:
Walcott, Charles D. and Mary Vaux, Research ............... 10) 5,039,683 10) 574,182 5,613,865
Subtotal seit cc cavec vase ttaitay ofan ate Medav ae Coen coer cre oreo ateans 0 5,039,683 0 574,182 5,613,865
BOARD DESIGNATED PURPOSE - QUASI:
J Nojorolaue\ AVENE Do dh! Cnseocer aw cinucrouttncc Orin CRDi Ines GuNTaCRONG reOO-cierIOrs Ps 0 1,491,664 0 10) 1,491,664
BarstowiRredriciD. Parvati tsk: reentry act st cteme nce NOR 0 12,467 0 0 12,467
Cooper Hewitt Masters Program for Education .............. (0) 164,102 (0) (0) 164,102
Hirshhorn Museum Acquisition Fund ..................... 0 4,541,865 0 10) 4,541,865
Jackson# GharlesiBremnenHoreuae mentee cect ini ie 0 2,283,107 0 0) 2,283,107
Lindbergh Chair of Aerospace History ...................0- 0 5,166,287 0 10} 5,166,287
Lindbergh GharlestAty chicas « spereucw avo teles oxotenerelis srelssiere vavetiers aoyenens (0) 83,177 (0) 0) 83,177
eyon ly Marcusiward ulin crercy-verenetecs se ceneter rei wererene vn tievevouecreicar rene (0) 56,583 (0) (0) 56,583
MartinuMariettaiImterms hippies -crarrey-trey-acciier-tateeieisicie <ielere tenets (0) 371,238 10) 10) 371,238
NMINEMResearchiv:.s tite comicce ues cunttanstersce nie manta erst sect (0) 236,076 0) 0) 236,076
INZRAPLO STATIS HPs eer rers sess oe ae. walked aro erevaihoeh elelee oylonce) OoehebaateL ats 0 4,867,647 10) (0) 4,867,647
SA@MirectorsiENndowmentie ee cen. icles ieee helenae 0 251,808 0 0 251,808
Smithsonian Institution Libraries General Support ........... 0) 29,338 0) 0) 29,338
Smithsonian Press Scholarly Books Fund .................4. 0 3,620,333 0 10) 3,620,333
Webby iamesil RellOWwSIU py sores c reerelcvatciee ne roeterersrerel eerste ete 0 2,405,512 (0) (0) 2,405,512
Women!s\Gommniittee Fellowship cc. s.re es cuetele te leis cue eie pete (0) 519,354 10) 0) 519,354
Subtotallates correc oe ie alae Sean eae ere ee 0 26,100,558 0 0 26,100,558
TotaliBoard Designated Punposelerac ai cveluelrars teeter etter eter 0 31,140,241 0 574,182 31,714,423
TOTAL ENDOWMENT AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES ............. 226,026,006 177,978,992 149,088,871 56,461,578 609,555,447
Note 1: Invested all or in part in nonpooled investments
Table 6. Construction and Plant Funds, Fiscal Years 1997 and 1996 (in $000s)
FY 1997 FY 1996
FUNDS PROVIDED
Federal Construction Appropriations:
National:-Zoological! Patk® (se levo.s 0d Siedee c eenede an svetere eunita WISN HE re ene yorisy ow eG /o: outiousy Saucy eneuseslet ele reraveia Sia en NOI CVe 3,850 3,250
Repainand Restoration of Buildings). 272-5. 7-v ever oo ve cisions chew sie (ellel cue. tes tere As cue nrate rere ea che a aeeee terrae 39,000 33,954
ConstructioniRlanning and Minor Construction ea erin ceicicie ice aetna ena iene ener 3,000 2,994
National: Museum? of:thevAmericaniindianiyac on sche oes ae foe ee Eee i eae 4,000 15,000
NationallAiriand!Space Museum Dulles sExtemsiOml epee cleriecicisicle er eleier selene siete eiorcieisrsieielieyensicieiensieieiencicn seiner 3,000 1,000
GeneraliPost|@ ticelBuilding: yore eta ses see tore cekeeke outta Srachst Ooi Ciel et ec kereretene einer ok RAR Re aS _ 6
National’ Museum/rofiNaturallEistory, East Court Bullding see rane rae eit ree innit ie eee — 8,700
JotalikederaliGonstructionyAppropriavlons spre en ee oie teeter ele ieee rien ier ieee $2,850 64,904
Nonappropriated Trust Plant Funds:
Income - Gift and Other
Cooper-iiewitt;, NationallDesioniMuseum=aea a neni niin teeters eee 1,670 1,630
National!MuseumofithesAmencamiIndians <2 = <ro0o cere es) creone oe) cis cuccenciel ieleie cree eae ea eee 4,629 6,302* ;
National Museum) of/Naturaliiiistory)—GemiElall ee se eo ee cine peels eee 963 VAI
National/Aimand space Museum) DullesiExtensionimais aac een eee eerie 500 500
(0) 1 0S eee earn rere aes to ere ee rn ino eS Pre poet Ores ei. d.o aid 6o.0-0.0'50 Do 0 13 349
MotalPrust4ResOULCeS: ...2 5 c6i55 ex Secor esses es cose M Cea, coae ene LOSERS ean ee yo) Deter eae MAUS 8,992
TotaliFunds Provided! ..-2.ctcc% ch Sie Gest c. seo a = SESS Ie Ie 60,625 73,896

*Includes $900 thousand in FY1996 provided for construction of the National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI) from NMAI Membership Program.

104
ndependent Auditors’ Report

BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

Ve have audited the accompanying statement of
inancial position of the Smithsonian Institution
Smithsonian) as of September 30, 1997, and the
elated statements of financial activity and cash flows
or the year then ended. These financial statements
re the responsibility of the Smithsonian’s manage-
nent. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
hese financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with gener-
lly accepted auditing standards. Those standards
equire that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
easonable assurance about whether the financial
tatements are free of material misstatement. An audit
ncludes examining, on a test basis, evidence support-
ng the amounts and disclosures in the financial state-
nents. An audit also includes assessing the account-

MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

ttatement of Financial Position September 30, 1997 (in thousands)

ing principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall finan-
cial statement presentation. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the finan-
cial position of the Smithsonian Institution as of Sep-
tember 30, 1997, and its changes in net assets and its
cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

Washington, D.C. KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

January 16, 1998

Trust Federal Total
Funds Funds Funds
issets:
Cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury $ 4,193 192,855 197,048
Receivables and advances (note 4) 56,385 14,368 70,753
Prepaid and deferred expenses (note 5) 16,956 — 16,956
Other assets (note 6) 4,300 — 4,300
Inventory 18,121 838 18,959
Investments (note 7) 609,660 = 609,660
Property and equipment, net (note 10) 106,667 409,829 516,496
Collections (note 6) = = =
‘otal assets 816,282 617,890 1,434,172
jiabilities:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 36,089 33,423 69,512
Payable for investment securities purchased 2,225 _ 2,225
Deferred revenue $3,602 _— 53,602
Debt (note 11) 1,000 — 1,000
Deposits held for others (note 12) 3,933 — 3,933
Accrued annual leave 4,815 14,475 19,290
Unexpended federal appropriations — 173,800 173,800
Total liabilities 101,664 221,698 323,362
Net assets:
Unrestricted:
Funds functioning as endowments (note 8) 404,005 — 404,005
Operational balances and net property and equipment 75,185 396,192 471,377
Total unrestricted net assets 479,190 396,192 875,382
Temporarily restricted:
Funds functioning as endowments (note 8) 149,089 — 149,089
| Donor contributions for ongoing programs 29,877 — 29,877
Total temporarily restricted net assets 178,966 _ 178,966
Permanently restricted:
True endowment 54,560 _ 54,560
Interest in perpetual trusts 1,902 = 1,902
Total permanently restricted net assets (note 8) 56,462 — 56,462
Total net assets 714,618 396,192 1,110,810
=
Commitments and contingencies (note 13) = = =
Total liabilities and net assets $ 816,282 617,890 1,434,172

ee accompanying notes to the financial statements.

105
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Statement of Financial Activity For the Year Ended September 30, 1997 (In thousands)

Unrestricted (
Temporarily Permanently f
Trust Federal Restricted Restricted {
Funds Funds Total Trust Funds Trust Funds Total
+
Operating revenue and gains: f
Government funding and other revenue:
Federal appropriations (note 2) $ — 383,468 383,468 = — 383,468
Government grants and contracts 56,703 — 56,703 — — 56,703
Short-term investment income (note 9) 1,885 _ 1,885 39 — 1,924
Endowment payout (note 9) 12,299 — 12,299 5,452 423 18,174
Private grants 7,708 — 7,708 — —_ 7,708
Rentals, fees, and commissions 14,055 — 14,055 — _— 14,055
Auxiliary activities 202,467 _— 202,467 — — 202,467
Total government funding and other revenue 295,117 383,468 678,585 5,491 423 684,499
Contributions:
Program support 24,031 o 24,031 7,378 6,515 37,924
Construction of facilities — — — 6,422 — 6,422
Total contributions 24,031 — 24,031 13,800 6,515 44,346
Total operating revenue and gains 319,148 383,468 702,616 19,291 6,938 728,845
Net assets released from restrictions 16,370 —_— 16,370 (16,370) — —
Total operating revenue, gains and other additions 335,518 383,468 718,986 2,921 6,938 728,845
Expenses:
Research 68,201 119,638 187,839 —_— — 187,839
Collections management 1,535 §3,595 55,130 a — 55,130
Education, public programs, and exhibitions 55,792 70,827 126,619 — = 126,619
Auxiliary activities 183,369 _— 183,369 — —_— 183,369
Administration 29,076 93,827 122,903 — — 122,903
Advancement 16,078 _ 16,078 — — 16,078
Total expenses 354,051 337,887 691,938 — — 691,938
Increase (decrease) in net assets from operations (18,533) 45,581 27,048 2,921 6,938 36,907
Endowment return reinvested (note 9) 75,988 -- 75,988 33,299 (4) 109,283
Change in net assets related to collection items not capitalized (note 6):
Proceeds from sale 2,719 — 2,719 — — 2,719
Collection items purchased (7,359) (1,999) (9,358) _— — (9,358)
a
Net increase in net assets 52,815 43,582 96,397 36,220 6,934 139,551 —
eS SS ee
Net assets, beginning of the year 426,375 352,610 778,985 142,746 49,528 971,259 —
Net assets, end of the year $ 479,190 396,192 875,382 178,966 56,462 1,110,810 |

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

Statement of Cash Flows For the Year ended September 30, 1997 (In thousands)

Cash flows from operating activities:
Net increase in net assets

Adjustments to reconcile net increase (decrease) in net assets to net

cash provided by operating activities:
Proceeds from sales of collections
Collection items purchased
Depreciation
Loss on disposition of assets
Contributions for increases in endowment
Contributions for construction of property

Appropriations for repair and restoration and construction of property

Investment income restricted for long-term investment

Provision for doubtful accounts
Net realized and unrealized gain on sale of securities
Decrease (increase) in assets:
Receivables and advances
Prepaid and deferred expenses
Other assets
Inventory
Increase (decrease) in liabilities:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses
Deferred revenue

106

Trust
Funds

$ 95,969

(2,719)
7,359
6,773
1,109

(2,916)

(6,422)

(419)
7o2:
(107,160)

(8,593)
6,603
(300)
1,105

(99)
2,555

Federal
Funds

43,582

1,999
31,165
230

($2,850)

Total
Funds

139,551

(2,719)
9,358
37,938
1,339

(107,160)

(9,564)
6,603
(300)
1,268

5,586
2,555

= ——eEeEeEeEeEeEeEeEEEEEeEeEeEye———EeEEeE——————————————EEe

;MITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

tatement of Cash Flows For the Year ended September 30, 1997 (In thousands) (continued)

Trust Federal Total
Funds Funds Funds
Adjustments to reconcile net increase (decrease) in net assets to net
cash provided by operating activities:
Increase (decrease) in liabilities: (continued)
Deposits held for others (2,950) — (2,950)
Accrued annual leave 266 (1,755) (1,489)
Unexpended federal appropriations a (9,920) (9,920)
Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities (9,047) 17,328 8,281
Sash flows from investing activities:
Proceeds from sales of collections 2,719 —_ 2,719
Collection items purchased (7,359) (1,999) (9,358)
Purchase of property and equipment (17,404) (73,385) (90,789)
_ Purchases of investment securities (875,740) — (875,740)
Proceeds from the sales of investment securities 895,262 _— 895,262
———
Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities (2,522) (75,384) (77,906)
Sash flows from financing activities:
Contributions for increases in endowment $ 7,605 a 7,605
Contributions for construction of property 6,422 — 6,422
Appropriations for repair and restoration and construction of property — 52,850 52,850
Investment income restricted for long-term purpose 419 — 419
Proceeds from issuance of debt 500 — 500
Repayments of debt (2,597) — (2,597)
Net cash provided from financing activities 12,349 $2,850 65,199
Net increase (decrease) in cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury 780 (5,206) (4,426)
Dash and balances with the U.S. Treasury:
Beginning of the year 3,413 198,061 201,474
End of the year $ 4,193 192,855 197,048
Sash paid for interest during fiscal year 1997 was $58,000.
see accompanying notes to the financial statements.
1) Organization Trust Funds

he Smithsonian Institution was created by act of Congress in 1846 in accordance

ith the terms of the will of James Smithson of England, who, in 1826, bequeathed

iis property to the United States of America “to found at Washington, under the name
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and diffusion of
cnowledge among men.” After receiving the property and accepting the trust, Congress
vested responsibility in the Smithsonian Board of Regents to administer the trust.

The Smithsonian Institution (Smithsonian) is a museum, education and research
omplex of 16 museums and galleries, and the National Zoological Park. Research is
rarried out in the Smithsonian’s museums and facilities throughout the world. The In-
stitution’s extensive collections number over 140 million objects. During fiscal
ear 1997, over 25 million individuals visited the Smithsonian museums and facilities.
he Smithsonian receives its funding from federal appropriations, private gifts and
ants, government grants and contracts, investment income, and various business ac-
ivities, including the Smithsonian magazines, mail-order catalogue, museum shops,
‘ood services, and other Smithsonian publications. A substantial portion of the Smith-
onian’s annual operating budget is funded from annual federal appropriations. Cer-
ain construction projects are completely funded from federal appropriations, while
thers are funded using amounts raised from private sources, or a combination of fed-
ral and private funds. The federal operating and construction funding is subject to the
nnual federal appropriations process, and significant cuts in federal funding would
ignificantly impact the Smithsonian’s financial situation.

These financial statements do not include the accounts of the National Gallery of
, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson In-
ernational Center for Scholars, which were established by Congress within the Smith-
onian, but are administered under separate boards of trustees.

2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

hese financial statements present the financial position, financial activity, and cash
lows of the Smithsonian from all funding sources, prepared on the accrual basis of ac-
ounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Funds received
‘om direct federal appropriations are reported as Federal Funds in the financial state-
ents. All other funds are reported as Trust Funds.

Non-appropriated funds are classified as trust funds, and primarily arise from contribu-
tions, grants and contracts, investment income and gains (or losses), and auxiliary ac-
tivities. Trust net assets are classified and reported as follows:

Unrestricted net assets

Net assets that are not subject to any donor-imposed stipulations on the use of the
funds. Funds functioning as endowments in this category represent unrestricted assets
which have been designated by management as quasi-endowments and accumulated
excess total return on the endowment pool not subject to donor-imposed restrictions.

Temporarily restricted net assets

Net assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations on the use of the assets that may be
met by actions of the Smithsonian and/or the passage of time. Funds functioning as
endowments in this category represent donor-restricted contributions that have been
designated by management as quasi-endowment and accumulated excess total return
on the endowment pool subject to donor-imposed restrictions. Donor contributions
represent unspent gifts and promises-to-give of cash and securities subject to donor-
imposed restrictions which have not yet been met.

Permanently restricted net assets

Net assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations that the principal be maintained per-
manently by the Smithsonian. Generally, the donors of these assets permit the Smith-
sonian to use all or part of the income earned on investment of the assets for either
general or donor-specified purposes.

Federal Funds

The Smithsonian receives federal appropriations to support the Smithsonian’s operat-
ing salaries and expenses, repair and restoration of facilities, and construction. Federal
appropriation revenue is Classified as unrestricted and recognized as expenditures are
incurred. Unexpended appropriations represent goods and services that have been or-
dered but not yet received and appropriated funds that have not yet been obligated,
and are recorded as liabilities on the statement of financial position.

107
The Smithsonian received appropriations for operations of $318,492,000 in fiscal
year 1997, Federal appropriations for operations are generally available for obligation
only in the year received. In accordance with Public Law 101-510, these annual appro-
priations are maintained by the Smithsonian for five years following the year of appro-
priation, after which the appropriation account is closed and any unexpended bal-
ances are returned to the U.S. Treasury. During fiscal year 1997, the Smithsonian
returned $1,299,000 to the U.S. Treasury which represents the unexpended balance for
fiscal year 1992.

The Smithsonian received appropriations for repair and restoration of facilities and
construction of $52,850,000 in fiscal year 1997. Federal appropriations for repair and
restoration of facilities and construction are generally available for obligation until ex-
pended.

Federal appropriation revenue recognized in fiscal year 1997 can be reconciled to the
federal appropriations received in fiscal year 1997 as follows:

($000s)
Repair and

Salaries and Restoration and

Expenses Construction Total
Federal appropriation revenue $ 313,523 69,945 383,468
Unexpended 1997 appropriation 45,762 $2,850 98,612
Amounts expended from prior years’ obligations (40,226) (69,945) (110,171)
Other funding (567) : (567)
Federal appropriation received $ 318,492 52,850 371,342

Federal expenses recognized in fiscal year 1997 can be reconciled to the federal ap-
propriations received in fiscal year 1997 as follows:

($000s)
Repair and
Salaries and Restoration and
Expenses Construction Total
Federal expenses $ 313,928 25,958 339,886
Unexpended 1997 appropriation 45,762 52,850 98,612
Depreciation (5,600) (25,565) (31,165)
Supplies consumption - (163) (163)
Loss on disposition of assets (230) (230)
Unfunded annual leave 1,755 - 1,755
Amount expended from prior years’ obligations (40,226) (69,945) (110,171)
Capital expenditures 3,440 69,945 73,385
Other funding (567) (567)
Federal appropriation received $318,492 371.342

The $339,886,000 in Federal expenses includes $1,999,000 for collections purchases.
Federal unrestricted net assets primarily represent the Smithsonian's net investment in
property, plant and equipment purchased with or constructed using federal appropri-
ated funds.

Unexpended appropriations for all fiscal years total $173,800,000 at September 30,
1997, and consist of $71,811,000 in unexpended operating funds and $101,989,000 in
unexpended repair and restoration and construction funds. Unexpended operating
funds include amounts for the Museum Support Center move and the National Mu-
seum of the American Indian. Unexpended repair and restoration funds represent
amounts available for on-going major repair and restoration of the Smithsonian's mu-
seums and facilities. Unexpended construction funds represent amounts appropriated
but not yet expended for construction of new facilities.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted ac-
counting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that af-
fect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of rev-
enues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates, however, management does not believe that actual results will be materially
different from those estimates.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying value of financial instruments in the financial statements approximates
fair value.

Cash and Balances with U.S. Treasury

Amounts represent cash deposited with financial institutions, balances held by the
U.S. Treasury that are available for disbursement and a repurchase agreement totaling
$3,840,000 at September 30, 1997.

Investments

The Smithsonian’s marketable equity and debt securities are reported at fair value
based on quoted market prices. Changes in fair value are recognized in the statement
of financial activity. Purchases and sales of investments are recorded on the trade date.

108

Investment income is recorded when earned, and realized gains and losses on the sale
of investments are recognized on the trade date basis using the average cost method.
As mandated by Congress, the Smithsonian maintains two $500,000 Treasury invest-

ments relating to the original James Smithson gift.
/)

{
Contributions receivable that are expected to be collected within one year are reported,
at the net realizable value. Contributions receivable that are expected to be collected in
future years are discounted to present value and reported at net realizable value. Con- f
ditional contributions receivable are not recorded until material conditions have been

met.

Contributions Receivable

Inventories

Inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market, and consist primarily of mer-
chandise inventory, books, recordings, and office supplies. Cost is determined using
the first-in, first-out method.

Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and Air & Space/Smithsonian mag-.
azine is recognized over the period of the subscription, which is generally one year.
Certain costs to obtain subscriptions to the magazines are charged against revenue
over the subscription period.

The Smithsonian expenses promotion production costs the first time the advertising)
takes place. Direct-response advertising relating to the magazines is deferred and amor-
tized over one year.

Split Interest Agreements and Perpetual Trusts

Split interest agreements with donors consist primarily of irrevocable charitable re-
mainder trusts. Contribution revenue and assets are recognized at fair value on the
date the trusts are established. Assets are adjusted during the term of the trusts for
changes in the value of the assets, accretion of discounts, and other changes in the es-
timated future benefits.

The Smithsonian is also the beneficiary of certain perpetual trusts held and adminis-
tered by others. The present values of the estimated future cash receipts from the trusts
are recognized as assets and contribution revenue at the dates the trusts are estab-
lished. Distributions from the trusts are recorded as contributions and the carrying
value of the assets is adjusted for changes in the estimates of future receipts.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment purchased with federal or trust funds are capitalized at cost.
Property and equipment acquired through transfer from government agencies are capi
talized at net book value or fair value, whichever is more readily determinable. Prop-
erty and equipment acquired through donation are capitalized at appraised value at
the date of the gift. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their esti-
mated useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 3-10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Smithsonian's buildings, primarily located in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, were appropriated and reserved by Congress)
for the Smithsonian's use. The Smithsonian serves as trustee of these lands for as long
as they are used to carry out the Smithsonian’s mission. These lands are titled in the
name of the U.S. government and are not reflected in the accompanying financial
statements.

Collections

The Smithsonian acquires its collections, which include works of art, library books,
photographic archives, objects and specimens, by purchase using federal or trust funds}
or by donation. All collections are held for public exhibition, education, or research,
furthering the Smithsonian's mission to increase and diffuse knowledge to the public.
The Smithsonian protects and preserves its collections, which total more than 140 mil-
lion items. The Smithsonian’s Collections Management policy includes guidance on
the preservation, care and maintenance of the collections and procedures relating to
the accession/deaccession of items within the collections.

The Smithsonian’s policy is to not capitalize its collections, therefore, no value is as-
signed to the collections on the statement of financial position. Purchases of collection
items are recorded as expense in the year in which the items are acquired. Contributed
collection items are not reflected in the financial statements. Proceeds from deacces-
sions or insurance recoveries from lost or destroyed collection items are reflected as in-
creases in the appropriate net asset class, and are designated for future collection ac-
quisitions.

Items that are acquired with the intent at the time of acquisition not to add them to’
the collections but rather to sell, exchange, or otherwise use them for financial gain
are not considered collection items, and are recorded at fair market value at date of ac—
quisition as other assets in the statement of financial position. /

Annual Leave

The Smithsonian's civil service employees earn annual leave in accordance with federal
laws and regulations. Separate rules apply for trust employees. Annual leave for all em-
ployees is recognized as expense when earned.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Smithsonian receives grants and enters into contracts with the U.S. government
and state and local governments, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to
the Smithsonian. Revenue from governmental grants and contracts is classified as un-
restricted and is recognized as reimbursable expenditures are incurred.

Contributions

The Smithsonian recognizes revenue from unrestricted contributions as unrestricted
revenue in the period promises are received. Unrestricted contributions with payments
due in future periods are initially recorded as temporarily restricted support, and are
reclassified to unrestricted net assets when payments become due.
_ Temporarily restricted contributions are recorded as temporarily restricted revenue
in the period promises are received. When donor restrictions are met, the temporarily
restricted net assets are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and are included in net as-
sets released from restrictions in the accompanying statement of financial activity.
_ Permanently restricted contributions are contributions restricted by donors for the
Smithsonian’s endowment and are recorded as permanently restricted revenue in the
period received.
Gifts of long-lived assets are recorded as unrestricted revenue in the period received.
In-kind contributions of goods and services totaling $8,321,000 were received in fis-
cal year 1997 and recorded as program support in the accompanying statement of fi-
nancial activity. The nature of the in-kind contributions primarily includes donated
space and interactive multimedia software programs.
_ A substantial number of volunteers also make significant contributions of time to
the Smithsonian, enhancing its activities and programs. In fiscal year 1997, more than
8,000 volunteers contributed over 606,000 hours of service to the Smithsonian. The
value of these contributions is not recognized in the financial statements.
|

Advancement

The Smithsonian raises unrestricted, temporarily restricted and permanently restricted
private financial support from individual donors, corporations and foundations to
fund programs and other initiatives. Funds are also generated through numerous
membership programs. Fund-raising costs are expensed as incurred and reported as Ad-
vancement expenses in the statement of financial activity. Membership program costs
are amortized over membership terms, typically one year, and are also reported as Ad-
vancement expenses.

(3) 150th Anniversary Celebration

America’s Smithsonian, the traveling exhibition of Smithsonian treasures organized as
part of the Smithsonian’s 150'" anniversary celebration in fiscal year 1996, continued
its national tour in fiscal year 1997, visiting five cities. Contributions from businesses
and individuals in the cities to which America’s Smithsonian traveled aided in covering
the cost of the continuation of the tour. Current and future royalties from a new
Smithsonian affinity credit card, issued in fiscal year 1997, are being dedicated to re-
covery of the funding shortfall incurred for the 150" anniversary celebration activities.

(4) Receivables and Advances

Receivables and advances consisted of the following at September 30, 1997:

($000s)
Trust Federal Total
Auxiliary activities, net of $926 in allowances $ 19,076 - 19,076
Investment securities sold 1,224 - 1,224
Contributions receivable 19,054 - 19,054
Grants and contracts 13,080 - 13,080

Interest and dividends due 607 - 607

Advance payments 1,038 14,368 15,406
Charitable trust 2.306 2,306
Total receivables and advances $56,385 14,368 70,753

Contributions Receivable

Contributions receivable (pledges) are recorded as revenue when received. Pledges for
which payment is not due within one year are discounted based on United States Trea-
sury risk-free obligation rates according to their corresponding terms. As of

September 30, 1997, the aggregate discounted amount due to the Smithsonian as con-
tributions receivable was as follows:

($000s)
Less than | year $ 10,067
1 to 5 years 13,468
More than 5 years 1,884
Allowance for uncollectible promises (4.743
Discount to present v (1,622)
Total contributions re $19,054

Conditional Contribution Receivable

The Smithsonian has outstanding conditional contributions totaling $8,000,000
which will be recognized to the extent specific conditions are met.

Advance Payments

Federal advance payments of $14,368,000 represent prepayments made to government
agencies, educational institutions, firms and individuals for services to be rendered, or
property or materials to be furnished.

At September 30, 1997, the Smithsonian had advance payments outstanding to the
General Services Administration of $9,475,000 for equipment purchases for the Mu-
seum Support Center and other projects to be completed in future years. Advance pay-
ments to educational institutions amounting to $1,263,000 were principally under the
Special Foreign Currency Program. Other advance payments totaled $3,630,000.

(5) Deferred Promotion Costs

At September 30, 1997, prepaid and deferred expenses include approximately
$5,461,000 of deferred promotion costs, mostly related to the Smithsonian magazine.
Promotion expense was $13,929,000 in fiscal year 1997.

(6) Accessions and Deaccessions

For fiscal year 1997, $7,359,000 of trust funds and $1,999,000 of federal funds were
spent to acquire collection items. Proceeds from trust fund deaccessions were
$2,719,000. There were no deaccessions of collection items purchased with federal
funds in fiscal year 1997. At September 30, 1997, accumulated proceeds and related
earnings from deaccessions of $15,532,000 were designated for collections acquisition
in the trust funds. Non-cash deaccessions result from the exchange, donation, or de-
struction of collection items, and occur because objects deteriorate, are beyond the
scope of a museum's mission, or are duplicative. During fiscal year 1997, the Smith-
sonian had non-cash deaccessions of works of art, animals, historical objects, and nat-
ural specimens. Contributed items held for sale total $4,300,000 and are reported as
other assets in the statement of financial position.

(7) Investments

At September 30, 1997, investments consisted of the following:

($000s)
Short-term investments:
Cash equivalents $ 6,998
U.S. Government obligations 2.131

eee

91129,
Endowment and similar investments:

Pooled investments:
Cash equivalents 4,646
U.S. Government and quasi-government obligations 15,993
Corporate bonds and other obligations 144,194
Common and preferred stocks 434,668
Total pooled investments 599,501

Nonpooled investments

Deposits with U.S. Treasury 1,030

Total endowment and similar investments 600,531

Total investments $ 609,660

(8) True Endowment and Funds Functioning as Endowments

The Smithsonian uses the “total return” approach to investment management of
pooled true endowment funds and quasi-endowment funds, referred to collectively as
the endowment. Each year, the endowment pays out an amount for current expendi-
tures based upon a number of factors evaluated and approved by the Board of Regents.
The payout for 1997 was 4.5 percent of the average market value of the endowment
over the prior five years. The difference between the total return (i.e., dividends, inter-
est and realized capital gains and unrealized capital gains) and the payout is reinvested
when there is an excess of total return over payout or withdrawn from previously accu-
mulated returns when there is a deficiency of total return to payout. Total return ex-
ceeded the payout amount in fiscal year 1997 and the excess was reinvested in the en-
dowment asset pool. The excess of total return is reported as non-operating revenue in
the accompanying statement of financial activity (see note 9).

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment are pooled on a market value
basis, with individual funds subscribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the per
unit market value at the beginning of the month in which the transaction takes place.
At September 30, 1997, each unit had a market value of $647. The market value of the
pool's net assets at September 30, 1997, was $599,009,000. This represents all pooled
investments plus net receivables and payables related to investment transactions.

Each fund participating in the investment pool receives an annual payout equal to the
number of units owned times the annual payout amount per unit. The payout for fis-
cal year 1997 was $19.75 per unit. Based on approved Board policy, if the market value
of any endowment fund is less than 110 percent of the historical value, the current
payout is limited to the actual interest and dividends allocable to that fund.
Net asset balances of the endowment consisted of the following at September 30,
1997:

($000s)
Unrestricted $ 226,026
Unrestricted-designated 177,979
Total unrestricted 404,005
Temporarily restricted 149,089
Permanently restricted 56,462
Total endowment net assets $ 609,556
(9) Composition of Total Return from Investments
Total return from investments consisted of the following for the year ended
September 30, 1997:
Composition of Endowment Return:
($000s)
Endowment payout $ 18,174
Investment income in excess of payout 3.679
Total investment income 21,853
Less: investment fees (1,250)
Net investment income 20,603
Net realized and unrealized gains 106,854

Endowment total return $ 127.457

Total return is reported as $18,174,000 in operating revenue and $109,283,000 in non-
operating revenue in the statement of financial activity.

Composition of Short-Term Investment Total Return:

($000s)

Investment income $ 1,618
Net realized and unrealized loss 306
Short-term investment total return $ 1.924

(10) Property and Equipment

Property and equipment consisted of the following at September 30, 1997:

($000s)
Trust Federal Total
Land $ 2,387 2,387
Buildings and capital improvements 143,063 753,094 896,157
Equipment 24,997 52,382

Leashold improvements 1,368
171,815 805,476 977,291
Accumulated depreciation (65,148) (395,647) (460.795)

Total property and equipment $106,667 409.829 516,496

At September 30, 1997, buildings and capital improvements included $11,791,000 and
$112,494,000 of construction in progress within Trust and Federal funds, respectively.

Depreciation expense for fiscal year 1997 totaled $31,165,000 in the federal funds and
$6,773,000 in the trust funds.

(11) Debt

At September 30, 1997, the Smithsonian had an interest-free loan from the Virginia
Department of Aviation totaling $1,000,000. The Virginia Department of Aviation
agreed, in fiscal year 1995, to make available to the Smithsonian an interest-free loan
facility totaling $3 million, of which $500,000 was drawn in fiscal years 1996 and
1997. This loan facility is intended to assist in the financing of the planning, market-
ing, fund-raising, and design of the proposed National Air and Space Museum exten-
sion at Washington Dulles International Airport. The Smithsonian is scheduled to re-
pay the outstanding loan not later than June 30, 2000.

(12) Affiliate Relationships

The Smithsonian provides certain fiscal, procurement, facilities and administrative ser-
vices to several separately incorporated affiliated organizations for which certain offi-
cials of the Smithsonian serve on the governing boards. The amounts paid to the
Smithsonian by these organizations for the above services totaled $161,000 of trust
funds and $70,000 of federal funds for fiscal year 1997.

Deposits held in custody for these organizations at September 30, 1997, were
$3,933,000, and were recorded in the trust funds.

The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ), an independent 501(c)(3) organization,
raises funds for the benefit of the Smithsonian’s National Zoological Park. Funds re-

ceived by the Smithsonian from FONZ are recorded as unrestricted revenue and totaled

$500,000 in fiscal year 1997.

110

(13) Commitments and Contingencies

Leasing Activities

t

Leases for Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces provide for rent escalations to co-
incide with increases in property taxes, operating expenses attributable to the leased
property and the Consumer Price Index. The Smithsonian has the authority to enter t
into leases for up to 30 years using federal funds. {

The Smithsonian's operating leases for the warehouse and office spaces require fu-
ture minimum lease payments as follows:

($000s)

i

1998 $ 13,147
1999 10,095
2000 6,594
2001 4,383
2002 4,245
Thereafter 12,981
Total §_ 51445

Rental expense for these operating leases totaled $15,808,000 for fiscal year 1997.

Government Grants and Contracts

The Smithsonian receives funding or reimbursement from governmental agencies for
various activities which are subject to audit. Audits of these activities have been com-
pleted through fiscal year 1996, however, fiscal year 1996 has not been closed with the
cognizant federal audit agency. Management believes that any adjustments which may
result from this audit and the audit for fiscal year 1997 will not have a material adverse
effect on the Smithsonian's financial statements.

(14) Employee Benefit Plans

The federal employees of the Smithsonian are covered by either the Civil Service Re-
tirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The terms
of these plans are defined in federal regulations. Under both systems, the Smithsonian)
withholds from each federal employee's salary the required salary percentage. The
Smithsonian also contributes specified percentages. The Smithsonian’s expense for
these plans for fiscal year 1997 was approximately $15,034,000.

The Smithsonian has a separate defined contribution retirement plan for trust fund
employees, in which substantially all such employees are eligible to participate. Under’
the plan, the Smithsonian contributes stipulated percentages of salary which are used
to purchase individual annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with the
employees. Employees can make voluntary contributions, subject to certain limita-
tions. The Smithsonian's cost of the plan for fiscal year 1997 was $9,102,000.

In addition to the Smithsonian’s retirement plans, the Smithsonian makes available ©
certain health care and life insurance benefits to active and retired trust fund employ-
ees. The plan is contributory for retirees and requires payment of premiums and de-
ductibles. Retiree contributions for premiums are established by an insurance carrier
based on the average per capita cost of benefit coverage for all participants, active and -
retired, in the Smithsonian's plan. The inclusion of retirees in the calculation of aver-
age per capita cost results in a higher average per capita cost than would result if only
active employees were covered by the plan. Therefore, the Smithsonian has a postre-
tirement benefit obligation for the portion of the expected future cost of the retiree
benefits that is not recovered through retiree contributions. The Smithsonian has
elected to use the 20-year amortization option to record the related accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation (APBO). The Smithsonian’s policy is to fund the cost)
of these benefits on the pay-as-you-go-basis.

The following table presents the plan’s funded status reconciled with amounts recog;
nized in the Smithsonian's statement of financial position at September 30, 1997:

($000s)

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:

Retirees $ (2,661)

Active plan participants (6,615)
Total (9,276)
Plan assets at fair value 2167)
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation in excess of plan assets (9,060)
Unrecognized prior service costs =
Unrecognized net gain (1,182)

Unrecognized transition obligation 5,216
Accrued _postretirement benefit cost $_(5,026)

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year ended September 30, 1997 in-
cludes:

($000s)

Service costs $ S75)
Interest costs 668 —
Amortization of transition obligation over 20 years 308

Return on assets 7)
Net _ periodic postretirement benenfit cost $_ 1,534
The discount rate used to determine the APBO was 8.25 percent. A 9 percent health
are cost trend rate was assumed for fiscal year 1997, decreasing 0.5 percent each year
o an ultimate rate of 5 percent in fiscal year 2005 and thereafter. If the assumed health
are cost trend rate was increased by 1 percent in each year, the net periodic postretire-
nent benefit cost would be higher by $200,000 and the APBO higher by $1,300,000 as
f September 30, 1997.

15) Income Taxes

he Smithsonian is exempt from income taxation under the provisions of Sec-

ion 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). Organizations described in
hat section are taxable only on their unrelated business income. Periodical advertising
ales is the main source of unrelated business income. An IRS determination letter has
een received supporting the Smithsonian's tax-exempt status. No provision for in-
ome taxes was required for fiscal year 1997.

It is the opinion of the Smithsonian’s management that the Smithsonian is also ex-
empt from taxation as an instrumentality of the United States as defined in Section
501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in that section are exempt from all in-
come taxation. The Smithsonian has not yet formally sought such dual status.

(16) Bond Offering

In December 1997, the District of Columbia issued $41.3 million of tax-exempt rev-
enue bonds on behalf of the Smithsonian. The bonds mature at various dates through
the year 2028, with yields ranging from 4.0 to 5.17 percent. These bonds were sold to
finance certain renovations of and improvements to the National Museum of Natural
History, fund capitalized interest, and pay certain costs of issuing the bonds.
a See

SUNT ae

' ie
ao ey. 7

og ek ;

Uae
Y Sperdtsit och

Detrirstine
Poe a ents
i

SRSA
Heltah th bats
Te

i 4 Blea
a fate Fata NAA Meira ctshat otc

5 i Gath a ha Ae Ha ta
ane ret tat

jai te

Ota
pithld
orn fehitd
tae

; RH

savantetcn atte
titeninueitinsd

CPU au

Aha

heat vate lt

KS etetg CUNO ETS
ahaha hove CAD Fe hele Beate

i fg
iaibasatanrytan tat es

it
Beaten ee ¢

sey
ceed lteet
is 6

hati tH
ibbchasg ts nelcta'ne kbd a)

ee

aa
eit

ise

cide

eas

ie i
Diy tok Pees memity

Weectedataventiieste alge
ieetieneah

Hho) hae
glade sigh

ere
TPR

tebe d beet
a rf ry AA EP Se
TOT TES

tel bL Apt aN tba iP
a runes

ht
be a

gkercbe phytate
tbs tiset he
weed a

Aare
J

ane
Ses tyhreciah

vy
PERO
PEA OCATS
Ponte
cian teantts
sorte teat
oie ates

‘e spell retgtal
Ferereseny*ys | aise

Cee

yagi teehee Owe eee ee ya
oy tare AF

Tee wane

oy

eseny

.
prac utes
e

on
erie
Naty rete
sate er esa
OST ate wa enaryrana Yi tey!
see weet tert iry Bec

i
Halt

i asa RUt Nan

PUR ; , i j t : iH Fi

tacts
ferred De ty

ee Oars

tan alt he

bie ; : ; ' f

ratsten te F ‘ fee ee F “ 4
LS EE l : ire f APE

ECR Ee oa tas i 1 ’ pri :

ty te “ Stee yeas a
fives etait : '
oth 3 vey
: Jy e ‘ g eis
ane ; " ;
iarelitecetns evant f ‘

et

ws = me tap @ nN

‘ po 3
& Ed aia -
= oo] & nl te
9 é y
ol * “i
3
¥
7
wort
“ = : =
—% . ‘
e
‘ *
— oz Rr be
=— - ~ —t
wend ss . =
— —
Pm 4 ere. i ag
aa — rex Lert a ~
- ’
.
enee — — pe. ~ ~
= = i —
: — “st -

a a -
at oo —_ =
eat 2s ps =
soon = -
= = 223 =
SS =
_~ =< a e:
= a or

a
zs =
Zs 1
7 ’
7 i
> is
set

s See *

=
_
=
“
=“
.
-
ewe

7
if

