yy ee ait:
1a Une

Srivbtien

ape cel everi tet

cceeniiaeuasinemiiermnaemunedeeeameee

Sa nneaeereeneenneteen aren meee

Smithsonian
Institution
Annual Report for the

Smithsonian Institution

for the Year Ended

September 30, 1999

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
Washington, D.C. = 2000
To request this
publication in an
alternative format,
call (202) 357-2627,
ext. 124 (voice) or
(202) 357-729) (T Ys

Cover: Chief Billy Redwing Tayac
(Piscataway) spreads tobacco
during the groundbreaking and
blessing ceremony for the National
Museum of the American Indian on
the National Mall, September 28,
1999.

Frontispiece: The Sculpture Gar-
den at the Hirshhorn Museum, which
celebrated its 25th anniversary this
year, is a serene spot for contem-
plating works of art. (Photograph by
Justin Lane)

Title page: Young scientists dis-
cover the fun of learning by doing in
the National Museum of American
History’s Hands On Science Center.
(Photograph by Justin Lane)

Back cover: This montage shows
a few of the many acquisitions made
by Smithsonian museums during the
five-year tenure of Secretary |.
Michael Heyman.

First row, from left: Sugar Bowl
and Creamer Ill, 1996, raised,
formed, and constructed copper, by
Myra Mimlitsch Gray, Renwick
Gallery of the National Museum of
American Art; Hooker Starburst
Diamonds, necklace, earclips, and
ring of starburst-cut, fancy-yellow
diamonds, National Museum of
Natural History; musical instruments
from the 3,200-piece Teodoro Vidal
Collection of Puerto Rican material
culture, National Museum of
American History; one of three
Sumatran tiger cubs born in 1999,
with mother Kerinci, National
Zoological Park.

Second row, from left: Here,
Look at Mine, an oil painting by
Washington, D.C.-based artist John
Robinson, Anacostia Museum and
Center for African American History
and Culture; an 1847 daguerreotype
of John Brown by Augustus
Washington, National Portrait
Gallery; The Magic Room, an acrylic
work painted in 1994 by Patssi
Valdez, National Museum of

American Art; pocket watch from
sea post clerk John Starr March,
who perished aboard the R.M.S.
Titanic, National Postal Museum.

Third row, from left: an early 14th-
century bowl from Iran, stonepaste
body painted under glaze, Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery; creamware pot
with raised corn design by Iris V.
Nampeyo (Hopi), National Museum
of the American Indian; writing
cabinet from Belgium, 1913, made of
various woods, ivory, and mother-
of-pearl, Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum; the Breitling
Orbiter 3 gondola, from the first
nonstop balloon flight around the
world on March 21, 1999, National
Air and Space Museum.

Fourth row, from left: 7th-8th-
century silver lobed bowl from the
Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and
Kyrgyzstan region of Central Asia,
Freer Gallery of Art; Are Years What?
(for Marianne Moore), 1967, a
painted steel and cable sculpture by
Mark di Suvero, Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden; a wood and
stone bell (didu) from the Kongo
peoples of the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, National Museum of
African Art.
CONTENTS

6 Smithsonian Institution
9 Statement by the Secretary

17 Report of the Board of Regents

21 Report of the Provost

22 Museums and Research Institutes

22 Anacostia Museum and Center for African American
History and Culture

23 Archives of American Art

25 Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

26 Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage

27  Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum

28 Freer Gallery of Art

30 Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

31 National Air and Space Museum

33 National Museum of African Art

34 National Museum of American Art

35 National Museum of American History

37 National Museum of the American Indian

38 National Museum of Natural History

40 National Portrait Gallery

42 National Postal Museum

43 National Zoological Park

44 Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

45 Smithsonian Center for Latino Initiatives

46 Smithsonian Center for Materials Research and Education

48 Smithsonian Environmental Research Center

49 Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

51 Education, Museum, and Scholarly Services
63 Report of the Under Secretary

73 Development and Membership

89 Affiliated Organizations

89 John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

90 National Gallery of Art

91 Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.

92 Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

95 Financial Report
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION

The Smithsonian Institution was created by act of
Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of
the will of James Smithson of England, who in 1826
bequeathed his property to the United States of
America “to found at Washington, under the name
of the Smithsonian Institution, an establishment for
the increase and diffusion of knowledge among
men.” After receiving the property and accepting the
trust, Congress vested responsibility for administer-

ing the trust in the Smithsonian Board of Regents.

BOARD OF REGENTS AND
SECRETARY
September 30, 1999

Board of Regents

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the
United States, Chancellor, ex officio

Albert Gore Jr., Vice-President of the United
States, ex officio

Thad Cochran, Senator from Mississippi

Bill Frist, Senator from Tennessee

Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

Sam Johnson, Representative from Texas

Robert T. Matsui, Representative from
California

Ralph Regula, Representative from Ohio

Howard H. Baker Jr., Citizen of the District of
Columbia

Barber B. Conable Jr., Citizen of New York

Anne d’Harnoncourt, Citizen of
Pennsylvania

Hanna H. Gray, Citizen of Illinois

Manuel L. Ibanez, Citizen of Texas

Homer A. Neal, Citizen of Michigan

Frank A. Shrontz, Citizen of Washington

Wesley S. Williams Jr., Citizen of the District
of Columbia

The Secretary

I. Michael Heyman, Secretary

Constance Berry Newman, Under Secretary

J. Dennis O’Connor, Provost

Gary M. Beer, Chief Executive Officer,
Smithsonian Business Ventures

Thomas D. Blair, Inspector General

Robert V. Hanle, Executive Director for
Development

Donald L. Hardy, Director of Government
Relations

James M. Hobbins, Executive Assistant to the
Secretary

John E. Huerta, General Counsel

David J. Umansky, Director of
Communications

L. Carole Wharton, Director of the Office of
Planning, Management, and Budget

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL
BOARD
September 30, 1999

Current Members
Hon. Frank Weil, Chairman
Hon. Max Berry, Vice-Chair

Mrs. Carolyn S. Blount
Mr. L. H. “Hacker” Caldwell
Mr. Peter R. Coneway
Mr. Thomas E. Congdon
Mr. Frank A. Daniels Jr.
Mr. Archie W. Dunham
Dr. Sylvia A. Earle

Mrs. Jane B. Eisner

Mts. Patricia Frost

Ms. Nely Galan

Mr. Bert Getz

Mr. Stephen Hamblett
Mr. Frederic C. Hamilton
Mr. Paul Hertelendy

Mr. Robert L. James

Mrs. Dona Kendall

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles
Hon. Marc E. Leland
Mrs. Elizabeth S. MacMillan
Mr. John D. Macomber
Mrs. Holly Madigan

Mrs. Millicent Mailliard, ex officio
Mr. Michael McBride
Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mr. Kenneth B. Miller
Hon. Norman Y. Mineta
Mr. Thomas D. Mullins
Mr. Henry R. Munoz III
Ms. Nancy Brown Negley
Mr. John M. Nelson

Mrs. Mary Ourisman

Mr. James Patton

Mr. Heinz C. Prechter
Mr. Thomas F. Pyle Jr.
Baron Eric de Rothschild
Mr. A. R. Sanchez

Mr. David M. Silfen

Mr. Kenneth L. Smith
Mr. Kelso Sutton

Mr. Jackson Tai

Mr. Anthony Welters

Mr. Daniel Yohannes

Honorary Members
Mr. Robert McC. Adams
Mr. William S. Anderson
Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd
Mr. Charles D. Dickey Jr.
Mr. Alfred C. Glassell Jr.
Mr. James M. Kemper Jr.
Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney
Hon. George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra D. O’Connor
Mr. S. Dillon Ripley

Mr. Francis C. Rooney Jr.
Mr. Wilbur L. Ross Jr.

Mr. Lloyd G. Schermer
Mrs. Gay F. Wray
Smithsonian Institution
Board of Regents

The Secretary

J

Board of Directors

Smithsonian Business

Secretariat

Inspector
General

Ventures

Smithsonian Magazine

Smithsonian Retail

Product Development &
| Licensing

Concessions

Under Separate
Boards of
Trustees

John F Kennedy
and Center for the
Performing Arts

OPERATIONS DIRECTORATE

Administration
| Equal Employment and
Minority Affairs
Human Resources
Ombudsman

Facilities

| Environmental Management
and Safety

| Physical Plant

Protection Services

Finance
Comptroller
Contracting
| Treasurer

Information Technology
Imaging, Printing and
Photographic Services
Information Technology

General
Counsel

Government
Relations

Planning, Membership
Management,
and Budget Development
The
Provost

National Gallery
of Art

Woodrow Wilson
International Center
for Scholars

Communications

— Public Affairs

— Visitor Information
and Associates’
Reception Center

Smithsonian
Associates

f
| Smithsonian

Productions
|

Special Events
and
Conference
Services

MUSEUMS AND RESEARCH
INSTITUTES

Anacostia Museum and Center for
African American History and
Culture

Archives of American Art

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/

Freer Gallery of Art

Center for Folklife and Cultural
Heritage

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden

National Air and Space Museum

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of American Art
—Renwick Gallery

National Museum of American
History

National Museum of the American
Indian

National Museum of Natural History

—Museum Support Center
National Portrait Gallery
National Postal Museum
National Zoological Park

Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

EDUCATION, MUSEUM, AND
SCHOLARLY SERVICES

Exhibits Central

Fellowships and Grants

International Relations

National Science Resources Center

Program for Asian Pacific American
Studies

Smithsonian Institution Archives

Smithsonian Institution Libraries

Smithsonian Institution Press

Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service

Smithsonian Office of Education

—Center for Museum Studies
Sponsored Projects

Other Support Services:
Accessibility Program
Institutional Studies
Scientific Diving Program

Smithsonian Center for Latino Initiatives

Smithsonian Center for Materials
Research and Education

Smithsonian Environmental Research

Center

Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Secretary |. Michael Heyman
(Photograph by Richard Strauss)

Left: The preservation team works
on the Star-Spangled Banner in a
Customized conservation laboratory
at the National Museum of American
History. This large-scale conserva-
tion effort, supported through a
public-private partnership, will pre-
serve the flag for future generations.
(Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

MUSEUMS AND THE NEW MI

STATEMENT BY THE SECRETARY

I. MICHAEL HEYMAN

In the last five years, from 1994 to 1999, I have had the opportunity to report to you on
the many ways that the Smithsonian serves the nation. Last year, for example, I took up
the theme of the Smithsonian's extensive commitment to the increase of knowledge
through scientific research and scholarship in the humanities. This, my final report to you
as Secretary, is an attempt to share my view of the Smithsonian’s significant role as a fam-
ily of great museums. In some ways, what has happened to museums in our society in the
decades since the end of World War II is nothing less than miraculous. And there is no
better way to understand these changes than to look at our remarkable Smithsonian
Institution.

When we organized our 150th anniversary celebration, which I described in my 1996
report, researchers went back to the hundred-year commemoration, in 1946, and discov-
ered to our collective amazement that the entire staff of the Smithsonian was then about
400 people and the number of museums, incorporating various kinds of collections and
stretching various definitions, was four. Fifty years later, the staff had grown to roughly
6,500 and the number of museums to 16 and research institutes to five. In 1946, our
museums recorded more than 2 million visits. At last count, that figure was more than
28 million. By any standard, that’s amazing growth.

This expansion reflects the vitality of the American museum community in general.
There are more than 8,300 museums listed in the Official Museum Directory, which some
actually consider an undercount. According to the summer 1999 issue of Daedalus, the
journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, when statistics were last reported
in a 1989 study called Museums Count, “only 4 percent [of America’s museums] were
founded before 1900. Three-quarters have been founded since 1950 and 40 percent since
1970.” In the last two years of this waning century, Daedalus reports, it is estimated that
150 museums will be built or significantly expanded.

The Smithsonian is a part of this forward momentum. At the end of September 1999,

I had the pleasure of breaking ground with Native Americans from all regions for the
National Museum of the American Indian to be built in the shadow of the Capitol on the
last available site on the National Mall. My successor as Secretary, Larry Small, will have
the pleasure of presiding over another great occasion one day, the opening of the enor-
mous extension to the National Air and Space Museum at Dulles Airport outside Washing-
ton, D.C. Clearly, museums count more than ever before, in every meaning of the word.

But why?

Let me make a few guesses.

At one level, the explosive growth of museums may simply have a great deal to do with
the growth in prosperity, in the desire for meaningful leisure activities, and in the expan-
sion of our college-educated population, all of which have marked the postwar decades. At
the Smithsonian, we have particularly benefited from the growth in national confidence
in the era some have called the American Century. At least four of our Smithsonian
museums—the National Museum of American History, the National Museum of American
The Chandra X-ray Observatory, with its high-resolution camera built by the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, is returning stunning images that

give astronomers an expanded view of the universe.

Art, the National Portrait Gallery,
and, above all, the National Air
and Space Museum—burst forth
out of that need to represent our
national pride. Other museums
around the country have come to
express Civic, regional, community,
and ethnic pride in the same spirit.
As a corollary, I suspect
museums have come to be places
of validation in a society that has
seen the erosion of many social
institutions traditionally represent-
ing trust and authority. While reli-
gion and family retain their strong
foundations for many Americans,
other Americans are experiencing
uncertainty and drift. Museums
have always been places where
society asserts that certain things
are important. But increasingly, all
of society, not just traditional
elites, look to museums and simi-

lar organizations to recognize val-
ues, to represent permanence in a
changing world, and in general
just to sort out what matters.

This process has proven particu-
larly vitalizing for many of Amer-
ica’s ethnic communities. The
Museum of African American His-
tory in Detroit has become a cru-
cial institution in the life of its
community. The United States
Holocaust Memorial Museum has
pioneered a way to sort out one of
the darkest chapters in human
existence, not only for the Jewish
community but for the nation as a
whole. And the Japanese American
National Museum in Los Angeles
has defined for its community and
the world at large the nature of the
Japanese American experience.

Many in the museum world are
embracing a new notion of public

service that is proactive. Increas-
ingly the argument is being made
that museums must demonstrate
their usefulness to their communi-
ties. It is no longer enough to sim-
ply represent the good and the
beautiful. In a speech earlier this
year, my Smithsonian colleague,
Stephen Weil, imagined at least
some of the goals museums must
aspire to:

Museums can provide forms

of public service that are all

but infinite in their variety.

Museums can inspire individual

achievement in the arts and

in science, they can serve to

strengthen family and other

personal ties, they can help
communities to achieve and
maintain social stability, they
can act as advocates or play

the role of mediator, they can

inspire respect for the natural

environment, they can generate
self-respect and mutual respect,
they can provide safe environ-
ments for self-exploration and
ever so much more.

Seeing museums as not only pas-
sive environments for inspiration
but actual problem solvers for Amer-
ican society is a new and exciting
approach. Sometimes the goals are
quite targeted. I noticed recently,
for example, that the Drug En-
forcement Administration has just
created what amounts to a mu-
seum on addiction to show the ter-
rible costs of a national blight and
the strategies used to combat it.

But goals for museums can be
very broad in scope as well. My
own hope for the Smithsonian,
and particularly for its National
Museum of American History, is
that it can play some part in heal-
ing some of the fractures in our
social framework, in creating an
inclusive sense of national identity
in the new century. That may, in
fact, be our most important task.
I had the opportunity to make
this point in the presence of Presi-
dent and Mrs. Clinton at a cere-
mony launching our effort to con-
serve the Star-Spangled Banner:

We at the Smithsonian recog-

nize our roles as custodians of
our most loved national trea-
sures. But we see as an exten-
sion of that responsibility our
obligation to provide a national
place where the many commu-
nities of America can learn
about each other and honor
each other’s past and present.

We are bound together as a

people not in uniformity but in

shared hope and, if we get it
right, mutual respect.

There is one sphere of public
service for which the value of
museums is just beginning to be
understood—that of public educa-
tion. We understand, of course,
that museums have long had an
important role in what is called
informal education. They are, after
all, places to discover and to learn
about the world. But the emerging
museum of the future, which takes
its educational responsibilities seri-
ously, will find itself more and
more a full participant in class-
room education. As | described in
my 1997 report, this responsibility
goes beyond the important task of
providing materials that are useful
to teachers. The Smithsonian, as
I mentioned, in the fall of 1996
forged a partnership with the Dis-
trict of Columbia Public Schools to
establish two Museum Magnet
Schools, one elementary and one
middle school. Students in these
schools collect, study, and inter-
pret objects to learn science, art,
and geography, among other sub-
jects. Like the curators they resem-
ble, the young people conduct
research and then choose ways
to communicate their discoveries
to others.

With a traditional blessing, ground was broken for the National Museum of

the American Indian on the National Mall, set to open in late 2002. Shown

during the ceremony are (from left) Dwight Gourneau (Turtle Mountain

Chippewa), Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell (Northern Cheyenne), Sen.

Daniel Inouye, Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus Robert McC. Adams,
Secretary |. Michael Heyman, museum director W. Richard West (Southern
Cheyenne), Norbert Hill Jr. (Oneida), Alvin Josephy Jr., and Julie Johnson

Kidd. (Photograph by Richard Strauss)

Often it is the private sector that
has shown us how to reinvent our
educational involvement. I am
particularly intrigued by the recent
partnership between our National
Museum of Natural History and
Voyager Expanded Learning, Inc.,
to create after-school and summer
programs that enrich and enliven
the educational experience. A par-
ticular favorite of mine is the four-
week Smithsonian T-Rex program
that involves such hands-on expe-
rience as the casting of dinosaur
teeth to separate fact from fantasy
under the guidance of scientists.

Equally exciting is our own
Smithsonian Early Enrichment
Center for preschoolers. Immersed
in object-based education, these
three- and four-year-olds are

exceeding expected achievement
in all areas. Two-thirds of the
center’s preschoolers score in the
99th percentile in nationally
normed science tests upon com-
pletion of the program. That’s
exciting by any standards and
gives museums the hope of mak-
ing a difference in ways we did
not even suspect a decade ago.
That’s the good news. But we
need also to examine the chal-
lenges and uncertainties that
museums face in the future.
Challenges, of course, can lead
to opportunities for reinvention,
but we have to be aware of them
and intelligent in our response.
Because museums have so many
responsibilities and are the focus
of so many expectations, the pres-
SAY ONO

eave ein

Using objects to explore, discover, and communicate is the essence of
learning in the Smithsonian’s two Museum Magnet Schools, a partnership
with the District of Columbia Public Schools. Here, a student at Robert Brent
Elementary School demonstrates his scientific findings to classmates and a
parent. (Photograph by D. E. Hurlbert)

Expansion of the “electronic Smithsonian” continued with the opening of the

Smithsonian Institution Libraries’ Electronic Imaging Center, which makes
rare volumes in the collections accessible everywhere. Libraries staff mem-
ber Courtney Danforth shows Provost J. Dennis O'Connor and Libraries
board members Shirley Gifford (left) and Nancy Wineland Castle how simple
it is to use digital resources. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

sures on staff and directors to clar-
ify what it is they do and how to
manage and increase their re-
sources are growing at an incredi-
ble rate. We used to think of the
ideal director of a museum as a
professional risen from the ranks
of one of its key scholarly fields,
but now directors must deal with
issues of management, fund rais-
ing, and political interaction
unimaginable in quieter days. Take
the questions of corporate spon-
sorship or the launching of busi-
ness ventures. Each entails risks
to an institution that values its
integrity, but the risks can be han-
dled, I think, and are outweighed
by benefits. Taking on these new
challenges represents a new way of
thinking that incorporates ideas of
true partnership with the private
sector, involving strategies for using
the marketplace without going
down pathways that conflict or
seem to conflict with our mission.
There’s another challenge to be
met, one that also creates its fair
share of worry among my col-
leagues. It is the increasing compe-
tition for the public’s attention
from the many dimensions of
entertainment available on televi-
sion or movie screens, in the great
theme parks, and even in the retail
universe represented by Niketown
or the Hard Rock Cafés around the
nation and the world. A recent
article in the Harvard Business
Review has created a sensation in
both the museum and the retail
worlds by heralding the arrival of
what the two authors call “the
experience economy.” Cultural
institutions must increasingly
appeal to an audience making
choices among a variety of experi-
ences and must learn not only to
recognize this role but also explic-
itly to define what is unique and
valuable in the educational and
aesthetic experiences they offer.
Learning from firsthand experience with the real thing, students examine objects in the National Museum of Natural
History’s Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall of Geology, Gems, and Minerals. (Photograph by Justin Lane)

I am one who believes that cul-
tural institutions have a responsi-
bility to engage actively with the
popular culture while not confus-
ing our purposes with those of the
commercial world. One of my ini-
tiatives that has surprised a num-
ber of traditionalists has been to
open a discussion with Hollywood
about possible partnerships in the
creation of what I would call a
quality brand in films, television,
and possibly even theatrical perfor-
mance. At the moment, I am opti-
mistic that we can create programs
with both educational and enter-
tainment value.

We have curators working on
Mel Gibson’s next film, an Ameri-
can Revolutionary epic, The Patriot,
now in production. We are also
planning three films for television
on the African American experi-

ence, with some of the best actors,
producers, and directors in Holly-
wood. Museums can and must
have influence far beyond their
buildings.

Less surprising but equally im-
portant is my commitment and
that of my colleagues in other mu-
seums to use the latest technolo-
gies to make available what we
have to offer in new ways to audi-
ences throughout the nation and
the world. One of my first state-
ments as Secretary was to announce
my hope to create an electronic
Smithsonian, and I have seen our
Web site become one of the most
visited cultural sites in the world.
We are committed to digitizing
millions of our objects in order to
guarantee universal access to our
collections, only 3 to 4 percent of
which we can actually display.

But digitization is, of course, just
the beginning. We can all foresee a
future when not only flat images
but the full three dimensions of
objects can be easily communi-
cated electronically so they can be
explored in all their wonderful
complexity. We have already
experimented at the Smithsonian
with a CD-ROM that effectively
uses impressive 3D technology. We
will also, Iam convinced, one day
have curators able to create cyber-
exhibitions that use the unique
properties of that medium to con-
nect objects to contexts in space
and time. Imagine, if you will, an
object in our collection of Native
American artifacts returned visu-
ally to the world that created it
hundreds of years ago, or a natural
object morphed back to its place of
origin in the natural world.
Steven Udvar-Hazy, president, CEO, and founder of International Lease
Finance Corp. of Los Angeles, has pledged $60 million to the National Air and
Space Museum's Dulles Center. Shown here with the architectural model
are (from left) Secretary |. Michael Heyman; Donald S. Lopez, the museum’s
acting director; Udvar-Hazy; and Robert L. James, chairman of the museum's
National Board. (Photograph by Carolyn Russo)

A highlight of |. Michael Heyman’s five years as Secretary was the Smith-

sonian’s gala 150th anniversary celebration in 1996, which included this
magnificent fireworks display. (Photograph by Beth Laakso)

The challenge here, of course,
is not of imagination; we can
meet that. The challenge that
must be solved is resources. It is
expensive to do what we must do
electronically.

And it is not only the electronic
world that will test our resources.
Where will we find the funds to
collect and conserve those million
of objects in our care? None of
them are getting any newer. And
what of the buildings to house
them? The Smithsonian’s Nationa
Museum of the American Indian
requires, in addition to the mu-
seum we are building on the Na-
tional Mall and the exhibition
facility in New York, a large, sepa-
rate resource center to house more
than a million objects in ways tha
respect their preservation needs or
the one hand and their many uses
on the other. And to mention
another problem, where do you
put a jumbo jet or new spacecraft
models? One of those could fill up
an entire wing of the National Air
and Space Museum on the Mall.
So we build bigger and bigger
facilities for them.

The issue of the economics of
museum creation and preservatior
opens up a host of related issues a:
we contemplate our future as val-
ued social institutions. How do we
judge our usefulness, our reason
to exist? When we are asked if we
are well run, what do we say?
What is our standard and process
of accountability? These, as Steve
Weil argues, are not a matter of
insisting that museums look like
the commercial world but only
that they more clearly articulate
their own goals and their basis for
evaluating whether they are meet-
ing them.

I found the summer 1999 issue
of Daedalus devoted to the subject
of museums to be fascinating pre-
cisely because it revealed that
museums are just now beginning
to ask tough definitional and struc-
tural questions about themselves,
much as has already happened in
other contexts in the modern
world. Think, for example, of the
realignment of the information
and global economy or of the con-
tinual reinvention of both our
political parties.

One writer wondered whether
to be called a museum a place had
principally to house and display
objects. Another wondered
whether museums really do “shape
anyone’s values, validate anyone’s
identity, impose any lasting sense
of order.” And another asked
museums to add to their curatorial
expertise “collaboration with film-
makers, game creators, artists,
poets, storytellers.”

There was another challenge to
traditional ways of thinking in
Daedalus that I found particularly
telling. Many museums, histori-
cally, have been quite territorial in
their view of their responsibilities,
more competitive than cooperative
in the building and sharing of
their collections. One of the
Smithsonian's initiatives in the last
five years that I am most proud of
is our Affiliations Program, which
establishes partnerships with
museums and planned museums
throughout the country, making
available to them Smithsonian col-
lections and expertise. One exam-
ple, and in fact the first of our
arrangements, has been the coop-
eration of our National Museum of
American History with a group in
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, to create
in the former steel mills a place to
exhibit America’s industrial his-
tory. Objects too big to display in
the American History Museum will
now take their place in the telling
of one of our nation’s great stories.

These are the best and worst of
times for museums. They are

“Devi: The Great Goddess” at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, among the
exhibitions organized this year by the Smithsonian’s art museums, included
Prajinaparamita, the Perfection of Wisdom, a wood sculpture from Nepal, ca.
16th century.

attracting enormous public atten-
tion; they are broadening the
range of what they do; they are
groaning under the weight of
expectations and resource short-
falls; they are stirring and com-

plaining and aspiring and compet-
ing and sometimes ducking for
cover. At the height of their popu-
larity, they are wondering what
they are.

I wouldn’t have it any other way.

Left: Symbol of the Smithsonian,

the Castle Building—with a statue

of Joseph Henry near the north

entrance—is a treasured landmark

on the National Mall. (Photograph by
dustin Lane)

REPORT OF Ire SOND Cle Fela Nik

This year, the Board of Regents welcomed two new members, Representatives Ralph Regula
and Robert T. Matsui, who filled vacancies created by the departures of Representatives
Bob Livingston and Esteban E. Torres. At year’s end, Louis V. Gerstner Jr. resigned from the
Board of Regents. Regents Barber B. Conable Jr., Hanna H. Gray, and Wesley S. Williams Jr.
were appointed for successive statutory terms.

At the Regents’ January 25, 1999, meeting, Secretary I. Michael Heyman announced his
decision to retire at the end of the year. A Search Committee was formed under the
cochairmanship of Howard H. Baker Jr. and Wesley Williams, with Hanna Gray, Barber
Conable, Anne d’Harnoncourt, and Manuel L. Ibanez. Smithsonian National Board Chair
Frank A. Weil served in a nonvoting capacity. During the winter and early spring, the com-
mittee advertised the position widely, sought nominations through extensive correspon-
dence and personal contacts, and consulted with staff and trusted advisers. At the May 10,
1999, meeting of the board, the committee discussed with the Regents a proposed list of
qualities to be sought in an 11th Secretary and presented the leading possibilities among a
group of 250 names. At the September 13, 1999, Regents’ meeting, after some 13 inter-
views and exhaustive reference checks, the committee unanimously recommended
Lawrence M. Small, president and chief operating officer of Fannie Mae, electing him to
serve as Secretary effective January 23, 2000.

With assistance from the Secretary and their ad hoc Committee on Facilities, chaired
by Wesley Williams, the Regents approved the Smithsonian’s acquisition of property near
the Old Patent Office Building. The site selected, the Victor Building, will house the pro-
grams and offices currently encroaching on public space in the Patent Office Building. It
will also allow the Institution to relocate most offices from leased space. The Victor Build-
ing appears to offer the Smithsonian space at a significant savings over the long term. The
Secretary and his staff will be raising funds to make this acquisition affordable.

The Board of Regents authorized the establishment of Smithsonian Business Ventures.
Pursuant to the recommendations of the Regents’ ad hoc Committee on Business chaired
by Senator Baker, Smithsonian Business Ventures is a separate entity under the direction
of its board and chief executive officer and the oversight of the Secretary and the Regents.
Robert W. Fri, Thomas M. Kenney, Constance Berry Newman, M. Ronald Ruskin, Robert J.
Thomas, and Anthony Welters were appointed by the Regents to the Business Ventures
Board, and Chief Executive Officer Gary M. Beer serves as an ex officio member.

The Regents consulted with the Secretary throughout the year on progress toward a
major national fund-raising campaign. It was particularly gratifying to see the Smith-
sonian National Board’s Campaign Committee contributing to this year’s substantial
progress. During the course of the year, the Regents approved budget requests for fiscal
years 2000 and 2001 and established the following endowment funds: the Edna F. Blum
Endowment for general purposes of the Institution; the Krieg Drawings and Prints Endow-
ment at the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum; the Karl Hagan Fund for the
National Air and Space Museum; and the National Zoo Endowment.

V7
Smithsonian Secretaries, past, present, and future, celebrated the

groundbreaking for the National Museum of the American Indian (from left):

Secretary-designate Lawrence M. Small, Secretary |. Michael Heyman, and
Secretary Emeritus Robert McC. Adams. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

The Regents were pleased to
confer on Professor Ikuo Hirayama
membership in the Order of James
Smithson in recognition of his
outstanding contributions to the
Freer Gallery of Art. The Regents
also voted to present Samuel P.
Langley Medals to Apollo 11 astro-
nauts Neil Armstrong, Edwin
“Buzz” Aldrin, and Michael Collins
in commemoration of their pio-
neering mission to the Moon.

Much of the Regents’ work
between meetings was accom-
plished by their standing commit-
tees, including the Executive
Committee, the Nominating
Committee, the Audit and Review
Committee, the Investment Policy
Committee, and the Personnel
Committee. As the year drew to a
close, the Regents considered the
complexities of the Smithsonian’s
financial management and decided
to establish a new ad hoc Commit-

tee on Financial Affairs to recom-
mend to the board the appropriate
roles and responsibilities of a
standing committee on finance.
The Regents established a
National Board for the Smith-
sonian Center for Latino Initiatives
and an Advisory Council of the
Center for Folklife and Cultural
Heritage. They expanded the Board
of Trustees of the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden as
authorized by the Omnibus Appro-
priations Act for fiscal year 1999.
The Regents were mindful of the
diligence of many Smithsonian
advisory boards. In recognition of
the importance of these contribu-
tions, the Regents made the fol-
lowing appointments and reap-
pointments: Siddharth Bhansali,
Elizabeth Moynihan, and Michael
Sonnenreich to the Visiting Com-
mittee of the Arthur M. Sackler
Gallery; Elizabeth Ernst Meyer and

Frank Pearl to the Visiting Com-
mittee of the Freer Gallery of Art;
Elliot Lawrence, Brian S. Leyden,
and Frieda Rosenthal to the Com-
mission of the National Museum
of African Art; Jorge Batista,
William Drenttel, Joanne duPont
Foster, Elaine La Roche, Jeffrey T.
Leeds, Nancy Marks, Kenneth
Miller, and Arthur Ross to the
Board of Trustees of the Cooper-
Hewitt, National Design Museum;
Bernadette Berger, Ann Cousins,
Ruth Sulzberger Holmberg, Jesus
Moroles, David M. Silfen, and
Carole Slavin to the Commission
of the National Museum of Ameri-
can Art; Anne B. Baddour, Eugene
A. Cernan, Frank A. Daniels Jr.,
Stanley Hiller, Thomas G. Pownall
Allen E. Puckett, Richard T. Schlos
berg III, and Patty Wagstaff to the
National Air and Space Museum ’s
Dulles Center National Board;
Paul K. Dayton, Henry L. Dia-
mond, Charles McC. Mathias,
and William R. Sweeney Jr. to the
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center Advisory Board;
Jane Beck, Pat Jasper, Barbara Kir-
shenblatt-Gimblett, Bernice John-
son Reagon, Gilbert Sprauve, Jack
Tchen, and Ricardo Trimillos to th
Advisory Council of the Center fo:
Folklife and Cultural Heritage;
Anita DeFrantz, David M. Fields,
and Donald Lubin to the National
Museum of American History
Board; Paula Apsell, Isabella Cun-
ningham, Thomas Eisner, William
Ellis, James McClure, Robin Mar-
tin, James Patton, Desiree Rogers,
and Howard Williams to the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory Board; Susan Hager, Michael
Hayman, Norman Mineta, Beth
Stevens, Richard Thornell, and
Kathleen Wagner to the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research
Center Advisory Board; Richard E.
Gray, John B. Henry, and Margery
F. Masinter to the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries Board; Eloise
Cobell, Vine Deloria, Peter Johnson,
Loretta Kaufman, Henrietta Mann,
and Ofelia Zepeda to the Board of
Trustees of the National Museum
of the American Indian; Wilson
Hulme II, Myron Kaller, Barbara R.
Mueller, Betsy Towle, and Irwin
Weinberg to the Council of Phila-
telists of the National Postal
Museum; Rudy Beserra, Gilberto
‘Cardenas, Jesis Chavarria, Miriam
Cruz, Roberto Cruz, Olga Garcia,
Sandra Guzman, Gema Hernandez,
Abel Lopez, Monica Lozano, Edward
James Olmos, H. R. Bert Pena,
Ricardo Romo, Esteban E. Torres,
Carlos Tortolero, Joseph Wiscovitch,
Raul Yzaguirre, Fernando Zazueta,
and Teresa Zubizarreta to the
Smithsonian National Board for
Latino Initiatives; and Laura Lee
Blanton, L. H. “Hacker” Caldwell,
Frank A. Daniels Jr., Fredric C.
Hamilton, Norman Y. Mineta,
Henry R. Munoz III, Nancy Brown
Negley, Mary Ourisman, James
Patton, Thomas F. Pyle Jr., Eric de
Rothschild, A. R. Sanchez, and
Jackson Tai to the Smithsonian
National Board.

STAFF MILESTONES

The Smithsonian suffered a huge
loss this year with the death of
Donald D. Engen from a tragic
accident in his sail plane over
Nevada in July. In three short
years, Engen became a much loved
and admired director of the
National Air and Space Museum,
the capstone to his marvelous
career in naval aviation, air safety,
and the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration. His most memorable con-
tribution, his passion for and
advancement of the Dulles Center,
will long be remembered. Thank-
fully, Deputy Director Donald S.
Lopez again stepped in as acting
director of the museum.

The Institution proudly wel-
comed Gary M. Beer to the new
position of chief executive officer
of Smithsonian Business Ventures.
Beer brings vast experience to the
challenges of ensuring that this
new organization succeeds to the
benefit of the entire Institution.
Edward Knapp was recruited as
the new comptroller, George Van
Dyke was tapped to be chief of
information technology opera-
tions, and Peter Cannell was

appointed director of the Smith-
sonian Institution Press.

The Secretary’s Gold Medal for
Exceptional Service was presented
to Irwin Shapiro for his outstand-
ing work at the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory and to Der-
tick Ross for his outstanding work
at the Office of Physical Plant.
Both received their medals from
the Secretary on June 15, 1999, at
the Smithsonian’s first Day of
Excellence celebration.

The ongoing contributions of
countless additional employees
and volunteers deserve recognition
as well. Public servants—from cus-
todians to curators, astrophysicists
to accountants, and engineers to
public information officers—are
the real backbone of the Smith-
sonian. As the Institution prepares
for the new millennium, all Smith-
sonian supporters have reason to
be grateful to this cadre who will
chart its course and determine its
destiny.
EXTENDING THE SM

Provost J. Dennis O'Connor
(Photograph by Rick Vargas)

Left: Smithsonian marine biologist
Carole Baldwin and pilot Don Libera-
tore sit in the cockpit compartment
of the Johnson Sea-Link sub-
mersible preparing for their nighttime
dive during the filming of Galapagos,
a Smithsonian Institution and Imax
Limited Presentation of a Mandalay
Media Arts Production. (Photograph
by Peter Coan)

AerPOR Ole Tale PROVOST

J. DENNIS O'CONNOR

Each year, the reports from the Smithsonian’s museums and research institutes present an
evolving portrait of an Institution dedicated to its traditional mission—the increase and
diffusion of knowledge—and committed to engaging and serving a broad audience. Those
complementary emphases are especially apparent this year. On the one hand, the Smith-
sonian’s fundamental activities—research, education, and stewardship of the national col-
lections—seem more impressive than ever in their scope and substance. On the other
hand, the Institution is actively looking for ways to broaden access to its extraordinary
resources and intensify its already significant presence in the worlds of the sciences, art,
and the humanities. As the Smithsonian maintains a focus on excellence in activities of
collection and research, we are simultaneously turning outward, seeking greater public
engagement in all that we have to offer.

From the Smithsonian’s base in Washington, to a barrier reef in the Caribbean, to the
far reaches of the cosmos, the Institution’s cutting-edge research continues to break new
ground. So, too, does our commitment to make research resources and research findings
widely available. Here in Washington, the Smithsonian has acquired the Victor Building,
which will be home to staff offices for the National Museum of American Art, the National
Portrait Gallery, and the Archives of American Art, as well as a planned Center for Ameri-
can Art. This major research facility will welcome scholars and the interested public who
want to study research materials and curatorial records related to the history of American
art. On Carrie Bow Cay in Belize, the National Museum of Natural History this year dedi-
cated its rebuilt field station, which is considered one of the world’s leading facilities for
the study of coral reefs. Research from this remote one-acre island contributes to our
understanding of the diverse and fragile barrier reef ecosystem, and ultimately to its
preservation. The images of cosmic phenomena now being returned from the powerful
Chandra X-ray Observatory are amazing even to scientists at the Smithsonian Astrophysi-
cal Observatory, home of Chandra’s flight operations control center. Anyone with Internet
access can examine a changing selection of these images on the project’s Web site, accessi-
ble from the Smithsonian’s home page.

There is no question that electronic access is revolutionizing the way the Smithsonian
does business. By sharing resources through the Web or cable networks, we are extending
our service in ways that were unimaginable only a few years ago. The online publication
of digital editions of rare books, for instance, brings illustrated volumes from the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries’ collection to a worldwide audience while reducing the han-
dling of fragile materials. The Libraries’ Web site is a fast-growing “electronic library” that
attracts everyone from curious youngsters to advanced scholars. Elsewhere in the Institu-
tion, electronic education initiatives are helping us reach more students and teachers than
ever. As an example, this year students in more than 6,500 middle schools participated via
cable broadcast in a program on the African American inventor Lewis Latimer, developed
by the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Center for the Study of Invention and Innovation at
the National Museum of American History.

21
The Smithsonian’s capacity for
research and public education is
linked to stewardship of the
national collections, which require
effective management, careful
preservation, and continued devel-
opment. This year, for example,
the Star-Spangled Banner Preser-
vation Project in the National
Museum of American History
invited the public to observe and
learn about the complex conserva-
tion of this national icon, while
every Smithsonian museum added
objects to their collections, opening
exciting possibilities for research,
exhibitions, and education.

Across the Institution, there are
many more examples of an out-
ward focus. The Smithsonian Affil-
iations Program has initiated inno-

22

ANACOSTIA MUSEUM AND
CENTER FOR AFRICAN
AMERICAN HISTORY AND
CULTURE

Steven Cameron Newsome,
Director

It was the Year of Spirituality for
the Anacostia Museum and Center
for African American History and
Culture. To explore the rich
African American tradition of wor-
ship, praise, and keeping faith at
the center of life and community,
in-house historians and curators
created exhibitions, workshops,
lectures, and a series of music,
dance, and theater performances.

a Building on the momentum created
by the exhibition “Speak to My Heart:
Communities of Faith and Contempo-
rary African American Life,” the
museum produced and released its first
compact disc recording, Praise the Lord!
Gospel Music in Washington, D.C. Pro-
ject coordinators selected eight vocal

vative collaborations with mu-
seums in communities around the
country, sharing both objects and
expertise. Through a variety of
activities, we are dedicated to mak-
ing the art, history, and culture of
Latino, Asian Pacific American,
and African American communi-
ties an integral part of the Institu-
tion. And the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Traveling Exhibition Service
continues its 47-year tradition of
taking the Smithsonian on the
road to every state.

If the reports on the following
pages leave a collective impression,
it is that the boundaries that once
defined the Institution are disap-
pearing. Americans who once
knew us best as buildings on the
National Mall can now add

ensembles and 15 songs to display the
creative and spiritual continuity that

runs from traditional hymns through
the rousing rhythm and blues now
standard in contemporary gospel. Bill-
board magazine called the Smithsonian
Folkways release “indispensable to afi-
cionados and a perfect starting place
for anyone just discovering the rich
heritage of gospel music.”

= With the exhibition “Locating the
Spirit: Religion and Spirituality in
African American Art,” the museum
showed how art gives a clear voice to
complex and personal expressions of
faith. Curator Deborah Willis assem-
bled some 115 paintings, photographs,
sculptures, and textile pieces to spot-
light the impact of more than 70
African American artists, including
Henry Ossawa Tanner, William H.
Johnson, Sister Gertrude Morgan,
Romare Bearden, Chester Higgins Jr.,
and David C. Driskell.

= “Locating the Spirit” inspired and
served as the backdrop for the 10th
annual James A. Porter Colloquium on
African American Art and Spirituality.

another dimension to their direct
experience with museum objects
and exhibitions. They can see
Smithsonian artifacts in their
hometown museums, browse our
Web site for virtual exhibitions
and nuggets of information, or
take electronic field trips without
leaving their classrooms. Research
by Smithsonian scientists con-
tributes to major advances in
nearly every discipline, including
medicine, marine biology, and
the conservation of endangered
species. With fewer limitations of
place and time, we have extraordi-
nary potential to extend the
boundaries of knowledge, while
at the same time reaching out to
engage more and more people in
what the Smithsonian offers.

The museum collaborated with the
Howard University Department of Art
to bring 700 participants to a three-day
symposium featuring lecture-demon-
strations by some of the nation’s major
artists and art scholars. Among the pre-
senters were 20 artists whose work was
exhibited in “Locating the Spirit.”
Named for James A. Porter (1905-70), a
former chair of the Howard art depart-
ment who produced the nation’s first
in-depth scholarship in African Ameri-
can art history, the Porter Colloquium
is now an annual feature of the
museum’s educational programming.
The museum also made a deeper and
more intense examination of the art
and cultural issues of Africa. In its first
collaboration with the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts, the
museum organized an exhibition dis-
tilling more than a century’s worth of
photographs taken by artists born and
based in Africa. “Revue Noire: Africa by
Africans” explored diverse esthetics
and techniques from a wide range of
places and photographers, created a
fresh view of the African family, and
Washington artist Winston Kennedy created this 1989 woodblock print to shed light on the tradition of African-based
religions in the United States. The print was included in “Locating the Spirit: Religion and Spirituality in African Ameri-
can Art,” an exhibition organized by the Anacostia Museum and Center for African American History and Culture.

(Photograph courtesy of the artist)

presented studio portraiture rarely seen
in the United States.

In a first-time collaboration with the
National Museum of African Art, the
Anacostia Museum and Center helped
present “Wrapped in Pride: Ghanaian
Kente and African American Identity.”
For its part of the two-sited exhibition,
the museum examined how Africa’s
most popular textile art has become a
vital part of contemporary life in Amer-
ica, used in worship services, formal
ceremonies, and home decor.

m February’s Black History Month
observances got an unusual launch as a
crowd of about 16,000 turned out for
the debut of the Capital Children’s Car-
nival. With a challenging Black History
Month Quiz as the centerpiece—featur-
ing the D.C. delegate to the House of
Representatives Eleanor Holmes Nor-
ton as quiz master—the day’s events
included hands-on arts and crafts, sto-
rytelling, folk dancing from Africa, the
Caribbean, and South America, and a

carnival parade with participants wear-
ing the masks and costumes they had
made that day.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART
Richard J. Wattenmaker, Director

The Archives of American Art is
the world’s largest source of docu-
mentary materials on the visual
arts of the United States. Estab-
lished in 1954 to enable and
encourage research in American art
history, it has grown to include
more than 14 million items. The
collection is housed in Washing-
ton, D.C., with microfilm copies of
many documents made available
in reference centers and through
national and international library
loans. The Archives actively seeks,
collects, preserves, and microfilms
original source materials for study

by scholars, students, curators, and
collectors and encourages research
in American art and cultural his-
tory through publications and
public programs. The Archives’
resources are available online at
www.si.edu/artarchives.

In 1999, the Archives completed a
reorganization to streamline its struc-
ture, realign management responsibili-
ties, expand membership, and increase
fund-raising activities in support of col-
lecting, processing, and accessibility. To
this end, the new position of assistant
director, membership and develop-
ment, was created, the first develop-
ment position devoted full time to
fund raising. Among the immediate
results of the reorganization was the
closure of the New England Regional
Center in Boston; reference services
continue at the Boston Public Library,
where the Archives’ microfilms have

23
24

=O =am—zm
=m< ONE

~ =Zome

BE 0-~00mmg gs

Yel

Letters and telegrams from noted artists and art critics are among the materials that make the Archives of American
Art a rich research resource in American art history. (Photograph by Steven Tucker)

been available since 1994. Researchers
may access the Archives’ holdings dur-
ing the library’s regular public hours.
Also closed was the Midwest Regional
Center in Detroit. Its distribution of
microfilm through the Interlibrary
Loan Program has been consolidated
with central reference services in the
Washington, D.C., headquarters.
= The Archives contracted with art his-
torians in New York and New England
to work on the first of many targeted
collecting projects. Among the impor-
tant collections of documents added to
the Archives’ holdings is the final
installment of the Marcel Breuer
(1902-81) Papers. Also collected were
the first installment of the papers of art
historian Robert Rosenblum (b. 1927),
the papers of New England artist Mar-
ion Huse (1896-1967), the papers of
artist Stephen Etnier (1903-84), and
additions to the John Steuart Curry
(1897-1994) Papers. The Archives also
acquired the papers of Mildred Baker
(1905-99), who worked on the Federal

Arts Project from 1935 to 1943, and the

papers of artist Abbott Handerson

Thayer (1849-1921). Oral history inter-
views were conducted with 92-year-old

artist Charles Biederman (b. 1906) and
photographer Paul Caponigro (b. 1932).
m Because of the ongoing renovation of
the Patent Office Building, the Archives
relocated its Washington offices to the
Aerospace Center, one block from the
National Mall. Large, climate-con-
trolled rooms facilitate the processing
of archival documents, and consoli-
dated reference services provide access
for researchers to more than 8,000 reels
of microfilm.
a The Archives hosted a gala benefit
dinner that honored TIME magazine
art critic Robert Hughes. Henry Grun-
wald served as honorary chairman, and
Mr. and Mrs. William Gates Sr. were
cochairs. The evening’s events included
the opening of the exhibition “The
Critic Sees: A Century of Art Criticism
from the Archives of American Art,”
which highlights the contributions of
12 American art critics whose papers
are in the Archives’ collections, and
the presentation of the first annual
Lawrence A. Fleischman Award for
Scholarly Excellence in the Field of
American Art History to John Wilmerd-
ing of Princeton University.
= Extending its participation in the

Smithsonian’s Latino initiatives, the
Archives published A Finding Aid to the
Tomas Ybarra-Frausto Research Material
on Chicano Art, 1965-1997. These
papers provide invaluable primary
documentation for understanding
Chicano art and culture. Ybarra-
Frausto, former chair of the Smith-
sonian’s Latino Oversight Committee
and chair of the Smithsonian Council
from 1994 to 1997, received the
Joseph Henry Medal for outstanding
service to the Institution.
= The Archives is currently engaged in
a pilot project employing encoded
archival description (EAD) to encode
50 of its finding aids. EAD is a digital
format that will make the finding aids
accessible to researchers worldwide on
the Web. A researcher can search
encoded finding aids individually or in
combination with the growing number
of similarly encoded finding aids con-
tributed by other archival repositories.
Once encoded in EAD, the finding aids
will be contributed to the Research
Libraries Group Archival Resources ser-
vice, providing even greater accessibil-
ity to the Archives’ rich holdings.
ARTHUR M. SACKLER
GALLERY
Milo C. Beach, Director

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and
the Freer Gallery of Art together
form the national museum of
Asian art for the United States. The
Sackler, which opened in 1987,
expanded the range of Asian art
activities at the Smithsonian by
embracing contemporary art and a
wide range of media and artistic
practices while developing an
active program of international
loan exhibitions.

= The gallery received the Dr. Paul
Singer Collection of Chinese Art of the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian
Institution, a joint gift of The Arthur
M. Sackler Foundation, Paul Singer, the
A.M.S. Foundation for Arts, Sciences,
and Humanities, and the Children of
Arthur M. Sackler. The collection
includes some 5,000 works in jade,
bronze, ceramic, ivory, wood, and
other materials dating from the fourth
millennium B.C. to the 20th century.
Of particular interest is a group of
objects from the state of Chu in
ancient southern China. Archaeologi-
cal discoveries have given the formerly
obscure Chu culture new status as one
of the most exciting research topics in
ancient Chinese art history.

= “Devi: The Great Goddess,” an exhi-
bition organized by the Sackler Gallery,
brought together loans of important
works of art from Europe and the
United States in the first major exami-
nation of the goddess in South Asian
art and culture. Programs of music,
dance, and song, a chamber opera, and
a one-day symposium featuring schol-
ars from India and the United States
provided insight into the varied and
complex manifestations of Devi, as the
goddess is commonly known.

= The Sackler and Freer Galleries
revived the Occasional Papers series,
which advances new theories in art-
historical and conservation research,
with two publications this year. Dara-
Shikoh Shooting Nilgais: Hunt and Land-

scape in Mughal Painting, by Ebba Koch,
adjunct professor of Islamic and Indian
art history at the University of Vienna,
Austria, analyzes a painting in the
Sackler collection. The Jesuits and the
Grand Mughal: Renaissance Art at the
Imperial Court of India, 1580-1630, by
Gauvin Alexander Bailey, assistant pro-
fessor of Renaissance and Baroque art
at Clark University, accompanied a
Sackler exhibition that examined the
enduring effects of cultural exchange
between Jesuit missionaries from
Europe and the Mughal emperors of
northern India.

= Japanese art historian Toshie Kihara,
an official of Japan’s Agency for Cul-
tural Affairs, received the biennial
Shimada Prize of $10,000 for distin-
guished scholarship in the history of

East Asian art, awarded jointly by the
Sackler and Freer Galleries and the
Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Art
Studies in Kyoto, Japan. Kihara, one of
21 entrants, won for her two-volume
treatise on the Japanese painter Kano
Tan’yu, whom art historians regard as
the most significant painter of the early
Edo period (1615-1716). Yubi no
tankyu: Kano Tan’yu ron (The Search for
Profound Delicacy: The Art of Kano
Tan’yu) (Osaka, Japan: Osaka Daigaku
Shuppanki, 1998) is the first critical
scholarly interpretation of Tan’yu’s con-
tributions to the history of Japanese art.
a This year’s exhibitions at the Sackler,
including “Devi” and “The Jesuits and
the Grand Mughal,” offered varied styl-
istic and thematic interpretations of
the land, peoples, and monuments of

Among the more than 5,000 objects in The Dr. Paul Singer Collection of
Chinese Art of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, is this
ritual wine server with bird-topped lid from the Shaanxi-Shanxi Provinces of
China, Western Zhou dynasty (ca. 950-850 B.C.). The bronze teapot-like con-
tainer is decorated with many animal forms. (Photograph by Otto Nelson)

25
26

South Asia, both by indigenous artists
and by foreigners recording their
impressions of the region. Paintings
loaned by the Museum Reitberg Zurich
presented work by the Indian artist
Nainsukh for his royal patron. Wood-
block images of India and Southeast
Asia by Japanese artist Yoshida Hiroshi
were based on his travels in 1930. All
but one of the 32 prints in the exhibi-
tion were gifts from H. Ed Robison in
memory of Katherine W. Robison, and
one was given in 1986 by Mr. and Mrs.
Harold Horowitz. Another exhibition
featured 19 watercolors by the Aus-
tralian architect Robert Powell showing
the stunning architecture and desolate
landscape of the Himalayan region
known as Mustang.

CENTER FOR FOLKLIFE AND
CULTURAL HERITAGE
Richard Kurin, Director

The Center for Folklife and Cul-
tural Heritage joins research with
community service and educa-
tional outreach to promote the
understanding and continuity of
diverse contemporary grassroots
cultures. A primary goal is to
encourage participation in com-
munity culture and appreciation
for its role in civil society. The cen-
ter produces the annual Smith-
sonian Folklife Festival, Smith-
sonian Folkways Recordings,
exhibitions, documentary films
and videos, symposia, and educa-
tional materials. It also conducts
basic ethnographic research and
maintains the extensive Ralph
Rinzler Folklife Archives and Col-
lections. Programs are highly col-
laborative, and the training of
community-based researchers is
an integral part of them.

a The 33rd annual Smithsonian Folklife
Festival, held June 23-June 27 and June
30-July 4 on the National Mall, fea-

<> 2

Te

UT

yi Welcome

H AFRICA
Othe Rainbow Mafia”

x Nese! wy

South African Ambassador Sheila Sisulu (center) joined in the program

“South Africa: Crafting the Economic Renaissance of the Rainbow Nation” at
the 1999 Smithsonian Folklife Festival. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

tured three programs. In “Celebrating
New Hampshire’s Stories,” cosponsored
by Celebrate New Hampshire and the
New Hampshire State Council on the
Arts, demonstrations of draft animals,
bridge building, and political traditions
and concerts of French music, Scottish
piping, and contra dance presented a
surprisingly varied picture of the state.
Special events included a barn raising
and a fireman’s muster. The focus of
“Gateways to Romania,” cosponsored
by the Romanian Cultural Foundation,

was a 40-foot chapel. Sacred arts,
including icon painting, were demon-
strated, along with traditional ceram-
ics, egg painting, and regional dances.
“South Africa: Crafting the Economic
Renaissance of the Rainbow Nation”
showcased vibrant craft traditions that
indicate the diversity of this new
democracy. Murals, a Swazi hut, and a
shabeen (clubhouse) were focal points
of the site. This program was cospon- |
sored by the South African Department
of Arts, Culture, Science, and Technol-

ogy. The fifth annual Ralph Rinzler
Memorial Concert featured the music
and dance traditions of the Balkans
and Caucasus, and another evening
concert cosponsored by the National
Museum of American History featured
conjunto music. The Folklife Festival
was supported by Bell Atlantic, Fleet
Bank NH, Healthsource, Public Service
of New Hampshire, Sanders, Tyco Inter-
national, Fidelity Investments, Fisher
Scientific International, Connex GSM,
Coca Cola, General Electric, Chase
Manhattan Bank, Romanian Develop-
ment Bank, Timken Foundation, Bates
Centrade Saatchi and Saatchi, Sorin
Marposan, Nestor, Nestor & Kingstone
Peterson, Cold Chain Impex SRL, and
Zero International.

= During the Folklife Festival, the
center cohosted a conference with
UNESCO titled “A Global Assessment
of the 1989 UNESCO Recommenda-
tions on the Safeguarding of Tradi-
tional Culture and Folklore: Local
Empowerment and International
Cooperation.” Participants from 35
countries and another 35 local
observers discussed the 1989 UNESCO
recommendations and proposed new
recommendations for UNESCO consid-
eration. The conference was supported
by the U.S. Department of State, the
Foreign Ministry of Japan, and the
Rockefeller Foundation.

= Smithsonian Folkways produced 25
new recordings, including Woody
Guthrie: The Asch Recordings, volumes
1-4, Taquachito Nights: Conjunto Music
from South Texas, and Lead Belly Sings
for Children, and added two record
companies, Fast Folk and Monitor, to
its inventory. The approximately 350
titles from these two companies are
now being distributed by Folkways.

= Staff publications include Peter
Seitel’s Power of Genre: Interpreting
Haya Oral Literature (Oxford), Olivia
Cadaval’s Creating a Latino Identity in
the Nation’s Capital: The Latino Festival
(Garland), Senior Fellow Nancy Groce’s
New York: Songs of the City (Billboard),
and Tom Vennum’s film Earl’s Canoe,
which was honored with a CINE Gold
Eagle Award.

= A center traveling exhibition, “Cre-

ativity and Resistance: The Maroon
Cultures of the Americas,” opened at
the National Civil Rights Museum in
Memphis and is scheduled to tour
through 2000. “This Land Is Your Land:
The Life and Legacy of Woody Guthrie,”
organized in association with the center,
opened in June at the Autry Museum of
Western Heritage in Los Angeles.

= Contacts with universities expanded
this year to include an American stud-
ies seminar taught by center staff to
George Washington University gradu-
ate students, sponsorship of three
Rockefeller Fellows from Emory Uni-
versity, and support for six other junior
and senior fellows.

COOPER-HEWITT, NATIONAL
DESIGN MUSEUM
Dianne H. Pilgrim, Director

Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum, located in New York City,
is the only museum in the United
States devoted exclusively to his-
torical and contemporary design.
With a lively array of challenging
exhibitions and publications,
innovative education programs for
children and adults, curatorial
research, and collections acquisi-
tions, Cooper-Hewitt continues a
tradition of more than a century
dedicated to exploring the mean-
ing and impact of design on

daily life.

As part of its goal to educate the pub-
lic about design in the broadest, most
accessible sense of the term, Cooper-
Hewitt organized a major exhibition,
“Unlimited by Design,” that investi-
gated the principles of universal
design. This approach to the design of
products, services, and environments
seeks universal usefulness and access.
Curators selected more than 150 con-
temporary design objects that serve
diverse groups of potential users,
accommodating as many cultural dif-
ferences, individual abilities, and ages
as possible, without physical or intel-

lectual barriers. Public programming
included a major conference, “Univer-
sal Cityscape: Housing for the Age
Boom,” presented in collaboration
with AARP, the New York City Depart-
ment for the Aging, and MetLife. In
addition to its enormous popular and
critical success, the exhibition was
selected for a Federal Design Achieve-
ment Award, one of only 35 projects
to receive the National Endowment
for the Arts’ highest honor in design
this year.
= Fifteen prestigious stores in Man-
hattan—including Bloomingdale’s,
Geoffrey Beene, Bergdorf Goodman,
Saks Fifth Avenue, Barneys, Christian
Dior, and Macy’s—presented an off-
site exhibition called “The Window
Show.” Window display designers
selected objects from the museum’s
world-renowned collections as points
of departure for their design schemes.
Conceived as a way to explore a
ubiquitous yet rarely studied aspect
of design, this unusual collaborative
exhibition was seen by hundreds of
thousands of passersby during one
week in May.
= The exhibition “The Architecture of
Reassurance: Designing the Disney
Theme Parks,” organized by the Cana-
dian Centre for Architecture, Montreal,
and drawn from the archives of the
Walt Disney Imagineers, was a stimu-
lating examination of one of the most
influential cultural forces in the worlds
of entertainment and design in 20th-
century America. The International
Association of Art Critics cited the
show as the best architecture exhibi-
tion of 1999 based on its presentation
at Cooper-Hewitt.
= To round out a calendar of diverse
exhibitions, Cooper-Hewitt presented
“The Huguenot Legacy: English Silver,
1680-1760” from the collection of
Alan and Simone Hartman. Organized
by Exhibitions International, the show
boasted a magnificent offering of silver
produced by the French Protestant sil-
versmiths who fled to England because
of religious persecution late in the
17th century.

The Education Department expanded
its high school programs to create

27
28

The exhibition “Unlimited by Design” at the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum featured nearly 150 contemporary products, services, and environ-
ments, including this children’s play equipment, that were designed to
enhance everyday activities. (Photograph by Andrew Bordwin)

“Design Directions,” which taps the
vast professional design resources in
New York City to help high school
students prepare for careers in the
design professions and give them the
tools to enter a design school or col-
lege. This comprehensive program fully
engages students in the design process
through sketching, problem solving,
model building, project presentation,
and critique while working with profes-
sionals in fashion, industrial, graphic,
media, film, environmental, and inte-
rior design, as well as architecture and
urban planning. Among the offerings
are the intensive six-part “Studio-After-
School” program and “Design Career
Day,” a one-day hands-on workshop
with professional designers. “Design
Directions” offers design college visits
and application workshops, design
studio visits, portfolio workshops, and
internships.

FREER GALLERY OF ART
Milo C. Beach, Director

The Freer Gallery of Art and the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery together
form the national museum of
Asian art for the United States.
The Freer also houses a specialized
collection of 19th- and early 20th-
century American art. Founder
Charles Lang Freer (1856-1919)
believed his American holdings
were complete, and he prohibited
additions. He realized, however,
that great discoveries of Asian art
might become available in the
future, and so he allowed for acqui-
sitions of outstanding examples.

= Results of a four-year campaign to

acquire works of Asian art culminated
in the Freer’s 75th anniversary exhibi-
tion, “Beyond the Legacy: Anniversary

Acquisitions for the Freer Gallery of
Art,” and an accompanying publica-
tion. The exhibition included more
than 100 artworks selected from
among anniversary gifts and supported
purchases. An international sympo-
sium to mark the anniversary, “Asia in
Museums: New Perspectives,” was
made possible by a generous grant
from the Ellen Bayard Weedon
Foundation.

= Professor Ikuo Hirayama, president
of the Japan Art Institute, Tokyo, was
inducted into the Order of James
Smithson for his contributions totaling
$11 million to the Freer and Sackler
Galleries over the past decade. The
induction ceremony was capped by
the announcement of Hirayama’s

$2.5 million gift to endow a major pro-
gram for the conservation of Japanese
painting at the Freer.

For the first time since it was pur-
chased in 1931, all 28 feet of the Chi-
nese handscroll A Breath of Spring,
dated 1360, were unrolled and placed
on exhibition to reveal the entire
painting and its colophons, or com-
mentaries. The scroll, among the most
famous Chinese paintings in the Freer
collection and the only known work
by the Daoist recluse Zou Fulei, has
inspired poetry by celebrated writers
from Yang Weizhen (1296-1370), con-
sidered one of the greatest poets of the
Yuan dynasty, to Canadian Michael
Ondaatje, author of The English Patient.
Yang wrote his poem directly on the
scroll, while Ondaatje’s poem, dis-
played nearby, served as a sort of
modern colophon.

a The world’s largest and finest collec-
tion of prints—some 950 impressions—
by the American expatriate artist James
McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) is
housed in the Freer Gallery. Whistler
was regarded in his lifetime as the most
accomplished etcher since Rembrandt
and among the greatest printmakers in.
the history of Western art. “Whistler
and the Hadens,” a small exhibition of
prints and drawings, included some of
the artist’s earliest etchings, made dur-
ing his initially friendly but ill-fated
association with his brother-in-law,
Francis Seymour Haden (1818-1910).
The Freer Gallery of Art's “Arts of the Islamic World” includes this ceramic plate with a design of zinnias from Turkey,
ca. 1525-50. The plate represents a type of underglaze-painted ceramic produced in the city of Iznik in northwestern
Anatolia during the 16th century.

m Forty members of the galleries’
Friends of Asian Art became some of
the first United States citizens to visit
Iran for nearly two decades during a 17-
day tour last spring. Led by four schol-
ars of west Asian art and architecture,
the travelers visited the ruins of Perse-
polis, the museums of Tehran, the
monuments of Isfahan, and other high-

lights of Iran’s rich and varied culture.
Guest curators Kathleen Soshu Lyons
and Austin Babcock of the Washington
branch of Urasenke Tradition of Tea, an
international group dedicated to study
and appreciation of the Japanese tea
ceremony, selected 12 objects from the
Freer collection for a small exhibition
suggesting an imaginary tea gathering.

Lyons and Babcock supplemented the

exhibition with four public demonstra-

tions of the tea ceremony, one held in
each season, to show how the passages
of nature inspire the esthetic tone of
the traditional ceremony.

29
An Anniversary Acquisition for
the Hirshhorn

Acquired and installed in summer 1999, Are Years
What? (for Marianne Moore), 1967, a monumental
steel sculpture by American artist Mark di Suvero
(b. 1933), rises dramatically some 40 feet from a
street-level section of the Hirshhorn Museum’s
Sculpture Garden. This 10-ton composition of indus-
trial |-beams—with a suspended, moving V element
— epitomizes di Suvero’s gift for communicating
human fragility in intractable, industrial materials.
The title refers to a short poem celebrating life, by
the American writer Marianne Moore (1887-1972).
Are Years What? (for Marianne Moore), considered
one of the artist’s greatest works, strengthens the
Hirshhorn’s impressive collection of monumental
sculptures and was a fitting addition to the collection
as the museum celebrated its 25th anniversary in
1999. Consistently included in retrospectives of
di Suvero’s work, it was most recently seen in a city-
wide installation in Paris in 1997.
The sculpture was acquired in part through the
Joseph H. Hirshhorn Purchase Fund and in part as
a gift of the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries,
by exchange.

30

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND
SCULPTURE GARDEN
James T. Demetrion, Director

The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculp-
ture Garden, the Smithsonian
Institution’s museum of modern
and contemporary art, is commit-
ted to increasing the awareness
and understanding of art through
acquisitions, special exhibitions,
publications, research activities,
public programs, and the presenta-
tion of the permanent collection
in its galleries and outdoor exhibi-
tion spaces.

su The museum ushered in its 25th
anniversary year February 24 with the
opening of “The Hirshhorn Collection
at 25: Celebrating Modern and Con-
temporary Art,” a complete reinstalla-
tion of paintings and sculpture in
newly refurbished galleries. Washington
Post critic Jo Ann Lewis praised the
“provocative groupings” that reflected
the Hirshhorn’s emergence as a “vital
and respected national museum of
modern and contemporary art.”
Founding donor Joseph Hirshhorn
(1899-1981) was remembered in a
small archival show of 51 photographs,
mostly inscribed, of artists and others
friendly with him and his wife, Olga.
An anniversary Open House on April
25 featured activities for families and a
lecture by the director.

Financial support received from
numerous entities reflects a general
increase in fund-raising initiatives. A
sampling of sponsors from 1999
includes the Canadian Embassy, Wash-
ington, D.C.; Pro Helvetia, the Arts
Council of Switzerland; the Mondriaan
Foundation, Amsterdam; the Institute
for Foreign Affairs of the Federal
Republic of Germany; the Luso-Ameri-
can Development Foundation; and
Vivian and Elliot I. Pollock. The Andy
Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts,
Inc., the Peter Norton Family Founda-
tion, and Lannan Foundation have
repeatedly supported Hirshhorn pro-
jects, as have numerous generous
individuals.

= The Hirshhorn’s Board of Trustees
experienced renewed energy and vigor
following congressional approval,
endorsed by the Regents, to expand
from 10 to as many as 25 members.
The board was saddened by the deaths
of cherished longtime members and
former chairmen Sydney Lewis and
Jerome Greene. John Pappajohn of Des
Moines, Iowa, joined the board in May,
and Anthony T. Podesta of Washing-
ton, D.C., became a member of the
Committee on Collections.

= Tapping the pulse of contemporary
art, the Hirshhorn’s large solo shows in
1999 featured two American painters of
the same generation—one working in
realism and the other in abstraction—
who are considered towering, influen-
tial figures today. “Chuck Close,” on
tour from the Museum of Modern Art
in New York, was launched on October
15, 1998, with a well-attended lecture
by the artist, whose evolution of an
imagery focusing on monumental faces
has been an exceptional feature of
recent art. “Brice Marden, Work of the
1990s: Paintings, Drawings, and
Prints,” touring from the Dallas
Museum of Art, opened on May 27.
Marden’s calligraphic Cold Mountain
series and other evocative images in-
fluenced by Jackson Pollock and Asian
art stand as testament to the dynamic
persistence of abstraction.

= The breadth and focus of education
initiatives at the Hirshhorn continued
to expand, reflecting a Smithsonian
trend. The education staff introduced a
Young Artist program for school
groups, Art Explorers workshops for
adults, the Improv Art on-site family
workshop, a series of gallery tours by
Washington-area artists, and a Poetry
Slam competition for local poets held
outdoors on the plaza. The public par-
ticipated in workshops for writers and
teachers and in a series of gallery talks
by artists, staff, and art history gradu-
ate students. Art Night on the Mall, a
five-museum program held Thursday
evenings during the summer, again
combined performances of Latin music
outdoors with free films, gallery talks,
and tours.
Mark di Suvero’s monumental painted steel and cable sculpture Are Years What? (for Marianne Moore), 1967, was

acquired by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in its 25th anniversary year. (Photograph by Lee

Stalsworth)

The Hirshhorn’s acquisitions program
of modern and contemporary art was
highlighted by Are Years What? (for
Marianne Moore), 1967, a major work by
American artist Mark di Suvero (see
sidebar). Important works by French
artist Yves Klein and Japanese artist
Yayoi Kusama were also among the
year’s acquisitions.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE
MUSEUM
Donald S. Lopez, Acting Director

The National Air and Space
Museum is the perfect place to
witness the powerful pull that
aviation and space exploration
exert on the American imagina-
tion. It is a magnet for people of
all ages, from every walk of life,
and from every part of the coun-
try. It opened on July 1, 1976, and
has become the most popular
museum in the world, averaging
more than 9 million visits a year.

The mission of the museum is to
“memorialize the national devel-
opment of aviation and space
flight” by preserving and display-
ing the artifacts in the national
collection, providing educational
materials, and conducting research
in aviation and space flight and
their related technologies. The
museum places the highest prior-
ity on its stewardship duties and
understands the unique nature of
aviation and space flight as a living
history.

31
Ww

N

On October 29, 1998, museum visitors watched the launch of the space shuttle Discovery, carrying astronaut John

Glenn and his fellow crew members, on high-definition monitors in the National Air and Space Museum’s main exhibit

halls. (Photograph by Eric Long)

The National Air and Space Museum
and the Smithsonian community
mourn the death of Vice-Admiral
Donald D. Engen (USN, Ret.), 75, who
had been director of the museum since

July 1, 1996. Admiral Engen, whose

contributions included accomplishing
a major reorganization and raising
funds to build the museum’s Dulles
Center, was killed in a motorized glider
accident on July 13, 1999.

The museum received a pledge of $60
million from Steven F. Udvar-Hazy,
president, CEO, and founder of Inter-

national Lease Finance Corp. of Los
Angeles. Udvar-Hazy’s gift, which will
be spaced over four years with the first
installment of $10 million to be made
in 2000, is the single largest donation
to the Smithsonian in its 153-year his-
tory. It is a philanthropic contribution
from Udvar-Hazy, his company, and his
family’s foundation. The entire gift will
go toward building the Dulles Center,
the new restoration, education, and
museum center scheduled to open in
late 2003.

Scientists in the Center for Earth and

Planetary Studies (CEPS) recalibrated
25-year-old topographic data from
Mariner 10 images, showing that there
was less tectonic cooling on Mars dur-
ing its formation than previously sus-
pected. CEPS scientists also studied
Venus, using data from Magellan space-
craft and Earth-based radar to study
surface processes on the planet.

At ceremonies in the museum on July
20, 1999, the 30th anniversary of the
Apollo 11 mission, the Smithsonian
presented one of its most prestigious
awards—the Langley Gold Medal—to
the three Apollo 11 astronauts, Neil
Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael
Collins. The ceremony took place in
front of Columbia, the command mod-
ule that carried the astronauts on their
historic mission to the Moon. Smith-
sonian Secretary I. Michael Heyman
read the citations as Vice-President

Al Gore presented the awards.

a A hot-air balloon and a satellite

were among the museum’s significant
acquisitions. On October 29, a
Motorola Iridium satellite, the first
commercial satellite accepted into the
permanent collection, went on display
in the Beyond the Limits gallery. On
September 23, the gondola of the Bre-
itling Orbiter 3, the balloon in which
‘Bertrand Piccard and Brian Jones made

the first lighter-than-air circumnaviga-
tion of the globe, went on exhibit in
the Milestones of Flight gallery.

= The museum acquired one of the
most significant space art collections
in the world, donated by Frederick C.
Durant III. This group of 63 paintings,
by such notable space artists as Chesley
Bonestell, Robert McCall, Alexsei
Leonov, and Ludek Pesek, joins the
more than 3,000 objects already in the
collection. Objects from the museum’s
collection were also included in the
new Artrain exhibition, “Artistry of
Space,” which began touring the coun-
try in the summer.

m And a Star to Steer Her By, a 30-minute
planetarium feature, and “GPS: A New
Constellation,” an exhibition on satel-
lite navigation, opened October 17,
1998. The planetarium show, narrated
by Sir Alec Guinness, describes the art
and science of celestial navigation.
The exhibition covers the Global Posi-
tioning System (GPS), a worldwide
radio-navigation system formed from a
constellation of 24 satellites and their
ground stations. “Star Wars: The Magic
of Myth,” which closed on January 31,
1999, was seen by nearly 1 million
people.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
AFRICAN ART
Roslyn A. Walker, Director

The National Museum of African
Art celebrates the rich visual tradi-
tions and extraordinarily diverse
cultures of Africa and fosters an
appreciation of African art and civ-
ilizations through its collections,
exhibitions, research, and public
programs.

m The museum acquired several impor-
tant works of art, including a rare set of
polychromed wooden panels carved in
high relief from the Nkanu peoples of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo
and a 92-pound D’mba mask from the
Baga peoples of Guinea, one of the
largest masks in all of Africa. The mask
was donated to the museum by inter-
nationally known contemporary artist
Armand Arman and his wife Corice, a
fashion consultant and business man-
ager. An important donation of 14 tra-
ditional sculptures from central and
eastern Africa, the gift of New York
businessman Lawrence Gussman, fills
gaps in the museum’s collection. These
sculptures were showcased at the
museum.

= The Sylvia H. Williams Gallery,

devoted to contemporary African art,
was the setting for the exhibition
“Claiming Art/Reclaiming Space:
Post-Apartheid Art from South Africa.”
The exhibition included a 23-foot-long
collage, as well as paintings, prints,
multimedia assemblages, videotapes,
and an interactive artist’s book. A
South African film series that accompa-
nied the exhibition attracted standing-
room-only audiences.

u Four large cast concrete screens by
Nigerian artist Adebesi Akanj, donated
to the museum in 1994 by Mr. and
Mrs. Waldemar A. Nielsen, are being
restored by the museum’s conservation
department. The screens will be dis-
played in 2000 in an exhibition focus-
ing on several artists from the impor-
tant Oshogbo art movement in
southwestern Nigeria.

a The exhibition “Wrapped in Pride:
Ghanaian Kente and African American
Identity” was a unique collaboration
between the National Museum of
African Art and the Anacostia Museum
and Center for African American His-
tory and Culture. The two-sited exhibi-
tion not only offered visitors a glimpse
into the history and meaning of the
colorful African textile, but provided
both programming and interactive
activities that engaged diverse audi-
ences. School groups and teachers from

Student visitors to the National Museum of African Art examine a D’mba
mask from the Baga peoples of Guinea, one of the largest masks in Africa, a
gift to the museum’s collection this year. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

33
hundreds of schools took advantage of
related programming, including exhibi-
tion tours, weaving demonstrations by
master weavers from Ghana, and
teacher workshops.

The museum’s extended summer
hours drew hundreds of visitors on
Thursday nights as part of Art Night on
the Mall. Youngsters made colorful hats
and then showed them off as they
paraded to the exhibition “Hats Off!:

A Salute to African Headwear,” while
art lovers had the opportunity to talk
with South African artist Rudzani
Nemasetoni. In addition, the museum’s
entrance pavilion filled with the
sounds of musicians from Cameroon
and South Africa.

Visibility for American Art

The National Museum of American Art may be
closed officially for a three-year renovation beginning
in January 2000, but a program of major national
touring exhibitions will keep the museum, and Ameri-
can art, very much in the public eye. This year, the
museum concluded an arrangement with The Princi-
pal Financial Group for a marketing sponsorship
worth $3.75 million. The campaign is timed to coin-
cide with “Treasures to Go,” eight thematic exhibi-
tions of masterworks from the museum's collections
that will tour the country during the renovation of the
Old Patent Office Building. Public relations and mar-
keting initiatives will include advertising, media
appearances, cable television programs, special
events, and travel to the cities hosting the exhibitions.

The paintings and sculptures in “Treasures to Go”
cover eight themes from the 18th century through
the present: Young America, Lure of the West, Ameri-
can Impressionism, The Gilded Age, Scenes of
American Life, Modernism and Abstraction, Contem-
porary Folk Art, and Arte Latino. The exhibitions are
traveling to more than 70 museums.

The Principal Financial Group began supporting
the arts in the 1930s to promote cultural awareness,
reach diverse audiences, and foster creative thinking
among employees through participation in the arts.

34

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
AMERICAN ART
Elizabeth Broun, Director

museum, which includes the
Renwick Gallery, serves diverse

audiences throughout the nation,
as well as those who visit its two
historic landmark buildings in
Washington, D.C.

The National Museum of American
Art, the nation’s museum dedi-
cated to the arts and artists of the
United States from colonial times a Coinciding with the renovation of its
historic home, the Old Patent Office

Building, the museum prepared to

to the present, provides collections

and vast research resources that
enable the public and scholars to
use and enjoy America’s visual arts
at the museum and online. The

launch perhaps the most extensive art
tour ever, sharing with the American
people more than 500 of its finest trea-

“Glass! Glorious Glass!” at the Renwick Gallery of the National Museum of
American Art featured works by 41 master artists. Susie Krasnican’s clever
Dress for Success, 1997, is a silhouette of a dress cut from glass, the
bodice painted in enamels and the skirt pleated with etched phrases such

as “Experience is a good teacher, but she sends terrific bills,” and “It is bette
to ask some of the questions than to know all the answers.”
sures. “Treasures to Go” will feature
eight thematic exhibitions of paintings
and sculptures. These shows will make
stops at more than 70 museums from
early 2000 through 2002, from Port-
land, Maine, to Portland, Oregon, from
Miami to Dallas to Los Angeles. The
breadth of the itinerary reflects a deter-
mination to bring the finest works of
American art directly to the public.
= The museum is planning a new
American Art Center in the recently
acquired Victor Building. This public
resource will bring together in one cen-
tralized and accessible location the rich
resources the museum has compiled
over the last 30 years. Users of the new
center—art lovers of all ages, collectors,
scholars, students, and critics—will
enjoy an array of research materials,
collections, and information, including
24,000 photographs, prints, and draw-
ings; curatorial records on the entire
museum collection of 38,000 artworks;
museum research databases; and
archival documents.
= When 20th-century folk art collector
_ Herbert Waide Hemphill Jr. died in
1998, he bequeathed the balance of
his collection to the museum, with
instructions to sell those works not
needed for the collection to support
the museum’s folk art programs. In
January 1999, Sotheby’s sold 49 works,
raising more than $200,000 to establish
the Hemphill Folk Art Fund. An addi-
tional $5,000 was contributed to the
fund by folk art collectors around the
country. The fund will support a vari-
ety of acquisitions and programmatic
activities in folk art at the museum.
= The art of New England figured
prominently in the spring exhibition
program. “Picturing Old New England:
Image and Memory” explored the ways
in which New England was treated as a
theme in American art from 1865 to
1945 through major works by such
artists as Childe Hassam, Winslow
Homer, George Bellows, and Norman
Rockwell and considered how the idea
of New England touched on the
broader and deeper cultural currents in
the country. The work of Abbott Han-
derson Thayer (1849-1921), a promi-
nent and highly influential figure in

the American Renaissance movement,
was examined in “Abbott Thayer:

The Nature of Art.” As an artist inspired
by classical elegance and a naturalist
immersed in a rustic existence, Thayer’s
esthetic and scientific impulses came
together in this exhibition.

a At the Renwick Gallery, “Shaker:
Furnishings for the Simple Life” added
another chapter to the story of New
England in art. Furniture and decora-
tive arts from Mount Lebanon, New
York, the first and most prominent
Shaker community, looked at objects
created by residents for their own use
and for sale “in the World,” illustrating
the Shaker principles of fine crafts-
manship, order, and simplicity. “Glass!
Glorious Glass!” featured works by

41 master artists who are pushing the
boundaries of glass as a medium for
artistic expression. The exhibition was
the first in a proposed series examining
the Renwick Gallery’s permanent
collection.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
AMERICAN HISTORY
Spencer R. Crew, Director

The National Museum of American
History dedicates its collections
and scholarship to inspiring a
broader understanding of our
nation and its many peoples. The
museum creates learning opportu-
nities, stimulates imaginations,
and presents challenging ideas
about our nation’s past through
exhibitions, publications, family
programs, electronic outreach and
distance learning, community-
based collaborations, and affilia-
tions. Building on its base of schol-
arly research, commitment to
education, and care of the collec-
tions, the museum develops new
avenues for the dissemination and
sharing of its artifacts and intellec-
tual resources.

a The Star-Spangled Banner, the pre-
mier symbol of American identity, was

Preservation on Display

In a custom-designed laboratory at the National
Museum of American History, a team of conserva-
tors is engaged in the painstaking process of saving
the Star-Spangled Banner. But this is no ordinary
object, and no ordinary museum preservation pro-
ject. While conservators work from a mobile platform
six inches above the flag, visitors watch intently
through a floor-to-ceiling glass wall. An interactive
exhibition, “Preserving the Star-Spangled Banner:
The Flag that Inspired the National Anthem,” explains
the flag's history and describes the treatment
process. As the museum stabilizes the condition of
this national icon—damaged by time and exposure
to the elements—visitors are learning about a fasci-
nating process that usually goes on behind the
scenes.

Designing a conservation facility suitable for the
1,020-square-foot banner presented unusual chal-
lenges. The flag rests on a large table, with the work
platform spanning its width. Low-level ambient light-
ing and a specially designed heating, ventilation, and
air-conditioning system protect the flag from harmful
ultraviolet light, contaminants, and temperature and
humidity fluctuations.

During the treatment phase of the project, conser-
vators will carefully vacuum the flag and then clean it
using chemical solvents and detergents. Stitch by
stitch, they will remove a linen lining added in 1914. A
new support will stabilize the flag when it is returned
to exhibition in 2002.

The Star-Spangled Banner Preservation Project is
made possible with major support of $10 million from
Polo Ralph Lauren. Generous support and significant
leadership are also provided by The Pew Charitable
Trusts, the U.S. Congress, the White House Millen-
nium Council, the John S. and James L. Knight Foun-
dation, and Save America’s Treasures at the National
Trust for Historic Preservation.

At the end of the fiscal year, the museum was
preparing to launch a special feature on its Web
site devoted to the Star-Spangled Banner and the
preservation project (http://americanhistory.si.edu/
ssb/). A book by museum historian Lonn Taylor,
based on research carried out as part of the project,
will be published by the museum and Harry N.
Abrams, Inc., in the spring of 2000.

35
36

The National Museum of American History’s newest permanent exhibition, “Communities in a Changing Nation: The
Promise of 19th-Century America,” focuses on people in three communities and their efforts to bridge the realities
and promises of American life. (Photograph by Justin Lane)

the centerpiece of much activity and
attention. This 185-year-old icon of
freedom, in need of long-term preser-
vation, was removed from its three-
story display in the museum’s Flag Hall
and placed in a glass-walled state-of-
the-art conservation laboratory, where
visitors watch the staff at work and
learn the history behind the flag that
inspired the National Anthem. The
Star-Spangled Banner Preservation Pro-
ject, an outstanding example of public-
private partnership at the museum, is
made possible with major support of
$10 million from Polo Ralph Lauren.
Generous support and significant lead-
ership are also provided by The Pew
Charitable Trusts, the U.S. Congress,
the White House Millennium Council,
The John S. and James L. Knight Foun-
dation, and Save America’s Treasures
at the National Trust for Historic
Preservation.

“American Identity” was the organiz-
ing theme for an interdisciplinary ini-

tiative, bringing together many of the
museum’s activities into a new frame-
work concerned with what it means to
be an American. Within this frame-
work, the museum organized work-
shops and discussions led by noted
scholars and focused on ways to
reshape the museum’s collections. New
acquisitions built around the theme
included the photographic collection
of Lisa Law, documenting the cultural
excitement of the 1960s; tejano singer
Selena Quintinilla’s stage costume; the
stopwatch from the television series 60
Minutes; and a World War I uniform
from the American Woman’s Voluntary
Services.

w “Communities in a Changing Nation:
The Promise of 19th-Century America,”
a new permanent exhibition, offered
another perspective on American iden-
tity by exploring the promise and real-
ity of life in the 1800s through the
experiences of three different commu-
nities: factory owners and workers in

Bridgeport, Connecticut; Jewish immi-
grants in Cincinnati, Ohio; and African
Americans in the South Carolina low
country. Through words, images, and
objects, the exhibition looks at individ-
uals and the paths they followed in
their pursuit of freedom, equality, and
opportunity.

a “Photographing History: Fred J.
Maroon and the Nixon Years, 1970-74”
presented one photographer's account
of President Richard Nixon’s years in
office, offering a powerful record of an
unsettling time in American history.
The coincidence of the 25th anniver-
sary of the end of the Nixon adminis-
tration and the acquisition of the
Maroon photographs provided a
unique opportunity to examine how
photographs shape our memory and
history.

= In honor of Jerome Lemelson
(1923-97), a major Smithsonian donor,
the museum’s Lemelson Center for the
Study of Invention and Innovation
explored environmental history, public
policy, and technology through a series
of programs titled “Inventing for the
Environment.” Working closely with
Jerome’s son, environmental lawyer
Eric Lemelson, and AT&T’s Office of
Environment, Health, and Safety, the
museum organized a lecture series,
symposium, publications, tours, and
programs for schoolchildren. Partici-
pants included Ashok Gadgil, inventor
of an ultraviolet water purifier, and
Subhendu Guha, inventor of a solar
roof shingle. The center also featured
Newman Darby, inventor of the sport
of windsurfing, and the Crowtations
puppets in a special tribute to Lewis
Latimer, African American inventor of
lightbulb filaments and electric sockets.
a “The Story in History” and
“OurStory” were two new programs
featuring children’s literature and
hands-on learning for families and at-
tisk school audiences. Both programs
reflect new thinking about the benefits
to school-aged children of teaching his-
tory through stories. “Encuentros,”
another program series, was designed
to create greater awareness of the
museums exhibitions, collections, and
research in Latino history and culture.
The program offerings included a re-
creation of the Carnaval de Ponce from
Puerto Rico, the Ehecatl Aztec Dancers,
family workshops on santos and mask-
making traditions, and a scholarly con-
ference on the “Legacies of 1898.”
= Under the Smithsonian Institution
Affiliations Program, the museum con-
tinued developing partnerships and
affiliations with other cultural institu-
tions. Current affiliations with the
National Museum of Industrial History,
the Chabot Observatory, and the B&O
Railroad Museum represent successful
efforts to share the collections with a
larger national audience through the
establishment of long-term loan
agreements and collaborations in
exhibits, research, and educational
programming.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE
AMERICAN INDIAN
W. Richard West, Director

The National Museum of the Amer-
ican Indian is dedicated to the
preservation, study, and exhibition
of the life, languages, literature, his-
tory, and arts of the native peoples
of the Western Hemisphere. In con-
sultation, collaboration, and coop-
eration with native peoples, the
museum Carries out research that
seeks to understand and explicate
the indigenous peoples of the
hemisphere in the past, present,
and future. In the past year, the
museum’s interdisciplinary research
has focused on Peru, Mexico, and
the North American Plains, South-
east, and Southwest. Current
research with and for indigenous
communities is creating the inau-
gural exhibitions for the museum
on the National Mall, which will
encompass the worldview and
philosophies, histories, and vitali-
ties of indigenous peoples.

a A major groundbreaking ceremony
and traditional blessing of the
museum’s National Mall site was held
on September 28 with Secretary I.
Michael Heyman and Director W.
Richard West presiding. The location,
between the National Air and Space
Museum and the U.S. Capitol, is the
last available museum site on the Mall.
Approval of the museum’s design was
received in April from the Commission
of Fine Arts and in July from the
National Capital Planning Commis-
sion. The museum is scheduled to open
in late 2002.

mu The new Cultural Resources Center in
Suitland, Maryland, opened in Febru-
ary with a traditional blessing cere-
mony. Relocation of the museum’s
world-renowned collection of more
than 800,000 objects had already
begun, with weekly shipments from
the Research Branch in the Bronx to
the center. More than 26,000 objects,
including canoes, totems, house posts,
and the museum’s paper archives, were
transported before the end of the fiscal
year. Staff have relocated from the
Research Branch, additional staff are
being hired, and operations are com-

Members of the Vietnam Era Veterans Inter-Tribal Association and the North
American Iroquois Veterans Association present the colors during a
traditional flag song at the opening of the groundbreaking and blessing
ceremony for the National Museum of the American Indian in September.
(Photograph by Richard Strauss)

37
Galapagos Behind the Scenes

A Smithsonian marine biologist’s scientific explo-
rations, undersea and on land, are revealed in realis-
tic detail in Galapagos, a spectacular 3D IMAX® film
produced for the National Museum of Natural His-
tory’s new Johnson Theater. The 40-minute film fol-
lows Carole Baldwin on her first research trip to the
Galapagos Islands, the isolated, geologically young
archipelago 600 miles west of South America on the
equator, studied by Charles Darwin in the 1830s.
Baldwin is the human lead in the film, but she shares
the screen with a cast of blue-footed boobies, sea
lions, moray eels, hammerhead sharks, and other
wild residents of this Ecuadorian national park.

Galapagos wildlife are unusually tame, and Baldwin
frequently found herself inches away from creatures
that live nowhere else on Earth, among them giant
tortoises and marine iguanas. The highlight of the
expedition was diving at depths of up to 3,000 feet in
the Johnson Sea-Link submersible. Many of the
species collected on the expedition came from the
little-explored realm between 400 and 1,000 feet.
Batfish that stride across the ocean bottom on leg-
like fins, viper fish equipped with formidably long
fangs, and other odd creatures were brought back
for the museum's preserved fish collection, the
largest in the world.

While Galapagos tours IMAX® theaters around the
world, Baldwin will be working at the museum to
describe several new species collected in the
islands, including a new kind of cat shark and a new
sea bass. She will also be identifying scores of larval
fish—one of her research interests—brought back
from the expedition.

The museum's partners in the Galapagos project
were Imax Corp., the National Science Foundation,
and Mandalay Media Arts. America Online is spon-
soring the film's international tour. Discovery Com-
munications, Inc., is the principal sponsor of the
80,000-square-foot, $40.6 million Discovery Center,
which houses the Johnson Theater, a café, and a
museum shop.

38

mencing throughout the facility. Pro-
grams such as community services,
repatriation, collections management,
and conservation are based at the
center.

u The museum’s curatorial staff worked
last summer with the Seminole Tribe of
Florida, Eastern Band of Cherokees of
North Carolina, Oglala Lakota of South
Dakota, and Quechua of Peru on the
first of the approximately 40 tribal con-
sultations that will be the basis of trib-
ally curated exhibitions at the Mall
museum. Tribes will also select objects
from the museum’s collection to repre-
sent their cultures in three planned
exhibitions—“Our Universes,” “Our
Peoples,” and “Our Lives.”

m Thanks to the efforts of the George
Gustav Heye Center Board of Directors,
$1.2 million was raised for the center’s
endowment fund during a December
gala at the Pierre Hotel in New York
City. The Andrew W. Mellon Founda-
tion awarded a $953,000 grant to sup-
port the museum’s conservation efforts
over the next five years. The funds will
allow the museum to offer training to
young professionals in ethnographic
conservation; 37 fellows will participate.
a The exhibition “Pomo Indian Basket
Weavers: Their Baskets and the Art
Market” was open from May through
August at the George Gustav Heye Cen-
ter in New York City. Described as “a
knockout presentation” by the New
York Times, the exhibition featured 125
masterworks of Pomo basketry. It was
organized by the University of Pennsyl-
vania Museum of Archaeology and
Anthropology.

= The museum continues its commit-
ment, under federal law and museum
policy, to repatriate human remains
and objects of religious and cultural
patrimony to native groups throughout
the hemisphere. Among the repatria-
tions this year were returns to the
Wabanaki, Confederated Tribes of
Warm Springs, Haudenosaunee,
Angoon Tlingit, Kumeyaay, and Kluk-
wan Tlingit.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF
NATURAL HISTORY
Robert W. Fri, Director

The National Museum of Natural
History enhances the understand-
ing of the natural world and
humanity’s place in it. The
museums researchers study nat-
ural and cultural diversity by col-
lecting and identifying specimens
of nature and human invention,
establishing relationships among
them, and explaining the underly-
ing processes that generate, shape,
and sustain their diversity. The
close linkage among research, out-
reach, and collections stewardship
is a hallmark of the museum, lend-
ing perspective and authenticity to
its research and authority to its
outreach.

= With the opening of the Johnson
Theater and the completion of work on
the film Galapagos, the museum
embraced a vivid and accessible new
medium for presenting the diversity,
complexity, and value of the natural
world. The Johnson Theater and the
other facilities in the new Discovery
Center—the Atrium Café and the
museum shop—promise to make the
museum an even more rewarding
place to visit.

a New initiatives and technologies are
making the museum the hub of a
national network for science education.
Through live satellite links to the
museum’s Electronic Classroom, stu-
dents and teachers take part in elec-
tronic field trips and research presenta-

“Ainu: Spirit of a Northern People” at
the National Museum of Natural His-
tory celebrated the history, culture,
and art of the Native Ainu people of
northern Japan and southern
Okhotsk Sea from 10,000 B.C. to the
present. This wood sculpture by
Takeki Fujito, Group of Ainu, 1991-93,
was among the objects on view.
(Photograph by Takeki Fujito)
>

40

tions conducted by museum staff. Each
participating school receives an “expe-
dition kit” so that during the broadcast
students can conduct an experiment
while watching the demonstration at
the museum.

= Conrad Labandeira and Peter Wilf of
the Paleobiology Department reported
in the journal Science on their study of
insect damage on fossil plant assem-
blages in southwestern Wyoming.
Focusing on a time interval from the
Late Paleocene to Early Eocene (from
56 million to 53 million years ago),
which is associated with the greatest
rise in global temperatures during the
past 65 million years, they documented
the first evidence in the fossil record of
a long-term insect herbivore response
to a major temperature shift.

= Tim McCoy of the Department of
Mineral Sciences has been investigating
how lava flows solidify on the surface
of Mars by studying the Martian mete-
orite Zagami from the Smithsonian
meteorite collection. The presence of
different rock layers in this meteorite,
one of only 13 known to come from
Mars, suggests that lava flows may
break up over long cooling periods, a
common process that future Mars
explorers (robots and humans) might
encounter.

dented four-year grant from the
National Science Foundation to sup-
port 13 biology, geology, and anthro-
pology students in the museum’s
Research Training Program. Each sum-
mer, the program offers 24 to 28 under-
graduate students from throughout the
United States and around the world an
opportunity to explore their research
interests under the direction of
museum scientists.

a The Smithsonian’s Triceratops, the
first fully mounted Triceratops in the
world, will soon be the world’s first dig-
ital dinosaur. Working with private sec-
tor partners Scansite 3D, Steinbichler,
and Virtual Surfaces, Inc., the
museum’s Department of Paleobiology
and Morphometrics Lab are producing
a virtual dinosaur that can be exam-
ined and manipulated by computer. At
the same time, scientists and conserva-
tors are restoring the original fossil

Triceratops and making molds that will
be used to cast Triceratops models for
display and study at other institutions.
a Ainu: Spirit of a Northern People, the
first American exhibition exploring the
10,000-year-old culture of the native
people of northern Japan, opened on
April 30. Produced by the museum's
Arctic Studies Center, the exhibition
and book of the same title were made
possible in part by the generous finan-
cial assistance of the Nippon Founda-
tion, Japan—United States Friendship
Commission, and Japan Foundation.

m The National Anthropological
Archives received a grant from Save
America’s Treasures, a partnership of
the White House Millennium Council
and the National Trust for Historic
Preservation, to preserve and make
accessible a collection of 20,000 19th-
century Native American drawings. The
drawings record their makers’ lives and
their experience of western expansion.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT
GALLERY
Alan Fern, Director

The National Portrait Gallery is
dedicated to the exhibition and
study of portraits of people who
have made significant contribu-
tions to American history and cul-
ture and to the study of the artists
who created such portraiture. It
collects, documents, and preserves
portraits in all media as both his-
torical and artistic artifacts.

a An important exhibition exploring
the world of science in the years sur-
rounding the Revolutionary War—
"Franklin & His Friends: Portraying the
Man of Science in Eighteenth-Century
America”—was organized by Brandon
Brame Fortune, assistant curator,
Department of Painting and Sculpture,
and Deborah J. Warner, curator, Divi-
sion of Science, Medicine, and Society
at the National Museum of American
History. Other exhibitions presented
include “Theodore Roosevelt: Icon of
the American Century,” “Philippe Hals-

man: A Retrospective,” “Paul Robeson:
Artist and Citizen,” “George and
Martha Washington: Portraits from the
Presidential Years,” “Hans Namuth:
Portraits,” “Picturing Hemingway: A
Writer in His Time,” “Edward Sorel:
Unauthorized Portraits,” and “A
Durable Memento: Portraits by Augus-
tus Washington, African American
Daguerreotypist.”

w Major acquisitions included a bequest
of a painting of Thomas Jefferson by
Mather Brown. Gifts included portraits
of Lafayette attributed to Pierre-Paul
Prud’hon; General George S. Patton Jr.
by Boleslaw Czedekowski; Henry James
by Ellen Emmet Rand; Richard Watson
Gilder by Cecilia Beaux; Washington
Irving by Charles Loring Elliott; draw-
ings of Edna Ferber, Gordon Bunshaft,
David Sarnoff, and William Paley by
Louis Bouche; and Jamie Wyeth by
Andy Warhol. Purchases included a
donative purchase of 25 photographs
by Philippe Halsman; a full-length por-
trait of John F. Kennedy by Elaine de
Kooning; a silhouette of Rufus King
attributed to William Bache; and an oil
sketch of Mike Mansfield by Aaron
Shikler. A photograph of Rosa Parks by
Ida Berman was acquired, along with
photographs of Muhammad Ali, Mal-
colm X, and Stokely Carmichael by
Gordon Parks; Ernest Hemingway by
Yousuf Karsh; and a daguerreotype of
Lemuel Shaw by Southworth & Hawes.
= On January 9, 2000, the gallery will
close its doors to the public for approx-
imately three years while the Old
Patent Office Building, which houses
the museum, undergoes major renova-
tion. While the museum is closed, four
new exhibitions drawn from more than
18,000 images in the Portrait Gallery’s
collection and four shows previously
exhibited in Washington will travel
throughout the United States and to
Japan and Europe. The new exhibitions
include a major group of portraits of
the U.S. presidents based on the
museum’s renowned Hall of Presidents;
75 paintings spanning more than two
centuries, including works by the
nation’s most important portrait
artists; a wide-ranging group of 60 pho-
tographs of notable American women
of the 20th century portrayed by the
pre-eminent photographers of our
time; and a collection of extraordinary
portrait drawings beginning with a
luminous watercolor self-portrait by
Mary Cassatt.

m The Director’s Circle, the first formal
group of individual donors to the
gallery, was created to bring a broad
range of supporters together. The
gallery appreciates the funds it received
this year from the Smithsonian’s Cen-
ter for Latino Initiatives, Educational
Outreach Fund, Scholarly Studies Pro-
gram, and Special Exhibitions Fund, as
well as from American Heritage Maga-
zine, The Morris and Gwendolyn
Cafritz Foundation, The J. Paul Getty
Trust, Home Box Office, J. M. Kaplan
Fund, Thomasville Furniture Industries,
Inc., the Washington Post, the Washing-
ton Times, and WBIG-FM.

= The Education Department received a
major grant to develop, implement,
and evaluate an expanded menu of
outreach programs for the Washington,
D.C., metropolitan area and national
audiences. A series of 48 living history
performances drew a combined audi-
ence of 3,230, and Hispanic Heritage
Month programs featured a series of
panel discussions and a series of U.S.-
made Latino films, shorts, and docu-
mentaries. Close to 3,000 visitors
enjoyed the varied sounds of July’s
Courtyard Concert series, “The Age of
Elvis: The Roots of Rock & Roll.” Over-
all hits to the gallery’s award-winning
Web site averaged approximately 1 mil-
lion per month. More than 4,000 digi-
tal images now accompany records on
the newly implemented Collections
Information System, with various scan-
ning projects in progress.

The Charles Willson Peale Family
Papers submitted the final page proofs
and index to Yale University Press for
volume S of the Selected Papers of
Charles Willson Peale and His Family:
The Autobiography of Charles Willson
Peale.

This portrait of magazine photographer Margaret Bourke-White, made by
Philippe Halsman in 1944, was a gift from Irene Halsman, daughter of the
photographer, in honor of the National Portrait Gallery's exhibition “Halsman:

A Retrospective.”

41
“Posted Aboard RMS Titanic”

The drama of the sinking of the RMS Titanic played
out over just a few hours, yet this tragic event has
captivated our imaginations for decades. What few
realize is that the Titanic was more than the largest
and most luxurious vessel of her time. She also was
an “RMS’—a Royal Mail Ship. Using artifacts recov-
ered at sea nearly nine decades ago, “Posted
Aboard RMS Titanic,” an exhibition at the National
Postal Museum, examines the tragedy from this pre-
viously overlooked perspective.

The sinking of the Titanic cost the lives of five
valiant postal workers who struggled in vain to save
the mailbags in the ship’s final hours. American sea
post clerks John Starr March, Oscar Scott Woody,
and William Logan Gwinn, along with their two British
colleagues, postal workers James Bertram
Williamson and John Richard Jago Smith, were last
seen by Albert Thessinger, a steward aboard the
Titanic who survived the sinking. Thessinger was
briefly pressed into service to help the five clerks
move mailbags, but he gave up on this seemingly
suicidal task when the water in the mailroom rose to
waist height. Thessinger later recalled, “| urged them
to leave their work. They shook their heads and
continued at their work.” Despite the clerks’ valiant
effort, none of the mail was saved. Video film footage
shown in the exhibition reveals that the mailbags
remain within the sunken liner.

“Posted Aboard RMS Titanic,” which opened on
September 17, 1999, and continues until June 12,
2000, was made possible by generous gifts from
Dr. Jeanette Cantrell Rudy, the James E. Pehta Foun-
dation, the Atlantic Envelope Company, the American
Postal Workers Union, the AFL-CIO, and the National
Grange of the Order of Patrons of Husbandry.

42

NATIONAL POSTAL MUSEUM
James H. Bruns, Director

Now in its sixth year of operation,
the National Postal Museum,
through its collections and library,
is dedicated to the preservation,
study, and presentation of postal
history and philately. The museum
uses research, exhibitions, educa-
tion, and public programs to make
this rich history available to a wide
and diverse audience. The National
Postal Museum received both
financial and material support from
the U.S. Postal Service in 1999. The
Smithsonian Institution gratefully
acknowledges the Postal Service’s
continued support of the museum’s
mission.

a Planned growth is crucial to any
museum. With this in mind, the
museum developed a comprehensive
Five-Year Recommended Plan that out-
lines, in draft form, the museum’s
growth for fiscal years 2000 to 2004.
This planning document describes prior-
ities for the future, including
endowments, Internet applica-
tions, promotional and educa-
tional activities, the creation
of a Center for Postal Studies,
memberships, exhibitions, and
collections management. To sup-
port the plan, the museum
has embarked on an
aggressive capital
and endowment
campaign.

= Major exhibi-
tions included
“As Precious as
Gold,” which
examined the
history of the
Klondike and
Alaska gold rushes

and subsequent efforts by the Postal
Service to ensure mail delivery; “May-
hem by Mail,” highlighting the accom-
plishments and service of the U.S.
Postal Inspection Service, the nation’s
oldest consumer protection agency;
and “Posted Aboard RMS Titanic,”
which honored the heroic service of
the five sea post clerks who perished
aboard the Titanic while trying to save
the mail. Gifts from the American
Postal Workers Union, AFL-CIO, and
the National Grange of the Order of
Patrons of Husbandry enabled the
museum to purchase three objects
found 87 years ago following the sink-
ing of the Titanic—the travel orders of
one of three American sea post clerks
assigned to the ship and the gold
pocket watch and chain belonging to
another American postal worker who
perished. Versions of the Titanic exhibi-
tion were sent to Melbourne, Australia,
in conjunction with Australia 99, an
international stamp exposition, and
to the National Postal Forum in San
Antonio.
a The museum presented its first Great
American Post Office Award to the citi-
zens of Galena, Illinois. Opened in
1859, Galena’s post office is the
oldest government-owned build-
ing designed as a post office,
and it has been used for that
purpose for the last 140 years.
Criteria for selecting future Great
American Post Office Award
recipients include the
historical signifi-
cance of the
building, its
architectural
importance,
and the qual-
ity of public
service pro-
vided.
@ In conjunc-
tion with Amer-

John Starr March’s pocket watch, found on his body when it was recovered
at sea following the sinking of the RMS Titanic, was acquired this year by the
National Postal Museum. March’s watch stopped ticking at 1:27 a.m. on April
15, 1912. (Photograph by Siobhan Creem)
ica’s Promise: The Alliance for Youth,
the Envelope Manufacturers Associa-
tion Foundation, and the U. S. Postal
Service, the museum developed the
contents for its second “Classroom in a
Can” activity kit, which demonstrates
how paper is made. The kits encourage
literacy and letter writing and are cre-
ated to support the curricula in grades
4 through 6. They are provided free of
charge to schools nationwide that
have at-risk or disadvantaged student
populations.

a Three-hundred thirty-eight hand-dec-
orated envelopes were submitted as
part of the museum’s Graceful Enve-
lope Contest. Now in its fifth year, the
contest attracted entries by amateur
and professional artists and calligra-
phers from 40 states, as well as from
Australia, Canada, the United King-
dom, and Mexico. The theme of this
year’s competition was “celebrating
nature’s beauty.”

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK
Michael H. Robinson, Director

The mission of the National Zoo,
established by Congress in 1889, is
to encourage the advancement of
science and the education and
recreation of the people. The Zoo
is carrying its founders’ visions
into the new millennium and posi-
tioning itself to respond to the
looming biodiversity crisis.

= When Director Michael Robinson
arrived in 1984, he envisioned trans-
forming the Zoo into a Biopark, where
basic biology and conservation con-
cepts could be explained through
examples from the best elements of
zoos, botanic gardens, and natural his-
tory museums. He also saw an opportu-
nity to cross-reference other Smith-
sonian museums, where exhibits relate
to themes encountered at the Zoo.
Now, Robinson’s concept is embodied
in many popular exhibits, including
“American Prairie,” which opened on
July 8. Two bison, numerous prairie
dogs, and native plants introduce the

prairie’s delicate ecological system.
Reflecting the prairie theme, the bison
shelter recalls sod-roofed barns in the
Great Plains.

= Dr. Richard Montali, chief of the
National Zoo’s Pathology Department,
and Dr. Laura Richman, Johns Hopkins
School of Medicine, published an arti-
cle in the February 19, 1999, issue of
Science that explains how the 1995
death of Kumari, the National Zoo’s
Asian elephant calf, led them to dis-
cover two new herpes viruses believed
responsible for at least 10 Asian and
African elephant calves’ deaths in
North America since 1983. The article
also points to solutions for successfully
treating calves that contract the
viruses. Thanks to this work, veterinari-
ans successfully treated a similar infec-
tion using the drug famciclovir on a
calf at a zoo in Springfield, Missouri.

= The Journal of Veterinary Diagnostic
Investigation published a report by Don
Nichols, Zoo pathologist, describing an
unusual skin disease he first observed
in 1991 in a research colony of Califor-
nia toads. Nichols later found similar
cases in two White’s tree frogs and an
ornate horned frog at the Zoo. He has
also seen the disease in many of the
Zoo’s young poison arrow frogs and in
wild frogs from Arizona to Quebec.
Responding to the report, Joyce Long-
core, a world expert on fungi, identi-
fied the organism causing the disease
as an aquatic fungus in the phylum
Chytridiomycetes—the only fungus
group that produces spores with fla-
gella. In Mycologia, Longcore and
Nichols named this new genus and
species Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis.
Nichols is now certain that the organ-
ism is responsible for the disease. He
and Zoo biologist Elaine Lamirande
explain that fungal spores are attracted
to keratin, present in frog skin and in
the mouths of tadpoles, and that the
fungal cultures prefer temperatures
below 26°C. Nichols and Lamirande
hope these clues will help develop
techniques to combat the disease.

The Zoo and its Conservation and
Research Center, along with the
National Museum of Natural History
and the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center, have collaborated

Prairie dogs stake out territory in
their enclosure at the National Zoo’s

new “American Prairie” exhibit.
(Photograph by Jessie Cohen)

with the Institute for Conservation
Biology to take the Smithsonian’s
resources to the Miami Latino commu-
nity. This project, known as ELIPSE
(Environmental Latino Initiative Pro-
moting Science Education), has forged
a network between Smithsonian
researchers and Florida organizations
such as the Zoological Society of
Florida, the Miami Museum of Science,
and the Miami-Dade County Public
School System.

= Hsing-Hsing, the Zoo’s giant panda,
experienced serious health problems in
the spring. For several years, he had
responded to treatment for arthritis,
but this spring he experienced lethargy
and appetite loss. When veterinarians
anesthetized him, they discovered an
incurable progressive kidney dysfunc-
tion. Hsing-Hsing has responded to
medication, but his long-term progno-
sis is not good. As a consequence, Ben
Beck, Devra Kleiman, and Lisa Stevens,
three Zoo staffers with long-term
panda involvement, traveled to China
in late June to discuss details of an

43
An Earth-Bound Innovation from SAO

The development of low-field magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) by Smithsonian Astrophysical Obser-
vatory (SAO) scientists was cited by the American
Institute of Physics as one of the outstanding devel-
opments in physics in 1998. A typical MRI device
uses a huge, high-field magnet to polarize hydrogen
nuclei inside water molecules in the human body.
The spinning molecules produce radio signals that
can image most organs in great detail—to detect
tumors, for example. SAO researchers use lasers to
increase the nuclear spin-polarization of inert gases
like helium, enabling MRI of the inhaled gas in the
lung, the sinuses, and other body cavities where MRI
has been ineffective. This new biomedical imaging
technique, a spin-off of research in atomic physics,
is only about five years old. Already, doctors are
using laser-polarized gas MRI to diagnose and plan
treatment for people with lung diseases, such as
emphysema and asthma.

The SAO innovation, developed in cooperation
with the Massachusetts General Hospital, uses
small, low-field magnets for MRI of laser-polarized
gas. It promises much simpler, less intimidating, and
lower-cost MRI units in hospital settings, as well as
portable instruments that can be used in remote,
cramped environments, such as space vehicles.
Recently, SAO scientists have begun to apply laser-
polarized gas MRI in other fields, such as probing
the porous structure of rocks that may hold oil, nat-
ural gas, and subterranean water. These innovations
demonstrate the vital synergy between basic sci-
ence and practical applications, and the important
role SAO plays in making these connections.

44

agreement that might bring new pan-
das to the Zoo. Staff hope the Chinese
will consider the Zoo’s proposal, with
potential for its contributions to med-
ical, behavioral, nutritional, and demo-
graphic wild panda studies. [Hsing-
Hsing died November 28, 1999.]

SMITHSONIAN
ASTROPHYSICAL
OBSERVATORY

Irwin |. Shapiro, Director

The Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory (SAO) is joined in
partnership with the Harvard Col-
lege Observatory to form, at Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, the Har-
vard-Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics, where more than
300 scientists, supported by nearly
600 technical and administrative
staff, pursue a broad program of
research in astronomy, astro-
physics, Earth and space sciences,
and science education.

= The Chandra X-Ray Observatory,
which carries a high-resolution camera
built by SAO, was launched aboard the
space shuttle Columbia on July 23. Its
five-year mission is expected to pro-
duce unprecedented images of a host of
objects, ranging from comets in our
own solar system to quasars at the very
edge of the observable universe. Chan-
dra’s first stunning images included a
detailed view of the supernova rem-
nant in the constellation Cassiopeia.
The observatory’s scientific program
and all observations will be coordi-
nated from a control center operated
by SAO in Cambridge for the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
In addition to controlling flight opera-
tions and developing the spacecraft’s
primary imaging instrument, SAO con-
tributed to the design, fabrication, and
testing of the mirrors that form the
heart of the Chandra telescope and will
receive, analyze, and archive its data,
making them available to the world’s
astronomical community.

= Beginning before dawn on March 25,
staff from the Smithsonian’s Whipple

Observatory and the University of Ari-
zona’s Mirror Laboratory gingerly lifted
the 10-ton, 6.5-meter-diameter replace-
ment mirror for the observatory’s Mul-
tiple Mirror Telescope by crane into the
mirror’s awaiting support cell. With
this successful step, the conversion of
the telescope from an instrument with
six separate mirrors to one with a sin-
gle monolithic piece of glass was essen-
tially complete, more than doubling
the telescope’s light-gathering capabil-
ity and increasing its field of view some
200 times.

= SAO astronomers and their colleagues
used the National Radio Astronomy
Observatory’s continent-spanning
Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) to
make the most precise measurement
ever to a faraway galaxy, finding a dis-
tance of 23.5 million light-years to the
galaxy NGC 4258 in Ursa Major. The
measurement is thought to be accurate
to within 4 percent and calls into
question other size—and age—esti-
mates of the universe, including those
announced earlier by a team using the
Hubble Space Telescope. SAO astrono-
mers also used the VLBA radio tele-
scope system to measure the motion

of the Sun in the Milky Way and found
it to be orbiting our galaxy at a speed
of about 135 miles per second. This
means the solar system takes approxi-
mately 226 million years to circle the
galactic center.

= A system of three planets orbiting
another Sun-like star was detected by
two separate teams of astronomers,
including one at the Smithsonian’s
Whipple Observatory in Arizona. The
innermost planet circling the star
Upsilon Andromedae (44 light-years
from Earth) had been known previ-
ously, but the discovery of its two sib-
lings was new. The masses for the three
planets (up to four times the mass of
Jupiter) and their closeness to the par-
ent star (one-fifteenth the distance
between Earth and Sun) are puzzling,
since theories suggest no Jupiter-sized
planet, much less three of them,
should have formed so close to a star.

a The Submillimeter Array (SMA), a
joint project of SAO and the Institute
of Astronomy and Astrophysics of Tai-
wan’s Academia Sinica, reached a mile-
6 EES 5

For the last total solar eclipse of the millennium on August 11, 1999, a team from the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory traveled to Syria to observe the Sun’s outer atmosphere. Here, scientist Shadia Habbal tests equip-
ment inside an air-conditioned tent that kept the instruments cool in the 110-degree desert heat. (Photograph by

Richard Woo)

stone in late September 1999 when it
obtained “fringes” from several celes-
tial sources with the two antennas now
on Mauna Kea in Hawaii. By pointing,
tracking, and observing radiation from
Mars, Venus, Saturn, and Jupiter on
September 29, 1999, the SMA team
achieved the submillimeter equivalent
of “first light” and took a critical step
toward the final success of the project.
= For nearly four decades, solar scien-
tists have been puzzled by the fact that
the high-speed portion of the solar
wind travels twice as fast as predicted
by theory, with some particles reaching
velocities of about 600 miles per sec-
ond as they stream out of the Sun and
wash over the entire solar system. Now,
observations made with instruments
built by SAO have revealed a surprising
possible explanation for this mystery:
vibrating magnetic fields within the
Sun’s outer atmosphere, or corona,

form magnetic waves that propel the
particles just as ocean waves push a
surfboarder.

SMITHSONIAN CENTER FOR
LATINO INITIATIVES
Refugio |. Rochin, Director

The Smithsonian Center for Latino
Initiatives, established in 1998, has
as its mission to advance knowl-
edge and understanding of Latino
contributions to U.S. history, cul-
ture, and society. In January 1999,
the Board of Regents approved the
establishment of the Smithsonian
National Board for Latino Initia-
tives. In September 1999, the
Regents approved the first mem-

bers of the board, including repre-
sentation from the academic, cor-
porate, mass media, public, and
nonprofit sectors. The board will
provide advice, support, and
expertise on Latino history, cul-
ture, art, and science and help
develop the financial base for
Latino initiatives at the Institu-
tion. National interest in Smith-
sonian programs on Latinos is
strong, and opportunities for
expanding activities on Latinos are
improving. Staff at the center
increased from four to nine to bol-
ster the center’s capacity for out-
reach, fund raising, training, Web
site development, and research.

= During its inaugural year, the center
promoted dialogues with Latino-related
46

Milly Quezada dances to merengue rhythms with Smithsonian Center for
Latino Initiatives Director Refugio Rochin during her performance in The

Smithsonian Associates series “Musica de las Américas.” (Photograph by
Hugh Talman)

museums, cultural centers, and acade-
mic programs throughout the United
States and Puerto Rico. Partners in pro-
gramming included the Smithsonian’s
affiliations programs in San Antonio,
San Jose, and Miami, as well as the
Inter-University Program for Latino
Research ([UPLR), a national consor-
tium of Latino studies centers. The cen-
ter’s summer workshop and research
fellowships brought 20 scholars to the
Smithsonian to work on projects and
to learn from Smithsonian curators,
researchers, and project managers. The
center joined with the Argentine
Embassy to honor Argentine archaeolo-
gist Alberto Rex Gonzales for his emi-
nent contributions in natural history.
He received the Smithsonian Bicenten-
nial Medal from Secretary I. Michael
Heyman. The center’s director received
the Partnership Award from the His-
panic Caucus of the American Associa-
tion for Higher Education.

The center developed its Web site—
www.si.edu/latino—with national links
to major programs for research, educa-
tion, and museum studies. The purpose
of the Web site is to make available and
known the riches of Latino history and
culture and to advance communica-
tion, collaboration, and network build-

ing among organizations serving
Latino communities.

= The Latino Initiatives Fund, adminis-
tered by the center, contributed to
more than 45 projects within the
Smithsonian. Among them were
“Arriba! The History of Aviation in
Latin America” at the National Air and
Space Museum; a photography exhibi-
tion on Los Angeles Latino communi-
ties, “El Nuevo Mundo/The New
World,” at the Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum; and studies of Latino
musicians and writers, business entre-
preneurs, and religious image carvers
(santeros) at the National Museum of
American History. The National
Museum of American History, National
Museum of Natural History, National
Portrait Gallery, and National Zoo
received funds to develop educational
programs for Latino youth and com-
munities. Several cultural events by
Latino artists, educators, and perform-
ers were part of the outreach.

= The Latino music tradition is a major
concern of the center and the core of a
long-term initiative including exhibits,
performances, and research. In 1999,
the center and The Smithsonian Asso-
ciates cosponsored “Musica de las
Américas,” an acclaimed series of per-

formances and scholarly panels explor-
ing the influence of Latin music on the
musical and cultural heritage of the
United States.

= With the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service, the center
produced the widely acclaimed exhibi-
tion “Americanos: Latino Life in the
United States,” which will travel
through the United States until 2003.
In partnership with Time Warner, an
exhibition sponsor, the center has
developed a visitor brochure and a
related poster exhibit for schools.

SMITHSONIAN CENTER FOR
MATERIALS RESEARCH AND
EDUCATION

Lambertus van Zelst, Director

At the Smithsonian Center for
Materials Research and Education
(SCMRE), scientists use method-
ologies from the physical and nat-
ural sciences to study objects from
historic, artistic, or scientific col-
lections, as well as related materi-
als, to enrich the contextual
understanding of these objects or
Archaeological conservation fellow Joanne Boyer of the Smithsonian Center
for Materials Research and Education works in Harappa, Pakistan, on materi-
als excavated from the archaeological site there. (Photograph by Harriet
Beaubien)

to improve the preservation and
conservation of museum collec-
tions. One of the Smithsonian’s
research institutes, the center also
has an active education and out-
reach program. Originally con-
cerned largely with training con-
servation professionals, the center
has in recent years increasingly
aimed its offerings at new and
wider audiences, including other
professionals from the cultural sec-
tor and general audiences through
community-based and target-spe-
cific outreach activities.

mw SCMRE and Santa Clara University in
Santa Clara, California, are developing
joint programs in research, education,
and outreach focused on the history of
the California missions and aiming
specifically at Hispanic Americans. Ini-
tial research on the production and dis-
tribution of ceramics at the California
missions will reach schoolchildren
through exhibit programs and curricu-
lum units for secondary schools.

Based on technical information
obtained from studies of santos, objects
of veneration art specific to the His-
panic American cultural traditions,
SCMRE engaged in a series of educa-
tion and outreach activities. After
highly successful workshops on the
materials and techniques used in the
manufacture of these objects, con-
ducted both at the center and in Puerto
Rico for a wide-ranging audience
including conservators, art historians,
artists, and collectors, the center orga-
nized the exhibition “A Closer Look at
Santos/Una Mirada mas Profunda a los
Santos,” which had its first showing at
the de Saisset Museum in Santa Clara.
This bilingual exhibition, centered
around four santos from the de Saisset
Museum and the National Museum of
American History, focused on materi-
als, techniques, and scientific method-
ologies employed in technical studies.

Continuing the offerings of its
Research Libraries and Archives Conser-
vation Training program, SCMRE orga-
nized, hosted, and conducted, in col-
laboration with the International

47
48

Centre for the Study of the Preserva-
tion and Restoration of Cultural Prop-
erty (ICCROM), a six-week interna-
tional course on preservation principles
for paper-based collections. Attended
by 11 professionals from archives in
Africa, Asia, Australia, and Europe, the
course integrated technical and man-
agerial issues involved in the preserva-
tion and use of archival collections. An
innovative, Web-based curriculum
designed for this course will remain
available for professionals worldwide.

a The Archaeological Conservation
Training Program continued to serve
conservation professionals, archaeolo-
gists, and museum collection care staff.
A number of conservators and conser-
vation students received practical train-
ing experiences at archaeological sites
in Harappa, Pakistan; Copan, Hon-
duras; and Aguateca, Guatemala. At the
same time, archaeologists and archaeol-
ogy students active in field schools at

these sites, as well as local professionals
in the cultural sector, received training
in conservation and preservation prin-
ciples for archaeological materials dur-
ing excavation and subsequent labora-
tory processing and storage.

a The Center for Optical Microscopy
increased its range of activities. The
acquisition of a number of mid-level
research microscopes contributed to
the development of a first-rate teaching
facility. In addition to a repeat of last
year’s introductory course, two new,
more specialized courses were offered
this year. Methodology development,
applied research, and general program
support complement the educational
efforts of the center.

a SCMRE continues to maintain its
research leadership position in both
archaeological sciences and conserva-
tion science. A multinational, collabo-
rative program on applications of neu-
tron activation analysis in Latin

An experiment conducted in Florida by the Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center exposes scrub oak stands to increased concentrations of
atmospheric carbon dioxide. This SERC scientist measures the effects on

root growth using a special camera attached to an underground viewing
chamber. (Photograph by Bert G. Drake)

American archaeological research,
sponsored by the International Atomic
Energy Agency and coordinated by the
center, concluded its second year with
a successful workshop in Cuzco, Peru.
In addition, SCMRE organized a schol-
arly symposium on applications of sci-
entific methodologies in archaeology,
in honor of the internationally recog-
nized scholar and SCMRE retiree
Edward V. Sayre, and cosponsored the
Conference on Modern Trends in Acti-
vation Analysis, hosted by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology.
Other prominent research at the center
included work on historic and prehis-
toric technologies; on the preservation
of natural history collections and the
potential to recover molecular informa-
tion from such collections; and on the
mechanical and chemical properties of
a variety of materials in museum col-
lections and their implications for the
preservation of objects.

SMITHSONIAN
ENVIRONMENTAL
RESEARCH CENTER
Ross Simons, Director

The Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center (SERC) advances
stewardship of the biosphere
through interdisciplinary research
and education. SERC’s home
research sites—the Rhode River
watershed and estuary on the
shore of the Chesapeake Bay—
provide unique opportunities for
long-term study of a variety of
interconnected ecosystems. SERC
research also extends to sites
around the globe. SERC’s educa-
tional programs reach schoolchild-
ren, teachers, the general public,
and environmental scientists-in-
training.

a SERC's Invasion Biology Program is a
national leader in the analysis of alien
species introduction in coastal marine
ecosystems. Currently, the transport of
ballast water in commercial ships is the
most important mechanism of species
introduction in the coastal zone,
because it moves large numbers of
planktonic larvae and micro-organisms
from port to port across oceans. SERC
is the home of the National Ballast
Water Information Clearinghouse,
which is developing a database of bal-
last water released by all ships arriving
from foreign ports to all U.S. ports. The
database will be used to determine pat-
terns of ballast water delivery and com-
pared to biological invasions in U.S.
coastal waters. During the past year,
SERC scientists completed an analysis
of the history of biological invasions of
the Chesapeake Bay, providing the
most detailed summary of introduced
species for any region in the world.
SERC experiments aboard oil tankers
headed for Port Valdez, Alaska, tested
ways to rid ballast water of potentially
invasive species transported on ships.

m SERC scientists recently published a
series of journal articles on a 25-year
study of stream discharges of materials
from the Rhode River watershed. The
study revealed in unprecedented detail
the relationships between stream dis-
charges and precipitation. Unexpected
long-term declines in discharges of sili-
cate may reduce the growth of silicate-
dependent phytoplankton, which help
support the food chain in the Rhode
River and the Chesapeake Bay.

m A grant to SERC from the U.S. Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency has
added the Rhode River estuary to a net-
work of long-term, intensively moni-
tored coastal index sites. The Coastal
Intensive Site Network (CISNet) pro-
vides “outdoor laboratories” for investi-
gating the impact of environmental
stressors on ecological resources. SERC
will study absorption and scattering of
underwater light as key indicators of
estuarine pollution.

= A SERC program investigates the
harmful effects of solar UV-B radiation,
which is intensifying worldwide. SERC
scientists showed that UV-B-absorbing
pigments in a common form of Chesa-
peake Bay algae (dinoflagellates) pro-
tect against damage to photosynthesis.
This finding resolved a controversy
about whether such “sunscreens” really
protect such small single-celled organ-

isms. New SERC studies in the Chesa-
peake Bay, the Gulf of Mexico, and the
Southern Ocean near Antarctica inves-
tigate effects of UV-B on the growth of
aquatic bacteria. Such effects may
influence global nutrient cycles.

= Another SERC program examines the
effects of global increases in atmos-
pheric carbon dioxide. An ongoing,
long-term study of a scrub-oak forest in
central Florida showed that the effects
of one of the century’s worst droughts
were mitigated by increased atmos-
pheric carbon dioxide. Scrub oaks
exposed to high levels of carbon
dioxide used water more efficiently
and sustained growth during the
drought, when oaks exposed to normal
levels of carbon dioxide suffered
reduced growth.

mu SERC completed a 10-year study of
development in local forests using an
extensive network of plots in forests of
different ages. The results show how
forests change over time in structure,
growth, and diversity. One SERC forest
was mapped in great detail to achieve
insights on ways tree distribution is
influenced by tolerance of moisture
and shade and on the effects of land-
use history. Future studies will be aided
by SERC’s development of a portable
laser system for sensing forest canopy
structure.

= SERC’s studies of forest ecology also
extend to plants in the shaded under-
story. SERC research in North America
and Japan has shown that the vaselike
flowers of Jack-in-the-pulpit provide
food and habitat to a diversity of
insects, including pollen-eating species
that prefer male flowers. SERC scien-
tists and collaborators from Oregon,
Denmark, and the United Kingdom
have found that seeds of some under-
story orchid species will not germinate
unless they are infected by particular
fungi and that uninfected seedlings
cannot survive. Therefore, preserving
endangered orchid species requires an
understanding of their special depen-

dence on symbiotic root-infecting fungi.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Ira Rubinoff, Director

The Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute (STRI) is dedicated to
increasing knowledge about tropi-
cal environments, biologically the
richest on our planet, and to
studying how changes in the trop-
ics affect the rest of the world. This
year, more than 500 visiting scien-
tists and students joined STRI’s
permanent staff of 33 scientists
working at the institute’s various
marine and terrestrial laboratories
based in the Republic of Panama.

a The first engineering test runs of
STRI’s Free Air Carbon Dioxide Enrich-
ment Ring Project were successfully
conducted to determine how this
equipment, used for the first time in
the tropics, responded to Panama’s wet
and dry season conditions. The project,
a collaborative effort of McGill Univer-
sity, Brookhaven National Laboratories
of the Department of Energy, the Uni-
versity of Panama, the Universidad
Santa Maria La Antigua, and STRI, aims
to understand the consequences of
future emissions of carbon dioxide in
the atmosphere, particularly on forest
regeneration.

m An active research program is now
under way at STRI’s new Bocas del Toro
Research Station in Isla Colon, on the
Caribbean coast of Panama. Numerous
visiting scientists and students are tak-
ing advantage of this new facility. STRI
scientists Nancy Knowlton and Hector
Guzman are conducting research on
corals, Penelope Barnes is studying sea
grasses and mollusks, and Candy Feller
and Catherine Lovelock from the
Smithsonian Environmental Research
Center are studying mangroves. Work
by the Panama Paleontology Project
continues under Anthony Coates and
Jeremy Jackson from STRI. They have
been conducting a detailed study of the
20 million-year history of the ecologi-
cal and evolutionary consequences of
the rise and closing of the Isthmus of
Panama.

49
50

A successful test run of the Free Air Carbon Dioxide Enrichment Ring Project was conducted in Sardinilla in central
Panama to study the effects of increased atmospheric carbon dioxide on forest regeneration. The project is a collab-

orative effort of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, McGill University, Brookhaven National Laboratories of
the Department of Energy, the University of Panama, and the Universidad Santa Maria La Antigua. (Photograph by

Marcos Guerra)

= To document the limitations on trop-
ical tree productivity, visiting scientists
Stephen Mulkey, Kaoru Kitajima, and
Eric Graham from the University of
Florida, with Joseph Wright of STRI,
have taken advantage of La Nina.
Using STRI’s canopy access system in
Panama’s Metropolitan Natural Park,
they are augmenting sunlight on the
crowns of two trees using high-inten-
sity lamps during cloudy and rainy
periods. The preliminary results of this
experiment indicate that tropical trees
may be light-limited during parts of
the year. This finding suggests that the
increase in cloud coverage associated
with La Nina affects the potential for
carbon dioxide uptake by forests and
has consequences for global warming.
« STRI and Panama’s National Environ-
mental Authority have been monitor-
ing the environmental health of the
Panama Canal Watershed. This project,

funded by the U.S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development and ending in
December 1999, is providing critical
baseline data about the forest cover,
soils, water quality, fauna, and human
populations in this watershed sur-
rounding the Panama Canal, where
approximately 80 percent of Panama’s
population currently lives.

= New STRI publications include Tropi-
cal Forest Ecology by Egbert G. Leigh Jr.,
on the forest of Barro Colorado Island,
Panama, and Peces del Pacifico Oriental
Tropical by Gerard R. Allen and D. Ross
Robertson, a Spanish translation of a
guide to fishes from the Gulf of Califor-
nia to the Galapagos that is being dis-
tributed to universities and research
centers throughout Latin America
through support from the Smith-
sonian’s W. Atherton Seidell Endow-
ment Fund.

= STRI fellows, a curator from the
National Museum of Natural History,
and researchers at the University of
Toronto have been studying the evolu-
tion of a mutually beneficial relation-
ship between ants of the tribe Attini
and the fungus they cultivate as their
sole food source. Contrary to previous
understanding, this relationship is
extraordinarily complex, and the
domestic association is sometimes
quite recent: Ants can acquire a new
fungus from the wild or from different
ant groups. Researchers discovered that
a highly specialized parasitic fungus
attacks the ants’ fungal gardens. They
also discovered that the ants have
evolved a mutually beneficial relation-
ship with actinomycete bacteria that
produce antibiotics, which will help
maintain a garden suitable for growth
of their fungal crop.
NATIONAL SCIENCE
RESOURCES CENTER

The National Science Resources
Center (NSRC), operated jointly by
the Smithsonian Institution and
The National Academies, works to
reform elementary and secondary
science education. It operates pro-
grams in three areas: science mate-
tials development, information
dissemination, and leadership
development and outreach.

In the area of materials develop-
ment, NSRC has focused on Sci-
ence and Technology Concepts for
Middle Schools (STC/MS), a com-
prehensive science curriculum for
grades 7 and 8. Four of eight mod-
ules on earth science, life science,
technology, and physical science
have been completed. NSRC fol-
lows a rigorous research and devel-
opment process and field tests
each module in schools across the
country. STC/MS is a companion
to the successful elementary
school program, Science and Tech-
nology for Children.

In the area of information
dissemination, NSRC revamped
and reorganized its Web site,
www.si.edu/nsrc. A user-friendly
home page provides improved
links to detailed information on
NSRC program activities and cur-
riculum materials.

Now entering its second year,
the Leadership and Assistance for
Science Education Reform (LASER)
initiative offers programs and ser-
vices to school districts around the
country in cooperation with eight
regional LASER partnerships. The
National Science Foundation pro-
vides major support for this initia-
tive. During the past year, the
Oklahoma LASER site held its first
Strategic Planning Institute, where

participants created five-year sci-
ence education reform plans for
grades K-8. Washington state also
held two LASER meetings to initi-
ate a program of science education
reform in 120 school districts dur-
ing the next five years.

The LASER regional sites have
seen that NSRC’s LASER initiative
can provide leverage for fund rais-
ing. In Orange County, California,
for example, a Beckman Founda-
tion grant allowed the LASER part-
nership to offer financial incen-
tives to school districts that attend
a Strategic Planning Institute. A
partnership involving Bristol-
Myers Squibb and the Merck Insti-
tute for Science Education spon-
sored an institute for 35 teams
from districts in New Jersey, south-
eastern Pennsylvania, and south
central Connecticut. Partnerships
such as these, which reflect the
commitment of corporations and
foundations to science education
reform, make much of the LASER
work possible.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS
CENTRAL
One of the Smithsonian’s largest
and most comprehensive exhibit
producers, the Office of Exhibits
Central (OEC) provides high-qual-
ity products and services to nearly
every museum, research institute,
and office. This year, OEC per-
formed consulting, design, editing,
graphics, modelmaking, fabrica-
tion, object handling, crating, and
installation and deinstallation ser-
vices for more than two dozen
Smithsonian clients and affiliates.
Among the exhibition projects
in which the Design, Editing, and
Graphics Unit participated were
“On Miniature Wings: Model Air-

craft from the National Air and
Space Museum” for the Smith-
sonian Institution Traveling Exhi-
bition Service (SITES); “Microbes:
Invisible Invaders, Amazing Allies”
for the International Gallery;
“Make the Dirt Fly! Building the
Panama Canal” for the Smith-
sonian Institution Libraries; and
the Spanish-language version of
“Vanishing Amphibians” for the
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute. As part of Secretary I.
Michael Heyman’s electronic ini-
tiatives, the unit offered expertise
on several projects, including the
Millennium Project Web site. It also
provided long-term design consul-
tation for Smithsonian senior
management on such projects as
Arts and Industries Building sig-
nage and implementation of a
donation box program at the
National Air and Space Museum

A high-profile project for OEC’s
Model Shop is the renovation of
the Behring Family Rotunda in the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory (NMNH). The unit’s work
included taxidermy support, speci-
men collection from the African
savanna, a new elephant diorama,
and sculpted identification medal-
lions for all flora and fauna in the
diorama. The Model Shop contin-
ued its work on the re-creation of
an Ainu traditional house (chise)
for the “Ainu: Spirit of a Northern
People” exhibition at NMUNH. The
unit also was responsible for a full-
size replica of the Good Brothers’
Guff, the world’s first successful
radio-controlled flying model, for
the SITES exhibition “On Minia-
ture Wings”; a mannequin for the
Superman costume worn in the
movie by Christopher Reeve, now
on view at the National Museum
of American History (NMAH); and

51
52

For this diorama depicting the sacred Ainu bear ceremony, modelmakers from the Office of Exhibits Central fash-
ioned the four mannequins of Ainu elders, the taxidermied bear, and the traditional house (chise). “Ainu: Spirit of a
Northern People” was on view this year at the National Museum of Natural History. (Photograph by Terry McCrea)

16 painted-foam microbe “crit-
ters” for “Microbes.”

The Fabrication Unit’s skilled
craftspeople provided comprehen-
sive services for a range of pro-
jects. Among the highlights were
exhibit vitrines for “Instrument of
Change: James Schoppert Retro-
spective” at the George Gustav
Heye Center of the National
Museum of the American Indian;
and extensive casework for
NMNH’s “Ainu: Spirit of a North-
ern People” and the SITES exhibi-
tions “On Miniature Wings” and
“This Land Is Your Land: The Life
and Legacy of Woody Guthrie.”

The unit also constructed the ele-
phant diorama base and accompa-
nying exhibit components for
NMNH,; designed and produced
the Smithsonian Exhibition
Awards; installed “Microbes”; and
crated and installed “Between a
Rock and a Hard Place: A History
of American Sweatshops,” an
NMAH exhibition that traveled to
the Museum of Tolerance in Los
Angeles.

OFFICE OF FELLOWSHIPS
AND GRANTS

Support from the Office of Fellow-
ships and Grants (OFG) enhances
the quality, quantity, and diversity
of research conducted at the
Smithsonian. Nearly 800 students
and scholars from universities,
museums, and research institutes
in the United States and abroad
use the Smithsonian’s collections
and facilities each year. The office
also administers all stipend
appointments offered by the Insti-
tution. OFG manages seven cen-
tralized fellowship and internship
programs, as well as four competi-
tive grant programs that support
the research of Smithsonian staff
scholars.

Under the Smithsonian Institu-
tion Fellowship Program, postdoc-
toral and senior scholars, predoc-
toral students, and graduate
students conduct independent
research that spans the disciplines
of Smithsonian museums and
research institutes. This year, for
example, senior postdoctoral fel-
low Erika L. Doss of the University
of Colorado conducted research on
the theme of the work ethic in
postwar American art with curators
Virginia Mecklenburg and Kather-
ine Manthorne at the National
Museum of American Art. Using
the resources of the National
Museum of American History, pre-
doctoral fellow Elizabeth P. Stewart
of American University conducted
research for her dissertation on the
cultural history of scientific hoaxes
in the United States between 1835
and 1910.

Among the five recipients of
Latino Studies Fellowships was
Deborah R. Vargas, predoctoral fel-
low from the University of Califor-
nia, Santa Cruz, who drew on the
collections and archival material of
the National Museum of American
History for her research on “Las
Grandes de Tejas: Mapping Histo-
ties of Women in Texas-Mexican
Music.” This new program sup-
ports research in Latino history,
art, and culture.

Undergraduate interns included
Keya N. Jenkins, a freshman at the
University of Maryland at College
Park, whose research on the
genetic diversity of the common
raven using DNA analysis was car-
tied out under the Minority
Internship Program. Brown Uni-
versity sophomore April G. Lakto-
nen, a Native American Awards
Program intern, assisted Aron
Crowell of the National Museum

of Natural History with the
research, compilation, and writing
of an Alutiiq exhibition catalogue.

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL
RELATIONS

As the Smithsonian’s liaison with
individuals and institutions
abroad, as well as with interna-
tional organizations and govern-
ment foreign affairs agencies, the
Office of International Relations
(OIR) fosters the Institution’s posi-
tion as a global center for research
and education.

This year, OIR staff represented
the Smithsonian or the scholarly
community in a number of official
meetings and consultations,
including State Department and
United States Information Agency
discussions about changes in the
rules governing cultural exchange
with Cuba; a World Bank—Organi-
zation of American States sympo-
sium on the preservation of cul-
tural heritage in Latin America;
and meetings of the Inter-Ameri-
can Biodiversity Informatics Net-
work. The office was also involved
in visits to Washington by scien-
tific, cultural affairs, or museum
officials from Belize, Burma,
Bangladesh, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Germany, Haiti, Iran, Luxembourg,
and Peru.

The office coordinated an Insti-
tution-wide project to develop an
exhibition and symposium com-
memorating the bicentenary of
Felipe Poey in early 2000. This pio-
neering Cuban biologist, an early
friend and correspondent of the
Smithsonian, was one of the first
naturalists to develop a concept of
biodiversity.

Foreign officials who visited the
Smithsonian this year included the
president of Colombia, the queen
of Jordan, the president of
Ecuador, the first lady of China,

the queen of Bhutan, and the pres-
ident of Panama. For the visit of
Cuba’s vice-minister of culture,
OIR organized a briefing by repre-
sentatives of 25 Smithsonian units.
OIR handles arrangements for vis-
its such as these and serves as
internal adviser on foreign affairs
and the Smithsonian's interests
abroad. In cooperation with the
State Department and Smithsonian
staff, OIR also organizes briefings
on environmental affairs for newly
confirmed ambassadors before
they take up their posts abroad.

OFFICE OF SPONSORED
PROJECTS

The Office of Sponsored Projects
(OSP) provides the Smithsonian
community with the administra-
tive and financial services to sup-
port the acquisition and manage-
ment of externally funded grants
and sponsored project contracts.
OSP offers a flexible management
infrastructure within which the
Institution’s research activities can
thrive.

Because the nature of research
lends itself to sponsored projects
funding mechanisms, OSP man-
aged 461 active grant and spon-
sored project contracts valued at
$86 million in fiscal year 1999.
OSP maintained this base of
research funding by supporting the
efforts of 150 researchers, who sub-
mitted 258 proposals valued at
$85.3 million, and by negotiating
and accepting for the Institution
211 grants and contracts valued at
$40.5 million. These awards pro-
vide critical resources primarily for
research, but also for educational
programs and exhibitions.

Among the Smithsonian organi-
zations that received external
funding were: the National
Museum of American History from
Polo Ralph Lauren for the Star-

53
54

Volunteers from the Washington,
D.C., area, including (from left) Raina
Lee, Yuka Ohta, Bryan Li, and Phyllis
Durante, were gallery guides for the
exhibition “From Bento to Mixed
Plate: Americans of Japanese

Ancestry in Multicultural Hawai’i,”
presented by the Program for Asian
Pacific American Studies. (Photo-
graph by Gina Inocencio)

Spangled Banner Preservation Pro-
ject; the National Museum of the
American Indian from the Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation to support
conservation training; the Anacos-
tia Museum from the Freddie Mac
Foundation for the Lucy E. Moten
Elementary School partnership;
the National Museum of Natural
History from the National Science
Foundation for the large-format
film Wonders of Life; and the
Smithsonian Environmental
Research Center from the U.S.
Department of Energy for research
on the impact of elevated carbon
dioxide on a Florida scrub-oak
ecosystem. These activities repre-
sent the work of Smithsonian
researchers whose self-motivation,
innate curiosity, and quest for new
knowledge enhance the Institu-
tion’s reputation for excellence.

PROGRAM FOR ASIAN
PACIFIC AMERICAN STUDIES
The Program for Asian Pacific
American Studies inspires a
broader understanding of our
nation and its many cultures by
tracing and interpreting the contri-
butions of Asian Pacific Americans
in the United States. The program
made great strides this year in
establishing itself in Asian Pacific
American communities in Wash-
ington, D.C., and nationwide.

The program’s most significant
achievement in the local commu-
nity was the traveling exhibition
“From Bento to Mixed Plate: Ameri-
cans of Japanese Ancestry in Multi-
cultural Hawai’i,” which was on
view in the Arts and Industries
Building through a partnership
with the Japanese American
National Museum, Los Angeles. To
bring the exhibition to life, the pro-
gram worked closely with commu-
nity groups to recruit more than
130 volunteer gallery guides and
artists to share personal stories and
demonstrate art forms reflecting
Hawaii's multicultural heritage. On
Saturdays, visitors could try their
hands at crafts such as raku pottery,
origami, and lauhala leaf weaving.

On the national front, the pro-
gram initiated a strategic planning
process with the support of a gift
from the Starr Foundation. Forty-
five Asian Pacific American leaders
from around the country were
invited to participate. Through
their involvement, these scholars,
arts organization directors, and
civic leaders helped shape a plan
that will make the Smithsonian
more relevant to their communi-
ties. The final strategic plan
focuses on the need for increased
Asian Pacific American participa-
tion in the areas of collections,
research, exhibitions, professional
opportunities, and education and
public programming.

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

This year’s Smithsonian Council
meeting focused on the Smith-
sonian’s relations with and pro-
grams for citizens and communi-
ties across the nation. Four panel
discussions dealt with new pro-
gram directions; opportunities
and risks in community relation-
ships; ways of defining and tar-
geting communities served; and
the impact of programs on com-
munities. A panel of outside lead-
ers discussed the needs of their
communities and the relationships
they wanted to build with the
Institution.

Established in 1966, the Smith-
sonian Council is a continuing
forum of advice to the Secretary on
research, curatorial, exhibition,
and educational programs and is
composed of distinguished acade-
mic, museum, and public figures
representing fields and professions
that parallel the Smithsonian’s.
Council members include: Robert
McC. Adams, Smithsonian Secre-
tary Emeritus, University of Cali-
fornia, San Diego; Joyce Appleby,
University of California, Los Ange-
les; Ellsworth Brown, Carnegie
Museums of Pittsburgh; George
Carruthers, Naval Research Labora-
tory; Kinshasha Holman Conwill,
Studio Museum in Harlem; Linda
Cordell, University of Colorado
Museum; Ruth Schwartz Cowan,
State University of New York,
Stony Brook; Diane Frankel, James
Irvine Foundation; David Gergen,
U.S. News & World Report; Daniel
Janzen, University of Pennsylva-
nia; Jorge Klor de Alva, University
of Phoenix; John W. McCarter Jr.,
Field Museum; Cheryl McClenney-
Brooker, Philadelphia Museum of
Art; Clifton Poodry, National Insti-
tutes of Health; Richard Powell,
Duke University; Mimi Quin-
tanilla, Witte Museum; Lauren
Resnick, University of Pittsburgh;
Jeremy Sabloff, University of Penn-
sylvania Museum; Igor Sikorsky,
New England Air Museum; Beryl
Simpson, University of Texas,
Austin; Susan Vogel, New York
University; Elisabeth Vrba, Yale
University; John Walsh, J. Paul
Getty Museum; Akemi Kikumura-
Yano, Japanese American National
Museum; and Tomas Ybarra-
Frausto, Rockefeller Foundation.
The November 1999 Council meet-
ing was to focus on research activi-
ties at the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN EARLY
ENRICHMENT CENTER

The Smithsonian Early Enrichment
Center (SEEC) is a unique
museum-based child development
center, preschool, and kinder-
garten that takes advantage of the
Smithsonian’s invaluable
resources. SEEC provides a model,
high-quality educational program
for young children in Smithsonian
facilities and advances educational
opportunities for all children by
sharing its expertise on a national
level, furthering the Smithsonian’s
educational mandate. The program
serves 125 children at three Smith-
sonian sites and has more than 30
staff members.

This year, SEEC reached a new
five-year agreement outlining its
relationship with the Smithsonian.
SEEC’s board of directors issued a
new strategic plan, A Design for Our
Future, which outlines growth in
financial planning, diversity, edu-
cational outreach, curriculum, and
the SEEC-Smithsonian partnership.

SEEC advances its outreach mis-
sion through twice-yearly seminars
for teachers and museum profes-
sionals from around the country
and through partnerships with
museums and educational institu-
tions. Several schools and federal
agency child care centers currently

license the SEEC curriculum,
including a cluster of five
preschools and several cultural
institutions in Cleveland.

This year, Secretary I. Michael
Heyman presented SEEC’s found-
ing executive director, Sharon Shaf-
fer, with the Secretary’s Gold Medal
for Exceptional Service to the Insti-
tution, the first such award ever
given to a Smithsonian educator.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
AFFILIATIONS PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Institution
Affiliations Program is an innova-
tive, collections-based outreach ini-
tiative that shares Smithsonian col-
lections, staff expertise, and
programmatic resources with com-
munities nationwide. Affiliations
offer museums an opportunity for
long-term artifact loans and stimu-
late strong collaborations that can
sustain other programs. More than
20 organizations currently partici-
pate in the program.

At the first annual Affiliations
Program Roundtable, directors
and staff members of affiliating
museums learned more about the
Smithsonian and addressed issues
specific to their ongoing projects.
This well-attended two-day confer-
ence was a positive forum for
assessing projects, exchanging
experiences, providing feedback,
and generating networks among
the affiliates.

In the past year, seven organiza-
tions have fully implemented their
affiliations with the long-term
loans of objects from the national
collections: B&O Railroad
Museum, Baltimore, Maryland;
Bisbee Mining and Historical
Museum, Bisbee, Arizona; Kansas
Cosmosphere, Hutchinson,
Kansas; Mexican Heritage Plaza,
San Jose, California; Miami
Museum of Science, Miami,

Florida; National Museum of
Industrial History, Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania; and San Carlos Insti-
tute, Key West, Florida. These addi-
tions bring the total number of
implemented affiliations to nine.

The program welcomed six new
participants during fiscal year
1999: B&O Railroad Museum;
Florida International Museum, St.
Petersburg, Florida; McAllen Inter-
national Museum, McAllen, Texas;
San Carlos Institute; Storytelling
Foundation International, Jones-
borough, Tennessee; and The
Women’s Museum: An Institute for
the Future, Dallas, Texas.

As an extension of their affilia-
tions projects, the Bisbee Mining
and Historical Museum and Centro
Alameda, San Antonio, Texas, each
had interns working in Smith-
sonian offices during the summer.
The Affiliations Program office also
oversaw one fellowship this year.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
ARCHIVES

The collections of the Smithsonian
Institution Archives—including
the historical records of the Insti-
tution, oral interviews and manu-
script collections from selected
staff, video histories, and the
records of related organizations—
are a significant research resource.
The Archives continues to wel-
come scholars in record numbers,
to undertake research on behalf of
Smithsonian offices, and to help
everyone from schoolteachers to
docents better understand the his-
tory of the Institution and the
contents of its collections.
Through its Web site, the Archives
offers a wealth of information
about institutional history, as well
as historical photographs, virtual
exhibitions, and, for the museum
specialist, detailed information
about the national collections.

In an effort to strengthen stew-

55
56

ardship of the collections, Secre-
tary I. Michael Heyman issued
guidelines this year for the estab-
lishment and maintenance of
Smithsonian policy regarding
collections management. To carry
out these guidelines, the National
Collections Program within the
Archives revised the Smithsonian
Collections Management Policy
with the involvement of more
than 100 staff members.

To strengthen customer service,
the Archives is providing an
unprecedented level of records ser-
vices to Smithsonian offices. A
four-person team conducts surveys,
offers file management advice, and
provides written guidance on the
disposition of records. The team
also presents informal seminars to
offices and bureaus. This year, sem-
inars were held at the National Por-
trait Gallery, the National Museum
of the American Indian, and the
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center.

The Archives also provides lead-
ership to the larger Smithsonian
archival community by spearhead-
ing projects that meet mutual
needs. Of particular significance is
the records storage facility created
by the Archives, which now con-
tains records from more than 10
Smithsonian repositories.

Among its many methods for
capturing Smithsonian history, the
Archives conducts oral histories.
This year, for example, historian
Pamela Henson conducted several
interviews with David Challinor,
assistant secretary for science at
the Smithsonian from 1971 to
1987. Challinor came to the
Smithsonian in 1966 and oversaw
a period of growth and expansion
in the Institution’s scientific
research facilities. He continues his
research today as assistant secre-
tary emeritus with an office at the
National Zoo.

Smithsonian Institution Libraries Assistant Director Tom Garnett, in the
Libraries’ new Electronic Imaging Center, holds a rare text on seashells next
to its digital image on screen. (Photograph by Jon Goell)

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
LIBRARIES
With 19 branches, more than 1.2
million volumes, and growing
electronic access, the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries serves both
the scholarly community and the
public. Highlights of fiscal year
1999 include the development of
an expanded variety and volume
of electronic information services,
the creation of a society to recog-
nize major donors, and the open-
ing of a new branch library at the
National Museum of the American
Indian Cultural Resources Center
in Suitland, Maryland.

The Libraries’ Electronic Library
Program gives Smithsonian
researchers access to a wealth of

information wherever they need it:

at their desks, in research laborato-
ries and collection storage areas,
and in the field. This year, more
full-text e-journals, digital editions
of rare books, and multi-subject
reference desk services were

brought online. Director Nancy E.
Gwinn established the Informa-
tion Systems Division to manage
the program, which includes all
online products and initiatives.

Six digital editions of rare vol-
umes in natural history and the
history of science and technology,
with full original text and illustra-
tions, were published online this
year. They include J.J.N. Spalow-
sky’s Prodromus in systema his-
toricum testaceorum, 1801, with
hand-colored plates of mollusk
shells from around the world, and
Tycho Brahe’s Latin text for Instru-
ments for the Restoration of Astron-
omy, 1602. The Libraries’ digital
editions of rare books all carry new
material—such as biographical
essays, notes on publishing his-
tory, indexes, and illustrations—
that adds research value for the
reader.

Also published online was a new
electronic education aid, Anthropol-
ogy on the Internet for K-12, by Mar-
garet R. Dittemore, librarian of the
Anthropology Branch. The Ameri-
can Anthropology Association
linked this useful guide to its
home page. Offered as part of the
larger Smithsonian effort to sup-
port education for diverse audi-
ences, each section is illustrated
with photographs of Smithsonian
anthropologists working in the
field or in their laboratories.

The Spencer Baird Society was
created by the Libraries’ adminis-
tration and board in July. Named
for the Smithsonian’s second Sec-
retary, the society recognizes indi-
viduals who provide significant
philanthropic support for top-pri-
ority projects. Some possible uses
of Baird Society funds are purchase
of rare books for the collections;
acquisition of new equipment to
support digitization; stipends for
interns, fellows, or a minority
postgraduate residency for a new
librarian; cataloging of a new col-
lection; or conservation treatments
of volumes with high conservation

priority.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
PRESS

Publishing for both scholarly and
general-interest audiences, Smith-
sonian Institution Press (SIP) is a
leading publisher in American
studies and popular culture,
anthropology and archaeology,
aviation and space history,
museum studies, and the natural
sciences, including biodiversity
studies. During 1999, SIP com-
pleted its separation from Smith-
sonian Press/ Smithsonian Produc-
tions and was transferred from the
Business Advancement Directorate
group to the Office of the Provost,
a move recognizing its essentially
programmatic mission as a univer-

sity press.
SIP’s spring 1999 catalogue fea-

tured 19 new titles, including Back-
beat: Earl Palmer's Story; A WASP
among Eagles: A Woman Military
Test Pilot in World War II; Tales of a
War Pilot; a paperback release of
Exhibiting Dilemmas: Issues of Repre-
sentation at the Smithsonian, edited
by Smithsonian curators Amy Hen-
derson and Adrienne L. Kaeppler;
and two scholarly volumes on the
biology and conservation of
marine mammals, produced in
association with the Marine Mam-
mal Commission. For the fall 1999
season, SIP released Tupperware:
The Promise of Plastic in 1950s
America; The Smithsonian Book of
North American Mammals, pro-
duced in association with the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory and the American Society of
Mammalogists; and Aiming for the
Stars: The Dreamers and Doers of the
Space Age, by National Air and
Space Museum curator Tom D.
Crouch.

iB"

SHERMAN

TONY
ff

The drummer who helped transform
rhythm and blues into rock ’n’ roll is
the subject of Backbeat: Earl
Palmer's Story, new this year from
Smithsonian Institution Press. (Pho-
tograph by Rick Malkin)

A Music Legend’s Story

Backbeat: Earl Palmer's Story, published this year by
the Smithsonian Institution Press, is a first-person
narrative of the legendary musician whose muscular
drumming laid the rhythmic foundations of rock ’n’
roll. Palmer played drums on Little Richard’s “Tutti
Frutti,” Lloyd Price’s “Lawdy Miss Clawdy,” Sam
Cooke’s “Shake,” Fats Domino's “I’m Walkin’,” and
other early rock 'n’ roll anthems. He also worked as
a session drummer for Frank Sinatra, Sarah Vaughan,
Neil Young, Elvis Costello, Ray Charles, the Beach
Boys, Marvin Gaye, and countless other musicians.
Palmer helped to transform the lope of rhythm and
blues into the full-tilt thrust of rock 'n’ roll. “If any sin-
gle musician can be credited with defining rock ’n’
roll,” wrote music critic Robert Palmer, “that musician
is surely Earl Palmer.” Backbeat alternates Earl
Palmer’s voice with the insights of music journalist
and historian Tony Scherman to explore his life and
career. Wynton Marsalis contributed the foreword.
The Press kicked off its promotional campaign for
the book in April at the New Orleans Jazz and Her-
itage Festival, where the New Orleans-born Palmer
played drums on stage with Ray Charles, Fats
Domino, Dr. John, and others. He was interviewed
on New Orleans Public Radio, Public Radio Inter-
national, and England’s BBC Radio 2 and was the
subject of print stories in the New Orleans Times
Picayune, Louisiana Cultural Vistas, New Orleans
Magazine, Louisiana Life, and other publications.
Since the festival, Palmer has attended book sign-
ings in New Orleans, Los Angeles, and other cities.
Blues historian and writer John Sinclair, reviewing
Backbeat for Gambit Weekly, concluded that “it be-
longs in the library of every music-loving American.”

57
58

During 1999, SIP received the
Wildlife Society’s Outstanding
Book Award for Salamanders of the
United States and Canada, by James
Petranka, and Outstanding Edited
Book Award for Bat Biology and
Conservation, edited by Thomas
Kunz and Paul Racey. Making Peo-
ple’s Music: Moe Asch and Folkways
Records, by Peter D. Goldsmith,
won both the 1999 American
Recorded Sound Collections Book
Award for Excellence in Historical
Research and the prestigious
ASCAP-Deems Taylor Award in the
Pop Books category. Rattlesnake:
Portrait of a Predator, by Manny
Rubio, was selected by the Choice
Academic Libraries as an Outstand-
ing Academic Title for 1999.
Finally, SIP received the Washing-
ton Book Publishers’ Best in Show
award for Makuna: Portrait of an
Amazonian People, by Kaj Arhem.

The Smithsonian Contributions
and Studies Series Program was
merged with Smithsonian Institu-
tion Press this year. This division
publishes nine monograph series
that report on the results of scien-
tific, technical, and historical
research conducted by Smith-
sonian staff, as well as on the Insti-
tution’s collections. Notable
among this year’s publications is
the Atlas of Paleocene Planktonic
Foraminifera, which documents the
findings and conclusions of the
members of the Paleocene Plank-
tonic Foraminifera Working Group
of the International Union of Geo-
logical Sciences.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
TRAVELING EXHIBITION
SERVICE

The Smithsonian Institution Trav-
eling Exhibition Service (SITES),
the largest traveling exhibition
organization in the world, extends
the collections, research, and
museum expertise of the Smith-
sonian to “sites” across the nation
and beyond. Since its first exhibi-
tion went on the road in 1952,
SITES has traveled thousands of
exhibitions for the education and
enjoyment of museum-goers in
every state and in several foreign
countries.

“Americanos: Latino Life in the
United States,” a groundbreaking
exhibition from SITES and the
Smithsonian Center for Latino Ini-
tiatives, opened at the National
Museum of American History this
year. The bilingual exhibition, the
brainchild of actor and activist
Edward James Olmos, presents an

intimate portrait of the Latino
community through the work of
prizewinning photographers. The
exhibition is the centerpiece of a
larger educational effort that
includes a Home Box Office docu-
mentary special, a Time Warner
Music CD, and a book published
by Little Brown. “Americanos,” a
project of Olmos Productions, is
made possible through the gener-
ous support of Time Warner, Inc.,
and U S WEST. Additional support
is provided by Farmers Insurance.
“This Land Is Your Land: The
Life and Legacy of Woody
Guthrie,” the first comprehensive
exhibition about the revered musi-
cian and artist, opened to stellar
reviews at the Autry Museum of
Western Heritage in Los Angeles.
Organized by SITES and the Woody
Guthrie Archives in collaboration
with the Smithsonian’s Center for
Folklife and Cultural Heritage, the
exhibition presents an abundance

Living in New York City in 1942, Woody Guthrie found a thriving community
of folk musicians who shared his passion for freedom from oppression.

A Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service exhibition explores
the life and work of this poet, singer, artist, and humorist. (Photograph by
Lester Balog)
of artifacts and new research drawn
for the first time from the archives.
Guthrie’s daughter Nora Guthrie is
the archives’ director and the exhi-
bition’s curator. “This Land Is Your
Land” has been made possible
through the generous support of
Nissan North America. Additional
support has been provided by the
Smithsonian Institution Educa-
tional Outreach Fund and the
Smithsonian Women’s Committee.
SITES has also collaborated with
the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and
Museum and Cleveland Public
Radio to produce Hard Travelin’, a
radio series on the life and times of
Guthrie.

This year, SITES took a number of
Smithsonian exhibitions on tour.
“Going Strong: Older Americans on
the Job,” from the National
Museum of American History, pre-
sents photographs of resilient
tradespeople. The popular National
Portrait Gallery exhibition “Red,
Hot & Blue: A Salute to American
Musicals” will be seen in landmark
theaters and movie palaces, as well
as in smaller museums. “To Honor
and Comfort: Native Quilting Tradi-
tions” from the National Museum
of the American Indian and Michi-
gan State University Museum,
began its national tour. The
National Air and Space Museum’s
“Star Wars: The Magic of Myth”
began a two-year tour to major
museums in the United States, with
a final international showing at the
Powerhouse Museum in Sydney,
Australia, in 2002

SMITHSONIAN OFFICE OF
EDUCATION

A yearlong strategic planning
process culminated in the merger
of the Smithsonian Office of Edu-
cation (SOE) and the Center for
Museum Studies (CMS). The new
office interprets the collective

knowledge of the Smithsonian and
serves as a gateway to the Institu-
tion’s education resources. It also
promotes the understanding and
use of museums in general. This
expansion of mission began nearly
three years ago when the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion became the Smithsonian
Office of Education. The role of
SOE broadened to include service
to educators and parents and
administration of the Educational
Outreach Fund and the Wider
Audience Development Program.

In the year leading up to the
merger, SOE and CMS together
offered professional development
opportunities and services for edu-
cators. In the Washington area,
summer seminars helped elemen-
tary and secondary teachers learn
how to use museum resources to
meet curriculum objectives. The
Paul Peck Humanities Institute, a
partnership at Montgomery Col-
lege in Maryland, provided faculty
research fellowships, internships,
and seminars. The office continued
to promote the popular heritage
month programming at the Insti-
tution. This year, for example, a
workshop for teenage writers con-
ducted by prominent Afro-Latino
authors was filled to capacity.

The office also brought Smith-
sonian expertise to places through-
out the country. The American
Indian Museum Studies Program
conducted extensive seminars in
Louisiana, Florida, and Alaska.
Regional workshops in Riverside,
California, and Austin, Texas, fos-
tered partnerships between school
districts, local museums, and the
Smithsonian. In these community-
based programs, the Smithsonian
models methods and gives techni-
cal support.

The new Smithsonian Field Trip
Guide for Educators, funded by sev-
eral Washington-area foundations,

was launched this year. This 96-
page guide details tours and pro-
grams for students and profes-
sional development opportunities
for educators at all Smithsonian
museums, research institutes, and
offices. An “educator’s toolkit” sec-
tion, developed with the coopera-
tion of schoolteachers and some
60 Smithsonian contributors, con-
tains proven educational strategies
and a guide to making connec-
tions between the Smithsonian’s
permanent exhibitions and
national education standards in
history, science, and the arts.

ACCESSIBILITY PROGRAM
The number of people who have
disabilities has been increasing as
life spans lengthen. Today, one in
five Americans has a disability.
That translates into greater num-
bers of Smithsonian visitors with
diverse abilities and disabilities.
The Accessibility Program advo-
cates for and coordinates actions
by Smithsonian museums, research
institutes, and offices to accommo-
date audiences that include people
with disabilities. The program’s
activities this year demonstrate the
diversity of the audiences and
issues.

The program collaborated with
the National Museum of American
History and the National Rehabili-
tation Awareness Foundation to
present “Disability and the Practice
of Public History,” a groundbreak-
ing conference for scholars,
museum professionals, and disabil-
ity advocates. The participants
concluded that disability history
must be part of public narratives,
including exhibitions. Integral to
the success of the conference was
the program’s model provision of
accessibility services to accommo-
date the 200 conference registrants
with diverse disabilities.

59
Voices to Access: Publications on Tape

People with blindness, low vision, mobility limita-
tions, and cognitive disabilities are often blocked
from participating in Smithsonian programs—or
even finding out about them. The Accessibility Pro-
gram’s new Voices to Access 2000 project is
designed to remove some of those barriers.

This year, 25 volunteers invested nearly 2,000
hours in recording audiotaped versions of Smith-
sonian publications to provide access to visitors
who cannot read standard print. All volunteers par-
ticipate in a training program that explains audience
needs and abilities and teaches recording tech-
niques such as audio description, a concise way of
describing a visual image. Among the publications-
on-tape produced by the volunteers this year were
the Folklife Festival program book, the Freer and
Sacker Galleries’ calendar, and materials for
“OurStory” at the National Museum of American His-
tory. Visitors may ask for the tapes at museum in-
formation desks and take them home free of charge.

In an innovative partnership, volunteers from ABC
News have now joined the effort. When ABC
approached the Smithsonian seeking an employee
volunteer project, Voices to Access 2000 was a
perfect fit. Their first project is The Associate, the
monthly program catalogue of The Smithsonian
Associates. Packed with information about lectures,
performances, study tours, and other offerings, the
audiotaped version could attract new participants
who have not had adequate information about TSA’s
programs.

“When the ABC volunteers are combined with the
existing group of Voices to Access 2000 narrators,”
says Accessibility Program Coordinator Jan Majew-
ski, “we have an extraordinary program that will
make the Smithsonian more accessible to a large
and growing group of people who have been
excluded from our audience.”

60

Betty Johnson and Susan Welch, two of the 25 Accessibility Program Voices
to Access 2000 volunteers, record audiotaped versions of Smithsonian
materials for visitors who cannot read standard print. (Photograph by Beth
Ziebarth)

Professionals from the Smith-
sonian and Washington, D.C.-area
cultural organizations attended
five continuing education sessions
held by the program, focusing on
accommodations for visitors who
are blind or have low vision. The
topics were: tactile opportunities
in museums, site orientation and
wayfinding, assistive technologies,
the Mashantucket Pequot
Museum’s information system for
visitors with vision impairments,
and publications accessibility.

As Smithsonian visitors’ demand
for accessibility services increased,
the program provided more than
550 hours of sign-language interpre-
tation, audio description, and Real-
time captioning services through its
centralized resources. Review of
design and construction plans for
the accessibility of facilities and
exhibitions is a priority. Significant
projects this year included renova-
tion plans for the National Museum
of American Art and the National
Portrait Gallery, the National
Museum of the American Indian’s
museum on the Mall and its Cul-
tural Resources Center, the Victor
Building, and the Star-Spangled

Banner Preservation Project conser-
vation laboratory and exhibition.

INSTITUTE FOR
CONSERVATION BIOLOGY
The Institute for Conservation
Biology (ICB) continued its mis-
sion to facilitate multidisciplinary
initiatives in conservation science
by drawing together the myriad
skills and resources of the Smith-
sonian Institution, collaborating
with other organizations, and cre-
ating alliances that effectively
address a broad range of conserva-
tion issues resulting from the bio-
diversity crisis. ICB continued to
forge strong relations with non-
Smithsonian agencies and non-
governmental organizations.

ICB and the World Bank
cohosted an environmental round-
table for 35 participants from the
host organizations, the U.S. and
Ecuadorian governments, non-
governmental organizations, and
foundations. Jamil Mahuad, presi-
dent of Ecuador, spoke on
“Ecuador's New Vision on Sustain-
able Development,” followed by
an open discussion. U.S. Secretary

of the Interior Bruce Babbitt gave
the concluding remarks.

Two distinguished guests were
featured in ICB’s ongoing Visiting
Speaker Luncheon Series: Timothy
Wirth, president of the United
Nations Foundation, and Rosina
Bierbaum, associate director for
environment in the Office of Sci-
ence and Technology Policy, Exec-
utive Office of the President. This
series acquaints Smithsonian scien-
tists and staff with the Institution’s
environmentally oriented neigh-
bors and serves as a springboard
for cooperative initiatives.

With the University of Maryland
graduate program in Sustainable
Development and Conservation
Biology, ICB hosted the Society for
Conservation Biology’s 1999
annual meeting, “Integrating Pol-
icy and Science in Conservation
Biology.” The institute and the
World Bank cosponsored a lun-
cheon meeting with Ernesto Perez
Balladares, president of the Repub-
lic of Panama, to discuss eco-
tourism and the need for strategic
alliances among tourism, conserva-
tion, and scientific research. ICB
continued to offer its course, “Bio-
diversity and Wildlife Conserva-
tion,” at Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity’s Washington, D.C., campus.
Thirteen Smithsonian scientists
taught the course during the fall
1999 semester.

INSTITUTIONAL STUDIES
OFFICE

The activities of the Institutional
Studies Office (ISO) can be grouped
into four major categories:
museum and exhibition planning,
exhibition assessment, member-
ship studies, and research.

In museum and exhibition plan-
ning, the office conducted a major
study of three linked museums—
the National Museum of American

Art, the National Portrait Gallery,
and the Renwick Gallery—that was
designed to provide essential data
on visitors to guide planning. Data
collection took place in different
seasons to capture a wider range of
visitors. For the National Air and
Space Museum, the office con-
ducted exploratory interviews with
visitors to aid in planning the new
Air Transportation hall, as well as
surveys and in-depth interviews
for the future “Explore the Uni-
verse” exhibition. At the National
Museum of Natural History
(NMNH), ISO interviewed visitors
extensively in the Kenneth E.
Behring Hall of Mammals to learn
how they experience the displays.
These explorations led to a large-
scale survey study that yielded
information to guide planning for
the reinstallation of the hall.

Exhibition assessment activities
included an in-depth study of the
“Geology, Gems, and Minerals”
exhibition at NMNH that provided
valuable insights into how the
museum could enhance atten-
dance in its major exhibitions. At
the National Zoo, a series of three
studies investigated visitor behav-
ior, attitudes, and experiences in
the Amazonia exhibit, with a focus
on the Amazonia Science Gallery
and its use by families.

Two membership studies
repeated and enlarged on studies
conducted 10 years earlier. For the
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design
Museum, a study showed how the
museums support has changed
over time. A study for The Smith-
sonian Associates emphasized
Internet use by members.

ISO’s research activities contin-
ued work on the types of experi-
ences that visitors anticipate and
find satisfying in museums. A
study of entering and exiting visi-
tors at the National Museum of
American History demonstrated

the usefulness of this model in
clarifying the museum’s impact on
its visitors.

The peer-reviewed journal Cura-
tor invited the office to submit arti-
cles for a special issue on ISO’s
work. Staff members prepared five
major articles, which were
accepted and scheduled for publi-
cation early in 2000.

SCIENTIFIC DIVING PROGRAM
As an Institution-wide research sup-
port program dedicated to the safe
conduct of underwater science
activities by Smithsonian staff and
affiliated researchers, the Scientific
Diving Program facilitated projects
and diving expeditions by the
Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, the Smithsonian Environ-
mental Research Center, the
National Museum of American His-
tory, the Smithsonian Marine Sta-
tion at Fort Pierce, and the National
Museum of Natural History. These
projects involved more than 200
scientific divers and approximately
4,000 incident-free dives.

Program staff were involved in
research diving expeditions in the
Caribbean and the Pacific. The Sci-
entific Diving Control Board chair
and the scientific diving officer
cochaired a two-day marine sci-
ences workshop at the Smith-
sonian Environmental Research
Center that examined underwater
research efforts at the Smithsonian
and its network of marine research
facilities. The program also con-
ducted two three-week scientific
diving courses, one at the National
Museum of Natural History and
one in Spanish at the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute. At the
invitation of the Japan Marine Sci-
ence and Technology Center, the
program was involved in the
development of a scientific diver
network and manual in Japan.

61
A CORE COMMITMENT T

Under Secretary Constance Berry
Newman (Photograph by Richard
Strauss)

Left: The Smithsonian’s museum
shops—including this one in the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory—reflect the Institution’s educa-
tional values and provide an impor-
tant source of revenue. (Photograph
by Justin Lane)

REPORT OF THE UNDER SECRETARY

CONSTANCE BERRY NEWMAN

The public knows to expect excellence from the Smithsonian. Whether visiting a museum
on the Mall, attending Smithsonian Associates events in their hometowns, or browsing
the Web site, people are confident that they will have an experience of the highest quality.
This dedication to excellence permeates the Institution, and not just in the visible pro-
grams that the public enjoys.

The reports in this section of the annual report highlight the pursuit of excellence
behind the scenes, where staff members provide essential support for the Institution’s
museum and research activities. Stimulating programs from The Smithsonian Associates,
for example, open a world of knowledge to those who participate, but first it takes talented
staff to develop the content, orchestrate the logistics, and make the experience a reward-
ing one. Visitors to the National Museum of Natural History enjoy the expanded facilities
and services in the new Discovery Center, thanks in part to several years of intense effort
by staff in the various Operations units who helped make this addition to the Smithsonian
landscape a reality. Our dedicated volunteers—this year, some 5,400 strong—make their
own special contributions to excellence in just about every corner of the Institution.

Sustaining excellence requires more than hard work, high standards, and the will to
succeed. For the Smithsonian, reliable and steady commercial revenue sources are increas-
ingly essential as we look for ways to support our programs and create new ones that serve
widening audiences.

This year, the Smithsonian strengthened its commitment to developing and expanding
for-profit business activities by establishing Smithsonian Business Ventures, a separate
entity within the Institution with its own board of directors. Gary Beer, the chief executive
officer, oversees Smithsonian magazines, museum shops, mail-order catalogues, conces-
sions, commercial alliances, media-content products, direct marketing, and product devel-
opment and licensing. Beer, who joined the Smithsonian near the end of this fiscal year,
guided a similar venture to success when he was president and CEO of the Sundance
Group, the for-profit arm of the Sundance organization founded by Robert Redford.

Underlying this organizational change is the same commitment to excellence that has
driven the Smithsonian for all of its 153 years. During I. Michael Heyman’s five years as
Secretary, we have continued to explore new realms—physical, intellectual, and electronic.
Now we are responding to present needs while thinking ahead to the Smithsonian’s possi-
ble future roles and anticipating how we will support them. As the reports on the follow-
ing pages suggest, the various organizations that make up the Smithsonian are always
looking at ways to fulfill their missions more effectively. As long as the commitment to
excellence is at the heart of everything we do, we cannot help but succeed.

THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

The Smithsonian Associates (TSA), the Institution’s educational outreach and membership
unit, offered more than 1,800 educational opportunities this year in the greater Washing-
ton area, across the country, and around the world. More than 250,000 people attended

63
64

Two jazz legends—singer Leny Andrade and guitarist Charlie Byrd—performed bossa nova and jazz rhythms for the
“Musica de las Américas” series. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

programs that ranged from an
evening with illustrator Peter Sis to
a two-week study tour to the
Himalayas.

For TSA's Resident Associate Pro-
gram, the year began with “L'Esprit
de France,” an educational pro-
gram series that spotlighted French
culture, history, and style—from a
seminar on Marcel Proust to a ren-
dezvous and spectacular dinner
with Guy Legay, chef of the leg-
endary Hotel Ritz Paris. “Musica de
las Américas” ignited the last Sat-
urday of each month from Febru-
ary through July, as outstanding
performers, cultural historians, and
scholars traced the varied styles of
Latin music and its influence on
American popular music. Another
great musical tradition took center
stage with “A Celebration of the
Duke Ellington Centennial,” per-
formed by the David Murray Big
Band.

TSA celebrated art and artists,

beginning with an evening with
illustrator extraordinaire Al
Hirschfeld, whose sophisticated
drawings have defined Broadway’s
passing parade for seven decades.
A course about Vincent van Gogh
complemented the record-breaking
exhibition at the National Gallery
of Art. Frank Lloyd Wright was the
subject of a seminar about his
work that featured historians Neil
Levine and Myron Marty, Wright
biographer Meryle Secrest, and
architect Eric Lloyd Wright, grand-
son of Frank Lloyd Wright.

The sciences, nature, and tech-
nology were all richly represented.
To complement the exhibition
“Microbes: Invisible Invaders,
Amazing Allies,” TSA developed
an assortment of programs, includ-
ing an original Discovery Theater
production and a course on
“Microbes: A Century of Life-
Saving Discoveries” that featured
Dr. Donald Henderson, who led

the effort to eradicate smallpox.
Astrophysicist Paul Davies consid-
ered a time before the Big Bang,
putting a philosophical slant on
cosmology. Dr. Mario Livio, scien-
tist at the Space Telescope Science
Institute, helped seminar partici-
pants look into the farthest reaches
of the universe to glimpse the
beginnings of life. Tim Berners-
Lee, founder of the World Wide
Web, described a communications
environment that is transforming
our lives.

Also this year, The Smithsonian
Associates honored two people
who have made extraordinary con-
tributions in this century. Sir
Edmund Hillary, the first man to
scale Mt. Everest, and film director
Steven Spielberg received the
James Smithson Bicentennial
Medal in programs that honored
their continued commitment to
humanitarian causes.

Associates from all regions took
Al Hirschfeld delights a Smithsonian
Associates audience with stories

from his seven-decade career as a
New York Times theater caricaturist.
(Photograph by Hugh Talman)

part in more than 500 interna-
tional, national, and local Smith-
sonian Study Tours in 1999. Tour
themes ranged from the study of
desert ecology in Death Valley, to
the rediscovery of Homer’s The
Odyssey during a study voyage to
Greece, Turkey, Sicily, and Tunisia,
to an exploration of the new South
Africa with noted political scientist
David Welsh, professor emeritus at
Cape Town University.

Several new intergenerational
programs were enthusiastically
received. During the first Summer
Family Program in Tuscany, par-
ents, grandparents, children, and
grandchildren took up residence in
a restored 13th-century hilltop vil-
lage and discovered how a fresco is
made. At The Nature Place, an
environmental education center
near Colorado Springs, Associates

and their families went on a week-
long exploration of the region’s
native cultures and fossil records.

TSA's National Outreach Pro-
gram initiated a new program for
K-12 students, Smithsonian Schol-
ars in the Schools. In a pilot pro-
gram in Houston, four Smith-
sonian scholars each spent three
days with students from the Spring
Branch Independent School Dis-
trict. They presented a combina-
tion of hands-on activities, class-
room workshops, lectures, and
teacher in-service training, as well
as a public program for the local
school community. More than
5,000 students, educators, and par-
ents participated.

As part of the Smithsonian Affil-
iations Program agreement with
the Public Corporation for the Arts
in Long Beach, California, TSA
coordinated a three-day residency
by the Smithsonian Jazz Master-
works Orchestra. The orchestra
presented clinics for hundreds of
high school music students and
teachers, as well as an after-school
concert for area students. An
evening public concert drew thou-
sands and received rave reviews.

Smithsonian Institutes for Pro-
fessionals, custom-designed for
corporate and association audi-
ences, were launched this year.
Creativity Institutes, which
encourage new ways of seeing and
problem solving, brought partici-
pants into labs and collections to
work with Smithsonian experts.
World Affairs Institutes offered cor-
porate and academic leaders the
opportunity to focus on a region
of the world they selected, learn-
ing from academics, policy experts,
and embassy representatives. A
third option, Smithsonian Signa-
ture Institutes, provided behind-
the-scenes introductions to Smith-
sonian museums and research
facilities.

Musica de las Américas

In a celebration of Latino music traditions that the
Washington Post called “sizzling,” “Superb,” and
“invigorating,” The Smithsonian Associates pre-
sented its groundbreaking “Musica de las Américas”
program. This series of six monthly concerts and
complementary panel discussions explored the con-
tinuing influence of Latin styles on popular music in
the United States. Top musicians performed in highly
praised concerts that focused on popular Latin
American musical genres: mambo and Afro-Cuban
jazz, merengue, Conjunto norteno, tango, bossa nova
and cool jazz, and salsa and Latin jazz. Brazilian jazz
icon Leny Andrade, the Machito Orchestra, jazz leg-
ends Charlie Byrd and Herbie Mann, 1999 Grammy
Award winner Flaco Jiménez, and Lydia Mendoza,
the “Queen of Tejano Music,” were among the many
performers.

Involvement with Latino communities is a priority
for The Associates, and programs by, for, and about
the history and culture of people of Hispanic origin
are increasingly popular. “Musica de las Américas”
was made possible with the support of the Smith-
sonian Center for Latino Initiatives and America’s
Jazz Heritage, a Partnership of the Lila Wallace-
Reader's Digest Fund and the Smithsonian Institution.

TSA’s prestigious two-year Mas-
ter’s Program in American Decora-
tive Arts, offered in cooperation
with the Cooper-Hewitt, National
Design Museum and Parsons
School of Design, graduated its
first class of students, who
embarked on careers in the arts
and education.

SMITHSONIAN BUSINESSES
The Smithsonian is committed to
developing and licensing products
that reflect its educational values
and extend its message. From a
business point of view, selling mer-
chandise of high quality helps
strengthen the Institution’s finan-
cial base. From an education point
of view, an exhibition catalogue, a
CD-ROM, or products carrying
descriptive information contribute

65
66

Dining possibilities for Smithsonian visitors expanded this year when the
Atrium Café opened in the National Museum of Natural History's new
Discovery Center. (Photograph by Chip Clark)

to people’s knowledge of collec-
tions and research programs
throughout the Institution.

At the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, museum shop sales
increased following the opening of
the Discovery Center in May. A
shop in the International Gallery
supported the exhibition
“Microbes: Invisible Invaders,
Amazing Allies,” with everything
from gummy microbes to educa-
tional microscopes. The Arts and
Industries Building shop now fea-
tures “The Best of the Smith-
sonian” merchandise, including
best-sellers from several museum
shops, publications, recordings,
Smithsonian Catalogue merchan-
dise, and souvenirs.

The Smithsonian Catalogue con-
tinues to reflect the educational
values and rich diversity of the
museums and research institutes.
Every product receives curatorial
approval. Sales in fiscal year 1999
exceeded $39 million, an 11 per-
cent increase over the previous

year. The catalogue continues to
dominate the museum theme cata-
logue market with a 30 percent
market share. For the first time,
circulation passed the 20 million
mark.

Licensed products based on
items in the Smithsonian’s collec-
tions help extend the Institution’s
educational mission and generate
revenue to meet programmatic
needs. Every product must meet
high standards before it reaches
the marketplace. New products
this year included a reproduction
of explorer William Clark’s com-
pass in the National Museum of
American History; jewelry adapted
from the Hope Diamond and the
Hooker Emerald from the National
Gem Collection of the National
Museum of Natural History; anda
planetarium kit for students ages 8
and up inspired by the Albert Ein-
stein Planetarium at the National
Air and Space Museum.

Public food services attracted
more than 2.5 million visits and

almost one-half million staff mem-
ber visits, generating more than
$1.5 million in net revenue for the
Smithsonian. The newest dining
facility, the Atrium Café at the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory, features six-story skylights
and a varied menu, including
made-to-order salads, soups, pasta,
and a rotisserie station.

SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE
One of the Institution’s primary
outreach vehicles is Smithsonian
magazine, read by nearly 7 million
people each month. This year,
lively and informative articles
introduced readers to the usual
broad scope of topics, including
Erector Set inventor A. C. Gilbert;
the mystical beauty of turquoise;
“Star parties” for amateur
astronomers in Arizona; turn-of-
the-century American artist Abbott
Handerson Thayer; the cloud of
“space trash” that orbits Earth; and
the contentious new world of dam
removal. The magazine attracts
reprint interest from a variety of
sources, particularly the field of
education. Academic institutions,
associations, and textbook pub-
lishers request permission to use
Smithsonian articles as part of
coursework material or for infor-
mational distribution. Roughly

70 percent of the more than 500
permission requests received in fis-
cal year 1999 were from organiza-
tions with an educational purpose
or affiliation.

SMITHSONIAN PRODUCTIONS
Smithsonian Productions is the
electronic media production center
for the Smithsonian, basing its
work on the research and exhibi-
tion activities of the Institution’s
museums and research institutes.
The unit shares the vast world of
the Smithsonian with millions in
the United States and abroad
through quality television and
radio programs, exhibition videos,
and online media.

This year, Smithsonian Produc-
tions presented The Mississippi: River
of Song, the largest multimedia pro-
ject in the Institution’s history. The
centerpiece was a four-part televi-
sion series that premiered in Janu-
ary 1999 on PBS stations nation-
wide, taking viewers on a musical
journey down the Mississippi River,
from the north woods of Minnesota
to the Gulf of Mexico. Produced
with the cooperation of the Center
for Folklife and Cultural Heritage,
the project also included a seven-
part radio series broadcast nation-
ally on Public Radio International, a
two-CD set issued by Smithsonian
Folkways, a companion book, and
extensive educational materials dis-
tributed via the project Web site.
With major funding from Kajima
Corporation, Hitachi, Ltd., the Cor-
poration for Public Broadcasting,
and PBS, the series was coproduced
with the Filmmakers Collaborative
of Boston.

Smithsonian Productions also
produced a variety of programs for
Smithsonian exhibitions. The
video Woody Guthrie’s Legacy
accompanies the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service exhibition “This Land Is
Your Land: The Life and Legacy of
Woody Guthrie.” For the Lemelson
Center for the Study of Invention
and Innovation at the National
Museum of American History, the
unit produced two videos and a
puppet show for young people on
African American inventor Lewis
Latimer. Titanic Mail, produced for
the National Postal Museum, is the
first close look at the five mail-
room clerks and the 6 million
packages and letters that went
down with the RMS Titanic.

Little Milton performs onstage at the Flowin’ Fountain in Greenville, Missis-
sippi, in Smithsonian Productions’ The Mississippi: River of Song, a four-part
television series that took viewers on a musical journey from Minnesota to
the Gulf of Mexico. (Photograph by Theo Pelletier)

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
The Office of Public Affairs (OPA),
part of the Office of Communica-
tions, collaborated with the
National Museum of American
History to create and implement
a plan to encourage media cover-
age of the Star-Spangled Banner
Preservation Project. From the
beginning, this project was of
intense interest to the public,
especially museum visitors, the
media, and the White House Mil-
lennium Council, which selected
the flag as a centerpiece of its
Save America’s Treasures cam-
paign.

The first media “event,” held in
October, was the infrared examina-
tion of the flag by National Aero-
nautics and Space Administration
scientists. The after-hours taking
down of the flag was shared with
national television via a video
news release sent out on satellite
the following afternoon. Science
media had a briefing on the pro-
ject and a tour of the special con-

servation lab where the flag is
installed for three years.

OPA provides regular support for
the public relations efforts of
Smithsonian museums and offices.
This year’s projects included pub-
licity and an advertising plan for
“Microbes: Invisible Invaders,
Amazing Allies” in the Interna-
tional Gallery. The exhibition
brought record numbers of visitors
to the S. Dillon Ripley Center and
additional evening visitors to other
museums that were part of the
Summer Science Nights on the
Mall program. In addition, OPA
played a leading role in the public-
ity campaign surrounding the
groundbreaking for the National
Museum of the American Indian
on September 28.

The office continued implemen-
tation of the Smithsonian’s new
visual identity program, which was
initiated last year with the intro-
duction of a new logo, by working
with staff around the Institution to
apply the logo to everything from

67
The Office of Public Affairs held a press conference on September 13 to

announce that Lawrence M. Small, president and chief operating officer of

Fannie Mae, had been elected the 11th Secretary of the Smithsonian. Shown

here are (from left) Wesley S. Williams, Regent and cochair of the search

committee; Barber B. Conable Jr., chair of the Regents’ Executive Commit-

tee; Small; Howard Baker, Regent and cochair of the search committee; and

Secretary |. Michael Heyman. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

brochures and newsletters to prod-
uct labels, signs, and stationery.
Three publications produced by
OPA won First Place in the
National Association of Govern-
ment Communicators’ publica-
tions competition: Smithsonian
Year 1997, jointly produced with
Smithsonian Institution Press;
Smithsonian Institution Research
Reports, a quarterly newsletter; and
the Torch, the monthly employee
newspaper. During the year, OPA
produced two additional brochures
to assist visitors in touring the
Smithsonian—an update of
“Smithsonian Access,” a guide for
disabled visitors, and a visitor
brochure titled “Exploring African
American Heritage at the Smith-
sonian,” which was supported by a
grant from the Educational Out-
reach Fund administered by the
Smithsonian Office of Education.
As part of OPA’s Institution-wide

promotion program, the office
bought commercial time for six
months beginning in September
on WTOP radio, the dominant
news-talk station in the Washing-
ton area. The station’s listener
demographics match those of
Smithsonian visitors, Associate
members, and donors. The spots,
called “Inside the Smithsonian,”
were broadcast every Friday morn-
ing during drive time and featured
information for area residents on
everything from what’s new at the
museums to the latest artifact
acquisition. To promote the
museums’ fall season of exhibi-
tions and programs, OPA ran two
half-page advertisements in the
Washington Post's fall preview sec-
tion on Sunday, September 12.
Near the end of the fiscal year,
the Board of Regents was ready to
name a new Smithsonian Secre-
tary, and OPA handled the Septem-

ber 13 announcement in the Enid
A. Haupt Garden and the publicity
for the event. Secretary-designate
Lawrence Small’s biography and
other materials were available to
staff, the public, and the press.

VISITOR INFORMATION AND
ASSOCIATES’ RECEPTION
CENTER

In person, by telephone, by mail,
and on the World Wide Web, the
Visitor Information and Associates’
Reception Center (VIARC) invites
the public to learn about and
appreciate the Smithsonian and
participate in its programs and
activities. As a central support
organization for the Institution
under the Office of Communica-
tions, and as the principal contact
point for information about the
Smithsonian, VIARC enjoyed the
involvement of some 1,903 volun-
teers. This year, they contributed
nearly 250,000 hours of service as
Castle docents, volunteer informa-
tion specialists, and staff assistants
behind the scenes.

In the Smithsonian Information
Center, which serves some 2 mil-
lion visitors annually, VIARC
replaced and upgraded hardware
components and updated or
redesigned a number of features,
including the backlit panels
describing the locations and activi-
ties of Smithsonian museums, the
National Zoo, and the Folklife Fes-
tival; the two scale models of
Washington’s core and its monu-
ments; and the touch-screen inter-
active program about the Smith-
sonian that is available in six
languages at nine stations. The
Guide to the Nation’s Capital and the
Smithsonian Institution, produced
in cooperation with Smithsonian
magazine, was updated and
redesigned. VIARC digitized the
comprehensive map of the capital
Secretary |. Michael Heyman presents a special Certificate of Recognition to
John Swafford and Hugh Turnbull, representing the volunteer operators of
Amateur Radio Station NN3SI, one of the Smithsonian's oldest ongoing
group volunteer efforts. (Photograph by Hugh Talman)

featured in the publication and
photographically enlarged it to
create the two 5-by-7-foot interac-
tive electronic maps in the Infor-
mation Center.

Electronic mail inquiries esca-
lated to 15,574, an 80 percent
increase over the previous year. To
meet these needs, VIARC’s Public
Inquiry Mail Service expanded its
volunteer support and electronic
response capabilities. In the Public
Inquiry Telephone Service, a new
telephone system enhances
response capability for the
320,000-plus annual callers to
Smithsonian information lines,
which operate seven days a week.

OFFICE OF SPECIAL EVENTS
AND CONFERENCE SERVICES
The Office of Special Events and
Conference Services (OSECS) offers
its knowledge and expertise to
organizations throughout the
Smithsonian, producing events
that provide donors, guests, and
visitors with memorable, positive
experiences, which serve to culti-
vate continued support for the

Institution. OSECS made possible
nearly 400 events and scientific
conferences this year, many of
them for the Board of Regents, the
Secretary, senior Smithsonian staff,
and the Office of Membership and
Development. Over the last five
years, and following a change in
office mission, the number of
events OSECS produces each year
has more than doubled.

The groundbreaking ceremony
for the National Museum of the
American Indian capped a year of
high-level activities. Throughout
the year, OSECS produced events
for visiting dignitaries, including a
reception and a meeting for the
president of Colombia, hosted by
the Office of the Provost; a benefit
fund-raising reception on the occa-
sion of the visit of His Holiness, the
Dalai Lama of Tibet, hosted by the
Center for Folklife and Cultural Her-
itage; and a dinner in honor of the
president of the Republic of
Panama, hosted by the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute.

Opening receptions were held
for a number of exhibitions,
including “From Bento to Mixed

Connecting to Smithsonian Resources

For more than 25 years, staff and volunteers in the
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Cen-
ter’s (VIARC) Public Inquiry Mail and Telephone Infor-
mation Services have fielded an extraordinary vari-
ety of questions, from the predictable (“What are the
Smithsonian’s hours?”) to the startlingly specific
(‘What is this insect? See enclosed”). When the pub-
lic is Curious, VIARC is ready with assistance.

Today, people seeking information are more likely
to send an e-mail than to pick up the telephone or
mail a letter. Some 15,600 electronic inquiries arrived
at VIARC’s address, info@info.si.edu, in fiscal year
1999, representing 45 percent of all inquiries
received and an 80 percent increase over last year’s
electronic mail. Each month, thousands of cyber-
visitors log on to the Smithsonian’s Web site, where
they can browse Encyclopedia Smithsonian, a
VIARC page that provides selected links to online
information throughout the Institution. A VIARC
Behind-the-Scenes volunteer has made critical con-
tributions to the creation of this site, working with
many Smithsonian organizations. Most recently, she
collaborated with the Department of Entomology in
the National Museum of Natural History to create
the extensive “Bug Info” area (click on “Insects” in
Encyclopedia Smithsonian).

VIARC volunteers and staff work with an impres-
sive library of fact sheets and bibliographies on
everything from mollusks to the history of taxicabs,
created and revised over the years in cooperation
with Smithsonian specialists. When the Institution
joined forces with America Online in 1993 to create
Smithsonian Online, VIARC contributed highlights
from these information resources. By 1995, the
Smithsonian had launched its own Web site, and
VIARC was instrumental in supplying much of the ini-
tial content.

Although e-mail makes asking questions easy,
VIARC still fields telephone queries at (202) 357-
2700. “People are astonished when they get a live
response,” says VIARC’s Katherine Neill Ridgley.
Whether in person or online, she says, “people tell us
how grateful they are to be connected to the wealth
of knowledge and information the Smithsonian has
to offer.”

69
70

His Holiness, the Dalai Lama of Tibet is escorted by Provost J. Dennis
O’Connor and Director of Special Events and Conference Services Nicole
Krakora at a fund-raising reception for the program on Tibet planned as part
of the 2000 Smithsonian Folklife Festival. (Photograph by Jeff Tinsley)

Plate: Americans of Japanese
Ancestry in Multicultural Hawai'i,”
hosted by the Office of the
Provost, and “Microbes: Invisible
Invaders, Amazing Allies,” hosted
by the Office of the Provost and
the International Gallery. A lun-
cheon marked the opening of the
Folklife Festival, and a press con-
ference and luncheon hosted by
Smithsonian Productions cele-
brated the premiere of the Smith-
sonian television series The Missis-
sippi: River of Song. Fund-raising
events included the Anacostia
Museum’s annual benefit masquer-
ade ball, Carnival ’99.

Meetings and conferences
included the National Conference
on Cultural Property Protection in
Los Angeles, hosted by the Office
of Protection Services; meetings
and a luncheon for the President’s
Committee on the Arts and the
Humanities, hosted by the Secre-
tary; and activities in conjunction
with the Board of Regents meet-
ings, hosted by the Secretary.

Among numerous events pro-
duced for the Office of Membership
and Development were the annual
James Smithson Society and Smith-
sonian Treasures weekends, as well
as activities associated with meet-
ings of the Smithsonian National
Board and the Smithsonian Corpo-
rate Membership Program.

OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT
RELATIONS

Although always a priority of the
Office of Government Relations,
efforts to educate members of
Congress and their constituencies
about the abundance of Smith-
sonian outreach programs were
significantly accelerated. Secretary
I. Michael Heyman’s determina-
tion and his success in bringing
the Institution’s collections and
professional expertise into local
communities have resulted in a
greater congressional understand-
ing of the Smithsonian’s range and
depth and, as important, an ap-

preciation of its commitment to
public service. By emphasizing the
educational components of the
Institution’s museum and research
activities, Government Relations
staff are stressing the practical and
immediate public benefit of Smith-
sonian programs and enlisting
congressional assistance in making
these program opportunities and
educational materials available to
their communities.

OPERATIONS
The many different organizations
that make up the Smithsonian
depend on the internal framework
of services provided by Washing-
ton-based administration, facili-
ties, finance, and information
technology staff. These services
support and promote effective
management throughout the Insti-
tution. This year, several offices in
the Operations unit concentrated
on strengthening their own opera-
tions through refined organiza-
tional structures, effective use of
technology, and improved service
to the Institution’s museums,
research institutes, and offices.

Efforts to strengthen internal
financial services included organi-
zational changes in the Office of
the Comptroller, along with the
hiring of Edward Knapp as comp-
troller. The Office of the Chief
Financial Officer developed a
report to better inform senior
management about the Smith-
sonian’s financial condition and
began investigating the implemen-
tation of a new financial system.
The Office of Planning, Manage-
ment, and Budget put into place
the final modules of the integrated
electronic Budget Management,
Planning, and Policy System
(BUMPPS).

The Office of Protection Services
(OPS) made significant progress in
The Kathrine Dulin Folger Rose Garden, with the Arts and Industries Building in the background, was designed and
created by the Horticulture Services Division in the Office of Physical Plant. (Photograph by Francie Schroeder)

advancing the Smithsonian’s
strategic plan for replacing the
Smithsonian Institution Propri-
etary Security System (SIPSS) and
upgrading and integrating the
security systems throughout
Smithsonian museums and facili-
ties. In partnership with the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, OPS
developed a master plan that out-
lines the technical specifications
for a new integrated security sys-
tem. In fiscal year 1999, OPS devel-
oped and implemented a compre-
hensive Y2K contingency plan for
the electronic security system.
Replacement of SIPSS in the
National Air and Space Museum,
Arts and Industries Building,
Smithsonian Castle, and Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den was initiated and was sched-
uled for completion in December
1999. OPS also began the designs
for SIPSS replacement in the
National Museum of Natural His-
tory, Central Control, and the
Museum Support Center. The
Smithsonian Tropical Research

Institute is under design for that
facility’s first technical security
system. With continued funding
through fiscal year 2002, OPS is
on schedule for complete SIPSS
replacement within calendar
year 2002.

Digital imaging possibilities
continue to expand, as the Office
of Imaging, Printing, and Photo-
graphic Services (OIPPS) began
offering color prints made from
digital image files and produced on
photographic-quality digital print-
ers. For the first time, OIPPS used
all-digital imaging techniques to
document remote fieldwork.
National Museum of Natural His-
tory researchers recorded images
with a high-quality digital camera
and processed them on the spot in
a laptop computer.

The Office of Equal Employ-
ment and Minority Affairs
enhanced its capacity to track the
effectiveness of the Smithsonian’s
staff recruitment efforts. This
office also launched a Web site
that gives small and disadvantaged

businesses convenient access to
information about doing business
with the Smithsonian (www.si.
edu/oeema/sdbu.htm).

For the Office of Physical Plant,
the groundbreaking ceremony for
the National Museum of the Amer-
ican Indian’s Mall museum sig-
naled the start of a major construc-
tion project. Design of the
National Air and Space Museum’s
Dulles Center was completed, and
the replacement of the museum’s
skylights and windows continued.
At the National Museum of Nat-
ural History, the new 80,000-
square-foot Discovery Center
opened to the public, and restora-
tion of the museum’s Rotunda was
in progress. The Folger Rose Gar-
den, offering year-round interest
with roses, annuals, perennials,
and woody plants, opened as a
permanent addition to the Smith-
sonian landscape.

71
Executive Director for Development
Robert V. Hanle (Photograph by
Hugh Talman)

Left: The National Building Museum
is the setting for the annual Smith-
sonian Craft Show, sponsored by
the Smithsonian Women’s Commit-
tee. The nation’s most prestigious
juried craft show, it featured 120
artists from a competitive pool of
1,600 applicants. (Photograph by
Hugh Talman)

DEVELOPMENT AND MEMBERSHIP

ROBERT V. HANLE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR DEVELOPMENT

The final year of the 20th century saw the Smithsonian developing stronger and more var-
ied partnerships with a variety of audiences. As we build toward the public phase of our
first-ever national capital campaign, these partnerships become increasingly vital to our
continued health and ability to reach new audiences in innovative ways. Of course, since
the Institution’s first philanthropic bequest from James Smithson, the Smithsonian has
forged ties with individuals and with the business and foundation communities. This year
was no different, even as the range and diversity of these partnerships expanded.

The Institution remains the sole organization of its kind in the world, a unique public-
private partnership that benefits from the foundation of support of the U.S. government
but flourishes and evolves through private funding. In fiscal year 1999, the Institution
received more than $146 million from this public-private partnership. Donations from
individuals constituted $94.155 million, or 64.46 percent of the total, which includes the
extraordinary gift of Steven Udvar-Hazy to the National Air and Space Museum, and
planned gifts such as annuities and bequests from individuals. Corporations and founda-
tions, including those established by individuals, contributed $41.5 million. Of the total
raised, $130.8 million was restricted to specific programs.

For two consecutive years, private support has been significantly higher compared to
previous years, and this momentum highlights both the strength of our work and the
meaning our goals and programs have for audiences throughout the world. The Smith-
sonian is striving not just to keep pace with technological advances, but to break new
ground so that the time-tested objects we hold in trust can open new stories for future
generations and continue to inspire all who step through our doors today.

In this Development and Membership annual report, we gratefully recognize the many
individuals, corporations, foundations, and organizations that have joined in partnerships
with the Smithsonian this year and over the long term. Many successes are described
throughout this publication. Donors of $2,000 and above from October 1, 1998, through
September 30, 1999, are listed at the end.

CAMPAIGN SMITHSONIAN

Much progress was realized this year in the upcoming national capital campaign in which
the Smithsonian will ask the American people for their support to ensure that the Institu-
tion remains a vital national resource.

Steven Udvar-Hazy’s $60 million pledge to the National Air and Space Museum’s Dulles
Center in September allowed the museum to announce its capital campaign—with a goal
of $130 million—nine months earlier than anticipated. This wonderful leadership gift is
the largest the Smithsonian has ever received and one of the largest ever to a museum. It
signifies the personal involvement with the Smithsonian that will be key to the cam-
paign’s success. We salute Steven Udvar-Hazy, his commitment to the field of aviation,
and his pledge to work with others who have the capacity to make significant gifts toward
the Smithsonian’s future.

73
Smithsonian National Board members head for the summit of Mt. Hopkins in
Arizona during their visit to the Whipple Observatory on their spring study
tour to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory site. (Photograph by

Margo Knight)

Also this year, Smithsonian
museums, research institutes, and
offices began to draft their own
statements of needs. We worked to
formulate campaign messages and
develop marketing strategies. A
new Institution-wide database will
help us cultivate our supporters.
We launched Smithsonian Today, a
newsletter for the Contributing
Membership and other Smith-
sonian supporters that highlights
ways their giving is having an

impact. New policies include an
endowment policy that details dif-
ferent ways our friends can sup-
port the Smithsonian in perpetu-
ity, including the establishment of
academic chairs, and a policy for
naming opportunities that out-
lines how supporters can link their
name, or that of their family or
loved ones, to exhibition galleries,
lecture and performance halls,
reception areas, and other spaces
visited by millions of people each

Funds Raised by Source
Fiscal Year 1999

Foundations
$16,489,374 (11.29%)

$5,497,868 (3.76 %)

Deferred Pledges
$3,370,639 (2.31%)

Corporations
$25,045,299 (17.15%)

Uses of Funds Raised
Fiscal Year 1999

Acquisitions & Unrestricted

Collections $14,556,432 (9.97%)
AU eIC aR Construction
11.82%) i

ies $10,484,071 (7.18%)

I Exhibitions

Other_F } Individuals /
$94,155,103 Designated to \ /38594,726 (5.88%)
(64.46%) Museums & :
Research Education &
| Institutes #\ Public Programs
Bequests $85,607,102 $4,687,423 (3.21%)
$1,511,923 9 i
(1.04% fons) Research
ae) Other
$4,156,094 (2.85%)
$712,188
(0.49%)

year. A donor recognition room in
the Castle, now nearing comple-
tion, will recognize major gifts
from individuals, foundations, and
corporations—the visionary sup-
port that enables us to pursue
groundbreaking initiatives and
permanently shapes the future of
this unparalleled Institution.

We all have a stake in this Insti-
tution, as well as an emotional
connection to it, and that is the
true core of partnership. While
supporters receive tangible bene-
fits, including recognition and spe-
cial opportunities, at the core is an
agreement between them and the
Smithsonian that their support
will be used wisely, advancing one
of the greatest public-private part-
nerships the world has ever
known.

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL
BOARD

The Smithsonian National Board
continues to be one of the Institu-
tion’s premier volunteer groups,
serving in an advisory capacity to
the Secretary and raising signifi-
cant funds both for unrestricted
use and for specific areas the board
has targeted. This year, the board’s
annual giving fund raised more
than $1.5 million for a donor
recognition room in the Castle,
now under construction across
from the Smithson Crypt, and a
membership and donor coordina-
tion system that will have a mea-
surable impact on the Smith-
sonian’s ability to form meaningful
relationships with supporters
nationwide.

In addition to its two yearly
meetings, for the first time the
board held a February meeting,
inviting chairs of all the volunteer
boards and commissions across the
Institution, along with directors of
the museums and research insti-
tutes. The meeting was a basis for
dialogue about how these impor-
tant volunteers could maximize
their efforts on behalf of the Insti-
tution. Secretary I. Michael Hey-
man delivered a keynote address
on ways the wide-ranging parts of
the Smithsonian relate to an
organic whole. Breakout groups
discussed the national capital cam-
paign and how the boards will
work together for greatest impact.
The Smithsonian National Board
will continue to play a leading role
in the capital campaign.

CONTRIBUTING
MEMBERSHIP
The Contributing Membership
continues to be a major resource
for the Institution. In 1999, annual
dues and additional contributions
from this generous group of indi-
viduals yielded nearly $10.2 mil-
lion in unrestricted funds, the
highest gross income in the his-
tory of the program. This success
was a result of a strategic market-
ing investment that generated
9,000 new members and a 12.6
percent increase in contributions
from existing members. These
funds can be targeted toward
research, exhibitions, or other
areas where support is needed.
The Contributing Membership is
the fertile ground from which
many of our longest-lasting part-
nerships with individuals emerge,
and the program provides an
avenue for them to further explore
the Smithsonian through tours,
publications, and special events.
This year’s “Smithsonian Trea-
sures,” the week-long series of
tours for members, took more than
50 people behind the scenes at the
Smithsonian Institution Archives,
the Horticulture Services Division,
the National Portrait Gallery, and
other areas that reflect the many
facets of the Institution. Many
Contributing Members also

strengthened their support by
moving to higher membership lev-
els. In response to new targeted
messages in their renewal letters,
54 Contributing Members
upgraded to the James Smithson
Society, the highest number in
recent years.

The Contributing Membership
also led the way to a greater phil-
anthropic visibility on the World
Wide Web and developed a Web
site where visitors can make a
secure gift to the Smithsonian
online, at www.si.edu/sidonations.

JAMES SMITHSON SOCIETY
As the leading circle of support
through membership, the James
Smithson Society continues to
raise significant funds for the Insti-
tution. The society’s 550 members
this year gave nearly $826,000 in
dues and special gifts. To enhance
relationships with these members,
especially in preparation for the
national capital campaign, the
society added a director and pro-
gram coordinator this year, both
committed to the program’s suc-
cess and growth.

The James Smithson Society
Endowed Life Program welcomed
new member Richard Triska.
Endowed Life Members make a
one-time gift of $40,000 or morte.
Earned income from the endow-
ment gift supports priority initia-
tives across the Institution in per-
petuity and the member’s annual
dues for the James Smithson Soci-
ety. This growing program pro-
vides long-term support critical to
Smithsonian planning and to the
Institution’s ability to serve future
generations.

In the summer, a tour of
“Posters American Style” and
dinner with Secretary and Mrs.

I. Michael Heyman brought
together Smithson Society mem-
bers in the San Francisco Bay area.

Members also enjoyed a new pro-
gram called “Food for Thought,”
in which curators talked with
members about the Star-Spangled
Banner Preservation Project, panda
conservation, and the National
Air and Space Museum’s Dulles
Center.

The Eberly Family Charitable
Trust was recognized with the
James Smithson Society Founder
Medal at the society’s annual
black-tie dinner in May. The Eberly
family, a longtime member of the
Smithson Society, was honored for
its gift to create the Eberly Miner-
als and Gems Gallery in the Janet
Annenberg Hooker Hall of Geol-
ogy, Gems, and Minerals in the
National Museum of Natural
History.

Pfizer Inc Brings “Microbes” to
the Mall

Pfizer Inc observed its 150th anniversary in 1999,
and thousands of Smithsonian visitors joined in the
celebration. Through the company’s generosity, the
Smithsonian presented the popular “Microbes: Invis-
ible Invaders, Amazing Allies,” an interactive, kid-
friendly traveling exhibition that introduces the world
of bacteria and germs using virtual reality,

38D animation, theatrical sets, and special effects.
“Microbes” was the most-visited exhibition ever for
the International Gallery, attracting 162,000 science
enthusiasts between May 22 and September 6.

Pfizer’s innovative corporate partnership included
special support for extended hours at selected Mall
museums. Summer Science Nights at the Smith-
sonian brought greater visibility to “Microbes” and
other Smithsonian science programs. Pfizer also
provided all-important promotional support for
“Microbes,” funding extensive local advertising, Mall
signage, and educational programs organized by
The Smithsonian Associates and the National
Science Resources Center.

Presented at the International Gallery under the
auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, “Microbes” was produced by
BBH Exhibits, Inc., in collaboration with the National
Institutes of Health. It is currently on a five-year,
15-city tour.

YS)
76

Polo Ralph Lauren senior director for special projects Bette-Ann Gwathmey
accepts the annual Corporate Leadership Award from Secretary |. Michael

Heyman at the Smithsonian Corporate Membership Program luncheon in

June. (Photograph by Glenn Levy)

HIGHLIGHTS OF

CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY
Partnerships with the business
community are expanding as cor-
porations recognize the many
ways the Smithsonian can invigo-
rate their employees and improve
the quality of life for people across
the globe.

This year, the Corporate Mem-
bership Program continued to
grow and now counts 75 members
who represent a wide range of
industries and geographic loca-
tions. At the program’s annual lun-
cheon in June, held at the Depart-
ment of State, Smithsonian Regent
Howard H. Baker Jr. awarded mem-
bership certificates to 24 new
members. Polo Ralph Lauren was
recognized with the annual Corpo-
rate Leadership Award for its sup-
port of the Star-Spangled Banner
Preservation Project.

In 1999, the Corporate Member-
ship Program raised more than

$1 million for unrestricted use and
served as a basis for further part-
nerships between the Smithsonian
and the business community. The
Institution’s successful work in this
area has begun to open new doors
for exchange. Many corporations
entered into innovative partner-
ships, from Southern Company’s
donation of electric vehicles to the
National Zoo, to Pfizer Inc’s sup-
port of the popular interactive
exhibition “Microbes: Invisible
Invaders, Amazing Allies.” The
generosity of the business commu-
nity has a substantial and positive
impact on the work of the Smith-
sonian, and through these partner-
ships, we are able to explore new
technologies, reach new audiences,
and study mutually beneficial
approaches to our world.

To clarify guidelines whereby
the Smithsonian may benefit from
corporate support while maintain-
ing its integrity and autonomy, a

corporate sponsorship policy
now elaborates on different ways
corporations can work with the
Institution.

FOUNDATIONS

Foundations continued to invest in
Smithsonian programs and services
this year, finding through the
Smithsonian a multitude of path-
ways for reaching different audi-
ences. Work continues to target key
programs through which the
Smithsonian can leverage founda-
tion support to make a difference to
the lives of citizens of the National
Capital region, around the country,
and throughout the world.

The range of foundation types
and the scale and focus of projects
they supported were as compre-
hensive as the Smithsonian itself.
To name a few, the John S. and
James L. Knight Foundation sup-
ported the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service's
Museum on Main Street program,
which takes Smithsonian resources
to rural communities; The Eberly
Family Charitable Trust created the
stunning Eberly Minerals and
Gems Gallery, an extraordinary
resource for learning about geo-
logic phenomena; The Hill Family
Foundation supported the Hirsh-
horn Museum and Sculpture Gar-
den’s “Regarding Beauty” exhibi-
tion, a 90-work show with 36
international artists that will
explore the age-old concept of
beauty as a topic and issue for art
making; the Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation supported the Smith-
sonian Tropical Research Institute’s
plant ecological research; and the
John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation funded the
Center for Tropical Forest Science,
which provides an overview of
environmental change and conser-
vation issues through its long-term
monitoring of forest plots.
SMITHSONIAN BENEFACTORS
CIRCLE

In October, the Smithsonian Bene-
factors Circle enjoyed a black-tie
dinner and gave its annual award
to the Kenneth E. Behring family
for its $20 million gift to the Na-
tional Museum of Natural History.
The gift will resonate for years to
come through the museum’s reno-
vated Behring Family Rotunda and
Kenneth E. Behring Hall of Mam-
mals, as well as through traveling
programs that will raise awareness
about mammals, their habitats, and
their interactions with humans.

SMITHSONIAN WOMEN’S
COMMITTEE
Once again, the annual Smith-
sonian Craft Show, which in 1999
was chaired by Margaret Collins,
demonstrated why it remains the
most prestigious juried craft show
in the nation. The volunteers of
the Women’s Committee, which is
chaired by Millicent Mailliard,
staged the spectacular event in
April at the National Building
Museum, bringing in record num-
bers of attendees and raising
nearly $335,000 for the commit-
tee’s competitive grants program.
In turn, more than $319,000
from the 1998 show was distributed
in the spring to an extraordinarily
wide range of worthwhile Smith-
sonian programs, providing seed
money and small grants to projects
that otherwise might never leave
the drawing board. From film
preservation to specialized training
for students, this grant program
continues to fill a valuable funding
need at the Institution.

SMITHSONIAN WASHINGTON
COUNCIL

The Smithsonian Washington
Council is a group of area civic
and philanthropic leaders working
toward strengthening the Smith-

sonian’s ties and services to the
National Capital region. Chaired
by Washington attorney R. Robert
Linowes, the group meets regularly
with the Secretary. This year, mem-
bers made a gift in support of a lec-
ture series at the Smithsonian
Environmental Research Center for
the 1999-2000 season and also
made several gifts for the Institu-
tion’s unrestricted use.

SMITHSONIAN LEGACY
SOCIETY

The Smithsonian Legacy Society,
chaired by Gloria Hamilton, also
grew this year, holding its second
annual luncheon and meeting at
the National Museum of American
History in November. The group
honors supporters who carry on
James Smithson’s tradition
through gifts such as bequests,
charitable gift annuities, and life
insurance plans. This year, Legacy
Society member Karl Hagen’s gen-
erous bequest benefited the
National Air and Space Museum.

SMITHSONIAN LUNCHEON
GROUP

The Smithsonian Luncheon Group,
a circle of supporters from the
Washington area, meets regularly to
learn about Smithsonian programs.
Chaired by C. Benjamin Crisman,
the group this year heard from Sec-
retary Heyman and curators and
directors about the Smithsonian’s
goals and activities for the coming
year. Other programs highlighted
the Star-Spangled Banner Preserva-
tion Project, the latest work of the
National Zoo, the “Picturing Old
New England” exhibition at the
National Museum of American Art,
construction of the Discovery Cen-
ter and renovation of the rotunda
and mammal hall at the National
Museum of Natural History, and
the search for a new Secretary.

Museum on Main Street

When the Smithsonian comes to town, exciting
things happen—especially when the impetus is
Museum on Main Street. In more than 100 communi-
ties in 20 states, Museum on Main Street has
inspired creative programs, unprecedented volun-
teerism, generous local philanthropy, and ambitious
capital improvements. The partnership joins the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
(SITES), the Federation of State Humanities Coun-
cils, individual state humanities councils, and rural
museums in a collaborative effort to serve rural
audiences and promote professional growth in small
cultural institutions.

This year, Museum on Main Street received a gen-
erous grant from the John S. and James L. Knight
Foundation to support the development and tour of
the program’s third exhibition. “Yesterday’s Tomor-
rows: Past Visions of the American Future,” which
explores the ways we have envisioned our future
since the late 19th century, will begin touring in 2001.
The first two exhibitions capitalized on small-town
local history: “Produce for Victory: Posters on the
American Home Front, 1941 to 1945” and “Barn
Again! Celebrating an American Icon.”

A significant legacy of Museum on Main Street is
the opportunity for professional development. SITES
provides staff assistance in exhibit management and
object care. The state humanities Councils train rural
organizers in program planning and proposal writing.
Working with in-state scholar teams, the humanities
councils also help museums prepare exhibition-
related events for and about their communities.

Gary Burger, director of the Knight Foundation’s
Arts and Culture Program, observes that Museum
on Main Street “brings quality exhibitions to under-
served communities, helps strengthen the program-
matic and educational capabilities of rural institu-
tions, and builds collaborative networks—all at a
very reasonable cost.” For SITES, Museum on Main
Street exemplifies the fulfillment of its mission: to
extend Smithsonian collections, research, and
exhibitions to communities across the nation.

77
SMITHSONIAN
BENEFACTORS CIRCLE

The Smithsonian Benefactors Circle
recognizes and honors those whose
generous gifts have preserved the
traditions of the Smithsonian and
furthered its vision.

Honorary Founder
Enid A. Haupt

Founders

Russell B. Aitken}

Joe L. and Barbara B. Allbritton
Arthur G. Altschul

William S. Anderson

Mary Griggs Burke

Joan K. Davidson

Gaylord} and Dorothy Donnelley
Thomas M. Evans}

Katharine Graham

Robert C. and Julie Graham, Jr.
Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr.
William A.t+ and Patricia W. Hewitt?
Ikuo Hirayama

Olga Hirshhorn

Ruth S. Holmberg

Samuel C. Johnson

Marvin Breckinridge Patterson
Laura E. Phillips

S. Dillon and Mary L. Ripley+
Arthur Ross

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

Else Sackler

W. Mason and Jean D. Shehan
T. T. Tsui

Glenn O. Tupper

Patrons

Ronald D. and Anne Abramson

Kathleen B. Allaire

Ann Simmons Alspaugh

Peter C. and Joan Andrews

Marjorie Arundel

Herbert and Evelyn Axelrod

Edward P. Bass

Patricia and Kenneth E. Behring

Honorable Max N. Berry and
Mrs. Heidi Lehrman Berry

Randy and Nancy Best

Peter and Helen Bing

James and Barbara Block

Winton and Carolyn Blount

Agnes C. Bourne and James Luebbers

Michael J. Brophy

Hildegard Bruck

Joan Bull

George E. Burch III

Vivian G. Burch

Michael W. Cassidy

Scott Chinery

Marcus Cohn

Barber B. Conable, Jr. and Charlotte
Conable

Guido Craveri

Joseph F. Cullman, III

Peggy and Richard M. Danziger

David L. Davies

Evelyn Y. Davis

David and Frances Dibner

78

Charles M. and Valerie T. Diker
Joseph Di Palma

Anne G. Earhart

Barney A. Ebsworth

Robert H. Ellsworth

John L. and Margot P. Ernst
Kitty Fassett

Nancy Fessenden

Kathrine, Juliet and Lee Folger
Rita Fraad

John A. Friede

Phillip and Patricia Frost

Tito Giamporcaro

Daniel D. and Alice P. Gilbert

George J. and Eileen D. Gillespie

F. Warrington Gillet, Jr. and
Elesabeth I. Gillet

Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Alvin L. Gray

Jerome L. Greenet

Barrick W. Groom

Agnes S. Gund

George Gund III

Karl H. Hagent

Joan D. Haig

Evelyn A. J. Hall

Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Marguerite J. Harbert

Martha A. Healy

Drue M. Heinz

John Hendricks

Lloyd Herman

Henry L. and Elsie H. Hillman

Frank W. and Lisina M. Hoch

Janet Annenberg Hookert

Sir Joseph Hotung

John R. Huggard

Mrs. Jaquelin H. Hume

Gilbert S. Kahn

Jacob and Ruth C. Kainen

Victor and Loretta Kaufman

Narinder K. Keith

Rajinder K. Keith

Gene A. and Freita F. Keluche

James M. Kemper, Jr.

R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.

James W. and Mary T. Kinnear

Ann and Gilbert Kinney

Ethel Niki Kominikt

William K. and Alice S. Konze

Karl V. Krombein

Harvey M. and Connie Krueger

Robert E. and Elizabeth Krueger

Robert and Helen Kuhn

Rogerio S. Lam

Ru Lennox Langt

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman
Foundation

Robert Lehrman

Jeromey and Dorothy Lemelson

Barbara and Gerald Levin

Sydney? and Frances Lewis

John Livermore

Putnam Livermore

Henry Luce III

Frank J. Lukowski

Barbara A. Mandel

Harry and Beverly Mandil

Edwin S. and Nancy A. Marks

John F. and Adrienne B. Mars

Kathleen C. Mason}

Vera M. McBeth

Brooks and Hope B.+ McCormick

Nan Tucker McEvoy

Katherine Medlinger

Antony M. Merck

Eugene and Sue Mercy, Jr.

Elinor Merrell

Jeffery W. and Janet Meyer

James and Lolly Mitchell

Lester S. Morse, Jr. and Enid W. Morse

Honorable Daniel Patrick Moynihan
and Elizabeth Moynihan

Charles T. and Nancy Munger

Nancy Brown Negley

Eleanor Smallwood Niebell

Jean Niemeier

Robert H. and Nancy Nooter

Marta G. Norman

Carroll and Nancy Fields O'Connor

Charles Rand Penney

Al and Cecilia Podell

Winifred and Norman Portenoy

Lewis and Margaret Ranieri

Philip D. Reed, Jr. and Elizabeth Reed

Douglas F.+ and Sanae I. Reeves

Frank K. Ribelin

Carlyn Ring

David Rockefeller, Sr.

Elihu Rose and Susan Rose

Anton H. Rosenthal and Ruth E.
Ganister

Milton F. and Frieda Rosenthal

Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.

Jeanette Cantrell Rudy

Cecile Salomon

Joseph H. Samuel, Jr.

Mrs. Stanley P. Sax

Lloyd G. and Betty L. Schermer

Margaret Knowles Schink

Richard J. and Sheila Schwartz

Catherine F. Scott

Ivan and Nina Selin

Shirley P. Sichel

Emma M. Sims

George Sisley}

James C. Slaughter

George L. Small

Kathy Daubert Smith

Guenther and Siewchin Yong Sommer

Bernie E. Stadiem

Mrs. Sydney Stein, Jr.

E. Hadley Stuart, Jr. and Marion Stuart

A. Alfred Taubman

Vernon F. Taylor, Jr.

Eugene V. and Clare E. Thaw

Jeffrey} and Diane Tobin

R.E. Turner and Jane Fonda

Ladislaus and Beatrix von Hoffmann

John Weeden

Daniel Weinstein

Anthony and Beatrice W. Welters

Jerry R.f and Carolyn L. White

Julius Wile

Warren and Barbara Winiarski

Ronald H. Winston and
Heidi Jensen-Winston

Elizabeth B. Wood

Gay F. Wray

Nancy B. Zirkle

+Deceased

DONORS OF FINANCIAL

SUPPORT

*Denotes a gift to the Fund for the
Future, a citizens’ initiative to raise
endowment funds, both unrestricted
and special purpose.

$1,000,000 or more

Anonymous

The Art Research Foundation

The Kenneth E. Behring Family

Emil Buehler Trust

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Eberly
(The Eberly Foundation and the
Eberly Family Trust)

Holenia Trust

Lemelson Family Foundation*

Mr. and Mrs. Peter H. Lunder

Mr. and Mts. John F. Mars

Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy

Andrew W. Mellon Foundation

National Stone Association

Nordic Council of Ministers

Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation

Mr. Paul L. Peck

Principal Mutual Life Insurance
Company

Susan and Elihu Rose Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Terry Stent

Mr. and Mrs. Steven F. Udvar-Hazy

The Upton Trust

U.S. Postal Service

Volvo

$500,000 or more

Anonymous

E. Rhodes & Leona B. Carpenter
Foundation

Discovery Communications, Inc.

FDX Corporation

Friends of the National Zoo

John S. and James L. Knight
Foundation

The National Air & Space Society

Naval Submarine League

Nissan North America, Inc.

Pfizer Inc

$100,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. and Mts. Joe L. Allbritton
(Allbritton Foundation)

American Cocoa Research Institute

American Express Company

Estate of Richard Ree Anthis

The Beinecke Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Bernstein

The Honorable Winton M. Blount
and Mrs. Blount

Edna F. Blum Foundation

Mr. Richard L. Bolling

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

The Brown Foundation, Inc.

Morris & Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation

Carolina Biological Supply Co.

The Coca-Cola Company

Corning Incorporated

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Cullman, III*

Arthur Vining Davis Foundations
Earthwatch

Eastman Kodak Company

Mr. and Mrs. Barney A. Ebsworth
(The Ebsworth Foundation)

Farmers Group, Inc.

Federal City Council

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Funger

Mrs. Katharine M. Graham

George Gund III and Iara Lee

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Mrs. Drue M. Heinz (Drue Heinz
Trust)

Mr. J. Tomilson Hill (The Hill Family
Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mts. A. William Holmberg*

Honda of North America

Mr. Thomas L. Humphrey

Hydro Research Foundation, Inc.

Japanese American National Museum

Mrs. Alice Eve Kennington

Mr. Clay Lacy

Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Lathrap

Lockheed Martin Corporation

Mr. Henry Luce, III (The Henry Luce
Foundation, Inc.)

The John D. & Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation

Mr. Bruce R. McCaw

Memphis Rock ‘N’ Soul, Inc.

Merck Company Foundation

National Association of Music
Merchants

National Park Foundation

New Hampshire Culture Commission

Northrop Grumman Corporation

Piano Manufacturers Association
International

Mr. Thomas G. Pownall

Mr. Mitchell Rales
(The Glenstone Foundation)

Rolls-Royce Inc.

The Romanian Cultural Foundation

Mr. and Mts. Clive Runnells

Margaret Knowles Schink

Dr. and Mrs. Ivan Selin

Shell International Petroleum Co. Ltd.

Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

Smithsonian Women’s Committee

The Tang Research Foundation

Texaco Foundation

Mr. Eugene Victor Thaw (Eugene V.
and Clare E. Thaw Charitable Trust)

The Tinker Foundation

Trimble Navigation Limited

Tropical Resorts International, Inc.

Turner Entertainment Group

Mr. Robert E. Turner, III
(Turner Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. DeVer K. Warner

Mr. Julius Wile

Young Benefactors of the Smithsonian
Institution

$50,000 or more

Anonymous

Ms. Ann Simmons Alspaugh

AT&T Corporation

Col. and Mrs. Joseph S. Benham
Bisbee Mining and Historical Museum
Agnes Bourne

Brother International Corporation

Mrs. Jackson Burke (Mary Livingston
Griggs and Mary Griggs Burke
Foundation)

Chabot Observatory and Science
Center

Champion International Corporation

Commission for Environmental
Cooperation

Consolidated Natural Gas Company

Mr. Guido Craveri

Mr. Raimondo Craveri

The Nathan Cummings Foundation

Delta Education

Mr. James F. Dicke, II

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Diker (Valerie

& Charles Diker Fund, Inc.)
The Walt Disney Company
DuPont
Duron, Inc./The Feinberg Foundation
Ebrahimi Family Foundation
Fannie Mae Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Hart Fessenden
Mts. June M. Fontanier
Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost (Philip and

Patricia Frost Philanthropic Fund)
J. Paul Getty Trust
Mr. Tito Giamporcaro
Horace W. Goldsmith Foundation
Government Development Bank

for Puerto Rico
Mrs. Ruth Greenberg
Ms. Agnes S. Gund (Agnes Gund

Charitable Account)

Herman Miller, Inc.

Frank and Lisina Hoch*

Mrs. Edgar McPherson Howell
Hughes Network Systems

The Island Fund in The New York

Community Trust
The Japan Foundation
Mr. and Mts. Samuel C. Johnson

(S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.)

Mr. Harvey M. Krueger
Thelma & Melvin Lenkin Family

Charitable Foundation Inc.
The Lovett Foundation, Inc.
Elizabeth and Whitney MacMillan

(WEM Foundation)

Maharam

Mr. and Mrs. Frank Martucci

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Mercy, Jr.

Merrill Lynch & Company
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Jeffery W. Meyer

Miami Museum of Science

The Mills Corporation

National Geographic Society

National Grange of The Order

of Patrons of Husbandry
Col. Erickson S. Nichols
Peter Norton Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Carroll O’Connor

(Carroll & Nancy O’Connor

Foundation)

Pacific Life Foundation

The Park Foundation

Mrs. Jefferson Patterson*

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Regional Citizens Advisory
Council, Inc.

Smithsonian National Board members (from left) Max N. Berry,

Marie L. Knowles, and Marc E. Leland enjoy the Corporate Mem-
bership Program luncheon in June at the Department of State.

(Photograph by Glenn Levy)

James Renwick Alliance

The Rice Family Foundation, Inc.

Sara Roby Foundation

Mr. Arthur Ross (Arthur Ross
Foundation)

Mr. B. Francis Saul, II
(Chevy Chase Bank)

Shell Oil Company

K. Paul & Virginia M. Singh
Foundation, Inc.

The Surdna Foundation

Thomasville Furniture Industries, Inc.

United States Golf Association

Andy Warhol Foundation for the
Visual Arts

Mr. Francis W. Worrell

Xerox Corporation

Zoologische Gesellschaft

$10,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. Roger Abelson

The Abington Foundation

Ms. Jin-Hyun Weatherly Ahn
(Weatherly and Company)

Drs. Waheed and Raana Akbar

Mrs. Kathleen B. Allaire

Allied Corporate Services

American Academy Of Underwater
Sciences

American Petroleum Institute

American Postal Workers Union,
AFL-CIO

The American Society for Cell Biology

The American-Turkish Council and
American Friends of Turkey

Annenberg Institute for School Reform

Atlantic Envelope Company

Lily Auchincloss Foundation, Inc.

Avery Dennison Corporation

B.F. Goodrich Aerospace

Ms. Elizabeth Ballantine

Banco Popular de Puerto Rico

The Banks Association of Turkey

Mr. and Mrs. Perry Bass

Bell Atlantic Corporation

The Honorable Max N. Berry and
Mts. Berry

Mr. Randy Best and Ms. Nancy Best

Mr. Leon D. Black (The Leon Black
Family Foundation)

Mrs. Laura Lee Blanton (Scurlock
Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

The Bodman Foundation

Bombardier Inc.

BP America Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Stephen F. Brauer
(Stephen F. & Camilla T. Brauer
Charitable Trust)

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Brokaw (Brokaw
Family Foundation)

Mr. John Spoor Broome

Mr. G. Michael Brown (Manhattan
Cruises)

Mr. Gerald E. Buck (Buck
Investments)

The Martin Bucksbaum Family
Foundation

Bucyrus-Erie Company

Ms. Margelus Burga

Mrs. Lenora Burstein

Ms. Uschi Butler

Mr. Berchman T. Carville

Caterpillar, Inc.

CH2M Hill Companies, Ltd.

Mr. Alger Chaney

The Chase Manhattan Bank

Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation

Clark-Winchcole Foundation

Dr. Charles H. Clark, Jr.

Mr. Peter Claussen and Ms. Linda
Claussen

Ms. Jan McLin Clayberg

Mr. Joseph M. Cohen (Joseph &
Barbara Cohen Foundation, Inc.)

Mts. Harryette N. Cohn
(Harryette Cohn Fund)

79
80

The Eberly Family Charitable Trust was honored with the
James Smithson Society Founder Medal at the society’s
dinner in May. Accepting the award are (from left) Elouise
Eberly, Robert Eberly Sr., Robert Eberly Jr., and Carolyn
Eberly Blaney. (Photograph by Glenn Levy)

Eberly Family Charitable Trust Honored by
Smithson Society

Since 1978, the James Smithson Society has presented its
Founder Medal to members of the society who have pro-
vided extraordinary support for Smithsonian programs and
initiatives that they feel most passionate about. This year’s
recipient, The Eberly Family Charitable Trust, exemplifies the
tradition of individual giving, through annual memberships
and gifts throughout the year, that distinguishes previous
medalists.

The trust’s recent pledge of $1.4 million will be applied pri-
marily toward creating a center for learning about earth sci-
ences, the Eberly Minerals and Gems Gallery in the National
Museum of Natural History. The gallery will be an appropriate
tribute to the family’s strong interest in education—the pri-
mary focus of its philanthropy—and to its involvement in the
mining and gas industry.

Through The Eberly Foundation and The Eberly Family
Charitable Trust, the family has been a loyal Supporter of the
Smithsonian. The foundation, established through the efforts
of Orville Eberly, is a longstanding member of the James
Smithson Society. Family members have always been
actively involved in the administration of both organizations.
Robert E. Eberly Sr., who currently heads the family philan-
thropies, accepted the Founder Medal on behalf of the trust
at the Smithson Society’s annual dinner on May 21, 1999.

Mr. Lester Colbert, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Peter R. Coneway
(Coneway Family Foundation)

Ms. Gertrude H. Conner (The Gerta
Charitable Trust)

Conservancy for Tibetan Art &
Culture

Conservation, Food & Health
Foundation, Inc.

Consolidated Edison Company
of New York, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. David Cook

Mrs. Ann Cousins (Cousins
Foundation, Inc.)

Crate & Barrel

Cyprus Amax Minerals Company

Da Capo Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Carl B. Davis

Rosa and Carlos de la Cruz

Eric de Rothschild

Defenders of Wildlife

Deutsche Bank

Dewey Ballantine LLP

S. Sydney DeYoung Foundation

Mr. Joseph A. Di Palma

Mr. and Mrs. David Dibner
(The Dibner Fund, Inc.)

Discovery International

Divers Alert Network, Inc.

The Douglass Foundation

The Max & Victoria Dreyfus
Foundation

Mr. Archie W. Dunham

The Dunn Foundation

Duron Paints & Wallcoverings

Mrs. Anne G. Earhart (The Homeland
Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Joel S. Ehrenkranz
(Joel and Anne Ehrenkranz
Philanthropic Fund)

Mr. and Mrs George W. Elliott

Mr. and Mrs. Michael D. Eisner
(The Eisner Foundation)

Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company

Ernst & Young

Mr. and Mrs. John Ernst (Richard C. &
Susan B. Ernst Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph O. Esmerian

Alfred and Harriet Feinman
Foundation

Fisher Company

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Fisher
(D&DF Foundation)

Fisher Scientific International, Inc.

Mr. Aaron I. Fleischman (The Aaron I.
Fleischman Foundation)

Ms. Barbara G. Fleischman

Ms. Dielle Fleischmann
(Monomoy Fund)

Mrs. Leslie S. Fogg, III

Juliet and Lee Folger
(The Folger Fund)*

Forbes, Inc.

Mr. Christopher Forbes
(Forbes Foundation)

Ford Motor Company

Mrs. Daniel Fraad

Freddie Mac Foundation

The Helen Clay Frick Foundation

Gagosian Gallery, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Gans
(Frederick Gans Fund)

Mrs. Aileen M. Garrett

General Electric Company

General Society of the War of 1812

General Atlantic Partners, LLC

George Publishing Company

Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Richard Gilbert

Mr. and Mts. Alfred C. Glassell, Jr.

Glaxo Wellcome Inc.

The Glenstone Foundation

Bernard S. Goffe, M.D.

Golden Family Foundation

Florence J. Gould Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Hermen Greenberg
(The Monica & Hermen
Greenberg Foundation)

Greening America

Mr. H. Malcolm Grimmer
(Morning Star Gallery)

Mr. Peter E. Haas, Sr. (Miriam & Peter
Haas Fund)

Phoebe W. Haas Charitable Trust

Hachette Magazines, Inc.

Mr. Hugh Halff, Jr.

Mr. Robert R. Harris

Mr. Alan Hartman

Mr. Ben Hartnett

Harvard University

M.A. Healy Family Foundation., Inc.

Ms. Elizabeth Hecht

Mr. J. Roderick Heller, III (The Heller
Family Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. John S. Hendricks

Mr. Paul Hertelendy
(Gramp Foundation)

Mr. Alan J. Hirschfield (Norman
Hirschfield Foundation)

Mr. Charles L. Hoar

Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc.

Ms. Hanna Lore Hombordy

Home Box Office

Hong Kong Economic & Trade Office

Ms. Robyn Horn

Ms. Catherine M. Horne

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Horowitz

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence A. Hough
(Lawrence A. and Kathleen M.
Hough Family Fund)

Hospitality Sales & Marketing
Associates International

Mr. David Hudgens

Mr. and Mrs. Milton M. Hyatt

IBM Corporation

ILA Foundation, Chicago

Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. James

Jewelers of America

Mr. Nelson T. Joyner

J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs.Victor Kaufman

Keebler Company

Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund

Mr. Gene A. Keluche (Communication
Resources, Inc.)

Kemper Lesnik Communications

Mr. and Mrs. James M. Kemper, Jr.
(The David Woods Kemper
Memorial Foundation)*

Mr. and Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall
The Robert S. & Grayce B. Kerr
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Fred M. Kirby, II
(EM. Kirby Foundation, Inc.)

J. I. Kislak Foundation, Inc.

John and Mary Lu Koenig

Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Kogod

Koniag, Inc.

Krispy Kreme Doughnut Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Krissel

Ms. Elaine La Roche

The Honorable and Mrs. L. William
Lane, Jr. (The Ambassador &

Mrs. L.W. Lane, Jr. Fund)

Robert Lehrman (Jacob & Charlotte
Lehrman Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Barbara Riley Levin

Mr. and Mrs. Aaron Levine

The Levitt Foundation

The Link Foundation

R. Robert Linowes and Ada H.
Linowes Fund of the Community
Foundation for the National
Capital Region

Lockheed Martin Mission Systems

Loeb & Loeb LLP

Ms. Shirley Loo

Mr. Anton C. Love

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Lubin
(The Barr Fund)

The Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. at
the request of Mr. H. Christopher
Luce

Mr. H.C. Luce and Ms. Tina Liu

Lutheran Brotherhood

Luso-American Development
Foundation

The Honorable John D. Macomber
and Mrs. Macomber

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Malott
(Camalott Charitable Foundation)

Barbara and Morton Mandel (Morton
and Barbara Mandel Family
Foundation)

Nancy and Edwin Marks (The Marks
Family Foundation)

Mars Incorporated

Margery and Edgar Masinter (The
Masinter Family Foundation)

Dr. John P. McGovern
(McGovern Fund)

Mrs. Marilee McNeilus

The Mead Show Room

Medical and Science Communications
Development Corporation

Mr. James R. Mellor (Mellor Family
Foundation)

Merck Institute for Science Education

Merrill Lynch & Company

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Miller

Mitsubishi Corporation

The Mnuchin Foundation

Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc.

Morris Animal Foundation

Mr. John Morss

Motorola, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Mullins

Multiples, Inc./Marian Goodman
Gallery

Mr. and Mrs. Roger K. Myers

National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc.

National Film Preservation
Foundation

National Museum of Industrial History

National Wildlife Federation

Natural American Spirit Foundation

Natural Heritage Trust

The Nature Conservancy

Ms. Nancy Brown Negley

Mr. John M. Nelson (John M.
Nelson Fund)

New York Mercantile Exchange

The New York Times Company

Mr. Paul L. Newman (The Newman’s
Own Fund)

Newmont Mining Corporation

Nippon Foundation

Dr. and Mrs. Stanton P. Nolan

Mr. and Mrs. Lucio A: Noto
(Mobil Corporation)

Mr. and Mrs. Morris W. Offit

Ralph E. Ogden Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. Camille Oliver-Hoffmann

Open Lands Project

Orbital Sciences Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Osnos

John and Virginia Paes

Mr. and Mrs. James Patton, Jr.

Peabody Holding Company, Inc.

Mr. Gerald L. Pearson (Pearson Art
Foundation, Inc.)

Dr. Arthur Peck

Mr. James E. Pehta (James E. Pehta
Foundation)

Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation
of Connecticut

Pillsbury Company

Mrs. Cynthia H. Polsky (Hazen Polsky
Foundation, Inc.)

Dr. and Mrs. Meyer P. Potamkin

Pratt & Whitney

Mr. and Mrs. Heinz C. Prechter (World
Heritage Fund)

Mr. and Mrs. Sushil Premchand

Mrs. Charles H. Price, II (Carol
Swanson Price Foundation)

The Lynn R. & Karl E. Prickett Fund

Mr. Gene Quintana (Valerie & Charles
Diker Fund)

Reed Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Philip D. Reed, Jr.

Rexam Paper Products

Mr. John R. Risher, Jr.

Ms. Ann R. Roberts

Rockefeller Foundation

Rocks Build American Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Milton F. Rosenthal

Mr. E. John Rosenwald, Jr.
(Monterey Fund, Inc.)

Mr. Stephen M. Ross

The May and Samuel Rudin Family
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur F. Sackler

Dr. Elizabeth A. Sackler

Mr. and Mrs. James F. Sams (The James
& Betty Sams Family Foundation)

San Carlos Institute

Victoria P. and Roger W. Sant (The
Roger and Vicki Sant Fund)

Mr. Ignatius Sargent

SC Costica Prosper SRL

Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd G. Schermer

Mr. Richard J. Schwartz (David
Schwartz Foundation, Inc.)

Ms. Isabelle Scott (Jacob & Charlotte
Lehrman Foundation, Inc.)

Sempra Energy

Sequent Computer Systems, Inc.

Shaw Industries, Inc.

Mr. and Mts. David M. Silfen (David &
Lyn Silfen Foundation)

Siemens Corporation

Silver Dollar City Inc.

The Gertrude E. Skelly Charitable
Foundation

Mr. Bruce Slovin (Slovin Foundation)

Mr. Richard M. Smith
(Newsweek, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Franchon M. Smithson

Mrs. Eloise O. Spaeth

Mr. Clemmie Dixon Spangler, Jr.
(C.D. Spangler Foundation)

State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company

Mr. Thomas H. Stoner

Ms. Mary P. Surrey (Max & Victoria
Dreyfus Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. Kelso FE. Sutton (Kelso F. &
Joanna L. Sutton Fund)

Tarver Family Fund

Mts. Ellen N. Taubman (Ellen Napiura
Taubman, Ltd.)

Ms. Ann Tenenbaum and Mr. Thomas
H. Lee

Tenneco Inc.

Texaco, Inc.

Time Domain Corporation

Mr. Ward J. Timken (Timken
International Fund)

John and Daniel Tishman Fund

Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.

Trellis Fund

Unico Banking Group

Uniform Code Council, Inc.

United Airlines, Inc.

United Transportation Union

Venable, Baetjer & Howard
Foundation, Inc.

Beatrix and Ladislaus von Hoffmann

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Waite

Mr. and Mts. Milton H. Ward

Warren Wilson College

Mrs. Ruth L. Webb

Ellen Bayard Weedon Foundation

Honorable and Mrs. Frank A. Weil
(Hickrill Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. Thomas W. Weisel

Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research

White Oak Corporation

Williams College

Warren and Barbara Winiarski

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
(Wolfensohn Family Foundation)

The Women’s Museum

World Federation of Ultrasound
in Medicine & Biology

Mrs. Gay F. Wray (Roger S. Firestone
Foundation)

Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals
Wyeth-Lederle

Zero International Inc.

Ms. Nina Zolt and Mr. Miles Gilburne

$5,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. Ronald D. Abramson (Abramson
Family Foundation)

Mr. Warren J. Adelson

Philip & Henrietta Adler Foundation

AERO Club Foundation of
Washington

Alaska Federation of Natives

Mr. and Mrs. Ahmed Ali
(Geo-Etka, Inc.)

Ms. Charmay B. Allred

Alnell Farm

American Association of Retired
Persons

American Association for the
Advancement of Science

American Zoo & Aquarium
Association

Harriet Ames Charitable Trust

Mr. and Mts. William S. Anderson
(William S. and Janice R.
Anderson Fund)

Joan and Peter Andrews

Mr. and Mrs. Rand Araskog

ARCO Foundation, Inc.

Arts & Entertainment
Network/ABC/NBC

Asian Cultural Council, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Barwick

Mr. and Mrs. William Beierwaltes

Black Entertainment Television
Holdings Inc.

BMW of North America, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. John M. Bradley

Mrs. Fleur S. Bresler

Mr. Willard W. Brown, Jr.

Mrs. Rochelle L. Brunner

Mr. Howard G. Buffett (The Sherwood
Foundation)

Bunge Corporation

Center for International Forestry
Research

Chesapeake Wildlife Heritage

Ms. Nancy L. Connor (Ringing Rocks
Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Roger E. Covey

Ms. Allison Stacey Cowles and Mr.
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger*

Drs. William H. and Isabella C.M.
Cunningham

Dames & Moore

Mr. and Ms. Richard M. Danziger

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, III (Dean S.
Edmonds Foundation)

EMA Foundation for Education &
Technology Research

Entertainment Industry Foundation

Ms. Audrey G. Falkenstein

Joseph and Bessie Feinberg
Foundation

Feld Entertainment, Inc.

Ms. Martha Feltenstein

Dr. Alan Fern and Mrs. Lois Fern

81
Smithson Society member Richard Triska (right) is presented with

a recognition plaque as the newest member of the James Smith-

son Society Endowed Life Program by Office of Membership and

Development staff member Deborah Trumble at the society’s

annual dinner. (Photograph by Glenn Levy)

Ms. Rosemary L. Frankeberger

Mr. George C. Freeman, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Fri

Fundatia Culturala Romana

Mr. Edward O. Gaylord

GEICO Corporation

Mr. and Mrs. Gordon P. Getty (Ann &
Gordon Getty Foundation)

Mr. Bert Getz (Globe Foundation)

Dr. Margaret Goodman

Ms. Elizabeth Gosnell

Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Gray, Jr. (Lerner
Gray Foundation, Inc.)

David Greenewalt Charitable Trust

The Grodzins Fund

GTE Hawaiian Telephone
Company, Inc.

Mr. Bertram Fields and Ms. Barbara
Guggenheim (Guggenheim, Asher
Associates, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Robert D. Haas (Colleen
and Robert D. Haas Fund)

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Haldeman

Mr. and Mrs. Ben Hammett

Mr. and Mrs. Irshad-ul-Haque

Heinz Family Foundation

Mr. Frederick D. Hill (Berry-Hill
Galleries, Inc.)

Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn (Olga & Joseph
H. Hirshhorn Foundation, Inc.)

82

Mr. John K. Howat

Dr. Stanley O. Ikenberry

Imax Limited

Institut fur Auslandsbeziehungen

International Mass Retail Association

Mr. and Mrs. Maurice H. Katz

The Katzenberger Foundation, Inc.

Kell, Munoz, Wigodsky Architects

Mr. R. Crosby Kemper, Jr. (Enid &
Crosby Kemper Foundation)

Mr. William G. Kerr (The Robert S. &
Grayce B. Kerr Foundation)

Drs. Aziz and Deanna Khan

Kimsey Foundation

Mr. and Mts. James W. Kinnear

Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert H. Kinney

Mrs. Marie L. Knowles

The Samuel H. Kress Foundation

Mr. Myron Kunin (Curtis Galleries, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. James J. Lally

Mrs. Emily Fisher Landau

Mr. and Mrs. Jon Landau

Alvin S. Lane, Esq. (The Alvin S. Lane
Family Fund)

Mr. Albert G. Lauber, Jr.
and Mr. Craig W. Hoffman

Mr. Leonard A. Lauder
(Lauder Foundation)

Mr. Ronald S. Lauder (Mrs. Estee
Lauder Philanthropic Fund)

Dr. Thomas Lawton

Lee Enterprises

The Levitt Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert V. Lindsay

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Linton
(Linton Foundation)

Ms. Nina Liu

Lockheed Martin Missiles & Space

The Lucelia Foundation, Inc.

The Lucy Foundation

Mrs. Jean B. Mahoney

Mr. and Mrs. Hamid Malik
(Amtrend Corporation)

Mallinckrodt, Inc.

Mr. Richard A. Manoogian
(Masco Corporation)

Marpat Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Spencer Marsh, III

Mary Martell and Paul M. Johnson

University of Maryland College Park

Mr. John F. McGuigan, Jr.

Mr. Robert L. McNeil, Jr. (The Barra
Foundation, Inc.)

The Mead Corporation

Mr. Makhdoom Ahmad Mehmood

Mr. Paul Mellon

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Mennello

Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern
Art Studies

Mrs. Jane B. Meyerhoff

Miller Freeman, Inc.

Mr. Vern Milligan

Mobil Foundation, Inc.

Montgomery Watson Americas, Inc.

Enid and Lester Morse
(Morse Family Foundation)

NAMSB Foundation, Inc.

National Association of Display
Industries Inc.

Ms. Annalee Newman

Nordstrom, Inc.

Mr. George L. Ohrstrom, Jr.
(Little River Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Ricard R. Ohrstrom
(Little River Foundation)

The Pace Gallery

Helen Ann Patton

Parsons Engineering Science, Inc.

Mr. Gerald P. Peters (Gerald Peters
Gallery, Inc.)

Peterson Family Foundation

Philip Morris Companies, Inc.

Mr. Victor M. Pinzon

Placer Dome, Inc.

Mr. John Edward Plunket

Mr. James S. Polshek (Polshek Metcalf
Tobey and Part)

Mrs. John Alexander Pope

William A. & Ronnie N. Potter
Philanthropic Fund

The Henry & Henrietta Quade
Foundation

Mr. Safi U. Qureshey, Uns Safi
Qureshey and Zeshen Neil
Qureshey

Mr. and Mts. Jack Rachlin

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey W. Rambach

The Reader’s Digest Association, Inc.

Republic National Bank of New York

Mary Livingston Ripley Charitable
Lead Trust*

Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth X. Robbins

Mr. David Rockefeller, Sr.

Karol K. Rodriguez

Mr. and Mts. Richard Roob

Mr. Robert Rosenkranz and
Ms. Alexandra Munroe
(The Rosenkranz Foundation)

Benjamin J. Rosenthal Foundation

Mrs. Polly Rubin

Ms. Celia C. Rumsey (Mary A. H.
Rumsey Foundation)

Ms. Hattie Ruttenberg

Mrs. Else Sackler

Charles E. Sampson Memorial
Foundation

Ms. Louisa S. Sarofim

Ms. Helen G. Schneider

Mr. and Mrs. A. Harvey Schreter

Mr. and Mrs. J. Henry Sheffield

Mr. and Mrs. W. Mason Shehan

Mrs. H. Robert Slusser

Mr. and Mrs. E. Maynard Smith

Sotheby’s

Mr. Ira Spanierman

Mr. Alan G. Spoon

The Summit Charitable
Foundation, Inc.

Mrs. H. William Tanaka

Mr. Jahangir Tareen

A. Alfred Taubman (Taubman
Endowment for the Arts)

Tetra Tech EM Inc.

Dr. F. Christian Thompson

Timken Company

Ms. Rita Tishman (Norman-Rita
Tishman Fund, Inc.)

Mr. John Travolta

United States Postal Service

United Technologies Corporation

Mr. Warren W. Unna

WETA

Mr. William F. Whalen
and Ms. Nancy Mattson

Mr. Eli Wilner and Ms. Barbara
Brennan (Eli Wilner &
Company, Inc.)

World Wildlife Fund

Young & Rubicam Inc.

$2,000 or more

Anonymous

Mr. and Mrs. Christopher Addison
(Addison/Ripley Gallery)

Ms. Tina Alster

Danese Altman

American Zinc Association

Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Anderson

ANR Pipeline Company

Mrs. Iris Apfel

Mr. Eugene Applebaum

Aria Foundation

Mr. Arnold Aronson

Association for Computing
Machinery, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Auchincloss
(Monadnock Fund)

Milton & Sally Avery Arts Foundation

B&O Railroad Museum

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Baddour
(Baddour Family Fund)
Bajaj Family Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Balzer

Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Barnett

Mr. and Mts. Robert A. Bartlett, Jr.

Ms. Karen H. Bechtel

Bell Atlantic of Washington, D.C.

Mr. Robert A. Bernhard

Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Bernheim, Jr.
(The Bernheim Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Esther S. Bondareff

Mr. Robert H. Braunohler

Bristol Associates, Inc.

Mr. Eli Broad (The Broad Art
Foundation)

Mr. Edward Cafritz (Dr. Edward &
Mildred Cafritz Camily
Foundation)

The Center for Arts Education

Centre National De La Recherche
Scientif

Vinton G. and Sigrid T. Cerf

Mr. and Mrs. John D. Chapman

Dr. and Mrs. Timothy W. Childs

Christie’s, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. Dennis Cirillo

Mr. and Mts. Willard G. Clark

Cofers, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Cohen

Drs. John Y. Cole and
Nancy E. Gwinn

Computer Associates
International, Inc.

Ruth Covo Family Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Crystal

Jeffrey P. Cunard

D.C. Chartered Health Plan, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank A. Daniels, Jr.

The Gloria & Sydney Danziger
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Frederick M. Danziger

Dart Industries, Inc.

Mrs. Mary A. DeBare

Decorative Arts Society, Inc.

Mr. Arun K. Deva

Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Dickey, Jr.

Mr. George A. Didden, III

Mr. and Mrs. George C. Dillon

Duncan Aviation

Dublin Historical Society

Dr. Sylvia A. Earle

East West Foundation

Eli Lilly & Company

Emilio Ambasz & Associates, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony T. Enders

Mr. and Mrs. Giuseppe Eskenazi

Ms. Elizabeth S. Eustis

Mr. Thomas M. Evans, Jr. (Thomas M.

Evans, Jr. Foundation)
Mrs. Myron S. Falk, Jr.
Mr. and Mts. George J. Fan
Faucett Family Trust
The Federal Society for Law &
Public Policy Studies
Mr. and Mrs. Roger Felberbaum
(Felberbaum Family Foundation)
First Center for Visual Arts, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Miles Q. Fiterman
Mr. and Mrs. John Fletcher, III
Ms. Anne Forbes
Mr. Sidney Forbes
Mrs. Ann B. Friedman

Mrs. Marilyn Friedman

Ms. Ellen L. Frost and Mr. William F.
Pedersen

Mr. Richard S. Fuld, Jr. (Richard S.
Fuld, Jr. Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Martha F. Game

Mr. Edward K. Gamson

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Ganek

Mr. and Mrs. Julian Ganz, Jr.

Gem, Lapidary & Mineral Society of
Montgomery County MD, Inc.

General Dynamics Corporation

Dr. Kurt A. Gitter and Ms. Alice Yelen

Mr. Virgil D. Gligor (V D G, Inc.)

Mr. Leslie H. Goldberg (Leslie
Goldberg Charity Fund)

Colonel Richard H. Graham, USAF
(Ret.)

Ms. Elizabeth W. Gwinn

Mr. John M. Haddow (Rita C. & John
M. Haddow Family Foundation)

Mts. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Dr. William T. Hardaker, Jr.

Harrison Family Trust

Mr. Joseph A. Helman (Joseph
Helman Gallery, Inc.)

Mr. John B. Henry

Mr. and Mrs. William Herbster

Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Herlitz

Levy Hermanos Foundation, Inc.

Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess

Dr. W. Ronald Heyer

Olga & Joseph H. Hirshhorn
Foundation, Inc.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Hoehn

Mr. Craig W. Hoffman

Ms. Nancy Hoffmann

Mr. Gary Honbarrier

Mr. and Mrs. S. Roger Horchow

Hoss Charitable Foundation

Sir Joseph E. Hotung

Ms. Susan Hurowitz

Illinois Tool Works Foundation

Mrs. Ruthanne Iselin

ITT Industries, Inc.

Mr. Richard J. Janes

Ms. Wendy Jeffers

Jefferson-Pilot Corporation

David and Pat Jernigan

Mr. and Mrs. Philip C. Jessup, Jr.

Johnson & Johnson

Mr. and Mrs. Jacob C. Kainen

Mrs. Floy Kaminski

Mr. Eugene J. Kaplan

Dr. and Mrs. Ashok H. Kaveeshwar

Mr. Walter Keating

Miss Narinder Kaur Keith
and Miss Rajinder Kaur Keith

Dr. and Mrs. Clinton W. Kelly, III

Ms. Marie-Louise Kennedy

Lieutenant Colonel William K. and
Mrs. Alice S. Konze (Alice Stockton
Konze Fund)

KPMG

Mts. Rose C. Kramer

Mr. Jay Kriegel and Ms. Kathryn
McAuliffe (The Tides Foundation)

Mr. James D. Krissel and
Ms. Dina K. Krissel

Mr. and Mrs. Robert E. Krueger

Mr. Jatinder Kumar, Trustee of APCA

Ms. Nanette L. Laitman (William &
Mildred Lasdon Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Mel S. Lavitt

Ms. Naomi Leff (Naomi Leff &
Associates, Inc.)

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Lehrman

The Honorable Marc E. Leland
(Marc E. Leland Foundation)

Mr. Edward J. Lenkin

John H. Lese Company

Drs. Edmund and Julie Lewis

Lippincott & Margulies

S. Arthur Localio

Mr. Meredith J. Long

Mr. Penn Lupovich

Dr. Jerry H. Lynn

Mr. Dennis H. Lyon and Mr. Russ
Lyon, Jr. (Russ Lyon Realty
Company)

M. Ronald Ruskin Consulting LLC

Mr. Burt Manning

Mr. Matthew Marks
(Matthew Marks, Inc.)

Mars Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Tom Marsh

Mr. William N. Mason, III

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Mateyka

Mr. and Mrs. William P. McClure

Nan Tucker McEvoy Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Terence McInerney

Mr. Arnold B. McKinnon

Mr. Floyd W. McRae
(Eleven Eleven Fund)

Mrs. Kimberly R. Menninger

Milford Plaza

Mr. and Mts. Herbert S. Miller

Dianne and Kenneth Miller

Mineta for Congress Committee

Dr. Marvin and Elayne Mordes

Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Morgan

Jane and John Morrison

Charles Nagel Trust

Mr. Andrew Nasser (Wear Me
Apparel Corporation)

National Air Transporation
Association

NationsBank Fund

National Association of Display
Industries Inc.

Ms. Evelyn Nef

John and Linda Nelson

NHK Enterprises America, Inc.

Mr. Eliot C. Nolen

The Nomura Securities Co., Ltd.

North American Airlines, Inc.

Mr. Harold Oelbaum (Harold & Nancy
Oelbaum Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Harris K. Oppenheimer
(Harris & Lois Oppenheimer
Foundation)

Pacific Art Foundation

The Palace Bingo

Dr. Paul D. Parkman

William and Antoinette Peskoff

Mr. Richard E. Petit

Ms. Mary L. Pierce

Lt. Col. and Mrs. Joseph T. Pisciotta

Mr. and Mrs. Elliott I. Pollock

Lt. Col. and Mrs. Norman S. Portenoy,
USAF (Ret.) (Max & Victoria
Dreyfus Foundation, Inc.)

Mrs. Lewis T. Preston

Dr. Kazuko K. Price

Prince Charitable Trusts

Ms. Judy Lynn Prince

Pro Helvetia

Mr. Thomas F. Pyle

Mr. and Mrs. Frank R. Ramirez

Dr. William C. Ramsay (C.B. Ramsay
Foundation, Inc.)

Dr. and Mrs. David L. Raphling

Ms. Tamara Rebanks

Mrs. Douglas F. Reeves

Ms. Barbara P. Richards

Mr. Jim Richman (Richloom Fabrics
Group, Inc.)

Ms. Rosemary L. Ripley

Mr. and Mrs. Gregory S. Rodman

Summer Rodman

Mr. William D. Rollnick (William D.
and Nancy Ellison Rollnick
Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Rose Associates, Inc.

Mr. and Mts. Samuel J. Rosenfeld

Ms. Loretta Rosenthal

Mr. Thomas Rosse (Rosse Family
Charitable Foundation, Inc.)

Mr. Earl Rubley (South Florida
Communications)

The Safer-Fearer Fund

Mr. and Mrs. David Saity

Mr. A.R. Sanchez (Sanchez Oil &
Gas Corporation)

Ms. Diane Schafer and Dr. Jeffrey Stein

Mr. and Mrs. Leo Schenker

Dr. and Mts. Rolf G. Scherman

Sara D. and Roy A. Schotland

Mr. Alan E. Schwartz

Seymour I. Schwartz, M.D.

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

Second Story Books

Sedgwick County Zoological Society

M. Sigmund & Barbara K. Shapiro
Family Fund

Mr. Shelby Shapiro

Mr. Lawrence Shar (Julius Lowy Frame
& Restoring Company, Inc.)

Mts. Richard E. Sherwood

Mr. and Mrs. James Shinn

Mr. and Mrs. Jeffrey R. Short, Jr.

Simarc Foundation, Inc.

Mts. John Farr Simmons

Mr. Stephen Simon (Esther Simon
Charitable Trust)

Mr. Theodore J. Slavin

Capt. And Mrs. Charles E. Smith

Kathy Daubert Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth L. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Anthony M. Solomon

Mr. Richard H. Solomon

Mr. and Mts. Joseph Stamler

Mr. Theodore R. Stanley

Mr. Henry M. Strong

Ms. Patricia S. Swaney

Dr. Mahinder Tak and Mr. Sharad Tak

Mr. Berrin Tekiner

Joseph H. Thompson Fund

Lady Judith O. Thomson

The Tides Foundation

Mr. Laurence A. Tisch
(Tisch Foundation, Inc.)

83
Mr. Steve Tisch (The Jamie and Steven
Tisch Foundation)

Mr. and Mrs. Donald Tober
(Sugar Foods Corporation)

Honorable and Mrs. Russell E. Train

Mr. Ted Trotta and Ms. Anna Bono

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Unterberg
(Correspondent Services
Corporation)

US WEST Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Nathaniel H. Usdan
(Lemberg Foundation, Inc.)

Ms. Lillian M. Vernon (Lillian
Vernon Foundation)

Visual New York Inc.

Mrs. Dina K. von Jaeger

Mr. Robert L. Wald

Mr. and Mrs. Allen Wardwell

Mr. and Mrs. Stanford S. Warshawsky
(Centennial Foundation)

Washington Gas Light Co.

Washington Inc.

The Washington Post Company

The Raymond John Wean Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Guy Weill

Mr. and Mrs. Edward A. Weinstein
(Edward A. and Sandra R.
Weinstein Philanthropic Fund)

Mr. and Mrs. Franc Wertheimer

Sperone Westwater, Inc.

Mr. Richard E. Whalen

Ms. Wynelle W. White

Mr. and Mrs. Norman C. Willcox

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson

The Robert I. Wishnick Foundation

World Wildlife Fund

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bagley Wright, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Daniel W. Yohannes

Mr. Martin Zelman

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Zucker

SMITHSONIAN
CORPORATE
MEMBERSHIP PROGRAM

The Smithsonian Corporate
Membership Program is a national
initiative through which corporations
provide unrestricted support to
Smithsonian education, research, and
exhibition initiatives.

ABC, Inc.

American Express

American General

ARCO

Arthur Anderson LLP

AT&T

Bayer Corporation

Bell Atlantic

BellSouth Corporation

BMW of North America

Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc.
BP Amoco

Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
Capital One

Capital Re

The Capital Group Companies
CH2M Hill Companies

The Clark Construction Group, Inc.

84

The Coca-Cola Company

Concert Management Services, Inc.

Conoco Inc.

Crate and Barrel

DaimlerChrysler A.G.

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Deutsche Bank

Dewey Ballantine LLP

The Walt Disney Company

DuPont

Exxon Corporation

Fannie Mae Foundation

Fidelity Investments

Ford Motor Company

General Electric Company

George Magazine

Glaxo Wellcome, Inc.

Goldman, Sachs & Company

GTE Corporation

Hitachi Limited

Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc.

Hunter Engineering Company

IBM

ID Magazine

S.C. Johnson & Sons, Inc.

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc.

The Kansai Electric Power
Company, Inc.

KPMG

Lee Enterprises

Litton Industries

Liz Claiborne

Loeb & Loeb LLP

Mars Incorporated

Marubeni Corporation

Merrill Lynch

Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee

Mobil Corporation

J.P. Morgan & Company, Inc.

Newman’s Own

New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

Noble Drilling Corporation

Novartis Corporation

PEPCO

Pfizer Inc

Pharmacia & Upjohn

PricewaterhouseCoopers

Raytheon

Riggs Bank N.A.

SBC Communications

Scripps Howard Foundation

Siemens Corporation

Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom

Sony Corporation of America

Southern Company

Sprint

State Farm Insurance Companies

Teknion

Texas Instruments

Time Warner, Inc.

The Tokyo Electric Power
Company, Inc.

Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A, Inc

TRW Inc.

U.S. Bank

Warner-Lambert Company

Xerox Corporation

JAMES SMITHSON
SOCIETY

James Smithson Society members
share a deep commitment to the
dynamic unfolding of James
Smithson’s vision. The society’s
dues and special gifts provide
unrestricted support for the
Smithsonian’s research, exhibition,
and educational programs.

Endowed Life Members

Anonymous (1)

Karen & Edward Burka

Ms. Ruth Boyer Compton

Mr. & Mrs. Dean S. Edmonds

Mr. Daniel Gilbert & Mrs. Alice Petree
Gilbert

Mrs. Alton B. Grimes

William Logan Hopkins

Richard & Elaine Kaufman

Lt. Col. & Mrs. William K. Konze

Pearl Bell and Colonel Billie G.
Matheson

Mr. & Mrs. Gilbert D. Mead

Mr. Anton H. Rosenthal &
Ruth E. Ganister

Catherine F. Scott

Shelby Shapiro

Mr. & Mrs. J. Henry Sheffield

Mrs. Shirley P. Sichel

Mr. Richard L. Triska

Annual Members

$10,000 or more

The Jean Axelrod Memorial
Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Perry R. Bass

Ms. Nancy L. Connor

The Eberly Foundation

The Gordon Fund

Mrs. Roy Johnson

Jacob and Charlotte Lehrman Fdn.

John L. and Carolyn J. Peterson

Betty Rhoads Wright

$5,000 or more

Mr. William Arndt

Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. Ballman

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Barton

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Block

Mrs. Howard M. Booth

Carter and Melissa Cafritz
Charitable Trust

Dr. and Mrs. David A. Cofrin

Mrs. Carole D. Crocker

Mr. and Mrs. James C. Day

Mr. and Mrs. James A. Elkins, Jr.

The Virginia Sugg Furrow Foundation

Ms. Lumina Greenway

Mr. Corbin Gwaltney

Leslie Hackenson and Roger Allers

Stephen and Jocelin Hamblett

Miss Nancy A. Haynes

Therese and I. Michael Heyman

Mr. James T. Hines, Jr.

Mary Martell and Paul M. Johnson

Mr. Mark Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Lester S. Morse, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick Munroe
Mr. Michael D. O’Dell and
Ms. Judith Grass
Mr. and Mts. Charles L. Poor
Philip and Elizabeth Reed
Mr. and Mts. John Watts Roberts
Vicki and Roger Sant
The Simpson PSB Fund
The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation
Ms. Evelyn Twigg-Smith
Miss Winifred E. Weter
Ellen and Bernard Young

$2,000 or more

35 Anonymous

Mrs. August Ackel

Mr. Terry L. Albertson

Mr. and Mrs. Lambert E. Althaver

Miss Barbara Anne Ames

Mrs. Robert Amory, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. William G. Anderson

Mr. Leonard Andrews

Donna Barnard Ari and
Ewing H. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Rudolph Arkin

Mrs. Jack R. Aron

Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Avery

Joe and Holly Baker

Steven and LaRae Bakerink

Mr. Robert J. Barker

Janine F. Barre

Elizabeth Barrer

Rhoda and Jordan Baruch

Mrs. Elizabeth H. Bass

Albert Beekhuis Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Michael B. Beeman

Mr. and Mts. James M. Beggs

Mr. Michael D. Bielucki

Dr. Deborah Black

The Honorable Robert O. Blake
and Mts. Blake

Mr. John H. Blazek

Mr. and Mrs. Huntington T. Block

Mr. and Mrs. William J.D. Bond

J.A. Boorman

Mr. Bennett Boskey

Ms. Margaret L. Bourgerie

Ms. Rebecca A. Bowman

David Boyes

Charles and Fleur Bresler

Mr. Alfred Pope Brooks

Mrs. Keith S. Brown

Mr. J. Kevin Buchi and
Dr. Kathleen Buchi

The Bunting Family Foundation

George E. and Clare M. Burch

Dr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Burnes

Ms. Alice Green Burnette

Mrs. Helen Cabell and
Christine Cabell

Mr. Kenneth S. Cameron

Phyllis H. Carey

Mr. Donald W. Carl

Mr. William Carlebach

Mae Casner

Vinton and Sigrid Cerf

Dr. Jonathan L. Chang

Colonel and Mrs. George E.
Chapin, Jr.
Ms. Li Chu

Mr. and Mrs. J. Donald Cline

Melvin and Ryna Cohen

The Honorable Barber Conable Jr.
and Mrs. Conable

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Cooley

Ms. Florence Corder-Witter

Ms. Jean Coyne

Mrs. Gretchen S. Crow

Mr. John H. Darlington, Jr.+

Mrs. Joseph H. Davenport, Jr.

Barry and Nora Davis

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Alfred Davis

Anna M. Day

Kathleen and Eugene De Falco

Ms. Dorothy J. Del Bueno

Mr. Arthur F. Dellheim

Mrs. Deborah J. Denefrio

Bernard and Susan Dennis

Geert M. DePrest and Laura
Travis-DePrest

Hilton B. Dickerson

Ms. Claudia Dickman

Douglas Dillon

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Dixon

Dr. William H. L. Dornette

Ms. Diane M. Dudley

Mr. and Mrs. Robert K. Edson

Miss Babs Eisman

Mr. and Mrs. Richard England

Gary and Jeri Epstein

Ernst and Elfriede Frank
Foundation Inc

Colonel Charles O. Eshelman

Dorothy D. Eweson

Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Fayad

Dianne L. Fecteau

Mr. Harry Feldman

Dr. and Mrs. James J. Ferguson, Jr.

Dr. and Mrs. Adrian E. Flatt

Mary and Henry Flynt

Mr. Philip E. Forest

Mr. Benjamin Frank

Virginia McGehee Friend

Mr. Cary J Frieze and Mrs. Rose Frieze

David Morgan Frost

Mrs. L. J. Futchik

Mrs. J. Gardiner

Mr. Phil Gardner

Mr. Caspar C. Garrigues

Michael and Susie Gelman

Mary O’Brien Gibson

Bonnie Gillespie

Dr. and Mrs. Clarence Glenn

George C and Erna M. Graham

Ms. Catharine Graton

Mrs. John B. Greene

Ms. Marion E. Greene

Calvin and Marilyn B. Gross

Mr. and Mrs. Patrick W. Gross

Bruce Guthrie

Adele and Donald Hall

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton

Robert V. and Rita S. Hanle

Mr. Niles Hanson

Ms. Helen Leale Harper

Mts. Jane S. Hart

Mr. and Mrs. Max E. Hartl

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert A. Hartman, Jr.

The Honorable and Mrs. John
Hechinger, Sr.

Mr. and Mrs. David Heebner
Robert M. and Gladys F. Henry
Catherine W. Herman
Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess
Mrs. Virginia L. Hickman
Mrs. Gloria Hidalgo
Clara Jane Hill
Mr. William M. Hollis, Jr.
and Andrea M. Baldeck, M.D.
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Hopkins
Mr. and Mrs. Peter House
Mr. Tommy D. Hughes
Mrs. Peter D. Humleker, Jr.
Mrs. Elizabeth L. Hunter
R. Bruce Hunter
Mrs. Jane Hunter-Mac Millan
Mr. Joshua R. Icore
Mr. L. R. Ingels
John B. Ippolito, Diane M.
Laird-Ippolito
Doctors Jay and Mary Anne Jackson
David A. Jacques
David and Pat Jernigan
Mr.and Mrs. Arthur W. Johnson
Mrs. Roy Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Samuel C. Johnson
W. Johnson
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley B. Jones
Mr. Sheldon T. Katz
Ina and Jack Kay
Shelley Kay
Stephen C. Keeble and Karen Depew
Ms. Jettie Kelly
Anne B. Kennedy
Dr. Rebecca Kenyon
Mrs. Virginia W. Kettering
Mr. and Mrs. Clark H. Kilhefner
Mr. James V. Kimsey
Dr. William M. King
Mr. and Mrs. Norman V. Kinsey
Mr. Edward J. Kirby
Ms. Elizabeth Gelman Kossow
Irene Daniell Kress
Robert E. and Elizabeth W. Krueger
Mts. James S. Lacock
Judge Marion Ladwig
Dr. and Mrs. Emanuel Landau
Mrs. Stephens J. Lange
Janet E. Lanman
Dr. and Mrs. LaSalle D. Leffall, Jr.
Mrs. William Leonhart
Mr. William B. Levin
and Ms. Canice Kelly Levin
Mrs. Jean C. Lindsey
Dr. and Mrs. John G. Lodmell
Mr. Frank J. Lukowski
Dr. Steven Lunzer
Edmund C. Lynch, Jr.
Mr. and Mts. Fred W. Lyons, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard L. Mahfouz
Dr. (CDR) Hugh M. Mainzer
and Ms. Jill Jarecki
Mr. and Mrs. Jack A. Mark
Mr. and Mrs. Forrest E. Mars, Jr.
Ms. Virginia C. Mars
Mr. Frederick P. Mascioli
Major General Raymond E. Mason Jr.
and Margaret E. Mason
Dr. Thomas R. Masters
Wayne and Tina Mathews
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mathias

Alan Shore (left), Bernie Stadiem, Carol Shore, and National Air

and Space Museum Director Donald Engen enjoy fellowship at
the Smithsonian Legacy Society luncheon in November. (Photo-

graph by Terry McCrea)

Mr. James I. McAuliff

Emmett and Miriam McCoy

Richard and Vivian McCrary

Mr. and Mrs. Clayton McCuistion

Mr. and Mrs. John D. McLean

Meriam McNiel

Scott McVay

Mr. Paul Mellon+

Sue B. and Eugene Mercy, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Merriman

His Excellency Sir Christopher Meyer,
KCMG

Mr. George H. Miller

Mr. and Mrs. Herbert S. Miller

Jerry M. Miller and Dorothy T. Miller

Mr. Peter Monrose

Mrs. Rosalis Montgomery

Mr. and Mrs. Michael A. Moran

Mr. Robert E. Mortensen

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth F. Mountcastle

Dr. Gary L. Mueller
and Dr. Carolyn R. Mueller

Dr. J. Andrew Mulholland

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond E. Murray

Mr. and Mrs. Eric B. Nettere

Mrs. Frances Newman

Mary L. Nucci and Abraham
Abuchowski

Dr. and Mrs. J. Dennis O’Connor

Ms. Nancy F. O’Connor

Beverly H. and William P. O’Hara

William and Jean O'Neill

James D. Oglevee and Susan Marie
Halliday

Mr. and Mrs. Steven F. Paes

Christine M. and Gregory J.
Parseghian

Mts. Jefferson Patterson

Peacock Foundation, Inc.

Mr. Scott D. Pearson

C. Wesley and Jacqueline Peebles

Mrs. Joseph S. Pendleton

Mr. J. Liddon Pennock, Jr.

George and Sally Pillsbury

Mr. John Pitts, Sr.

Jane P. Plakias

Carol Pochardt

Mr. and Mrs. Leon B. Polsky/The
Polsky Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Posner, Jr.

The Rey. and Mrs. Charles Price

Mrs. Melville J. Price

Mr. and Mrs. Whayne S. Quin

Claire and John Radway

Mr. Elmer Rasmuson

Mr. and Mrs. Norval L. Rasmussen

Mrs. Carol H. Ray

Mr. and Mrs. Michael F. Reagan

Mr. and Mrs. Edward H. Rice

Mrs. Carlyn Ring

Doug Ring and Cindy Miscikowski

Mrs. Dorothy Hyman Roberts

Ms. Nancy J. Robertson
and Mr. Mark N. Cookingham

Mr. Arthur Rock

The Honorable John D. Rockefeller, IV
and Mrs. Rockefeller

Mrs. I. Alfred Rosenbaum, Jr.

Dr. Norman Rosenzweig

Mrs. Yvonne W. Roth

Marya Rowan

Ms. Marcia Rubenstein

Marcos and Dina Russek

Mr. William R. Salomon

Albert and Thelma Sbar

Ambassador James H. Scheuer
and Emily Malino Scheuer

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas R. Scheumann

Roger P. and Nancy L. Schlemmer

Elizabeth and Edwin Schreiber

Frank and Emily Scott

Mts. Robert D. Scott

Mr. and Mrs. S. Norman Seastedt

Mr. and Mrs. David M. Shapiro

85
Contributing Members enjoy a behind-the-scenes tour during the

annual Smithsonian Treasures program. (Photograph by David

Poleski)

Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Shatz
Mr. Winslow T. Shearman
Allan E. Shore
Mr. Alan B. Showalter
Mr. Frank Shrontz
Charles Siegel
Ms. Tammy Sisson
Dr. Lionel J. Skidmore and
Dr. Jean M. Karle
Mrs. David E. Skinner
Dr. Harvey C. Slocum, Jr.
Sandra and Larry Small
Gretchen Smith Crow
Dr. Frank Smith
General and Mrs. William Y. Smith
Naomi and Nehemiah Cohen
Foundation
Mr. and Mts. Michael R. Sonnenreich
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sparks
Harriet and Edson Spencer
Mrs. Colletta F. Sperling
Mr. Bernie Stadiem
Mr. Sydney Staffin
Dr. Marjorie L. Stein
Ann C. Stephens
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Sterling, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. J. Stewart
Mr. and Mrs. Franz T. Stone
Shepard and Marlene Stone
Mr. Roy T. Strainge
Mr. Ernest C. Swigert
Ms. Marjorie E. Thomas
Mr. Stephen Tilton
Mrs. Helen Brice Trenckmann
Ms. Eva F. Tully
Mr. James F. Turner
Mr. M. S. Ursino
Colonel and Mrs. W. G. Van Allen
Mr. and Mrs. L. Von Hoffmann
Colonel Harold W. Vorhies
Mrs. Robert Waidner
Dr. Wesley W. Walton

86

Craig and Catherine Weston
Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Wherley
Mr. and Mrs. Ben White
Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. White
Mr. John K. White
The Honorable John C. Whitehead
Mts. Elizabeth Williams
Mr. and Mrs. Wesley S. Williams, Jr.
Ms. Kirsten Wilson and
Mr. Johnny Bivera
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Wilson
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace S. Wilson
Joseph G. and Michael M. Wirth
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Womble
Mrs. Jane Ludwig Worley
Mr. and Mrs. Richard E. Wright
Ms. Alice Wrobleski
Mrs. Charlotte Shirley Wyman
Mary L. Zicarelli/The Zicarelli
Foundation
Anda and Henri Zimand
Nancy Behrend Zirkle
Mrs. Sidney S. Zlotnick

y+ Deceased
Life Members

Prior to 1985, Life Members were
appointed to the James Smithson
Society in recognition of significant,
one-time contributions to the
Institution.

Mr. and Mrs. Joe L. Allbritton
David K. Anderson

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson
Mr. Ronald P. Anselmo

Mr. Scott R. Anselmo.

Dr. and Mrs. Herbert Axelrod
Richard R. Bains

Mr. and Mrs. F. John Barlow

Mrs. Donald C. Beatty
Mrs. Henry C. Beck, Jr.
Mrs. Ralph E. Becker
Mrs. Edward B. Benjamin
Mts. John A. Benton
Dr. and Mrs. William B. Berry
Dr. and Mrs. B. N. Bhat
Mr. Richard A. Bideaux
Edwin W. Bitter
Dr. and Mrs. William Beaty Boyd
Lee Bronson
Dr. Ruth D. Bruun
Mrs. George E. Burch
Mrs. Arthur J. Burstein
Mrs. Hyman Burstein
Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell Burstein
Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin H. Caldwell, Jr.
Lawson J. Cantrell
Mr. Allan Caplan
Mrs. George H. Capps
Carol Chiu
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Cleveland
Dr. and Mrs. George L. Compton
Dr. and Mrs. Roger Cornell
Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Cunningham
Dr. Bruce E. Dahrling, II M.D.
Mr. Sam DeVincent
Mrs. Peter N. Delanoy
Mr. John R. Doss
Mr. and Mrs. Willard D. Dover
Edward R. Downe, Jr.
Dr. Dale B. Dubin
Mr. and Mrs. Willis H. Dupont
Mr. Joseph M. Erdelac
Thomas M. Evans
Dr. and Mrs. Dan Feriozi
Mrs. Walter B. Ford, II
Dr. and Mrs. Phillip Frost
Mrs. Edwin Fullinwider
Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Andrew Funt
Mrs. George Garfield
Dr. and Mrs. Lamont W. Gaston
Mr. Kirkland H. Gibson
C. Paul and Pat S. Gilson
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen P. Gott
Mrs. W. G. Gould
Dawn Greene
Doris Stack Greene
Mrs. Chaim Gross
Mts. Melville Hall
Mr. and Mrs. Don C. Harrold
Mrs. Enid A. Haupt
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne C. Hazen
Edward L. Henning
Mrs. Joseph Hirshhorn
Mr. Paul Horgan
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Jacobus
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Kainen
Mr. and Mrs. Donald E. Kastner
Dr. Annette Kaufman
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur A. Kirk
Peter Merrill Klein
Blanche M. Koffler
Mrs. Lewis Kurt Land
Mrs. David Landau
Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz
Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Leininger
Harry E. and Jane F. Lennon
Mrs. Sara L. Lepman
and Mr. Joshua M. Lepman

Mr. and Mrs. John Levey

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Levey

Mrs. Frances Lewis

Mrs. Jack Lord

Adele Lozowick

Mrs. Robert Magowan

Dr. and Mrs. Leo J. Malone

Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Manoogian

John A. Masek

Mrs. Vincent Melzac

Mr. and Mrs. Jack L. Messman

Mr. W. A. Moldermaker

Dr. and Mrs. Walter A. H. Mosmann

Mr. and Mrs. Joe H. Mullins

Dr. and Mrs. Marvin Murray

Mr. Mortimer L. Neinken

Dr. Melanie Newbill

Mrs. Henry K. Ostrow

Mrs. Rudolf Pabst

The Honorable G. Burton Pearson, Jr.
and Mrs. Pearson

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace R. Persons

Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Pflueger

Mrs. John Alexander Pope

Mrs. Abraham Rattner

Kate Rinzler

The Hon. Thomas M. Roberts

The Honorable Martin J. Roess

Dr. and Mrs. Richard G. Rogers, Jr.

Mr. Arthur Ross

Mr. and Mts. Peter G. Sachs

Mr. Harry I. Saul

Mts. Janos Scholz

Mr. and Mrs. Morton Silverman

Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Slattery

Mrs. Helen F. Sloan

Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Smith

Mr. and Mrs. Sherwood Smith

Mrs. Otto Spaeth

Earl and Trudy Spangler

Mr. Stuart M. Speiser

Mr. and Mrs. Harvey G. Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman Stack

Mr. and Mrs. Norman H. Stavisky

Dr. and Mrs. Leo F. Stornelli

Mr. and Mrs. E. Hadley Stuart, Jr.

Mrs. Hans Syz

Mrs. Katherine S. Sznycer

Drs. Yen and Julia Tan

The Ruth and Vernon Taylor
Foundation

Mrs. David J. Tepper

Mr. Richard W. Thomssen

Mr. Bardyl R. Tirana

Mr. Glenn O. Tupper

Lillian Scheffres Turner

Dr. and Mrs. Adolfo Villalon

Dr. and Mrs. Francis S. Walker

Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Wang

Dr. and Mrs. Thomas E. Whiteley

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Williams

Mr. Archibald M. Withers

Mrs. David O. Woodbury

Mr. Stanley Woodward

Mr. and Mrs. James Wu

Mr. and Mrs. Barry Yampol
BEQUESTS

We remember with appreciation the
following generous donors whose gifts
through bequests from their estates
were received this year.

Richard Ree Anthis
Edna F. Blum
William A. Burleson
Jean M. Chisholm
Karl H. Hagen
Marie R. Hosea
Janet W. Johnson
Theodore A. Krieg
Curtis W. Sabrosky
Carol T. Shore
Donald Sultner
Victor J. Van Lint
Albertus T. VanDuren
Annie B. Wetmore

SMITHSONIAN
WASHINGTON COUNCIL

The Smithsonian Washington
Council, an initiative established in
1997 by the Secretary and regional
leaders, is dedicated to expanding the
Smithsonian’s relationship with the
entire Washington region.

R. Robert Linowes, Chairman
Jin Hyun Ahn

John M. Brophy

Oliver T. Carr

Emilio Fernandez

Lee M. Folger

Donald E. Graham

J. Roderick Heller III
Kathleen Hough

James V. Kimsey

Robert Kogod

Robert Lehrman

Irene Pollin

James J. Rouse

Vicki Sant

William H. Swanson
Ladislaus von Hoffmann

SMITHSONIAN LEGACY
SOCIETY

The Smithsonian Legacy Society
honors our friends who carry on
James Smithson’s tradition by making
legacy gifts to the Smithsonian, such
as bequests, charitable gift annuities,
charitable remainder trusts, pooled
income fund gifts, gifts of retirement
and life insurance plans, and other
giving vehicles.

Mrs. Gloria Shaw Hamilton,
Founding Chairman

Anonymous (9)

Mr. H. V. Andersen

Mr. and Mrs. William S. Anderson

Mrs. J. Paul Austin

Mr. and Mrs. William R. Baecht
Col. and Mrs. Joseph S. Benham
George and Bonnie Bogumill
Mr. Richard L. Bolling

Mr. and Mrs. Mark Boone

Mrs. Agnes M. Brown

Mr. Patrick Butler

Mr. Berchman T. Carville

Mr. Michael W. Cassidy

Fenner A. Chace, Jr.

Mr. Harry R. Charles, Jr.

Mr. Louis P. Clark

Mr. Earl Clayton

Mr. Lawrence G. Clayton

The Honorable Barber B. Conable, Jr.

and Mrs. Conable
Ms. Patricia Daniels
Mr. Dennis O. Dixon
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph L. Dixon
Dr. Harold A. Dundee
Mr. and Mts. William C. Dutton
Mr. John M. Elling
Mr. and Mrs. George W. Elliott
Mrs. June M. Fontanier
Mr. Oscar Galeno
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Gardner
Mrs. Aileen M. Garrett
Mr. Gilbert W. Glass
Mr. Charles Goldsberry
D. L. Hasse
Mr. Lloyd E. Herman
Mr. and Mrs. Carl D. Herold
Dr. and Mrs. David C. Hess
Frank and Lisina Hoch
Miss K. T. Hoffacker
Mr. and Mrs. A. William Holmberg
Ms. Hanna Lore Hombordy
Catherine Marjorie Horne
Dr. and Mrs. Lee Houchins
Mrs. Edgar McPherson Howell
Mr. John R. Huggard
Mr. Thomas L. Humphrey
Dr. and Mrs. James C. Hunt
Mr. and Mrs. Milton M. Hyatt
Mr. Joseph E. Johnson
Ms. Judy Kaselow
Miss Narinder K. Keith
Miss Rajinder K. Keith
Ms. Moselle Kimbler
Mts. Bessie M. Koehler
John and Mary Lu Koenig
Lt. Col. William K. and

Mrs. Alice S. Konze
Ms. Lee Kush
Dr. Geraldine E. La Rocque
Mrs. James Spencer Lacock
Mr. and Mrs. Philip A. Lathrap
Mr. and Mts. Bruce Leighty
Ms. Eleanor L. Linkous
Ms. Shirley Loo
Mr. Anton C. Love
Dr. and Mrs. Burton N. Lowe
Mr. Frank J. Lukowski
Mr. Ronald W. McCain
Mr. and Mts. Richard B. McCrary
Miss Minnie Belle McIntosh
Ms. Lowen McKay
Mr. and Mrs. Allen McReynolds, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Carl Mikuletzky
Mr. and Mrs. Mike Mitchell
Mrs. Jane R. Moore

Mr. and Mrs. Roger K. Myers
Colonel Erickson S. Nichols
Mts. Jefferson Patterson

Mr. Paul L. Peck

Mr. and Mrs. David S. Purvis

Mr. and Mrs. Frank K. Rabbitt
Mr. and Mrs. Galen B. Rathbun
Sanae I. and Douglas F.+ Reeves
Mr. Robert A. Rice

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Rick
George W. and Margaret P. Riesz
Mr. Stuart W. Rosenbaum

Mr. Edward H. Sachtleben

Lloyd G. and Betty A. Schermer
Allan E. Shore and Carol T.} Shore
Mrs. Warren H. Sichel

Mary F. Simons

Dr. Barbara J. Smith

Kathy Daubert Smith

Mrs. Margaret Sokol

Mr. and Mrs. Guenther Sommer
Irene Sorrough

Mr. Charles W. Speck

Mr. Bernie Stadiem

Mr. Kevin B. Stone

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. N. Suarez
George D. and Mary Augusta Thomas
Dr. and Mts. F. Christian Thompson
John and Ellen Thompson
Jeffrey A.t and Diane D. Tobin
Mr. David E. Todd

Mr. and Mrs. W. Carroll Tornroth
Ms. Patty Wagstaff

Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Waite
Miss Catherine M. Walsh

Dr. and Mrs. Richard Ward

Mr. and Mrs. DeVer K. Warner
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Watts

Mr. Charles Weingartner

Mrs. Harriet K. Westcott

Mr. and Mrs. Donald W. White
Mr. Julius Wile

Mrs. Laurence I. Wood

Mr. Francis W. Worrell

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Zapart

Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Zelenka
Dr. P. Joseph Zharn

Mrs. Michael N. Zirkle

+ Deceased

MEMORIAL AND
COMMEMORATIVE GIFTS

The following were so honored by
their families and friends.

Steve Diamond

VADM Donald D. Engen, USN (Ret.),
former director of the National Air
and Space Museum

Barbara Fleischman

William T. Hardaker

Fredrick M. Hecht

Alice Eve Kennington

Frederick Krieg

Swoosie Kurtz

Jerome H. Lemelson

James F. Lynch

Dr. and Mrs. Edward S. Miller

Judith Peck

Robert Rodman

Jean Rubley-Adams
Charles E. Sampson

J. T. Vida

William J. Woolfenden

DONORS OF IN-KIND

SUPPORT

Airbus Industrie of North America,
Inc.

American Airlines, Inc.

Aviation Week

BARCO Projection Systems

British Airways

Bushnell Sports Optics Worldwide

CH2M Hill Companies Ltd.

Continental Airlines, Inc.

Delta Air Lines

Envelope Manufacturers Association

Hach Company

Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Hewlett-Packard Company

Mr. James Houghton

Jackson & Tull

Kalmbach Publishing Co.

Mrs. Patricia Kenner

Kinko’s Copies

Mr. Albert G. Lauber Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Aaron Levine

Mrs. Jill Hornor Ma

National Film Preservation
Foundation

Oldies 100 FM WBIG

Mr. Virgil Ortiz

The Recording Industries Music
Performance Trust Funds

Joseph E. Seagram & Sons Inc.

Southern Company

Southwest Airlines

Telemundo Group, Inc.

Trimble Navigation Limited

United Airlines, Inc.

U.S.A. Direct, Inc.

US Airways, Inc.

United Airlines, Inc.

The Washington Times

WGMS 103.5

87
Left: This year at the John F.
Kennedy Center for the Performing
Arts, the Royal Swedish Ballet under
the artistic direction of Frank Ander-
sen presented the company’s U.S.
premiere of the full-length Mahler's
Third Symphony (Shown here) and
the U.S. premiere of four reconstruc-
tions from the legendary Ballet Sue-
dois. (Photograph by Mats Backer)

AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National Gallery of Art, and the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars were established by Congress within
the Smithsonian Institution under their own boards of trustees. The Institution provides
administrative services on contract to Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., an independent
organization.

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
James A. Johnson, Chairman
Lawrence J. Wilker, President

The Kennedy Center is America’s living memorial to President John F. Kennedy and the
national center for the performing arts. The Kennedy Center commissions, produces, and
presents more than 3,500 performances of music, theater, and dance from this nation and
abroad. It makes the performing arts available to everyone through free and discounted
performances, nurtures new works, supports American artists, and serves the nation as a
leader in arts education. This year, more than 5 million people visited the Kennedy Center.
The Kennedy Center’s national reach was extended through touring productions, televi-
sion, and the Internet. An additional 1 million people attended Kennedy Center touring
productions nationwide, and more than 10 million people watched Kennedy Center tele-
vision broadcasts.

= The Kennedy Center has two permanent Millennium Stages dedicated to free daily 6:00 p.m. con-
certs. Since the program’s inception, more than 500,000 people have watched the nightly concerts,
375 groups have made their Kennedy Center debuts, and more than 9,000 artists from around the
world and all 50 states have performed on the Millennium Stage. On April 1, a daily live Internet
broadcast was inaugurated at www.kennedy-center.org.

i The Kennedy Center’s National Symphony Orchestra and Music Director Leonard Slatkin completed
a highly successful year nationally and internationally. They performed from Beijing to Biloxi and
received world recognition for being advocates of American music. Innovative festival programming
was the highlight of the season and featured five festivals. The orchestra made its debut in China
before President Jiang Zemin and completed a Seventh American Residency in Mississippi, where they
spent 10 days in performance, including 115 education and outreach events. They also earned the
highest praise yet for their Carnegie Hall concerts.

= The Kennedy Center continues to build a worldwide reputation for commitment to quality in the-
ater. Last season’s highlights featured the Washington pre-Broadway premieres of Footloose, which
broke box office records in New York, and the Tony Award-winning revival of Annie Get Your Gun.
Brothers of the Knight, a Kennedy Center commission, by Debbie Allen and James Ingram, won a Helen
Hayes Award for outstanding choreography. Stunning international presentations graced the stages:
the American premiere of A Hotel in the Town of NN (Russia), The Game of Love and Chance and Les Arts
Sauts (France), Orfeé (Canada), and Manuel Mendive (Cuba). African Odyssey completed a third season
with a year-long celebration of music, dance, and theater of the African Diaspora. Africa Fete, the cen-
ter’s world music tour, performed in 16 cities. The center’s “Imagination Celebration” on tour

89
90

Paul Mellon, philanthropist and prin-

cipal benefactor and trustee of the
National Gallery of Art, died in 1999
at age 91. (Photograph © 1983,
Karsh, Ottawa)

included 200 nationwide performances
in 82 cities and 49 states of Tales of a
Fourth Grade Nothing, The Nightingale,
and Little Women. More than 500 col-
leges participated in the center’s annual
American College Theater Festival.

a The Kennedy Center’s commitment
to new work in dance continued with
the commissioning of collaborations
between jazz composers with dance
companies and choreographers: Pilobo-
lus and the Maria Schneider Orchestra,
Parsons Dance Company with Phil
Woods, Paul Taylor Dance Company
with the Paragon RagTime Orchestra,
and Bill T. Jones with Fred Hersch.
Internationally, the newly recon-
structed Ballet Suedois by the Royal
Swedish Ballet and Swan Lake by the
legendary Stanislavsky Ballet staged
their American premieres at the center.
a The Kennedy Center’s national reach
was extended through television, tour-
ing productions, and the Internet. Six
nationally televised programs
emanated from the center: The Mark
Twain Prize (Comedy Central), The
Kennedy Center Honors (CBS), Memorial
Day and July 4th National Symphony
Orchestra Concerts (PBS), Kennedy Cen-
ter Presents Los Americanos (PBS), and
the Hispanic Heritage Awards (NBC).

= The Kennedy Center solidified its
commitment to the future of the per-
forming arts in the new millennium by
introducing the “First Decade Initia-
tive” to commission a minimum of 10
new works each year of the first decade.

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART
Earl A. Powell Ill, Director

The National Gallery of Art serves
the nation by preserving, collect-
ing, exhibiting, and fostering the
understanding of works of art at
the highest possible museum and
scholarly standards.

» The gallery family was deeply sad-
dened by the death of its dear friend,
long-time trustee, and principal bene-
factor Paul Mellon on February 1. Mel-
lon’s final gift includes 183 works of
art, among them 37 wax and plaster

sculptures by Edgar Degas, and endow-
ment funds for acquisitions, art educa-
tion, the archives, and the Center for
Advanced Study in the Visual Arts.
During his lifetime, Mellon gave more
than 900 works of art to the gallery.

a The exhibition year began with “Van
Gogh’s Van Goghs: Masterpieces from
the Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam,” a
selection of 70 works kept together by
the artist’s brother and his family. The
art of portraiture was featured in three
exhibitions of works by John Singer
Sargent, Mary Cassatt, and Jean-
Auguste-Dominique Ingres. Other
highlights included “Edo: Art in Japan
1615-1868,” which presented nearly
300 scrolls, screens, sculptures, ceram-
ics, textiles, and woodblock prints; Ital-
ian baroque terracottas from Russia’s
State Hermitage Museum; recently
acquired works by 19th- and 20th-cen-
tury photographers; 17th-century still
life paintings, shown in the Dutch
Cabinet Galleries; and “The Golden
Age of Chinese Archaeology: Cele-
brated Discoveries from The People’s
Republic of China,” an unprecedented
exhibition of 200 archaeological arti-
facts and works of art dating as far back
as 7,000 years.

= Six years of planning and construc-
tion culminated with the opening in
May of the National Gallery of Art
Sculpture Garden. The garden and 10
sculptures displayed there are a gift of
The Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz
Foundation. Placed among thousands
of plantings, from 40-foot trees to
many varieties of groundcovers, are 17
sculptures by such outstanding post-
World War II artists as Magdalena
Abakanowicz, Louise Bourgeois, Scott
Burton, Mark di Suvero, Barry Flana-
gan, Ellsworth Kelly, Sol LeWitt, Roy
Lichtenstein, Joan Miro, Isamu
Noguchi, Claes Oldenburg and Coosje
van Bruggen, George Rickey, Lucas
Samaras, Joel Shapiro, David Smith,
and Tony Smith.

m= Among the year’s purchases for the
collections were a painting of soldiers
playing cards and dice by the early
17th-century French artist Valentin de
Boulogne; a book of landscape sketches
by Oscar Bluemner, done in France
and Italy; a watercolor and ink drawing
by American synchromist Stanton
Macdonald-Wright; an extremely rare
print by the earliest known engraver,
the Master of the Playing Cards; and an
album of 81 drawings made in Rome
by Jacques-Louis David.

= Outstanding among the many gifts
to the collections were an early 16th-
century pen and ink drawing by Hans
Suss von Kulmback from Mrs. Neil F.
Phillips; a Durer drawing, Female Nude
Praying, from The Ian Woodner Family
Collection; a partial gift of a Raphaelle
Peale still life, A Dessert, from Jo Ann
and Julian Ganz Jr.; and a partial gift of
a Georgia O’Keeffe painting, Black,
White, and Blue from Barney Ebsworth.
= Among the gifts for the photography
collection were a very early Frederick
and William Lengenheim photograph
(1849) and works from the 1860s by
Robert MacPherson and Felice Beato.
Other photographers whose works
were added to the collection included
Berenice Abbott, Ralston Crawford,
Imogene Cunningham, Roy De Carava,
Robert Fichter, André Kertész, Leonard
Missone, Arnold Newman, Dorothy
Norman, and August Sander.

= The education division initiated two
new programs: a popular monthly Sat-
urday morning children’s film program
and a summer institute on museum
careers for District of Columbia high
school students. An electronic class-
room project focusing on the Shaw
Memorial by Augustus Saint-Gaudens
was organized with the Massachusetts
Corporation for Educational Technol-
ogy and reached approximately 42,000
students in schools throughout the
country.

READING IS FUNDAMENTAL,
INC.

Lynda Johnson Robb, Chairman
William E. Trueheart, President and
Chief Executive Officer

Reading Is Fundamental, Inc. (RIF)
creates and delivers children’s and
family literacy programs to prepare
young children to become eager
and engaged readers, to motivate

A volunteer reads along with a child in a Reading Is Fundamental program.
(Photograph by Al Zacharka)

school-age children to discover the
joys of reading, and to support
children’s efforts to become strong
readers. In 1998, RIF served chil-
dren and their families at more
than 16,500 sites, including
schools, libraries, community
health centers, hospitals, Head
Start and Even Start sites, Native
American reservations, migrant
worker camps, detention centers,
and homeless shelters. Through a
network of 240,000 volunteers, RIF
reached more than 3.5 million
children nationwide.

RIF’s core activity is its National
Book Program, which provides
motivation training and “seed

money” for RIF program coordina-
tors to purchase new books at sig-
nificant discounts for free distribu-
tion to children. Building on that
strong foundation, RIF is poised to
reach 5 million children a year by
the end of 2000. RIF places highest
priority on serving the nation’s
neediest children—those at great-
est risk of educational failure and
economic hardship—with special
emphasis on serving children from
birth to age 11.

m RIF received a five-year grant from
the U.S. Department of Education’s Star
Schools Program to develop RIFNet, a
consortium that will create and dissem-

91
92

inate technology-based, multimedia
training programs for parents, educa-
tors, and literacy volunteers to enable
them to help children get ready to read
and become better readers. The net-
work, operational in 2000, will deliver
programs and training via satellite and
cable TV, the Internet, video, and
CD-ROMs.

m RIF developed Care to Read, a series
of workshops to provide resources and
training to caregivers in child care cen-
ters and family-based day care centers.
Last year, Care to Read was piloted at
early childhood programs and day care
centers in Delaware and Virginia.

= In 1998, RIF entered year two of a
landmark, multiyear program actively
supported by Delaware Governor
Thomas Carper and First Lady Martha
Carper and the state’s Department of
Education. The Delaware RIF Initiative
provides teacher training, literacy ser-
vices, and books to every first-grade
classroom in Delaware’s public schools
and serves every child enrolled in Head
Start, Even Start, Early Childhood
Assistance, and Parents-as-Teachers
programs.

a RIF children across the country par-
ticipated in our National Reading Cele-
bration through a series of events that
culminated in the annual Reading Is
Fun Week in April. An awards cere-
mony at the Capital Children’s
Museum in Washington, D.C., honored
national RIF Reader winner, Harry
Bates of Selma, Alabama, and winner
of the National Poster Contest, Jose
Giraldo of New York.

m With a generous donation of 250,000
new books from Scholastic, Inc., RIF
launched a summer reading program in
Washington, D.C., that enabled every
student in the city’s public elementary
schools to select three free new books.
The program also created classroom
libraries. RIF Chairman Lynda Johnson
Robb and President and Chief Execu-
tive Officer William E. Trueheart
presided at the kickoff event with
Scholastic’s President and Chief Execu-
tive Officer Richard Robinson. Joining
them were U.S. Secretary of Education
Richard W. Riley, Sen. James Jeffords,

Sen. Charles Robb, Rep. Sheila Jackson-
Lee, and District of Columbia Mayor
Anthony Williams and Superintendent
of Schools Arlene Ackerman.

a RIF also teamed with the Washing-
ton, D.C., Public Library to launch the
library’s summer reading program. The
program was made possible through
RIF’s partnership with Best Buy, Inc., as
part of the corporation’s commitment
to America’s Promise, chaired by retired
General Colin Powell. (America’s
Promise is dedicated to mobilizing
individuals, groups, and organizations
from every part of American life to
build and strengthen the character and
competence of youth.) RIF Chairman
Lynda Johnson Robb serves as vice-
chair of America’s Promise.

WOODROW WILSON
INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR SCHOLARS

Lee H. Hamilton, Director

As Washington, D.C.’s nonpartisan
research institution examining
important issues in the humani-
ties, social sciences and public pol-
icy, the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars holds a
unique place in our nation. Estab-
lished by Congress in 1968 as the
nation’s memorial to our 28th
president, the Wilson Center pro-
vides a link between the world of
ideas and the world of policy mak-
ing. Situated in the Ronald Reagan
Building on Pennsylvania Avenue,
it is a fitting place for the 150
scholars from all over the world
who visit the center each year to
carry out research and interact
with Washington practitioners.
The Wilson Center assembles
policy makers, academicians,
members of Congress, scholars,
and business and national leaders
in more than 300 conferences and
meetings per year. These lively
events provide the public with the
opportunity to ask questions and
explore new ideas with academic

and research and policy experts.
The wide array of topics covered
this year included the effects of
C-SPAN on Congress and the polit-
ical career of Slobodan Milosevic.
The center’s renowned Kennan
Institute for Advanced Russian
Studies celebrated its 25th anniver-
sary this year.

The center is expanding its
scope and activities, yet also tying
more of its work to a few central
themes. Three themes are key: the
role of the United States in the
world and issues of leadership and
partnership; governance; and long-
term challenges facing the United
States and the world.

a Six new or expanded initiatives were
launched this year. First, a series of
Director’s Forums have brought more
than a dozen notable speakers to the
Woodrow Wilson Center. Sitting and
former prime ministers, several ambas-
sadors, cabinet officials, members of
Congress, and other officials have spo-
ken. The center has also begun a “Pro-
ject on Sovereignty in the Digital Age,”
which is examining the information
revolution and its profound impact on
the global economy and on relations
between governments and the private
sector. The project explores how to bal-
ance national sovereignty with the
need for new international rules in an
age when the Internet and electronic
commerce operate both within and
beyond national borders. In addition,
the center has started two new regional
programs and expanded a third. Pro-
jects on Canada and on Africa are new
to the center, and the Middle East Pro-
gram is being expanded with a focus
on Islam and on women. These are all
exciting additions to the work of the
center.

= The Congress Project, the sixth initia-
tive, seeks to bring together current
and former members of Congress and
staff, congressional scholars, represen-
tatives of the media, and the general
public to examine aspects of the policy
process on Capitol Hill. The project
director, a 28-year House staff veteran,
The public theater on the ground floor of the Woodrow Wilson Center features a continuously running film on
Wilson's life and presidency. (Photograph by Chad Evans Wyatt)

developed the model for the project as
a public policy scholar with a series of
programs in 1998 on “The Information
Age Congress and the Policy Process.”
The project’s 1999-2000 series will look
at “Congress and the Purse Strings.”

= Dialogue, the Wilson Center’s award-
winning weekly radio program, has
continued its long-running role as a
forum for showcasing the work that
goes on at the center. It is produced in
association with Smithsonian Produc-
tions and broadcast nationwide by the
Armed Forces Radio Network. This
summer, the program’s host, George
Liston Seay, marked a milestone in
recording his 500th interview for the

show. And the popular Wilson Quarterly
remains one of the most widely circu-
lated scholarly journals of its kind,
with an annual readership of more
than 60,000 subscribers.

While new initiatives were added this
year, existing programs and projects
continued to provide for open, fair,
and nonpartisan study and dialogue.
Center activities included serious dis-
cussion from the Balkans, Kosovo,

Iran, and environmental policy to
updates on critical nonproliferation
concerns and reviews of developments
in China, Japan, Russia, Europe, Brazil,
and Mexico.

93
Left: The Smithsonian has entered
into an agreement to purchase the
Victor Building, located on the south-
west corner of Ninth and H Streets,
NW, in Washington, D.C., to house
administrative offices currently in
leased space and administrative and
support functions now in the Old
Patent Office Building. (Photograph
by Jeff Tinsley)

FINANCIAL REPORT

RICK JOHNSON, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

The Smithsonian Institution receives funding from both federal appropriations and non-
appropriated trust sources. Nonappropriated trust funds include all funds received from
sources other than direct federal appropriations. These other sources include gifts and
grants from individuals, corporations, and foundations; grants and contracts from federal,
state, or local government agencies; earnings from short- and long-term investments; rev-
enue from membership programs; and revenue from business activities, such as Smithsonian
magazine, museum shops and restaurants, mail order catalogues, and licensed products.

Federal appropriations provide funding for the Institution’s core functions: caring for
and conserving the national collections, sustaining basic research on the collections and
in selected areas of traditional and unique strength, and educating the public about the
collections and research findings through exhibitions and other public programs. Federal
appropriations also fund most activities associated with maintaining and securing the
facilities and with various administrative and support services.

Smithsonian trust funds allow the Institution to undertake new ventures and enrich
existing programs in ways that would not otherwise be possible. These funds provide the
critical margin of excellence for innovative research, building and strengthening the
national collections, constructing and presenting effective and up-to-date exhibitions, and
reaching out to new and underrepresented audiences. In recent years, the Smithsonian has
also begun to rely on trust funds to support major new construction projects.

The following sections describe the external environmental factors affecting the Institu-
tion’s general financial condition, its financial status, and its planned response to chang-
ing conditions; financial results for fiscal year 1999; and organizational and financial mea-
sures being taken to ensure the continued fiscal health of the Institution.

Financial Perspectives

As we move into the new millennium, the Smithsonian has made major advances in sev-
eral key projects that will sustain and enhance its reputation as a world-class center for
research and education. The Smithsonian’s continued focus on generating new revenues
through fund raising and business activities is integral to this advancement.

The Discovery Center in the National Museum of Natural History opened in fiscal year
1999. This project provides space for new programs, a café, an IMAX® theater, and an
expanded museum shop. Incremental net income from business activities in the museum
will repay the funds borrowed to build this facility.

The fund-raising campaign for the Dulles Center, a major extension of the National Air and
Space Museum at Dulles International Airport, continued this year. By the end of calendar
year 1999, approximately 68 percent of the campaign goal of $130 million had been received
in cash and pledges. The capstone of the campaign was a $60 million pledge from Steven F.
Udvar-Hazy. Net income from business activities in this facility and pledge payments will
repay planned borrowing. The project is also receiving significant support from the Com-

95
96

monwealth of Virginia, which includes providing the
basic infrastructure for roads, landscaping, and
parking.

The Smithsonian has entered into an agreement
to purchase the Victor Building, an office building
near the Old Patent Office Building, which houses
the National Portrait Gallery, the National Museum
of American Art, and the Archives of American Art.
The purpose of the acquisition is to move adminis-
trative offices currently in leased space, reclaim
gallery space in the Patent Office Building by relo-
cating administrative and support functions, and
provide additional program space. Fund raising and
savings from amounts currently budgeted for leases
will service debt for this $106 million facility.
Planned occupancy is in fiscal year 2000.

The groundbreaking ceremony for the National
Museum of the American Indian on the National
Mall was held in 1999. The musem is scheduled to
open in 2003. This project is being funded by a com-
bination of federal appropriations and private fund-
ing. At the end of the year, plans were under way to
raise the final 20 percent of the project costs.

In support of these projects, the Smithsonian
established Smithsonian Business Ventures and
appointed Gary M. Beer, previously president and
CEO of the Sundance Group, as CEO of that organi-
zation. Smithsonian Business Ventures is a separate
entity within the Institution approved by the Board
of Regents with a goal of doubling business revenue
in five years. The Smithsonian’s national capital
campaign, currently in its “quiet phase,” continued
to significantly increase giving to the Institution.

Fiscal Year 1999 Results
Operating revenues received by the Institution in fis-
cal year 1999 from all sources totaled $869.6 mil-

Fiscal Year 1999 Sources of Gross/Net Revenues

Gross

Revenues
($ millions)

Operations

Federal Appropriations 402.6
General Trust ** 242.7
Donor/Sponsor ** 157.4
Gov’t Grants & Contracts 66.9
Total Sources for Operations 869.6

FY 1999 Sources of Net Revenues

General Trust
7.5%

Gov’t Grants &

Contracts
9.9%
Donor/Sponsor
23.2%
Federal
Appropriation:
59.4%

lion. Revenue from federal appropriations accounted
for $402.6 million, and nonappropriated trust funds
provided an additional $467.0 million. When
adjusted to remove auxiliary activity expenses of
$191.8 million, net revenues totaled $677.8 million.
The chart on this page reflects revenues by source
and broad purpose of use.

Operations (Table 1)

Federal operating revenue of $344.0 million pro-
vided the core funding for ongoing programs of the
Institution. The fiscal year 1999 federal appropria-
tion of $351.3 million represented a net increase of
$17.9 million over the fiscal year 1998 level. After
reduction of $3.4 million for one-time costs in the
fiscal year 1998 budget, increases totaled $21.3 mil-
lion. The increases included $9.1 million for manda-
tory increases in pay, utilities, and rent; $6.0 million

Net* Percent
Revenues Net Revenues

($ millions) (%)
402.6 59.4
50.9 7.5
157.4 23.2
66.9 9.9
677.8 100.0

*Net of expenses related to revenue-generating activities, e.g., museum shops, restaurants, publications, etc.
** General trust is reduced from Table 1 by the Donor/Sponsor Contributions.
for operations of the National Museum of the Ameri-
can Indian; $1.5 million for the National Museum
of Natural History for operations and move costs
associated with additions to the museum; and

$4.7 million to meet security system requirements
that were not Year 2000 compliant.

General trust revenue was $276.5 million, a 2 per-
cent increase over the previous year. Donor/sponsor
revenue for undesignated purposes of $33.7 million
was basically unchanged from the prior year. Sales
and membership revenue rose 2 percent, reversing a

Sales and Membership Activities ($ millions)

250
200 194 192 a
150
100

50

1997 1998
neds Fiscal Year
Gross Revenue

a Net Revenue

1995 1996

decline from last year. However, the net revenue
from these activities was up more than 58 percent,
in part due to a reduction in expenses. This increase
was the result of a major restructuring of the Smith-
sonian Institution Press, which eliminated unprof-
itable lines of business, and the success of Smith-
sonian magazine.

Revenue from donor/sponsor designated funds
totaled $123.6 million, more than doubling the
amount from fiscal year 1998. Major gifts and grants
included the $60 million pledge from Steven F.
Udvar-Hazy for the National Air and Space Museum’s
Dulles Center and $10 million from Polo Ralph
Lauren for the Star-Spangled Banner Preservation
Project at the National Museum of American History.

The Smithsonian is especially grateful to its many
friends in the private sector whose generosity con-
tributed vitally to its work. The names of major
donors are listed in the Benefactors section of this
annual report.

In fiscal year 1999, the Institution recorded $66.9
million in revenue from contracts and grants from
government agencies, a $9.6 million increase over fis-
cal year 1998. Support from government agencies
constitutes an important source of research funding,
while also providing the granting agencies access to
Smithsonian expertise and resources. As in previous
years, most of these funds were provided by the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration for
research programs at the Smithsonian Astrophysical
Observatory. One of the largest and most important
projects funded was the Chandra X-ray Observatory,
which is now in orbit and contributing to astrophysi-
cal knowledge. Two projects received support from
Save America’s Treasures, a public-private partnership
between the White House Millennium Council
and the National Trust for Historic Preservation:
$3.0 million for the Star-Spangled Banner Preserva-
tion Project and $1.4 million for Apollo space pro-
gram artifacts at the National Air and Space Museum.

Endowment
The Institution pools its endowment funds for
investment purposes into a consolidated portfolio,
with each endowment purchasing shares in a man-
ner similar to shares purchased by an investor in a
mutual fund.

The Investment Policy Committee of the Board of
Regents establishes investment policy and recom-

Market Value of Endowment ($ millions)

7007 ese

600 581 Ee]

600
500

400

300

200
100

0)

1996 1997
Fiscal Year

1995 1998 1999

97
98

FY 1999 Endowment and Similar Activities
Net Assets ($ millions)

Permanently

Restricted (65) Unrestricted

(258)

Temporarily
Restricted (140)

Designated
Unrestricted
(202)

mends the annual payout for the consolidated
endowment. The Smithsonian’s policies for manag-
ing the endowment are designed to achieve two
objectives: to provide a stable, growing stream of
payouts for current expenditures and to protect the
value of the endowment against inflation and
maintain its purchasing power. Current policy calls
for an average payout of 4.5 percent of the average
market value over the prior five years. With this pay-
out policy, to achieve the endowment’s objectives,
the investment policy targets a real rate of return of
5 percent.

The market value of the endowment increased
from $580.9 million to $658.5 million during fiscal
year 1999. The total includes $1.0 million that is
not pooled with other endowment assets. The total
return for the endowment, net of fees, was $121.5
million, and transfers into the endowment totaled
$8.5 million. Offsetting these amounts was an
endowment payout of $21.0 million and a net trans-
fer out of the endowment of $31.4 million. The
transfer moved funds to a private operating founda-
tion that had been the recipient of the endowment
payout to perform research consistent with the
requirements of the endowment.

The total return on the consolidated portfolio was
21.78 percent. At the end of the fiscal year, the Insti-
tution’s portfolio was invested 71 percent in equi-
ties, 28 percent in bonds, and 1 percent in cash. The
portfolio had 23 percent in foreign stocks and bonds
and 77 percent in U.S. securities.

Undesignated

Construction Funds
In fiscal year 1999, federal appropriations for con-
struction were $60.4 million. This amount included
$40.0 million for general repair, restoration, and
code compliance projects throughout the Institution.
Funds earmarked for new construction, alterations,
and modifications totaled $20.4 million. Included in
this amount is $16.0 million for the Mall museum of
the National Museum of the American Indian and
$4.4 million for renovations, repairs, and master
plan projects at the National Zoological Park.
Nonappropriated trust construction funds totaled
$5.9 million. Approximately $4.4 million supported
construction of facilities for the National Museum of
the American Indian; $1.0 million contributed to the
reinstallation of the Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall of
Geology, Gems, and Minerals at the National Museum
of Natural History; $0.3 million supported renovation
of the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum; and
$0.2 million went to several smaller projects.

Financial Position

The Smithsonian Institution’s Statement of Financial
Position presents the total assets, liabilities, and net
assets of the Institution. Total assets of $1.7 billion
far exceed total liabilities of $406 million and con-
tinue to be indicative of the financial strength of the
Institution. During fiscal year 1999, the most signifi-
cant increases in the Institution’s financial position
included growth in investments of approximately
$92 million, an increase in net property and equip-
ment of $40 million, and the $60 million pledge
from Steven F. Udvar-Hazy.

Financial Management

During the year, the Institution devoted significant

resources to deal with the Year 2000 software prob-

lem. A final review by the Regents’ Audit and Review

Committee found the steps taken to be satisfactory,

and all major systems were functioning effectively at

the beginning of 2000.

Other financial management improvement initia-
tives undertaken in fiscal year 1999 included:

e An internal study that recommended implemen-
tation of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
System. Funding has yet to be identified for the
project, but it is hoped that implementation of
the first module—the financial system—can begin
in fiscal year 2001.
e A study to document accounting and systems
architecture as the basis for implementing a new
financial system and a draft of the functional
requirements for a new general ledger.

e A project in the Office of the Comptroller to
implement software that would facilitate accurate
preparation and electronic processing of travel
authorization and voucher forms. The software
will be tested with selected units early in fiscal
year 2000 and then rolled out to all units.

e Improved collection of amounts due under
grants and contracts by the Office of Sponsored
Projects as a result of automation and systems
enhancement.

e Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) for employee
travel reimbursements.

Additional financial management improvement
initiatives planned to start in fiscal year 2000
include the following:
¢ Updating and streamlining financial policies and

procedures. The project includes putting policies

online in a searchable format.

e Implementation of a credit card system for small
purchases.

e Development of a comptroller’s manual to docu-
ment accounting procedures.

Audit Activities

The Institution’s financial statements are audited
annually by KPMG LLP, an independent public
accounting firm. The audit plan includes an in-
depth review of the Institution’s internal control
structure. The KPMG LLP Independent Auditors’

Smithsonian Institution
At a Glance

e 16 museums and galleries

e 400 buildings in 5 states, Washington, D.C., and
Panama

e 19,000 acres

e 6.6 million square feet of owned space

¢ 31.4 million visits in 1999 (including an estimated
3 million at the National Zoo)

e 141 million objects, works of art, and specimens

e 40 million hits per month at the Smithsonian Web
site (www.si.edu)

e 2.1 million members of the Smithsonian Associates

Report for fiscal year 1999 and the accompanying
financial statements are presented on the following
pages. The Smithsonian’s internal audit staff, part of
the Office of Inspector General, assists the external
auditors and regularly audits the Institution’s vari-
ous programs, activities, and internal control sys-
tems. The Audit and Review Committee of the Board
of Regents provides an additional level of financial
oversight and review.

In accordance with the government requirement
for the use of coordinated audit teams, the Defense
Contract Audit Agency, the Smithsonian Office of
Inspector General, and KPMG LLP coordinate the
audit of grants and contracts received from federal
agencies.

99
Table 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1999 ($000)

REVENUE & GAINS:
RederalvAppropriationsieeeettrt ocr etr
Endowment Payout & Investment Income. ...............
GovernmentiGrants‘and\ContractS cr e-ny eneien tenner
DOME / SOOMGONP Goadnecodaucvopdoscoonvav0codoDnoODNO
SEIS Eraral MITA) coopacopasbecosssonoKdodoDGanEGD
Construction ochre ici eee Cnr
(OMS woe ceiscsanpo soo de RedonodnootoM od bonEO oma Ooo

EXPENSES:
Museums & Research Institutes:

Anacostia Museum and Center for African American

InUK Kony Giatal CMS Sousoucdsoogduccdoosedocuede
ArchivesohAmencanvATtieeaeit iene rec orien
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery/Freer Gallery of Art .........
Center for Folklife Programs & Cultural Studies ........
Center for Materials Research and Education ..........
Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum. ............
Hirshhorn Museum & Sculpture Garden ..............
National Air and Space Museum ....................
National Museum of African Art ....................
National Museum of American Art (incl. Renwick) ......
National Museum of American History ...............
— National Postal Museum. ........................
National Museum of the American Indian. ............
National Museum of Natural History.................
==) MuseumlSupporti@enten yr rii ise terroir ener:
NationalpRortrait{Galleryaereeeeeer teeter
INationallZoolosicaliRarkieraeieiser io ire eis
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory ..............
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center ..........
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute ..............

Total Museums & Research Institutes .............

Education, Museum & Scholarly Services:

CenteriforMuseum|Studiesm assess oes eee
Education ares ea veo eee ote te ouincans aati aimee aus
Exhibits; Centraliace yr ena-o sev oeithecs rare an oC
RellowslipsranGhGrantsiaresush- poet ee ieee ner te yes
IniternationaltRelationswermus cirri ciierncicne cine

Smithsonian Institution Archives ...................
Smithsonian Institution Libraries ...................
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service ....
SPONnSOredIDrojectSenenee eee ec rane era

Total Education, Museum & Scholarly Services

Sales and Membership Activities (Programmatic) ..........
NATO CES Homi .ooa0cancecrnyneedanouacconeuns

MO CAD gyi dre Noaece cea coer cteatersel ater ast coach er ote meeeS ta areunae

MO Cal eee ho ae Be aE ED ate tan

Sales and Membership Activities:

Smithsonian Press / Smithsonian Productions. ...........
SmuithsonianyMagazinessarcrtci te crerr cere iekiel
Dhe|SmithsontanvAssociatestaa- see kee een

Total Sales and Membership
Activities (including Overhead) ....................

100

Federal
Funds

344,042

58,547

402,589

TET
1,580
5,690
1,754
3,046
2,871
4,305
13,338
4,000
7,631
19,108
571
13,830
39,784
4,556
4,791
19,691
29,049
3,184
9,314

189,820

840
523
2,138
430
1,078
27
1,563
1,449
6,157
2,853

17,248
1,549
12,723

221,340
106,579

327,919

General
Trust

17,337

33,714
217,296

8,134
276,481

98
1,538
341
949
1,972
142
955
751
1,284

8,545

183
(275)

52,480
5,538

58,018

8,637
57,942
33,533
68,044
23,674

191,830

Trust Funds
Donor/ Government
Sponsor Grants &

Designated Contracts
6,636 —

_ 66,868
117,068 —
123,704 66,868

129 —
631 —
1,736
1,137 —
4 a
1,190 17
187 —
4,115 338
43 —
1,333 —
5,408 18
2,512 3,164
3,401 62
8,225 3,276
329 =
1,400 851
2,548 53,640
232 1,968
1,112 1,690
35,672 65,024
90 =
184 18
88 =
105 —
28 (S)
858 1,792
373 18
49 =
138 —
2,141 21
4,054 1,844
90 =
176 =
39,992 66,868
39,992 66,868

Total
Trust
Funds

23,973
66,868
150,782
217,296

8,134
467,053

144,723

139
668
186
1,643
364
3,599
2,363
191
1,093
ZO)3}
1,284

14,443

273
(99)

159,340
5,538

164,878

8,637
57,942
33,533
68,044
23,674

191,830

Total
FY 1999

343,691
23,973
66,868

150,782

217,296
58,898

8,134

869,642

2,749
2,355
11,747
3,996
3,132
6,879
8,820
21,606
4,403
11,089
27,615
6,396
18,734
56,145
4,565
5,519
24,122
94,949
5,679
14,043

334,543

979
1,191
2,324
2,073
1,442
3,816
3,926
1,640
7,250
5,766

380,680
112,117

492,797

8,637
$7,942
33,533
68,044
23,674

191,830
Table 1. Source and Application of Institutional Resources for the Year Ended September 30, 1999 ($000)—(continued)

Trust Funds
Donor/ Government Total

Federal General Sponsor Grants & Trust Total

Funds Trust Designated Contracts Funds FY 1999
Administration:
MemibershiprandyDevelopmentieemre reais — 2,632 100 _— 2,732 2,732
Administrative Offices (Net of Overhead Recovery) ......... 32,084 2,249 101 — 2,350 34,434
Total Administration before Allocation of Facilities

and Depreciation Expense .....................----- 32,084 4,881 201 = 5,082 37,166
Allocation of Facilities and Depreciation Expense .......... 14,533 417 = — 417 14,950
TotaleAdministration ease ee eee ee eee omens 46,617 5,298 201 — 5,499 $2,116
IRAGIItTESES Chil COS psec ea re tus: oa. eteu rey sociale aie) on cie Mam tue Uap be 91,013 1,058 (260) — 798 91,811
IDE ORAS IOI 55.6 6h pte ooo crOlnN coke Orin Aen Oeerrien Reese nate 30,099 4,897 — — 4,897 34,996
Allocation of Facilities Services and Depreciation to Functions (121,112) (5,955) — — (5,955) (127,067)
Total Facilities Services and Depreciation ............... — — (260) —_— (260) (260)
FLO AWAE XEN SE Sipe tseasiycis estas easy hla s aiaay ort sian ensue 374,536 255,146 39,933 66,868 361,947 736,483

EndowmentReturn’Reimvested = 22---..-5--.-----++-+-4-- — 69,363 31,065 — 100,428 100,428
Return of Gift and Appreciation ........................ — — (44,823) — (44,823) (44,823)
PROCEAGS sarorin (COBEHOMS o55cc5000c00000000b 0000000000 — 1,000 — — 1,000 1,000
INGEIncrease;minetiassetsieere oie eee Seca] soda: 28,053 91,698 70,013 — 161,711 189,764
Net assets, beginning of the year ...................... 426,271 — — — 718,432 1,144,703
iNetassetsyendlofsthelyeareereee eee ae aoe ae 454,324 — — —_ 880,143 1,334,467

alent
Independent Auditors’ Report

BOARD OF REGENTS
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:

We have audited the accompanying statement of financial
position of the Smithsonian Institution (Smithsonian) as of
September 30, 1999, and the related statements of financial
activity and cash flows for the year then ended. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Smith-
sonian’s management. Our responsibility is to express an

material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of the Smithsonian Institution as of September 30, 1999,
and its changes in net assets and its cash flows for the year
then ended, in conformity with generally accepted account-

opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. ing principles.
We conducted our audit in accordance with generally

accepted auditing standards. Those standards require that

we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assur-

ance about whether the financial statements are free of

Washington, D.C. KPMG LLP

January 14, 2000

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statement of Financial Position
September 30, 1999

($000)
Total Funds
Trust Federal
Funds Funds 1999 1998
Assets:
Cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury 3,539 206,813 210,352 205,829
Receivables and advances (note 3) 134,542 20,139 154,681 84,281
Prepaid and deferred expenses, and other (notes 2 and 5) 21,984 — 21,984 19,963
Inventory 14,548 847 15,395 21,175
Investments (note 6) 738,521 —_— 738,521 646,455
Property and equipment, net (note 9) 131,266 468,978 600,244 $59,842
Total assets 1,044,400 696,777 1,741,177 1,537,545
Liabilities:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses (note 10) 43,777 50,778 94,555 89,606
Net payable for investment securities purchased 26,121 = 26,121 24,963
Deferred revenue 49,691 — 49,691 49,260
Long-term debt (note 11) 41,535 — 41,535 41,526
Deposits held for affiliates (note 12) 3,133 — 3,133 4,864
Unexpended federal appropriations (note 4) — 191,675 191,675 182,623
Total liabilities 164,257 242,453 406,710 392,842
Net assets:
Unrestricted:
Funds functioning as endowments (note 7) 459,521 — 459,521 387,608
Operational balances (notes 4 and 5) 61,473 454,324 $15,797 489,944
Total unrestricted net assets 520,994 454,324 975,318 877,552
Temporarily restricted:
Funds functioning as endowments (note 7) 140,360 —_— 140,360 138,686
Donor contributions for ongoing programs 153,323 — 153,323 63,538
Total temporarily restricted net assets 293,683 = 293,683 202,224
Permanently restricted:
True endowment (note 7) 63,248 — 63,248 62,972
Interest in perpetual and other trusts 2,218 = 2,218 1,955
Total permanently restricted net assets 65,466 — 65,466 64,927
Total net assets 880,143 454,324 1,334,467 1,144,703
Total liabilities and net assets 1,044,400 696,777 1,741,177 1,537,545

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

102
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statement of Financial Activity
Year ended September 30, 1999

($000)
Unrestricted
Temporarily Permanently
Trust Federal Restricted Restricted eeu
Funds Funds Total Trust Funds Trust Funds 1999 1998
Operating revenue:
Government revenue:
Federal appropriations (note 4) — 402,589 402,589 — — 402,589 393,032
Government grants and contracts 66,868 — 66,868 —_— — 66,868 59,972
Total government revenue 66,868 402,589 469,457 — — 469,457 453,004
Contributions:
Program support (note 7) 28,079 —_— 28,079 LEYS 3,449 54,303 63,742
Construction of facilities (note 16) — — — 64,609 — 64,609 3,815
Total contributions 28,079 — 28,079 87,384 3,449 118,912 67,557
Business activities and other:
Short-term investment income (note 8) 2,946 — 2,946 5 = 2,951 2,380
Endowment payout (note 8) 14,391 — 14,391 6,123 $08 21,022 19,726
Private grants 5,635 — 5,635 26,235 — 31,870 10,348
Rentals, fees, and commissions 8,134 —_— 8,134 —_— —_— 8,134 8,335
Business activities (note 15) 217,296 — 217,296 — — 217,296 213,109
Total business activities and other 248,402 — 248,402 32,363 508 281,273 253,898
Total operating revenues 343,349 402,589 745,938 119,747 3,957 869,642 774,459
Net assets released from restrictions 17,948 — 17,948 (17,948) —_ — —
Total operating revenues, and other additions 361,297 402,589 763,886 101,799 3,957 869,642 774,459
Expenses:
Research 69,485 80,760 150,245 — — 150,245 144,760
Collections management 5,485 87,461 92,946 _— — 92,946 93,898
Education, public programs, and exhibitions 43,567 96,883 140,450 — — 140,450 125,178
Business activities (note 15) 191,830 — 191,830 — — 191,830 196,990
Administration 32,674 107,690 140,364 — — 140,364 130,260
Advancement 12,112 — 12,112 — — 12,112 10,561
Total expenses 355,153 372,794 727,947 — — 727,947 701,647
Increase in net assets
from operations 6,144 29,795 35,939 101,799 3,957 141,695 72,812
Endowment income reinvested (note 8) 69,363 — 69,363 31,067 (2) 100,428 (30,825)
Return of endowed gift (note 7) — —_ — (41,407) (3,416) (44,823) —
Change in net assets related to
collection items not capitalized:
Proceeds from sale 1,000 —_— 1,000 — — 1,000 avi
Collection items purchased (6,794) (1,742) (8,536) — — (8,536) (8,831)
Increase in net assets 69,713 28,053 97,766 91,459 539 189,764 33,893
Net assets, beginning of the year 451,281 426,271 877,552 202,224 64,927 1,144,703 1,110,810
Net assets, end of the year 520,994 454,324 975,318 293,683 65,466 1,334,467 1,144,703

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

103
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Statements of Cash Flows
Year ended September 30, 1999

($000)
Total Funds
Trust Federal
Funds Funds 1999 1998
Cash flows from operating activities:
Increase in net assets 161,711 28,053 189,764 33,893
Adjustments to reconcile increase in net assets to net
cash provided by operating activities:
Proceeds from sales of collections (1,000) — (1,000) (737)
Collection items purchased 6,794 1,742 8,536 8,831
Depreciation 8,190 39,829 48,019 45,881
Loss on disposition of assets 135 301 436 583
Contributions for increases in endowment (2,592) — (2,592) (4,822)
Contributions for construction of property (64,609) — (64,609) (3,815)
Appropriations for repair, restoration and
construction — (60,400) (60,400) (68,850)
Investment income restricted for long-term
investment (506) _ (506) (462)
Provision for doubtful accounts 737 — 737 Zieh,
Net realized and unrealized loss (gain) on
investments (102,332) — (102,332) 26,505
Decrease (increase) in assets:
Receivables and advances (71,275) (4,073) (75,348) (20,023)
Prepaid and deferred expenses, and other (2,021) — (2,021) 1,293
Inventory 5,706 74 5,780 (2,216)
Increase (decrease) in liabilities:
Accounts payable and accrued expenses 3,003 1,946 4,949 804
Deferred revenue 431 — 431 (3,097)
Deposits held for others (1,731) — (1,731) 931
Unexpended federal appropriations — 9,052 9,052 8,823
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (59,359) 16,524 (42,835) 23,799
Cash flows from investing activities:
Proceeds from sales of collections 1,000 — 1,000 737
Collection items purchased (6,794) (1,742) (8,536) (8,831)
Purchase of property and equipment (19,852) (69,005) (88,857) (89,810)
Purchases of investment securities (946,739) — (946,739) (712,267)
Proceeds from the sales of investment securities 958,163 — 958,163 672,929
Net cash used in investing activities (14,222) (70,747) (84,969) (137,242)
Cash flows from financing activities:
Contributions for increases in endowment 6,803 — 6,803 8,571
Contributions for construction of property 64,609 — 64,609 3,815
Appropriations for repair, restoration and construction = 60,400 60,400 68,850
Investment income restricted for long-term purposes 506 — 506 462
Proceeds from issuance of debt — — — 40,526
Repayments of debt 9 _— 9 _
Net cash provided by financing activities 71,927 60,400 132,327 122,224
Net increase (decrease) in cash and
balances with the U.S. Treasury (1,654) 6,177 4,523 8,781
Cash and balances with the U.S. Treasury:
Beginning of the year 5,193 200,636 205,829 197,048
End of the year 3,539 206,813 210,352 205,829

Cash paid for interest during fiscal years 1999 and 1998 was approximately $2,000,000 and $1,332,000, respectively.

See accompanying notes to the financial statements.

104

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
Notes to the Financial Statement
September 30, 1999

(in thousands)

(1) Organization

The Smithsonian Institution (Smithsonian) was created by
act of Congress in 1846 in accordance with the terms of
the will of James Smithson of England, who, in 1826,
bequeathed his property to the United States of America
“to found at Washington, under the name of the Smith-
sonian Institution, an establishment for the increase and
diffusion of knowledge among men.” After receiving the
property and accepting the trust, Congress vested responsi-
bility in the Smithsonian Board of Regents (Board) to
administer the trust.

The Smithsonian is a museum, education and research
complex consisting of 16 museums and galleries, the
National Zoological Park, and other research facilities.
Research is carried out in the Smithsonian’s museums and
facilities throughout the world. The Smithsonian’s exten-
sive collections number over 140 million objects. During
fiscal year 1999, over 28 million individuals visited the
Smithsonian museums and other facilities.

The Smithsonian receives its funding from federal
appropriations, private gifts and grants, government grants
and contracts, investment income, and various business
activities. Business activities include Smithsonian maga-
zines and other publications, a mail-order catalogue,
museum shops, and concession income from food services.

A substantial portion of the Smithsonian’s annual oper-
ating budget is funded from annual federal appropriations.
Certain construction projects have been completely funded
from federal appropriations, while others are funded using
amounts raised from private sources, or by a combination
of federal and private funds.

Federal operating and construction funding are both
subject to the annual federal appropriations process, and
therefore the potential exists for reductions in approved
federal funding that would significantly impact the Smith-
sonian’s operations.

These financial statements do not include the accounts
of the National Gallery of Art, the John EF. Kennedy Center
for the Performing Arts, or the Woodrow Wilson Interna-
tional Center for Scholars, which were established by Con-
gress within the Smithsonian, but are administered by
independent boards of trustees.

(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
These financial statements present the financial position,
financial activity, and cash flows of the Smithsonian on the
accrual basis of accounting. Funds received from direct fed-
eral appropriations are reported as Federal Funds in the
financial statements. All other funds are reported as Trust
Funds.

(a) Trust Funds
Trust funds revenues arise primarily from contributions,
grants and contracts, net investment income, and business

activities. Trust funds net assets are classified and reported
as follows:

Unrestricted net assets

Net assets that are not subject to any donor-imposed or
other legal stipulations on the use of the funds. Funds
functioning as endowments in this category represent
unrestricted assets which have been designated by manage-
ment or the Board for long-term investment.

Temporarily restricted net assets

Net assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations on the use
of the assets that may be met by actions of the Smith-
sonian and/or the passage of time. Funds functioning as
endowments in this category represent donor-restricted
contributions that have been designated by management
or the Board for long-term investment. Donor contribu-
tions represent unspent gifts and promises-to-give of cash
and securities subject to donor-imposed restrictions which
have not yet been met.

Permanently restricted net assets

Net assets subject to donor-imposed stipulations that the
principal be maintained permanently by the Smithsonian.
Generally, the donors of these assets permit the Smithsonian
to use all or part of the income earned on investment of the
assets for either general or donor-specified purposes.

(b) Federal Funds

The Smithsonian receives federal appropriations to support
the Smithsonian’s operating salaries and expenses, repair
and restoration of facilities, and construction. Federal
appropriation revenue is classified as unrestricted and rec-
ognized as an exchange transaction as expenditures are
incurred. The liability reported as unexpended appropria-
tions represents amounts received either (1) which have
not yet been obligated, or (2) for which goods or services
have been ordered but not yet received.

The Smithsonian was appropriated $351,344 for opera-
tions and $60,400 for construction or repair and restora-
tion in fiscal year 1999. Federal appropriations for opera-
tions are generally available for obligation only in the year
received. In accordance with Public Law 101-510, these
annual appropriations are maintained by the Smithsonian
for five years following the year of appropriation, after
which the appropriation account is closed and any unex-
pended balances are returned to the U.S. Treasury. During
fiscal year 1999, the Smithsonian returned $1,644 to the
U.S. Treasury which represents the unexpended balance for
fiscal year 1994.

Federal appropriations for construction or repair and
restoration of facilities and construction are generally avail-
able for obligation until expended.

(©) Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires manage-
ment to make estimates and assumptions that affect the

105
106

reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates, however, management does
not believe that actual results will be materially different
from those estimates.

(da) Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying value of bond obligations in the financial
statements exceeds the fair market value by approximately
$3,756 at September 30, 1999.

The carrying value of all other financial instruments in
the financial statements approximates fair market value.

(e) Cash and Balances with U.S. Treasury

Amounts represent cash deposited with financial institu-
tions, balances held by the U.S. Treasury that are available
for disbursement, and a repurchase agreement totaling
$3,272 at September 30, 1999.

(f) Investments

The Smithsonian’s marketable equity and debt securities
are reported at fair value based on quoted market prices.
Changes in fair value are recognized in the statement of
financial activity. Purchases and sales of investments are
recorded on the trade date. Investment income is recorded
when earned. As mandated by Congress, the Smithsonian
maintains two Treasury investments totalling $1,000 relat-
ing in part to the original James Smithson gift.

The Smithsonian uses the “total return” approach to
investment management of pooled true endowment funds
and quasi-endowment funds, referred to collectively as the
endowment. Each year, the endowment pays out an
amount for current expenditures based upon a number of
factors evaluated and approved by the Board of Regents.
Based on approved Board policy, if the market value of any
endowment fund is less than 110 percent of the historical
value, the current payout is limited to the actual interest
and dividends allocable to that fund.

The difference between the total return (i.e., dividends,
interest and net gain or loss), and the payout is reinvested
when there is an excess of total return over payout, or
withdrawn from previously accumulated returns when
there is a deficiency of total return to payout. The differ-
ence is reported as non-operating income or loss in the
statement of financial activity.

(g) Contributions Receivable

All contributions receivable are reported net of estimated
uncollectible amounts. Contributions expected to be col-
lected beyond one year are also discounted to present value
based on current U.S. Treasury rates. Conditional contribu-
tions receivable are not recorded until material conditions
have been met.

(h) Inventories

Inventories are reported at the lower of cost or market, and
consist primarily of merchandise inventory, books, record-
ings, and office supplies. Cost is determined using the first-
in, first-out method.

(i) Deferred Revenue and Expense

Revenue from subscriptions to Smithsonian magazine and
Air & Space/Smithsonian magazine is recognized over the
period of the subscription, generally one year.

Promotion production expenses are recognized when
related advertising materials are released. Direct-response
advertising relating to the magazines is deferred and amor-
tized over one year. At September 30, 1999, prepaid and
deferred expenses include $6,926 of deferred promotion
costs, mostly related to the Smithsonian magazine. Promo-
tion expense totaled $15,967 in fiscal year 1999 and is
reported within Business Activities on the statement of
financial activity.

(j) Split Interest Agreements and

Perpetual Trusts

Split interest agreements with donors consist primarily of
irrevocable charitable remainder trusts and charitable gift
annuities. For the charitable remainder trusts, contribution
revenue and assets are recognized at fair value on the date
the trusts are established. Assets are adjusted during the
term of the trusts for changes in the value of the assets,
accretion of discounts, and other changes in the estimated
future benefits. For the charitable gift annuities, assets are
recognized at fair value on the date the annuity agree-
ments are established. An annuity liability is recognized at
the present value of future cash flows expected to be paid
to the donor and contribution revenue is recognized as the
difference between the assets and liability. Liabilities are
adjusted during the term of the annuities for payments to
donors, accretion of discounts and changes in the life
expectancy of the donor.

The Smithsonian is also the beneficiary of certain per-
petual trusts held and administered by others. The present
values of the estimated future cash receipts from the trusts
are recognized as assets and contribution revenue at the
dates the trusts are established. Distributions from the
trusts are recorded as contributions and the carrying value
of the assets is adjusted for changes in the estimates of
future receipts.

(k) Property and Equipment

Property and equipment purchased with federal or trust
funds are capitalized at cost. Property and equipment
acquired through transfer from government agencies are
capitalized at net book value or fair value, whichever is more
readily determinable. Property and equipment acquired
through donation are capitalized at appraised value at the
date of the gift. These assets are depreciated on a straight-
line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows:

Buildings 30 years
Major renovations 15 years
Equipment 3-10 years

Certain lands occupied by the Smithsonian’s buildings, pri-
marily located in the District of Columbia, Maryland and
Virginia, were appropriated and reserved by Congress for
the Smithsonian’s use. The Smithsonian serves as trustee of
these lands for as long as they are used to carry out the
Smithsonian’s mission. These lands are titled in the name
of the U.S. government and are not reflected in the accom-
panying financial statements.

(D Collections

The Smithsonian acquires its collections, which include
works of art, library books, photographic archives, objects
and specimens, by purchase using federal or trust funds or
by donation. All collections are held for public exhibition,
education, or research, furthering the Smithsonian’s mis-
sion to increase and diffuse knowledge to the public. The
Smithsonian protects and preserves its collections, which
total more than 140 million items. The Smithsonian’s
Collections Management policy includes guidance on the
preservation, care and maintenance of the collections and
procedures relating to the accession/deaccession of items
within the collections.

The Smithsonian’s policy is to not capitalize its collec-
tions, therefore, no value is assigned to the collections on
the statement of financial position. Purchases of collection
items are recorded as expense in the year in which the
items are acquired. Contributed collection items are not
reflected in the financial statements. Proceeds from deac-
cessions or insurance recoveries from lost or destroyed col-
lection items are reflected as increases in the appropriate
net asset class, and are designated for future collection
acquisitions.

Items that are acquired with the intent at the time of
acquisition not to add them to the collections but rather to
sell, exchange, or otherwise use them for financial gain are
not considered collection items, and are recorded at fair
market value at date of acquisition as other assets in the
statement of financial position.

(m) Annual Leave

The Smithsonian’s civil service employees earn annual leave
in accordance with federal laws and regulations. Separate
internal policies apply for trust employees. Annual leave for
all employees is recognized as expense when earned.

(n) Government Grants and Contracts

The Smithsonian receives grants and enters into contracts
with the U.S. government and state and local govern-
ments, which primarily provide for cost reimbursement to
the Smithsonian. Revenue from governmental grants and

contracts is classified as unrestricted and is recognized as
reimbursable expenditures are incurred.

(0) Contributions

The Smithsonian recognizes revenue from all contributions
as revenue in the period unconditional promises are
received.

Unrestricted contributions with payments due in future
periods are initially recorded as temporarily restricted sup-
port, and are reclassified to unrestricted net assets when
payments become due.

When donor restrictions are met on temporarily
restricted contributions, the related net assets are reclassi-
fied as released from restrictions in the accompanying
statement of financial activity.

Gifts of long-lived assets are recorded as unrestricted
revenue in the period received. Contributions of cash and
other assets restricted to the acquisition of long-lived assets
are recorded as temporarily restricted revenue in the period
received. The donor's restrictions expire and the related net
assets are released from restriction when the long-lived
asset is placed in service by the Smithsonian.

In-kind contributions of goods and services totaling
$7,115 were received in fiscal year 1999 and recorded as
program support in the accompanying statement of finan-
cial activity. The nature of the in-kind contributions
includes donated space and interactive multimedia soft-
ware programs.

A substantial number of volunteers also make significant
contributions of time to the Smithsonian, enhancing its
activities and programs. In fiscal year 1999, more than
5,400 volunteers contributed approximately 476,000 hours
of service to the Smithsonian. The value of these contribu-
tions is not recognized in the financial statements.

(p) Advancement

The Smithsonian raises private financial support from
individual donors, corporations and foundations to fund
programs and other initiatives. Funds are also generated
through numerous membership programs. Fund-raising
costs are expensed as incurred and reported as advance-
ment expense in the statement of financial activity. Mem-
bership program costs are amortized over membership
terms, typically one year, and are also reported as Advance-
ment expenses.

(q) Comparative Financial Statements

The statement of financial activity includes certain prior-
year summarized comparative information in total but not
by net asset class. Such information does not include
sufficient detail to constitute a presentation in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles. Accord-
ingly, such information should be read in conjunction
with the Smithsonian’s financial statements for the year
ended September 30, 1998, from which the summarized
information was derived.

107
108

(r) Reclassifications
Certain amounts have been reclassified in prior year to
conform with the current year presentation.

(3) Receivables and Advances
Receivables and advances consisted of the following at Sep-
tember 30, 1999:

Trust Federal Total

Trade receivables, net of $1,618
in allowances 18,252 — 18,252

Contributions receivable,

net (note 3a) 101,799 — 101,799
Grants and contracts 10,048 — 10,048
Accrued interest and dividends 805 — 805
Advance payments (note 3b) 1,048 20,139 21,187
Charitable trust 2,590 —_— 2,590

Total receivables and advances 134,542 20,139 154,681

(a) Contributions Receivable

Contributions receivable (pledges) are recorded as revenue
when unconditional promises are received. Pledges for
which payment is not due within one year are discounted
based on rates earned by U.S. Treasury obligations with
corresponding maturities. As of September 30, 1999, the
aggregate discounted contributions receivable was as fol-

lows:
Due within:
Less than 1 year 30,017
1 to S years 83,765
More than 5 years 4,680
118,462
Less:
Allowance for uncollectible pledges (3,812)
Discount to present value (at rates ranging
from 4.43 to 6.45%) (12,851)

Contributions receivable, net 101,799

At September 30, 1999, the Smithsonian has outstanding
conditional contributions totaling $15,500 which will be
recognized if and when the specific conditions are met.

(b) Advance Payments

At September 30, 1999, federal advance payments of
approximately $20,139 represent prepayments made to
government agencies, educational institutions, firms and
individuals for services to be rendered, or property or mate-
tials to be furnished.

At September 30, 1999, advance payments included
amounts paid to the General Services Administration of
$10,591 for equipment purchases for the Museum Support
Center and other projects to be completed in future years.

(4) Reconciliation of Federal Appropriations
Federal appropriation revenue recognized in fiscal

year 1999 can be reconciled to the federal appropriations
received in fiscal year 1999 as follows:

Repair and
Salaries Restoration
and and

Expenses Construction Total

Federal appropriation revenue 344,042 58,547 402,589
Unexpended 1999 appropriation 55,107 60,400 115,507
Amounts expended from

prior years (46,268) (58,547) (104,815)
Other funding (1,537) — (1,537)

Fiscal year 1999 federal

appropriations 351,344 60,400 411,744

Federal expenses recognized in fiscal year 1999 can be rec-
onciled to the federal appropriations received in fiscal
year 1999 as follows:

Repair and
Salaries Restoration

and and
Expenses Construction Total
Federal expenses 341,856 30,938 372,794
Unexpended 1999 appropriation 55,107 60,400 115,507
Depreciation (8,891) (30,938) (39,829)
Supplies consumption (74) — (74)
Gain (loss) on disposition
of assets (301) — (301)
Unfunded annual leave (748) —_— (748)
Amounts expended from
prior years (46,268) (58,547) (104,815)
Capital expenditures 10,458 58,547 69,005
Collection items purchased 1,742 — 1,742
Other funding (1,537) — (1,537)
Fiscal year 1999 federal
60,400 411,744

appropriations 351,344

Federal unrestricted net assets primarily represent the
Smithsonian’s net investment in property, plant and
equipment purchased with or constructed using federal
appropriated funds.

Unexpended appropriations for all fiscal years total
$191,675 at September 30, 1999, and consist of $80,882
in unexpended operating funds, $66,565 in unexpended
repair and restoration funds and $44,228 in unexpended
construction funds. Unexpended operating funds include
amounts for the Museum Support Center move and the
National Museum of the American Indian. Unexpended
repair and restoration funds represent amounts available
for on-going major repair and restoration of the Smith-
sonian’s museums and facilities. Unexpended construction
funds represent amounts appropriated but not yet
expended for construction of new facilities.

(5) Accessions and Deaccessions
For fiscal year 1999, $6,794 of trust funds and $1,742 of
federal funds were spent to acquire collection items. Pro-
ceeds from trust fund deaccessions were $1,000. There were
no deaccessions of collection items purchased with federal
funds in fiscal year 1999. At September 30, 1999, accumu-
lated proceeds and related earnings from deaccessions
amounted to $17,270 and are designated within unrestricted
net assets for collections acquisition in the trust funds.
Non-cash deaccessions result from the exchange, dona-
tion, or destruction of collection items, and occur because
objects deteriorate, are beyond the scope of a museum’s
mission, or are duplicative. During fiscal year 1999, the
Smithsonian’s non-cash deaccessions included works of art,
animals, historical objects, and natural specimens. Con-
tributed items held for sale total $4,060 and are included in
prepaid and deferred expense and other assets in the state-
ment of financial position.

(6) Investments
At September 30, 1999, investments consisted of the

following:

Short-term investments:

Cash equivalents 20,619
U.S. Government obligations 32,304
52,923

Endowment and similar investments:
Pooled investments:

Cash equivalents 5,270
U.S. Government and quasi-government
obligations 44,591
Corporate bonds and other obligations 163,136
Common and preferred stocks 469,944
Total pooled investments 682,941

Non pooled investments:
Deposits with U.S. Treasury 1,000

Total endowment and
similar investments 683,941

Gift annuity program investments:

Cash equivalents 4
Corporate bonds and other obligations 491
Common and preferred stock 1,162
1,657

Total investments 738,521

(7) True Endowment and Funds Functioning

as Endowments

Substantially all of the investments of the endowment are
pooled on a market value basis, with individual funds sub-
scribing to or disposing of units on the basis of the per unit
market value at the beginning of the month in which the
transaction takes place. At September 30, 1999, the market
value of the pool equated to $721 per unit. The market
value of the pool’s net assets at September 30, 1999, was
$657,310. This represents all pooled investments plus or
minus net receivables and payables related to unsettled
investment transactions.

Each fund participating in the investment pool receives
an annual payout equal to the number of units owned
times the annual payout amount per unit. The payout for
fiscal year 1999 was $22.80 per unit, or 4.5 percent of the
average market value of the endowment over the prior
five years.

Net asset balances of the endowment consisted of the
following at September 30, 1999:

Unrestricted 257,651
Unrestricted-designated 201,870
Total unrestricted 459,521
Temporarily restricted 140,360
Permanently restricted 63,248
Total endowment net assets 663,129

During 1999, the Smithsonian agreed to transfer the
Seward Johnson Trust Fund for Oceanography (the John-
son Fund) to Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution,
Inc. (Harbor Branch), a private operating foundation.
The Johnson Fund was originally received by the Smith-
sonian in 1969 as a permanently restricted gift of $3,400,
restricted to the development and operation of the
Johnson-Sea-Link Research submersible vehicle and
oceanographic research.

At the date of transfer, in February 1999, the original gift
corpus and accumulated interest totaled $44,800. The con-
tribution is reported in the statement of financial activity
as a non-operating reduction of both temporarily restricted
and permanently restricted net assets, in the amounts of
$41,400 and $3,400, respectively.

In exchange for being appointed trustee of the Johnson
Fund, Harbor Branch agreed to donate 30 percent of the
value of the Johnson Fund at the date of transfer to the
Smithsonian from Harbor Branch’s own funds. The contri-
bution of $13,400 is reported in the statement of financial
activity as a program support contribution, increasing tem-
porarily restricted net assets. The net affect of these related
transactions is a $31,400 reduction in net assets.

109
(8) Composition of Total Return from Investments
Total return from investments consisted of the following
for the year ended September 30, 1999:

Composition of Endowment Return:

Endowment payout 21,022
Investment income in excess of payout 107
Total investment income 21,129
Less—investment fees (1,479)
Net investment income 19,650

Net realized and unrealized gain on investments 101,800

Endowment total return 121,450

Endowment total return is reported as $21,022 in operat-
ing revenue representing the annual payout, and the
excess of $100,428 as non-operating endowment income
in the statement of financial activity.

Composition of Short-Term Investment Total Return:

Interest and dividends 2,419
Net gain on investments 532
Short-term investment total return 2,951

(9) Property and Equipment
Property and equipment consisted of the following at Sep-
tember 30, 1999:

Trust Federal Total

Land 2,500 — 2,500
Buildings and capital

improvements 173,416 880,153 1,053,569

Equipment 30,398 54,263 84,661

Leasehold improvements 2,623 — 2,623

208,937 934,416 1,143,353

Accumulated depreciation (77,671) (465,438) (543,109)

Total property and equipment 131,266 468,978 600,244

At September 30, 1999, buildings and capital improve-
ments included $15,197 and $155,016 of construction in
progress within Trust and Federal funds, respectively.
Depreciation expense for fiscal year 1999 totaled $8,190 in
the trust funds and $39,829 in the federal funds.

(10) Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses
Accounts payable and accrued expenses consisted of the
following at September 30, 1999:

Trust Federal Total

Accounts payable 16,941 16,408 33,349

Accrued salaries and benefits 23,836 28,913 52,749

Other accrued liabilities 3,000 5,457 8,457
Total accounts payable and

accrued expenses 43,777 50,778 94,555

(11) Long-term Debt

In January 1998, the District of Columbia issued $41,300 of
tax-exempt revenue bonds on behalf of the Smithsonian.
The Smithsonian is obligated under these bonds as follows:

Series 1997 Revenue Bonds, Serial, with interest
rates ranging from 4.10% to 4.75%, maturing at
various dates from February 1, 2002 through 2012: 10,950

Series 1997 Revenue Bonds Term:

Interest rate 5.00% due February 1, 2017 7,105
Interest rate 4.75% due February 1, 2018 1,640
Interest rate 5.00% due February 1, 2028 21,625
Total bonds at face value 41,320
Less—unamortized bond discount (785)
Total bonds payable 40,535

Interest free note, Virginia Department of Aviation 1,000

Total long-term debt 41,535

The serial and term bonds represent an unsecured general
obligation of the Smithsonian. Proceeds from the sale of
the bonds will finance certain renovations of and improve-
ments to the National Museum of Natural History, fund
capitalized interest, and pay certain costs of issuing the
bonds. Interest on the bonds is payable semi-annually on
August 1 and February 1, beginning on August 1, 1998.
Principal and interest payments will be funded solely
through unrestricted Trust funds.

The term bonds maturing on February 1, 2017 and 2028
are subject to mandatory redemption by operations of
sinking fund installments. Installment payments for the
term bond maturing February 1, 2017, begin on Febru-
ary 1, 2013 and range from $1,285 to $1,565 per year
through the maturity date. Installment payments for the
term bond maturing February 1, 2028 begin on February 1,
2019 and range from $1,720 to $2,665 per year through
the maturity date.

Interest expense on bonds payable for fiscal year 1999
totaled $1,334 net of capitalized interest of approximately
$666.

At September 30, 1999, the Smithsonian also had an
interest-free loan from the Virginia Department of Aviation
totaling $1,000. The Virginia Department of Aviation
agreed, in fiscal year 1995, to make available to the Smith-
sonian an interest-free loan facility totaling $3,000, of
which $500 was drawn in fiscal years 1996 and 1997. This
loan facility is intended to assist in the financing of the
planning, marketing, fund-raising, and design of the pro-
posed National Air and Space Museum extension at Wash-
ington Dulles International Airport. The Smithsonian is
scheduled to repay the outstanding loan not later than
June 30, 2001.
(12) Affiliate Relationships

The Smithsonian provides certain fiscal, procurement,
facilities and administrative services to several separately
incorporated affiliated organizations, not consolidated in
these financial statements, for which certain officials of the
Smithsonian serve on the governing boards. The amounts
paid to the Smithsonian by these organizations for the
above services totaled $164 of trust funds and $147 of
federal funds for fiscal year 1999.

Deposits held in custody for these organizations at
September 30, 1999, were $3,133 and were recorded in
the trust funds.

The Friends of the National Zoo (FONZ), an indepen-
dent 501(c)(3) organization, raises funds for the benefit of
the Smithsonian’s National Zoological Park. Funds received
by the Smithsonian from FONZ are recorded as unre-
stricted revenue and totaled $583 in fiscal year 1999.

(13) Employee Benefit Plans

The federal employees of the Smithsonian are covered by
either the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the
Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS). The terms of
these plans are defined in federal regulations. Under both
systems, the Smithsonian withholds from each federal
employee’s salary the required salary percentage. The
Smithsonian also contributes specified percentages. The
Smithsonian’s expense for these plans for fiscal year 1999
was $16,912.

The Smithsonian has a separate defined contribution
retirement plan for trust fund employees, in which sub-
stantially all such employees are eligible to participate.
Under the plan, the Smithsonian contributes stipulated
percentages of salary which are used to purchase individual
annuities, the rights to which are immediately vested with
the employees. Employees can make voluntary contribu-
tions, subject to certain limitations. The Smithsonian’s cost
of the plan for fiscal year 1999 was $10,437.

In addition to the Smithsonian’s retirement plans, the
Smithsonian makes available certain health care and life
insurance benefits to active and retired trust fund employ-
ees. The plan is contributory for retirees and requires pay-
ment of premiums and deductibles. Retiree contributions
for premiums are established by an insurance carrier based
on the average per capita cost of benefit coverage for all
participants, active and retired, in the Smithsonian’s plan.
The following information summarizes the activity of
postretirement benefit plans as of and for the year ended
September 30, 1999:

Change in benefit obligation:

Benefit obligation at September 30, 1998 10,498
Service cost 300
Interest cost 351
Actuarial gain (6,181)
Benefits paid (118)

Benefit obligation, September 30, 1999 4,850

Change in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets, September 30, 1998 234
Actual return on plan assets 19
Employer contributions 118
Refund of life insurance reserve (253)
Benefits paid (118)

Fair value of plan assets, September 30, 1999 —

Projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets (4,850)

Unrecognized transition obligation 4,564
Unrecognized net actuarial gain (6,508)
Accrued postretirement benefit obligation (6,794)

Components of net periodic benefit cost:

Service cost 300
Interest cost 351
Expected return on plan assets (19)
Amortization of transition obligation 326
Amortization of unrecognized gain (633)

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost 325

Weighted-average assumptions as of September 30:

Discount rate 8.25%
Expected return on plan assets 8.25%
Rate of compensaiton increase 3.50%

For measurement purposes, the September 30, 1999 postre-
tirement benefit obligation was determined using a 6.5 per-
cent annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of cov-
ered health care benefits was assumed for fiscal year 2000.
The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 4.5 percent
for fiscal year 2004 and remain at that level thereafter. The
effect of a one percent change in the assumed health care
cost trend rate at September 30, 1999 would have resulted
in an approximate $522 increase or $409 decrease in the
postretirement benefit obligation and an approximate

$93 increase or $71 decrease in the 1999 postretirement
benefit cost.

(14) Income Taxes

The Smithsonian is recognized as exempt from income tax-
ation under the provisions of Section 501(c)(3) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code (the Code). Organizations described in
that section are taxable only on their unrelated business
income. Periodical advertising sales is the main source of
unrelated business income. An IRS determination letter has
been received supporting the Smithsonian’s tax-exempt
112

status. No provision for income taxes was required for fis-
cal year 1999.

It is the opinion of the Smithsonian’s management that
the Smithsonian is also exempt from taxation as an instru-
mentality of the United States as defined in
Section 501(c)(1) of the Code. Organizations described in
that section are exempt from all income taxation. The
Smithsonian has not yet formally sought such dual status.

(15) Business Activities
A summary of business activities reported in the statement
of activities for the year ended September 30, 1999 follows:

Revenue Expenses Net
Magazines 72,556 57,942 14,614
The Smithsonian Associates 32,438 33,533 (1,095)
Museum shops and mail order 71,268 65,332 5,936
Smithsonian Institution Press 8,930 8,633 297
Concessions, licensing and other 32,104 26,390 5,714

217,296 191,830 25,466

(16) Commitments and Contingencies
(a) Leasing Activities
Leases for Smithsonian warehouse and office spaces pro-
vide for rent escalations to coincide with increases in prop-
erty taxes, operating expenses attributable to the leased
property and the Consumer Price Index. The Smithsonian
has the authority to enter into leases for up to 30 years
using federal funds.

The Smithsonian’s operating leases for the warehouse
and office spaces require future minimum lease payments
as follows:

2000 13,348
2001 7,878
2002 7,748
2003 6,774
2004 5,127
Thereafter 17,287

58,162

Rental expense for operating leases totaled $16,518 for
fiscal year 1999.

(b) Government Grants and Contracts

The Smithsonian receives funding or reimbursement from
governmental agencies for various activities which are sub-
ject to audit. Audits of these activities have been completed
through fiscal year 1998, however, fiscal year 1998 has not
been closed with the cognizant federal audit agency. Man-
agement believes that any adjustments which may result
from this audit and the audit for fiscal year 1999 will have
no materially adverse effect on the Smithsonian’s financial
position.

(c) Litigation

The Smithsonian is a party to various litigation arising out
of the normal conduct of its operations. In the opinion of
the Smithsonian’s General Counsel, the ultimate resolution
of these matters will have no materially adverse effect on
the Smithsonian’s financial position.

(da) National Museum of the American Indian

The Smithsonian broke ground in September 1999 for the
construction of the National Museum of the American
Indian. Federal appropriations of $73,300 are budgeted for
this project. Restricted contributions collected or pledged
of $23,800 are included in temporarily restricted net assets.
Additional fund-raising will provide the remainder of the
funds needed. The museum is projected to open in 2003.

(e) National Air and Space Museum Extension

The Smithsonian is planning to build a major extension of
the National Air and Space Museum at Dulles International
Airport in Northern Virginia. A long-term lease has been
signed for a 176.5 acre site with the Washington Area Air-
port Authority. Subject to Smithsonian Board of Regents’
approval, access and infrastructure work will begin in
Spring 2000.

The project is expected to be financed through a combi-
nation of donations, net revenues from business activities
of the facility, and external borrowing. Donations and
business activities revenues are projected to fully service
any debt. Restricted contributions collected or pledged of
$80,000 are included in temporarily restricted net assets.
The Commonwealth of Virginia is committed to expend an
estimated $34,000 on access and infrastructure improve-
ments on the site.

(f) Victor Building

The Smithsonian entered into an agreement on June 24,
1999 to purchase a building known as the Victor Building,
a 330,000 square foot commercial office structure in North-
west Washington, DC. The core and shell of the building
has since been renovated, and the transaction for its pur-
chase for approximately $86,000 is expected to close in
March 2000.

The building will be used to house museum support staff
and central administrative staff currently in leased space.
The total cost of the project (including the build out of the
interior space) is estimated at $106,000. The project will be
funded through external borrowing which will be primar-
ily serviced by fundraising and savings on currently bud-
geted lease costs.

(g) Year 2000

The Smithsonian has addressed anticipated operational
issues resulting from the year 2000. Management has final-
ized contingency plans and is prepared to address any mat-
ters that may arise that could create potential for business
interruption.
Smithsonian —
Institution

Ih

INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

z
<
z
fo}
an
x
=
=
7)

Tt) n : + 5 rt od ack
Pat ; d ] ; : easy

aay
ie ps

ra
fous
