—

bead

OREGON

”

na -
\

on

Me se
Set oe ata oS
.

WS 3 YE Ze 338 GS 2 SNE S32 x82 HZ 2
WS 3 YK EW 3] 3 ve N m\ So ‘WE WSs Uf ll. =
WES Yy E ways = SS Neat SAN HES 1 NS \S SNe m7 =
S St Ss INOSASS 5 RNS = Wasi’) Ss NN 5’ S
Zz 7) Bs ae =
YdIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS” S31uvual7 LIBRARIES  SMITHSONIA
Wi

LIBRARIES SMITHSC

NOILNLILSNI

NOILNLILSNI

LIBRARIES
‘N
SX
NOILNLILSNI
NOILALILSNI

UTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIW

Saluvudglt
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

Sa1uvudly
Wy,
Yj ies
% fa* 7

INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION

Yadi1_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

NVINOSHLINS S3iIuVYEIT_ LI BRARIES

Be |S < < E = z

by % NX = Zz 4 Lt fe = 4 tf fy =

Y o & Si Fs ° Tap ates ‘My ro) ae hy, ro)

p ESL EQ ES EOF PWwyiGg ?
= . 2& = > G = > Ee =
7?) Se ra w re : n PA, 22) -

UTION | NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS _LIBRARI ES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIN
a = Ss a z G Fa Hf > Re
: 4 ONE Z = ip * : EN
< = \\ ee ra. <iVYtpe < 3 WSS
cc SF BW cc = a YZ, =| e S WN
2 5 NX ° a QPS 3 a 5 .
a Z a a 2 a 2 = 4

UgI1 LIBRARIES, SMITHSONIAN” INSTITUTION NOILNJILSNITNVINOSHLINS |S31UVYSI1 LIBRARIES” SMITHSONIZ
= oS Pose ie s) owe fo) —_ ro) iy.
a = GY, ™ = 2 E a =
2 = pr Yy;, 2 > a = a = ty
> = Yj = > i > = G fi/
2 = GF KA > ra rae E 2 = UF! fe
mi or”. m @ m ma Grae
wn = wn = wn = wn =

gong NOLERLTULSN I: NVINOSHLINS SAVEVE ETI LIBRARIES | _ INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHIIV
= < = ) =" = 14% =

\ 2 YYy2 3 5 We 2 \y i B

\ a a g 2B NN 2 ae SS 2 bb

\S ea aa Zz, E Nor2z E AS 2.474

ae Ss = 5 =. te = oS
2 7) va 7) Fa a ao =

‘YUd!i] LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3JIYVYE!IT LIBRARIES

NOILNLILSNI
LIBRARIES
NOLLALILSNI
LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI
NOLLALILSNI

UTION NOILNLILSNI S3luYvVeYsIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIW

INSTITUTION

SatUVUSIT LIBRARIES

INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION
Salyvuat
INSTITUTION

Yall LIBRARIES

v

UTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS SJIUYVYGIT LIBRARIES

4

NVINOSHLINS S3tuYVUaiT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS S31YVUdIT

“G4
NVINOSHLIWS
AS
NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN

SMITHSONIAN
GY

».
saiuvugiq LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIA

SY
é NK
S_ SMITHSONIAN

VYdI1 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

wn = = = w —
a) = SYS 2 W = WwW =
_ \ WN n — 7 << —
a 4 ASN a noe ti Zo 4 cc 4
< a INAS = av ip = < =
a XY = w Gy = a =
a 2 °N 5 a “GPS 5% © S
| 4 z a = = 2 = 2 =
Sie CUBRARTES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION | NOILNLILSNI_NVINOSHLINS (S31 dvd alt LIBRARIES SMITHSONIA
= rc
> pa Ja (e) ty DO NOD o Sul = (e) “Gli = y fo) BY
Pr) 2 MD 2 Gy 2 ZOD) = G2 Ye EGM2 Ge ~
At) ea ES \ > fHG. > (|= =A ae ey By i RRR 2 PAVE FAME EY
Yer» —s! tose | PEGE =m} GY pi- on Fain,
~~ NN 5 = 7? 7 b fe fi NN SG
fi SAY SY OC re) Vip fs fe) Hy; x Y fo)
NYY 2 a 2/9" EE NEY 2 |
a ee Ea z we
ION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS LIBRARIES

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS

G:

LIBRARIES SMITHSOF

NOILNLILSNI
f

NVINOSHLINWS saluvugin LIBRARIES SMITHSOf

NOILNLILSNI

~
NOILALILSNI
LIBRARIES

NOLLALILSNI

Ai7 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

SJIYVYUStT
INSTITUTION

INSTITUTION

Saluvygit
INSTITUTION
INSTITUTION

ION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUGIT_ LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS

NVINOSHLINS S3tLYVUSIT LIBRARIES SMITHSOP

SMITHSONIAN
us
ge

NVINOSHLIWS
SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN
SMITHSONIAN

Gj
NVINOSHLIWS

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN

aii,

NVINOSHLIWS

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILQLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS saiuvugi

&

N
SMITHSONIAN

RARIES
ve

NOILNLILSNI
INSTITUTION NOILNJLILSNI

LIBRARIES
NOILNLILSNI

ION_ NOILNLILSNI_ NVINOSHLINS S3SI1Y¥VYdIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI

i7 LEBRARIES

INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI

INSTITUTION
saluvugiy LIB
saruvuai
saluvug
INSTITUTION

JIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILNLILSNI NVINOSHLINS S3IYVHYEIT_ LIBRARIES

NVINOSHLINS S3IYVUSIT LIBRARIES

= a 2 <— wn z w F z .
< = < aa < = Wh: <
BZ =| x at a Y z
y. 5 Z AN 7 2 Y% 5
Ge g 2 NY B 2 8 i 2
; = 2 z = RN \S <5 - Zz 1) =
ee a es 5 = es
ION NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS S3IYVYAIT LIBRARIES INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI_ NVINOSHLIWS
o Ps _ wo _ w ‘~
2 g = G : & E
_ a =a pe eae —_
Zz = < 4 < es! < es \
ce = ce S aw S cc = NO
a = e re) pa ° ee fe) “SY
24 a) 2 os = am 2
J17 LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION NOILOLILSNI NVINOSHLIWS S3IYVHEIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN
=- z —_ e = =z
~ re) = rs) ra} ~ re}
o — Piss] pa = wo —
2 = 2 5 = x 5
> Es 5 = = = i
= A = 5 F = z
Hs = a z 2 o z
ION NOILNLILSNI S3IYVYGIT_LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN NOILALILSN! NVINOSHLIWS

NVINOSHLINS S3tYVvuyslt

SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSHLINS
SMITHSONIAN

NVINOSH.LIWS
SMITHSONIAN

»

SZINVUGIT LIBRARIES

NVINOSHLIWS
S SMITHSONIAN

LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN _ INSTITUTION NOILALILSNI NVINOSHLIAWS SMITHSONIAN
2 mA z a 2 & 3 = mf
« _ ws .S <a om r wt
ef we. a fe =a NSE az = «. 1 LZ
= * 4 ce SF WER = en és Ky
S a” cS te S AY Ps c a Ugg
= 2 S ca 5 Sa 5 a GF
me car i ay a ae | ne em)
ION _NOILALILSNI_NVINOSHLINS “S31 dvVudIT LIBRARIES SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION _ NOILALILSNI _NVINOSHLINS
Si Gm GF ". 2) VON pa Kegivs 2° Vg y, EL, ° <ul ow :
ES 2 Noe = GAR 2 Gem = GZ 2 GAM = Gem ® \ov
sh)
ita?
ut coAk Py

a

Smithsonian Year 1987 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

oie

Smithsonian Institution Press
Washington, D.C.
Smithsonian Year 1987 Supplement

Chronology and Appendixes

Smithsonian [nstitution Press
Washington, D.C.
5% «coursed: Be
AL.

Contents

Chronology 5

Appendix r. Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and
Commissions, September 30, 1987 42

Appendix 2. Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards
Made October 1, 1986, through September 30, 1987 61

Appendix 3. Visitors to Smithsonian Institution Museums in
Fiscal Year 1987 64

Appendix 4. | Academic, Research Training, and Internship
Appointments in Fiscal Year 1987 66

Appendix 5. Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in
Fiscal Year 1987 138

Appendix 6. Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1987 150

Appendix 7. The Smithsonian Institution and Its Subsidiaries,
September 30, 1987 255

Appendix 8. Donors to the Smithsonian Institution in Fiscal Year 1987 307

Appendix 9. Contributing Members of the Smithsonian Institution in
Fiscal Year 1987 387

Note. The arrangement of bureau listings within the individual
appendixes is not alphabetical but rather follows the organization
of the Smithsonian Institution as shown on the next page.

The pages of this Supplement were photomechanically repro-
duced from typescript provided by the bureaus and offices.
Smithsonian Institution

Establishment, Board of Regents, Executive Committee,
and the Secretary
Office of the Secretary
Office of the Under Secretary
Office of Audits and Investigations
Office of the General Counsel
Research
Joseph Henry Papers
National Zoological Park
Office of American Studies
Office of Fellowships and Grants
Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center
Smithsonian Institution Archives
Smithsonian Institution Libraries
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
Museums
Anacostia Museum
Archives of American Art
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and Freer Gallery of Art
Conservation Analytical Laboratory
Cooper-Hewitt Museum
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden
National Air and Space Museum
National Museum of African Art
National Museum of American Art
National Museum of American History
National Museum of Natural History /
National Museum of Man
National Portrait Gallery
Office of Exhibits Central
Office of Horticulture
Office of Museum Programs

Office of the Registrar
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service
Public Service
National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive
Educational Technologies
National Science Resources Center
Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Office of Folklife Programs
Office of Interdisciplinary Studies
Office of Public Affairs
Office of Telecommunications
Smithsonian Institution Press
Smithsonian Magazine
Smithsonian World
Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception
Center
Administration
Administrative and Support Activities
Financial Management Activities
Smithsonian Institution Women’s Council
Smithsonian Internship Council
Directorate of International Activities
Membership and Development
Office of Membership and Development
James Smithson Society
National Board of the Smithsonian Associates
Smithsonian National Associate Program
Smithsonian Resident Associate Program
Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates
Under Separate Boards of Trustees
John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
National Gallery of Art
Reading Is Fundamental, Inc.
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars
Smithsonian Year 1987
Chronology

The following is a representative selection of Smithsonian events and milestones
during the fiscal year 1986-1987.

October

Exhibition: "Russia, The Land, The People: Russian Painting, 1850-1910," an

exhibition of artworks from the collections of the State Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow,

and the State Russian Museum, Leningrad, opened at the Renwick Gallery. Organized by
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, this exhibition marked the

first exchange stemming from the November 1985 cultural agreement between the United
States and the Soviet Union.

October

Conservation: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute was named as a member of
the newly installed board of Panama City’s Metropolitan Nature Park.

October

Office Move: The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service moved its
offices from the Arts and Industries Building to the S. Dillon Ripley Center, located
on the third level of the new museum complex. New facilities include the
International Gallery and a spacious room for workshops.

October

Outreach: Dr. Joallyn Archambault joined the National Museum of Natural History’s
Department of Anthropology as director of the museum’s new Native American Program,
part of an interbureau activity developed with the National Museum of American
History.

October

Publication: "A Space Odyssey," a wall calendar published by Universe Books, New
York, featured astronomical images produced by Harvard-Smithsonian Center for
Astrophysics scientists using the HEAO-2 (Einstein) X-ray Satellite.

October 5

Milestone: The Dibner Library, Special Collections Branch of the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries, celebrated its tenth anniversary with "Nota Bene," an
exhibition featuring twenty-nine rare annotated books on the history of science and
technology. The opening was attended by the benefactor, Dr. Bern Dibner, and his
wife, Barbara Druss Dibner.
October 6-10

Course: As part of its conservation training program, the Conservation Analytical
Laboratory offered "Metallography of Ancient Metals," a specialist course taught by
Dr. David Scott of the Institute of Archaeology, University of London.

October 10

Exhibits: Two aircraft representing the pioneer days of aviation were placed on
display in the National Air and Space Museum’s Early Flight Gallery--the 1911 Ecker
Flying Boat, a three-in-one aircraft equipped to take off from land or water, and the
1911 Caproni CA 9, Italy’s first passenger-carrying aircraft and its first mass-
produced military aircraft.

October 10-21

Workshop: Representatives of ten nations participated in the first international

workshop on the Management of the Green Iguana, held at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute in Panama. The workshop was organized by the Foundation Pro-Green
Iguana, in conjunction with the University of Heredia (Costa Rica) and the United
States World Wildlife Fund.

October 15

Special Event: As part of an ongoing effort to strengthen ties between museums and
schools across the United States, the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
offered the first of three regional workshops. In all, more than fourteen hundred
teachers attended the workshops in Jackson, Michigan; Waterloo, Iowa; and
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

October 15

Film Series: The first in a series of seven films from the Soviet Union premiered
during an event organized by the Resident Associate Program. Guests at the opening
night reception were Soviet Ambassador Yuri Dubinin and Elem Klimov, president of the
Soviet Filmmakers Union.

October 18-19

Special Event: Nearly three hundred people attended the Sixth National Zoo Symposium
for the Public. "Behind the Scenes: Animal Studies at the Zoo" presented a range of
research projects conducted by zoo professionals at the park and in the field.

October 18-19

Symposium: Five hundred people attended the Archives of American Art symposium on
visual arts in Southern California. The symposium attracted much media attention, and
a local station of the Public Broadcasting Service expressed interest in producing a
television series based on the symposium’s topic and in underwriting a symposium on
visual arts in Northern California.
October 22-26

Special Event: Contributing members participated in a weekend program that featured
visits to selected exhibitions with museum directors and curators.

November

Publication: The first issue of Rittenhouse: The Quarterly Journal of the American
Scientific Instrument Enterprise was published by the Department of the History of
Science and Technology at the National Museum of American History.

November

Publication: Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman by Dr. Stanwyn G.

Shetler, assistant director for programs at the National Museum of Natural History,

was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press and Viking Penguin Books, New York.
The book was produced for the museum’s 1987 exhibition of Bateman’s works.

November

Milestone: Researchers at the Tropical Biology Library at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute gained on-line access to the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
catalogue in Washington, D.C.

November

Residencies: The semiannual, ten-day residency session of the Kellogg program for
senior-level museum professionals was held at the Smithsonian. Coordinated by the the
Office of Museum Programs, the residencies provide opportunities for participants from
around the nation to focus on issues relating to museums as educational resources in
communities.

November

International Project: The thirty-day Project on Museum Management began with a
seminar at the Smithsonian. Designed for foreign museum professionals and organized
by the Office of Museum Programs and U.S. Information Agency, programs were held in
five cities.

November 1

Concert Series: The 20th-Century Consort gave the first of four concerts in its 1986-
87 season at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

November 2

Benefit Premiere: The Washington premiere of The Mission, sponsored by the Resident
Associate Program, was held in the National Museum of Natural History. The event,
which included a reception at the Organization of American States Building, benefited
the Resident Associate Program’s various Outreach activities.
November 3

Obituary: Smithsonian physical anthropologist J. Lawrence Angel, 71, died in
Washington, D.C. During his career, Angel studied skeletal remains at key
archaeological sites in Cyprus, Turkey, and the United States. He also assisted

federal and local law enforcement agencies in identifying the skeletal remains of more
than five hundred people, many of them murder victims.

November 3-5

Workshop: The Office of Public Affairs organized and conducted a workshop for the
Office of Museum Programs on "Getting the Word Out: Museum Public Relations." The
workshop was attended by thirty public information specialists from as many museums in
twenty-one states, Washington, D.C., and the Virgin Islands.

November 5

Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members of
the Contributing Membership previewed "Berlin 1900-1933: Architecture and Design," an
exhibition at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.

November 5

Obituary: Cynthia Jaffee McCabe, 43, curator for exhibitions at the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden suffered an apparent heart attack and died in Rio de Janeiro,
where she was doing research on a proposed exhibition on contemporary Latin American
art.

November 6

Special Event: Andrew, Nathaniel, Henriette, and Ann Wyeth attended the press
screening of "The Wyeths: A Father And His Family," the season premiere of
"Smithsonian World," at the New York headquarters of Metropolitan Life. The program
was aired over the Public Broadcasting Service on November 19.

November 10-11

Exhibition: "Berlin 1900-1933: Architecture and Design" opened at the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum. Organized by the museum, the exhibition was recreated in Berlin in Spring
1987 as part of the city’s 750th anniversary celebration. A symposium organized by
the Museum and Internationales Design Zentrum in Berlin featured prominent American
and German experts in design. In addition, the Cooper-Hewitt’s first bilingual
publication, an exhibition catalogue of the same title, was subsequently produced.

November 13

Agreement: Smithsonian Secretary Adams and Nizar Hamdoon, the Ambassador of Iraq,
signed a memorandum of understanding between the Institution and the Scientific
Research Council of Iraq. The understanding provides the mechanism necessary to carry
out exchanges in areas of mutual scientific interest.
November 16-17

Reception: Contributing Members residing in the Fort Worth, Texas, area were invited
to a special reception following the National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program
presentation, "The Golden Age of Song: American Jazz Favorites," by John Eaton. This
and other similar receptions were initiated to more closely involve Contributing
Members around the country with the Smithsonian.

November 17

Exhibition: "Recent Acquisitions, 1983-1986," at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture
Garden, displayed major works by Jean Dubuffet, Anselm Kiefer, Claes Oldenburg, Frank
Stella, and others.

November 17-20

Course: E. Benner Larsen, director of the Research Center at Legre, Denmark taught
"Making High Quality Electroform Replicas of Museum Objects," a conservation training
course organized by the Conservation Analytical Laboratory.

November 19

Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired a daguerreotype of Jefferson
Davis by an unidentified photographer. It is the earliest photographic likeness of
Davis, taken on his arrival in Washington as a congressman.

November 20

Premiere: "State of the Universe" opened in the National Air and Space Museum’s
Einstein Planetarium. The show takes viewers on a whirlwind tour of space, exploring
current ideas about the past, present, and possible future of the universe. An
exhibition of the same name went on display in the planetarium lobby.

November 21]

Exhibition: "Engines of Change: The American Industrial Revolution, 1790-1860"
opened at the National Museum of American History. This permanent exhibition
introduces some of the people, machines, new sources of power, and new ways of
organizing work that were part of the nation’s transformation from an agricultural
economy into an industrial power.

November 21

Exhibition: "Near Eastern Art" opened at the Freer Gallery of Art. Paintings and a
wide variety of objects dating from the fifth century B.C. through the eighteenth
century reflected the quality and diversity of the Freer’s collection of Near Eastern
art.

November 21

New Chancellor: Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist was elected as the Smith-sonian’s
sixteenth chancellor, succeeding retired Chief Justice Warren E. Burger.
December 1

New Position: Dr. Ned Rifkin, previously with the Corcoran Gallery of Art, was named
to the newly created position of chief curator for exhibitions at the Hirshhorn Museum
and Sculpture Garden.

December 5

Move: The National Museum of African Art began its move from its Capitol Hill
location (318 A Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002) to its quarters in the
Smithsonian’s new museum and education complex on the National Mall.

December 5-7

Milestone: The National Associates Travel Program celebrated its fifteenth annual
Christmas at the Smithsonian Weekend for Smithsonian Associates. A festive dinner and
tree-trimming party in the Castle highlighted the weekend program.

December 8

Special Event: The National Science Resources Center (NSRC), established in 1985 by
the Smithsonian Institution and the National Academy of Sciences, moved from its
temporary quarters at the National Academy of Sciences to permanent facilities in the
northeast wing of the Smithsonian’s Arts and Industries Building.

December 12

Special Event: The Smithsonian Women’s Committee held its fifteenth annual Christmas
dinner dance in the National Museum of American History. The fund-raising event had a
colonial American theme, and Chief Justice Warren Burger and Mrs. Burger were guests

of honor.

December 17

Name Change: The Office of Symposia and Seminars was redesignated the Office of
Interdisciplinary Studies, more accurately reflecting the office’s basic purpose of

bringing together specialists in the sciences and humanities to address questions
demanding insight from a variety of sources.

December 18

Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired Eastman Johnson’s painting
The Girl I Left Behind Me (ca. 1870-75). Purchase of this major work was made

possible by funds realized from the museum’s recent deaccessioning program and by a
special Smithsonian grant.

December 19

Exhibition: The tenth annual "Trees of Christmas" exhibition opened at the National
Museum of American History.

Io
November 22

Closing: The Smithsonian Environmental Research Center’s fifty-seven year-old
laboratory in Rockville, Maryland, ceased operations. Originally part of the
Smithsonian Astrophysical Laboratory, the Rockville facility was created by
Smithsonian Secretary Charles G. Abbot to study the influence of sunlight on the
growth and development of organisms. The laboratory is credited with many important
contributions to the understanding of biological responses regulated by sunlight.

November 23

Special Events: The first of five "Sunday Afternoons at the National Zoo" was held.
Designed to encourage people to visit the Zoo in the winter, programs were offered
once a month from November to March.

November 25

Property Sale: The Institution sold the buildings and property that had been the home

of the National Museum of African Art. The Capitol Hill site was purchased for $2.25
million by National Association for Home Care. The funds were used to offset the cost
of constructing the museum’s new home on the National Mall.

November 26

Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired a rare daguerreotype of Franklin
Pierce. The daguerreotype is attributed to Albert Sands Southworth and Josiah Johnson
Hawes, considered to be the masters of this medium.

December

Discovery: Radar observations of twelve near-Earth asteroids led a Harvard-
Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics astronomer and colleagues at other institutions to
suggest that members of this special class of minor planets have extremely irregular,
nonconvex shapes. The observations were made with the radio telescope at Arecibo,
Puerto Rico.

December

Awards: Films and video productions by the Office of Telecommunications won six
Golden Eagle awards from the Council on International Non-theatrical Events. The
winning productions will represent the United States in competitions abroad.
December

Workshop: An Office of Museum Programs workshop on "Collections Management and Care'
was conducted in Trinidad by a team of three Smithsonian registrars and conservators.

December

Special Course: Eight students from Howard University attended a two-week course in
tropical biology conducted at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama.

II
December 23

Acquisition: An important collection of 113 works of the 1930s and 1940s by American
abstract artists was donated to the National Museum of American Art by Patricia and
Phillip Frost of Miami Beach.

December 30

Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired 378 folk art objects of the
eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries, a purchase and a major gift from
Herbert Waide Hemphill, Jr., whose holdings are acknowledged to be among the finest in
private hands in the United States today.

December 30

Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired a painting of Rubens Peale by
Rembrandt Peale.

December 30

Temporary Closing: The Anacostia Neighborhood Museum closed at its site at 2405
Martin Luther King, Jr., Ave., Southeast, Washington, D.C. The converted movie
theater had been the museum’s home since its opening in 1967. The museum remained
closed until May, when it reopened at its new site in Southeast Washington’s historic
Fort Stanton Park and was redesignated the Anacostia Museum, reflecting the national
and international recognition accorded the museum’s program on Afro-American history,
art, and culture.

January

Conservation Program: From January through May 1987, an environmental education
program was carried out in the San Blas Islands by the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute Office of Education and Conservation. The program acquainted inhabitants of
the archipelago with the institute’s work and described how the results of research

can be applied to daily activities and to conservation.

January

New Program: The Program in Hispanic American History was begun in the Department of
Public Programs at the National Museum of American History. The program addresses
critical themes of Hispanic American history, from colonial times to the contemporary
struggles of Hispanics to find a place in American society.

January

Discovery: Two Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics astronomers reported
convincing evidence that one class of young variable stars may be brightening due to
material from surrounding disks falling onto their surfaces. The finding suggests
that such disks, which are precursors of planetary systems, may be very common
features of all young stars.
January

Reorganization: The Office of Safety Programs was reorganized and renamed the Office
of Environmental Management and Safety. This reorganization recognized the dramatic
increase in regulatory and safety concerns, the obligations associated with

environmental management and safety, and the continuing importance of this work inside
and outside the Institution.

January

Film: From Reliable Sources, a half-hour film produced to support the fund-raising
efforts of the Archives of American Art, was completed. Produced by the Office of
Telecommunications, the film depicts the role of the Archives in documenting the
history of American art.

January

Exhibition Video: "Field to Factory--1915 to 1940: The Urban North," a videotape
created for the exhibition opening in February at the National Museum of American
History, was completed by the Office of Telecommunications.

January 1

Exhibition: "77ME: Man of the Year" opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

January 9

Media Event: The Office of Public Affairs held a luncheon for media representatives to
introduce the Smithsonian’s Cultural Education Committee, recently formed to help the
Institution reach underrepresented audiences.

January 11-16

Seminars: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program held five seminars in
Washington, D.C.: "Masters of Central Italian Art," "The Art of Scientific

Illustration," "American Antique Furniture," "Presidential Washington," and "Post-

World War II Aviation."

January 14

Special Event: James Smithson Society Members were invited to a lecture by
Smithsonian Secretary Adams. The lecture, "Stability versus Resilience: Urbanites,
Peasants, and Nomads in Mesopotamian History," was followed by a reception at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

January 16

Exhibition: "Charles Lang Freer: The Man and His Gallery" opened at the Freer Gallery

of Art. This small exhibition on the ground floor of the museum traced the
development of the museum through photographs from the Freer Archives.

H
>)
January 17

Exhibition: "Portraits of Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman" opened at the National
Museum of Natural History. This major retrospective featured more than 100 paintings
by the Canadian artist, regarded as one of the world’s foremost wildlife artists. The
exhibition drew more than 275,000 visitors during its four-month run and was a major
factor in the museum’s record-breaking attendance in early 1987.

January 19

Special Event: To commemorate the birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., the Office of
the Committee for a Wider Audience and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Public Service hosted a reception to introduce the newly formed Cultural Education
Committee.

January 24

Exhibition: "Like and Unlike: Caricature Portraits by Henry Major and Herman
Perlman" opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

January 30

Exhibition: "Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation Collection" opened
at the National Museum of American Art. This major exhibition included 95 of the 174
paintings, sculptures, and drawings, from the 1920s to the present, given to the

museum in 1984 by the late Sara Roby.

February

Black History Month: Former New York Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm discussed "Afro-
Americans and the Constitution" as the keynote speaker for an Institutionwide

celebration that included films, concerts, lectures, and tours. Among the many

special programs were a two-day conference on African-American lifestyles during the
first years of the republic; a lecture by Gail Lumet Buckley, daughter of Lena Horne;
and performances of jazz, blues, tap, and social dance. "Field to Factory: Afro-
American Migration, 1915-1940," a major exhibition that examines the mass movement of
black Americans from the rural South to the urban North, opened February 5 at the
National Museum of American History.

February

Training and Support: Members of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory provided on-
site assistance and training to workers at the important archaeological excavation

under way at Harappa, Pakistan.

February

Conservation: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute was named to the local

committee to organize the 1992 World National Parks Congress, which will be held in
Panama.

14
February

Appointment: Dr. Philip Ravenhill was appointed to the newly created position of
chief curator at the National Museum of African Art.

February

Awards: The Society for Technical Communications, Washington, D.C., Chapter, cited
Smithsonian publications and articles for excellence. Four first place awards in

various categories went to the Department of Botany brochure and The Torch (both
awarded to the Office of Public Affairs and the Smithsonian Institution Press) and two
Smithsonian News Service feature stories. The Department of Botany brochure
subsequently won an honorable mention award in the organization’s international
competition.

February |

New Location: Smithsonian Institution Libraries opened its new National Museum of
African Art Branch in the Quadrangle. It was later named the Warren M. Robbins
Library, honoring the founder of the museum.

February 8

Television: National Zoological Park Director Michael Robinson showcased several zoo
animals on "Capital Edition," a local, Sunday morning television program.

February 9

Acquisition: With support from the Smithsonian Institution Regents Special
Acquisitions Fund, the Cooper-Hewitt Museum added a remarkable piece to other
extremely rare Oriental textile works in its permanent collection--a thirteenth-
century needlework figure of a bodhisattva, believed to have originated in China.

February 11

New Publication: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education’s Career Awareness
Program published the first issue of its student newsletter, The CAP-LET.

Developed and written by the staff and student volunteers, the newsletter reaches more
than seven hundred program alumni, current participants, teachers, and school
administrators.

February 12

Exhibition: "The Making of a Dinosaur" opened at the National Museum of Natural
History. Over a span of two years, visitors will be able to monitor the progress of
fossil-preparation experts as they carefully extract the bones of a dinosaur
(Coelophysis) from a ten-ton block of siltstone and reassemble the fossilized

remains of the 220-million-year-old dinosaur for display.
February 17

’

Grant: The Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates awarded a $20,000 grant to
the Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center to support future production

of "The Smithsonian Institution: Airplanes to Zoos," a video to prepare children and
families for their visit to the Smithsonian.

February 17

Exhibition: “The Catalan Spirit: Gaudi and His Contemporaries" opened at the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum. A reception celebrating the opening of the exhibition was held
February 23 and attended by opera star Placido Domingo and other internationally known
figures.

February 18

Lecture Series: The National Air and Space Museum offered the first lecture in its
five-part series, "Exploring Space." The series featured well-known space scientists
who examined current understanding of the origins, evolution, and structure of the
universe.

February 19

Expansion: With the opening of “Nancy Graves: A Sculpture Retrospective" and the
relocation of its Museum Shop, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden inaugurated
its newly expanded Special Exhibition Galleries on the lower level and introduced its
Orientation theater. Visitors to the theater will view audio-visual programs on

special exhibitions and a program, made possible by a grant from the J. Paul Getty
Trust, on the permanent collection.

February 19-20

Conference: "A Common Agenda for History Museums" was held at the National Museum of
American History. Sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution, the American Association

of Museums, and the American Association for State and Local History, the conference
identified many shared concerns and problems of historical organizations and history
museums and developed recommendations for organizations with historical collections.

February 22

Performance: Internationally acclaimed cabaret singer Michael Feinstein made his
Smithsonian debut in a performance organized by the Resident Associate Program.

February 24
New Facility: The National Demonstration Laboratory for Interactive Educational
Technologies was established. The first U.S. facility to focus entirely on research

and demonstration of state-of-the-art interactive video technology, the laboratory is
a joint project of the Smithsonian and a consortium of public television stations.

16
February 25

Lecture: Ohio Senator and former astronaut John Glenn commemorated the twenty-fifth
anniversary of his flight in Friendship 7 in a program cosponsored by the Resident
Associate Program and the National Air and Space Museum.

February 26

Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members of
the Contributing Membership participated in a special tour of "Portraits of Nature:
Paintings by Robert Bateman," an exhibition at the National Museum of Natural
History.

February 27

Exhibition: "Gene Davis, A Memorial Exhibition" opened at the National Museum of
American Art. The eighty-four paintings and drawings by Davis, a major figure in
twentieth-century American art, included the finest examples of his familiar stripe
paintings, as well as a selection of his best work in lesser-known formats.

Subsequent programs included workshops for children and a panel discussion with five
prominent figures in the art world reviewing color painting and its continued
importance.

March

Grant: The National Museum of American History received approximately $1 million from
the DuPont Company in support of "A Material World," a major exhibition, on the use
man-made materials in our culture, to open in spring 1988.

March

Training: The Conservation Analytical Laboratory announced several new initiatives in
its rapidly growing conservation training program. These include a graduate program
in conservation science, a joint enterprise with Johns Hopkins University, and a
number of Institutionwide postgraduate internships for conservators.

March

Publication: The Office of Printing and Photographic Services produced a book as a
companion to its exhibition of photographs of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, which
opened at the Russell Senate Office Building in November 1986. Published by Stackpole
Books of Harrisburg, Pa., Reflections on The Wall was well-received and, by the

close of the 1987 fiscal year, was in its second printing.

March

Publication: The first general brochure for visitors to the Barro Colorado Nature
Monument, which is under the custodianship of the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute, was produced by the Office of Public Affairs. English and Spanish editions
of the brochure were printed.
March

Publication: A guide to the new Nature Trail on Barro Colorado Island was completed.
"A Day on Barro Colorado Island" was written by Dr. Marina Wong, ornithologist, and
Jorge Ventocilla, of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute’s Office of Education
and Conservation. A Spanish version will be published in 1988.

March 5

Acquisition: A reception following a lecture on the Dibner Library honored Silvio A.
Bedini, who retired after twenty-six years of service to the Institution. To mark Mr.
Bedini’s contributions, Smithsonian Institution Libraries purchased for its Special
Collections Branch a finely illustrated volume of Misura del tempo (Padua: 1665) by
Giuseppe, de Capriglia. Misura del Tempo is believed to be the first book on

clocks, one of Mr. Bedini’s many fields of scholarship.

March 6

Installation: For the first time since its opening in January 1972, the Renwick
Gallery installed prime objects from its permanent collection--forty-four works chosen
to represent all contemporary craft media. During the year, the gallery presented
lectures by artists whose works are included in its collection.

March 9

Acquisition: The Office of Horticulture was given the Garden Club of America’s
comprehensive slide collection of notable parks and gardens.

March 12-15

Special Event: National Associates attended lectures and private tours in conjunction
with the Matisse exhibit at the National Gallery of Art.

March 15

Groundbreaking: Construction began on a new dining facility at the National Air and
Space Museum. Scheduled to be completed in fall 1988, the new facility will include
an 800-seat, self-service cafeteria and a self-service restaurant seating 180

persons.

March 16

Milestone: At a meeting of the entire staff of the National Museum of Natural
History, Director Robert S. Hoffmann summarized the results of a six-month study of
the museum’s organizational effectiveness and highlighted four areas where changes
were recommended. The study was conducted by McKinsey and Company, Inc.

March 24

Exhibition: "Louis Sullivan: The Function of Ornament," an exhibition devoted to the
work of one of America’s most influential architects and organized by the Chicago
Historical Society and the St. Louis Art Museum, opened at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Presentation in New York was made possible by a generous grant from the J. M. Kaplan
Fund, Inc.

s

18
March 24

Special Event: Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members of the
Contributing Membership were given a special tour of "Modern American Realism: The
Sara Roby Foundation," an exhibition at the National Museum of American Art.

March 25

Award: On behalf of the American Heart Association, Congressman Frank R. Wolf of
Virginia presented awards to Office of Protection Services security officers Ida

Chase, Willie Jones, and Kenneth Doll for administering cardio-pulmonary resuscitation
under life-threatening circumstances.

March 27

Special Event: A special screening of "Voices of Latin America," a "Smithsonian
World" cultural documentary, was held at Carmichael Auditorium for members of
Washington’s Hispanic community. The program was aired nationally over the Public
Broadcasting Service on April 8.

March 30

Outreach: As part of a major effort to reach the Hispanic community, the Office of
Public Affairs hired a full-time public affairs specialist, fluent in Spanish and
English, to develop and carry out an appropriate media program.

April

Acquisition: The Smithsonian acquired Folkways Records, the best known publisher of
commercial recordings of folk and tribal music and publisher of a historically

significant collection of spoken-word recordings. The Folkways Records catalogue
contains more than twenty-two hundred albums. Folkways Records was acquired from the
estate of founder Moses Asch.

April

Discovery: A Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics scientist and colleagues,
working with images of Jupiter’s moons returned by the Voyager spacecraft, found
evidence that material from the interior of Europa may be venting through its ice-
covered surface.

April

Reorganization: Responsibility for Smithsonian communications was transferred from
the Office of Plant Services to the Office of Information Resource Management.
Consolidation of all communications-management activities into one organization marked
an important step toward full integration of the Institution’s voice-, data-, and
image-communications technologies.

19
April

Planning: On the basis of a study by the Office of Programming and Budget, several
major new procedures were incorporated into the annual budget formulation process to
aid budget decision-making. The procedures facilitate communication of budget
information throughout the Institution and further automate entry and analysis of
budget data.

April

Restoration: The second phase of the Olmsted Walk restoration was completed at the

National Zoological Park. Striking red-toned, man-made stones now pave the walkway.
New stone walls, niches for benches, curbs, and plantings extend from the pedestrian

gate on Connecticut Avenue to the entrance area of the Education Building.

April

Grants: The Office of Fellowships and Grants announced the Webb Fellowship
recipients.

April

Exhibition: In conjunction with National Science and Technology Week, the Smithsonian
Institution Traveling Exhibition Service inaugurated "Diversity Endangered," a poster
exhibition that addresses the loss of biological diversity on the planet. A grant

from the National Science Foundation supported the development of the twenty full-
color posters that make up the exhibition. A videotape to accompany the exhibition
was produced by the Office of Telecommunications.

April

Research: For the International Research and Exchanges Board, the Office of Museum
Programs organized a delegation of four museum Specialists, including two Native
Americans, to view and document for the first time American Indian collections in East
Germany.

April

Collaboration: The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute inaugurated a collaboration
with the University of Panama’s Museum of Invertebrates. The institute donated and
identified specimens and provided support for student research projects.

April

Lectures: "Bubbles, Voids, and Bumps in Time," a series of public lectures on current
theories about the origin, evolution, and ultimate fate of the universe, was presented
in Boston and Washington, D.C., by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics.
In Boston, the series was organized with the Boston Museum of Science; in Washington,
the Resident Associate Program was the cosponsor.

April 1

Anniversary: Air & Space/Smithsonian, the bi-monthly magazine of the National Air
and Space Museum, celebrated its first anniversary.

i
April 1

Visit: Bernadette Chirac, wife of the premier of France, along with her guests,
became the first official visitor to the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. They were
accompanied through the new museum, which was still under construction, by Dr. and
Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler and Milo Beach, assistant director.

April 1-5

International Program: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program visited
Toronto, Canada, for the first time. The program offered a series of events to
celebrate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Royal Ontario Museum.

April 2
Exhibition: "The Art of Henry Inman" opened at the National Portrait Gallery.
April 3

Groundbreaking: At the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, construction of the
Earl S. Tupper Research and Conference Center began. Groundbreaking ceremonies were
attended by Panama President Eric A. Delvalle, other government officials, and
representatives of educational and scientific organizations, including Glenn Tupper

and Gladys Liddy of the Earl S. Tupper Foundation, which made the facility possible
through its donation to the institute.

April 8

Benefit: A dinner dance, organized by the Decorative Arts Association of the Cooper-
Hewitt Museum, was held in honor of Mrs. Virgil Sherrill and her firm, McMillen, Inc.,
one of the oldest interior design firms in New York, for their contributions to the
development of design in this century. Funds raised by the event will support the
acquisition of important decorative art objects for the museum’s permanent

collection.

April 8

Reception: Contributing Members in Topeka, Kansas, were invited to a special
reception following the National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program performance
"The Old Ship of Zion: Afro-American Gospel Music, 1755-1986," by Horace Clarence
Boyer.

April 10

Publications: The first issue of Smithsonian Studies in American Art, a new

semiannual journal examining a wide spectrum of the nation’s visual heritage, was
published by Oxford University Press in association with the National Museum of
American Art. This year also saw the inauguration of the Library of American Art
series--published by Harry N. Abrams, Inc. in association with the National Museum of
American Art.
tw
ie)

April 15

Grants: The Office of Fellowships and Grants named the recipients of fellowships for
1987-88.

April 15

Course: The Resident Associate Program presented the first session of "The Best of
The New Yorker," a course that was arranged in collaboration with The New Yorker
magazine and featured Brendan Gill, John Updike, Ann Beattie, Pauline Kael, Calvin
Trillin, John McPhee, Mark Singer, Lee Lorenz, George Booth, Ed Koren, Charles Saxon,
and Robert Weber.

April 16

Acquisition: The National Portrait Gallery acquired J. S. Duplessis’s 1785 painting
of Benjamin Franklin.

April 16

Special Event: Sustaining, Patron and James Smithson Society Members previewed the
exhibition "American Art Deco" at the Renwick Gallery.

April 17

Agreement: During his visit to the Soviet Union, Smithsonian Secretary Adams signed a
protocol of negotiation with the country’s Ministry of Culture. The agreement,

covering a period from 1988 through 1992, is the first step in a program of

cooperation that will include joint research projects and exchanges of art exhibitions
and delegations of museum experts and curators.

April 17

Exhibition: “American Art Deco," a comprehensive exhibition of more than two hundred
objects in all media, opened at the Renwick Gallery. Accompanied by a book of the
same title, the exhibition demonstrated how the Art Deco movement’s modernist style
revolutionized the fine and decorative arts. Art Deco experts participated in a
complementary all-day symposium. After its showing at the Renwick, the exhibition was
circulated to museums in Miami, Omaha, Tulsa, and St. Paul.

April 21

Research Milestone: National Zoological Park scientists used artificial insemination
techniques to produce common (European) ferrets. The procedure holds promise as an
option for breeding programs to reverse the decline of the endangered black-footed
ferret.

April 24-26

Special Event: The Smithsonian Women’s Committee sponsored the fifth annual
Washington Craft Show. One hundred craftspeople exhibited and sold their work in the
juried show. Proceeds from the show and the preview reception are used to fund
educational and research projects throughout the Institution.
April 26

Film Festival: The Office of the Committeee for a Wider Audience and the Resident
Associate Program, in collaboration with the Washington, D.C., International Film
Festival, hosted a screening of the film Opera Do Malandro to celebrate the opening
of the Brazilian Showcase of Filmfest D.C. The event attracted nearly five hundred
guests from the local Brazilian, Hispanic, and diplomatic communities and helped the
Institution establish new ties with these audiences.

April 27-28

Special Event: The National Air and Space Museum’s Paul E. Garber Preservation,
Restoration, and Storage Facility in Suitland, Maryland, hosted its Fifth Annual Open
House, attracting more than fifteen thousand visitors.

April 30

Exhibition: "IRAS: A Telescope in a Bottle" went on display in the National Air and
Space Museum’s Stars Gallery. The exhibition includes a full-scale reconstruction of
the space-based /nfrared Astronomical Satellite that has given astronomers a new

look at the distant universe, resulting in many important findings, which are
described in the exhibition.

May

Publication: A brochure on the Anacostia Museum was produced and distributed to
coincide with the opening of the museum at its new location. The brochure was funded
by a grant from the Women’s Committee of the Smithsonian Associates.

May

Discovery: A team of Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics scientists, using
the optical speckle interferometry technique with a telescope in Chile, observed a
bright companion to Supernova 1987A. The apparent brightness of the object and its
nearness to the supernova suggested it was linked to the stellar explosion.

May

Field Course: With the University of Panama, the Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute sponsored a field course on bryophytes and lichens. The course was directed
by university Professor Noris Salazar and Alan Smith, an institute scientist. It
focused on the ecological importance of these plant groups and gave students the
opportunity to do independent research.

May

Visit: A delegation from Yerevan, capital of Soviet Armenia, visited the Harvard-
Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics as part of the cultural, scientific, and political
activities associated with the sister-city agreement between Yerevan and Cambridge,
Massachusetts.

i
Wo
May

Public Awareness Campaign: The Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience received
a grant from the Smithson Society to launch a major public awareness campaign intended
to acquaint black Americans with the Smithsonian’s programs and services.

May

Symposium: “The Impact of Very Long Baseline Interferometry on Astrophysics and
Geophysics," hosted by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, attracted some
three hundred scientists from two dozen countries for discussions on topics ranging
from the observation of "superluminal" motion in quasars to the measurement of
continental drift.

May

Workshop: "Interpretive Labeling for Art Museums," a workshop organized by the
Smithsonian’s Kellogg Project, was held at the Toledo Museum of Art. Teams from ten
art museums participated.

May 1

Education Program: "Zoo animals: A Closer Look," the National Zoological Park’s
science education program for elementary school children, celebrated its tenth
anniversary with a reception for all teachers who have participated in the program.

May 1-3

Outreach: Representatives of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute participated
for the first time in the biannual General Kuna Indian Congress. For more than a
decade, the institute has operated an important marine research facility in the Kuna
Yala Archipelago. Participation in the congress strengthened the institute’s
relationship with the Kuna Indians.

May 1-3

Special Event: National Air and Space Associates attended a weekend program with
curators and staff at the National Air and Space Museum.

May 4

New Board Members: Professor Frederick Mote of Princeton University and Sherman Lee,
director emeritus of the Cleveland Museum of Art, were named to the Visiting Committee
of the Freer Gallery of Art.

May 5

New Trustees: Agnes Gund, a well-known collector of contemporary art, and Robert T.

Buck, director of the Brooklyn Museum, were elected to the Board of Trustees of the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden at the board’s semiannual meeting.
May 7

Exhibit: The "Invertebrate Exhibit," the first comprehensive exhibit of living
invertebrates in the United States, opened at the National Zoological Park.

May 7

Award: The National Zoological Park awarded a Silver Medal to E. O. Wilson of Harvard
University in recognition of outstanding service to zoological science and

conservation. The award ceremony included a talk by Wilson on the importance of
invertebrates in global ecology.

May 7

Exhibition: Following a highly successful thirteen-month tour to museums in Seattle,
Minneapolis, Cleveland, Fort Worth, and Atlanta, "Treasures from the National Museum
of American Art," an exhibition of eighty-one works from colonial to contemporary
times, returned to its home for its final showing.

May 12

Grant: The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center received a grant from
the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation to support production of an orientation
video for the new Smithsonian Information Center, scheduled to open in 1989.

May 13

Telecast: The Public Broadcasting Service aired "The Elephant On The Hill," the
third special of the third season of "Smithsonian World."

May 14

Lecture: In a lecture cosponsored by the Resident Associate Program and the National
Air and Space Museum, Dick Rutan and Jeana Yeager relived their around-the-world
flight in Voyager.

May 15

Research Milestone: "Test tube," or in vitro, fertilization resulted in the births of
domestic cats, marking the first time that the fertilization method was successful
with a carnivore species. The application of this technique to felines, developed by
National Zoological Park scientists, may eventually help save species of small wild
cats from extinction.

May 15-19

International Workshop: Thirty-five leading paleoecologists from the United States,
Canada, England, and West Germany evaluated current understanding of catastrophic
disruptions to land ecosystems during the past 400 million years. The conference--the
first devoted to this topic--was organized by the scientists directing the National
Museum of Natural History’s new Evolution of Terrestrial Ecosystems program.

ie)
an
May 16

Symposium: In conjunction with the Cooper-Hewitt Museum exhibition "Louis Sullivan:
The Function of Ornament," four preeminent scholars of American architectural history
examined Sullivan’s work in light of contemporaneous developments in the urban fabric
of Chicago.

May 16

Special Program: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education presented "Teaching
the Constitution," a symposium that attracted 150 elementary and secondary school
teachers and administrators from throughout the mid-Atlantic region. A report on the
proceedings was distributed free of charge to participants and other interested

teachers.

May 17

Reopening: The Anacostia Museum reopened at its new site at 1901 Fort Place,
Southeast, Washington, D.C. The inaugural exhibition was "Contemporary Visual
Expressions," which featured the artworks of Sam Gilliam, Martha Jackson-Jarvis, Keith
Morrison, and William T. Williams.

May 17 and 21

Anniversary: The sixtieth anniversary of Charles Lindbergh’s solo transatlantic

flight was commemorated at the National Air and Space Museum by "A Festival of
American Music," performed by the U.S. Air Force Concert Band, and the annual Charles
A. Lindbergh Memorial Lecture, delivered by retired Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis, Jr.,
the U.S. Air Force’s first black general.

May 18-23

Symposium: "Constitutional Roots, Rights, and Responsibilities," the Ninth

International Smithsonian Symposium, was the scholarly centerpiece of the national
observance of the bicentennial of the United States Constitution. Held in
Charlottesville, Virginia, and Washington, D.C., the symposium brought together sixty-
eight participants from twelve countries. Essays will be published in a volume to be
edited by A.E. Dick Howard, symposium chairman; several video documentaries also will
be produced.

May 21

Exhibition: "Morris Louis" opened at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden,
concluding a successful three-city national tour that began at the Museum of Modern
Art in New York City. The exhibition featured forty-six paintings by the acclaimed
Washington colorist.

May 21-22
Dedication and Opening: The 4.2-acre Enid A. Haupt Garden, the pastoral "roof" of

the Institution’s new underground museum complex, was dedicated and opened to the
public.
May 23-24

Workshop: Dr. Anson Hines of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center conducted
a workshop on the ecology of blue crabs and other portunid species.

May 26

Obituary: Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, 73, primary benefactor of the Sackler Gallery died
unexpectedly in New York City without realizing his expressed dream of participating
in the public opening of the new museum that would bear his name.

May 27

Course: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program presented an extensive
program of lectures, workshops and seminars in Madison, Wisconsin. The four-day
series was presented by Smithsonian curators and members of the University of
Wisconsin-Madison faculty.

May 29

Reinstallation: The completion of the National Portrait Gallery’s reinstallation of
its permanent collection was marked with the opening of "Stage Portraits: Photographs
by Mathew Brady from the Frederick Hill Meserve Collection."

May 29

Exhibition: "Portraits from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters"
opened at the National Portrait Gallery.

June

Award: The Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities awarded a grant to the National
Museum of African Art to support one of the museum’s inaugural exhibitions, "African
Art in the Cycle of Life," which featured works on loan from other collections.

June

Research: The Mineral Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior
awarded a contract to the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute for studies on the
long-term biological effects of the April 1986 oil spill on the Caribbean coast of
Panama. The five-year project is centered at the institute’s Galeta Marine
Laboratory.

June

Outreach: The Office of Public Affairs began distributing a Spanish version of the
Smithsonian’s monthly calendar of events to 113 Hispanic publications and civic
organizations. In July, the Spanish language calendar was published as a paid
advertisement in the Washington newspaper E/ Latino. Reprints of the calendar ad
were made available to the public during the Washington, D.C., Hispanic-American
Festival and the Smithsonian’s Tarde Hispana.
June

Temporary Closing: In preparation for a major construction project that will
eventually link the Freer and Sackler galleries and add space for conservation and
collections storage, eight exhibition galleries on the east side of the Freer Gallery
of Art were closed to the public. A representative selection from the museum’s
permanent holdings remained on display in several special exhibitions that opened
during the year in other parts of the building: "American Painting," "Japanese Art,"
and "Chinese Art."

June

Workshop: The Office of Museum Programs conducted a "Facilitators Workshop" for
Smithsonian staff members who serve as faculty for the office’s workshops.

June

Acquisition: In memory of Mrs. Bern Dibner, the Smithsonian Institution Libraries
purchased for its Special Collections Branch a rare volume, Bianchelli, Mengo, Super
Logicam of Pauli Veneti (Venice: Junta, 1520).

June |

Milestone: Seward Johnson, Jr., chairman of the board and president of the Harbor
Branch Oceanographic Institution, Inc., and Secretary Adams signed a long-term lease
agreement, allowing for construction of needed facilities at the Smithsonian Marine

Station at Link Port, Fort Pierce, Florida.

June 3

Acquisition: In appreciation for the Smithsonian’s contributions to Nepal’s efforts

to preserve its Royal Chitawan National Park, Prince Gyenendra presented two young
greater one-horned rhinoceroses to the National Zoological Park. Participants in the
ceremony included U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel.

June 3

Research Tour: For representatives of the U.S. Department of Energy and visiting
scientists, Bert Drake of the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center displayed and
described the facilities and equipment he is using to control levels of carbon dioxide
in his novel study on the effects of the "greenhouse gas" on marsh plant communities.

June 3

Special Event: National Associates attended a lecture and reception at the National
Air and Space Museum before departing on the Odyssey of Flight study tour.

June 4

Benefit: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum’s Tenth Anniversary Ball included a Farewell Salute
to Lisa Taylor, who earlier in the year announced her retirement as the museum’s
director. The event, held at the museum, raised money for an endowment fund for
special research projects in the field of design. The fund will be named in Taylor’s
honor.
June 7

Program: The High School Summer Intern Program began its first session under the
auspices of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Each summer this
program brings forty high school graduates from throughout the country to the
Institution for a five-week series of educational and service activities.

June 8

Agreement: Secretary Adams signed an agreement with the Soviet Academy of Sciences.
The agreement specifies the details of Institution’s and the Soviet Union’s

participation in an upcoming exhibition, "Crossroads of Continents," that will be
displayed in the United States and the Soviet Union.

June 9

Special Event: Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members attended "A
Victorian Evening," a special reception in the Arts and Industries Building and the
new Enid A. Haupt Garden.

June 10

Telecast: The Public Broadcasting Service aired "The Promise of the Land," the fourth
special of the third season of "Smithsonian World."

June 10-14

Tour: "Smithsonian Treasures: A Behind-the-Scenes Tour for Contributing Members" was
sponsored by the Smithsonian National Associates Travel Program in cooperation with
the Contributing Membership Program.

June 15

Publication: "Disabled Museum Visitors: Part of Your General Public," a video program
and handbook, was published by the special education program of the Office of
Elementary and Secondary Education, in collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution
Press and the Office of Telecommunications. Designed to help museum docents work more
effectively with disabled visitors, the materials will be used for training at the

Institution and will be distributed to museums across the country by the Office of
Museum Programs.

June 17

Gift: The National Museum of American History received the first Jarvik-7 artificial
heart used in an authorized implant as a temporary measure for patients awaiting a
donor heart. The heart was designed by Robert Jarvik and donated by the University
Medical Center of the Arizona Health Sciences Center at the University of Arizona.
June 18

Award: In a private ceremony, Ira Rubinoff, director of the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, received the Government of Panama’s Order of Vasco Nunez de Balboa
for his accomplishments in marine research and for his support of young scientists

from Panama and elsewhere in Latin America.

June 19

Agreement: A mutual cooperation agreement was signed by Smithsonian Tropical Research
Institute and Kuna Indian representatives. The agreement provides formal recognition
of the institute’s marine station on the Kuna Yala (San Blas) islands.

June 19

Exhibition: "Into the Sunlit Splendor," an exhibition featuring forty oil paintings
by contemporary aviation artist William S. Phillips, opened in the National Air and
Space Museum’s Flight and the Arts Gallery.

June 23-27

Panda Births: Giant panda twins were born at the National Zoological Park. One cub
died within seconds of birth, apparently unable to survive because of its small size.
The other cub survived the birth and appeared healthy until June 26. It succumbed
early on June 27.

June 24-28; July 1-5

Folklife Festival: The 21st annual Festival of American Folklife featured Michigan
folklife; the role of language in the preservation of cultural heritage; music of the
cultural communities of metropolitan Washington, D.C.; and dance parties. Lao-
Americans from the Washington, D.C., area celebrated a Rocket Festival, a tradition
believed to encourage rain.

June 29

Seminars: The Office of Elementary and Secondary Education began its 1987 series of
summer seminars for local teachers from the Washington, D.C., area and one graduate
course for teachers from throughout the United States.

June 28-July 3

Seminars: The National Associates Lecture and Seminar Program conducted three week-
long seminars in Washington, D.C. These were: "Garden Planning and Design" and two
new seminars, "Sculpture in the Nation’s Capital," and "Photojournalism."

July

Grant: The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation awarded a $542,000 grant to
the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service for the research, production,

and educational programming of the exhibition "Tropical Rainforests: A Disappearing
Treasure." The foundation contributed an additional $300,000 to support development

of local educational programming during the exhibition’s national tour.
July

Discovery: The discovery of what may be the first true "binary quasar" was reported
by an international team of astronomers that included a Harvard- Smithsonian Center
for Astrophysics scientist. Confirmation of the distances of the objects from Earth

was made with the Multiple Mirror Telescope at the Smithsonian’s Whipple Observatory.

July

Acquisition: With the aid of a grant from the James Smithson Society, the National
Museum of African Art purchased a carved figure of a seated male and female from the
Akan peoples of Ghana.

July

Staff Change: Ira Rubinoff, director of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute,
began a one-year sabbatical at Harvard University.

July |

Outreach: As part of continuing outreach efforts focused on minority communities,
backlit dioramas, produced by the Office of Public Affairs with Educational Outreach
Funds, were installed in six subway stations and the Washington, D.C., Amtrak station.
Using the theme "Explore Your Heritage," the dioramas highlighted the multi-cultural
aspects of the Smithsonian’s collections.

July 1

Publication: The second edition of /ntroduction to the Hirshhorn Museum and

Sculpture Garden was published by Harry N. Abrams, Inc., New York. Revised and
updated, the publication includes an introduction by Hirshhorn Director James T.
Demetrion and reproductions of several works acquired since the museum’s opening in
1974.

July 1

Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members
attended an exclusive presentation of the Michigan Program of the Festival of American
Folklife on the National Mall. A traditional Michigan picnic supper was served.

July 2

Resignation: Peggy A. Loar resigned as director of the Smithsonian Institution
Traveling Exhibition Service to head the Wolfsonian Foundation in Miami. Eileen Rose,
associate director for programs, was named acting director.

July 6-31

New Program: The National Science Resources Center began its Science and Technology
for Children project with a four-week workshop to develop science materials for
elementary schools. Representing urban, suburban, and rural school districts

nationwide, more than seventy scientists, teachers, and science museum educators
participated.
Wo

July 8

Publication: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries published a facsimile of the
nineteenth-century trade catalog, L. Straus and Sons Richest Cut Glassware, with the
American Cut Glass Association.

July 8

Course: The Resident Associate Program, the American Academy and Institute of Arts
and Letters, and the National Portrait Gallery presented a course in which six authors
and artists discussed their work. The participating artists and authors were George
Rickey, Will Barnet, Cyrthia Ozick, Philip Pearlstein, Anthony Hecht, Elizabeth
Hardwick, Susan Sontag, and Hugo Weisgall.

July 9

Anniversary: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries Book Conservation Laboratory
celebrated its tenth anniversary with an exhibition that illustrated traditional
methods of binding and book repair and modern ultrasonic techniques.

July 10

New Council: The Office Elementary and Secondary Education convened the first meeting
of the Smithsonian Advisory Council on Education. Appointed by Smithsonian Secretary
Adams, the council is charged with helping to stimulate and shape Smithsonianwide
priorities and directions in education.

July 10

Exhibition: "Ebla to Damascus: Art and Archaeology of Ancient Syria," a major
exhibition organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service with
the cooperation of the Syrian Directorate of Antiquities, opened at the National
Museum of Natural History. Displaying 281 examples of statuary, inscriptions,
mosaics, jewelery, and other artifacts that had never been viewed in America, the
exhibition illustrated how Syrian cultures have influence ten thousand years of
history.

July 10

Exhibition: "John La Farge," co-organized by the Carnegie Museum of Art, opened at

the National Museum of American Art. The exhibition featured 111 works documenting the
nineteenth-century artist’s accomplishments in painting, graphics, and stained glass--

the medium in which he made his most enduring contribution. A symposium that explored
the history, aesthetics, and techniques of American stained glass was presented in
conjunction with the exhibition.

July 15
Appointment: Robert Hoffmann, director of the National Museum of Natural History, was

named Smithsonian assistant secretary for research. Hoffmann’s appointment is
effective January 1, 1988. He succeeds David Challinor, who retired.

rs)
July 15

Special Event: The Embassy of Egypt and WETA hosted a special screening of "Islam,"
the fifth and final special of the third season of "Smithsonian World." The program,
which was telecast in the United States on July 22, received wide acclaim in the
international Islamic community.

July 15

Premiere: The half-hour film The Movie Palaces, produced by the Office of
Telecommunications, premiered nationwide on the Public Broadcasting Service network.

July 15

Awards: Blue Pencil awards, from the National Association of Government
Communicators, were given to The Torch, the Department of Botany brochure, and two
Smithsonian News Service feature stories--all produced by the Office of Public

Affairs.

July 16

Special Event: The National Zoological Park offered the first concert in its annual
series, Sunset Serenades. Between four hundred and seven hundred people attended each
of the six Thursday evening concerts in 1987.

July 29

New Advisory Council: The first meeting of the new Smithsonian Film, Television, and
Radio Council was held. Smithsonian Secretary Adams appointed Adrian Malone as
chairman of the council.

July 30
Acquisition: The Office of Folklife Programs began its custodianship of the Folkways
Archives. Received were about six hundred boxes of sound tapes, original glass disks,

as well as ethnographic files, correspondence, and other documentation associated with
Folkways Records over the past half century.

July 30

Lecture: Author and lawyer Archibald Cox reflected on the role of the Supreme Court
in a Resident Associate Program offering to mark the bicentennial of the

Constitution.

July 31

Retirement: John E. Reinhardt retired as director of the Directorate of International
Activities, concluding his more than seven years of service to the Smithsonian.

a
w)
August

Research: James Karr, Alan Smith, and Joseph Wright, all of the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, gave research presentations at the Annual Joint Meetings of the
Ecological Society of America and the Association for Tropical Biology in Columbus,
Ohio. A total of twenty-one presentations at the meetings were based on research
conducted at the institute.

August

Workshop: An Office of Museum Programs workshop, "Planning, Design, and Production of
Exhibitions," was conducted in Costa Rica by a team of four Smithsonian staff

members. The workshop served as a model for the Training Committee of the
International Council on Museums.

August

Outreach: About twenty high school teachers attended a summer workshop sponsored by
Project STAR, a National Science Foundation-funded program at the Harvard-Smithsonian
Center for Astrophysics. The workshop was designed to improve the teaching of
secondary school science through an astronomy curriculum.

August

Construction: Three greenhouses were completed--two for the Greenhouse-Nursery
Division of the Office of Horticulture and one for the Marine Systems Laboratory for
the development of an everglade mesocosm.

August

Publication: The Smithsonian Institution Libraries (SIL) published Collections
Management: An SIL Policy Manual, a two-volume work that was distributed to
administrative offices and SIL units.

August

Public Service Announcement: "There’s a New Look at the Smithsonian," thirty-second
and ten-second public service announcements were produced for television by the Office
of Public Affairs. Announcing the opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the
National Museum of African Art, the announcements were distributed to one hundred
television stations around the country.

August 3-7

Conference: The Office of Protection Services (OPS) hosted the annual meeting of the
International Committee on Museum Security. OPS Director Robert Burke was elected
chairman of the committee. In conjunction with the meeting, the office conducted its
tenth annual conference on museum security, attended by more than two hundred museum
security specialists from around the world.
August 13

Exhibition: "Roger Brown," a midcareer retrospective for this Chicago-based artist,
began its four-city national tour at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. Brown
later appeared at the museum in a public dialogue with film critic Gene Siskel.

August 13

Media Event: The Office of Public Affairs held the first Smithsonian press preview
organized for the Hispanic media. Focusing on the Institution’s plans for the
Columbus Quincentenary, the event was attended by twenty-nine journalists and sixty
key figures from the Smithsonian and the Hispanic community.

August 17

Appointment: Cornell University astrophysicist Martin O. Harwit was appointed
director of the National Air and Space Museum.

August 24

Acquisition: The National Museum of American Art acquired John Valentine Haidt’s
Young Moravian Girl (ca. 1755-1760) with funds provided by the American Art Forum, a
group founded in 1985 to support and enrich the museum’s collection of American art.

August 27

Special Event: Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society Members
viewed the exhibition "John La Farge" at the National Museum of American Art.

September

Research Milestone: In a historic new project designed to aid in the preservation of
the richest area of biodiversity on earth, a team of National Museum of Natural
History scientists, working with colleagues from the United States and Latin America,
systematically began to inventory the plant and animal life of Bolivia’s Beni

Biosphere Reserve. It was the first of a series of biodiversity inventories planned

by the museum over the next decade in protected reserves and parks in Latin America.

September

International Center: International Activities inaugurated the public and scholarly
programs of the International Center with three presentations: Professor David
Maybury-Lewis, Harvard University, spoke on "Tomorrow’s Children: An Outlook for the
Next Generation"; award-winning filmmakers Phil Agland and Lisa Silcock premiered
their film In the Shadow of the Forest: The Baka Pygmy; and noted author Carlos
Fuentes opened the Columbus Quincentenary Lecture Series with a lecture on "The
Americas: Our Shared Memory."

LSS)
nN
September

Exhibition: "Sojourners and Settlers," a photographic exhibition of Yemeni migrants

in Yemen and in the United States opened in the foyer of the international conference
area of the new S. Dillon Ripley Center. The exhibition inaugurated a program of
modest exhibitions to enhance cross-cultural understanding.

September

Research: W. David Kingery, Kyocera Professor of Ceramic Engineering at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and internationally recognized authority on

historic ceramic technology, began a one-year Regents Fellowship at the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory and the National Museum of American History. Kingery will study
models of the interaction of society and technology.

September

New Program: Two graduate students entered the new conservation science training
program, a joint initiative of the Conservation Analytical Laboratory and the
Department of Materials Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.

September

Minority Award: The Office of Museum Programs made its first Alaskan native award to
Rose Fosdick under its Minority Awards program.

September

Publications: The Office of Public Affairs updated and redesigned the Institution’s
visitor brochure for the opening of the new museum complex. Also revised and expanded
were the “Guide for Disabled Visitors" and "Explore Your Heritage," which focuses on
exhibitions and collections related to Afro-American history. A flyer and

commemorative brochure on the new complex were also produced by the office.

September

Grant: The Smithsonian Women’s Committee awarded a grant to the Smithsonian Archives
to support a two-part workshop and seminar for Smithsonian staff on the care of
photographs, motion picture film, audiotape, and videotape.

September |

Obituary: Thomas R. Soderstrom, curator in the Department of Botany, National Museum
of Natural History, died in Washington, D.C. Soderstrom was an international expert
in the taxonomy and biology of bamboos.

September 10

Tribute: The third level of the Institution’s new underground museum, research, and
education complex was named in honor of Smithsonian Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon
Ripley in recognition of Ripley’s vision, leadership, and public service and of his
pivotal role in the creation of the complex. The S. Dillon Ripley Center houses a
major exhibition gallery, offices, and education areas.
September 10

Media Event: Nearly three hundred people, representing ninety-eight print and
broadcast outlets, attended an all-day preview of the Smithsonian’s new museum,
research, and education complex. The largest single-day press event in the
Institution’s history, the conference resulted in national and international media
coverage in radio, television, newspapers, and magazines.

September 10

Expanded Service: The Visitor Information and Associates’ Reception Center began
operating information desks in the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, National Museum of
African Art, and S. Dillon Ripley Center.

September 11

Symposium: Organized by the Office of Interdisciplinary Studies and the National
Academy of Sciences, "Recreations with the Muses: Creativity in the Arts and Sciences”
marked the upcoming opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Personal testimony from
accomplished individuals in various walks of life and areas of expertise gave insight

into the creative process.

September 11

Special Event: A seated dinner for three hundred guests was held in honor of the
opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Speakers included His Excellency Kyung-Won
Kim, the ambassador of Korea, and Mr. Nagao Hyodo, minister for general affairs,
Embassy of Japan. The governments of Korea and Japan contributed to the construction
of the Sackler Gallery.

September 11

Special Event: As part of its Lectures and Seminars Series, the Smithsonian
Institution Libraries (SIL) presented a public program on "Books in the Attic: What
Are They Worth?" Nearly two hundred people attended the panel discussion and the
reception following the program. Copies of SIL’s "Book Collecting and the Care of
Books" (revised edition) were distributed to the audience.

September 11-13

Special Event: In cooperation with several other Smithsonian offices, the Office of

the Committee for a Wider Audience participated in the Black Family Reunion held on
the Mall and sponsored by the National Council of Negro Women. "Blacks in the
Westward Movement," a photo-panel exhibition by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service, was displayed; literature describing Smithsonian programs was
distributed to visitors; and staff members were on hand to answer questions.

September 12

Award: "Smithsonian World" won a Primetime Emmy for "Outstanding Informational
Series" from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.

Wo
Wo

September 12

Symposium: The National Museum of American History hosted "After Columbus:
Encounters in North America," which examined early contacts between European settlers
and Native Americans.

September 12

Special Program: A program of lectures on Asian art and culture was presented in
honor of the opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. Featured were speakers from
the British Museum, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of
Chicago, and the University of Pennsylvania.

September 12

Memorial Concert: A concert was presented by Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler and the family
and friends of the late Dr. Sackler in the Kennedy Center Concert Hall to celebrate
the life of Dr. Sackler and the opening of the museum named for him.

September 13-19

Hispanic Heritage Week: Lectures, poetry readings, craft demonstrations, exhibition
tours, films, and concerts were organized by six museums and the Resident Associate
Program in observance of Hispanic Heritage Week. Subjects for the many programs
ranged from social issues to the night skies over Latin America--graphically presented
in a planetarium show. Tours, conducted in Spanish and English, were offered by the
National Museum of American Art and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.

September 13

Special Event: A festschrift in honor of the late Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, primary
benefactor of the Smithsonian’s new museum of Asian art, was held in the lecture hall
of the S. Dillon Ripley Center.

September 15

Exhibition: "Lucian Freud Paintings" began a four-city international tour with its
opening at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden--the exhibition’s only American
venue. The exhibition, organized by the British Council in London, featured eighty-
one paintings by the acclaimed British realist. British Ambassador Anthony Ackland
hosted a dinner two days later and also attended the exhibition’s preview on September
14,

September 15

Award: The Cooper-Hewitt Museum received the Big Apple Award from the New York
Chapter of the National Home Fashions League at a luncheon attended by four hundred
members of the press and the home fashions industry. Director Emeritus Lisa Taylor
accepted the award for the museum.
September 16

Symposium: The National Museum of African Art organized a symposium, "African Art
Studies: The State of the Discipline." Made possible by a grant from the Shell
Companies Foundation, the symposium was one of the museum’s inaugural events.

September 16

Lecture: In a Resident Associate Program lecture, author Toni Morrison presented
readings from her recently published novel, Beloved. The lecture was followed by a
book-signing reception.

September 17

Award: Cooper-Hewitt Museum Director Emeritus Lisa Taylor was presented the Henry
Medal by Secretary Adams at a reception in his home. Taylor is the twentieth
recipient of the award, named in honor of the first Secretary of the Institution.

September 17

Award: The National Zoological Park awarded a silver medal to Sir David Attenborough
for his outstanding service to zoological science and conservation. Three hundred
people attended the ceremony.

September 18

Benefit: The Junior Committee of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum held its first fall fund-
raising event--a black-tie ball organized around the theme of the exhibition "Art
Nouveau Bing: The Paris Style 1900." More than eight hundred people attended the
event.

September 22

Gift: The Gold Rush, one of the fastest human-powered land vehicles, was presented to
the National Museum of American History. In May 1986, the Gold Rush reached a record-
setting speed of 65.48 miles per hour on a paved highway in the Sierra Nevada

mountains.

September 22-23

Special Event: The Office of the Committee for a Wider Audience hosted two receptions
to introduce the Institution’s new museum complex: the first for members of local
minority communities and the second for five hundred teachers from the Washington
metropolitan area.

September 24-25

Conference: With funding from the Education Outreach Fund, the Office of the
Committee for a Wider Audience and the Program in Black American Culture at the
National Museum of American History organized a national forum for museum
professionals to present and analyze innovative outreach programs that have succeeded
in drawing new audiences to museums.
September 25

Film Series: The Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden launched its hightly acclaimed
series of independent films, animated short features, and documentaries for the 1987-
88 season.

September 26

Symposium: The Smithsonian Quincentenary Program presented its first public
symposium, "Americans Before Columbus: Ice Age Origins.". Prominent North American
scholars engaged in a lively debate focusing on the first human occupation of the
Americas and on late Ice Age extinctions. The day-long event was cosponsored by the
National Museum of Natural History.

September 26

Special Event: The annual activities for members of the James Smithson Society were
held. Included were a morning tour of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and the National
Museum of African Art, followed by a luncheon at the official residence of H. E. Nobuo
Matsunaga, ambassador of Japan. In the evening, a formal dinner was held at the
National Air and Space Museum.

September 28

Dedication Ceremony: The new Smithsonian museum complex, including the National
Museum of African Art, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the S. Dillon Ripley Center, and
the Enid A. Haupt Garden, opened following a dedication ceremony headed by Secretary
Adams; Secretary Emeritus S. Dillon Ripley; architect Jean-Paul Carlhian; Regent Anne
L. Armstrong; and John R. Kinard, director of the Anacostia Museum.

September 28

Smithsonian Institution Day: A proclamation by the mayor of the District of Columbia
named this day as Smithsonian Institution Day in honor of the public opening of the
two new Smithsonian museums of art and the new international center.

September 28

Inaugural Exhibition: The Smithsonian’s International Gallery opened its inaugural
exhibition, "Generations," organized by the Smithsonian Institution Traveling

Exhibition Service (SITES) and the International Center. "Generations" combined

three hundred artifacts from lenders worldwide with 125 award-winning photographs,
resulting in an unprecedented look at how families around the globe and through the
centuries have anticipated and welcomed newborns. SITES published a companion book,
Generations: A Universal Family Album, for distribution by Pantheon Books.

September 28

Inaugural Exhibitions: The National Museum of African Art celebrated its opening with
five inaugural exhibitions: "African Art in the Cycle of Life"; "Royal Benin Art in

the Collection of the National Museum of African Art"; "Patterns of Life: West

African Strip-Weaving Traditions"; "The Permanent Collection of the National Museum of
African Art"; and "Objects of Use." Catalogues were published for the first three
exhibitions.

40
September 28

Inaugural Exhibitions: The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery joined the Smithsonian family as
its fourteenth museum as it opened to the public with the following inaugural
exhibitions: "In Praise of Ancestors: Ritual Objects from China"; "Monsters, Myths,

and Minerals"; "Pavilions and Immortal Mountains: Chinese Decorative Art and
Painting"; and "Nomads and Nobility: Art from the Ancient Near East."

September 29-30

Special Event: Donor, Sponsoring, Sustaining, Patron, and James Smithson Society

Members of the Contributing Membership Program attended private viewings of the Arthur
M. Sackler Gallery, the National Museum of African Art, the International Center, and
the Enid A. Haupt Garden. A special reception was held in the Arts and Industries
Building.

4I
Appendix 1

Members of the Smithsonian Council, Boards, and Commissions, September 30, 1987

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION BOARD OF REGENTS

Honorable William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States

ex officio, Chancellor

Homprable George H. W. Bush, Vice President of the United States

ex officio

Honorable Edwin J. (Jake) Garn,

Senator from Utah

Honorable Daniel P. Moynihan, Senator from New York

Honorable James R. Sasser,

Senator from Tennessee

Honorable Edwin P. Boland, Representative from Massachusetts
Honorable Silvio O. Conte, Representative from Massachusetts

Honorable Norman Y. Mineta,

Honorable David C. Acheson,

Honorable Anne L. Armstrong,
Dr. William G. Bowen,
Mrs. Jeannine Smith Clark,
Dr. Murray Gell-Mann,
Honorable A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr.,
Honorable Carlisle H. Humelsine,
Mr. Samuel C. Johnson,
Mr. Barnabas McHenry,

SMITHSONIAN COUNCIL

Neil Harris
Chairman
Dore Ashton
John N. Bahcall
Paul Fussell
Stephen Jay Gould
Thomas P. Hughes
Ada Louise Huxtable
Alice S. Ilchman
Miguel Leon-Portilla
Thomas E. Lovejoy
Peter R. Marler

$

Representative from California

citizen of the District of Columbia
citizen of Texas

citizen of New Jersey

citizen of the District of Columbia
citizen of California

citizen of Pennsylvania

citizen of Virginia
citizen of Wisconsin
citizen of New York

Robert M. May
Matthew S. Meselson
Sidney W. Mintz
Arthur Mitchell
Frederick W. Mote
David F. Musto
Jaroslav J. Pelikan
Peter H. Raven

Carl E. Schorske
Alan Shestack

Emily D. T. Vermeule
Dave Warren

Sheila E. Widnall
JOINT SPONSORING COMMITTEE FOR THE PAPERS OF JOSEPH HENRY

Frederick Seitz, Chairman
Robert McC. Adams
Whitfield J. Bell, Jr.

David Challinor
Charles C. Gillespie
Jean R. St. Clair

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth, Honorary Chairman

Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, Chairman
Mr. Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President

Mr. Dave H. Williams, Vice President/Treasurer

Mrs. Nancy B. Wellin, Vice President

Mrs. Robert F. Shapiro, Vice President
Mrs. Dwight M. Kendall, Vice President
Mrs. Francis de Marneffe, Vice President
Mrs. Dana M. Raymond, First Secretary
Miss Julienne Michel, Assistant Secretary

Miss Caroline R. Alexander
Mrs. Eli Broad

Mr. Eli Broad

Mr. Ivan Chermayeff

Mrs. George C. Dillon

Mrs. Ahmet M. Ertegun

Mrs. Walter B. Ford II

Mr. Benjamin D. Holloway
Mrs. Philip C. Jessup, Jr.
Mrs. Henry C. Johnson

Mrs. Charles Kessler

FOUNDING TRUSTEES
Mr. Lawrence A. Fleischman
Mr. Edgar P. Richardson (deceased)
Mrs. Edsel B. Ford (deceased)

EX OFFICIO

Mr. Robert McC. Adams
Mr. Tom L. Freudenheim

Mr. Gilbert H. Kinney
Mr. Irvin A. Levy

Mr. Howard W. Lipman

Mr. Richard Manoogian
Mr. Alexander R. Mehran
Mrs. Muriel Kallis Newman
Mrs. John Rosekrans, Jr.
Mrs. Abbott K. Schlain
Mr. Alan E. Schwartz

Mr. Richard Jay Schwartz
Mr. C. Bagley Wright

HONORARY TRUSTEES
Dr. [Irving F. Burton

Mr. Russell Lynes
Mrs. William L. Richards

LSS)
ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART ADVISORY COMMITTEES

Washington, D.C.

Bernard Mergen, Chair
Marjory Balge
Lorraine Brown

David Driskell
Charles Eldredge
Alan Fern

Lois Fink

New York

Milton Brown, Chair
William C. Agee
Thomas N. Armstrong
John Dobkin

Anne d'Harnoncourt
Linda S. Ferber
William Gerdts
Eugene Goossen

John Howat

New England

Harley P. Holden, Chair
Winslow Ames

David S. Brooke
Georgia Bumgardner
Robert Cardinale
Theresa Cederholm
Anne Farnam
Charles Ferguson
Wolfgang Freitag
Hugh Gourley

Elton W. Hall
Patricia Hills
Sinclair Hitchings
John Holverson
William Johnson
John Kirk

Henry Glassie
William Homer
Charles F. Hummel
Mare J. Pachter
Ned Rifkin

John Vlach

John Wilmerding

James Humphry III
John A. Kouwenhoven
Russell Lynes
Porter McCray
Barbara Novak

Clive Phillpot
Jules D. Prown
William B. Walker
H. Barbara Weinberg

Elizabeth M. Kornhauser
William Lipke

Laura C. Luckey

Paul Master-Karnik
Elliot Offner

James O'Gorman

Ronald Onorato

Stephen Riley

Daniel Rosenfeld

David Ross

Theodore Stebbins
Susan Strickler
Katharine Watson
Michael Wentworth
Peter A. Wick

Margret Craver Withers
Northern California

Herschel Chipp, Chair
Graham Beal

Whitney Chadwick
Wanda Corn

John Dillenberger
James Elliott

Albert Elsen

Harvey Jones

Southern California

Constance Glenn, Chair
E. Maurice Bloch

Ruth Bowman

Susan Danly

Bram Dijkstra

Beatrice Farwell
Burton Fredericksen
Henry Hopkins
Christopher Knight

Chicago Documentation Project

Dennis Adrian

Don Baum

Jack Brown, ex officio
Courtney Donnell
Robert Evans

Richard Gray

Neil Harris

Mary Jane Jacob

Judith Kirshner

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY
Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio
Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio
David Challinor, Ex Officio

Dr. Charles Blitzer

Professor Kwang-chih Chang

Mrs. Cynthia Helms

Mr. Porter A. McCray

Ambassador George McGhee

Mr. Henry Millon

Connie Lewallen
Margaretta Lovell
Christina Orr—-Cahall
Moira Roth

Peter Selz

Marc Simpson

Donald L. Stover

Ian McKibbin White

Richard Koshalek
Susan Larsen-Martin
Ronald Onorato

Earl A. Powell III
Michael Quick

Josine Ianco Starrels
Maurice Tuchman
Richard V. West

Katharine Lee
Maureen McKenna
Archibald Motley
Franz Schulze
David Sokol
James Wells

Wim de Wit

John Zukowsky

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta
Mrs. Cynthia Polsky

Dr. Edith Porada

Mrs. Arthur M. Sackler

H.H. Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan
Dr. Yoshiaki Shimizu
Professor Seymour Slive

Mr. Michael Sonnenreich
FREER GALLERY OF ART

Visiting Committee

Robert McC. Adams, Ex Officio Mrs. Katherine Graham

Thomas L. Freudenheim, Ex Officio Sherman Lee

David Challinor, Ex Officio Porter McCray

The Honorable Norman Y. Mineta, Frederick W. Mote
Chairman John M. Rosenfield

Laurence Sickman, Vice Chairman The Honorable Hugh Scott

Mrs. Jackson Burke Priscilla Soucek

Kwang-chih Chang Richard Weatherhead

Marvin Eisenberg

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM ADVISORY COUNCIL

August Heckscher, Chairman
Karen Johnson Boyd

Donald J. Bruckmann
Rosemary Corroon (until June 1987)
Joan K. Davidson

Joanne. du Pont

Harmon Goldstone

Russell Lynes

Kenneth Miller

Arthur Ross

Robert Sarnoff

Marietta Tree

Robert McC. Adams, ex Officio
Tom Freudenheim, ex Officio

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Sydney Lewis, Chairman

Jerome Greene, Vice Chairman

Charles Blitzer

Robert T. Buck (appointed May 5, 1987)

Agnes Gund (appointed July 1, 1987)

Thomas M. Evans (term ended June 30, 1987)
Daniel P. Moynihan (resigned January 23, 1987)
Robert Rosenblum

A. James Speyer (died November 9, 1986)
Leonard C. Yaseen

Robert McCormick Adams, Ex Officio
Warren E. Burger, Ex Officio (retired September 26, 1986)
William Hubbs Rehnquist, Ex Officio (appointed

September 26, 1986)
NATIONAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM ADVISORY BOARD

Rebert Mcc. Adams, Chairman Jacsueline Pender

Vice Admiral Rebert F. Dunn, USN Bernard E. Smith, Jr.

Vice Acmiral James C. Irwin, USCG Le. General Keith A. Smith,
Denald M. Koll USMC

Lt. General Donald D. Pihl, USA Willis Shapley, NASA

General Larry D. Welch, USAF

NATICNAL ATR AND SPACE MUSEUM RESEARCH ADVISCRY COMMITTEE

Dr. Lew Alien Dr. Jcnn Legscéen

Dr. CPaniel Jz-Beerstin Professor Otto Mayr
Professor Freeman Dyscn Professor Alex Roland

Dr. Herbert Friedman Dr. Harriscn H. Schmidt
Acmiral Neel Gaylor Professor William R. Sears
Prortessor James R. Hansen Dr. Joan Warncw

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART COMMISSION

Frank E. Moss, Chairman Frieda Rosenthal
Frances Humphrey Howard, Susan Samuels
Vice-Chairman Gustave Schindler
David Driskell Michael Sonnenreich
John A. Friede Robert Farris Thompson
Colbert I. King Walter Washington
Richard Long Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
Helen Neufeld Tom L. Freudenheim, ex officio

Robert Nooter

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART COMMISSION

Mrs. Mary Homans, Chairman
David S. Purvis, Vice Chairman

Donald Anderson Richard Hunt

Mrs. Elizabeth Brooke Blake R. Crosby Kemper, Jr.
Thomas S. Buechner Myron Kunin

Wendell K. Castle Mrs. Nan Tucker McEvoy
Mrs. Johnson Garrett Charles Parkhurst

Ms. Nancy Graves Mrs. John D. Rockefeller IV
R. Philip Hanes, Jr. Wilbur L. Ross
Bartlett H. Hayes, Jr. Mrs. Oliver Seth
August Heckscher Mrs. John Farr Simmons
Thomas C. Howe Mrs. Otto L. Spaeth
Mrs. Jaquelin Hume Mrs. Bagley Wright

Robert McC. Adams, ex officio
James T. Demetrion, ex officio
48

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY
Commission

Senator Jake Garn (Chairman)
Robert O. Anderson

Barry Bingham, Sr.
Michael Collins

Thomas Mellon Evans

W. John Kenney

R. W. B. Lewis

Katie Louchheim

Robert L. McNeil, Jr.
Senator Robert H. Morgan
Barbara Novak

Frank Stanton

J. Carter Brown, Director, National Gallery of Art, ex officio
William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States, ex officio

Robert McC. Adams, Secretary,

HORTICULTURE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
James R. Buckler, Belva Jensen
Chairman

Orchid Subcommittee
James R. Buckler

Edward S. Ayensu
Mary L. Ripley

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS NATIONAL
W.'K. Kellogg Foundation Project

Tom L. Freudenheim, Chairman
Mary Schmidt Campbell

David De La Torre

Alan M. Fern

J. O. Grantham

Philip S. Humphrey

Abram Lerner

William F. McSweeny

Smithsonian Institution,

ex officio

Carlton Lees

Paul E. Desautels

ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Paul N. Perrot

Richard H. Randall, Jr.

Ralph C. Rinzler

Michael H. Robinson

Susan Stitt

Michael Templeton

Jane R. Glaser, ex officio
Janet W. Solinger, ex officio
FOLKLIFE ADVISORY COUNCIL

Richard Bauman, Chairman
Roger Abrahams

Douglas Evelyn

Henry Glassie

Rayna Green

Adrienne Kaeppler

John Langston Gwaltney

SMITHSONIAN TELEVISION

Adrian Malone, Chair
Ann Bay

Jane Glaser

Paul Johnson
Jeffrey LaRiche
Felix Lowe

Arthur Molella
Marc Pachter
Bernice Reagon
Ralph Rinzler
Michael Robinson
Virginia Schofield
Stanwyn Shetler
Janet Solinger

Charlotte Heth

Ivan Karp

William Merrill
Bernice Johnson Reagon
Roy Seiber

John Tchen

Carlos Velez-Ibanez

FILM AND RADIO COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL

Advisers:

Edward Bastian
Robert Dierker
Madeleine Jacobs
Tom Wolf

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION WOMEN'S COUNCIL

Carolyn Jones
Chairperson
Mary Combs
Vice-Chair
Christine Louton
Secretary
Lauranne Nash
Secretary
Katherine Sprague
Treasurer
Kathleen Baxter
Historian
Anne Carman
Diana Cohen
Montrose Cones

Lori Dempsey
Debora Fletcher
Carole Fox
Roberta Geier
Shadia Habbal
Vera Hyatt
Susan Jewett
Susan Kalcik
Ann Noel

Judith Petroski
Margaret Santiago
Joanna Scherer
Ellen Sprouls
Susan Warner
Miriam Weissman

49
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION INTERNSHIP COUNCIL

Bruce Craig
Co-Chairperson

Mary Dyer
Co-Chairperson

Eileen Hall
Co-Chairperson

Magda Schremp
Co-Chairperson

Ann Noel

January 1987-December 1988

Term

July 1987-June 1988

Term

January 1986-December 1986

Term

July 1986-June 1987

Term

Staff Assistant to the Council

Marcia Anderson
Vicki Avera
Linda Chick

Pat Chiatfo

Sal Cilella
Bruce Craig
Amy Crittenberger
Zed David
William Deiss
Betty Beuck Derbyshire
Kathy Dorman
Mary Dyer

Erica E11
Shirley Epps
Susan Epstein
Zora Felton
Marilyn F lorek
William Gaske
James Goode
Eileen Hall
Nancy Hinton
Judith Houston
Vera Hyatt

Harry Jackson

Mark Katz

Peter Xibbee
Betty Lathern
Edward Lawson

Trish Long

Tom Lowderbaugh
Eleanor McMillan
Carolyn Mills
Lauranne Nash

Anne Peret

Alan Postlethwaite
Ralph Rinzler
Argelis Roman
Magda Schremp
Gayle Southworth
Nei] Spitzer
Rarbara Strickland
Laurie Trippett

Marge Turgel

Linda Warden
Wilcomn Washburn

Ken Yellis
NATIONAL BOARD OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

Mr. Charles D. Dickey, Jr., Chairman

Mrs)... Joeqhier Abr ititionm

Mee ArthuneG. Adis chil:

Mr. Philip Anschutz

Mr. George B. Binghan, Jr.
Mr. William W. Boeschenstein
Mrs. I. Townsend Burden

Mr. Frank T. Cary

Mrs. Cummins Catherwood, Jr.
Mr. James H. Clement

Mr. Jeffrey Cole

Mrs. Robert Donner, Jr.

Mr. Marshall Field

Honorable Ulric St. Clair Haynes,
Mr. Gerald D. Hines

Mr. S. Charles Kemp

Mr. Thomas M. Keresey

Mr. Howard M. Love

Mr. Brooks McCormick

Mr. Alexander K. McLanahan
Mr. Arjay Miller

Mr. John W. Morrison

Mr. Charles H. Murphy, Jr.
Mr. Jack S. Parker

Mr. Sidney R. Petersen

Mrs. John D. Rockefeller, IV
Mr. Charles W. Schmidt

Mrs. George M. Seignious II
Mr. Malcolm T. Stamper

Mrs. James M. Walton
Honorable John C. Whitehead
Mr. J. Tylee Wilson

Mrs. Gay F. Wray

Mr. T. Evans Wyckoff

Honorary Members

Mr. William S. Anderson

Mr. Richard P. Cooley

Mr. Joseph F. Cullman III
Honorable Leonard K. Firestone
Mr ow Aliried aC: -Girassell, Jr.
MrenwWia ia Had lkey-sGriffin
Honorable William A. Hewitt
Mr. James M. Kemper, Jr.

Mr. Seymour H. Knox, III

Mr. Lewis A. Lapham

Honorable George C. McGhee
Justice Sandra D. O'Connor

Mr. S. D&dslon chi pLey.

Mr. Francis C. Rooney, Jr.

Mr, Merritt Kirk Ruddock
Honorable Thomas J. Watson, Jr.

Hpgs
Chairman

Vice Chairman
Secretary

Assistant Secretary
Treasurer

Assistant Treasurer

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mris:.
Mrisis
Mrs.
Miris..
Mrs...
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mirisi.
Minisis
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mr's:.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

ia
Nv

David C. Acheson
Daniel Antonoplos
Denton Blair

Mario H. Boiardi
Phidap Sk. Bowie
Clarence Brown
George Bush

Thomas J. Camp, Jr.
Joseph V. Charyk
Frank Clay

Richard Cobb

Robert Collier
Stuart C. Davidson
J. Edward Day
Domenico De Sole
Avery Faulkner
Sydney J. Freedberg
George C. Gerber
John Worden Gill
Robert Reed Gray
Kari (Gs, (Harr, .d rs
Walter James Hodges
Walter Innis

Donald W. Jeffries
George W. Jones
Lucien Kinsolving
Henry Krieger

Nevin E. Kuhl
George Varick Lauder

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mires: :
Mrs.
Mrs;
Mrs.
Mrs.
Mrs.

WOMEN'S COMMITTEE OF THE SMITHSONIAN ASSOCIATES

I. Townsend Burden, III
Williams S. Mailliard
Adrian Fisher

Godfrey W. Kauffmann
John Voorhees

James K. Mitchell

Wendell Lund

Bruce MacLaury
Alexander M. Maish
David E. MeGiffert

Sam Nunn

Dudley Owen

Richard R. Palmer
Charles H. Percy
Horace White Peters
Charles. L.. Poor

Thomas Malcolm Price
S. Dillon Ripley
Frederick B. Rooney
John T. Sapienza

W. Jerrold Scoutt, Jr.
George Marion Seignious
Henry P. Smith, III
Harold Snell

Guy Thomas Steuart, II
Potter Stewart

Mark Sullivan, III
Richard L. Thompson
Robert D. van Roijen
Charles Swan Weber
Edwin M. Wheeler

T. Ames Wheeler

Philip C. White

Gordon Page Williams
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE

Board of Trustees
HONORARY CHAIRMEN

Mrs. Ronald Reagan
Mrs. Gerald R. Ford
Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson

OFFICERS

Chairman

Vice Chairman

Vice Chairman

Vice Chairman
secretary

Assistant Secretary
Treasurer

General Counsel
Associate Counsel
Assistant Treasurer

Members Appointed by the

JoerL., Albibritton

Mrs. Bennett Archambault
Mrs. Howard H. Baker, Jr.
Marshall B. Coyne
Richmond Crinkley

June Oppen Degnan

James H. Evans

Robert Fryer

Mrs. Joseph B. Gildenhorn
Mrs. W. Lee Hanley, Jr.
Charlton Heston

Caroline Rose Hunt

Mrs. Earle Jorgensen
Melvin R. Laird

Marjorie M. Lawson

PERFORMING ARTS

Mrs. Jimmy Carter
Mrs. Richard M. Nixon
Mrs. Aristotle Onassis

Roger L. Stevens

James A. McClure
Leonard L. Silverstein
Henry Strong

Jack Valenti

Charlotte Woolard
Timothy ¢.. Coughlin
Harry C. McPherson, Jr.
William Becker

Henry Strong

President of the United States

Mrs. J. Willard Marriott
Dina Merrill

Joan Mondale

Gerald M. Rafshoon

Mrs. Abraham Ribicoff
Leonard L. Silverstein
Jean Kennedy Smith

Roger B. Smith

Dennis Stanfill

Roger L. Stevens

Mrs. Theodore H. Strauss
Henry Strong

Lew R. Wasserman

Mrs. Jack Wrather

Members Ex Officio Designated by Act of Congress

Otis R. Bowen
William J. Bennett
Charles Z. Wick
Edward M. Kennedy
Lowell Weicker, Jr.
James A. McClure
Joseph M. McDade
Charles Wilson

Honorary Trustees
Mrs. Albert Lasker
s

. Jouett Shouse
William Fulbright

Sidney R. Yates
Marion S. Barry
Robert McC. Adams
James H. Billington

J. Carter Brown
William Penn Mott, Jr.
William B. Johnson

Ralph E. Becker
Mrs. :J< Cilattord Folger

wn
Wo
nA

FRIENDS OF THE KENNEDY CENTER

Michael X. Morrell, Chairman
Thomas J. Mader, Executive Director

The Friends of the Kennedy Center would like to express
gratitude to the following Patron members:

Alexandria Lighting & Supply, Inc.
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Mrs. Louis S. Ansberr

Alexandra Armstrong Advisors, Inc.
Harry J. Banachowski

Drs. Rheda and Jordan Baruch
Carole and Maurice Berk

Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Berman
Bozell & Jacobs, Inc.

The Hon. William E. Brock, III
Mr. John J. Brogan

Edmund Cc. Bujalski

Ira Byram Foundation

Mresand: Mrs.- B.T. Chapin

Mrs. Earl N. Chiles, Jr.

Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth G. Clare

Mr. and Mrs. David Dawson

Ms. Sukhbans K. Dhillon

Mr. and Mrs. William B. Dockser
Dr. and Mrs. Seymour Dubroff

ERC International

Eastman Kodak Company

Mr. Khosro Eghbal

Calis. Polks, Led.

Mr. William C. George, Jr.

Dennis M. Gingold

Gerald Glaize

Miss Elisabeth J. Hand

Dr. and Mrs. Richard J. Haas

Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Harrison
Paul and Annetta Himmelfarb Foundation, Inc.
Mrs. Marilyn Brachman Hoffman

Dr. and Mrs. Richard E. Horman
LBM Corporation, D:.c.
International Developers, Inc.
The Journal Newspapers

Mrs. Peter S. Kapo, IItl

Mr. and Mrs. Edward W. Kay

Dr. William M. King

Mr. and Mrs. William F. Kroener, III
Malcolm and Vivienne Lassman
Warner and Kay LeRoy

Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Liebhaber
Rutus! S. Lusk, Jr.

their
Mr. and Mrs. Murdaugh Stuart Madden
A. Caroline Maloney

Mr. Forrest Edward Mars

Mr. and Mrs. Sheldon I. Matzkin
Sandra and David Mayhocd
Herbert S. and Patrice Miller
Dr. W. Raymond Mize, Jr.
Mr. and Mrs. Michael X. Morrell
Gordon and Diane Myers
Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Myers

fr, and Mrs. William c. Pal
Mrs. Charles Emory phiiadse *
Mrs. Mildred Poretsky
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Raven
Benjamin T. Rome
John H. Safer
Mr. and Mrs. Benno C. Schmidt
Mr. and Mrs. Larry G. Settle
Peggy and David Shiffrin
Mrs. Louise M. Simons
Sharon R. Simons
General and Mrs. W.Y. Smith

r. and Mrs. Robert W. Stewart
Mr. John Stimac

Dick and Jane Stoker

Bernard Stopak, M.D. and Carolyn Stopak

Joy Carter Sundlun

Carolyn Krell Tanner

Riley K. Temple

Mary Pat Toups

Mosc “arc. Mics. LnOhtaAs) OlLrLon
John A. Waters

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas L. Williams
Dr. and Mrs. William R. Wilson
Stanley Oliver Zell

an
nA
56

JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

Sponsoring Members

Althea Woodland Nursing Home
American Medical Association
Mrs. Paul S. Anderson

Deborah W. Baker

Goldene and Herschel Blumberg
Mr. and Mrs. David K. Booth
Carter and Melissa Cafritz

Mo jand Mrs. John C. Cams

Mr. and Mrs. Cummins Catherwcod
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth A. Conley
Credit Union National Association, Inc.
William and Miyoko Dillon

Clara L. Adams Ender

Reverend H. Albion Ferrell
Benno M. Gerson

James W. Gurley

Mr. and Mrs. Vico Henriques
Mary B. Hevener

Dr. Lois M. Hoskins

Mark and Anastasia Joelson

Me. and. Mrs. Joseph L. Kir!
Henry W. Kramer, Jr.

Helen Sperry Lea Foundation
Russell Cc. Lindner

Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Martinisko
Edward J. Mathias

Mr. and Mrs. G. Wilson Miller
Lucile D. Nelson

Mr. and Mrs. Eli Nisenfeld

Mr. and Mrs. George W. Norton
Linda R. Potter

Lipman and Vivien Redman

Jose I. Ricard, M.D.

Mr. and Mrs. W.E. Roehl
Peggy-Grace Plourd Rubp

Eugene Sarnort

Roger and Susanne Schlaifer
Carol and David Schwartz

Samuel Shapiro & Company, Inc.
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Sheppard
Joseph A. Sickles

Mr. Michael Teigen

Fereniki Ward

Dr. and Mrs. Julian L.D. Weaver
Harriet Weltman

Edward B. Wilber

Trisha Wilson

Mrs. Jack Wrather

Judy and Leo Zickler
JOHN F. KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

1987 Corporate Fund Leadership
CHAIRMAN

Theodore F. Brophy
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
GTE Corporation

VICE CHAIRMEN

John F. Akers
Chairman of the Board
IBM Corporation

H. Brewster Atwater, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
General Mills, Inc.

Stephen D. Bechtel, Jr.
Chairman of the Board
Bechtel Group, Inc.

John F. Bookout
President
Shell Oil Companies

John-H: Bryan, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sara Lee Corporation

James E. Burke
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Johnson & Johnson

John L. Clendenin
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
BellSouth Corporation

Lodwrick M. Cook
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Atlantic Richfield Company

Donald’ ly’. *Craib, JL.
Chairman, Retired
Allstate Insurance Company

Jonn J. Creedon
President and Chief Executive Officer
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

aA
8

Thomas H. Cruikshank
President and Chief Executive Officer
Halliburton Company

James L. Ferguson
Chairman, Executive Committee
General Foods Corporation

Roberto’ C. Goizueta
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Coca-Cola Company

John R. Hall
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Ashland O21, Ine.

Richard E. Heckert
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co.

Edward L. Hennessy, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Allied-Signal Inc.

William R. Howell
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
J.C. Penney Company, Inc.

David T. Kearns
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Xerox Corporation

James L. Ketelsen
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Tenneco Inc.

Robert D. Kilpatrick
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
CIGNA Corporation

Charles F. Knight
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Emerson Electric Company

Duane R. Kullberg
Managing Partner--Chief Executive Officer
Arthur Andersen & Co.

Howard M. Love
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
National Intergroup Inc.
William G. McGowan
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
MCI Communications Corporation

Ruben F. Mettler
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
RW anc.

E. James Morton
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company

Jack Moseley
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
USF&G Corporation

Allen E. Murray
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Mobil Corporation

James E. Olson
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
American Telephone and Telegraph Campany

Donald E. Petersen
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Ford Motor Company

Edmund. T... Pratt, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Piazer- [ne

James D. Robinson III
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
American Express Company

William A. Schreyer
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Merrill Lyneh “& ‘Co.

Jonn G. Smale
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Procter & Gamble Company

John F. Welch, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
General Electric Company

SECRETARY
Harold Burson

Chairman of the Board
Burson-Marsteller
60

NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART BOARD OF TRUSTEES
General Trustees

Franklin D. Murphy, Chairman
John R. Stevenson

Ruth Carter Stevenson

Robert H. Smith

Alexander M. Laughlin

Trustees Ex Officio

William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States
George P. Shultz, Secretary of State

James A. Baker III, Secretary of the Treasury

Robert McCormick Adams, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution

Honorary Trustee
Paul Mellon
Trustee Emeritus

Carlisle H. Humelsine

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

Board of Trustees

William J. Baroody, Jr., Chairman

Robert A. Mosbacher, Vice Chairman

Robert McC. Adams
Dwayne 0. Andreas
James A. Baker III
Theodore C. Barreaux
James H. Billington
Otis R. Bowen

Frank G. Burke

Lynne V. Cheney
Gertrude Himmelfarb
Max M. Kampelman

Den Walard Marriott. JT.
John S. Reed

George P. Shultz
Charles Z. Wick
Appendix 2
Smithsonian Special Foreign Currency Program Awards
Made October 1, 1986, through September 30, 1987

ARCHEOLOGY, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND RELATED DISCIPLINES

American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Conference
for special Daedalus issue on India.

American Foundation for the Blind, New York, New York. Workshop on
cross-cultural issues in rehabilitation (India).

American Institute of Indian Studies, Chicago. Illinois. Continued support
for administration; research fellowships; Center for Art and Archeology;
Archives and Research Center for Ethnamusicology.

Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio. Archeological research in
Karnataka (India).

Duke University, Durham, North Carolina. Land use and vegetation changes in
south and southeast Asia, 1800 - 1980 A.D. (India and Burma).

Freer Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. and University of Chicago, Chicago,
Tilinois. Garden, city, and empire: the historical geography of Mughal
Lahore (Pakistan).

Indo-U.S. Subcammission on Education and Culture, New York, New York.
Indo-American fellowship program.

Smithsonian Office of Folklife Programs, Washington, D. C. National Cultural
Festival (India).

Social Science Research Council, New York, New York. Conference on
agricultural terminologies; workshop on public culture in the late twentieth
century (India).

Tufts University, Medford, Massachusetts. South Asia and world capitalism
conference (India).

University of California, Berkeley, Califormia. Excavations at Opovo-Bajbuk
(Yugoslavia); archeological investigations at Harappa, Pakistan.

University of Califormia, Los Angeles, Califormia. Sikh studies conference.

University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. The religious significance of
horses in India: tests on the horse sacrifice and on the care of horses.

University of Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts. Conference on
numismatics and archeology (India).

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Ajanta caves seminar (India).
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Muslim intelligentsia in
the 18th century: intellectuals' response to the crisis of change in north
India (Pakistan) .

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Excavation at
Arikamedu (India); Reame and India, the sea trade conference.

University of Texas, Austin, Texas. Formative aspects of Burmese
civilization.

University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin. Telugu folklore conference,
conference on old problems, new perspectives in archeology (India).

Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, Virginia. Epigraphic of the tambs at
Assiut, Egypt.

SYSTEMATIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL BIOLOGY (INCLUDING PALEOBIOLOGY)

Bethel College, North Newton, Kansas. Change in the structure of an
amphibian assemblage in a changing agricultural ecosystem in rural Grissa
after thirty years (India).

Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Late Miocene hominoids and the
origins of haminidae: paleabiology and paleoenvironments (Pakistan).

Howard University, Washincton, D. C. Cenozoic manmals and biostratigraphy of
Pakistan.

Lamont—Doherty Geological Observatory, Palisades, New York. Paleoclimatic
and paleoenvirommental changes in Asia during the last 4 million years, a
symposium at Ahmedabad, India.

Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan. Camparative studies of
dance orientation and vision in the Asian honey bees (India).

National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D. C. Botanical research
(India)

National Zoological Park, Washington, D. C. Genetic analyses of captive
lions (India); International symposium on primates.

University of Guam, Mangilao, Guam. Effect of natural enemies on Chromolaena
odorata and Eupatorium adenophorum and their influence on the native
vegetation of India.

University of Massachusetts, Boston, Massachusetts. Conference on
agroforestry for rural needs (India).

University of North Carolina, Morehead City, North Carolina. Biology,
ecology and systematics of sharks of the east and Coramondal coasts of India.
ASTROPHYSICS AND EARTH SCIENCES

Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Geochemical and
geochronological studies on mafic volcanic rocks fram the central and eastem
Himalaya, India.

Radio Astronamy Observatory, Socorro, New Mexico. Observations of cosmic
hydrogen and deuterium and development of a spectral line capability for a
new Indian radio telescope.

Smithsonian Astrophsysical Observatory, Cambridge, Massachusetts. CC
studies (India).

University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. Early Miocene chronology (Pakistan) ;
meteorites and the origin of the solar system conference (India) .

University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado. ISCA/AAAS Joint Scientific
Seminar at Bangalore, India.

University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska. Quaternary stratigraphy and
chronology, Nanga Parbat and Karakoram Himalaya (Pakistan).

MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Discovery Place, Charlotte, North Carolina. Museum education exchanges
(India) .

Indo-U.S. Subcammission on Education and Culture, New York, New York. Joint
programs (India).

National Museum of American History, Washington, D. C. History of science
training workshop (India).

Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C. Artists' books, U.S.A.; museum
outreach conference; wamen and the Constitution conference; 12th Sarabhai
memorial lecture series (India).
L7p’768’
g'Bt Lbo'stz
0Z0’6hz’ BSE‘ PPE
4 T 9 7] € ’
ety Isp’z 88 T9 €0O€E
688 '719'Z eee ct ae ad ece’OSL’ Ez ave?
PI8‘6h0'Z 18°61 TE SE 19 62 S 988/'L
ETO’88b‘Z T69’EZ 897'82 LLO'GSE 608 Sct L GT9’E6F GS9‘09T'T
18h ‘Tos Ove ’st LGE” ET 6L6'88P 6L9'STT'T EOE B71 Sey ott ate
Gz8’6h0'T p6S‘92 p68 ‘PI €ze’B8z T98’7L9 bo6’6EL 189‘9TT ee
686’'8ZI'T 917‘97 6££'0Z2 B8LE’9bT P6S ‘OLE OPE‘’SL 899’GET ee
780'0Z EGE UI G9E’9T 16S Sbz 6ST ‘8b 608 '98 sees
716 ‘82 90007 THS‘SZE BIE Tp LTv 6) eae
CLT VE 9TO‘ETH CEE 267 B6L'SE eee
STRIO”d AzetrTeo €0P’O6P 96L‘ItP 00S’°99 L86T pees
yoTMuSYy Azetteo 88S’Z6E TOPLEL OT8‘ES 1a}
4Te az Ort’ EEE’
pes aaoda: — 9A aa 6 ae res requisoed
pue J4Av TOTTeD uTPT Ta 6 89 18 TSquUeAON
Geo OU: sti epeds REP LIN 6 ST a
pue iaTw A204STH uTpttna oO
TernjeNn seTiqsn Hutpttna
pue ee uoTynyTW6U .
erica qUuOW

Lg61
iva x |e
Ost Ul
IJ ul suimasn
W uonnimsuy ueuos
-LUOSYMNUWIS O
IUIS 0} SIONS!
ISTA

£ xipuaddy
sioqztsta Auew souts

TE6‘9bL'SZ
t0’rse’9

Tzo’LTS
Tpp'78L
9TT‘ES6
TEE’ THB
TL8‘0F8
09L'698
b60‘66P
979'0GZ
9SE’b07

TEp’ote

667’TLE
LST’ETP

STeIOL

*UOTINATISUI UPTUOSYATUS SY} OF SIORTSTA TeNPTATpuT JO Aequnu Tenqoe sy ueYyR AeyhTYy st
pue ‘sjzunoos AORTSTA wnesnu Jo aeyeberbhbe ey sjueseiderz
Asyq ‘sAep aaTAnoesuod [TereAes uO suMaesnwW snoTreA OF Ob JO ‘AxXeTSUTAT ATeYyR UO WHEeSNnU sUO UeYQ eTOW epntouT

GSS‘PT 679‘EE0'T
6SL‘78
LSO‘ETT
CVC HELL
LEO‘ POT
676 ‘87I
6€8 ‘PCI
Z7B8E ‘96
OSE’SHE
6Pe’LE

GSS’FT

P6S ‘LP
€€p’s9
889’EL

unosnn wnesnn
JAW ueoTISJW UTOYYSATH

G60'L

S60°L

AzeTTe9
rTeTyoers

PL9'Db

PLO'D

rTe\us9
Aotdtyu
uoTTTd

‘gzojyerseu

“Ss

69S9‘979’'G

TSL‘96E
€p8‘999
199'878
O0E’OZL
plb’969
ThE‘ ZEL
8SL‘O6E
O17’ 96T
9Z70‘LST

THC‘ OPT
€S8’88z
p9S‘STE

wnesnn
AIOASTH
ueoTIoUY

‘Te}07 puerb sus

819’7ST

TIO‘IT
9ST’2T
019'6
897 '9T
896‘7T
6L6‘TT
PS6‘TT
9906
1866

LeL‘ET
PLIT‘2T
VEL‘TZ

wnesnn
39 TMOH
—iedoo9

“souty [TeASANS psqQuUuNnoS 91e

‘wnesnu Jey OF SAIORTSTA TeNPTATpuT Jo Tequnu ey yOeTJeT wMesnu yore ATOZ sTeqoL

B9E'ST

SLT
SBE

ee9’e
LEE
09S‘

898 ‘7
6€8'T
Tet’ 2

wnesnn
pooyszoqyubTteon
eTJsooPrUY

‘ALON
TeqIOL purer
SsTeqOL

requeydes
asnbuw

Aqtne

eune

Aew

Tradw

yoren
Azenaiqed
L86T Aaenuec

asequsosd

Tequsaon
9861 18q0390

yqUON

Vay
Appendix 4

Academic, Research Training, and Internship Appointments in Fiscal Year 1987

Listed immediately below in the first section of this Appendix, under the heading,
“Academic and Research Training Appointments,” are Predoctoral and Postdoctoral
fellows, Graduate Student fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special
awardees and participants in special programs. This list was compiled by the Office of
Fellowships and Grants. Interns, other academic appointees, and scholarly visitors are
listed in the second section under the heading, “Internships and Other Appointments.”
These entries were submitted by the Visitor Information and Associates Reception
Center. The final section in this Appendix lists academic, research training, and intern-
ship appointments submitted by bureaus, offices, and divisions of the Smithsonian
Institution and may contain some duplication.

ACADEMIC AND RESEARCH TRAINING APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers, through the Office of Fellowships and Grants, research ap-
pointments to visiting scientists, scholars, and students. The appointees are provided
access to the Institution’s facilities, staff specialties, and reference resources. The
awardees, listed in this Appendix by bureau, office, or division, began their residencies
between October 1, 1986 and September 30, 1987. Predoctoral and Postdoctoral fel-
lows, Graduate Student fellows, Visiting Scientists or Scholars, and other special
awards and participants in special programs are so listed. The entries include the
institution where the Fellow received or expects to receive the degree, or the home
institution of the Visiting Scientist or Scholar and other special appointees. A brief
description of the project to be undertaken at the Smithsonian is included where ap-
propriate. The fellow’s or visitor’s Smithsonian advisor and dates of tenure are also
listed.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

Penny Joy Bealle, Graduate Student Fellow, Cornell University.
"Introduction of Modern Art to New York (1905-1939) : Its
Reception and Influence," with Garnett McCoy, from January 5,
1987 to March 13, 1987.

Jill Pearlman, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Chicago.
"Educating the Modern Architect : Joseph Hudnut and the
Emergence of the New American Architect (1933-1953)," with
Garnett McCoy, from September 14, 1987 to November 20, 1987.

66
ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY

Wheeler McIntosh Thackston, Jr., Rockefeller Fellow, Harvard University.
"Timurid Sources for Art History and History of Patronage," with
Milo Beach, from June 1, 1987 to May 30, 1988.

Roya Marefat, Visiting Scholar, Harvard University. "Translation and
Transcription of the Persian Material in the Vever Collection of
the Sackler Gallery," with Glenn Lowry, from June 1, 1987 to
September 1, 1987.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

David Kingery, Regents' Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
"Artifact Interpretation and the Rise of Pictorial
Traditions in the Ceramics of 5th c. Greece, 12th c. Islam,
15th c. Italy and the Early Qing Dynasty of China : Models
for the Interaction of Society and Technology," with
Lambertus van Zelst and Roger Kennedy of the National
Museum of American History, from September 1, 1987 to
August 31, 1988.

J. Emlen Myers, Visiting Scientist, State University of New York at
Binghamton. "Refinement of the Typology, through Trace-Element
Analyses, of 15th to l6th-century Maiolica Ceramics Excavated
in Southern Spain," with James Blackman, from September 1, 1987
to August 31, 1988.

Hector Neff, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Santa
Barbara. "Interpretive Data on the Chemical Composition of
Ceramics, with Application to Ceramics from Contemporary
Highland Guatemala and Late Classic Period, Palingus," with
Ronald Bishop, from November 1, 1986 to October 31, 1987.

FREER GALLERY OF ART

Michael Brand, Visiting Scholar, Harvard University. "Garden City,
and Empire : The Historical Geography of Mughal Lahore," with
Milo Beach, from June 1, 1987 to September 30 1987.

Matthew Kercher, Predoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. "The
Caligraphy of Pa-ta Shan-jen (1626-1705)," with Shen C.Y. Fu,
from September 21, 1987 to September 20, 1988.

John Alan Siewert, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan. "The
"Nocturnes' of James McNeill Whistler," with Linda Merrill, from
September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
Jan Stuart, Visiting Scholar, Princeton University. "Research and
Cataloguing of the l6th-century Zhe School Painting," with Shen
C.Y:. Fu, from April 15, 1987 to April 14, 1988.

HIRSCHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Emmie Donadio, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "The Art and
Life of Richard Stankiewicz, American Sculptor," with Valerie
Fletcher, from September 15, 1987 to March 15, 1988.

Dietlinde Ulrike Luitgard Hamburger, Predoctoral Fellow, Kassel
University. "Research on Carl Grossberg : A Bauhaus-trained
Painter," with Judith Zilczer, from March 1, 1987 to
February 28, 1988.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Ronald S. Brashear, Predoctoral Fellow, The Johns Hopkins University.
"The History of Infrared Astronomy, 1880-1960," with Joseph
Tatarewicz, from September 15, 1987 to September 14, 1988.

Ronald E. Doel, Guggenheim Predoctoral Fellow, Princeton University.
"Development of Planetary Astronomy, 1945-1965," with Joseph
Tatarewicz, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Emil Edward Friberg, Jr., Graduate Student Fellow, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. "A Study of the Impact of the Federal
Government Policy on the Growth of the U. S. Computer Industry,"
with Paul Ceruzzi, from June 15, 1987 to August 21, 1987.

C. Vance Haynes, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona.
"Geochronology of Quaternary Climatic Change, Eastern Saharan
Egypt and Sudan," with Ted A. Maxwell, from August 15, 1987 to
December 15, 1987.

Eric Schatzberg, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania.
"The Design of Aircraft and Structures : Sikorsky Seaplanes as
a Case Study," with Howard Wolko, from June 1, 1987 to
August 7,1987.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Ebenezer N.O. Quarcoopome, Graduate Student Fellow, University of
California at Los Angeles. "Regalia and Patterns of Leadership
in the Dahomey Gap of West Africa," with Roy Sieber, from
June 29, 1987 to September 4, 1987.

68
NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Ramona Marie Austin, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "Staffs of
Authority and Mediation: The Kongo and Ngoyo Origins of Afro-
American Conjuring Canes and Walking Sticks," with Lynda
Hartigan, from October 15, 1986 to October 14, 1987.

Gerald Lawrence Caziz, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Michigan. "British Influences on American Art, 1837-1887," with
William Truettner, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

Wanda Corn, Regent's Fellow, Stanford University. "Cultural
Nationalism in Post World War I American Art," with Charles
Eldredge, from December 15, 1986 to December 14, 1987.

Carolivia Herron, Faculty Fellow, Harvard University. "Fundamental
Backgrounds in Afro-American Visual Arts," with Lynda Hartigan,
from July 1, 1987 to August 31, 1987.

Joni Louise Kinsey, Predoctoral Fellow, Washington University.
"Creating a Sense of Place : Thomas Moran and the Surveying of
the American West," with William Truettner, from July 15, 1987
to July 14, 1987.

Mary Panzer, Predoctoral Fellow, Boston University. "Photography and
the Reception of Realism in America, 1850-1900," with William
Truettner, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

Susan Noyes Platt, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas.
"Examining Concepts of Modernism in the 1930's, with a Focus on
Hans Hofman," with Judith Zilczer, from January 1, 1987 to
June 30, 1987.

Susan M. Sivard, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University. "The
Volcano as Image and Symbol in 19th-century American Art," with
William Truettner, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Nancy Bercaw, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Pennsylvania.
"Emergence of Victorian Handicrafts and Fancywork as They Relate
to Women's Status and Growth of Consumer Goods," with Gary Kulik,
from June 8, 1987 to August 14, 1987.

Beth Alice Bullard, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania.
"Women Playing Musical Instruments in 19th-century America : An
Iconographic Study," with Cynthia Hoover, from August 15, 1987
to August 14, 1988.

ON
oO
Terrence Epperson, Predoctoral Fellow, Temple University. "Thus in
the Beginning All the World was America : Class Formation and
the Social Construction of Race in the Chesapeake, 1676-1740,"
with Barbara Clark Smith, from September 14, 1987 to
September 13, 1988.

Miriam Formanek-Brunell, Predoctoral Fellow, Rutgers University. "The
American Doll Industry, 1890-1930," with Rodris Roth, from
June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.

Charles M. Haines, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Delaware. "A
Study of the Causes and Effects of the Industrialization of
Wood," with Robert Post, from September 9, 1987 to September 8, 1988.

Marybeth Hamilton, Predoctoral Fellow, Princeton University. "'When
I'm Bad I'm Better,' The Rise of Mae West," with Carl Scheele,
from June 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Christine Hoepfner, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Pennsylvania.
"Of Popular Interest - The Past and the Public - National and
Personal Identity and the Smithsonian Historical Collections,"
with Gary Kulik and Barbara Clark Smith, from September 8, 1987
to September 7, 1988.

Alexander Gustave Keller, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Cambridge
University. "Mechanics, Mathematics and Machines in the Age of
the Renaissance," with Silvio Bedini, from February 1, 1987 to
September 30, 1987.

David Kingery, Regents' Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
"Artifact Interpretation and the Rise of Pictorial
Traditions in the Ceramics of 5th c. Greece, 12th c. Islan,
15th c. Italy and the Early Qing Dynasty of China : Models
for the Interaction of Society and Technology," with
Roger Kennedy and Lambertus van Zelst of the Conservation
Analytical Laboratory, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Lynne Elizabeth Kirby, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at
Los Angeles. "The Railroad and the Cinema : 1895-1929," with
William Withuhn, from October 1, 1986 to March 31, 1987.

Sally Gregory Kohlstedt, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Illinois. "A Study of Natural History Museums in 19th-century
U.S.," with Arthur Molella, from January 1, 1987 to April 30, 1987.

Michael O'Brien, Graduate Student Fellow, Catholic University. "A
Documentary Study of Clavichords in the Smithsonian Collection,"
with John Fesperman, from July 6, 1987 to September 11, 1987.

Michael Hugh O'Malley, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at
Berkeley. "Popular Conceptions of Time in America, 1850-1920,"
with Carlene Stephens, from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.

Kathy L. Peiss, Postdoctoral Fellow, Brown University. "Face Value

Cosmetics, Gender and Consumption in Twentieth-century American
Society," with Barbara Melosh, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.

7O
Steven C. Reber, Predoctoral Fellow, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. "A Comparative Study of Ceramics Manufactories in
Britain and France during the 18th Century," with Susan Myers,
from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

David Reed, Predoctoral Fellow, University of London. "Development of
the Modern Magazine in America, Britain, and France, 1880-1960,"
with Elizabeth Harris, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

Linda Shopes, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "A Study of
the Canning Industry in Baltimore, 1860-1960," with G. Terry
Sharrer, from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.

Nina Silber, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at Berkeley.
"The Image of the South in Northern Culture," with Pete Daniel,
from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Julie H. Weiss, Predoctoral Fellow, Brown University. "Popularization
of the Psychoanalytic Definitions of Women, 1925-1963," with
Spencer Crew and Edith Mayo, from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988.

Jeannie Whayne, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at San
Diego. "Reshaping the Rural South : Land, Labor, and Federal
Policy in Poinsett County, Arkansas, 1900-1940," with Pete
Daniel, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Paula Faye Bienenfeld, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New
York at Binghamton. "Functional Analysis of African Late Stone
Age Tools," with Dennis Stanford, from June 1, 1987 to
May 31, 1988.

Vagn F. Buchwald, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
Copenhagen. "A Study of Iron Meteorites in the Smithsonian
Collections, Particularly those Collected in the Antarctic
during the 1980's," with Roy Clarke, from September 1, 1987 to
January 31, 1988.

Peter Cannell, Postdoctoral Fellow, City University of New York.
"Avian Anatomy and Systematics," with Richard Zusi, from
October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

Laurel Smith Collins, Predoctoral Fellow, Yale University. "The
Effect of Environment on Morphologic Variation within a Benthic
Foraminiferal Species," with Martin A. Buzas, from September 1, 1987
to August 31, 1988.

John D. Damuth, Visiting Scientist, Yale University. "Development of
a Computerized Database on Paleoecology for the Evolution of
Terrestrial Ecosystems Program," with Anna Kay Behrensmeyer,
from December 1, 1986 to September 30, 1988.

Fx
Denise Decker, Visiting Student, Shippensburg University. "The
Phylogenetics of Procynids," with Wallace Wozencraft, from
June 1, 1987 to June 30, 1987.

Mary Adelaide Evins, Visiting Student, University of Chicago.
"Neutron Activation Analysis from Archeological Ceramics from
the Karababa Basin, Southeastern Turkey, 4th and 3rd Millenia
B.C.," with Robert Mc. Adams, from January 1, 1987 to
December 31, 1987.

John Washburn Fisher, Jr., Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
California at Berkeley. "Analysis of Faunal Remains from the
Lamb Spring Archeological Site, Colorado," with Dennis Stanford,
from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.

Gayle Jeannine Fritz, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. "Analysis of Archeobotanical Remains
from the Toltec Site and Other Sites in the Lower Mississippi
River Valley for Research on the Evolution of Agriculture," with
Bruce Smith, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

Robert J. Hard, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New Mexico.
"Analysis of Tarahumara Field Data Focusing on
Ethnoarcheological Work," with William Merrill, from June 1, 1987
to May 31, 1988.

Suzette Heald, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of London. "Two
African Modes of Being : Society and Person Among the Gim and
Teso of East Africa," with Ivan Karp, from December 15, 1986 to
December 14, 1987.

Timothy Howard Heaton, Graduate Student Fellow, Harvard University.
"Patterns of Evolution in the Fossil Rodent Ischyromys from
Oligocene Deposits of the Great Plains of North America," with
Robert J. Emry, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.

Mark Alan Hershkovitz, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at
Davis. " Leaf Architecture and Phylogeny in the Centrospermae,"
with Joan W. Nowicke, from December 15, 1986 to December 14, 1987.

Martin Joel, Graduate Student Fellow, Duke University. "Creek Indians
and the Eighteenth-century Deer-skin Trade," with William
Fitzhugh, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.

Naomi N. Kipury, Predoctoral Fellow, Temple University. "Social
Change and Gender Among Maasai Women," with Ivan Karp, from
June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.

Jean M. Kozul, Graduate Student Fellow, Rutgers University. "The
Chemistry and Petrology of the HED Achondrites," with
Glenn MacPherson, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.

~I
i)
Benjamin Ray Kracht, Graduate Student Fellow, Southern Methodist
University. "Religious Syncetism Among the Kiowas," with
Ives Goddard, from June 8, 1987 to August 14, 1987.

Stephen Loring, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Massachusetts
at Amherst. "The Archaeology and Ethnography of the Late Indian
Population of Labrador : A Social Perspective," with William
Fitzhugh, from June 22, 1987 to August 28, 1987.

Paula Marie Mabee, Postdoctoral Fellow, Duke University. "The
Interrelationship of Elassoma and the Role of Paedomorphosis in
its Evolution," with G. David Johnson, from May 1, 1987 to
Aprilx30; 19838

Susan Jo Mazer, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at
Davis. "The Analysis of Ecological Correlates of Interspecific
Seed Weight Variation," with Scott Wing, from January 1, 1987 to
June 30, 1988.

Frank H.L. McCormick, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Oklahoma.
"Geographic Variation and Zoogeography of the Rainbow Darter,
Etheostroma caeruleum," with Leslie Knapp, from July 1, 1987 to
June 30, 1988.

Thomas Allan Munroe, Postdoctoral Fellow, William and Mary College.
"A Phylogenetic Study of the Flatfish Suborder, Soleoidea," with
Richard Vari, from January 15, 1987 to January 14, 1988.

Madhav Nagarkar, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Poona. "On Asian
Species of Thelotremataceae, Their Relatives in the New World
Tropics, and Cladistic Classification of the Family," with Mason
Hale, from September 14, 1987 to September 13, 1988.

Richard Terence O'Grady, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of British
Columbia. "A Phylogenetic Study of the Co-evolution between
Crocodilians and Some of their Nematode Gut Parasites," with W.
Duane Hope, from April 1, 1987 to March 31, 1988.

Thomas Pape, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Copenhagen. "A
Systematic-Taxonomic Revision of Blaesoxopha Loew," with
Wayne Mathis, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Esther Peters, Visiting Scientist, University of Rhode Island.
"Review of the Invertebrate Neoplasia Cases of Comparative
Histopathology," with John Harshbarger, from September 1, 1987
to August 31, 1988.

Michael D. Petraglia, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of New Mexico.
"Natural Formation Processes and the Archeological Record," with
Richard Potts, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

John James Pipoly III, Postdoctoral Fellow, City University of New
York. "Phylogenetic Systematics and Biogeography of the Genus
Cybianthus (Myrsinaceae)," with Vicki A. Funk, from July 1, 1987
to June 30, 1988.

wo
Ruth Pamela Reed, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Miami.
"Occurrence and Characterization of Fine-grained Carbonate
Precipatates," with Ian MacIntyre, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.

Scott Schaefer, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Chicago. "Phyletic
Relationships of Scoloplax," with Stanley Weitzman, from
September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Shi Xiaoying, Postdoctoral Fellow, Beijing Graduate School of Geology.
"Jurassic Brachiopod Fauna, Systematic and Paleobiogeography,"
with Richard Grant, from February 1, 1987 to January 31, 1988.

Darrell J. Siebert, Postdoctoral Fellow, City University of New York.
"Interrelationships within the Family Cyprinidae," with
Richard Vari, from September 1,1987 to August 31, 1988.

Irene Silverblatt, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Michigan.
"Andean Symbols of Colonization : The History of Santiago and
the Peruvian Mountain Gods," with William Merrill, from
August 15 1987 -to July °o31,<1988°.

Claudia Sobrevilla, Postdoctoral Fellow, Harvard University.
"Phylogenetic Studies of the Subtribe Espeletiinae," with
Vicki Funk, from March 1, 1987 to February 28, 1988.

Christopher K. Starr, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Georgia.
"Phylogeny of Stenogastrine Wasps," with Karl V. Krombein, from
June 17, 1987 to June 16, 1988.

Bruno Thomas, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Paris. "Study of the
Sediments of Cores Located West of Lake Manzala in the Eastern
Nile Delta," with Daniel J. Stanley, from October 26, 1986 to
April 30, 1987.

Debra Ann Willard, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Illinois.
"Correlation of Lycospora with Lycopod Cones : Compressions and
Anatomically Preserved Cones in Coal Balls," with William A.
DiMichele, from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Barbara Day, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Irvine.
"Political Figures in Popular Art of the Early National Period,"
with Wendy Wick Reaves, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Andrew Baker, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. "The
Ecological and Evolutionary Basis of Group Living and
Cooperative Breeding in the Golden Lion Tamarin (Leontopithecus
rosalia rosalia)," with Devra Kleiman, from January 1, 1987 to
December 31, 1987.

Theodore J. Grand, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of
California at Berkeley. "Patterns of Growth in the African
Bovidae," with Richard Montali, from June 1, 1987 to March 15, 1988.

Susan M. Haig, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Dakota.
"Population Management of Guam Rails and Micronesian
Kingfishes," with Scott Derrickson, from September 1, 1987 to
August 31,1988.

Sara J. Iverson, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland.
"Comparative Study of Milk Liquids and Neonatal Gastric Lipid
Digestion in Three Species of Pinnipeds," with Olav T. Oftedal,
from February 1, 1987 to January 31, 1988.

Ann Miller, Predoctoral Fellow, Uniformed Services University of the
Health Sciences. "Factors Influencing In Vitro Fertilization of
the Domestic Cat," with David Wildt, from June 1, 1987 to
May 31, 1988.

Sriyanie Miththapala, Graduate Student Fellow, Smith College.
"Genetic Variation in Island Leopards," with John Seidensticker,
from June 29, 1987 to September 4, 1987.

Michael L. Power, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California at
Berkeley. "An Investigation of Food Transit Time and Digestive
Efficiency in the Callitrichidae," with Benjamin Beck, from
August: 1 ,- 19872ito. July 31, 1988.

OFFICE OF ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION

Steven McLeod Bedford, Predoctoral Fellow, Columbia University.
"Photographs of Work by John Russell Pope," with Cynthia Field,
from November 1, 1986 to April 30, 1987.
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Harihar Prasad Bhattarai, Graduate Student Fellow, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. "Research for the Development and
Presentation of a Nepalese Folk Life Festival," with Richard Kurin,
from June 1, 1987 to August 7, 1987.

Olivia Cadaval-Bosserman, Predoctoral Fellow, George Washington
University. "Performance and Ethnic Identity : The Festival of
American Folklife and the Washington D.C. Latino Festival," with
Peter Seitel, from June 1, 1987 to May 31, 1988.

RESIDENT ASSOCIATES PROGRAM

Ruma Ahmad-Mirza, James E. Webb Fellow, Georgetown University. With
Kathy Harmon, from September 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Gianluigi Bodo, Visiting Scientist, University of Torino. "Thermal
Instabilities in Magnetic Flux Tubes," with Robert Rosner, from
May 9, 1987 to June 7, 1987.

Joao Braga, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. “Experimental
Research in High Energy Astrophysics," with Stephen Murray, from
October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

Leonardo Bronfman, Visiting Scientist, Columbia University.
"Molecular Clouds in the Galaxy, North and South," with Patrick
Thaddeus, from February 2 to March 14, 1987 and from August 8 to
September 30, 1987.

Patricia Carral-Davila, Predoctoral Fellow, University of California
at Berkeley. "Study of the Activity in the Nuclei of 'Normal'
Galaxies," with Paul Ho, James Moran, and Mark Reid, from
October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

Bruce Carney, Short Term Visitor, University of North Carolina. "Halo
Binaries," with David Latham, from August 6, 1987 to August 20, 1987.

Tomasz Chlebowski, Visiting Scientist, Warsaw University Observatory.
"The X-Ray Properties of Hot Stars; X-Ray Spectroscopy of Cyg X-
1; X-Ray and Optical Observations of HL CMa," with Harvey
Tananbaum, from October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
Ara Chutjian, Visiting Scientist, California Institute of Technology.
"Measuring the Absolute Cross Section for the Dielectronic
Recombination Process in Triply Ionized Carbon," with John Kohl,
from September 7, 1987 to September 25, 1987.

John Cowan, Visiting Scientist, University of Oklahoma. "The
Nucleosynthetic Production of Heavy Nuclei in Evolved Stars,"
with George Rybicki and A.G.W. Cameron, from August 1, 1987 to
September 30, 1987.

Ian Evans, Visiting Scientist, Space Telescope Science Institute.
"Computer Photoionization/Shock-modelling of Astrophysically
Interesting Cases of High Density Plasmas," with John Raymond,
from July 5, 1987 to July 31, 1987.

Guido Garay, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. "Analysis and
Publication of Radio Astronomical Data," with James Moran and
Patrick Thaddeus, from May 13, 1987 to June 12, 1987.

William R.S. Garton, Visiting Scientist, York University. "The Use of
Synchronton Light for VUV Spectroscopy of Molecules such as CO,"
with W.H. Parkinson, from May 16, 1987 to May 27, 1987.

Gerard Gillanders, Predoctoral Fellow, University College, Dublin.
"The Detection of Ultra-High Energy Gama Rays from Cygnus X-3
and Other Possible Sources such as Hercules X-l1," with
Trevor Weekes, from January 1, 1987 to August 31, 1987.

Patrick Hartigan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona.
"Studies of T Taurus Stars," with Irwin Shapiro, from
August 1, 1987 to July 31, 1988.

Thomas Hartquist, Visiting Scientist, Harvard University. "Modelling
of Dense Molecular Photodissociation Zones and Interstellar
Hydroxyl Masers," with Alex Dalgarno, from February 2, 1987 to
February 28, 1987.

Philip Judge, Visiting Scientist, Oxford University. "Calculating
Model Stellar Atmospheres Based on Sulphur Atomic Data," with
Eugene H. Avrett, from July 18, 1987 to August 10, 1987.

Laurent Koechlin, Visiting Scientist, University of Paris.
"Development of Image Processing Techniques for Interference
Fringe Detection," with Peter Nisenson, Wesley Traub, and
Michael Shao, from November 1, 1986 to April 30, 1988.

Lawrence Krauss, Visiting Scientist, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. "The Interface of Elementary Particle Physics and

Cosmology/Astrophysics," with Alan Lightman, from November 1, 1986

to April 30, 1988.

Ping-wai Kwok, Predoctoral Fellow, University of Arizona.
"Observational and Experimental High Energy Cosmic Gamma Rays
Using Atmospheric Cherenkov Technique," with Trevor Weekes, from
September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.
John Laird, Short Term Visitor, University of North Carolina.
"Derivation of Metallicities Using Low Signal-to-Noise Digital
Spectra," with David Latham, from August 2, 1987 to August ll, 1987.

Yun-gang Liu, Short Term Visitor, Oklahoma State University. "A Study
on the Relationship between Chandralls and CAI's in Meteorites,"
with John A. Wood, from August 18, 1987 to September 14, 1987.

Patrick K. MacKeown, Visiting Scientist, University of Hong Kong.
"Cosmic Ray Air Shower Physics," with Irwin Shapiro, from
September 1, 1987 to September 15, 1987.

Pablo Mauas, Predoctoral Fellow, Universidad de Buenos Aires. "Study
of Si I Overionization and the Influence of the CO Molecule in
the Radiative Balance of Chromospheric Levels," with Eugene Avrett,
from November 1, 1986 to November 30, 1988.

Zdzislaw Musielak, Short Term Visitor, University of Gdansk. "Study
of Wave Generation and Propagation in the Solar Interior and

Outer Atmosphere," with Leon Golub, from July 4, 1987 to July 8, 1987.

Paul Reynolds, Visiting Student, University College, Dublin.
"Development of a Gamma Ray Trigger at the Whipple Observatory,"
with Trevor Weekes, from January 7, 1987 to April 15, 1987.

Barbara Ryder, Postdoctoral Fellow, Princeton University.
"Calculations of the Properties of the Distribution of Galaxies
which Form Random Phase Perturbation," with Irwin Shapiro, from
September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Steven Saar, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Colorado. "A Detailed
Study of Magnetic Fields in Late-type Dwarfs," with Leon Golub,
from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Zdenek Sekanina, Short Term Visitor, Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
California. "Cometary Science in the Post Halley Era," with
B.G. Marsden, from August 25, 1987 to August 28, 1987.

Amiel Sternberg, Visiting Scientist, Columbia University. "Infrared
Response of a Dense Gas to an Intense Radiation Field," with
Alex Dalgarno, from February 1, 1987 to October 15, 1987.

P. Venkatakrishnan, Visiting Scientist, Bangalore University. "Solar
Magnetic Flux Tubes; Interferometry; Helioseismology," with
Robert Noyes and Peter Nisenson, from October 29, 1986 to
December 10, 1986.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Christopher Barkan, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York
at Albany. "The Effect of Social Status and Competition on
Chickadee Foraging Ecology," with James Lynch, from July 1, 1987
to June 30, 1988.
Martin Posey, Visiting Scientist, University of Oregon. "The Effects
of Predation by Grass Shrimp on the Composition of Benthic
Communities," with Anson Hines, from August 1, 1987 to July 31, 1988.

Parke A. Rublee, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, North Carolina State
University. "The Microbial Loop in the Rhode River Estuary
Role of Microzooplankton and the Effect of Suspended Sediments
on Microzooplankton Predation," with Charles Gallegos, from
June 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Michael Anthony Shirley, Graduate Student Fellow, North Carolina State
University. "Selective Pressures Affecting Habitat Selection by
Premolt Male and Prepubertal Female Blue Crabs During Ecdysis,"
with Anson Hines, from June 2, 1987 to August 7, 1987.

Mark Southerland, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North
Carolina. "Behavioral Ecology of Coexisting Generalist Ant
Species," with James Lynch, from January 1, 1987 to June 30, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN MARINE STATION AT LINK PORT

John Kilar, Postdoctoral Fellow, Dalhousie University. "Functional
Morphology of Sargassum polycertium," with Mark Littler and
Diane Littler, from December 1, 1986 to November 30, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Jaime Cavalier, Noyes Fellow, University of Cambridge. "The Cost of
Growth and Maintenance of Fine-root Systems in Tropical Mountain
and Lowland Rainforests," with Alan Smith, from August 15, 1987
to March 15, 1988.

Jae Chun Choe, Predoctoral Fellow, Harvard University. "Social
Evolution and Mating System in Zoraptera," with William
Eberhard, from October 15, 1986 to May 15, 1988.

William James Davis, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. “Study
of Parental Investment Strategies in Neotropical Kingfishers,"
with Martin Moynihan, from December 1, 1986 to November 30, 1987.

Philip DeVries, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Texas. "The
Biology and Evolution of an Association, and Nectar Feeding in
Larval Rionid Butterflies," with Donald Windsor and Steven
Hubbell, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Theodore Robert Dudley, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Cambridge.
"Aerodynamics of Butterfly flight," with Neal Smith, from May 1, 1987
to April 30, 1988.
Andrew Green, Graduate Student Fellow, Oxford University. "Does
Foraging Success Determine the Mating Success of Male Tungara

Frogs?," with Stanley Rand, from July 7, 1987 to September 11, 1987.

Kevin Patrick Hogan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Illinois.
"The Effects of Sunflects on Growth and Survival of Tropical
Tree Seedlings," with Alan Smith and Steven Hubbell, from
October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.

David John Hughes, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Wales. "Genetic
and Environmental Correlates of Polymorphism in Marine
Cheilostome Bryozoa," with J.B.C. Jackson, from June 1, 1987 to
May 31, 1988.

Roberto Ibanez, Noyes Fellow, University of Connecticut. "The
Reproductive Behavior and Energetics of Glass Frogs, Genus
Centrolenella," with A.Stanley Rand, from May 1, 1987 to
April 30, 1988.

Dominique Irvine, Postdoctoral Fellow, Stanford University.
"Examination of the Regional Variation in Indigenous Resource
Management by the Runa Indians of the Ecuadorian Amazon," with
Olga Linares, from February 1, 1987 to January 31, 1988.

Jane Molofsky, Graduate Student Fellow, University of Illinois. "The
Effect of Litterfall on Germination of Neotropical Tree
Seedlings," with S. Joseph Wright, from June 6, 1987 to
August 7, 1987.

Giselle Mora, Noyes Fellow, University of Florida. "Exclusive Male
Parental Care in the Harvestmen Zygopachilus albomarginus
(Arachnida Opiliones : Gonyleptidae)," with Donald Windsor,

from July 1, 1987 to December 31, 1988.

Steven Gaines Morgan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland.
"Field and Lab Studies of Reproductive and Larval Ecology of
Brachyuran Crabs," with John Christy, from December 1, 1986 to
November 30, 1987.

Anthony Ranere, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California
at Davis. "Environment, Human Settlement and Subsistence in the
Seasonal Tropics of Central Panama : The Last 10,000 Years,"
with Richard G. Cooke, from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1988.

Hugh Sweatman, Postdoctoral Fellow, MacGuire University. "Predatory

Behavior of Some Coral Reef Fishes," with Ross Robertson, from
March 1, 1987 to February 29, 1988.

80
INTERNSHIPS AND OTHER APPOINTMENTS

The Smithsonian offers internships and other appointments to visiting undergraduate
and graduate students, and museum professionals. The interns—listed by bureau or
office—in this Appendix began their appointments between October 1, 1986 and Sep-
tember 30, 1987. Holders Bf eel awards and participants in special programs are so
listed. Where possible, the institutions attended, a Huet desenoeon of the project
undertaken, and the duration of appointment are given for each intern.

ANACOSTIA MUSEUM

Kim Connor, High School. Exhibits Department, assisted in the development and
process of an exhibit, produced materials and displays, June 29, 1987
through August 14, 1987,

Marion A. Gill, Bachelors Candidate, Fisk University. Design and Exhibits De-
partments, assisted with graphic drawings and location of vendors for

"Climbing Jacob's Ladder...” exhibit; helped to schedule videos and c

acob s Ladder..." exhibit; helped to schedule videos and coor-
dinate flyer and invitation printing; helped organize a museum design
office, March 3, 1987 through July 1/7, 1987.
Amy Grey, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Education Department, re-

searched origin of Juneteenth Day, how it is celebrated across the coun-

try, and suggested how a plan might be implemented for a celebration next

summer, July 6, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Isabel Mendoza, Visiting Professional, Museo del Hombre. Studied exhibition
roduction techniques as practiced at large and small museums,
September 29, 1987 through August 30, 1988.
Reynise Mann, Bachelors Candidate. Education Department, assisted profession-
al staff, July 12, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

ARCHIVES OF AMERICAN ART

James M. Huttlinger, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Searched
archival files for exhibit-related information, June 12, 1987 through
September 15, 1987.

ARTHUR M. SACKLER GALLERY AND FREER GALLERY OF ART

Katharine D. Cheek, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut College. Department of
Design and Installation, assisted in preparation of art, graphs, copy,
charts, etc. for screen printing reproductions; assisted with painting
of armatures and object mounts, assisted with organizational details and
clean-up, June 1, 198/ through August 15, 1987.

Victoria M. Corbeil, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Assisted in cata-
loging American paintings, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Paul I. Song, Bachelors Degree, University of Wisconsin. Registrar's Office,
cataloged curatorial records, researched and updated files, prepared re-
lated material for catalogs, and worked on database for the Sackler Gal-
lery, June 1, 198/ through August 14, 1987.

Ellen Willenbecher, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Educa-

8x1
tion Office, worked on areas of education in cooperation with George
Washington University, January 12, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

Amy L. Wright, Bachelors Degree. Assisted lighting specialist in design and
installation of exhibit lighting in Sackler and Freer Galleries, unpacked
and took inventory of fixtures, relamping, daily light checks, June 23,
1987 through September 28, 1987.

BUSINESS MANAGEMENT OFFICE

Michael Hicks. Museum Shops, assisted in development of displays and decora-
tions for museum shops, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Toni Wilkerson. Museum Shops, assisted in development of displays and decora-
tions, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

Michele E. Hamill, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Paper Laboratory, com-

piled bibliography of paper conservation-related projects; conserved Vic-

torian folding screen and researched light bleaching of paper, June l,
1987 through May 31, 1988.

Laura Gail Hazlett, Bachelors Degree, University of Alberta. Textile Labora-
tory, assisted in conservation of 19th century American flags, May 18,
1987 through July 24, 1987.

Jeffrey C. Kimball, Masters Candidate, University of London, Institute of Ar-
chaeology. Objects Laboratory, assisted with archaeological conservation
of lime plaster statues from Ain Ghazal, Jordan, July 13, 1987 through
September 18, 1987.

Esther Méthé, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta. Textile Laboratory,
assisted with conservation of 19th-century American flags, May 18, 1987
through July 24, 1987.

Kathryn Pease, Bachelors Candidate, Converse College. Archaeometry, studied
the correlation of stylistic and physical science data dealing with Maya
ceramic vessels, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Theresa Power, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware/Winterthur Museum.
Objects Laboratory, assisted with conservation of George Washington stat-
ue, June 1, 1987 through July 24, 1987.

Rosemarie Selm, Bachelors Degree, student at Textile Conservation Centre,
Hampton Court Palace, England. Textile Laboratory, assisted with conser-
vation and storage of 19th century American flags, July 6, 1987 through
through September 4, 1987.

Deborah Schoeps, Graduate, Instituto per Arte e i] Restauro, Florence, Italy.
Paintings Laboratory, examined and treated Smithsonian collections,
October 1, 1986 through April 30, 1987.

Jill Sigman, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Textile Laboratory,
assisted with conservation and storage of 19th-century American flags,
July 6, 1987 through September 4 1987,

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM OF DESIGN AND DECORATIVE ARTS

Diana Alper, Masters Candidate, Columbia University. Library, surveyed rare
book collection, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.
Yolanda Avila, Bachelors Candidate, Rutgers University. Library, maintained
rare book collection, June 8, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Betsy Biern, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Department of Tex-
tiles, assisted with collections management, January 5, 1987 through
January 30, 1987.

Leslee Browning, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York. Programs,
assisted with program administration and planning, September 16, 1987
through December 31, 1987.

Bernd H. Dams, Bachelors Candidate, RWIG Aachen, Germany. Director's Office,
performed publication research, October 31, 1986 through April 30, 1987.

Marianne Ertberg, Museum Professional, Danish Museum of Decorative Art. Stud-
ied collections management techniques, April 2, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

Jeanne Faton, Bachelors Degree, University of Lyon II. Department of Decora-
tive Arts, assisted with French decorative art and furniture, October 17,
1986 through April 15, 1987.

John Febbo, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Buffalo. Ex-
hibitions, installed exhibitions, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Elaine Glusac, Masters Candidate, University of Michigan. Development, per-
formed management research June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Margaret Goenring, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Special Events and
Department of Wallcovering, planned events and maintained collections,
June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Teresa M. Heady, Masters Candidate, Fashion Institute of Technology. Depart-
ment of Textiles, assisted with textile conservation, December 17, 1986
through December 31, 1987.

Diane Kessler, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta. Department of Tex-
tiles, assisted with textile conservation, January 5, 1987 through Sep-
tember 30, 1987.

Usha Kutty, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Programs, studied the plan-
ning and administration of programs. June 8, 1987 through August 14,
1987. ei

Marv Marvin, Bachelors Candidate, Moore College of Art. Department of Tex-
tiles, assisted with collection maintenance June 1, 1987 through
August 14, 1987.

Juan Mila, Bachelors Candidate, Bennington College. Exhibitions, assisted in
the preparation of the Gaudi Exhibition, January 5, 1987 through March 2,
1987.

Beth E. Posner, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Business Office,
assisted with office administration, December 22, 1986 through
January 31, 1987.

Paige Roberts, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Exhibitions, per-
formed maps exhibition research, June 8, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Jessica Rudin, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Exhibitions, performed fes-
tivals exhibition research June 8, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Lorna Ryan, Bachelors Candidate, Camberwell School of Art. Library, assisted
with the rare books collection, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Ulrike Schonfeldt, Bachelors Candidate, Freie Universitat of Berlin. Depart-
ment of Drawings and Prints, assisted with collections management,

July 11, 1987 through September 15, 1987.

Sofia Vecchio, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Drawings and Prints,
assisted with collection maintenance and exhibition research, June 8,
1987 through July 31, 1987.

Jonn Willmann, Masters Candidate, City University of New York. Shop Opera-

83
84

tions, assisted with product development, January 15, 1987 through
May 15, 1987.

DIRECTORATE OF INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

Douglas W. Bell, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Division of
Programs, conducted research for the Asian Pacific American Heritage Week
exhibition, November 10, 1986 through March 10, 1987.

Andreanna E. Kounas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Kansas. Office of
Service and Protocol, updated profile of Smithsonian Institution interna-
tional research activities published by the Directorate of International
Activities, February 12, 1987 through May 15, 1987.

Maggie Mak, Bachelors Candidate, Williams College. Office of Service and Pro-
tocol, compiled foreign visitor orientation project, June 15, 1987
through July 31, 1987.

Michael E. Martin, Bachelors Candidate. Division of Programs, conducted re-
search for tropical forest exhibition June 30, 1987 through August 3,
1987.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN

Emily L. Carroll, Bachelors Candidate, Maryland Institute, College of Art.
Department of Exhibits and Design, assisted with putting up exhibitions
and also assisted in the performance of other various related duties,
June 8, 1987 through August 15, 1987,

Sandra R. Donner, Foxcroft High School. Department of Education and Library,
assisted professional staff in both the Education Department as well as
the library, March 9, 1987 through March 27, 1987.

Elizabeth M. Klein, Bachelors Candidate, Dartmouth College. Public Affairs
Office, internship in public relations department, June 8, 1987 through
August 21, 1987.

Stefania Lucamante, Ph.D Candidate, University of Cagliari and the University
of Rome. Department of Painting and Sculpture, worked on archival mater-
ial, November 24, 1986 through February 20, 1987.

Mark Murray, High School. Exhibits Office, assisted in the development and
process of an exhibit; produced materials and displays, June 28, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Henriette Schroder, Bachelors Degree, American University. Department of Edu-
cation, conducted educational research and assisted with docent training,
September 21, 1987 through December 18, 1987.

Karla Smith, High School. Exhibits Office, assisted in the development and
process of an exhibit; produced materials and displays, June 29, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Harriet S. Stern, Bachelors Degree, Kenyon College. Office of Education, con-
ducted educational evaluation research, June 15, 1987 through August 21,
1987.

India Joan Swayze, High School, Madeira School. Office of Education, assisted
with the docent program, September 30, 1987 through May 30, 1988.

Melissa Welch, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Department of Painting

and Sculpture, organized Armory Show papers and did curatorial research,
June 8, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
JOSEPH HENRY PAPERS

Julia C. Ross, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Compiled infor-
mation on Smithsonian employees, 1846-1878, May 11, 1987/7 through July 31,
1987.

Lee Anna Schwartz, Bachelors Candidate, Harvard University. Studied the Smith-
sonian chemical laboratory, 1846-1884, June 1, 1987 through August 7,
1987.

Steven B. Stoll, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley.
Examined Smithsonian-Patent Office relations, 1846-1878, June 1, 1987
through August 8, 1987.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM

Douglas G. Castenson, Visiting Professional. Collections Management, assis-
ted with computer data base and researched educational materials,
June 30, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

John Chadwick, Bachelors Degree. James Madison University. Center for Earth
and Planetary Studies, generated topographic profiles for lunar ridges
and anticlinal ridges of the Columbia Plateau; made a systematic search
for high-resolution Viking orbiter images, June 8, 1987 through
August 14, 1987.

David P. Collins, High School. Office of Exhibits, assisted professional
staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

Steven Cramer, High School. Office of Exhibits, assisted professional staff,
July 12, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Diane K. Froyd, Bachelors Candidate, East Carolina University. Garber Facil-
ity, Archival Support Center, reviewed literature on care, handling, and
storage of large-format drawings, inventoried the Archival Support Cen-
ter's drawings, and developed a plan for storage and retrieval, June 8,
1987 through August 18, 1987.

John Green, Bachelors Degree, Gallaudet University. Photo Laboratory, assis-
ted with operation of the laboratory, May 26, 1987 through July 13, 1987.

Deidra M. Hailes, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia State College. Garber Facil-
ity, Archival Support Center, assisted with clerical duties, computer and
document collections, microfilm collection; and met the public, June 29,
1987 through August 14, 1987,

Charles Hyatt, High School. Langley Theater, assisted theater staff with
scheduling, film projection, usher scheduling, general theater adminis-
tration, and crowd control, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Joanna Karp, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Photo Laboratory,
aided laboratory operations, June 2, 1987 through August 10, 1987.

Snaron J. Kelley, Bachelors Candidate. Gallaudet University. Photo Labora-
tory, learned photography lab techniques, January 28, 1987 through
April 30, 1987.

Brian D. Larrick, Bachelors Candidate, East Carolina University. Garber Fa-
cility, Archival Support Center, reviewed reels of film in the Archives
collection for content and condition, and entered findings in a microfilm
index; also assisted with reference and research use of microfilm collec-
tions, June 8, 1987 through August 12, 1987.

Donna M. Lord, Masters Candidate, Georgia College. Garber Facility, Archival

Support Center, undertook preliminary processing of open reel audio tapes

and prepared abstracts for each tape; then combined tape inventory sheets

85
and abstracts into a finding aid for the collection, June 8, 1987 through
August I4, 1987.

Derek H. Marble, Bachelors Candidate, Utah State University. Garber Facility,
assisted with restoration and preservation of on-going projects including
assembly, dissembly, reassembly, rework, painting, and chemical treatment

and preservation of all components of selected aircraft and spacecraft,
June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Trina R. Maslowski, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Office
of Exhibits, executed preliminary designs for an art catalog and helped
with miscellaneous assignments, January 20, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

Leslie McNeal, High School. Office of Education, helped with the development
of Education Resource Center, general office duties, June 29, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Delano McRavin, High School. Garber Facilty, assisted with clerical duties;
operated personal computer to enter data regarding master lists of trans-

ortation usage, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

I. David Muhlbaum, Bachelors Candidate, Middlebury College. Office of Public
Affairs, wrote press releases and articles for the in-house newspaper,
did photographic research for various brochures and press events, assis-
ted with the promotion of a new gallery installation, participated in
over-all daily operation of a museum press office and assisted with du-
ties in the Special Events office, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Alexander Pak, High School. Information Management, assisted professional
staff, July 12, 1987 through August 14, 1987,

Julie B. Simon, Bachelors Candidate, Vassar College. Space Science and Explo-
ration, assisted in archival processing of the James E. Webb papers,
June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Lynn Sloan, High School. Library, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987
through July 1l, 1987.

M. Kirk Stevenson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of
Education, assisted in developing education programs, January 12, 1987
through April 27, 1987.

Scott R. Stienke, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Educa-

tion, assisted in the development of the Education Resource Center by
compiling written and audiovisual resource materials; assisted in plan-

ning and executing teacher workshops, June 8, 1987/7 through August 14,
1987.

Mitchell Alan Yockelson, Masters Candidate, George Mason University. Library,
arranged and described the Lawrence Lovell Jr. Collection and performed a
survey of Ramsey Rare Book Room, May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Karl E. Werner, Bachelors Candidate, Villanova University. Office of Exhib-
its, completed “as built" drawings for projects completed in the year,
drafted plans for proposed exhibits, researched new lighting equipment
for various projects, devised plans of existing electrical circuits on
the computer for future use and assisted in gallery installation and
maintenance, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Sarah Ashton, Masters Candidate, Colgate University. Department of Education
and Research, organized and cataloged art objects for the Department of
Education; prepared outreach KitS, workshop materials and slide kits for
teachers, September 8, through December 4, 1987.

Brenda Chalfin, Bachelors Degree, Amherst College. Curatorial and Photographic
Archives, researched exhibitions and cataloged archival material,
October 1, through December 31, 1986.

Keith M. Conway, Bachelors Candidate, University of the District of Columbia.
Assisted with the conservation of archaeological artifacts, March 30,
1987 through December 31, 1987.

Marie Durquet, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Davis. Cura-
torial, researched future exhibitions, June 29, 1987 through August 21,
1987.

Winona Hubbard, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley.
Office of Public Affairs, gathered, prepared and presented information
for public and press use, July 13, 1987 through August 18, 1987.

Anita W. McNamee, Masters Degree. Office of Public Affairs, assisted with
programs for 1987 museum opening, which included list development and
writing a newswire feature, etc., January 7, 1987 through March 31, 1987.

Henry Thaggert, III, Bachelors Degree, Tulane University. Department of Edu-
cation and Research, prepared educational materials for the docent pro-
gram, August 3, 1987 through August 28, 1987: Aided in writing a hand-
book for the new wing of the National Museum of African Art, June 1,
1987 through July 31, 1987.

Stryk D. Thomas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Photographic
Archives, cataloged and researched, June 1, 1987 through August 11,
1987.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART

Beth Almanza, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Curatorial,
assisted with folk art collection, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Paula Artal-Isbrand, Bachelors Degree, Bridgewater College. Participated in
all_ aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 11,
1987 through December 31, 1987.

Renée Ater-Roberts, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Department of Graphics,
researched information for contemporary pastel exhibition, June 8, 1987
through August 7, 1987.

George Benoit, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Participated in all as-
pects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 15, 1986
through December 8, 1986.

David Burnhauser, Masters Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Office
of Intern Programs, Participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate
internship program, September 8, 1986 through December 8, 1986.

Thereza Crowe, Masters Candidate, University of St. Andrews. Office of Intern
Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship
program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Alice Dewys, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of In-
tern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate in-
ternship program, September 8, 1986 through April 24, 1987.

Anne A. Edwards, Masters Candidate, Southern Methodist University. Partici-
pated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program,
January 12, 1987 through April 24, 1987.

Suzanne Fauteux, Masters Candidate, Columbia College, Office of Intern Pro-
grams, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship
program, September 8, 1986 through May 8, 1987.

Marjorie S. Flintom, Masters Candidate. Curatorial, researched bibliographies
for proposed exhibition of contemporary work in Americna pastels, Febru-
ary 9, 1987 through May 15, 1987.

David Gallalee, Masters Candidate, University of Virginia. Department of
Graphic Arts, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate in-
ternship program, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Richard Hamilton, University of East Anglia. Office of Intern Programs, par-
ticipated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program,
September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Jason Horowitz, Masters Degree, Virginia Commonwealth. Department of Graphic
Arts, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship
program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Emil Her Many Horses, Bachelors Degree. Renwick Gallery, assisted with "Lost
and Found Traditions" exhibition, September 1, 1987 through November 30,
1987.

Tonia Horton, Masters Degree, College of William and Mary. Participated in
all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, January 13, 1986
through December 7, 1986.

Anne P. Kamstra, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of
Public Programs, assisted professional staff, January 12, 1987 through
April 24, 1987.

Anne-Louise Marquis, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office
of Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate
internship program, September 8, 1986 through April 24, 1987.

Albert Marshall, Bachelors Candidate, University of Delaware/Winterthur Muse-
um. Department of Conservation, assisted with various aspects of conser-
vation, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Alan R. McMann, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of

Intern Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate
internship program, September 8, 1986 through April 24, 1987.

Jean Morrissey, Masters Candidate, American University. Office of Intern Pro-
grams, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship
program, September 8, 1986 through May 30, 1987.

Margaret Morse, Bachelors Degree, New Mexico State University. Office of Pub-
lic Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate in-
ternship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Oriskany Oldham, Bachelors Candidate. Library, assisted professional staff,
July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Susan Pitney, Bachelors Candidate, Penn State. Office of Intern Programs,
assisted with docent programs in Office of Museum Programs, September 8,
1986 through December 8, 1986.

Barbara Rawlins, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Curatorial, assisted
with the permanent collection, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Michael Reed, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Office of Intern
Programs, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship
program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Lisa Regier, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Office of Museum Programs,
assisted with all aspects of museum programs, June 1, 1987 through
July 31, 1987.

Marianna Robin, Bachelors Degree, DePaul University. Office of the Registrar,
obtained an overview of functions of the Registrar's Office, June 2, 1986
through July 25, 1986.

Amy Schichtel, Bachelors Candidate, University of Arizona. Office of Design
and Preparation, participated in all aspects of the museum's graduate in-
ternship program, September 11, 1987 through December 31, 1987.
Erin M. Shea, George Mason University. Office of Intern Programs, partici-
pated in all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program,
September 25, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Courtenay Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Franklin & Marshall College. Office of
the Registrar, assisted in all aspects of Registrar's Office, June 1,
1987 through July 31, 1987.

Carole Starr, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of Museum
Programs, assisted with public programs, June 1, 1987 through July 31,
1987.

Ruth Sudweeks, Masters Candidate, Office of Intern Programs, participated in
all aspects of the museum's graduate internship program, September 8,
1986 through April 24, 1987.

Joanne Thompson, Bachelors Candidate, Bowdoin College. Office of Museum Pro-
grams, assisted in the Office of Museum Programs, June 1, 1987 through
July 31, 1987.

Elizabeth Weglein, Masters Candidate, American University. Department of
Painting and Sculpture, participated in all aspects of the museum's grad-
uate internship program, September 11, 1987/7 through December 31, 1987.

Peter A. R. Wilson, Bachelors Degree, Kenyon College. Office of Design and
Preparation, assisted with Renwick exhibitions and overview of design and
production functions, October 1, 1986 through December 31, 1987.

Stephanie Yoffee, Bachelors Candidate, Rhode Island School of Design. Office
of Design and Preparation, assisted in all aspects of design and produc-
tion, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY

Nina J. Ahuja, Visiting Professional. Design Division, Department of Exhibits
and Public Spaces, assisted the design of Japanese Internments Exhibit
others requiring graphic design, June 1, 1987 through August 31, 1987.

Darlene Alberty, Bachelors Degree, Tyler School of Art. Department of Exhib-
its and Public Spaces, assisted in the fabrication and installation of
various exhibit elements within the Exhibit Production Shop, September
10, 1987 through December 10, 1987.

Dixie R. Alperin, Bachelors Degree, University of Maryland. Department of
Social and Cultural History, assisted with collections management,

April 6, 1987 through July 16, 1987.

Caroline D. Alyea, Bachelors Degree, Princeton University. Division of Graph-
ic Arts, assisted professional staff, December 1, 1986 through April 1,
1987.

Karen Andrade, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Costume, as-
sisted with Men and Women: Dressing the Part - Great Expectations, The
19th Century, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Ken Arnold, Ph.D Candidate, Princeton University. Department of the History
of Science and Technology, researched for “A Material World" exhibition,
and assisted in cataloging, measuring, and documenting objects,
September 4, 1987/7 through June 30, 1988.

John D. Barbry, Visiting Professional. American Indian Program, assisted in
producing a slide/tape educational package on the Seneca exhibit, and a
program on [Iroquois lacrosse; researched materials for a resource kit
on Indians and the U.S. Constitution, April 27, 1987 through October 30,
1987,

Carol —. Barton, Bachelors Candidate, Rhodes College. Division of Transporta-
tion, compiled a bibliography relating to the railroad and other duties,
June 22, 1987 through August 7, 1987.

Wendy Barton, Bachelors Candidate, University of Idaho. Smithsonian Archives
Center, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

Julieann Bell, Bachelors Candidate, Bowling Green State University. Public
Affairs, handled press and public inquiries, disseminated information to
press and the public, June 8, 1987 through August 13, 1987.

Jesse Berrett, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Department of the
History of Science and Technology, studied the history of the 1970's and
1980's computer revolution, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Victor Bibbins, High School. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assis-
ted in customizing work for mountings, casings, working with plexiglas,
involving use of tablesaw, power tools, hand saws, drills and adhesives,
June 28, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Kathryn A. Bolinger, Bachelors Candidate, Texas Christian University. Depart-
ment of Exhibits, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through
July tt, 1987.

Tracy K. Breslin, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Division of Med-
ical Sciences, helped arrange two guides to Women's History, June 1, 1987
through July 12, 1987.

Mary Louise Brown, Visiting Professional, University of Missouri at St. Louis.
Division of Political History, worked on Life in America exhibit "Ameri-
can Empire," January 5, 1987 through March 6, 1987.

Christina Bulanti, Bachelors Candidate, Santa Clara University. Division of
Graphic Arts, assisted in aspects of design - publication, layout and
printing, September 17, 1987 through December 4, 1987.

Chris S. Cameron, Bachelors Candidate, Miami University at Oxford, Ohio.

Division of Domestic Life, assisted a museum specialist, participated in
ee See A ENCE ee eR An Dima ae cide AG ll aca Gh cnc esos esl nee

rehousing collections, maintained “After the Revolution” and processed
new accessions, May 26, 1987 through August 13, 1987.

Diane Carson, Ph.D Candidate, St. Louis University. Office of Telecommunica-
tions, assisted producer on film and video projects; preproduction, pro-

duction and postproduction elements such as location surveys, filming and

videotaping, footage research, logging and editing, August 3, 1987
through September 1, 1987.

Catherine A. Carter, Bachelors Degree, Kenyon College. Divisions of Community
Life and Armed Forces History, assisted with Superman exhibition instal-
lation and crowd-control, collection management, exhibit and collection
improvement and maintenance, including background research, June 16, 1987
through August 31, 1987.

Joan M. Casey, Bachelors Degree, University of Florida. Office of the Regis-
trar, trained in record system, loan and special exhibits programs, ob-
jects processing, packaging, shipping, storage, inventory and computer
applications, January 27, 1987 through May 12, 1987.

Maurice Chesley, High School. Office of the Registrar, performed minor cler-
ical work such as data entry; identification and numbering of objects,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Ryan L. Christensen, Bachelors Candidate, Illinois State University. History
of Science and Technology, assisted with "A More Perfect Union: Japanese
Americans and the U.S. Constitution" exhibition, June 1, 1987 through
July 30, 1987.

Edward Christian, High School. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, as-

sisted in customizing work for mountings and casings, working with plexi-

90
las, using table saw, power tools, hand saws, drills, and adhesives,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,

Jason Clayton, Gonzaga High School. Office of the Registrar, assisted with
data entry, identification, and numbering objects, June 29, 1987 through
August 14, 1987,

Pamela J. Clodfelter, Bachelors Degree. Department of Conservation, studied
environmental monitoring and conservation treatment, November 10, 1986
through June 26, 1987.

Karen Cooper, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Public Af-
fairs, served as project liason with curator, September 17, 1987 through
December 4, 1987.

Jerold Council, Bachelors Degree. Department of Public Programs, prepared

paste-ups and mechanicals in graphic design, June 29, 1987 through
ugust 21, 1987.

Joseph Cravotta, Bachelors Candidate, Franklin and Marshall College. Division
of Musical Instruments, researched for book on Hoagy Carmichael, June 1,
1987 through July 24, 1987.

Arlyn S. Danielson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Division
of Political History, assisted in all aspects of curatorial and object
processing work, May 7, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

David Des Roches, Bachelors Candidate, St. Anselm College. Department of Pub-
lic Programs, researched topics relating to the Presidents and photograph
collections in the National Archives, Martin Luther King Library, and the
Library of Congress, September 1/7, 1987 through December 4, 1987.

Charles Diesen, Museum Professional, Minnesota Historical Society. Department
of Conservation, researched for conservation condition survey/archaeolo-
gic collection, assessed needs of the collections and produced a research
paper, March 2, 1987 through April 10, 1987.

Gloria Dominguez, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A & M University. Department of
the History of Science and Technology, cataloged and documented exhibits
in genetic engineering and artificial organs, June I, 1987 through
August 7, 1987.

Gerald Drake, High School. Department of Public Programs, assisted with the
documentation of pertinent activities at the museum, June 29, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Ilana D. Drucker, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Division of
Political History, researched and maintained "We The People," including
take-down, 19th-century research, June 1, 1987 through August 5, 1987.

Jeri Dyson, High School. Program in Black American Culture, assisted the pro-

gram coordinator, and helped in the development and planning of future

programs, and performed archival work, June 29, 1987 through August 14,
1987.

Alan D. Eisler, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Division of Political
History, worked on President's project, June 9, 1987 through August 15,
1987.

William R. Ellis, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Public
Programs, assisted on Public Programs project with Phillips museum,
May 19, 1987 through August 28, 1987.

Eric C. Engleman, High School, Robinson High School. Division of Armed Forces
History, focused on collections project and helped set up the Constitu-
tion exhibit, June 22, 1987/7 through August 22, 1987.

Janet English, Masters Candidate, State University of New York. Department of
Conservation, surveyed European and American prints in the Division,

gI
June 1, 1987 through August 15, 1987: assisted with paper conservation,
July 27, 1987 through August 20, 1988.

Kieran Eustace, Bachelors Candidate, St. Francis College. National Numismatic
Collection, cataloged medals and researched photo journal, September 8,
1987 through December 18, 1987.

Lisa Falk, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. American Indian
Program, assisted with public programs, educational activities, and ex-
hibit related research, January 12, 1987 through April 23, 1987.

Alice A. Forbes, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Department of the History
of Science and Technology, researched the history of technology as an ac-
ademic discipline, August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Alachia Foster, High School. Department of Public Programs, assisted intern

and fellowship coordinator, clerical work, filing, tracking applications,

prepared orientation material and coordinated special activities for in-
terns and fellows, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Michelle Fresia, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Ceramics and
Glass, worked on exhibition dealing with the department store of the 19th
century, September 8, 1987 through December 15, 1987.

Chari Fykes, High School. Department of Social and Cultural History, assisted
with data collection and entry, and filing and typing to create a comput-
erized database of Afro-American materials in the collection, June 29,
1987, through August 14, 1987.

Gayle Gibson, Bachelors Degree, Abilene Christian University. Division of Ag-

riculture and Natural Resources, assisted in final installation of "Offi-
fit AR LC EA AARC NST Aaa

cial Images" exhibition, and helped coordinate a project titled “An Oral
History of Southern Agriculture," June 4, 1987 through August 1, 1987.

Paula Gibson, Bachelors Candidate, Brown University. Department of Science
and Technology, assisted in rehousing rare book material from the Jack-
son collection, and helped organize and rehouse uniform collection,

May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Helene C. Gillette, Masters Degree. Department of Conservation, developed art
conservation skills, September 14, 1987 through September 14, 1988.

Karen Golden, Bachelors Candidate, Siena College. Department of Public Pro-
grams, served as Assistant Intern Coordinator, February 12, 1987 through
April 30, 1987.

Terry Goldsworthy, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University at Bloomington.
Division of Political History, researched American Presidency 1789-1989
exhibit and assisted in collections processing, July 12, 1987 through
August 15, 1987.

Andrea Goldwyn, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Divisions of
Graphic Arts and Computers, worked on printing demonstration in “After
the Revolution" and researched discoveries of major computer pioneers,
June 1, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Renee L. Gonzalez, Bachelors Candidate, Scripps College. Office of Public Af-
fairs, served as media coordinator for the office, February 5, 1987
through May 8, 1987.

Paul D. Gosselin, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Public
Programs, gathered information and prepared press releases; maintained
contact with the press and updated mailing lists, September 17, 1987
through December 4, 1987.

Anne D. Grace, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Division of Political
History, assisted in locating and researching pictorial images and union
emblems for exhibit entitled "Images of Labor," February 5, 1987 through
May 15, 1987.
Lisa K. Graddy, Bachelors Degree, Texas Tech University. Office of the Regis-
trar, assisted with collection management, June 15, 1987 through
December 18, 1987.

Robin A. Graham, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Department of Social
and Cultural History, compiled and analyzed database of Afro-American
items for Index project, June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Jennifer L. Greathouse, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Program in Black
American Culture, researched and interviewed for conference on Black
American migration, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Brigitta Hack, Masters Candidate, Joanne-Gutenberg University. Division of
Domestic Life, prepared a checklist of patent models, cataloged, cleaned,
numbered, photographed, measured and described models, February 9, 1987
CHCOUGKWA DM elas LO Ores

Heather L. Hagopian, Bachelors Candidate, College of Wooster. Office of Pub-
lic Programs, assisted intern coordinator; facilitated placement and ori-
entation of interns, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Birdie L. Harlan, Bachelors Candidate, University of North Carolina. American
Indian Program, researched a bibliography of Indian medicine and agri-
culture, June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Christopher T. Haze, High School Graduate. Office of Public Programs, assis-
ted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

James B. Hay, Masters Degree, Queen's University. Department of Conservation,
surveyed guitar collection and learned procedures for conserving musical
instruments, furniture, and other artifacts made primarily of wood,
August 28, 1987 through December 18, 1987.

Julie Ann Herman, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Office of Public
Programs, assisted in Program of Hispanic American History, September 8,
1987 through December 18, 1987.

Meredith K. Hobbs, Bachelors Candidate, University of Georgia. Division of

Political History, researched the southern history portion of "Great Ex-

ectations" - upcoming exhibition, September 8, 1987 through December 11,
1oET

Winona Hubbard, Bachelors Candidate, University of California at Berkeley.
Office of Public Affairs, gathered, prepared, and presented information
for public and press usage, June 8, 1987 through July 10, 1987.

Suzanne Hubbell, High School Graduate. Office of Printing and Photographic
Services, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11,
1987.

Sharman E. Jacoby, Bachelors Candidate, Amherst College. Division of Armed
Forces History, assembled permanent catalog of Civil War uniforms collec-
tion: researched files at Archives and Library of Congress and applied
research to objects for identification and documentation, May 18, 1987
through June 26, 1987.

Karen M. Jenkins, Bachelors Candidate, Metropolitan State College. Archives
Center, worked on "Field to Factory" exhibition, organized and maintained
archives for exhibit, answered public inquiries, conducted oral inter-
views and conducted research, June 1, 198/7 through August 21, 1987.

Eileen E. Joseph, Bachelors Candidate, Bucknell University. Department of
Public Programs, worked on American Sampler Series, June 3, 1987 through
August 28, 1987.

Maurine D. Keller, Madeira High School. Division of Transportation, worked on
rehousing ship plans, October 1, 1986 through May 31, 1987.

Jonn M. Kennedy, Bachelors Candidate, Colgate University. Department of Social

93
94

and Cultural History, worked on 19th-century exhibit project, prepared
a research paper, January 5, 1987 through January 29, 1987.

Martha E. Kesler, Bachelors Candidate, St. Olaf College. Division of Community
Life, assisted in the development of a Hispanic American History Program/

facilitating information flow, February 2, 198/ through May 12, 1987.

Sarah Kinard, High School. Archives, researched processing and organization
of the archival collection, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Christine Kreamer, Bachelors Candidate, University of Delaware. Department of
Public Programs, served as Assistant Intern and Fellows Coordinator,
March 26, 1987 through April 30, 1987.

Susan K. Lana, Bachelor's Degree, Mills College. Internship Office, assisted

in the development and maintenance program to recruit and successfully
place interns in the museum; maintained current rosters of interns and

fellows while developing special programs to further the knowledge of the
functions and structures, etc., May 1, 198/ through September 30, 1987,

Mary H. Leavell, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas at San Antonio. Di-
vision of Community Life, worked on Superman exhibition, June 1, 1987
through July 31, 1987.

Dana Leventhal, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Berkeley. De-
partment of Social and Cultural History, researched Greek Revival archi-
tecture in 19th-century America and studied the origins and influence of
balloon frame houses in America, September 8, 1987 through December 15,
1987.

Stephanie G. Lipscomb, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center,

researched the History of Stereoscopic 3-D Photography, August 27, 1987
through December 31, 1987.

Miguel A. Longo, High School, St. Stephen's. Division of Community Life,
assisted with "Superman, Many Lives, Many Worlds"; also provided research
for technical and collections management support, May 4, 1987 through
May 19, 1987.

Erma Jean Loveland, Masters Candidate, Abilene Christian University. Archives

Center, processed manuscript collections, rehoused Warshaw Collection and

learned word processing and SIBIS data base, April 2/7, 1987 through
May 29, 1987.

James E. Malaro, Bachelors Candidate, Washington and Jefferson College. Divi-
sion of Political History, researched Whig Convention in Baltimore in
1844, December 29, 1986 through January 28, 1987.

Emily S. Martin, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of
Public Programs, assisted the publications officer, and helped coordinate
a_direct mail poster project, which included all phases of publication,
May 26, 1987 through August 28, 1987.

Lisa Mathai, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Department of Public
Programs, investigated visitor behavior in and reactions to three exhibi-
tions: "After the Revolution," “Engines of Change," and "Field to Fac-
tory," September 14, 1987 through December 18, 1987.

Marian Matrician, Masters Degree. Department of the History of Science and
Technology, researched project on the history of the National Museum of
American History as reference to the position of science and technology,
June 9, 1987 through August 30, 1987.

Wesley C. Mattie, Museum Professional, Canadian Museum of Civilization. Regis-
trar's Office, worked on collections management manual, February 17, 1987
through May 15, 1987.

Susana Measelle, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. National

Numismatics Collections, recorded information on design, weight, color,
and year of government medals, July 8, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Isabel Mendoza, Visiting Professional, Museo del Hombre. Department of Exhib-
its, obtained an overview of exhibition production techniques as employed
at large and small museums, September 29, 1987 through August 30, 1987;
Division of Conservation, studied the programs and services of the Smith-
sonian Institution, October 7, 1986 through October 7, 1987.

Valerie M. Mendoza, Bachelors Candidate, The Johns Hopkins University. Divi-
sion of Community Life, researched Hispanic studies, June 1, 1987 through
August 21, 1987.

Tnhomasine M. Miles, Bachelors Degree, University of the District of Columbia.
Office of Public Affairs, assisted with the preparation of news releases
and public service announcements, researched information, disseminated
press releases, fielded media requests, June 1, 1987 through August 2,
1987.

Rod Milstead, High School, Georgetown Day School. Department of Exhibits and
Public Spaces, researched for "A More Perfect Union: The Japanese-Ameri-
can Experience During World War II," April 27, 1987 through May 25, 1987.

Kelly McBrearty, High School Graduate. Division of Electicity and Modern Phy-
Sics, assisted professional staff, July 12, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Kathy McKoy, Masters Degree. Division of Ceramics and Glass, assisted with
interpretation and furnished of two 1805 and 1870s' parlors; to be part
of 19th century “Life in America’ exhibition, August 3, 1987/7 through
August 28, 1987.

John H. McWhorter, Masters Candidate. Department of Public Programs, helped
with publicity, researched in performing arts-oriented public programs
and exhibitions, February 9, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

Susan J. Mertz, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Division of
Costume, worked on costume conservation -- projects related to “Men and
Women" exhibit opening in 1989, January 1, 1987 through April 30, 1987.

Holly Mitchell, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Political His-
tory, assisted in research on women during the progressive era,

August 2/7, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Mary Mockovak, Bachelors Candidate, DePauw University. Office of Public Af-
fairs, assisted professional staff, February 5, 1987 through May 8, 1987.

Mona Morris, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Santa Barbara.
Archives Center, researched and cataloged collections, September 21, 1987
through December 11, 1987.

Stella Nair, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Computers, Information
and Society, produced archival and collection searches, researched rele-
vant photographs, June 22, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Jessica Nicoll, High School. Division of Electricity and Modern Physics,
worked on geographical organization of Ham Station QSL cards received
from around the world, July 21, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Robert Norbrey, High School. Division of Graphic Arts, assisted in cataloging
antique type, assisted with introducing the public to print and press,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Elizabeth O'Rourke, Masters Candidate, University of Kansas. Division of

Costume, assisted with research and preparatory tasks for “Men and Women:
Dressing the Part’; studied the 1912 dance scene for proper stance, hair-

styles, accessories, etc., located items in collections to accompany gar-
ments; preparatory tasks included making accurate reproduction underwear,
May 18, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Ted Osgood, High School. Archives Center, aided research in processing and

organizing the archival collection, June 29, 1987 through August 14,
1987.

Stacey Otte, Bachelors Candidate, Arizona State University. Division of Domes-
tic Life, assisted with rehousing collections and with maintenance of ex-

hibit "After the Revolution", processed new accessions including clean-

ing, storing and numbering objects, June 1, 198/ through August 7, 1987.
David Pearson. High School Graduate. Division of Military History, assisted

professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

Lisa A. Pertillar, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Program in Black Amer-
ican Culture, assisted with gathering information for a conference on
museum outreach to minorities, June 7, 1987 through July ll, 1987.

Carole L. Planicka, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Depart-

ment of Public Programs, assisted in direct mail poster project, prepared

camera-ready mechanicals for museum publications, June 8, 1987 through
August 29, 1987,

Kate Prinsley, Visiting Progessional. Registrar's Office, worked on the col-
lections of the "1876" exhibition, September 21, 1987 through
December 18, 1987.

Natalie M. Rebar, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of

Public Programs, was responsible for design and paste-up of brochures and
other small publications concerning department activities; filled mail-
order requests, assisted with administrative requirements, September 9,
1987 through December 2, 1987.

Elizabeth Regier, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Ceramics and
Glass, researched domestic space in late 19th-century America,

September 8, 1987 through December 22, 1987.

Yevette Richards, Masters Candidate, Yale University. Program in Black Ameri-
can Culture, conducted oral history interviews connected with the Afro-
American migration project, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Jessica Richter, Bachelors Degree. Department of Public Programs, assisted
with research in the Performance Division, October 8, 1986 through
December 31, 1986.

Beth A. Richvine, Bachelors Candidate, State University College at Buffalo.
Department of Conservation, worked in objects conservation, September 14,
1987 through August 14, 1988.

Victoria A. Rocha, Bachelors Candidate, Trinity College. Office of Public Af-
fairs, responded to press and public inquiries, supervised film crews,

wrote press releases etc., February 4, 1987 through May 8, 1987.
Jonathan Rodriguez, Bachelor of Fine Arts Candidate, Maryland College of Art

and Design. Department of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assisted in the
development and processing of an exhibit, produced materials and dis-
plays, June 29, 1987 through August 13, 1987: helped to produce 442;
in “A More Perfect Union," August 14, 1987 through September 4, 1987.
Lois Rohlfing, Bachelors Candidate, University of Nebraska at Lincoln. Divi-
sion of Textiles, worked with 18th and 19th century textiles, cataloged
textiles and related materials, June 8, 1987 through August 12, 1987.
Beth Ann Rondeau, Bachelors Candidate, Michigan Technological University. Di-
vision of Medical Sciences, photographed medical instruments and labora-
tory researchers for future exhibit, June 7, 1987/7 through July 11, 1987.
Christine Russell, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Public Programs, filed in
the audio-visual library, compiled "Programs" notebook, July 13, 1987
through August 15, 1987.
Julie A. Schafer, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Office of Educa-

96
tion, supported in Hands on History Room, helped with testing of activity
kits made by the Education Office, June 3, 1987 through August 5, 1987.

Kimberly Schenk, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware/Winterthur Art Con-
servation Program. Department of Conservation, conservation treatment of
photographic album, June 3, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Dana Sergent, Bachelors Candidate, Bowling Green State University. Division of
Community Life, assisted in the maintenance of an exhibit, worked on Su-
perheroes symposium and sport costumes collection, cataloged and acces-
sioned collections, September 8, 1987 through December 18, 1987.

Carol Sexton, Visiting Professional. Department of Exhibits, assisted with
exhibit and publication design, October 14, 1986 through January 30,
1987,

Robert Shanklin, High School. Office of Telecommunications, assigned various
tasks and duties associated with the production of audio-visual presenta-
tions: movies, videos, and radio broadcasts, June 29, 1987 through
August 14, 1987,

Mumia Shimaka-Mbasu, Ph.D Candidate, Howard University. Archives Center, as-
sisted with archival organization and administration, June 6, 1986
through March 28, 1986.

Jonathan Snhipler, Bachelors Candidate, Middlebury College. Division of Engi-

neering and Industry, researched and assisted with photographing and

preservation of Bond Shop tools, June 1, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
David R. Simmons, High School, The Prairie School. Department of Public Pro-

grams, assisted with "American Sampler" and "Palm Court Cameos" programs,
March 9, 1987 through March 20, 1987.

Thomas R. Sixbey, Bachelors Candidate, Johns Hopkins University. Archives Cen-
ter, processed Arab-American manuscript collections, June 1, 1987 through
September 1, 1987.

Sarah M, Smith, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Archives Center, assisted
with photographs and oral histories for book on Field to Factory exhibit,
August 24, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Valerie Smith, Masters Degree, University of Delaware. Department of Public
Programs, served as Assistant Intern coordinator, and developed programs
Fall 1987 interns, September 23, 1987 through December 18, 1987.

Jennifer L. Soden, Bachelors Candidate, University of Oregon. Division of
Medicine, assisted curator on "Search for Life: The Development of
Genetic Technologies in 20th C. America” exhibition, March 17, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

William Southerland, Bachelors Candidate, University of Bridgeport. Office of
the Director, assisted in completion of a variety of administrative pro-
jects, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Jennifer L. Spence, Bachelors Candidate, Florida Southern University. Division
of Electricity and Modern Physics, entered computer data for photographic
index and mounted, labeled and fixed historic photographs, June 8, 1987
through July 31, 1987.

Brent L. Sterling, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Division of Po-
litical History, researched political history; worked on collections and
acquisitions planning for 1988 presidential election material, June l,
1987 through August 7, 1987.

Kathleen Stewart, Bachelors Candidate, Lynchburg College. Division of Armed
Forces History, cataloged 19th-century collection of foreign uniforms and
insignia and prepared documentation of files, May 20, 1987/7 through
August 7, 1987.

97
98

Todd Dean Stockwell, Bachelors Candidate, Ohio State University. Division of
Agriculture and Natural Resources, worked with appropriate conservation
techniques practiced by the museum, evaluated trade literature collec-
tion, provided assistance, June 22, 1987 through September 15, 1987.

Yoonjoo Strumfels, Masters Candidate, University of Delaware. Division of Con-
servation, assisted with the conservation of graphic arts, June 8, 1987
through July 31, 1987.

Leah M. Sullivan, Bachelors Candidate, Holy Cross. Division of Political His-
tory, researched 19th century American life, September 2, 1987 through
December 8, 1987.

Dwight W. Swanson, Bachelors Candidate, University of Colorado. Division of
Political History, researched material for the "Images of Labor" exhibi-
tion, June 1, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Moira Thomas, Bachelors Candidate, University of Massachusetts. Division of
Engineering and Industry, research assistant on the Bond's of Boston Pro-
ject, June 2, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Alison Tilghman, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Medical Sci-
ences, researched recent innovations in medicine, August 24, 1987 through
December 31, 1987.

Dawn Tinoco, High School. Department of Social and Cultural History, sorted

and numbered objects such as antique type, use of the printing press;

projects tailored to the skills of the museum aide, June 29, 1987 through
August 14, 1987.

Julie Vergamini, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Political
History, studied 19th-century business cycles, August 24, 1987 through
December 31, 1987.

Jennifer Vigil, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin. American Indian
Program, conducted photo and archival research on Native American Women
and Native American history, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Mary Clare Wallace, Bachelors Candidate, Lake Forest College. Division of
Domestic Life, assisted with collections management, January 5, 1987
through April 20, 1987.

Marjorie Weaver, Visiting Professional. Department of Exhibits and Public

Spaces, designed small exhibits, helped with graphic aspects of design,

produced drafting drawings, exhibit preparations, printing and light car-
pentry, July 27, 1987 through July 31, 1988.

Nancy P. Webster, Masters Candidate, North Carolina State University. Depart-
ment of Exhibits and Public Spaces, assisted with exhibition design,
January 28, 1987 through May 12, 1987.

Carrie Weems, Masters Candidate, University of California at Berkeley. Archive
Center, worked on paper on “Images of Labor in America", photographed and
reported on various collections, June 1, 1987 through July 3, 1987.

Gail S. Weiss, Bachelors Candidate, American University. Registrar's Office,
assisted with shipping, loans, packaging and computer applications,
January 29, 1987 through May 15, 1987.

Kelly Welch, Bachelors Degree. Department of the History of Science and Tech-

nology, assisted in collections management in cataloging, marking and

storing 450 transistors; integrated circuits and related objects; assist-
ed staff in the Division of Electricity and Modern Physics in photograph

filing project, September 28, 1987 through December 22, 1987.

Brian Wescott, Ph.D Candidate, Yale University. American Indian Program, re-
worked broadcasts from Smithsonian radio into educational tapes, and re-
searched films for an Indian Film Festival, June 15, 1987 through
August 21, 1987.

Elizabeth D. White, Madeira High School. Division of Transportation, assisted

with rehousing ship plans, October 1, 1986 through May 31, 1987.

Mark D. White, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Division of Medical
Sciences, performed 18th-19th-century American patent medicine catalog-
ing, June 22, 1987 through July 24, 1987.

Jocelyn A. Young, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Division of Graphic
Arts, studied 19th-century women in industry, August 24, 1987 through
December 31, 1987.

Joan M. Zenzen, Masters Candidate, University of Michigan. Division of Poli-
tical History, researched material for the exhibit “Life in 19th century
America, series of research reports on westward expansionism in 19th-

century America, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY

Amelia M. Adams, Masters Candidate, Smith College. Department of Anthropology,
did microcopic toothwear analysis, June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Lawrence A. Alice, Bachelors Degree. Department of Botany, did curation of
small families, November 2, 1986 through December 23, 1986.

Kristina M. Arnold, Bachelors Candidate, Illinois State University. Department
of Anthropology, prepared a bibliography of The Plains' Sun Dance Cere-
mony, September 9, 1987 through November 28, 1987.

Andres Aslan, Bachelors Degree. Department of Paleobiology, detailed sedimen-
tological analyses used for paleoecological reconstructions of Cenozoic
terrestrial etc., October 6, 1986 through June 30, 1987.

Dana Bahar, Bachelors Degree, Smith College. Department of Mineral Sciences,

processed a collection of volcano photographs recently donated to the
Global Volcanism Program by Carnegie Institution s Geophysical Laborato-
ry, June 1, 198/ through August 21, 1987.

Christopher Bailey, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Depart-
ment of Botany, studied chenopodaceae and Rosaceae curation, December 19,
1986 through January 2, 1987,

Patricia Barlow, Masters Candidate, University of New Mexico. Department of
Botany, computerized Herbarium, December 29, 1986 through January 14,
1987.

Christine Bertels, Bachelors Candidate, George Washington University. Depart-
ment of Botany, worked in the Marine Algae Laboratory, May 26, 1987
through September 31, 1987.

Elizabeth Bick, Bachelors Candidate, Stockton State College. Department of
Botany, did marine algae curation, January 23, 1987 through May 8, 1987.

Kim Bookard, High School. Department of Botany, worked on plant collections
management; assisted with processing in-coming and out-going collections,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Michael G. Brown, Bachelors Candidate, Colorado College. Department of Botany,
did marine algae studies, June 8, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Christopher 1. Conti, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Department of
Entomology, generated hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships among pop-
ulations of soldier flies, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Carol M. Cummings, University of Michigan. Department of Anthropology, re-
searched African cultural transmissions, June 1, 1987 through August 21,
1987,

Denise M, Decker, Bachelors Candidate, Shippensburg University. Department of

99
Mammals, did a phylogenetic study of the species Procyonidae (mammalia,
carnivora), January 29, 1987 through May 7, 1987.

Margaret F. Dinse, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University. Department of
Botany, studied flora of the Guianas, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Jean Elsasser, Masters Degree. Anthropology Archives, worked on Education
Outreach Program for Columbus Quincentenary planning, assisted with fund-
raiser and budget, etc., February 25, 1987 through April 27, 1987.

Mitra Fattahipour, Bachelors Degree. Department of Mineral Sciences, did vol-
canic hazard assessment in Chile, November 17, 1986 through February 13,
1987.

Susan M. Folkerth, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A & M University. Department of
Vertebrate Zoology, researched evidence from fossils and museum skin col-
lections to study extinction in Hawaiian birds, June 2, 1987 through
August 14, 1987.

Jess Freidenburg, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Department
of Anthropology, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through
Juiyail, 1987.

J. Phil Gibson, Bachelors Candidate, Oklahoma State. Department of Botany, did
solanaceae curation, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987. 159

Victoria Godwin, Bachelors Degree, Florida State. Department of Botany, pro-
cessed Marine algae, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Orit Gover, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Educa-
tion, worked with museum education in cooperation with George Washington
University, January 12, 1987 through April 30, 1987.

Margaret Hangan, Bachelors Candidate, Pitzer College. Department of Anthropol-
ogy, worked on Paleo-Indian artifacts and analyzed mammal bones, June l,
1987 through August 21, 1987.

Susan Harrington, Masters Candidate, University of Maryland. Department of
Mineral Sciences, assisted in study of volcanology, May 26, 1987 through
July 31, 1987.

Steward Adams Hill, Bachelors Candidate, Roanoke College. Department of Paleo-
biology, studied Pompeii plant material, May 26, 1987 through June 19,
1987.

Tracy E. Hippensteel, Bachelors Candidate, Pennsylvania State University. De-
partment of Botany, studied marine algae, May 26, 1987 through July 31,
1987,

Flavio P. Hinojosa, Universidad Mayo da San Andras. Vertebrate Zoology,
collected mammals and birds in Panama, February 16, 1987 through June 5,
19875

Rosemary Hooper, Masters Candidate, University of Arizona at Tucson. Discovery

Room, assisted with general management and developed educational material

for use in the Discovery Room; maintained existing material: and worked
with school groups, September 14, 1987 through April 30, 1988.

Gustavo Hormiga, Masters Degree. Department of Entomology, studied scientific
illustration techniques, April 27, 1987 through September 30, 1987.
Tanya L. Jackson, Masters Candidate, American University. Department of Bot-

any, worked on an ethnobotanical exhibition and assisted with a palm bib-
liography book, February 12, 1987 through June 1, 1987.

Bridget A. Jones, Masters Degree, University of Kansas. Department of Anthro-
pology, worked on bibliographies and collection documentation, June 1,
1987 through Septemer 1, 1987.

Paul Jung, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, assisted
professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

I0o
Karen Laun, Bachelors Degree. Office of Education, worked on educational ma-
terial for use by docents, teachers and the public, September 15, 1987
through January 1, 1988.

Jeanne Leone, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Telecommunications, assisted
professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Sabrina Lewis, High School. Museum Support Center, set up insect traps, col-
lected data by monitoring environment, apparatus, or temperature and hy-
perthermographics, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Lauri Mackelburg, Bachelors Candidate, Shippensburg University. Department of
Invertebrate Zoology, researched platyrrhine biogeography, September 18,
1987 through December 18, 1987.

Suely A. Marques, Masters Degree. Department of Vertebrate Zoology, trained
in bat systematics, May 15, 1987 through August 13, 1987: bats of Para
State (Brazil): an account of the species and natural history; reviewed
Ailiblus lituralus, August 1, 1987 through October 15, 1987.

Melissa Martin, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Exhibits, assisted profession-
al staff, July 12, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

June Mauceri, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Binghamton.
Department of Botany, performed gesneriaceae cultivation, June 1, 1987
through July 31, 1987.

Ann R. Meyer, Bachelors Candidate, College of William and Mary. Department of
Botany, did curation of : Schrophulariaceae and Boraginaceae,

December 29, 1986 through January 14, 1987.

Dawnita Neconie, High School. Department of Anthropology, prepared a catalog
of the Smithsonian collections from the Kiona people of Oklahoma,
September 8, 1987 through November 30, 1987.

Jonn A. Nissenbaum, Bachelors Degree. Physical Anthropology, studied evolu-
tion of Pleistocene Econosystems, November 18, 1986 through May 1/7, 1987.

Ann S. Oliver, Bachelors Candidate, William and Mary College. Department of
Invertebrate Zoology, dissected and identified multiple characters of the
squid family Chirotenthidae, June 15, 1987 through September 14, 1987.

Marceline Pascuzzi, Bachelors Candidate, Indiana University of Pennsylvania.
Office of Education, assisted with public programs, visitors, collection
management and specimen preparation training, June 1, 1987 through
August 7, 1987.

Sasikala Pattabhiraman, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Botany, assisted
professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Patricia J. Perry, Bachelors Candidate, University of Maryland. Exhibits,

computed graphic design using terminals at University of Maryland Campus;

drafted floor plans; illustrated artifacts; created displays, June l,
1987 through August 31, 1987.

Radhika Philip, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Department of Anthropolo-
gy, researched and archived photographs for the HANDBOOK OF NORTH AMERI-
CAN INDIANS, September 9, 1987 through December 15, 1987.

Luther J. Raechal, Bachelors Degree. University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point.
Department of Botany, studied flora of the Guianas, worked as assistant
intern coordinator, May 20, 1987 through May 26, 1987.

Ang Robinson. Office of Education, wrote a grant proposal for outreach project
targeting Southeast Asians, children and adults in the District of

Columbia, Maryland and Virginia, May 2/7, 1987 through December 31, 1987;

completed education internship in cooperation with George Washington Uni-
versity, January 12, 1987 through April 30, 1987.

Kathy Rupp, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Invertebrate Zoology, compu-

Iol
terized a list of the shells of Hawaiian tree snails, June 15, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Rebecca Schlott, Bachelors Candidate, Emory University. Department of Botany,
filed Gramineae, December 29, 1986 through January 14, 1987,

Scott Schultz, Bachelors Candidate, Kansas State University. Office of Exhib-
its, assisted staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

Whitney A. Seymour, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Office of
Education, assisted with public programs and participated in summative
evaluation of Micronesian exhibition, May 26, 1987 through August 2, 1987.

Thalassa W. Skinner, Bachelors Degree, Yale University. Anthropology, assis-
ted in paleoanthropological research, March 9, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

Kelly Lynn Sobczak, Bachelors Candidate, Allegheny College. Office of Exhib-
its, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

Orlo Colin Steele, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Santa Barbara.
Department of Botany, studied endangered plants, March 15, 1987 through
September 30, 1987.

Thomas C. Stein, Bachelors Candidate, Washington University. Department of
Mineral Sciences, assisted in the development and integration of the
Global Volcanism Program's computer files of volcanological data, June l,
1987 through July 31, 1987.

I. Wayan Suanda, Masters Candidate, Bali Museum. Department of Anthropology,
worked on collections management project and other works in the ethno-
graphic collections, September 10, 1987 through December 18, 1987.

Patricia C. Taylor, Masters Candidate, Howard University. Department of Bot-
any, collected flora of Guyana; was in Guyana from June to August 1987,
March 13, 1987 through August 31, 1987.

Susan Van Gundy, Bachelors Candidate. Marine Systems Laboratory, assisted pro-
fessional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

I-Ming Wang, Masters Candidate, Indiana State University. Department of Bot-

any, performed solanceae curation, May 26, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Doris S. Warriner, High School Graduate, St. Timothy's School. Department of
Anthropology, helped with public inquiries, putting information materials
on the word processor, and recording photographic negative numbers on
catalog cards, May 14, 1987 through June 4, 1987.

Sonja Webb, Masters Degree. Department of Anthropology, researched crossroads
of continents, July 6, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Wilhelmina S. Weyer, High School, Holton-Arms School. Department of Vertebrate
Zoology, studied causes of variations in symmetry of rodent's skeletons,
May 18, 1987 through June 5, 1987.

Chandra White, High School. Department of Anthropology, filed, copied, and
proofread for the Handbook of North American Indians, June 29, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Melanie Wilcox, High School. Office of Exhibits, assisted in the maintenance,

interpretation and feeding of insects, June 29, 1987 through August 14,
1987.

Margaret Wood, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Office of Educa-
tion, assisted in fossil shell classification, July 6, 1987 through
August 19, 1987.

T. Ajit Younger, Bachelors Candidate, University of Waterloo. Department of
Botany, did gramineae curation, June 29, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY

Beatrice E. Bachmann, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Assisted

Io02
with research on radio and TV personnel of the 20's and 30's, October 22,
1986 through May 31 1987.

Kimberly Beynum, Duke Ellington High School of the Fine Arts. Assisted in the
Building Management Office, helped with scheduling and served as recep-
tionist, June 8, 1987 through July 7, 1987.

Jane Bierman, Bachelors Degree, Colorado College. Department of Prints and
Photographs, organized Meserve Collection negatives, June 15, 1987
through August 31, 1987.

Clare C. Franklin, Wellesley College. Conducted biographical research and
performed exhibits work for exhibition on broadcasting pioneers, May 20,
1987 through August 28, 1987.

M. Claire Garrett, Bachelors Candidate, Vanderbilt University. Assisted in
organization of gifts and exchange materials, vertical file collection
and auction catalogue, June 2, 1987 through August 8, 1987.

Kellie M. Gaudry, Bachelors Candidate, Hollins College. Assisted in produc-
tion of gallery graphics, January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.

Leslie A. Gray, Masters Degree, George Mason University. Developed secondary
school program on the Constitution and the Presidency, June 9, 1987
through October 31, 1987.

Carola Haden, Bachelors Degree, Drury College. Assisted staff in operation of
research office, verified photographic data, labeled integrating informa-
tion and performed research for staff and public, June 15, 1987 through
August 14, 1987.

Mary E. Hale, Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Office
of Design and Production, implemented new vertical plan storage and fil-
ing system for drawings; became familiar with role of exhibits work,

June 5, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Mary Herrington, Masters Degree, Marymount College. General library work:
bibliographic GEAC computer; handled organization of Special Collections,
October 16, 1986 through November 15, 1987.

Jill] Heyman, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office of Edu-
cation, assisted in marketing programs and promoting the Portrait Gallery
and its activities, January 12, 1987 through May 1, 1987,

Audrey Hollett, Bachelors Degree, University of California at Riverside. Of-
fice of Education, developed outreach material for conservation program
and updated school mailing list, June 29, 1987 through August 28, 1987.

Jack Holliday, Masters Degree, University of Dayton. Office of Education, was.
a research coordinator, researched and wrote drafts for "The Constitution
and the Presidency," July 6, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Russell Jackson, Bachelors Candidate. Office of the Historian, assisted pro-
fessional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Leah Ligon, Bachelors Candidate, University of Arkansas at Fayetteville. As-
sisted with organizing gifts and exchange material, vertical file collec-
tion and auction catalogs, May 26, 1987 through July 3, 1987.

Carol J. McCullough, Bachelors Candidate, Hollins College. Assisted in pro-
duction of gallery graphics, January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.

Lisa M. Melchiori, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Office of
Prints and Photographs, researched items in the Meserve Exhibit,

January 21, 1987 through May 15, 1987.

Kimberly R. Meldrun, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Department
of Exhibits, started information gathering for a database system, June 3,
1987 through August 3, 1987.

Christine Multra, Bachelors Candidate, Gallaudet University. Library, assisted
professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

103
Paula Pergament, Bachelors Candidate, Earlham College. Office of Education,
initiated information gathering for a database system; was. responsible
for data entry, June 22, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Mary I. Peters, High School, Sidwell Friends School. Office of Prints and
Photographs, conducted biographical research on some drawings by S.T.
Woolf which date from the 1920's through the 1940's, May 13, 1987 through
June 4, 1987.

Elizabeth Peterson, Bachelors Candidate, Connecticut College. Catalog of

American Portraits, verified photographic data, labeled, integrated data
jnto master file, did research, responded to general reference questions,
June I, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Sylvie-Anne Robinson, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Office
of Education, designed and developed brochure on programs for adult audi-

ences; executed grants for monetary support for publications and distri-
bution, January 12, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

Margot C. Sklar, Bachelors Candidate, Wellesley College. Office of Historian,
assisted in on-going research projects on biographical information about
notable Americans who are the subjects of exhibitions or lectures at the
museum, June 15, 1987 through August 7, 1987.

Elizabeth Stebbins, Bachelors Degree, Bates College. Office of Education,

prepared program notes and programs for “American Voices," prepared for
fall programs including “Portraits in American Jazz and “American Colo-
nial Portraits 1700-17/6," June I, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Margaret Steward, Bachelors Degree, University of Virginia. Department of
Painting and Sculpture, was research assistant for exhibition (1992-93)
celebrating Columbian Quincentenary - portraits displayed in Fine Arts
Building, Chicago Exposition of 1893, June 23, 1987 through July 31,
19875

Elizabeth Stutzman, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Catalog of

American Portraits, verified photographic data, labeled, integrated data
into master file, did research, responded to general reference questions,
June 1, 1987 through September 1, 1987.

Margaret B. Swallow, Bachelors Degree. Office of Prints and Photographs,
cataloged collection of confederate prints, June 15, 1987 through

September 11, 1987.
Anne M. Vescovi, Bachelors Degree, Fort Wayne Art Museum. Office of Museum

Programs, assisted staff in operation of research office; verified photo-
raphic data, labeled, integrated information into a master file, did
research for National Portrait Gallery staff and public, April 7, 1987

through August 30, 1987.

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Sylvia Alsisto, High School. Office of Education, learned about educational

programs in conservation and natural history, June 3, 1987 through
July 20, 1987.

Barbara M. Borderieux, Bachelors Candidate, Maryville. Friends of the Nation-
al Zoo, assisted in the publications office, June 7, 1987 through
July ll, 1987.

William Burnside, Bachelors Candidate, Stanford University. Conservation and
Research Center - Front Royal, was course assistant for Wildlife Training
course, June 8, 1987 through August 28, 1987.

Julia W. Carter, Bachelors Candidate, Sweet Briar College. Department of Path-

104
ology, assisted in the pathology diagnostic laboratory with the opportun-
ity to assist with dissections and preparation of slides, June 1, 1987
through August 21, 1987.

Cynthia R. Gibson, Bachelors Candidate, Hinds Junior College. Department of
Animal Health, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July ll,
1987.

Chani Jalkim, High School. Department of Mammalogy, participated in animal
husbandry and management programs, June 3, 1987 through July 20, 1987.

Kimmlyn Marshall, High School. General Services Division, performed general
clerical duties including data entry, June 29, 1987 through August 14,
1987.

Cynthia L. Pogorzelski, Bachelors Candidate, University of Wisconsin. Depart-
ment of Mammology, assisted professional staff, June 7, 1987 through
Duly S19 Sir

Robert Shanklin. Office of Facilities Management, assisted professional staff,
June 8, 1987 through July 10, 1987.

Jerome Simmons, High School. Office of Facilities Management, landscaped and
assisted with tropical plant care and propagation, June 29, 1987 through
August 14,1987.

Christopher Smith, High School. Office of Facilities Management, worked as a
mechanical assistant, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Michelle Smith, Bachelors Candidate. Invertebrate Exhibition, assisted profes-
Sional staff, April 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Katherine Swain, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Education, assisted profes-
Sional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Kerri Traynor, Bachelors Candidate. Department of Zoological Research, as-

sisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987. pare
Gerald F. Weaver, Masters Degree. Office of Education, studied and developed

teacher resources, and assisted with preparation of lesson plans related
to primate behavior, June 30, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

OFFICE OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES

Tanya Coble, High School. Assisted in documentation in Accounts Payable,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Timothy Heggans, High School. General Accounts, assisted professional staff,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Obinna Ugorji, High School. General Accounts, assisted professional staff,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Dumile Wilson, Robert E. Lee High School. Office of the Comptroller, assisted
with clerical and office work, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Monyca Wright, High School. General Accounts, assisted professional staff,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

OFFICE OF ARCHITECTURAL HISTORY AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION

Steven M. Bedford, Ph.D Candidate, Columbia University. Researched architec-
tural career of John Russell Pope, November 1, 1986 through May 30, 1987.

Heather Ewing, Bachelors Candidate, Yale University. Researched architectural
history of the National Zoo, June 9, 1987 through August 10, 1987.

Howard A. Gill, Bachelors Candidate, Howard University. Worked in the ar-
chives of architectural history, February 9, 1987 through March 5, 1987.

IO5
Linda NeCastro, Masters Candidate, Bryn Mawr College. Researched the Grace

Temple's design contribution at the Smithsonian Institution, July 15,
1987 through October 2, 1987.

ORR ICE OF THE SASS ISTANT SECRETARY FOR. PUBLIC. SERVICE

Ricardo Canales, High School. American Visions Project, assisted the pro-
duction manager in maintaining order requests and distributing the maga-
zine; provided light clerical assistance, June 29, 1987 through
August 14, 1987,

Kirsten Downs, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. American
Visions Project, read articles and researched for appropriate photographs
to accompany articles, June 1, 1987 through August 2, 1987.

Tiffane White, Bachelors Degree, Howard University. American Visions Project,
assisted with production, logging of advertising, handling insertion
orders, processing calendars of events and transferring data to type-
setter, September 28, 1987 through December 18, 1987.

Lisa Williams, High School. American Visions Project, assisted with main-
taining order requests, distributing the magazine and performing light
clerical duties, June 28, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

OFFICE OF BUILDINGS MANAGEMENT

Ronald Norbrey, High School Graduate, Electrical Facility, helped reset cir-

cuit breakers, re-lamp light fixtures, and perform minor maintenance,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION

Alejandra Miranda-Naén, Masters Candidate, George Washington University.
Special Education, developed museum orientation slide kit for students
who are retarded or learning disabled, January 12, 1987 through
April 24, 1987.

Karla Smith, High School Graduate. Assisted in all aspects of the summer in-
tern program, June 8, 1987 through July 10, 1987.

Beatrice Taylor, Ph.D Candidate, George Mason University. Evaluated teacher
Summer workshops, June 4, 1987 through September 28, 1987.

OFFICE OF EXHIBITS CENTRAL

Saleh E. Al Jassim, Museum Professional, Ministry of Information, Bahrain.
Model Shop, assisted with taxidermy and model making, October 1, 1986
through December 24, 1986.

Samuel Batzli, Bachelors Degree. Assisted in the production of models and
displays for museum and traveling exhibitions; bracketing and cavity
packing of objects, August 3, 1987 through November 27, 1987.

Thomas Gastel, Bachelors Candidate, Rhode Island School of Design. Design and
Editing, designed a panel exhibit on the new Sackler Gallery, National
Museum of African Art, and International Center for display at the Martin
Luther King Library, June 8, 1987 through August 5, 1987.

106
Eric Russ, Bachelors Candidate. School of Visual Arts (New York). Graphics
Shop, assisted in the development and process of an exhibit, and produced
materials and displays, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Cynthia Southerland, Bachelors Candidate, Pratt Institute. Model Shop, assis-
ed with making exhibition models which included castings in plaster, mold
making, construction of brackets and other related tasks and duties,

June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Gary T. Staab, Bachelors Candidate, Hastings College. Model Shop, assisted
with model building, including manufacture of rubber molds, plastic and
fiberglass casts, March 1, 1987 through June 5, 1987.

Rick Towne, Bachelors Candidate, Milford South East Community College. Fabri-

cation Shop, assisted professional staff, July 13, 1987 through
August 15, 1987.

OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Katherine C. Bond, Bachelors Degree. assisted in areas involving folk arts of

the Indochinese refugee population, including the transcription of folk

songs and the accumulation of bibliographic material for planning propo-
sal, September 22, 1987 through June 1, 1988.

S. Curtis Bowman, Visiting Professional, Institute of American Indian Arts.
Worked on Folklife Festival, May 26, 1987 through July 10, 1987.

Carol A. Chapin, Bachelors Degree. Folklife Programs Office, worked on folk-
life archives, October 20, 1986 through January 20, 1987.

R. Kevin Donald, Ph.D Candidate, University of Oregon. Photographed each per-
former at the Festival of American Folklife, June 1, 1987 through
August 21, 1987.

Suzanne Fauteux, Masters Candidate, Columbia College. Folklife Festival,
assisted in all aspects of the preparation and execution of the Festival
of American Folklife, February 2, 1987 through May 8, 1987.

Gordon A. Kirsch, Bachelors Candidate, Evergreen State College. Archives,
worked on folklife archives, January 28, 1987 through July 17, 1987.

Dennis G. Medina, Masters Candidate, University of Texas. Performed activi-
ties related to expressive culture associated with impact on agricultural
production of Columbus" voyage, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Cynthia Y. Munoz, Bachelors Candidate, University of Texas. Worked on Texas
languages and research, June 15, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Micnael J. Nelson, Bachelors Candidate, Haverford College. Assisted with
Festival of American Folklife, June 1, 1987 through August 7, 1987.

Emmett Printup, Masters Degree. Ethnomusicology, researched, February 17,
1987 through March 27, 1987.

Heidi Tobler, Bachelors Candidate, Brigham Young University. Folkways Records,
worked on the archives of Folkways records acquisitions, August 31, 1987
through December 17, 1987.

Saran Louise Williams, High School, St. Agnes School. Assisted in cataloging
field material from research travels for the Folklife Festival, May 8,
1987 through May 29, 1987.

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Martnanne P, Aleman, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A & M University. Analyzed
site and made conceptual drawing for two areas being developed, nursery

107
and research center, researched topography, utilities, drainage studies,

grading plans, and irrigation systems, layouts, June 1, 1987 through
August 21, 1987.

Daniel H. Bentrup, Bachelors Candidate, West Virginia University. Greenhouse,
assisted with collection management of the Cattleya orchids (both cultur-
al_ and records work), May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Ning Dai, Masters Degree, American University. Greenhouse, production of
poinsettias and special training techniques for pot mums, June 8, 1987
through August 28, 1987.

Lee S. DeMars, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Greenhouse, gen-
eral greenhouse work - potting, watering, weeding, June 7, 1987 through
YUL TEN O87.

Beth Hanlon, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Assisted with verifi-
cation, labeling and cataloging of the GCA slide collection, May 18, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Dianne Hilborn, Bachelors Candidate, Michigan State University. Office of
Horticulture, revised maintenance manual and assisted in maintenance of
Horticulture exhibition, September 14, 1987 through December 11, 1987.

Patricia A. Swartz, High School, Westtown School. Greenhouse, potted, watered,
weeded, etc., February 23, 1987 through March 6, 1987.

OFF ICE OF INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

Jeffery Beranek, Bachelors Candidate. Assisted professional staff, July 13,
1987 through August 15, 1987.

Christian Crute, University of North Carolina. Assisted professional staff,
June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

OFFICE OF INTERDISCIPLINARY STUDIES

Geoffrey C. Blackwell, High School Graduate. Wilton Dillon, research assis-
tant, June 8, 1987 through August 10, 1987.

Sigisbert Ratier. Served as research assistant to Director in completion of
manuscript on THE STATUE OF LIBERTY: THE ULTIMATE GIFT: liaison with
French and U.S. institutions in planning commemoration of Bicentennial of
the French Revolution; and prepared for "Science, Ethics and Food" sym-
posium, September 14, 1987 through October 9, 1987.

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAMS

Marco Paulo Alvim, Fundacao Casa de Rui Barbosa. Trained in the organization
and development of museum exhibition programs, September 14, 1987 through
December 18, 1987.

Sharonne Jenkins, High School Graduate. Researched activities of interest to
Native American museum professionals, designed a format for a twelve
month calendar; assisted with writing newsletter articles; compiled a
calendar for newsletter, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Craig Locklear, Visiting Professional. Native American Museums Program, de-
signed a brochure for the Native American Indian Program and spent one
day a week at the Resident Associate Program, September 29, 1987 through
December 31, 1987.

108
Cheryl Smith, Bachelors Degree. Native American Museums Program, assisted
with writing and editing the Native American Museums Program newsletter
and with overall office functions, September 20, 1987 through
December ll, 1987.

Karla Smith, High School Graduate. Office of Elementary and Secondary Educa-

tion, Summer Intern 1987 program and Career Awareness Program, June 8,
1987 through July 10, 1987.

OFFICE OF PLANT SERVICES

Dexter Glen. Electrical Facility, reset circuit breakers, re-lamped light

fixtures, and performed minor maintenance, June 28, 198/ through
August 14, 1987.

OFFICE OF PRINTING AND PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICES

Brian Foster, High School. Duplicating Branch, processed printed material:
collated, stapled, and proofed, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

James Harrison, High School. Duplicating Branch, processed printed material:
collated, stapled and proofed, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Christ

opher Haze, Bachelor's Candidate. Assisted professional staff, July 13,
1987 through August 15, 1987.

Suzanne Hubbell, High School Graduate. Assisted professional staff, June 7,
1987 through July 11, 1987.

Ricardo Lacy, High School. Preserved and collated records, assisted photogra-

pher and dark room technician, June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987,

Laura E. Lanier, Bachelor's Candidate, Goucher College. Assisted Branch Chief

with special photo assignments, including taking photographs and proces-
sing film, June 8, 1987 through August 28, 1987.

OFFICE OF PROTECTION SERVICES

Pedro Chin, High School. Training Office, performed clerical and reception-
ist duties for an international museum conference, June 29, 1987/7 through
August 14, 1987,

Damon Gaston, High School. Performed clerical and receptionist duties for an
international museum conference, June 29, 1987/7 through August 14, 1987.

Ruth Migliorelli, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Health
Services Division, assisted program manager with counseling and health
techniques, January 12, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

George B. Rodenburg, Jr., Bachelors Candidate, Virginia Commonwealth Univer-
sity. Office of Safety Programs, assisted with safety inspections,
January 5, 1987 through January 9, 1987.

Martin G. White, High School. Assisted Deputy Chief in security operations,
June 29, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS

Michele C. Benson, Bachelors Candidate, George Mason University. Assisted
professional staff, June 7, 1987 through July 11, 1987.

109
Lena M. Hernandez, Bachelors Candidate, University of Michigan. Assisted with
production responsibilities, story writing and analyzing usage of Smith-
sonian News Service and The Torch newspaper, May 18, 1987 through
August 12, 1987.

Mari Beth McQuaite, Bachelors Candidate, Villanova University. Assisted with
production responsibilities, storywriting and analyzing usage of Smith-
sonian News Service and The Torch newspaper, January 28, 1987 through
May 8, 1987.

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

MeiPu Yang, Bachelors Candidate, University of Pennsylvania. Worked on data-
base for registrar methods material, May 8, 1987 through August 7, 1987.

RESIDENT ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Lara L. Goodman, Bachelors Candidate. Office of Public Affairs, prepared

publicity and information on Resident Associate Program events in the
Performing Arts, educational, and cultural areas; disseminated this

information to media and community, May ll, 1987 through August 7,
1987.

Brenda Kwan, Bachelors Candidate, Sweet Briar College. Discovery Theater,
managed audiences, assisted sales coordinator with reserving tickets,
assisted theater director with preparation of education materials,
January 5, 1987 through January 28, 1987.

Mary M. Patton, Bachelors Candidate, Towson State University. Office of Public
Affairs, prepared publicity and information on events in the performing
arts, educational and cultural areas; disseminated information to media
and the community, July 22, 1987 through December 11, 1987.

Robert A. Schiller, Bachelors Candidate, James Madison University. Discovery

Theater, assisted in sales and audience development for the Discovery
Theater, May 18, 1987 through July 24, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Mark Edward Chasse, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Arranged
and described records of Division of Reptiles and Amphibians, National
Museum of Natural History, September 28, 1987 through December 4, 1987.

Monica Drake, Bachelors Candidate, Portland State University. Described and

arranged the records of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition
Service, 1950-1962, September 14, 1987 through November 20, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Lisa Balduman, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York. Plant Ecol-
Ogy, studied "Vine and Herb Ecology," January 19, 1987 through July 24,
1987.

Sarah J. Chamberlain, Bachelors Degree, University of South Carolina. Studied
the effects of elevated C02 on marsh ecosystem, May 4, 1987 through
August 14, 1987.

IIo
Elizabeth English, Bachelors Candidate, University of Virginia. Researched
pollination ecology of wild radishes, June 15, 1987 through August 14,
1987.

Amy Fanning, Bachelors Degree, Southampton College. Worked on estuarine fish
biology, May 4, 1987 through September 25, 1987.

Joanne Feldman, Bachelors Degree. Assistant Director's Office, studied acid
atmospheric deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, March 2, 1987
through May 22, 1987.

Suzanne Hill, Bachelors Candidate, Towson State University. Researched
response of brackish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide,

June 1, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Mary Howe, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Researched community
structure and population dynamics of phytoplankton in estuary, June l,
through August 14, 1987.

Ramona O'Halloran, Bachelors Degree. Studied foraging behavior of ants,
September 18, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Darius Nassiry, Bachelors Candidate, Carleton College. Researched response of
brackish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, June 15, 1987
through September 4, 1987.

Donald Norman, Masters Candidate, Huxley College, West Virginia. Studied
habitat utilization by migratory warblers, May 4, 1987 through August 14,
1987.

Michael Rogers, Bachelors Candidate, North Carolina State. Worked on acid
deposition, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Michael Sacopulos, Bachelors Candidate, Bowdoin College. Studied acid atmos-
phere deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, June 15, 1987 through
Juyest 7) 1987.

Toni Washuta, Bachelors Candidate, Evergreen State College. Studied community
structure and population biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary,
June 8, 1987 through September 11, 1987.

Erin Watts, Towson State University. Researched community structure and popu-
lation biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary, August 1/7, 1987
through November 13, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Francoise Brown. Assisted with book binding and book conservation, August 18,
1987 through December 31, 1987.

Katnryn Kiaunis, Bachelors Candidate. Museum Reference Center, assisted pro-
fessional staff, July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.

Ora Michaely, Masters Degree, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem. Worked on book
conservation and book binding, August 18, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Mary Pound. Book Conservation Lab, performed treatments on materials,
September 21, 1987 through September 20, 1988.

Martha-Luci Sierra, Masters Degree. Conservation Laboratory, worked on paper
conservation of flat papers, March 9, 1987 through June 15, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION PRESS
Elizabeth D. McLean, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Smithsonian

Books, assisted in publishing areas, June 8, 1987 through August 28,
1987.

Lit
SMITHSONIAN MAGAZINE

Benjamin Simmons, assisted with archival project involving editorial proces-
sing of film; trained in aspects of advertising procedures as they per-
tain to magazine production, June 29, 198/ through August 14, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL ASSOCIATE PROGRAM

Nancy M. Perry, Masters Candidate, Northern Virginia Community College.

Travel, replaced registrar for Washington "Anytime" Weekend while she
accompanied a Smithsonian trip, June 10, 1987 through August 28, 1987.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION TRAVELING EXHIBITION SERVICE

Rachel Bernhardt, Masters Candidate, George Washington University. Museum
Studies Program, provided project assistance to the coordinator of an
exhibition on the folk art of older Americans, May 12, 1987 through
September 30, 1987. ae

Wm. Frank Mitchell, Masters Candidate, Yale University. Researched, June 8,
1987 through August 7, 1987.

Kyu H. Park, Museum Professional, Museum in Seoul. Learned to organize ex-
hibitions and studied museum management, February 2, 1987 through
April 30, 1987.

Maria del Carmen Cossu Saettone, Bachelors Candidate, Catholic University of
Peru. Provided research support to exhibition coordinator for traveling

exhibition on tropical rain forests, researched exhibit content, photo-
graphy, and education programs, June 1, 1987 through December 1, 1987.
SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Hector Barrios V., Ph.D, Instituto de Zoologia, URSS. Barro Colorado Island,
studied exclusive male parental care in the Neotropical Harvestman Zygo-
pachylus albemarginis (Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), August 3, 1987 through
January 3, 1988.

Aura Estela Correa, Bachelors Candidate, University of Panama. Barro Colorado
Island, studied mating and social evolution in Zoroptera, November 24,
1986 through April 10, 1987.

Eyda L. Gomez, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Panama. Studied biomechanics
and biology of flight in butterflies, August 3, 1987 through October 30,
1987.

Plinio A. Gondola Diaz, Bachelors Degree, Fundacao Universidade de Rio Grande.
Researched spawning settlement and growth of reef fishes, September 14,
1987 through November 6, 1987.

Franklin Guardia, Bachelors Degree, University of Panama. Studied development
of tropical forest edge vegetation and the effects of edges on forest
structure, February 17, 1987 through March 17, 1987. Worked on effect of
predators, plant quality and maternal guarding on reproductive success of
Acromis sparsa, April 2/7, 1987 through July 17, 1987.

E. Cybele Londono S., Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Los Andes. Barro Color-
ado Island, studied interactions between the insect herbivores of young
leaves, February 22, 1987 through June 22, 1987.

II2
Jose Luis Machado Torres, Bachelors Degree, Universidad do Los Anges. Barro
Colorado Island, studied patterns of leaf development in tropical spe-
cies implications for carbon gain and herbivory, September /, 1987
through December 7, 1987.

Miguel Marmolejo, Centro de Investigaciones de Q. Roo. Barro Colorado Island,
illustrated flora of seedlings of Panamanian tropical forest with special
emphasis on Barro Colorado Island, March 16, 1987 through June 13, 1987.

Albeloel Miranda, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Rio Grande. Naos Lab,
worked on spawning settlement and growth in reef fishes, April 27, 1987
through October 7, 1987.

Luis Ernesto Medina Bravo, Universidad de Panama. Ancon, studied the repro-
ductive behavior and energetics of glass frogs, genus Centrolenella,
September 1, 1987 through December 1, 1987.

Marta C. Moreno, Bachelors Degree, Universidad de Panama. Ancon, studied col-
or polymorphism in Chelymorpha alternans, July 20, 1987 through
October 31, 1987.

Elizabeth Padron, Bachelors Degree, Universidad Central de Venezuela. San
Blas, studied predatory behaviour of some reef fishes, April 6, 1987
through October 2, 1987.

Marcela Quinones, Bachelors Candidate, Universidad de Los Andes. Summit Gar-
dens, made census of iguana hatchlings, July 7, 1987 through October 7,
1987.

Jorge A. Lobo Segura, Masters Degree, Universidad de Costa Rica. San Jose,
studied kinship structure in social wasp colonies, April 1, 1987 through
June 30, 1987.

Jorge F. Silva, Bachelors Degree, University of Panama. Studied kingfisher's
behavior at Cascajal River (Portobelo), March 26, 1987 through June 17,
1987.

WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS

William Breslin, Bachelors Candidate, Hobart College. American Society and
Politics, assisted with research in American history and politics,
January 5, 1987 through May 13, 1987.

Pamela A. Jordan, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Worked as a
research assistant, December 29, 1986 through January 31, 1987.

Betsy Martin, Masters Candidate, Middlebury College Russian. Worked as a

research assistant on turn-of-century Russian philosophy, December 29,
1986 through May 31, 1987.

113
ACADEMIC, RESEARCH TRAINING, AND INTERNSHIP APPOINTMENTS
SUBMITTED BY BUREAUS

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Chris Barkan, Postdoctoral Fellow, State University of New York. Foraging
birds, with Dr. James Lynch, from June 15, 1987 through June 15,
1988.

Peter DeFur, Visiting Scientist, George Mason University. Oxygen uptake of
blue crabs during ecdysis at low salinity, with Dr. Anson Hines, from
July 1, 1987 through August 20, 1988.

Laura A. Nye, Graduate Fellow, North Carolina State University. Telemetric
analysis of foraging and movement by Callinectes sapidus (Rathbun) ,
with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 5, 1987 through May 4, 1988.

Martin Posey, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Oregon. The role of pre-
datory shrimp in structuring an estuarine bottom community, with Dr.
Anson Hines, from August 1, 1987 through July 31, 1988.

Parke Rublee, Senior Postdoctoral Fellow, Whitman College. The microbial

loop _in_the Rhode River estuary, role of microzooplankton and the
effect of suspended sediments on microzooplankton predation, with Dr.
Charles Gallegos, from June I, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Michael Shirley, Graduate Fellow, North Carolina State University. Selec-
tive pressures affecting habitat selection b remolt male and puber-
tal female blue crabs Callinectes sapidus (Rathbun), with Dr. Anson
H. Hines, from April 1, 1987 through November 6, 1987.

L. David Smith, Visiting Graduate Student, University of Maryland. The
ecological impact of autotomy on the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus,
with Dr. Anson Hines, from May 1, 1987 through September 30, 1987.

Allison Snow, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Massachusetts. Male and
female reproductive success of a woodland orchid, Tipularia discolor,
with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from October 1, 1987 through July 31, 1988.

Mark Southerland, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of North Carolina.
Behavioral ecology of coexisting generalist ant species, with Dr.
James Lynch, from January 1, 1987 through June 30, 1987.

Timothy Spira, Visiting Scholar, Georgia Southern College. Complete
research on pollen competition in Hibiscus moschentos (Malvaceae),
with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 23, 1987 through September 13,
1987.

James Stretch, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of California at Santa
Barbara. Role of emergent plankton in regulating infaunal patchi-
ness, with Dr. Anson Hines, from March 1, 1986 through March 20,
1987.

Lisa K. Wagner, Visiting Scholar, Georgia Southern College. The reproduc-
tive success of Poa annua, P. pratensis, and P. bulbosa in disturbed
habitats, with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from June 23, 1987 through
September 13, 1987.

Thomas G. Wolcott, Research Associate and Professor, North Carolina State
University. Telemetric analysis of movement, habitat utilization

and, foraging in ue crabs allinectes sapidus), wi r. Anson
Hines, from July 1987 through October 1987.

114
INTERNSHIP AND OTHER STUDENT APPOINTMENTS

Lisa Balduman, B.S., State University of New York. Vine and Herb Ecology,
with Dr. Dennis Whigham, from January - October 1987.

Nancy Bretz, Volunteer Research Assistant, B.S., Mills College. The use of
stable isotopes for the study of nutrient dynamics, with Dr. David
Correll, from September 1986 through August 1987.

Sybil Carrere, Volunteer Research Assistant, Ph.D. Candidate, University of
California at Irvine. Estuarine ecology and physiological aspects of
stress, with Dr. Anson Hines, from March 1, 1986 through March 20,
1987.

Sarah Chamberlain, B.S., University of South Carolina. Response of brack-
ish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, with Dr. Bert
Drake, from May - November 1987.

Elizabeth English, B.S. Candidate, University of Virginia. Pollination
ecology of wild radishes, with Dr. Allison Snow, from January -
August 1987.

Amy Fanning, B.S., Long Island University. Estuarine fish biology, with
Dr. Anson Hines, from May - November 1987.

Joanne Feldman, B.S., Huxley College. Acid atmospheric deposition and its
impact upon geochemistry, with Dr. David Correll, from March - May
1987.

Suzanne Hill, B.S. Candidate, Towson State University. Response of brack-
ish wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, with Dr. Bert
Drake, from June - August 1987.

Mary Howe, B.A., Mount Holyoke College. Community structure and population
dynamics of phytoplankton in an estuary, with Dr. Charles Gallegos,

from June - November 1987.

Darius Nassiry, B.S. Candidate, Carleton College. Response of brackish
wetlands to elevated levels of carbon dioxide, with Dr. Bert Drake,
from June - September 1987.

Donald Norman, M.S. Candidate, Huxley College. Habitat utilization by
migratory warblers, with Dr. James Lynch, from May - August 1987.

Ramona O'Halloran, B.A., Swarthmore College. Habitat utilization by
migratory warbdlers, with Dr. James Lynch, from September 1987 -
January 1988.

Micnael Rogers, B.S. Candidate, North Carolina State University. Acid
atmospheric deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, with Dr.
David Correll, from June - August 1987.

Michael Sacopulos, B.S. Candidate, Bowdoin College. Acid amospheric
deposition and its impact upon geochemistry, with Dr. David Correll,
from June - August 1987.

Melanie Sutton, B.S., University of California at San Diego. Chicadee
foraging behavior, with Dr. Chris Barkan, from September - November
1987.

Toni Washuta, B.S. Candidate, Evergreen State University. Community struc-

ture and population biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary,

with Dr. Anson Hines, from June - September 1987.

Erin Watts, B.S., Town State University. Community structure and popula-
tion biology of benthic invertebrates in an estuary, with Dr. Anson

Hines, from August - November 1987.

116

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Program in Tropical Biology

Eldridge Stevens Adams III, Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of
California, Berkeley. The Behavioral Ecology of Queen Number in
Nasutitermes corniger (Isoptera:Termitidae), with Dr. Mary Jane
West-Eberhard, from January 1, 1988 through December 31, 1988

Brian Bock, Visiting Scientist, University of Tennessee. Iguana
Management Possibilities through the Study and Manipulation of Nesting,
Juvenile, and Adult Iguana Habitats, with Dr. James Karr, from January 1,
1987 through June 30, 1988.

Jeffrey D. Brawn, Visiting Scientist, Northern Arizona University. Avian
Population and Community Ecology in the Understory of Moist Lowland
Forests, Central Panama, with Dr. James Karr, from March 15, 1987 through
September 30, 1987.

Jae Chun Choe, Predoctoral Fellowship, Harvard University. Mating System
and Social Evolution in Zoraptera, with Dr. William Eberhard, from October
15 to December 15, 1986, February 1 to August 15, 1987, and February 1 to
May 15, 1988.

Philip James DeVries, Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of Texas. The
Biology and Evolution of an Association and Nectar Feeding in Larval
Riodinid Butterflies, with Drs. Donald Windsor and Stephen Hubbell, from
September 1987 through September 1988.

Andrew John Green, Graduate Student Fellow, Wolfson College. The
Relationship between Foraging Success and Mating Success in Male Tungara
Frogs Physalaemus pustulosus, with Dr. A. Stanley Rand, from July 6
through September 21, 1987.

David John Hughes, Postdoctoral Fellow, University College of North
Wales. Genetic and Environmental Correlates of Polymorphism in Marine
Bryozoa, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from June 1, 1987 through May 31, 1988.

Rachel Levin, Postdoctoral Fellowship, Cornell University. Male and
Female Reproductive Strategies in a Tropical Wren Thryothorus
nigricapillus, with Dr. Neal Smith, from February 1 to July 31, 1988 and
February 1 to July 31, 1989.

Jane Molofsky, Graduate Student Fellowship, University of Illinois. The
Effect of Litterfall on the Germination and Early Establishment of
Tropical Trees, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from June 1 through August 7,
1987.
Steven Gaines Morgan, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Maryland. The
Effect of Fish Predation on Hatching Rhythyms of Brachyurans: the Tracking
of a Complex Environment, with Dr. John Christy, from December 1, 1986
through December 1, 1987.

Daniel E. Morse, Regent Fellow, University of California, Santa Barbara.
Environmental, Biochemical and Genetic Factors Controlling the
Reproduction and Recruitment of Panamanian Reef Corals and Associated
Fauna, for 12 weeks in 1987 and 12 weeks in 1988.

Christopher William Petersen, University of Arizona, Postdoctoral
Fellowship. Sexual Selection and Sexual Size Dimorphism in Fishes with
Paternal Care, with Dr. Ross Robertson, from September 27, 1987 through
September 26, 1988.

Anthony James Ranere, Senior Postdoctoral Fellowship, Temple University.
Environments, Human Settlement and Subsistence in the Seasonal Tropics of
Central Panama--the last 10,000 years, with Dr. Richard Cooke, from
September 1, 1987 through August 31, 1988.

Kyle Summers, Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Michigan.

Reproductive Strategies in Dendrobates auratus and Dendrobates
histrionicus, with Drs. A. Stanley Rand and Naney Knowlton, from January 1
through December 31, 1988.

Short-term Fellowships in Tropical Biology

Mark Alfano, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas at Austin. Predation
and the Evolution of Anuran Advertisement Calls, with Dr. Stanley Rand,
from July 1 through August 30, 1987.

Charlton Carscallen, B.S. candidate, Trent University, Canada. Faunal
Analysis of Zapotal Site, with Dr. Richard Cooke, from February 1 through
April-30,; 1987.

Monique Giausserand, Ph.D. candidate, Yale University. Zapotal: Coastal
Adaptations in Central Panama (3000 BC - 1200 BC), with Dr. Richard Cooke,
from February 1 through April 30, 1987.

Jillian W. Gregg, Ph.D. candidate, University of Utah. Variation of
Winged Leaf Rachises in Relation to Environment in Tropical Plants, with
Dr. Egbert Leigh, from January 1 to March 31, 1988.

Anita Hayworth, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Davis.
Microclimate and Heat Budget of the High Intertidal Limpet Siphonaria
gigas, with Dr. Jeremy Jackson, from November 1, 1987 through January 31,
1988.

Joshua Hayes, Ph.D. candidate, University of Texas at Austin.
Investigations into the Feeding Ecology and Impact of the Corallivorous
Gastropod, Coralliophila abbreviata, with Dr. Nancy Knowlton, from
September 21 through December 14, 1987.

EL?
118

Kaoru Kitajima, Ph.D. candidate, University of Illinois. Comparative
Study of Photosynthetic and Growth Characteristics of Neotropical Tree
Seedlings on Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Alan Smith, from June 4
through August 3, 1987.

Robin Manasse, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Davis. Genetic,
Anatomical and Ecological Correlates of Seed Size Variation in Crinum
erubescens (Amaryllidaceae), with Dr. Joseph Wright, from June 1 to June
30,. 1987:

David M. Olson, Ph.D. candidate, University of California, Davis. The
Effects of Elevation on the Ant Fauna and Other Litter Organisms of
Tropical Moist Forests in Panama, with Dr. Donald Windsor, from June 22
through September 4, 1987.

Stephen Pratt, B.S. candidate, Harvard College. Foraging and Recruitment
Behavior in the Ponerine Genera Ectatomma and Odontomachus, with Dr.
Donald Windsor, from April 11 through July 11, 1987.

Andrew Stuart Pullin, Ph.D., University of Leeds, United Kingdom.
Environmental Control of Life-History Strategies in Tropical Lepidoptera,
with Dr. Donald Windsor, from November 22, 1987 through January 17, 1988.

David Stern, B.S. candidate, Cornell University. The Behavior and
Morphology of Male Euglossine Bees, with Dr. David Roubik, from February 1
through May 31, 1988.

David A. Wiedenfeld, Ph.D. candidate, Florida State University.
Ecomorphology and Foraging Behavior of Resident and Migrant Populations of
the Yellow Warbler, Dendroica petechia, with Dr. Neal Smith, from January
15 through February 27, 1987.

Exxon Fellowship & Assistantship Program

Onel Arias, Exxon Fellowship Extension, Universidad de Panama. Evaluacién
Hidrogrdfica del Rio Abudi, with Dr. James Karr, from February 16 through
August 15, 1987.

Eliseo Hector Barrios, Exxon Assistantship, Zoology Institute USSR.
Exclusive Male Parental Care in the Neotropical Harvestman, Zygopachylus
albomarginis (Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), with Giselle Mora, from August 3,
1987 through January 3, 1988.

Rita Bethancourt, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Efecto de
Fertilizacién con P y N en la Formacién de Micorrizas y Rhizobium en el
Crecimiento Temprano de Acacia mangium, with Dr. Gilberto Ocafia, from
August 3 through November 3, 1987.

Aura Correa, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panamd. Mating System
and Social Evolution in Zoroptera, with Jae Choe, from November 24, 1986
through May 8, 1987.
Eyda Luz Gomez, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Biomechanics
and Ecology of Flight in Butterflies, with Dr. Robert Dudley, from
September 14 through December 11, 1987.

Plinio A. Gondola, Exxon Assistantship, Fundacao Universidade do Rio
Grande, Brazil. Spawning Settlement and Growth in Reef Fishes, with Dr.
Ross Robertson, from September 14 through October 30, 1987.

Franklin Guardia, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Development
of Tropical Forest Edge Vegetation and the Effect to Proximity to the Edge
on Forest Structure, with Guadalupe Williams, from February 18 through
March 25, 1987.

Franklin Guardia, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panamd. Effect of
Predators, Plant Quality and Maternal Guarding on the Reproductive Success
of Acromis sparsa, with Dr. Donald Windsor, from April 27 through July 17,
1987.

Heraclio Herrera, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. El Uso de las
Plantas en la Medicina Tradicional en el Oeste de Kuna Yala (San Blas),
Panama, with Dr. Gordon McPherson, from May 3 through November 3, 1987.

Daniel Holness, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Identificacién
de Especies que Puedan Utilizarse en Educacién Ambiental dentro del Parque
Metropolitano, with Dr. James Karr and Jorge Ventocilla, from February 17
through May 17, 1987

Daniel Holness, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Estimacidén de la
Biomasa y la Productividad de Hydrilla verticillata en dos Sitios en la
Isla de Barro Colorado, with Dr. Alan Smith, from August 3 through
November 3, 1987.

Yolanda Jimenez, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panamd. Identificacién
de Especies que Puedan Utilizarse en Educacién Ambiental dentro del Parque
Metropolitano, with Dr. James Karr and Jorge Ventocilla, from February 17
through May 17, 1987.

Yolanda Jimenez, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Estudio
Bacteriolégico de Playas de Anidacidén de Lepidochelys olivacea, with Dr.
Haris Lessios, from August 3 through November 3, 1987.

Jorge Lobo, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Costa Rica. El Parentesco
y su Estructura en Colonias de Avispas Sociales, with Dr. Mary Jane
West-Eberhard, from April 1 through June 30, 1987.

E. Cybele Londofio, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de los Andes,
Colombia. Interactions between Insect Herbivores and the Phenologies of
Their Host Plants, with Mitch Aide, from March 1 through June 15, 1987.

Jose Luis Machado, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de los Andes,
Colombia. Patterns of Leaf Development in Tropical Species: Implications
for Carbon Gain and Herbivory, with Drs. Phyllis Coley and Tom Kursar,
from September 14 through December 14, 1987.

II9
Miguel Marmolejo, Exxon Assistantship, Centro de Investigaciones de
Quintana Roo, Mexico. Illustrated Flora of Seedlings of Panamanian
Tropical Moist Forest, Barro Colorado Island, with Dr. Nancy Garwood, from
March 15 through June 14, 1987.

Luis E. Medina, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panamd. The
Reproductive Behavior and Energetics of Glass Frogs, genus Centrolenella,
with Roberto Ibafiez, from September 1 through December 1, 1987.

Albeloel Miranda, Exxon Assistantship, Fundacao Universidade do Rio
Grande, Brazil. Spawning Settlement and Growth in Reef Fishes, with Ross
Robertson, from April 27 through August 21, 1987.

Marta C. Moreno, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Estudio
Genético en el Polimorfismo de Color en Chelymorpha alternans (Parque
Soberania, Panama), with Dr. Donald Windsor, from July 20 through October
16° 198%

Elizabeth Padrdn, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad Central de Venezuela.
Predatory Behavior of Some Reef Fishes, with Dr. Hugh Sweatman, from April
6 through October 2, 1987.

Marcela Quifiones, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Los Andes,
Colombia. Survival of Hatchling Iguanas in the Wild, with Dr. Dagmar
Werner, from July 7, 1987 through January 7, 1988.

Jorge Silva, Exxon Assistantship, Universidad de Panama. Sex Role
Reversal in Neotropical Kingfishers, with Dr. William Davis, from March 26
through June 15, 1987.

Eyda J. Timm, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Estudio
Bacteriolégico de Playas de Anidacidén de Lepidochelys olivacea, with Dr.
Haris Lessios, from August 3 through November 3, 1987.

Luis Wong, Exxon Fellowship, Universidad de Panama. Isolation and
Characterization of Chemical Principles from the Anal Gland of Pelamis
platurus, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, from March through August 1987.

Other Fellowship and Internship Programs

Jaime Cavelier, Noyes Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Cambridge,
United Kingdom. The Cost of Growth and Maintenance of Fine Root Systems
in Lowland and Montane Rainforests, with Dr. Alan Smith, from August 15,
1987 through March 15, 1988.

Rosendo Fraga, Senior Sabbatical, University of California, Santa

Barbara. Host-Parasite Interactions between the Oropendola Gymnostinops
montezumae and the Giant Cowbird Scaphidura oryzivora in the Postfledgling
Stage, with Dr. Neal Smith, from June 1 through August 31, 1987.
Jurgen Hoth v.d. Meden, Alton Jones Internship, Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico. Behavioral Studies of the Paca (Agouti_ paca) in
Semicaptivity, with Dr. Nicholas Smythe, from September 1, 1986 through
June 15, 1987.

Roberto Ibafiez, Noyes Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Connecticut.
The Reproductive Behavior and Energetics of Glass Frogs, Genus
Centrolenella, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from May 15 through December 15,
1987.

Kizhakkedathu Mathai Kochummen, Senior Sabbatical, Forest Research
Institute, Malaysia. Flora of Pasoh Research Forest, with Dr. Stephen
Hubbell, from July 1, 1986 through June 30, 1987.

Giselle Mora, Noyes Predoctoral Fellowship, University of Florida.
Exclusive Male Parental Care in the Harvestmen Zygopachylus albomarginis
(Arachnida, Opiliones: Gonyleptidae), with Dr. Donald Windsor, from July 1
through December 31, 1987 and from July 1 through December 31, 1988.

Gustavo Rodriguez, Alton Jones Internship, Universidad Simon Bolivar,
Venezuela. Monitoring of Agouti Populations in Selected Areas for
Management, with Dr. Nicholas Smythe, from August 15, 1986 through
December 15, 1987.

Other Visiting Scholars

Stephen T. Emlen, Short-Term Visitor, Cornell University. Social Behavior
of Wattled Jacanas, with Drs. James Karr and Neal Smith, from April 1
through June 15, 1987.

Leo J. Fleishman, Short-Term Visitor, University of Texas at Austin. Prey
Localization in Crocodilians, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from April 13 through
April-26,- 1987

Peter Jung, Short-Term Visitor, Natural History Museum, Switzerland.
Inventory of Neogene Faunas (Mollusks) in Bocas del Toro, with Dr. Jeremy
Jackson, from July 31 through August 27, 1987.

Gabor Lovei, Short-Term Visitor, Plant Protection Institute, Hungary.
Evaluation of Light Trap Catches, with Dr. Hindrik Wolda, from May 31
through June 22, 1987.

Stephen S. Mulkey, Short-Term Visitor, University of Missouri. Diurnal
Variation in Atmospheric Drought and Schedules of Carbon Gain and Water
Loss in Understory Species, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from December 14
through January 10, 1987.

Hermann H. Remmert, Short-Term Visitor, Fachbereich Biologie der
Universitat, Marburg, West Germany. Patch Dynamics in Forest Ecosystems,
with Dr. Hindrik Wolda, from July 5 through July 19, 1987.

I2I
i

Michael J. Ryan, Short-Term Visitor, University of Texas at Austin.
Sexual Selection and Sound Localization in the Frog Physalaemus
pustulosus, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from July 1 through July 31, 1987.

Isaac J. Schlosser, Short-Term Visitor, University of North Dakota. Land
Use and Stream Ecosystems, with Dr. James Karr, from March 27 through May
3 sl Qos

Leila M. Shultz, Short-Term Visitor, Utah State University.
Investigations in Leaf Anatomy, with Dr. Joseph Wright, from March 23
through April 8, 1987.

John Sperry, Short-Term Visitor, University of Vermont. Water Stress
Physiology of Trees, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from February 1 through
February 28, 1987.

Nellie M. Stark, Short-Term Visitor, University of Montana. The Influence
of Excess Leaching on Weathering and Mycorrhizal Uptake of Nutrients, with
Dr. Joseph Wright, from July 5 through July 18, 1987.

Melvin Tyree, Short-Term Visitor, University of Vermont. Water Stress
Physiology of Trees, with Dr. Egbert Leigh, from February 1 through
February 28, 1987.

Paul Weldon, Short-Term Visitor, Texas A & M University. The Proximate
Cues Used by Pacific Snappers to Identify the Yellow- Bellied Sea Snake,
with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, from June 6 through August 17, 1987.

Walter Wilczynski, Short-Term Visitor, University of Texas at Austin.
Behavioral and Neural Mechanisms by which Neotropical Frogs Organize
Themselves within a Breeding Chorus, with Dr. Stanley Rand, from June 23
through July 14, 1987.

Truman P. Young, Short-Term Visitor, University of Miami. Investigations
of Canopy Shapes, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from February 1 through March
25, 1987.

Volunteers

James Robert Duran, worked on scanning the literature in the STRI Library,
from October 1986 through September 1987.

Sarah Flick, worked on the causes and consequences of rarity and
distributions of certain tree species, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, from
January through May 1987.

Joseph P. Garofalo, worked as electronics technician with Dr. Haris
Lessios, from August 31 through September 30, 1987.

Corina S. Hinkle, worked on reviewing the literature in the STRI Library,
from October 1986 through September 1987.
Mary Ragoza, worked on a remapping of trails and streams in the Forest
Dynamics Plot, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, during April 1987.

John Reese, worked on an assessment of flowering conditions of Ceiba

pentandra and Cavanalesia planifolia, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell, during
February 1987.

Bob Stamper, worked on a detailed map of seedlings and saplings of an
endemic shrub with a clumped distribution, with Dr. Stephen Hubbell,
during August 1987.

Francisco Ulloa, worked on the diving behavior of the yellow - bellied sea
snake, with Dr. Ira Rubinoff, from April through June 1987.

Deborah Wallace Dupuy, worked on the Panama bibliography in the STRI
Library, from December 1986 through September 1987.

Carolyn White, worked general duties in the STRI Library, from June
through August 1987.

Clarita A. S. Wright, worked on the Panama bibliography in the STRI
Library, from October 1986 through September 1987.

ARTHUR .M. SACKLER GALLERY AND FREER GALLERY OF ART

Michael Brand, Sackler Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Harvard University. "Garden,
City and Empire: The Historical Geography of Mughal Lahore," with Milo C.
Beach from June 1, 1987, through September 30, 1987.

Cao Yin, Sackler Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Beijing University. "All Aspects
of Museum Operations," with staff members of the Freer Gallery of Art and the
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery from <september 30, 1987 through June 30, 1988.

Mathew Kercher, Smithsonian Fellow. Ph.D. Candidate, Princeton University.
"Calligraphy of Pa-ta Shan-jen (1626-1705), with Dr. Shen C. Y. Fu from
September 21, 1987, through September 20, 1988.

Ingrid Larsen, Freer Fellow. Ph.D. Candidate, University of Michigan. "Huang
Shen, Qing Dynasty Painters Known as Yangshou Eccentrics," with Dr. Shen C. Y.
Fu from January 12, 1987, through May 30, 1987.

John Siewert, Smithsonian Fellow, Ph.D. Candidate, University of Michigan.

"The Nocturnes of James McNeill Whistler," with Dr. Linda Merrill from
September 1, 1987, through August 31, 1988.

Song Xiangguang, Sackler Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Beijing University. "All
Aspects of Museum Operations," with staff members of the Freer Gallery of Art
and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery from September 30, 1987 through June 30, 1988.

Jan Stuart, Smithsonian Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Princeton University.
"Researching and Cataloging the 16th-Century Zhe School of Paintings," with
Dr. Shen C. Y. Fu from April 15, 1987, through April 14, 1988.

Wheeler Thackston, Jr., Rockefeller Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Harvard University.
"Princely Art in 15th-Century Iran: The House of Timur," with Dr. Glenn Lowry
from June 9, 1987, through September 30, 1987.

Som P, Verma, Fulbright Fellow. Visiting Scholar, Aligarh Muslim University.
"The Study of Mughal Paintings and Other Related Indian Schools," with Dr.
Milo C. Beach from July 1, 1987, through November 15, 1987.

nH
pV
to
CONSERVATION ANALYTICAL LABORATORY

bxf

Regents Fellcw

W.D. Kingery, Ph.D., Recents Fellew, Artifact Intersretaticn ard the Rise
of Pictorial Traditicns in the Ceramics of 5th c. Greece, 19th c. Islam
i5th cs. Ttaiv ard the aarly Qing Dynasty of China: Mceels for the
Intaractien cf Seciaty and Techrelecy, from September 1987 threush
Sectember 1988.

Felicws

Nancy Bencs, Ph.D., Pestdcctoral Fellcw in Material Analysis, SUNY at
Binchamtcsn, NY. Comeesiticon Techrolecist Variability: Am arercach to
the studv of cotzery scecializaticen in ancient scciety, with
Jaccueline S. Olin ard M. James Blaciman, from February 1986 tarcuch
Jamcary 1987.

Rebert Enrenreich, Ph.D., Pestdcectcral Fellcw in Materials Analysis,
Cxford University, Unitad xXincdem, The State of iren techrolcecy in
Roman Ceominated Britain, with Jacqueline 8. Clin and Rey S. Clarke,
Jz., for Cctccer 1, 1985 thrcuch Lecemrer 31, 1986.

Resemary Gianno, Ph.D., Pestcdcctoral Felicw in Materiais Analysis, Yale
University, New Haven, CT. The Araivsis ard Identizicaticn of
Scutheast Asian Resins, with Cavid ven Exct, from Ferrvary 1, 1986
tarcuch Jamuary 31, 1987.

Hectcr Neff, Pu.D., Pestacctsral Fellcw in Materials Analysis. University
of Califcrmia at Santa Barbara. Arolicaticn of mitivariat2
patterm-recccniticn and statistical crececures to ceramic
intersretaticon, with Dr. Renald Bishco and Dr. Frederick J. Bove, foo
Nevemrer 1986 threuch April 1988.

Int2ars

Ann EBcultsn, Pestsracuat2 Conservaticn Intern, Stat2 University Collece at
Buffalo, NY, Art Conservaticn [Lecariment. Svecial orojects in Chiects
Conservaticn, with Carcl A. Grissem, from Cctcrer 1, 1986, threuch
Sectamrer 30, 1987.

Lymn Brestsf£, Masters decree, New York University. Parer Ccrservaticn,
3ra year intermshis, Research and Treatment, with Tim Vitale, Cctcker
1, 1986 threuch Sectamber 15, 1987.

Michelle 2. Hamill, Bachelors Decrse, Cherlin Collece. Parer
Conservaticn Laboratory, compiled bibliccrarhy of tarer
conservaticn-related oroject, with Tim Vitale, also worked cn the
conseryaticn of a Victorian folding sersen and a science project cn
the effects cf acquecus licht bleaching on paver, Jume 1, 1987 threuch
Avcust 21, 1987: Parer Lakeratory, worked cn carer conservaticn, with
Diarre van cer Reyden, Sectember 1, 1987 tharcuch May 31, 1988.

Laura Hazlett, Summer Inter, Textile Conservaticn Lakeratory. May-July,
1987.
Jefti=sy Ximball, Conservaticn Intern, Institute of Archaeolesy, Universit;
ef Lereen, Work amd Stucv in Cbhiects Conservation, with Carol A.
Grissan, foom July 13 threuch Seotamber 18, 1987.

Ingrid Lucsna, Conservator, Naticnal Gallery of Art, Caracas, Verezuela.
Paintincs Conservation. Exeminaticn and Treatment of Smithscnian
Collecticns, with Roland H. Cumnincham, from Seotsember 25, 1986
tarcuch September 15, 1987.

Esther Methe, Summer Intern, Textile Conservation Laboratory. May-July,
1987.

Theresa Power, Conservaticn Intern, Art Conservaticn Precram, University
of Delaware/Wintershur Museum, Work and Stucy in Chiects Conservaticn,
with Carol A. Grisscm, June 1 thareuch July 24, 1987.

Deborah Schcecs, Pestoracuate Conservaticn Intarm. Paintinss
Conservaticn, Instituto per Arte e il Restauro, Florence, Italy.
Exaeminaticn and Treatment of Gmithscnian Collecticns, with Roland 4H.
Cumnincham, from Seotamrer 15, 1986 threuch April 30, 1987.

Resemarie Seln, Summer Intern, Textile Conservaticn Laboratcr;.
July-Sestember, 1987.

Jill Sicman, Summer Intern, Textile Ccnservaticn Laboratory.
July-Sestember, 1987.

Constance Stromberg, Pestsracduat2 Conservyaticn Intarn, Art Conservaticn
Precram, University of Delaware/Wintertomur Museum. Srecial vrojects
in Cbiects Conservaticn, with Carol A. Grissem, frem Cctcber 5, 1986,
tarcucgh Sectember 30, 1987.

Visiting Lacturers

Marylcu Davis, Scuthbridse, Massachussetts. "Sistcric Painted Finishes!,

Cari Eck2iman, Ph.D., Collece of Forest=y, Purdue University. "Structural
Analysis ef Furniture",

Michael Ettema, Ph.D., Curator of Demestic Lifts, Henry Ferd Musemm. "cst
Incust=ial Revoluticn American Furniture’,

Ian Frsestsre, British Museum Research Laboratcry

Wallace Guslar, Director of Conservaticn, Colcnial Williamsburg. ‘re -
Incustzial Revoluticn American Purmiture’’,

Wallace Gesler, Directcr of Conservaticn, Colcnial Wililiamsburc.
Wty yan.

Rese Ker=, Decuty xXeecer, Far Zastern Lecarment, Victoria and Albert
Museum, Leoncen.

Greg Larcrsy, Pormmitura Conservator, H. F. Durent Winterthur Museum.
"Structural Conservaticn of Furniture’,

Lavid Ray Pine, Mt. Crawferd, Virginia. ‘Inlay Manufacture’.

Victsr ven Reventicw, Brocklyn New York. '"Conservaticn of Marquetzy and
Boulle—weork.

Victor ven Reventlicw, Breoklyn NY. "Structure of Eurccean Furnitiure!!.

James Rice, Ph.D., Collese cf Ferestzy, University of Gecroia. ‘'Achesives
Technolesy for Furniture".

Siz Francis Watsen, former Xeecer of the Cueen’s Collecticn. "Seventeenth
and Zicht2enth Century French Furniture’,

Caristian Witt-Cceerzing, Pa.D., Curator of Furmiture and Weedwork,
Austzian Museum of arplied Arts. "History of Burcrean Furniture
(excluding French)",
Visiting Professicnals

Veletta Carcuts, Fh.D., Visiting Schelar, Scuthernm Illincis University. '
Hevi Secial Beurdéary Mainterarce ard Excharce Relaticnshiss, AD:

1260-1500, with Renald Bishcp, from Sectamber 1, 1985 threuch Aucust
31, 1987.
Mary Anne Frish, Visiting Professicnal foom the Fabric Werxsicp,

Philacelshia, Pemnsvivania. Fetruary-Aarril, 1987. Study of
picment/bincer relaticnship to the stability of mederm printed
textiles.

Susan Hckks, Ph.D., Research Asseciat2, Corelli University, Ithaca NY.

Neutron Inerced Autoradiccrarhy of Paintincs bv Themas Wilmer Dewing,
wita Y. Cheng, from Cetcber 1986 threuch Cctcber 1989.

Scchie Mery, Pradcctoral Visiting Scientist, Universite de Paris I,
France. Ceramic Prsdcucticn in the Cman Peninsula from the Perscective
of Capital Hiii, with M. James Blackman, foom May 1987 to Jume 1987.

Emlen Myers, Ph.D., Research Collakcrator, SUNY at Binchamtscn. Neutccn
activation analysis of Italian Majolica from the Sackler Collecticn
with M. James Blackman, from June 1986 thorcuch May 1987.

Irsne Skals, Visiting Proressicnal from the Naturalmseet of Dermarx.
March—May, 1987. Stucy of micrcsceric analysis of archeolecical
textiles. Recipient of the Suzanne Liebers Erikscn Danish Exchance
Precram Award.

Rita Wright, Ph.D., Research Asscciate, Harvard University, Cambricce, MA.
Preéucticn and Distz{buticn of Ceramics in Middle Asia, with M. James
Blackman, f>cm Ccccber 19, 1985 tnreuch Cctccer 19, 1988.

Znanrg Fukans, Ph.D. and Sum Jins, Ph.D., Institute of Caramics, Academia
Sinica, Shanchai, ina, to work cn Chinese trace ceramics found in
Sri Lanka.

COOPER-HEWITT MUSEUM

Diana Alper, Masters Candidate, Columbia University. Library, surveyed rare
book collection, with Kathy Martinez, June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Yolanda Avila, Bachelors Candidate, Rutgers University. Library, maintained
rare book collection, with Kathy Martinez, June 8, 1987 through December 31,
1987.

Betsy Biern, Bachelors Candidate, Mount Holyoke College. Department of
Textiles, collections management, with Ysabella Hincapie-Gara, January 5,
1987 through January 30, 1987.

Leslee Browning, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York.

Department of Programs, assisted in program administration and planning, with
Susan Yelavich, September 16, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Bernd H. Dams, Bachelors Candidate, RWTG Aachen, Germany. Director's Office,
publication research, with Lisa Taylor, October 31, 1986 through April 30,
1987.

Marianne Ertberg, Museum Professional, Danish Museum of Decorative Art.
Department of Drawings and Prints, studied collection management techniques,
with Elaine E. Dee, April 2, 1987 through May 1, 1987.

126
Jeanne Faton, Bachelors Degree, University of Lyon II. Department of
Decorative Arts, French decorative art and furniture, with David McFadden,
October 17, 1986 through April 15, 1987.

John Febbo, Bachelors Candidate, State University of New York at Buffalo.
Exhibitions Department, exhibition installation, with Dorothy Globus, June 8,
1987 through August 14, 1987.

Elaine Glusac, Masters Candidate, University of Michigan. Development
Office, development research, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Margaret Goehring, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Special Events,
planning of events, with Anne Patterson and Wallcoverings Department,
collection maintenance, with Ann Dorfsman, June 8, 1987 through August 14,
1987.

Teresa M. Heady, Masters Candidate, Fashion Institute of Technology.
Department of Textiles, textile conservation, with Lucy Commoner,
December 17, 1986 through December 31, 1987.

Diane Kessler, Masters Candidate, University of Alberta. Department of
Textiles, textile conservation, with Lucy Commoner, January 5, 1987 through
September 30, 1987.

Usha Kutty, Bachelors Candidate, Smith College. Programs Department, studied

the planning and administration of programs, with Susan Yelavich, June 8,
1987 through August 14, 1987.

Marv Marvin, Bachelors Candidate, Moore College of Art. Department of
Textiles, collection maintenance, with Ysabella Hincapie-Gara, June 1, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Juan Mila, Bachelors Candidate, Bennington Collection. Exhibitions

Department, assisted in the preparation of the Gaudi exhibition, January 5,
1987 through March 2, 1987.

Beth E. Posner, Bachelors Candidate, Cornell University. Business Office,
assisted in office administration, with William Gaske, December 22, 1986
through January 31, 1987.

Paige Roberts, Bachelors Candidate, Princeton University. Exhibitions
Department, research for maps exhibition, with Dorothy Globus, June 8, 1987
through August 21, 1987.

Jessica Rudin, Bachelors Degree, Oberlin College. Exhibitions Department,
research for festivals exhibition, June 8, 1987 through December 31, 1987.

Lorna Ryan, Bachelors Candidate, Camberwell School of Art. Library, rare
books collection, with Kathy Martinez, June 8, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Ulrike Schonfeldt, Bachelors Candidate, Freie Universitat of Berlin.
Department of Drawings and Prints, collection management, with Elaine E. Dee,
July 11, 1987 through September 15, 1987.

I27
Sofia Vecchio, Bachelors Candidate, Oberlin College. Department of Drawings
and Prints, collection maintenance and exhibition research, with Elaine E.
Dee, June 8, 1987 through July 8, 1987.

John Willman, Masters Candidate, City University of New York. Shop
Operations, product development, with Polly Dufresne, January 15, 1987
through May 15, 1987.

HIRSHHORN MUSEUM AND SCULPTURE GARDEN
Internship and Other Student Appointments

Harriet Stern, BA, Kenyon College. Worked and studied with
Teresia Bush in Education from June 15 through August 21.

Emily Carroll, BA candidate, Maryland Institute, College of
Art. Worked and studied with Eddie Schiesser in Exhibits and
Design from June 8 through August 14.

Elizabeth Klein, BA candidate, Dartmouth College. Worked and
studied with Sidney Lawrence in Public Affairs from June 8
through August 14.

Melissa Welsh, BA candidate, Oberlin College. Worked and
studied with Judith Zilczer in the Department of Painting and
Sculpture from June 8 through August 14.

Fellows and Visiting Scholars

Ruth Bohan, Post Doctoral Fellow, Associate Professor, Art
Department, University of Missouri, St. Louis. "Walt Whitman
and American Art, 1882-1919." Advisor: Judith Zilczer,
Department of Painting and Sculpture, August 1987 through
August 1988.

Emmie Donadio, Predoctoral Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, Columbia
University, New York. "Richard Stankiewicz." Advisor: Valerie
Fletcher, Department of Painting and Sculpture, September 15,
1987 through March 14, 1988.

Dietlinde Hamburg, Predoctoral Fellow, Ph.D. candidate,
Kassel University, West Germany. "Carl Grossberg-New
Objectivity Movement." Advisor: Judith Zilczer, Department of
Painting and Sculpture, March 1, 1987 through February 28,
1988.

Rebecca Zurier, Predoctoral Fellow, Ph.D. candidate, Yale
University..«*The Graphic Art of the Ashcan. School." Advisor:
Judith Zilczer, Department of Painting and Sculpture, May
1986 through August 1988.
Interns

Stefania Lucamante, graduate intern, University of Cagliari,
Italy. Supervisor: Valerie Fletcher, November 1986 through
May 1987.

Melissa Welch, intern, Oberlin College. Supervisor: Judith
Zilczer, June through August 1987.

National Air and Space Museum

Jchn D. Ancerscn, the Charles A. Lindkerch Chair of Aercspace History.
Definitive history of aercaéynamics ard research in hycerscnic aerccynamics
with Dr. Hewerd Wolko, Aeronautics Derartnent, from Sectemrer 1, 1986,
threuch August 30, 1987.

Glenn Buges, Smithscnian Predcctoral Fellew. Testing the F-4 Fhantcm Ii:
Engineering practice in the develcement of American military aircraft,

1952-1967 with Dr. Ven Hardesty, Aercnautics Deparmcnent, from Sectemcer 1,
1986, threuch Aucust 30, 1987.

Michael A. Dennis, Smithscnian Predcctoral Fellcw. New Relaticns:
Academic-military relaticns at the Hopkins Applied Fhysics Lab and the MIT
Instrumentaticn Lab, 1942-1952 with Dr. David DeVerkin, Srace Science and
Expicraticn Derartment, from Sectember 1, 1986, throush Aucuse 30, 1987.

Renald E. Deel, Gucgenheim Precectoral Fellcw. Joining Astrcenamy with
Gecrnysics:. The Formaticn of a Planetary Science Discipline, 1945-1965
with Dr. Jcosech Tatarewicz, Srace Science and Exploraticn Derarmnent, frem
Sectember 1, 1987, threuch August 31, 1988.

Icuis R. Eltscher, Alfred Verville Fellcw. A history of the
Curtiss-Wright aerenautical corscraticn with Mr. F. Reker= van der
Linden, Aercnautics Derarmment, from September 1, 1986, thrcouch August 30,

Dr. Herbert Friecman, the Martin Marietta Chair in Space History. Fermal,
in
-_

the Aerckee era in the 1950s with Dr. David DeVorkin, Srace Science and
Exploraticn Lerartment, from Sectemcer 1, 1986, through August 31, 1987.

Jcse Villela Gomez, Internaticnal Fellcw. Early airlines of Mexico,
establishment of the Mexican airline industry, and Mexico's place in

aviation history with Mr. R. E. G. Davies, Aeronautics Department, fom
July 7, 1986, threuch July 6, 1987.

Dr. C. Vance Haynes, Smithsonian Senior Pestdectoral Fellcw. Work on
joint research in remcete sensing of scuthern Egypt and northern Sudan with
Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and Planetary Studies, frem August 15,
1987, threuch December 15, 1987.

I29
George E. McGill, Visiting Scientist. Geolegic and tectcnic evoluticn of
the northern hemischere of Mars with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Center for Earth and
Planetary Studies, from September 15, 1986, threuch Jamuary 15, 1987.

Hassan Abdel Salam, Intsrnaticnal Exchange Visitor. Grcoundwater exploration
in the Western Desert of Egypt with Dr. Ted Maxwell, Centar for Earth and
Planetary Studies, from Octcber 15, 1986, through Octcber 30, 1986.

Bric Schatzkers, Short Term Visiter. Study of Icor Sikersky ard the
istery of technolesy with Dr. Vcn Hardesty, Aercnautics Derartment, frem
July 1, 1987, threush August 31, 1987.

Scot: Smith, Short Term Visitor. Research cn air combat tactics of the
Sceviet Air Ferce with Dr. Ven Hartesty, Aercnautics Derartnent, f&cm
June,.22,..1987., threugn July 3, 1987.

Ted Young, Shert Term Visiter. Research cn Curtiss aircraft excerts with
Dr. Von Hardesty, Aercnautics Derarmnent, from Sertemcer 14, 1987,
threucn Ccccker 2, 1987.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AFRICAN ART

Interns and Fellows

Sarah Aston, Masters Candidate, Colgate University. Organized

and catalogued art objects belonging to the Department of

Education; prepared outreach kits, workshop materials and
slide kits for teachers, from September 8, 1987 to
December 4, 1987.

Brenda Chalfin, Amherst College. Researched exhibitions and
catalogued archival material, from October 1, 1986 to
December 31, 1986.

Keith M. Conway, University of the District of Columbia.
Assisted with the conservation of archaeological artifacts,
from March 30, 1987 to December 31, 1987.

Marie Durquet, University of California at Davis. Researched
future exhibitions, for the curatorial department from
June 29, 1987 to August 21, 1987.

Winona Hubbard, University of California at Berkeley. Gathered,
prepared and presented information for public and press
use, from July 13, 1987 to August 18, 1987.

Anita W. McNamee. Assisted with public affairs programs for

1987 museum opening, included list development, wrote
newswire feature, etc., from January 7, 1987 to March 3l,
19387.
Henry Thaggert, III, Tulane University. Prepared educational
materials for the members of the docent program, from
August 3, 1987 to August 28, 1987. Aided iin compiling a

docent handbook on the permanent collection for the museum,
JuNnes ELIS to July Skerssy'. a5

Stryk D. Thomas, University of Michigan. Catalogued and
researched archival material, for the Eliot Elisofon
Archives, from June 1, 1987 to August 11, 1987.

Visiting Scholars

Ebenezer Nii Quarcoopome, Graduate Student Fellow, University of California,

Los Angeles. Art and Leadership among the Ga-Adangme and Ewe of Ghana
and Togo with Roy Sieber, from June 30 to September 4, 1987.

Dr. Christaud Geary, Rockefeller Resident Fellow, University of Boston.
Historical photographs for art historical and historical research
on Africa with Roy Sieber, from September 2, 1986 to September 2, 1987.

NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY
Interns

Beatrice E. Bachmann, Undergraduate, Georgetown University. Assisted with
research on radio and TV personnel of the 20's and 30's, with Amy Henderson,
Office of the Historian, from October 22, 1986 through May 31, 1987.

Kimberly Beynum, High School Student, Duke Ellington School of the Arts.
Assisted in building management office, helped with scheduling and served as
receptionist, with Mary Massey, Building Management Office, from June 29, 1987
through August 14, 1987.

Jane Bierman, Graduate, Colorado College. Organized Meserve collection
negatives, with William Stapp, Office of Prints and Photographs, from June 15,
1987 through August 31, 1987.

Clare C. Franklin, Undergraduate, Wellesley College. Conducted biographical
research and performed exhibits work for exhibition on broadcasting pioneers,
with Amy Henderson, Office of the Historian, from May 20, 1987 through August
28.5. L987.

M. Claire Garrett, Undergraduate, Vanderbilt University. Assisted in
organization of gifts and exchange materials, vertical file collection and
auction catalogue, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from June 2, 1987 through
August 8, 1987.

Kellie M. Gaudry, Undergraduate, Hollins College. Assisted in production of
gallery graphics, with Anice Doak, Office of Design and Production, from
January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.

Leslie A. Gray, Masters Degree, George Mason University. Developed secondary
school program on the Constitution and the Presidency, with Leni Buff, Office
of Education, from June 9, 1987 through October 31, 1987.

Carola Haden, Graduate, Drury College. Assisted staff in operation of
research office; verified photographic data, label integrating information and
did research for staff and public, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of American
Portraits, from June 15, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
13

Mary E. Hale, Undergraduate, Virginia Commonwealth University. Implemented
new vertical plan storage and filing system for all drawings in Office of
Design and Production; became familiar with role of exhibits work in museums
and other museum operations, with Steve di Girolamo, Office of Design and
Production, from May ll, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Mary Herrington, Masters Degree, Marymount College. General library work,
bibliographic search, GEAC computer; handled organization of Special
Collections, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from October 16, 1986 through
November 15, 1987.

Jill Heyman, Masters Degree, George Washington University. Assisted Education
Department in marketing its programs and promoting the Portrait Gallery and
its activities, with Kenneth Yellis, Office of Education, from January 12,
1987 through May 1, 1987.

Audrey Hollet, Graduate, University of California at Riverside. Developed
outreach material for conservation program; updated school mailing list, with
Harry Jackson, Office of Education, from June 29, 1987 through August 28,

HO Si.

Jack Holliday, Masters Degree, University of Dayton. Researched and wrote
drafts for "The Constitution and the Presidency," with Leni Buff, Office of
Education, from July 6, 1987 through July 31, 1987.

Russell Jackson, Undergraduate, University of Dallas. Assisted professional
staff, with James Barber, Office of the Historian, from July 31, 1987 through
August 15, 1987.

Jennifer Kabot, Undergraduate, Barnard College. Conducted biographical
research on Sara Hallowell (1846-1924), with Carolyn Carr, Assistant Director
for Collections, August 1987.

Leah Lignon, Undergraduate, University of Arkansas at Fayetteville. Assisted
with organizing gifts and exchange material, vertical file collection and
auction catalogs, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from May 26, 1987 through July
Si LIS:

Carol J. McCullough, Undergraduate, Hollins College. Assisted in production
of gallery graphics with Anice Doak, Office of Design and Production, from
January 5, 1987 through January 30, 1987.

Lisa M. Melchiori, Undergraduate, George Mason University. Researched items
in the Meserve Exhibit, with William Stapp, Office of Prints and Photographs,
from January 21, 1987 through May 15, 1987.

Kimberly R. Meldrum, Undergraduate, University of Michigan. Initiated
information gathering for a database system, with Claire Kelly, Office of
Exhibitions, from June 3, 1987 through August 3, 1987.

Christine Multra, Undergraduate, Gallaudet University. Assisted professional
staff, with Cecilia Chin, Library, from July 13, 1987 through August 15, 1987.
Paula Pergament, Undergraduate, Earlham College. Initiated information
gathering for a database system; was responsible for data entry, with Claire
Kelly, Office of Exhibitions, from June 22, 1987 through August 14, 1987.
Mary I. Peters, High School Student, Sidwell Friends School. Conducted
biographical research on a group of drawings by S. T. Woolf which date from
the 1920's through the 1940's, with Wendy W. Reaves, Office of Prints and
Photographs, from May 13, 1987 through June 4, 1987.

Elizabeth Peterson, Undergraduate, Connecticut College. Verified photographic
data, labeled, integrated data into master file; did research; responded to
general reference questions, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of American Portraits,
from June 1, 1987 through August 21, 1987.

Sylvie-Anne Robinson, Masters Degree, George Washington University. Designed
and developed brochure for programs for adult audiences; developed grant
proposal for monetary support for publications and distribution, with Harry
Jackson, Office of Education, from January 12, 1987 through May l, 1987.

Margot C. Sklar, Undergraduate, Wellesley College. Assisted with on-going
research projects on biographical information about notable Americans who are
the subjects of exhibitions or lectures at the museum, with James Barber,
Office of the Historian, from June 15, 1987 through August 7, 1987.

Elizabeth Stebbins, Graduate, Bates College. Prepared program notes and
programs for "American Voices;" prepared for fall programs including
"Portraits in American Song" and "American Colonial Portraits: 1700-1776,"
with Kenneth Yellis, Office of Education, from June 1, 1987 through August 21,
1987.

Margaret Steward, Graduate, University of Virginia. Served as research
assistant for exhibition (1992-93) celebrating Columbian Quincentenary--
portraits displayed in Fine Arts Building, Chicago Exposition of 1893, with
Brandon Fortune, Office of Paintings and Sculpture, from June 23, 1987 through
July-31., *1937-.

Elizabeth Stutzman, Undergraduate, James Madison University. Verified
photographic data, labeled, integrated data into master file; did research;
responded to general reference questions, with Linda Thrift, Catalog of
American Portraits, from June 1, 1987 through September 1, 1987.

Margaret B. Swallow, Graduate, University of Vermont. Cataloged collection of
confederate prints, with Wendy W. Reaves, Office of Prints and Photographs,
from June 15, 1987 through September 11, 1987.

Anne M. Vescovi, Graduate, Fort Wayne Art Museum. Assisted staff in operation
of research office; verified photographic data, labeled, integrated
information into a master file; did research for National Portrait Gallery
staff and public, with Richard Doud, Catalog of American Portraits, from April
7, 1987 through August 30, 1987.

OFFICE OF HORTICULTURE

Marthanne P. Aleman, Bachelors Candidate, Texas A&M University. Analyzed

site and made conceptual drawings for two areas being developed, nursery
and research center, research topography, utilities, drainage studies,

grading plans, irrigation systems, and layouts, June 1, 1987 through
August 21, 1987.

Daniel H. Bentrup, Bachelors Candidate, West Virginia University. Assisted
with collection management of the Cattleya orchids (both cultural and
records work), May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Ning Dai, Masters Degree, American University. Production of poinsettias
and special training techniques for pot mums, June 8, 1987 through

August 28, 1987.

Lee S. DeMars, Bachelor Candidate, George Mason University. General green-
house work - potting, watering, weeding, June 7, 1987 through July 11,
O87

Beth Hanlon, Bachelors Candidate, Georgetown University. Assisted with
verification, labeling and cataloguing of the Garden Club of American

Slide Collection, May 18, 1987 through August 14, 1987.

Dianne Hilborn, Bachelors Candidate, Michigan State University. Revised
Maintenance Manual and assisted in historic horticultural research,
September 14, 1987 through December 11, 1987.

Patricia A. Swartz, High School, Westtown School. General greenhouse work

(potting, watering, weeding, etc.), February 23, 1987 through March 6, 1987.
OFFICE OF FOLKLIFE PROGRAMS

Harihar Prasad Bhattarai, Ph.D. candidate, University of North
Carolina. Research on the Festival of American Folklife for
the development and presentation of Nepalese folk festivals,
with Richard Kurin, from June 1 through August 7, 1987.

Katherine C. Bond, B.A., Swarthmore College. Assistance in areas
involving folk arts of the Indochinese refugee population,
including the transcription of folk songs and the accumulation
of bibliographic material for a planning proposal, with Frank
Proschan, from September 22 through June 1, 1988.

S. Curtis Bowman, Visiting Professional, Institute of American
Indian Arts. Analysis of preparation and presentation of
Festival of American Folklife for use by local American Indian
museums, with Laurie Sommers, from May 26 through July 10,

USS 7.

Olivia Cadaval, Ph.D. candidate, George Washington University.
Comparison of performance and ethnic identity at the Festival
of American Folklife and the Washington, D.C. Latino Festival,
with Peter Seitel, from June 1 through May 31, 1988.

Carol A. Chapin, B.A., University of Wisconsin. Archival work,
with Pete Magoon, from October 20 through January 20, 1987.

R. Kevin Donald, Ph.D. candidate, University of Oregon.
Photographic documentation of the Metropolitan Washington
program, Festival of American Folklife, with Phyllis May-
Machunda, from June 1 through August 21, 1987.

Suzanne Fauteux, M.A. candidate, Columbia College. Archival
work, with Pete Magoon, from February 2 through May 8, 1987.

Huaren He, Visiting Professional, China Federation of Literary
and Art Circles, People's Republic of China. Research on
proverbs, with Peter Seitel, from April 24 through July 31,
9187s

Gordon A. Kirsch, B.A. candidate, Evergreen State College.
Archival work, with Pete Magoon, from January 28 through July
Le LOB Ws

Dennis G. Medina, M.A. candidate, University of Texas. Research
on expressive culture associated with the impact on
agricultural production of Columbus' voyage, with Alicia
Gonzalez, from June 15 through August 21, 1987, and September
through May, 1988.

Cynthia Y. Munoz, B.A. candidate, University of Texas. Research
on Texas languages, with Alicia Gonzalez, from June 15 through
August 21, 1987.

Michael J. Nelson, B.A. candidate, Haverford College. Assistance
with production and presentation of the Festival of American
Folklife, with Frank Proschan, from June 1 through August 7,
LOS Es

Emmett Printup, B.A., Syracuse University. Bibliographic
research on American Indian lacrosse, with Thomas Vennum, Jr.,
from February 17 through March 27, 1987.

Yunus Rubanza, Ph.D. candidate, Michigan State University.
Research on linguistic aspects of African epics, with Peter
Seitel, from August 1 through August 31, 1987.
Heidi Tobler, B.A. candidate,

Brigham Young University.

Archival

work with the Folkways Records acquisitions, with Ed O'Reilly,

from August 31 through December 17,
Sarah Louise Williams, High School Sr.,

Alexandria.

2:9 9 Sree

OFFICE OF MUSEUM PROGRAM

Visiting Professionals~ Program

Slvia Alsisto
Sandakan Ferest of Sabah
Sabah, Malaysia
Marco Alvin
Rui Barbesa Foundation
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Marcelo Araujo
Museu Lasar Segall
Sao Paulo, Brazil
Shifra Aronson
The Education Gallery
Tel-Aviv, Israel
Kathy Ball
Lafayetze
Latayette,
Mary Bellah
Carnegie Art Museum
Oxnard, California
Jacques Beauftet
Museum of Fine Arts
t. Etienne, France
Norman Birnbaum
Shippensburg University
Shippensburg, PA
Renal Bourgeois
National Museum of Canada
Ottawa, Canada
Denna Bryman
Vancouver Museum
Vancsuver, Canada
Jean Byers
Heritage Museum
Baker, LA
Nicolas Cando
Cantini Museum
Marseilles, France
Kuei-mao Chen
National Museum of
Taipei, Taiwan

Louisiana

History

Natural History Mus.

19187.
St. Agnes School,

Transcription of interviews from fieldwork on
creolization, with Nicholas Spitzer,

from May 8 through May

Bill. Chicdo
Dade Co. Public Schools
Miami, Florida
Susan Chykaliuk
McMichael Canadian Collection
Ontario, Canada
PatrictaCorsa i
Millicent Rogers Museum
Taos, New Mexico
Henry Crawford
Milwaukee Public Museum
Milwaukee, WI
Wendy Donowa
Barbados Museum
Barbados, West Indies
Adrian Ellis
Design Museum at Butlers Wharf
Lenden, England
Dorothy Fields
Dade Co. Public Schools
Miami, Florida
Noel Frankhan
Visual Arts
North Sydnev,
Lorenzo Galvan
Inst. of Texas Cultures
San Antonio
Freidhelm Haering
Oberhessiches Museum
Giessen, West Germany
Jorn Otto Hansen
Tonder Museum
South Jutland, Denmark
Eric Hedavist
Goteborgs Museer
Goteberg, Sweden
Nina Hobolth
Randers Art
Randers,

Crafts Board
Australia

Museum
Denmarx
Maria Horta-Barretito
Fundacao Nacional pro-Memoria
io de Janeiro, Brazil
Kuang-nan Huang
Taipei Fine Arts Museum
Taipei, Taiwan
Elizabeth Huntoon
Ghicaco iPublic. Library
Ehicago:,.7 LL
Paul Huvenne
Rubenshuis Museum
Antwerp, Belgium
Per Hvamstad
Museum in Nord-Osterdalen
Norway
Estalle Impey
Manitoba Mus. of Man & Nature
Winnipeq, Canada
James Jagan
U. S. Embassy
Per= of Sdain, Trinidad
Carroll Jones
Wyoming State Museum
Cheyenne, Wyoming
Tom Kaczkowski
University of
Champaign
Irene Kersting
Albuquerque Museum
Albuquerque, NM
Bobby Kidd
The Brocklyn Museum
Brocklyn, New York
Lean Luc Koltz
National Museums of Luxembcurg
Luxembourg
Andrzej Kostolowski
Adam Mikiewicz Museum
Smielow, Poland
Marilyn Kyles
Edison His
West Orange, NU
In-Scok Lee
Seoul Nat. University Museum
Seoul, Scuth Korea
Patrick Lynca
*. Louis Science Canter
*. Louis, MO
Sarah Main
Australian Museum
Svadney, Australia

EL inoen si

M + dn
7) 3 4
rie Sice

136

Maria Marabie
The Southwest Museum
Los Angeles, CA
S. C. Mehta
Dept. of Electronics
New Delhi, India
Michael Miksicek
<. Louis Science Center
St. Louis, MO
Patricia Miles
New Mexico State Univ. Museum
Las Cruces, NM
Hazel Moffat
Dept. of Educ. & Science
North Lincoln, England
Leo Napoleon
VA Dept. of Conservation &
Historic Resources
Charlottesville, VA
Ronnie Nichols
Arkansas Arts Center
Little Rock, Arkansas
M. L. Nigam
Salar Jung Museum
Hyderabad, India
Shoshana Nitzan
Israel Museum
Jerusalem, Israel
John Nolan
Ulster Museum & Gardens
Belfast, Northern Ireland
rinivasa Rajagcpvolan
Archeolccical Survey of India
Madras, India
Vs. Ps. Rangie
Natl. Handicrafts & Handlocms
Museum
New Delhi, India
Beldon Raspberry
Brocklyn Children's Museum
Brooklyn, New Yorx
Denise Rosario
Strecker Museum
Waco, Texas
Martina Rudloff
Gerhard Marcks Foundation
Bremen, West Germany
S. K. Sahni
Nat. Gallery of Mcecern Art
New Delhi, India
Sabita Sarkar
Indian Museum
Galcucsta ~ ineata

Markette Seppala
Pori Art Museum
Pori, Finland

Gabriel Serrano

Kansas Museum of History

Topeka, KS
Cynthia, Shubert

Saint Louis Art Museum

Saint Louis, MO
L. BP. Sihare
National Museum
New Delhi, India
Ant2 Soric
Muzejski Prostor

Zaqreb, Yugoslavia

Christine Takata
Bishop Museum
Honolulu, Hawaii

Franz van der Avert
Rijksmuseum
Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Olge and Inge-Lise Villadsen
Lolland-Falsters, Denmark
Lilia Villasenor
Portland Children's Museum
Portland, Oregon
Tyra Walker
Frederick Douglass House
Wasnhingtony..D..¢.s
Mei Wan
Texas Tech University Museum
Bubbpeck.,, Lx
Lawrence Wang
Meacows Museum of Art
Dallas.,.. TX
Rosemary Watt
Burrell: Collection
Glasgow, Scotland
Carol Weatnersroon

NC Museum of Lire and Science
Regional Council of Hong Kong Durham, North Carolina
Emilio de la Torre Elisheva Yarhi

Science & Technology Museum Israel Museum

Bessie Tong

Project
Guatemala City,

Guatemala

Jerusalem, Israel
Appendix 5

Publications of the Smithsonian Institution Press in Fiscal Year 1987

GENERAL PUBLICATIONS

Trade Publications

pages, | chart, 2 maps. September, 1987. Paper: $14.95.

Bergon, Frank, editor. A Sharp Lookout: Selected Nature Essays of John
Burroughs. 500 pages, 18 black and white illustrations. September,
1987. Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95.

Blatti, Jo, editor. Past Meets Present: Essays About Historic
Interpretation and Public Audiences. 192 pages, 10 black and white
illustrations. May, 1987. Cloth: $19.95; paper: $11.95.

Chock, Phyllis Pease, and June R. Wyman, editors. Discourse and the
Social Life of Meaning. 232 pages, 5 figures. November, 1986. Cloth:
$22.50.

Airways. 432 pages, 36 black and white illustrations, 7 maps. July,
1987. Cloth: $22.50.

Caribbean, 1500-1800. Volume I: Ceramics, Glassware, and Beads.
208 pages, 6 color and 114 black and white illustrations, 17 line
drawings. July, 1987. Cloth: $35.00; paper: $19.95.

DeVorkin, David H.; illustrations by Steve Postman. Practical Astronomy:
Lectures on Time, Place, and Space. 110 pages, 66 black and white
illustrations. October, 1986. Paper: $12.95.

Duncan, Wilbur A., and Marion B. Duncan. The Smithsonian Guide to
Seaside Plants of the Gulf and Atlantic Coasts from Louisiana to

Massachusetts, Exclusive of Lower Peninsular Florida. 410 pages, 588
color and 189 black and white illustrations. March, 1987. Cloth:
$45.00; paper: $29.95.

Eberhard, William G., Yael D. Lubin, and Barbara C. Robinson, editors.
Proceedings of the Ninth International Congress of Arachnology, Panama
1983. 334 pages, 187 black and white illustrations. November, 1986.
Paper: $25.00.

Ehrenberg, Ralph E. Scholars’ Guide to Washington, D.C: Cartography and
Remote Sensing Imagery. 420 pages. June, 1987. Cloth: $29.95; paper:
$15.00.

Hazen, Margaret Hindle, and Robert M. Hazen. The Music Men: An
Illustrated History of Brass Bands in America, 1800-1920. 272 pages,

170 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $39.95; paper:
$19.95.

Hindle, Brooke, and Steven Lubar. Engines of Change: The American
Industrial Revolution, 1790-1860. 310 pages, 217 black and white
illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $29.95; paper: $14.95.

Hoage, R. J., and Larry Goldman, editors; introduction by David
Challinor. Animal Intelligence: Insights into the Animal Mind. 208
pages, 34 black and white illustrations. December, 1986. Paper:
$10.95.

Society from Prehistory to the Islamic Conquest. 406 pages, 90
tables, 39 line drawings. June, 1987. Cloth: $49.95.

Hotton, Nicholas III, Paul D. MacLean, Jan J. Roth, and E. Carol Roth,
editors. The Ecology and Biology of Mammal-like Reptiles. 336 pages,
166 black and white illustrations. December, 1986. Cloth: $35.00;
paper: $19.95.

Isar, Yudhishthir Raj, editor; foreword by Paul Perrot. The Challenge to
Our Cultural Heritage: Why Preserve the Past? 252 pages, 55 black
and white illustrations. November, 1986. Paper: $11.95.

Isler, Morton L., and Phyllis R. Isler; foreword by Theodore A. Parker
III. The Tanagers: Natural History, Distribution, and
Identification. 464 pages, 32 color plates, 263 maps. April, 1987.
Cloth: $70.00; paper: $49.95.

Jarrett, Philip. Another Icarus: Percy Pilcher and the Quest for
Flight. 238 pages, 48 black and white illustrations, 19 figures, 2
maps. March, 1987. Cloth: $22.50.

American Culture. 258 pages, 8 black and white illustrations.
November, 1986. Cloth: $24.95; paper: $14.95.

and white illustrations, 12 line drawings, 4 two-color posters. July,
1987. Paper: $9.95.

Park, Edwards, with Jean Paul Carlhian; foreword by Robert McC. Adams. A
on the National Mall. 160 pages, 28 color and 134 black and white
illustrations, 40 drawings. September, 1987. Paper: $19.95.

Reingold, Nathan, and Marc Rothenberg, editors. Scientific Colonialism:

A Cross-Cultural Comparison. Papers at a Conference at Melbourne, May
25-30, 1981. 412 pages. December, 1986. Paper: $29.95.

Shetler, Stanwyn G.; foreword by Robert S. Hoffmann. Portraits of
Nature: Paintings by Robert Bateman. 160 pages, 32 color and 54 black
and white illustrations. January, 1987. Paper: $17.50.

Spenser, Jay P. Focke-Wulf Fw 190: Workhorse of the Luftwaffe. 104
pages, 4 color and 124 black and white illustrations, 4 figures.

March, 1987. Paper: $10.95.

Strom, Robert G.; foreword by Ted A. Maxwell. Mercury: The Elusive
Planet. 208 pages, 1 color and 74 black and white illustrations, 28
line drawings. April, 1987. Cloth: $19.95.

—S ee eS eee ee

Arizona to the Smithsonian. 48 pages, 15 black and white
illustrations. December, 1986. Paper: $8.95.

Wolko, Howard S., editor; foreword by Walter J. Boyne. The Wright Flyer:
An Engineering Perspective. 106 pages, 142 black and white
illustrations. December, 1986. Paper: $9.95.

Exhibition Catalogues
Issued as Trade Publications

Anacostia Museum
Driskell, David; foreword by John Kinard. Contemporary Visual

Expressions. 80 pages, 21 color and 13 black and white illustrations.
June, 1987. Paper: $15.95.
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Lawton, Thomas, Shen Fu, Glenn D. Lowry, Ann Yonemura, and Milo C. Beach.

pages, 64 color and 245 black and white illustrations. September,
1987. Paper: $24.95.

National Museum of African Art

African Art. 64 pages, | color illustration, 33 duotones. September,
1987. Paper: $12.95.

Gilfoy, Peggy Stoltz; foreword by Sylvia Williams. Patterns of Life:
West African Strip-Weaving Traditions. 96 pages, 42 color
illustrations, 5 maps, 17 duotones, | line drawing. September, 1987.
Paper: $16.95.

Sieber, Roy, and Roslyn Adele Walker. African Art in the Cycle of Life.
168 pages, 58 color illustrations, 76 duotones, | map. September,
1987. Cloth: $39.95; paper: $19.95.

National Museum of American Art

Mecklenburg, Virginia M., and William Kloss; foreword by Charles C.
Collection. 144 pages, 48 color and 68 black and white illustrations.
April, 1987. Paper: $16.95.

Serwer, Jacquelyn D., Douglas Davis, and Donald Kuspit; foreword by
Charles C. Eldredge. Gene Davis: A Memorial Exhibition. 192 pages,

90 color illustrations, 28 duotones. March, 1987. Cloth: $49.50.
National Museum of American History

Daniel, Pete, Merry A. Foresta, Maren Stange, and Sally Stein. Official
Images: New Deal Photography. 208 pages, 171 black and white
illustrations. July, 1987. Paper: $24.95.

National Portrait Gallery

Honored Tradition. 88 pages, 32 color and 2 black and white plates.
September, 1987. Paper: $12.95.

Trade Reprints
New Editions

Bleeker, Pieter. Atlas Ichtvologique des Indes Orientales Néérlandaises.
Volume VI: Pleuronectes Scombrésoces Clupées, Clupésoces,
Chauliodontes, Saurides. 175 pages, 43 color plates. July, 1987.

Cloth: $50.00.

Lumbreras, Luis G.; tramslation by Betty J. Meggers. The Peoples and
Cultures of Ancient Peru. 248 pages, 232 black and white
illustrations. June, 1987. Paper: $14.95.

Middleton, John; foreword by Ivan Karp. Lugbara Religion: Ritual and
Authority Among an East African People. 294 pages, 5 black and white
plates, 10 figures. December, 1986. Paper: $14.95.

140
Peters, James A., Roberto Donoso-Barros, and Braulio Orejas-Miranda; new
material by P.E. Vanzolini. Catalogue of the Neotropical Squamata.
Part I: Snakes. Part Il: Lizards and Amphisbaenians. 672 pages, 148
black and white illustrations. November, 1986. Paper: $29.95.

Swanton, John R. Indians of the Southeastern United States. 1,068 pages,

112 black and white illustrations, 13 maps. September, 1987. Paper:
$25.00.

Trade Reprints
of Previous Editions

Boyne, Walter J., and Donald S. Lopez, editors. Vertical Flight: The Age
of the Helicopter. 272 pages, 216 black and white illustrations, 28
figures. May, 1987. Paper: $19.95.

Dick, Harold G., with Douglas H. Robinson. The Golden Age of the Great
Passenger Air Ships: Graf Zeppelin and Hindenburg. 226 pages, 88
black and white illustrations. June, 1987. Cloth: $24.95.

Hoage, R. J., editor. Animal Extinctions: What Everyone Should Know.
206 pages, 30 black and white illustrations. July, 1987. Paper:
$10.95.

Kloss, William; foreword by Charles C. Eldredge. Treasures from the

white illustrations. December, 1986. Cloth: $39.95.

Malaro, Marie C. A Legal Primer on Managing Museum Collections. 366
pages. April, 1987. Paper: $14.95.

Nero, Robert W.; photographs by Robert R. Taylor. The Great Gray Owl:
Phantom of the Northern Forest. 168 pages, 30 color and 56 black and
white illustrations. September, 1987. Paper: $12.50.

Protopappas, John J., and Lin Brown, editors. Washington on Foot. 224
pages, 95 black and white illustrations, 26 maps. June, 1987. Paper:
$5.95.

Trade Publications
Distributed for Other Publishers

Copublished with Airlife Publishing, Ltd., England

Golley, John, and William Gunston. Whittle: The True Story. 290 pages,
1 color and 48 black and white illustrations, 1 map, 9 figures.
August, 1987. Cloth: $24.95.

Hudson River Museum, Yonkers, New York

Panzer, Mary; foreword by Estelle Jussim. In My Studio: Rudolf
Eickemeyer, Jr., and the Art of the Camera, 1885-1930. 112 pages, 92

duotones. July, 1987. Paper: $18.95.

Marg Publications, Bombay

Doshi, Saryu, editor. An Age of Splendor: Islamic Art in India. 150
pages, 86 color and 96 black and white illustrations. October, 1986.
Cloth: $45.00.

. Goa: Cultural Patterns. 152 pages, 69 color and 200 black

and white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $45.00.

I4I
14

Homage to Karnataka. 156 pages, 48 color and 139 black and
white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $45.00.

India and Greece: Connections and Parallels. 132 pages, 46
color and 82 black and white illustrations. February, 1987. Cloth:
$45.00.

Maharashtra. 306 pages, 227 color and 300 black and white

illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $65.00.

Pageant of Indian Art. 174 pages, 84 color and 164 black and
white illustrations. October, 1986. Cloth: $45.00.

Michell, George, editor. Islamic Heritage of the Deccan. 130 pages, 55
color and 94 black and white illustrations. February, 1987. Cloth:
$45.00.

Pal, Pratapaditya, editor. American Collectors of Asian Art. 205 pages,
60 color and 165 black and white illustrations. February, 1987.
Cloth: $50.00.

National Archives, Washington, D.C.

of Relations, 1765-1815. 1,184 pages, 4 color and 115 black and white
illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $40.00.
Beers, Henry Putney; introduction by Frank G. Burke. The Confederacy: A

Bloom, Sol. The Story of the Constitution. 192 pages, 51 black and white
illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $8.95.

Butler, John P., compiler. Index: Papers of the Continental Congress,
1774-1789. 6,615 pages. April, 1987. Cloth: $85.00.

Charleton, James H., Robert G. Ferris, and Mary C. Ryan, editors. Framers
of the Constitution. 260 pages, 106 black and white illustrations.
April, 1987. Cloth: $19.50.

Guide to Genealogical Research in the National Archives. 304 pages, |
color and 40 black and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth:
$35.00; paper: $25.00.

Harris, Kenneth E., and Steven D. Tilley, compilers. Index: The Journals
of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 430 pages, 1 black and white
illustration. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.

Hill, Edward E., compiler. Guide to Records in the National Archives
Relating to American Indians. 468 pages, 24 black and white
illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.

Munden, Kenneth W., and Henry Putney Beers; introduction by Frank G.
Burke. The Union: A Guide to the Federal Archives Relating to the
Civil War. 722 pages. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.

Newman, Debra L., compiler. Black History: A Guide to Civilian Records
in the National Archives. 380 pages, 40 black and white
illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00; paper: $15.00.

Ryan, Garry D., and Timothy K. Nenninger, editors. Soldiers and
Civilians: The U.S. Army and the American People. 244 pages, 30 black

and white illustrations. April, 1987. Cloth: $25.00.
Ulibarri, George, and John P. Harrison, compilers. Guide to Materials on
Latin America in the National Archives. 490 pages. April, 1987.
Cloth: $25.00.

Walch, Timothy, editor. Guardian of Heritage: Essays on the History of
the National Archives. 94 pages, 76 black and white illustrations.
April, 1987. Paper: $7.00.

, compiler. Our Family, Our Town: Essays on Family and Local

The Written Word Endures: Milestone Documents of American History. 112

pages, 66 color and 158 black and white illustrations. April, 1987.
Cloth: $12.50.

Scottish Academic Press, Edinburgh

Fardon, Richard, editor. Power and Knowledge: Anthropological and
Sociological Approaches. 216 pages. October, 1986. Cloth: $19.95.

Annual Reports

American Historical Association Annual Report. 148 pages. October, 1986.

National Air and Space Museum Research Report 1986. 246 pages, 2 color
and 69 black and white illustrations. November, 1986.

Smithsonian Year 1986. 192 pages, | color and 63 black and white
illustrations. May, 1987.

Smithsonian Year 1986 Supplement: Chronology and Appendixes. 380 pages.
May, 1987.

Books
National Museum of Natural History
Fiske, Richard S., Tom Simkin, and Elizabeth A. Nielson, editors. The
Volcano Letter. A reprint of journal issues published by the Hawaiian
Volcano Observatory from 1925-1955. 1,536 pages. December, 1986.

Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Part of Your General Public is Disabled: A Handbook for Guides. 104

pages, 3 black and white illustrations. June, 1987.
Office of Public Affairs

Yesterday and Today. 106 pages, 29 black and white illustrations, 3 line
drawings. July, 1987.

Smithsonian Institution Press

Official Guide to the Smithsonian. 160 pages, 198 color illustrations.

January, 1987.
144

Booklets
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. 32 pages, 12 color illustrations and 13
duotones. September, 1987.

Assistant Secretary for Research

Smithsonian Support for Research, Exhibitions, Acquisitions, Education
and Publication. 20 pages. September, 1987.

National Museum of African Art

Educational Programs and Resources. 24 pages, 13 color slides and 9
black and white illustrations. September, 1987.

Office of Membership and Development

James J. Smithson Society Dinner Program 1987. 24 pages. September,
1987.

Office of Public Affairs

white illustrations, | map. September, 1987.

A Guide to the Smithsonian for Disabled Visitors. 28 pages, 14 black and

Brochures
Anacostia Museum

Climbing Jacob’s Ladder. 10 pages, 8 black and white illustrations. May,
1987.

Contemporary Visual Expressions. 8 pages, 6 color and | black and white
illustration, 2 line drawings. May, 1987.

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery. 8 pages, 10 color illustrations. September,
1987.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Winter/Spring 1987 Calendar. 8
pages, 9 black and white illustrations. January, 1987.

Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden Spring/Summer 1987 Calendar.
pages, 12 black and white illustrations. April, 1987.

Lucian Freud. 4 pages, 5 black and white illustrations. September, 1987.

Morris Louis. 4 pages, 4 black and white illustrations. May, 1987.

Nancy Graves: A Sculpture Retrospective. 4 pages, 6 black and white
illustrations. February, 1987.

Roger Brown. 4 pages, 6 black and white illustrations. August, 1987.

National Museum of African Art

National Museum of African Art. 10 pages, 4 color and 5 black and white

illustrations. May, 1987.

Office of Public Affairs

Complex. 4 pages, 1 black and white illustration, | line drawing,
color folder. September, 1987.

Explore Your Heritage. 8 pages, 3 black and white illustrations.
September, 1987.

Flyers

National Museum of African Art

February, 1987.
National Museum of African Art Calendar of Events: Fall, 1987. 2 pages,

5 black and white illustrations. September, 1987.
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education
Intern ’87. 6 pages, 8 black and white illustrations. December, 1986.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute

Barro Colorado Monument. 2 pages, 7 color and 2 black and white
illustrations, 3 line drawings. March, 1987.

Folders
Office of Fellowships and Grants

Research and Study Opportunities at the Smithsonian Institution. 6 pages,
1 line drawing. September, 1987.

Office of Horticulture

4

he Trees of Christmas. 6 pages, | black and white illustration, 2 maps.
December, 1986.

Office of Public Affairs

The Smithsonian’s New Museum Complex on the Mall. 4 pages, | color
illustration, | line drawing. July, 1987.

Invitations
National Museum of American Art

Modern American Realism: The Sara Roby Foundation Collection. 3 pages,

1 color illustration.
146

Office of Public Service

Opening of the Smithsonian Institution’s New Museum and Garden Complex:
The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, the Enid A. Haupt Garden, the National
Museum of African Art, and the S. Dillon Ripley Center.

Associate Donor Open House. 3 pages, 1 black and white illustration, |
line drawing. July, 1987.

Board of Regents Dinner and Reception. 3 pages, 1 black and white
illustration, 1 line drawing. July, 1987.

Congressional Open House. | page. July, 1987.

Facilities Service Reception. | page. July, 1987.

James S. Smithson Society Dinner. | page. July, 1987.

pages, 2 line drawings. July, 1987.
Opening of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Black-Tie Dinner. | page. July, 1987.
Festschrift in Celebration of Dr. Arthur M. Sackler. 4 pages, 2 black and

pages, | black and white illustration. July, 1987.

Opening of the National Museum of African Art

drawing. July, 1987.
Black-Tie Dinner. | page. July, 1987.

1 color illustration. July, 1987.
Opening of the S. Dillon Ripley Center

Directorate of International Activities/Smithsonian Institution Traveling
Exhibition Service Evening Lecture. "Tomarrow’s Children: The Outlook
for the Next Generation," by David Maybury-Lewis. 1 page. July,

1987.
Exhibition Service Reception. 4 pages, | color illustration. July,
1987.

Directorate of International Activities/Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program Evening Lecture. "The Americas: One Shared Memory," by Carlos
Fuentes. | page. July, 1987

Directorate of International Activities/Smithsonian Resident Associate
Program Reception. 4 pages, | color illustration. July, 1987.

International Center Film Program and Luncheon. "In the Shadow of the
Forest: The Baka Pygmies." 4 pages, 1 line drawing. July, 1987.

Newsletters
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education

Art to Zoo. Published quarterly.
et’s Go to the Smithsonian. Published monthly, September through May.

Office of Public Affairs

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 50, Winter 1986. January,
1987.

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 51, Spring 1987. June,
1987.

Smithsonian Institution Research Reports Number 52, Autumn 1987. August,
1987.

Posters
Arthur M. Sackler Gallery

Arthur M. Sackler Gallery Inaugural Poster. September, 1987.
Discover Asian Art. September, 1987.

September, 1987.
Naturalist Center Identification Series

Butterflies and their Flowers. 10 color illustrations. April, 1987.

Distributed by SI Press/$5.00.

Office of Fellowships and Grants

Foundation Residency Program in the Humanities, 1988-1989. 1 color
illustration. September, 1987.

SERIES PUBLICATIONS
Smithsonian Contributions to Botany

62. Patricia G. Palmer and Susan Gerbeth-Jones. "A Scanning Electron
Microscope Study of the Epidermis of East African Grasses, IV." 120
pages, 86 black and white plates. October 27, 1986.

64. Harold Robinson and Clodomiro Marticorena. "A Palynological Study
of the Liabeae (Asteraceae)." 50 pages, 208 black and white figures.
October 10, 1986.

65. Thomas R. Soderstrom, Roger P. Ellis, and Emmet J. Judziewicz. "The
Phareae and Streptogyneae (Poaceae) of Sri Lanka: A Morphological-
Anatomical Study." 27 pages, 8 black and white figures. April 15,

1987.

147
148

27.

28.

29:

30.

60.

61.

437.

442.

443.

444,

445.

446.

447.

Smithsonian Contributions to the Earth Sciences

Eugene Jarosewich, Roy S. Clarke, Jr., and Julie N. Barrows,
editors. "The Allende Meteorite Reference Sample." 49 pages, 32
tables. February 24, 1987.

Smithsonian Contributions to the Marine Sciences

Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent
Benthic Foraminifera off the North American Pacific Coast from
California to Baja." 634 pages, 131 black and white figures, 2
tables. December 29, 1986.

Jane E. Lewis and James N. Norris. "A History and Annotated Account
of the Benthic Marine Algae of Taiwan." 38 pages, 1 black and white
figure. June 8, 1987.

Stephen J. Culver and Martin A. Buzas. "Distribution of Recent
Benthic Foraminifera off the Pacific Coast of Mexico and Central
America." 184 pages, 115 black and white figures. September 10, 1987.

Smithsonian Contributions to Paleobiology

Roberta K. Smith and Martin A. Buzas. "Microdistribution of
Foraminifera in a Single Bed of the Monterey Formation, Monterey
County, California." 33 pages, 4 black and white figures, 2 black and
white plates, 7 tables. October 27, 1986.

Clayton E. Ray, editor. "Geology and Paleontology of the Lee Creek
Mine, North Carolina, II." 283 pages, 49 black and white figures, 80
black and white plates, 21 tables. June 15, 1987.

Smithsonian Contributions to Zoology

Hernan Ortega and Richard P. Vari. "Annotated Checklist of the
Freshwater Fishes of Peru." 25 pages, 1 black and white figure, 1
table. October 10, 1986.

Richard P. Vari and Hernan Ortega. “The Catfishes of the
Neotropical Catfish Family Helogenidae (Ostariophysi: Siluroidei)."
20 pages, 9 black and white figures, 3 tables. November 21, 1986.
Horton H. Hobbs, Jr. "A Review of the Crayfish Genus Astacoides
(Decapoda: Parastacidae)." 50 pages, 23 black and white figures.
March 24, 1987.

David K. Camp and Raymond B. Manning. "Observations on
Nannosquilla, with Descriptions of Three New Species from the
Northwestern Atlantic (Crustacea: Stomatopoda)." 17 pages, 8 black
and white figures. November 21, 1986.

Richard S. Houbrick. "Anatomy, Reproductive Biology, and Phylogeny
of the Planaxidae (Cerithiacea: Prosobranchia)." 57 pages, 27 black
and white figures, 6 tables. March 18, 1987.

Paul J. Spangler and Silvia Santiago. "A Revision of the
Neotropical Aquatic Beetle Genera Disersus, Pseudodisersus, and
Potamophilops (Coleoptera: Elmidae)." 40 pages, 140 black and white
figures. February 24, 1987.

Masahiro Dojiri and Roger F. Cressey. “Revision of the
Taeniacanthidae (Copepoda: Poecilostomatoida) Parasitic on Fishes and
Sea Urchins." 250 pages, 166 black and white figures, 5 tables. April
17, 1987.

448. Marjorie L. Reaka and Raymond B. Manning. "The Significance of
Body Size, Dispersal Potential, and Habitat for Rates of Morphological
Evolution in Stomatopod Crustacea." 46 pages, 11 tables. March 24,
1987.

449. Anne C. Cohen and Louis S. Kornicker. "Catalog of the
Rutidermatidae (Crustacea: Ostracoda)." 11 pages. February 24, 1987.

450. Oliver S. Flint, J. Frank McAlpine, and Herbert H. Ross. "A
Revision of the Genus Leptonema Guerin (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae:
Macronematinae.)" 193 pages, 798 black and white figures, 31 maps, 1
dendrogram. July 16, 1987.

451. Karl V. Krombein and J. van der Vecht. "Biosystematic Studies of
Ceylonese Wasps, XVII: A Revision of Sri Lankan and South Indian
Bembix Fabricius (Hymenoptera: Sphecoidea: Nyssonidae)." 30 pages,
36 black and white figures. March 26, 1987.

452. Robert H. Gibbs, Jr., and William H. Krueger. "Biology of
Freshwater Fishes of the Bermuda Ocean Acre." 187 pages, 4 black and
white figures, 169 tables. June 17, 1987.

455. C. W. Hart, Jr., and Janice Clark. "An Interdisciplinary
Bibliography of Freshwater Crayfishes (Astacoidea and Parastacoidea)
from Aristotle through 1985." 437 pages. March 28, 1987.

Smithsonian Folklife Studies
5 Robert Sayers with Ralph Rinzler. "The Korean Onggi Potter." 292
pages, black and white frontispiece, 117 black and white figures. July
15, 1987.
Smithsonian Studies in History and Technology
48. Robert F. Multhauf and Gregory Good. "A Brief History of
Geomagnetism and a Catalog of the Collections of the National Museum of
American History." 87 pages, 76 black and white figures. April 2,
1987.
DIRECT MAIL PUBLICATIONS
Books
Boyne, Walter J. The Smithsonian Book of Flight. 288 pages, 186 color

and 158 black and white illustrations. May, 1987. Retail: $26.97;
Associates: $22.95.

Recordings

by Nolan Porterfield. 24 page booklet with 9 illustrations accompanies
2 records or | cassette. December, 1987. Retail: $16.98: Associates:
$15225:

Singers and Soloists. Selected by Martin Williams and annotated by Mark
Tucker. 78 page booklet with 58 illustrations accompanies 6 records or
4 cassettes. September, 1987. Retail: $47.96; Associates: $44.96.

Smithsonian Collection of Classic Jazz. Selected and annotated by Martin
Williams; biographies by Ira Gitler. 120 page booklet with 31
illustrations accompanies 7 records or 5 cassettes. February, 1987.
Retail: $49.96; Associates: $44.96.

149
Appendix 6

Publications of the Staff of the Smithsonian Institution
and Its Subsidiaries in Fiscal Year 1987

NATIONAL ZOOLOGICAL PARK

Director

Robinson, M.H. 1986. Zoos today and tomorrow. American Association of
Zoological Parks and Aquariums, Regional Preceedings. Pp. 527-531.

=—=——-— . 1986. Egg-sac burying behavior in Nephila maculata: a specialized
adaption. Proceedings, Ninth International Congress of Arachnology,
W.G. Eberhard, H.D. Lubin and B.C. Robinson, eds., pp. 245-254,
Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, D.C.

SSSSsS -. 1987. Zoos today and tomorrow. Place, January-February, pp. 22-
24, Washington, D.C.

------ -. 1987. Phenomena, comments and notes. Smithsonian, 17(11), pp. 30-
37, Washington, D.C.

sae . 1987. The actual and potential role of biological research in the
development of exhibits. American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums, Regional Proceedings, pp. 12-18.

------- . 1987. [Review] Spiders: Webs, Behavior and Evolution by William
A. Shear, ed. National Geographic Research, 3(3):273-275.

------- . 1986. The biological resources of Southeast Asia and future
development. Proceedings, ASEAN Science and Technology Converence,
Kuala Lumpur, Malasia.

------- - Alternatives to destruction. Biodiversity, E.0. Wilson ed.,
National Academy Press, Washington, D.C. (in press).

Registrar

Block, Judith A. 1987. Wildlife regulations in the United States: A
review of Controlled Wildlife Volume III: State Wildlife Regulations.
Zoo Biology 6:89-90.

Department of Animal Health

Brown, J.L., K.L. Goodrowe, D. Armstrong, L.G. Simmons and D.E. Wildt. 1987.
Hormonal responses to GnRH and serum cortisol levels in two species of
wild felidae. Proceedings. Society for the Study of Reproduction,
Biology of Reproduction, Supplement 1, 36:129.

Bush, M., L.G. Phillips and R.J. Montali. 1987. Clinical management of
captive tigers. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics,
Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species, R.L. Tilson and
U.S. Seal, eds., Noyes Publications, Park Ridge (in press).

150
Chaudhuri, M., D.G. Kleiman, D.E. Wildt, M. Bush, E.S. Frank and R.B. Thau.
1987. Urinary steroid levels during natural and induced estrus,
pregnancy and pseudopregnancy in the giant panda. Proceedings.
Society for the Study of Reproduction, Supplement 1, 34:146.

Citino, S.B., M. Bush and L.G. Phillips. 1987. ECG of the month. Journal
of the American Veterinary Medical Association. 190:950-951.

Goodrowe, K.L. and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Ovarian response to human chorionic
gonadotropin or gonadotropin releasing hormone in natural or induced-
estrus cats. Theriogenology 29:811-817.

Howard, J.G., M. Bush, V. de Vos, M.C. Schiewe, V.G. Pursel and D.E. Wildt.
1986. Influence of cryoprotective diluent on post-thaw viability and

acrosomal integrity of spermatozoa from the African elephant (Loxodonta

africana). Journal of Reproduction and Fertility (in press).

Monfort, S.L., C. Wemmer, M. Bush, T.H. Kepler and D.E. Wildt. 1987.
Effective diagnosis of pregnancy and parturition onset in Eld’s deer
(Cervus eldi): Evaluation of urinary hormonal metabolites. American
Association of Zoo Veterinarians. Annual Proceedings (in press).

O°Brien, S.J., G.E. Collier, R.E. Benveniste, W.G. Nash, A.K. Newman, J.M.
Simonson, M.A. Eichelberger, U.S. Seal, D. Janssen, M. Bush and D.E.
Wildt. 1987. Setting the molecular clock in Felidae: The great cats,
Panthera. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management
and Conservation of an Endangered Species, R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal
eds., Noyes Publications, Park Ridge (in press).

O’Brien, S.J., J.S. Martenson, C. Packer, L. Herbst, V. de Vos, P. Joslin, J.
Ott-Joslin, D.E. Wildt and M. Bush. 1987. Biochemical genetic
variation in zoogeographic isolates of African and Asiatic lions.
National Geographic Society. Research Reports. (in press).

O’Brien, S.J., D.E. Wildt, M. Bush, T.M. Caro, C. FitzGibbon and R.E. Leakey.
1987. East African cheetahs: Evidence for two bottlenecks? National
Academy of Sciences. Proceedings (in press).

Schiewe, M.C., M. Bush, V. de Vos and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Semen
characteristics, sperm freezing and endocrine profiles in free-ranging
wildebeest and greater kudu. Proceedings. Society for the Study of
Reproduction, Biology of Reproduction, Supplement 1, 36:158.

Schiewe, M.C., P.M. Schmidt and D.E. Wildt. 1987. A comparative study of
mouse embryo freeze preservation including the examination of the
thermo-electric cryogenic device. Cryobiology 24:238-246.

Schmidt, P.M., M.C. Schiewe and D.E. Wildt. 1987. Technical considerations
for freezing mammalian embryos. Annual Proceedings, American
Association of Zoo Veterinarians. (in press).

<——==—= . 1987. Genotypic response of mouse embryos to multiple freezing
variables. Biology of Reproduction (in press).

Wallace, R.S., M. Bush and R.J. Montali. 1987. A review of deaths from
exertional myopathy at the National Zoological Park from 1975-1985.
Journal of Wildlife Diseases (in press).

Wallace, R.S. and M. Bush. 1987. Exertional myopathy complicated by a
ruptured bladder in a dama gazelle (Gazella dama). Journal of Zoo
Animal Medicine (in press).

Wallace, R.S., R.J. Montali and M. Bush. 1987. Select diseases of captive
small mammals. Procedures of the 29th International Symposium on the

Diseases of Zoo and Wild Animals, Cardiff, Wales. pp. 131-135.

Wallace, R.S. and B. Rideout. 1987. What is your diagnosis? Journal of the
American Veterinary Medical Association (in press).
Wildt, D.E. 1987. Strategies for the practical application of reproductive
technologies to endangered species. Zoo Biology. (in press).

Wildt, D.E. and K.L. Goodrowe. 1987. The potential of applying embryo
technology to the black-footed ferret. Conservation Biology and the
Black-Footed Ferret, U.S. Seal, ed., Yale University Press, New Haven
(in press).

Wildt, D.E., J.G. Howard, C. Morton and M. Bush. 1987. Reproductive
studies of the domestic ferret as an investigational model for the
black-footed ferret. American Association of Zoo Veterinarians.
Annual Proceedings. (in press).

Wildt, D.E., S.J. O’Brien, J.G. Howard, T.M. Caro, M.E. Roelke, J.L. Brown
and M. Bush. 1987. Similarity in ejeculate-endocrine
characteristics in captive versus free-ranging cheetahs of two
subspecies. Biology of Reproduction. 36:351-360.

Wildt, D.E., L.G. Phillips, L.G. Simmons, K.L. Goodrowe, J.G. Howard, J.L.
Brown and M. Bush. 1987. Seminal-endocrine characteristics of the
tiger and the potential for artificial breeding. Tigers of The World:
The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered
Species, R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds. Noyes Publications, Park
Ridge (in press).

Department of Pathology

Dein, F., J.W. Carpenter, G.G. Clark, R.J. Montali, et al. 1986. Mortality
of captive whooping cranes caused by eastern equine encephalitis virus.
Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 189:1006-1010.

Nichols, D.K., V.L. Campbell and R.J. Montali. 1986. Pansteatitis in great
blue heron. Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association,
189:1110-1112.

Partington, C. and R.J. Montali. 1986. Capillaria in Kirk’s dik dik.
Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, 17:123-128.

Plowman, C., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, Jr., L. Schlater and L. Lowenstine.
1987. Septicemia and chronic abscesses in iguanas associated with a
Neiserria sp.. Journal of Zoo Animal Medicine, (in press).

Montali, R.J., E.C. Ramsay, L.G. Phillips, Jr. and M. Bush. 1987. Pathology
survey of captive golden lion tamarins. The Biology of the Golden Lion
Tamarin, ed., Kleiman, D. (in press).

Montali, R.J. 1987. Comparisons of diseases of waterfowl in captive and
free-living species. XXIX Internationalen symposium uber die
erkrankungen der zootiere, Cardiff, pp./7-12.

------- - 1987. Comparative pathology of inflammation in the higher
vertebrates: A review in reptiles, birds and mammals. Journal of
Comparative Pathology, (in press).

Rideout, B., R.J. Montali, L.G. Phillips, Jr. and C. Gardiner.” I987-
Tortoise mortalities due to viviparous nematodes of the genus
Proatractis (Family Atractidae). Journal of Wildlife Disease, 23:103-
108.

Rowley, M.A., E.S. Loker, J.F. Pagels and R.J. Montali. 1987. Terrestrial
gastropod hosts of Parelaphostrongylus tenuis at the National
Zoological Park’s Conservation and Research Center, Virginia. Journal
of Parasitology, (in press).

Wallace, R.S., M. Bush and R.J. Montali. 1987. Deaths from exertional
myopathy at the National Zoological Park, 1975-1985. Journal of
Wildlife Diseases, (in press).

H
wr
‘S)
Animal Exhibit Departments

Ballou J. and J. Seidensticker. 1987. The genetic and demographic
characteristics of the 1983 captive population of Sumatran tigers
(Panthera tigris sumatrae). Pp. 329347. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal,
eds. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management, and
Conservation of an Endangered Species, Noyes Publications, Park Ridge
NJ.

Jenssen, T.A. and D.L. Marcellini. Tail autotomy due to courtship in
Leiocephalus schreibersi (Sauria: Iguanidae). Herpetological Review,
17:89.

Marcellini, D.L. and L. Rodriguez Schettino. Some aspects of the natural
history of the Cuban lizard, Anolis lucius. Herpetological Review, 18.

Seidensticker, J. 1986. Large carnivores and the consequences of habitat
insularization: ecology and conservation of tigers in Indonesia and
Bangladesh. Pages 1-41. S.D. Miller and D.D. Everett, eds. Cats of the
World: Biology, Conservation and Management, National Wildlife
Federation, Washington, D.C.

ee . 41987. Bearing witness: observations on the extinction of Panthera
tigris balica and P. t. sondaica. Pages 1-8. R.L. Tilson amd U.S.
Seal, eds. Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management,
and Conservation of an Endangered Species, Noyes Publications, Park
Ridge NJ.

—-----= . 1987. Managing tigers in the Sundarbans: experience and
oppertunity. Pages 416-426 R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds. Tigers of
the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management, and Conservation of
an Endangered Species, Noyes Publications, Park Ridge NJ.

------- . 1987. On the trail of the versatile leopard. Zoogoer 16 (4): 14-15.

----- —. 1987. Last of the island tigers. Zoogoer 16 (4):2425.,

White, J. and D.L. Marcellini. Herplab: a family learning center at the
National Zoological Park. International Zoo Yearbook. 24/25:340-343.

Department of Zoological Research

Allen, M.E., V. Rumpler, D.E. Ullrey, R.D. Earle, S.M. Schmitt and T.M.
Cooley. 1987. Body composition of white-tailed deer estimated by
deuterium oxide dilution. Canadian Journal of Zoology, 65:204-208.

Ballou, J.D. 1987. 1985 International Golden Lion Tamarin Studbook.
National Zoological Park, Washington, D.C.

Beck, B.B., J.M. Dietz, D.G. Kleiman, M.I. Castro, R.L. Sa and V.L. Luz.
1987. Reintroducao de micos-leoes dourados (Leontopithecus rosalia)
(Linnaeus, 1776) (Callitrichidae, Primates) em seu ambiente natural
(Reintroduction of golden lion tamarins into their natural habitat).
Primatologia no Brasil, Vol. 2 (M. T. Mello, ed.).

Beissinger, S.R. 1987. Mate desertion and reproduction effort in the snail
kite. Animal Behaviour, 35: 1504-1519.

—~<--— - 1987. Anisogamy overcome: female strategies in snail kites.
American Naturalist, 129: 486-500.

SSS - 1987. The snail kite. Handbook of North American Birds, Volume IV
(R. S. Palmer, Ed.), New Haven, Yale University Press (in press).

a - 1986. Demography, environmental uncertainty, and the evolution of
mate desertion in the snail kite. Ecology, 68: 1445-1459.

Beissinger, S.R. and N.F.R. Snyder. 1987. Mate desertion in the snail
kite. Animal Behaviour, 35: 477-487.
Boness, D.J. The role of zoos in the conservation of marine mammals.
Proceedings of the Symposium on Endangered Marine Animals and Marine
Parks, E.G. Silas (ed.) (in press).

—<=-—— . Water quality management in aquatic mammal exhibits, Wild Mammals in
Captivity, Vol. 1, S. Lumpkin (ed.), Sunderland: Sinauer Associates (in
press).

Boness, D.J., W.D. Bowen and O.T. Oftedal. Evidence of polygyny from spatial
patterns in the hooded seal (Cystophora cristata). Canadian Journal of
Zoology (in press).

Boness, D.J., 0.T. Oftedal and K.A. Ono. The effects of El Nino on early
postnatal growth of suckling California sea lions. The Effects of El
Nino on Marine Mammals of the Eastern Pacific, F. Trillmich (ed.) (in

Bowen, W.D., D.J. Boness, and 0.T. Oftedal. 1987. Mass transfer from mother
to pup and subsequent mass loss by the weaned pup in the hooded seal,
Cystophora cristata. Canadian Journal of Zoology. 65: 1-8.

Derrickson, K.C. 1987. Yearly and situational changes in the estimate of
repertoire size in northern mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos). Auk,
104:198-207.

SSS - 1987. Behavioral correlates of song types of the northern
mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos). Ethology, 74: 21-32.

Dietz, J.M. Conservation of the maned wolf. Canid Conservation Dossier,
IUCN Special Publication (in press).

Dietz, J.M. and D.G. Kleiman. Reforestation in Poco das Antas Biological
Reserve. Primate Conservation (in press).

------ - Sexual dimorphism, sexual selection and mating system variability in
the New World primate, the golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia)
(in press).

Dittus, W.P.J. 1987. Group fusion among wild toque macaques: an extreme
case of inter-group resource competition. Behaviour, 100: 247-291.

Dittus, W.P.J. and A. Baker. Behavioral research in wildlife management:
rationale and techniques. Manual of Wildlife Management Techniques for
Asia, S. Berwick and S. Saharia, eds., Oxford U. Press (in press).

Forman, L., D.G. Kleiman, R.M. Bush, J.D. Ballou, L. Phillips, J.M. Dietz, A.
Coimbra-Filho and S.J. O’Brien. 1986. Genetic variation within and
among lion tamarins. American Journal of Physical Anthropology.

Freed, L.M., C.M. York, M. Hamosh, J.T. Sturman, 0.T. Oftedal, and P. Hamosh.
1986. Bile salt stimulated lipase: the enzyme is present in
nonprimate milk. Human Lactation, Vol. 2, Maternal-Environmental
Factors. (M. Hamosh and A.S. Goldman, A.S. (eds.)) New York: Plenum
Press.

Gittleman, J.G. and 0O.T. Oftedal. 1987. Comparative growth and lactation
energetics in carnivores. Symposia of the Zoological Society of London
(in press).

Gittleman, J. and S. Thompson. 1988. Energetics of mammalian reproduction:
allocation of energy. American Zoologist (in press).

Glatston, A. and M. Roberts. The current status and future prospects of the
red panda (Ailurus fulgens) studbook population. Zoo Biology (in
press).

Goff, M.L., J.0. Whitaker and J.M. Dietz. 1987. The genus Speleocola
(Acari: Trombiculidae), with description of a new species from Brazil
and a key to the species. Journal of Medical Entomology.

SSeS - 1987. A new species of Microtrombicula (Acari: Trombiculoidae) from
the golden lion tamarin of Brazil. International Journal of Acarology.
Greenberg, R. 1987. Social facilitation does not reduce neophobia in
chestnut-sided warblers, Dendroica pensylvanica. Journal of Ethology.

SES - 1987. Development of dead-leaf foraging in a tropical migrant
warbler. Ecology.

Guimaraes, E.F., L. Mautone, A. Mattos Filho, J.M. Dietz, L. Pinder and D.M.
Pessamillio. A vegetacao da Reserva Biologica Poco das Antas, habitat
do mico leao (Leontopithecus rosalia L.) (Vegetation of the Poco das
Antas Biological Reserve, habitat of the golden lion tamarin). Annais
do 36 Congresso Nacional de Botanica, Curitiba, Brasil (in press).

Harvey, P.H. and K. Ralls. 1986. Do animals avoid incest? Nature.
320:575-576.

Kleiman, D.G., B.B. Beck, J.M. Dietz, L.A. Dietz, J.D. Ballou, and A.F.
Coimbra-Filho. 1986. Conservation program for the golden lion
tamarin: captive research and management, ecological studies,
educational strategies, and reintroduction. Primates: the road to
self-sustaining populations, (K. Benirschke, ed.). Springer-Verlag,
New York. Pp. 959979.

Kleiman, D.G. 1986. Introduction to zoological research. JZoogoer, 15(6):

3-4,
------ . 1986. Zoo with a zoo: The DZR animal collection. Zoogoer, 15(6):
11-14.

------ - 1986. The zoo afield: field research. Zoogoer, 15(6): 19-22.

=<--—= . Reintroduction programs. Wild Mammals in Captivity, Vol. 1 (Susan
Lumpkin, editor). Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, MA.

Kleiman, D.G., R.J. Hoage and K.M. Green. 1987. Behavior of the golden lion
tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia rosalia. Ecology and Behavior of
Neotropical Primates. (R.A. Mittermeier and A.F. Coimbra-Filho (eds.)).

Kohn, F. 1986. Ghost monkey. Zoogoer. 15(4): 19-21.

== - 1986. The National Zoo’s Department of Zoological Research: A
three tiered philosophy to zoo research. Animal Keeper’s Forum.
13(12): 376-381. (Also presented at 1986 National Conference of
American Association of Zoo Keepers, Winnipeg, Canada.)

Lillegraven, J.A., S.D. Thompson, B.K. McNab and J. Patton. 1988. The
origins of eutherian mammals. Zoological Journal of the Linnean
Society (in press).

Lumpkin, S. 1986. Lifestyles of the rare and exotic. Singing in the
vein (sidebar). Zoogoer, 15: 5-8.

----- - 1987. Beavers in America: Dam-nation! Zoogoer. In press.

Lumpkin, S. and J. Seidensticker. 1987. Elephants at war. Zoogoer 16 (2):
4-8.

Morton, E.S. 1986. The relationship between fruit crop sizes and removal
rates by birds (with Priya Davidar). Ecology. 67:262-265.

Sa - 1986. Adaptation of amplitude structure of songs to propagation in
field habitat in song sparrows. Ethology. 72: 177-184. (with Eyal
Shy )

a - 1986. The role of distance, familiarity, and time of day in
Carolina wren responses to conspecific songs. Behav. Ecol.
Sociobiology. 19:393-400. (with Eyal Shy)

aa - 1987. Variation in mate guarding intensity by male purple martins.
Behavior.

——=——-—— - 1987. Do male hooded warblers exclude females from nonbreeding
territories in tropical forest? Auk. 104: 133-135. (with.J. Lynch, K.
Young and P. Mehlhop)

------ - 1987. The effects of isolation and distance on song sharing in the
Carolina wren. Wilson Bulletin (in press).

n
an
ee - 1987. Song type distribution in a population of the Kentucky
warbler. Wilson Bulletin. (with N. Tsipoura) (in press).

Nicoll, M. and S.D. Thompson. 1987. The energetics of reproduction in
therian mammals: didelphids and tenrecs. Symposium of the Zoological
Society of London (in press).

Oftedal, O.T., D.J. Boness and R.A. Tedman. 1987. The behavior, physiology
and anatomy of lactation in the Pinnipedia. Current Mammalogy. 1:175-
245.

Porton, I., D.G. Kleiman and M. Rodden. Aseasonality of bush dog
reproduction and the influence of social factors on the estrous cycle.
Journal of Mammalogy (in press).

Ralls, K., P.H. Harvey and A.M. Lyles. 1986. Inbreeding in natural
populations of birds and mammals. Pp. 35-36 Conservation Biology:
the Science of Scarcity and Diversity. (M. Soule, ed.). Sinauer.

Ralls, K., B. Lundrigan and K. Kranz. 1987. Mother-young relationships
in captive ungulates: spatial and temporal patterns. Zoo Biology.
622h1-20.

------ - 1987. Mother-young relationships in captive ungulates: behavioral
changes over time. Ethology. 75:1-14.

Ralls, K. A semi-captive breeding program for the baiji, Lipotes vexillifer:
genetic and demographic considerations. Proceedings of the workshop on

Ralls, K.°and D:' B. Siniff.: 1987.5. Sea otters and oil: “ecological
perspectives. (J. Gerachi, ed.), Syntheses of Information on the
Effects of Oil on Marine Mammals.

Roberts, M., D. Kessler, C. Pickett and M. Davenport. Captive propagation of
the rare and endangered fauna of the Indian subcontinent. Proceedings
of the Centenniary Symposium of the Bombay National Historical Society
(in press).

Roberts, M., K. Thompson and J. Cranford. Reproduction and growth in the
punare (Thrichomys apereoides) (Rodentia: Echimyidae) of the Brazilian
Caatinga with reference to the reproductive strategies of the
Echimyidae. Journal of Mammalogy (in press).

Roberts, M., F. Koontz, L. Phillips and E. Maliniak. Management and biology
of the prehensile-tailed porcupine, Coendou prehensilis, at the
National Zoological Park and New York Zoological Park. International
Zoo Yearbook (in press).

Roberts, M. Report of the North American Red Panda SSP International
Studbook for the Red or lesser panda (in press).

Rudran, R. Problems and prospects for wildlife conservation in Sri Lanka.
Bombay Natural History Society Centenary Volume (in press).

Schryver, H.F., 0.T. Oftedal, J. Williams, N.F. Cymbaluk, D. Antczak and H.F.
Hintz. 1986. A comparison of the mineral composition of milk of
domestic and captive wild equiids (Equus przewalski, E. zebra, E.
burchelli, E. caballus, E. asinus). Comparative Biochemistry and
Physiology. 85A:233-235.

Schryver, H.F., 0.T. Oftedal, J. Williams, L.V. Soderholm and H.F. Hintz.
1986. Lactation in the horse: The mineral composition of mare’s milk.
Journal of Nutrition. 116:2142-2147.

Thompson, S.D. 1987. Body size, duration of parental care, and the
intrinsic rate of natural increase in eutherian and metatherian
mammals. Oecologia (Berlin). 71:201-209.

------ - 1987. Resource availability and microhabitat utilization by Mojave
Desert Merriam’s kangaroo rats, Dipodomys merriami. Journal of
Mammalogy. 68:256-265.

156
Thompson, S.D., K. Ono, O. Oftedal and D. Boness. 1987. Thermoregulation of
neonatal California sea lions (Zalophus californianus). Physiological
Zoology (in press).

Thompson, S.D. and J. Gittleman. The energetics of animal behavior.

American Zoologist (in press).

Department of Conservation

Berger, J. 1987. Reproductive fates of dispersers in a harem-dwel ling
ungulate: The wild horse. Chepko-Sade and Z.T. Halpin, eds. Mammalian
Dispersal Patterns: Effects of Social Structure on Population
Genetics. University of Chicago Press.

SSS - 1987. Resources, social systems, and phylogeny: an experimental
test and its limitations. Slobochnikoff, ed. Resources and the
Evolution of Social Behavior. Academic Press, New York.

Berger, J. and C. Cunningham. 1987. Influence of familiarity on frequency
of inbreeding in wild horses. Evolution, 41:229-231.

Blohowiak, C.C. 1987. Baffling black ducks. Zoogoer, 16:18-19.

Blohowiak, C.C., S.R. Derrickson and E.S. Morton. 1987. Poster. Evidence
for Individual Recognition and Social Preferences in the North American
Black Ducks (Anas rubripes). International Ethological Conference XX,
University of Wisconsin.

Boyd, L. 1986. Behavior problems of equids in zoos. pp. 653-664. S.L.
Crowell-Davis and K.A. Houpt, eds. Veterinary Clinics of North
America: Equine Practice and Behavior, Vol. 2, No. 3.

Collins, L. 1987. Clouded leopard. JZoogoer, 16(4):13.

Collins, L., C. Wemmer and J. Smith. The National Zoological Park
Conservation and Research Center’s Small Animal Facility.
International Zoo Yearbook (in press).

Derrickson, S.R. 1987. Captive propagation of whooping cranes, 1982-1984.
Pp. 377-386 J.C. Lewis, ed. Proceedings of the 1985 Crane Workshop.
Platte River Whooping Crane Maintenance Trust, Grand Island, Nebraska.

SSS . (1987. Current status and captive propagation of the endangered Guam
rail. Pp. 187-195 A.C. Risser, ed. Proceedings of the Jean
Delacour/IFCB Symposium on Breeding Birds in Captivity. International
Foundation for the Conservation of Birds, North Hollywood, California.

Dinerstein, E. Deer, plant phenology and succession in South Asian lowland
forests. C. Wemmer, ed. Biology and Managment of the Cervidae,
Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, DC (in press).

-<---- - Reproductive Ecology of Fruit Bats and the Seasonality of Fruit
Production in a Costa Rican Cloud Forest. Biotropica (in press).

Dinerstein, E., H.R. Mishra and C. Wemmer. Megafaunal dispersal:
dissemination of Trewia nudiflora (Euphorbiaceae) by greater one-horned
rhinoceros. Ecology (in press).

Dinerstein, E., C. Wemmer and H.R. Mishra. Adoption in Greater One-Horned
Rhinoceros (Rhinoceros unicornis). Journal of Mammalogy (in press).

Grodinsky, C. and M. Stlwe. Return to the alps - 75 years of ibex
conservation. Smithsonian Magazine (in press).

Holzenbein, S. 1987. Poster. Social environments and behavior influencing
dispersal of maturing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus).
International Ethological Conference XX.

Kock, M. and J. Berger. 1987. Chemical restraint of wild bison in Badlands
National Park, South Dakota. Journal of Wildlife Diseases.
McDougl, C.W. 1987. The man-eating tiger in geographical and historical
perspective. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds. Tigers of the World:
The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered
Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey.

McDougal, C.W. and J.L.D. Smith. 1987. Scent Marking in Tigers. Cats of
the World: Biology, Conservation and Management. Proceedings of the
International Cat Symposium, Kingsville, Texas, 1982.

Mishra, H.R. and E. Dinerstein. 1987. New zip codes for resident rhinos in
Nepal. Smithsonian Magazine, 66-73.

Mishra, H.R., C. Wemmer and J.L.D. Smith. 1987. Tigers in Nepal:
Management conflicts with human interests. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal,
eds., Tigers of the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and
Conservation of an Endangered Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey,
pp. 449-463.

Rood, J. 1987. Dispersal and intergroup transfer in the dwarf mongoose,
Mammalian Dispersal Patterns: The Effects of Social Structure on

[o)

Schwede, G. Weissedelhirschsetzzeit in Virginia. Das Tier (in press).

Schwede, G. and H. Hendrichs. 1987. Mother-offspring relations in free
ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Abstract accepted
for a poster at the 20th International Ethology Conference, Madison,
Wisconsin.

Smith, J.L.D., C. Wemmer and H.R. Mishra. 1987. A tiger geographic
information system: The first step in a global conservation strategy.
R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Tigers of the World: The Biology,
Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered Species.
Noyes Publications, New Jersey, pp. 464-474.

Smith, J.L.D., C. McDougal and M.E. Sunquist. 1987. Land tenure system in
female tigers. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Tigers of the World:
The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of an Endangered
Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey.

Smith, J.L.D., C. McDougal and D. Miquelle. Chemical communication in free-
ranging tigers (Panthera tigris). Animal Behavior (in press).

Stlwe, M. and C. Grodinsky. Reproductive biology of captive alpine ibex
(Capra i. ibex). Zoo Biology (in press).

Wemmer, C. Ed. 1987. The Biology and Management of the Cervidae. Symposia
of the National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution Press,
Washington, DC. 577 pp.

Wemmer, C. and S. Derrickson. Reintroductions: the zoobiologists dream.
Prospects and problems of reintroducing captive bred wildlife.
Aquariums Conference, Portland, Oregon (in press).

Wemmer, C. and C. Grodinsky. Reproduction in captive female brow-ant lered
deer (Cervus eldi thamin). Journal of Mammalogy (in press).

Wemmer, C. and R. Montali. Latrine use and the subcaudal gland of the brow-
antlered deer (Cervus eldi thamin). Journal of Mammalogy (in press).

Wemmer, C. and M. Sunquist. Snow leopard reintroductions: Economic and
energetic considerations. Proceedings of the Fifth International Snow

Leopard Symposium, Srinigar (in press).
Wemmer, C., J.L.D. Smith and H.R. Mishra. 1987. Tigers in the wild: The
biopolitical challenges. R.L. Tilson and U.S. Seal, eds., Tigers of

the World: The Biology, Biopolitics, Management and Conservation of
Endangered Species. Noyes Publications, New Jersey, pp. 396-405.
OFFICE OF AMERICAN STUDIES

Washburn, Wilcomb E. Reply to Edmund Hanauer, American Studies Newsletter,

U.S. Information Service, American Embassy, Bonn, Germany, no. 10
(September 1986), pp. 55-56.
. "The Coming of the Europeans: Epilogue,’

Chapter in

The Smithsonian Book of North American Indians before the Coming of the

Europeans by Phillip Kopper and the Editors of Smithsonian Books
(Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Books, 1986), pp. 269-281.

Introduction entitled "Sport" to Part IV of Cultural
Dimensions of Play, Games, and Sport, edited by Bernard Mergen (Cham-
paign, Illinois: Human Kinetics Publishers, Inc. 1986), pp. 167-168.

“Justice Brennan's Challenge to Historians," Perspec-

tives: American Historical Association Newsletter, vol. 24, no. 9,

December 1986, pp. 19-20.
. "An Alternative to Treaties," The Wall Street Journal,

Letters to the Editor, December, 24, 1986.

"As Ilhas Canarias e a Questao do Meridiano de Ref-

eréncia: A Busca do Rigor na Medi cao da Terra," Em Homenagem a Luis de

Albuquerque, in A Abertura do Mundo: Estudos de Historia dos Descobri-

mentos suropeus. Vol. 1 (Lisbon: Editorial Presenca, 1986), pp. 213-220.
"Distinguishing History from Moral Philosophy and Pub-

lic Advocacy, "chapter 8 in The American Indian and the Problem of His-

tory, edited by Calvin Martin (New York: Oxford University Press, 1987),
pp. 91-97.

i

"Do Museums Want Evaluation?," Visitor Behavior, Psy-

chology Institute, Jacksonville State University, vol. 2, no. 1 (Spring

1987-),.-p:.' 10%
"A Proposed Explanation of the Closed Indian Ocean on

Some Ptolemaic Maps of the Twelfth-Fifteenth Centuries," reprinted in

Revista da Universidade de Coimbra, Vol. 32, Actas da IV Reuniao Inter-
nacional de Histéria da Nautica e da Hidrografia. Coimbra, 1985, pp.
431-441. (1987)

“Preparations and Problems of Preparing for the 500th

Anniversary of Columbus's Discovery of America," Anais Hidrograficos,

Tomo XLI (Suplemento), 1984, pp. 393-400. (1987)
"The Development of the National Museum at the Smith-

sonian Institution, 1846-1855: A Response to Joel J. Orosz's Article,"

co-authored with S. Dillon Ripley, Museum Studies Journal, Vol. 2,
No. 1, Spring-Summer 1987, pp. 6-11.
"Stephen Saunders Webb's Interpretation of Bacon's

Rebellion," The Virginia Magazine of History and Biography, Vol. 95,
No. 3 (July 1987), pp. 339-352.
160

SMITHSONIAN ASTROPHYSICAL OBSERVATORY

Abreu, V. J.; Yee, J.-H.; Solomon, S. C.; and Dalgarno, A. “The Quenching Rate of
O(!D) by (3P).” Planetary and Space Science 34 (1986): 1143.

Aksnes, K.; Franklin, F. A.; and Magnusson, P. “The Longitude Discrepancy for Mutual
Satellite Phenomena Resolved.” Astronomical Journal 92(6) (1986): 1436.

Arnaud, K. A.; Johnstone, R. M.; Fabian, A. C.; Crawford, C. S.; Nulsen, P. E. J.;
Shafer, R. A.; and Mushotzky, R. F. “X-Ray Observations of the Ophiuchus, PKS
0745-191 and Cygnus-A.” Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society 227
(1987): 241.

Arnold, D. A. “The Behavior of Long Tethers in Space.” Journal of the Astronautical
Sciences 35(1) (1987): 3.

Bahcall, J. N.; Field, G. B.; and Press, W. H. “Is Solar Neutrino Capture Rate
Correlated with Sunspot Number?” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 320 (1987): L69.

Baliunas, S. L.; Loeser, J. G.; Raymond, J. C.; Guinan, E. F.; and Dorren, J. D. “The
Surface and Atmospheric Structure of the Active G8III Star FF Aquarii.” In New
Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E.
Rolfe, p. 185. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.

Baliunas, S. L.; Raymond, J. C.; and Loeser, J. G. “Flares and Active Sectors on YY
Geminorum.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE,
ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 181. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.

Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. I.; Rogers, A. E. E.; Shapiro, I. I.; Bonometti, R. J.; Cohen,
N. L.; Gorenstein, M. V.; and Marcaide, J. M. “VLBI Observations of the Compact
Components in M82.” Highlights of Astronomy 7 (1986): 661.

Bartel, N.; Ratner, M. I.; Shapiro, I. I.; and Rogers, A. E. E. “VLBI Observations of
the M81—M82 Pair of Galaxies.” In Observational Evidence of Activity in Galaxies,
Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 121, eds. E. Ye. Khachikian and K. J. Fricke,
p. 521. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Bartel, N., Rupin, M.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Supernova 1986J in NGC 891.” IAU Circular
No. 4292, January 5, 1987.

Bechtold, J.; Czerny, B.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; and Green, R. F. “X-Ray Spectra
of PG Quasars II: The X-Ray-Ultraviolet Excess of PG1221+143.” Astrophysical
Journal 314 (1987): 699.

Blau, S. K.; Guendelman, E. I.; and Guth, A. H. “The Dynamics of False Vacuum
Bubbles.” Physics Review D 35 (1987): 1747.

Bloemhof, E. E.; Townes, C. H.; and Vanderwyck, A. H. B. “Diffraction-Limited 10 um
Imaging with 3-Meter Telescopes.” Proceedings of Society of Photo-Optical Instru-
R mentation Engineers 627 (1986): 473.

Boyd, L. J.; Genet, R. M.; and Baliunas, S. L. “The Beginning of the Automatic
Photoelectric Telescope Service.” International Amateur Professional Photoelectric
Photometry Communications 25 (1986): 15.

Buch, V. “Trapping of Atoms on Disordered Corrugated Surfaces — A Statistical
Wavefunction Approach.” Journal of Chemical Physics 86 (1987): 3627.

Canizares, C. R.; Fabbiano, G.; and Trinchieri, G. “Properties of the Hot, X-Ray
Emitting Gas in Early Type Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 503.
Cannizzo, J. K., and Kenyon, S. J. “The Spectral Evolution of Dwarf Nova Outbursts.”
Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 319.

Carleton, N. P.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Willner, S. P.; Lawrence, A.; and Ward, M.
“The Continuum of Type 1 Seyfert Galaxies: II. Infrared Thermal and Non-Thermal
Components.” Astrophysical Journal 318 (1987): 595.

Chance, K. V.; Nolt, I. G.; Zink, L. R.; Jennings, D. D.; Evenson, K. M.; Vanek, M. D.;
and Radostitz, J. V. “Collisional Broadening of HCl Rotational Transitions Using
Tunable Far-Infrared Radiation.” In 11th International Conference on Infrared and
Millimeter Waves, Conference Digest, ed. G. Moruzzi, p. 277. Pisa: Editrice, 1986.

Chance, K. V., and Traub, W. A. “Evidence for Stratospheric Hydrogen Peroxide.”
Journal of Geophysical Research 92 (1987): 3061.

Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Freeman, D. E. “Molecular
Spectroscopic Constants of O2(B°d u): The Upper State of the Schumann-Runge
Bands.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 119 (1986): 1.

Cheung, A. S.-C.; Yoshino, K.; Parkinson, W. H.; Guberman, S. L.; and Freeman,
D. E. “Absorption Cross Section Measurements of O» in the Wavelength Region
195-241 nm of the Herzberg Continuum.” Planetary and Space Science 34 (1986):
1007.

Connor, B. J., and Radford, H. E. “Pressure Broadening of the CO J = 1—0 Rotational
Transition by Ng, Og, and Air.” Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 119 (1986): 229.

Cooper, D. L.; Bienstock, S.; and Dalgarno, A. “Mutual Neutralization and
Chemiionization in Collisions of Alkali Metal and Halogen Atoms.” Journal of
Chemical Physics 86 (1987): 3845. |

Cooper, D. L., and Kirby, K. “Theoretical Study of Low-Lying !Z* and !II States of
CO. I. Potential Energy Curves and Dipole Moments.” Journal of Chemical Physics
87 (1987): 424.

Cowan, J. J.; Thielemann, F.-K.; and Truran, J. W. “Recent Results in Nucleocos-
mochronology.” In Advances in Nuclear Astrophysics, eds. E. Vangioni-Flam, Y.
Andouze, M. Casse, J. P. Clireze, and J. Trans Thanh Van, p. 477. France: Edi-
tions Frontiéres, 1987.

Coyle, L. M.; Aurilio, G.; Nystrom, G. U.; Bortz, J.; Nagy, B. G.; Chance, K. V.; and
Traub, W. A. “Design of a Single-Axis Platform for Balloon-Borne Remote Sensing.”
Reviews of Scientific Instruments 57 (1986): 2512.

Croswell, K.; Hartmann, L.; and Avrett, E. H. “Mass from FU Orionis Objects.”
Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 227.

Dalgarno, A. “Atomic Physics through Astrophysics.” In Atoms in Unusual Situations,
ed. J. P. Briand, p. 21. Plenum Press, 1986.

. “Astrochemistry - A Summary.” In Astrochemistry, eds. M. S. Vardya and

S. P. Tarafdar, p. 577. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

. “Molecules in the Universe.” Science Age 5 (1987): 466.

Dalgarno, A., and Layzer, D., eds. Spectroscopy of Astrophysical Plasmas. Cambridge,
England: Cambridge University Press, 1987.

Dalgarno, A., and Lepp, S. “Chemistry in the Early Universe.” In Astrochemistry, eds.
M. S. Vardya and S. P. Tarafdar, p. 108. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1987.

de Bra, D.; Eardley, D.; Hamilton, W.; Leung, G. S.; McMillan, B.; Matzner, R.;

I6I
Vessot, R. F. C.; Winkler, G.; Yannoni, N.; and Will, C. (Chairman) Report of
the Com- mittee on the Accuracy of Time Transfer in Space. Washington, D.C.:
National Academy Press, 1986.

Delamere, W. A.; Reitsema, H. J.; Heubner, W. F.; Schmidt, W. K. H.; and Whipple,
F. L. “Radiometric Observations of the Nucleus of Comet Halley.” In Proceedings
of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250,
eds. B. Battrick, EK. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol. II, p. 355. Noordwijk, Holland:
European Space Agency, 1986.

de Vries, H. W.; Heithausen, A.; and Thaddeus, P. “Molecular and Atomic Clouds
Associated with Infrared Cirrus in Ursa Major.” Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987):
723.

Dupree, A. K. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” Annual Review of Astronomy and Astro-
physics 24 (1986): 377.

. “The Local Interstellar Medium as Observed from LYMAN.” In Proceedings of

the Twenty-Sixth Plenary Meeting of COSPAR, Advances in Space Research. eds.

C. Gry and W. Wamsteker, p. 171. Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1986.

. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” Mitteilungen der Astronomischen Gesellschaft
67 (1986): 101.

Dupree, A. K.; Baliunas, S. L.; Guinan, E. F.; Hartmann, L.; Nassiopoulos, G. E.; and
Sonneborn, G. “Periodic Photospheric and Chromospheric Modulation in Alpha
Orionis (Betelgeuse).” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 317 (1987): L85.

Dupree, A. K.; Kirshner, R. P.; Nassiopoulos, G. E.; Raymond, J. C.; and Sonneborn,
G. “The Interstellar Medium Toward SN 1987A.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987):
597.

Dupree, A. K., and Reimers, D. “Mass Loss from Cool Stars.” In Exploring the Uni-
verse with the [UE Satellite, eds. Y. Kondo, W. Wamsteker, A. Boggess, M.
Grewing, C. de Jager, A. L. Lane, J. L. Linsky, and R. Wilson, p. 321. New York:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Elvis, M.; Czerny, B.; and Wilkes, B. J. “Continuum Features in Quasars.” In The
Physics of Accretion Onto Compact Objects, eds. K. O. Mason, M. G. Watson, and
N. White, p. 389. Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1987.

Elvis, M.; Green, R. F.; Bechtold, J.; Schmidt, M.; Neugebauer, G.; Soifer, B. T.;
Matthews, K.; and Fabbiano, G. “X-Ray Spectra of PG Quasars I: The Continuum
from X-Rays to Infrared.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 291.

Estes, R. D. “Alfvén Waves from an Electrodynamic Tethered Satellite System.” In
Proceedings of USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting, p. 149. Boulder,
Colorado: University of Colorado, 1987.

. “Alfvén Waves and the Circuit Closure Path.” In Proceedings of Electrody-
namic Tether Circuit Closure Path Issues Workshop. McLean, Virgina: General
Research Corporation, 1987.

Evans, N. J. II; Levreault, R.M.; Beckwith, S.; and Skrutskie, M. “Observations of
Infrared Emission Lines and Radio Continuum Emission from Pre-Main-Sequence
Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 364.

Everhart, E., and Marsden, B. G. “Original and Future Cometary Orbits. III.”
Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 753.

Fabbiano, G.; Kelin, U.; Trinchieri, G.; and Wielebinski, R. “A Statistical Analysis of

the Einstein Normal Galaxy Sample: III. Radio and X-Ray Properties of Elliptical
and SO Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 111.

Fabbiano, G., and Trinchieri, G. “X-Ray Observation of Spiral Galaxies: II. Images
and Spectral Parameters of 13 Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 46.
Fabbiano, G.; Trinchieri, G.; and Van Speybroeck, L. S. “The X-Ray Spectral

Properties of the Bulge of M31.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 127.

Falco, E. E. “Gravity Makes a Spectacle of Itself.” New Scientist 113 (1987): 46.

“Ultimas Noticias Sobre el Sistema de Lente Gravitacional 0957+561 (The
Latest News on the Gravitational Lens System 0957+561).” In Proceedings of V
Regional Latin American Meeting of the IAU, ed. 5S. Torres-Peimbert, Revista
Mexicana de Astronomia ey Astrofisica, 14(1), p. 127. Mexico City: Instituto de
Astronomia, Universidad Nacional Auténoma de Mexico, 1987.

Farhi, E. H., and Guth, A. H. “An Obstacle to Creating a Universe in the Laboratory.”
Physics Letters 183B (1987): 149.

Feigelson, E. D.; Wood, P. A.; Schreier, E. J.; Harris, D. E.; and Reed, M. J. “X-Rays
from the Radio Halo of M87.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 101.

Field, G. B. “Theory of the Interstellar Medium.” In Highlights of Modern Astro-
physics: Concepts and Controversies, eds. S. L. Shapiro and S. A. Teukolsky, p.
235. New York: John Wiley and Sons, 1986.

Field, G. B., and White, F. “A Positive Vision for the American Space Program: The
Report of the National Commission on Space - A Commentary.” Journal of Space
Law 14 (1986): 170.

. “Principles for Pioneers.” Space Policy 3 (1987): 71.

Fleming, T.; Gioia, I.; Maccacaro, T.; and Mereghetti, S. “1E1751+7046” A New FK
Comae Candidate.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 1502.

Franklin, F. A.; Cook, A. F. II; Barry, R. T. F.; Roff, C. A.; Hunts, G. E.; and
de Rueda, H. B. “Voyager Observations of the Azimuthal Brightness Variations in
Saturn’s Rings.” Icarus 69 (1987): 280.

Fuller, G. and Myers, P. C. “Dense Cores in Dark Clouds.” In Physical Processes in
Interstellar Clouds, eds. G. E. Morfill and M. Scholer, p. 137. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Garay, G.; Moran, J. M.; and Reid, M. J. “Compact Continuum Radio Sources in the
Orion Nebula.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 535.

Gilliland, R. L., and Baliunas, S. L. “Objective Characterization of Stellar Activity
Cycles. I. Methods and Solar Cycle Analyses.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987):
766.

Gingerich, O. Editor, Scientific Genius and Creativity. New York: D. E. Freeman and
Company, 1987.

“Zoomorphic Astrolabes and the Introduction of Arabic Star Names into

Europe.” From Deferent to Equant: Annals of New York Academy of Sciences 500

(1987): 89.

. “Introduction” to William Bevis. Uranographia Britannica. Norfolk: Archival

Facsimiles, 1987.

“Faintness Means Farness.” Proceedings of the Royal Institution 58 (1986):

201.

163
164

“The Mysterious Nebulae, 1610-1924.” Journal of the Royal Astronomical

Society of Canada 81 (1987): 113.

. “Foreword” to Will Tirion, Barry Rappaport, George Lovi. In Uranometria
2000.0. Richmond, Virginia: Willman-Bell, 1987.

Gioia, I. M., and Fabbiano, G. “Radio Continuum Observations of Early and Late Type
Spiral Galaxies at 20 cm.” Astrophysical Journal (Supplement) 63 (1987): 771.
Gioia, I.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; Stocke, J.; and Danziger, J. “The Medium
Sensitivity Survey and the X-Ray Selected Quasar Sample.” In Quasars: Proceedings
of IAU Symposium No. 119, eds. G. Swarup and V. K. Kapahi, p. 233. Dordrecht,

Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Gioia, I.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; Wolter, A.; Stocke, J. T.; Morris, S. L.; and
Danziger, I. J. “Active Galactic Nuclei from the Extended Medium Survey.” In
Observational Evidence of Activity in Galaxies: Proceedings of IAU Symposium
No. 121, eds. E. Ye. Khachikian, K. J. Fricke, and J. Melnick, p. 329. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; and Wolter, A. “X-Ray Surveys as Tools to Investigate the
Cosmological Evolution of Quasars, BL Lac Objects and Clusters of Galaxies.” In
Observational Cosmology, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 124, eds. A. Hewitt,
G. Burbidge, and L. Z. Fang, p. 593. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1987.

Golub, L. “Theory Tested by Means of the Stars.” NASA Conference Proceedings 2358
(1986): 106.

Gondhalekar, P. M.; Wilson, R.; Dupree, A. K.; and Burke, B. F. “Ultraviolet Light
Curve of the Double Quasar Q0957+561A,B and a Determination of the Hubble
Constant.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE,
ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 715. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.

Grabelsky, D. A.; Cohen, R. S.; May, J.; Bronfman, L.; and Thaddeus, P.
“Molecular Clouds in the Carina Arm I. Large-Scale Properties of Molecular Gas
and Comparison with H I.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 122.

Graff, M. M., and Dalgarno, A. “Oxygen Chemistry of Shocked Interstellar Clouds.
II. Effects of Nonthermal Internal Energy on Chemical Evolution.” Astrophysical
Journal 317 (1987): 432.

Green, D. W. E. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 8 (1986): 73.

. (editor). International Comet Quarterly 9 (1987): 1-136.

Green, D. W. E., and Morris, C. S. “The Visual Brightness Behavior of P/Halley during
1981-1986.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of
Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol.
I, p. 613. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.

Green, D. W. E.; Rokoske, T. L.; and Morris, C. S$. “The ICQ Photometric Archive for
P/Halley and Other Comets.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on
the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and
R. Reinhard, vol. I., p. 249. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.

Grindlay, J. E.; Bailyn, C.; Mathieu, R.; and Latham, D. “Radial Velocity Study of
NGC 6712.” In Globular Cluster Systems in Galaxies, Proceedings of IAU Sym-
posium No. 126, eds. J. Grindlay and A. G. D. Philip, p. 659. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Grossi, M. D. “Feasibility of an Electrodynamic Tether as a Generator and Injector of
e.m. Waves From a Few Hertz to a Few Kilohertz.” In Proceedings of USNC/URSI
National Radio Science Meeting, p. 150. Boulder, Colorado: University of Colorado,
1987.

Guberman, S. L. “Windows in Dissociative Recombination Cross Sections.” Canadian
Journal of Physics 64 (1986): 1621.

.“The Production of O(!S) from the Dissociative Recombination of O3.”
Nature 327 (1987): 408.

Guinan, E. F.; Wacker, S. W.; Baliunas, S. L.; Loeser, J. G.; and Raymond, J. C.
“Evidence of Large-Scale Structures in the Atmosphere of the Active K-Dwarf
Component of V471 Tauri.” In New Insights in Astrophysics: 8 Years of UV
Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 197. Paris: European Space
Agency, 1986.

Gullahorn, G. “SLACK3: High Resolution Slack Tether Simulator.” In Tether Dyna-
mics Simulation, NASA CP-2458, p. 125. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1987.

“TSS-1 Dynamics Flight Experiments.” In Tether Dynamics Simulation,
NASA CP-2458, p. 235. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1987.

Habbal, S. R., and Harvey, K. L. “Simultaneous Observations of Changes in Coronal
Bright Point Emission at the 20 cm Radio and He X 10830 Wavelengths.” In
Proceedings of the Coronal Plasmas and Prominences Workshop, NASA CP-2442,
p. 343. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1986.

Harris, D. E., and Stern, C. P. “X-Ray Emission Associated with the Jet in 3C 273.”
Astrophysical Journal 313 (1987): 136.

Hartigan, P.; Raymond, J.; and Hartmann, L. “Radiative Bow Shock Models for HH
Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 323.

Hartmann, L. W.; Geller, M. J.; and Huchra, J. P. “Kinematics of H II Regions in the
Blue Irregulars NGC 4214 and NGC 4449.” Astronomical Journal 92 (1986): 1278.

Hartmann, L.; Hewett, R.; Stahler, S.; and Mathieu, R. “Rotational and Radial
Velocities of T Tauri Stars. Astrophysical Journal 309 (1986): 275.

Hartmann, L., and Kenyon, S. J. “Further Evidence for Disk Accretion in FU Orionis
Objects.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 243.

Hashimoto, A., and Wood, J. A. “Enhanced Volatility of CaO in H2O-Rich Gas
Environments as a Factor in the Alteration of Ca,Al-Rich Inclusions.” Meteoritics
21 (1986): 391.

Herring, T. A.; Gwinn, C. R.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Correction to ‘Geodesy by Radio
Interferometry: Studies of the Forced Nutations of the Earth, 1, Data Analysis’.”
Journal of Geophysical Research 91(14) (1986): 165.

Holmen, B. A., and Wood, J. A. “Chondrules That Indent One Another: Evidence for
Hot Accretion?” Meteoritics 21 (1986): 399.

Huang, Y.-L., and Thaddeus, P. “Molecular Clouds and Supernova Remnants in the
Outer Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 30(9) (1986): 804.

Hughes, J. P. “X-Ray Studies of the Supernova Remnant N132D: (I) Morphology.”
Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987): 103.

Jennings, D. A.; Evenson, K. M.; Vanek, M. D.; Nolt, I. G.; Radostitz, J. V.; and
Chance, K. V. “Air- and Oxygen-Broadening Coefficients for the Og Rotational
Line at 60.46 cm~!.” Geophysical Research Letters 14 (1987): 722.

166

Joshi, Y. N.; Mazzoni, M.; Nencioni, A.; Parkinson, W. H.; and Cantu, A.
“Photoabsorption Spectrum of Atomic Sulphur.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and
Molec- ular Physics 20 (1987): 1203.

Keller, H. U.; Arpigny, C.; Barbieri, C.; Bonnet, R. M.; Cazes, S.; Coradini, M.;
Cosmovici, C. B.; Curdt, W.; Delamere, W. A.; Huebner, W. F.; Hughes, D. W.;
Jamar, C.; Kramm, R.; Malaise, D.; Reitsema, H.; Schmidt, H. U.; Schmidt, K.;
Schmidt, W. K. H.; Seige, P.; Whipple, F. L.; and Wilhelm, K. “Observations by
the Halley Multicolour Camera.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on
the Exploration of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and
R. Reinhard, vol. II, p. 347. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.

Keller, H. U.; Delamere, W. A.; Heubner, W. F.; Reitsema, H.; Schmidt, H. U.;
Schmidt, W. K. H.; Whipple, F. L.; and Wilhelm, K. “Dust Activity of Comet
Halley’s Nucleus.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration
of Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol.
II, p. 359. Noordwijk, Holland: European Space Agency, 1986.

Kenyon, S. J. The Symbiotic Stars. Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press,
1987.

. “Recent Activity in Two Symbiotic Stars.” Journal of the American Associ-
ation of Variable Star Observers 15 (1987): 173.

Kenyon, S. J., and Fernandez-Castro, T. “The Cool Components of Symbiotic Stars I.
Optical Spectral Types.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 938.

“Spectroscopic Observations of the Symbiotic Binary RW Hydrae.”
Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 427.

Kenyon, S. J.; Fernandez-Castro, T.; and Stencel, R. E. “Far-Infrared Data for
Symbiotic Stars: I. The IRAS Pointed Observations.” Astronomical Journal 92
(1986): 1118.

Kenyon, S. J., and Wade, R. A. “Spectroscopic Observations of Nova PW Vulpeculae.”
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 98 (1986): 935.

Kirby, K., and Heil, T. G. “A Molecular Representation of Alt? + H Charge Transfer
Reactions.” Journal of Chemical Physics 85 (1986): 6420.

Kirshner, R. P.; Sonneborn, G.; Crenshaw, D. M.; and Nassiopoulos, G. E. “Ultraviolet
Observations of SN 1987A.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 602.

Lafyatis, G. P., and Kohl, J. L. “Measurement of Electron Impact Excitation in Boron-
Like Carbon.” Physical Review A 36 (1987): 59.

Lafyatis, G. P.; Kohl, J. L.; and Gardner, L. D. “Experimental Apparatus for
Measurements of Electron Impact Excitation.” Review of Scientific Instruments 58
(1987): 383.

Lawrence, A.; Watson, M. G.; Pounds, K. A.; and Elvis, M. “Low Frequency Divergent
X-Ray Variability in the Seyfert Galaxy NGC 4051.” Nature 253 (1987): 694.

Le Floch, A. C.; Launay, F.; Rostas, J.; Field, R. W.; Brown, C. M.; and Yoshino,
K. “Reinvestigation of the CO AIII State and Its Perturbations: The v=0 Level.”
Journal of Molecular Spectroscopy 121 (1987): 337.

Lepp, S., and Dalgarno, A. “The Ionization Rate in Dense Interstellar Clouds.” In
Astrochemistry, eds. M. S. Vardya and S. P. Tarafdar, p. 255. Dordrecht, Holland:
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Levreault, R.; and Opal, C. “CCD Observations of the Counterfan in PV Cephei.”

Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 669.

Lightman, A. P., and Zdziarski, A. A. “Pair Production and Compton Scattering
in Compact Sources and Comparison to Observations of Active Galactic Nuclei.”
Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987): 643.

Lightman, A. P.; Zdziarski, A. A.; and Rees, M. J. “Effects of Electron-Positron Pair
Opacity for Spherical Accretion onto Black Holes.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters)
315 (1987): L113.

Lin, F. J.; Chance, K. V.; and Traub, W. A. “Atomic Oxygen in the Lower
Thermosphere.” Journal of Geophysical Research 92 (1987): 4325.

Lorenzini, E. C. “Large, Tether-Connected, Two-Dimensional Structures in Low Earth
Orbit.” In Proceedings of the Pacific Basin International Symposium on Advances
in Space Science Technology and Its Applications, ed. Ren Xin Min, p. 792. Beijing,
China: Chinese Society of Astronautics, 1987.

“A Three-Mass Tethered System for Micro-g/Variable-g Applications.”

Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics 10(3) (1987): 242.

. “Artificial Gravity Laboratory.” In Tether Dynamics Simulation, NASA CP-
2458, p. 141. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1987.

MaaiG.siClarks eA -:) Ryans id. W;)Aerring.T...:A.: ;Shapiro,;. 1:.1.; :Corey,:.B..1i.;
Hinteregger, H. F.; Rogers, A. BE. E.; Whitney, A. R.; Knight, C. A.; Lundqvist,
G. L.; Shaffer, D. B.; Vandenberg, N. R.; Pigg, J. C.; Schupler, B. R.; and Ronnang,
B. O. “Radio-Source Positions from VLBI.” Astronomical Journal 92 (1986): 1020.

Maccacaro, T.; Garilli, B.; and Mereghetti, S. “A Systematic Search for Long-Term
Variability in a Large Sample of X-Ray Sources.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987):
1484.

Maccacaro, T.; Gioia, I.; Schild, R.; Maccagni, D.; and Stocke, J. “X-Ray Emission as
Evidence of Activity in Otherwise ‘Normal’ Galaxies.” In Observational Evidence
of Activity in Galaxies: Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 121, eds. E. Ye.
Khachikian, K. I. Fricke, and J. Melnick, p. 469. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1987.

Maccacaro, T.; Romaine, S.; and Schmitt, J. H. M. M. “Log N-Log S Slope
Determination in Imaging X-Ray Astronomy.” In Observational Cosmology,
Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 124, eds. A. Hewitt, G. Burbidge, and L. Z.
Fang, p. 597. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Maccagni, D.; Barr, P.; Garilli, B.; Gioia, I. M.; Giommi, P.; Maccacaro, T.; and
Schild, R. “X-Ray Selected BL Lac Objects: Time Variability and X-Ray Spectrum.”
In Quasars, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 119, eds. G. Swarup and V. K.
Kapahi, p. 265. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Maccagni, D.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Schild, R.; and Stocke, J. “1E0116.3-0116:
A Peculiar X-Ray Bright Early-Type Galaxy.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987):
132.

Maggio, A.; Sciortino, S.; Vaiana, G.; Majer, P.; Bookbinder, J.; Golub, L.; Harnden,
F. R. Jr.; and Rosner, R. “Einstein Observatory Survey of X-Ray Emission from
Solar-Type Stars: The Late F and G Dwarf Stars.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987):
687.

Malagoli, A.; Rosner, R.; and Bodo, G. “On the Thermal Instability of Galactic and
Cluster Halos.” Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987): 632.

167
168

McClintock, J. E. “Black Holes in X-Ray Binaries.” In The Physics of Accretion Onto
Compact Objects, Lecture Notes on Physics, vol. 266, eds. K. D. Mason, M. G.
Watson, and N. E. White, p. 211. Berlin: Spinger-Verlag, 1986.

Marsden, B. G. “Comets in 1984.” Quarterly Journal of the Royal Astronomical Soci-
ety 27 (1986): 590.

Catalogue of Orbits of Unnumbered Minor Planets, 2nd edition, 147 pp.

Cambridge, Massachusetts: Minor Planet Center, 1986.

. Catalogue of Discoveries and Identifications of Minor Planets. 2nd edition,

141 pp. Cambridge, Massachusetts: Minor Planet Center, 1986.

. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 10885-11464, 1986.

. (editor) Minor Planet Circulars Nos. 11465-12164, 1987.

Marsden, B. G., and Green, D. W. E. (editors) International Astronomical Union
Circulars Nos. 4234-421, 1986.

. (editors) International Astronomical Union Circulars Nos. 4292-4438, 1987.

Marvin, U. B. “The Planetary and Interstellar Components of Meteorites: A Review.”
In Astrochemistry, eds. M. S. Vardya and S. D. Tarafdar, p. 469. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Marvin, U. B.; Lindstrom, M. M.; Bernatowicz, T. J.; Podosek, F. A.; and Sugiura, N.
“The Composition and History of Breccia 67015 from North Ray Crater.” Journal
of Geophysical Research 92(B4) (1987): E471.

Mattison, E. “How to Shop for Instruments.” Physics Today (Buyers’ Guide Issue) 40
(1987): BG17.

Mattison, E.; Vessot, R. F. C.; Bain, C.; Wasserman, S.; and Whitesides, G. “Surface
Interactions of Atomic Hydrogen with Teflon.” In Proceedings of 41st Annual Fre-
quency Control Symposium, p. 95. New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, 1987.

Mauche, C. W., and Raymond, J. C. “IUE Observations of HL CMa and the Winds
of CVs.” In Proceedings of IAU Colloquium No. 93, Cataclysmic Variables, Astro-
physics and Space Science 130 (1987): 269.

Mazzoni, M.; Joshi, Y. N.; Nencioni, A.; Grisendi, T.; and Parkinson, W. H.
“Photoabsorption Spectrum of Atomic Bismuth.” Journal of Physics B: Atomic and
Molecu- lar Physics 20 (1987): 2193.

Mereghetti, S.; Garilli, B.; and Maccacaro, T. “Search for Flux Variability in a Sample
of X-Ray Sources Dominated by Poisson Statistics.” In Proceedings of the Meeting
on “Variability of Galactic and Extragalactic X-Ray Sources,” ed. A. Treves, p. 247.
Bologna: Associacione per |’Avanzamento della Astronomia, 1987.

Molnar, L. A. “Cygnus X-3.” In Proceedings of ESA Workshop, The Physics of Accre-
tion Onto Compact Objects,” eds. K. Mason, M. Watson, and N. White, p. 313.
New York: Springer-Verlag, 1986.

Molnar, L. A., and Mauche, C. W. “Effects of the Scattering Halo on the Observational
Properties of Cygnus X-3.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 343.

Moran, J. M.; Elvis, M.; Fazio, G.; Ho, P. T. P.; Myers, P. C.; Reid, M. J.; and Willner,
S. “The SAO Submillimeter-Wavelength Telescope Array.” In Radio Astronomy
from Space, ed. K. Weiler, pp. 111-116. Green Bank, West Virginia: National Radio
Astronomy Observatory, 1987.

Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; and Sams, B. “Expansion of Ultra Compact HII Regions in

Star Forming Regions.” In Star Forming Regions, Proceedings of IAU Symposium
No. 115, eds. M. Peimbert and J. Jugaku, p. 197. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel
Publishing Company, 1987.

Moran, J. M.; Reid, M. J.; Schneps, M. H.; Gwinn, C. R.; Genzel, R.; Downes, D.;
and Ronnang, B. “The Distance to the Center of the Galaxy.” In The Galactic
Center, Proceedings of AIP Conference 155, p. 166. New York: American Institute
of Physics, 1987.

Morris, 8S. L.; Schmidt, G. D.; Leibert, J.; Stocke, J.; Gioia, I.; and Maccacaro, T.
“1E1048.5+5421: A New 114-Minute AM Herculis Binary.” Astrophysical Journal
314 (1987): 641.

Murray, 8S. S.; Chappell, J. H.; Elvis, M. S.; Forman, W. R.; Grindlay, J. E.; Harnden,
F. R. Jr.; Jones, C. F.; Maccacaro, T.; Tananbaum, H. D.; Vaiana, G. S.; Pounds,
K. A.; Fraser, G. W.; and Henry, J. P. “The AXAF High Resolution Camera (HRC)
and Its Use for Observations of Distant Clusters of Galaxies.” Astrophysical Letters
and Communications 26 (1987): 113.

Myers, P. C. “Dense Cores and Young Stars in Dark Clouds.” In Star Forming Regions,
Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 115, eds. M. Peimbert and J. Jugaku, p. 33.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

“Observations of Molecular Cloud Structure and Internal Motions.” In
Interstellar Processes, eds. D. Hollenbach and H. Thronson, p. 71. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Myers, P. C.; Fuller, G.; Mathieu, R.; Beichman, C.; Benson, P.; Schild, R.; and
Emerson, J. “Infrared and Optical Observations of Young Stars In and Near Dense
Cores.” Astrophysical Journal 319 (1987): 340.

Neufeld, D. A., and Dalgarno, A. “Charge Transfer in Collisions of Doubly Charged
Ions of Iron and Nickel with Hydrogen Atoms.” Physical Review A 35 (1987): 3142.

Nisenson, P., and Karovska, M. “Speckle Imaging at CfA.” In Proceedings of ESO-
NOAO Conference on High Angular Resolution in Astronomy, ed. J. Beckers, p.
229. Tucson: National Optical Astronomy Observatories, 1987.

Nisenson, P., and Traub, W. “Magnitude Limit of the Group Delay Fringe Tracking
Method for Long Baseline Interferometry.” In Proceedings of ESO-NOAO Confer-
ence on High Angular Resolution in Astronomy, ed. J. Beckers, p. 129. Tucson:
National Optical Astronomy Observatories, 1987.

Noci, G.; Kohl, J. L.; and Withbroe, G. L. “Solar Wind Diagnostics from Doppler
Enhanced Scattering.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 706.

Nolt, I. G.; Chance, K. V.; Zink, L. R.; Jennings, D. A.; Evenson, K. M.; Vanek, M. D.;
and Radostitz, J. V. “Collisional Broadening of OH Rotational Transitions Using
Tunable Far-Infrared Radiation.” In 11th International Conference on Infrared and
Millimeter Waves, Conference Digest, ed. G. Moruzzi, p. 286. Pisa: Editrice, 1986.

Nolt, I. G.; Predko, 8.; Radostitz, J. V.; Moseley, J. T.; Ade, P. A. R.; Robinson, F. D.;
and Chance, K. V. “A Far-Infrared Polarization Interferometer with 5 Meter Path
Difference.” In 11th International Conference on Infrared and Millimeter Waves, R
Conference Digest, ed. G. Moruzzi, p. 147. Pisa: Editrice, 1986.

Noyes, R. W., and Avrett, E. H. “The Solar Chromosphere.” In Spectroscopy of Astro-
physical Plasmas, eds. A. Dalgarno and D. Layzer, p. 125. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1987.

Nyman, L.-A.; Bronfman, L.; Cohen, R. S.; and Thaddeus, P. “A Large Molecular
Cloud in Lupus Far from the Galactic Plane.” Astrophysical Journal 314 (1987):
374.

Owocki, S. P., and Rybicki, G. B. “Instabilities in Line-Driven Stellar Winds: III.
Wave Propagation in the Case of Pure Line Absorption.” Astrophysical Journal 309
(1986): 127.

Paque, J. A. “CaAl4O7 from Allende Type A Inclusion 4691.” In Lunar and Planetary
Science XVIII, p. 762. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1987.

Parkinson, W. H. “Laboratory Astrophysics: Atomic Spectroscopy.” In Spectroscopy
of Astrophysical Plasmas, eds. A. Dalgarno and D. Layzer, p. 302. Cambridge,
England: Cambridge University Press, 1987.

Peck, J. A., and Wood, J. A. “The Origin of Ferrous Zoning in Allende Chondrule
Olivines.” Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 51 (1987): 1503.

Reasenberg, R. D. “Solar-System Tests in Transition.” In Proceedings of the Ninth
Course of the International School of Cosmology and Gravitation: Topological
Properties and Global Structure of Space-Time, eds. P. G. Bergmann and V.
deSabbata, p. 177. New York: Plenum Press, 1986.

“POINTS: A Small Astrometric Interferometer.” In Proceedings of the

Soci- ety of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers, 24th Annual International

Tech- nical Symposium on Optical and Electro-Optical Engineering, Large Optics

Technology, ed. G. M. Sanger, pp. 245-251. Bellingham, Washington: SPIE57,

1986.

. “Microarcsecond Astrometric Interferometry.’ In Proceedings of IAU Sympo-
sium No. 109, Astrometric Techniques, eds. H. K. Eichhorn and R. J. Leacock, p.
321. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Reasenberg, R. D.; and Shapiro, I. I. “Prospects for Observations of Relativistic
Effects in the Solar System.” In Relativity in Celestial Mechanics and Astrometry,
Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 114, eds. J. Kovalevsky and V. A. Brumberg,
p. 383. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

Reid, M. J.; Moran, J. M.; and Gwinn, C. R. “HyO Masers and the Cosmic Distance
Scale.” In Radio Astronomy from Space, ed. K. Weiler, p. 145. Green Bank, West
Virginia: National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 1987.

Reid, M. J.; Myers, P. C.; and Bieging, J. “The Circumstellar Envelope of W3(OH):
NHg3 Observations.” Astrophysical Journal 312 (1987): 830.

Reid, M. J.; Schneps, M. H.; Moran, J. M.; Gwinn, C. R.; Genzel, R.; Downes, D.;
Ronnang, B. “The Distance to the Center of the Galaxy.” In Star Forming Regions,
Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 115, eds. M. Peimbert and J. Jugaku, p. 554.
Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Reitsema, H. J.; Delamere, W. A.; Huebner, W. F.; Keller, H. U.; Schmidt, W. K. H.;
Wilhelm, K.; Schmidt, H. U.; and Whipple, F. L. “Nucleus Morphology of Comet
Halley.” In Proceedings of the 20th ESLAB Symposium on the Exploration of
Halley’s Comet, ESA SP-250, eds. B. Battrick, E. J. Rolfe, and R. Reinhard, vol.
II, p. 351. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.

Roncin, J.-Y.; Launay, F.; and Yoshino, K. “New Emission Bands in the High
Resolution Vacuum Ultra-Violet Spectrum of Molecular Nitrogen.” Planetary and
Space Science 35 (1987): 267.
Rybicki, G. B. “A Gridless Fourier Method.” In The Use of Supercomputers in Stellar
Dynamics, eds. P. Hut and $8. McMillan, p. 181. Berlin, Springer-Verlag, 1986.
Schmitt, J. H. M., and Maccacaro, T. “Number-Counts Slope Estimation in the

Presence of Poisson Noise.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 334.

Schwartz, D. A. “Use of a Minimum Rate of Change Formalism to Quantify Variability
of Extragalactic X-Ray Sources.” Astrophysical Journal 318 (1987): 568.

Seward, F. D. “Neutron Stars in Twelve Supernova Remnants.” The Origin and Evo-
lution of Neutron Stars, eds. D. J. Helfand and J. H. Huang, p. 99. Dordrecht,
Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1987.

Shapiro, I. I. “Faraway Quasars.” Nature (Letter to the Editor) 324 (1986): 10.

Silva, D. R.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; Mereghetti, S.; and Stocke, J. “Spectroscopic
Observations of X-Ray Selected Stars.” Astronomical Journal 93 (1987): 869.

Smith,--P.. L Huber, M. C. 3. -Kuhne, M.;.° Parkinson;,, W., H.;- and Kock,
M. “Absolute Extreme-Ultraviolet Solar Spectral Irradiance Monitor on Space
Station/Columbus.” In Proceedings of the ESA/BNSC/CNES Workshop on Solar
Terrestrial Physics on Space Station/Columbus, eds. A. Balogh, D. A. Bryant, R. A.
Jeans, and D. R. Lepine, p. 146. Chilton, Didcot: Rutherford Appleton Laboratory,
1986.

Smith, P. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; Kiihne, M.; Huber, M. C. E.; and Kock, M. “Absolute
Extreme-Ultraviolet Solar Spectral Irradiance Monitor.” In Eighth Workshop on
the Vacuum Ultraviolet Radiometric Calibration of Space Experiments, ed. D.C.
Ebbets, paper IJ-10. Boulder: Ball Corporation, 1987.

Smith, P. L.; Parkinson, W. H.; Wheaton, J. E. G.; Thorne, A. P.; and Harris,
C.J. “Imaging, High-Resolution, Vacuum Ultraviolet Spectrometer.” In Proceedings
of SPIE Conference 687, Ultraviolet Technology, ed. R. Huffman, p. 81.
Bellingham, Washington: Proceedings of SPIE — The International Society for
Optical Engineering, 1986.

Sonneborn, G.; Baliunas, S. L.; Dupree, A. K.; Guinan, E. F.; and Hartmann, L. “Long-
Term Spectroscopic Monitoring of Alpha Orionis.” In New Insights in Astrophysics:
8 Years of UV Astronomy with IUE, ESA SP-263, ed. E. Rolfe, p. 221. Paris:
European Space Agency, 1986.

Stark, G.; Yoshino, K.; and Smith, P. L. “A High Resolution Study of the Vacuum
Ultraviolet Spectrum of CS: The B!n* —X!50+ system.” Journal of Molecular Spec-
troscopy 124 (1987): 420.

Staubert, R.; Brunner, H.; and Worrall, D. M. “EXOSAT Observations of 3C 371.”
Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 694.

Stauffer, J. R., and Hartmann, L. “The Rotational Velocities of Low-Mass Stars.”
Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 98 (1986): 1233.

. “Rotational Velocities of Low-Mass Stars in the Pleiades. II.” Astrophysical
Journal 318 (1987): 337.

Stauffer, J. R.; Hartmann, L. W.; and Latham, D. W. “Rotational Velocities of Low
Mass Stars in the Hyades.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 320 (1987): L51.

Sternberg, A.; Dalgarno, A.; and Lepp, S. “Cosmic-Ray Induced Photodestruction of
Interstellar Molecules in Dense Clouds.” Astrophysical Journal 320 (1987): 676.

Stocke, J.; Schneider, P.; Morris, S. L.; Gioia, I. M.; Maccacaro, T.; and Schild, R.
“X-Ray Selected AGNs Near Bright Galaxies.” Astrophysical Journal (Letters) 315

172

(1987): L11.

Stolper, E., and Paque, J. M. “Crystallization Sequences of Ca-Al-Rich Inclusions from
Allende: The Effects of Cooling Rate and Maximum Temperature.” Geochimica et
Cosmochimica Acta 50 (1986): 1785.

Thomas, P. A.; Fabian, A. C.;.Arnaud, K. A.; Jones, C.; and Forman, W. “The
Prevalence of Cooling Flows in Early-Type Galaxies.” Monthly Notices of the Royal
Astronomical Society 222 (1986): 655.

Traub, W. A.; Chance, K. V.; and Coyle, L. M. “Performance of a Single Axis Platform
for Balloon-Borne Remote Sensing.” Reviews of Scientific Instruments 57 (1986):
2519.

Trinchieri, G.; Fabbiano, G.; and Canizares, C. R. “The X-Ray Surface Brighteness
Distribution and Spectral Properties.” Astrophysical Journal 310 (1986): 637.

Tuohy, I.; Buckley, D.; Remillard, R.; Bradt, H.; and Schwartz, D. “Identification of
Two Southern X-Ray Emitting Cataclysmic Variables.” Astrophysical Journal 311
(1986): 275.

Ulmschneider, P.; Muchmore, D.; and Kalkofen, W. K. “Acoustic Tube Waves in
the Solar Atmosphere I. Magnesium and Calcium Line Emission with Complete
Redistribution.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 177 (1987): 292.

Ungerechts, H., and Thaddeus, P. “A CO Survey of the Dark Nebulae in Perseus,
Taurus, and Auriga.” Astrophysical Journal (Supplement) 63 (1987): 645.

van Ballegooijen, A. A. “Cascade Model of Coronal Heating.” In Proceedings of the
SMM Workshop on Coronal and Prominence Plasmas, CP 2442, ed. A. Poland, p.
439. Washington, D.C.: NASA, 1986.

Verbunt, F.; Shafer, R. A.; Jansen, F.; Arnaud, K. A.; and Van Paradijs, J. “A Soft
X-Ray Observation of w Centauri with EXOSAT.” Astronomy and Astrophysics 168
(1986): 169.

Vessot, R. F. C. “A Hydrogen Maser Clock for Space: Clocks in Future Possible
and Improbable Applications.” In Proceedings of the Workshop at the National
Radio Astronomy Observatory, p. 195. Green Bank, West Virginia: National Radio
Astronomy Observatory, 1986.

Vessot, R. F. C.; Mattison, E. M.; Walsworth, R. L., Jr.; Silvera, I. F.; Godfried,
H. P.; and Agosta, C. C. “A Hydrogen Maser at Temperatures Below 1K.” IEEE
Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurements IM-36(2) (1987): 588.

Vilenkin, A., and Field. G. B. “Quasars and Superconducting Cosmic Strings.” Nature
326 (1987): 772.

Vrtilek, J. M.; Gottlieb, C. A.; LePage, T. J.; and Thaddeus, P. “The Radio Spectrum
of Cyclopropene.” Astrophysical Journal 316 (1987): 826.

Vrtilek, J. M.; Gottlieb, C. A.; and Thaddeus, P. “Laboratory and Astronomical
Spectroscopy of C3Hg, the First Interstellar Organic Ring.” Astrophysical Journal
314 (1987): 716.

Ward, M.; Elvis, M.; Fabbiano, G.; Carleton, N. P.; Willner, S. P.; and Lawrence,
A. “The Continuum of Type 1 Seyfert Galaxies: I. A Single Form Modified by the
Effects of Dust.” Astrophysical Journal 315 (1987): 74.

Welther, B. “Martha Betz Shapley: First Lady of Harvard College Observatory 1921-
1952.” Journal of the American Association of Variable Star Observers 15 (1986):
282.
. “Physics in the Dark Ages.” The Physics Teacher 25 (1987): 255.

Whitney, C. “The Skies of Vincent van Gogh.” Art History 9 (1986): 351.

. “Casino Physics in the Classroom.” American Journal of Physics 54 (1986):
1079.

Whipple, F. L. “News from Visits to Halley’s Comet.” In Papers Read at a Joint Meet-
ing of the Royal Society and the American Philosophical Society, Symposium on
Halley’s Comet, American Philosophical Society Special Publication No. 44, vol. 2,
p. 1. Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1987.

Wood, J. A. “Comet Nucleus Models: A Review.” In Comet Nucleus Sample Return,
ESA SP-249, p. 123. Paris: European Space Agency, 1986.

“Planning a Sample-Return Mission to a Comet Nucleus.” Meteoritics 21
(1986): 542.

“Was Chondritic Material Formed During Large-Scale, Protracted Nebular
Evolution or by Transient Local Events in the Nebula?” In Lunar and Planetary
Science XVIII, p. 1100. Houston, Texas: Lunar and Planetary Institute, 1987.

Worrall, D. M. “Luminosity Dependence in the Ratio of X-Ray to Infrared Emission
of QSOs.” Astrophysical Journal 318 (1987): 188.

“Superluminal Radio Sources: What Does X-Ray Emission Tell Us?” In

Superluminal Radio Sources, Proceedings of a Workshop, eds. J. A. Zensus and

T. J. Pearson, p. 251. England: Cambridge University Press, 1987.

“Correlation of X-Ray and Infrared Emission of Radio-Quiet QSOs.” In
Observational Cosmology, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 124, eds. A. Hewitt,
G. Burbidge, and L. Z. Fang, p. 607. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing
Company, 1987.

Worrall, D. M.; Giommi, P.; Tananbaum, H.; and Zamorani, G. “A Statistical Study
of the Relationship between X-Ray, Optical and Radio Luminosity for a Sample of
QSOs.” In Quasars, Proceedings of IAU Symposium No. 119, eds. G. Swarup and
V. K. Kapahi, p. 263. Dordrecht, Holland: D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1986.

“X-Ray Studies of Quasars with the Einstein Observatory (IV): X-Ray
Dependence on Radio Emission.” Astrophysical Journal 313 (1987): 596.

Yee, J.-H., and Dalgarno, A. “Radiative Lifetime Analysis of the Shuttle Optical Glow.”
Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets 23 (1986): 635.

. “Energy Transfer of O(!D) Atoms in Collision with O(?P) Atoms.” Planetary
and Space Science 35 (1987): 399.

Yoshino, K.; Freeman, D. E.; Esmond, J. R.; and Parkinson, W. H. “High Resolution
Absorption Cross Sections and Band Oscillator Strengths of the Schumann-Runge
Bands of Oxygen at 79 K.” Planetary and Space Science 35 (1987): 1067.

Zdziarski, A. A., and Lightman, A. P. “Relativistic Plasmas in Active Galactic
Nuclei.” In Proceedings of Conference on Variability of Galactic and Extragalactic
X-Ray Sources, ed. A. Treves, p. 121. Milan: Associazone per L’avanzaneto
Dell’astronomia, 1987.

Zygelman, B., and Dalgarno, A. “Impact Excitation of the n=2 Fine-Structure Levels
in Hydrogen-Like Ions by Protons and Electrons.” Physical Review A 35 (1987):
4085.

SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER

Correll, D. L. "Nutrients in Chesapeake Bay. In Contaminant Problems and
Management of Living Chesapeake Bay Resources (1987): 298-320. Edited
by S. K. Majumdar, L. W. Hall, Jr. and H. M. Austin. The Pennsylvania
Academy of Science.

Correll, D. L., Miklas, J. J., Hines, A. H., and Schafer, J. J. "Chemical
and Biological Trends Associated with Acidic Atmospheric Deposition in
the Rhode River Watershed and Estuary." In Water, Air, and Soil
Pollution 351987), -.63-86.

Hines, A. H., Lipcius, R. N., and Haddon, A. M. "Population Dynamics and
Habitat Partitioning by Size, Sex, and Molt Stage of Blue Crabs
(Callinectes sapidus) in a Subestuary of Central Chesapeake Bay." In
Marine Ecology, Progress Series 36 (1987): 55-64.

Hull, J. C. and Whigham, D. F. "Vegetation Patterns in Six Bogs and
Adjacent Forested Wetlands on the Inner Coastal Plain of Maryland."
In Atlantic White Cedar Wetlands (1987): 143-173. Edited by A. D.
Laderman. Westview Press.

Jordan: Is.-Es«,. Pterce, J. W., and. Correll, De JL. "Flux of Particulate
Matter in the Tidal Marshes and Subtidal Shallows of the Rhode River
Estuary." In Estuaries 9 (1986): 310-319.

Lynch, J. Fr. "Responses of Breeding Bird Communities to Forest Fragmenta-
iON. In Nature Conservation: The Role of Remnants of Native Vege-
tation (1987): 123-140. Edited by D. A. Saunders, G. W. Arnold, A. A.
ae and A. J. M. Hopkins. Surrey Beatty and Sons.

Mehlhop, P. and Lynch, J. F. "Bird Habitat Relationships Along a Succes-
sional Gradient in the Maryland Coastal Plain." In The American
Midland Naturalist 116 (1986): 225-239.

Stephens, D. W., Lynch, J. F., Sorensen, A. E., and Gordon, C. “Preference
and Profitability: Theory and Experiment." In The American Natural -
1st, b27 (1986): 533-553:

Whigham, D. F. “Water Quality Studies of Six Bogs on the Inner Coastal
Plain of Maryland." In Atlantic White Cedar Wetlands (1987): 85-90.
Edited by A. D. Laderman. Westview Press.

Whigham, D. F. “Ecosystem Processes and Biogeographical Considerations."
In Atlantic White Cedar Wetlands (1987): 371-373. Edited by A. D.
Laderman. Westview Press.

SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION ARCHIVES

Sx, William E. "Guide to the Parers cz Paul D.. Hurce, Jz., 1928-19382;
and: undated." Guides to Collections in the Smithsonian Archives,
no. 6. “Archives and Special Collectisons oz the Smichsonten
Insti suticn., Washingtcn, D. C.: Smithsenian Archives;71w1¢37<

Moss, William W. “Archives in the People's Republic of China
Revisited." The American Archivist 49 (Fall, 1886) :481-490.

Steed, James A. "Guide to the Records cf the Office of the Secretary
(Gherles "DS. Walcot=); 1s90=1929. Guides to Collections in -tne
Smithsenian Archives, no. 5. Archives and Special Collecticns’ cit thre
Smztnsenien, Instituticn,. 1987.
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION LIBRARIES

Bedini, Silvio A. "The Galilean Jovilabe," Annali di Storia della
Scienza anno I, fasc. 1 (1986):25-46.

- “Rowland Houghton's 'New Theodolate,'" Rittenhouse:
Journal of the American Scientific Instrument Enterprise I
(2) (February 1987):30-39.

- Review of Gli Strumenti del Gabinetto di Fisica
ell'rIstituto Tecnico Toscano, I: Acoustica by Paolo Brenni
(Florence: Biblioteca dell'Assessorato alla Cultura, 1986).

» Review of La Biblioteca dell'Istituto Tecnico Toscano,
TI: Libri Antichi: Catalogo (1482-1799) by Guido Gori and Massimo
Misiti (Florence: Biblioteca dell'Assessorato alla Cultura, 1986).

- Review of Il Teatro di Filosofia Sperimentale di
Giovanni Poleni, Mostra di Strumenti Scientifici, Padova, Pallazzo
della Ragione, 15 Marzo-27 Aprile 1986 by Gian Antonio Salandin and
Maria Pancino (Padua: Universita degli Studi di Padova, 1986).

. Review of Der Drechselude Souvrann, Materialien zu Hiner
Furstlichen Maschinenkunst by Klaus Maurice Zurich: Verlag Ineichen).

- Review of Gli Strumenti nella Storia e nella Filosofia
della Scienza ed. by Gino Tarozzi (Bologna: Istituto per i Beni
Artistici Culturali Naturali della Regione Emilia-Romagna, 1985).

. Review of Leopoldo Nobili e la Cultura Scientifica del
suo Tempo ed. by Gino Tarozzi (Bologna: Nuova Alfa Editoriale, 1986).

- Review of La Collezione degli Antichi Aparecchi
dell'Istituto di Fisica: Elettricita e Magnetismo (1835-1900) by
EZio Regozzino and Edvige Schettino (Naples: Universita degli Studi
di Napoli, 1986) in Bulletin of the Scientific Instrument Society ll
(1986):9-11l.

- Review of Catalogo della Corrispondenza degli Astronomi
di Brera 1726-1799 by Agnese Mandrino, Guido Tagliaferri, and
Pasquale Tucci (Milan: Universita degli Studi di Milano, 1986) in
Bulletin of the Scientific Instrument Society 12 (1987):19.

. Review of The Time MuSeum: Catalogue of the
Collection. Volume I: Time Measuring Instruments. Part I:
Astrolabes/Astrolabe Related Instruments. Section 3:
Water-Clocks/Sand-Glasses/Fire-Clocks. by Anthony J. Turner
(Rockford: Time Museum, 1984-5) in Technology and Culture 28
(January 1987):159-61,

Child, Margaret. "NEH Support for Special Collections." Library Trends.
36 (1)(Summer 1987):215-227.
Kenyon, Kay. "Spotlight on National Zoological Park Library."
Biofeedback (Biological Sciences Division Special Library
Association Newsletter), 12 (4):4-5.

- Library News for Zoos and Aquariums, #15, June 1987.

- The Recommended List of Books and Other Resources for Z00
and Aquarium Libraries. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution
Libraries, 1987.

Knudsen, Monica. "The Institution's Institution," Air and Space
Smithsonian 2 (1)(April/May 1987):28-9.

nN
Stanley, Janet. Review of Ahmadu Bello University Thesis and
Dissertation Abstracts. 1962-1978 by Joe Ezeji in African Book
Publishing Record 12 (3)(1986):154.,

Wells, Ellen B. Review of How to Ride a Winning Dressage Test: The
Judge's Guide to Step-to-Step Improvement by Jonathan R. Burton and
Darlene Sordillo (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1985) in
Dressage and CT 4 (January 1987):10-12.

- Review of An Early History of Horsemanship. by A.
Azzaroli. (Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1985) in Technology and Culture 28
2) eCApEeTiy 1938 7-)'33'48".

SMITHSONIAN TROPICAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE

Abele, L. G., Campanella, P. J. and Salmon, M. "Natural History and
Social Organization of the Semiterrestrial Grapsid Crab Pachygrapsus

transversus (Gibbes)." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and
Ecology 104(1986): 153-170.

Ackerman, J. D. and Montalvo, A. M. "Two New Species of Epidendrum with
Lateral Inflorescences." Selbyana 9(1)(1986): 126-129.

Aide, T. M. "“Limbfalls: a Major Cause of Sampling Mortality for Tropical
Forest Plant." Biotropica 19(3): 284-285.

----- - "The Influence of Wind and Animal Pollination on Variation in
Outcrossing Rates." Evolution 40(2)(1986): 434-435.

Aiello, A. "Genuchinus muzo Krikken (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) Larvae

Reared from a Bird’s Nest in Panama." The Coleopterists Bulletin
41(3) (1987): 259-262

Angermeier, P. L. and Karr, J. R. "Applying an Index of Biotic Integrity
Based on Stream-Fish Communities: Considerations in Sampling and

Interpretation." North American Journal of Fisheries Management
6(1986): 418-429.

Augspurger, C. K. and Franson, S. E. "Wind Dispersal of Artificial Fruits
Varying in Mass, Area, and Morphology." Ecology 68(1)(1987): 27-42.

Baker, E. W., Roubik, D. W. and Delfinado-Baker, M. "The Developmental
Stages and Dimorphic Males of Chaetodactylus panamensis, n. sp.
(Acari: Chaetodactylidae) Associated with Solitary Bee (Apoidea:

Anthophoridae). International Journal of Acarology 13(1)(1987):
65-73.

Baker Berrio, Esmeraldo M. "Agrupamiento segun Relacidén Genética en
Recién Nacidos de Iguana iguana." Thesis, Escuela de Biologia,
Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas (1987). Panama: Universidad
de Panama.

Batten, M. "Body Talk Beneath the Sea." Calypso Log 13(4)(1986): 14-15.
Becker, P. and Rundel, P. W. "Relaciones Hidricas y Fenologia Vegetativa
en el Sotobosque de un Bosque Tropical Humedo en Barro Colorado,
Panama. (Afiche)." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los
Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Ndjera. San José, Costa
Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 223.

Belwood, J. J. and Morris, G. L. "Bat Predation and its Influence on
Calling Behavior of Neotropical Katyclids." Science 238(1987): 64-67.

Bermingham, E. and Lessios, H.A. "Mitochondrial DNA and Protein
Divergence Between Organisms Separated by the Isthmus of Panama."
Genetics 1165(1987): 18.

Bock, B. C., Rand, A. S. and Burghardt, G. M. "Seasonal Migration and
Nesting Site Fidelity in the Green Iguana." In Migration: Mechanisms
and Adaptive Significance (1985): 435-443. Edited by M. A. Rankin.
Port Aransas, Texas: University of Texas Marine Science Institute.

Boreham, M. M. and Roubik, David W. "Population Change and Control of
Africanized Honey Bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae) in the Panama Canal
Area." Bulletin of the ESA Spring (1987): 34-39.

Brawn, J. D. "Nest Boxes and Western Bluebirds in Arizona’s Pine
Forests." Sialia 9(1987): 123-126.

Brawn, J. D., Boecklen, W. J. and Balda, R. P. “Investigations of
Density Interactions among Breeding Birds in Ponderosa Pine Forests:
Correlative and Experimental Evidence." Oecologia 72(3)(1987):
348-357.

Bricefio, R. D. "Como las Arafias Determinan el Tamafio de Camada."° In
Proceedings of the Ninth International Congress of Arachnology, Panama
1983 (1986): 25-28. Edited by W. G. Eberhard, Y. D. Lubin and B. C.
Robinson. Washington D.C.: Published for the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

Brokaw, N. V. L. "Algunos Aspectos Importantes en el Estudio de la
Demografia de Plantas en los Bosques Tropicales." In Ecologia y
Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J.
Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol.
35, Supp. 1(1987): 205-206.

----- . "Gap-Phase Regeneration of Three Pioneer Tree Species in a
Tropical Forest." Journal of Ecology 75(1)(1987): 9-19.

Brokaw. N. V. L. and Mallory, E. P. "Crecimiento de Arboles en Aberturas
Experimentales en un Bosque Tropical (Afiche)." In Ecologia y

Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J.
Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol.

35,4 SUPPe AGIOS Te 2 Be

Brucher, H. "The Isthmus of Panama as a Crossroad for Prehistoric
Migration of Domesticated Plants." GeoJournal 14(1)(1987): 121-122.
Burgett, J. M., Cubit, J. D. and Thompson, R. C. "Seasonal Growth
Patterns in the Tropical Littorinid Snails Littorina angulifera and
Tectarius muricatus." The Veliger 30(1)(1987): 11-23.

Candanedo, M. "Biologia Para Todos: La Biblioteca del Smithsonian" El
Ejecutivo Septiembre-Octubre (1985): 10-11.

Chandler, D. S. and Wolda, H. "Seasonality and Diversity of Caccopletus,
with a Review of the Genus and Description of a New Genus,

Caccoplectinus (Coleoptera: Pselaphidae)." Zool. Jb. Syst.
113(1986): 469-524.

Choe, J. C. and Timm, R. M. "Roosting Site Selection by Artibeus watsoni
(Chiroptera: Phyllostomidae) on Anthurium ravenii (Araceae) in Costa

Rica." Journal of Tropical Ecology 1(1985): 241-247.

Christy, J. H. "Timing of Larval Release by Intertidal Crabs on an
Exposed Shore." Bulletin of Marine Science 39(2)(1986): 176-191.

Coley, P. D. "Patrones en las Defensas de las Plantas: Por qué los
Herbivoros Prefieren Ciertas Especies?" In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia

de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera.
San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp.
1(1987): 151-164.

Cooke, R. G. "La Arqueologia del Panama Precolombino y su Importancia
para los Estudios de los Pueblos de Habla Chibcha." In Memorias del
Primer Simposio Cientifico sobre Pueblos Indigenas de Costa Rica
(1987): 81-95. Edited by R. Barrantes, M.E. Bozzoli and P. Gudifio.
San José, Costa Rica: Comcit/Universidad de Costa Rica/Instituto
Cartografico.

----- . "El Motivo del "Ave de las Alas Desplegadas" en la Orfebreria de
Panama y Costa Rica." In Metalurgia de América Precolombina, 450.
Congreso Internacional de Americanistas 1985 (1986): 137-168.
Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, Colombia.

Craig, C. L. "Prey Capture among Orb-Weaving Spiders." (Abstract). In
Proceedings of the Ninth International Congress of Arachnology, Panama
1983 (1986): 309. Edited by W. G. Eberhard, Y. D. Lubin and B. C.
Robinson. Washington D.C.: Published for the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute by the Smithsonian Institution Press.

----- . "The Ecological and Evolutionary Interdependence Between Web
Architecture and Web Silk Spun by Orb Web Weaving Spiders."

Biological Journal of the Linnean Society 30(2)(1987): 135-162.

Cubist hed SjeGetters  CicDs5"Jaekson; J. Bi Ca, «Garrity ts. De; eCarhey;
H. M., Thompson, R. C., Weil, E. and Marshall, M. J. "An Oil Spill
Affecting Coral Reefs and Mangroves on the Caribbean Coast of
Panama." Proceedings of the 1987 Oil Spill Conference, American
Petroleum Institute, Washington D.C. (1987): 401-406.

178
Cubit, J. D., Windsor, D. M., Thompson, R. C. and Burgett, J. M.
"Water-Level Fluctuations, Emersion Regimes and Variations of Echinoid
Populations on a Caribbean Reef Flat." Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf
Science 22(1987): 719-737.

Davidar, P. "Fruit Structure in Two Neotropical Mistletoes and Its
Consequences for Seed Dispersal." Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 137-139.

DelValle, D. "Geochemical Analysis of Bottom Sediments from Gatun Lake,
Panama: A Background Study." Gerliner Geowiss. Abh. (A) 211(1986):
119-120.

DeSteven, D. "Impacto de Mamiferos en la Regeneracién de una Especie de
Arbol con Semillas Grandes en Panama (Afiche)." In Ecologia y

Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J.
Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol.

35°. Supp. VGl987 ji: 278.

DeVries, P. J. Ecological Aspects of Ant Association and Host Plant Use
in a Riodinid Butterfly, (1987). Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Texas at Austin.

----- . "“Hostplant Records and Natural History Notes on Costa Rican
Butterflies (Papilionidae, Pieridae & Nymphalidae)." The Journal of

Research on the Lepidoptera 24(4)(1986): 290-333.

----- . The Butterflies of Costa Rica and their Natural History (1987):
327p. Princeton: Princeton University Press.

DeVries, P. J., Harvey, D. and Kitching I. "The Ant Associated Epidermal
Organs of the Larva of the Lycaenid Butterfly Curetis regula Evans."
Journal of Natural History 20(1986): 621-633.

DeVries, P. J., Schull, J. and Greig, N. "Synchronous Nocturnal Activity
and Gregarious Roosting in the Neotropical Skipper Butterfly

Celaenorrhynis fritzgaertneri: (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae)."
Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 89(1987): 89-103.

DeVries, P. J. and Singer, M. C. "Butterflies of North America: Natural
History and Field Guide, by J. Scott, 1985." (Book Review).

Quarterly Review of Biology 62(1987): 330-331.

Dressler, R. L. "Cladistic Analysis of the Orchidaceae: a Commentary."
Lindleyana 2(1)(1987): 66-71.

Eberhard, W. G. "Possible Mutualism Between Females of the Subsocial
Membracid Polyglypta dispar (Homoptera)." Behavioral Ecology and
Sociobiology 19(1986): 447-453.

----- - "“Pupation in Micetophilid Flies: A Correction." Psyche
93(1-2) (1986): 117-119.

----- . "“"Web-Building Behavior of Ampid, Symphytognathid and Mysmenid
Spiders (Araneae)." The Journal of Arachnology 14(3)(1986): 339-356.

179
Eberhard, W. G. and Bricefio, D. "Behavior and Ecology of Four Species of
Modissimus and Blechroscelis (Araneae, Pholcidae)." Revue
Arachnologique 6(1)(1985): 29-36.

Fischer, E. A. “Mating Systems of Simultaneously Hermaphroditic Serranid
Fishes." In Indo-Pacific Fish Biology: Proceedings of the Second
Conference on Indo-Pacific Fishes (1986): 776-784. Edited by T.
Uyeno, R. Arai, T. Taniuchi and K. Matsuura. Tokyo: Ichthyological
Society of Japan.

Fischer, E. A. and Harper, A. "Local Mate Competition in Finite Groups."
Evolution 40(4)(1986): 862-863.

Fischer, E. A. and Petersen, C. W. "The Behaviour of Males and
Simultaneous Hermaphrodites in the Lantern Bass." Ethology
73(3)(1986): 235-246.

Fleishman, L. J. "Cryptic Movement in the Vine Snake Oxybelis aeneus".
Copeia (1985): 242-245.

----- - “Motion Detection in the Presence and Absence of Background Motion

in an Anolis Lizard." Journal of Comparative Physiology A 159(1986):
711-720.

Fraga, R. M. "Vocal Mimicry in the Epaulet Oriole." The Condor 89(1987):
133-137.

Franks, N. R. "Reproduction, Foraging Efficiency and Worker Polymorphism
in Army Ants." In Experimental Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology,
In Memoriam Karl von Frisch 1886-1982 (1985): 91-107. Edited by B.
Holldobler and M. Lindauer. Sunderland: Sinauer Associates.

Franks, N. R. and Holldobler, B. "Sexual Competition During Colony

Reproduction in Army Ants." Biological Journal of the Linnean Society
30(1987): 229-243.

Freed, L. "Rufous and White Wrens Kill House Wrens Nestlings During a
Food Shortage." The Condor 89(1987): 195-197.

Garrity, S. D., Levings, S. C. and Caffey, H. M. “Spatial and Temporal
Variation in Shell Crushing by Fishes on Rocky Shores of Pacific

Panama." Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology
103(1,2,3)(1986): 131-142.

Garwood, N. C. "Effects of Acid and Hot Water Pretreatments and Seed
Burial on the Germination of Tropical Moist Forest Seeds." Turrialba
36(4) (1987): 479-484.

Garwood, N. C. and Lighton, J. R. B. "Consumo de Oxigeno en Semillas
Tropicales (Afiche)." In Ecologia y Ecofisiologfa de Plantas en los
Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa
Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 220.
Glynn, P. W., Howard, L. S., Corcoran, E. and Freay, A. D. "Preliminary
Investigations into the Occurrence and Toxicity of Commercial
Herbicide Formulations in Reef Building Corals." In Coral Reef
Population Biology (1986): 473-485. Edited by P. L. Jokiel, R. H.
Richmond and R. A. Rogers.

Glynn, P. W. and Krupp, D. A. "Feeding Biology of a Hawaiian Sea Star
Corallivore, Culcita novaequineae Muller and Troschel." In Coral Reef
Population Biology (1986): 330-349. Edited by P. L. Jokiel, R. H.
Richmond and R. A. Rogers.

Graham, J. B., Baird, T. A. and Stockmann, W. "The Transition to Air

Breathing in Fishes." Journal of Experimental Biology 129 (1987):
83-106.

Graham, J. B., Gee, J. H., Motta, J. and Rubinoff, I. "Subsurface
Buoyancy Regulation by the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus." Physiological
Zoology 60(2)(1987): 251-261.

Graham, J. B., Lowell, W. R., Rubinoff, I. and Motta, J. "Surface and
Subsurface Swimming of the Sea Snake Pelamis platurus." Journal of

Experimental Biology 127(1987): 27-44.

Greig, N. and DeVries, P. "Observations on the Diurnal Gregarious
Roosting of Ocalaria sp. (Noctuidae) in Costa Rica." Journal of the

Lepideopterists Society 40(1986): 124-126.

Griffith. P..C.,- Cubit,, J. D.5. Adey, W...H...and: Norris:,,.ds.N:
Computer-automated Flow Respirometry: Metabolism Measurements on a
Caribbean Reef Flat and in a Microcosm." Limnology and Oceanography
32(2)(1987): 442-451.

Hamrick, J. "Algunos Aspectos Importantes en el Estudio de la Genética de
Poblaciones de Plantas en Bosques Tropicales." In Ecologia y
Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J.
Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol.
355 Supp. 1¢T987)? 213=214.

Hamrick, J. L. and Loveless, M. D. "The Influence of Seed Dispersal
Mechanisms on the Genetic Structure of Plant Populations, In

Frugivores and Seed Dispersal (1986): 211-223. Edited by A. Estrada
and T. H. Fleming. Dordrecht: Dr. W. Junk.

----- - "Isozyme Variation in Tropical Trees: Procedures and Preliminary
Results." Biotropica 18(3)(1986): 201-207.

Harrison, S. "Treefall Gaps Versus Forest Understory as Environments for
a Defoliating Moth on a Tropical Forest Shrub." Oecologia
72(1) (1987): 65-68

181
Hastings, P. A. and Petersen, C. W. "A Novel Sexual Pattern in Serranid
Fishes: Simultaneous Hermaphrodites and Males in Serranus

fasicatus." Environmental Biology of Fishes 15(1986): 59-68.

Hay, M. E. "Functional Geometry of Seaweeds = Ecological Consequences of
Thallus Layering and Shape in Contrasting Light Environments." In On

the Economy of Plant Form and Function (1986): 635-666. Edited by T.
E. Givnish. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Heckadon Moreno, S. "El Costo Ambiental del Desarrollo en la Cuenca del
Canal." In La Cuenca del Canal de Panama (1986): 9-43. Edited by S.
Heckadon Moreno. Panama: Impretex.

----- - Informe del Grupo de Trabajo Sobre La Cuenca del Canal de Panama.
(Sumario Ejecutivo) (1986). Panama: Impretex.

----- . "Traduccién y Notas, Los Indios Valiente de Bocas del Toro en 1817

segun Testimonio de Roberts." Revista Panamefia de Antropologia
3(1987): 148-175.

-----. (Editor). La Cuenca del Canal de Panama. Actas de los Seminarios
Talleres (1986). Panama: Impretex.

Hernandez, A. "Preface." In A Day on Barro Colorado Island (1986): v,
by M. Wong and J. Ventocilla. Panama: Published by Impretex for
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute.

Herre, A. “Optimality, Plasticity and Selective Regime in Fig Wasps Sex
Ratios." Nature 329(1987): 627-629.

Herre, E. A., Leigh, E. G. and Fischer, E. A. "Sex Allocation in

Animals." In The Evolution of Sex_and its Consequences (1987).
Edited by Steven Stearns. Birkhanser.

Herre, E. A., Windsor, D. M. and Foster, R. "Nesting Associations of
Wasps and Ants in Lowland Peruvian Ant-Plants." Psyche 93(1986):
321-330.

Hogan, K. P. "“Aspectos Ecoldédgicos del Crecimiento de Dos Especies de

Palma en la Isla Barro Colorado, Panama (Afiche)." In Ecologia y
Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos. Edited by J.
Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia Tropical Vol.
35, supp. 1(1987): 221.

-----. Plant Architecture, Photosynthetic Responses, and Population
Biology in the Palms Socratea durissima and Scheelea zonensis on Barro
Colorado Island, Panama (1986). Ph.D. dissertation, Department of
Plant Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana.

182
Homi. daaM 6. Leese Diakix, Smith), Nes Ge) Nash; Bru dis,,, nellows, Lb. .Bevand
Bell, E. A. "The Urania-Omphalea Interaction: Host Plant Secondary
Chemistry." In Insects - Plants (1987): 394. Edited by V. Labeyrie,
G. Fabres and D. Lachaise. The Netherlands: Dr. W. Junk Publishers.

Howe, H. F. and Wright, S. J. "Spatial Pattern and Mortality in the

Desert Mallow (Sphaeralcea ambigua). National Geographic Research
2(4)(1986): 491-499.

Hubbell, S. P. and Foster, R. B. "Biology, Chance, and History and the
Structure of Tropical Rain Forest Tree Communities" In Community
Ecology (1986): 314-329. Edited by J. Diamond and T. J. Case. New
York: Harper and Row Publishers.

----- . "Canopy Gaps and the Dynamics of a Neotropical Forest." In Plant
Ecology (1986): 77-96. Edited by M. J. Crawley. Oxford: Blackwell
Scientific Publications.

----- . "La Estructura Espacial en Gran Escala de un Bosque Neotropical."
In Ecologia y Ecofisiologia de Plantas en los Bosques Mesoamericanos.
Edited by J. Monge-Najera. San José, Costa Rica: Revista de Biologia
Tropical Vol. 35, Supp. 1(1987): 7-22.

----- - "The Spatial Context of Regeneration in a Neotropical Forest."

In Colonization, Succession and Stability (1987): 395-412. Edited by
A. J. Gray, M. J. Crawley and P. J. Edwards. Oxford: Blackwell

Scientific.
Hubbell, S. P. and Johnson, L. K. "Environmental Variance in Lifetime
Mating Success, Mate Choice, and Sexual Selection." The American

Naturalist 130(1)(1987): 91-112.

Jackson, J. B. C. "Modes of Dispersal of Clonal Benthic Invertebrates:
Consequences for Species” Distributions and Genetic Structure of Local
Populations." Bulletin of Marine Science 39(2)(1986): 588-606.

Jackson, J. B. C. and Kaufmann, K. W. "Diadema antillarum Was Not a
Keystone Predator in Cryptic Reef Environments." Science 235(1987):
687-689.

Jackson, J. B. C. and McKinney, F. K. "Depth Distribution of Living
Marine Invertebrate Morphologies: Limited Carry-Over to the Fossil
Record in one Phylum (Bryozoa)." Abstracts with Programs
TC2 C19 87 2201.2

Johnson, L. K. "Bats Eaten by Nambiquara Indians in Western Brazil."
Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 188-189

----- - "Communication of Food Source Location by the Stingless Bee,

Trigona fulviventris." In Chemistry and Biology of Social Insects
(1987). Edited by J. Eder and H. Rembold. Munich: Verlag J.

Peperny.
184

-----. "The Pyrrhic Victory of Nest-Robbing Bees: Did They Use the
Wrong Pheromone?" Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 188-189.

Johnson, L. K. and Howard, J. J. “Olfactory Disc Number in Bees of
Different Sizes and Ways of Life (Apidea: Meliponinae). " Journal of

the Kansas Entomological Society 60(3)(1987): 380-388.

Johnson, L. K., Hubbell, S. P. and Feener, D. H. "Defense of Food Supply
by Eusocial Colonies." American Zoologist 27(1987): 347-358.

Karr, J. R. “Australian Bird Population" (Book Review) Birds of Eucalypt
Forests and Woodlands, edited by A. Keast, H. F. Recher, H. Ford, and
D. Saunders. Science 234(4776)(1986): 620.

-----. "Biological Monitoring and Environmental Assessment: A
Conceptual Framework." Environmental Management 11(2)(1987): 249-256.

Karn Ji Ris, Yant.,: PP. Rag ‘Bausch ,. KD. and: Schlosser, Lv dio tSpatzal
and Temporal Variability of the Index of Biotic Integrity in Three

Midwestern Streams." Transactions of the American Fisheries Society
VIO CIOS VHT 1.

Kilar, J. A. and Lou, R. M. "The Subtleties of Camouflage and Dietary
Preference of the Decorator Crab, Microphrys bicornutus Latreille

(Decapoda: Brachyura)". Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and
Ecology 101(1,2)(1986): 143-160.

Kilar, J. A., and McLachlan, J. "Branching Morphology as an Indicator of
Environmental Disturbance: Testing the Vegetative Fragmentation of
Acanthophora spicifera and the Turf Morphology of Laurencia

papillosa". Aquatic Botany 24(1986): 115-130.

Kimsey, L. S. and Dressler, R. L. “"Synonymic Species List of
Euglossini." Pan-Pacific Entomologist 62(3)(1986): 229-236.

Knowlton, N. and Keller, B. D. “Larvae which Fall Far Short of their
Potential: Highly Localized Recruitment in an Alpheid Shrimp with
Extended Larval Development." Bulletin of Marine Science 39(2)(1986):
213-223.

Lee, D. W. "The Spectral Distribution of Radiation in Two Neotropical
Rainforests." Biotropica 19(2)(1987): 161-166.

Lee, D. W., Brammier, S. and Smith, A. P. "The Selective Advantages of
Anthocyanins in Developing Leaves of Mango and Cacao." Biotropica 19:

4o-49,.

Lee, D. W. and Graham, R. "Leaf Optical Properties of Rainforest Sun and
Extreme Shade Plants." American Journal of Botany 73(8)(1987):
1100-1108.
Leigh Jr., E. G. "Ronald Fisher and the Development of Evolutionary

Theory. I. The Role of Selection." Oxford Surveys in Evolutionary
Biology 3(1986): 187-223.

----- . “Unfinished Synthesis, by Niles Eldredge, 1985." (Book Review).
The Condor 89(2)(1987): 447-448.

Leigh, dri; E.G, Patines R. JT, Quinn, J. Fe;and: Suchanek;..T. H. . "Wave

Energy and Intertidal Productivity." Proceedings of the National
Academy of Science 84(6)(1987): 1314-1318.

Lessios, H.A. "Fate of Diadema antillarum Populations in the Four Years
Following Mass Mortality." Abstract, 6th. International Echinoderm
Conference (1987).

Linares, 0. F. "Deferring to Trade in Slaves: The Jola of Casamance,

Senegal in Historical Perspective." History in Africa: a Journal of
Method 14(1987): 113-139.

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0

----- . "Economia Politica de los Grupos Guaymies: Contraste Histérico

metuva-  Fytyut, .ParyatoagP PAPER pee axe ayes [Eee preaeme tern, [risk eset Omer Tay ers HY 10 Ihr Auch Wa 4n 3a0
